Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/apologyforabolitOOanti 



APOLOGY 



FOR 



^ABOLITIONISTS: 

A D DRE SSE D 

BY THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY 

OF 

MERIDEN, CONN., 

TO THEIR 

FELLOW-CITIZENS. 

S1C0ID EDITION 



MIDDLETOWN 

C. H. PELTON..... PRINT. 

1837, 



s.7rSrt«..5Y 



"\ 






Fellow-Citizens 

A regard for your good opinion, and a wish to promote 
the cauSei which, as Abolitionists, lies near our hearts, is our 
motive for addressing you. We think the opposition to our 
enterprise arises either from commercial, political or do- 
mestic connections with Slavery, or from misapprehensions 
respecting our principles, measures and prospects. We de- 
sire no better means of overcoming these obstacles than a 
fair statement of facts ; and to this we now solicit your at- 
tention. 

DECLARATION OF SENTIMENTS. 

We believe that all men are born free and equal, and en- 
dowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, 
among which are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. 

We believe Slavery is an infraction of these rights, a 
violation of the principles of Christianity, and under all 
circumstances sinful. 

We believe that Slavery is a great national evil, political as 
well as moral, opposed to the genius of a republican govern- 
ment, highly dangerous to the peace and permanency of the 
Union, and if persisted 'in, destined to bring upon us the 
severest judgments of Heaven. 

We believe the immediate abolition of slavery would be 
safe and wise, and that it is the duty of every friend of hu- 
manity to use all fair and just means for its accomplishment. 

We believe we have a right to express and publish our 
opinions respecting the customs and institutions of the people 
of this and every other country ; and if we think them in 
any degree immoral, unequal, or oppressive, we are under 
the highest obligations, in the exercise of all honest and 
lawful means, to change them. 

We believe that Slavery in the several states can be law- 
fully abolished only by the legislatures of the states in which 
it prevails, and that the exercise of any other than moral 
means to induce such abolition, is unconstitutional. 

We believe that Congress has a right to abolish Slavery 
in the District of Columbia, and in the Territories, and to 
prohibit the slave trade between the states, and that the exer- 
cise of this right is required by the divine law, and by the 
interests of our country. 



We believe that no class of men can rightfully be denied, 
mi account of their color, the enjoyment of equal rights with 
Others, in the protection, immunities and administration of 
the government under which they live. 

UTILITY OF THESE SENTIMENTS. 

These are our sentiments. We regret to say they are not 
collectively the sentiments of our countrymen. It is for our 
zeal in propagating them, that we have been assailed with 
unmeasured abuse and lawless violence. We think it of 
high importance to our country and the world that they 
should be received by all the people. What the effect of 
their general reception in the free states would be, is very 
apparent. 

We should abolish Slavery in the Disirict of Columbia. 
There Congress has exclusive jurisdiction on all subjects 
whatsoever, including of course the subject of Slavery. — 
This is admitted by Martin Van Buren, Henry Clay, and 
an overwhelming majority of the present Congress. The 
Abolitionists are to a man in favor of the exercise of this 
right. If, therefore, the free states were thoroughly aboli- 
tionized, their Senators and Representatives, who yet com- 
pose a majority in Congress, would at once bow to the 
supremacy of their constituents, and abolish Slavery. 

We should prohibit the inter state Slave-Trade. This 
trade has recently been carried on to a greater extent than 
ever was the foreign slave trade ; it being estimated that not 
less than 120,000 slaves were exported from Virginia alone, 
within little more than a year, and removed for the most 
part to the southwestern states. Four of these states are said 
by their own papers, to have received within the same pe- 
riod, about 250,000 slaves from the old states. How many 
tender tics have in one short year been broken by this de- 
testable business ! How much bodily suffering has been 
endured ! How much, guilt has been contracted ! This 
cruel and wicked traffic is at the foundation of a system of 
breeding slaves for market, which is prosecuted on a large 
scale, corrupting all concerned, by its licentiousness and bar- 
barity. Congress has a right to prohibit and suppress this 
trade, under that article of the Constitution which empowers 
Congress to regulate commerce with foreign nations and 
between the several states. Were a majority of the citizens 
of the free states decided Abolitionists, this right could be 
exercised. We should insist upon it. Why then do not 



they, who profess to regard the slave trade as the worst 
feature of Slavery, join with us against it ? 

We should prevent Ihe annexation of Texas to the United 
States. The South has long had her eye on that fine and 
extensive country, intending to get it by purchase or strata- 
gem, for the purpose of opening a market for her redundant 
slave population, and of securing the balance of power in 
the general government to the slave-holding interest. Every 
enemy of Slavery and friend of free labor, ought to oppose 
this design. We apprehend that if the annexation of Texas 
to our country should not involve us in war with Mexico and 
Great Britain, it would either lead to a dissolution of the 
union, or indefinitely prolong the existence of Slavery. The 
Abolitionists are now preparing petitions to Congress, pro- 
testing against this insane measure ; and were the citizens of 
the free states generally to join them, and load the tables of 
Congress with several millions of signatures to these protests, 
the danger would be averted. But they will not do it, be- 
cause they are not Abolitionists : and we must, therefore, in 
all probability take Texas. 

We should admit no neio slave states to the Union. Had 
our sentiments prevailed when the Missouri question was 
decided, the fine soil of that state would not now be cursed 
with Slavery. She was admitted to the union by northern 
men. They legalized the sin. It is a sad proof of the cor- 
ruption of our public sentiment that several of these traitors 
to liberty, have, since that disgraceful vote was given, been 
elevated to the first offices in the gift of New England ; and 
this without any signs of their repentance. Arkansas has 
also been lately admitted to the Union by northern votes, 
with the singular provision in her constitution, that her 
legislature shall have no power to abolish Slavery ; so that 
the "peculiar institution' may last until the greatest knave 
in the state is heartily weary and ashamed of it. Northern 
men thus voted for perpetual Slavery ; and this they did in 
the confident expectation of being re-elected to Congress. 
Had they known a majority of their constituents to be Abo- 
litionists, they would have voted differently. Should Flori- 
da be next admitted to the Union as a slave state, the south 
will have a majority in the Senate. Who can predict the 
consequences 1 But were the free states thoroughly aboli 
tionized, Florida would never come into the Union as a slavd 
state ; for Abolitionists are in principle opposed to it. 

1* 



We should also prohibit the slave trade between the United 
States and Texas. In the constitution of Texas, whose 
independence has already been acknowledged by our go- 
vernment, Slavery is established as a permanent institu- 
tion of the country, and a monopoly of the slave trade 
granted to the United States. Already thousands of slaves 
have been sent there, and unless something is done to prevent 
it, vessels will soon be fitted out in northern ports, to carry 
slaves from Virginia to Texas, as well as to New Orleans ; 
and this, whether Texas is annexed to the United States, or 
remains independent. Were the citizens of the free states 
generally Abolitionists, they would not allow a legal com- 
merce in slaves from our Republic to a foreign nation. 

We should save our own youth from the pollution and 
guilt of Slavery. They would not directly participate in it. 
When they go to the South they would neither buy nor 
hire slaves. Hitherto nothing has been more common than 
for our best and most intelligent young men, the sons of our 
ministers and church members, to become slave-holders. 
At home they were not taught the inherent and necessary 
sinfulness of Slavery ; at the South the practice was recom- 
mended to them by the example and plausible pretexts of the 
best men. They were accustomed from their childhood to 
see slave-holders treated with respect because they were rich 
in human chattels, without hearing a word respecting the 
extortion by which their wealth comes. Hence many of 
the merchants, physicians, lawyers, planters, teachers and 
clergymen of the South, though northern men by birth, are 
either slave-holders or abettors of the system. This would 
not be the case, had our declaration of sentiments been taught 
from the first by our parents and teachers, and been made the 
cherished creed of the free states. Then the combined in- 
structions of the nursery, of the school, and of the pulpit, 
together with the impressive power of a sound public sen- 
timent, would have established our youth in the love and 
veneration of human rights ; in sympathy for the colored 
man; in hatred of oppression. Thus would the general 
reception of our sentiments withdraw from Slavery one of its 
main supports, and at the same time rescue our sons and 
daughters from the unutterable calamity of becoming rich 
by the spoiling of the poor. 

We should establish the liberties of the free states on a 
firm foundation. We are not so connected with the slave- 
States that we must necessarily perish in their ruin. If the 
judgments of heaven should overtake them, we may be 



spared ; should their liberties be prostrated, ours may sut- 
yive. It depends on our character and conduct. A people 
who respect the rights of others, will have their own rights 
respected. Regarding man, of whatever color and condi- 
tion, as entitled to the sacred rights of liberty, of property, 
and of personal security, they will neither forge chains for 
others, nor suffer chains to be imposed on themselves. Nor 
will God forsake them. Such are the character and security 
of Abolitionists. Read our declaration of sentiments. We 
go for human nature. We protest against Slavery, because 
it is an infraction of the rights of man. We know that our 
entire country has forfeited her freedom, by oppressing the 
colored man ; still we believe we may, by hearty repentance 
and the adoption of just and humane sentiments, appease the 
wrath of heaven, and should our nation be rent in two, pre- 
serve our own liberties. But if we continue to connive at 
this wickedness, nothing is more certain than our ruin in the 
common destruction of the country. 

The free people of color would rapidly improve in their 
moral and physical condition. A load of prejudice now 
crushes them in the dust. They cannot rise because they 
are deprived of the motives and facilities for self-improve- 
ment. They are a proscribed people. It is a calamity 
in this Christian country to be born with a 
colored skin. It shuts out human beings from schools 
and colleges, from the mechanical arts, from the house of 
God, from a share in the government of the nation, from 
social intei course with their fellow-creatures, from the best 
incitements to virtue and enterprise. We freely confess, 
that the Abolitionists, if a majority, would correct all these 
evils, and cause men in this so called christian and demo- 
cratic country, to be treated, according to the bible without 
distinction of color. 

We should do much to vindicate the honor and truth of 
Christianity. Slavery is the strongest hold of infidelity at 
the South, and a strong hold at the North. It is so because, 
while natural religion declares Slavery to be sinful, the min- 
isters and professors of Christianity practice it, and defend 
their conduct from the bible. Such a religion, says the infi- 
del cannot be from God. It is thus that the church is bring- 
ing into contempt and doubt our blessed religion. It would 
greatly counteract this prolific cause of infidelity, were all 
our churches, ministers, and theological professors, to em- 
brace and advocate the true doctrine of human rights as i$ 



8 

is set forth in the word of God. We should then hold up 
to the world, this internal evidence of the divine origin of the 
bible, that, being written in ages of darkness and despotism, 
it notwithstanding clearly recognizes and protects man as 
the possessor of natural, inalienable, sacred rights. Instead 
of doing this, many northern preachers of the gospel, are 
now blaspheming their religion, by saying that both Moses 
and Christ tolerated Slavery. 

We should no longer uphold Slavery by recognizing 
slave-holders as brethren in good and regular standing in 
the Church. We now receive to the table of the Redeemer, 
without one word of admonition, men, who at the South, 
make merchandize of the image of God, of their fellow- 
christians. What is still more astonishing if not more 
wicked, we receive slave-holders to our pulpits, to preach to 
us about loving God and Man ! Thus we practically say, 
that Slavery is consistent both with morality and the gospel 
of Christ. Were we Abolitionists, it would be far other- 
wise ; for they do not think it right to lend the sanction of 
the church to such outrageous wickedness. 

Such would be some of the happy results of the general 
adoption of our sentiments in the free states, if nothing more 
could be effected. But we doubt not it would issue in the 

PEACEABLE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY BY THE SEVERAL 

slave states. This is the principal object of our enter- 
prise; and on a strong probability of success, we are willing 
to rest its character. 

The constitutional action of Congress in the ways above 
named, would do much to induce the South to abolish Sla- 
very. Its abolition in the District of Columbia by the 
assembled wisdom of the country, would exert a powerful 
influence on the southern mind. It would be the testimony 
of the nation, corroborating the testimony of every truly 
civilized and christian people, to the impolicy and wicked- 
ness of Slavery. The prohibition of the inter state slave- 
trade, and the confinement of Slavery to its present local 
limits would render it unprofitable to the old states, which 
depend on this trade as the chief source of profit ; and also 
drive the new states to the necessity of introducing free labor: 
for how could they otherwise cultivate their immense tracts 
of virgin land, or supply the deficit occasioned by the rapid 
consumption of life on their cotton and sugar plantations ? 

We should make a still more direct appeal to her inter- 
ests, by saying : You may keep your cotton, rice, and sugar, 



9 

until you have abolished Slavery. We shall no longer use 
the products of unrequited labor. It would then be a ques- 
tion of dollars and eents with her, whether or not she would 
give liberty to her captives. We should not be obliged to 
deny ourselves the use of her productions one year ; for her 
states would vie with each other to see which could obtain a 
monopoly of northern patronage by first abolishing Slavery. 
Many northern men have been bought by southern patron- 
age to do wrong; is it not equally possible to buy the south 
with northern patronage to do right; Human nature is 
every where the same. We should indeed regret to have 
Slavery abandoned from an exclusive regard to self-interest. 
We would rather it should be destroyed by the spirit of re- 
pentance ; for then the emancipated slave would still be 
treated with justice and humanity. But no means of bring- 
ing the South to repentance can be more promising, than the 
conscientious refusal, by northern men, of all sects and par- 
ties, to sustain Slavery, by consuming its produce. At pre- 
sent this cannot be done on a scale sufficiently large to 
secure, certainly and immediately, the abolition of Slavery; 
but were the North completely abolitionized, no doubt she 
would do it with the most triumphant success. 

We should move the South to abandon Slavery, by appeal- 
ing to her love of reputation. The South shows herself 
sensitive on this point. Said Mr. Calhoun in the United 
States Senate, " do they, [his southern opponents,] expect the 
Abolitionists will resort to arms, and commence a crusade 
to liberate our slaves by force ? Is this what they mean 
when they speak of the attempt to abolish Slavery 1 If so 
let me tell our friends of the South who differ from us, that 
the war which the Abolitionists wage against us is of a very 
different character and far more effective — it is waged not 
against our lives, but our character." Had he said our 
reputations and consciences, he would have told the truth. 
We do intend to make Slavery disgraceful. Sin ought to 
be esteemed a reproach to any people. Were all northern 
men of our way of thinking, this sin would be as infamous as 
any other kind of fraud and villany. The too rid is now 
pointing the finger of scorn at slave-holding America. The 
free states bear a merited portion of the shame, because we 
share laigely in the responsibility. As we have taken 
Slavery under our patronage, and consented to stand god- 
father to it, what little respectability we have, is thrown 
around it, to the great relief and joy of its southern parents, 



10 

Let us retire from the relation. Instead of defending Slave- 
ry, let us reiterate the just and indignant censures of the civ- 
ilized world, until all shall feel, that so great an enormity 
cannot be practiced or connived at, without a forfeiture of 
character. This would be the state of feeling, were the cit- 
izens of the north generally Abolitionists ; and he knows lit- 
tle of human nature, who doubts that such a state of feeling, 
would render the condition of a slave-holder, the last to be 
sought, the first to be abandoned. 

In these ways, if in no others, we could reach and influ- 
ence the South. Although she should attempt to shut out 
the light by a strict censorship of the press and post-office ; 
though she should make the utterance of our sentiments on 
southern soil an offence against her laws ; she could not 
prevent the constitutional action of the general government ; 
she could not compel us to consume her produce ; she could 
not escape the withering contempt and indignant frovvn of 
our virtuous public sentiment. We could reach her heart 
in these ways, in spite of herself, and as we think to the cer- 
tain overthrow of Slavery. We could do more. 

We could convert the South to the practical 
adoption of our sentiments by enlightening her 
conscience. This is the principal ground of our confi- 
dence. If Slavery is sinful, we can prove it to be such ; and 
this proof, made plain to the understanding of the South, can- 
not fail to awaken her conscience. Such is human nature. 
Some would have us think that none but Christians have' 
consciences, and therefore the first step to be taken for the 
removal of Slavery is to send missionaries to convert the 
masters to Christianity, thus laying a foundation for success- 
ful appeals to the conscience. But it seems to us the work 
of centuries, if not an impracticable work, to convert the 
masters, or a majority of them, to true holiness, while Slave- 
ry lasts, especially if they have no consciences ; and we think 
also, if all Were converted to such a Christianity as consists 
with a hearty belief that Slavery is not condemned by the 
Bible, it would not much facilitate our enterprise. Nor 
have we so much contempt for that word, which is mighty 
through God to the pulling down of strong holds, as to doubt 
that our doctrines will commend themselves to the reason of 
our southern brethren, and receive a fruitful response from 
their consciences. 

Some would have the world believe, if every person in 
the free states were an Abolitionist, it would not hasten the 



li 

emancipation of the slaves; for, say they, we could not then 
get a hearing at the south, and if we could, she is too much 
exasperated at our interference to do any thing on the sub- 
ject. In our opinion, they are entirely mistaken. 

We believe we can get a hearing at the South, or convey 
a knowledge of our sentiments to the southern mind, and that 
these sentiments are more potent than her prejudices and 
passions. In proof of it — 

She is now constantly receiving numerous publications 
containing our views. There were, the last year, about 
five hundred regular southern subscribers to the publications 
of the American Anti-Slavery Society. The Cincinnati 
Philanthropist, the Alton Observer, the New York Evan- 
gelist, and scores of other papers, religious and political, 
have subscribers at the South, with whom from week to 
week they abvocate this cause. Many valuable anti-slavery 
books are also doing a good work in the very midst of the 
evil. Several thousands of Miss Grimke's Appeal, together 
with the writings of Jay, Child, Channing and others, are 
daily tearing off the mask from Slavery, and awakening the 
slumbering conscience of the South. Not unfrequently 
slave-holders themselves come to the anti-slavery office in 
New York and buy whole sets of our publications. The 
speeches of her Senators, and the messages of her Governors 
evince a better acquaintance with our writings and move- 
ments than the great men of the North can boast. Her own 
press is doing much to disseminate our sentiments. The 
United States Telegraph of February 18, 1837, edited by 
Duff Green, Washington, D. C, was nearly half filled with 
extracts from our prints. Her clergy by publishing apolo- 
gies for slavery in refutation of our views, are also making 
these views known and waking up a spirit of inquiry. In- 
deed, such is human nature, and such is the course of the 
south, that we have come to believe she will not allow us at 
the north to think aloud on the subject of Slavery without 
knowing what we think and why toe think so. She will not 
alloious to form and express opinions on this subject with- 
out KNOWING OUR OPINIONS AND THE GROUNDS OF 

them. She is too much interested, and knows that we have 
too much power, to pass our sentiments by in utter contempt 
without even ascertaining them. 

But were the free states completely abolitionized, not only 
the presses of the Anti-Slavery Societies, assisted by a few 
others, would carry our doctrines to the South; but all the 



12 

feligious, political and commercial papers of the North, iti' 
deed the whole body of our literature, would breathe, the 
same spirit, would speak the same language. Were she, 
therefore, ever so much averse to the truth, these numberless 
publications, aided by the English press and by private cor- 
respondence, would force upon her a knowledge of our faith. 

The social intercourse of the North and South would also 
afford us ample opportunities for publishing our sentiments. 
The citizens of every state in the Union are daily meeting 
in the steam-boats, coaches, rail-road cars and hotels of our 
country. We are constantly walking arm in arm with the 
South, so that she cannot fail to learn what we think of Slave- 
ry, and of the duty and pre-eminent safety of immediate 
emancipation. If we are decided Abolitionists, we shall cer- 
tainly talk enough to let her know what we think and why 
we think so. 

Many of the youth of the South must continue, as in times 
past, to be educated in the free states. Mr. Calhoun was 
educated at Yale College. Who can doubt that an influence 
might have been exerted on his mind, in relation to Slavery, 
of the most happy character, if the officers of that institution, 
if the surrounding community, if the literature of the day, 
had all breathed the spirit of Arthur Tappan and Gerritt 
Smith? There are now hundreds of southern youth in our 
schools, and hundreds will succeed them, whose minds would 
be set in deadly and deathless hostility to the robbery of 
God's poor, were their teachers Abolitionists. Some think 
that in such an event, they would be kept at home. A few 
might be, but not all. The salubrity of our climate, the excel- 
lence of our institutions, the comparative purity of our mo- 
rals, give us an advantage, that the more virtuous and intel- 
ligent of southern parents, would not relinqnish, for fear that 
their sons should embrace views, which in their own hearts 
they must approve. 

It should also be remembered, that we not only educate 
the most precious youth of the South, but we supply many 
of her pulpits, professorships, and shops with our own*sons. 
The great body of southern merchants are northern men. 
Such is the genius of Slavery that this will continue to be 
the case. The result would be, were we all Abolitionists, 
that the adopted sons of the South would soon form a strong 
body of opposition to Slavery, laboring to overthrow it, by 
their votes, their arguments and their example. Some may 
think that lynch law would then drive us all from the South ; 



13 

ot that we should he received there only on condition of let- 
ting- Slavery alone. They are mistaken. Were we all 
Abolitionists, we should be defended. The national govern- 
ment would protect us. The constitution guarantees the 
rights of a citizen in all the states to the citizens of each state; 
and had the North been thoroughly abolition ized, she would 
have demanded and obtained redress for the blood of her 
innocent citizens, ay ho have been hung without color of law, 
by southern ruffians. Be assured when we all become Abo- 
litionists, an end will be put to the reign of teiror in every 
part of the country. Men of all creeds and colors, will then 
go where they please, speak what they please, and do what 
they please, with perfect safety, so long as they commit no 
offence ag tinst just and impartial law. 

The interests of a large class at the South must predis- 
pose them to favor our enterprise. Probably not more than 
half of the whites are directly interested in the continuance 
of Slavery. Many hire Slaves, who could on equally eligi- 
ble terms, and with more peace of conscience, hire them as 
free laborers, were they emancipated. Some own land with- 
out slaves ; and it is admitted, that immediately on the abo- 
lition of Slavery, the soil \vould~rise in value, and continue 
to appreciate with the general improvement of the country. 
A multitude of the whites are too poor to own slaves, and 
too ignorant to obtain a living, except by manual labor, and 
Slavery makes that disreputable, and comparatively unpro- 
fitable. All these classes need only open their eyes, to 
see that Slavery is subversive of their interests : and we may 
therefore rationally calculate on having their attention and 
sympathy. 

What we have already effected at the South, is a pledge 
of entire success, the moment the leading influences at the 
North shall second our efforts instead of counteracting 
them. Several hundred slaves have been set at liberty 
through the labors of those two distinguished Abolitionists, 
David Nelson and James G. Birney. We have heard of 
various other instances in which our doctrines have had 
such successful access to the southern mind. We will men- 
tion one. Some time since, in New York, a gentleman rose 
in a monthly concert of prayer for the slaves, and said: " I 
am a slave-holder from Virginia. I came to the North with 
violent prejudices against the Abolitionists, in consequence 
of what I read in northern papers; but I was determin- 
ed to investigate the matter for myself. Accordingly [ 
2 



sought lodgings in the family of an Abolitionist, obtained and 
read your publications, and attended this monthly concert ; 
and I am now convinced that not only your doctrines but 
your measures are righteous." And he added, turning to 
two gentlemen who sat beside him, " these gentlemen are 
also slave-holders from Virginia, and my first converts to 
abolitionism ; and I know a thousand men in Virginia, who 
if they could have the truth stated to them, would agree with 
us." He then exhorted the Abolitionists present to go on, 
saying "you have only to correct the public sentiment of the 
North so that their papers shall not misrepresent you at the 
South, and the work is done." Besides many such 
facts evincive of the power of truth over the southern mind, 
and proving that the leaven is working there, we have fre- 
quent admissions from the lips and pens of the defenders of 
Slavery at the South, that the Abolitionists are disturbing the 
conscience of her people, that there is more sympathy with 
them there than it would be prudent to acknowledge : that if 
the fanatics are suffered to go on they will succeed : that 
they may build up a bod}^ of public sentiment which the 
South cannot resist. These facts, these admissions, and the 
very nature of man, convince us that we have many allies at 
the South. The violence of the friends of Slavery, has 
forced them to a temporary silence : but no doubt many of 
them long to unburden their hearts, and are only waiting to 
be sustained by a healthy public sentiment among us. — 
Were we all Abolitionists, it would be less odious and less 
hazardous to avow our sentiments at the South; and she 
would find a body of Abolitionists on her own soil, too 
respectable to be despised — too strong to be resisted. 
. Our expectations of success in making known our senti- 
ments to our southern brethren, are rendered still more san- 
guine, by the history of emancipation in the West Indies. 
It will be impossible for our countrymen, to close their 
eyes against the light, which the working of the British 
abolition act, will constantly throw on the duty and safety 
of immediate emancipation. 

We are nevertheless told, with surprising assurance, by 
men great~and small, that we have postponed the abolition 
of Slavery, at least half a century : that our ultra doctrines 
and violent measures have so incensed the South, that she 
has settled down in the inflexible determination to keep her 
slaves. Is this human nature 1 They who think so, seem 
to imagine that the work of reform must be carried on solely 



15 

by coaxing and flattering the sinner : that a declaration of 
his guilt and of his duty, sufficiently plain and unequivocal 
to excite his displeasure, is the last way to bring him to re- 
pentance. We think otherwise. We take the anger of the 
South as a precious omen of success. The hit bird nutters. 
She shows herself conscious of the truth of our charges. 
Accuse a consistent temperance man of drunkenness, he will 
smile in your face : accuse the drunkard himself and he will 
be ready to fight you. The faithful reproof of sin always 
irritates the sinner, and his irritation continues until he 
either repents or forgets the admonition. Had our efforts 
produced no such sensation among slave-holders, we should 
be far more ready to despair. She believes unless this 
discussion is stopped, Slavery must cease, or else she will 
be disgraced in the eyes of the world, and exceedingly em- 
barrassed and trammeled in the possession of her slaves. 
We do not, however, attribute all the wrath of the South 
against us, to awakened conscience, and the anticipation of 
our success. We have been shamefully misrepresented by 
northern papers and mobs, which have not hesitated to 
charge us with the worst of motives and the most hostile feel- 
ings towards the South ; as if we would gladly involve her in 
a servile war. The belief of these calumnies has doubtless 
excited her worst passions ; and the moment she learns the 
truth, it will create a re-action in our favor. Nor should it 
be overlooked that many of her own citizens have no sym- 
pathy for Slavery, and no strong prejudices against us. Facts 
also show that argument can appease this very wrath, to 
which our opponents attribute such indomitable energy. 
When the students of Lane Seminary, under the Presidency 
of the Rev. Dr. Beecher, commenced a discussion of the 
subject of Slavery, about fifteen young men from the South, 
all of them slave-holders or sons of slave-holders, were not a 
little incensed at the faithful exposure of Slavery by their 
fellow students ; but at the close of the discussion, all these 
young men, save one, were thorough going Abolitionists : 
and several of them are now lecturing in the free states for 
the purpose of correcting our public sentiment, as a neces- 
sary and infallible means of rectifying that of the South. 

We believe, therefore, that if we succeed in abolitionizing 
the North, we shall the South. Were the North already 
abolitionized, we should do all the good specified above. 
We should preserve our own liberties, virtue and religion, 
mi save the South from man's greatest curse, his own' vol- 



16 

untary wickedness. Is it not, then, desirable that our sen- 
timents s.iould prevail? Do they not carry with them the 
clearest credentials of truth — the very best practical tenden- 
cies 1 Is it not the grossest hypocrisy in the North to pre- 
tend hostility to Slavery, when she refuses to do the good 
which she would rejoice to do, were she a convert to aboli- 
tionism 1 Is it not a crime in her to fight against the diffu- 
sion of these sentiments'? In one word — ought not the Ab- 
olitionists to do all they can, in a constitutional and christian 
manner, to propagate their views 1 

Success at the North is certain ; for she has an interest in 
destroying Slavery: her political principles are opposed to 
it; and the great mass of her citizens are intelligent and vir- 
tuous, unbought by southern patronage, and accustomed to 
abhor cruelty and injustice. Our success is also written in 
the desperate, but ineffectual endeavors of the opposition, to 
prevent the agitation of the subject. By their own showing, 
Slavery cannot endure the light of free inquiry. If north- 
ern abettors of Slavery were not convinced, that the discus- 
sion will inevitably abolitionize the mass of the people, they 
would rely on argument rather than on lawless violence. 
Our progress too, has already been astonishing. In the 
course of three years nearly a thousand Anti-Slavery So- 
cieties have been organized ; many enemies have become 
friends, and many opposers, the able advocates of our cause. 
The prejudices of the people have been softened, and thou- 
sands are now on the eve of joining us, who lately were our 
most bitter antagonists. We have made all this progress 
notwithstanding the abuse of the political and commercial 
press has been heaped upon us without measure, and no man 
could join us but at the peril of his reputation, if not also his 
life and property. We are, therefore, encouraged to perse- 
vere. What have we to accomplish, which we have not in 
part achieved, while our powers and facilities are constantly 
augmenting 

VINDICATION OF MEASURES. 

We propose to convert the country to our views by mea= 
sures which some of our opponents, (ashamed to deny our 
doctrines.) allege to be the principal ground of their dissent. 
We think they have failed to make a proper distinction be- 
tween our measures and the abuse of these measures. The 
constitutional action of Congress, the pulpit, the press, public 
debate, piivate conversation, anti-slavery societies, these ar§ 



17 

our measures. If any of our associates, through human in- 
firmity, prosecute any of these measures in ill-temper or with 
indiscretion, we regret and condemn it. The measures 
themselves, and the prosecution of them we approve, and 
shall now attempt to vindicate. 

Some object to our organizing Anti-Slavery Societies, 
which in our opinion they would not do, if they wished well 
to our enterprise. For it is manifest that union gives us 
strength, influence, courage, money and other facilities for 
carrying on the work ; it lays a foundation for concentrated, 
permanent, economical effort. Societies have their stated 
and occasional meetings, without giving offence and pro- 
voking popular violence. They animate each other by 
friendly correspondence, and prosecute their work system- 
atically and vigorously, by the gratuitous labors of their 
most enlightened members. A general organization will 
enable us to petition the various legislative bodies in behalf 
of human rights, with unanimity and regularity, until onr 
objects are gained. We see other ends to be secured by it. 
There is no disputing our constitutional right to adopt this 
measure ; which we believe any men of common sense 
would adopt in our circumstances. Even the wisdom of 
Christ sanctions the measure, for what is his chnrch but a 
society formed for the purpose of converting men to the 
truth and progressively sanctifying them ? Nor do we see 
how we can testify to the South our abhorrence of Slavery 
unless we form societies for the purpose. Had none been 
formed, it might be doubted whether there are a thousand 
decided Abolitionists in the country. It would be said in 
Congress and believed at the South, that we are few in num- 
bers, and constantly becoming fewer and more contemptible. 
The existence and rapidly increasing number of our socie- 
ties precludes the possibility of such misrepresentations and 
mistakes. As soon as our plan is completed, in the forma- 
tion of a flourishing society in each village of the free states, 
embodying a majority of the people, the South will know 
what our public sentiment is. It will be concentrated upon 
her. She will feel it. We learn from intelligent sources, 
that the general opinion at the South now is, that all the citi- 
zens of the North who are not Abolitionists, sympathize 
with the slave-holders. It is natural they should think so. 
We must, therefore, rank ourselves with the Abolitionists, 
by joining an Anti-Slavery Society, if we would give our 
decided testimony against the great southern sin. 

2* • 



18 

Some object to our employing itinerant lecturers. We 
think they would not object, if they had considered the mat- 
ter with friendly feelings. The subject of Slavery has so 
many relations in this country, and involves so many ques- 
tions in morals, in biblical literature, in constitutional law, 
in political economy, in history, and other departments of 
learning, that our stated clergy, have not sufficient time for 
its thorough investigation, were they disposed to make it. 
We ought not to expect of them more than a faithful exposi- 
tion of the testimony of God against Slavery, and in favor of 
immediate emancipation. As a general rule, thpy can do 
no more. We need an extensive and thorough discussion of 
the whole subject. Nor are all our clergymen yet Aboli- 
tionists. Some are with us ; others are against us. This 
was to be expected. The subject has but just come before 
the public mind. It found almost all our ministers coloniza- 
tionists. It would have been surprising, if they had all em- 
braced our views at the first blush, without discussion. We 
don't do things so in Connecticut. Hereafter we doubt not 
they will all join us; but in the interim, we must employ 
intinerant lecturers, if we would disseminate what we believe 
to be the truth. And wjio will be harmed by it % The 
truth will hurt no one ; and even " error/' we quote the 
words of Jefferson, " may safely be tolerated, so long as rea- 
son is left free to combat it." Some think it an interference 
with the rights of the stated ministry to introduce an itine- 
rant lecturer, without the advice and consent of the settled 
pastor. How so % Suppose there are several clergymen in 
the same village. One of them being an Abolitionist does 
all he can, by conversation, the distribution of papers, and 
public lectures, to make the people Abolitionists, without dis- 
tinction of sect or party. Is that an interference with the 
rights of the other pastors'? No; such a course has never 
been thought so. Nor is there the least difference in the 
two cases. The several churches introduce these pastors to 
be their teachers. We, the Abolitionist;, another body of 
people, introduce a man to teach on a particular subject. 
We have the right ; he has a right to come ; therefore no 
right is violated.* 

Some object to our employing severe epithets in speaking 

* As our enterprise is not sectarian but national and catholic, it 
is the highest pitch of arrojance for any sect to denounce this 
measure as a violation of ecclesiastical order. Religious freedom 
demands that all such claims should be at once and steadfastly 
misted. 



19 

of Slavery and slave-holders. They say our condemnation 
is too hard, denunciatory and indiscriminate. We wish all 
who allege this against us would illustrate their meaning 
and sustain their charge by quoting the offensive express- 
ions. It would put them to great inconvenience. They 
may think the language "hard" and 'Uoo hard," when it 
barely expresses what ought to be said, and cannot be better 
said. We do indeed tell slave-holders their sins plainly, 
calling things by their right names ; but it. is only in the 
conclusion of an argument to prove the charge, that Ave 
justify making it. Nor is our language any harder than 
the sober language of moral philosophers, and of the most 
eminent fathers of the church. Wesley says : "You, [the 
slave-holder,] first acted the villain in making them slaves, 
whether you stole them or bought them." " This equally 
concerns all slave-holders, of whatever rank and degree : 
seeing men-buyers are exactly on a level with men-stealers' 1 '' 
The younger President Edwards says : " To hold a man in 
a state of Slavery is to be every day guilty of. robbing him 
of his liberty, or of man-stealing.''' 1 Grotius says : " Those 
are men-stealers, who abduct, keep, sell or buy slaves or free- 
men. To steal a man is the highest kind of theft." Adam 
Clarke says : " Among the heathen Slavery was in some 
sort excusable ; among christians it is an enormity and 

A CRIME FOR WHICH PERDITION HAS SCARCELY AN AD- 
EQUATE state of punishment." We use no language 
more hard, more true, or more indiscriminate. We think 
these great men understood how to do good, at- least as well 
as our critics. We are also fully persuaded, that the South 
is far less incensed at our language than at our sentiments. 
She is indignant at what we say, not the m&nnt r of saying it. 
Dr Channing had this vulgar prejudice, that we were injur- 
ing our cause by using abusive language. And Mr. Leigh 
of Virginia, took the very book, in which he reproves us, 
and quoted passages which he declared in the United States 
Senate, rivalled the most insulting language of Garrison. So 
difficult is it to tell the truth about Slavery in palatable 
terms. 

We are also censured for sending pictures to the South 
illustrative of the horrors of Slavery. We do indeed em- 
ploy the art of painting, as well as the arts of printing and 
speaking, to awaken sympathy for the Slave ; but our pic- 
tures are designed for the North, not the South. Though 
tome of them may find their way there, they are never sent 



20 

to the slaves, are not apt to fall into their hands, and not 
adapted to make them uneasy and turbulent. Were they 
painted as large as life, and set up at the corner of every 
street and on every plantation, the sole effect would be to 
awe the slaves into subjection, by reminding them of the 
consequences of disobedience. 

We are accused of sending papers to the slaves. The 
charge is false. Our publications are sent exclusively to 
the free white population. Were it in our power to send to 
the slaves, we should indeed rejoice at it. If they could read 
and the mails would carry them papers, we would prepare 
tracts on purpose for them, explaining the doctrines and du- 
ties of Christianity, inculcating the forgiveness of injuries, 
the patient endurance of wrong, the faithful service of their 
masters, until such time as they can be made free. We 
would even send them the Bible, which says : " Woe unto 
him that buildeth his house by unrighteousness and his 
chambers by wrong: that useth his neighbor 1 s service with- 
out wages and giveth him not for his worfc" Jer. xxii, 13. 
The foregoing are current objections to specific measures 
of the Abolitionists. There are other objections of a more 
general and sweeping character, which go to condemn all 
our measures, calling upon us to disband our societies, to dis- 
miss our agents, to break up our printing presses, and inter- 
fere in no way with Southern Slavery. We can give these 
only a brief notice. 

It is a current objection to our enterprise, that Slavery is 
no concern of ours : that the South alone is interested in the 
subject, and we have no right to interfere. Interference is a 
very indefinite term. We acknowledge we have no right 
to interfere by force of arms ; and have ever disclaimed the 
intention of interfering, except by the constitutional and 
peaceable action of Congress, and the application of truth to 
the hearts and consciences of our southern brethren. As to 
our having no right to interfere in this manner, because 
Slavery is no concern of ours, it is a strange doctrine to be 
promulgated in the nineteenth century by republicans and 
christians. What interest had we in the struggle of Greece 
and Poland with Turkish and Russian despotism? What con- 
cern have we in the moral and political degradation of the 
Hindoo, Hottentot and Chinese 1 We have the answer in 
the motto of the christian church: Our country is the 
world, our countrymen mankind. As christians we 
are concerned for the spiritual welfare of all classes at the 



21 

South ; the great mass of whom are now sunk in infidelity 
and vice. Their alarming destitution of the means of reli- 
gion, and the general corruption of their morals, are justly 
attributed to Slavery. What would become of the virtue, in- 
telligence and religious institutions of Meriden, if all the real 
estate and all the inhabitants of the town, were held as pro- 
perty by one man % He might be an infidel ; and if he were 
a christian, what dependence could be placed on him to 
support the gospel, or what confidence would the oppressed 
people have in his religion? Such is the state of things at 
the South. Slavery not only creates a distaste for true reli- 
gion, but withdraws from its support the laboring class, 
which in every free country, embodies a great proportion of 
the most devoted and liberal christians. Their is also much 
in the habits which Slavery fosters, to indispose pious youth 
to enter the ministry and to disqualify them for its laborious 
duties : while many who enter upon the work, abandon it for 
secular pursuits, or remove to the free states, where they can 
preach the whole gospel with more security and success. 
Not only must a slave-holding community be destitute of men 
and means to make known the way of salvation, but the 
preaching of the gospel will generally be inefficacious with 

all classes j with the masters, for Slavery fosters in them the 

worst passions of human nature, affords them facilities for 
the unbounded indulgence of their appetites, and relieves 
them from the necessity of personal exertion for a livelihood ; 
with the poor white population, for Slavery accumulates the 
wealth of the community in a few hands, renders free labor 
disreputable, and multiplies temptations to low and degrad- 
ing vices ; with the free people of color, for Slavery holds 
most of them in a state of abject poverty, ignorance and sin ; 
with the slaves, for Slavery robs them of the bible, of self- 
control, of hope, of parent, wife and child, of the best mo- 
tives to be virtuous, and of the best evidences of Christianity : 
it makes them vicious ; it makes them sceptics. "We are 
concerned for these perishing millions. 

Slavery is a concern of ours for it involves our personal 
interests. It throws back upon us a mora I pestilence ; it scat- 
ters the seeds of intemperance, licentiousness, and infidelity; 
it popularizes gambling, Sabbath breaking, profaneness and 
lawless violence ; it casts an undeserved stigma on manual 
labor, it encourages idleness and prodigality. It disgraces us 
in the eyes of the whole world; it impairs our national 
Strength j it encroaches on the spirit of liberty ; it i§ coa* 



stantly undermining our free institutions. The northern 
states have no greater enemy. Were Slavery abolished, her 
religion, her morals her liberties, her general prosperity 
would be far more secure. The chief source of danger 
to the integrity of our union, and to our domestic tranquility 
would be removed : a greater market would be opened for 
our manufactures, and a wider field for our industry and en- 
terprize; the emancipated slaves would purchase our goods, 
and our youth could enter into competition with the sons of 
the South in raising cotton, &e. without becoming slave- 
holders. Labor would soon cease to be disgraceful : property 
would accumulate in every part of the land; education would 
flourish ; religion would revive: the entire country would 
rejoice in peace and plenty under the smiles of an approving 
providence. Tell us not, that we have no concern in 
removing the greatest sin, curse and shame of the nation, and 
in securing for ourselves and our posterity, a truly free and 
virtuous government. 

It is said that Slavery is an agitating subject, which can- 
not be discussed without disturbing the peace and harmony 
of our churches. Why so 1 This subject can be discussed 
in the churches in Great Britain without discord and 
division. We think it could be her';, were it not for tke 
corruption of our public sentiment, which can be corrected 
only by free discussion. It is where the truth needs most to be 
heard, that it creates most opposition and variance. Primitive 
Christianity was accused of turning the world upside down. 
The temperance cause has occasioned strife, and separated 
" very friends." We hold to the Apostolic injunction : 
" first pure, then peaceable." We love a virtuous peace. A 
truce with sin we abhor. If we must surrender our liber- 
ties, and connive at iniquity, to avoid a war, we say with 
Patrick Henry, "The war is inevitable, and let it come; I 
repeat it, sir, let it come." Who does not see that if polyg- 
amy were common in our churches, it would create a terri- 
ble excitement to preach against it, and lead to the dismis- 
sion of pastors ? Yet any one would acknowledge, that 
religion could never prosper, while the church was so 
corrupt ; and that she had better be torn into ten thousand 
fragments, than that polygamy should continue in vogue ; 
for she would soon be re-organized in greater purity 
find strength. So it is with a slaveholding Church ; and 
with a Church in which the spirit of Slavery is so rife, that 
the will not live in peace with her Anti-Slavery members. 



23 

nor tolerate the exercise of their Constitutional rights. But 
we do not believe this of our Churches. We think the 
more this «' delicate and agitating" subject is discussed 
among us, the less unpleasant excitement will prevail. 

It is said that our measures to overthrow Slavery are un- 
constitutional. Our opponents may easily test this question 
by bringing it before the U. S. Court. We claim to be acting 
constitutionally. Our plan of operations is essentially the 
same as that pursued by the early Anti-Slavery Societies, 
of which such men as John Jay, Benj. Franklin, Benj. 
Rush, and Jonathan Edwards, were active members ; some 
of whom were engaged in forming our federal Constitution. 
Did they not understand that instrument? Did their con- 
temporaries ever dispute their right to discuss the merits 
of Slavery ? Have not our citizens, from time immemorial 
and without restriction, exercised this right ? Does not the 
Constitution, instead of guaranteeing Slavery against this 
moral influence, guarantee to us the right of employing it, 
by forbidding Congress to pass any law abridging the free- 
dom of speech and of the press? 

We are told our measures are an invasion of the rights 
of property. This objection assumes, what nature denies, 
that man may be rightfully held as property. Blackstone 
maintains in his Commentaries, that man cannot be reduced 
by any just process to a state of absolute Slavery ; that he 
cannot be born in that state, nor sell himself info it, nor be 
placed there when taken captive in war, without flagrant 
injustice. We also hold it to be self-evident, that all men are 
born free and equal, and entitled to certain inalienable rights, 
among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. 
The Slave owns himself by grant of his Creator. Slavery 
is, therefore, an invasion of his rights of property. It is 
the slave-master who makes an aggression on the prop- 
erty of others, not we, who exhort him to relinquish that 
property. The Slaves being ihe rightful owners of them- 
selves, the abolition of Slavery is merely an act declara- 
tive of this indisputable title. Nor do we seek the destruc- 
tion of Slavery, except through the constitutional authori- 
ties. Even were the slaves the property of their masters, 
it woald be lawful for us to persuade them to part with it. 
Would it not ? The Legislatures of the several states have 
a right to abolish Slavery. Have they not? It has hither- 
to been conceded, that the law making power of every 



slave-holding country has this right. May we not then 
persuade the stales to exercise it, by convincing them of 
the moral wrong and frightful impolicy of Slavery ] Should 
it be said that the government encouraged its citizens to 
invest property under the protection of the slave code, and 
therefore ought not to abolish Slavery without indemnify 
ing them, our answer is, that mankind are under a para- 
mount obligation not to invest property under the protection 
of immoral laws ; that all such laws are in their nature null 
and void from the beginning ; that governments have al- 
ways exercised the power of correcting abuses ; and 
there is no greater abuse than Slavery ; none more unjust 
and oppressive ; none more pernicious and perilous to our 
national interests. 

Some object, that the abolition of Slavery on our plan, 
without compensation to the masters, would be talcing away 
the bread oj poor widows and orphans. We have no plan. 
We say only, that Slavery is wrong, and ought forthwith to 
be abandoned. The South will adopt and prosecute her 
own plan. When her Legislatures abolish Slavery, they 
can, if they will, provide for widows and children, who are 
left destitute by that act. If they will not do it, we will 
raise contributions for their relief ; for we deem the claims 
of charity, nearly as imperative as the claims of justice. 
But we can never sanction the principle of Slavery, by 
saying, that slaveholders have a right to compensation for 
restoring to the slaves their stolen rights. We must always 
consider it a greater hardship to be unjustly held as a slave, 
than to be made poor by freeing such slave. It is a sad 
blunder in morals, that this man may make that man, per- 
haps fifty other men, poor for life, lest he himself should 
be a pauper ; that this man may make that man poor by 
dishonesty* lest he himself should become poor by being 
honest. 

No objection to our measures is more senseless, or more 
common, than an alleged tendency to dissolve the Union. 
Which had we better surrender, the Union or our liberties 1 
The Union is a curse instead of a blessing, if we must 
surrender for it, fi eedom of speech and personal protection 
in any part of the country. And if Slavery continues to be 
protected by public sentiment, and by popular violence, 
how long could the Union last, even were all the abolition- 
ists this day laid in their graves 1 Slavery endangers the 



integrity of the Union, more than all other enemies ; and 
unless- soon destroyed, will be the destroyer both of it and 
us. If we love the Union, we should labor to overthrow 
Slaver}^ Wesley somewhere defines fanaticism, to be the 
expectation of accomplishing ends without the use of 
means. Let us not hope for the peaceable destruction of 
Slavery, by such a fanatical course. Let us do something ; 
and if we do any thing, what can be done which the aboli- 
tionists are not attempting? In doing this we shall not 
peril the Union, but preserve it. The South will never 
venture on the mad experiment of secession, because the 
North is opposed to Slavery. Such an act would be sui- 
cidal. It would encourage the slaves to revoh. It would 
leave her defenceless against the invasion of a foreign foe. 
It would release us from the eonstistutional obligation to 
suppress domestic violence, and to restore fugitives from 
service. It would open several thousand miles of frontier, 
over which her slaves would escape into a land of liberty. 
It would make the south " a good country to emigrate 
from." and she would find herself losing her best citizens, 
and her condition becoming more and more exposed and 
perilous. She would be ruined. She knows it. Were our 
legislators in Congress to retort her stereotyped threat to 
dissolve the Union, with a challenge to do it, if she dares, 
we should hear no more of this empty bravado. 

It is said, if our measures should be successful, the 
slaves would resort to the North, and coming up upon our 
farms, and into our shops, like the frogs of Egypt, reduce 
the w ? ages of our laborers. No apprehension is more 
groundless. The free colored people of the South are 
quite numerous, and very rmjch oppressed ; yet few of 
them leave that part of the country ; though the whites 
would be very glad to have them do so, because they ren- 
der the slaves uneasy, and come into competition with slave 
labor. But were slavery abolished, the whites would de- 
sire to retain all the colored people, in order to employ 
them in cultivating the soil ; precisely as is now the case 
in the West Indies. Nor would the slaves be willing to 
leave the land of their nativity, and of their kindred, to re- 
side in the cold regions of the north, to the business and 
climate of which they are uninured, and where they must 
labor more severely to obtain a comfortable living. But 



26 

should they come, what then ? Do you prefer perpetual 
slavery 1 

It is also objected to our enterprise, that the immediate 
abolition of slavery ,*would be " letting the slaves loose" to 
be idlers, vagabonds, thieves, and cutthroats. This object- 
ion is more forcible against gradual emancipation, which 
would throw upon society a multitude of freedmen, while 
the rest of their brethren still remained in bondage. The 
holders of slaves would not encourage the free by giving 
them labor ; who would, therefore, be more ypt to be idle 
and vicious ; while their release would excite uneasiness 
in the minds of the unemancipated. The objection is also 
equally strong against prospective emancipation, according 
to which the slaves would all be set free at once ; but not 
until some time after the passage of the act. Experience 
and human nature both teach us, that slaves under such 
circumstances are more apt to be overworked, than to be 
better prepared lor the enjoyment of freedom. The objec- 
tion is, therefore, good for perpetual slavery, or good for 
nothing. It is good for nothing. Immediate emancipation 
would indeed deliver the slave and his family at once from 
the hands of an irresponsible master, and empower him to 
go where he pleases and do what he pleases, so long as he 
breaks none of the laws which restrain other men. And 
why not? He could not otherwise rejoin his wife and 
children, whom the slave trade has torn from him, nor 
secure fair wages, nor be safe from oppression. But this 
is not lettting him loose to do evil. The laws of slavery 

LET THE MASTERS LOOSE UPON THE SLAVES, instead of the 

abolition of slavery letting the slaves loose upon the masters. 
Were there a law authorizing the inhabitants of Meriden 
to seize the inhabitants of Berlin, to confine them to jail 
limits, and work them without wages, to separate hus- 
bands and wives, parents and children, and even to kill 
them by that very indefinite thing, called "moderate cor- 
rection ;" this law would let the inhabitants of Meriden 
loose upon the inhabitants of Berlin ; for it would protect 
the former in the grossest outrages upon the latter. But 
the repeal of this law would not let the inhabitants of Ber- 
lin loose upon us. Extending them protection would not 
be letting them loose upon us. Had we the power of 
repealing the law; or if not, possessing the power of not 
enforcing it, we should find our security in doing so. The 



' 27 

very way to make them respect our rights, would be to re- 
spect theirs. Immediate emancipation places the slaves 
under the control as well as protection of the laws of the 
State against idleness, vagrancy, theft, murder, and all 
other aggressions on the rights of men. 

We are told that the Slaves are not fit to be free; and 
therefore our scheme of immediate emancipation, if adop- 
ted, would prove a curse to them and the country. No'.hing 
is more false. The Slaves are men ; and therefore they 
are more fit for freedom than for slavery ; more fit to be 
treated as persons than as things ; to be governed by ap. 
peals to the reason and conscience than by brute force. 
God made man to be free and adapted him to that condition. 
A state of Slavery is unnatural to him. Nor can his nature 
so change, that he shall be more fit to be treated as a brute, 
than as a free moral agent. Slaves have often been set at 
liberty, and have always proved their capacity for freedom, 
by their industry, frugality and ready obedience to the laws* 

And why, we would ask, should they be thought unfit to 
be put under the control and protection of the same laws, 
which govern freemen ? Do their vices or their ignorance, 
disqualify them ? While Slavery lasts, they will remain 
equally degraded. 

Are they Sabbath breakers ? Slavery has taught them 
to desecrate the day of rest, by making it to them almost the 
only day of recreation, the only day for visiting, for trading 
and for tilling their gardens. Are they thieves ? They 
consider stealing from their masters to be only making re- 
prisals for the robbery of their just wages ; while many of 
them are strongly tempted to steal by the desire of more or 
better food. Are they liars ? They will continue suoh, 
while they are slaves. They will pretend sickness, to 
avoid labor ; they will say they do not wish to be free, lest 
their masters should sell them into distant banishment ; they 
will lie to conceal the unavoidable delinquences, for while 
slaves are daily upbraided and beaten. Are they idle ? As 
slaves they have no hope of reward to stimulate their ex- 
ertions. They will work much better, as one facetiously 
expresses it, for Mr. Cash than for Mr Lash. Let their 
wives and children be dependent on their industry for sup- 
port, a far more noble and efficient motive than the fear of 
violence, to call forth the energies of man. Are they im- 
provident ? They cannot learn to save property, until they 



2b 



are allowed to hold it in their own right. Make them free 7 
and then that faculty of their nature, which the phrenolo- 
gists call " acquisitiveness" will prompt them to save their 
earnings. Are they licentious ? Then give them their 
liberty, that the husband and father may be the legal 
protector of his wife and daughters. Are they revengeful ? 
Redress their wrongs, and they will forgive their oppress. 
ors. Are they heathen ? Take your foot from their necks, 
before you disgrace Christianity, by attempting to convert 
them. Are they ignorant of letters ? So are a majority of 
the freemen of the world ; nor is it to be expected that 
slaveholders will teach their slaves to read and write, until 
they repent of Slavery itself. The vices of the Slaves are 
inseparable from their condition. If they are not now fit 
for freedom 5 Slavery, which unfitted them, will perpetuate 
their unfitness. Nor is their degradation of mind and mo- 
rals a disqualification for freedom. You may find its coun- 
terpart in the characters of a large class of citizens in eve- 
ry country. 

While Slavery continues, what is the prospect of their 
becoming better fitted for freedom ? Where are the men 
and the means ? Who will teach them ? Who will sup- 
port the teachers ? The south cannot supply her free pop- 
ulation with instruction. Even with the aid of the north, 
she is very destitute of the means of religion. Nor would 
she be willing to adopt a general system of education for the 
improvement of the Slaves. Instead of giving her money 
to fit them for freedom, she would hunt from society 
any persons, who should seriously propose the measure. 
They know little of the spirit of Slavery, who imagine, that 
the south was disposed to prepare her Slaves for freedom, 
until the abolitionists roused her to resistance Had she 
really wished to free her Slaves, she would have welcomed 
us as coadjutors, at least she would not have abandoned 
her own plan, because ours was offensive to her. She never 
intended to fit her Slaves for freedom. She does not in- 
tend it now. Her laws, in most of the States, are against 
it. The mass of her Slaves will, no doubt, be as unfit for 
freedom fifty years hence, if Slavery should continue so 
long, as they are to day. The Bri ish abolitionists were 
once deceived by this syren song of preparation, but now 
in allusion to the words of Paul ; " the glorious gospel of the 
blessed God ;" they exclaim, the glorious doctrine of 



29 

immediate emancipation ! They found it the power of 
God, to awaken the slumbering conscience of the nation ; 
and the wisdom of God as a measure of relief to their 
Slaves. We shall find it so. 

Our opponents also object to emancipation upon the soil. 
Not all, but some of them, are in favor of Colonization as 
a remedy for Slavery, and others execrate us for our oppo- 
sition to it as a scheme for benefiting Africa. We are 
especially averse to the former class. When men say, 
that the Slaves ought not to be freed, until they can be col. 
onized, we oujht to make resistance, for the following rea- 
sons : 

1. We ought to resist every wicked prejudice ; and they 
who object to emancipation on the soil, do so, in obedience 
to such a prejudice. They say the colored people can 
never rise in this country. They maintain that our aversion 
to the race is instinctive and natural ; though we find no 
one averse to associating with them as slaves. The two 
races are certainly on very intimate terms at the South. 
It is only when they come as freemen between the wind 
and our nobility, that they taint the air. We, therefore, 
say, this prejudice is unnatural and sinful ; and instead of 
fostering it, we ought to rebuke, and check it in ourselves 
and others. Some of us recollect the time, when as Colo- 
nizationists we wished to get rid of the colored people, and 
were indignant at them for being unwilling to leave the 
country. May we not repent of such a feeling and con- 
demn in it others, without being hunted from society? 

2. By retaining the emancipated slaves on the soil, we can 
at less expense of men and means educate and christianize 
them. Were we to send them beyond the Mississippi or to 
Africa, it would take ten times the number ot Missionaries 
and Teachers, that we are now supporting among the 
heathen, to save them from sinking into barbarism. But 
if they should be retained as free laborers in the service of 
their present masters, those masters would provide for their 
instruction, and without diverting means from other objects, 
the delightful spectacle would soon be witnessed of Schools 
and Churches springing up among them, through the vol- 
untary efforts of the ministers and christians of the South. 

3. The labor of the Slaves is wanted on the plantations at 
the South. To withdraw such an amount of labor would 
bankrupt the entire country. Nor could their places be 



30 

supplied, except by the worst population of the old world ; 
by men, whose religion, whose morals, whose politics are 
all, in the highest degree, hostile to our national interests. 
The emancipated Slaves, on the contrary, would be preju- 
diced in favor of the protestant faith, and prove the 
staunchest friends of our free institutions. 

4. The South will not consent to the colonization of the 
Slaves. She is willing we should contribute to carry off 
the free people of color, "the nuisances," " the disturbing 
force," as she terms them ; and also those Slaves, whom 
the more conscientious of her citizens, who dare not die 
Slaveholders, may emancipate for the purpose. But she 
is unwilling we should go a step further. She does not be- 
lieve we can get the means of doing more. We think, if a 
place were provided in Africa, and we had the means ne- 
cessary to transport every Slave there, and were to go and 
tell the south, about the sinfulness of holding Slaves, when 
they can be colonized, and call upon her in good earnest, to 
give them up, she would denounce us as fanatics, and pass 
no more resolutions in favor of colonization. She is now 
at peace with it, because she does not fear it, and hopes to 
find it of use in repelling the abolitionists, in letting off, as 
by a safety valve, the pious feeling of her own citizens, 
and in expelling the free people of color. 

5. The Slaves are unwilling to leave the country ; and 
will never consent to do it, but on such a dread alternative 
as no christian people should impose. First give them 
their liberty, put them under the protection of impartial 
law, and treat them with kindness, and then if they ask our 
aid to remove their families to Africa, their determination 
to leave this country will evidently be spontaneous. 

6. It is better for them to remain in the employment of 
southern capitalists, who are able to pay them wages for their 
labor than to go out into the wilderness as paupers, where 
there is no capital, and the very necessaries of life, are to be 
created. 

7. They cannot be colonized without an appalling expense 
of money, life and comfort. 

8. To colonize the Slaves of this country on account of 
their color, would be in the highest degree dishonorable to 
Christianity. Were Christ on earth, he would associate 
with the despised colored man in preference to many who 
think themselves the best soeiety. Can we act, as he 



Would not and yet exemplify his religion 1 What, too, would 
be the effect on the minds of the heathen, nearly all of whom 
are colored men, were they to learn, that that nation, which 
makes the loudest professions of attachment to Christianity, 
had banished more than two millions of her citizens to a 
land of pagan darkness, being offended at the color of their 
skin ? 

9. To send all the slaves to Africa would be fatal to the 
natives of that Continent. Said Mr Pinney, agent of the 
Colonization Society, and once Gov. of Liberia, 'the col- 
ony must be kept pure, or it will either enslave or extermi- 
nate the African tribes.' Send 2,500,000 of people to Af- 
rica, four-fifths of whom are in heathenish darkness, and 
all of whom have been taught, by the example of their mas- 
ters, that slavery is morally right, and labor disgraceful, 
would they hesitate to buy Slaves of the native Princes, or 
to reduce their captives to a state of servitude ? It is said, 
there is as strong a line of demarkation between the colo- 
nists, and the heathen, though of the same color, as there 
is between the white and colored people in this country. 
But if they should not become slaveholders, would they not 
gradually exterminate the native tribes for the sake of re- 
venging injuries, and possessing themselves of their lands? 
Said Mr. Pinney, the colony must be kept pure, or such a 
result is inevitable ; and it cannot be kept pure, unless it is 
conducted on a very small scale. We doubt whether a 
commercial and military colony can be so far controlled 
by moral principle, as to avoid these results. For if the 
emigrants were all pious persons, and few in number, their 
posterity might become both vicious and powerful. We 
are not, therefore, without our objections to African colo- 
nization, even if it should be distinctly abandoned as a 
remedy for slavery, and conducted with caution, and 
on a small scale. We know not to what it may grow. 
We like better,the good, old, apostolic plan of sending mis- 
sionaries to the heathen — men, who have no commercial 
and selfish interests to subserve, and who bear no hostile 
weapons. There is danger that a colony, however care- 
fully guarded, will misrepresent Christianity and fatally 
prejudice the native mind against it. The fact, that not a 
native has yet been converted to Christianity, in connection 
with the colony of Liberiajustifies the inquiry, whether the 
scheme is a good one for Africa. The transportation of all 
aur Slaves would confessedly form a colony too large and 



corrupt for the safety of the native tribes; and we trem- 
ble for the result of the present experiment. 

In this argument we have not denied the practicability of 
colonizing two millions and a half of people, at an expense 
of $125,000,000. We think it enough to show the thing 
ought not to be done. 

CONCLUSION. 

With this view of our sentiments, of their practical value, 
and of the propriety and wisdom of our measures, we leave 
you to judge, whether abolitionists deserve to be out-lawedin 
their own country; to be loaded with abuse and contumely ; 
to be denied a right, conceded to all other decent men, of 
advocating their cause iii our public halls and churches ; 
and to be left, unprotected, to the violence of ill-minded 
men ? We beg you also to consider, how terrific would be 
the prospects of our country, were we in obedience to pop- 
ular clamor, to disband our societies, and retire from the 
field. Who would ever again venture to raise his voice in 
behalf of the down-trodden slave ? Should any one have 
the temerity to do it, how soon would he be overwhelmed 
by the violence of the pro-slavery party, encouraged by 
past success, and maddened by the remembrance of the 
formidable array of talent, wealth, and piety, which they 
once encountered. We verily believe, that the peaceable 
abolition of Slavery depends, under God, on our perseve- 
rance. Moral means must continue to be used by us until 
they issue in success, or slavery will terminate in a bloody 
revolution. We anticipate such an event, as a possibility, 
with painful emotions ; and feel disposed to look, in the use 
of all lawful means, to that God, who has promised to do 
for us, exceeding abundantly above all that we can ask or 
think, that so dire a catastrophe may be averted. We 
earnestly solicit your co-operation. 

We might have said much more to correct misapprehen- 
sions, refute calumnies, and fortify our positions ; but our 
limits forbid it. We may have said some things, which you 
will disapprove ; for we have ingenuously confessed our 
most obnoxious sentiments; but if you will give us credit 
for sincerity and weigh our arguments, we shall expect to 
stand better in your opinion, than our calumniators would 
have us. With much respect, 

t %;*-u-4i\ ™ -a )PHILO PRATT, 
In behalf of the Meriden f WALTER WEB B, 
Anti-Slavery Society, C j^ AA0 L TIBBALS, 



