Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/argumentofjohnqu01adam 



ARGUMENT 



JOHN QUINCY ADAMS 



BEFORE THE 



SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES, 

IN THE CASE OF THE 

UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, 

vs. 

CINQUE, AND OTHERS, AFRICANS, 

CAPTURED IN THE SCHOONER AMISTAD, BY LIEUT. GEDNEY, 

DELIVERED ON THE 24th OF FEBRUARY AND 1st OF MARCH, 1841, 
WITH A REVIEW OF THE CASE OF THE ANTELOPE, 

REPORTED IN THE IOtH, IItH AND 12th VOLUMES OF WHEATON'S REPORTS, 



NEW YORK: 

S. W. BENEDICT, 128 FULTON STREET. 

1841, 



S.£S"?7.&T 



ARGUMENT 



JOHN QUINCY ADAMS 



May it please your Honors — 

In rising to address this Court as one of its attorneys and coun« 
sellors, regularly admitted at a great distance of time, I feel that 
an apology might well be expected where I shall perhaps be more 
likely to exhibit at once the infirmities of age and the inexperience 
of youth, than to render those services to the individuals whose lives 
and liberties are at the disposal of this Court which I would most 
earnestly desire to render. But as I am unwilling to employ one 
moment of the time of the Court in anything that regards my own 
personal situation, I shall reserve what few observations I may 
think necessary to offer as an apology till the close of my argu- 
ment on the merits of the question. 

I therefore proceed immediately to say that, in a consideration 
of this case, I derive, in the distress I feel both for myself and my 
clients, consolation from two sources — first, that the rights of my 
clients to their lives and liberties have already been defended by 
my learned friend and colleague in so able and complete a man- 
ner as leaves me scarcely anything to say, and I feel that such 
full justice has been done to their interests, that any fault or im- 
perfection of mine will merely be attributed to its true cause ; 
and secondly, I derive consolation from the thought that this 
Court is a Court of JUSTICE. And in saying so very trivial a 
thing, I should not on any other occasion, perhaps, be warranted 
in asking the Court to consider what justice is. Justice, as de» 



fined in the Institutes of Justinian, nearly 2000 years ago, and as 
it is felt and understood by all who understand human relations 
and human rights, is — 

" Constans et perpetua voluntas, jus suum cuique tribuendi." 

" The constant and perpetual will to secure to every one his own right." 

And in a Court of Justice, where there are two parties present, 
justice demands that the rights of each party should be allowed 
to himself, as well as that each party has a right, to be secured 
and protected by the Court. This observation is important, be- 
cause I appear here on the behalf of thirty-six individuals, the 
life and liberty of every one of whom depend on the decision 
of this 'Court. The Court, therefore, I trust, in deciding this 
case, will form no lumping judgment on these thirty-six individu- 
als, but will act on the consideration that the life and the liberty 
of every one of them must be determined by its decision for him- 
self alone. 

They are here, individually, under very different circumstances, 
and in very different characters. Some are in one predicament, 
some in another. In some of the proceedings by which they have 
been brought into the custody and under the protection of this 
Court, thirty-two or three of them have been charged with the 
crime of murder. Three or four of them are female children, in- 
capable, in the judgment of our laws, of the crime of murder or 
piracy, or, perhaps, of any other crime. Yet, from the day when 
the vessel was taken possession of by one of our naval officers, 
they have all been held as close prisoners, now for the period of 
eighteen long months, under custody and by authority of the 
Courts of the United States. I trust, therefore, that before the 
ultimate decision of this Court is established, its honorable mem- 
bers will pay due attention to the circumstances and condition of 
every individual concerned. 

When I say I derive consolation from the consideration that I 
stand before a Court of Justice, I am obliged to take this ground, 
because, as I shall show, another Department of the Government 
of the United States has taken, with reference to this case, the 
ground of utter injustice, and these individuals for whom I appear, 
stand before this Court, awaiting their fate from its decision, un- 
der the array of the whole Executive power of this nation against 
them, in addition to that of a foreign nation. And here arises a 



consideration, the most painful of all others, in considering the 
duty I have to discharge, in which, in supporting the motion to 
dismiss the appeal, I shall be obliged not only to investigate and 
submit to the censure of this Court, the form and manner of the 
proceedings of the Executive in this case, but the validity, and the 
motive of the reasons assigned for its interference in this unusual 
manner in a suit between parties for their individual rights. 

At an early period of my life it was my fortune to Avitness the 
representation upon the stage of one of the tragic masterpieces 
of the great Dramatist of England, or I may rather say of the 
great Pramatist of the world, and in that scene which exhibits in 
action the sudden, the instantaneous fall from unbounded power 
into irretrievable disgrace of Cardinal Wolsey, by the abrupt 
declaration of displeasure and dismission from the service of his 
King, made by that monarch in the presence of Lord Surry and 
of the Lord Chamberlain 5 at the moment of Wolsey's humiliation 
and distress, Surry gives vent to his long suppressed resentments 
for the insolence and injuries which he had endured from the fall- 
en favorite while in power, and breaks out into insulting and bit- 
ter reproaches, till checked by the Chamberlain, who says: 

" Oh ! my Lords ; 
Press not a falling man too far : 'tis Virtue." 

The repetition of that single line, in the relative position of the 
parties, struck me as a moral principle, and made upon my mind 
an impression which I have carried with me through all the chan- 
ges of my life, and which I trust I shall carry with me to my 
grave. 

It is, therefore, peculiarly painful to me, under present circum- 
stances, to be under the necessity of arraigning before this Court 
and before the civilized world, the course of the existing Admin- 
istration in this case. But I must do it. That Government is 
still in power, and thus, subject to the control of the Court, the 
lives and liberties of all my clients are in its hands. And if I 
should pass over the course it has pursued, those who have not 
had an opportunity to examine the case and perhaps the Court 
itself, might decide that nothing improper had been done, and that 
the parties I represent had not been wronged by the course pursued 
by the Executive. In making this charge, or arraignment, as defen- 
sive of the rights of my clients, I now proceed to an examination of 



the correspondence of the Secretary of State with the ambassador 
of her Catholic Majesty, as officially communicated to Congress, 
and published among the national documents. 

The charge I make against the present Executive administra- 
tion is that in all their proceedings relating to these unfortunate 
men, instead of that Justice, which they were bound not less 
than this honorable Court itself to observe, they have substituted 
Sympathy! — sympathy with one of the parties in this conflict of 
justice, and Antipathy to the other. Sympathy with the white, 
antipathy to the black — and in proof of this charge I adduce the 
admission and avowal of the Secretary of State himself. In the 
letter of Mr. Forsyth to the Spanish Minister d'Argaiz, of 13th of 
December, 1839, [Document H. E. N. S. 185,] defending the 
course of the administration against the reproaches utterly ground- 
less, but not the less bitter of the Spanish Envoy, he says: 

" The undersigned cannot conclude this communication with- 
out calling the attention of the Chevalier d'Argaiz to the fact, 
that with the single exception of the vexatious detention to which 
Messrs. Montes and Ruiz have been subjected in consequence of 
the civil suit instituted against them, all the proceedings in the 
matter, on the part both the Executive and Judicial branches of 
the government have had their foundation in the assumption that 
these persons alone were the parties aggrieved ; and that their claims 
to the surrender of the property was founded in fact and in justice." 
[pp. 29, 30.] 

At the date of this letter, this statement of Mr. Forsyth was 
strictly true. All the proceedings of the government, Executive 
and Judicial, in this case had been founded on the assumption that 
the two Spanish slave-dealers were the only parties aggrieved — 
that all the right was on their side, and all the wrong on the side 
of their surviving self-emancipated victims. I ask your honors, 
was this justice ? No. It was not so considered by Mr. For- 
syth himself. It was sympathy, and he so calls it, for in the pre- 
ceding page of the same letter referring to the proceedings of 
this Government from the very first intervention of Lieut. Ged- 
ney, he says : 

" Messrs. Ruiz and Montes were first found near the coast of 
the United States, deprived of their property and of their free- 
dom, suffering from lawless violence in their persons, and in im- 
minent and constant danger of being deprived of their lives also. 



They were found in this distressing and perilous situation by offi- 
cers of the United States, who, moved towards them by sympa- 
thetic feeling which subsequently became as it were national, imme- 
diatelyfrescued them from personal danger, restored them to free- 
dom, secured their oppressors that they might abide the conse- 
quences of the acts of violence perpetrated upon them, and placed 
under the safeguard of the laws all the property which they claim- 
ed as their own, to remain in safety until the competent authori- 
ty could examine their title to it, and pronounce upon the ques- 
tion of ownership agreeably to the provisions of the 9th article of 
the treaty of 1795." 

This sympathy with Spanisb/slave-traders is declared by the 
Secretary to have been first felt by Lieutenant Gedney. I hope 
this is not correctly represented. It is imputed to him and declar- 
ed to have become in a manner national. The national sympathy 
with the slave-traders of the baracoons is officially declared to 
have been the prime motive of action of the government : And 
this fact is given as an answer to all the claims, demands and re- 
proaches of the Spanish minister ! I cannot urge the same ob- 
jection to this that was brought against the assertion in the libel — 
that it said the thing which is not — too unfortunately it was so, 
as he said. The sympathy of the Executive government, and as 
it were of the nation, in favor of the slave-traders, and against 
these poor, unfortunate, helpless, tongueless, defenceless |Afri- 
cans, was the cause and foundation and motive of all these [pro- 
ceedings, and has brought this case up for trial before your 
honors. 

I do not wish to blame the first sympathies of Lieut. Gedney, 
nor the first action of the District and Circuit Courts. The seiz- 
ure of the vessel, with the arrest and examination of thd Africans, 
was intended for inquiry, and to lead to an investigation of the 
rights of all parties. This investigation has ultimated in the de- 
cision of the District Court, confirmed by the Circuit Court, 
which it is now the demand of the Executive should be reversed 
by this Court. The District Court has exercised its jurisdiction 
over the parties in interest, and has found that the right was with 
the othdr party, that the decisions of JUSTICE were not in ac- 
cordance with the impulses of sympathy, and that consequently 
the sympathy was wrong before. And consequently it now ap- 
pears that everything which has flowed from this mistaken or mis- 
applied sympathy, was wrong from the beginning. 



For I inquire by what right, all this sympathy, from Lieut. Ged- 
ney to the Secretary of State, and from the Secretary of State, 
as it were, to the nation, was extended to the two Spaniards from 
Cuba exclusively, and utterly denied to the fifty-two victims of 
their lawless violence % By what right was it denied to the men 
who had restored themselves to freedom, and secured their op- 
pressors to abide the consequences of the acts of violence perpe- 
trated by them, and why was it extended to the perpetrators of 
those acts of violence themselves 1 When the Amistad first 
came within the territorial jurisdiction of the United States, acts 
of violence had passed between the two parties, the Spaniards and 
Africans on board of her, but on which side these acts were law- 
less, on which side were the oppressors, was a question of right 
and wrong, for the settlement of which, if the government and 
people of the United States interfered at all, they were bound in 
duty^to extend their sympathy to them all ; and if they intervened 
at all between them, the duty incumbent upon this intervention 
was not of favor, but of impartiality — not of sympathy, but of 
justice, dispensing to every individual his own right. 

Thus the Secretary of State himself declares that the motive for 
all the proceedings of the government of the United States, until 
that time, had been governed by sympathetic feeling towards one 
of the parties, and by the assumption that all the right was on 
one side and all the wrong on the other. It was the motive of 
Lieut. Gedney : the same influence had prevailed even in the ju- 
dicial proceedings until thtu : the very language of the Secretary 
of State in this letter breathes the same spirit as animating the 
executive administration, and has continued to govern all its pro- 
ceedings on this subject to the present day. It is but too true 
that the same spirit of sympathy and antipathy has nearly per- 
vaded the whole nation, and it is against them that I am in duty 
bound to call upon this Court to restrain itself in the sacred name 

Of JUSTICE. 

One of the Judges who presided in some of the preceding tri- 
als, is said to have called this an anomalous case. It is indeed 
anomalous, and I know of no law, but one which I am not at 
liberty to argue before this Court, no law, statute or constitution, 
no code, no treaty, applicable to the proceedings of the Execu- 
tive or the Judiciary, except that law, (pointing to the copy of the 
Declaration of Independence, hanging against one of the pillars 



of the court-room,) that law, two copies of which are ever before 
the eyes of your Honors. I know of no other law that reaches the 
case of my clients, but the law of Nature and of Nature's God on 
which our fathers placed our own national existence. The 
circumstances are so peculiar, that no code or treaty has provid- 
ed for such a case. That law, in its application to my clients, I 
trust will be the law on which the case will be decided by this 
Court. 

In the sequel to the diplomatic correspondence between the Sec- 
retary of State and the Spanish minister Argaiz, relating to the 
case of the Amistad, recently communicated by the President of 
the United States to the Senate, [Doc. 179. 12 Feb. 1841,] the 
minister refers with great apparent satisfaction to certain resolu- 
tions of the Senate, adopted at the instance of Mr. Calhoun, on the 
15th of April, 1840, as follows : 

1. " Resolved — That a ship or vessel on the high seas, in time of 
peace, engaged in a lawful voyage, is according to the laws of 
nations under the exclusive jurisdiction of the state to which her 
flag belongs as much as if constituting a part of its own domain." 

2. " Resolved — That if such ship or vessel should be forced, by 
stress of weather, or other unavoidable cause into the port, and 
under the jurisdiction of a friendly power, she and her cargo, and 
persons on board, with their property, and all the rights belong* 
ing to their personal relations,as established by the laws of the state 
to which they belong, would be placed under the protection which 
the laws of nations extend to the unfortunate under such circum- 
stances." 

Without entering into any discussion as to the correctness of 
these principles, let us admit them to be true to their fullest ex- 
tent, and what is their application to the case of the Amistad 1 If 
the first of the resolutions declares a sound principle of national 
law, neither Lieut. Gedney, nor Lieut. Meade, nor any officer of 
the brig Washington had the shadow of a right even to set foot 
on board of the Amistad. According to the second resolution, 
the Africans in possession of the vessel were entitled to all the 
kindness and good offices due from a humane and Christian nation 
to the unfortunate ; and if the Spaniards were entitled to the 
same, it was by the territorial right and jurisdiction of the State of 
New York and of the Union, only to the extent of liberating their 
persons from imprisonment. Chevalier d' Argaiz, therefore, totally 
2 



10 

misapprehends the application of the principles asserted in these 
resolutions of the Senate, as indeed Mr. Forsyth appears by his 
answer to this letter of the Chevalier to be fully aware. From 
the decisiveness with which on this solitary occasion he meets 
the pretensions of the Spanish Envoy, a fair inference may be 
drawn that the Secretary himself perceived that the Senatorial 
resolutions, instead of favoring the cause of Montes and Ruiz, have 
a bearing point blank against them. 

The Africans were in possession, and had the presumptive 
right of ownership ; they were in peace with the United States ; 
the Courts have decided, and truly, that they were not pirates ; 
they were on a voyage to their native homes — their dulces Jlrgos ; 
they had acquired the right and so far as their knowledge ex- 
tended they had the power of prosecuting the voyage ; the ship 
was theirs, and being in immediate communication with the shore, 
was in the territory of the State of New York ; or, if not, at least 
half the number were actually on the soil of New York, and enti- 
tled to all the provisions of the law of nations, and the protec- 
tion and comfort which the laws of that State secure to every hu- 
man being within its limits. 

In this situation Lieut. Gedney, without any charge or authority 
from his government, without warrant of law, by force of fire 
arms, seizes and disarms them, then being in the peace of that 
Commonwealth and of the United States, drives them on board 
the vessel, seizes the vessel and transfers it against the will of its 
possessors to another State. I ask in the name of justice, by 
what law was this done % Even admitting that it had been a case 
of actual piracy, which your courts have properly found it was not, 
there are questions arising here of the deepest interest to the 
liberties of the people of this Union, and especially of the State of 
New York. Have the officers of the U. S. Navy a right to seize 
men by force, on the territory of New York, to fire at them, to 
overpower them, to disarm them, to put them on board of a vessel 
and carry them by force and against their will to another State, 
without warrant or form of law 1 I am not arraigning Lieut. Ged. 
ney, but I ask this Court, in the name of justice, to settle it in 
their minds, by what law it was done, and how far the principle it 
embraces is to be carried. 

The whole of my argument to show that the appeal should be 
dismissed, iB founded on an averment that the proceedings on the 



11 

part of the United States are all wrongful from the beginning. 
The first act, of seizing the vessel, and these men, by an officer of 
the navy, was a wrong. The forcible arrest of these men, or a 
part of them, on the soil of New York, was a wrong. After the 
vessel was brought into the jurisdiction of the District Court of 
Connecticut, the men were first seized and imprisoned under a 
criminal process for murder and piracy on the high seas. Then 
they were libelled by Lieut. Gedney, as property, and salvage 
claimed on them, and under that process were taken into the cus- 
tody of the marshal as property. Then they were claimed by 
Ruiz and Montes and again taken into custody by the court. The 
District Attorney of Connecticut wrote to the Secretary of State, 
September 5th, giving him an account of the matter, stating that 
" the blacks are indicted for the murder of the captain and mate," 
and "are now in jail at New Haven ;" that " the next term of our 
Circuit Court sits on the 17th instant, at which time I suppose," 
— that is in italics in the printed document — " I suppose it will be 
my duty to bring them to trial, unless they are in some other way 
disposed of." This is the first intimation of the District Attorney; 
it is easy to understand in what " other way" he wished them 
disposed of. And he closes by saying — " should you have any 
instructions to give on the subject, I should like to receive them 
as soon as may be." 

On the 9th of September, he writes again that he has examined 
the law, which has brought him fully to the conclusion that the 
Courts of the United States cannot take cognizance of any offence 
these people may have committed, as it was done on board a ves- 
sel belonging to a foreign state. And then he says, 

"I would respectfully inquire, sir, whether there are no treaty 
stipulations with the Government of Spain that would authorize 
our Government to deliver them up to the Spanish authorities j 
and if so, whether it could be done before our court sitsl" 

This is the second intimation from the District Attorney. We 
shall find others. Now it appears that the Africans were fully in 
the custody of the Court, first on the criminal charge, and then 
on the claim to them as property. The Court was to sit in eight 
days, the District Attorney is satisfied they cannot be tried, and 
he is anxious to know whether they cannot be disposed of in some 
way by the Executive, so that the Courts of the United States 
may have no chance to decide upon the case. May it please your 



n 

Honors, I am simply pursuing the chain of evidence in this case, 
to show the effects of the sympathy in favor of one of the parties 
and against the other, which the Secretary of State says had be- 
come in a manner "national." The next document is a letter of 
the Secretary of State to the District Attorney, Sept. 11, 1839 : 

"Sir : Since the receipt of your letter of the 5th instant, relative 
to the case of the Spanish schooner ' Amistad,' brought into the 
port of New London on the 26th ultimo, by Lieutenant Gedney, 
of the surveying brig Washington, a communication has been ad- 
dressed to this department by the minister of Her Catholic Ma- 
jesty, claiming the vessel, cargo and blacks," [vessel, cargo and 
blacks, the Court will observe,] " on board, as Spanish property, and 
demanding its immediate release. Mr. Calderon's application will 
be immediately transmitted to the President for his decision upon 
it, with which you will be made acquainted without unnecessary 
delay. In the mean time you will take care that no proceeding of 
your Circuit Court, or of any other judicial tribunal, places the ves* 
sel, cargo, or slaves beyond the control of the Federal Execu- 
tive. 

" I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

" JOHN FORSYTH." 

I know not how, in decent language, to speak of this assertion 
of the Secretary, that the minister of Her Catholic Majesty had 
claimed the Africans " as Spanish property." In Gulliver's no- 
vels, he is represented as traveling among a nation of beings, 
who were very rational in many things, although they were not 
exactly human, and they had a very cool way of using language 
in reference to deeds that are not laudable. When they wished 
to characterize a declaration as absolutely contrary to truth, they 
say the man has u said the thing that is not." It is not possible 
for me to express the truth respecting this averment of the Secre- 
tary of State, but by declaring that he " has said the thing that is 
not." This I shall endeavor to prove by showing what the de- 
mand of the Spanish minister was, and that it was a totally differ- 
ent thing from that which was represented. 

But I wish first to beg your Honors' special attention to some- 
thing else in this remarkable letter of the Secretary of State. 
He says, " In the mean time, you will take care that no proceed- 
ing of your Circuit Court, or of any other judicial tribunal, places 



13 

the vessel, cargo, or slaves beyond the control of the Federal 
Executive." Here is a ministerial officer of the Executive Gov- 
ernment, instructing the District Attorney, before the Judiciary 
has acted upon the case, to take care that no proceeding of any 
court places these men beyond reach of the Federal Executive. 
How was he to do it 1 In what manner was an Executive officer 
to proceed, so that neither the Circuit Court of the United States, 
nor any state Court, could dispose of the vessel or the men in any 
manner, beyond the control of the Federal Executive. A farther 
examination of the correspondence in the conclusion, will show 
how it was intended to be done. But I now come to inquire what 
was the real demand of the Spanish minister, and to show what 
was the duty of the Secretary of State on receiving such a de- 
mand. 

Here we have the first letter of Mr. Calderon to Mr. Forsyth. 

The name of this gentleman is illustrious in the annals of Spain, 
and for himself personally, during his residence in this country, I 
have entertained the most friendly and respectful sentiments. I 
have enjoyed frequent interviews with him, and have found him 
intelligent, amiable, learned, and courteous. I wish therefore to 
say nothing respecting him that is personally disrespectful or un- 
kind. But it is my duty to comment with the utmost plainness, 
and what perhaps your Honors will think severity, on his official 
letter to the American Secretary of State. His letter begins : — 

"Nkw York, Sept. 6, 1839. 

"The undersigned, envoy extraordinary and minister plenipo- 
tentiary of her Catholic Majesty the Queen of Spain, has the honor 
of calling the attention of the honorable John Forsyth, Secretary 
of State of the United States, to a recent and very public occur- 
rence of which, no doubt, Mr. Forsyth is already informed, and in 
consequence of which it is the imperious duty of the undersigned 
to claim an observance of the law of nations, and of the treaties 
existing between the United States and Spain. The occurrence 
alluded to is the capture of the Spanish schooner ' Amistad.' 

" This vessel sailed from Havana on the 28th of June, bound to 
Guanaja, in the vicinity of Porto Principe, under the command of 
her owner, Don Ramon Ferrer, laden with sundry merchandise, 
and with fifty-three negro slaves on board ; and, previous to her 
departure, she obtained her clearance (alijo) from the custom 



14 

house, the necessary permit from the authorities for the transpor- 
tation of the negroes, a passport, and all the other documents re- 
quired by the laws of Spain for navigating a vessel and for prov- 
ing ownership of property ; a circumstance particularly important 
in the opinion of the undersigned." 

Here your Honors will observe the same distinction of " mer- 
chandise and negroes," which was made by the District Attorney, 
showing the universal sense of the difference between merchan- 
dise and persons. He goes on : 

" During the night of the 30th of said month, or about day- 
break on the following day, the slaves rose upon the crew, and 
killed the captain, a slave of his, and two sailors — sparing only 
two persons, after ill-treating and wounding them, namely, Don 
Jose Ruiz and Don Pedro Montes : of whom the former was 
owner of forty-nine of the slaves, and the latter of the other four. 
These they retained, that they might navigate the vessel and take 
her to the coast of Africa. Montes, availing himself of his know- 
ledge of nautical affairs, and under favor of Divine Providence — 
' the favor of Divine Providence !' — succeeded in directing the 
vessel to these shores. He was spoken by various vessels, from 
the captains of which the negroes bought provisions, but to whom, 
it seems, he was unable to make known his distress, being closely 
watched. At length, by good fortune, he reached Long Island, 
where the ' Amistad' was detained by the American brig-of-war 
' Washington,' Captain Gedney, who, on learning the circum- 
stances of the case, secured the negroes, and took them with the 
vessel to New London, in the state of Connecticut. 

" The conduct of that commander and his subalterns toward the 
unfortunate Spaniards has been that which was to be expected 
from gentlemen, and from officers in the service of an enlightened 
nation friendly to Spain. That conduct will be appreciated as it 
deserves by my august sovereign, and by the Spanish government, 
and will be reciprocated on similar occasions by the Spaniards — 
a people ever grateful for benefits received." [We shall see some 
proofs of Spanish gratitude, as we proceed in the case.] 

"The act of humanity thus performed would have been com- 
plete, had the vessel at the same time been set at liberty, and the 
negroes sent to be tried by the proper tribunal, and by the violat- 
ed laws of the country of which they are subjects. The under- 
signed is willing to believe that such would have been the case, 



15 

had the general government been able to interpose its authority in 
the first instance, as it has probably done during the short interval 
between the occurrence of this affair and the period when the un- 
dersigned received an authentic statement of the facts." 

This is what the Spanish minister demanded, that the vessel 
should be set at liberty, and the negroes sent to Cuba to be tried. 
And he is so confident in the disposition the United States in favor 
of this demand, that he even presumes the President of the United 
States had already immediately dispatched an order to the Court 
in Connecticut, to stay its proceedings and deliver up the negroes 
to the Government of Spain. 

What combination of ideas led to that conclusion, in the mind 
of Mr. Calderon, I am not competent to say. He evidently sup- 
poses the President of the United States to possess what we un- 
derstand by arbitrary power — the power to decide cases and 
to dispose of persons and of property, mero motu, at his own dis- 
cretion, and without the intervention of any court. What led him 
to this imagination I am unable to say. He goes on to say that 
the officers of the Washington, in the service of the United 
States, have presented to that incompetent Court, — the U. S. Dis- 
trict Court in Connecticut — a petition, claiming salvage : " a claim 
which, in view of existing treaties, the undersigned conceives can- 
not be allowed in the sense in which it is made." This is that 
most grateful nation ! The deliverers of these two Spaniards, the 
representative of a most grateful nation insists, are not deserving 
of any recompense whatever ! 

Now, I beg your Honors to see if there is, among all these spe- 
cifications, any one demand that corresponds with that which the 
Secretary of State avers to have been made. He demands, 

1st. That the vessel be immediately delivered up to her owner, 
together with every article found on board at the time of her cap- 
ture by the Washington, without any payment being exacted on 
the score of salvage, or any charges made, other than those spe- 
cified in the treaty of 1795, article 1st. 

Yet he had already said the captain, and owner, Ferrer, was 
killed. 

" 2d. That it be declared that no tribunal in the United States 
has the right to institute proceedings against, or to impose penal- 
ties upon, the subjects of Spain, for crimes committed on board a 
Spanish vessel, and in the waters of the Spanish territory." 



16 

Declared, by whom ? By the President of the United States. 
Of course, he does not demand that the " incompetent tribunal'* 
in Connecticut, before which the suit was brought, should declare 
this, but that the President of the United States should issue a 
proclamation, declaring that no court in this country could hold 
cognizance of the case. Is there in this a demand that the ne- 
groes should be delivered up as Spanish property 1 It is a direct 
protest against any judicial tribunal taking cognizance of the case, 
and that the President should issue a proclamation to prevent any 
such proceedings whatever. 

" 3d. That the negroes be conveyed to Havana, or be placed at 
the disposal of the proper authorities in that'part of Her Majesty's 
dominions, in order to their being tried by the Spanish laws which 
they have violated ; and that, in the mean time, they be kept in 
safe custody, in order to prevent their evasion." 

In what capacity does he demand that the President of the Unit- 
ed States should place himself? Is it a demand to deliver up these 
people as property ? No. Is it that they should deliver them to 
the minister himself, as the representative of the Spanish govern- 
ment, to be disposed of according to the laws of Spain 1 No. It 
demands of the Chief Magistrate of this nation that he should first 
turn himself into a jailer, to keep these people safely, and then 
into a tipstaff to take them away for trial among the slave-traders 
of the baracoons. Was ever such a demand made upon any 
government 1 He must seize these people and keep them safely, 
and carry them, at the expense of the United States, to another 
country to be tried for their lives ! Where in the law of nations 
is there a warrant for such a demand 1 

May it please your Honors — If the President of the United 
States had arbitrary and unqualified power, he could not satisfy 
these demands. He must keep them as a jailer ; he must then 
send them beyond seas to be tried for their lives. I will not 
recur to the Declaration of Independence — your Honors have it 
implanted in your hearts — but one of the grievous charges brought 
against George III. was, that he had made laws for sending men 
beyond seas for trial. That was one of the most odious of those 
acts of tyranny which occasioned the American revolution. The 
whole of the reasoning is not applicable to this case, but I submit 
to your Honors that, if the President has the power to do it in the 
case of Africans, and send them beyond seas for trial, he could do 



17 

it by the same authority in the case of American citizens. By a 
simple order to the marshal of the district, he could just as well 
seize forty citizens of the United States, on the demand of a fo- 
reign minister, and send them beyond seas for trial before a foreign 
court. The Spanish minister farther demands — 

" 4th. That if, in consequence of the intervention of the autho- 
rities of Connecticut, there should be any delay in the desired 
delivery of the vessel and the slaves, the owners both of the for- 
mer be indemnified for the injury that may accrue to them." 

Now, how are all these demands to be put together 1 First, he 
demands that the United States shall keep them safely, and send 
them to Cuba, all in a lump, the children as well as Cinque and 
Grabbo. Next, he denies the power of our courts to take any 
cognizance of the case. And finally, that the owners of the slaves 
shall be indemnified for any injury they may sustain in their pro- 
perty. We see in the whole of this transaction, a confusion of 
ideas and a contradiction of positions, from confounding together 
the two capacities in which these people are attempted to be held. 
One moment they are viewed as merchandise, and the next as 
persons. ^The Spanish minister, the Secretary of State, and every 
one who has had anything to do with the case, all have run into 
these absurdities. These demands are utterly inconsistent. First, 
they are demanded as persons, as the subjects of Spain, to be de- 
livered up as criminals, to be tried for their lives, and liable to be 
executed on the gibbet. Then they are demanded as chattels, the 
same as so many bags of coffee, or bales of cotton, belonging to 
owners, who have a right to be indemnified for any injury to their 
property. 

I now ask if there is, in any one or in all those specifications, 
that demand which the Secretary of State avers the Spanish Min- 
ister had made, and which is the basis of the whole proceeding in 
this case on the part of the Executive. 

The letter of the Secretary, which is the foundation of the 
whole proceeding of the District Attorney, in making the United 
States a party, on the ground of a demand by the Spanish Minister 
for the delivery of these people as property, " says the thing that 
is not." The letter proceeds: 

"In support of these claims, the undersigned invokes the law 
-of nations, the stipulations of existing treaties, and those good 
feelings" — [good feelings, indeed, he might well say, where all 
3 



18 

the feelings were in favor of his demand] — " so necessary to the 
maintenance of the friendly relations that subsist between the 
two countries, and are so interesting to both. 

" The undersigned would be apprehensive of offending Mr. For- 
syth by supposing it in the least degree necessary to bring to his 
recollection his own well-known construction (disposiciones) of 
the law of nations, in a case analogous to the one under conside- 
ration." 

, This is what the logicians call argumentum ad hominem — an ap- 
peal, first to the feelings of the individual, not to his sense of 
justice. He then brings up to Mr. Forsyth his own construction 
of the law of nations, as given in another case, which he deems 
analogous. Perhaps I may be justified in conjecturing to what 
case he alludes, and I will say that, if he alludes to any case of 
public notoriety, I shall be able to show, before I close, that there 
is no analogy to this case. 

M. Calderon de la Barca then refers to several treaty stipula- 
tions in support of his demand, and particularly the 8th, 9th, and 
10th articles of the treaty of 1795, continued in force by the 
treaty of i819. 

" Art. 8. In case the subjects and inhabitants of either party, 
with their shipping, whether public and of war, or private and of 
merchants, be forced, through stress of weather, pursuit of pirates 
or enemies, or any other urgent necessity, for seeking of shelter 
and harbor, to retreat and enter into any of the rivers, bays, roads, 
or ports, belonging to the other party, they shall be received and 
rented with all humanity, and enjoy all favor, protection, and 
help; and they shall be permitted to refresh and provide them- 
selves, at reasonable rates, with victuals and all things needful for 
the subsistence of their persons, or reparation of their ships, and 
prosecution of their voyage •> and they shall noways be hindered 
from returning out of the said ports or roads, but may remove 
and depart when and whither they please, without any let or hin- 
drance." 

This is a provision for vessels with their owners, driven into 
port by distress. Who was the Spanish owner here with his ship? 
There was none. I say the Africans were here with their ship. 
If you say the original owner is referred to. in whose name the 
ship's register was given, he was dead, he was not on board, and 
could not claim the benefit of this article. The vessel either be 



19 

longed to the Africans, in whose possession it was found, and who 
certainly had what is everywhere the first evidence of property, 
or there was no person to whom this article could apply, and it 
was not casus foederis. The truth is, this article was not intended 
to apply to such a case as this, but to the common case, in regard 
to which it has doubtless been carried into execution hundreds of 
times, in meeting the common disasters of maritime life. 

The Africans, who certainly had the prima facie title to the 
property, did not bring the vessel into our waters themselves, but 
were brought here against their will, by the two Spaniards, by 
stratagem and deception. Now, if this court should consider, as 
the courts below have done, that the original voyage from Lom- 
boko, in Africa, was continued by the Spaniards in the Amistad, 
and that pursuing that voyage was a violation of the laws of the 
United States, then the Spaniards are responsible for that offence. 
The deed begun in Africa was not consummated according to its 
original intention, until the negroes were landed at their port of 
final destination in Porto Principe. The clandestine landing in 
Havana, the unlawful sale in the barracoons, the shipment on 
board the Amistad, were all parts of the original transaction. 
And it was in pursuit of that original unlawful intent that the 
Spaniards brought the vessel by stratagem into a port of the Unit- 
ed States. Does the treaty apply to such voyages ? Suppose the 
owner had been on board, and his voyage lawful, what does the 
treaty secure to him 1 Why, that he mighi repair his ship, and 
purchase refreshments, and continue his voyage. Euiz and Mon. 
tes could not continue the voyage. J>ut, suppose the article 
applicable, and what were the United States to do ? They must 
place those on board the ship in the situation they were in when 
taken, that is, the Africans in possession, with the two Spaniard g 
as their prisoners, or their slaves, as the case might be ; the ne. 
groes as masters of the ship, to continue their voyage, which on 
their part was certainly lawful. 

If any part of the article was applicable to the case it was in 
favor of the Africans. They were in distress, and were brought 
into our waters by their enemies, by those who sought, and who 
are still seeking, to reduce them from freedom to slavery, as a 
reward for having spared their lives in the fight. If the good 
offices of the government are to be rendered to the proprietors 
of shipping in distress, they are due to the Africans only, and the 



20 

United States are now bound to restore the ship to the Africans, 
and replace the Spaniards on board as prisoners. But the article 
is not applicable at all. It is not a casus fodder is. The parties to 
the treaty never could have had any such case in view. The 
transaction on board of the vessel after leaving Havana entirely 
changed the circumstances of the parties, and conferred rights 
on my most unfortunate clients, which cannot but be regarded by 
this honorable court. 

Next we have article 9 % 

"Art. 9. All ships and merchandise, of what nature soever, 
which shall be rescued out of the hands of any pirates or robbers 
on the high seas, shall be brought into some port of either state, 
and shall be delivered to the custody of the officers of that port, 
in order to be taken care of, and restored entire to the true pro- 
prietor, as soon as due and sufficient proof shall be made con- 
cerning the property thereof." 

Was this ship rescued out of the hands of pirates and robbers 1 
Is this Court competent to declare it 1 The Courts below have 
decided that they have no authority to try, criminally, what hap- 
pened on board the vessel. They have then no right to regard 
those who forcibly took possession of the vessel as pirates and 
robbers. If the sympathies of Lieutenant Gedney, which the 
Secretary of State says had become national, had been felt for all 
the parties, in due proportion to their sufferings and their deserts, 
who were the pirates and robbers ? Were they the Africans % 
When they were brought from Lomboko, in the Tecora, against 
the laws of Spain, against the laws of the United States, and 
against the law of nations, so far as the United States, and Spain, 
and Great Britain, are concerned, who were the robbers and pi- 
rates 1 And when the same Yoyage, in fact, was continued in the 
Amistad, and the Africans were in a perishing condition in the 
hands of Ruiz, dropping dead fiom day to day under his treat- 
ment, were they the pirates and robbers % This honorable Court 
will observe from the record that there were fifty-four Africans 
who left the Havana. Ruiz says in his libel that nine had died 
before they reached our shores. The marshal's return shows that 
they were dying day after day from the effects of their sufferings. 
One died before the Court sat at New Lotvdon. Three more died 
before the return was made to the Court at Hartford — only seven, 
teen days — and three more between that and November* Sixteen 



21 

fell victims before November, and from that time not one has 
died. Think only of the relief and benefit of being restored to 
the absolute wants of human nature. Although placed in a con- 
dition which, if applied to forty citizens of the United States, we 
should call cruel, shut up eighteen months in a prison, and enjoy- 
ing only the tenderness which our laws provide for the worst of 
criminals, so great is the improvement of their condition from 
what it was in the hands of Ruiz, that they have perfectly recov- 
ered their health, and not one has died ; when, before that time, 
they were perishing from hour to hour. 

At the great day of accounts, may it please the Court, who is 
to be responsible for those sixteen souls that died 1 Ruiz claims 
those sixteen as his property, as merchandise. How many of 
them, at his last hour, will pass before him and say, " Let me sit 
heavy on thy soul to-morrow !" 

Who, then, are the tyrants and oppressors against whom our 
laws are invoked 1 Who are the innocent sufferers, for whom we 
are called upon to protect this ship against enemies and robbers % 
Certainly not Ruiz and Montes. 

But, independently of this consideration, the article cannot ap- 
ply to slaves. It says ships and merchandise. Is that language 
applicable to human beings 1 Will this Court so affirm % It says 
they shall be restored entire. Is it a treaty between cannibal na- 
tions, that a stipulation is needed for the restoration of merchan- 
dise entire, to prevent parties from cutting off the legs and arms 
of human beings before they are delivered up 1 The very word 
entire in the stipulation is of itself a sufficient exclusion of human 
beings from the scope of the article. But if it was intended to 
embrace human beings, the article would have included a provis- 
ion for their subsistence until they are restored, and an indemni- 
fication for their maintenance to the officers who are charged with 
the execution of the stipulation. And there is perhaps needed a 
provision with regard to the institutions of the free states, to pre- 
vent a difficulty in keeping human beings in the custom house, 
without having them liable to the operation of the local law, the 
habeas corpus, and the rights of freedom. 

But with regard to article 9, 1 will speak of my own knowledge, 
for it happened that on the renewal of the treaty in 1819, the whole 
of the negotiations with the then minister of Spain passed through 
my hands, and I am certain that neither of us ever entertained an 
idea that this word merchandise was to apply to human beings, 



22 

Mr. Calderon also quotes article 10. 

"Art. 10. When any vessel of either party shall he wrecked, 
foundered, or otherwise damaged, on the coasts or whhin the do- 
minion of the other, their respective subjects or citizens shall re- 
ceive, as well for themselves as for their vessels and effects, the 
same assistance which would be due to the inhabitants of the coun- 
try where the damage happens, and shall pay the same charges 
and dues only as the said inhabitants would be subject to pay in a 
like case ; and if the operations of repair should require that the 
whole or any part of the cargo be unladen, they shall pay no du- 
ties, charges, or fees, on the pait which they shall relade and 
carry away." 

This article, again, has nothing to do with the case. The 
Amistad was neither wrecked nor foundered, nor otherwise da- 
maged. She came into our waters voluntarily, so far as the Span- 
iards were concerned, but involuntarily, so far as concerned the 
Africans, who were in possession of the vessel. They were in- 
tentionally prosecuting a voyage to Africa, but were brought to 
our shores by deception, and against their wills. This is not casus 
fcederis. The treaty has no application here. But if, by any lati- 
tude of construction, it could be applied, its benefits belong to the 
Africans, for they were pursuing a lawful voyage, and not to the 
Spaniards, who were on an unlawful voyage, in the prosecution 
of the slave trade. • 

But the article says the same assistance shall be afforded that 
our own citizens would be entitled to receive in like circum- 
stances. Let us apply the rule. Suppose the Amistad had been 
a vessel of the United States, owned and manned by citizens of 
the United States, and in like circumstances. Say it was a Balti- 
more clipper, fitted for the African slave trade, and having per- 
formed a voyage, had come back to our shores, directly or indi 
rectly, with fifty-four African victims on board, and was thus 
brought into port — what would be the assistance guarantied by 
our laws to American citizens, in such circumstances ? The cap- 
tain would be seized, tried as a pirate, and hung ! And every 
person concerned, either as owners or on board the ship, would be 
severely punished. The law makes it a capital offence for the 
captain, and no appeal to this Court would save him from the gib- 
bet. Is that the assistance which the Spanish minister invokes for 
Ruiz and Montes? That is what our laws would secure to our 
own citizens in like circumstances. And perhaps it would be a 



23 

reward nearer their merits than the restoration of these poor ne» 
groes to them, or enabling them to complete their voyage. 

But my clients are claimed under the treaty as merchandise, 
rescued from pirates and robbers. Who were the merchandise, 
and who were the robbers 1 According to the construction of the 
Spanish minister, the merchandise were the robbers, and the rob- 
bers were the merchandise. The merchandise was rescued out of 
its own hands, and the robbers were rescued out of the hands of 
the robbers. Is this the meaning of the treaty ? Will this Court 
adopt a rule of construction in regard to solemn treaties that will 
sanction such conclusions 1 There is a rule in Vattel that no 
construction shall be allowed to a treaty which makes it absurd. 
Is any thing more absurd than to say these forty Africans are rob- 
bers, out of whose hands they have themselves been rescued! 
Can a greater absurdity be imagined in construction than this, 
which applies the double character of robbers and of merchandise 
to human beings ? 

May it please your Honors, there is not one article of the treaty 
that has the slightest application to this case, and the Spanish 
minister has no more ground for appealing to the treaty, as a war- 
rant for his demand, than he has for relying on the law of nations. 

The next argument that follows is so peculiar that I find it diffi- 
cult to give a distinct idea of its pupose or application. He 
says, 

" The crime in question is one of those which, if permitted to 
pass unpunished, would endanger the internal tranquillity and the 
safety of the island of Cuba, where citizens of the United States 
not only carry on a considerable trade, but where they possess 
territorial properties which they cultivate with the labor of Afri- 
can slaves. These, on learning that the crime alluded to had been 
committed with impunity, (and their friends would not fail to ac- 
quaint them with the fact) would lose none of the opportunities 
for attempting revolt and evasion, which are afforded by the fre- 
quent and daily necessity of conveying negroes by sea from one 
quarter of the island to another; and to guard against this it would 
be necessary to use additional precautions at a great expense." 

I believe, may it please the Court, that this is not a good argu- 
ment before this court, to determine questions of law and justice 
by the consideration that there are American citizens who own 
plantations in the island of Cuba, which they cultivate by the la- 



24 

bor of slaves. They own their plantations and slaves there, sub- 
ject to the laws of Spain, which laws declare the African slave 
trade to be felony. The Spanish minister has no right to appeal 
to our courts to pass a particular sentence between parties in a 
suit, by considerations of their personal interest, or that of other 
American citizens in the Island of Cuba. What would become of 
the liberties of this nation if our courts are to pass sentence be- 
tween parties, upon considerations of the effect it may have upon 
the interest of American citizens, scattered as they may be in all 
parts of the world 1 If it is a valid consideration when applied to 
Cuba and the American owners of sugar estates and slaves there, 
it applies equally to all other countries where American citizens 
may have property ; to China, Hindostan, or the Feejee Islands. 
It was no proper argument for the Spanish minister to urge upon 
the American Secretary of State. It was undoubtedly calculated 
and designed to influence his sympathy in the case — that sympa- 
thy with one of the parties which he says had become national. 
It was calculated to excite and to influence the Secretary of State 
not only by the effect to be produced in the island of Cuba, but 
perhaps also by a regard to certain interests nearer home. But 
was that JUSTICE ? Was that a ground on which courts of jus- 
tice will decide cases'? I trust not. 

There are a few portions of this letter, which I had rather your 
Honors would read when you are together in consultation, than to 
read them myself in this place. I will not trust myself to com- 
ment upon them as they deserve. I trust that your Honors, in the 
pursuit of JUSTICE, will read them, as the document will be in 
your hands, and you will see why I abstain from doing it. Mr. 
Calderon proceeds to say, 

"If, on the other hand, they should be condemned by the in- 
competent tribunal that has taken upon itself to try them as pi- 
rates and assassins, the infliction of capital punishment in this case 
would not be attended with the salutary effects had in view by the 
law when it resorts to this painful and terrible alternative, name- 
ly, to prevent the commission of similiar offences. In such case, 
the indemnification I officially ask for the owners would be a very 
slender compensation ; for, if the property remained unimpaired, 
as it would remain, the satisfaction due to the public would not 
be accorded." 

And that is a reason why the President of the United States 



20 

was to issue his lettre de cachet, and send these unfortunate indi- 
viduals to Cuba. I abstain now from reading the subsequent pas- 
sages.* He concludes by saying, 

" In the islands above mentioned the citizens of the United 
States have always met with a favorable reception and kind treat- 
ment. The Spanish Government, for the protection of their pro- 
perty, would immediately accord the extradition of any slaves that 
might take refuge there from the southern states. Being itself 
exact in the observance of treaties, it claims the more justly the 
execution of them, and a reciprocal good correspondence, from a 
nation, the ally and neighbor of Spain, to whom so many proofs 
have been afforded of the high degree in which her friendship is 
esteemed." 

They will readily yield fugitive slaves ! Was this an argument, 
I ask the honorable Court, to be addressed to the Secretary of 
State 1 Is it upon these principles that cases are to be decided ? 
Is it by these considerations that the action of governments is to 
be determined % Shall these men be giv^en up on the offer of an 
equivalent 1 ? " If you will deliver these Africans to me, for whose 

* Mr. Adams' forbearance will hardly be appreciated unless it is known what 
it was that he omitted to read. That portion of the letter of Mr. Calderon is 
therefore appended to this note. 

>• "The dread of a repetition of these acts might be expected to take possession of 
the minds of the people residing in the islands of Cuba and Porto-Rico ; and, in 
lieu of the harmony and good feeling subsisting between them and the citizens of 
the United States, it would not be surprising, nor would it afford a cause for com- 
plaint, if sentiments were awakened of a different nature, and highly prejudicial to 
the interests of both parties. How can the man who promotes or advocates dis- 
cord in families expect to be regarded with benevolence ? or how can he who acts 
in such a manner pretend to the title of friend 1 

" The undersigned does not apprehend that the fears herein expressed by him will 
be deemed exaggerated or unfounded. No one is ignorant of the existence of a 
considerable number of persons who, prompted by a zeal which it does not belong 
to him to qualify, are employing all the means which knowledge and wealth can 
afford for effecting, at any price, the emancipation of the slaves. Many of them, 
either because they are persuaded of the philanthropy of their designs, or assuming 
this virtue as a cloak, have no hesitation in repaying the hospitality they receive 
by the seduction of the slaves of their host, especially if they are skilful in any 
trade. 

" Having induced them to abandon their masters, they ship them on board some 
vessel, where they retain them in a worse state of captivity than before, or send 
them to the United States to be set at liberty; thus appropriating to themselves the 
property of another, and deliberately committing a theft, while, perhaps, they be- 



26 

blood all the slave-traders of Cuba thirst, and any slave from the 
south shall make his escape and come to Cuba, we will readily de- 
liver him up." What is this argument as addressed to the Secre- 
tary of State 1 It may be a very easy thing for the Governor at 
Havana to seize a fugitive southern p-lave, or a pretended fugitive, 
as the case may be, and put him on board a vessel and send him 
to one of our Southern states. The learned Attorney General, I 
think, read some authorities to show that this Governor has royal 
powers, about equal to those of the King, and it may be easy for 
him to seize any man, black or white, slave or free, who may be 
claimed as a slave, and send him beyond seas for any purpose. 
But, has the President of the United States any such powers? 
Can the American Executive do such things }. If he is to do 
them, I should hope, at least, that it might be under treaty stipula- 
tions rather more adapted to the object than these. It was going 
quite far enough, I should think, to require the President of the 
U. S. to keep these men safely, and send them back at the expense 
of this nation, without making this — what shall I call it 1 I will 
not undertake to qualify it in words — this offer to send back the 
fugitive slaves of the South as an equivalent, provided the Presi- 
dent will consent to deliver up these men, by a despotic act, to sa- 
tiate the vengeance of the slave-traders at Havana. 

I have now, may it please the Court, examined at great lengthy 
and with tedious detail, the letter of the Spanish minister, demand- 
ing the interposition of the national Executive to restore these 
unfortunate Africans to the island of Cuba. And now I may in- 
quire of your Honors, what, in your opinion, was the duty of the 

lieve that they are performing a meritorious act. In the meantime, the only 
resource of the ruined Spanish proprietor is to apply, at an enormous expense, to 
the tribunals of a foreign country, where in many places public opinion throws in 
the way of the applicant for justice, in matters of this nature, insuperable obstacles. 
Of the many cases that might be referred to, in proof of the justice of this re- 
mark, one is that of John Smith, mate of the brig Swiftsure, who concealed and 
brought away with him a negro who was cook in a hotel where he was staying ; 
upon which subject the undersigned wrote to the Secretary of State on the 19th 
of November, 1836, and now addresses him again in a separate communication. 
That the fears of the undersigned are not without foundation, is also evident from 
the excitement which this occurrence has produced in the public mind, from the 
language used by some of the public papers in relating it, and from the exertions 
that many persons have commenced making in favor of the revolted slaves of the 
* Amistad,' for whose defence they have engaged some of the most able counsel- 
lors of Boston, Now Haven and New York," 



27 

Secretary of State, on receiving such a letter. And in the first 
place, what did he do ?. 

His first act was, to misrepresent the demand, and to write to 
the District Attorney in Connecticut, directing him to pursue a 
claim for the possession of these people on behalf of the United 
States, on the ground that the Spanish minister had demanded 
their delivery to him, as the property of Spanish subjects, and or- 
dering him to take care that no court should place them beyond 
the control of the Executive. That is what he did. And the con- 
sequence is the case now before the court. The Attorney of the 
United States pursued his orders. He stated, in his claim before 
the District Court, that the Spanish minister had demanded their 
restoration as property; and then, as if conscious that this claim 
might not secure the other purpose, of keeping them at all events 
within the control of the Executive, he added, of his own head, 
(for it does not appear that he had any instructions on this point,) 
a second count, claiming, on behalf of the United States, that if 
the court should find they were not slaves by the laws of Spain, 
but that they were brought to our shores in violation of the act of 
Congress for the suppression of the slave trade, then they should 
be placed at the disposal of the President, to be sent to Africa, 
according to the provisions of that act. This count was undoubt- 
edly added in consequence of the order not to let them be placed 
beyond the control of the Executive. In a subsequent term of the 
court, he filed a new libel, in which this alternative demand was 
omitted. Why was that done 1 I can conceive no other reason 
than that he had received such instructions from the Executive. 

Those instructions do not appear among the printed documents, 
but it does not follow that none were given, for the communica'ion 
of the President, in answer to the call of the House of Represent- 
atives, was not a full one, as I know of my own knowledge. The 
demand was for all information not incompatible with the public 
interest, and under that proviso many things were kept back. But 
there can be no doubt that it was for the purpose of complying 
with the first order of the District Attorney inserted in the second 
count, and that it was by the instructions of the department he 
afterward withdrew it. 

[Mr. Baldwin. The count was not withdrawn. A new libel was 
entered, having only one count, but the first libel was not with- 
drawn.] 



28 

Very well — it amounts to this : that the Executive did not 
choose to hold itself responsible for that construction of the act of 
Congress. This appears from the appeal. What have the United 
States appealed from ? Why, from a decree of the court, giving 
them precisely what they had claimed by the District Attorney- 
The Attorney knew that the libel grounded on the demand of the 
Spanish minister, (ostensibly, for I have shown that it was a falsi- 
fication of the terms of that demand by the Secretary of State,) 
was not sufficient to place the Africans beyond the control of the 
Executive, in a certain alternative, and therefore he calls upon the 
Court to put them in the hands of the President, to be sent to Afri. 
ca — that is, to complete their own voyage. 

Well, the District Court investigated the case ? and dissipated 
entirely the pretension that these Africans could be claimed in 
any way as merchandise. They went the length of declaring that 
the only ladino on board, the boy Antonio, concerning whom there 
was the slightest pretext of a claim that he was a slave, should be 
delivered up to the Spanish consul, on behalf of the representatives 
of his late owner, Captain Ferrer. The United States do not ap„ 
peal from that decision, and there has been no appeal, although 
we might have appealed with propriety. And I confess that, had 
I been of counsel in that stage of the proceedings, I should have 
been much disposed to appeal, on the ground that there was no 
article of the treaty which has any thing to do with the case. I 
conceive that this part of the decree of the District Court is not 
warranted by any law or treaty whatever. 

But I do not desire to argue that question now, for I perceive 
that the district judge, in giving his decision, places it partly on 
the ground that the boy is desirous of returning. And as volenti 
non fit injuria, I reconcile my mind to that part of the decision 
for we could certainly have no possible motive to interfere with 
the wishes of the boy. If he really has the desire to return to 
slavery in Cuba, it would be far from my desire to interfere with 
his wishes, however strange and unnatural I might deem them to 
be. But I must, at the same time> as an individual, protest against 
his delivery by any compulsion, or on any ground of obligation in 
the treaty ; for I must maintain, that there is no one of the articles 
in the treaty cited that has any application whatever to the case. 

And now, may it please your Honors r so strange and singular is 
every thing that happens, connected with this most singular case, 



29 

I am informed that, after all, this boy has not been sent to Cuba, 
notwithstanding his anxiety to go, and the desire of the Spanish 
consul for his restoration, with a decree of the Court agreeable to 
his demand. I am informed that he has remained a whole year in 
prison with the Africans, and is, at this moment, in the custody of 
the marshal, by what warrant or process I know not, or at whose 
expense. 

The reason for this extended analysis of the demand by the 
Spanish minister is, that we may be prepared to inquire what an- 
swer he ought to have received from the American Secretary. I 
aver, that it was the duty of the Secretary of State instantly to 
answer the letter, by showing the Spanish minister that all his de. 
mands were utterly inadmissible, and that the government of the 
United States could do nothing of what he required. It could not 
deliver the ship to the owner, and there was no duty resting on 
the United States to dispose of the vessel in any such manner. 
And as to the demand that no salvage should be taken, the Span- 
ish minister should have been told that it was a question depend, 
ing exclusively on the determination of the courts, before whom 
the case was pending for trial according to law. And the Secre- 
tary ought to have shown Mr. Calderon, that the demand for a 
proclamation by the President of the United States, against the 
jurisdiction of the courts, was not only inadmissible but offensive 
— it was demanding what the Executive could not do, by the con- 
stitution. It would be the assumption of a control over the judi- 
ciary by the President, which would overthrow the whole fabric 
of the constitution ; it would violate the principles of our govern- 
ment generally and in every particular ; it would be against the 
rights of the negroes, of the citizens, and of the States. 

The Secretary ought to have done this at once, without waiting 
to consult the President, who was then absent from the city. The 
claim that the negroes should be delivered was equally inadmissi- 
ble with the rest ; the President has no power to arrest either citi- 
zens or foreigners. But even that power is almost insignificant 
compared with that of sending men beyond seas to deliver them 
up to a foreign government. The Secretary should have called 
upon the Spanish ambassador to name an instance where such a 
demand had been made by any government of another government 
that was independent. He should have told him, that such a de- 
mand was treating the President of the United States, not as the 



30 

head of a nation, but as a constable, a catchpole — a character that 
it is not possible to express in gentlemanly language. That is 
what this demand makes. of the President of the United States. 

The Secretary should also have set the Spanish Minister right 
with regard to the authorities before whom the question was pen- 
ding. He should have told him that they were not the 
authorities of the state of Connecticut but of the United States, 
the courts of the Union in the state of Connecticut. He should 
have corrected this mistake of the minister at the beginning. It 
was a real misapprehension, which has continued through the 
whole proceeding to the present time, and it ought to have been 
corrected at first. And what is still more remarkable, the same 
mistake of calling it the court of Connecticut was made by Mr. 
Forsyth himself long after. 

But what did the Secretary do in fact 1 He barely replies to 
Mr. Calderon, that he had sent his letter to the President for his 
consideration, and that "no time will be needlessly lost, after his 
decision upon the demand it prefers shall have reached me, in 
communicaiing to you his views upon the subject." 

And now, from that day to this, the Secretary of State has 
never answered one of these demands, nor arrested one of these 
misapprehensions, nor asserted the rights and the honor of the 
nation aginst one of these most extraordinary, inadmissible, and 
insolent demands. He has degraded the country, in the face of 
the whole civilized world, not only by allowing these demands to 
remain unanswered, but by proceeding, I am obliged to say, 
throughout the whole transaction, as if the Executive were 
earnestly desirous to comply with every one of the demands. In 
the very misrepresentations of those demands, in his instructions 
to the District Attorney, under which this case is brought here, 
why does he take such a course ? The Spanish Minister pro- 
nounced the Court before which the Secretary brought the ques- 
tion, an incompetent tribunal — and this position has been main- 
tained by the Legation of Spain down to this very month, that a 
letter of Chevalier d'Argaiz officially protests against the jurisdic- 
tion of the courts before which the Secretary professes to be 
prosecuting the claim of this very minister ! 

Why does the Spanish Minister persist in such inadmissible 
pretensions 1 It is because they were not met in limine in a 
proper manner — because he was not told instantly, without the 



91 

delay of an hour, that this Government could never admit such 
claims, and would be offended if they were repeated, or any por* 
tion of them. Yet all these claims, monstrous, absurd and inad- 
missible as they are, have been urged and repeated for eighteen 
months, upon our Government, and an American Secretary of 
State evades answering any of them — evades it to such an 
extent that the Spanish Minister reproaches him for not meeting 
his arguments. 

The demand of Mr. Calderon was dated September 6. The 
order of the Secretary to the District Attorney, in regard to the 
suit, was dated September 11, in which he says that '' a commu- 
nication has been addressed to this department by the Minister of 
Her Catholic Majesty, claiming the vessel, cargo, and blacks on 
boarp, as Spanish property, and demanding its immediate release." 
On the 23d of September, the Secretary writes to the Spanish 
Minister as follows : 

Sir : In the examination of the case of the Spanish schooner 
" Amistad," the only evidence at present within reach of this 
department is that presented by the ship's paper; and the pro 
ceedings of the court of inquiry held by a district judge of Con- 
necticut, on board the schooner, at the time the negroes in whose 
possession she was found, were imprisoned for the alledged mur- 
der of the captain and mate of the vessel. If you have any other 
authentic documents relating to the question or evidence of facts 
which can be useful to a proper understanding of it, I have the 
honor to request by the direction of the President, that you will 
communicate them to me with as little delay as practicable. 

Here the Secretary reiterates the error of the Spanish minister, 
instead of correcting it, with regard to the character of the Court 
before which the case was pending. The Secretary of State calls 
the United States District for Connecticut " a District Court of 
Connecticut." The Spanish Minister could not be expected to 
acquire a correct understanding of the case, unless he was in- 
formed, but here he has his error confirmed. 

The Secretary further requests the ambassador, if he has any 
farther documents, "that you will communicate them to me" 
What had he to do with this evidence? The Spanish minister 
had made a certain demand upon the government of the United 
States. Whether it was what it appears to be, or whether it was 
what the Secretary represented it to be in his orders to the Dis- 



32 

trict Attorney, it was no part of the business of the American 
Secretary of State to look after the evidence. Still, if he had 
requested the minister to communicate the evidence to the Court, 
it might not have been exactly improper, but only officious. If 
the Spanish Minister chose to go into our courts in support of the 
private claims of Spanish subjects, he could do it, and it was his 
business to bring forward the proper evidence in support of his 
claim. Why, then, does the Secretary call upon him to furnish 
these documents to the Executive Department 1 Your Honors 
will judge whether this letter is or is not evidence of a deter- 
mination then existing on the part of the Executive, to decide this 
case independently of the judiciary, and ex parte. 

Mr. Calderon replies that he has no other evidence to furnish. 
The next document is the letter of his successor, the Chevalier 
d'Argaiz : 

New- York, October 3, 1839. 

The undersigned, envoy extraordinary and minister plenipoten- 
tiary of Her Catholic Majesty, has the honor of commencing his 
official correspondence with you, sir, by soliciting an act of jus- 
tice, which, not being in any way connected with the principal 
question as yet remaining unsettled by the cabinet, relative to the 
negroes found on board the schooner Amistad on her arrival on 
these coasts, he does not doubt will be received by you in the 
manner which he has every reason to expect, from the circum- 
stance that, all preceding acts of the department under your 
charge have been dictated by the principles of rectitude and 
reciprocity. 

Her Majesty's vice-consul at Boston, under date of the 24th of 
September last, says, among other things : 

"As it appears from the papers of the schooner that she, as well 
as her cargo, are exclusively Spanish property, it seems strange 
that the Court of New London has not yet ordered the delivery 
of one or both to the owners, if they are present, or to me, as 
their agent, born in that part of the Union" — [This is a mis-trans- 
lation ; it means the official agent in that part of the Union] — 
" agreeably to the articles of the treaty now in force between 
the two countries. The delay in the delivery would not be of so 
much consequence to the proprietors if the vessel did not require 
immediate repairs, in order to preserve her from complete 
destruction, and if it were not material that a large part of the 
cargo should be sold on account of its bad condition. 



33 

Here we see the same unfortunate misapprehension continued. 
The new Spanish minister calls upon the Secretary of State to put 
the " Court of New London" into speedy action, to lessen the 
danger of loss to the proprietors by delay, and the Secretary of 
State takes no pains to correct the error. 

On the 21th of October, the Secretary of State wrote again to 
Mr. Argaiz, on another subject, which is not now before this 
Court, — the arrest of Euiz and Montes, at the suit of some of the 
Africans, in the courts of the State of New York. Mr. Argaiz 
protested against the arrest, and claims "the interposition of the 
Executive in procuring their liberation, and indemnity for the 
losses and injury they may have sustained." To that the Secre- 
tary replies: 

" It appears from the documents accompanying the note of the 
Chevalier d' Argaiz, that the two Spanish subjects referred to 
were arrested on process issuing from the Superior Court of the 
city of New York, at the suit of, and upon affidavits made by cer- 
tain colored men, natives of Africa, for the purpose of securing 
their appearance before the proper tribunal, to answer for wrongs 
alledged to have been inflicted by them upon the persons of the 
said Africans ; and, consequently, that the occurrence constitutes 
a simple case of resort by individuals against others to the judi- 
cial courts of the country, which are equally open to all without 
distinction, and to which it belongs exclusively to decide, as well 
upon the right of the complainant to demand the interposition of 
their authority, as upon the liability of the defendant to give re- 
dress for the wrong alledged to have been committed by him. This 
being the only light in which the subject can be viewed, and the 
constitution and laws having secured the judicial power against 
all interference on the part of the Executive authority, the Pre- 
sident, to whom the Chevalier d'A;gaiz's note has been commu- 
nicated, has instructed the undersigned to state, that the agency 
of this government to obtain the release of Messrs. Ruiz and Mon- 
tes cannot be afforded in the manner requested by him. The laws 
of the state of New York, of which the constitution and laws of 
the United States and their treaties with foreign powers form a 
part, afford to Messrs. Ruiz and Montes all the necessary means 
to procure their release from imprisonment, and to obtain any in- 
demnity to which they maybe justly entitled, and therefore would 
render unnecessary any agency on the part of this department for 
those purposes." 



There is a complete answer to all these demands of the Spanish 
legation. "The constitution and laws have secured the judicial 
power against ALL interference of the Executive authority." 
That is very true. The laws of the state of New York, of which 
the constitution and laws of the United States and their treaties 
with foreign powers form a part, afford to Messrs. Ruiz and Mon- 
tes all the necessary means for the security of their rights, and 
therefore " render unnecessary any agency on the part of" the 
Executive. That is very correct. There is a perfect answer, 
worthy of an American statesman But is that all 1 No" The 
Secretary finds, after all these disclaimers, one Executive power 
yet in reserve, which may be put forth to take part against poor 
Africans, and at least afford evidence of the national sympathy. 
The Secretary says: 

" But inasmuch as the imprisonment of those persons connects 
itself with another occurrence which has been brought under the 
President's consideration, in consequence of a correspondence be- 
tween the Spanish legation and this department, instructions (of 
which a copy is inclosed) have been given to the Attorney of the 
United States for the District of New York to put himself in com- 
munication with those gentlemen, to offer them his advice (and 
his aid, if necessary) as to any measure which it may be pro- 
per for them to adopt to procure their release, and such indemnity 
as may be due to them, under our laws, for their arrest and deten- 
tion." 

Because the case " connects itself with another occurrence." 
What is all this 1 The independence of the judiciary is first 
firmly and bravely sustained. It is a question of private rights 
between parties, with which the executive has nothing to do, and 
the Government of the United States has no power to interpose. 
And then the President instructs the District Attorney, the law 
officer of the government, to "put himself in communication" 
with one of the parties, to throw all the weight and influence of 
the government on their side, in order to secure a favorable deci- 
sion for them in the Courts of the state of New York. May it 
please your Honors, I will not here enter into an inquiry of the ef- 
fect of this interference of the Executive of the United States 
with the Courts of a State, or the extent and operation of the 
principle which would authorize such interference. I really do 
not know, my imagination cannot present to me the compass of 



35 

its effects on the rights of the people of the United States, i 
again ask the attention of this honorable court to this subject. 
The letter begins with a declaration of the independence of the 
judiciary of the State of New York, the sufficiency of the laws 
to secure justice and the incompetency of the Executive to inter- 
fere ; and yet, because the case " connects itself" with another 
case in which the Executive has considered itself entitled to act, 
the whole influence of the Government is brought to bear upon 
the judicial authorities of the State of New York. 

I said the Secretary of State had never to this hour undertaken 
to contest any one of the actual demands of Mr. Calderon, as 
preferred in his letter of 5th September. Fie had suffered both 
Mr. Calderon and his successor to remain under the impression 
that if theii-. demands were not complied with, for the kidnapping 
of these people by the Executive, it was not for the want of a will 
to do it, or of a disposition to contest the claims put forth in so 
extraordinary a manner upon our government. Let us now' see 
how Mr. Argaiz himself regarded the conduct of the Secretary. 
On the 5th of November, he writes again to Mr. Forsyth, acknow- 
ledging the receipt of Mr. Forsyth's letter, inclosing the instruc- 
tions of the Attorney of the United States for the District of New 
York, " that he should offer to these persons his advice and as- 
sistance, if needed, with regard to the most proper means of ob- 
taining their liberty." He says : 

" Although this answer did not entirely satisfy the desire ex- 
pressed by the undersigned in the note of October 22d, to which 
he was impelled by the sense of his duty, and by the terms of ex- 
isting treaties, yet he received it with pleasure and with thanks j 
with pleasure, because he saw that the Secretary of State did 
not refuse to admit the reasons which the undersigned had the 
honor to state in that note ; and with thanks, because he saw that 
the sentiments which had urged him to request with warmth a 
prompt reply, had been kindly interpreted. The undersigned in 
consequence, went immediately to New York, where he visited, 
on the 29ih ultimo, the Attorney of the United States, with whom 
he had a long conversation, which left him delighted with the af- 
fability and courtesy of Mr. Butler, although he did not have the 
happiness to remain satisfied as to the principal matter, as that 
officer of justice declared that he could find no other means of 
obtaining the liberty of Ruiz (Montes being already free) than by 



36 

waiting the determination of the court or courts, against the juris- 
diction of which the undersigned had already especially pro- 
tested." 

The Spanish ambassador was not satisfied with the letter, an" 
and yet he received it with pleasure, " because he saw that the 
Secretary did not refuse to admit his reasons." How is that ? 
The Secretary of State took no measures to repel the improper 
demand made, or to correct the erroneous idea cherished by the 
Spanish legation ; and this neglect Mr. Argaiz construes as a vir- 
tual admission of his " reasons J ' Why should he not so construe 
it 1 Here is also a renewal of the protest, which has uniformly 
been maintained by the legation, against the right of any court in 
this country to exercise jurisdiction in the case. And yet 
this suit is carried on by the Executive, as in pursuance of a de- 
mand by the Spanish minister. Mr. Argaiz then refers to two 
personal conferences which he had with the Secretary, and he is 
well persuaded that what he had said, together with the indications 
in his note of October 22, would have been sufficient to convince 
" one so enlightened and discriminating as the Secretary, of the 
justice of his claim ; that this persuasion has gained strength, 
from the circumstance that the Secretary of State has made no 
attempt in his answer to oppose those arguments, but has confined 
himself to endeavoring to explain the course of civil causes in the 
courts of this country, in order to show that the government of 
the United States could not interfere in the manner which her 
Catholic Majesty's representative requested j it becomes necessary 
to advance farther arguments, at the risk of being importunate." 

And a little farther on, after adverting to the various excuses 
and palliations which seem to have been presented in these con- 
fidential conferences, for not seizing these negroes and sending 
them to Cuba by the Executive power, in which he says " it is 
allowed by the whole world" that " petitions or accusations of 
slaves against their masters cannot be admitted in a court," he 
concludes by asking — 

" As the incompetence of the courts of the United States, with 
regard to this matter, is so clearly demonstrated, is there no 
power in the Federal Government to declare it so, and to inter- 
pose its authority to put down the irregularity of these proceed- 
ings, which the court is not competent to perform 1 It seems im- 
possible that there should be no such power ; but unfortunately 
there is none. 



37 

"Her Catholic Majesty's envoy extraordinary and minister 
plenipotentiary, nevertheless, seeing that his previous protest did 
not produce the result which he expected, renews it now, declar- 
ing this government responsible for the consequences which may 
grow out of this affair j and he asks the Secretary of State whe- 
ther or not he possesses sufficient authority and force to carry 
into fulfilment the treaty of 1795. If he has not, then there can 
be no treaty binding on the other party." 

* He thinks it impossible there should not be a power in the Fe- 
deral Government to put down these proceedings of the courts, 
but he admits that unfortunately there is no such power, and then 
asks the Secretary of State if he cannot find a power, somewherej 
to take the matter out of the hands of the judiciary altogether. 
And if not, he shall hold this Government responsible for the con- 
sequences, for if it has not power to fulfil the treaty, no treaty is 
binding on either party. 

On the^6th of November, the trial of the case having been 
postponed by the District Court from November to January, he 
writes again, that he is under the necessity of renewing his for- 
mer complaints. 

" To the first complaint, made by his predecessor, on the 6th 
September last, nothing more than an acknowledgment of its re- 
ceipt was thought necessary, which was made on the 16th of the 
same month. In the answers which the Secretary was pleased to 
give to the notes of the undersigned, of the 22d of October, and 
the 5th of November last, that gentleman did not think proper 
to combat the arguments advanced. Those which the undersigned 
now proposes to present will be no less powerful, and he hopes 
will be such that the Secretary will not be able to deny their 
justice. 

"The undersigned has the honor to ask in what law, act, or 
statute, does the said court base its right to take cognizance of 
the present case^ There can be no doubt as to the reply : on no 
law, act, or statute." 

Here he denies again that the Court, before which the Secreta- 
ry of State had made a demand with the averment that it came 
from the Spanish minister, has any power to take cognizance of 
the case. He says there is no law, act, or statute for it, and then 
he goes on : — 

" For, if any such existed, it is, or should be, anterior or poste- 



38 

rior to the treaty of 1795. If anterior, it clearly became annulled, 
because a treat}? - is one of the superior laws of the State, or the 
treaty should never have been signed, or ratified, or sanctioned by 
the legislative bodies. If posterior to the treaty, the legislative 
bodies, in drawing it up, discussing it, and voting on it, must have 
seen that it was at variance with a subsisting treaty, which was 
already a law of the Union. All which serves to show that, in the 
existing state of the laws, this affair cannot and should not be de- 
cided by the common law, but by the international law." 

That is to say, the treaty stipulation has taken away the power 
of the courts of the United States to exercise jurisdiction between 
parties. Is that a doctrine to be heard by the Secretary of State 
of the United States from a foreign ambassador without answer- 
ing it? The ambassador proceeds to urge that "if the General 
Government of the Union had decided this matter of itself, guber- 
nativamente" — here is a word, used several times in this corres- 
pondence, that no American translator has been able to translate 
into our language. It means, by the simple will or absolute fiat 
of the Executive, as in the case of the lettres de cachet — or a war- 
rant for the BASTILE — that is what the Spaniard means by gu- 
bernativamente, when he asks the Executive of the United States, 
by his own fiat, to seize these MEN, wrest them from the power 
and protection of the courts, and send them beyond seas! Is 
there any such law at Constantinople ? Does the Celestial Em- 
pire allow a proceeding like thisl Is the Khan of Tartary pos- 
sessed of a power competent to meet demands like these ? I 
know not where on the globe we should look for any such authori- 
ty, unless it be with the Governor General of Cuba with respect 
to negroes. 

" If the General Government had proceeded gubernativamente" 
— it is not necessary now to consider what would have followed. 
" But," says the Chevalier dArgaiz, " very different, however, 
have been the results ; for, in the first place the treaty of 1795 
has not been executed, as the legation of her Catholic Majesty 
has solicited ; and the public vengeance has not been satisfied." 

" The public vengeance !" What public vengeance \ The 
vengeance of African slave-traders, despoiled of their prey and 
thirsting for blood! The vengeance of the barracoons! This 
"public vengeance" is not satisfied. Surely, this is very lamenta- 
ble. Surely, this is a complaint to be made to the Secretary of 



39 

State of this government. " For," says he, " be it recollected 
that the legation of Spain does not demand the delivery of slaves, 
but of assassins." 

How is it possible to reconcile this declaration of the Span* 
ish minister with the libel of the District Attorney, entered by 
order of the Secretary of State, setting forth what was said to be 
the demand of the Spanish minister 1 It is an explicit contra- 
diction. 

The Constitution of the United States recognizes the slaves, 
held within some of the States of the Union, only in their capa- 
city of persons — persons held to labor or service in a State under 
the laws thereof — persons constituting elements of representation 
in the popular branch of the National Legislature — persons, the 
migration or importation of whom should not be prohibited by 
Congress prior to the year 1808. The Constitution no where re- 
cognizes them as property. The words slave and slavery are 
studiously^ excluded from the Constitution. Circumlocutions are 
the fig-leaves under which these parts of the body politic are de- 
cently concealed. Slaves, therefore, in the Constitution of the 
United States are recognized only as persons, enjoying rights and 
held to the performance of duties. 

But, in all countries where men are held as slaves, when they 
are charged 'with the commission of crimes, the right of their 
owners to their persons is, and must necessarily be, suspended ; 
and when they are convicted of capital crimes, the right of the 
owner is extinguished. Throughout the whole correspondence 
between the Spanish ministers and our Department of State, con- 
cerning the surrender of these most unfortunate persons, this 
broad distinction appears to have been entirely and astonishingly 
overlooked, not only by the Spanish ministers, but by the Secre- 
tary of State and by the Attorney General. 

Mr. Calderon demands that the President should keep' these 
persons all — all — adult males and children of both sexes included — 
in close custody, and convey them to Cuba to be tried for their 
lives. Is it not palpable that if this demand had been complied 
with, they could not have been restored to their pretended own. 
ers, Ruiz and Montes, as merchandise of what nature soever? 
With what face, then, could the 9th article of the treaty with 
Spain be alledged to support a demand for the safekeeping and 
delivery of the captives, not as slaves, but as assassins — not as 



40 

merchandise, but as men — as infant females, with flesh, and blood, 
and nerves, and sinews, to be tortured, and with lives to be for- 
feited and consumed by fire, to appease the public vengeance of 
the lawless slave-traders in Cuba 1 

Mr. Forsyth, by a most unaccountable oversight of this distinc- 
tion between persons and things, misrepresents this demand of 
Mr. Calderon. 

He instructs the District Attorney, Mr. Holabird, (11th Sept., 
1839, Doc. p. 39, 4-0,) that the Spanish minister had addressed 
a communication to the Department of State, claiming the vessel, 
cargo, and blacks on board, as Spanish property, and demanding 
its immediate release. 

The District Attorney, on the 19th of September, files, accord- 
ingly, his libels, (Record, p. 13,) stating the demand of the Span- 
ish minister, not as it had really been made, but according to the 
statement of it in his instructions from the Department of State ; 
and he prays the Court that, if the claim of the Spanish minister 
is well founded and conformable to treaty, the Court should make 
such order for the disposal of the said vessel, cargo, and slaves, 
as may best enable the United States, in all respects, to comply 
with their treaty stipulations, and preserve the public faith invi- 
olate. 

But if it should be made to appear that the persona aforesaid, 
described as slaves, arefnegroes and persons of color, who have 
been transported from Africa in violation of the laws of the Unit- 
ed States, and brought into these United States contrary to the 
same laws, he claims that, in such case, the Court shall make such 
further order as may enable the United States, if deemed expedi- 
ent, to remove such persons to the coast of Africa, to be delivered 
there to such agent or agents as may be authorized to receive and 
provide for them, pursuant to the laws of the United States, or 
to make such other order as to the court should seem fit, right, 
and proper in the premises. 

Here were three alternatives prayed for — 1st. That the vessel, 
cargo, and blacks, assumed to be slaves, should be so disposed of 
as to enable the United States to comply with their treaty stipu- 
lations, and preserve the public faith inviolate. It was stated that 
this demand was made at the instance of the Spanish minister, 
but that was true only of the vessel and cargo, but not of the per- 
sons. Of them, he had demanded, by necessary implication, that 



41 

they should not be restored to their pretended owners, but # kept 
in close custody, and, in defiance of all judicial authority, con- 
veyed to the Havana Governmentally, that is, by the arbitrary 
mandate of the President of the United States, to satisfy public 
vengeance. The Court could not have complied with this alter- 
native of restoring the negroes, as property, to their owners, but 
by denying and defying the real demand of the Spanish minister, 
that they should be sent to Cuba as criminals. 

The second alternative was, that the Court should enable the 
United States to send the negroes home to Africa, if deemed expe- 
dient ; and to this the decree of the Court said, soit fait comme il 
est desiri — be it as the District Attorney desires. Let the said 
Africans, in the custody of the Marshal, be delivered to the Presi- 
dent of the United States by the Marshal of the District of Con- 
necticut, to be by him transported to Africa, in pursuance of the 
law of Congress passed March 3, 1829, entitled " An act in addi- 
tion to the acts prohibiting the slave-trade." 

Yet, from this sentence, claimed by the District Attorney, the 
representative of the Executive Administration before the Court, 
it is he himself that appeals. Should the Court sustain that ap- 
peal, what judgment could they possibly render % Should they 
reverse the decision of the District and Circuit Courts, they would 
indeed determine that these forty persons should not be delivered 
to the President of the United States, to be sent home to Africa; 
— but what shall the Court decree to be done with them ? Not 
surely, that they should be delivered up to their pretended own- 
ers, for against that the Spanish minister solemnly protests 1 He 
demands not even that they should be delivered up to himself ! 
He demands that it should be declared, that no tribunal in 
the United States has the right even to institute proceedings 
against them. Be declared — by whom ? He demands of the Ex- 
ecutive Administration — (will the Court please to consider what 
the purport of this demand isl) — that the President of the Unit- 
ed States should issue a proclamation, that no tribunal of the 
United States has the right to institute proceedings against the 
subjects of Spain for crimes committed on board a Spanish vessel, 
and in the waters of the Spanish territory. 

When this demand was made, the Africans of the Amistad were 
in the custody of a judicial tribunal of the United States, upon 
6 



42 

proceedings instituted against them as criminals charged with pi- 
racy and murder. They were also claimed by two Spaniards as 
merchandise, their property ; and the faith of a treaty was solemnly 
invoked to sustain the claim that this merchandise, rescued out of 
the hands of pirates or robbers, (that is to say, out of the hands 
of itself,) should be taken care of by the officers of the port into 
which they had been brought, and restored entire to them — Ruiz 
and Montes — as soon as due and sufficient proof should be made 
concerning the property thereof. 

Now, if no tribunal in the United States had the right tQ insti- 
tute proceedings against the subjects of Spain for crimes commit- 
ted on board a Spanish vessel and in the waters of the Spanish 
territory, how could the Court know that these same Spanish sub- 
jects were, at the same time, the merchandise rescued out of the 
hands of pirates and robbers and the pirates or robbers out of 
whose hands the merchandise was rescued \ How could the 
Court know that they were subjects of Spain — that they were pi- 
rates or robbers — or that they were merchandise — if the Court 
had no right to institute proceedings against them 1 

The very phraseology of the 9th article of the treaty with 
Spain proves, that it was not and could not be intended to include 
persons under the denomination of merchandise, of what nature 
soever, for it provides that the merchandise shall be delivered to 
the custody of the officers of the port, in order to be taken care 
of and restored entire to the true proprietor. Now, this provision, 
that the merchandise shall be restored entire, is absurd if applied 
to human beings, and the use of the word conclusively proves 
that the thought and intention of 'the parties could not be con- 
strued to extend to human beings. A stipulation to restore human 
beings entire might suit two nations of cannibals, but would be 
absurd, and worse than absurd, between civilized and Christian 
nations. Again, the article provides that the rescued merchandise 
shall be delivered to the custody of the officers of the port into 
which it is brought, in order to be taken care of ; but, by what 
Constitution or law of the United States, or of Connecticut, could 
the officers of the port of New London receive into their custo- 
dy, and take care of, the Africans of the Amistad 1 

The demand of the Spanish minister, Calderon, was, that the 
President of the United States should first turn man-robber ; res- 
cue from the custody of the Court, to which they had been com- 



43 

mitted, those forty odd Africans, males and females, adults and 
children ; next turn jailer, and keep them in his close custody, to 
prevent their evasion ; and lastly, turn catchpoll and convey them 
to the Havana, to appease the public vengeance of the African 
slave-traders of the barracoons. 

Is it possible to speak of this demand in language of decency 
and moderation ? Is there a law of Habeas Corpus in the land ? 
Has the expunging process of black lines passed upon these two 
Declarations of Independence in their gilded frames ? Has the 
4th of July, '76, become a day of ignominy and reproach % Is 
there a member of this Honorable Court of age to remember the 
indignation raised against a former President of the United States 
for causing to be delivered up, according to express treaty stipu- 
lation, by regular judicial process, a British sailor, for murder on 
board of a British frigate on the high seas? At least, all your 
Honors remember the case of the Bambers 1 You all remember 
your ownjecent decision in the case of Dr. Holmes 1 And is it 
for this Court to sanction such monstrous usurpation and Execu- 
tive tyranny as this at the demand of a Spanish minister 1 And 
can you hear, with judicial calmness and composure, this demand 
of despotism, countenanced and supported by all the Executive 
authorities of the United States, though not yet drying to carry 
it into execution V 

The third alternative prayed for in the name and behalf of the 
United States in the libel of the 19th of September, 1839, is, that the 
court should make such other order in the premises as it should 
think fit, right, and proper. 

To this expedient it was necessary for the court to resort. The 
court did not know— it could not know that the demand of the 
Spanish Minister, Calderon, was not only widely different from that 
which the libel of the District Attorney represented it to be, but 
absolutely incompatible with it. The court took it for granted that 
the statement in the libels, at least so far as concerned the demand of 
the Spanish Minister, was true — and so far as respected the only 
Ladino on board the Amistad, the boy Antonio, did accede to the 
supposed demand of the Minister — did actually admit the treaty 
stipulation as applicable to him — and did decree that he should be 
restored to the legal representatives of his deceased master. The 
judge of the District Court relieved Antonio from his right of ap- 
peal from that decision by stating that Antonio himself desired to 



44 

be restored to his widowed mistress. But as the whole decree 
was the result of a deception practised upon the court, and as in 
that part of it relating to Antonio, are involved principles of .the 
deepest interest to human freedom, and to the liberties of my 
country, I will only express my most earnest hope, with profound 
respect for the court, that that portion of its decision will never be 
adduced as authority for the surrender of any other individual 
situated as Antonio was on that trial. 

And here I must avail myself of the occasion to state my objec- 
tions to the admission of the case of the Antelope as an authorita- 
tive precedent in this or any other court of the United States — I 
had almost said for any thing, certainly for the right of the court 
itself to deliver up to slavery any human individual at the demand 
of any diplomatic or consular agent of any foreign power. And 
that I may be enabled to set forth at large, my reasons for resist- 
ing the application of that case as precedent or authority for the 
settlement of any principle now under the consideration of the 
Court, I must ask the permission of the Court to review the case of 
the Antelope itself, as it appears on the face of the Reports. 

[See the review of the case of the Antelope, at the close of the 
argument.] 

And this declaration of the Spanish minister not only contradicts 
it, but shows that it was impossible any such demand should have 
been made. " For, let it be remembered," he says, "that the 
Spanish legation demands not slaves but assassins." No despot- 
ism could comply with both demands, had they been made, but the 
Spanish Minister explicitly declares that only one demand was 
made by the legation, and that not the one affirmed by the Secreta- 
ry of State — not property but assassins — not for the benefit of in- 
dividuals, but to satisfy ''public vengeance." There is something 
follows in the letter about " fanaticism," which I will not read to 
the Court, for reasons that will be obvious.* Indeed, I do not know 

* It is proper to append this part of the letter, that the allusion may be under, 
stood by the reader, as it doubtless was by the Court. — Reporter. 

"Very different, however, have been the results ; for, in the first place the trea- 
ty of 1795 has not been executed, as the legation of her Catholic Majesty has so- 
licited ; and the public vengeance has not been satisfied ; for be it recollected that 
the legation of Spain does not demand the delivery of slaves, but of assassins. 
Secondly, great injury has been done to the owners; not the least being the im- 
prisonment which Don Jose Ruiz is now undergoing, notwithstanding the com- 



45 

as I understand it, and it is possible that I have indulged, or may 
indulge in Avhat,in certain dialects, may be called " fanaticism," 
myself. The Chevalier proceeds to reason : 

" Thus it appears that a court of one of the States of the con- 
federacy has assumed the direction of an affair over which it has 
no jurisdiction ; that there can be no law, either anterior or pos- 
terior to the treaty, upon which a legal sentence can be based ; 
that this court, by the repeated delays which it orders, contributes 
to delay the satisfaction demanded by public justice ; and that, in 
consequence, the affair should only be determined by reference to 
international right, and, therefore, by the exercise of the power of 
the Government, {gubernativamente ;) that, for its determination, 
the treaty exists to which Spain appeals ; that, from the delay on 
this determination have proceeded injuries requiring indemnifica- 
tion, to demand which the undersigned reserves his right for a fu- 
ture occasion. The undersigned may, without indiscretion, 
declare that this must be the opinion of the cabinet, which, pos- 
sessing already the necessary and even indispensable powers, may 
immediately act (gubernativamente) in this matter, in virtue of 
the actual state of the law, and without awaiting the decision of 
any court. Not to do so may give rise to very complicated ex- 
planations with regard to reciprocity in the execution and fulfil- 
ment of treaties." 

Here it is. " Gubernativamente" again ; that is the idea which 
was in the mind of the Spanish minister all the while, gubernativa- 
mente. That is what he was insisting on, that was the demand 
which the Secretary of State never repelled as he ought, by telling 
Mr. Argaiz that it was not only inadmissible under our form of 
government, but would be offensive if repeated. But where will 
your Honors find any thing like a demand for property, under the 
treaty, and by the decision of a court of the United States? He 
says, if the Executive does not at once act gubernativamente, and 
take the case out of the judiciary, and send these people to Cuba, it 
" may give rise to complicated explanations with regard to recip- 

plaints made on that subject, which, if not entirely disregarded, have at least not 
produced the favorable results which might have been expected ; and the dignity 
of the Spanish nation has thus been offended. With respect to which injuries, the 
undersigned will, on a proper occasion, use his right; although no indemnification 
can fully recompense for the evils, physical and moral, which the persecutions and 
yexationa occasioned by fanaticism may cause to an honorable man," 



46 

rocity in the execution and fulfilment of treaties." Is that lan- 
guage for a foreign minister to use to the American Secretary of 
State, and not to he answered 1 He then says : 

" The undersigned flatters himself with the hope that his Excel- 
lency the President will take into his high consideration this com- 
munication, to which the undersigned hopes for a speedy answer, 
as a new proof of the scrupulousness and respect with which this 
nation fulfils the treaties existing with other nations. If, contrary 
to this hope, the decision should not be such as the undersigned 
asks, he can only declare the General Government of the Union re- 
sponsible for all and every consequence which the delay may pro- 
duce." 

There is the language used by the representative of her Catho- 
lic Majesty to the Secretary of State of the United States, and to 
which the Secretary never thought it necessary to make a suitable 
reply. There is another correspondence published among the doc- 
uments of the present session of Congress, connected too with this 
very case, which shows that the Secretary knows how to be very 
sensitive with regard to any thing that looks like foreign interfer- 
ence with the action of our courts and government. It is in his 
answer to Mr. Fox, the British ambassador, who addressed a letter 
to Mr. Forsyth, January 20th, 1841, saying he had been instructed 
to represent to the President that the attention of his government 
Sl has been seriously directed to the case" of these Africans, and 
in consequence of the treaty between Great Britain and Spain, in 
which the former paid a valuable consideration for the abandon- 
ment of the trade, it is " moved to take a special and peculiar in- 
terest in the fate of these unfortunate Africans." And he says : 

" Now the unfortunate Africans, whose case is the subject of 
the present representation, have been thrown by accidental cir- 
cumstances into the hands of the authorities of the United States ; 
and it may probably depend upon the action of the United States 
Government, whether these persons shall recover the freedom to 
which they are entitled, or whether they shall be reduced to 
slavery, in violation of the known laws and contracts publicly pass- 
ed, prohibiting the continuance of the African slave trade by 
Spanish subjects. 

" It is under these circumstances that Her Majesty's Govern- 
ment anxiously hope that the President of the United States will 
find himself empowered to take such measures in behalf of the 



47 

aforesaid Africans as shall secure to them the possession of their 
liberty, to which, without doubt, they are by law entitled." 

, The Secretary of' State, in his reply, consents to receive the 
communication, " as an evidence of the benevolence of her Majes- 
ty's Government, under which aspect alone" he says, "it could be 
entertained by the Government of the United States." What a 
different tone is here ! Mr. Fox merely referred to the relations 
of his own government with that of Spain, and to the 10th article 
of the treaty of Ghent, between Great Britain and the United 
States, in which both nations bound themselves " to use their 
best endeavors for the entire abolition of the African slave trade." 
His letter was courteously worded throughout. It casts no impu- 
tations upon any branch of our government, it pronounces no part 
of it incompetent to its functions, it asks no unconstitutional and 
despotic interference of the Executive with the judiciary guberna- 
tivamente, but simply announces the interest his government feels 
in the case, and its " anxious hope that the President of the 
United States will find himself empowered to take such measures 
in behalf of the aforesaid Africans as shall secure to them their 
liberty, to which," he says, " without doubt, they are by law en- 
titled" To this the Secretary of State replies : 

" Viewing this communication as an evidence of the benevo- 
lence of her Majesty's Government — under which aspect alone 
it could be entertained by the Government of the United States — 
I proceed, by direction of the President, to make, in reply, a few 
observations suggested by the topics of your letter. The narra- 
tive presented therein, of the circumstances which brought these 
negroes to our shores, is satisfactory evidence that her Majesty's 
Government is aware that their introduction did not proceed from 
the wishes or direction of the Government of the United States. 
A formal demand having been made by the Spanish minister for 
the delivery of the vessel and property, including the negroes on 
board, the grounds upon which it is based have become the sub- 
ject of investigation before the judicial tribunals of the country, 
which have not yet pronounced their final decision thereupon. 
You must be aware, sir, that the Executive has neither the power nor 
the disposition to control the proceedings of the legal tribunals when 
acting vjithin their own appropriate jurisdiction." 

How sensitive the Secretary is now ! How quick to perceive 
an impropriety ! How alive to the honor of the country — much 



48 

more so, indeed, than the case required. How different his course 
from that pursued toward the Spanish minister, who had been 
from the beginning to the end pressing upon our government de- 
mands the most inadmissible, the most unexampled, the most 
offensive, and yet received from the Secretary no answer, but 
either a prompt compliance with his requirements, or a plain de- 
monstration of regret that compliance was impracticable. Not 
one attempt do we find by the Secretary to vindicate the honor of 
the country, or to press the Spanish minister to bring forward his 
warrant for such unexampled, such humiliating demands. Neither 
does he intimate in the case of the Spanish claim, that it is re- 
ceived on the ground of " benevolence." Indeed he could not 
very well offer that as an apology. Benevolence! The burning 
of these forty Africans at the stake, as the result of a compliance 
by our Executive with the Spanish demand, would hardly tend to 
exhibit or inspire " benevolence." — No, it was for vengeance 
that they were demanded, admitted to be so in this very letter. 

In the same letter the Secretary of State does not undertake to 
controvert the principles set forth by Mr. Calderon, nor the argu- 
ments urged by Mr. Argaiz ; but repeats that they had been sub- 
mitted to the President for consideration. And that is all the 
answer ever given to the Spanish legation. He then refers to va- 
rious personal conversations with the minister of Spain. 

" It was hoped that, in the various conversations which have 
since taken place with the Chevalier d'Argaiz at this depart- 
ment, on the same subject, he would have discovered additional 
evidence of the desire of the United States Government to do jus- 
tice to the demand and representation addressed to it in the name 
of that of Spain, as fully and as promptly as the peculiar character 
of the claim admitted. From the repeated communications of 
the Chevalier d'Argaiz, pressing for the disposal of the question ; 
from his reiterated offer of suggestions as to the course by which 
he deems it incumbent upon this Government to arrive at a 
final decision ; and from the arguments in support of those sug. 
gestions, which the undersigned does not perceive the utility of com. 
bating at the present stage of the transaction. '' 

The Secretary makes no pretension to contest the claims of 
Spain — not even a suggestion of the idea that these claims are 
inadmissible, or that, if pressed, they would be offensive. In 
these conversations, many things may have been said which per- 



49 

haps it would not have been deemed compatible with the public 
interest to make public. I shall justify this intimation before I 
am through with this remarkable correspondence. But it is evi- 
dent there was no resistance of thexlaims in^question^as to their 
justice, no examination of their principles. The Secretary says 
he does not perceive the utility of combating any of these de- 
mands or allegations, and he refers to these private conversations 
as evidence that the Government is perfectly disposed to do all 
that is demanded. He continues by saying — 

" The Government of the United States cannot but perceive 
with regret that the Chevalier d'Argaiz has not formed an ac- 
curate conception of the true character of the question, nor of the 
rules by which, under the constitutional institutions of the coun- 
try, the examination of it must be conducted ; nor a correct ap- 
preciation of the friendly disposition toward Her Catholic Majes- 
ty's Government, with which that examination was so promptly 
entered upon. In connection with one of the points in the Chev- 
alier d'Argaiz's last note, the undersigned will assure him, that 
whatever be, in the end, the disposal of the question, it will be in 
consequence of a decision emanating from no other source than 
the Government of the United States ; and that, if the agency of 
the judicial authority shall have been employed in conducting the 
investigation of the case, it is because the judiciary is, by the or- 
ganic law of the land, a portion, though an independent one, of 
that Government." 

That is to say, so it is, and we can't help it, the judiciary is in- 
dependent, it must have its course, and we cannot help it. He 
proceeds : 

" As to the delay which has already attended, and still may at- 
tend, a final decision, and which the Chevalier d'Argaiz considers 
as a legitimate subject of complaint, it arises from causes which 
the undersigned believes that it would serve no useful purpose to 
discuss at this time, farther than to say that they are beyond the 
control of this department, and that it is not apprehended that 
they will affect the course which the Government of the United 
States may think it fit ultimately to adopt." 

The Spanish minister is here given to understand, in his ear, 

that care had been taken to prevent the Africans from being placed 

beyond the control of the Executive, and therefore he need be 

under no apprehension that the decision of the courts, whatever 

7 



50 

it may be, " will affect the course which the Government of the 
United States may think it fit ultimately to adopt." What other 
construction can possibly be given to this paragraph 1 If any 
other is possible from the words there are facts in the case which 
prove that this was what was intended. The Secretary proceeds 
with his explanations and apologies. 

'• The undersigned indulges the hope that, upon a review of the 
circumstances of the case, and the questions it involves, the Chev- 
alier d'Argaiz will agree with him in thinking that the delay 
which has already occurred is not more than commensurate with 
the importance of those questions ; that such delay is not uncom- 
mon in the proceedings and deliberations of governments desi- 
rous of taking equal justice as the guide of their actions; and 
that the caution which it has been found necessary to observe in 
the instance under consideration, is yet far from having occasion- 
ed such procrastination as it has been the lot of the United States 
frequently to encounter in their intercourse with the Government 
of Spain." 

" With regard to the imprisonment of Don Jose Ruiz, it is again 
the misfortune of this Government to have been entirely misap- 
prehended by the Chevalier d'Argaiz, in the agency it has had in 
this, an entirely private concern of a Spanish subject. It was no 
more the intention of this department, in what has already been 
done, to draw the Chevalier d'Argaiz into a polemical discussion 
with the Attorney of the United States for the district of New 
York, than to supply Don Jose Ruiz, gratis, with counsel in the 
suit in which he had been made a party. The offer made to that 
person of the advice and assistance of'the District Attorney, was a 
favor — an entirely gratuitous one — since it was not the province of 
the United States to interfere in a private litigation between sub- 
jects of a foreign state, for which Mr. Ruiz is indebted to the de- 
sire of this government to treat with due respect the application 
made in his behalf in the name of her Catholic Majesty, and not to 
any right he ever had to be protected against alledged demands of 
individuals against him or his property." 

Here, then, it is avowed that the Executive government of this 
nation had interposed in a suit between two parties, by extend- 
ing a favor entirely gratuitous to one of the parties, who, it is at 
the same time admitted, had no claim whatever to this gratuitous 
aid. And then comes the exhibition which 1 have already read, of 



51 

the national sympathy, in which all the authorities of the country 
are alledged to have participated, and the assumption, under which 
all the proceedings have been carried on, that there was but one 
party aggrieved in the case, and that party was the Spanish slave- 
traders. 

On the 25th of December the Chevalier d'Argaiz addressed a 
long" letter to the Secretary of State, in which he acknowledges 
the receipt of the last letter, to which " it would be superfluous" 
— the word is ocioso, idle — to reply, inasmuch as the Secretary 
of State does not seem to have considered it requisite in the present 
situation, of the affair, to combat the arguments adduced by the under- 
signed. The delicacy of the undersigned does not, however, al- 
low him to pass over (desoir) certain insinuations (remarks) con- 
tained in the said note ; and it will, perhaps, be difficult for him 
to avoid adducing some new argument in support of his de- 
mands." 

The Secretary had never met these claims and arguments, as it 
was his duty to do, and the Spanish minister is continually re- 
minding him that he does not answer his arguments, He then 
refers him to his own course, and says, u The undersigned would 
not have troubled the Government of the Union with his urgent 
demand, if the two Spaniards (who, as the Secretary of State, in 
his note of the 12th, says, ' were found in this distressing and per- 
ilous stuation by officers of the United States, who, moved by sym- 
pathetic feelings, which subsequently became national,') had not 
been the victims of an intrigue, as accurately shown by Mr. For- 
syth, in the conference which he had with the undersigned on the 
21st of October last." 

He here refers to a private conference in which the Secretary 
of State had accurately shown that the two Spaniards in New 
York were the " victims of an intrigue." The Secretary of State of 
the United States, then, had confidentially and officially informed 
the Spanish minister that the two Spaniards, in being arrested at 
the suit of some of these Africans, were the u victims of an in- 
trigue." What the Secretary meant by '' victims of an intrigue,"is 
not for me to say. These Spaniards had been sued in the courts 
of the state of New York by some of my clients, for alledged 
wrongs done to t'hem on the high seas — for cruelty, in fact, so 
dreadful, that many of their number had actually perished under 
the treatment. These suits were commenced by lawyers of New 



52 

York — men of character in their profession. Possibly they ad- 
vised with a few other individuals — fanatics, perhaps, I must call 
them, according to the general application of language, but if I 
were to speak my own language in my own estimate of their char- 
acter, so far as concerns this case, and confining my remarks ex- 
clusively to this present case, I should pronounce them the 
FRIENDS OF HUMAN NATURE— men who were unable to 
see these, their fellow men, in the condition of these unfortunate 
Africans, seized, imprisoned, helpless, friendless, without language 
to complain, without knowledge to understand their situation or 
the means of deliverance — I say they could not see human beings 
in this condition and not undertake to save them from slavery and 
death, if it was in their power — not by a violation of the laws, but 
by securing the execution of the laws in their favor. These are 
the men whom the American Secretary of State arraigns in a 
confidential conversation with the minister of Spain, as the insti- 
gators of " an intrigue" of which he holds these disappointed 
slave-holders to be the unfortunate victims. The Chevalier goes 
on : 

'' The Secretary of State, however, says that ' he cannot but per- 
ceive with regret that the Chevalier d'Argaiz has not formed an 
accurate conception of the true character of the question, nor of 
the rules by which, under the constitutional institutions of this 
country, the examination of it must be conducted.' Possibly the 
undersigned may not have formed such'an accurate conception 
of this affair, since it has been carried within the circle of le- 
gal subtleties, as he has not pursued the profession of the law ; 
but he is well persuaded that, if the crew of the Amistad had been 
composed of white men, the court, or the corporation to which 
the Government of the Union might have submitted the examina- 
tion of the question, would have observed the rules by which it 
should be conducted under the constitutional institutions of the 
country, and would have limited itself to the ascertainment of the 
facts of the murders committed on the 30th of June 5 and the un- 
dersigned does not comprehend the privilege enjoyed by negroes, 
in favor of whom an interminable suit is commenced, in which 
everything is deposed by every person who pleases ; and, for that 
object, an English doctor, who accuses the Spanish government 
of not complying with its treaties, and calumniates the Captain 
General of the island of Cuba, by charging him with bribery," 



53 

Here it is made the subject of complaint from a foreign ambas- 
sador to the Executive Government of the United States, that in 
a court of the United States, in a trial for the life and liberty of 
forty human beings, the testimony of '' an English doctor" was re- 
ceived. And this complaint also was received without a reply. 
The " English doctor," thus spoken of, was Doctor Madden, a 
man of letters, and in the official employ of the British Govern- 
ment, in a post of much importance and responsibility, as the su- 
perintendant of liberated Africans at Havana. His testimony 
was highly important in the case and was admitted in the court 
below, and now forms a part of the record now before your Honors. 
He does not use the word bribery in reference to the Governor 
General of Cuba. 

DEATH OF JUDGE BARBOUR THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE COURT SUS- 
PENDED. 

Washington, Feb. 25, 1841. 

The proceedings of the Court in this solemn case have been 
interrupted by the solemn voice of death. One of the learned 
and honorable judges of the Court, who sat yesterday in his 
place, listening with profound and patient attention to the argu- 
ment of a counsellor many years older than himself, reasoning 
eloquently in behalf of justice on earth, has been summoned to 
his own dread account, at the bar of Eternal Justice above. Judge 
Barbour, of Virginia, the seventh in rank on the bench, died last 
night in his bed — in his sleep, it is probable, without a groan or a 
struggle. The servant at his lodgings went at the usual hour this 
morning to the rooms of the different Judges, to call them to 
breakfast. As the Chief Justice was passing the door of Judge 
Barbour's room, the man said to him, " Chief Justice, will you 
please to come here, sir — I think Judge Barbour is dead." Judge 
Taney went to the bed, and there saw his associate lying on his 
side, as if in a gentle sleep, but dead and cold, with the exception 
of a slight remaining warmth at the chest. Not a muscle was 
distorted, nor were the bed-clothes in the slightest degree disturb- 
ed, so that it is probable his heart ceased to beat in an instant, 
while he was asleep ! 

At the usual hour for opening the Court this morning, none of 
the Judges were seen in the court-room, which was already filled 
with persons come to hear the continuation of Mr. Adams' speech, 



54, 

At length the Judges came in together, and their countenances 
looked pale, distressed, and sorrowful. As soon as they had taken 
their seats, the Crier opened the Court in the usual form, and the 
Chief Justice addressed the gentlemen of the bar — " Gentlemen 
a painful event has occurred — Judge Barbour died suddenly last 
night — and the Court is therefore adjourned until Monday." 

The Crier then made proclamation to that effect, the Judges all 
rose, and retired again to their private apartment, and the assem- 
bly withdrew. 

I did not expect an announcement of so overwhelming a Pro- 
vidence in a manner so severely simple and subdued, but it struck 
me as eminently appropriate for the Supreme Court of this nation. 
It was in keeping with the strictest propriety and suitableness. It 
was sublime. 

RESUMPTION OF THE TRIAL. 

Washington, March 1, 1841. 

On the re-opening of the Court, the Attorney General of the Unit- 
ed States, H. D. Gilpin, Esq. presented a series of appropriate re- 
solutions in reference to the decease of Judge Barbour, which 
had been adopted on Friday, at a meeting of the Bar of officers of 
the court, and which he moved to have entered on the records of 
the court. The Chief Justice responded in a short address, and 
concluded with ordering the resolutions to be entered on the re- 
cords. Mr. Adams then resumed his argument, as follows : — 
May it please your Honors, 

The melancholy event which has occurred since the argument 
of this case was begun, and which has suspended for a time the 
operations of the Court itself, and which I ask permission to say 
that I give my cordial, and painful concurrence in the sentiments 
of the Bar of this Court — has imposed on me the necessity of 
re-stating the basis and aim of the argument which I am submit- 
ting to the Court, in behalf of the large number of individuals, 
who are my unfortunate clients. 

I said that my confidence in a favorable result to this trial rest- 
ed mainly on the ground that I was now speaking before a Court 
of JUSTICE. And in moving the dismissal of the appeal taken 
on behalf of the United States, it became my duty, and was my 
object to show, by an investigation of all the correspondence of 
the Executive in regard to the case, that JUSTICE had not 



55 

been the motive of its proceedings, but that they had been prompt- 
ed by sympathy with one of the two parties and against the other. 
In support of this, I must scrutinize, with the utmost severity } 
every part of the proceedings of the Executive Government. 
And in doing it, I think it proper for me to repeat, that in speak- 
ing of the impulse of sympathies, under which the government 
acted, I do not wish to be understood to speak of that sympa- 
thy as being blameable in itself, or as inducing me to feel un- 
friendly sentiments towards the Head of the Government, or the 
Secretary of State, or any of the Cabinet. I feel no unkind sen- 
timents towards any of these gentlemen. With all of them, I am, 
in the private relations of life, on terms of intercourse, of the most 
friendly character. As to our political differences, let them pass 
for what they are worth, here they are nothing. At the moment 
of the expiration of this administration, I feel extreme reluctance 
at the duty of bringing its conduct before the court in this man- 
ner, as affecting the claims of my clients to JUSTICE. My learn- 
ed friend, the Attorney General, knows that I am not voluntary 
in this work. I here descended to personal solicitation with the 
Executive, that by the withdrawal of the appeal, I might be spar- 
ed the necessity of appearing in this cause. I have been of the 
opinion that the case of my clients was so clear, so just, so right- 
eous, that the Executive would do well to cease its prosecution, 
and leave the matter as it was decided by the District Court, and 
allow the appeal to be dismissed. But I did not succeed, and now 
I cannot do justice to my clients, whose lives and liberties depend 
on the decision of ihis Court — however painful it may be, to my- 
self or others. 

In my examination of the first proceedings of the Executive in 
this case, I did scrutinize and analyze, most minutely and parti- 
cularly, the four demands first made upon our government by the 
late Spanish minister, Mr. Calderon, in his letter to the Secretary 
of State of Sept. 5, 1839. I tested the principles there laid down, 
both by the laws of nations and by the treaties between the two 
nations to which he had appealed. And I showed that every one 
of these demands was inadmissible, and that every principle of 
law and every article of the treaty, he had referred to, was utter- 
ly inapplicable. At the close of my argument the other day, I 
was commenting upon the complaint of the present minister, the 
Chevelier d'Argaiz, addressed to the Secretary of State on the 



56 

25th of December, 1839, in relation to the injustice he alledges to 
have been done to the two Spanish subjects, Ruiz and Montes, by 
their arrest and imprisonment in New York, at the suit of some of 
the Africans. He says he " does not comprehend the privilege 
enjoyed by negroes, in favor of whom an interminable suit is com- 
menced, in which everything is deposed by every person who 
pleases ; and, for that object, an English doctor who accuses the 
Spanish Government of not complying with its treaties, and calum- 
niates the Captain General of the island of Cuba, by charging him 
with bribery." 

This English Doctor is Dr. Madden, whose testimony is given 
in the record. He certainly does not charge the Captain General 
with bribery, although he says that both he and the other authori- 
ties of Cuba are in the habit of winking or conniving at the slave- 
trade. That this is the actual state of affairs, I submit to the 
Court, is a matter of history. And I call the attention of the C ourt 
to this fact, as one of the most important, points of this case. It 
is universally known that the trade is actually carried on, contrary 
to the laws of Spain, but by the general connivance of the Gov- 
ernor General and all the authorities and the people of the island. 
The case of this very vessel, the visit of Ruiz and Montes to the 
barracoon in which these people were confined, the vessel in which 
they were brought from Africa, are all matters of history. I have 
a document which was communicated by the British government 
to the Parliament, which narrates the whole transaction. Mr. A. 
here read from the Parliamentary documents, a letter from Mr. 
Jerningham, the British Minister at Madrid, to the Spanish Secre- 
tary of State, dated January 5th, 1840, describing the voyage of 
the Tecora from Africa, the purchase of these Africans who were 
brought in her, with the subsequent occurrences, and urging the 
Spanish Government to take measures both for their liberation, 
and to enforce the laws of Spain against Ruiz and Montes. 

He says " I have consequently been instructed by my govern- 
ment to call upon the government of her Catholic Majesty to 
issue, with as little delay as possible, strict orders to the authori- 
ties of Cuba, that, if the request of the Spanish minister at Wash- 
ington be complied with, these negroes may be put in possession 
of the liberty of which they were deprived, and to the recovery of 
which they have an undeniable title. 

"I am further directed to express the just expectations of Her 



57 

Majesty's government that the Government of her Catholic Ma- 
jesty will cause the laws against the slave-trade to be enforced 
against Messrs. Jose Ruiz and Pedro Montes, who purchased these 
newly imported negroes, and against all such other Spanish sub- 
jects as have been concerned in this nefarious transaction." 

These facts, said Mr. A., must be well known to the Spanish 
minister. If he complains of injustice in the charge of general 
connivance made by Dr. Madden 5 why has he not undertaken to 
prove that it is a calumny 1 Not the slightest attempt has been 
made to bring forward any evidence on this point, for the very 
plain reason that there could be none. The fact of the slave trade 
is too notorious to be questioned. I will read, said he, from ano- 
ther high authority, a book filled with valuable and authentic in- 
formation on the subject of the slave trade, written by one of the 
most distinguished philanthropists of Great Britain, Sir Thomas 
Fowell Buxton. Mr. A. then read as follows : — 

" It is scarcely practicable to ascertain the number of slaves im- 
ported into Cuba : it can only be a calculation on, at best, doubt- 
ful data. We are continually told by the Commissioners, that 
difficulties are thrown in the way of obtaining correct informa- 
.tion in regard to the slave trade in that island. Everything that 
artifice, violence, intimidation, popular countenance, and official 
connivance can do, is done, to conceal the extent of the traffic. 
Our ambassador, Mr. Villiers, April, 1837, says, ' That a privilege 
(that of entering the harbor after dark) denied to all other vessels, 
is granted to the slave-trader ; and, in short, that with the servants 
of the Government, the misconduct of the persons concerned in 
this trade finds favor and protection. The crews of captured ves- 
sels are permitted to purchase their liberation ; and it would seem 
that the persons concerned in this trade have resolved upon set- 
ting the government of the mother country at defiance.' Almost 
the only specific fact which I can collect from the reports of the 
Commissioners, is the statement ' that 1835 presents a number of 
slave vessels (arriving at the Havana) by which there must have 
been landed, at the very least, 15,000 negroes.' But in an official 
letter, dated 28th May, 1836, there is the following remarkable 
passage : ' I wish I could add, that this list coiitains even one- 
fourth of the number of those which have entered after having 
landed cargoes, or sailed after having refitted in this harbor.' This 
would give an amount of 60,000 for the Havana alone ; but is Ha- 



58 

vana the only port in Cuba in which negroes are landed ? The- 
reverse is notoriously true. The Commissioner says, ' I have 
every reason to believe that several of the other ports of Cuba, 
more particularly the distant city of St. Jago de Cuba, carry on 
the traffic to a considerable extent.' Indeed, it is stated by Mr. 
Hardy, the consul at St. Jago, in a letter to Lord Palmerston, of 
the 18th February, 1837, ' That the Portuguese brig Boca Negra, 
landed on the 6th inst. at Juragua, a little to windward of this 
port, (St. Jago,) 400 Africans of all ages, and subsequently enter- 
ed this port.' But in order that we may be assuredly within the 
mark, no claim shall be made on account of these distant ports. 
Confining ourselves to the Havana, it would seem probable, if it 
be not demonstrated, that the number for that port, a fortiori, for 
the whole island, may fairly be estimated at 60,000." 

This evidence is important to show what is the real value of 
this certificate of the Governor General. There is one Other 
proof which I will read to the court, and leave it to your Honors 
to judge of its bearing, and of the conclusion to which it arrives. 
It is the statement of the Spanish vice consul, Mr. Vega. 

" The following statement was made to me by A. G. Vega, Esq.„ 
Spanish consul, as near as 1 can now recollect, and according to 
my best knowledge and belief, 10th January, 1840. 

W. S. HOLABIRD. 

" That he is a Spanish subject ; that he resided in the Island of 
Cuba several years; that he knows the laws of that island on the 
subject of slavery ; that there was no law that was considered in 
force in the Island of Cuba, that prohibited the bringing in African 
slaves ; that the court of mixed commissioners had no jurisdiction 
except in case of capture on the sea ; that newly imported African 
negroes were constantly brought to the island, and after landino- 
were bona fide transferred from one owner to another, without 
any interference by the local authorities or the mixed commission, 
and were held by the owners and recognized as lawful property; 
that slavery was recognized in Cuba by all the laws that were con- 
sidered in force there ; that the native language of the slaves was 
kept up on some plantations for years. That the barracoons are 
public markets, where all descriptions of slaves are sold and 
bought; that the papers of the Amistadare genuine, and are in the 
usual form; that it was not necessary to practice any fraud to ob- 



59 

tain such papers from the proper officers of the government 5 that 
none of the papers of the Amistad are signed by Martinez, spoken 
of by R. R. Madden, in his deposition ; that he (Martinez) did not 
hold the office from whence that paper issued." 

This is the statement given to the District Attorney by Mr. 
Vega, and by him made a part of this case. This Spanish func- 
tionary declares positively, that he knows there is no law in force 
in Cuba against the African slave trade, and that recent Africans 
are held and sold bona fide as slaves. It is conclusive to prove this 
fact, that the illegal importation and purchase of Africans is openly 
practised in Cuba, although it is contrary to the laws of Spain, but 
those laws are not considered in force, that is, the violation of 
them is constantly connived at by the authorities. 

It may not be universally known, but is doubtless known to 
members of this court, that there is a volume of correspondence on 
this subject, by our consul at Havana, which will be communicat- 
ed to Congress for publication in a few days, and I can state from 
my personal knowledge that it confirms every word of Dr. Mad- 
den's statements on this point, and will show how much reliance 
is to be placed on this certificate of the Governor-General. 

But I will return to the letter of the Chevalier d'Argaiz, I 
have not the honor of knowing this gentleman personally, as I 
knew his predecessor, but I certainly entertain no feeling of un- 
kindness towards him. And in examining his correspondence, al- 
though it is my duty to show that his demands are utterly inad- 
missible and unprecedented, yet it must be admitted that his 
sympathy and partiality for his own countrymen are at least na- 
tural ; and if his zeal and earnestness are somewhat excessive, they 
are at least pardonable. There is in this letter, I must say, a 
simplicity, what the French call bonhommie, which gives me a 
favorable impression of his character, and 1 certainly feel the 
farthest possible from a .disposition to pass any censure on him. 
I repeat that, so far as this sympathy is concerned, if it is not en- 
tirely excusable, it is much more reasonable than it is in some 
others who have not the same interests to defend. He goes on 
to express his pleasure at the assurance received from the Secre- 
tary, that " whatever may be the final settlement of the question, 
it will be in consequence of a decision emanating from the gov- 
ernment, and not from any other source 5" tmd he adds, that c< he 



60 

doubts not such decision will be conformable with the opinion 
which was confidentially communicated to him at the Department 
of State on the 19th of November, as founded on that of a learned 
lawyer, and which he was assured had been adopted by the cabi- 
net." 

I take it for granted that the opinion referred to is the opinion 
of the Attorney-General of that time, Mr. Grundy, contained in the 
Congressional document. It will be necessary for me to examine 
that document before I close, as well as the other papers, and I 
wish to say that the decease of that gentleman, under the circum- 
stances in which it occurred, has made such an impression on my 
mind, as could not have but disarmed me of any disposition to 
censure him, if I had before entertained it. It will be a painful 
duty to me to examine, as I must, with the utmost severity, that 
document. And I shall show that it is such, that neither the 
courts nor the cabinet ought ever to have acted on it. 

In another part of his letter, M. d'Argaiz says of Ruiz and 
Montes, that " they were not exempted from the persecutions of 
an atrocious intrigue, and the undersigned is not the first who has 
so styled this persecution.' This is a pretty plain intimation that 
the American Secretary of State was the first who called the suit 
of my clients for legal redress " an atrocious intrigue," in his 
" confidential conversation" with the Spanish minister. This is 
followed hy an idea so novel and ingenious that it is necessary to 
repeat the whole of it. After complaining that negroes should be 
allowed to be complainants, he goes on to argue that they ought 
to be considered, " morally and legally, as not being in the United 
States," and of course, if they should be delivered up physically, I 
suppose it was to be inferred that the Executive would not incur 
any responsibility. 

" They are morally and legally not in the United States, be- 
cause the court of Connecticut has not declared whether or not it 
is competent to try them. If it should declare itself incompetent, 
it declares that they are under the cover of the Spanish flag ; and y 
in that case, they are physically under the protection of a friend- 
ly government, but morally and legally out of the territory and 
jurisdiction of the United States 5 and, so long as a doubt remains 
on this subject, no judge can admit the complaint. If this argu- 
ment be of any value to the Secretary of State of the Government 
of the Union, the undersigned entreats him to prevail on the Pres- 



61 

ident to cause a protest, founded on this argument, to be official' 
ly addressed to the court of New York*" 

His predecessor, M. Calderon, called upon the President for a 
proclamation forbidding the courts to take up the case, and the 
present minister of Spain insists that he shall send forth his pro- 
test to take it out of the hands of the courts — and this on the 
ground, that my clients, although personally imprisoned for 
eighteen months by the U. S. Marshal, under order of the U. S. 
Court, yet are "not morally and legally in the United States." 
There is another argument of the same gentleman, very much of 
the same character. The court will find it in his first letter after 
the arrest of Ruiz and Montes at New York. He says : 

" It would be easy to demonstrate the illegality of these arrests, 
the orders for which have possibly been obtained from the attorney 
by surprise : as it would also be easy to show the ignorance of 
the declarant, Tappan, in declaring that Huiz is known by the 
name of Pipi, whereas he would have been known and distin- 
guished throughout Spain, as all other Joses are, by the diminu- 
tive of Pepe, and thus it appears that a Pepe has been imprisoned 
instead of a Pipi, which I believe the law does not permit." 

The argument is certainly ingenious, and if it is sound at all, it 
is worth more in favor of the Africans than of the Spaniards, as I 
may hereafter have occasion to show, when I come to consider 
the case of nine-and-forty persons with Spanish names, who have 
been arrested and brought into court by African names. 

The Chevalier d'Argaiz, in the close of this letter, exhibits his 
loyalty towards the then acting sovereign of his nation. 

"At the moment when the heart of the august Queen-Govern- 
ess is filled with delight on account of the termination of a civil 
war, and the assurance of the throne of her august daughter, her 
minister in the United States has to perform the painful duty of 
diminishing her happiness by communicating to her, as he did by 
letter on the 19th instant, the disagreeable event which forms the 
subject of this communication. The desire of calming the dis- 
quiet which this news may occasion in the mind of her Majesty, 
together with that of alleviating the lot of the two prisoners, urge 
the undersigned to entreat you, Mr. Secretary of State, to take into 
consideration what he has here set forth, and to afford him the 
means, in a prompt reply, of satisfying those just desires, which 
will be completely done if he is able to transmit such a reply to 



62 

his Government by the packet sailing for Havre on the 1st of 
November next." 

It must doubtless, said Mr. A., be some consolation to this loy- 
al minister, to reflect that before the august Queen-Governess 
could have received the painful intelligence of the imprisonment 
of two such meritorious subjects as Ruiz and Montes to diminish 
her happiness, her heart had been gratified in a much better man- 
ner. In the pursuit of that happiness for which she longed, it 
seems that she retired altogether from the cares of state, into the 
comforts of domestic life, with a husband that, I hope has calmed 
her disquiet, and if it should ulimately turn out that the lives of 
these poor Africans are saved, there will be no further occasion to 
diminish the happiness of the august Queen-Governess. 

On the 30th of December, five days after the date of the letter 
I have been commenting upon, the Chevalier d'Argaiz wrote 
again to the Secretary of State. 

" Washington, December 30, 1839. 
" Sir — In the conversation which I had with you on the morning 
of the day before yesterday, you mentioned the possibility that 
the Court of Connecticut might, at its meeting on the 7th of Jan- 
uary next, declare itself incompetent, or order the restitution of 
the schooner Amistad, with her cargo, and the negroes found on 
board of her ; and you then showed me that it would be necessa- 
ry for the legation of her Catholic Majesty to take charge of them 
as soon as the Court should have pronounced its sentence or re- 
solution ; and, although I had the honor to state to you that this 
legation could not possibly transfer the said negroes to Havana, 
still it appears proper for me now to declare that — 

" Considering that the schooner Amistad cannot make a voyage, 
on account of the bad condition in which she is, of her being en- 
tirely without a crew: 

" Considering that it would be difficult to find a vessel of the 
United States willing to take charge of these negroes, and to 
transport them to Havana ; and, also, that these negroes have de- 
clared before the Court of Connecticut that they are not slaves ; 
and that the best means of testing the truth of their allegation is 
to bring them before the Courts of Havana : 

" Being at the same time desirous to free the Government of 
the United States from the trouble of keeping the said negroes in 
prison, I venture to request you to prevail upon the President to 



63 

allow to the Government of her Catholic Majesty the assistance 
which it asks under the present circumstances from that of the 
United States, by placing the negroes found on board of the said 
schooner, and claimed by this legation, at the disposition of the 
Captain General of the Island of Cuba, transporting them thither 
in a ship belonging to the United States. Her Catholic Majesty's 
Government, I venture to assert, will receive this act of gene- 
rosity as a most particular favor, which would serve to strengthen 
the bonds of good and reciprocal friendship now happily reigning 
between the two nations." 

Here is no longer a demand for the delivery of slaves to their 
owners, nor for the surrender of the Africans to the Spanish min- 
ister as assassins, but an application to the President of the United 
States to transport forty individuals beyond the seas, to be tried 
for their lives. Js there a member of this Honorable Court that 
ever heard of such a demand made by a foreign minister on any 
government 1 Is there in the whole history of Europe an in- 
stance of such a demand made upon an independent government'? 
I have never in the whole course of my life, in modern or ancient 
history, met with such a demand by one government on another. 
Or, if such a demand was ever made, it was when the nation on 
which it was made was not in the condition of an independent 
power. 

What was this demand 1 It was that the Executive of the 
United States, on his own authority, without evidence, without 
warrant of lav^, should seize, put on board a national armed ship, 
and send beyond seas, forty men, to be tried for their lives. I 
ask the learned Attorney General in his argument on this point 
of the case, to show what is to be the bearing of this proceeding 
on the liberties of the people. I ask him to tell us what authori- 
ty there is for such an exercise of power by the Executive. I 
ask him if there is any authority for such a proceeding in the 
case of these unfortunate Africans, which would not be equally 
available, if any President thought proper to exercise it, to seize 
and send off forty citizens of the United States, Will he vin- 
dicate such an authority'? Will this Court give it a judicial 
sanction? 

But, may it please your Honors, what was the occasion, the 
cause, the motive, which induced the Secretary of State xo hold 



64 

this personal communication with the Spanish minister on the 
28th of December ? What had occurred, to induce the Secretary 
of State to send for the Chevalier d'Argaiz, and tell him that the 
court of Connecticut was about to pass a decree that these Afri- 
cans should be delivered up, and that our government would be 
ready to deliver them to him ! What induced the Secretary of 
State to come to the conclusion that there was any sort of proba- 
bility that the Court of Connecticut would so adjudge] The docu- 
ments do not inform us at whose suggestion or by what information 
the Secretary of State acted in this remarkable manner. We are 
left to infer, that his course was founded, probably, on the opinion 
of the late Attorney General, with a suggestion from the District 
Attorney" of Connecticut. I refer to a letter of the Secretary of 
State to Mr. Holabird, January 6, 1840, in connection with this 
letter of the Spanish minister, of December 30. The Secretary 
says — " your letter of the 20th ultimo," that is, the 20th of Decern- 
ber, " was duly received." Now, said Mr. Adams, it is a remark- 
able fact, that this letter of the District Attorney, of December 20 
1839, was not communicated with the rest of the documents. Why 
it was not communicated is not for me to say. The call of the 
House of Representatives was in the usual form, for information 
" not incompatible with the public interest ;" which, of course, 
gives the President the right to withhold any documents that he 
thinks proper. That letter, therefore, is not communicated, and 
I cannot reason from it, any farther than its contents may be pre- 
sumed, from the intimations in the letter of the Spanish minister, 
in connection with the subsequent proceedings. The Secretary 
says — 

" Washington, January 6, 1840. 
" Sir — Your letter of the 20th ultimo was duly received, and has 
been laid before the President. The Spanish minister having ap- 
plied to this department for the use of a vessel of the United States, 
in the event of the decision of the circuit court in the case of the 
Amistad being favorable to his former application, to convey the 
negroes to Cuba, for the purpose of being delivered over to the 
authorities of that island, the President has, agreeably to your 
suggestion, taken in connection with the request of the Spanish 
minister, ordered a vessel to be in readiness to receive the ne- 
groes from the custody of the marshal as soon as their delivery 
shall have been ordered by the court." 



65 

Now, what could that suggestion have been 1 It will be remem- 
bered that the Secretary of State had before directed the District 
Attorney, Sept. 11, '' In the mean time you will take care that no 
proceeding of your circuit court, or of any other judicial tribunal 
places the vessel, cargo, or slave?, beyond the control of the Fede. 
ral Executive.'''' The District Attorney had repeatedly inquired 
of the Secretary if they could not be disposed of by an Executive 
act, or before the court met*, Until this time he had received no 
orders from the Department From the intimation now given, it 
is evident that the purport of that suppressed letter was an inti- 
mation that the district court would undoubtedly deliver them up, 
and the difficulty then was, how to get them out of the way. There 
might be a Habeas Corpus from the State courts at the moment of 
their delivery to the Spaniards, and some new difficulties would 
intervene. There must have been some such suggestion to war- 
rant or account for the subsequent, proceedings. The Secretary 
goes on to say — 

" As the request of the Spanish minister for the delivery of the 
negroes to the' authorities of Cuba has, for one of its objects, that 
those people should have an opportunity of proving, before the 
tribunals of the island, the truth of the allegations made in- their 
behalf in the course of the proceedings before the circuit court, 
that they are not slaves, the President, desirous of affording the 
Spanish courts every facility that may be derived from this coun- 
try towards a fair and full investigation of all the circumstances^ 
and particularly of the allegations referred to with regard to the 
real condition of the negroes, has directed that Lieutenants Ged- 
ney and Meade be directed to proceed to Cuba, for the purpose of 
giving their testimony in any proceedings that may be instituted 
in the premises ; and that complete records of all those which have 
been had before the circuit court of your district, including the 
evidence taken in the cause, be, with the same view, furnished to 
the Spanish colonial authorities. In obedience to this last men- 
tioned order, you will cause to be prepared an authentic copy of 
the records of the court in the case, and of all the documents and 
evidence connected with it, so as to have it ready to bs banded 
over to the commander of the vessel whieh is to take out the ne- 
groes, who will be instructed as to the disposition he is to make 
of them." 

In every thing I have said of the arguments, and the zeal of the 
M 



66 

Spanish minister, I have admitted that the principles which may 
be supposed to govern him might go far to justify the sympathy 
he has shown for one party exclusively. But I cannot give the 
same credit for the sympathy shown by our own government. In 
this letter we meet, for the first time, something that might appear 
like sympathy for the poor wretches whose liberties and lives 
were in peril. Here is a desire intimated that they might go to 
Cuba, for the purpose of having an opportunity to prove in the 
courts of Spain their right to be free by the laws of Spain. And 
the President, in the abundance of his kindness, orders Lieutenants 
Gedney and Meade to be sent along with them, as witnesses in the 
case, " particularly," the Secretary says, " with regard to the real 
condition of the negroes," that is, whether they were free or slaves. 
But what did Lieutenants Gedney and Meade know about that 1 
They could testify to nothing but the circumstances of the cap- 
ture. And as to the other idea, that these people should have an 
opportunity to prove their freedom in Cuba, how could that be 
credited as a motive, when it is apparent that, by sending them 
■ back in the capacity of slaves, they would be deprived of all power 
to give evidence at all in regard to their freedom ! I cannot, there- 
fore, give the Executive credit for this sympathy towards the Af- 
ricans. It was a mere pretence, to blind the public mind with the 
idea that the Africans were merely sent to Cuba to prove they 
were not slaves. So far from giving any credit for this sympathy, 
the letter itself furnishes incontestible evidence of a very different 
disposition, which I will not qualify in words. 

Pursuing the case chronologically, according to the course of 
the proceedings, I now call the attention of the Court to the opin- 
ion of the late Attorney General of 'the United States, which the 
Secretary of the State told Mr. Argaiz had been adopted by the 
Cabinet, and which has been the foundation, to this day, of all the 
proceedings of the Executive in the case. Before considering 
this, however, 1 will advert to the letter of Messrs. Staples. and 
Sedgwick to the President. These gentlemen were counsel for 
those unfortunate men. There had been reports in circulation, 
which is by no means surprising, considering the course of the 
public sympathy, that the President intended to remove these 
people to Cuba, by force, gubernativamente, by virtue of his Exe- 
cutive authority — that inherent power which I suppose has been 
discovered, by which the President, at his discretion, can seize 



67 

men, and imprison them, and send them beyond seas for trial or 
punishment by a foreign power. 

Hear Messrs. Staples and Sedgwick to the President of the 
United States. 

f ( New York, September 13, 1839. 

"Sir — We have been engaged as counsel of the Africans brought 
in by the Spanish vessel, the Amistad ; and, in that capacity, take 
the liberty of addressing you this letter. 

" These Africans are now under indictment in the circuit court 
of the second circuit, on a charge of piracy, and their defence to 
this accusation must be established before that tribunal. But we 
are given to understand, from authority not to be doubted, that a 
demand has already been made upon the Federal Government, by 
the Spanish minister, that these negroes be surrendered to the au- 
thorities of his country ; and it is on this account that we now 
address you. 

" We are also informed, that these slaves are claimed under the 
9th article of the treaty of 1795, between this country and Spain 
by which all ships and merchandise rescued out of the hands of 
pirates and robbers on the high seas are to be restored to the true 
proprietor, upon due and sufficient proof. 

" We now apply to you, sir, for the purpose of requesting that no 
order may be made by the Executive until the facts necessary to 
authorize its interposition are established by the judicial authority 
in the ordinary course of justice. We submit that this is the true 
construction of the treaty ; that it is not a mere matter of Execu- 
tive discretion ; but that, before the Government enforces the 
demand of the Spanish claimant, that demand must be substan. 
tiated in a court of justice. 

" It appears to us manifest that the treaty could never have 
meant to have submitted conflicting rights of property to mere 
official discretion ; but that it was intended to subject them to the 
same tribunals which, in all other cases, guard and maintain our 
civil rights. Reference to the 7th article, in our opinion, will con- 
firm this position. 

" It will be recollected that, that if we adopt this as the true 
construction of the treaty, should any occasion ever arise when 
our citizens shall claim the benefit of this section, Spain would be 
at liberty to give it the same interpretation ; ,and that the rights of 
our citizens wjll be subjected to the control of subordinate minis- 



68 

terial agents, without any of those safeguards which courts of jus- 
tice present for the establishment of truth and the maintenance of 
rights. We submit, further, that it never could be intended that 
the Executive of the Union should be harassed by the investiga- 
tion of claims of this nature, and yet, assuredly, if the construc- 
tion contended for be correct, such must be the result ; for, if he 
is to issue the order upon due and sufficient proof, the proof must 
be sufficient to his mind. 

" We further submit, that, in regard to the Executive, there are 
no rules of evidence nor course of proceeding established ; and 
that, in all such cases, unless the claimant be directed to the 
courts of justice, the conduct of the affair must, of necessity, be 
uncertain, vague, and not such as is calculated to inspire confi- 
dence in the public or the parties. We can find nothing in the 
treaty to warrant the delivery of these individuals as offenders •' 
and the Executive of the Union has never thought itself obliged, 
under the laws of nations, to accede to demands of this nature. 

" These suggestions are of great force in this case, because we, 
with great confidence, assert, that neither according to the law of 
this, nor that of their own country, can the pretended owners of 
these Africans establish any legal title to them as slaves. 

" These negroes were, it is admitted, carried into Cuba contrary 
to the provisions of the treaty between Spain and Great Britain of 
1817, and of the orders made in conformity therewith ; orders 
which have been repeated, at different times, to as late a date as 
the 4th November, 1838, by which the trade is expressly prohibit- 
ed ; and if they had been taken on board the slaver, they would 
have been unquestionably emancipated. 

" They were bought by the present claimants, Messrs. Ruiz and 
Montes, either directly from the slaver, or under circumstances 
which must, beyond doubt, have apprized them that they were 
illegally introduced into the Havana; and on this state of facts 
we, with great respect, insist that the purchasers of Africans ille- 
gally introduced into the dependencies of a country which has 
prohibited the slave trade, and who make the purchase with know- 
ledge of this fact, can acquire no right: We put the matter on 
the Spanish law ; and we affirm, that Messrs Ruiz and Montes 
have no title, under that law, to these Africans. 

" If this be so, the>n these negroes have only obeyed the dictates 
of self-defence. They have liberated themselves from illegal re- 



69 

straint ; and it is superfluous to say, that Messrs Ruiz and Montea 
have no claim whatever under the treaty. 

" It is this question, sir, fraught with the deepest interest, that 
we pray you to submit for adjudication to the tribunals of the 
land. It is this question that we pray may not be decided in the 
recesses of the cabinet, where these unfriended men can have no 
counsel and can produce no proof, but in the halls of Justice, 
with the safeguards that-; she throws around the unfriended and 
oppressed. 

" And, sir, if you should not be satisfied with the considerations 
here presented, we then submit that we are contending for a right 
upon a construction of a treaty : that this point, at least, should 
be presented to the courts of justice ; and, should you decide to 
grant an order surrendering these Africans, we beg that you will 
direct such notice of it to be given, as may enable ns to test 
the question as we shall be advised, by habeas corpus or other- 
wise. 

" We have only, sir, to add, that we have perfect confidence 
that you will decide in this matter with a single regard to the 
interests of justice and the honor of the country, and that we 
are, with the greatest respect, your most obedient servants, 

' Seth P. Staples, 
" Theodore Sedgwick, Jr. 
" Martin Van Btjren, Esq. 

" President of the United States." 

I read the whole of this letter, said Mr. A., to show that this 
extraordinary course of proceeding was not entered upon by the 
Executive without warning and counsel. The President of the 
United States was informed, on the receipt of that letter, in the 
month of September, 1839, of the deep principles, involving the 
very foundation of the liberties of this country, that were con- 
cerned in the disposal which the Executive might make of these 
men. That letter was with the late Attorney General when he 
examined the case, and when he made up his opinion. His opinion, 
addressed to the Secretary of State, begins thus : 

" Sir, — I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of yours of 
the 24th of September, in which, by direction of the President, you 
refer to this office the letter of the Spanish minister of the 6th of 
September, addressed to you ; also the letter of Seth P. Staples 
and Theodore Sedgwick, Jr. Esqrs., who have been engaged as 



70 

counsel for the negroes taken on board the schooner Amist ad, ad- 
dressed to the President of the United States; and asking my opi- 
nion upon the different legal questions presented by these papers. 

'' I have given to the subject all the consideration which its im- 
portance demands; and now present'to you, and through you to 
the President, the result of my reflections upon the whole sub- 
ject. 

" The following is the statement of facts contained in your 
communication : The Amistad is a Spanish vessel ; was regularly 
cleared from Havana, a Spanish port in Cuba, to Guanaja, in the 
neighborhood of Puerto Principe, another Spanish port; that her 
papers were regular; that the cargo consisted of merchandise and 
slaves, and was duly manifested as belonging to Don Jose Ruiz 
and Don Pedro Montes ; that the negroes after being at sea a few 
days, rose upon the white persons on board ; that the captain, 
his slave and two seamen, were killed, and the vessel taken pos. 
session of by the negroes ; that two white Spaniards, after being 
wounded, were compelled to assist in navigating the vessel, the 
negroes intending to carry her to the coast of Africa; that the 
Spaniards contrived, by altering the course of steering at night, 
to keep her on the coast of the United States ; that on seeing 
land off New- York, they came to the coast, and some of the ne- 
groes landed to procure water and provisions ; that being on the 
point of leaving the coast, the Amistad was visited by a boat from 
Captain Gedney's vessel, and that "one of the Spaniards, claiming 
protection from the officer commanding the boat, the vessel and 
cargo, and all the persons on board, were sent into New London 
for examination, and such proceedings as the laws of nations and 
of the United States warranted and required." 

Here the Court will see he assumes, through the whole argument, 
that these negroes were slaves. This corresponds with the as- 
sumption of the Executive, which Mr. Forsyth, in his letter to 
the Spanish minister afterwards 'declared the Government had 
carried out, that the negroes were slaves, and that the only parties 
injured were Montes and Ruiz. The late Attorney General says 
it appears that the " cargo consisted of merchandise and slaves," 
that the papers were " all regular," that after the capture of the 
vessel by the negroes, the two white Spaniards " were compelled 
to assist in navigating the vessel, the negroes intending to carry 
her to the coast of Africa," but " the Spaniards contrived, by 



7lo 

altering the course of steering at night, to bring her to the United 
States." This last is an admission of some importance, as the 
Court will easily see, in deciding upon the character of the voy- 
age which the vessel was pursuing when taken by Lieutenant 
Gedney. He proceeds to say : 

In the intercourse and transactions between nations, it has been 
found indispensable that due faith and credit should be given by 
each to the official acts of the public functionaries of others. 
Hence the sentences of prize courts under the laws of nations, or 
admiralty, and exchequer or other revenue courts, under the mu- 
nicipal law, are considered as conclusive as to the, proprietary 
interest in, and title to, the things in question ; nor can the same 
be examined into in the judicial tribunals of another country. 
Nor is this confined to judicial proceedings! The acts of other 
officers of a foreign nation, in the discharge of their ordinary du- 
ties, are entitled to the like respect. And the principle seems to 
be universally admitted, that, whenever power or jurisdiction is 
delegated to any public officer or tribunal, and its exercise is con- 
fided to his or their discretion, the acts done in the exercise of 
that discretion, and within the authority conferred, are binding as 
to the subject matter ; and this is true, whether the officer or 
tribunal be legislative, executive, judicial, or special. — Wheat oris 
Elements of International Law, page 121 ; 6th Peter" 1 s i page 729." 
There is the basis of his opinion ; that the comity of nations 
requires, that such a paper, signed by the Governor General of 
Cuba, is conclusive to all the world as a title to property. If the 
life and liberty of men depends on any question arising out of 
these papers, neither the courts of this country nor of any other 
can examine the subject, or go behind this paper. In point of 
fact, the voyage of the Amistad, for which these papers were 
given, was but the continuation of the voyage of the slave trader, 
and marked with the horrible features of the middle passage. 
That is the fact in the case, but this government and the courts 
of this country cannot notice that fact, because they must not go 
behind that document. The Executive may send the men to 
Cuba, to be sold as slaves, to be put to death, to be burnt at the 
stake, but they must not go behind this document, to inquire into 
any facts of the case. That is the essence of the whole argument 
of the late Attorney-General. At a subsequent part of my argu- 
ment I shall examine this document, and I undertake to show 



•ft 

that it is" 1 not even valid for what it purports to be, and that as a 
passport it bears on its face the insignia of imposture. But at 
present I will only observe that it is a most unheard-of thing, that 
in a question of property, a passport should be supposed to give a 
valid title. Papers of fpreign courts and functionaries are to be 
credited for that which they intend to do. A passport, if it is 
regular is to be credited as a passport. But when was it ever 
supposed that a passport stating what a person carries with him 
is evidence of his property in that which is described ? All the 
decisions of this court agree that foreign papers are good only 
for that which they propose and purport, but not as evidence of 
property. And yet the opinion of the late Attorney-G-eneral rests 
on that ground. In a case involving the lives and liberties of a 
large number of men, he has not a word to say of the principles 
of justice or humanity concerned, but goes entirely on the force of 
this document^ on the ground that we cannot go behind the cer- 
tificate of the Spanish Captain General. He says '. 

" Were this otherwise, all confidence and comity would cease 
to exist among nations ; and that code of international law, which 
now contributes so much to the peace, prosperity, and harmony 
of the world, would no longer regulate and control the conduct of 
nations." 

This' principle of national comity, I have no desire to contest, so 
far as it is applicable to this case. The Attorney says : — 

" In the case of the Antelope, (10 Wheaton, page 66,) this sub- 
ject was fully examined, and the opinion of the Supreme Court of 
the United States establishes the following points s — 

<l 1. That, however unjust and unnatural the slave trade may 
be, it is not contrary to the law of nations. 

" 2. That, having been sanctioned by the usage and consent of 
almost all civilized nations, it could not be pronounced illegal, 
except so far as each nation may have made it so by its own acts 
or laws ; and these could only operate upon itself, its own subjects 
or citizens ; and, of course, the trade would remain lawful to 
those whose Government had not fo'rbidden it. 

" 3. That the right of bringing in and adjudicating upon the 
case of a vessel charged with being engaged in the slave trade, 
even where the vessel belongs to a nation which has prohibited 
the trade, cannot exist. The courts of no country execute the 
penal laws of another, and the cour*« of the American Govern- 



73 

merit on the subject of visitation and search would decide any 
case in which that right had been exercised by an American crui- 
ser, on the vessel of a foreign nation not violating our municipal 
laws, against the captors. 

" It follows, that a foreign vessel engaged in the African slave 
trade, captured on the high seas in time of peace, by an American 
cruiser, and brought in for adjudication, would be restored. 

" The opinions here expressed go far beyond the present case ; 
they embrace cases where the negroes never have been within the 
territorial limits of the nation of which the claimant is a citizen." 

Here reference is made to the case of the Antelope, in 10 
Wheaton, to which I shall hereafter solicit the particular attention 
of the Court, as I purpose to examine it in great detail, as to all 
the principles that have been supposed to be decided by that case, 
and especially on the point here alluded to, concerning which 
Chief Justice Marshall says that the Court was divided, therefore 
no principle is decided. That was the most solemn and awful deci- 
sion that ever was given by any Court. The Judges did not 
deliver their opinions for publication, or the reasons, because the 
court was divided. This case is laid at the foundation of the argu- 
ment or opinion of the Attorney-General on which this whole pro- 
ceeding is based, and it is appealed to in all the discussions as 
authority against the rights of these unfortunate people. I shall, 
therefore, feel it to be my duty to examine it to the bottom. 

The second principle drawn by the late Attorney General, if 
he had reasoned on the subject as men ought to reason, is in fa- 
vor of the claims of the Africans. The Antelope was engaged in 
the slave trade south of the Line, where it was not then prohibited 
by the laws of Spain. The decision of the Supreme Court, such as 
it was, was in affirmance of the decree of the court below. Judge 
Davies, in the District Court of Georgia, and Judge Johnson, of 
the Circuit Court, said that, if the slave trade had at that time been 
abolished by Spain, their decision would have been otherwise. 
That trade is now abolished by Spain. 

The late Attorney General says " the courts of no country exe- 
cute the penal laws of another." I may ask, does any nation exe- 
cute the slave laws of another country? Is not the slave sys- 
tem, the Code Noir, as peculiar as the revenue system or the 
criminal code? These men were found free, and they cannot 
now be decreed to be slaves, but by making them slaves. By 
10 



74 

what authority will this court undertake to do this % What 
right has Ruiz to claim these men as his property, when they 
were free, and so far from being in his possession when taken, he 
was in theirs. If there is no right of visitation and search by the 
cruisers of one nation over those of another, by what right has 
this ship been taken from the men who had it in their posses- 
sion % The captors in this case, are Gedney and Meade, the own- 
ers are the Africans. The Attorney says, 

" This vessel was not engaged in the slave trade ; she was em- 
ployed lawfully in removing these negroes, as slaves, from one 
part of the Spanish dominions to another, precisely in the same 
way that slaves are removed, by sea, from one slave State to an- 
other in our own country. I consider the facts as stated, so far 
as this government is concerned, as establishing a right of owner- 
ship to the negroes in question, in the persons in whose behalf 
the minister of Spain has made a demand upon the government 
of the U. States." 

Now, here I take issue- The vessel was engaged in the slave 
trade. The voyage in the Amistad was a mere continuation of 
the original voyage in the Tecora. The voyage in its original in- 
tention was not accomplished until the slaves had reached their 
final destination on the plantation. This is the principle univer- 
sally applicable to coasting vessels. I say further, that the ob- 
ject of Ruiz and Montes was illegal, it was apart of the voyage from 
Lomboko, and when they fell into the hands of Lieutenant Ged- 
ney, they were steering in pursuance of that original voyage. 
Their object was to get to Porto Principe, and of course the voyage 
was to them an unlawful one. The object of the Africans was to 
get to a port in Africa, and their voyage was lawful. And the 
whole character of the" affair was changed by the transactions 
that took place on board of the ship. The late Attorney, how- 
ever, comes to the conclusion that the courts of the United States 
cannot proceed criminally against these people, that the provi- 
sions of the Acts of Congress against the slave trade are not ap- 
plicable to Ruiz and Montes, and so he recurs to the 9th Article 
of the Treaty of 1795. I have nothing to add to what I have be- 
fore said respecting the treaty. It can have no possible applica- 
tion in this case. 

The late Attorney General now comes to a conclusion as to 
what is t© be done — a conclusion which it is not in my power to 



75 

read to the Court without astonishment, that such an opinion 
should ever have been maintained by an Attorney General of the 
United States. 

"My opinion further is, that the proper mode of executing this 
article of treaty, in the present case, would be for the President 
of the United States to issue his order, directed to the Marshal in 
whose custody the vessel and cargo are, to deliver the same to 
such persons as may be designated by the Spanish minister to re 
ceive them. The reasons which operate in favor of a delivery to 
the order of the Spanish minister are — 

" 1. The owners of the vessel and cargo are not all in this 
country, and, of course, a delivery cannot be made to them. 

' 2. This has become a subject of discussion between the two 
Governments, and, in such a case, the restoration should be made 
to that agent of the Government who is authorized to make, and 
through whom the demand is made. 

" 3. These negroes are charged with an infraction of the Span- 
ish laws ; therefore, it is proper that they should be surrendered 
to the public functionaries of that Government, that if the laws of 
Spain have been violated, they may not escape punishment. 

" 4. These negroes deny that they are slaves; if they should 
be delivered to the claimaints, no opportunity may be afforded for 
the assertion of their right to freedom. For these reasons, it 
seems to me that a delivery to the Spanish minister is the only 
safe course for this Government to pursue." 

That is the opinion, which the Secretary of State told the Span- 
ish minister the American Cabinet had adopted ! That these 
MEN, being at that time in judicial custody of the Court of the 
United States, should be taken out of that custody, under an or- 
der of the President, and sent beyond seas by his sole authority ! 
The Cabinet adopted that opinion ; why, then, did they not act 
upon it % Why did not the President send his order to the Mar- 
shal to seize these men, and ship them to Cuba, or deliver them 
to the order of the Spanish Minister 1 I am ashamed ! I am 
ashamed that such an opinion should ever have been delivered by 
any public officer of this country, executive or judicial. I am 
ashamed to stand up before the nations of the earth, with such an 
opinion recorded as official, and what is worse, as having been 
adopted by the government i — an opinion sanctioning a particu* 
]&x course of proceeding, unprecedented among civilized Coun* 



76 

tries, which was thus officially sanctioned, and yet the govern- 
ment did not dare to do it. Why did they not do it 1 If this 
opinion had been carried into effect, it would have settled the 
matter at once, so far as it related to these unfortunate men. 
They would have been wrested from that protection, which above 
all things was their due after they had been taken into custody by 
order of the Court, and would have been put into the power of 
" public vengeance" at Havana. Yet there was not enough. 
There seems to have been an impression that to serve an order 
like that would require the aid of a body of troops. — The people 
of Connecticut never would, never ought to have suffered it to be 
executed on their soil, but by main force. So the Spanish minis- 
ter says his government has no ship to receive these people, and 
the President must therefore go further, and as he is responsible 
for the safe-keeping ffnd delivery of the men, he must not only de- 
liver them up, but ship them off in a national vessel, so that there 
may be no Habeas Corpus from the State Courts coming to the 
rescue as soon as they are out of the control of the judiciary. 
The suggestion, which first came from the District Attorney, that 
the Court would undoubtedly place the Africans at the mercy of 
the Executive, is carried out by an announcement from the Sec- 
retary of State, of an agreement with Mr. Argaiz to send them to 
Cuba in a public ship. Here is the memorandum of the Secreta- 
ry of State to the Secretary of the Navy. 

" Department of State> January 2, 1840. 

"The vessel destined to convey the negroes of the Amistad to 
Cuba, to be ordered to anchor off the port of New Haven, Con- 
necticut, as early as the 10th of January next, and be in readiness 
to receive said negroes from the marshal of the United States, and 
proceed with them to Havana, under instructions to be hereafter 
transmitted. 

" Lieutenant Gedney and .Meade to be ordered to hold them- 
selves in readiness to proceed in the same vessel, for the purpose 
of affording their testimony in any proceedings that may be or- 
dered by the authorities of Cuba in the matter. 

" These orders should be given with special instructions that 
they are not to be communicated to any one." 

Well, the order was given by the Secretary of the Navy, that 
the schooner Grampus should execute this honorable service. 



77 

The Secretary of the Navy to the Secretary of State, 

"Navy Department, Jan. 2, 1840. 

" Sir, — I have the honor to state that, in pursuance of the me- 
morandum sent by you to this department, the United States 
schooner Grampus, Lieutenant Commanding John S. Paine, has 
been ordered to proceed to the bay of New Haven, to receive 
the negroes captured in the Amistad. The Grampus will proba- 
bly be at the point designated a day or two before the 10th inst., 
and. will there await her final instructions in regard to the ne- 
groes." 

A celebrated state prisoner, when going to the scaffold, was 
led by the statue of Liberty, and exclaimed, " O, Liberty ! how 
many crimes are committed in thy name !" So we may say of 
our gallant navy, "What crimes is it ordered to commit! To 
what uses is it ordered to be degraded!" 

On the 7th of January, the Secretary of State writes to the 
Secretary of the Navy, acknowledging the receipt of his letter 
of the 3d, informing him that the schooner Grampus would re- 
ceive the negroes of the Amistad, " for the purpose of conveying 
them to Cuba, in the event of their delivery being adjudged by 
the circuit court, before whom the case is pending." This sin- 
gular blunder, in naming the court, shows in what manner and 
with how little care the Department of State allowed itself to 
conduct an affair, involving no less than the liberties and lives of 
every one of my clients. This letter inclosed the order of the 
President to the Marshal of Connecticut for the delivery of the 
negroes to Lieut. Paine. Although disposing of the lives of forty 
human beings, it has not the form or solemnity of a warrant, and 
is not even signed by the President in his official capacity. It is 
a mere order. 

"The Marshal of the United States for the district of Connect 
ticut will deliver over to Lieut. John S. Paine, of the United 
States Navy, and aid in conveying on board the schooner Gram- 
pus, under his command, all the negroes, late of the Spanish 
schooner Amistad, in his custody, under process now pending 
before the Circuit court of the United States for the district of 
Connecticut. For so doing, this order will be his warrant. 

"Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, this 7th day 
of January, A. D. 1840. "M. Van Btjren, 

" By the President : 

" Joh"n Forsyth. Sec-, of State.'' 



78 

That order is good for nothing at all. It did not even describe 
the court correctly, under whose protection these unfortunate 
people were. And on the 11th of January, the District Attorney 
had to send a special messenger, who came, it appears, all the 
way to Washington in one day, to inform the Secretary that the 
negroes were not holden under the order of the Circuit Court 
but of the District Court. And he says, " Should the pretended 
friends of the negroes" — the pretended friends ! — " obtain a writ 
of Habeas Corpus, the Marshal could not justify under that war- 
rant." And he says, " the Marshal wishes me to inquire " — a 
most amiable and benevolent inquiry — " whether in the event of 
a decree requiring him to release the negroes, or in case of an ap- 
peal by the adverse party, it is expected the Executive warrant will 
be executed " — that is, whether he is to carry the negroes on 
board of the Grampus in the face of a decree of the court. And 
he requests instructions on the point. What a pretty thing it 
would have been, if he had received such instructions, in the face 
of a decree of the court ! I should like to ask him which he 
would have obeyed. At least, it appears, he had such doubts 
whether he should obey the decree of the court, that he wanted 
instructions from the President. I will not say what temper it 
shows in the Marshal and the District Attorney. 

On the 12th of January, the very next day after the letter of the 
District Attorney was written at New Haven, the Secretary of 
State replies in a dispatch which is marked " confidential." 

"[confidential.] 

" Department of State, Jan. 12, 1840. 

"Sir, — Your letter of the 11th instant has just been received. 
The order for the delivery of the negroes of the Amistad is here 
with returned, corrected agreeably to your suggestion. With 
reference to the inquiry from the Marshal, to which you allude, I 
have to state, by direction of the President, that, if the decision 
of the court is such as is anticipated, the order of the President 
is to be carried into execution, unless an appeal shall actually 
have been interposed. You are not to take it for granted that it 
will be interposed. And if, on the contrary, the decision of the 
court is different, you are to take out an appeal, and allow things 
to remain as they are until the appeal shall have been decided. 
" I am, sir, your obedient servant, 

"John Forsyth, 

"W. S. Holabikd, Esq., 

" -Attorney U. S.for Dist. of Conn.''' 



79 

Now, may it please your Honors, this corrected order, the 
final order of the President of the United States, is not in evi- 
dence, it does not appear among the documents communicated to 
Congress, and I feel some curiosity to know how it was corrected. 
I have heard it intimated that the President of the United States 
never knew it had heen changed, and that the alternative was 
made, perhaps by a clerk in the State Department, just by draw- 
ing his pen through the word circuit, and interlining the word 
district. I put it to your Honors to say what sort of regard is here 
exhibited for human life and for the liberties of these people. 
Did not the President know, when he signed that order for the 
delivery of MEN to the control of an officer of the navy to be 
carried beyond seas, he was assuming a power that no President 
had ever assumed before % It is questionable whether such a 
power could have been exercised by the most despotic govern- 
ment of Europe. Yet this business was coolly dispatched by a 
mere informal order, which order was afterwards altered by a 
clerk. 

The Secretary of State further instructs the District Attorney, 
that " if the decision of the Court shall be such as is anticipated, the 
order of the President is to be carried into execution, unless an 
appeal is actually interposed," and he is " NOT TO TAKE IT 
FOR GRANTED THAT IT WILL BE INTERPOSED." The 
Government then confidently "anticipated" that the negroes 
would be delivered up ; and the Attorney was directed not to al- 
low them a moment of time to enter an appeal. They were to 
be put on board of the Grampus instantly, and deprived, if possible, 
of the privilege of appealing to the higher Courts. Was this 
JUSTICE ? 

But after all, the order did not avail. The District Judge, con- 
trary to all these anticipations of the Executive, decided that the 
thirty-six negroes taken by Lieut. Gedney and brought before the 
Court on the certificate of the Governor General of Cuba, were 
FREEMEN 5 that they had been kidnapped in Africa ; that they 
did not own these Spanish names ; that they were not ladinos, and 
were not correctly described in the passport, but were new negroes 
bought by Ruiz in the depot of Havana, and fully entitled to their 
liberty. 

Such was the disposal intended, deliberately intended, by a Pre^ 
sident of the United States to be made, of the lives and liberty of 



SO 

thirty-six human beings '.—The Attorney General of the United 
States, at once an Executive and a judicial officer of the American 
people, bound in more than official duty to respect the right of 
personal liberty and the authority of the Judiciary Depart- 
ment had given a written opinion, that, at the instigation of a fo- 
reign minister, the President of the United States should issue his 
order, directed to the marshal to whose custody these persons had 
been committed, by order of the judge, as prisoners and witnesses, 
and commanding that marshal to wrest them from the hands of 
justice, and deliver them to such persons as should be designated 
by that same foreign minister to receive 'them. Will this Court 
please to consider for one moment, the essential principle of that 
opinion ? Will this Court inquire, what, if that opinion had been 
successfully carried into execution, would have been the tenure 
by which every human being in this Union, man, woman, or child, 
would have held the blessing of personal freedom 1 Would it 
not have been by the tenure of Executive discretion, caprice or 
tyranny 1 Had the precedent once been set and submitted to, of 
a nameless mass of judicial prisoners and witnesses, snatched by 
Executive grasp from the protective guardianship of the Supreme 
Judges of the land, (gubernativamente,) at the dictate of a foreign 
minister, would it not have disabled forever the effective power of 
the Habeas Corpus 1 Well was it for the country — well was it 
for the President of the United States himself that he paused 
before stepping over this Eubicon ! — That he said — "We will 
proceed no further in this business." And yet, he did not discard 
the purpose, and yet he saw that this executive trampling at once 
upon the judicial authority and upon personal liberty would not 
suffice, either to satisfy the Spanish Minister or to satiate the pub- 
lic vengeance of the barracoon slave-traders. Had the unfortu- 
nate Africans been torn away from the protection of the Court, 
and delivered up to the order of the Spanish Minister, he possessed 
not the means of shipping them off to the Island of Cuba. The 
indignation of the freemen of Connecticut, might not tamely en- 
dure the sight, of thirty-six free persons, though Africans, fettered 
and manacled in their land of freedom, to be transported beyond 
the seas, to perpetual hereditary servitude or to death, by the ser- 
vile submission of an American President to the insolent dictation 
of a foreign minister. There were judges of the State Courts in 
Connecticut, possessing the power of issuing the writ of Habeas* 



81 

Corpus, paramount even to the obsequiousness of a federal mar- 
shal to an Executive mandate. The opinion of the Attorney Ge- 
neral, comprehensive as it was for the annihilation cf personal 
liberty, carried not with it the means of accomplishing its object. 
What then was to be done 1 To save the appearance of a violent 
and shameless outrage upon the authority of the judicial courts, 
the moment was to be watched when the Judge of the District 
Court should issue his decree, which it was anticipated would be 
conformable to the written opinion of the Attorney General. From 
that decree the Africans would be entitled to an appeal, first to 
the Circuit and eventually to the Supreme Court of the United 
States — but with suitable management, by one and the same ope- 
rations they might be choused out of that right, the Circuit and 
Supreme Courts ousted of their jurisdiction, and the hapless cap- 
tives of the Amistad delivered over to slavery and to death. 

For this purpose, at the suggestion of the District Attorney 
Holabird, and at the requisition of the dictatorial Spanish Minister, 
the Grampus, one of the smallest public vessels of the United 
States, a schooner of burden utterly insufficient to receive and 
contain under the shelter of her maindeck, thirty-six persons 
additional to the ship's company, Avas in the dead of winter, order- 
ed to repair from the navy yard at Brooklyn to New Haven where 
the Africans were upon trial, with this secret order which I have 
read to the Court, signed " Martin Van Buren," commanding the 
Marshal of the District of Connecticut to deliver over to Lieut. 
John S. Paine, commander of the Grampus, and aid in conveying 
onboard that schooner all the negroes, late of the Spanish schooner 
Amistad, in hia custody, under process [mow] pending before the 
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Connecticut. 

Of this ever memorable order, this Court will please to observe 
that it is in form and phraseology, perfectly conformable to the 
written opinion which had been given by the Attorney General. 
It is not conditional, to be executed only in the event of a deci- 
sion by the court against the Africans, but positive and unqualified 
to deliver up all the Africans in his custody, under process now 
pending. There was nothing in the order itself to prevent Lieut. 
Paine from delivering it to the marshal, while the trial was pend- 
ing; it carries out in form the whole idea of the Attorney Gene- 
ral's opinion, that the President's order to the marshal is of itself 
all sufficient to supersede the whole protective authority of the 
11 



82 

judiciary — and with this pretension on the face of the order, is 
associated another, if possible still more outrageous upon every 
security to personal liberty, in the direction to the marshal to de- 
liver over to Lieut. Paine all the negroes, late of the Amistad, 
under his custody. 

Is it possible that a President of the United States should be 
ignorant that the right of personal liberty is individual. That the 
right to it of every one, is his own — jus suum ; and that no greater 
violation of his official oath to protect and defend the Constitu- 
tion of the United States, could be committed, than by an order 
to seize and deliver up at a foreign minister's demand, thirty-six 
persons, in a mass, under the general denomination of nil, the 
negroes, late of the Amistad. That he was ignorant, profoundly 
ignorant of this self-evident truth, inextinguishable till yonder gilt 
framed Declarations of Independence shall perish in the general 
conflagration of the great globe itself. I am constrained to be- 
lieve — -for to that ignorance, the only alternative to account for 
this order to the Marshal of the District of Connecticut, is wilful 
and corrupt perjury to his official presidential oath. 

But ignorant or regardless as the President of the United States 
might be of the self-evident principles of human rights, he was 
hound to know that he could not lawfully direct the delivery up to 
a foreign minister, even of slaves, of acknowledged undisputed 
slaves, in an undefined, unspecified number. That the number 
must be defined, and individuals specifically designated, had been 
expressly decreed by the Supreme Court of the United States in 
that very case of the Antelope so often, and as I shall demon- 
strate so erroneously quoted as a precedent for the captives of the 
Amistad. 

" Whatever doubts (said in that case Chief Justice Marshall) 
may attend the question whether the Spanish claimants are entit- 
led to restitution of all the Africans taken out of their possession 
with the Antelope we cannot doubt the propriety of demanding 
ample proof of the extent of that possession. Every legal principle 
which requires the plaintiff to prove his claim in any case, applies 
with full force to this point ; and no countervailing consideration 
exists. The onus probandi, as to the number of Africans which 
were on board, when the vessel was captured, unquestionably lies 
on the Spanish libellants. Their proof is not satisfactory beyond 
93« The individuals who compose this number musi be designated 



83 

to the satisfaction of the Circuit Court." 10 Wheaton 128. And this 
decision acquires double authority, as a precedent to establish the 
principles which it affirms, inasmuch as it was given upon appeal, 
and reversed the decision of the Circuit Court, which had resort- 
ed to the drawing of lots, both for the designation of the number, 
and for the specification of individuals. 

Lawless and tyrannical ; (may it please the Court — Truth, Jus- 
tice, and the Rights of human kind forbid me to qualify these 
epithets) Lawless and Tyrannical, as this order thus was upon its 
face, the cold blooded cruelty with which it was issued — was al- 
together congenial to its spirit — I have said that it was issued in 
the dead of winter — and that the Grampus was of so small a bur- 
den as to be utterly unfit for the service upon which she was or- 
dered. I now add that the gallant officer who commanded her 
remonstrated, with feelings of indignation, controlled only by the 
respect officially due from him to his superiors against it. That 
he warned them of the impossibility of stowing this cargo of hu- 
man flesh and blood beneath the deck of the vessel, and that if they 
should be shipped in the month of January, on her deck, and the al- 
most certain casualty if a storm should befal them on the passage 
to Cuba, they must all inevitably perish. He remonstrated in 
vain ! He was answered only by the mockery of an instruction, 
to treat his prisoners with all possible tenderness and attention. — 
If the whirlwind had swept them all into the ocean he at least 
would have been guiltless of their fate. 

But although the order of delivery was upon its face absolute 
and unconditional, it was made conditional, by instructions from 
the Secretary of State to the District Attorney. It was to be 
executed only in the event of the decision of the court being 
favorable to the pretended application of the Spanish minister, 
and Lieutenant Paine was to receive the negroes from the custody 
of the marshal as soon as their delivery should have been ordered 
by the court. 

" Letting I dare not wait upon I would," a direct collision with 
the authority of the judicial tribunals was cautiously avoided ; 
and a remarkable illustration of the thoughtless and inconsiderate 
character of the whole Executive action in this case, appears in 
the fact, that with all the cunning and intricate stratagems to 
grab and ship off* these poor wretches to Cuba, neither the Presi- 
dent of the United States who signed, nor the Secretary of State 
who transmitted the order knew, but both of them mistook th» 



34 

court, before which the trial of the Africans was pending. They 
supposed it was the Circuit, when in fact it was the District 
Court. 

The Grampus arrived at New Haven three days before the de° 
cision of Judge Judson was pronounced. Her appearance there 3 
in January, when the ordinary navigation of Long Island Sound 
is suspended, coming from the adjoining naval station at Brook- 
lyn, naturally excited surprise, curiosity, suspicion. What could 
be the motive of the Secretary of the Navy for ordering a public 
vessel of the United States upon such a service at such a time 1 
Why should her commander, her officers and crew be exposed, 
in the most tempestuous and the coldest month of the year, at 
once to the snowy hurricanes of the northeast, and the ice-bound 
shores of the northwest 1 These were questions necessarily oc- 
curring to the minds of every witness to this strange and sudden 
apparition. Lieut. Paine and his officers were questioned why 
they were there, and whither they were bound 1 They could not 
tell. The mystery of iniquity sometimes is but a transparent 
veil and reveals its own secret. The fate of the Amistad captives 
was about to be decided as far as it could be by the judge of a sub- 
ordinate tribunal. The surrender of them had been demanded 
of the Executive by a foreign minister, and earnestly pressed upon 
the court by the President's officer, the District Attorney. The 
sudden and unexpected appearance of, the Grampus, with a des- 
tination unavowed, was a very intelligble signal of the readiness, 
of the willingness, of the wish of the President to comply with 
the foreign minister's demand. It was a signal equally intelligi- 
ble to the political sympathies of a judge presumed to be congen- 
ial to those of a northern President with southern principles, and 
the District Attorney in his letter of 20th December had given 
soothing hopes to the Secretary of State, which he in turn had 
communicated in conference, on the 28th of December, to the 
Spanish minister, that the decree of the judge, dooming the Afri- 
cans to servitude and death in Cuba, would be as pliant to the 
vengeful thirst of the barracoon slave-traders, as that of Herod 
was in olden times to the demand of his dancing daughter for the 
head of John the Baptist in a charger. 

But when Lieut. Paine showed to the District Attorney the Ex- 
ecutive warrant to the marshal for the delivery of the negroes, he 
immediately perceived its nullity by the statement that they were 



85 

in custody under a process from the " Circuit Court" and that 
the same error had been committed in the instructions to the mar- 
shal. H In great haste," therefore, he immediately dispatched 
Lieut. Meade, as a special messenger to Washington, requesting 
a correction of the error in the warrant and instructions ; giving 
notice that if the pretended friends of the negroes obtain a writ 
of habeas corpus, the marshal could not justify under the warrant as 
it was; and that the decision of the court would undoubtedly be 
had by the time the bearer of the message would be able to return 
to New Haven. 

This letter was dated the 11th of January, L840. The trial had 
already been five days " progressing." The evidence was all in, 
and the case was to be submitted to the court on that day. Mis- 
givings were already entertained that the decision of the judge 
might not be so complacent to the longings of the Executive de- 
partment as had been foretold and almost promised on the 20th 
of December. Mr. Holabird, therefore, at the desire of the Mar- 
shal propounds that decent question, and requests precise instruc* 
tions, '' whether in the event of a decree by the court requiring 
the Marshal to release the Negroes, or in case of an appeal by the 
adverse party, it was expected the Executive warrant [to ship ofF 
the prisoners in the Grampus to Cuba,] would be executed!" 
These inquiries may account perhaps for the fact that the same 
Marshal, after the District and Circuit Courts had both decided that 
these negroes were free, still returned them upon the census of 
the inhabitants of Connecticut as Slaves. 

The Secretary of State was more wary. The messenger, Lieut. 
Meade, bore his dispatch from New Haven to Washington in 
one day. On the l'2th of January, Mr. Forsyth in a confidential 
letter to Mr. Holabird informs him that his missive of the day be- 
fore had been received. That the order for the delivery of the 
Negroes to Lieut. Paine of the Grampus was returned, corrected 
agreeably to the District Attorney's suggestion — by whom cor- 
rected no uninitiated man can tell. Of the final warrant of Mar- 
tin Van Buren, President of the United States, to the Marshal of 
the District of Connecticut, to ship for transportation beyond the 
seas, an undefined, nameless number of human beings, not a trace 
rmains upon the records or the files of any one of the Executive 
Departments, and when nearly three months after this transaction 
the documents relating to it were, upon a call from the House of 



86 

Representatives, communicated to them by massage from Mr. Van 
Buren himself, this original, erroneous, uncorrected order of the 
7th of January, 1840, was the only one included in the communi- 
cation. 

But in the confidential answer of the Secretary of State of the 
12th of January to the inquiries of the Marshal, he says, " I have 
to state by direction of the President, that if the decision of the 
Court is such as is anticipated, (that is, that the captives should be 
delivered up as slaves,) the order of the President is to be car- 
ried into execution, unless an appeal shall actually have been inter- 
posed, you are not to take it for granted that it will be interposed. And 
if on the contrary the decision of the Court is different, you are to 
take out an appeal, and allow things to remain as they are until 
the appeal shall have been decided." The very phraseology of 
this instruction is characteristic of its origin, and might have 
dispensed the Secretary of State from the necessity of stating 
that it emanated from the President himself. The inquiry of the 
Marshal was barefaced enough ; whether, if the Executive warrant 
and the judicial decree should come in direct conflict with each 
other, it was expected that he should obey the President, or the 
Judge? No ! says the Secretary of State. If the decree of the 
Judge should be in our favor, and you can steal a march upon 
the- negroes by foreclosing their right of appeal, ship them off 
without mercy and without delay : and if the decree should be in 
their favor, fail not to enter an instantaneous appeal to the Supreme 
Court where the chances may be more hostile to self-emancipated 
slaves. 

Was ever such a scene of Liliputian trickery enacted by the ru- 
lers of a great, magnanimous, and Christian nation ? Contrast it 
with that act of self-emancipation by which the savage, heathen 
barbarians Cinque and Grabeau liberated themselves and their 
fellow suffering countrymen from Spanish slave-traders, and 
which the Secretary of State, by communion of sympathy with 
Ruiz and Montes, denominates lawless violence. Cinque and Gra- 
beau are uncouth and barbarous names. Call them Harmodius 
and Aristogiton, and go back for moral principle three thousand 
years to the fierce and glorious democracy of Athens. They too 
resorted to lawless violence, and slew the tyrant to redeem the 
freedom of their country. For this heroic action they paid the 
forfeit of their lives ; but within three years the Athenians expel- 



87 

led their tyrants themselves, and in gratitude to their self-devoted 
deliverers decreed, that thenceforth no slave should ever bear 
either of their names. Cinque and Grr.beau are not slaves. Let them 
hear in future history the names of Harmodius and Aristogiton. 

This review of all the proceedings of the Executive I have 
made with the utmost pain, because it was necessary to bring it 
fully before your Honors, to show that the course of that de- 
partment had been dictated, throughout, not by justice but by 
sympathy — and a sympathy the most partial and unjust. And this 
sympathy prevailed to such a degree, among all the persons con- 
cerned in this business, as to have perverted their minds with re- 
gard to all the most sacred principles of law and right, on which 
the liberties of the people of the United States are founded; and 
a course was pursued, from the beginning to the end, which was 
not only an outrage upon the persons whose lives and liberties 
were at stake, but hostile to the power and independence of the 
judiciary itself. 

I am now, may it please your Honors, obliged to call the atten- 
tion of the Court to a very improper paper, in relation to this case, 
which was published in the Official Journal of the Executive Ad- 
ministration, on the very day of the meeting of this Court, and in- 
troduced wiih a commendatory notice by the editor, as the produc- 
tion of one of the brightest intellects of the South. I know not 
who is the author, but it appeared with that almost official sanc- 
tion, on the day of meeting of this Court. It purports to be a re- 
view of the present case. The writer begins by referring to the de- 
cision of the District Court, and says the case is " one of the deep- 
est importance to the southern states." I ask, may it please your 
Honors, is that an appeal to JUSTICE ? What have the southern 
states to do with the case, or what has the case to do with the 
southern states'? The case, as far as it is known to the courts of 
this country, or cognizable by them, presents points with which 
the southern states have nothing to do. It is a question of slave- 
ry and freedom between foreigners ; of the lawfulness or unlaw- 
ness of the African slave trade ; and has not, when properly con- 
sidered, the remotest connection with the interests of the south- 
ern states. 

What was the purpose or intent of that article, I am not pre- 
pared to say, but it was evidently calculated to excite prejudice, 
to arouse all the acerbities of feeling between different sections of 



88 

this country, and to connect them with this case, in such a man- 
ner as to induce this Court to decide it in favor of the alledged in- 
terests of the southern states, and against the suppression of the 
African slave trade. It is not my intention to review the piece at 
this time. It has been done, and ably done, by more than one 
person. And after infinite difficulty, one of these answers has 
been inserted in the same official journal in which the piece ap- 
peared. I now wish simply, to refer your Honors to the original 
principle of slavery, as laid down by this champion of the institu- 
tion. It is given by this writer as a great principle of national 
law and stands as the foundation of his argument. I wish, if your 
Honors deem a paper of this kind, published under such circum- 
stances, worthy of consideration in the decision of a case, that your 
Honors would advert to that principle, and say whether it is a 
principle recognized by this Court, as the ground on which it 
will decide cases. 

" The truth is, that property in man has existed in all ages of 
the world, and results from the natural state of man, which is war. 
When God created the first family and gave them the fields of the 
earth as an inheritance, one of the number, in obedience to the 
impulses and passions that had been implanted in the human heart, 
rose and slew his brother. This universal nature of man is alone 
modified by civilization and law. War, conquest, and force, have 
produced slavery, and it is state necessity and the internal law of 
self preservation, that will ever perpetuate and defend it." 

There is the principle, on which a particular decision is demand- 
ed from this Court, by the Official Journal of the Executive, on 
behalf of the southern states'? Is that a principle recognized by 
this Court 1 Is it the principle of that DECLARATION 1 [Here 
Mr. A. pointed to the Declaration of Independence, two copies of 
which hang before the eyes of the Judges on the bench.] It is 
alledged in the Official Journal, that war gives the right to take 
the life of our enemy, and that this confers a right to make him 
a slave, on account of having spared his life. Is that the princi- 
ple on which these United States stand before the world 1 That 
DECLARATION says that every man is " endowed by his Creator 
with certain inalienable rights," and that "among these are life, 
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." If these rights are inalien- 
able, they are incompatible with the rights of the victor to take 
fche life of his enemy in war, or to spare his life and make him a 



89 

slave. If this principle is sound, it reduces to brute force all 
the rights of man. It places all the sacred relations of life at the 
power of the strongest. No man has a right to life or liberty, if 
he has an enemy able to take them from him. There is the prin- 
ciple. There is the whole argument of this paper. Now I do not 
deny that the only principle upon which a color of right can be 
attributed to the condition of slavery is by assuming that the 
natural state of man is War The bright intellect of the South, 
clearly saw, that without this principle for a corner stone, he had 
no foundation for his argument. He assumes it therefore without 
a blush, as Hobbes assumed it to prove that government and des- 
potism are synonymous words. I will not here discuss the right 
or the rights of slavery, but I say that the doctrine of Hobbes, that 
War is the natural state of man, has for ages been exploded, as 
equally disclaimed and rejected by the philosopher and the Chris- 
tian. That it is utterly incompatible with any theory of human 
rights, and especially with the rights which the Declaration of Inde- 
pendence proclaims as self-evident truths. The moment you come, 
to the Declaration of Independence, that every man has a right to life 
and liberty, an inalienable right, this case is decided. I ask no- 
thing more in behalf of these unfortunate men, than this Decla- 
ration. The opposite principle is laid down, not by an unintelli- 
gent or unthinking man, but is given to the public and to this 
Court, as coming from one of the brightest intellects of the South. 
Your Honors see what it comes to, when carried out. I will call 
the attention of the Court to one more paragraph : — 

" Instead of having the negroes placed in a situation to re- 
ceive punishment for what offences they may have committed 
against their masters, those who have been in Cuba in undisputed 
possession of property under the Spanish flag were instantly de- 
prived of that possession, and their final title to the property 
peremptorily decided upon by an American court, in defiance of 
the plainest treaty stipulations. Not only that, but Ruiz and 
Montes, Spanish citizens, thus forced into our territory under ap- 
palling circumstances, where common humanity, independent of 
all law, demanded that they should be treated with hospitality as 
unfortunate guests, were actually thrown into prison under char- 
ges which the negroes were instigated to make, for offences com- 
mitted against the negroes while they were in Cuba, under the 
Spanish jurisdiction. This is the justice of an American court, 
12 



90 

bowed down in disgraceful subserviency before the bigoted man- 
dates of that blind fanaticism which prompted the Judge upon the 
bench to declare in his decree, in reference to one of these ne=> 
groes, that, 'Although he might be stained with crime, yet he 
should not sigh in vain for Africa ;' and all because his hands 
were reeking with the blood of murdered white men ! I It is a 
base outrage (I can use no milder language,) upon all the sympa- 
thies of civilized life." 

That is the complimentary manner in which the courts of the 
United States are treated by the brightest intellects of the South, 
in the Official Journal, and under the immediate supervision of 
the Executive Administration of the Government. 

During the present session, a further correspondence between 
the Secretary of State and the Spanish minister has been commu- 
nicated to Congress. The Spanish minister seems to be ever at- 
tentive to all that is going on, in all the departments of Govern- 
ment, with relation to this case. In a letter dated the 20th of 
March, 1840, be observes that the Secretary of State had confix 
dently asked him to furnish a copy of the existing laws of Cuba 
relative to negro slavery. What was this for 1 Was the Presi- 
dent of the United States under the impression that before he 
carried into effect this exercise of despotic power, to seize MEN, 
by his own warrant, and send them to foreign countries for punish- 
ment by his own order — there would be some sort of decency, at 
least, in having a show of evidence to show that the Spanish law 
required that they should be delivered up ? The Secretary of 
State asked Mr. Calderon for evidence in the case, but he had 
none to give. He then w confidently" asked Mr. Argaiz for the 
law of Spain in the case — the law, be it remembered, on which 
the United States were presenting a suit against individuals, sole- 
ly, as they alledge, in pursuance of a demand made by the minis- 
ter of Spain to that effect. What is the reply? Mr. Argaiz says 
he cannot communicate the law officially, because he cannot re- 
cognize the jurisdiction of the Court over the case. Here is an- 
other point-blank contradiction of the material averment of the 
claim which the United States Government is prosecuting here — 
that the suit is in pursuance of the demand of Spain now pending 
against the Government. Mr. Argaiz, therefore, communicates a 
certain memorandum^ " confidentially." This memorandum be- 
gins, 



91 

" Mr. Forsyth was pleased, some time since, to state to the 
Chevalier de Argaiz, that it would be expedient to obtain a copy 
of the laws now in force in the island of Cuba relative to slavery 
The Chevalier de Argaiz therefore immediately requested from 
the Captain General of that island every thing on the subject, 
which has been determined since the treaty concluded in 1818, be- 
tween Spain and England." 

Now, may it please the Court, may I inquire why this demand 
was limited to laws subsequent to the treaty of 18181 The de- 
cree for abolishing the slave trade was issued in 1817. Why did 
the Spanish minister limit his request to laws passed after 1818 ? 
Why was not the decree of 1817 brought forward % Was it kept 
back because he thought, with Mr. Vega, that the laws had been 
broken so much in Cuba, that they were not in force ? Or did he 
think the authentication of that Decree might have some injurious 
effect in the trial here 1 Whatever was the reason, it is certain 
that, to Mr. Forsyth's request for " a copy of the laws now in 
force in the Island of Cuba relative to slavery," only the laws 
since 1818 were communicated, and the Decree of 1817, making 
the slave trade unlawful and its victims free, was kept back. Even 
the treaty of 1835, which was communicated, " the Chevalier de 
Argaiz requests maybe returned to him," and consequently it does 
not appear among these papers. 

In another letter, dated April 24th, 1840, the Chevalier de Ar- 
gaiz refers to certain resolutions of the United States Senate, 
passed the 15th of the same month, commonly called Mr. Cal- 
houn's resolutions. I showed the other day, that if these princi- 
ples are just, and if they have any application to this ease, Lieut. 
Gedney had no right to seize the vessel at all. The resolution 
declares that — 

" A ship or vessel on the high seas, in time of peace, engaged 
in a lawful commerce, is, according to the laws of nations, under 
the exclusive jurisdiction of the State to which her flag belongs ; 
as much so as if constituting a part of its own domain f* and " if 
such ship or vessel should be forced, by stress of weather, or 
other unavoidable cause, into the port and under the jurisdiction 
of a friendly power, she, and her cargo, and persons on board^ 
with their property, and all the rights belonging to their personal 
relations as established by the laws of the state to which they be- 
long, would be placed under the penalty which the laws of na- 
tions extend to the unfortunate under such circumstances." 



92 

Here it is plain that the vessel was in the hands of the Africans, 
it was not under the Spanish flag, they were at peace with the 
United States, their voyage is lawful, the personal relations estab- 
lished among the persons on board were that the Africans were 
masters and the Spaniards captives, subjects ; — perhaps by the laws 
of Mendi they were slaves. So much for the resolutions, which 
the Secretary of State says coincide " with principles which the 
President considers as founded in law and justice," but which 
does not alter "the determination he found himself obliged to 
make on the reclamation" made for the Amistad " and the proper- 
ty found on board of her." 

I will now make a few observations on the passport, or permit, 
as it has been called, which is relied on as of authority sufficient 
to bind this Court and Government to deliver up my clients irre- 
vocably as slaves, on a claim of property by Ruiz and Montes.* 
Here we have what appears to be a blank passport, filled up with 
forty-nine Spanish names of persons, who are described as ladi- 
nos, and as being the property of Don Jose Ruiz. Now, this on 
the face of it is an imposture. It is not a passport, that can be 
inspected as such by this Court, or by any tribunal. It appears 
on the face of it to be a passport designed for one person, a man, 
as there are blanks in the margin, to be filled up with a descrip- 
tion of the person, as to his height, age, complexion, hair, fore- 

* It is thought best to give a copy of this celebrated passport, as it appears in 
the Congressional Documents, with the exception that the interpolate word me. 
gros is omitted, and the portions of the paper which were in writing are printed 
in italics. It will be seen that the signature of the Captain General, of which so 
much was made, was printed ! 
Filiacion. 



N. Habana, 26 de Junio, de 1839. 
Concedo licencia a cuerenta y nueva ladinos nombra- 
dos Antonio, Simon, Lucas Jose, Pedro, Martin, Manuel, 
Andres, Eduardo, Celedonio, Bartolo, Ramon, Agustin, 
Evaristo, Casimiro, Melchor, Gabriel, Santorion, Esco- 
lastico, Pascual, Estanislao, Desiderio, Nicolas, Este- 
ban, Tomas, Cosme, Luis, Bartolo, Julian, Frederico, 
Salustiano, Ladislao, Celestino, Epifaneo, Tibureo, Vt. 
nancio, Felipe, Francisco, Hipolito, Benito, Ysidoro, Vi- 
cente, Dionisio, Apoloneo, Esequiel, Leon, Julio, Hipolito, 
y Zenon, de la propriedad de Don Jose Ruiz, para que 
pasen a Puerto Principe por mar, debiendo, presentarse 
con esta al juez territorial respectivo. 
Derechos dos real es — una rubrica.] ESPELETA. 

Commandancia de Matriculas. 
Pasan en la goleta Amistad a la Guanaja. patron Ferrer. 

MARTINEZ. 
Habana, y Junio 27, de 1839. 



Estatura 
Edad 
Color 
Pelo - 
Frente 
Cejas - 
Ojos - 
Nariz - 
Boca • 
Barba 

Senales particulare* 



93 

head, eyebrows, eyes, nose, mouth, beard, and particular marks. 
This particular description of the person is the very essence of 
a passport, as it is designed to identify the individual by the con- 
formity of his person to the marks given ; and a passport is no- 
thing, and is good for nothing, if it does not accord with the 
marks given. The man who presents it must show by this accord- 
ance that he is the person named. Every body who has ever had 
occasion to use passports knows this. We are not in the habit of 
using passports in this country ; you may go through the country 
from State to State, freely, without any passport to show who and 
what you are and what is your business. But throughout the 
continent of Europe, passports are everywhere necessary. At 
every town you show your passport to a public officer, who in- 
stantly compares your person with the description, and if it cor- 
responds, you proceed, but if the description varies from the 
reality, you cannot pass. That is the nature of a passport. It 
says, let the person who bears these marks pass the custom-house, 
or the guard, as the case may be. And its validity depends on 
the accuracy of the description. 

I once had occasion, many years ago, to see the operation of 
these things in a very remarkable case. I was a passenger in a 
merchant vessel, bound to the north of Europe. In passing 
through the Sound, at Elsinore, we were arrested by a British 
squadron, who brought us to, and sent a lieutenant on board to 
examine our crew. He ordered all the men to be mustered on 
deck, and the captain had no alternative but to comply. It was a 
most mortifying scene to an American. Every American seaman 
was obliged to show his protection, the same thing at sea as a 
passporc on the land, to secure him from impressment by British 
cruisers. The officer examined every man carefully, to see 
whether his person corresponded with the description in his pro- 
tection. He finally found one young man, who was a native of 
Charlestown, Massachusetts, within ten miles of where I was born ; 
but his description was not correct, whether through the blunder 
of the man who wrote it, or because he had taken another man's 
protection, I do not know, but the officer said he had a good mind 
to take him, and if I had not been on board, as the bearer of a 
public commission in the service of the Government, I have no 
doubt that man would have been taken, and compelled to serve 
on board a British man of war, solely for the want of correspon- 



84 

dence of the description with his person, i mention this to show 
that the value of a passport, according to the rules of those coun. 
tries where such things are used, depends on the description of 
the person, and this is all left blank in the paper here presented 
us as a passport. There is not a particle of description by which 
even a single individual named could be identified. It is not 
worth a cent. I do not say it is a forgery, but I say its incompe- 
tency to answer the purpose of a passport is apparent on the face 
of it. Who knows, or how is this Court to ascertain, that the 
persons named in this paper are the same with those taken in the 
Amistad 1 No court, no tribunal, no officer, would accept such 
a document as a passport. And will this Court grant its decree 
in a case affecting both liberty and life on that paper ? It is im- 
possible. 

I now come to the case of the Antelope, as reported in 10 
Wheaton, 66, and I ask particular attention to this case, not only 
because it brings a show of authority in favor of the delivery up 
of slaves, but because I feel bound to entreat the Court, whether 
they find a principle settled by that case or not, to settle the 
question now upon further and mature consideration. Chief Jus- 
tice Marshall said, expressly, in delivering the opinion of the 
Court, that, as the Court was divided, " no principle is settled." 
If there was a principle settled, and that was in favor of deliver- 
ing up persons held as slaves by foreign laws, I ask this Court to 
re-examine that principle and settle it anew. And if, upon re-ex- 
amination, by what I should deem the greatest misfortune to this 
country, the Court should be divided in this case, as it was in 
that, I respectfully ask your Honors to give your separate opin- 
ions, with the reasons. I would not call in question the propriety 
of the determination of the Court in that day, severally, to with- 
hold their reasons from the public ; the state of the matter is now 
materially altered. It has become a point in which the morals, as 
well as the liberties of this country, are deeply interested. The 
public mind acquiesced before, in postponing the discussion, but 
now it is no longer a time for this course, the question must be 
met, and judicially decided. 

THE CASE OF THE ANTELOPE REVIEWED. 

The case of the Antelope was of so very extraordinary a cha- 
racter, and the decisions of the District. Circuit, and Supreme 



95 

Courts of the United States, on the principles involved in it, were 
so variant from and conflicting with one another, that a review of 
its history" will disclose, eminently, the progress of that moral, 
religious^ and political revolution in the opinions of mankind 
which has been, from a period coeval with that of North Ameri- 
can Independence, struggling against the combined powers and 
dominions of the earth and of darkness for the suppression of the 
African slave-trade. 

In the month of December, 1819, at a time when piracy, from 
her sympathetic and favorite haunts of Chesapeake bay, and of 
Cuba, was habitually sallying forth against the commerce of the 
world, but chiefly under the many-colored banners of the newly- 
emancipated colonies of Spain, transformed into a multitude of 
self-constituted sovereign and disunited States, capturing wherev- 
er they could be found the trading vessels of Portugal and of 
Spain, a privateer, named the Columbia, commanded by a citizen 
of the United States named Metcalf, came into the port of Balti- 
more under the flag of Venezuela — there clandestinely shipped a 
crew of thirty or forty men, not one of whom had ever owed al- 
legiance to the Republic of Venezuela, and sailed in search of 
adventure, to pounce upon the defenceless upon any and every 
ocean for the spoils. She had scarcely got beyond the territorial 
jurisdiction of the United States when she changed her name of 
Columbia for that of Arraganta^ hoisted the flag of Artigas, then 
ruler of the Oriental Republic of La Plata, and proceeded for the 
slave-coast of Africa — a mighty huntress, and her prey was man. 
There she fell in with sister pirates in abundance — first an Ameri- 
can, from Bristol, Rhode Island, and borrowed twenty^five negro 
captives from her ; then sundry ostensible Portuguese vessels, 
from which she took nearly two hundred ; and lastly, a Spaniard 
from Cuba, fitted out some months before by a slave-trading house 
at the Havana, to catch a yet lawful human cargo from a region 
south of the equator ; for the trade north of the equator had even 
then been declared unlawful by Spain. The name of this vessel 
was, at that time, the Antelope ; and with her and her living mer- 
chandise the Arraganta steered for the coast of Brazil, for a mar- 
ket. There the Arraganta was shipwrecked ; her master, Metcalf, 
either drowned, or made prisoner with the greater part of his 
crew ; while the remainder, under the command of John Smith, a 
citizen of the United States, transhipping themselves and all their 



96 

surviving African captives into the Antelope, changed her name 
to that of the General Ramirez, and stood for the southern coast 
of the United States^ and a market. 

In the month of June, 1820, this vessel, thus freighted, was 
found hovering on the coast of Florida, with the evident intention 
of surreptitiously introducing the negroes and effecting the sale 
of them within the United States. She was there in flagrant vio- 
lation of two classes of their laws — those intended to suppress 
the unlawful interference of our citizens in the civil war then 
raging between Spain and her South American Colonies contend- 
ing for their independence, and those prohibiting their participa- 
tion in the slave trade, and denouncing it as piracy. 

She was reported to Captain John Jackson, then cruising on the 
same coast in the Revenue Cutter Dallas, as a vessel of piratical 
appearance. He, thereupon, boarded her 5 and finding her full of 
negro slaves, and commanded by John Smith, holding forth at 
once a privateering commission from Artigas, and a protection as 
a citizen and seaman of the United States, he took possession of 
her, and brought her into the port of Savannah, in the judicial 
district of Georgia, for adjudication. 

Upon this plain and simple statement of facts, can we choose 
but exclaim, if ever soul of an American citizen was polluted with 
the blackest and largest participation in the African slave-trade, 
when the laws of his country had pronounced it piracy, punisha- 
ble with death, it was that of this same John Smith. He had re- 
nounced and violated those rights, by taking a commission from 
Artigas to plunder the merchants and mariners of nations in 
friendship with his own ; and yet he claimed the protection of 
that same country which he had abandoned and betrayed. Why 
was he not indicted upon the act of 15th May, 1820, so recently 
enacted before the commission of his last and most atrocious 
crime 1 

And can we choose but further exclaim — if ever hapless Afri- 
can, kidnapped into slavery by one gang of ruffians, and then 
stolen by another, and by them attempted to be smuggled into 
our country as slaves, and. by a fortunate casualty brought within 
our jurisdiction and the beneficent operation of our emancipating 
laws, was entitled to the blessing of freedom, and the right of 
being transported under our national protection to his native land, 
so was every individual African found by Captain Jackson on 



97 

board of the Antelope, and brought within the jurisdiction of this 
Federal Union. Why were they not instantly liberated and sent 
home to Africa by the act of March 3d, 1819. Alas ! far other- 
wise was, in the judicial district of Georgia, the disposal of this 
pirate, robber, and traitor to his country ! Instead of being in- 
dicted for all or any one of his many violations of the laws of the 
United States, of nations, and of humanity, he was not only suffer- 
ed to go at large, entirely unmolested, but was permitted to file 
his claim, before the District Court of the United States in Geor- 
gia, for the restitution to him of the Antelope and all her living 
cargo, as captured jure belli, by virtue of his commission from 
Artigas. This claim was, indeed, dismissed, with costs, by the 
judge of the District Court, William Davis. Smith appealed from 
that decision to the Circuit Court, the presiding judge of which, 
William Johnson, confirmed the decision of the District Court, 
and spoke with suitable severity, not of the wickedness, but of 
the absurdity of Smith's pretension. And here, and in freely 
commenting hereafter upon the opinions and decisions upon this 
case, of these two judges, William Davis and William Johnson, 
both long since deceased, truth and justice require the remark, 
with all the respect due to their memories as upright judges and 
honorable men, that they were both holders of slaves, adjudicat- 
ing in a State where slavery is the law of the land. If this cir- 
cumstance may account for the fact, that the ministers of national 
justice in Georgia slumbered over the manifold transgressions of 
John Smith, for which he never was prosecuted, it will account 
no less for that division of opinion in the Supreme tribunal of the 
Union, which veiled from public examination and scrutiny the 
reasons of each judge for his own opinion, because, as the Chief 
Justice declared, no principle was settled. John Smith did not 
venture to appeal from the decisions of the District and Circuit 
Courts against his claim to the Supreme Court of the United 
States. His plunder slipped from his hands; but his treachery to 
his country for a commission from Artigas, his buccanier and 
slave-trade piracies, though not even undivulged crimes, yet re- 
mained unwhipped of justice. 

On the 27th of July, 1820, Captain John Jackson, in behalf of 
himself, and of the officers and crew of the Revenue Cutter Dal- 
las, filed in the District Court a libel against the Antelope, or Gen- 
eral Ramirez, for forfeiture, under the act of Congress of 20th 
13 



98 

April, 1818, prohibiting American citizens from engaging in the 
African slave-trade. 

At the same Court, Charles Mulvey, vice-consul of Spain, and 
Francis Sorell, vice-consul of Portugal, at Savannah, filed each a 
libel for restitution, the former of 150, the latter of 130 African 
negroes, composing the cargo of the Antelope. To these two 
libels Richard Habersham, district attorney of the United States, 
interposed in their name a claim to the freedom of all the negroes, 
on the ground that some American citizen was interested or en- 
gaged in their transportation from Africa. 

The Spanish vice-consul claimed the vessel and all the negroes 
in behalf of the original fitters out of the Antelope, for the slave- 
trading voyage, at the Havana. 

And Captain Jackson claimed salvage for all the negroes who 
might be adjudged to the Spanish and Portuguese vice-consuls j 
and twenty-five dollars a head for all those who might be declared 
free, according to the act of Congress. 

The judge of the District Court, after rejecting the claim of 
John Smith, on the ground of the illegality of the fitting out of 
the Columbia, or Arraganta, at Baltimore, and thereby settling the 
principle, that no capture made by that vessel could be legal, 
seems to have forgotten, or overlooked, the violation by the same 
John Smith of the laws of the United States for the suppression 
of the slave-trade ; at least, so far as concerned all the negroes 
on board the Antelope, excepting only a small remnant of twenty- 
five, which had been taken from the American slave-trader, the 
Exchange, from Bristol, Rhode Island. John Smith had made no 
attempt to smuggle these into the United States separate from 
the rest. His attempt had been to smuggle them all in. Why, 
then, should those taken from the American vessel alone be de- 
clared free, and those taken from the Spaniards and Portuguese 
doomed to perpetual slavery 1 

The judge hunted up sundry old decisions in the Supreme Court 
of the United States, and, finally, the case of the Josafa et Segun- 
da, 5 Wheaton, 338, for a principle " that, upon a piratical or ille- 
gal capture, the property of the original owners cannot be for- 
feited for the misconduct of the captors in violating the municipal 
laws of the country where the vessel seized by them is carried." 
The application of which principle to the rights of the respective 
parties in the case of the Antelope was, that the property of the 



99 

Spanish owners of the Antelope could not be forfeited by the mis- 
conduct of John Smith in capturing it, in violation of the laws of 
the United States, by virtue of a commission from Artigas. Thus 
far the principle was correctly applied ; but to that other miscon- 
duct of John Smith, the attempt to smuggle these negroes into 
the United States, by which they became forfeited, and made free 
by the law, whoever might have been their owner ; to that mis- 
conduct, the precedent of the Josafa et Segunda had no applica- 
tion whatever, and it was altogether overlooked in the decision of 
the district judge, although he decreed freedom to the chance 
chosen survivors of the twenty-five negroes of the very same 
cargo, taken from the American vessel, though forfeited and lib- 
erated by the very same attempt of John Smith to smuggle them 
into the United States for sale. It was perfectly immaterial to 
the question of forfeiture and liberation to whom all or any of 
the negroes had originally belonged. It was the attempt to smug- 
gle them which induced their forfeiture by the rigor, and their 
consequent liberation by the beneficence, of the law. 

But having once introduced this entirely extraneous question, 
to whom the negroes on board the Antelope, when captured by 
Captain Jackson, had originally belonged, the District Judge pro- 
ceeded, upon such evidence as he deemed sufficient, to decide, 
that those captured in her by the Arraganta, were the property of 
Spaniards, and without one title of evidence, to infer, that all the 
negroes taken from vessels under Portuguese colors, had been 
the property of Portuguese subjects, unknown ; and upon these 
conclusions and assumptions, to adjudge all the negroes, save the 
scanty surviving remnant of twenty-five taken from the Exchange 
of Rhode Island, to the Spanish and Portuguese Vice Consuls. 

At this distance of time, who can read such an adjudication of 
an American judge, without amazement. 

The claim of C. Mulvey [Spanish Vice Consul] was therefore 
sustained to the Antelope, and to as many of the negroes, as 
should appear to be remaining of those found on board of her at 
the time of her capture by the Arraganta. 

The libel of F. Sorrell, the Portuguese Vice Consul, was sus- 
tained against so many of the slaves as should appear to remain 
of those taken by the Arraganta from Portuguese vessels. 

And it was further ordered with assent of parties, (that is, of 
these two parties the Spanish and Portuguese Vice Consuls, and 



100 

well they might assent!) that the claim of John Jackson to sal- 
vage, should be sustained as regarded the negroes claimed by and 
adjudged to them — and as regarded those adjudged to the United 
States, to an allowance of twenty five dollars for each according 
the Act of Congress of 3d March, 1819. 

This deeree was pronounced on the 21st of February 1821 — - 
and the clerk of the court was directed on or before the 26th day 
of the same month to report to the court the number of Spanish 
and Portuguese negroes in the hands of the marshal, distinguish-* 
ing the negroes respectively belonging to each. He was also re- 
quired to designate the very small number adjudged to the Unit- 
ed States, that is, to the blessed enjoyment of themselves and their 
own liberty ; and associating with himself two resident merchants, 
was at the same time to report the quantum or proportion of salvage 
to be allowed to Captain Jackson for the negroes thus reputably 
and substantially sold by the judicial authority of the United States 
to the Spanish and Portuguese Vice Consuls. 

This unblushing bargain and sale of human captives, entitled at 
least by the intention of the United States laws to their free- 
dom, was the first incident which brought to a pause the legal 
standard of morality of a Connecticut District Judge of the Unit- 
ed States in the case of the Amistad captives. An estimate in dol- 
lars and cents of the value at New Haven, of from two to three 
hundred living men and women, for the purpose of allowing sal- 
vage upon them as merchandise, was too much for the nerves of 
a Yankee judge. The authority of the ease of the Antelope was 
in this particular no precedent for him. The very proposal shock- 
ed his moral sense, and he instantly decided that men and women 
were not articles for a price current in the markets overt of Con- 
necticut. 

In the markets of Savannah, nothing was more simple. The 
clerk of the District Court, with his two associated resident mer- 
chants, in obedience to the order of the judge appraized the ne- 
groes taken from the Spanish and Portuguese vessels at three 
hundred dollars per head, making the aggregate of sixty-one thou- 
sand five hundred dollars [for 205 souls] ; and they were of opi- 
nion that there should be an allowance of one fourth of said sum 
to Captain Jackson, his officers and crew, for salvage on the said 
negroes. 

Seventy-five dollars per head I Fifteen thousand three hundred 



101 

and seventy.five dollars for two hundred and five men and women ! 
What a revolution in the relative value of slaves and of freemen, 
since the age of Homer ! In the estimate of that Prince of Gre- 
cian Poets. 

Jove fix'd it certain that whatever day 

Makes man a slave, takes half his worth away — - 

and in the political statistics of the author of the Declaration of 
Independence the degradation of the character of man, hy the in- 
fliction upon him of slavery is far greater than is asserted by the 
blind old rhapsodist of Smyrna. But here we have an inverted 
proportion of relative value, and Captain Jackson, by the decree 
of a Judicial Court of the United States receives twenty-five dol- 
lars a head for redeeming one parcel of Africans from slavery to 
freedom, while at the same time he was to receive seventy-five 
dollars a head for reducing by the same act two other parcels of 
the same company from freedom to slavery ! 

Nor was the manner in which the clerk of the District Court 
executed the order to report the relative numbers of the three 
classes of the captured Africans, the least extraordinary part of 
these proceedings. 

He reported that two hundred and fifty-eight negroes had been 
delivered by Captain John Jackson, Commander of the Revenue 
Cutter Dallas, on the 25th of July, 1820, to the marshal of Geor- 
gia, from on board the General Ramirez [the Antelope.] That 
of that number forty-four had died in the space of seven months 
—one was missing and one discharged by order of court, and that 
the marshal returned two hundred and twelve negroes which re- 
mained to be apportioned. 

What had become of the missing one neither the clerk nor the 
judge seems to have thought it worth his while to inquire — why 
should they ? it was but one man —and that man a negro ! no fur- 
ther trace of him appears upon the record. 

Neither was it thought necessary to record the reason of the 
favor bestowed by the court upon one other man in ordering his 
discharge. The very nature of the order is its own justification. 

But mark the mortality of the negroes ! out of 258, four deaths 
in the space of seven months! and that, not while crammed be- 
tween the decks of a slaver in the middle passage, but on the soil 
of the American Union, in the mild and healthy climate of Geor- 
gia — in the custody of an officer commissioned by the President 



102 

of the United States, and under the protection of their judicial 
magistracy. In the case of the Amistad, the mortality ceased, as 
as soon as the captives were admitted to the privilege of breath* 
ing in the atmosphere of freedom. 

But if the death of one man in six, in the space of seven months, 
is deeply distressing to the sympathies of our nature, what shall 
we say to a mortality of eighteen out of twenty-five, which the 
clerk reported as the proportion of deaths among the negroes 
taken from the American vessel, the Exchange, and who were by 
the final decree of the judge to be liberated ! The clerk in his 
report denominates them American negroes, and he reduces their 
number to seven. Seven African captives out of two hundred 
and fifty-eight, was the number to whom the benignity of the 
laws of the American Union enacted for the suppression of the 
African slave trade, and expounded by the District Court of the 
United States in Georgia, would have extended the inestimable 
blessings of freedom and restoration to their country ! 

The clerk had been required to report the number of Spanish, 
Portuguese, and American negroes — distinguishing those respect 
ively belonging to each of these classes. He could obtain no evi- 
dence worth a straw upon which to found his report, the negroes 
were all huddled together in one crowd— John Smith, the pirate, 
was the only witness who could tell him which were the negroes 
taken out of the American vessel, and he told him that sixteen out 
of the twenty-five had died, before the capture of the Antelope by 
Capt. Jackson. The clerk reported accordingly, and added two to 
the number of deaths, as the average loss since the 25th of July ; 
that is, since they had been in the custody of the marshal. 

It further appears from his report that the whole number cap* 
tured by the Arraganta had been 331, of which 213 were Por- 
tuguese, 93 Spanish, and 25 American. That of the whole num- 
ber 119 had died, but in what proportions from the general classes 
he could not ascertain. John Smith testified that sixteen of the 
25 American negroes had died before the Antelope was taken by 
Captain Jackson, and the clerk guessed that two more had died 
since, because that was the average loss of 9 to 44 out of 258. 
But neither John Smith nor any one else could point out the in- 
dividual survivors of each separate class, and the clerk therefore 
reported that there had been captured by the Arraganta 213 Por- 
tuguese negroes,of which the average loss was 71 ; — 93 Spanish ne= 



103 

groes of which the average loss was 30, and 25 American negroes, 
of whom the deaths attested by John Smith were 16, and the 
subsequent average loss 2, leaving as before stated 212 to be ap- 
portioned — that is, 142 to the Portuguese Vice Consul, 63 to the 
Spanish Vice Consul, and 7 to the United States, to be sent home 
to Africa 5 freemen by the mandate of our laws. 

That the whole 212 were entitled to the benefit of the same 
laws, I cannot possibly doubt — but such was not the decision of 
the District Judge. Exceptions were taken to the report of the 
clerk, by the District Attorney of the United States, Richard 
W. Habersham, and by Spanish Vice Consul Mulvey. The Dis- 
trict Attorney still claiming the freedom of all the negroes, and 
objecting to the allowance of 75 dollars a head to Captain Jack- 
son for salvage, though not to the allowance of 25 dollars a head 
for their liberation. The Spanish Vice Consul insisting that the 
number of slaves allowed to the Spanish claimants was too few 
and not supported by any testimony in the case — and that the al- 
lowance to Captain Jackson for salvage was too high, and ought 
to be regulated by the act of Congress in relation to the compen- 
sation given in case the said slaves had been decreed to be deliver- 
ed to the United States. 

The Judge confirmed the report of the Clerk in all its parts ; 
and the District Attorney, in behalf of the United States, and the 
Spanish Vice Consul, in behalf of the Spanish claimants, appealed 
to the Circuit Court, then next to be held at Milledgeville on the 
8th day of May, 1821. 

In these decisions of the District Court, is it possible to avert 
one's eyes from the glaring light of an over-ruling propensity to 
narrow down, if not wholly to nullify, the laws of the United States 
for the suppression of the African slave trade % To sustain the 
claim of the Spanish Vice Consul, the irrelevant question to whom 
the Antelope had originally belonged, was introduced ; and upon 
that was engrafted the deeply controverted question, whether the 
African slave trade was or was not contrary to the law of nations. 
To redeem from forfeiture the Antelope and the negroes captured 
in her by the Arraganta, the judge resorted to an argument of 
counsel in the recently reported case of the Josefa Segundas, 
(Wheaton, 338,) where it was said, that as piracy can neither di- 
vest nor convey property, a pirate cannot, by a subsequent viola- 
tion of the laws of his own country, forfeit the property of which 



104 

he has acquired possession by preceding piracy. This seems 
equivalent to a principle that a second act of piracy protects the 
pirate from punishment for the first. However conformable this 
maxim may be to the legal standard of morality, the Supreme 
Court did not so decide in the case of the Josefa Segunda. They 
decided, that the capture of a Spanish vessel and negroes by a 
privateer, with a commission from Arismendi, under the Republic 
of Venezuela, was not piracy ; and that the Josefa Segunda, a Span- 
ish vessel, and her cargo of negroes, captured by authority of such 
a commission, were forfeited by a subsequent attempt of the cap- 
tors to smuggle them into the United States, though taken from 
the Spanish owners only by the Venezuelan commission from 
Arismendi. Now the Columbia had entered Baltimore, and there 
enlisted her crew under those identical colors of Venezuela, and 
no doubt, with a commission from the same Arismendi. When 
metamorphosed into the Arraganta, she took the Antelope and her 
negroes, by a commission from Artigas, quite as efficient to legi- 
timate a prize as that of Arismendi ; and John Smith, when cap. 
tured with the Antelope and her negroes, by Captain Jackson, pro- 
duced this commission from Artigas as his warrant for his posses, 
sion of the vessel and the slaves. As between the Arraganta and 
the Antelope, therefore, the capture of the latter by a commission 
from Artigas was not piratical but belligerent, it did divest the 
Spanish owners of the property and vest it in the captors, at least 
sufficiently to make it forfeitable by their subsequent attempt to 
smuggle it into the United States ; and the decision of the Su- 
preme Court, in the case of the Josefa Segunda, instead of sustain- 
ing that of the District Judge, in the case of the Antelope, is an 
authority point blank against it. 

For the allotment of 142 of the negroes to the Portuguese Vice 
Consul, there was not even the apology of a Portuguese claimant, 
other than the Vice Consul himself, to the property. There was 
not a shadow of evidence that they were the property of Portu- 
guese subjects, and none were ever found to claim them. He took 
the testimony of the capturing crew, that some of them were taken 
from vessels under Portuguese colors ; and as he had no evidence 
that Portugal had then prohibited the slave trade, he took it for 
granted that the negroes were all slaves, and, as such, he decreed 
that they should be delivered to the Vice Consul. 

With regard to the question, whether Slavery was or was not 



105 

contrary to the laws of nations, his decision was such as might be 
expected from a judge, himself a holder of slaves, in a land where 
slavery has the sanction of law. The question, as I have endea- 
vored to show, did not belong to the case. " But it is contended," 
(says the District judge) " on the authority of some recent deci- 
sions in the British Admiralty Court, that Africans are to be con- 
sidered free, until it is shown that they are slaves, and that the 
burden of proof is with those who set up a claim to them. This 
doctrine may be correct in England, since there negroes have al- 
ways been held to be free, except in cases where they have volun- 
tarily entered into engagements binding them to service. And 
yet, inconsistent and contradictory as it may be, slavery has been 
recognized in all the British American colonies. 

" But it does not appear to me that I can admit the proposition 
in the form and manner in which it is here presented. The period 
is not very remote when all the Governments of Europe, and th 
several States of the United States when they were British colo" 
nies, and many of them after they became independent, recognized 
slavery. But a few years have elapsed since the Government of 
the United States permitted her citizens to engage in the African 
trade. Under such a state of things, it appears to me that this 
Court is bound to consider the unfortunate Africans, when found 
in the possession of the subjects or citizens of any Government 
which has heretofore permitted this traffic as slaves, until the con- 
trary be shown. That this trade, however inhuman it may be, and 
however obnoxious it is to every benevolent feeling, must now be 
considered legal, notwithstanding its injustice, until it is shown to 
have been prohibited by that Government whose subjects claim 
the right of engaging in it. 

" When it shall have been ascertained that the different Govern- 
ments of the civilized world have consented to abolish the trade 
or after it shall have been ascertained that any particular State or 
Government has determined to abolish it, this Court would con- 
sider the clarms set up in favor of Africans found in the situation 
of those before the Court, in a different point of view. In the one 
case they would, J think, uniformly be considered free, until the 
contrary was shown ; in the other case, they would be so consi- 
dered when they were found in the possession of the subjects or 
citizens of that Government which had determined to abolish the 

trade. 

14 



106 

" If it could be made to appear to this Court that, at the time 
these Africans were taken from the possession of the Spanish and 
Portuguese claimants, Spain and Portugal had agreed to prohibit 
their subjects from engaging in the trade, this Court, / think, 
would be bound to restore to these people their liberty. 

" It is true this Court will not enforce the municipal laws of 
another country, by punishing the subjects of that country for the 
infraction of them; but this Court would feel bound to respect the 
rights of Africans no less than it would respect the rights of any 
other class of persons. Spain, however, had not, at the time I am 
speaking of, abolished the trade to Africa, although she had placed 
it under certain restrictions. Can it be permitted to this Court to 
examine the commercial regulations or the conventional engage- 
ment of Spain V 

It is unnecessary further to repeat verbatim et literatim this 
argument of the District judge to sustain his decree. Every word 
and letter of it teems with anxiety to sustain the institution of 
Slavery, and to prostrate instead of enforcing the laws of the 
United States for the suppression of the slave trade. What he 
calls certain restrictions placed on the trade by Spain, was the to- 
tal prohibition of it north of the equator, even then stipulated by 
Spain in a treaty with Great Britain, and enacted accordingly by 
her law. But what of that ? The judge admits that the trade is 
inhuman, that it is obnoxious to every benevolent feeling, but he is 
bound to consider it legal, notwithstanding its injustice, because 
many years before it had been practised by Great Britain, and not 
many years before by the United States themselves." Is this rea- 
soning for a Court of Justice ? When all the civilized nations of 
the earth shall have abolished the African slave trade, the judge 
thinks that captured Africans would be considered free, unless 
proved to be slaves : and if Spain and Portugal should abolish the 
slave trade, he thinks the burden of proof that negroes captured in 
their vessels were slaves, would rest upon their captors. In that 
case, the Court would respect the rights of Africans as much as 
those of any other class of persons ; but, until then, how could 
the Court be permitted to examine into treaty stipulations of Spain, 
or into any restriction imposed by Spain upon the traffic of her 
subjects in slaves ? 

Such was the reasoning of a slave-holding judge upon slavery 
and the slave trade, and by such reasoning did he, out of two hun? 



107 

dred and twelve Africans, forfeit to the United States, to receive 
from them the blessing of freedom, and restoration to their native 
country, reduce the number who should enjoy that privilege to 
seven individuals, consigning all the rest to perpetual, hopeless 
Spanish and Portuguese slavery ! — Seven freemen to two hundred 
and five slaves ! 

The appeal from these decrees to the Circuit Court of the United 
States came up before Judge William Johnson, in May, 1821. His 
opinions differed toto mlo from those of the District judge. He 
increased the number of the Africans to be liberated, as survivors 
of the twenty-five taken from the American vessels, from seven to 
sixteen : he rejected the incredible testimony of the pirate, John 
Smith, that while the mortality of the whole cargo of negroes had 
averaged not more than one in three, the number of deaths among 
those taken from the American vessel had amounted to two-thirds 
of the whole. He reversed the decree of the District judge, which 
had allotted one hundred and forty-two negroes to the Portuguese 
Vice Consul; and reserved his claim for further proof, which never 
was produced. He reduced the allowance of salvage to Captain 
Jackson, and the crew of the revenue cutter, to fifty dollars a head 
for the negroes to be delivered to the Spanish Vice Consul, and 
expressed a strong doubt whether it was a case for salvage at all. 
He intimated, very significantly, an opinion, that if a claim had 
been interposed by an agent of Venezuela, or of the Oriental Re- 
public, the capture of the Antelope, by Captain Jackson, must have 
been pronounced illegal — a mere marine trespass— punishable in 
damages rather than rewardable for salvage ; and yet he allowed 
him a salvage of fifty dollars a head for the negroes surrendered 
to the Spanish Vice Consul. He concurred, however in the most 
exceptionable of all the opinions of the District judge ; namely, 
that because John Smith had no forfeitable interest in the Antelope 
and in the negroes, originally belonging to Spanish owners, but 
then in his possession, and which he was when captured, in the 
act of smuggling into the United States ; therefore they were not 
forfeited at all, and must be delivered up to the Spanish Vice Con- 
sul. The judge of the Circuit Court, sitting alone, after stating 
the circumstances of the capture by Captain Jackson, and the 
claims of the respective parties, promptly and without hesitation 
pronounces, that John Smith was taken in the act of violating the 
laws of the United States for the suppression of the slave trade ; 



108 

and that, " if the case rested here there would be no difficulty in 
adjudging the vessel forfeited, for taking these Africans on board 
at sea, with intent to dispose of them as slaves. But this, although 
perhaps literally within the provisions of the statute, is obviously 
not within the intent and meaning." Why perhaps, literally with- 
in the provisions of the statute % No reader of the English lan- 
guage can read the provisions of the statute and entertain a doubt 
that they extend literally to the case — why not within its intent 
and meaning % Never was an obiter dictum of a judge more per- 
emptory or more gratuitous ! There is not a word, not a letter in 
the statute to authorize the intention of shielding from forfeiture 
a slave trading smuggler, because the captain was not her owner. 
The forfeiture attaches to the action, the violation of the laws against 
the slave trade, and to the instrument used for that violation, with, 
out inquiring to whom that instrument belongs. The mischief to 
be remedied by the law, was the introduction of African slaves into 
the United States. — The vessel is the instrument with which the 
violation of the law was effected, and by which the forfeiture was 
incurred. Neither justice nor policy could require an exemption 
from the forfeiture, because the captain in possession of the vessel 
and employing her in violation of the law, was not her lawful 
owner. The judge says, there are reiterated decisions of the 
American courts, that a capture made under an illegal American 
outfit is not belligerent, but void, and producing no change of 
right ; and from this it follows, that Smith had no interest on which 
the forfeiture inflicted by law for this offence could attach. The 
judge names no one of these reiterated decisions, and we have 
seen that the only one specifically cited by the District judge, in 
support of the same principle, was a clear authority against it. 
There were no doubt decisions that captures of friendly foreign 
vessels, by American privateers illegally fitted out in our ports, 
and bearing South American commissions, did not so divest the 
property, but that it might be restored by our courts, in contro- 
versy between the captors and the original owners — but that the 
laws of the United States, prescribing penalties of forfeiture for 
crimes, should be violated with impunity, because the slave smug- 
gler had stolen the instrument with which he committed the crime ! 
No ! I trust the Antelope is, and will for ever remain, the solitary 
case in which such a principle can claim the sanction of the courts 
of the United States ! 



109 

The wild and glaring inconsistency not only between the opin- 
ions and decrees of the District and Circuit Courts of the United 
States, in the case of the Antelope, but between the opinions and 
deerees of each of those Courts and itself discloses in crystal 
transparency an internal conflict of mind between the duty of 
suppressing the African slave trade, and the desire to maintain 
and fortify the institution of slavery, little auspicious to the com- 
posure of justice or to the impartial exercise of the judicial facul- 
ty. Both the Judges profess a sentimental abhorrence of the 
trade. The Circuit Judge discusses at great length the question 
whether the slave trade is contrary to the Law of Nations. He 
admits that the British Court of Admiralty have of latter years 
asserted a doctrine of this nature ; but after commenting sarcasti- 
cally upon the motive of the British Judges and Government, and 
descanting upon mental dependence, and interference with the 
family concerns of others, in which no nation has a right to vol- 
unteer, he quotes a passage from the decision of the British Court 
in the case of the Amedee [Acton, 240,] and says, '' I must until 
better advised assume an opposite language." 

"I feel," says he, "no inclination to justify or even palliate the 
trade. I thank God 1 have lived to see its death-blow. But it 
was from religion or policy, not from national humanity, that the 
blow was received. On the contrary, British policy struggled 
against the effort to abolish it, and all the efforts of the Quakers 
the Methodists and Mr. Wilberforce proved abortive until the hor- 
rors acted in St. Domingo opened the eyes of Government to con- 
sequences that it became political to guard against. From that 
time, philanthropy like the pent up vapor, began freely to diffuse 
itself, and extended its spread even to the British Court of Admi- 
ralty." 

" That slavery, (says again the Judge of the Circuit Court,) is 
a national evil no one will deny except him [he] who would main- 
tain that national wealth is the supreme national good. But what- 
ever it be, it was entailed upon us by our ancestors, and actually 
provided for in the constitution first received from the Lords 
Proprietors under which the southern colonies were planted. 
During the Royal government it was fostered as the means of 
improving the colonies, and affording a lucrative trade to the 
mother country, and however revolting to humanity, may be the 



no 

reflection, the laws of any country on the subject of the slave 
trade are nothing more in the eyes of any other nation than a 
class of the trade laws of the nation that enacts them." 

Both the Judges acknowledge the inherent, inextinguishable 
wickedness of the trade, and both have an invincible repugnance 
to consider it contrary to the laws of nations. The Judge of the 
District Court admits that the doctrine that Africans taken at sea 
must be presumed to be free, until proved to be slaves, may be 
correct in England, but cannot entirely recognize it in the State 
of Georgia. The Judge of the Circuit Court, repudiates it alto- 
gether — says he must until better advised hold opposite language — ' 
assails with great bitterness the decision of Sir William Grant 
in the case of the Amedee : thanks God that he has lived to see 
the death blow of the African slave trade ; but allows no credit 
to Great Britain on the score of humanity for striking it. No ! it 
was religion or policy. The horrors of the scenes in St. Domin- 
go had alarmed the British Government for the safety of their 
West Indian colonies, and so the pent up vapor of philanthropy 
was let loose and extended even to the British Courts of Vice Ad- 
miralty. As for slavery, every one knows it an evil, but it was en-- 
tailed upon us by our ancestors 5 it was provided for by the consti- 
tution granted by the Lords Proprietors ; it was encouraged from 
motives of policy by the Royal Government, and what right has 
any one to question our practice of it now % It was once lawful — 
who shall say it shall not be lawful forever % 

Upon the tone of this judicial argumentation I shall not in- 
dulge myself in commenting 5 but in comparing the spirit of the 
reasoning of these two judges with that of Sir William Grant in 
the decision which they reject and oppose, how stands the ac- 
count of moral principle ? The reasons of the British Judge 
glow with the flame of human liberty ; those of the American 
Judges are wedged in thrilling regions of thick ribbed ice. Vitu- 
peration of the slave trade in words, with a broad shield of pro- 
tection carefully extended over it in deeds. Slavery acknowl- 
edged an evil, and the inveteracy of its abuse urged as an unan- 
swerable argument for its perpetuity : the best of actions imput- 
ed to the worst of motives, and a bluster of mental energy to 
shelter a national crime behind a barrier of national indepen- 
dence ; these are the characteristics exhibited by American in 
collision with British Admiralty Courts. Or again, examine the 



Ill 

respective opinions and decrees in their bearing upon the trade 
itself : those of the British Court went directly to its suppres- 
sion ; those of the American Courts, to its encouragement, secu- 
rity and promotion. The British Court has at least the consisten- 
cy of harmonizing practice and profession. The American 
Courts profess humanity and practice oppression. 

The decrees of the American Circuit Court are if possible more 
extraordinary than its opinions. After deciding that the Negroes 
taken by the Arraganta in the Antelope, and from the Portuguese 
vessels shall be delivered to the Spanish and Portuguese Vice 
Consuls, because he must maintain that it is a question altogeth- 
er inter alios, whether the Spanish and Portuguse nations had au- 
thorized the traffic in which their vessels were engaged, the 
Judge adds : " Not so as to the American vessel. I have a law 
to direct me as to that, and the slaves taken out of her must be 
liberated." The laws had literally directed that all the Negroes 
whom John Smith had attempted to smuggle into the United 
States for sale, should be liberated, but the Judge had pronounced 
that this was not its intent and meaning. But now another diffi- 
culty occurs. No competent witness can tell which of the survi- 
ving Negroes were taken from the American vessels, which from 
the Portuguese vessels, and which from the Antelope. The indi- 
viduals belonging to each of the three vessels cannot be identi- 
fied. How shall he distribute his doom of freedom and of slave, 
ry among the prize goods and the pirated merchandize of John 
Smith 1 With a full conciousness of the gross and glaring injus- 
tice of the decree he says, the lot must decide ! Where did he 
get his law for that % He says he has a law to direct him, and he 
flies in the face of that law to enslave hundreds and emancipate 
sixteen human beings on the cast of a die. Let me do no wrong 
to his words — hear them. 

" I would that it were in my power to do perfect justice in their 
behalf. But this is now impossible. I can decree freedom to a 
certain number, but I may decree that to A, which is the legal 
right of B. It is impossible to identify the individuals who were 
taken from the American vessel, and yet it is not less certain 
that the benefit of this decree is their right and theirs alone. Poor 
would be the consolation to them to know that because we could 
not identify them we had given away their freedom to others. — 
Yet shall we refuse to act because not gifted with the power of 



112 

divination 1 We can only do the best in our power. The lot 
must decide their fate, and the Almighty will direct the hand that 
acts in the selection. But I cannot consent to reduce this num- 
ber from twenty-five to nine, [to seven,] for this depends upon 
testimony that was interested to deceive, since in those twenty- 
five, Smith could have no hope to sustain his claims though he 
might succeed as to the residue. The reduction of the number 
must therefore be averaged upon a scale with the rest, and as they 
consisted of twenty-three men and two boys, the lot must select 
them accordingly from the men and boys. 

" Some doubts have been stated as to the national character of 
the vessel and as to the Spanish and Portuguese interest in the 
slaves. On the vessel I entertain no doubt. She was captured as 
Spanish, and the evidence is sufficient to prove the Spanish inter- 
est in her — and the slaves taken on board of her, must necessarily 
follow her fate. But I am induced to think that the evidence pre- 
ponderates to prove that there were but ninety-three, and, that 
number must also be reduced by the general scale of loss. Con- 
cerning the residue, the evidence appears so conclusive, that re- 
luctant as I feel to keep the case open I cannot adjudge them to 
the Portuguese Consul, without further proof." 

In examining the claim of Capt. Jackson to salvage, the judge be- 
comes exceedingly doubtful whether it is a case for salvage at all, 
and enters a caveat against his own decree for allowing it. He 
thinks if a Venezuelan agent had interposed a claim to the proper- 
ty as prize of war, he should have been still more puzzled how 
to shape his decree than he was. He does not appear to be at all 
aware that if a Venezuelan agent could have claimed the proper- 
ty as prize of war there could have been no Spanish claimant to 
whom it could have been restored. The decree of restoration to 
Spanish owners was therefore ipse facto equivalent to a decree for 
salvage, the quantum of whieh alone remained for consideration. 
His caveat against his allowance for salvage, was therefore a 
caveat against his whole decree, and thus far was an approach 
to the definition of justice — Jus suum cuique. 

The decrees of the Circuit Court (for there were two) like the 
state of mind disclosed by these opinions of the judge, were a 
chaos of confusion. By the first, delivered on the 11th of May, 
1823, the Decree of the District Court, so far as related to the 
vessel, the Antelope, was affirmed, and so far as related to the 



113 

slaves imported in her was reversed and annulled. The District 
Court had decreed the restoration of the Antelope to the Spanish 
claimants, on the ground that she had not been forfeited to the 
United States, for the violation of the laws for the suppression of 
the slave trade. She had not been forfeited, though taken by 
Captain Jackson in the act of smuggling into the United States 
for sale near three hundred Africans, and though the law literally 
declares all Africans thus imported free, and the vessel in which 
they are imported forfeited to the United States. From this for- 
feiture the Decree of the District Court, exempted the Antelope, 
because before the commission of this smuggling piracy she had 
been taken by another act of piracy, from certain virtuous Spanish 
slave traders, whose property in her, and consequently in the 
slaves with which she was laden, was too sacred to be divested 
either by piratical capture or by the laws of the United States 
against the importation of slaves, or against the African slave trade. 
With this part of the Decree of the District Court, the judge of 
the Circuit Court concurs. The laws of the United States for the 
suppression of the execrable slave trade, and against the importa- 
tion of African slaves are baffled, defeated, prostrated, nullified — 
three hundred wretched victims of that trade, are deprived of the 
benefit of that just and generous provision that the very act of 
importing them shall operate in their favor as an act of emancipa- 
tion. They are re-consigned to hopeless and perpetual slavery, 
from mere reverence for the property of Spanish slave traders ! 
Well might such a decision divide the opinions of the judges of 
the Supreme tribunal when it came up to them for adjudication. 
Well miffht Chief Justice Marshall declare that upon this point 
no principle was settled^ and well may every friend of human li- 
berty, and every sincere wisher for the suppression of that de- 
tested traffic indignantly deny that the case of the Antelope can 
ever be cited as authority for any such principle of law. 

But as the Circuit Court, reversed and annulled every part of 
the decree of the District Court for the disposal and distribution 
of the slaves, so the final decree of the Supreme Court passed 
the same sweeping sentence of reversal, upon all the dispositions 
of the Circuit Court, not excepting that reliance upon an Almighty 
hand to direct that designation by lot, which was to give to one 
man what was the right of another, and to emancipate a slave as an 
equivalent for enslaving a freeman. 
15 



114 

The judge of the Circuit Court at first decreed the manner, in 
which the sixteen freemen should be drawn by lot from the whole 
surviving cargo of the Antelope, as taken by Captain Jackson. 
He allowed a certain average portion of the survivors of 93 to the 
whole number ; to be delivered to the Spanish Vice Consul, toge- 
ther with the proceeds of the vessels, and with suitable deduc- 
tions for the salvage, forthwith — and he reserved for further con- 
sideration, and further evidence, till the next term of the court, 
the final distribution of the residue of the slaves between the 
Spanish and Portuguese Vice Consuls. 

On the 16th of July, 1821, the designation was accordingly made 
by lot of the sixteen persons drawn from 204, and delivered to the 
marshal of the United States to abide the order of the court — that 
is, for emancipation. It does not appear that the Spanish Vice 
Consul received those which had been provisionally assigned to 
him. On the 27th day of December, 1821, the judge of the 
Circuit Court held, together with Jeremiah Cuyler, the newly ap- 
pointed judge of the District Court in the place of William Davis 
deceased, a special court, at which the case was argued, and fur- 
ther evidence filed — and on the next day, the court " Ordered and 
decreed, that the residue of the negroes imported in the General 
Ramirez [Antelope] be divided between the Spanish and Portu- 
guese claimants in the ratio of one hundred and sixty-six on be - 
half of the Spanish claimants, and one hundred and thirty on be- 
half of the Portuguese claimants, and that they be delivered up 
to the agents of the individuals as soon as their respective powers 
of attorney shall be duly authenticated and filed with the clerk of 
this court ; and they shall respectively comply with the Decretal 
Order of this court, in paying the expenses incurred on said ne- 
groes in the ratio above stated, and in giving bond and secu. 
rity as therein directed for transporting them beyond the limits of 
the United States to some permitted port, allowing however six 
months from the date of the bond instead of three months as in 
that decretal order aforesaid, and that the proceed sales of the 
vessel, after deducting the costs of court, exclusive of marshal's 
bills for maintenance, be paid over to the Spanish claimants." 

On the 2d of January, 1822, the District Attorney of the United 
States, appealed in their behalf to the Supreme Court of the Unit- 
ed States from so much of the said decree, of the said Circuit 
Court as decreed the said African negroes to the Portuguese Vice 
Consul. 



115 

And thus, in February, 1822, the case of the Antelope, and her 
cargo, came up for adjudication of the Supreme Court of the 
United States, the result of which is reported in the 10th, 11th, 
and 12th volumes of Wheaton's Reports. 

Three long years passed away before the first judgment of the 
court in the case was pronounced. Nearly two years before had 
elapsed from the capture of the Antelope by Captain Jackson. 
For little short of the space of five years, nearly three hundred 
captured Africans had been kept as prisoners of the United States, 
and to abide the decision of their tribunals for the enjoyment of 
their inalienable right to liberty. What had they been doing, 
during this long captivity ? They had been maintained at the 
cost of the United States, we shall see hereafter to what tune. 
While the slow, solemn and majestic march of the law was pro- 
gressing in the search " for the legal standard of morality" to fix 
the destiny of these human victims, time and chance had disposed 
of them more mercifully than the decrees of the District or of 
the Circuit Court. The marshal had bound most of them out to 
labor in the sweat of their brows, at the erection oi fortifications, 
for the defence of the liberties of this, our beloved country. The 
judges who passed upon the fate of these their fellow men — the 
wives — the children — the property — the neighbors — the country 
of those judges were armed in panoply against foreign aggres- 
sion by the daily labor of these stolen Africans, whose lives, and 
liberty American judges were committing by the legal standard of 
morality to the cast of a die. During those five years it may be 
well conjectured that the condition of those captives of the An- 
telope thus employed was less rigorous and afflicted than it was 
made by the lottery judgment of the court. 

The judgment of the Supreme Court in 1825, reversed this lot- 
tery judgment of the Circuit Court. It reversed the whole allot- 
ment of one hundred and thirty to the Portuguese Vice Consul, 
and awarded to them the blessing of liberty intended for them 
by the law, and yet so harshly denied them by the decrees of 
the courts below. It reduced the number to be delivered to the 
Spanish claimants from a ratio of 166 to 93 to the whole number, 
and vigorously exacted proof to the satisfaction of the Circuit 
Court of the identity of every individual to be delivered up, as 
having been of the number taken by the Arraganta in the Ante- 
lope. The allowances of salvage and of gratuity to Captain Jack- 



116 

son and the crew of the Revenue Cutter were confirmed. One 
step further and the case of the Antelope would have conferred 
unfading glory on the Supreme Court. One step more, and the 
heartless sophistry would have been silenced, and the coldblood- 
ed apathy to human suffering would have been stung into sensi- 
bility, which delivered up to Spanish slave traders, a vessel, for- 
feited by the just severity, and thirty-nine Africans emancipated 
by the benignty, of the laws of this Union for the suppression of 
the African slave trade. 

That step was not taken ; there lacked one voice in a divided 
court to reverse the whole of that decree of the Circuit Court of 
which so many parts were annulled. One obnoxious principle 
was left to have its sway in that particular case, because there 
wanted a casting vote to reverse it — but Chief Justice Marshall 
himself, in announcing the affimation of the sentence on this 
point of the Circuit Court, guarded against any and every future 
attempt to alledge it as an authority by explicitly declaring that 
in this judgment of the court no principle was settled. 

The opinion delivered by him on this first decision of the case 
in the Supreme Court, must be considered as that of the Chief 
Justice himself. It is in. a tone entirely different from that in 
which the judges of the lower courts had indulged them- 
selves. It contains no angry invective, no sneering sar- 
casm, no direct defiance, on the motives of the British gov- 
ernment, and the solicitude of the British tribunals, for the sup- 
pression of the slave trade. It states with a sincere and painful 
effort of impartiality the reasons for and against the principle 
that the trade is contrary to the laws of nations. It admits 
and emphatically declares it contrary to the laws of nature. It 1 
cites and analyzes the general decisions upon the same point in the 
British Courts of Admiralty, and examines them with freedom, 
but without asperity. The Chief Justice says that as no prin- 
ciple was settled by the affirmance of the decree of the Circuit 
Court, the judges had concluded not to assign their respective 
reasons for their conflicting opinions ; but as to him was assigned 
the duty of pronouncing the decree of the court, his argument 
was necessarily on the side of that division which sustained the 
decree of the Circuit Court, and consequently there is no coun- 
teracting opinion upon the records to balance it. But it almost 
balances itself. The argument with much hesitation concludes 



117 

that the African slave trade is not contrary to the Law of Nations 
— but it begins with admitting, also with hesitation, that it is con- 
trary to the law of nature. He says — " That it is contrary to the 
law of nature will scarcely be denied. That every man has a na- 
tural right to the fruits of his own labor, is generally admitted; 
and that no other person can rightfully deprive him of those fruits, 
and appropriate them against his will seems to be the necessary 
result of this admission. 

" Seems, Madam — Nay it is — I know not seems." 

Surely never was this exclamation more suitable than on this 
occasion ; but the cautious and wary manner of stating the moral 
principle, proclaimed in the Declaration of Independence, as self- 
evident truth, is because the argument is obliged to encounter it 
with matter of fact. To the moral principle the Chief Justice 
opposes general usage — fact against right. " From the earliest 
times war has existed, and war confers rights in which all have 
acquiesced. Among the most enlightened nations of antiquity, 
one of these was, that the victor might enslave the vanquished 

" Slavery, then, has its origin in force ', but as the world has 
agreed that it is a legitimate result of force, the state of things 
which is thus produced by general consent cannot be pronounced 
unlawful. 

w Throughout Christendom, this harsh rule has been exploded, 
and war is no longer considered as giving a right to enslave cap- 
tives. But this triumph of humanity has not been universal. The 
parties to the modern law of nations do not propagate their 
principles by force ; and Africa has not yet adopted them. 
Throughout the whole extent of that immense continent, so far 
as we know its history, it is still the law of nations that prison- 
ers are slaves. Can those who have themselves renounced this law, 
be permitted to participate in its effects, by purchasing the beings who 
are its victims ? 

" Whatever might be the answer of a moralist to this question, 
a jurist must search for its legal solution in those principles of 
action which are sanctioned by the usages, the national acts, and 
the general assent, of that portion of the world of which he con- 
siders himself a part, and to whose law the appeal is made. If 
we resort to this standard as the test of international law, the 
question as has already been observed, is decided in favor of the 
legality of the trade. Both Europe and America embarked in it ; 



118 

and for nearly two centuries, it was carried on without opposition 
and without censure." 

With all possible reverence for the memory of Chief Justice 
Marshall, and with all due respect for his argument in this case, I 
must here be permitted to say, that here begins its fallacy. He 
admits that throughout all Christendom, the victors in war have 
no right to enslave the vanquished. As between Christian nations 
therefore, slavery as a legitimate consequence of war is totally 
abolished. So totally abolished that slaves captured in war, can- 
not be held by the captors, as slaves ; but must be emancipated, 
or exchanged as prisoners of war. 

But Africa, says the Chief Justice, still enslaves her captives in 
war, and for nearly two centuries, Europe and America purchased 
African slaves without " opposition and without censure." This 
may prove that the African slave-trade was heretofore, not contrary 
to the international law of Europe and of Christendom. But how 
was it, when the Antelope was in judgment before Christian Admi- 
ralty Courts in 1820-21, and '251 How is it now? 

For nearly forty years it has been prohibited by the laws of the 
United States, as a crime of enormous magnitude — and when the 
Antelope was tried by their judicial Courts, it was proclaimed 
piracy, punishable with death — 

It was piracy by the laws of Great Britain. 

By the 10th Article of the Treaty of Ghent, concluded on the 
24th of December, 1814, between Great Britain and the United 
States, the traffic in slaves had been declared irreconcilable with 
the principles of humanity and justice, and both parties did there- 
by stipulate and contract to use their best endeavors to promote 
its entire abolition. 

On the 8th of February, 1815, the Ambassadors at the Congress 
of Vienna, from Austria, France, Great Britain, Portugal, Prussia., 
Russia, and Sweden, had issued a Declaration, " in the face of 
Europe, that considering the universal abolition of the slave-trade 
as a measure worthy of their attention, conformable to the spirit 
of the times, and to the generous principles of their august 
Sovereigns, they are animated with the sincere desire of concur- 
ring in the most prompt and effectual execution of this measure, 
by all the means at their disposal, and of acting in the employ- 
ment of those means with all the zeal and perseverance which is 
due to so noble a cause." And again, 



119 

" In communicating this Declaration to the knowledge of 
Europe, and of all civilized countries, the said plenipotentiaries 
hope to prevail on every other Government, and particularly on 
those which in abolishing the slave-trade have already manifested 
the same sentiments, to give them their support in a cause, the 
final triumph of which will be one of the noblest monuments of 
the age which embraced it, and which shall have brought it to a 
glorious termination." 

On the 20th of May, 1814, Louis the 18th, on his first restora- 
tion, had stipulated by treaty with Great Britain, to unite all his 
efforts with hers, at this then approaching Congress of Vienna, to 
induce all the Powers of Christendom to decree the abolition of the 
slave-trade, so that the said trade should cease, universally, as it 
should cease definitely, under any circumstances, on the part of 
France, within five years. 

Within one year from that time, the Emperor Napoleon, on the 
29th of March, 1815, upon his return from Elba, within the hun- 
dred days of his authority, decreed the immediate and total aboli- 
tion of the slave-trade on the part of France — which decree 
Louis the 18th, upon his second restoration, repeated and con- 
firmed — and on the 20th of November, 1815, a Treaty, of which 
the following was one of the Articles, was concluded between 
Great Britain and France. 

" The high contracting powers, sincerely desiring to give 
effect to the measures on which they deliberated at the Congress 
of Vienna, relative to the complete and universal abolition of the 
slave-trade, and having each in their respective dominions, pro- 
hibited without restriction, their colonies and subjects from taking 
any part whatever in this traffic, engage to renew conjointly their 
efforts, with the view of securing signal success to those princi- 
ples, which they proclaimed in the Declaration of the 8th of Feb- 
ruary, 181b, and of concerting without loss of time, through their 
ministers at the Courts of London and of Paris, the most effectual 
measures for the active and definitive abolition of a commerce so 
odious and so strongly condemned by the laws of religion and of 
nature." 

Spain had not been a party to the Declaration of the Allied 
Powers, at the Congress of Vienna, of 8th of February, 1815 — but 
in a treaty with Great Britain, concluded on the 20th of August, 
1814, his Catholic Majesty, concurring in the fullest manner in 



120 

the sentiments of his Britannic Majesty with respect to the in- 
justice and inhumanity of the traffic in slaves, stipulated that he 
would take into consideration with the deliberation which the 
state of his possessions in America demanded, the means of act- 
ing in conformity with those sentiments. 

And on the 23d of % ;ptember, 1817, by a treaty concluded be- 
tween the same two powers, his Catholic Majesty engaged, that 
the slave-trade shoald be abolished throughout the entire domi- 
nions of Spain, on the 30th day of May, 1820 ; and that from and 
after that period, it shall not be lawful for any of the subjects of 
the crown of Spain, to purchase slaves, or«to carry on the slave- 
trade, on any part of the coast of Africa, upon any pretext, or in 
any manner whatever ; provided, however, that a term of five 
months from the said date of the 30th of May, 1820, should be 
allowed for completing the voyages of vessels cleared out law- 
fullv, previously to the said 30th of May. 

A decree of the King of Spain, of December, 1817, conformable 
to the above treaty-stipulation, prohibited all Spanish subjects 
from engaging in the African slave-trade, from and after the 30th 
of May, 1820. 

The case of the Antelope first came before the District Court 
of the United States for adjudication, on the 27th of July, 1820. 
At that time the African slave-trade was forbidden to all Spanish 
subjects throughout the world, by a decree issued nearly three 
years before. But the Antelope had been fitted out at the Ha- 
vana, upon her slave-trading expedition, and had even been cap- 
tured by the Arraganta, before the 20th of May, 1820, and conse- 
quently before the legal prohibition had taken effect. The cap- 
ture of her by the Arraganta had been made, no* for breach of 
laws against the slave-trade, but as prize of war under a commis- 
sion from the Oriental Republic. It was her captor who had in- 
curred her forfeiture, and the liberation of the Africans taken in 
her by the violation of the laws of the United States against the 
slave-trade — not by purchasing or shipping the negroes in Africa, 
but for importing them into the United States contrary to law. — 
To the question of that forfeiture, that of the original property of 
the vessel and cargo was altogether foreign. That was res inter 
alios, with which the Courts of the" United States had nothing to 
do. The smuggler was a citizen of the United States. He had 
proprietary possession of the vessel and of the negroes, which he 



was smuggling in to be sold as slaves. It was the identical 
offence against which the laws of Congress had provided, and the 
negroes had by those laws, and by the violation of them commit- 
ted by John Smith, acquired a right to freedom, infinitely more 
sacred, one would have thought, in an American Court of Justice, 
than the property in and to them, of thr Spanish slave-traders 
who had kidnapped or bought them in Airica, and had not yet 
consummated their property by bringing them within the exclu- 
sive jurisdiction of Spain. 

All the Courts of the United States did however think proper 
to go back to the proprietary right of the Spanish slave-trader ; 
and two of them to sa'nctify that at the expense of the freedom of 
the captives, and of the vital spirit of the laws of the Union for 
the suppression of the African slave-trade. This sacrifice was 
made, by the District and Circuit Courts of the United States, in 
Georgia. It was never sanctioned by the Supreme Court of the 
Union. On this single point, the judgment of the Circuit Court, 
was saved from reversal, by a divided Court ; but on all the col- 
lateral points the decisions of both the lower Courts were reversed, 
and on the single point of the Circuit Court, affirmed : the Chief 
Justice in affirming it gave explicit and emphatic warning, that no 
principle was settled. 

In all the three courts, the restoration of the Antelope, and of 
the Africans captured by the Arraganta on board of her to the 
Spanish claimants, was explicitly decreed on the fact that at the 
time of her expedition from the Havana, and of her capture by 
the Arraganta the prohibition of the slave trade by the King of 
Spain had not yet taken effect. All the courts agreed that if the 
case had occurred after the abolition of the trade by Spain, the 
judgment would have been different. That is, it must and would 
have been the emancipation and the restoration to their native 
country as freemen, of every individual African captured by Cap- 
tain Jackson in the Antelope. 

With what color of reason then was the case of the Antelope 
made the corner stone of the Attorney General's report to the 
President of the United States, that the captives of the Amistad 
should be, by mere Executive warrant, delivered up in a mass, un- 
told and unidentified, to the Spanish minister. Whatever there 
was or could be of authority in the case of the Antelope led di- 
rectly to the opposite conclusion. The Supreme Court had top- 
16 



122 

pled down headlong the decree of the Circuit Court for the dis- 
tribution of the victims between the Spanish and Portuguese 
Vice Consuls by lot. They had scattered to the winds this gam- 
bling of human bones, this cross and pile distribution of justice 
between liberty and bondage. They had rescued from the grasp 
of the overseer all the prisoners taken from the vessels bearing 
Portuguese colors ; they had exacted proof of the number and 
identification of the individuals, to be given up to the Vice Con- 
sul of Spain. They had allowed salvage for them to captain Jack- 
son, to be deducted from their estimated value ; and from two 
hundred and ninety-six adjudicated by the courts below, to per- 
petual slavery, they had reduced the number to an estimate which 
could not exceed thirty-nine. The only principle to which half 
the court adhered, and thereby left the decree of the Circuit 
Court unreversed was, that the Spanish prohibition of the slave 
trade had not quickened into life quite in time to save these thir- 
ty-nine unfortunates from the clutches of their oppressors. 

Apply these principles to the case of the Amistad captives. 
They had been imported into the Havana in open and undisguised 
defiance of the Spanish prohibition of the slave trade enacted 
nearly twenty years before ; but connived at by the Spanish au- 
thorities in Cuba for gold — for a doubloon a head. They had been 
shipped coast-wise, in continuance and for consummation of the 
slave-trading voyage from Africa. They had been clandestinely 
transferred to Ruiz and Montes^ who were furnished with printed 
pretended passports, false and fraudulent upon their face, and these 
were the only title to property they could show. The captives 
of the Amistad were, when taken by Lieut. Gedney, not even in 
the condition of slaves; they were freemen, in possession not only 
of themselves, but of the vessel with which they were navigating 
the common property and jurisdiction of all nations, the Ocean : 
in possession of the cargo of the vessel, and of the Spaniards Ru- 
iz and Montes themselves. Lieut. Gedney seized them as charg- 
ed with the crimes of piracy and murder. The captives of the 
Antelope were taken by Captain Jackson in the condition of 
slaves. The courts of the United States were not called on to 
change their condition. The courts of the United must have en- 
slaved the captives of the Amistad before they could restore them- 
to their pretended masters. 

The decision of the courts of the United States against the cap- 



123 

tives of the Antelope were all apologetic. Tiny leaned almost 
entirely upon a decision of Sir William Scott in the case of the 
Louis, apparently if not really conflicting with that of Sir William 
Grant in the case of the Amedee. It is apparent that the Admi- 
ralty Courts of Great Britain have been divided on the question 
not less than those of the United States. Sir Willian Scott, who, 
during the war of the French Revolution, had been the main pil- 
lar of belligerent rights and arbitrary searches and visitations of 
neutral vessels, after the peace and the agitation of the slavery 
question among all the nations of Europe, took a very different 
lurch, and became the most fervent champion of the slave trade 
and of the unqualified exemption of all merchant vessels from visi- 
tation or search by the armed ships of every nation other than 
their own. In the case of the slave Grace, he decided that a West 
Indian female slave following her mistress to England, and eman- 
cipated by mere contact with English soil, became re-enslaved by 
returning to the West Indian Islands, — a decision the reverse of 
which has been repeatedly decided in one of the principal slave 
states of this Union. In the case of the Louis he laid it down in 
most unqualified terms, which Chief Justice Marshall in the case 
of the Antelope repeats with seeming approbation, that the right 
of search is confined to a state of war. That it is a right strictly 
belligerent in its character, which can never be exercised by a na- 
tion at peace, except against professed pirates, who are the ene- 
mies of the human race : a position which, if true, would at once 
decide that both the capture of the Antelope by Captain Jackson, 
and of the Amistad by Lieut. Gedney, were unlawful and unjustifi- 
able. I must pause before I assent to the doctrine to that extent. 

In the same case of the Louis, Sir William Scott travels out of 
his record, to start a hypothetical objection to the universality of 
this exemption of foreign vessels from visitation and search. " It 
is pressed as a difficulty," says the Judge, " what is to be done, 
if a French ship laden with slaves is brought in 1 I answer with- 
out hesitation, restore the possession which has been unlawfully 
divested: rescind the illegal act done by your own subject, and 
leave the foreigner to the justice of his own country." 

Chief Justice Marshall, in the case of the Antelope, cites also 
this passage of the decision of Sir William Scott ; but besides 
that it is a mere obiter dictum upon an imaginary case not before 
the court, it is assuredly not law within these United States. By 



124 

the act of Congress of 2d of March, 1799, to regulate the collec- 
tion of duties, &c, [section 99. U. S. Laws 3, 226,] " the officers 
of the revenue cutters are authorized, required and directed to 
go on board all ships or vessels which shall arrive within the Unit- 
ed States, or within four leagues of the coast thereof if bound for 
the United States, and to search and examine the same, and every 
part thereof," for the purposes of revenue. 

By the act of 2d of March, 1807, to prohibit the importation of 
slaves into the United States, [section 7, U. S. Laws 2, 96,] it is 
provided that '' if any ship or vessel shall be found, from and af- 
ter the first day of January, 1808, in any river, port, bay, or har- 
bor, or on the high seas, within the jurisdictional limits of the 
United States, or hovering on the coast thereof, having on board 
any negro, mulato, or person of color, for the purpose of selling 
them as slaves, or with intent to land the same in any port or 
place within the jurisdiction of the United States, contrary to the 
prohibition of this act, every such ship or vessel, together with her 
tackle, apparel and furniture, and the goods or effects which shall 
be found on board the same, shall be forfeited to the use of the 
United States, and may be seized, prosecuted and condemned in 
any court of the United States having jurisdiction thereof. And 
it shall be lawful for the President of the United States, and he 
is hereby authorized, should he deem it expedient, to cause any of 
the armed vessels of the United States, to be manned and employ- 
ed to cruise on any part of the coast of the United States, or ter- 
ritories thereof, where he may judge attempts will be made to vi. 
olate the provisions of this act, and to instruct and direct the 
commanders of armed vessels of the United States, to seize, take, 
and brincr into any port of the United States all such ships or ves- 
sels, and moreover to seize, take and bring into any port of the 
United States, all ships or vessels of the United States wheresoever 
found on the high seas, contravening the provisions of this act, to 
be proceeded against according to law," &c. 

Here then are two very extensive limitations, by the laws of the 
United States, upon the doctrines of Sir William Scott, pronounced 
in the case of the Louis. These limitations embrace both the 
cases of the Antelope and of the Amistad. Yet in the case of the 
Antelope, Chief Justice Marshall cites the opinions of Sir William 
Scott in the case of the Louis, without any notice whatever of 
the statute laws of the United States contradictory to those opin- 



125 

ions, and the Attorney General Grundy cites, in the case of the 
Amistad, the opinons of Chief Justice Marshall in that of the An- 
telope, as authority for a principle which in that very opinion the 
Chief justice declares is not settled. 

The truth is, that the opinions of Sir William Scott in the case 
of the Louis, have reference only to the slave trade, and the ship- 
ment of slaves on the coast of Africa : the case of the Antelope 
was for the violation of the laws of the United States against the 
importation of slaves into the United States for sale. In all these 
cases the right of visitation and search of foreign vessels is not a 
merely belligerent right ; it is exercised at all times, in peace or 
war, and if a French ship laden with slaves were found hovering 
on the coast of the United States, or within at least four leagues 
of their shores, and brought in, neither would the possession be 
unlawfully divested, nor would the foreigner be left to the justice 
of his own country. There is no act of Parliament against the 
importation of slaves into England for sale : the opinions of Sir 
William Scott look to no such case, for no such crime could then 
be committed. They had no application therefore to the case of 
the Antelope, and were very erroneously cited as warranting the 
surrender of that vessel and her cargo of Africans to the Spanish 
claimants. 

I have said that the decisions of all the courts of the United 
States in that case directing that surrender, are apologetic. They 
admit that the traffic in slaves is contrary to the law of na- 
ture ; that it is inhuman, cruel, odious, detestable ; but that it is 
not contrary to the law of nations, and therefore must be acknowl- 
edged, defended, protected and carried into execution for other 
nations by the Courts of the United States, although as abhorrent 
to our laws as to the laws of nature. For this distinction also, our 
courts are indebted to Sir William Scott, whose ingenuity in that 
same case of the Louis, lays down the following position, cited 
also approvingly, by Chief Justice Marshall, in his opinion upon 
the case of the Antelope. 

"A court," says the British Judge, " in the administration of 
law, cannot attribute criminality to an act where the law imputes 
none. It must look to the legal standard of morality ; and upon 
a question of this nature, that standard must be found in the law 
of nations, as fixed and evidenced by general and ancient and ad- 
mitted practice, by treaties, and by the general tenor of the laws 



' 126 

and ordinances, and the formal transactions of civilized states: 
and looking to these authorities, he found a difficulty in maintain- 
ing that the transaction was legally criminal." 

In the Declaration of Independence the Laws of Nature are an- 
nounced and appealed to as identical with the laws of nature's 
God, and as the foundation of all obligatory human laws. But 
here Sir William Scott proclaims a legal standard of morality, dif- 
fering from, opposed to, and transcending the standard of nature 
and of nature's God. This legal standard of morality must, he 
says, in the administration of law, be held, by a Court, to super- 
sede the laws of God, and justify, before the tribunals of man, the 
most atrocious of crimes in the eyes of God. With such a prin- 
ciple it is not surprising that Sir William Scott should have found 
a difficulty in maintaining that the African slave trade was legally 
criminal, nor that one half the Supreme Court of the United States 
should have adopted his conclusions. It is consolatory to the 
friends of human virtue and of human freedom to know, that this 
error of the first concoction, in the moral principle of a British 
judge, has been, so far as relates to the African slave trade, laid 
prostrate by the moral sense of his own country, which has over- 
come the difficulty of finding the slave trade criminal, by the legal 
and national abolition of slavery itself. 

The decree of the Supreme Court, in 1825, " proceeding to give 
such decree as the Circuit Court ought to have given, did direct 
and order that the restitution to be made to the Spanish claimant 
should be according to the ratio which 93 (instead of 166) bears to 
the whole number, comprehending as well those originally on board 
the Antelope as those which were put on board that vessel by the 
captain of the Arraganta. After making the apportionment ac- 
cording to this ratio, and deducting from the number the rateable 
loss which must fall on the slaves, to which the Spanish claimants 
were originally entitled, the residue of the said 93 were to be de- 
livered to the Spanish claimant, on the terms mentioned in the 
decree of the Circuit Court : and all the remaining Africans were 
to be delivered to the United States, to be disposed of according 
to law." 

A mandate issued to the Circuit Court for the district of Geor- 
gia for the execution of this decree. One would suppose that the 
Supreme Court had sufficiently manifested its disapprobation of 
the mode of settling the question of freedom and slavery, by lot 



127 

and yet was their decree, on this point, not so explicit, but that 
one of the two judges of the Circuit Court believed that the selec- 
tion between the Africans to be delivered to the Spanish claimants 
as slaves, and those claimed by the Portuguese Vice Consul, but 
whom the Supreme Court had declared free, might still be made 
by lot. The other judge understood better the spirit of the Su- 
preme tribunal ; and hence arose a difference of opinion between 
the two judges of the Circuit Court, which sent the case back for 
a second judgment of the appellate court. The second judgment 
of the Supreme Court, in the case of the Antelope, was rendered 
at their February term, 1826, and is reported (11 Wheaton, 413) 
as follows : — " Certificate. — A mandate having issued to the Cir- 
cuit Court for the District of Georgia, to carry into execution the 
decree of this Court, pronounced at the February term, 1825, to 
deliver certain Africans, in the said decree mentioned, to the Span- 
ish Consul for Spanish claimants ; and the judges of that court 
having been divided in opinion respecting the mode of designating 
the said slaves to be delivered, and separating them from others to 
be delivered to the United States, whether the same should be 
made by lot, or upon proof on the part of the Spanish claimant, it 
is ordered to be certified to the said Circuit Court of Georgia 
that, in executing the said mandate, the Africans to be delivered 
must be designated by proof made to the satisfaction of the Court.'' 
To understand this difference of opinion, with regard to the 
mode of designating the Africans to be delivered up to the Span- 
ish claimant and to slavery, it is to be remembered, that the libel 
of the Spanish Vice Consul before the District Court had claimed 
150 of the Africans captured by Captain Jackson, and the libel of 
the Portuguese Vice Consul 130. That the decree of the District 
Court, founded on the report of the clerk, had awarded 142 of the 
212 surviving Africans to the Portuguese, and 63 to the Spanish 
Vice Consul ; while the subsequent decree of the Circuit Court, 
after a delay of one term and the admission of further evidence, 
had allotted in the ratio of 166 to the Spanish, and 130 to the Por. 
tuguese claimants. That is, deducting from the Spanish number 
the 16 persons drawn by lot and liberated, this decree gave to the 
Spanish and Portuguese Vice Consuls the ratio of the full number 
claimed by each of them in his respective libel. The Supreme 
Court, reversing this decree of the Circuit Court, had directed 
that the ratio of the whole number, to be delivered up to the Span- 



128 

ish Vice Consul should be reduced from 166 to 93 ; and that num- 
ber was still to be reduced by the rateable loss, which the clerk 
of the District Court had reported to be 30. And all the rest, by 
the decree of the Supreme Court, were to be liberated. If, then 5 
the Africans to be delivered to the Spanish Vice Consul had been 
drawn from the whole number by lot, he would have received 63 ■ 
but the Supreme Court having, upon this second appeal, decreed 
that the Spanish claimant must identify by proof of having been 
taken by the Arraganta, in the Antelope, every individual, to be 
delivered up to him, explicitly rejected, for the second time, the 
lot, as a mode of ascertaining freemen among slaves, and actually 
diminished the number of victims delivered up to the Spaniard, 
from 63 to 39. And this was the number finally delivered up by 
the decree of the Supreme Court of the United States of the cap- 
tives of the Antelope to the Spanish Vice Consul. But this was 
not the last decision of the Supreme Court in the case. 

It was remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions to make a 
final disposition of the controversy between the parties pursuant 
to the principles of the decrees of 1825 and 1826. And now came 
up the question, to use a vulgar but significant phrase, Who should 
pay the piper 1 

" The Circuit Court, [says the Report, 12 Wheaton, 547,] in 
order to enable it to decree finally in the case, directed the regis- 
ter to take and report an account of the costs, and also of the ex- 
penses of keeping, maintaining, &c. of the Africans, by the mar- 
shal, and which account (amounting to upwards of thirty-six thou- 
sand dollars) was accordingly reported. Exceptions were filed to 
the report by both the Portuguese and Spanish claimants. The 
Circuit Court also caused proofs to be taken, for the purpose of 
identifying individually the Africans to be delivered to the Span- 
ish claimants, as directed by the decree of 1826. 

Thus circumstanced, the case came on for final hearing before 
the Circuit Court. The Court decreed that the Portuguese claimant 
should not be made liable for costs, or any proportion of the ex- 
penses and charges of the marshal, for maintaining, &c. the Afri. 
cans : and being of opinion that 39 of the Africans were sufficient- 
ly identified, by proof, as being the property of the Spanish claim- 
ants, directed the 39 Africans, so identified, to be delivered to the 
Spanish claimants, upon their paying a proportion of the costs 
and expenses reported by the registrar, in the ratio of the number 



129 

of Africans delivered to the whole number. And the Circuit Court 
was further of opinion, that the residue of the Africans not direct- 
ed to be delivered to the Spanish claimants should be delivered to 
the United States, to be disposed of according to law : but on the 
question, whether a they shall be delivered absolutely, or on condition 
of payment of the balance of the expenses which will remain un- 
satisfied, after charging the Africans adjudged to the Spanish 
claimants in their due ratio, the judges of the Circuit Court being 
divided in opinion, ordered this difference of opinion to be '' cer- 
tified to this Court." 

The United States District Attorney appealed from so much of 
this final order of the Circuit Court as related to the apportion- 
ment among the several parties of the costs and expenses in the 
preservation, maintenance, and custody of the said Africans, and 
of the costs and expenses of the various proceedings had in rela- 
tion to the said Africans ; and also from so much of said order as 
decreed 39 of the said Africans to the Spanish claimants. 

So extraordinary, so anti-judicial is everything upon the records 
in this case of the Antelope, that the Supreme Court actually did 
not know what was the question upon which the judges of the Cir- 
cuit Court were opposed in opinion — they supposed it was, whether 
the Africans not directed to be delivered to the Spanish claimants 
should be delivered by the marshal to the United States, absolute- 
ly and unconditionally, to be disposed of according to law, that is, 
to be liberated and sent home ; or whether it should be imposed 
on the United States, as a condition precedent to their delivery, 
that the United States should pay to the marshal his claim for 
expenses, at the rate of sixteen cents a Jay for each African, (for 
several years) in the ratio of the number to be delivered to the 
United States. 

This, it will be perceived, was still the question of freedom or 
slavery to the poor Africans. IC the decree had been, that the 
payment of these expenses, amounting to about 350 dollars a head, 
was a condition precedent to their delivery to the United States, 
in the event of nonpayment, the marshal had a lien upon the Afri- 
cans, and they would have been his slaves. 

The mode of proof admitted by the Circuit Court to identify the 
individuals to be doomed to slavery and delivery to the Spanish 
claimants cannot commend itself to the sense of justice, of human- 
ity, or of freedom. Fifty of them, employed upon the fortifications^ 
17 



130 

had been selected by the marshal, and recognised by a man named 
Grondona, who had been second officer on board the Antelope 
when the slaves were purchased and shipped in Africa. Grondona 
had since disappeared, and was said to be dead ; but there were 
witnesses in Court who had been present at the examination when 
Grondona recognized thirty-four of the negroes and they him, by 
speaking together, and by signs, though the witnesses knew no- 
thing of the language in which they spoke. Other witnesses tes- 
tified to his having recognized five more. The Africans had no 
notice that their fate, as freemen or slaves, was to depend on this 
recognition. They had no one to defend them, and protest for 
them, against the manner of disposing of their freedom. The ex- 
amination was in open court, but the only evidence furnished was 
testimony to individuals whom Grondona had recognized and who 
had recognized him. Hearsay evidence of one whose language 
the witnesses did not understand ! 

Yet the Supreme Court thought this evidence sufficient, under 
the very peculiar circumstances of this case, reasonably to satisfy the 
mind of the identity of thirty-nine of the Africans, as belonging to 
the Spanish claimants, and affirmed the decree of the Circuit 
Court for their delivery up to the Spanish Vice Consul. 

Under the very peculiar circumstances of the case, in order to en- 
slave 39 human beings, otherwise entitled to freedom, evidence 
was deemed sufficient, which, upon an ordinary question of pro- 
perty, of five dollars value, between man and man, would have been 
rejected as inadmissible. 

The very peculiar circumstances of the case are quite as strongly 
marked, in the opinion of the judge of the Circuit Court, in De- 
cember, 1826, as they had been in his preceding opinion, delivered 
in 1821. In apologizing for the enormous amount of the marshal's 
bill, allowed by the court, which he is aware must expose the 
court, and the administration of }ustice in the country, to certain 
imputations, he says, " What could the court do 1 The United 
States regard the subjects of this suit as men and not things. 
They could not be sold, and the money lodged in the registry. 
They were then prisoners, and necessarily to be kept and treated 
as such." Had he judge allowed his reason to advance one step 
further, he would have seen, that precisely because they were 
men and not things, precisely because they could not be sold, pre- 
cisely because they must be kept and treated, if at all, as prison- 



131 

ers, they could not be restored entire as merchandize, nor, there- 
fore, come within the purview of the 9th article of our treaty with 
Spain. 

" The next question," says the judge of the Circuit Court, " is, 
by whom these costs are to be paid 1 That the maintenance of 
the Africans was a legal charge on the United States, in the first 
instance, is perfectly clear. By the act of February 28, 1799, in 
forcing them into the hands of the marshal, the United States be- 
came bound for their subsistence." 

The judge of the Circuit Court further affirms, that the Supreme 
Court, by its decree of 1825, and explanatory decree of 1826, es- 
tablished seven principles ; the first of which, in his enumeration, 
is — " That the law of nations recognized both slavery and the slave- 
trade:' 

But Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion and pro- 
nouncing the decree of the Supreme Court in 1825, declared that, 
on the question of the restitution to the Spanish claimant, which 
depended entirely upon the recognition of the slave-trade by the 
law of nations, " the Court is divided on it, and, consequently, no 

PRINCIPLE IS SETTLED." 

The judge of the Circuit Court was, therefore, in manifest error 
when he said that the Supreme Court had, by the decrees of 1825 
and 1826, established the principle, that the law of nations recog- 
nized both slavery and the slave-trade. And this mistake discloses 
the source of that great perplexity, which troubles him, to find a 
consistency between the principle which he erroneously supposes 
them to have established, and their decree for carrying it into 
execution. It is not our business to inquire into the reasons of 
that Court. " We must give effect to it according to what we 
understand to be its meaning. And, upon collating and combin- 
ing their decree of 1825 with the explanatory decree of 1826, the 
two will be found to amount to this — that the rights of the Span- 
iards shall be recognized j but, in reducing that right to possession, 
they shall be held to have established a claim originally to ninety- 
three, which number shall be reduced by the average of deaths j 
and to the number so ascertained, they shall be held to produce 
proof of individual identity. But all the cargo, with the excep- 
tion of those to be thus identified, shall be delivered over to the 
United States. This will be doing what that Court certainly in- 



132 

tended to do : it will make a final disposition of a most trouble- 
some charge. It is our duty (says he) to find out the meaning of 
the decree of the Supreme Court, and to obey it. And here it is 
evident, that although their reasoning, and the principles recog- 
nized, would seem to go fully up to the maintenance of the Span- 
ish right, yet the decree, in its details, sustains those rights under 
very important limits and modifications." 

And such is the history of the case of the Antelope in the judi- 
cial tribunals of the United States. That vessel, commanded by 
a citizen of the United States, was taken in the very act of smug- 
gling 258 Africans into the United States for sale as slaves, and 
by the plain, unquestionable letter of the 4th section of an act of 
Congress of 20th April, 1818, was forfeited; while, by an act in 
addition to the acts prohibiting the slave-trade, of 3d March, 
1819, every African thus imported in the Antelope was made free, 
— subjeet only to safe keeping, support, and removal beyond the 
limits of the United States, by direction of their President. 

After seven years of litigation in the Courts of the United 
States, and, of course, of captivity to nearly all of these Africans 
who survived the operation ; after decrees of the District Court, 
reversed by the Circuit Court, and three successive annual rever- 
sals by the Supreme Court of the decrees of the Circuit Court ; 
what was the result of this most troublesome charge ? 

The vessel was restored to certain Spanish slave-traders in the 
island of Cuba. Of the Africans, about fifty had perished by the 
benignity of their treatment in this land of liberty, during its sus- 
pended animation as to them ; sixteen, drawn by lot from the 
whole number, (by the merciful dispensation of the Circuit Court, 
under the arbitrary enlargement of the tender mercies of the Dis- 
trict Judge, which had limited the number to seven,) — sixteen had 
drawn the prize of liberty, to which the whole number were enti- 
tled by the letter of the law ; and, of the remainder, thirty-nine, 
upon evidence inadmissible upon the most trifling question of 
property in any court of justiee, were,, under the very peculiar cir- 
cumstances of the case y surrendered ! delivered up to the Spanish 
vice-consul — as slaves ! To the rest was at last extended the 
benefit of the laws which had foreordained their emancipation, 
They were delivered over to safe keeping, support, and transpor- 
tation, as freemen, beyond the limits of the United States, by the 
Chief Magistrate of the Union. 



133 

And now, by what possible process of reasoning can any decis- 
ion of the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of the 
Antelope, be adduced as authorizing the President of the United 
States to seize and deliver up to the order of the Spanish minister 
the captives of the Amistad ? Even the judge of the District 
Court in Georgia, who would have enslaved all the unfortunates 
of the Antelope but seven, distinctly admitted, that, if they had 
been bought in Africa after the prohibition of the trade by Spain, 
he would have liberated them all. 

In delivering the opinion of the Supreme Court, on their first 
decree in the case of the Antelope, Chief Justice Marshall, after 
reviewing the decisions in the British Courts of Admiralty, says, 
" The principle common to these cases is, that the legality of the 
capture of a vessel engaged in the slave-trade depends on the law 
of the country to which the vessel belongs. If that law gives its 
sanction to tne trade, restitution will be decreed : if that law pro- 
hibits it, the vessel and cargo will be condemned as good prize." 

It was by the application of this principle, to the fact, that, at 
the time when the Antelope was taken by the Arraganta, the 
slave-trade, in which the Antelope was engaged, had not yet been 
made unlawful by Spain, that the Supreme Court affirmed so much 
of the decree of the Circuit Court as directed restitution to the 
Spanish claimant of the Africans found on board the Antelope 
when captured by the Arraganta. 

But by the same identical principle, applied to the case of the 
Amistad, if, when captured by Lieutenant Gedney, she and her 
cargo had been in possession of the Spaniards, and the Africans 
in the condition of slaves, the vessel would have been condemned, 
and the slaves liberated, by the laws of the United States ; because 
she was engaged in the slave-trade in violation of the laws of 
Spain. She was in possession of the Africans, self-emancipated, 
and not in the condition of slaves. That, surely, could not legal- 
ize the trade in which she had been engaged. By the principle 
asserted in the opiaion of the Supreme Court, declared by Chief 
Justice Marshall, it would have saved the vessel, at once, from 
condemnation and from restitution, and would have relieved the 
Court from the necessity of restoring to the Africans their free- 
dom. Thus the opinion of the Supreme Court, as declared by the 
Chief Justice, in the case of the Antelope, was a fact, an authority 
in point, against the surrender of the Amistad, and in favor of the 



m 

liberation of the Africans taken in her, even if they had been, 
when taken, in the condition of slaves. How monstrous, then, is 
the claim upon the Courts of the United States to re-inslave them, 
as thralls to the Spaniards, Ruiz and Montes ! or to transport 
them beyond the seas, at the demand of the Minister of Spain ! 

I said, when I began this plea, that my final reliance for success 
in this case was on this Court as a court of JUSTICE ; and in the 
confidence this fact inspired, that, in the administration of justice, 
in a case of no less importance than the liberty and the life of a 
large number of persons, this Court would not decide but on a due 
consideration of all the rights, both natural and social, of every 
one of these individuals. I have endeavored to show that they 
are entitled to their liberty from this Court. I have avoided, pur- 
posely avoided, and this Court will do justice to the motive for 
which I have avoided, a recurrence to those first principles of 
liberty which might well have been invoked in the argument of 
this cause. I have shown that Ruiz and Montes, the only parties 
in interest here, for whose sole benefit this suit is carried on by 
the Government, were acting at the time in a way that is forbid- 
den by the laws of Great Britain, of Spain, and of the United 
States, and that the mere signature of the Governor General of 
Cuba ought not to prevail over the ample evidence in the case 
that these negroes were free and had a right to assert their liber- 
ty. I have shown that the papers in question are absolutely null 
and insufficient as passports for persons, and still more invalid to 
convey or prove a title to property. 

The review of the case of the Antelope, and my argument in 
behalf of the captives of the Amistad, is closed. 

May it please your Honors : On the 7th of February, 1804, now 
more than thirty-seven years past, my name was entered, and yet 
stands recorded, on both the rolls, as one of the Attorneys and 
Counsellors of this Court. Five years later, in February and 
March, 1809, I appeared for the last time before this Court, in de- 
fence of the cause of justice, and of important rights, in which 
many of my fellow-citizens had property to a large amount at 
stake. Very shortly afterwards, I was called to the discharge of 
other duties — first in distant lands, and in later years, within our 
own country, but in different departments of her Government. 



135 

Little did I imagine that I should ever again be required to claim 
the right of appearing in the capacity of an officer of this Court ; 
yet such has been the dictate of my destiny — and I appear again 
to plead the cause of justice, and now of liberty and life, in be- 
half of many of my fellow men, before that same Court, which in 
a former age I had addressed in support of rights of property 
I stand again, I trust for the last time, before the same Court — 
" hie caestus, artemque repono." I stand before the same Court, 
but not before the same judges — nor aided by the same associates 
— nor resisted by the same opponents. As I cast my eyes along 
those seats of honor and of public trust, now occupied by you, 
they seek in vain for one of those honored and honorable persons 
whose indulgence listened then to my voice. Marshall — Gushing — 
Chase — 'Washington — Johnson — Livingston — Todd — Where are 
they 1 Where is that eloquent statesman and learned lawyer who 
was my associate counsel in the management of that cause, Robert 
Goodloe Harper 1 Where is that brilliant luminary, so long the 
pride of Maryland and of the American Bar, then my opposing 
counsel, Luther Martin 1 Where is the excellent clerk of that 
day, whose name has been inscribed on the shores of Africa, as a 
monument of his abhorrence of the African slave-trade, Elias B. 
Caldwelll Where is the marshal — where are the criers of the 
Court 1 Alas ! where is one of the very judges of the Court, arbi- 
ters of life and death, before whom I commenced this anxious 
argument, even now prematurely closed % Where are they all 1 
Gone ! Gone ! All gone ! — Gone from the services which, in their 
day and generation, they faithfully rendered to their country. 
From the excellent characters which they sustained in life, so far 
as I have had the means of knowing, I humbly hope, and fondly 
trust, that they have gone to receive the rewards of blessedness 
on high. In taking, then, my final leave of this Bar, and of this 
Honorable Court, I can only ejaculate a fervent petition to Heaven, 
that every member of it may go to his final account with as little 
of earthly frailty to answer for as those illustrious dead, and that 
you may, every one, after the close of a long and virtuous career 
in this world, be received at the portals of the next with the ap- 
proving sentence — " Well done, good and faithful servant ; enter 
thou into the joy of thy Lord." 



