MR. BIRNEY'S LETTER 

TO THE 

CHURCHES. 



TO THE MINISTERS AND ELDERS OF THE PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH IN KENTUCKY. 

Dear Brethren — I have concluded to address to you 
a few remarks on the subject of slavery — one that has, 
for a long time, deeply interested my own heart, and on 
which I have bestowed very careful consideration. — 
Were I to set you down as indifferent to it, I know it 
would be doing you great injustice. Indeed, so much 
do I count upon your right desires in relation to it, that 
although I come clothed with no official authority in 
that branch of God's church to which we belong, yet 
do I presume that you will read, meditate upon, and 
with a just balance, weigh, any arguments that may be 
submitted to you in a Christian spirit, come from what 
quarter they may. 

It is not my intention at this time, to take up the 
whole subject of slavery, and discuss it in its details, 
or to answer the multiplied excuses that have been 
made by Christians and others, for the help they hay^ 
brought for its continuance. I mean rather to present : 
1. Some of the most prominent characteristics of sla- 
very. 2. Some of the excuses of our church for not 
purifying herself from this sin, which answers to them; 
and 3. The consequences to the church and the state 
at large, if she should at once enter upon her duty. — 
The characteristics to which I now ask your attention, 
are — 

1. It originated, has always been, and is at this day, 
maintained by a violence that is utterly at variance 
with the mild spirit of the gospel. 

2. It wrests from one set of men, without c-rime on 



/-• 



2 

their part, the fruits of their bodily toils, for the sup- 
port and ease of another. 

3. Its effects upon its subjects are to stupify and be- 
numb the mind, to vitiate the conscience, to multiply 
the sins of the grossest character, to exclude the know- 
ledge of God and Christ, as well as of the necessity 
of any preparation for the world to come, and of course, 
to prepare them for hell. 

4. Its effects upon those who maintain it, and in 
some measure upon those who witness and consent to 
it, are indolence, diabolical passions, deadness to the 
claims of justice and the calls of mercy, a worldly 
spirit, and contempt for a large portion of our fellow- 
creatures ; therefore, as far as their qualifications for 
an eternal state are modified by slavery, it rather pre- 
pares them for the sentence of the damned than for the 
invitation of the blessed. 

That the above are some, but by no means all of the 
characteristics of slavery, no one, with our opportuni- 
ties of witnessing the thing itself, will deny. New, 
does it not seem passing strange, that a "monster of 
such hideous mien" should have been received within 
the very midst of the church of God — that it should 
find in its bosom, its surest and softest resting place- 
that it should be fondled, sleeked and cherished there? 
and that if any one attempt to tear him from his lodg- 
ment, with one consent all cry out, "Let him alone! 
let him alone ! we have become so accustomed to his 
presence, that much of his deformity has been taken 
away, and we cannot do without him ; we are prepar- 
ing him for his discharge, which, as he is slow to learn, 
he will probably be ready for, in some hundred or two 
years : then he can be dismissed without injury to any 
one concerned ; but don't disturb him now ; he is very 
quiet, all things are going on well. Make what pre- 
paration you please for his future dismission, but by 
no means touch him at litis time. The church ! the 
church ! you'll endanger the church, and make it more 
unpopular than it now is. I charge you, wait for a 
' more convenient season.' God is opening the way 
for his discharge in his own good time. If you attempt 
it now, you will not only utterly fail, because all the 



3 

church will be against you; and besides, they will 
call you, and join with those who are without in call- 
ing you, a madman and a fanatic — and your influence 
will" be destroyed." This is no caricature ; it is sol- 
emn, serious truth ; should it be denied, there are 
"clouds of witnesses" to prove it. But to return. It 
would make this address too long, were I to notice ex- 
ceptions which the scrupulous might raise ; or stop to 
present modifications that I might under other circum- 
stances think it desirable to make, of my positions ; or 
to fortify myself carefully as I proceed with defenses 
as if I were contending with enemies. I shall not de 
tain you to do so. I write not to cavillers, nor to such 
as are determined to remain unmoved by any thing 
that can be said ; but to brethren beloved, as I trust, by 
our common Lord, who are willing to do whatever 
may hasten his glorious reign on earth, and add to their 
own eternal weight of glory in heaven. 

If then slavery be characterized by violence, op- 
pression, injustice — by tendencies to the ruin of the 
souls of both master and slave — why should you hesi- 
tate to say it ought to cease at once? You reply, 
The Bible does not decisively condemn slavery. In 
support of this you say : 1. Abraham, the father of the 
faithful and the friend of God, had servants, or as you 
would render it, " slaves." Now admitting all that is 
asked in the case of Abraham, and that the word trans- 
lated " servants" means " slaves," it will be found to 
prove a great deal more than you desire. For if it be 
argued — because he had slaves, therefore /may have 
them, it will equally follow that prevarication, if not 
falsehood, and concubinage maybe justified ; for Abra- 
ham was guilty of both. But the word " servants," I 
apprehend, means here the subjects of Abraham, as a 
prince. The same word is used in reference to the 
courtiers of Saul, and to the most confidential part of 
the faithful little army that adhered to David during 
his persecutions by Saul. And in the 9th chapter of 
the first of Kings, it is used in exact contrast to " bond- 
men." Besides all this, in the same chapter in which 
the persons who constituted the army of Abraham are 
called his "servants," the patriarch himself calls 
them " young men." 



2. The Hebrews were directed to make slaves . of 
the surrounding nations. This is very true, when ap- 
plied to the seven nations particularly mentioned in 
the 7th chapter of Deuteronomy, who for their sins 
had been devoted to destruction. But does it follow, 
because the people whom God had specially selected 
as the instrument to execute his judgments, and had 
on this account excepted from the great law of love to 
the stranger, that we are excepted from the obligation 
of this law ? Every exception to a general law musi 
be specially pleaded ; and, according to the demands 
of common sense, clearly proved. To show the ab- 
surdity of this excuse : If the sheriff of Fayette coun- 
ty should execute a murderer, in pursuance of the 
sentence of death duly pronounced upon him, would 
this act, entirely justifiable, because directed by pro- 
per authority, furnish even an excusatory plea, much 
less one that would go to the entire justification of the 
sheriff of another county, for having put to death an 
innocent man, uncondemned by any form of law, 
merely for the gratification of his own malignant tem- 
per, or for the promotion of some selfish purpose ? It 
is useless to give an answer to this statement. 

3. The Savior himself said nothing in condemna- 
tion of slavery, although it existed in great aggrava- 
tion while he was upon earth. He said nothing about 
it, and to my apprehension for this very good reason, 
that he did not preach to the Romans, or to the peo- 
ple of any other country where slavery prevailed, but 
to the Jews, among whom the abolition principles of 
Moses' laws had already very nearly, if not entirely 
extinguished it. On the same principle we may ac- 
count for his silence concerning many practices that 
are condemned by the spirit of his gospel, such as 
gambling, gladiatorial and other cruel exhibitions, and 
offensive and ambitious wars, so common in his time 
and carried to such enormity by the Romans and oth- 
er Gentiles. 

4. But Paul and Peter establish, or recognize as es- 
tablished, the relation of master and servant, (slave,) 
when they give admonition to both as to their recipro- 
cal behavior. It is very certain that this would not 



have been done, they being holy and inspired men, if 
the relation itself was sinful ; or if there was any thing 
in the subjection of one human being to the will and 
caprice of another that was forbidden by God's law. 
Now if the word "servant" be used by Peter and 
Paul to mean "slaves" exclusively — a meaning 
I admit only that the excuse may have all the force it 
can claim — their exhortation to persons in this condi- 
tion amounts to no more than what had been impress- 
ed before upon all who were, or might become, the 
victims of injustice or oppression, to bear it patiently. 
It was given with the same object and in the same 
spirit as the command of the Savior himself, that the 
persecuted should pray for their persecutors. Had 
it been a common evil during the ministry of Paul 
and Peter to which Christians were exposed, to be 
cast into prison by the lawless pow r er of individual 
persecutors, would the exhortations of these apostles 
to them to bear their sufferings with resignation and 
meekness, establish or recognize as established the re- 
lation of persecutor and persecuted? or authorize 
Christians to exercise grievous oppressions upon one 
another, or upon such of the heathen as they might be 
able to circumvent and bring into their power '? Or 
when Paul, through Titus, admonishes his brethren to 
be " subject to principalities and powers, and to obey 
magistrates," does he in the slightest manner sanc- 
tion the imperial atrocities of a Nero, a Domitian, or 
any of their legitimate successors until now ? I know 
you will say he does not ; and that he would have 
condemned in the conduct of those tyrants towards 
their obscurest subjects whatever was inconsistent 
with the great and universally binding law, " Thou 
shall do unto others as ye would that they should do 
unto you." If then Nero, for example, had submitted 
to the gospel that Paul proclaimed in his capitol, and 
become an obedient disciple of the apostles — although 
he might have retained the power and authority of 
an emperor, yet his op[ressions, his cruelties, would 
have ceased, the very temper that prompted them 
would have been suppressed, his power would have 
been put forth for good, not for evil, and he would 
1A 



6 

hare been seen a prince dispensing justice in mercy, 
and finding his own happiness in that which he daily 
scattered over a grateful people. Would he under 
Paul's discipline have seized upon the poor, the weak, 
the defenseless of his empire, that he might exact 
from them toil unrequited during their whole lives, 
and consign them, and their innocent children after 
them, to social and civil degradation in the midst of 
happy millions — to personal bondage — to mental dark- 
ness—to the power of vice and the dominion of sin — 
to hopelessness in this world — to shame and eveilast- 
ing contempt in that which is to come ? Or had the 
converting grace of God found him acting the bloody 
and relentless tyrant, and thus fulfilling his relation to 
the oppressed, would he, Paul being his teacher, have 
continued it during his life ? And not content with 
this, would he — calling upon Paul to indite his last will 
and testament — have perpetuated by legacy to his 
issue this continually growing mass of blood and 
groans— of misery and tears.* But let us come down 



* The natural tendency of slavery is to the second death 
— of liberty, to eternal life although there are exceptions in 
both— slaves frequently giving good evidence of piety, and 
men who are free abusing their freedom to their destruction. — 
The glaveholder, then, is engaged in maintaining a system 
which leads to death, whilst God is maintaining one which 
leads to. life. The slaveholder is conducting his five, ten, or 
twenty slaves down to the pit, whilst God is striving, as far as 
he thinks proper to influence rational mind, to raise them to 
heaven. What a reflection for the disciple of the merciful Sa- 
vior! Let him not stop here, but make a calculation of the in- 
crease of his slaves for the next twenty, fifty, or hundred years, 
(it is too awful to proceed further, ) taking for his basis the in- 
crease of the whole number of slaves in the United States for 
the last forty years, that he may see what multitudes he is, as 
far as we can tell, qualifying for perdition. The Christian who 
hold slaves during his own life, and ' mils' them to his children 
afterwards, is doing, according to my poor apprehension, all 
that he can do to defeat the benevolent purposes of God. — 
(These ^wills' will be bloody evidences at the judgment seat 
of Christ.) He sins himself, and produces suffering as long as 
God gives him the physical power - not satisfied with this, he 
fastens the habit of suffering on his slaves and their posterity, 
and the habit of sinning on his awn. May there not be strong 
grounds to fear, that ? as he has been ehief in this world in the 



from the tyrant over millions to his miniature — bran- 
dishing the ensign of his authority over some half 
dozen of his fellow-creatures — and see how the mat- 
ter stands. You insist that Paul recognized— that is, 
acknowledged to be right — the relation of master and 
servant among his cotemporaries ; of course that it 
could not have been wrong then, when tested by the 
great principles of man's duty to his fellow man, 
preached by him in his own time, and which we con- 
sider as preached to all persons since. The inference 
you would deduce from these premises — one which is 
unavoidable — is, that as these principles can never 
change, as they were intended for the direction of men 
in all lime, (to say nothing of eternitv,) this relation 
then right, must be so now. This I believe is a fair 
statement of the position assumed, on this passage, 
by the Scriptural advocate for continued slavery. Ad- 
mitting all the premises to be true, the conclusion to 
which you have come would be altogether undenia- 
ble ,* and we would be authorized now to inflict upon 
our fellow men, white or black, who might be reduced 
into our power, all the enormities of Roman or Gre- 
cian slavery. 

But there is an essential part of your premises — the 
approbation of Paul of the injustice and cruelty of the 
master, covered up under the very comprehensive 
word, relation, that I apprehend is very far from being 
maintainable : For if it can be maintained, it must be 
by making him nullify all those principles of moral 
action which he had been unceasingly inculcating upon 
his fellow-men, and of which he had been giving in 
his own conduct a bright example. For if this rela- 
tion, [in which are to be included all the atrocious 
powers conferred by the Roman laws in the time of 
Paul, as well as the powers, not much less atrocious, 
exercised in some parts of our own country now,] be 
right; it follows consequentially, that to do any thing 

dread preparation for misery, he will be fearfully preeminent in 
the dread retributions of that which is to come? Can such an 
one dwell in the presence of a God of mercy ? If he can, tell 
me I pray you, in what part of the Bible you find a warrant for 
your belief? I have not yet found it. 



8 

fairly necessary in the estimation of the superior in 
the relation, to maintain it, cannot be wrong. Thus, 
among the Romans, masters could put their slaves to 
death at pleasure ; and it was done with great cruelty 
and frequency : they kept their slaves chained to the 
door posts as janitors, they branded them in the fore- 
head, and, if the master was slain at his own house 
and the murderer undiscovered, all his domestic slaves 
were liable to be put to death. Under this power, four 
hundred were put to death on a single occasion. 
Will you drive the apostle to a recognition of such 
horrible deeds 1 To an acknowledgment that they 
were right? That there was in them no violation of 
the great law of love ? No, you reply ; this is too 
horrible. I rejoin, and say, that you cannot then, on 
your own principle, charge him with the recognition 
of any violation, how small soever it may seem, of 
this law. For the same purpose, (the maintenance of 
the relation,) it may be thought necessary by masters 
among us, to keep back the hire of the laborers who 
reapdown their fields, (this is injustice)— that if a slave, 
in obedience to the very constitution of man's nature, 
when self interest, the main spring of action is taken 
from him, become indolent — if he be reluctant to 
spend gratuitously for another that property which the 
great Author of his being has given him in his own 
physical powers, in his own bones and muscles and 
sinews — he may be beaten and scourged to any extent, 
however cruel, till this indolence, this reluctance to 
an unrequited transfer of his labor to another, this 
natural tendency to self indulgence be overcome. 
(This is oppression.) Tothe same end, itmaybeneces- 
sary, in the opinion of the master, in order to derive that 
profit from the relation which only makes it worthy 
to be maintained, that marriages among his slaves be 
discouraged, and a gross state of concubinage permit- 
ted ; that the wife be torn at midnight, from the man 
of her love, and her screaming children wrung from 
her frantic grasp ; that the husband find his manly 
arms, intended for the protection of his helpless off- 
spring, bound in the weighty and sure fetters of the 
southern slaver ; and the last, the sole atom of earthly 



9 

happiness they were all enjoying, cast upon the winds. 
This is cruelty unmixed — and to justify it, you bring 
the noble-minded apostle who suffered persecutions 
without number, distress and death, that he might 
bring men to love one another ! ! ! 

Further : It might be that the whole life of a mas- 
ter would be passed in the perpetration of injustice, 
the exercise of cruelty and oppression ; that a relation 
might be perpetuated whose substance is the aliment 
of the most overbearing despotism on the one part, and 
the vilest abjectness on the ether. If the sins that 
may be said to be inherent in slavery — if injustice, 
cruelty and oppression were habitually committed 
against persons not in the relation, and unrepented of, 
the perpetrator by the judgment of all men, would be 
damned forever — if they were committed against our 
white " neighbors," a furnace hot as Nebuchadnezzar's 
would be too cool for them. Yet, notwithstanding his 
character may, by the indulgence of the worst passions 
against his slaves, have become as mean, as vicious, 
as degraded, and as unfit for the society of the just 
made perfect, as if he had indulged them against free 
persons, and his equals in society; because, forsooth, 
his slaves are in the relation, there seems to be no 
harm done, and at his death he is taken up to heaven, 
where all this treatment of his slaves, they being in the 
relation, goes for nothing. Thus it would appear that 
Paul and Peter, after exhorting men to do all — even 
to their eating and drinking for the glory of God — to 
be holy in all manner of conversation, are found sup- 
porting a relation whose sole object is, on the one side 
temporary convenience, at the expense of personal de- 
gradation on the other, and the moral pollution of both 
— whose universal tendencies upon the parties con- 
cerned, and upon society at large, have been mischiev- 
ous, po/luting and unholy. To these apostles I do not 
think can fairly be attributed such miserable logic to 
support such miserable morals. 

For further illustration : suppose that during the 
ministry of Paul, a Christian slave at Colosse, think* 
Ing himself treated in an unchristian manner by his 
Christum master, had brought his case before thf 



10 

church whilst Paul was on a visit to that city. He 
would allege against his master, that instead ot giving 
him, as Paul had directed, what was just and equal 
for his services, he gave him nothing but his food and 
clothing, and these in many instances adjusted to his 
wants with the most scrupulous nicety ; that his 
" threatenings " were many, and his scourgings not a 
few. The master may be supposed to have admitted 
all the facts of the case, and to have justified himself 
in such words as these : "As to the command to give 
my slave what is just and equal, I have never inter- 
preted it to mean what the standard of justice among 
equals would require; but rather ihat I should give him 
just what suited my convenience : and as to giving 
him what is equal, or, as he understands it, a fair 
equivalent for his services, it never once entered my 
head — for I might as well have no slave at all as to do 
this ; indeed, he would, if this be the meaning of it, 
soon be as free as I am. And as to the threatenings 
and scourgings that I have bestowed upon him, his 
own insolent claims, now reiterated— have justly pro- 
voked them: They are absolutely necessary to keep 
him humble and obedient, make him know his place, 
and to perpetuate the relation which you yourself have 
recognized, and know, ought by all means to be main- 
tained." What now do you think Paul would have 
done, after hearing such an harangue as this ? Would 
he have sent for the Phrygian slave code, have colla- 
ted the laws, and heard testimony as to all the recog- 
nized and approved customs of oppression ? Or would 
he have taken up the word of God, the perfect law of 
liberty, and quoted to him, " in all things whatsoever 
ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even so 
unto them?'''' Brethren, if such a case should be 
brought before you, how would you decide ? — By the 
laws and customs of slavery as they exist in Kentucky, 
or by the book of God ? If by the latter, what be- 
comes of slavery ? It is shivered to atoms. 

In the most nourishing period of Greece, women 
held a very degraded rank; they were considered 
rather as the slaves than the companions of man. 
There is no proof that in the time of the apostle, 



11 

during her declension, their condition was in any 
manner ameliorated. Among the Romans, it was 
permitted to men to divorce their wives at pleasure, 
with, or without, cause. 

By the Roman laws, absolute power over the child 
was given to the parent, even to the selling of hirn into 
slavery, or to the taking away of his life. Power al- 
most as unlimited was given to the creditor over Ms 
insolvent debtor. If any one was indebted to several 
persons, and could not find a cautioner, (security,) his 
body, according to some, might be cut to pieces and 
divided among his creditors. 

Now, Christianity recognizes these relations, also; 
and at the very time, too, when all the enormities per- 
petrated by the superiors in the relation were author- 
ized by law. Yet, what Christian allowing even that 
there were no restraints of municipal laws — would, at 
this day, justify or palliate the unprovoked dismission 
of a wife, or unfeeling and dishonorable treatment of 
her, on the part of a husband professing Christianity, 
on the plea, that as Paul had recognized the relation 
as it then was, every thing that was then practised 
under it was allowable now 1 Or who is there, that, 
on the same principle, would justify a Christian parent 
for selling his child into slavery, or for taking away 
his life on any provocation ? — or a Christian creditor 
who would insist upon hie rights, u de debilore in par- 
tes secundof in reference to his insolvent debtor? No 
one : because Christianity, although recognizing these, 
and whatever other relations may be necessary for the 
real welfare of society, has cleansed them from every 
foreign and hurtful ingredient; she has lopped off 
from them every thing that is offensive to her own 
purity, and injurious to their most healthful and. salu- 
tary exercise. Whilst she exacts from the wife, sub- 
jection, she has secured her from all degradation by 
requiring the husband to honor his wife. Whilst 
children are taught obedience to parents in all things 
not inconsistent with their higher duties to God, they 
are protected from injury and outrage by the requisi- 
tion upon the parents to rear them in the nurture and 
admonition of the Lord, and to lead lives of piety 



12 

themselves. And the creditor, in one of the beautiful 
parables of the Savior, is exhorted by the highest 
motive that can affect man, his own happiness, to be 
merciful to the unfortunate and ruined debtor. The 
consequence has been, and always will be, that in 
societies where the duties of these relations have been 
performed in accordance wiih these directions of wis- 
dom, there has been more of domestic happiness and 
spiritual comfort, as well as of social order, and of 
intellectual and moral and political power. Let slave- 
ry as it exists among us be tested by the same rules 
that have been applied so successfully for their melio- 
ration to the relations above mentioned ; let it undergo 
the same Christian purgation that they have, and what 
will remain of it? Nothing but the master who pays 
and the servant who receives what is just and equal, 
(a fair equivalent) for his services. This is the rela- 
tion which the apostles establish, because there is 
nothing in it incompatible with the gospel, and it tears 
ur ^avery by the roots. 

Thus much for some of the chief grounds which it 
is supposed the Bible furnishes for the continuance of 
slavery. You will see I have thought hints would be 
sufficient, and that I have not carried out the argu- 
ments to the extent of which they are susceptible. 
This I leave for you ; knowing how capable you are 
of doing it, from your intimate acquaintance with the 
scriptures, your habits of intellectual exercise, and 
your desire to know the truth that you may do your 
duly. 

But is there not among us a large number who, ad- 
vancing a step further than those who equip them- 
selves in the armor of the gospel, acknowledge that 
" slavery is criminal" in the sight of God ; that it can- 
not be palliated ; that it is injustice, theft, robbery ; 
that it gives rise to atrocities which even to think of 
make the cheeks burn ; yet insist that " how and when'''' 
it shall cease are questions by no means clear of diffi- 
culty ? Against such doctrine as this, so replete with 
fallacy, and tending to bring upon the cause of truth 
a reproach that it does not merit, and an injury whose 
extent cannot be foreseen, I wish to enter my protest. 



13 

It certainly requires no common boldness to take the 
position before an enlightened community, that an ac- 
knowledged sin — one proved to be such, too, by God's 
word and providence, should not be repented of and 
forsaken at once. With what face would any of you 
who are ministers, after proving to your congregations 
that injustice, violence, oppression, were sins in the 
sight of God, and that he had denounced a " Wo un- 
to him that useth his neighbor's service without wa- 
ges, and giveth him nought for his work," tell them 
"how and when " these sins were to be repented of 
was a matter not clear of difficulty ? If white men 
were the sufferers from the perpetration of such sins,^ 
all w r ould declare that the questions were clear of 
doubt. And is it true that when committed against 
the negro slave, God looks upon them as less criminal 
and authorizes a different measure to be meted out, 
and a reasoning sui generis to be applied? W r ould 
you not rather tell them, as the Savior and all his 
true ministers since have done, "repent" — not to- 
morrow, or next day, but — now ; and by restoring at 
once what has been withheld by injustice, and fraud, 
and force, do works that consist with repentance and 
prove its sincertiy 1. You would not, surely, at this 
time of day, in the present state of mental philosophy 
and religious science in the Presbyterian church, tell 
your congregations that they have been committing 
sin for a long time, are doing so now, and yet say 
to them, all you ask as the ambassador of God is, 
that they prepare to repent, that is, that they pre- 
pare to leave it off some ten, fifteen, or twenty years 
hence ; or if any of them should in the mean time be 
hurried to their dread account, their children or poste- 
rity will do it for them. You would not declare to 
them, all your Master required was, that they should 
come to a full conviction of the sin now, but that from 
fear of loss, of the world, of the charge of fanaticism, 
of disparagement in fashionable estimation, of person- 
al convenience, or of giving any shock to the structure 
of society, they might practise it until God in his own 
good time should remove the matter out of the way. 
This I am confident you would not do ; and yet, is 



14 

not this the very doctrine that is preached when slave- 
ry is aknowledged to be sin, but that it is to cease at 
some future time ? 

But this has been found too bold for any but the 
most determined slaveholder. It has therefore been 
much modified in its dress by saying, u There are no 
specific commands in the Bible on the subject of 
slavery, resembling those on adultery, theft, &c. that 
it is abolished in the Bible under the general com- 
mands, Do unto others as ye would that others should 
do unto you, &c, and in fulfilling these commands it 
is our duty to take into consideration the probable con- 
sequences of our conduct." And has it come to this 
in the Presbyterian church, that a duty which is 
clearly ascertained to fall under the general command 
above quoted, may be postponed on, that account; 
and that its performance is less imperative than the 
performance of such as are specified ; and that a man 
who at one fell swoop has robbed another of all his 
rights as a fellow being, and put him into the road to 
death, is not bound to as expeditious restitution as he 
who has stolen from his rich neighbor a sixpence ! — 
that in the first case, the aggressor may take time to 
consider the probable consequences to his own estate, 
his name and standing in society, and more than this, 
whether restitution of all his rights will not be injuri- 
ous to the sufferer, and whether it would not be better 
for him, as lie is accustomed to it, to remain crushed 
and trodden down, and that his posterity come into 
the enjoyment of the rights that have been wrested 
from him, whilst in the latter he is bound to immedi- 
ate restitution ? I will venture to say, if these be the 
prevailing homiletics of our church, the sooner she 
loses her name, and individuality, and influence, the 
better for the country and the world. 

I will now proceed to examine, very briefly, some of 
the parts of that alchemy by which the leopard has 
been made to change his spots, the contrivances of 
men to put aside the claims of God, and sin to become 
no longer sin.* I shall consider the objection — 



* Jt is an inquiry not devoid of interest, though hy no irye^fjS very 



15 

I. That slaves are not qualified for freedom. — 
Wherever I go among the slaveholders of our church, 
this excuse is rife ; and it has been made so long and 
so loud, as to be thought fairly conclusive of the whole 
matter. It is very much of the same nature with the 
objection that was made to Catholic emancipation in 
Ireland, by the ecclesiastical and civil aristocracy of 
Great Britain. What answer would such objectors 
have made to the corps of opponents to one of the 
most magnanimous acts of the British government, 
when it was alleged that all the institutions of the 
country would be broken up, and even religion itself 
could not be maintained under the malignant iufluence 
of Catholic emancipation ; that the vice and ignorance 
of the Catholics (continued at least, if not in some 
measure produced, by Protestant persecutors,) would 
break down every salutary barrier ; and that they were 
only qualified for living under the restraints in which 
they had been reared ? Or to the Autocrat of the 
Russias who should plead in justification of his re- 
cent carnage of the Poles, that this portion of his sub- 



flattering to human pride, to trace how readily, arguments for slave- 
holding accommodate themselves to circumstances. At first,, men 
are to be enslaved for the good of their souls ; when any attempt is 
made for their moral and intellectual elevation, the slaveholder in- 
sists that it has no other tendency than to make the slaves unhappy 
and himself insecure. When from the increasing light of Christian- 
ity its professors become ashamed any longer to persist in the plea 
of brutifying their fellow men, that they might hold them as slaves ; 
and some stir is made by the friends of liberty and the country to- 
wards emancipation, the Christian slaveholder cries out, " Not yet ! 
not yet! for the world, not yet! it will be the ruin of the slaves if 
they are set free now; the present generation are very ignorant, 
totally unqualified for freedom, the next will be prepared, and 
then what every body so much desir, s can be done advantage- 
ously and profitably for all concerned." This puts the whole affair 
to rest again. All becomes calm and tranquil. The present generation 
of slaves go to their audit, the masters die and are buried. The next 
generation that was to exhibit full preparation for liberty, comes on 
the scene with a new generation of master?. "When the latter are 
reminded of the promises of their progenitors, they vociferate the 
cry they have inherited with their slaves, " Not yet! not yet! by 
no means this generation ; they will ruin themselves; the next we 
know will be prepared fully," &c. &c. So it will go in to the last 
syllable of recorded time, or till u not yet ! be drowned in the cr&sh* 
»ng thunders of heaven's'judgrnents. 



16 

jects are totally unqualified for any other government 
than the one which is crushing them into the dust ; 
that the tyranny which he exercises over them is not 
of his own enactment, but that it has been entailed 
upon him; and that although desiring all good to this 
portion of his unfortunate subjects, he is still under 
the necessity of keeping up the old system of oppress- 
ion to which they have become accustomed ; but that 
in having it imposed upon him by his ancestors, and 
being thus as it were compelled to maintain it, he is 
the most unfortunate of men, deserving commiseration 
instead of blame ? Would such reasons as these be 
received with any portion of tolerance ? Would they 
not be considered as founded in the most profound ig- 
norance of the constitution of the human mind, or to 
be the shallow excuses of the rankest hypocrisy? 

God has formed all men for freedom, just as surely 
as he has fitted them, in their physical conlormation, 
for the pure air of the ambient heavens. Freedom is 
man's appropriate element ; that in which he acts 
best, and in which he shows most of mental and mo- 
ral life. All others are unnatural, unhealthy, and 
tend to produce death, the death of the whole being ; 
and they are the devices of " man's inhumanity to 
man." That the lirst part of this proposition is true 
we may easily satisfy ourselves ; for which we are de- 
prived of liberty, nature is ever trying to regain it; 
she finds nothing that can be received in exchange 
for it; and just as unerringly desires to escape from 
chains as she does to withdraw from the foul and pes- 
tilential atmosphere ot a charnel-house. Do we not 
then say to God, when in his word and through his 
judgments he thunders in our ears, " Let this people 
go that they may serve me," " They can serve thee 
belter as slaves than in the condition for which thou 
didst form them." Again, what hn.'-; disqualified the 
slave for freedom — his natural state? The chains 
thai we have cast upon him. Is it a reasonable course 
then to prolong a condition, all whose results, clown 
to the present moment, have been disqualification for 
freedom, with the expectation that it will yet, after 
>be failure of our experiment for tvvp hundred year-?, 



\7 

bring forth fruits that consist with freedom ? Shall 
we be careful daily to make the chains more secure, 
and hypocritically tempt God with our prayers that 
he may remove them ? If this excuse be a good one 
now, and slavery be continued, producing no other 
fruits than such as it has already yielded; it will be 
good next year, next lustrum, next century ; and 
slavery with all its horrors is made perpetual. Are 
you willing to say Amen ? But it is said in avoid- 
ance, that although the present adults are, and must 
continue through the remainder of their lives, unqua- 
lified for freedom, and therefore should remain in 
slavery ; we can qualify their children for freedom 
by bestowing upon them a suitable education, and 
rearing them under the influence of the hopes and ex- 
pectations of freemen. This enticing humanity was 
proclaimed by the slaveholders of Kentucky thirty 
years ago, to my knowledge ; how long before I know 
not. How carefully this pledge has been redeemed, 
is proved by the fact that the generation which was 
then commencing and that was to be qualified for 
freedom, have grown up, and are the very persons 
upon whose vice, and ignorance, and disqualification 
at this time, the excuse for continuing slavery is 
founded. But we will pass this by, and examine with 
what fidelity we are redeeming our pledge of prepar- 
ing their successors, the present youthful generation, 
for freedom. A few of our people buy primers, spell- 
ing-books, and Testaments, for them ; and on Sunday 
morning or afternoon they are instructed for an hour 
or two, by the children or the junior members of the 
white family, in the elements of reading. In a few 
of the towns and villages, Sabbath schools for the 
blacks are established, in Avhich they receive instruc- 
tion for an hour, or an hour and a half. This com- 
prises all or nearly all the means that are in operation 
to prepare the rising generation of blacks for freedom. 
There are day schools for the free colored people, one 
at Louisville and another at Lexington; if any slaves 
are sent to them for education, I am uninformed of 
the fact. Now, I ask you, if you believe that there 
are out of the whole number of colored people in this 
2B 



18 « 

state, (amounting to probably, 200,000,) 5000 who are 
receiving elementary instruction in reading from pri- 
vate efforts and the Sabbath schools together? Are 
there in your opinion half that number who can read 
the Bible understandingly and with ease ? Are there 
one thousand who in addition to facility in reading 
English, can write a hand sufficiently legible for the 
transaction of the plainest business ? Are there one 
hundred who add to reading and writing, as above, 
a competent knowledge of arithmetic, as far as the 
rule of three ? I suppose these questions must all be 
answered in the negative. I know not one, either per- 
sonally or from information, who can read, write, and 
cypher. I do not pretend to precision of knowledge 
on this point ; and if I am in error I shall gladly re- 
ceive correction from those who have more accurate 
information. The conclusion to which my mind has 
been brought on the subject of preparation, is corro- 
borated by this fact, that there is not, so far as my 
knowledge extends after careful inquiry, even among 
its most strenuous advocates, any regular deduction 
made from the time of field-labor or domestic service 
of their slaves, to bestow upon them this preparation. 
Now, brethren, judging from the experience of the 
past, and our knowledge of the present, of what 
weight is the excuse for continuing slavery, based up- 
on "preparation ?" Is it saying more than the naked 
facts will warrant, that its advocates, whatever they 
may intend., act for the perpetuation of slavery ? If 
so, are you willing to unite in such action, or to con- 
tinue it for another day ? 

2. But we are willing to give up our slaves, if every 
body else will ; or if they all can be removed from the 
country. Whoever says this, subjects his sincerity to 
violent suspicion. The condition in each case, though 
not physically, is morally impossible ; and it would 
not be more unreasonable to say, that you would give 
up your slaves if the sun would cease to shine. You 
are a preacher — pressing upon an impenitent friend the 
necessity of personal holiness ; he replies to all your 
earnestness, that he will submit to God in doing his 
will if all his neighbors will go with him. What now 



19 

would you think of his head or his heart, or his man- 
ners? As to removing the slaves from Kentucky ,sit 
down and make the calculation of their present num- 
bers, probably 200,000 ; their yearly increase, say 
5000: consider what has been done towards removing 
them for the last six or seven years, during which pe- 
riod the theory of colonization has been favorably 
cherished by our countrymen ; that there have been re- 
moved only about 150 — nearly, if not quite half of 
whom died on the passage to Africa, and in the sea- 
soning of her deadly climate ; calculate the cost of 
removal and of six or twelve months' maintenance of 
5000 annually, after their arrival on the shores of that 
continent ; calmly contemplate the nature of the pub- 
lic mind which it is indispensable should he brought 
up to a full approval of the scheme ; and after doing 
all this, if you still think the plan of removal is the 
most practicable one for the extinguishment of slave- 
ry, or that it is practicable at all for this purpose, I 
have not another word to address to you on this sub- 
ject. The mind that could be led to such a convic- 
tion, after duly considering the facts, is too far gone in 
love with a darling scheme to be reasoned with. 

3. But we fear amalgamation — or in other words, 
that there will be intermarriages between the whites 
and the colored people. Although I look upon this 
objection as unsuitable altogether to a manly mind, 
that has been careful to enlighten itself on this sub- 
ject, and impartially to reach its conclusions upon all 
— and upon amalgamation as having no natural con- 
nection whatever with the concession to our slaves of 
of their rights as men, yet, believing that it weighs 
somewhat with honest minds which have not taken 
enlarged vieAvs of the consequences of emancipation ; 
and that it is frequently used with no despicable ef- 
fect by the opponents of all efforts in favor of freedom; 
I shall not, as I had at first intended, pass it by entire- 
ly unnoticed. I have said that amalgamation has no 
natural connection with emancipation : neither has it, 
any more than the assumption by the emancipated of 
any other of the powers belonging to our civil or so- 
cial relations. Who fears the blacks will, if emanci- 



20 

pated, become our school masters, our college profes- 
sors, our preachers, our lawyers, or our physicians? — 
No one. Why 1 Simply because they would, on ac- 
count of their ignorance and total want of literary or 
scientific qualification, be totally incompetent ; there- 
fore, there would be on their part, no aspiration to the 
offices, and on ours there would very justly and very 
certainly be exclusion from them, if they should aspire 
while deficient in merit. Now, from the superior ten- 
derness and delicacy of the marriage relation, and 
from the greater care we exercise lest our friends and 
connections enter into it unworthily, I entertain the 
opinion that alliances of this kind would be far less 
successfully sought by the colored people, than the 
public stations awhile ago mentioned. Many of us 
would be well contented with persons as school mas- 
ters, preachers, lawyers or physicians, with whom we 
would have insurmountable objections, (leaving out of 
view personal likings or dislikings,) to contract the 
marriage relation. Now, when to ignorance, degra- 
dation of caste, and a great deficiency of those quali- 
fications, intellectual, moral and pecuniary, which se- 
cure social equality, is added that physical -repug- 
nance on the part of the whites, so earnestly alleged, 
it seems to me that a stronger barrier of defense in the 
premises could not be erected. If you and every one 
else fear and repel amalgamation, you and they will 
be safe from its danger. For Ave may rest very secure 
in the belief, at least so long as there is an equality of 
sexes among the colored people, that Sabine violence 
attempted against us by a concerted movement of the 
black ladies and gentlemen, will not be the world's 
gossip during the present century. It is very certain, 
that so strong would be the prejudice against amalga- 
mation by the present generation of adults, and proba- 
bly for several to come, that even the valor of a Ses- 
ostris or the charms of a Cleopatra could not- overcome 
it. And it does appear to my poor judgment scarcely 
a sufficient reason for continuing a great trespass 
against our fellow men, because some hundred years 
hence, a prince-royal of Jamaica, or the duke of Bar- 



21 

badoes, the countess of Porto Rico, or one of the royal 
maids of Cuba, dressed " in the livery of the burnish- 
ed sun," may overcome it in the person of one of our 
great-great-great-grand-children. It is difficult to treat 
such an objection with the seriousness becoming the 
subject. Being nothing of a match-maker myself, and 
knowing no one in all the circle of my acquaintance 
who is in the least peril on this ground, I have not 
considered it as possessing the least solidity. 

4. But if we set our slaves free among us, they will 
turn round and cut our throats. This would be bad 
enough, truly. But do you entertain any serious ap- 
prehension of such a result ? For if you do, I shall be 
compelled to attribute it either to conscious guilt for 
bad treatment of your slaves, or to a total want of 
manhood. We have succeeded thus far in keeping in 
subjection these people, whilst committing against 
them the greatest trespass that man can commit 
against his fellow, whilst withholding from them rights 
for which men in all ages have hazarded life, fortune 
and honor ; and yet, when we restore those rights 
peaceably and kindly, it is most stoutly maintained 
that they to whom they are restored, will turn and rend 
us. This is surely unsound philosophy — altogether 
at variance with the laws of mind, as well as with 
historical facts. For I am very sure that those who 
insist upon the objection may safely be challenged to 
produce a single well-authenticated instance to show, 
that dangerous or even inconvenient consequences 
have followed the sudden emancipation of large bo- 
dies of slaves. Now I am by no means so sanguine 
as to indulge the belief, that in emancipation will be 
found a pcmacea for all the ills that flesh is heir to ; 
but that they will ultimately be immeasurably dimin- 
ished by it, I cannot for one moment doubt. And I 
wish it always borne in mind whilst we are discuss- 
ing that part of the subject which relates to the expe- 
diency of emancipation, that it is not the introduction 
of a new and untried evil, where none of kindred cha- 
racter existed previously ; but that it is the substitu- 
tion of an evil, in the opinion of its advocates, light 



22 

and transient when compared with the evil of slave- 
ry, whose ultimate tendency, in the judgment of all 
considerate men, who have weighed it, is to crush its. 
Now, to every one of you who is a slaveholder, and 
iu whose mind exists an apprehension of the danger 
predicted in the objection, I am bold to offer some 
means of defense from all harm. Say, you have be- 
come convinced that slavery, as it exists among us, is 
a sin before God ; that you have repented of your own 
guilt in this matter, and are now anxious to show 
fruits that consist Avith repentance ; you summon be- 
fore you your servants — the fathers and mothers, and 
such others of them as may be old enough to under- 
stand an explanation of the principles upon which you 
are about to act ; you say to them, you have become 
convinced that the bonds in which you have held 
them are inconsistent with the law of love to our 
neighbor, enjoined by God upon every man ; and that 
moved by the sacred authority of the religion 
you profess, you have determined to continue the sin 
no longer. With this you read and then deliver to 
them, accurately authenticated deeds of manumission 
for themselves and their children. You further say 
to them, "As I have already given to you the most 
convincing proof I can furnish of my friendship, it is 
not my intention to push you out of my doors, desi- 
ring never to see you again — exposed to the imposi- 
tions of a world with whose business you are in a 
great measure unacquainted, or to the prejudice and 
scorn of such as cherish for you no kind sympathy ; 
no, if you choose to remain in my employment, I will 
pay you what is just and epual, a fair equivalent for 
your services. I will continue to feel for you the love, 
and extend to you the conduct of a Christian ; I will 
assist you in providing the means of educating your 
children for usefulness in life, and should you so 
choose, in binding them out to profitable trades and 
employments; and I will be your sure and steadfast 
friend, and your protector so long as your conduct shall 
not render it improper for me to be so." I ask you, 
now, if after doing this, and kneeling down with them 



23 

at the footstool of God's throne to thank him for the 
Christian courage he has bestowed upon you, and to 
implore his blessing upon the down-trodden and the 
poor, in their new estate, you would fear the flames of 
the incendiary, or the knife of the assassin ? Hateful 
as is to many the very name of abolition, here it is in 
its essence — and its safety is sure, because it is the off- 
spring and the exhibition of benevolence. 

Well, after all this you say, "What can we do?" 
I answer, you can rise up to-morrow and liberate all 
whom you hold in bondage. "But," you reply, "what 
effect would this have upon the great body of slave- 
holders in the state V 1 will undertake to affirm, that 
by such a course, small as is your number, you will 
have crucified the giant sin of our iand ; his dying 
struggles may be fierce and long protracted, but his dis- 
solution will be certain, because the death-blow will 
have been given. The ministers and rulers of any of 
the larger denominations of Christians have it in their 
power to-morrow to give the fatal wound to slavery 
in Kentucky — and if in Kentucky, throughout the 
slaveholding region of the Union — for how would the 
congregations over w T hich God has placed them, and 
upon whom they would then be authorized to press 
this subject with all its overpowering weight, upon 
sound consciences and Christian hearts, stand in the 
blaze of such virtuous action and not be consumed or 
won by it ? If it were to prevail among Presbyterians 
alone, how long could the other denominations hold 
their fellow-men in bondage ? Not twelve months, as 
I honestly believe. If then you will come up to the 
next Synod, after having "loosed the bands of wick- 
edness, undone the heavy burdens, let the oppressed 
go free, and broken every yoke," so far as you are con- 
cerned you have the promise of the Lord that " your 
light shall break forth as the morning, and thy health 
spring forth speedily ; that thy righteousness shall go 
before thee, and the glory of the Lord be thy rere- 
ward." You may, it is true, be called madmen ; but 
Paul was so called before you. You may be called 
fanatics, fools and knaves ; but Sharp, Clarkson, and 



24 

Wilberforce, were so baptised by the enemies of hu- 
manity ; you may at first obtain but little honor from 
men ; but you will win an eternal weight of glory 
from God. That you may be influenced by Him so to 
act, is the earnest desire of your friend and brother, 

JAMES G. BIRNEY. 
Mercer County, Ky. Sept. 2d, 1834. 



