r£S.7?77.8 ^0.^ 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2OII with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/speechofhenryber1832berr 



THE SPEECH 

< 

OF 

HENRY BERRY, 

(OF JEFFERSON,) 

IN THE 
ON THE 

ABOLITION OF SLAVERY. 



It is due to Mr. Berry to state that his speech on the al:)ohtion of slavery, has been pub- 
lished in its present form, by gentlemen favorable to the views which he has advocated — not 
by himself. 

ma.w\l,^nlMK.J^•^Kr^!nmlV.iiiwm*mi^ilu■^ut.Ml.■,^r^yJ^!ll!•,.-'^>^^..■^■^,^l^,,i*J.^ - ■ ■ ..=f^ 



HOU^E OF DELECJATES OF VIRGINIA. 



WEDNESDAY, January 11, 1832. 



Mr. Goode of Mecklenburg, rose to move the following resolution. 

Resolved, That the select committee raised on the subject of slaves, free negroes, and the 
melancholy occurrences growing out of the tragical massaci-e in Southampton, be discharged 
from the consideration of all petitions, memorials and resolutions, which have for their ob- 
ject, the manumission of persons held in servitude under the existing laws of this common- 
wealth, and that it is not expedient to legislate on the subject. 

Mr. Randolph moved the following substitute, to be inserted after th^ word " Southamp- 
ton :" 

" be instructed to inquire into the expediency of submitting to the vote of the 

qualified voters in the several towns, cities, boroughs, and counties of this commonwealth, 
tlie propriety of providing by law, that the children of all female slaves, Avho may be born 
in this state, on or after the 4th day of July, 1840, shall become the property of the com- 
monwealth, the males at the age of twenty-one years, and females at the age of eighteen, if 
detained by their owners within the limits of Virginia, until they shall respectively arrive at 
the ages aforesaid, to be hu'ed out until the nett sum arising therefrom, shall be sufficient to 
defray the expense of their removal, beyond the limits of the United States, and that said 
committee have leave to report by bill or otherwise." 



MONDAY, January 16, 1832. 

Mr. Brodnax, from the committee on the colore'd population, presented the following re- 
port : 

The select committee, to vi-hom was referred certain memorials, praying the passage of 
some law providing for the gradual abolition of slavery in the commonwealth, have, accord- 
ing tilbrder, had the same under consideration, and have come to the following resolution 
thereupon : 

Resolved as the opinion of this committee, That it is inexpedient for the present legislature 
to make any legislative enactment for the abolition of slavery. 

Mr. Preston moved that the resolution reported fi-om the committee, be amended, by strik- 
ing out the word "inexpedient," and inserting the word "expedient." 

A 



res. 7^7J.^ no."^ • ..^ 

FRIDAY, Janu:art 20, 1832. 

jMR. berry rose and addressefl ihe house. Mr. Speaker — Com- 
ing from a county in which there r.re about 4000 slaves, being myself 
a slave-holder; and I may say fiiriher, that the largest interest in pro- 
perty that I have in Virginia, lies about 100 miles east of the Blue 
Ridge, and consists of land and slaves — under these circumstances, I 
hope I shall be excused by my eastern brethren, for saying a few words 
on this important, and deeply interesting subject. That slavery is a 
grinding curse upon this state, I had supposed would have been ad- 
mitted by all, and that the only question for debate here, would have 
been, ihe possibility o( removing the evil. But, sir,-in this I have been 
disappointed. 1 have been astonished to find that there are advocates 
here for slavery, with all its eiiects. Sir, this only proves how far, how 
very far, we may be carried by pecuniary interest ; it proves what has 
been said bv an immortal bard — 

That man is unco weak, 

And little to be trusted, 

If self the wavering balance shake, 

'Tis i-arely right adjusted. 

Sir, I believe that no cancer on the physical body was ever more 
certain, steady, and fatal in its progress, than is this cancer on the po- 
litical body of the state of Virginia. It is eating into her very vitals. 
And shall we admit that the evil is past remedy.^ Shall we act the 
part of a puny patient, suffering under the ravages of a fatal disease, 
who would say the remedy is too painfid, the dose is too nauseous, I 
cannot bear it; and' who would close his eyes in despair, and give 
himself up to death ? No, sir ; I would bear the knife and the cau- 
tery, for the sake of health. I would never despair of the republic. 
For myself, 1 would abandon hope on this subject, and the state to- 
gether. But, sir, as long as there is a hope that this evil will be re- 
moved, I will stick to the good Old Dominion ; and I believe there 
are thousands in the state, who feel as I do on this subject. If we do 
not give it up, what shall we gain by the delay .^ Is the evil being 
diminished? No, sir. Like a mighty avalanche, it is rolling towards 
us, accumulating weight and impetus at every tura. And, sir, if we 
do nothing to arrest its progress, it will ultimately overwhelm and de- 
stroy us forever. The gentleman from Mecklenburg, who opened 
this debate, seemed to think that great excitement, and strange delu- 
sions had been produced by the action of this house, before this debate 
began. I think the gentleman was entirely mistaken. Whatever ex- 
citements or delusions may have existed among the people, before this 
debate began, were produced by causes anterior to any motion on the 
subject in this house. The tragedy of Southampton had aroused the 
people of Virginia, from a fatal lethargy on this subject; and I ar- 
dently hope it may produce some as glorious results for this state, as 
did some of the tragedies recorded in the annals of antiquity, for an- 
cient Rome. If the gentleman from Mecklenburg, is not entitled to 
the merit of producing this debate, he is certainly entitled to the merit 
of accelerating it ; and, probably of giving to it a much more ex- 
panded and discursive character, than it would have received had it 



been deferred until the committee had reported. I, for one, am grate- 
ful to him for it. I believe it is high time that this subject should be 
discussed and considered, by the people of Virginia. I believe that 
the people are awakened on the subject, but not alarmed; I believe 
they will consider it calmly, and decide upon it correctly. Sir, I have 
no fears now, for any general results, from any efforts at insurrection, 
hy this unfortunate class of our population. I know that we have the 
power to crush any such effort at a blow. I know that any such ef- 
fort on their part, at this day, will end in the annihilation of all con- 
cerned in it. And I believe our greatest security now, is in their 
knowledge of these things, in their knowledge of their own weakness. 
None but the most ignorant and fanatical, will attempt it iww — the 
better informed knowing the effort is hopeless, desperate, will not make 
it. The Southampton affair, was the work of the, most ignorant, de- 
luded wretches on earth. That was a small affair, as it affected the 
general safety of the state ; but it. was a most horrible tragedj^ The 
attitude of the citizens of this state in relation to this danger, is one 
of the most distressing insecurity individually. We are like a crowd 
of people, towards whom a single man should point a loaded gun, 
with the apparent intent to fire upon them. They know he cannot 
kill them all, but each feels that his own life is in peril. So here, we 
know not when, how, or where, this evil may assail us. 

I admired the philosophy (not to use a harsher term) of the gentleman 
from Brunswick, which enabled him to turn the whole Southampton 
affair into ridicule. He told us he had witnessed that trao^edv — or a 
part of it. Sir, had I witnessed that tragedy, I am sure I could never 
have thought of it and smiled. But, sir, although I have no fears for 
any general results from the efforts of this class of our population now, 
still, sir, the time will come, vvhen there will be imminent, general dan- 
ger. Pass as severe laws as you will, to keep these unfortunate crea- 
tures in ignorance, it is in vain, unless 3'ou can extinguish tliat spark 
of intellect which God has given them. Let any man who advocates 
slavery, examine the system of laws that we have adopted (from stern 
necessity it m«y be said,) towards these creatures, and he may shed a 
tear upon that, and would to God, sir, the memory of it might thus 
be blotted out forever. Sir, we have, as far as possible closed Qwevy 
avenue by which light might enter their minds; we have only to go 
one step further — to extinguish the capacity to see the light, and our 
work would be completed; they would then be reduced to the level of 
the beasts of the field, and we should be safe: and 1 am not certain 
that we would not do it, if we could find out the necessary process — 
and that under the plea of necessity. But, sir, this is impossible ; and 
can man be in the midst of freemen, and not know what freedom is ^ 
Can he feel that he has the power to assert his liberty, and will he not 
do ii? Yes, sir, with the certainty of the current of time, will he do 
it whenever he has the power. Sir, to prove that the time will come, 
I need offer no other argument than that of arithmetic, the conclusions 
from which are clear demonstrations on this subject. The data are 
before us all, and every man can work out the process for himself. — 
Sir, a death struggle must come between the two classes, in which one 
or the other will, be extinguished forever. Who can contemplate such 



a catastrophe as even possible, and be indifferent, inactive ? Sir, the 
right of property in the colored class generally, has been brought into 
this debate, and I am sorry for it; it is not to be treated in the ab- 
stract. But I think our eastern brethren are to blame for it; they 
rather arrogantly advanced their right of property, as an insuperable 
barrier to our doing any thing for the removal of the evil of slavery, 
and rather challenged an investigation of their title, and it has been 
rather rudely handled in this debate. Yet, sir, I am for maintaining 
the bonds by which we hold this property now, with firmness and with 
vigilance; because it is necessary lo the public safety that we should 
do so, and because there are vested rights to this property, under the 
law as it now is. Sir, I should be glad that this house should declare 
unanimously, that the relations between master and slave should not 
now be disturbed, that none of the present generation should be re- 
moved, except those who may be given up voluntarily. But, sir, ihe plea 
o^ necessity will not answer in bar to a scheme for the future gradual 
emancipation and removal of this class — that measure is within our pow- 
er. The evil was gradually entailed upon us, and can only be gradually 
removed. I admit that we are not to be blamed for the origin of this 
evil among us ; we are not to be blamed for its existence now, but we 
shall deserve the severest censure if we do not take measures as soon 
as possibly, to remove it. Sir, every obligation of justice and hu- 
manity demands — the safety of the republic demands the adoption of 
a system which shall produce the certain, gradual emancipation and 
removal of this whole class. To liberate the after-born, is obviously 
practicable; it has been recommended by the immortal Jefferson, whose 
counsels we have followed in so many things, with such signal bene- 
fits, but have totally disregarded in this. It has been done by our 
sister states; and the only objection of any force, tliat I have heard 
urged, is the constitutional one, founded upoia the attenuated, con- 
temptible right of property in these after-born children, which is placed 
in competition with the lives of our sons and daughters, to the re- 
motest generations, in competition with the very existence of this re- 
public. Sir, I am sick with the clamor in this debate, about this pro- 
perty, this wealth. 1 consider it all as mere trash, when weighed 
against the public safety. The right of property in slaves, is entirely 
the creature of the positive law; all our rules of property are under 
the control of the legislature; our law of descents, distribution, he, 
can be altered by the legislature whenever it shall seem expedient; and 
a fortiori, can the legislature alter the rule with regard to property in 
slaves, because the right is purely the creature of the legislature. The 
law now is, that the children of slaves shall be slaves to the owner of 
the mother; but will it be contended that this law can never be alter- 
ed — is it to be perpetual — will no necessity justify a change ? The idea 
is ridiculous. Sir, there is an important difference between vested 
rights and rights not vested, between prospective and retrospective legis- 
lation. If a child be born of a slave, under the law as it now is, the 
right becomes vested in tjje owner of the mother ; and we could not, 
consistently with the constitution perhaps, take the child from the mas- 
ter, without compensation. Why not? Because it is a vested right 
under the statute. But can we not legislate prospectively) on this sub- 



ject? Can we not declare that the children of slaves born ten, twenty, 
or fifty years hence, shall not be slaves, but shall be free? If we can- 
not do this, then indeed our statute is perpetual, and the present owner 
of a female slave has au indefeasible estate in her descendants for one 
hundred generations to come — in fact, forever. This is absurd. The 
right to slaves now in being, is vested; the right to those to be born, 
is a mere possibility; if the law remain as it now is, the right may 
vest; if it is altered, the right will not vest. How could you compen- 
sate a slave owner for the possibility of increase, ten years hence? — 
What would be the measure of value? Sir, in abolishing the law of 
primogeniture, we could not have taken from the oldest son, an estate 
which had vested in him, and have divided it equally among his bro- 
thers and sisters and himself. Why not? Because the right had vested. 
But we could pass a law altering the rule of property prospectively, 
directing that instead of all the land going to the eldest son, it should 
pass to all the children equally. The expectancies of all the eldest 
sons in the state, were cut off by a measure of policy — the abolition 
of the law of primogeniture. The use and enjoyment of all property, 
is always controlled by a regard for the safety of the public, as the 
paramount law of every state. Cannot the legislature prevent the 
raising of animals that will endanger the public safety? Some of the 
citizens of this state might be engaged in raising young tigers, and it 
might be a very lucrative business; but, sir, it probably would be very 
dangerous to the public; and will it be pretended that the legislature 
could not check it? And, sir, it is probable that the raising young 
slaves will become equally dangerous. The gentleman from Fauquier 
seemed to think that a man might raise what he pleased on his own 
land, and enjoy whatever he did raise ; but here too, sir, we are con- 
trolled by the same rule. No man would be permitted to raise any 
thing on his own land, that would be deleterious to the public — he 
might be engaged in raising the far-famed Upas tree, but he would cer- 
tainly be checked in this too. I will give another familiar illustration of 
the supremacy of this rule, in regard to the public safety. If a man 
builds a valuable mill on his own land, and has a pond annexed to it 
which happens to infect the whole neighborhood with disease, as is 
very often the case, what is the consequence? The mill-pond must 
come down, even though all the owner may be worth may be vested 
in the mill, and he gets not a cent of compensation. What are the 
laws against usury, and many of the laws with regard to slaves them- 
selves, but illustrations of the control which the legislature exercises 
over all property, for the public safety? It might be said with plau- 
sibility, that a man is entitled to the increase that any sum of money 
he may have will bring him ; if it will yield him 20, 30, or 50 per 
cent, he ought to have it ; having the capital stock, he ought to have 
the increase; but We know that all persons in this state are prohibited 
under severe penalties, from receiving more than six per cent. And I 
presume it will be admitted that the legislature might prevent the taking 
of any increase or interest on money. In this the use and enjoyment of 

- property are controlled by what is deemed the public weal. Suppose 
we declare that all the children of slaves which shall be born after the 
year 1840, shall be entitled to their freedom on their birth, subject to 



the following conditions: that they shall serve the owners of their 
mothers for 20 or 25 years, or such length of time as may be deemed 
necessary to remunerate them for the expense of nurture; then to be 
hired out for such length of time as may be necessary to raise money 
to transport and settle them ; and lastly, that they shall leave the state 
in some short time after all these things are done. Here the owner 
of the females will not lose any thing; he will only be prevented from 
makw^ gain by the raising of slaves, which would endanger the pub- 
lic safety. Here we prevent a right from vesting, because it is dan- 
gerous to the public; we do not divest a vested right. Sir, slave- 
holders may object to such an enactment, because it will prevent them 
from making ^«i/i by the raising of slaves; but, in my humble judg- 
ment, there is no sound constitutional objection to such an enactment. 
If slave-owners should not choose to hold female slaves thereafter, 
subject to such conditions, they could sell them before or after the 
commencement of the operation of the rule. I do not believe that 
the adoption of such a plan would lessen the present value of slaves. 
We secure to the present owners the whole of the present stock abso- 
lutely ; it certainly would not lessen the value of the males in the 
least. All the children of the females for eight years to come, would 
be slaves forever; and those born after that, must remunerate the 
master, by service, for their nurture. The adoption of such a svstem 
would give stability and security to this property; it would tranquil- 
lize the public mind ; even the colored classes, seeing that a settled 
policy was adopted towards them, would become more quiet and re- 
conciled, and would abandon all vain hopes and imagination of any 
general or immediate emancipation. This process would remove the 
evil gradually and certainly, and would produce no shock to society ; 
the places of the slaves would be gradually filled by freemen, and the 
habits of the people would be gradually adapted to the change. Our 
posterity will be most interested in this matter; and think you, sir, 
they will regret the adoption, by us, of such a system ? No, sir — it 
will be the best legac}^ that we can possibly leave them. Had this been 
done 30 or 50 years ago, would we now regret it ? No, sir — we should 
now be the happiest people on earth. Sir, I am sorry I have not con- 
fidence in the scheme of the gentleman from Dinwiddie, to remoye this 
evil from among us. He states the annual increase of the colored 
population, bond and free, now, at about 6,000, and he proposes to 
raise the sum of $200,000 annually, to defray the expense of remov- 
ing and settling this number in Africa. He estimates the annual in- 
crease of slaves, now, at 4,500, and he seems to flatter himself that this 
number will be given up aunuallj'^ by their owners, to be colonized. 
What will these slaves be worth at the time they will be fit to be colo- 
nized f It will not do to take the very old or very young. They will be 
worth at least one million of dollars ; and if I may judge from the tone 
of this debate, I cannot believe that property of this value will be given 
up gratis, annually, by the slave-owners. But this would be only 
taking off the annual increase — it would leave the capital stock about 
stationary. And I cannot believe it will even do this. Yet, sir, I am 
for adopting the scheme of the gentleman from Dinwiddie ; it will do 
some good. Sir, I believe that the annual increase of slaves in Vir- 



ginia, will be in a few years, much greater than it is now. The annual 
increase of slaves throughout the United States, is about three per 
cent. — it may be inferred that the increase is as great in Virginia as 
elsewhere. The gentleman from Petersburg estimates the whole stock 
of slaves in Virginia, at" about 470,000 — at that rate, the actual an- 
nual increase in V^irginia, would be 14,000; but this has been kept 
down by exportation, so as to leave it about 4,500. The southern 
states are gradually imposing restrictions upon the importation of 
slaves, and by that policy our exportation of them must be conside- 
rably reduced in time to come. The consequence will be, that the 
actual increase of slaves within this state, will be not less than 10,000 
per annum — and if we have to buy up all these, and colonize' them, 
it will not costless than $2,300,000 per annum. I ask, where is this 
treasure to come from. ^ And this, mark you, will not diminish the 
capital stock perceptibly. Sir, I am firmly convinced that there is no 
other system that is practicable, and will be efficient for removing this 
evil, than that of liberating the after-born children. The gentleman 
from Petersburg estimates the value of the present stock of slaves in 
Virginia, at upwards of $100,000,000, and asks, rather triumphantly, 
what equivalent shall we receive for all this wealth ? I answer, the 
security of life, liberty, and happiness; we shall be rich in these bles- 
sings, if we have not a slave in the land. But the slaves will be re- 
moved so gradually by this system, that the loss will not be felt ; the 
reduction of the number of slaves will enhance to the owners those 
that remain. Another objection of the gentleman from Petersburg is, 
that when this system takes effect, slaves and freedmen will be growing 
up together, and that the disposition to revolt, will be thereby increas- 
ed. I do not perceive the force of this objection. The freedmen will 
be so many abstracted from the mal-contents ; they will have no suffi- 
cient motive to risk their lives for that to which they will be entitled 
already, and our security then as now, will be in our superior power. 
Those living at the time this plan would take effect, would be the only 
class from whom any danger need be apprehended. All who might 
be born afterwards, would be entitled to their freedom on the same 
terms, and would have no sufficient motive for revolt; the danger 
would be continually decreasing. But, sir, suppose we do nothing in 
our day, as the gentleman would seem to desire, will not the danger 
be infinitely greater, and increasing continually? The gentleman 
gave us a long statistical statement, the object of which was to prove 
that slave labor is more productive than free labor. I presume that 
the exports from the city of New Orleans, formed a part of the esti- 
mate he gave us of southern exports. And sir, the fact that New Or- 
leans is the shipping port for the western part of Pennsylvania, the 
western part of Virginia, the states of Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, in 
fact, for almost the whole of the young and mighty west, destroys the 
whole force of his statement. But, sir, will any gentleman maintain 
the proposition, that a given district of country can sustain in com- 
fort and prosperity, a larger slave population than free population .f* 
Sir, it will be very hard to convince me of this. I have seen too much 
of the practical effects of slavery, to believe this. As a general rule, 
the slaves only half work, and the masters do not work at all. The 



8 

masters are prodigal, and the slaves are wasteful; and this results from 
the very nature of slavery, and the influence it has on all the motives 
of human action. What stimulus has the slave to work, other than 
the lash ? He argues thus : why should I fatigue myself with work ? 
I am bound to work all my life — I reap not the fruits of my labor — I 
increase not my com.fort by increasing my labor. What motive have 
I to save? My master is bound to provide for me as long as I live ; 
he gets all the fruits of my labor — hence his whole policy is to work 
as little as possible, and to consume as much as possible — to save no- 
thing. On the contrary, what are the effects of freedom upon any 
population ? Every individual in the community is stimulated by a 
desire to become wealthy, distinguished, independent, and powerful. 
All the faculties of each individual are expanded, and fully developed ; 
each acquiring all he can, and taking care of what he does acquire ; 
hence the mass of production of all that is essential to the comfort and 
happiness of man, is infinitely greater in a free, than in a slave popu- 
lation. The gentleman from Petersburg, and the gentleman from 
Brunswick, both seem to be well satisfied with slavery as it is, among 
us, and seem to be in a state of perfect security for the present time, 
and all time to come, on this subject. They are fortunate gentlemen ; 
and if they can persuade a majority of the people of Virginia to think 
with them, there will be nothing done on this subject. The question 
is now fairly before the people, which is all 1 desire at this time ; they 
will consider of it — they will decide upon it. The next legislature 
that meets here, will be fully instructed on this subject. Let the de- 
cision of the people be what it may, I shall cheerfully submit. I bow 
with submission, to the will of the majority, in all matters of state. 



