[tl 



WA^h^^l 




/ 



»^/fa^^ 



df- 



^Ct/Vt^'^^^^t^ 



Digitized by tlie Internet Arcliive 

in 2010 witli funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/antislaveryrecor02amer 



THE 



ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD, 



** And tears and toil have been my lot. 
Since I tlie white man's thrall became;; 

And sorer griefs I wish forgot — 
Harsh blows and burning shame I" 

PSINGUS 



\n^\ 



Vol. II, FOR 1836. 



NEW-YORK: 

PUBLISHED BY R. G. WILLIAMS, 

FOR THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

144 NASSAU STREET. 

1836, 



OfDEX. 



PAGE 

WCc Kinney, John A. Testimony of, 81 
Mennais, Abbe de La, . . .168 
Mob at Granville, . . . .68 
Mobs, Hints on, . . . , 73 
Montgomery, Lines from . .35 
Montserrat, ..... 129 
Moore, Dr. Robert, . . .15 
Morality of Slaves, . . .118 
Mother made a Slave to her Daugh- 
ter, .... 164 
Mother's Rock, . . .34 

Mum Belt, 39 

Murder of a Slave, ... 1 
Murder of a Slave in Barbadoes, . 167 
Naimbanna, Prince, . . .147 



Dr. 



. 60, 114 



Nelson 

Nevis, .129 

Objection — Emancipation would 

make the Slaves plunderers, . 69 
Parental Affection of Negroes, . 34 
Paulding on Slavery, . 85, 89, 90 
Pay your Laborers, . . . 102 
Pelican Island, 
Peterson, William, 
Pictures, incendiary, 
Pious Slaves, 
Poetry, . . - , 
Power, a Temptation, , 
Prayer of the Slave, 
Prejudice, 

Prejudice against Color, 
Preparation for Emancipation, 
Protection of Laws, 
" to Slaves, 

Punishment, Slavery a, 
Receipts, 12, 24, 36, 48, 60, 72, 84, 96 
" 108, 120, 132, 144 

Renshaw's Testimony, . . 69 

Revolutionary Hero, . . . 154 
Right and Wrong in Boston, . 46 

Rights, 6 

Roper, B. D. his Testimony, , 88 

Runaway, . . . .61, 166 
Running after, . . . .11 
Rimning away, . , . 3, 14 
Schools, colored, . . . .45 
Separation of Husband and Wife, 24 
Slade, Hon. Mr. 



Slave caught without a Pass, 

Slaveholding ministers, 

Slave killed, . . , 

Slavery a Punishment, 
" as it is in Practice 
•' Effect of on Childhood, 
** entailed upon us, 
" hardens the Heart, 
" in Louisiana, . 
" in the Abstract, 
" Licentiousness of, 
" Sin of. 

Slave's Address to Am. Ladies, 

Slaves, could they take care 
Themselves ? 

Slave's Prayer, 

Slaves prefer Liberty, . 

Slaves thirst for Knowledge 

Sligo, Testimony of Lord, 

Sonnet to Wilberforce, . 

Speech of Mr. Garland, 
" of Mr. Slade, . 
" of Mr. Wise, . 

St. Christopher's, . 

St. Domingo, 

" ruin of, 

St. Lucia, 

St. Vincent, . 

Sugar, Export from Demerara, 

Theology and Slavery, . 

Tilghman, Tench, 

Tobago, 

Tortola, . 

Trinidad, 

Troublers of Israel, . . 

Tyrannies, Destruction of. 

Virgin Islands, 

Wastefulness of Slaves, 

Weld, Mr. at Lockport, 

We no sen' you no come, 

Wheatley, Phillis, . 

Whip, .... 

Whittier, J. G. Lines of, 

Wilberforce, Extract from, 

Wise, Hon. Mr. Speech of, 

Women of St. Domingo, 

Young Pres, . 



PAOB 
. 49 
. 113 
. 1 
. 92 
. 109 
.117 
. 157 
. 4 
. 116 
. 5 
. 114 
. 10 
. 11 
of 
. 85 
. 66 
. 70 
. 45 
. 162 
. 152 
. 31 



129 



165 

130 

130 

162 

156 

13 

130 

130 

130 

3S 

168 

129 

117 

81 

152 

65 

50 

83 

167 

SO 

29 

109 



. 22 
U. B. The pages above 144 are to be found on the inside of the covers. 



THE 



ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 



Vol. II. Ko. I. JANUARY, 1836. 



Whole No. 13 




A FACT WITH A SHORT COMMENTARY. 

Not many years a^o, a slave was murdered near Woodviiie, Missis- 
sippi, under the following circumstances. The master's child went int» 
the slave's hut and took a stool which belonged to the slave's child. The 
slave took away the stool and sent the white child home. The child ran 
crying to his father, and complained bitterly of the ill-treatment he had 
received in the hut. The father, in a passion, proceeded to the hut, threvr 
the stool out of doors, and severely reprimanded the slave, threatening to 
flog him. The slave, who had never been flogged, declared he would 'not 
be, and fled. After being gone beyond reach, for a day or two, he re- 
turned to his master's door, and offered to work faithfully, as he ever had 
done, if he might not be flogged. His master refused this condition, and 
repeated his threat. "I have heard," said the slave, "that you have 
threatened to shoot me. If you do it, you must do it soon." Or this, he 
turned upon his heel and ran. The master took down his double-barrelled 
fowling-piece, and pursued. He presently discharged a load of shot from 
one barrel, which wounded the negro in the thigh, and brought him to 
the ground. He then walked deliberately up, and lodged the contents of 
the other barrel in his head, producing instant death. Of this crime there 



2 A FACT WITH A SHORT COMMENTARY. [2 

were no witnesses, at least, no lohite ones. The master, however, told 
the story himself, professing gi-eat regret. No legal proceedings were in- 
stituted against him, the public opinion being that he was sufficiently 
punished by the loss of his best slave, whom he valued at one thousand 
dollars. We have this fact from the lips of a gentleman who resided in 
Woodville. The planter is a respectable man by the name of Coon, and 
the statement can be more fully Verified, if called in question. 

We have not quoted this story, however, as evidence of the peculiar 
cruelty of slaveholders. We believe that many, if not most of them, 
would shudder at the thought of murdering a slave as much as ourselves. 
We wish only to make the fact a sort of text for a few comments, which 
would not lose much of their force, even if the text should prove fictitious. 

1. This master was probably a kind one. His slave had always lived 
with him and never been flogged. Hence, the slave had acquired some 
self-respect, and flogging was a disgrace, as well as a suffering, which he 
could not think of bearing. Kind treatment will infallibly produce some 
degree of self-respect on the part of the slave, and this s^ If-respect will 
not well brook any arbitrary and unreasonable exercise of power. Hence, 
there is a strong motive against the kind treatment (by this, we mean, 
treating him Uke a man) of the slave. It tends to make difficulty in tho 
management of the plantation — to make the master stand in some fear 
of the slave — to curtail his power, and make him responsible. It must 
be a bad system, which makes a kind and respectful treatment of the 
laborers by their employer dangerous. 

It may have been true, that the slave in question, by never being flogged, 
and by his great usefulness on the plantation, had grown so much a lord 
in his own hut, and so important among his fellow-slaves, that the master 
was troubled for his authority, and was glad of an occasion to humble the 
growing spirit of independence. W^e have heard kind masters lament 
their indulgence to their slaves as a weakness, ruinous to good discipline 
aii«^< the happiness of the slaves. 

:%, j^ny kind of government is a trial to the temper. Parents find their 
natural afTection for their children none too strong to repress those out- 
breakings of passion called forth by perverse conduct. Now, think of 
the trial to which that man's temper is subjected, who holds by a power 
less restrained than the parent's, one hundi-ed despised slaves. Every 
one of these beings thinks it is his interest to consult the wishes of his 
master as httle as he can safely. God has not placed in the bosom of 
the slave that natural affection towards his master, which, in the child, 
prompts obedience to the parent. Hence, the master is destined to see 
m the slave, ever repeated proofs of perverseness, unfaithfulness, and 
what he thinks ingratitude. "Ah!" he exclaims in vexation of spirit, 
*' here are a hundred of these people dependant upon me for every morsel 
of bread, and yet they show me by a thousand little mean tricks and prov- 
ocations, daily, that they care not a straw what becomes of them or me. 
The more I indulge them, the less do I get for it." If it would be ten 
times too much for the temper of a common man to have the parental 
government of a hundred children, surely it must be a thousand times too 
much, to have the master's government of a hundred slaves. The mas- 
ter who is not rendered fretful, passionate, and vindictive, must be more 
tiian human. The task may well be regarded as too hard for the temper 



3] A fACT WITH A SHORT COMMENTARY* 3 

of an angel. We speak, of course, of those masters who manage and 
reside on their own estates. With those who throw all care of their slaves 
upon the tender mercies of an overseer, it may be different. They may 
have the sweetest of tempers, but, alas ! their poor slaves do not enjoy the 
benefit. 

We are aware we shall be told of the unlimited confidence that mas- 
ters repose in long tried slaves, and of the joy and shouts ©f the whole 
plantation, when young master returns from the distant college. We 
know, too, that Nicholas and his brother potentates have their faithful 
ministers — their Potemkins and their Metternichs — and the Russians, 
Turks, and Austrians, make the welkin rins with their joy, when some 
young potentate condescends to show them his precious self; but it may 
be doubted, whether they do not shout, drink, smoke, and carouse, as 
much for their own gratification as from genuine affection for their legiti- 
mate sovereigns. Poor wretches, they are glad of a holiday. But be the 
fidelity real and the joy all sincere, it is proverbially certain, that all does 
not avail to blunt the thorns that make the wearing of their crowns a 
misery, nor to quell the mutinous passions which make the poor hearts 
of those potentates objects of pity. 

Now, if slavery is the very wet-nurse of vindictive passion, and if the 
provocations are incessant, ever fretting upon the galled spot — power 
being so slightly restrained — what wonder if passion should sometimes, 
yea, often, break forth into brutal cruelty, and even murder? Cain slew 
his own brother. The duellest, on the sUghtest provocation, seeks the life- 
blood of an e^ua^. Shall the master — the absolute owner of the property 
— on a greater provocation, stop short of the life of his slave ? Common 
sense wants no such facts as tlmt we have taken for a text, to prove the 
murderous tendency of slavery. 

3. Running away is the unpardonable sin with slaveholders. Why 
should it not be? It is a denial, both theoretical and practical, of the 
master's right of property. It gives the lie direct, and before the world, 
to the master's assertion that the slave is contented and happy. No man 
would run from his happiness. — And, last, and worst of all, it sets to all 
slaves an example of insurrection — of insurrection the more intolerably 
pernicious, because it is bloodless, and thereby adapted to excite no sym- 
pathy for the master except among his fellow slaveholders. Hence, if 
we look for terrible punishments anywhere in the system, we must find 
them here. The necessity is imperative and absolute. The door must 
be shut against DESERiyoN, or all is lost,' — not only the property, but the 
character of the master, for what but grim tyranny could thus be left 
alone in its glory? Thus, like those persons who tell one lie to hide an- 
other, the masters may be — nay, must be, terribly cruel to hide their 
cruelty. 

Now, what sort of a system must it be, which reserves its severest 
penalty for the greatest virtue which can rationally be expected to grow 
under it: viz., the manly disposition of the slave to vindicate his own 
rights, with the least possible revenge for his wrongs ? 

4. The master, who murdered his slave, had no trial. This was per- 
haps extraordinary. But suppose he had been tried, found guilty of mur- 
der in the first degree, sentenced, and publicly executed, as he would 
have been, had his victim been a free white person. What would have 



4 A FACT WITH A SHORT COMMENTARY. [4 

been the effect ? Obviously to make the slaves understand that they have 
rights, that the master in violating these rights does lorong, that they may 
in some cases resist the master's authority, successfully, through the mas- 
ter's fear of the law. The slaves would, of course, infer that in the case 
in question, the slave was in the right, and the master in the wrong. They 
are not dull to such lessons. Had it been the slave who murdered his 
jnaster, he would certainly have been hung, and the slaves of all the 
neighboring plantations would have been collected to witness his death. 
And why ? Because they would thereby learn a moral lesson — they would 
make a self-application. It would have a very different effect upon the 
discipline of the plantations from the hanging of the master. If the fic- 
tion that " the king can do no iwrong-," is an important lesson for the sub- 
jects of monarchy, why should not the like deception be still more useful 
on a plantation ? There may have been, and we think there have been, 
some instances of the hanging of masters for the murder of their slaves, 
but they were obviously dangerous to plantation discipline, and though 
they have been claimed and quoted for the perverse purpose of defending 
slavei-y, yet they deaerve to be recorded as among the noblest proofs of 
the dignity of human nature — of that constitutional idea of justice, which 
even long habits of wrong-doing cannot Avholly erase from the soul. 

What sort of a system, let us ask again, must that be, which strongly 
tempts to a partial administration of the laws for the protection of life, 
even admitting what is far from being true, that the laws themselves are 
impartial ? Alas ! the testimony of no colored man, bond or free, can 
anywhere be legally received against a white man ; and if it could, the 
punish nent of the master, for a crime committed on his own slave and 
property, would be at open war with that whole system of discipline, 
which is called "the pecuUar policy of the South !" 

5. It may seem astonishing, that any community of men should be so 
hardened, as to think the murder of a fellow-man amply punished by a 
pecuniary fine, — of a laborer, by the loss of Ms services. But let us ex- 
amine the matter. If you narrate to a company of pedagogues a case of 
the cruel infliction of the rod, whose conduct will they na+urally incline 
to extenuate ? That of the culprit, or of the master ? We say there is an 
esprit du corps, a spirit of the class, among the schoolmasters, which 
stimulates them to honor their profession, by taking the part of its mem- 
bers. This spirit leads them naturally and almost inevitably to sympa- 
thize with the master rather than with the scholar, at least, in all not very 
flagrant cases. But if, in the mild and beneficent institutions of society, 
the judgment of men is liable to be warped, and their sympathy to be 
perverted, how much more in the harsh system of domestic bondage, 
where a common avarice is to be added to the esprit du corps, which takes 
sympathy from the slave and gives it to the master. And yet another 
and more fearful element is to be added — it is the common danger — com- 
mon not only to the slaveholders, but to all the whites. The slaves are 
regarded, if they are not in reahty, the "jacobins of the south," whose 
highest desires and interests meet in a successful revolution. For pro- 
tection from such a catastrophe, the whites rely, not upon nature or lavs'", 
but upon power. There is, therefore, no denying the danger. We might 
with almost as much reason expect soldiers to sympathize with their ene- 
mies, as the whites of a slaveholding community, with the slaves. If a 



5] SLAVERY IN THE ABSTRACT. 5 

slave murders his master, he is an atrocious, malignant villain, of course; 
there is no dissenting voice. But if the crime is reversed, the mouth of 
f jvery white man is full of extenuation, and apology, if not of bold justi- 
(ication ; nay, more, the murderer is an object of sympathy and commis- 
ijration — he has been forced by " stern necessity''' to do a deed carrying 
with it a punishment beyond the desert of his transgression ! " Poor man ! 
he has a kind heart, but then the provocation was too much for the best 
of us — in a moment of unguarded passion he has done a deed, which he, 
doubtless, bitterly regrets." And then, may not the secret thought rise 
in the heart of the best of slaveholders — "This sad occurrence may not 
be without its use to my slaves. Far be it from me to commit such a hor- 
l"id crime, but still I have no objection that my slaves should fear a similar 
fate, should they presume to resist me." , 

Ah ! what a system of oppression must that be, which withdraws from 
the weak, and the poor, and the defenceless, that heavenly sympathy of 
the strong, which God meant for the protection of all! What a system 
must that be, which makes the worst crimes of the cruel apparently avail- 
able for the safety of all — that ties one scale of justice to the beam, sheathes 
her glittering sword, and lays the community rather under obligation to 
malefactors ? 



[For the Record.] 
SLAVERY IN THE ABSTRACT. 

Many who will not bear testimony against slavery as it actually exists 
in practice^ excuse themselves, by pleading that they are opposed to slavery 
in the abstract. The futility of this plea has been often exposed. But 
there is one glaring inconsistency in these men that has not been suffi- 
ciently noticed. They uniformly contend that there are many cases of 
innocent slaveholding. When a man treats his slave kindly, as the 
phrase goes, when he feeds and clothes him well, and places him in as 
good a condition as the slave system will permit, Ihen^ it ia confidently 
said, that slaveholding is not sinful. Nay, further, it is sometimes said, 
that the slaves of such masters are so much " better off" in their present 
condition, than they would be if they were set at liberty, that it would be 
cruel to emancipate them ; and, therefore, under these circumstances, it 
becomes the duty of the master to retain them, for the present, in a state 
of slavery. 

Now, it is easy to see, that this course of reasoning goes to justify 
slavery in the abstract. According to this sentiment, slavery itself is not 
sinful, and when considered apart from its abuses, is by no means to be 
condemned. A celebrated doctor of divinity once said to me — "Condemn 
cruelty, injustice, and oppression, as much as you please, but do not con- 
demn the mere act of holding slaves." What was this but defending 
"slavery in the abstract?" And yet, he thought abolitionists in fault, for 
misrepresenting many of the northern clergy as being in favor of slavery. 
" I do not beUeve," said he, " there is a minister of the gospel in the United 
States, that is not opposed to slavery in the abstract ! " What a contradic- 
tion ! Slavery itself, abstracted from the cruelties and abuses which he 
supposed did not necessarily attach to slaveholding, he had just said, ought 
not to be condemned ! 

1* 



6 EXTRACTS FROM DR. CHANNING. [6 

Every person Vv-ho pleads for the imiocency, in certain supposed or act^ 
Hjally existing circumstances, of the act of holding slaves, contends for 
the innocency of slaveholding in the abstract, and fixes all the sin upon 
the cruelties and abuses which, according to his view of the case, do not 
properly form any part of slavery. In plain matter of fact, therefore, the 
opponents of the abolitionists do advocate "slavery in the abstract," as 
well as in practice. 

And how can it be otherwise? To advocate any practice, is to advo- 
cate the principle upon which it is founded. And to advocate the prin- 
ciple, is to excuse the practice. No man can consistently oppose imme- 
diate emancipation, Avithout defending both the abstract principle and the 
existing practice of slaveholding. 

Apologists of slavery, who are not slaveholders themselves, betray the 
fact that they are slaveholders in principle, and lack nothing but the op- 
portunity and the temptation, to become so in practice. All these are 
defenders of slavery in the abstract. 

The absurdity of apologizing for the present continuance of slavery, 
and yet professing to be opposed to slavery in the abstract, is so palpable 
and glaring, that I have long wondered how respectable and inteUigent 
men could maintain such a position. And within a few days past, I have 
3eamed of an instance, in which a shrewd and ingenious man, a minister 
of the gospel in New England, has had the discernment and candor to 
avow himself a defender of slavery in the abstract - Slavery, he con- 
tends, is not wrong in itself, but only becomes so, in consequence of its 
abuses. The planters, he says, had originally an undoubted right to hold 
human beings as goods and chattels. He is inclined to think, however, 
that they have foifeited this right by their unkind and cruel treatment of 
their slaves. If abolitionists would only take that ground, instead of 
condemning slavery itself, under all conceivable circumstances, he is al- 
most or quite prepared to go with them. But as for condemning slavery 
m the abstract, he can by no means think of adopting such a principle. 
Many will wonder at the folly of this individual. But certainly there is 
more consistency, candor, good feeling, and good sense, in the position he 
has taken, than in those who first attempt to prove that the Bible sanc- 
tions slavery, that it is not malumin se, that there are many cases of justi- 
fiable slaveholding, and then betray their own consciousness of the tur- 
pitude of their principles, by shrinking back, and sheltering themselves 
ander the false and flimsy subterfuge that they are opposed to slavery in the 
ebstract ! Charity prompts the hope, that not a few of those who urge 
this plea are ignorant of its import, not knowing what they say, nor 
whereof they affirm. W. G, 



RIGHTS. 

We make the following extracts from the eloquent little volume on 
Slavery, just published by Dr. Channing of Boston. We hope they will 
excite our readers to procure the book; for, although in some points its 
sentiments are at variance with ours, its general principles are everlasting 



7J EXTRACTS PROM DR. CHANNING. 7 

truth, and its temper is worthy of all imitation. Dr. Channing disapproves 
of agitation and Anti-Slavery Societies ; but, whoever catches the spirit 
of his book can never cease agitating nor acting with us, till slavery is no 
more. 

" The whole subject of Rights needs to be reconsidered. Speculations 
and reasonings about it have lately been given to the public, not only 
false, but dangerous to freedom, and there is a strong tendency to injurious 
views. Rights are made to depend on circumstances, so that pretences 
may easily be made or created for violating them successively, till none 
shall remain. Human rights have been represented as so modified and 
circumscribed by men's entrance into the social state, that only the shadows 
of them are left. They have been spoken of as absorbed in the public 
good ; so that a man may be innocently enslaved, if the public good shall so 
require. To meet fully all these errors, for such I hold them, a larger work 
'.han the present is required. The nature of man, his relations to the state, 
he hmits of civil government, the elements of the pubhc good^ and the de- 
•yree to which the individual must be surrendered to this good, — these are 
he topics which the present subject involves. I cannot enter into them 
>articularly, but shall lay down what seem to me the great and true prin- 
iples in regard to them. I shall show that man has rights from his very 
lature, not the gifts of society, but of God. That they are not surren- 
dered on entering the social state ; that they must not be taken away 
j^nder the plea of public good ; that the Individual is never to be sacrificed 
t y the Community ; that the Idea of Rights is to prevail above all the 
iiiterests of the State. 

" Man has rights by nature. The disposition of some to deride ab- 
stract rights, as if all rights were uncertain, mutable, and conceded by 
society, shows a lamentable ignorance of human nature. Whoever un- 
derstands this must see in it an immoveable foundation of rights. These 
are gifts of the Creator, not grants of society. In the order of things, they 
precede society, lie at its foundation, constitute man's capacity for it, and 
a.re the great objects of social institutions. The consciousness of rights 
i 3 not a creation of human art, a conventional sentiment, but essential to 
and inseparable from the human soul. 

" Man's rights belong to him as a Moral Being, as capable of perceiving 
moral distinctions, as a subject of moral obligation. As soon as he be- 
'.jomes conscious of Duty, a kindred consciousness springs up, that he has 
a Right to do what the sense of duty enjoins, and that no foreign will or 
nover can obstruct his moral action without crime. He feels that the 
Siense of duty was given to him as a Law, that it makes him responsible 
ibr himself, that to exercise, unfold, and obey it, is the end of his being, 
and that he has a right to exercise and obey it without hindrance or oppo- 
Mition. A consciousness of dignity, however obscure, belongs also to this 
<livine principle; and though he may want words to do justice to his 
thoughts, he feels that he has that within him which makes him essen- 
tially equal to all around him. 

" The sense of duty is the fountain of human rights. In other words, 
I he same inward principle, which teaches the former, bears wituess to the 
(atter. Duties and Rights must stand or fall together. It has been too 
jommon to oppose them to one another ; but they are indissolubly joined 



8 fiXTRACtS FROM DR. CHANNING. [8 

together. That same inward principle, which teaches a man what he 
is bound to do to others, teaches equally, and at the same instant, what 
others are bound to do to him. That same voice, which forbids him to 
injure a single fellow-creature, forbids every fellow-creature to do him 
harm. His conscience, in revealing the moral law, does not reveal a 
law for himself only, but speaks as an Universal Legislator. He has 
an intuitive conviction, that the obhgations of this divine code press on 
others as truly as on himself. That principle, which teaches him that he 
sustains the relation of brotherhood to all human beings, teaches him that 
this relation is reciprocal, that it gives indestructible claims as well as im- 
poses solemn duties, and that what he owes to the members of this vast 
family, they owe to him in return. Thus the moral nature involves rights^ 
These enter into its very essence. They are taught by the very voice 
which enjoins duty. Accordingly there is no deeper principle in human 
nature than the consciousness of rights. So profound, so ineradicable is 
this sentiment, that the oppressions of ages have nowhere wholly stifled it. 
"Having shown the foundation of human rights in human nature, it 
may be asked what they are. Perhaps they do not adniit very accurate 
definition any more than human duties ; for the Spiritual cannot be 
weighed and measured Hke the Material. Perhaps a minute criticism 
may find fault with the most guarded exposition of them ; but they may 
easily be stated in language which the unsophisticated mind will recognise 
as the truth. Volumes could not do justice to them ; and yet perhaps they 
may be comprehended in one sentence. They may all be comprised in 
the Right, which belongs to every rational being, to exercise his powers 
for the promotion of his own and others' Happiness and Virtue, These 
are the great purposes of his existence. For these his powers were given, 
and to these he is bound to devote them. He is bound to make himself 
and others better and happier, according to his abihty. His ability for 
this work is a sacred trust from God, the greatest of all trusts. He must 
answer for the waste or abuse of it. He consequently suffers an unspeak- 
able wrong, when stripped of ft by others, or forbidden to employ it for 
the ends for which it is given ; when the powers which God has given for 
such generous uses are impaired or destroyed by others, or the means for 
their action and growth are forcibly withheld. As every human being is 
bound to employ his faculties for his own and others' good, there is an 
obligation on each to leave all free for the accomplishment of this end ; 
and whoever respects this obligation, whoever uses his own, without in- 
vading others' powers, or obstructing others' duties, has a sacred, inde- 
feasible right to be unassailed, unobstructed, unharmed by all with whom 
he may b^ connected. Here is the graiid, all-comprehending right of 
human nature. Every man should revere it, should assert it for himself 
and for all, and should bear solemn testimony against every infraction of 
it, by whomsoever made or endured." 

+ * + *+:* + * 

"We have thus established the reality and sacredness of human rights; 
and that slavery is an infraction of these is too plain to need any labored 
proof. Slavery violates not one, but all ; and violates them not incidentally, 
but necessarily, systematically from its very nature. In starting with the 
assumption that the slave is property, it sweeps away every defence of 
human rights, and lays them in the dust. Were it necessary, I might enu- 



9] EXTRACTS FROM DR. CHANNING. 9 

merate them, and show how all fall before this terrible usurpation ; but a 
few remarks will suffice. 

" Slavery strips man of the fundamental right to inquire into, consult, 
and seek his own happiness. His powers belong to another, and for an- 
other they must be used. He must form no plans, engage in no enterprises, 
for bettering his condition. Whatever be his capacities, however equal to 
great iiDprovements of his lot, he is chained for life by another's will to the 
same unvaried toil. He is forbidden to do for himself or others the work, 
for which God stamped him with his own image, and endowed him with 
his own best gifts. Again, the slave is stripped of the right to acquire 
property. Being himself owned, his earnings belong to another. He can 
possess nothing but by favor. That right on which the development of 
men's powers so much depends, the ri^ht to make accumulations, to gain 
exclusive possessions by honest industry, is withheld. 'The slave can 
acquire nothing,' says one of the slave-codes, ' but what must belong to 
his master ;' and however this definition, which moves the indignation of 
the free, may be mitigated by favor, the spirit of it enters into the very es- 
sence of slavery. Again, the slave is stripped of his right to his wife and 
children. They belong to another, and may be torn from hiin, one and 
all, at any moment, at his master's pleasure. Again, the slave is stripped 
of the right to the culture of his rational powers. He is in some cases de- 
prived by law of instruction, which is placed within his reach by the im- 
provements of society and the philanthiopy of the age. He is not allowed 
to toil, that his children may enjoy a better education than himself. The 
most sacred right of human natiure, that of developing his best faculties^ 
is denied. Even should it be granted, it would be conceded as a favor, 
and might at any moment be withheld by the capricious will of another. 
— Again, the slave is deprived of the right of self-defence. Pso injury from 
a white man is he suffered to repel, nor can he seek redress from the laws 
of his country. If accumulated insult and wrong provoke him to the 
slightest retaliation, this effort for self-protection, allowed and com- 
mended to others, is a crime for which he must pay a fearful penalty. — 
Again, the slave is stripped of the right to be exempted from all harm ex- 
cept for wrong-doing. He is subjected to the lash, by those whom he has 
never consented to serve, and whose claim to him as property we have 
seen to be an usurpation ; and this power of punishment, which, if justly 
claimed, should be exercised with a fearful care, is often delegated to men 
in whose hands there is a moral certainty of its abuse. 

" I will add but one more example of the violation of human rights by 
slavery. The slave virtually suffers the wrong of robbery, though with 
utter unconsciousness on the part of those who inflict it. It may, indeed, 
be generally thought, that, as he is suffered to own nothing, he cannot fall 
at least, under this kind of violence. But it is not true that he owns noth- 
ing. Whatever he may be denied by man, he holds from nature the most 
valuable property, and that from which all other is derived, I mean his 
strength. His laljor is his own, by the gift of that God who nerved his 
arm, and gave him intelligence and conscience to direct the use of it for 
his own and others' happiness. No possession is so precious as a man's 
force of body and mind. The exertion of this in labor is the great foimda- 
tion and source of property in outward things. The worth of articles of 
traffic is measured by the labor expended in their production. To the 



10 IS SLAYEfiOLDlNG SIN f [10 

great mass of men, in all countries, their strength or labor is their whoie 
fortune. To seize on this would be to rob them of their all. In truth, no 
robbery is so great as that to which the slave is habitually subjected. To 
take by force, a man's whole estate, the fruit of years of toil, would by 
universal consent be denounced as a great wrong ; but what is this, com- 
{)ared with seizing the man himself, and appropriating to our use the 
limbs, faculties, strength, and labor, by which all property is won and held 
fast ? The right of property in outward things is as nothing, compared 
with our right to ourselves. Were the slaveholder stript of his fortune, 
he would count the violence slight, compared with what he would sufier, 
were his person seized and devoted as a chattel to another's use. Let it 
not be said that the slave receives an equivalent, that he is fed and clothed, 
and is not, therefore, robbed. ., Suppose another to wrest from us a valued 
possession, and to pay us his own price, should we not think ourselves 
robbed ? Would not the laws pronounce the invader a robber? Is it con- 
sistent with the right of property, that a man should determine the equiva- 
lent for what he takes from his neighbor? Especially is it to be hoped, 
that the equivalent due to the laborer will be scrupulously weighed, when 
he himself is held as property, and all his earnings are declared to be his 
master's ? So great an infraction of human right is slavery ! 

"In reply to these remarks, it may be said that the theory and practice 
of slavery differ; that the rights of the slave are not as wantonly sported 
with as the claims of the master might lead us to infer ; that some of his 
possessions are sacred ; that not a few slaveholders refuse to divorce hus- 
band and wife, to sever parent and child ; and that in many cases the 
power of punishment is used so reluctantly, as to encourage insolence 
and insubordination. All this I have no disposition to deny. Indeed it 
must be so. It is not in human nature to wink wholly out of sight the 
rights of a fellow-creature. Degrade him as we may, we cannot altogether 
forget his claims. In every slave-country, there are, undoubtedly, masters 
who desire and purpose to respect these, to the full extent which the nature 
of the relation will allow. Still, human rights are denied. They lie wholly 
at another's mercy ; and we must have studied history in vain, if we neea 
be told that they will be continually the prey of this absolute power." 



[For the Record.] 
IS SLAVEHOLDING SIN? 

If we can only settle this question, it will be easy to settle every other 
question in respect to slavery and emancipation. 

If the practice be sin, then its abandonment should be immediate and 
not gradual. God never authorizes a present continuance in sin, under 
the plea of future reformation. " JVoto is the accepted time" to abandon 
transgression. " To-day" and not to-morrow is God's time for all men 
to cease to do evil. 

If slaveholding be sin, then it is the duty of all men to bear testimony 
against it, and no fears of " excitement" or "danger" can excuse the 
neglect of this duty. 

If slaveholding be sin, then it should be eradicated from the churcheSj^ 



li] THE slave's address TO AMERICAN LADIES. 11 

and nothing can justify Christians and ministers of the Gospel, if they do 
not show the house of Jacob their sin, and " have no fellowship with the 
unfruitful works of darkness." The question then returns, is slave- 
holding SIN ? 

The decision of this question may be suspended on tiie decision of two 
other questions, viz. 

1. Is oppression sin ? 

2. Is slaveholding oppression ? 

The first of these questions is easily settled. The Bible condemns all 
oppression ; and so does the common judgment of all men. 

The second question need puzzle no man. If any man doubts whether 
slaveholding be oppression, let Mm tell us, what form or kind of oppres- 
sion on earth he would not sooner suffer than become a slave. 

W. G, 



tFor the Record.] 
"RUNNING AFTER." 
SHORT DIALOGUE : ^ fact. — Scene, a village in Rhode Island. 
" Friend Perez, I hope thee has done running after these crazy aboli- 
tionists." 

" Yea, verily, Friend — -— , I trust I have : for I have caught up with 
them, and find myself getting rather ahead of some of them." 



THE SLAVE'S ADDRESS TO AMERICAN LADIES. 

Natives of a land of glory. 

Daughters of the good and brave, 
Hear the injured negro's story, 

Hear, and help the kneeling slave. 

Think how nought but death can sever 

Your loved children from your hold, 
Still aUve — but lost for ever — 

Ours are parted, bought and sold ! , 

Seize, then, ev'ry favoring season — 

Scorning censure or applause ; 
JUSTICE, TRUTH, RELIGION, REASON, 

Are yoxir LEADERS in our cause ! 

Follow ! faithful, firm, confiding, — 

Spread our wrongs from shore to shore ; 

Mercy's God your efforts guiding, 
SLAVERY SHALL BE KNOWN NO MORE. 

In the name of tioo millions two hundred and fifty thotisand slaves, we 
beseech every one of our kind countrywomen, to imprint these beautiful 
lines — and, more true than beautiful — upon the tablet of her heart 

Ed. Reo. 



n 



RECEIPTS. — FUNHB. 

SINGULAR DISCUSSION. 



[12 



One of our aeents writes from Connecticut, " I attended a singular dis- 
cussion this afternoon — no other than this — Whether the blacks shall be 
buried in the new burying-ground as other people are, or off one side, by 
themselves ! ! ! The vote went against the negro-haters. This was in a 
parish meeting." 



BARBARITY. 
To show that the system of slavery is connected with abominable 
atrocities, of which the half has never yet been told, we mention a fact 
lately communicated by a gentleman from a slave State. A slaveholder 
living in the State of Delaware, some years since, informed a friend that 
the overseer of his plantation in Louisiana, worked the hands so hard, that 
one of the women was delivered of a child whilst at the hoe ! And this 
slaveholder was a Senator of the United States ! ! 



RECEIPTS. 



Receipts into the Treasury of the American A. S. So- 
ciety from Nov. 16Ui to Dec. 14tli, 1835. 
Andover, Mass., A. S. Society, C. J. Torrey 

per S. J. May, 30 00 
Pawtucket, R. I., Female A. S. Society, per 

Cynthia Hill, 15 00 
Vermont A. S. Society , per R. T. Robinson, 10(1 00 
Catsldll, N. Y., Robert Jaclcson, 150 00 
Hamilton College A. S. Society, by J. R. Dixon, 5 00 
Palmyra, N. Y. , O. Clapp, 2 00 
Ponghkeepsie, ^f. Y. , A lady, by L. Tappan, 10 00 
Pompey , N. Y. , Rev. J. Gridley, 3 00 
Pleasant Ville, N. Y. , Miss A. Pierce, 2 50 
Philadelphia, Pa. , Rev. H. Barber, 5 00 
Aurora, Ohio, Mrs. H. Seward, 1 0(J 
Geneva, Ashtabula Co. Ohio, A S. Society, 5 00 
Tallmadge, Ohio, Dr. P. Wright, 5 00 
" Mrs. C. Wright, 1 50 
WhiUock , Brown Co. Ohio, Presbyterian col- 
lection, per R. Rutherford, 8 00 



JOHN RANKIN, Treasurer, 
No. 8, Cedar St. 



$343 00 



Monthly Collections received by the Publishing Agent 

from Nov. I to Dec. 1, 1835. 
Andover, O., by E. Seely, 
Catskill.N. Y., Robert Jackson, 
De Witt, N. Y., by Rev. E. Wheeler, 
Darien, Conn., by W. Whitney, 
Farmington, N. Y. , by W. R. Smith, 
Haddam, Conn. , D. C. Tyler, 
Hudson, 0., by S. Matthew, 
New Rochelle, N. Y. , J. Carpenter, 
Oneida Institute, 

Putnam and Zanesville, 0.,by H. C. Howells, 
Rochester, N. Y., by W. W. Reid, 
Rome, N. Y., by Dr. A. Blair, 
Syracuse, N. Y.,S. Conklin, 
Ware, Mass., A. B. Huntington, 
Received for Books, Peimphlets, &c., 

" " Emancipator, 

" " Human Rights, 

" " Quarterly Magazine, 



5 00 

4 00 

1 50 

2 75 
600 

50 
500 
2 00 
2 00 
10 00 
22 19 
15 OO 
300 
1 00 
215 85 



R. G. WILLIAMS 

Publishinjr Agent, 144 Na 
Total Receipts, 



83 50 

®5S5 73 



$996 73 



jCIp'FuNDS. — The friends of the Anti-Slavery cause are probably 
aware, that a very large proportion of the funds, necessary to carry on 
the operations of the American Anti-Slavery Society, have been derived 
from the liberahty of abolitionists in New York, and that for a month 
past, the pledges of our country friends having been redeemed more tar- 
dily than was expected, the treasury has been overdrawn. If to this we 
add, that the AWFUL CONFLAGRATION of the 16th of December 
has sM'ept away the wealth of the city to an incalculable amount, we 
need say no more to stimulate all those who mean to stand by the cause of 
truth and freedom, whether pledged or not, to send in immediately lohat 
they can. Remittances should be made by mail, if no more convenient 
and prompt opportunity offers, to Mr. JOHN RANKIN, No. 8, Cedar 
Street, New York. 



THE 



ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 



Vol. IL No. II. FEBRUARY, 1836. Whole No. 14. 




-HISTORY OF THE SLAVE, JAMES. 
An authentic narrative, communicated by a Lady, 

An elderly lady on the eastern shore of Maryland held many slaves. 
Sha treated them with great mildness ; manumitted several of the 
most worthy : and it was generally understood she intended to eman- 
cipate them all at her death. Among those who received their free- 
dom, was a 'bright mulatto v/oman, named Harriet. She was quite. a 
favorite with the family, being a good seamstress, and occasionally the 
children's nurse ; particularly of the grandson of her mistress, named 
Tench Tilghman. When this young man arrived at manhood, his 
father being dead, he took the management of the estates. By virtue 
of his power as general agent, he sold several of his grandmother's 
slaves; a proceeding which was understood to be contrary to her 
wishes. 

Among those sold, were three children of Harriet, his foster-mother! 
These children, two -girls, and a boy, were smaU-. The boy after* 



^ HiStORt or THE SLAVE, JAMES.. [14 

wards married the slave of another widow Tilghman, who lived about 
twenty miles from the residence of his mistress. His mother, Harriet, 
and her husband, Perry Coward, moved to Philadelphia ; but Harriet 
was under the cruel necessity of leaving her children in slavery. 
Some years ago, James and his wife made their escape, and took up 
their residence in the neighborhood of Kimberton, about twenty-eight 
miles from Philadelphia. By some means, Margaret, another child 
of Harriet's, escaped from slavery, and came to live with her brother 
James. Harriet and her husband, Perry Coward, hkovise removed 
from the city and took up their abode under the same roof. 

James and liis wife were sober, industrious, and extremely attached 
to each other. They scK)n gained the confidence of the neighbors, 
and were enabled to make a very comfortable living. But in an e%al 
hour, Tench Tilghman,* by means of spies, discovered their retreat 
The quietude of the fanaly was first disturbed by the appearance of 
suspicious-looking men, who cainc among them, under the pretence 
of inquiring for a horse that had been lost. Something in their looks, 
or actions, alarmed James's wife, and she expressed a wish to change 
their residence. But she was then veiy near her confinement, and as 
no farther indications of danger appeared, they remained as they were. 

One night, when her babe was only eight days old, Tench Tilgh- 
man went with several assistants, and seized James, liis sister Mar- 
garet, and his Uttle son. They would have taken his wife also, but 
her feeble state of health made it difficult to carry her. Thinking 
they could trust her strong attachment to her husband, they extorted 
a promise that she would follow him as soon as she was able. 

Poor Harriet in vain entreated her foster-son to have mercy on her 
children. Finding her entreaties useless, she, in a moment of desper- 
ation, took up a stick and struck him. " What do you think my 
grandmother would say, to hear that you stijck me !" exclaimed he. 
" What would my good old mistress say, if she could see you tearing 
away my children ?" replied Harriet. Then uncovering her bosom, 
she said, in tones that one would have thought might have softened 
the hardest heart, — " I suckled you at this breast, and now you drag 
my children away from me, to send them into slavery !" 

Poor James made some resistance, in hopes of escape ; but they 

beat him in such a manner, t/uit marks of blood were all about the 

door-steps, The agonized wife, ill as she was, sprang out of bed, and 

ran barefooted into the snow, to implore mercy for her husband. Some 

* Tench had probably re-purchased the right to James. — Ei>. 



15] HISTORY OF THE SLAYE, JAMES. % 

benevolent members of the Society of Friends, who visited the pooi 
desolate creature a few days after, told me they never saw such an 
affecting picture of human misery. She appeared like one completely 
stupified ; excepting that she continually rocked her body backward 
and forward, and groaned bitterly. After she became a little more 
composed, her friends spoke to her concerning her promise to follow 
James, and asked wiiether she intended to keep it. This question 
brought a flood of tears. " Oh dear ! I want to see James. How 1 
do want to see him ! But oh, I dread being a slave again ; and my 
little baby would be a slave too. Oh dear ! How happy I was ! How 
happy I was ! Sometimes I feel as if I would go to James. They 
used to promise we should never be separated. But they don't keep 
the promises they make to slaves. James made me promise a long 
time ago, that I would never follow him, if he should be carried into 
slavery again. He said it would be sweet to be together ; but then 
all our children would be slaves, and he could not bear the thoughts 
of that" 

Betty did not follow her husband ; nor have I ever heard of her 
being taken, though strong efforts were made to do it. People whose 
kind hearts were lacerated by these proceedings, wished to aid the 
poor forlorn creature ; but what can be done, where the laws sanction 
crime? 

The following letter, from the venerable Doctor Robert Moore, of 
Philadelphia, to the grandmother of Tench Tilghman, is worthy of the 
benevolent heart from which it emanated : 

"Respected Friend, — Thy well-known character for humanity 
and benevolence induces me to address a few lines to thee on a subject, 
which has made a deep impression on my mind. Thy old servant, 
Harriet, has been several times to see me, in very great distress, almost 
amounting to distraction, on account of her children being sold as 
slaves for life ; an event she never expected, and which, from my 
knowledge of thy kindness and humanity to thy slaves, I could not 
have anticipated. During the ten or fifteen years of my residence in 
Talbot county, I had good reason to beheve thou hadst become very 
uneasy with holding thy fellow-creatures in bondage, and that it was 
thy intention to set them free ; some, during thy Ufe, as they proved 
deserving of it, and the remainder at thy death ; so that none of thy 
descendants sh<irJd have it in their power to sell them, or in any respect 
to maltreat them. But what was my astonishment, when I heard that 
thy grandson. Tench Tilghman, had sold a number of thy slaves, who 
had a right to expect that their good old mistress would not suffer 
such a thin^to be done: but, on the contrary, that she would set 
them free. Ferry Cowara is very anxious to purchase some of the 
children that have been sold. He has collected some money to effect 



4 HISTORY OF THE SLATE, JAMES. [16 

this, but has hitherto been unable to accomplish his object. He and 
his poor heart-broken wife would willingly throw themselves at thy 
feet, and iinploie thy aid in rcslonng to thcui their beloved offspring; 
or at 1 >ast some of them. They have lately met with another crud 
byreaveiiient, ii.the capture of James and his son, together with theif 
little dau_ihte.- i\Iargan,-e, who was sold to a person in Baltimore, by 
the naaie of Smith. She had, by some means, been enabled to reach 
her pa ents ; but, by the treachery and wickedness of some cruel and 
hard-hearted men, their place of retreat was discovered, and informa- 
tion given, for the sake of reward. Tench came, with a number of 
men, and took them off! 

"Respecting James, the request of the poor afflicted parents is, that 
he may not be sold to go to the South. It is astonishing to me how 
Tench could thus lacerate the parental feelings of his poor old nurse — 
she who with anxious care watched over his infaiicy, carried liini in 
her arms, and beguiled his little troubles by her repeated caresses. 
How could he thus tear from her embraces her beloved offspring, 
dearer to her than her own life! I am a parent, and T can feel for 
those who have been thus tortured ; although, praised be the name of 
Israel's Shepherd, I never experienced it. 

"Now, my dear old friend, my particular desire is, that thou mayest 
lay this interesting subject deeply to heart, and reflect more seriously 
on it, than thou hast ever done ; and see whether thou canst go down 
to thy grave, with the load and guilt of slavery upon thy conscience. 
I consider it an awful thing, for one man to rob another of all that is 
dear to him on earth — even of himself. In my opinion, it is the highest 
species of robbery of which a man can be guilty ; and for a person 
professing the Christian rehgion, which commands us to do to others 
as we would have them do to us, it is to me unaccountable. 

" I hope thou wilt excuse this fi-eedom in one, who wishes for thy 
present and everlasting peace, 

"ROBERT MOORE." 

Doctor Moore received no answer to this letter ; but sometime 
after, he received the following from the other Mrs. Tilghman, who 
considered herself the owner of James's ^oife. It is a curious docu- 
ment, shovi'-ing what sorf of benevolence belongs to the "pecuhar insti- 
tutions" of the South. 

" Sir, — Understanding that you are in communication with a colored 
man, named Perry Coward, I am induced to address you on a sub- 
ject, certainly not of a pleasant nature. I beg not in any way to 
discuss the subject of slavery. As a principle, I am satisfied our 
opinions cannot be very different ; though unfortunately, existing cir- 
cumstances make our present views entirely so. 

" The wife of Mrs. Tilghman's servant, James Mathis, alias Richard 
Davies, belon is to me. James and his child have been sold to a gen- 
tleman, establishing a plantation of his oion, who has pledged himself 
to tnke his wif^, if she be recovered, or if she voluntarily gives herself 
up, for the sake of being with her husband and child. ^Although I 
feel that their separation is now her own act, — she having been prom-« 



17] HISTORT OF THE SLAVE, JAMES. 5 

ised that James should be detained, to give her the opportunity of 
coming on, (which he was for six weeks,) he too having written to 
induce her to share his fate.* Still it has occurred to me, that, influ- 
enced by Perry, she may have yielded to the expectation that Jame? 
would not be sold to the South, and thus, perhaps, escape to her. It 
is useless to deceive herself any longer with this hope. Little as shfe 
could expect to receive any favor at my hands, appearing as she doe«, 
voluntat^ily to separate herself from him, yet as she can only know 
the fact that he is sold, and not that arrangements have been made, 
which, if she has the feelings of a wife and a mother, will enable her to 
rejoin her husband and child if she chooses, I am willing to give her 
the opportunity, and have adopted tliis, the only/mode by which she 
could be informed of the fact; and 1 think you would advance both 
the interests of humanity and good morals by making it known to her. 
I pledge myself that if she wishes to follow her husband, every possi- 
ble convenience and comfort shall be allowed her to do so. The 
gentleman is one of our first citizens, purchases for his oion use, will 
neither sell again nor separate them : and will, I have every confi- 
dence, redeem his pledge, as I will mine. The result is with Betty 
herself (alias Rachel) be it what it may. I have been the more in- 
duced to this step, because, independently of the letter written by 
James to his wife, I have now one on my desk to myself, after it was 
ascertained she had moved off, and as he expresses himself, " He had 
no expectation of her coming to him ;" which I mention, as it has 
added to a wish I have always felt, that in any attempt to recover 
them, they might not be separated. It is for Betty to accept the terms 
or not. 

" I am, Sir, respectfully, 

"H. M. TILGHMAN." 
" Hope, near Eaatmi, Jipril 17th, 1835." 

Reader! If you, by any visitation of Providence, should be placed 
ill poor Betty's situation, what would you think of those who tore from 
you a beloved husband and an innocent child, and then, with cruel 
mockery, called it your own voluntary act, and accused you of being 
wanting in the feelings of a wife and a mother, because you shrunk from 
returning to slavery, to be the mother of slaves ! Ponder these things 
in your heart, and be indifferent if you can. 

After the receipt of this letter, the following was written to James 
Mott, of Philadelphia, by the gentleman who had bought James. He 
appears to have been on a visit to Baltimore, but makes no mention of 
his place of residence ; thus imitating Betty's disinterested mistress in 
carefully avoiding any clue to James's destination. We only know 
that the fate his parents so much dreaded had befallen him ; he was 
sold into the South. 

* This must have been a slip of the pen. If she had studied her expres- 
ifions, shd would have said " his happiness." 



6 HISTORY OF THE SLAVE, JAMES. [18 

" Balti]vior,e, Jt/ne 30th, 1835. 

"Mt Dear Sir, — I am the owner of a man by t'le name of James 
Mathews, his sister Margaret, and son, a boy about six or seven years 
old ; before leaving home, I promised James if I covld hear any thing 
of his w^ife, I would try and see her ; at his requci't I wrote to iMr. 
S'kian-r, the Postmaster at this place, to ascertain, if he could, where 
she was ; and, at the same time, enclosed to Mr. & kinner, a letter 
from James to his wife, begging him to have it conveyed to her if prac- 
ticable. I have seen Mr. S., who refers me to you, as tlie person who 
eould probably give me some information about her. 

"Since I saw Mr. Skinner, i have been to New- York, passing by 
Philadelphia, going and returning, and regret that I was tco much 
indisposed to call and see yon. I shall now remain here about ten 
days to ship some goods ; if in the meantime you will be so good as to 
write to me, and James's wife wishes to see me, I will come to Phila- 
delphia before I set out for home. If she doc^s not wish to see me in 
person, and will write to her husband, and y^u will enclose the letter 
to me at this place, it will give me great pleasure to carry it to him ; as 
1 know it will be to him a source of inexpressible dchght to receive a 
letter from her, for strongey- and more ardent nifectian I have never knoion 
than he bears for his wifo. I find him a steady, sober, and pious* man, 
and am much pleased with him. He professes to be perfectly happy 
anrl satisfied with his situation, except the absence of liis wife; says 
he would not return, if it was left to his choice, j He has every thing 
he wants to make him comfortable, and appears to bean excellent 
gardener. 

" If his wife wishes to join him, to cbli^ejaines^ J will give the gentle- 
man who claims her any price he may choose to ask for her.l Fie has 
already assured Mr. Skinner, tha-tl shall have her to go to her ho^l'^iid. 
If she is not entirely satisfied to go, and would not in fact desire it, I 
shall not consent to take her, as / loould only do it to oblige James. 

"I hope your generous and sympathetic feelings will induce you to 
see the wo.nan, and at all events get her to write to her husband, as 
it will be a source of pain and regrei to me to return home and be 
xinable to give him any news frorr* ner. Do let me hear from you. 
" With sentiments of great esteem, 
"Your obedient servant, 

"ROBERT W. Y\^ILLIAMS.'' 

^'Mr. James Mott, Philadelphia." 

* An advertisement of an auctioneer in New-Orleans, stated there were 
several "pious slaves'^ in a lot to be sold. Human flesh is sold by the pound, 
and religion thrown in to increase the price ! 

I Query. As the writer had just passed through Philadelphia, why did he 
not bring James to persuade his wife to go with him to a situation so much 
preferable to that from which he had been taken by violence ? If the gentle- 
man fully believed the statement he has here made, he could not have sup- 
posed there was the slightest danger in bringing James to the North. This 
assertion, under such circumstances, may enable us to estimate \vhat orood 
judges and correct reporters slaveholders are, concerning the happiness of 
their slaves. 

J This circumstance probably aroused Mrs. Tilghman to instruct Betsy 
ia the proper "/ee^in^* of a loife and a mother ^\ as an induc&me»t to return. . 



19J HISTORY OF THE SLAVE, JAMES. 7 

Answer to the preceding. 

"Philadelphia, 7th mo. 3d, 1835. 
"Respected Friend, — Robert W. Williams, 

'■ Thy letter of 30th ult. addressed to my fatlier-in-law, James Mott, 
came duly to hand. As he is out of the city, and will not return for 
some time, it becomes my duty to acknowledge its reception. I am 
not able to say what answer my father-in-law would make to thy 
letter, were he at home ; nor what would be his views respecting the 
purposes thou wishest to accompUsh ; but as thou wilt expect a reply 
during thy stay in Baltimore, a proper regard for thy feelings, demands 
that I should say a word in relation to the case. 

"As to the woman, who is the object of thy inquiiy, I do not know 
where she is; nor can 1 think it probable that any efforts will be 
made on the part of any respectable citizens here, to induce her to 
return ; particularly, if she did not wish so to do. From the spirit of 
disinterested kindness that would seem so apparent upon reading thy 
letter, and from the fact of thy being willing to give " (my pHce^^ for 
her, it must be taken for granted, that a benevolent purpose is all thou 
hast in view. Thy object seems to be (according to thy letter) to 
m.ake her husband happy. Now, in a spirit of frankness and candor, 
I would most respectfully suggest, whether thy benevolent intention 
could not be carried into effect in a manner equally desirable and 
cfii'jieat with the plan which thou proposest, by thy mamimitLing James 
and his sister and child, and using thy means and influence in procui- 
ing the liberty of liis wife — sending the former to the North, where he 
may meet his wife. If he be the ^^ steady, sober, pious man'!" and 
" excellent gardener'''' that thou assertest him to be, he can find employ- 
ment : and thus, being a free man, he will be enabled to enjoy the 
happiness attendant on the " strong and ardent affection" which thou 
sayest so conspicuously exists in him towards his wife. As thou hast 
no sinister motives in this matter, I can conceive of no possible objec- 
tion to the plan last proposed ; as, according to thy own account, he 
possesses every qualification for freedom ; and if thou wilt only give 
him liberty, the excellence which thou sayest he possesses, will be a 
passpo:t to every blessing connected with rational existence. 

" To advise or encourage in any way, his wife's return to the South, 
even under the auspicious circumstances which thou speakest of, would 
involve a most serious responsibility ; and one which I, as a fellow- 
being, should be entirely unwilling to assume. Admitting that thou 
wouidst treat her with the utmost kindness, it does not change the 
principle which would govern my conduct in the case. "We know 
that hfe is held by a very frail tenure. We know, too, the variations 
and uncertainties with which our worldly fortunes are accompanied. 
Hence, in case of thy death, or in the event of pecuniary misfortune — 
from which liability none are exempt — her condition might be unhap- 
pily changed ; and through the well-intended, but misdirected efforts 
,of her friends at the North, she might be plunged into a voitex of 
misery and degradation, tlie wretchedness of which, would perhaps 
terminate only with her life. 

" Any plan in which the cause of human liberty can be sustained or 



8 ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. [20 

accelerated, shall receive the countenance and support of the circle in 
w^hich I have the honor and happiness to mingle. But any act, or 
scheme, in vv^hich the liberty of the hnman race shall be trodden under 
foot — though it be even that of a poor despised colored person — will 
find, in this part of the country at least, a prompt, and I hope no less 
conscientious rejection. 

" With all proper deference, &c., thy friend, 

"EDWARD HOPPER." 

The writer can say nothing farther concerning the destiny of thda 
much injured couple. 

"They heard his agonizing groans, 
They heard his little children's cries, 
They heard his wife's heart-breaking tones 
Piercing the hollow, silent skies. 

They heard them all, and turned away : 

They heeded not the negro's pain. 

If God is just, there is a day. 

When they must hear those sounds again !" 



ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT QP 

COLUMBIA, 
This subject is now warmly debated in both houses of Congress. 
The members from the South are endeavoring to get Congress to pass 
resolutions rejecting all petitions on the subject, and disclaiming any 
right to legislate upon it. And there are too many Northern men who 
are ready to consign the capital of their country to the shame and wrong 
of everlasting bondage. We make a few extracts from the speeches 
of Southern members to show the tone and temper of the South. Our 
readers will thereby see to what the boasted refinement, gallantry and 
chivalry of slaveholders amounts. One honorable member of the 
House of Representatives undertakes to show, that the females who 
have petitioned for the liberation of six thousand slaves in the Dis- 
trict of Columbia are " devils incarnate .'" Another holds them up to 
ridicule as " those blessed pious old maids .'" How decorous and geiitle- 
manly ! 

EXTRACT FROM THE SPEECH OF MR. WISE, OF VIRGINIA. 

" The gentleman from New- York (Mr. Granger) said that his g©od 
petitioners were not Abolitionists. I think, sir, they are next of kin to 
them. Many of them are women. By the by, sir, have women too the 
right of petition ? Arc they citizens ? No one, Mr. Speaker, pays more 



2i] ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. 9 

cordial homage to the fair sex than I do. Yv oman in the parlor, wo- 
man in her proper spliere, is the ornament and comfort of man ; but 
out of the parlor — 04.it of her sphere — if there is a devil on earth, then 
she is a devil, woman is a devil incarnate ! If I were to paint the image 
of a demon, a fiend riding on the blast of strife and ruin, liissing rage 
and iapine, and rape and murder on our lives and property and matrons 
and maids of the South, it should be the form of a icoman with the hair 
of ti:e Furies ! One good sanctified priest can persuade all the women 
in the parish to be abolitionists ; and what sort of a government are 
we to have if women and priests are to influence our legislation 1 The 
gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Adams) told us that this is a re- 
ligious question. I protest against religion having any thing to do with 
the pchtical and constitutional questions of this government. jN either 
women nor priests are politicians except in the intrigues of court. This 
is a delicate political question, and those only should deal with it who 
have some common sense as well as experience as statesmen, and who 
are honest patriots." 

EXTRACTS FROM THE SPEECH OF MR. GARLAND, OF VIRGINIA. 

"But, sir, these beautiful prints, and these devilish pamphlets, are not 
the only firebrands attempted to be circulated among us. These very 
memorials themselves, coming here in the midst of all this excitement 
and alarm, hypocritically canting about the piracy and tyranny of 
slave-owners, have the very same tendency. Gentlemen may conceal 
it from themselves, but I tell them the tendency is the same — ay, and 
the design is the same. Why, sir, the abolitionists, from whom gen- 
tlemen seem so anxious to separate these petitioners, are now laughing 
in their sleeves, and openly too, that they have allies who, by a differ- 
ent route, arc indirectly laboring to achieve the same object with 
themselves, and who give respectability to their designs. Yes, the 
aid they receive in this w^ay stimulat£s them to exertion, and ani- 
mates them to hasten the approach of the final catastrophe they are 
themselves seeking to bring about. Every movement made in this 
House for the abolition of ^lavpry wittim the ri^-^trJof, Is a stepping- 
stone to the abolitionists to mount up to their work, and encourages 
them to seek the accomplishment of their purposes. They who tell 
us that these memorials only look to the District of Columbia, tell us 
what cannot be credited. If their object was to be limited to the Dis- 
trict alone, to the free slaves here, the success would not be worth the 
exertion, and we should hear nothing about it." 

******** 

"Mr. Speaker, how ought this question, as it is now presented to 
us, to be settled ? One mode has been attempted, and it failed. Then 
the only way is to withdraw from these deluded and misguided fanat- 
ics all inducements, all hope of ai^ from the North. Let the northern 
people themselves tell them, " your scheme shall not be carried out." 
Why is it necessaiy for us to appeal to the gentlemen of the North? 
These fanatics are in the northern States, which are sovereign and in- 
dependent as to their domestic relations, beyond the reach of our laws, 
and we cannot reach them by any legislation of ours ; but the north- 
ern people can and ought to do it. However, we have had soiBe 



iO ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. [22 

specimeDs of the sincerity with which this scheme has been put down 
in one part of the Tsortii, which I will mention for the credit of the 
parties concerned. I understand there has been a celebrated Anglo- 
Scotch vagabond traveUing through a certain section of the North, by 
the name°of Thompson, preaching abolition ; and I hope I shall not 
be recrarded as uncourteous or ungaliant in again referring to the 
females of the North. Well, this felon, for he deserves no better 
name, and would disgrace that if it were possible, has been holding 
forth in the churches and pubUc meeting houses of the North, lecturing 
and propagating his incendiarism, to the great horror and indignation 
of the people. But what is most singular, the charming influence of the 
females, those blessed pious old maids, has protected him from all the 
rage of the indignant citizens ! Ay, sir, even at the very moment 
when the people surrounded him, breathing threatenings and denun- 
ciations, determined to suppress his doings and chastise his insolence, 
his charming female followers and admirers exercised so powerful a. 
charm over him, that they carried him away imseen, as in the midst 
of a cloud ; whether in their pockets, or how, no one can tell ; but so 
it is, he was carried out unseen, and escaped imtouched, entirely 
tiirough female intervention. How potent the charm, thus to paralyze 
indignant patriotism and fraternal affection." 

Mr. Slade said, Thompson had never been in Vermont 

Mr. Garland. " Well, I am very glad to hear that Vermont hsja 
not been cursed with his presence, and I wish I could say that his 
principles had never been there ; but, somehow or other, aU his doc- 
trines have reached there, have apparently taken pretty deep root in 
some of its soil, and are broached here in their every odious and de- 
testable form and shape. I will, therefore, say to the people of the 
North, give us your aid in this thing. We love you as brethren, we 
love the Union, we ask you as citizens, having the power by force of 
law, which we have not, to put down these abolition schemes, and 
their aiders and abettors in your midst, and to protect us against these 
incendiary attempts lu hAn^ war and deeolation into our very domicils. 
This, sir, is a national consideration, a consideration deeply affecting 
/he Southern country and the Union itself ; and I should despise my- 
self if I could allow any other feelings to enter into my consideration, 
where the property, the lives, or the liberties of my fellow-citizens are 
dt stake." 

We will give another extract of a different character. 

EXTRACT FROM THE SPEECH OF MR. SLADE, OP VERMONT. 

'* We are told, in the first place, that this is u. question which con- 
eefms exclusively the people of tliis District ; that the petitioners have 
no interest in it, and have no more right to ask Congress to abolish 
slavery here than they have to petition the Legislature of Virginia to 
aboUsh it within her limits. 

" Sir, the people who have signed these petitions regard themselves 
as citizens, not alone of the particular states in which they reside, but 
•f the Republic. Every interest within the scope of the legislation of 



23] THE TROtTBLERS OF ISRAEL. 11 

Congress is their interest Every thing which concerns this territory 
concerns them ; its poUce ; the vahie and security of the pubUc prop- 
erty within its limits ;. and the safety of the representative bodies an- 
Hually assembled here. This is the growing capital of a great republic. 
What may be the absolute or relative increase of its slave population, 
or how much it may affect the future condition of this District, cannot 
easily be foreseen. That population amounted, in 1830, to more than 
6,000. The time may come when it will amount to ten times that 
number. And is it of no importance to our country whether its capi- 
tal shall be surrounded by a mass of hardy, independent freemen^ 
ready to peril their lives in defending it, as well as themselves, from 
the invasion of a foreign power, or whether it shall be guarded by 
60,000 slaves, who, instead of rallying in its defence, may hail the in- 
vader as an angel of deliverance from their bondage ? And is not this 
subject invested with additional interest, when it is considered that the 
Congress of the United States will be surrounded by such an amount 
of such a population ? Have the petitioners, then, as a part of the 
American people, no interest in this question ?" 



THE TROUBLERS OF ISRAEL. 

Not long ago we used to hear, that the condition of the slaves was 
growing better. Speak of the cruelty of slavery, and you were told, 
"that was true enough once, but slavery is not so bad now." "The 
severe laws are now seldom put in force." " The slaves are begin- 
ning to be instructed," &c., &c. ° 

But now we hear, that the slaves, from being contented and happy, 
are becoming mutinous and miserable. Their condition is growing 
^^worseP What is the matter ? Alas, the abolitionists have broken 
iato the Eden of slaver}^ and spoiled its bliss ! Oh the troublers ! 

The Governor of Maryland in his late message, says, " Our slaves 
were beheved hitherto to have been no less happy than ourselves. 
They knew not, they felt not, the hardships of bondage, and if they 
should now be abridged of their comforts, curtailed in their privileges 
and harassed by rigid surveilance, the blame must rest with those 
enemies, both of the white man and the black — the incendiary aboli- 
tionists." 

How forcibly does this bring to mind the accusation of an ancient 
oppressor. " And it came to pass, when Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab 
said unto him. Art thou he that troubleth Israel ?" 

" And he answered, I have not troubled Israel, but thou and thy 
father's house, in that ye have forsaken the commandments of the 
Lord." 

Alas! if the slaves were always as happy as the masters, why did 
we hear so much about the melioration of their condition ? If their 
lot was once wretched, but has since been made as good as that of 
their masters, why are tJiey not NOW prepared for emancipation ? — 
and, if they are prepared, why do their masters diminish the happiness 
both of themselves and slaves by refusing to grant it? 



12 



ftECEIPTS. 



[24 



GOD'S ORDINANCE SET AT NOUGHT. 

The following Query was not long since presented to the Savannah 
River Baptist Association of Ministers. "Whether, in case of invol- 
untary separation of such a character as to preclude all prospect of 
future intercourse, the parties ought to be allowed to marry again ?" 

This (luery was put in regard to husband and wife separated by 
sale — an every-day result of the great internal slave-trade. We 
should suppose any follower of Christ would have answered in his 
blaster's em-phatic words : " What God hath joined together, let not 
man put asunder." But these ministers made the ordinance of God 
bow to the demon of slaveiy — they answered : 

" That such separation among persons situated as our slaves are, is 
civilly a separation by deatli, and they believe that in the sight of God, 
it would be so viev/ed. To foibic' second marriages in such case 
would be to expose the parties, not only to stronger hardships and 
strong temptations, but to Church censure, for acting in obedience to 
their 'masters — who canno-t be expected to acquiesce in a regulation at 
vaiiance with justice to the slaves and to the spirit of that command 
which regulates marriage among christians. The slaves are not free 
agerds ! ! and a dissolution by death is not more entirely without their 
consent, and beyond their control, than by such separation." 



RECEIPTS. 



Recei'iits into Uso Treasury of the American A. S. 

Society, from Dec. ISth, 1835, to Jan. 14th, 1836. 
Lebanon, N. 11. , A friend, 25 

Noitlifield and Sanbornton Bridge, N. H., 

F'ri(en:',s, 12 S3 

Noi-Llifield, N. H. , .1. Cloiiah, Jr. , -JO 

Boston, Muss. , C C. BiiHuf-ii, per S. J. May, .5 00 
" " Fenid'.s A. ST Society, " -200 00 
' " Mids A. C. Pratt, " 50 00 

Fall River, Mass., A, S. Society, " 100 CO 

Lowell, Mass., Ladies " " 21 S2 

Fawuicket, R. I., A. S. Society, per Rev. 

Ray Potter, 50 03 

Providence, R. I.. Ladies A. S. Society, per 

Mrs. H. L. Tniesdcll, • 20 00 

Newbury, Vt , Col. L. B. Tibbets, 
Albanv, N. Y. A. S. Socit-ly, 
Bainbridge, N. Y , J. S. FUch, 
Poughkeepsie, N. Y. 
Peterborough, " 
Peeksliill, " 

Rome, " 

Sandy HUl, " 

Stow, 
Troy 

lowu, 
New- York City, j'a-thiir Tappan, 
" John Rankin, 

" J. F. Gibiious, 

" T. Fessenden, 

" John Greacen, 

" Rev. F. Wheeler, 

Newark, N. J., Dr. J. M. Ward, 
Mercer, Penn., Friejids.perB. W. Glenn, 



iamue! Thompson, 
' GeiTii Sniitli, Esq. 
Dr. J. Brewer, 
Dr. A. Blidr, 
A few Ladies, by S;irah 



1 00 
S7 00 
10 CO 
100 00 
1000 00 
10 OO 

5 cy 



Society, per S. 



5 00 

.50 00 

2-50 «) 

100 00 

1 13 

50 00 
50 

2 00 
500 



Philadelphia Young Men's A. S. Society, 

per \V. H Scott, 509 00 

Piiiladelphia A. S. Society, per John Sliarp, 500 00 

•' colored people, per Joseph Cas- 

sey, on §200 pledge, 25 00 

Avails of Jewelry received of A. Jiidfion, 7 50 



$8269 73 



JOHN RANKIN, Treasurer, 
N-o. 8, Ce>.!ur St. 



Monthly Collections received by the Publishing 

Agent,from Dec. 1, 1835, to Jan. 1, 1836. 
Brooldyn, Ct. A. S. S. by Rev. S. J. May, 5 00 
Darien, Ct., by S. W. Raymond, 1 SO 

New-York, Miss C. Wools-ey, 75 

Philadelphia, Pa. Ladies A. g. S. by Mra. L. 

Molt, 15 00 

Portland, Me. Laiiies A. S. S. 30 (90 

Tompkinsville, N. Y., Wni. McGeorge, 50 

Received for Luiancipator, 124 SO 

" " Human Ri^lits, 

" " Quarterly Maga7.ine, 

" " Record, 

" " Books, PainphletE, &G., 



R. G. W1LLL4MS, 
Publishing AgeHt, 144 Nassau St. 



Total Receipts, 



44 57 

85 50 

5 25 

147 45 

$460 42 



$3730 15 



THE 



ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 



Vol. 11. No. III. 



MARCH, 1836. 



Whole No. 15. 




[See page 3.] 
THE HUMANITY OF THE AFRTCO- AMERICANS. 
Variety, govemed by order, characterizes the works of God. No 
two individuals of his innumerable creatures are precisely alike, yet 
the diversity has its fixed and impassable limits. God's creatures are 
arranged into classes, easily to be distinguished. The human race, 
though exhibiting m its multiplied tribes a wonderful variety of exter- 
nal appearance, stands distinguished from all the other tenants of our 
globe by a peculiar, inahenable and ineffaceable glory. This noble 
peculiarity, in whatever places, or circumstances, or degree it may be 
found, is obviously one and the same. It is the expansible soul. 
It is that spark of celestial fire — feeble and glimmering at first — which 
kindles under the breath of education — nay, which, if not forcibly 
smothered, bursts forth spontaneously in the glorious forms of imagi- 
nation, reason, conscience. It is that IMAGE OF JEHOVAH which 
lays claim to an eternity of existence by its capacity for an eternal 
growth. 



2 THE HUMANITY OP THE AB'RICO-AMERICANS. [26 

Observe, it is the capacity for improvement, and not the improve- 
ment itself which constitutes the badge and birth-right of our race. 
It is not for one tribe of men to degrade another from the ranks of 
humanity, for falhng below its own standard of acquirement ; nor 
can any one justly plume itself upon a superiority of natural endow- 
ments, inasmuch as the endowment itself is from its very nature im- 
measureable, being a capacity for indefinite enlargement. As well 
might the hoary sage speak of the Uttle child as the connecting link 
between himself and the brute, as the enlightened nation hold such 
language in regard to the most savage horde. He that has a SOUL, 
whatever may be said of its present powers, is the possessor of an 
immortal, illimitable, inestimable thing — ^he is no more to be compared 
with the brute than eternity with a day. 

It is not the design of this article to prove that the Africans are 
really men. If there are any who doubt their manhood, it cannot be 
for the want of evidence. Nor is it designed to cite examples to show 
the intellectual equality of that race with the white. This matter is 
of little consequence in relation to the great question of Slavery. 
But the moral traits of the African character* deserve a thorough in- 
vestigation. 

We well know what can be said of the selfishness and ferocity of 
savages. This is a world in ruins — and we never fail to find sin de- 
veloping itself in proportion to temptation. But considering the cir- 
cumstances in which our colored brethren have been placed, there 
are traits in their character which must commend themselves to us as 
good and noble. Their mildness, fidelity and generosity take away 
all excuse from their ruthless oppressors. It is the glory of Chris- 
tianity that it teaches its disciples to return good for evil. But what 
Christian nation can show more or nobler instances of this virtue than 
the poor, despised, enslaved Africo- Americans ? How few are the 
insurrections and revolts recorded in the history of African slavery ! 
The insurrections that have occured, too, have often been rendered 
abortive by the affection of some favorite slave for the family of his 
master. We often hear the slaveholders themselves boast, that in 
case of insurrection, their slaves would be the first to rally in their 
defence. This in many instances may be true : but it must not be 
taken as a proof that the masters have dealt justly with their slaves, 
much less that slavery itself is a good thing. The truth is, that the 

* This whole subject is admirably handled in the seventh chapter of Mr* 
(Quid's " Appeal in behalf of that class of Americans called Africans." 



27] THE HtTMANlTT OF THE AFRICO-AMERICaNS. 3 

colored man never forgets a favor. He is chained by kindness, and 
will cheerfully give up some of his rights, provided the rest are re- 
spected. A traveller in South Africa, relates that a party of Dutch 
boors had captured five of the natives, and finding it troublesome to 
convey tliem to the colony, resolved to shoot them. Four of them 
were despatched, but the fifth, a woman, clung to her captor so closely 
that it was impossible to shoot her without endangering his life. He 
at length interceded for her, and she was carried to the colony, where 
she served in his family during a long fife with the utmost fidelity, 
never ceasing to regard him as her greatest benefactor. 

Whatever may be said of tlie affection of the slave for his master, 
he cherishes no good will towards the system under which he is held. 
This is strikingly illustrated by the fact that the best treated slaves 
have joined ardently in revolt, while at the same time they have been 
willing to peril their lives to save their own masters. A remarkable 
instance is related by Bryan Edwards in his History of St. Domingo. 
It occurred during the dreadful rebellion of 1791. As he wrote in 
favor of slavery, was on the spot directly after the occurrence, and 
received all liis facts from the whites who would not have given to the 
blacks any credit which was not due to them, his statement may be 
confidently relied on. 

" Amidst these scenes of horror, one instance, however, occurs of 
such fidelity and attachment in a negro, as is equally unexpected and 
affecting. Monsieur and Madame Baillon, their daughter and son- 
in-law, and two white servants, residing on a mountain plantation 
about thirty miles fi"om Cape Fran9ois, were apprised of the revolt 
by one of their own slaves, who was himself in the conspiracy, but 
promised if possible to save the lives of his master and his family. Hav- 
mg no immediate means of providing for their escape, he conducted 
them into an adjacent wood ; after which he went and joined the re- 
volters. The following night he found an opportunity of bringing 
them provisions from the rebel camp. The second nigtit he returned 
again, with a further supply of provisions ; but declared it would be 
out of his power to give them any further assistance. After this, tl.ey 
saw nothing of the negro for three days; but at the end of that time 
he came again, and directed the family how to make thei • way to a 
river which led to Port Margot, assuring them they wculd find a 
canoe on a part of the river which he described. They followed his 
directions ; found the canoe and got safely into it, but were overset 
by the rapidity of the current, and after a naiTow escape thought it 
best to return to their retreat in the mountains. The negro, anxious 
for their safety, again found them out, and directed them to a broader 
part of the river, where he assured them he had provided a boat ; but 
said k was the last efl©rt he could make to save them. They went 
accordingly, but not finding the boat, gave themselves up for lost, 



4 THE HUMANITY OF THE AFRICO-AMERICANS. [ZO 

when the faithful negro again appeared like their guardian angel. 
He brought with him pigeons, poultry, and bread ; and conducted 
the family by slow marche? in the night along the banks of the river, 
until they were within sight of the wharf at Port Margot ; when tell- 
ing them they were entirely out of danger, he took his leave forever, 
and went to join the rebels. The family were in the woods nineteen 
nights." — History of St. Domingo, page 75. 

Far be it from us to justify the bloody vengeance of the oppressed 
in St. Domingo. The liberty of that island would have been, in our 
opinion, more speedily obtained and its permanence better secured 
had the colored people never struck a blow. At any rate, whether it 
would have been so or not, they oxight not to have drawn the sword. 
But if we wish to study the moral character of the African race as 
developed in the scenes of St. Domingo, we must remember that the 
horrible atrocities they perpetrated were taught them by their civil- 
ized white m.asters, while their forbearance, magnanimity, good faith, 
and moral heroism were all their own. The history of St. Domingo 
from the first revolutionary commotions in 1789, up to the present 
hour, is full of facts highly honorable to a people just emerging from 
the savage state, and to humanity itself. Some of these, inscribed as 
they are on the durable page of history, will be interesting to the 
reader. 

When the French, in 1892, invaded St. Domingo, for the purpose 
of reducing the blacks to their ancient bondage, one of their first 
acts, was the capture of Fort Dauphin, on the bay of Mancenille. A 
large number of blacks were taken prisoners. Contrary to what are 
called the laws of civilized warfare, they were all murdered, and the 
bay was reddened with their blood. In retaliation, DessaUnes, one of 
the black chieftians, ordered the indiscriminate massacre of the white 
planters in the valley of the Artibonite. Most dreadfully was he 
obeyed. 

" But," says the historian, " not all the blacks were so barbarous. 
Many among them, moved by sentiments of gratitude, or of pity, saved 
the Uves of the unfortunate colonists. Some hid them in the country, 
and nourished them by the chase, others conducted them by by-roads 
into the districts occupied by the French. There were some, who, 
in order not to awaken the suspicion of the pursuers, dressed the victims 
in thick leaves, and passed them off as the actors of a drunken frolic."* 

There is not perhaps on record an invasion more cruel, than that 
which was made against St. Domingo, under Le Clerc, certainly none 

* Antoine Mt^tral, Histoire de l'Exp6dition des Prancais, a Saint Domingue, 
page 76. 



2yj THE HUMANITY OF THE AFRICO-AMERICANS, 5 

more treacherous. When that general found that the wealth of the 
colony was turned to cinders, and the blacks were still free in the 
mountains, he sheathed his sword, and betook himself to negociation. 
He proposed a peace, in which hbcrty and amnesty were solemnly guar- 
antied to the blacks. It was accepted. But, the event proved that 
the whole was on^y a stratagem to remove Toussaint Louverture, and 
other cliieftians, who had so successfully baffled the French arms. 
No sooner, however, had the French army relaxed itself in this per- 
fidious peace, than a pestilence broke out, which swept away twenty 
thousand men. The blacks might easily have completed the destruc- 
tion. What was their conduct ? The same historian says, 

'• The blacks still remained faithful to the peace to which they had 
sworn; born under the tomd zone the contagion did not mingle its poison 
in their boiling blood ; had they pleased, there would have been an end 
of the expedition, but they believed it would be unworthy of them to 
violate the peace, and owe their victory to the pestilence. Hence the 
blacks faithfully guarded sea and land, and with that hospitality which 
characterizes unsophisticated men, they received the sick into their 
houses, and gave them unexpected succor; they even wept over them, 
no longer seeing in the French their enemies, but illustrious warriors 
trampled under the feet of an inexorable destiny. Thus they banished 
revenge, a sentiment terrible in the hearts of savages." 

^- * * + + + + + 

"In the silent streets of the Cape, marked by ruins, and in those of 
Port au Prince, might be seen, going and returning, these benevolent 
women [blacks] ; their compassion ran from one sick-bed to another, to 
soften despair, to assuage suffering, and to struggle with the pestilence. 
They spent day and night with the sick and dying, inhaling their fetid 
and cadaverous breath. Seeing the impotence of the ordinary remedies, 
they administered others, of which they had brought the secrets from 
the deserts of Africa ; they had recourse also to their /eric^es, the wor- 
sliip of which they customarily mingle with the practices of Chr.'stian- 
ity ; thus they implored both their ancient and their new gods, to avert 
the malady which was mowing down so many warriors. * * 

" How many soldiers, captains and generals died or recovered, in 
the care of these compassionate females, of whom the most had been 
savages, either bond or free ! They had known the disease and they 
relieved it. The army and fleet owed to them inestimable consolations ; 
France owes them eternal gratitude for having taken this tender and 
generous care of her children — the very men whom the consul [Napo- 
leon Bonaparte] had sent to reduce St. Domingo, so far as possible, to 
her ancient bondage. One shudders to think that in return for their 
compassion, these unfortunate women were perhaps to receive chains." 
pp. 121, 125. 

A later period of this war afforded a remarkable instance of forbear- 
ance. The extreme South, in the neighborhood of Les Cayes, was 
inhabited by many mulattoes who were rich, and notwithstanding pre- 



6 THE HUMANITY OF THE AFRlCa-AMERICANS [30 

Jttdice, connected with the white planters by marriage. Long after the 
treacherous peace had been thrown off by the colored people of the 
north, these remained quiet and attached to the French. A body of 
colored guards were maintained to keep the peace. But being suspected 
by the whites of disaffection, they were taken on board a ship that lay 
off the coast, and in one night all thrown overboard and drowned. 
This cruel ingratitude aroused the people of color, and they flew to arms, 
under a leader of their own, named Ferrou. 

"After having raised the standard of revolt," says the historian, 
"he gave the order to arrest all the [white] colonists, and to conduct 
them safe and sound to the village of Coteaux, not far from the sea, 
where his brethren had been caused to perish. The colonists expected 
llo clemency ; they scorned to resort to entreaty, and resigned them- 
selves to their fate, 

" Ferrou, in a fierce and bitter tone, addressed them as follows : ' Cruel 
whites, you scrupled not to sacrifice to your hate, those, who upon this 
soil, were your defenders, and your hope. How does it benefit us, to 
be connected with you, by the sweet and sacred ties of nature? Our 
women are your wives, and your mothers, yet without fear of being 
parracides, you bathe your hands in our blood ! Standing here, I be- 
hold the sea, where, in one fearful night, by the pale light of the stars, 
half a battalion of our color were drowned. Vvhat was their crime? 
To serve you, and love you ! The winds and the waves returned us 
their livid corpses. There were brothers, husbands, companions, 
friends faithful in servitude, in war, and in liberty. Now, while a just 
resentment commands us to sacrifice you, go, cross this blood-stained 
sea, rejoin your brethren, and see in us your enemies, but not your 
executioners.' Thus Ferrou, who knew how to bridle his passions, 
caused them to embark for Les Cayes, against which he was about to 
march by land." — Laujon, Precis historique, ^-c. pp. 160, 161. 

It is often said, that the blacks of St. Domingo, drove every white 
from their island, making all who wore the European complexion, what- 
ever might be their character, the objects of their fury. The untruth 
of this common opinion is remarkably proved by a fact mentioned 
in the "Present state of Hayti," by James Franklin, a work that was 
written by the advice, and paid for with the money of the famous " West 
India Committee," in London, — and hence not likely to speak any 
good falsely of the poor blacks. A colony of Germans was settled 
before the revolution in the neighborhood of Cape Nicholas Mole, who 
cultivated their land only hy free labor. In 1827, Franklin found them 
enjoying peace and prosperity, and says of them, " These Germans 
and their ancestors, seem to have resided in this part unmolested, dur- 
ing the whole of the troubles of the revolution and rebellion ; and by 
&8 leading chiefs, subsequent to those events, they have been respected 



31] THE CONSISTENCY OF LAFAYETTE. 7 

and protected," page 281. Bryan Edwards, who wrote in 1796, also 
states that they were unmolested. 

Many similar fac-ts, pertaining especially to our own country, are in 
our possession, but must be deferred to a future occasion. It is worth 
while, however, to remark, that such facts develope the sublimest qual- 
ites of our common nature. They infinitely surpass all proofs of mere 
force of intellect. Is it said they are rare among the blacks ? We ask, 
then, how much more frequent are they among the whites ? Which 
race, in proportion to its advantages, has produced the most of such 
fruit ? We confess for ourselves, that if we were to look about for the 
best proofs of the dignity of human nature, we should find many of 
them among our poor^ despised, colored brethren. Never have we 
felt more deeply the force of the following remarks, of one of the most 
eloquent men of this age, than when studying the character of the 
Africo-Americans, in the light of their history, — not penned by them- 
selves, be it remembered, but by their enemies. 

" I cannot but pity the man, who recognizes nothing godlike in his 
nature. I ses the marks of God in the heavens and the earth ; but 
how much more in a liberal intellect, in magnanimity, in unconquera- 
ble rectitude, in a philanthropy which forgives every wrong, and which 
never despairs of the cause of Christ, and human virtue. I do and I 
must reverence human nature. * * * 

I know how it is despised, how it has been oppressed, how civil and 
religious establishments have for ages conspired to crush it. I know 
its history. I shut my eyes on none of its weaknesses and crimes. 
I understand the proofs, by which despotism demonstrates that man is 
a wild beast, in want of a master, and only safe in chains. But, in- 
jured, trampled on, and scorned, as our nature is, I still turn to it with 
intense sympathy and strong hope. The signatures of its origin, and 
its end, are impressed too deeply to be ever wholly effaced. I bless it 
for its kind affections, for its strong and tender love. I honor it for its 
struggles against oppression, for its growth and progression under the 
weight of so many chains and prejudices, for its achievements in science 
and art, and still more for its examples of heroic and saintly virtue. 
These are marks of a divine origin, and the pledges of a celestial in- 
heritance ; and I thank God that my own lot is bound up with that of 
tlie human race." — Channing. 



THE CONSISTENCY OF LAFAYETTE. 
How delightful the thought that this friend of our country, did not con- 
fine his philanthropy, to any clime or color. The only grief he had for 
America was, that her people were not all free. Flad all the patriots 
of the revolution cherished the same spirit, how much better M'ould it 
have been for our country to-day ! The following interesting renp — ^*-" 



8 THE CONSISTENCY OF LAFAYETTE. [32 

we take from the "Recollections of the Private Life of General Lafay- 
ette," just pubUshed by Leavitt, Lord, & Co., of this city. 

" After the decisive campaign against Lord Cornwallis, in 1781, La- 
fayette, on receiving the thanks of the State of Virginia, which had 
particularly profited by his successes, replied, by the expression of a 
wish, that Uberty might be speedily extended to all men, without dis- 
tinction. But, he was not contented with sterile wishes, and on his 
return to France, flattering himself, like Turgot and Poivre, that the 
gradual emancipation of the negroes, might be conciliated witli the 
personal interests of the colonists ; he was desirous of estabUshing the 
fact by experience, and for that purpose, he tried a special experiment, 
on a scale sufficiently large to put the question to the test. At that 
period the Intendant of Cayenne, was a man of skill, probity, and ex- 
perience, named Lescalier, whose opinions on the subject coincided 
with those of Lafayette. Marshal de Cartries, the minister of the 
Marine, not only consented to the experiment, but determined to aid 
it by permitting LescaUer to try upon the king's negroes the new regime 
projected. Lafayette had at first devoted one hundred thousand francs 
to this object. He confided the management of the residence which he 
had purchased at Cayenne, to a man distinguished for philosophy and 
talent, named Richeprey, who generously devoted himself to the direc- 
tion of the experiment. The Seminarists established a colony, and 
above all the Abb^ Farjon, the curate of it, applauded and encouraged 
the measure. It is but justice to the colonists of Cayenne, to say, that 
the negroes had been treated with more humanity there than else- 
where. Richeprey 's six months stay there, and the example set by 
him, before he fell a victim to the climate, contributed still farther to 
improve their condition. La Rochefoucault was to purchase another 
plantation as soon as Richeprey's establishment had met with some 
success, and a third would afterward have been bought by Malesherbes, 
who took a cordial interest in the plan. The untimely death of Riche- 
prey, the difficulty of replacing such a man, the departure of the In- 
tendant, and a change in the ministry, threw obstacles in the way 
of this noble undertaking. 

" When Lafayette had been proscribed in 1792, the National Conven- 
tion confiscated all his property, and ordered his negroes to be sold at 
Cayenne, in spite of the remonstrances of Madame Lafayette, who 
protested against the sale, observing, that the negroes had been pur- 
chased, only to be restored to liberty after their instruction, and not to 
be again sold as objects of trade and speculation. At a later period 
all the negroes of the French colonies were declared free, by a decree 
of the National Convention. It is nevertheless remarkable that some 
of Lafayette's plans, with regard to the slave emancipation were real- 
ized. Cayenne, the only one of our colonies in which the example set 
by him, of instructing the negroes had been followed, was also the only 
colony in which no disorders took place. Urged by gratitude, the ne- 
gross of bis plantation declared to Richepreys successor, that if Lafay- 
ette's property wds confiscated, they would avail themselves of their 
Uberty ; but that in the opposite case they xoould remain and corJinue to 
euUivate his estates.'^- Vol. I, page 149= 



33] THE DISRUPTION OF FAMILY TIES. 9 

It is obvious to remark, that Lafayette's experiment prevented troubles 
in Cayenne, rather by its action upon the masters than the slaves. In 
none of the colonies did troubles result from the act of immediate eman- 
cipation, through the bad conduct of the emancipated. So far as they 
were concerned that act ratlier appeased the troubles which before ex- 
isted. Not so with the masters ; they professed to feel themselves 
robbed, and, in all the colonies except Cayenne, resorted to violent 
means to recover their lost property. In regard to the gradualism of 
Lafayette, let it be obsei-ved, that his own experience, as well as that 
of others, for fifty years, has proved the inefficacy and futility of the 
doctrine. Now it would be madness in us, through a blind reverence 
for his name, not to profit by his experience. Had Lafayette made free- 
men of Ins slaves the moment they came into his possession, they could 
not afterwards have been confiscated and sold, as a part of his property. 
Wc are constrained to admire the consistency of his benevolent feel- 
ings towards the suiFering slaves, but we have to deplore the incon- 
sistency of his logic. 



THE DISRUPTION OF FAMILY TIES. 

Do the mothers of our land know that American slavery, both in 
theory and practice is nothing but a system of tearing asunder the family 
tits ? Loc k at the map of the United States. Draw with your pen 
a line dividing between the fertile lowlands of the coast and the south, 
and the more sterile and mountainous uplands of the northern slave 
states. On one side of this line the principal business by which wealth 
is acquired is the breeding of slaves, to be driven over and worn out 
upon the cotton, rice and sugar plantations on the other side. And 
this trade takes off not usually whole families, but the young and the 
strong. Not a slave mother does there live in the slave-breeding dis- 
trict, who is not liable to lose her son or her daughter the moment 
her master shall think it for iiis interest to sell. The character of the 
master is poor security. Great men, honorable men, kind men, aye, 
Christian men, so called, have sanctioned the traffic. The utmost of 
their conscientiousness in the matter has been, to impose upon the 
buyer the necessity of taking whole famiUes ; but as this buyer may 
sell again, and usually buys for that very purpose, who shall say that 
Redoes not tear the child from its mother, the husband from his wife ? 

But we are told these blacks do not care ! they sing and dance as 
before — they are hard and callous to the tender feelings that belong to 
civilized lifa. Alas, it is the heart of this nation that is callous! The 
great God has planted in the heart of the mother an affection for her 
offspring which floods cannot drown — under the trampling hoofs of 
oppression it only grows the stronger. The fabric of human society 
is reared on this very principle. Has God made liis foundation so 



10 THE DISRT7PTI0N OF FAMILY TIES. [34 

weak that man may set it at nought? No, the attempt to build the 
wealth of a nation on the ruin of domestic ties, will fare worse than 
that which was confounded on the plain of Shinar. God's foundation 
stands sure, and the nation that despises it shall feel his wrath in all 
her institutions. 

The parental affection of the negro mother challenges comparison. 
One of the most calumnious of the advocates of slavery, to whom we 
referred on a preceding page, says, "It must, I think be admitted, 
that the affections of the negro race are somewhat warm and unal- 
loyed ; and in no instance are they so feehngly illustrated as in the 
solicitude evinced by the negro for his offspring. To his children his 
attachment is strong and inaUenable ; and he displays it on leaving 
his home with the greatest fervor, and on liis return with cA^ery mark 
of gratitude and joy." — James Franklin's Present State of Hayti, page 
212. 

But why do we speak of the negro mother? The principle belongs 
to all sentient beings. The voice of the whole animate creation cries 
out against this separtion of families, as treason against nature. 
Thereis no brute-mother so stupid as not to cherish a tender regard 
for her offspring during a certain period which the law of nature has 
fixed. The difference between the brute and the rational animal is, 
that in the latter, the affection lasts through life. 

The reader will pardon us for the following extracts wliich well 
illustrate the law of parental affection. The first is Humboldt's anec- 
dote of The Mother''s Rock. As the great traveller of South America 
was ascending the Orinoco, his attention was arrested by a remark- 
able rock which he thus describes. 

" The Piedra de la Guahiba, or Piedra de la Madre commemorates 
one of those acts of oppression, of which Europeans are guilty, in all 
countries wherever they come in contact with savages. In 1797, the 
Missionary of San Fernando, had led his people to the banks of the 
Rio Guaviare on a hostile excursion. In an Indian hut they found a 
Guahibo woman, with three children, occupied in preparing Cassava 
flour. She and her little ones attempted to escape, but were seized 
and carried away. The unhappy female repeatedly fled with her chil- 
dren from the village, but was always traced by her Christian country- 
men. At length, the friar, after causing her to be severely beaten, 
resolved to separate her from her family, and sent her up the Atabipo, 
towards the missions of the Rio Negro. Ignorant of the fate intended 
for her, but judging from the direction of the sun, that her persecutors 
were carrying her far from her native country, she burst her fetters, 
leaped from the boat, and swam to the left bank of the river. She 
landed on a rock ; but the president of the establishment ordered the 
Indians to row to the shore and lay hands on her. She was brought 
back in the evening, stretched upon the bare stone [Piedca de la Madre] 
scourged with straps of mannatee leather, which are the ordinary whips 
of the country, and then dragged to the mission of Javita, her hands 
bound behind her back. It was the rainy season, the night was ex- 
cessively dark, forests believed to be impenetrable stretched from that 
station to San Fernando, over an extent of eighty-six miles, and the 
«ttily communication between these places was by the river ; yet the 



SSJ THE DISRUPTION OF FAMILY TIES. H 

Guahibo mother, breaking her bonds, and eluding the vigilance of her 
guards, escaped under night, and on the fouith morning was seen at 
the village, hovering around the hut wliich contained her children. On 
this journey she must have undergone hardships from which the most 
robust mail would have shrunk ; was forced to live upon ants, to swim 
numerous streams, and to make her way through thickets and thorny 
lianas. And the reward of all this courage and devotion was — her re- 
moval to one of the missions of the Upper Orinoco, where, despairing 
of ever seeing her beloved childien, and refusing all kinds of nourish- 
ment, she died, a victim to the bigotry and barbarity of wretches blas- 
phemously calling themselves the ministers of a religion, which incul- 
cates universal benevolence !" — Mridgment of Humboldt, in Harper^s 
Fam. Lib. p. 221. 

The heart of every mother, and we think of many fathers, will bear 
witness that the following lines are true, and no more than true, to na- 
ture. We do not know a more touching illustration of that sacred 
law which slavery scornfully sets at nought. They are from the Pelican 
Island, by James Montgomery. 

Love found that lonely couple on the isle, 

And soon surrounded them with blithe companions ; 

The noble birds, with skill spontaneous framed 

A nest of reeds, among the giant grass 

That waved in hghts and shadows o'er the soil. 

There in sweet thraldom, yet unweening why, 

The patient dam, who ne'er till now had known 

Parental instinct, brooded o'er her eggs 

Long ere she found the curious secret out, 

That life was hid witliin their brittle shells : 

Thus from a wild rapacious bird of prey, 

Tamed by the gentle process, she became 

That gentlest of all living things — a mother, 

Gentlest while yearning o'er her tender young. 

Fiercest when stirred by anger to defend them; 

Her mate himself the softening power confessed, 

Forgot his sloth, restrained his appetite. 

And ranged the sky, and fished the stream for her, 

Or, when o'erwearied nature forced her ofT 

To shake her torpid feathers in the breeze 

And bathe her bosom in the cooling flood, 

He took her place, and felt through every nerve. 

While the plump nestlings throbbed against his heart, 

The tenderness that makes the vulture mild ; 

Yea, half unwillingly his post resigned, 

When, home-sick with the absence of an hour. 

She hurried back, and drove him from her seat 

With pecking bill and cry ot fond distress, 

Answered by him with murmurs of delight. 

Whose gutturals harsh, to her were love's own mu«c 



13 



[S6 



Correction. In the History of the Slave James, printed in our 
February No. a slight mistake occurred on the first page. Tw^o of 
James's sisters and a brother were sold by his young master, but he 
himself was not sold. He was in the service of the Tilghman family 
at the time of his escape. 



RECEIPTS. 

Receipts into the Treasury of the American A. S. So- Warsaw, N. Y. John Windsor, 



ciety from January 15tli, to Pebniiuy 15th, 1836 



West Arlington, Vt., Dr. A. McKee, 

Acton, Mass., ftev. J. G. Woodbury, per 
S. J. May, 

Aml-.erst, Mass., by E. C. Pritcliett, bal- 
ance of pledge, 

Danvers, Mass., Abner Sanger, per S. J. 
May, 



3 (JO 



C. Eroiison, 

A. Gresg, 

R. Cliapin, 

D. Lee, 



200 

2 00 

50 

50 

50 



Fall River, 

N. Lenox, 

Stockbridge, 

W. Stockbi-igde 

Abington, Conn., "Friends. 

tington. 
East Haven, ' 
Hartford, 

Williams, 
Woodbiuy 



R. Diirfee, 
James Judd, 
Dr. A. Perry, 
O. M. Lewis, 
perT. 



64 00 ! China, " C. O. Shepard, Esq. 

Hamilton Collie, A. S. S., by J. R. Dixon, 
Orrington, N. Y. Joel Lee, 
Roche.ster, " G. A. Avery, on acconut of 
^•500 pledge, by Monroe Go. Society. 
Syracuse, N. Y. Seth Conklin, 



Mrs. D. Hughes, 

Silas Andrus, per R. G. 



50 00 

31 
9 50 

1 00 

5 00 

6 25 
50 



Nathaniel Pierce, 
Perry, N.' Y., plalge of $200, by the Gen^ 
essee Co. Society, Josh. Andrews Jr. 
of which $60 before acknowledged 
was contributed by Messrs H. Phoenix. 
S. F. Phoenix, and Josliua Andrews^ 
and ^140,37 as iindei-. 
Arcade, N. Y. R. W. Lyman, 

" " C. O. Shepivd, Esq. 
Castile, " Rev. I'. J. Bliss, 
" " J. B. Hoisted, 
" " W. HowMd, 
" " Lucas Janes, 
" " J. G. True, 
" " Ziba Hurd, 
" " Dr. G. Wells, 
Covington, N. Y. Rev. E. Scovel, 
Leroy, '' Society by their Sec. 

S. M. Gates, Esq. 
Lagrange, N. Y. Thos. Potwine, 
" " V/. Potwine, 
" " D. Howard, 
" " Lorenzo Smith, 
" " P. T. Olney, 
" " Daniel Rowley, 
« " E. Wiiter, 
" " W. H. Conklin 
" " Gideon Rood, 
" " Henry Bush, Jr. 
" " >'Irs. A. Bush, 
" " C. Joiies, 
" " Heni-y Bush, 
" " Cash, 
Perry, " Natlian Chidester, 
" " E. C. Bills. 

" " Calvin Waldo, 

*' " Isaac Mace, 

" " Silas Rawson, 

** " Russel Calkins, 

" " J. S. Lambright, 

" " Sydney I/apham, 

*• " Tliomas Lapham, 

" " Johii Calkins, 

Perry Center, Dr. Jabez Ward, 
" '• Horace Gondale, 
" " Rev. S. Gridley, 
Pembroke, " C. Freeman, 
Wyoming, " E. Poineroy, Esq. 
Warsaw, " Dr Augustus Frank. 
" " F. C. D. McKay, 

" " W.Chapin, 

" " S. Fisher, 

•* " John Munger, 

*• " HewetKinne, 



10 00 
10 00 
2 00 
5 00 
1 00 
I 00 
1 00 
200 
500 
5 00 

25 00 
1 25 
1 25 
1 00 
25 



50 

50 

50 

50 

2 00 

12 

2 DO 

2 00 

50 

50 

5 00 

8 00 

1 00 

1 00 

1 00 

1 00 

5 00 

50 

5 00 

I 00 

5 00 

10 00 

10 00 

1 00 

1 00 

1 00 

200 



Monthly Concert, 
Rev. G. W. Gale, 
Rev. C. StuM-!, per H. 

J. B. per S. W. Bene- 

Congregalional Society, 



140 37 

5 00 
500 
3 00 

25 00 
10 00 
2 06 
5 00 

100 00 



landy Hii 
Whitesbord, ' 

Ibbotson, 

Williamson, ' 

diet & Co. 

by J. Talbot, 
Waterloo, '' R. Elliott, 
New- York City, Ladies' Society, per Mrs. 
Lock^vood, ($'100 being avails of work 
by the y.?img ladies' A.~S. Sewing Soci- 
ety,) 

" "A New-York Episcopalian," 20 

" Ebenezer Jessup, Jr., Esq, 100 

" Arthur Tappan, 

" John Rankin, 

" Rev. E. Wheeler, 

" Win. T-iUie, 

" Miss Sarah Martin, 

» Cash, 

Philad. Penu., Ladies A. S. S. by S. L. 

Gould, 
York, " " Friends," per do. 

" " and other places, per do. 

Elyria, Ohio, Ladies A. S S. by Rev. J. 
H. Eells, 

E. Williams, 
" Female Friend," 
A. S. S. by W. Whitney, 



Franklin, 
Granville, 



225 00 



100 00 

250 00 

100 00 

50 

1 00 

1 00 



60 00 
27 23 
50 00 

1 no 

1 00 
I 00 
£0 00 



$1514 97 



Monthly Collections received by the Publishing 

Aeeiit, from Januai-y 1st, to February Isi, 1836. 

Brooklyn, Ct., by S. J. May, 2 25 

China, N. Y. by W. R. Lyman, 10 00 

Cincinnati, Ohio, H. Hall, I 58 

Farniingion, Oliio, by D. Belden, Jr. 7 00 

N. Y. Mills, N. Y. by Rev. L. H. Loss, 18 00 

Newaik. N. J. Dr. J. M. Wai-d, 2 00 

Puttiara, Ohio, by H C. Howell, 11 50 

Perry Centre, N. Y. oy J. Andrews, 10 00 

Perry, " by J. Sleeper, 5 00 

WhUestown, " by Tliomixs Beebe, 8 00 

Warsaw, " by F. C. D. McKay, 10 GO 

Received for Emancipator, 204 75 

" " Hvmian Riffhis, 70 57 

" " Quarterly Magazine, 58 06 

" " A. S. Record, 15 75 

« " Books, Pamphlets, &c. 277 S6 



R. G. WILLUMS, 
Publishing Agent, 144 Nassau St. 
Total Receipts, 



$2227 21 



fHE 



ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 



Vol. II. No. IV. APRIL, 1836. Whole No. 16. 




William Peterson — the heroic colored boy. 

THE MORAL CHARACTER OF THE AFRICO-AMERI- 

CANS. 

It will be remembered that in our last number we gave some facts 
to show that the despised colored people possess, in full measure, that. 
tnwal co7istituiion, which, far beyond any physical or intellectual excel- 
lencies, is the glory of man. It appeared that they had exhibited the 
highest degree of moral heroism — that they had denied themselves for 
the welfare of others — that they had overcome evil with good — that 
they had conquered by generosity. It is by no means useless to mul- 
tiply such facts ; for, how can any man fail to attack slavery with all 
his moral power, after he is brought to see the glorious image of his 
Creator on the brow of the slave? We make the following extracts 
from the interesting travels of E. S. Abdy, Esq., and vouch for the truth 
of his statements from our own personal knowledge. 

I was once asked, with a sarcastic smile, by an American lady of 
Hibernian descent, if I had met with any iateresting blacks in the 



2 THE MORAL CHARACTER 0-F THE AFRICO-AMERICANS. [38 

coarse of my tour. The winter I passed in New- York furnished what 
this woman, with all her contempt for a race more persecuted and less 
fortunate than that from which she herself sprang, would acknowledge 
to be most painfully interesting. During the frost, some ice, on which 
several boys were skating, in the outskirts of the city, gave way, and 
several of them were drowned. During the confusion and terror, oc- 
casioned by this accident, a colored boy, whose courage and hardihood 
were well known, v/as called upon to render assistance. He imme- 
diately threw himself into the water with his skates on, and succeeded 
in saving two lads ; but, while exerting himself to rescue a third, he 
was drawn under the ice, and unable to extricate himself. No one 
would Tisk his life for him. Soon after, the details of this melancholy 
event appeared in one of the newspapers, (the New- York American,) 
with an offer to receive subscriptions for the mother,* who was left with 
a sick husband and young family ,'deprived of the support which she 
had derived from her son's industry. As reference was made to a 
medical man in Park Place, I called upon him, and received a very 
favorable account both of the boy and his poor mother, who was em- 
ployed to wash for liim. I immediately proceeded to her house, and 
found that she had three children left ; — the eldest about ten years of 
age, and the youngest an infant at the breast. In addition to these, 
she had undertaken the care of a httle girl, five years old, the daughter 
of a deceased friend, whose husband had deserted his child, and refused 
to pay any thing towards her support. ' I consider her as my child,' 
said the generous woman ; ' and, while I have a crust left, she shall 
share it with my children.' I made inquiries about the boy she had 
jusTlost, and was told, what I had heard in Park Place, that his con- 
duct had always been most exemplary ; — that he had carried to her 
every cent he could save from his earnings, and had often expressed a 
wish that he might obtain sufficient to save her from working so hard ; 
— her business sometimes keeping her up nearly all night. 

Such was the history of Susannah Peterson and her heroic boy. It 
was told in the most simple and natural manner ; without any display 
of grief, or the slightest attempt to exhibit feeling or excite commisera- 
tion. There was an expression of dejection, however, in the counte- 
nance that could not be mistaken ; and an effort to suppress the work 
ings of a mother's heart, that I never saw so striking in any one. 
Every thing, in the furniture of the room, the decent behavior of the 
children, and the general deportment of the parent, bespoke full as 
much propriety and respectability as I ever met with in the same cla ss 
of life, whatever might be the occupation or complexion. Mrs. Pe- 
terson was a member of one of the numerous societies for mutual as- 
sistance, which exist among the colored inhabitants of New- York. 
That, to which she belonged, is called "The Benevolent Daughters of 
Zion," and contains about 200 members. The entrance money is one 
dollar, and the subscription money one shilling (about sixpence of our 
money) per month. The benefits to be derived from it are an allow- 
ance of twelve shillings a week for six weeks during sickness ; with 
any addition after that period that the state of the funds may admit 
of J and, in case of deatJi, the payment of funeral expenses, (generally 
* Since dfead. 



39] MUM BE XT. 5 

ten dollars.) There is another society to which she once subscribed 
"The Benevolent Assistance Society." The entrance to this is two 
sliillings, and the subscription four cents monthly. 

These contributions, with occasional donations, enable the society 
to assist poor persons who do not belong to it, as well as its own 
members, when in distress. Mrs. Peterson's brother, who is known 
m England as the African Roscius, had occasionally sent her remit- 
tances of money, and had expressed, in one of his letters from this 
country, an intejition to provide for her unfortunate boy's education. 

I had frequent opportunities of seeing Mrs. Peterson : and my re- 
spect for her character increased with my acquaintance. When I 
settled a little account I had witli her for washing and other work, I 
had some difficulty in prevailing upon her to take what was strictly 
her due ; such was the gratitude for the few services I was enabled, 
with the assistance of my friends, to render her. Three months had 
elapsed since the death of young Peterson, and not one of the relatives 
of either of the boys, whose Uves he had saved at the cost of his own, 
had been near his bereaved mother; and the subscription did not 
amount to seventy dollars. This, at least, was all she had received. 
Two English ladies, who had been with her six or eight weeks before, 
had informed her that they had collected twenty dollars for her. When 
we consider that the population of the place amounts to more than 
two hundred and fifty thousand, including Brooklyn, it is little to its 
credit that the gratitude it felt for the preservation of two of its citizens 
could find no better way to exhibit itself, than by a paltry donation to 
the self-devoted preserver's afflicted parent, of a sum scarcely exceed- 
ing one- fourth of what he might have been sold for when hving, in 
the slave market at New-Orleans. 

On the very day that this generous act was performed by a poor lad 
of color, another example of humanity was given by a man belonging 
to the same " degraded caste." This case did not excite the same at- 
tention, though it well deserved commemoration and recompense. 
The latter it had in the shape of five dollars, from the father of the 
boy who had been rescued from a watery grave. The name of the 
man who distinguished himself was Jones. He declined receiving 
any remuneration, and the money was given to another colored man, 
(Austin,) who had carried the child home with him, put him into Iris 
own bed, and restored him to life from the state of exhaustion in which 
he was when taken out of the water. Several white men were stand- 
ing near when the accident occurred ; but none of them ventured to 
quit dry land. Two months elapsed before the father of the boy 
visited the man to whom he was indebted for the life of his son. 



MUM BETT. 

The following anecdote is extracted from a very interesting " Lec- 
ture on the practicability of the abolition of slavery, delivered at the Ly- 
ceum in Stockbridge, Massachusetts, February, 1831." It is understood 
to have been written by a son (now deceased) of Judge Sedgwick,^ 



4 MtJM BETT. [40 

the judge who had the honor of judicially pronouncing the doom of 
slavery in Massachusetts under its Bill of Rights. 

" Elizabeth Freeman (known afterwards by the name of Mum Bett) 
was born a slave, and lived in that condition thirty or forty years. She 
first lived in Claverac, Columbia county, in the state of New- York, 
in the family of a Mr. Hogeboom. She was purchased at an early age 
by Col. Ashley, of Sheffield in the county of Berkshire, in the now 
commonwealth of Massachusetts. + * + 

" While Mum Bett resided in the family of Col. Ashley, she received 
a' severe wound in a generous attempt to shield her sister. Her mis- 
tress, in a fit of passion, resorted to a degree and mode of violence very 
uncommon in this country : she struck at the weak and timid girl 
with a heated kitchen shovel : Mum Bett interposed her arm, and re- 
ceived the blow ; and she bore the honorable scar it left to the day of 
ner death. The spirit of Mum Bett had not been broken down by 
ill usage — she resented the insult and outrage as a white person would 
have done. She left the house, and neither commands nor entreaties 
could induce her to return. Her master. Col. Ashley, resorted to the 
law to regain possession of his slave. This was shortly after the 
adoption of the constitution of Massachusetts. The case was tried at 
Great Barrington. Mum Bett was declared FREE ; it being, I be- 
heve, the first instance (or among the first instances) of the practical 
application of the declaration in the Massachusetts Bill of Rights, that 
* all men are born free and equal.' 

"The late Judge Sedgwick had the principal agency in her deliver- 
ance. She attached herself to his family as a servant. In that situa- 
tion she remained for many years, and was never entirely disconnected 
from his family. + * += 

"The house of Mr. Sedgwick, in this town, (Stockbridge,) was at- 
tacked by a body of insurgents during the Shay's war, so well remem- 
bered in this vicinity. Mr. Sedgwick was then absent at Boston, and 
Mum Bett was the only guardian of the house. She assured the party 
that Mr. Sedgwick was absent, but suffered them to search the house 
to find him, which they did, by feeling under the beds and in other 
places of concealment, with the points of their bayonets. She did not 
attempt to resist by direct force, the rifling of property, which was one 
of the objects of the insurgents. She, however, assumed a degree of 
autho -ity — told the plunderers that they ' dare not strike a woman,' — 
and attended them in their exploring the house, to prevent wanton 
destruction. She escorted them into the cellar with a large kitchen 
shovel in her hand, which she intimated that she would use as a 
weapon in case of necessity. One of the party broke off the neck of 
a bottle of porter. She told him that if he or Ixis companions desired 
to drink porter, she would fetch a corkscrew, and draw the cork, and 
they might dank like gentlemen ; but that, if the neck of another bot- 
tle should be broken, she would lay the man, that broke it, flat with 
her shovel. Upon tasting the liquor, the party decided that 'if gen- 
tlemen loved such cursed bitter stuffj tliey might keep it.' * * 

" This woman, by her extreme industry and economy, supported a 
large family of gi-andchildren and great-grandchildren. * * 



41] GRANDFATHER SOL. 5 

"Having known her as familiarly as I knew either of my parents, 
I cannot believe in the moral or physical inferioiity of the race to which 
she belonged." + * * 



GRANDFATHER SOL. 

One of tliose benevolent ladies who have so nobly devoted them- 
selves to the cause of human rights, in instructing the colored people 
of Cincmnati, has forwarded us the substance of a conversation with 
a remarkable personage of that city, who goes by no other name than 
that of "Grandfather Sol." He was stolen from Africa, and has passed 
through the honors of American slavery. He is now blind and bowed 
down under the weight, as is supposed, of a hundred years of toil. 
Our correspondent says, " These are a few of the things he has told 
me and others. As we have to get somebody to interpret most that 
he says, liis tale of woe is robbed of its simplest, most interesting garb. 
Though he is old and feeble, robbed of most of his strength by slavery, 
still his mental faculties retain their vigor astonishingly." 

Reader, as we have often remarked before, if we would understand 
slavery, we must hear both sides. We have listened respectfully and 
frequently to the tale of the master, why not listen to that of the slave ? 
Is truth to be found only on the side where there is the strongest mo- 
tive to deceive ? 

Conversation with an old blind emancipated slave, called 
Grandfather Sol. — Where was you born? In Guinea, where 
people don't know any thing about books. Who did you live with? 
With my father and mother until I got to be a young man, when I 
went out to wash my fish trap in a pond one day, and three white 
men came up to me, and told me to go along with them, and they 
would give me some knives and pretty things. I was afraid to go 
wdth them and cried like a dog, for I knew they did not want any thing 
good. They took me on board a ship, where there was one hundred 
men, and two hundred women. We were ironed together, two and 
two, and put down in the bottom of the ship. All the way I felt bad 
in my heart ; I wanted to see my father and mother very bad. No- 
body can tell any thing how black people feel when they are stolen 
from father and mother, and chained and carried way off on the ocean, 
they don't know where. We at last landed at Richmond, Virginia, 
and they began immediately to sell us. I was sold right off to Mr. 

W . What did he give for you ? I don't know ; I could not tell 

scarcely a word that was said to me, and that made me feel lonely 
and bad enough. The overseer whip't me right olT, to let me know 
what the whip meant. I found this was badder country, worse than 
Guinea. Did you have to work very hard ? Work, all loork — all day 
long, all night long often, and all Sunday long, — took little naps now 
and then. I knew something about God in Guinea, but with this 

1* 



4 GRANDFATHER SOL, (42 

rfiaster I heard nothing of God or my soul. I lived with this man I 
should think several years, then he gave me to liis daughter when she 
was married. There I found another bad master, no peace or rest to 
poor me. When he had been away and got back, he used to whip all 
his slaves, to let them know that he had got home, and to make them 
afraid of him. He whip't one slave to death, because he got religion. 
I was a new hand, and would fight the overseer. So master had my 
hands tied together, and me hung up in the barn, and whip't one hun- 
dred lashes v^ath a hickory switch. It cut raw gashes every blow, and 
before it would get well, it was cut over again, — back never well wliilst 

I lived wth Mr. W . I suppose you had enough to eat didn't 

you ? No ; hungry all day long — sometimes went aways to the neigh- 
bors at ni2;ht, and they would give me a hoe-cake. How long did 
you stay there ? I can't tell exactly, but I should think eight or nine 
years. — Hungry all that time. Sometimes I went into tlie woods to 
cry. I had no friends. — Slaves can't be friends to one another ; you 
fraid for friend, and friend fraid for you. I have found out since that 
God was my friend, but I did not know it then. I was sold again, and 
got quite a good master. Christian man — he whip't me only two or 
three times. He called all his slaves from the tobacco-field to go to 
prayers. He used to sing, 

" That awfuT day will surely come, 

The appointed hour makes haste, 

When I must stand before my judge, 

And pass the solemn test," 
All the Baptists round there used to come to his house to meeting. 
1 went one time to laugh at the minister ; but he said to all sinners, if 
you do not repent you will go to hell. When I heard that, I felt con- 
demned before God, and felt that I was a sinner. I prayed all the 
time — slept mighty little — often would lie down by hoe in the field, 
and would stay there all night — pray most all the time, fraid if I M'^ent 
to sleep the devil would have me. Nobody would tell me how to 
come to Christ, for fear that I would learn experience by hearing 
others, and tell I had reUgion before I knew any thing about it. They 
said you must get it all from God. I was sick one day, and laid down — 
word came to me, get up. I did, and felt happy. I run to tell master 
what God had done for my soul, but I could hardly walk for happi- 
ness. I cried for happiness — tried to find my sins again, but could 
not. I joined the church, and was so happy 1 hardly wanted to eat. 
It seemed like as I had wings ; — I worked a great deal better. In a 
little while I was sold again to a master worse than all. Nob.ody so 

bad as Mr. S . One day I found a bridle in the v.oods, sold it to 

a woman, and I got one hundred lashes. He put one woman into the 
fire and burnt her up — said she should go to hell with him. He would 
not give his black people scarcely any thins to eat. Vv'e had no meat 
— wanted it bad enough. One man would have it, so he would kill a 
hog now and then, and hide it in a hollow tree. When he was whip't 
for stealing, he would turn and wliip master ! Was you good to 

work? Yes ; when I took hold of hoe, dirt must come. Master S 

would not let me have time to drink — sometimes whip you when drink- 
ing. He marked his women-slaves by giving one a black dress, an- 



43] GRANDFATHER SOL. 7 

other a red one, another white, so that he could tell them a great way 
off, and whip those that did not work well. He lulled many men- 
slaves; some fell down dead in the field. How did he kill them? 
'■'■He broke their hearts:'' He was afraid I would run away, so he 
fastened a fifty-six to my leg. It had a long chain ; when I had gone 
the length of it, I drawed it to me. It is of no use to talk about him, 
he is dead long ago. Where do you think he has gone ? Behind hell 
fire. I don't think hell is bad enough for him. I believe mighty few 
white people will go to heaven. Was you ever married? Yes, I 
have had three wives. My first wife was sold off ten miles, and mas- 
ter no let me go so far as that. I felt bad, very bad to part with her ; 
I loved that wife, and my heart is with her yet. 

You white people need not blame black people for having so many 
wives ; it be white people's fault. They sell your wives away from 
you. Where was you in the time of the war with England ? I was 
in it. I knew General Washington ; he good man. I believe he has 
gone to heaven. Did you fight ? No ; I waited on General Walla e. 
I tell you what, if war ever come again, it will be a worser war. I 
want war to come to set my 'lations free. I want no more slavery, 
but every body work for themselves. That will be right ; then it will 
be warmer weather. God make it so cold because white people do 
black people so bad. 

[Is this sentiment to be wondered at ? Yet it was not taught this 
old man by the abolitionists ! — Ed.] 

How did you get free ? A good man that lives somewhere about 
here brought me from Lexington. He said I was too old to work. 
Master gave me to him. After a while his brother-in-law came after 
me — wanted I should work more. But people would not let me go — 
laughed at him — he was ashamed, and went off. Where did you leave 
your wife and children ? All in slavery. I want to see them mighty 
bad. But you are blind, grandfather Sol, and can't see ! Well, I should 
know their voices, and they would sound sweet, and I could take hold 
of their hands besides. I wish my children was free, I would have 
them learn trades ; one a blacksmith, another a tailor, &c. &c. I pray 
for them every day, that God would make them good, and make their 
masters' hearts soft. God hear my prayer. I love the good people 
that are trying to get the slaves free. You think, missee, that they will 
ever get the slaves free in old Kentuck ? I thinly they will, grand- 
father. — I don't know, they hold 'em mighty tight. In old Virginia 
v/hito people say you set niggers free, they'll starve and wont work. 
You believe that is true ? No, masters and all the white people starve 
more hke, for now slaves take care of themselves and white people 
too. If they will set 'em free, I think they would work well, and get 
fs>.rms, and make good crops. Did you ever want to read the Bible ? 
Yes, me want to know very much what God say to me a poor sinner, 
but who would read it me? If I learn to read, master think I'd be free 
directly. What makes you so crooked ? (he is very crooked.) Hoe, 
— when I was a slave and worked in the field, I was 'fraid to stand up 
and rest — kept bent all the time so my head would not be above the 
rest. When you see, missee, old slaves all bent over, you may know 



8 GRANDFATHER SOL. [44 

what made them so. What makes your toes look so? (they are 
some of them part gone.) When master got mad at me, he take my 
shoes and make me go barefooted — froze my feet. What makes your 
ear look so ? (that is part gone.) Master cut off the rim of it. What 
for? Nothing at all. He said I stole some buttermilk, but I didn't 
do it. Did you ever steal ? I have took things without leave. If you 
don't steal you starve. It is not stealing to take from masters : you 
pay for it a hundred times — is not that enough ? I'll tell you what, 
I'll say you are my mistress ; you set in the house, and master too ; I 
go out into tiic field in the hot sun, raise crops — now you call it all 
yours, but is not part of it mine ? Did you ever run away ? Yes, a 
great many times ; but always got ketched, and then cut almost to 
pieces. I run away once and went off in tlie woods and staid long, 
long time. I dug a hole in the ground, left a little place to crawl in 
at, and staid there day times, and in the night I would go to some 
black people's houses and get something to eat. Sometimes most 
starved. Could not go further ; — if I went back, I knew I should be 
alrnost killed, and then I was a poor starving Guinea nigger slave. I 
got caught, and always expected to be ; but would run away to rest, 
for almost dead with hard work. How did you feel to see slave-holders 
partake the sacrament ? I tell you what, I went to a woods meeting 
once where there was a great many white people going to partake the 
sacrament. I was going away, but something said to me, Sol, Sol, 
you tell them they eat and drink damnation to their souls. I 'fraid to 
say that ; but it come again, and I thought God told me, and I was 
afraid to disobey. So I went up to the head of the table, and cried, 
Behold, you fine ladies and gentlemen, you eat and drink damnation 
to your souls. When I had said that, some of my friends seized me 
and carried me off into the woods, fear I would be killed. Do you 
know how old you are ? I suppose I am about one hundred. I should 
think I was a thousand, for 1 have been in so many different places. 
I want to go home to heaven mighty bad. I am waiting, hoping, pray- 
ing God will call Sol every day. I want to leave this wretched world, 
and go where all is light, and love, and peace. When we get to hea- 
ven, all will be of one mind and heart. My soul will be as white as 
yours. If poor nigger only come to Jesus, he make his soul as white 
as snow. I push on my journey ; God is here now, and is all the 
company I have. He and I have meetings together ; I feel as if I am 
marching to Jerusalem. Christians are like hunting dogs, always 
hunting for Jesus. If I lose him, I hunt till I find him. I see by an 
eye of faith into heaven now and then, and see Jesus there. The 
scars in his hands and side are not healed yet. It makes me weep 
to see them sometimes. I hope God in heaven hear such a poor dry 
boned Guinea nigger as I. Sometimes I sing, and sometimes I pray. 

"Hark from the tombs a doleful sound, 

My ears attend the cry ; 

Ye living men come view the ground. 

Where you must shortly lie." 
[He says this is liis favorite hymn.] If God had been like my 
thoughts, I should been home long ago. Can't hardly tell what I live 
for, but must wait till God calls me. 



Isj 



ANECDOTES, ETC. 



ANECDOTES OF THE COLORED SCHOOLS IN CIN- 
CINNATL 

We are gratified to learn from the same lady who has furnished us 
the foregoing conversation, that the interest of the colored people in 
their schools, continues unabated. Indeed, since Mr. Birney has 
commenced his labors in Cincinnati, the colored people have been 
stimulated to greatly increased efforts to obtain education, and they 
have done more to sustain the schools in a few weeks, than in a year 
previously. 

The following anecdotes strikingly illustrate their tliirst for knowl- 
edge, and the benefit they derive from it. From such minds it is that 
slavery seals the book of God ! Who shall fathom the folly or guage 
the guilt of liiis nation ! 

A slave's thirst for knowledge. 

Some time since a colored man visited one of our schools. After 
listening for a while to tiie reading and spelhng of the scholars, he was 
askod to make some remarks ; he said, " Children, when I was a httle 
boy I was a slave. I had no such privileges as you have. I wanted 
to learn, but my master was not willing. One day his little son came 
home from school saying his lesson ; I was perfectly charmed with it. 
Got him to go into the field one Sunday with me, and that day I 
learned all my alphabet When my master found out I was learning 
to read so, I had to stop, and learned no more for several years, when 
one of his daughters, on whom I waited, learned me to spell. I can 
now read and write. I will tell you, children, how J learned to write. 
I would pick up pieces of paper that had writing on them, and copy 
them. I never had a copy set me. O, children, it seems to me if I 
had your chance when I was young, I should have read through every 
book in the world." 

THE GOOD SAMARITAN. 

In one of our Sabbath schools there is a class of aged mothers, who 
come with their spectacles on to learn how to read. A few Sabbaths 
a^o, our Sunday School lesson wa« about the " good Samaritan." One 
of them was asked what she thought about the Priest and Levite, she 
remarked, they did just as I have done a great many times ; but I 
never shall do so any mere. " This lesson has made my heart a heap 
softer ; it has made a soft spot that never was made there before." 
On the next Sabbath we found she truly had followed Christ's direc- 
tion ; had literally gone and done likewise. She remarked to her 
teacher, God has been trying me this week, to see if I would do any 
better foi going to Sabbath School. There came t(j my house a poor 
woman with a sick child, she had been turned out of doors several 
times. I took her in — sat up with her child three nights, and it died 
on my lap. She offered to pay me, but I would not take it, for I 
found it good to do good. Now I never should have done this if it 
had not been for that Sabbath-School lesson." 



10 ladies' anti-slavery societies. [46 

LADIES' ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETIES. 

Those whose desire it is to shut out from society as much as possible 
all humane and softening influences, those who are grieved to lose the " 
despotic sway of the lazy savage or of the licentious Turk, may well 
hate Ladies' Anti-Slavery Societies. But why should enlightened 
Christians, who profess to admire the pecuhar benevolence of the 
female character, and to invoke its aid in purifying, elevating, and 
saving the world, hate them ? Where in the universe should woman 
intercede, with those prayers and tears of hers, which all but brutes 
respect, if not between the proud, avaricious, cruel American slave- 
masters, and their trembling, broken-hearted slaves ? 

We set an equal value on the manhood and the abolitionism of the 
man who rails at Female Anti-Slavery Societies. We rejoice in the 
rapid multiplication of these interesting and efficient institutions. It 
would be invidious to single out any for pecuUar praise, but we cannot 
refrain from saying how much our hearts are cheered by the intelli- 
gence of the last few days. An agent writes, that he has just attended 
the meeting of a Ladies' County Anti- Slavery Society, in Ashtabula 
county, Ohio. A large number of ladies were present ; one hundred 
and fifty-one new members were added, makin^ the whole two hun- 
dred and twenty-four. They employed a well qualified agent to 
traverse the county, asid form a ladies' society in each town. Four or 
five such societies have been already organized by their agent. An- 
other county society on the same plan, has just been formed by a 
meeting of ladies at Ravenna, Portage county, Ohio. Let the work 
go on. Is this organization of ladies extraordinary, and out of the 
range of domestic life ? So is the cause. — So is the cause. Think 
for a moment how many homes are desolate by slavery. 

But nothing has given us higher pleasure than a pamphlet of one 
hundred and eight pages, entitled " Right and Wrong in Boston," 
the report of the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society. Instead of 
speaking of it, we will give it the room to speak for itself. It thus de- 
scribes its own annual meeting, which was broken up by " gentlemen 
of property and standing." 

" The President called the meeting to order, and read some appro- 
priate passages of scripture. ' Training's begun ! Hurra! here comes 
Judge Lynch !' shouted the rioters, and the words were passed down 
the stairs to the crowd in the street. We knelt and united with the 
President in prayer. During the few moments so employed, we felt 
as did Schiller on his death-bed : 'Many things now are clear.' Our 
souls were strengthened and borne above the violence and insult with 



47] ladies' anti-slavery societies. 11 

which we were surrounded. Our hopes, our faith, our fortitude, were 
increased. We felt grateful that we were accounted worthy thus to 
express our devotion to truth. We rejoiced that it was our privilege 
to live in times calling for the exercise of the noblest power with which 
God has endowed his creatures ; the power to suffer for his righteous- 
ness' sake. It was given us to comprehend the minds held forth as 
examples by the fervent apostles ; — even ' women, not accepting de- 
liverance, that they might receive a better resurrection.' We saw the 
very process by which out of the mouth of the weak, 'God ordains 
strength, to still the enemy and the avenger.' Our prayer was for 
those in bonds, as bound with them. Our thanksgiving, that though 
there were many to molest, there were none that could make us afraid. 
There was a composure imparted to us, which, for a time, extended 
to the multitude, by the untremulous voice, which rose clear and calm 
above the tumult. But we prayed for our friends and brethren in 
a neighboring state, whom that hour had gathered together, perhaps to 
die ; for the success of the common cause ; for all throughout the earth 
who had laid fortune, fame, or life upon its altar. Here the clamor 
increased, so that nothing further could be heard. The slight partition 
began to yield. The mob hurled missiles at the lady presiding. The 
secretary rose and began to read her report, utterly inaudible from the 
confusion. At this moment Mr. Lyman entered. 

" We record no 'imaginary conversation.' The following is, word 
for word, what passed between him, the President, and other ladies. 

Mr. Lyman. Go home, ladies, go home. 

President. What renders it necessary we should go home ? 

Mr. Lyman. I am the mayor of the city, and I cannot now explain; 
but will call upon you this evening. 

President. If the ladies will be seated, we will take the sense of the 
meeting. 

Mr. Lyman. Don't stop, ladies ; go home. 

President. Will the ladies listen to a letter addressed to the Society, 
by Francis Jackson, Esq. 

Mr. Lyman. Ladies, do you wish to see a scene of bloodshed and 
confusion ? If you do not, go home. 

One of the Ladies. Mr. Lyman, your personal friends are the insti- 
gators of this mob ; have you ever used your personal influence with 
them? 

Mr. Lyman. I know no personal friends ; I am merely an official. 
Indeed, ladies, you must retire. It is dangerous to remain. 

Lady. If this is the last bulwark of freedom, we may as well die 
here as any where. 

Mr. Lyman. Do you wish to prolong this scene of confusion ? 

President. Can we pass out safely ? 

Mr. Lyman. If you will go now, I will protect you, but cannot un- 
less you do. 

" A motion was then made to adjourn, which was carried. We 
passed down the staircase, amid the manifestations of a revengeful 
brutality. If the worst enemies o^ some we saw, had told us that such 
unmanly and shameful ideas as they openly expressed, lurked in the 
most hidden recesses of their minds, we should have disbelieved it. 



12 



f48 



The way was darkened by the crowd that blocked up the windows, 
so that we could but just discern faces ; but there was no mistake. We 
oould identify those faces, even if we had never seen them before. 
When we emerged into the open daylight, tliere went up a roar of 
rage and contempt, which increased when they saw that we did not 
intend to separate, but walked in regular procession. They slowly 
gave way as M^e came out. As far as we could look eitlier way the 
crowd extended — evidently of the so-called ' wealthy and respectable ;' 
'the moral worth,' the ' influence and standing.' We saw the faces 
of those we had, till now, thought friends ; — men whom we never be- 
fore met without giving the hand in friendly salutation ; — men whom 
till nov/ we should have called upon for condemnation of ruffianism, 
with confidence that the appeal would be answered ; men vi'ho have 
repeatedly said they were 'as much anti-slavery as we were,' that 
'our principles were righteous,' and they only objected to the rashness 
of upholding them. Yet they did not, ' like the Priest and the Levite, 
pass by on the other side ;' but waited with looks of satisfaction an<^ 
approval to see the result." 



RECEIPTS 



Into tlie TreasiTi'y of the American A. S. Society, 

from February 15tli, to March 15th, 1835. 
Moultonboro, N. H. , Rev. J. Dodge, 3 00 

Chester, Vt. , Jesse Stedmaii, 5 00 

HebronviUe, Mass., A. S. S.,per C. Simmons, 8 00 
Middleborough, " H.G.Wood, 3 00 

South Hau'.ey, " Eli Siearns, 5 00 

ChaDlin, Conn., J. C. Martin, 75 

MidLiletown, " Edwin Hunt, 7 76 

Albany, N. Y..S. J.Pennyman,pr J. Ltavitt, 50 00 
" " ■ Miss C. Pennyman, " 10 00 

Amsterdam, N. Y. , P. Stewart, 1 00 



Canandaigua, 
Hudson, 



A Friend, 4 00 

S. Plumb, by C. Mai-riott. 5 00 

H. W. Bessac, " ' 2 00 

C. Marriott, 

Cash, 

Maria Marriott, 

L. Marriott, 

Cash, 



H. D. Slfinner, 
Adam Van De Bee, 
Cash, 

" 25, 2.5, 



Oswego CO. , 



Schenectady, 
Walton, 



George Robinson, 
Silas Stone, 

A. S. S. on account of 

$200 pleilge, by S. Clark, 25 00 

Elisha Taylor, 5 00 

v.aiiuii, A.P.St. John, 5 00 

Wales, N. Y., D. Needha.Ti, per H. J-yman, 2 00 

Friends, " 2 67 

New-York City, Thomas Garner, Jr. , 100 00 

" Arthur Tappan, 2.50 00 

" John Rankin, 100 00 

" T. L. Jennings, on account 

of SiSOO pledge, 25 CO 

" Rev. E. Wlieeler, 1 00 

« P. Shapter, 5 TO 

" George H. White, 10 00 

'• Rev. George Bourne, 5 00 

"id with the following 
to the A. A. S. S.— 



"The master's: portion, to 
assist in delivering our Re- 
ptiblic from slavery," 50 00 

Boonton Falls, N. J. j A. S. S. per D. Grimes, 10 00 
Newark, " A. N. Dougherty, 100 00 

" N. J. , Ellison Conscer, per R. G. W. , 75 00 
Springfield, N. J., A few Friends, 100 00 

Montrose, Pa., Dorcas Soc. by M. A. Lycn, 5 50 
Pittsburg, " Ladies' A. S. S., by Mrs. 1?. 

W. LamKlin, 25 00 

York, " A. S. S.,porJ. Coffin, 3 GO 

Auslinburg, O. Monthly Concert, by L. Bissell, 3 00 
Cincinnati, " A. S. S. per Wni. Doi.aldson, 95 00 
Geneva, " A. S. S per L. Eissci:, 3 00 

New Gai-den, O., B. B. Davis, 10 00 

Windham, " Rev. Wm. Hanford, 2 12 

Allegim, Mich., A. L. Ely, 5 00 

.$1148 80 



Monthly Collections received by the Pul 
Agent, from February 1st, to March 1st, 
Alton, II!. , W. A. Whitney, 
Auburn, N. Y., by H. Cliapin, 
Ciizenovia, N. Y. , hy P. Keilogg, 
Darien, Conn., by W. Whitney, 
D:inbar;on, N. H.,by G. Kent, Esq 
Marceilus, N. Y.,by A. Rockw-ell, 
NewGarden, 0., bv W. Grififeth, 
Oneida In.?titnte, N. Y. , I)v W. J. Savage, 
Pulnam, O , by H. C. Howell, 
Springfield, N J., J.Wljite, 
Received for Emancipator, 
'• Human Rights, 

" Quarterly Magazine, 

" A. S. Recoril, 

" Books, Pamphlets, &c. , 



ilisl^^no 
1S36. 

10 ( 

11 ! 



R. G. -^VirXlAMS, 
Publishing Agent, 144 Nassau SL 
Total Receipts, 



^483 23 



$1632 09 



TilK 



ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 



Vol. II. Ko. V. 



MAY, 1836. 



Whole No. 17. 




A SLAVE CAUGHT WITHOUT A PASS. 

The slaves in America enjoy to perfection that pleasant system of 
regulations, which the potentates of the old world devised for the 
comfort of people passing from one kingdom to another. In Europe, 
ever and anon, some whiskered and ferocious looking mercenary pre- 
sents his musket, and demands the traveller's pass ; in America, if a 
husband, after the toils of the day, would visit liis wife and children 
on another plantation, he is stopped by any white person who pleases, 
till he can show his 'pass. The husband that suffers this, to be sure, 
is a slave — the legal properly of his master. But how is the system 
any the more just for that ? This interdiction of locomotion makes it 
necessary to subject the slave not only to the master, but to every 
other white person. Witness the following law of South Carolina, 
passed as long ago as 1740: "If any slave, who shall be out of the 
house or plantation where such slave shall live, or shall be usuafl-y 



g A SLAVE CAUGHT WITHOUT A PASS. [50 

employed, or without some white person in company with such slave, 
shall refuse to submit to undergo the examination of any ichite person, 
it shall be lawful for any such white person to pursue, apprehend, and 
moderately correct such slave ; and if such slave shall assault and 
strike such white person, such slave may be lawfully killed ! /" 2 Bre- 
tardus Digest, 231. Whether such a barbarous law exists in Tennes- 
see we have not the means of ascertaining, but suppose so from the 
following statement of Dr. Nelson, in his late "Letter to the Presby- 
terians of Tennessee, Kentucky, and Missouri." Dr. Nelson, being 
himself a Tennessean, must at any rate have ftdl credit for his facts. 
He says : 

" Another train of facts with which you are acquainted : you know 
the following case to be an uncoiored picture, in sections where slaves 
are numerous. I saw the man who managed as overseer for one of 
your wealthy citizens, who was famed for his hospitality, good com- 
pany, &c. The salary of the overseer was enough to enable him to 
purchase a slave of his own annually, wliich he worked with those of 
his employer. I heard the way Christians by profession spake of this 
man. I saw the way they received him.' The language and the 

meaning of it are both familiar to you. They said, ' Mr. is a 

good manager. He gives his servants plenty to eat, and good warm 
clothing ; but he makes them kiiow their places. He does not starve 
them, but he will have them to obey.' I will remind you of the way 
he secured this commendation. The toMp he carried had a short han- 
dle, but a lash several yards long. It was said that he could use this 
with so much skill, as to stand at a distance and lay open the skin as 
though it had been done with a knife. Those he walked after in the 
jfield knew not to even seemingly loiter, from the rising of the sun 
until it set. They then knew not to leave their quarters for the night. 
If the servants of others in the neighborhood, after working hard all 
day, felt a wish to visit and enjoy the society of some to whom they 
were attached, tliis being the only earthly pleasure which they could 
ever reach, the overseer at dusk mounted his horse, and with gilt spurs 
and polished gloves rods the land, and when he met a man with skin 
not colored like his own, he stopped and demanded his pass. If this 
was not produced, whatever pleas of excuse were urged, mingled with 
entreaties for pardon and permission to go unpunished, tliis ' good ma- 
nager,' for his amusement and for the diversion of his companions, 
during these entreaties would pretend extreme deafness, and make the 
suppliant speak at the top of has voice, asking a long list of questions, 
and holding his ear close to the mocked one, make him scream his 
answers. Then taking his position at the proper distance for the fair 
sweep of his lohip, he looidd command the sad hearted one to dance. He 
would make him do it, and whilst he was dancing, woidd inflict his skil- 
ful blows. Then he would approach, act the deaf man, and renew 
the conversation ; alternating this amusement until satisfied, and then 
^o to seek another teast." 



51] ILLUSTRATION OP THE STRENGTH OF PREJUDICE. 3 

Q,uery. Which is the most " incendiary ;" this picture by Dr. Nel- 
son, or that by our engraver at the head of the article? 

Again. Which has the strongest tendency to excite insurrecti4m ; 
the conduct of the "g-oorf manager j" or Dr. Nelson's and ours in 
making pictures of his ? 

[From the Oasis.] 

BY MRS. CHILD. 

ILLUSTRATION OF THE STRENGTH OF PREJUDICE. 

The following account is a literal matter of fact. The names of 
persons and places are concealed by the editor, because she wishes to 
excite no angry feelings in attempting to show how many discourage- 
ments are thrown in the way of colored people who really desire to be 
respectable. The letters are copied from the originals, with merely a 
few alterations in the orthography of the last. 

Mr. James E was a respectable colored man, residing in Mas- 
sachusetts, in a certain town not far from Boston. He had been early 
impressed with the importance of religious subjects, and at twenty-six 
years of age made a pubUc profession of his faith. He had a large 
family, and when they were all old enough to attend church, it was 
found difficult to accommodate them on the seats their parents had 

usually occupied. Mr. E was desirous of purchasing a pew 

which stood as it were by itself, being surrounded by the aisle and 
the stair-case. Some difficulty occurred because a widow had a right 
to one tliird ; but this was finally arranged to the satisfaction of all 
parties. Mr. E.'s eldest son paid the purchase money, and received 
a deed of the pew. As soon as this became known, a member of the 
church called upon Mr. E., and exliorted him not to injure the sale of 
the pew by occupying it. Mr. E. answered, that it had been bought 
for the accommodation of his family, and they had no wish to sell it. 
The church brother answered, " Let him that thinketh he standeth, 
take heed lest he fall." 

Private meetings were immediately held, which resulted in summon- 
ing Mr. E. to appear before the church, to give an account of his pro- 
ceedings. Here he was accused of a wilful and flagrant outrage upon 
the church and upon the society. In reply he called their attention to 
the covenant by which each church member was bound to share the 
burdens of the church, and promised full enjoyment of all its privi- 
leges. He thought this gave any member a right to own a pew, pro- 
vided he could honestly pay for one. As a citizen of a free country, 
he conceived that he had a right to purchase a pew ; nor could he find 
anything in the whole tenor of the Bible opposed to it. 

When requested to declare the price his son had paid for the pew, 
he declined answering. A committee was appointed, and the meeting 
adjourned. 

This committee called on Mr. E. to " labor with him," as they termed 
it The Elder attempted to justify their proceedings by talking of a 



4 ILLUSTRATION OF THE STRENGTH OT PREJUDICE. [52 

gradation in creation, from the highest seraph to the meanest insect. 
To support this doctrine, he quoted from the fifteenth chapter of the 
first Epistle to the Corinthians : "All flesh is not the same flesh; but 
there is one kind of flesh of men, another flesh of beasts, another of 
fishes, and another of birds. 

" There are also celestial bodies, and bodies terrestrial ; but the 
glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another. 

" There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and 
another glory of the stars ; for one star diflereth from another star in 
glory." 

The Elder said this difference of flesh was visible among people of 
different features and complexions. In answer to these remarks, Mr. 
E. reminded him that, in the verses he had quoted, the Apostle ex- 
pressly says, " There is one kind of flesh of men ;" the difference 
alluded to was between the flesh of men and the flesh of beasts. He 
added that God had distinctly declared, "He made of one blood all 
nations of men to dwell on the face of the earth." 

The committee easily perceived that the Eider's scriptural argu- 
ments were feeble. They said a good deal about the advantages of 
peace and harmony in the church, and earnestly desired that the pew 
might be given up. One gentleman declared that it was his opinion 
that Mr. E. had as good a right to own a pew as any other individual 
in the community ; but if he would of his own free will relinquish the 
possession of it, for the sake of peace, it would be a very acceptable 
service. If all had spoken with equal mildness and candor, the affair 
would probably have been easily settled ; but bitter and contemptuous 
words are not the best means of persuading a man to rehnqmsh his 
own rights, for the convenience or pleasure of others. 

The Eider declared that he had exerted his utmost influence to 
restore order and tranquillity. When asked if he had tried to induce 
the son to give up his claim to the pew he had purchased, he answered 
"No ; if I cannot persuade professors of religion to do right, I cannot 
expect to gain any thing with world's people ; and I will do nothing 
about it." 

Another meeting was soon after held ; Mr. E. and his son attended, 
and, for the first time, took their seats in the pew. The same argu- 
ments were made use of, concerning a gradation in creation from 
tilings superior to things most inferior ; and these arguments were met 
by similar replies. The question was put to vote, whether Mr. E. 
should be allowed to sit in the pew ; and it was unanimously decided 
that the church were unwilling to allow them that privilege. A larger 
committee was appointed, and the meeting adjourned. 

On the next Sabbath, Mr. E. and his son took their seats in the 
pew. In the afternoon, the Elder took his text from the eleventh chap- 
ter of Eccdesiastes : " Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth, and let thy 
heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of 
thine heart, and in the sight of thine eyes : but know thou that for all 
these things God will bring thee into judgment." During his dis- 
course, the speaker was very much excited. 

The next Sunday the pew was found covered with tar, and a part 
of the seats torn down. 



53] ILLUSTRATION OF THE STRENGTH OF PREJUDICE. 6 

On the third Sunday, a cord was observed suspended from the gal- 
lery; on examination, it was found that a jug of filthy water was tied 
to It, and so arranged as to empty itself upon whoever touched the line 
in entering the pew. The remainder of the seats and the walls were 
scon after torn down, and thrown into an adjoining pasture. A tem- 
porary seat answered the purposes of the family for awhile ; but in a 
short time tliis was demolished, and the platform itself torn up, leaving 
a hole about two feet square. 

The son of Mr. E. related these facts to the editor, and added very 
dryly : " When the celd weather came on, this proved a serious incon- 
venience to the whole congregation ; but they bore it for some time, 
with Christian fortitude." Another church meeting was called, and 
an attempt made to prove that Mr. E. had been guilty of dissimulation 
in his manner of obtaining the pew. It was stated that he had induced 
the widow to sell her share, by telling her he had already given her 
son-in-law security for the price, and that the deed was made out. In 
reply, Mr. E. urged that he had told the widow the bargain was all 
completed, and waited only for her consent; and when she asked if he 
had paid for it, he answered he had given his word for the money, 
which was as good security as his bond. He wished to prove this 
statement by witness, but tbe church declined to admit his evidence. 
A lawyer, who was present, said if any man passed his word before 
witnesses, it was good for one year ; and therefore, he conceived that 
Mr. E. had made himself responsible for the payment of the pew, to 
all intents and purposes. The majority were, liov/ever, decidedly in 
favor of withdrawing the right hand of fellowship from their colored 
brother, a^n the ground that he had practised deceit in saying he had 
given security for the purchase. He was accordingly excommuni- 
cated. The Church denied any co-operation in the destruction of the 
pew, Mr, E. told them he knew nothing about that, but he thought 
they had in their proceedings manifested a similar spirit. Since they 
were unwilling to listen to the evidence he could bring, he asked to 
have the question of dissimulation fairly tried before impartial referees. 
But the Elder said that was unnecessary ; and he closed by reminding 
the culprit that he would have avoided the punishment, if he had but 
followed his direction in the beginning. Yet had he done as was 
required of him, the charge of deceit in the purchase of the pew must 
have had precisely the same degree of truth it had under other circum- 
stances. 

Mr. E. laid the case before ex-parte counsel, was acquitted of the 
charge brought against him, and received a recommendation to other 
churches. The family no longer attended at the meeting-house where 
their property had been so wantonly destroyed. After some time, 
Mrs. E. received the following letter : 

"Mrs. S E : 

" The church of which you have been a member, have to regret 
that they are compelled to say to you, that in theii- opinion, your rea- 
sons for being so long time absent from the communion are not suffi- 
cient to justify you; and according to our covenant obligations, we 
must withdraw from you the hand of fellowsliip, and consider you no 



6 ILLUSTRATION OF THE STRENGTH OF PREJUDICE. [54 

longer as a member of the church. We hope you will consider the 
solemn covenant obligations you once took upon yourself, and return 
to your heavenly Father, and to the church, who would gladly again 
restore you to your former privilege in the church. 

" By order and in behalf of the church in S . 

"J T- — ,Clerk.'» 

Mrs. E. replied as follows : 

«* To the church in S : 

"I received your committee with marked respect, and agreeable 
to request gave my mind on the subject of my former connexion with 
you. After you had bound yourself by a covenant obligation, in the 
presence of God, angels, and men, that we should mutually enjoy all 
the privileges of the church, you brought a groundless allegation 
against my husband, of dissimulation in attempting to purchase a 

pew. Elder , who was at that time our minister, uader the 

influence of a blind, infatuated zeal, used all his influence against the 
right cause. Instead of being as " wise as a serpent, and harailess as 
a dove," he was as venomous as a serpent, to the everlasting shame 
and disgrace of his profession. He, with a few others, urged my 
husband to give up the pew my son had bought, upon the plea that it 
was not customary for colored people to have a pew on the floor of the 
meeting-house. They said the difficulty would all be settled if he 
would give it up ; and finding they could not obtain this, they called 
a church-meeting, and set him aside. 

"I have ever been dissatisfied with the treatment my husband 
received. It seemed to me unreasonable, unchristian, dishonest, and 
hypocritical — contrary to every principle of justice and humanity, and 
to our Saviour's golden rule, ' Do ye unto others whatsoever ye would 
that they should do unto you.' I ask, what man among you would 
like to be turned out of the church merely because his son bought a 
pew ? Who cannot see that the real difficulty was on account of a 
black man's owning a pew, and that the charge of dissimulation was 
forged out ? 

" As it respects features and shades of complexion, God has said 
that 'He made of one blood all nations of men, to dwell on all the 
face of the earth.' He declares that ' He is no respecter of persons ; 
but in every nation he that feareth God, and worketh righteousness, is 
accepted of him.' What right, then, has one part of creation to usurp 
dommion over the other part, merely because they are a little whiter ? 
(and not much, neither.) The Bill of Rights declares that all men 
are born equal, and endowed with certain inalienable rights, among 
which are Ufe, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Nothing is said 
concerning color, whether it be white, red, black, or yellow. 

" If a citizen buy a pew in a house dedicated to God, what right 
have Christians and sinners, with the Elder at their head, to join to- 
gether in lording it over God's heritage, and declare by vote that they 
are not willing people should enjoy their propert}^, in this land of gos- 
pel light and liberty ? Does tms seem like ' setting together in hea- 
venly places, in Christ Jesus?' Is this letting love be without dissi- 
mulation ? Be assured, the only way to be accepted with God is to 



55] PHILLIS WHEATLEt. 7 

keep his commandments ; and he requires us to love him supremely, 
and our neighbor as ourselves. 

" By the grace of God, I am determined to walk worthy of the vo- 
cation whereunto I have been called. I am far advanced in life, and 
the time of my departure is at hand. It is a consolation to me that I 
have no personal animosity against your church. I ever cherish a 
spirit of forgiveness ; but I cannot remain in fellowship with any 
church or people, who make a distinction on account of complexion." 



For the A. S. Record. 
PHILLIS WHEATLEY. 

Many of our young readers have heard of Phillis Wheatley, the 
African slave, who wrote poems, and published a book. She was 
only seven or eight years old, when the men-stealers took her from her 
fiiends and playmates, and confined her in a slave ship. The vessel 
which brought her to America was owned by Colonel Fitch, a rich 
man, who traded in slaves, and Uved in the city of Boston. Phillis 
had not been long here before she was sold to Mr. John Wheatley, 
and from him she took her surname. She soon learned to read, for in 
those days slaves were taught to read, and were instructed in the 
Bible. She also learned how to write, and after a while began to write 
verses. Some of these were seen by the family, who showed them to 
several of the ministers and schoolmasters in Boston, and they were 
greatly surprised and pleased in finding a poor slave able to write so 
well. At length she wrote a number of poems, and some of them 
were printed. It was thought to be a great wonder that a colored per- 
son, and one born in Africa, should be able to write poetry in the 
English language. Some of the friends of Phillis thought she had 
better go to England, where she would receive many presents, which 
would assist her to acquire further knowledge, and enable her to print 
her poems in a book. 

Accordingly, she sailed for England, and when she arrived there, 
she was treated with much kindness. The people were much pleased 
to see her, for they had heard about her being a poet before her arrival. 
The Countess of Huntingdon, a good and kind lady, was her warm 
friend, and invited PhilUs to stay with her some time, and took her to 
her chapel, where Mr. Whitefield had so often preached. She had 
her poems pubUshed in London in 1773. 

After she returned to Boston, she went to see her old master's family, 
for they had treated her kindly. Col. Fitch had a large house, and 
lived in much splendor. He had white servants and colored servants. 
He had a large family of daughters, and they thought much of their 
father's wealth and station. Mrs. Fitch was a very kind woman, and 
invited Phillis to spend the afternoon with her. The daughters, 
though they were glad to see her, could not imagine how she would be 
disposed of at tea time ; for like many persons at the present day, they 
could not bear the idea of sitting down at table with a colored person, 
even though she had sat at table with a countess. They wer«L- there- 



8 THE slave's prayer. [56 

fore very anxious to learn of their mother, what she should do with 
Phillis at tea time. Mrs. Fitch told them at once that she was to be 
seated with them. They pouted a little, but submitted to their mother's 
directions. 

When tea was brought in, Phillis took her seat with the fair daugh- 
ters of Col. Fitch. She soon began to give an account of her visits at 
various places in England, and describe the persons and things she 
had seen. She had seen King George III. and his queen, and told 
them how Ctueen Charlotte was dressed. She toJd them of St. Paul's 
Cathedral, one of the largest churches in the world ; of Westminster Ab- 
bey, and of London Bridge, with its numerous arches. She told them 
much about the Countess of Huntingdon, and of her charity to the 
poor — that she was kind alike to all, and that she had often been to her 
chapel, and been seated by her side in her pew. In short, as she went 
on with her pleasant and entertaining stories, the young ladies became 
delighted with Phillis ; they became more and more inquisitive to learn 
what she had seen, and found that with all their wealth and advantages, 
she knew more than they did. As she went on with her stories, they 
forgot she had been a slave ; they felt no prejudice against her because 
she was black, and they felt ashamed they had ever made any objec- 
tions to her having a seat at the tea-table. F. 



THE SLAVE'S PRAYER. 

The more abundant the season, the more joyous the laborer, — pro- 
vided he be a free laborer, but it is not so with the slave. With him, 
the richer the hai-vest, the harder the labor, while he gets little if any 
better fare. He and tlie crop which he reaps belong to the same mas- 
ter, who, whether the latter be much or little, is under no necessity of 
giving more to the former than will make him a profitable machine. 
The free laborer, on the other hand, must of necessity share the pros- 
perity of his employer, must be paid and fed according to his labor. 
He will naturally pray for rain and fruitful seasons, whale tlie poor 
slave prays for drought, blasting, and mildev/ ! 

This subject has been set in a clear light by Miss Harriet Marti- 
neau, in a tab of 140 pages, entitled Demerara, piiblished in London, 
1832. The presence of the talented authoress in om* country, and her 
interest in behalf of "our comitrymen in chains," will excuse us for 
prefacing our editorial with a brief notice of her interesting little book. 
The headings of its twelve chapters, no less true than quaint and 
paradoxical, are as follows : 

1. Sunrise brings sorrow in Demerara. 

2. Lav/ endangers property in Demerara. 

3. Prosperity impoverishes in Demerara, 

4. Childhood is wintry in Demerara. 



S72 THE slave's prater. 9 

5. No haste to the wedding in Demerara. 

6. Man worth less than beast in Demerara. 

7. Christianity difficult in Demerara. 

8. The proud covet paupeiism in Demerara. 

9. Calamity welcome in Demerara, 

10. Protection is oppression in Demerara. 

1 1. Beasts hunt men in Demerara. 

12. No master knows his man in Demerara. 

In most of these captions, the name of any one of our slave states 
might be substituted for Demerara, without at all impairing its truth. 

Miss Martineau has vividly and faithfully sketched the workings of 
the slave system under the characters of Mitchelson, a planter ; Hor- 
ner, his overseer; and his slaves, of whom the most remarkable is 
named Cassius, The working of abohtionism is illustrated in the 
character of Alfred, the planter's son, who returns from England full 
of the " fanaticism " of free labor. We recollect nothing in the book, 
for it is long since we read it, in which we do not concur, except a 
mistake about African colonization at its close, into which perhaps the 
benevolent authoress was led by the deceitful representations that were 
made by the Colonization Society's agent in England. Here is our 
extract, and we should not be sorry if it should induce some persons 
to buy the book and read it. 

" Alfred had often wondered, while in England, what Christianity 
could be hke in a slave country. Since he arrived in Demerara, he had 
heard tidings of the Christian teacher who had resided there for a time, 
which gave him a sufficiently accurate notion of the nature of his faith, 
and of that of the planters ; but he was still curious to know how the 
gospel was held by the slaves. He had now an opportunity of learn- 
ing, for Cassius was at prayer. These were snatches of his prayer: 

"'May he sell no sugar, that no woman may die of the heat and 
hard work, and that her baby may not cry for her. If Christ came to 
make men free, let him send a olight that the crop may be spoiled ; 
for when our master is poor, we shall be free. O, Lord, make our 
master poor : make him set under a tree, and see his plantation one 
great waste. Let him see that his canes are dead, and the wind is 
coming to blow down his house and his woods ; and then he will say 
to us, " I hare no bread for you, and you may go." O, God ! pity the 
women who cannot sleep this night because their sons are to be flog- 
ged when the sun rises. O, pity me, because I have worked so long, 
and shall never be free. Do not say to me, " You shall never be free." 
Why shouldst thou spare Horner, who never spares us ? Let hira 
die in his sleep this night, and then there will be many to sin^ to thee 
instead of wailing all the night. We will sing like the birds in the 
morning, if thou wilt take away our fear this night. If Jesus was 
here, he would speak kindly to us, and, perhaps, bring a hurricane for 
OUT sakes. O, do not help us less because he is with thee instead of 



10 THE slave's prayer. [58 

with us ! We have waited long, O Lord ! we have not killed any 
one ; we have done no harm, because thou hast commanded us to be 
patient. If we must wait, do thou give us patience ; for we are very 
miserable, and our grief makes us angry. If we may not be angry, 
be thou angry with one or two, that a great many may be happy.' " 

" These words caught Alfred's ear, amidst many which he could not 
hear. In deep emotion, he was about to beckon his companion, [Mitch- 
elson,] to come and listen too, when he found he was already at his 
elbow. ' Stand and hear him out,' whispered Alfred. * You will do 
him no harm, I am sure. You will not punish a man for his devo- 
tions, be their character what it may. Let Cassius be master for once. 
Let him teach us that which he understands better than we. He 
seems to have thought more than you or I on what Christ would say 
to our authority if he were here. I will go in when he rises, and hear 
more.' 

" ' For God's sake, do not trust yourself with him. Don't ask him 
for water, or anything else. I will have nothing, — ^I am going home 
this moment.' 

" * Then I will follow,' said Alfred, knocking at the door of the hut 
as soon as he saw that Cassius had risen, and was about to replenish 
his fire. 

" ' Cassius, I have overheard some of your prayers,' he said, when 
he had explained to the astonished slave the cause of his appearance. 
* I was glad when you told me that you had been made a Christian, 
but your prayer is not that of a Christian. Surely this is not the way 
you were taught to pray ?' 

" ' We were told to pray for the miserable, and to speak to God as 
our Father, and tell him aU that we wish. I know none so miserable 
as slaves, and therefore I prayed that there might be an end of their 
misery. I wish nothing so much as that I and all slaves may be free, 
and so I prayed for it. Is it wrong to pray for this ?' 

" ' No. I pray for the same thing, perhaps, as often as you ; but — ' 

" * Do you ? Do you pray the same prayer as we do ?' cried the 
slave, falling at Alfred's feet, and looking up in his face. ' Then let 
us be your slaves, and we wUl all pray together.' 

" * I wish to have no slaves. Cassias. 1 would rather you should be 
my servants, if you worked for me at all. But we could not pray the 
same prayer while you ask for revenge. How dared you ask that the 
overseer might die, and that your master might be poor, and see his 
estate laid waste, when you know Jesus prayed for pardon for his 
enemies, and commanded us to do them good when we could?' 

" ' Was it revenge ?' asked Cassius. * I did not mean it for revenge, 
but I never can understand what prayer would best please God. I 
would not pray for my master's sorrow and Horner's death, if it would 
do nobody any good, or even nobody but me ; but when I know that 
there would be joy in a hundred cottages if there was death in the 
overseer's, may I not pray for the hundred families ? and if I know 
that the more barren the land grows, the more the men will eat, and 
the women sing, and the children play, and the sooner I myself shall 
be free, may I not pray that the land may be barren ? And as the 



69] FACTS FROM TENNESSEE. 11 

land grows barren, my master grows poor. You know the gospel 
better than I do. Explain this to me.' 

"Alfred did his best to make it clear that, while blessings were 
prayed for, the means should be left to Divine wisdom : but though 
Cassius acqwiesced and promised, it was plain he did not see why he 
should not take for granted the suitableness of means which appeared 
to him so obvious. When Alfred heard what provocation he had just 
received, he only wondered at the moderation of his petitions, and the 
patience with which he bore reproof. Horner had given him notice, 
the preceding evening, that as it appeared from his exertions at the 
mill-dam, that he was of more value than he had always pretended, 
his ransom should be doubled. In such a case, a prayer for such low 
prices as would lessen his own value, was the most natural that could 
burst from the lips of a slave." — pp. 88 — 92. 



FACTS FROM TENNESSEE. 

The following facts are from a citizen of Tennessee, whose name 
we withhold for an obvious reason : 

The price of slaves was never known to be liigher in Tennessee, 
nor were the people ever more madly bent on continuing the practice 
of slavery. 

A slave woman belonging to F. H. W., Esq., an elder in the B. B. 
church, became hopefully a Christian, and was admitted to full fellow- 
ship in the church some time in February, 1835. In a few days after, 
the elder sold her to a drover, and she was immediately hurried to 
New Orleans, and there sold to a planter, t® labor night and day, and 
in all probability never to hear the gospel preached again. It is sup- 
posed that tlie elder could not afford to keep a praying slave on his 
plantation, lest the services of tlie day should be curtailed by devotion, 
and for this reason he sold her, and has bought another, who will not 
take up so much time in this way. 

Col. R., of county, was informed that one of his slaves was 

becoming very religious, and had appointed night prayer meetings 
among the blacks. The colonel, on hearing of this fact, immediately 
went to this servant, and told him if he ever heard of any more of 
these night prayer meetings, he ivovld tie him up, and give him one 
hundred lashes on his bare back ; and if he continued the practice, he 
would double the dose, &c. This put an immediate stop to the poor* 
black's prayers in a public manner. This information was received 
from an elder in the church mentioned above, who highly applauded 
the colonel's conduct 



12 



RECEIPTS. 



THE SOUTH MORE AFRAID OF WORDS THAN OF WAR. 
" Do they [Southerners] expect the abolitionists will resort to arms, "will 
commence a crusade to liberate our slaves by force ? Is this what they mean 
when they speak of the attempt to abolish Slavery 1 Let me tell our friends 
of the South who differ from us, that the war which the abolitionists wage 
against us is of a very different character and far more effective,— it is waged 
not against our lives but our character." 

John C. Calhoun. 



RECEIPTS 



Into the Treasaiy of the American A. S. Society, 

from March loth to April 15th, 1^6. 
Kennebunk, Me., a lady, ^5 00 

" " Dr. B. Smart, 4 13 

Andover, Mass., A. S. Society, per J. Derby, 20 00 
" " John Smith, 30 00 

Boston, " J. S. Withhigton, 50 00 

" " Saleid St. church, A. S. So- 

ciety, per N. Budd, 100 00 

" " Bowdoin st. church, A. S. 

Society, per J. S. Kimball, SO 00 
" «' Essex St. church, A. S. So- 

ciety, per W. Sears, bal- 



ance of S50 pledge, 
" Me 



15 00 



Colored Methodist A. S. 

Society, D. Henson, 
Mrs. Chapman, 
J. E. Fuller, 
J. S. Kimball, 
David H. Ela, 
A. S. Society, per Rev. G. 

B. Perry, 
Wm. N. Kimball, 
A. Sanger, 
Rev. O. Scott, on account 

of pledge. 
Ladles' A. S. Society, per 
Miss J. Wyman, balance 
of $100 pledge, 
A. S. Society, per Rev. 
Mr. Demond, on pledge 
offSO, 6 65 

A. S. Society, perG. Appleton, 50 00 
Newburyport, Mass. , A. S. Society, per A. 

Stanwood, 
MiUville, Mass., M. Buffum, 
" " W. Capron, 

per G. L. Clarke, 
aad its vicinity, A. S. So- 
ciety, per Isaac Wiiis- 
low and A. Sanger, 
A. S. Society, per E. L. 
Capron, 
" " Female A. S. Society, per 

E. L. Capron, 
Ware Village, Mass., Charles E. French, 
Coventry, R. I., by Peieg Clark, 
Brookfield, Conn. , by H. Northrup, 
Farmington, " Mrs. A. A. Phelps, 
Lebanon, " Sarah A. Ely, per Z. 

Hyde, 
Norwich, " E. W. Farnsworth, 
Adams, N. Y., W. R. Willis, 
" " P D. Stone, 

" " C. Fox, 

G. J 



Bradfbrd, 



Danvers, 
HoUJston 



Lowell, 



HoUiston, 



HaverhiH, 



Norton, 



Uxbridge, 



50 00 
50 00 
50 00 
25 00 
100 00 

50 00 
2.5 00 
50 00 

100 00 



78 18 



50 00 
300 
1 00 
4 75 



500 00 
50 00 

10 00 
1 00 
7 00 
250 

50 00 



Almond, " R. H. Coleman, 
Harpersfleia, N. Y., D. Penfield, 
Monroe CO., " A. S. S., per S. D. 
Porter, on account 
of $500 pledge. 
New York City, Mai-tin R. Berry, 

" J. L. Jennings, on pledge 

of $200 for people of 
color, 
" Wm. Tracey, 

•* A. Tappan, 

•* John Rankin, 

• Dr. T. Ritter, 



3 00 
20 00 
2 00 
1 00 
55 

25 

1 00 
11 13 

088 



100 00 
5 00 



50 00 
20 00 
250 00 
100 OO 
1 00 



New York City, Rev. T. S. Wright, 
" A friend, 

" Rev. E. Wheeler, 

" T. R. Chipniau, 

" A. C. Cox, 

Shushan, N. Y. , Orra Brown, 

" " Aaron V. Groot, 

Whippany, N. J., N. J. Thomas, 
Darhngton, Pa. , Dr. J. Frazier, 
Fallstcwn, " A. W. & R. Townseud, 

per Mr. Wattles, 
Philadelphia, Dr. E. P. Atlee, 
Cleavelaud, Ohio, S J. Andrews, Esq., 
" L Beebe, 
" " H. Kingsbury, 

" » T. P. Hardy, 

Carlisle, " W. H. Johnson, 
Norwich, " D. Wallace, 
New Garden, Ohio, N. & T. Galbraith, 
per Ml-. Wattles, 
Rev. J. Hunt, 
A. S. Society, per J. 
W. Alvord, 
Thos. Hibben, 



Putnam, 
Talmadge, 



Wilmington, 



JOHN RANKIN, Treasurer, 
No. 8, Cedar St 
New York, April 15, 1836. 



$18S 
10 00 
1 00 
050 
1 00 
050 

13 
500 

1 62 

10 00 
5 00 

12 00 
8 00 
200 
81 
5 00 
5 00 



6 00 
500 



$2239 66 



Monthly Collections received by the Publishing 
" • - • iiist, 



Asenl, from March 1st to April _ 
Carlisle, Pa., by Margaret Knox, 
Darien, Ct., by W. Whitney, 
Fall River, Mass. , by Miss S. G. Buffum, 
Haddam, Ct., by D. C. Tyler, 
Honesdale, Fa. , J. P. Foster, 

" " S. North, ' 

" " S. Brush, 

" " G. M'Keen, 

Millville, Mass., by R. Battev, 
Morristown, N. J., H. A. Halsey, 
Newark, " Dr. J. M. Ward, 

Norwich, Ct., by Miss E. W. Farnsworth, 
Newburyport, Mass., Miss Susan Wood, 
V York City, John Usmar, 



$15 00 

150 

16 00 

1 50 

800 

1 00 

50 

50 

50 

1 50 
50 

5 00 
4 00 
900 
25 
4 00 
7 00 

2 00 
4 87 



New 

Oneida InstitiuV, N. Y., by W. J. Savag 

Sandy Hill, '• " Miss S. Stow, 

" " L. Mabbett, 

Shushan, " by L. Church, 

Tompkinsville, " " Wm. M'George, 2 00 

Wilmington, Vt., " M. Bruce, 20 00 

Ware, Mass., S. Cummings, 37 

" '• W. WooUvorth, 50 

" " A. B. Huntington, 50 

Whitesboro, N. Y. , by T. Beebe, 5 00 

Received for Emancipator, 169 50 

" " Human Rights, 67 50 

" " Quarterly Magazine, 46 75 

" " A. S. Record, 44 50 

" " Books, pamphlets, &c., 2S2 78 



R. G. WILLIAMS, 
Publishing Agent, 144 Nassau i 



Total Receipts, 



THB 

ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 



Vol. II. No. VI. JUNE, 1836. Whole No. 18. 




THE RUNAWAY. 

At the late interesting Anniversary of the American Anli-SIdv&ry 
Society, Alvan SteAvart, Esq., of Utica, rose just as the meeliig was 
about to separate, and related the following anecdote, whicli may be 
relied upon a« authentic. The sympathy of the audience was de- 
cidedly with the fugitive. 

" In Georgia," said Mr. S., " about three years ago, there lived a 
man, black but noble, a giant in strength, and in form an Apollo Bel- 
videre, about 35 years of age, a slave, with a wife and four children, 
also slaves. The love of liberty burned irrepressible in his bosom, and 
he determined to escape, and free his wife and children, at every haz- 
ard. He had heard of Canada, as a place where the laws made every 
man free,, and protected him in his freedom. But of its situation, or 
the road thither, or the geography of the intermediate country, he knew 
nothing. A Gluaker who resided near him, being privy to his design, 
resolved to aid him in its accomphshment ; and accordingly carried the 
slave and his family fifty miles in a wagon by night In the day time 
they lay concealed in the woods j and on the second night the same 



2 THE RtJNAWAt. [62 

man carried them fifty miles further. At the end of the second night 
he told the black man that he could do no more for him, having already 
endangered both his life and property. He told the slave that he must 
not travel on the highvi^ay, nor attempt to cross a ferry, but, taking hini 
by the hand, he committed him to God and the North star. This star 
he was to take as his guide, and it would lead him at length to the land 
of British freedom. The poor slave bade adieu to his benefactor, and 
after skulking in the day and travelling by night, he at length came to 
an unexpected obstacle. It was a broad river, (the Savannah,) the 
existence of which he had not the least knowledge. But as nothing 
remained but to cross it, he tied his two young children on his back, 
and between swimming where it was deep, and wading where it was 
shallow, his two elder sons swimming by his side, he at length made 
out to reach the opposite bank ; then returning, he brought over his 
wife in the same manner. In this way he passed undiscovered through 
the states of South and North CaroUna and Virginia, crossed Penn- 
sylvania without even knowing that it was the land of the duakers j 
and finally, after six weeks of toil and hardship, he reached Buffalo. 
Here he placed his wife and children in the custody of a tribe of In- 
dians in the neighborhood, for the poor man will always be the poor 
man's friend, and the oppressed will stand by the oppressed. The 
man proceeded to town, and as he was passing through the streets, he 
attracted the notice of a colored barber, also a man of great bodily 
power. The barber stepped up to him, put his hand on his shoulder, 
and says, ' I know you are a runaway slave, but never fear, I am your 
friend.' The man confessed he was from Georgia, when the barber 
said, ' Your master inquired about you to-day, in my shop, but do not 
fear ; I have a friend who keeps a livery stable, and will give us a car- 
riage as soon as night comes, to carry your family beyond the reach 
of a master,' As me ferry boat does not run across the Niagara river 
in the night, by day break they were at the ferry house, and rallied the 
ferryman to carry them to the Canada shore. They hastened to the 
boat, and just as they were about to let go, the master was seen, on his 
foaming horse, with pistol in hand, calling out to the ferryman to stop 
and set those people ashore, or he would blow his brains out. The 
stout barber, quick as thought, said to the ferryman, ' If you do n't put 
off this instant, I '11 be the death of you,' The ferryman, thus threat- 
ened on both sides, lifted up his hands, and cried : ' The Lord have 
mercy on me ! It seems I am to be killed any how. But if I do die, 
I wiU die doing right,' and GUT THE ROPE. 

The powerfiil current of the Niagara swept the boat rapidly into 
deep water, beyond the reach of tyranny. The workmen at work on 
the steamboat Henry Clay, near by, almost involuntarily gave three 
cheers for liberty. As the boat darted into the deep and rapid stream, 
the people on the Canada side, who had seen the occurrence, cheered 
her course, and in a few moments the broad current was passed, and 
tiie man, with his wife and children, were all safe on British soil, pro- 
tected by British laws ! I" 



Gil CASTE. 8 

For the A. S. Record. 
CASTE. 

Mr. Editor, — If you can afford the room, I will venture to express 
my sentiments on two points which are of great importance in the pre 
sent state of our hol)^ cause. 

1. Our duty as individuals in relation to the distinction of caste. 

2. The propriety of separate institutions for the two castes. 

1. Our duty as individuals. Caste is an arbitrary division of society 
into classes, which may not mingle, on terms of equaUty, in the com- 
mon intercourse of life. It differs from the distinctions created by 
wealth, refinement, education, &c., by being unsurpassable. Its bar- 
rier separates between individuals who are, in all important respects, 
mental and corporeal, on an absolute level. It even consigns to a fie 
titious inferiority individuals who are every way superior. 

Caste is a foe to human happiness, producing oppression, jealousy, 
revenge, and settled hate ; and obstructing the progress of the Gospel 
of peace. 

The American caste of color is the direct effect of slavery, and tends 
powerfully to perpetuate that unjust system. 

Who then will not say that it is an unrighteous distinction, which 
ought to be universally abolished, if not individually disregarded? 
Such an abolition would not force individuals of the two classes into 
social iniercijurse, but would leave the laws wliich regulate the inter- 
course ot inemoers of either class to their unrestricted operation in re- 
gard to all. The propriety of these laws, whatever they may be, is 
not now the question. 

But if the circumstances of color ought not socially to divide the 
cominunity into two classes, then the duty of individuals rests upon 
two grounds. 1. The individual is bound to do all those acts which 
it would be his duty to do, were there no such unrighteous distinction. 
The diity of the community is nothing but the aggregate of individual 
duties. The opinions or wishes of others cannot make it right for me 
to neglect a plain duty. They may make it right for me to refrain 
from things which are not obligatory. They may make it my duty to 
abstain from those things which, indifferent in themselves, may be con- 
strued as an ostentatious disregard of others. But there are cases in 
which I cannot regard caste without sin, let the opinions of others be 
what they will. For example : It may be right for me to refrain from 
cultivating the acquaintance of a certain colored individual—from in- 
viting him to my table, and accepting invitations to his ; it would, per- 
haps, be even wrong for me, as things are, to seek him out and walk 
arm in arm with him up Broadway ; but if he should present himself 
at the door of my house, or of my pew in the Church of God, it would 
be lorong, yea, wicked in me to treat him with the less courtesy on ac- 
count of his color, and the public prejudice against him for that reason. 
The false opinions and wrong feehngs of others cannot be admitted 
among the considerations which determine duty in this case, without 
admitting a principle which will sanction all manner of sin. In my 
manner of doing my duty, I am bound not unnecessarily to disturb 
tiie feeUnss of others : but in the matter of it, I am bound to obe'-^ 



4 CASTE. [64 

whatever may be the consequences to myself or others, the command- 
ment of God, "Honor all men." 

2. Every individual is bound to do that which will convince others 
of the folly and wickedness of caste. He has duties as a reformer. 
What is it that keeps up caste ? Example. And what else can throw 
it down ? Precept without practice is notoriously powerless. It is 
even worse. No man's practice is so successfully quoted to support 
any sin, as his who acts contrary to, or not in accordance with, his right 
principle in rea;ard to that sin. Now, whatever may be the clamor, 
wrath, and reviling, of any, or any number of individuals against abo- 
litionists, for their intercourse with the colored people, I cannot but be- 
lieve that to this, more than any other cause, we owe the firm hold 
which our doctrines have taken of the public conscience. We may 
have been occasionally indiscreet in the manner, but when we give up 
the matter, I shall despair of our cause — and not till then. I must, 
therefore, believe it pecuharly the duty of every abolitionist, as such, 
to take special pains to honor, by frank, open, unconstrained courtesy, 
merit, whenever it appears beneath a colored skin. He should not for- 
sake tiie society of whites, but he should meet the deserving colored 
man vviih the hand and heart of a brother. Such conduct cannot fail 
to be appreciated by the objects of our regard, and to have the happiest 
effect, it will convince ali candid men, that to make the abolition of 
slavery successful and happy, it is only necessary to prostrate caste. 
I believe the conduct of Christ, in eating with publicans and sinners, 
conversing with the Samaritan woman, &c., illustrates both these views. 

2. Separate institutions. These may seem to have grown out of ne- 
cessity, but they undoubtedly re-act, to strengthen the wrong which 
originated them. For the improvement of the colored people they are 
as absurd as would be separate schools for the more ignorant and back- 
ward class of children. But as they grow out of t'n piejudice of the 
more powerful caste, it is obviously premature to o% j.throvv them till 
the prejudice can be measurably subverted whicli gave t!iein rise. 
Neither is it proper to go on as though they were not to be dispensed 
with. The first openings of a reformed public feeling towards the 
colored people should be seized to introduce the better system. I sup- 
pose Christ and his apostles did not preach up, specially, emancipation 
from the slavery of their times, simply because there was not in the 
world fear of God enough to make it of any avail— there was no place to 
put the lever on — it was their business to lay that very thing for us. 
So we are laying a foundation on which our colored brethren may be, 
and ere long will be, invited to seats with us in the halls of science 
and the house of God. Let us not be impatient. Let us act out, and, 
mdeed, preach the whole truth, but in our preaching we must insist on 
the beginning till that is received. God himself, in communicating 
truth, has observed order ; not because all truth was not obligatory, 
but because it was necessary to overcome the perverseness of depraved 
man. Our colored friends ought to avail themselves at present of their 
separate institutions ; but no time should be lost, on our part, in the 
work of introducing a better system, W. 



For the A. S. Record. 
A FABLE. 

It came to pass, once upon a time, when the fowls of the air were 
much annoyed by the Lion, and other wild beasts, it was thought best 
that all the birds should unite, in order to defend themselves against 
their common enemy. Accordingly, a herald was sent forth to call 
all the feathered tribes together, and soon the Eagles, Fishhawks, 
Crows, Robins, Cranes, Pigeons, Blackbirds, Woodpeckers, Partridges, 
Owls, Henhawks, Pigeonhawks, and Vultures, were gathered^to- 
gether, and after serious deliberation, it was unanimously 

Resolved, I'hat all birds were born free and equal, and endowed 
with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the 
pursuit of happiness ; and that they would help each other in all cases 
of invasion, from whatever quarter they might arise. It was hkewise 
agreed, that all the feathered tribes should have equal and undisturbed 
possession of their own native woods ; and all differences arising 
should be settled according to the above rule of equal rights. The 
alliance being formed, it was resolved to commence war with the Lion 
and other wild beasts, that had for some time past disturbed the peace 
of their country. The Eagle was chosen commander-in-chief of the 
army, and soon a dreadful onset was made upon the wild beasts. The 
Eagles, Fishhawks, and Vultures, soon seized and held them, and the 
Crows, Robins, Blackbirds, and Woodpeckers, picked out their eyes. 
Some died of their wounds, and others crawled away to their dens, 
mourning over their hard fate. The victory was complete, and all the 
birds held a yearly jubilee, believing, as it was said, that no power on 
earth could stand before their united forces. For years the treaty was 
observed by all parties. At length the tribe of Hawks became nu- 
merous, and in process of time they grew hungry, and wished to feast 
on some fat Robins in the neighborhood, and, regardless of the treaty, 
many Robins were butchered, to satisfy the appetites of their raven- 
ous and cruel neighbors. But the poor Robins cried for help, and the 
Eagles came together and inquired into the matter, and the Hawks 
were severely censured for their wicked conduct. But still the Hawks 
attempted to justify themselves, by saying that that was the way they 
got their living ; and still further added, that they were able to take 
possession of all the country inhabited by the Red Robins, and right 
or wrong, they would do it. The Eagles reminded the Hawks of the 
treaty tliat had been made between the feathered tribes, and the injus- 
tice and danger of violating the solemn compact. The Hawks pre- 
tended they did not consider that the Red Robins were to have equal 
rights with other birds, inasmuch as they were of a peculiar color, and 
had little strength to defend themselves. The Eagles contended that 
their color was no reason why they should be destroyed, and that, if 
they were feeble, they should and ought to be protected ; and, after 
warning the Hawks against similar acts of injustice, the meeting was 
disbanded. But soon the Hawks got together, and made a terrible 
onset upon the poor Robins, killing some, and forcing others to flee 
into the distant thickets for life. Meanwhile, some Vultures having 



f A FABLE. [66 

grown old and lazy, and being unwilling to take the trouble to go to 
the sea for food, they determined to feed on the Crows and Biackbu-ds 
in their immediate vicinity. At first, the Crows and Blackbirds were 
made an easy prey to the Vultures ; but soon the alarm was given, 
and the Eagles rushed to the place, and made such a tremendous out- 
cry, as made the Vultures tremble for their own satety. The guilty 
Vultures immediately assembled all their brethi-en together, with the 
Hawks and Owls, to defend themselves against the Eagles, and hav- 
ing organized, by putting one of their chiefs into tne chair, a Mr. Vul- 
ture first arose and addressed the meeting. He made many eloquent 
and touching appeals to the sympathies of his brethren. He said it 
was enough to break a heart of stone to hear what the Eagles said 
about the Vultures, Henhawks, Owls, and Pigeonhawks, taking 
away the rights of the Robins, Crows, and Blackbirds. " Brethren and 
friends," said he, " ours is one common cause. We must be united. 
We cannot live unless we take away the life and liberty of others. 
This we have always been wont to do, and even when we united with 
the Union, this right was not taken away from us ; therefore. Re- 
solved, that before we will give up this right we will blow the Union 
to atoms, and that we regard all efforts made by the Eagles to liberate 
the Crows, Robins, and Blackbirds, as unconstitutional, and a direct 
infringement of our most sacred rights." (3 Cheers.) To this the 
Eagles repUed, "if it is true that you cajinot live without taking away 
the life and liberty of others, then we ask which is the most import- 
ant, the life and liberty of a few Owls, Hawks, and Vultures, or the 
life and liberty of so many millions of Robins, Crows, and Blackbirds ? 
And if your conduct was allowed in the dark and troublous times M^hen 
you united with the Union, even then it was not justified, as our De- 
claration of Independence clearly shows ; and if you xvere allowed to 
do wrong in time past, will continuing to do wrong make wrong right ?" 
"Knock 'em down, knock 'em down," said every Vulture in the house. 
" Go on," said the Owl, " go on, Mr. Hawk, I see as clear as day light ; 
there is no sense in what the Eagles have said." So Mr. Hawk arose 
and said, "be it Resolved, that we will hang, without judge or jury, all 
Eagles we can get in our clutches who have dared to say one word in 
defence of the rights of the Robins, Crows, and Blackbirds. (3 
Cheers.) And be it further Resolved, that gags be made and put into 
the mouths of all the Eagles in the land, in order to stop their dread- 
ful notes of alarm ; for," added he, " unless we can stop their mouths, 
we are undone : Therefore, Resolved, that 500 Vultures, and 500 
Hawks be appointed to do this important business." But here a diffi- 
culty arose ; the Vultures could not catch the Eagles, and the Hawks 
dare not attack them, so they knew not what to do. At length Mr. 
Screech Owl arose and said, " my friends, our cause is desperate, un- 
less we cap make up in lies and noise what we lack in strength and 
argumcwc ; therefore, be it further Resolved^ that the Owls in the land 
be instructed to publish all the lies they can think or hear of against 
the Eagles, in order to destroy their influence ; and further," said the 
Screech Owl, " I would here recommend, that all my brother Editors 
be instructed and requested to keep up such a continual noise, that no 
one can hear what the E-^gles have to say for themselves or against us, 



67] LETTER PROM MR. BiRNEt. 7 

for, if the Eagles can get a candid hearing, we shall lose strength by 
it;" and, in a low tone of voice, added, "our cause is weak enough 
now, every body knows." Whereupon, Mr. Henhawk arose and 
said, " Gentlemen, desperate cases require desperate remedies. We 
must not mince tJiis matter, and, for my own part, I am for dissolving 
all Union with the other feathered tribes. We love to live on Crows 
and Blackbirds, and tiie Eagles, Fishhawks, and other tribes, Hve on 
fish and grain, and we have no common interest with them ; therefore 
let us be free." But here some queries arose ; Mr. i'igeonhawk said 
he was afraid to dissolve the Union, "for," said he, " we may need the 
assistance of the Eagles. If the Crows, Robins, and Blackbirds, 
should arise, to avenge the injuries we have done to them, without the 
assistance of some of the other birds, it might go hard with us." 
"Poh ! Poh ! Poh !" resounded from all parts of the hall; when Mr. 
Henhawk forthwith took the floor, and said, "Bo it Resolved, unani- 
mously, that all our compacts with the other feathered tri'ies be from 
henceforth annuHed ; and that the Union be, and hereb\ is, this day 
dissolved." (6 Cheers.) All the while this business was transacting, 
the Eagles and other birds were in the tops of the trees, and beheld 
the proceedings ; and, as soon as the treasonable meeting broke up, 
the presiding Eagle assembled the other birds, when it was unani- 
mously Resolved, that they were no longer bound to protect the Vul- 
ture, Owls, Henhawks, and Pigeonhawks from danger, as they had, 
by their own act, cut themselves off from the Union. In process of 
time, the Robins, Crows, and Blackbirds, having suffered long and 
much from the few Vultures, Hawks, and Owls, which inhabited the 
woods, came in clouds, fell upon their foes, and soon picked out their 
eyes, while they in vain called on the Eagles to help them ; and it was 
said, as an old Vulture lay dying, he lamented that he had put too 
much confidence in his own strength. An old Hawk said, in his dy- 
ing lamentation, he found he had more courage than justice or wis- 
dom, and it had proved his ruin ; " for," said he, " it is hard to die in 
a good cause, but to die in a bad cause is dreadful indeed." An old 
Owl was heard to say his death was owing to two things, his folly, and 
his hard fate; "for," said he, "it has always been my misfortune to 
see the least when the sun shines the clearest, and it was my folly to 
think that Eagles might be scared by noise ; but now, when it is too 
late, I see my folly." A Pigeonhawk, as his last words, said, " Ex- 
perience is a dear school, but I am one of those fools who will learn 
in no other." 



LETTER FROM MR. BIRNEY. 

Columbus, Ohio, April 30, 1836. 

Dear Sir, — I looked forward, some time ago, with great pleasure 
to the return of our Anniversary next month, and to the probability of 
being myself one of the number to assemble in your city on that m-' 
teresting occasion. Circumstances forbid my being with you. My 
solicitude for you will not be the less, on this account. 

You will, doubtless, have heard, before you receive this, of the 



8 LETTER FROM MR. BIRNET*^ [€B 

blessed and animating meeting that the friends of the poor and perish- 
ing in our land have held, a few days since. But one heart, one mind, 
was there. How astonishingly, too, has the Lord succored his cause 
in this State — finding for it healthful nutriment in the fiery darts, and 
in the most envenomed persecutions of our adversaries! But His 
ways are past finding out. How should we rejoice, that, whenever 
they are seen, they are found to be tlie ways of wisdom, pleasantness, 
and peace ! 

The spirit of anarchy was rampant in the httle village of Granville, 
during the session of our friends in its neighborhood. Yet did the 
Lord hold back the violent men, so that they did not molest us in the 
performance of the duties wliich brought us together. However,, the 
street furnished no faint representation of Pandemonium. Females 
walking in mid-day, did not altogether escape insult — peaceable citi- 
zens were assaulted and their persons injured. Constitutional rights 
were despised and struck to the ground — all law trampled under foot 
and dishonored. Nothing, Sir, saved us from being consumed, except 
that fear which God puts into the hearts of even the most wicked, and 
by wliich he effectually restrains them. As I was leaving the village, 
about the middle of the afternoon, riding on a horse disfigured by mob- 
ocratic malevolence the night before, I was saluted by the yells of the 
multitude, accompanied with a discharge of their most usual missile. 

In passing through this place, on my way to Gram/ille, I had agreed 
to deliver a lecture on my return, if a house could be procured. Last 
evening was the time appointed — the place, the Courthouse. A large 
and decorous audience came together. During the hour I spoke, the mob, 
having crowded about the door in the passage, were engaged in dis- 
charging at me their lighter missiles. When I had finished, and was 
returning to my lodgings a mile distant, I was attended by them a 
greater part of the way — they breaking in on the stillness of the night 
with their fierce and demoniac shouts. And yet. Sir, how shall W3 
visit them with the greatest condemnation ? They know not what 
they do. These disorders were all brought about by the protest of 
leading men in Granville. Although they would not, and on the pre- 
sent occasions did not, partake of the disgraceful deeds of the igno- 
rant and the openly vicious, yet no one can doubt of their having in- 
curred the deep guilt of instigators and abettors. 

But why, you may ask, do I dwell on such things — of late, by no 
means of uncommon occurrence ? I recall them that our friends, the 
friends of fi-eedom to the slave, of freedom to the white man, of pro- 
tecting law, of inahenable rights, of constitutional liberty, may be more 
and more animated in the conflict. Every day is disclosing to us more 
e\4dently the dangerous condition of our country — and how a God of 
Justice is bringing on an impenitent nation retribution, in the loss of 
our own liberty, for having plundered and violated the liberty of others. 
Let us then, dear brother, still more industriously gird up ourselves to 
the work before us — of bringing our country to penitence as the best, 
nay, the only means of saving her. We, who are now in the field, 
may all perish ; and this too by the agency of the very men among us, 
the most interested in the re-establishment of the principles of our 
government. But what of this ? Our faithfulness unto death, if we 



b»J AN OBJECTION, WITH A MATTER OF FACT ANSWER. 3 

be called thus far to suffer, will animate others to fill our places, whilst 
we go home to reap our reward, and be forever with the Lord. We 
fight, not with the courage of despair, but with the calmness of certain 
victory ; with the strength of those who feel that their power is from 
the Almighty ; with the weapon of Truth prepared by Him who is the 
friend of truth, for the destruction, the final and utter destruction of 
its adversary, error. 

Yours, in behalf of the perishing, 

James G. Birney 



For the A. S. Record. 

AN OBJECTION, WITH A MATTER OF FACT 
ANSWER. 

Slave-holder. If my slaves were to be emancipated, they would 
become thieves, robbing my cellar, and granary, and henroost ; in 
short, they would become a lawless band of marauders, pillaging every 
thing within their reach. 

Abolitionist. Give us the proof that they would steal, if eman- 
cipated, and paid wages for their labor." 

Slave-holder. Proof 7 Do n't they steal now? 

Abolitionist. Possibly the)'- do. But, Jefferson says, they steal 
only from their masters, and this they think no crime ; for it is not right 
to muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn. 

But I have a fact for you, to show that slaves steal not from then 
friends, but only from their enemies, — thus proving, that if the slave~ 
holder would become the friend of the slave, his property would be safe. 

Mr. Renshaw, who tells the story, was formerly an officer in the 
U. S. Navy. He is now a member of Oberhn Institute, Ohio. Mr. 
R. says, 'When I went to Kentucky, in the fall of 1834, to teach 
school, I was cautioned frequently against leaving any thing in the 
schoolroom. The slaves, I was informed by all, were inveterate 
theives, and would certainly steal from me every thing they could lay 
hands on. I doubted the truth of the statement, and determined, so 
far as I was able, to test it. For this purpose, I kept my trunk, bag, 
books, and writing desk, in the schoolhouse. On neither of them was 
there lock or strap : — nor was there lock, or bolt, or bar, on door or 
window. I kept my money in my desk, and left a cloak and coat 
hanging up in full view from the road. There were hundreds of slaves 
in the region, many passing daily, and more or less coming into the 
schoolroom, to warm themselves, converse with me, &c. Not unfre- 
quently in the morning would I find marks of their having been there 
through the night, building a fire, moving the benches, &c., yet nothing 
was taken. For nine months I left my things thus exposed. During 
ten weeks of that time, I was 15 miles from the schoolhouse, for five 
days in each week, and my absence was known to all the slaves. Yet, 
when I left Kentucky, the only thing that had been stolen from me 
was a handful of wafers, and they, I afterwards found, were taken by 
a white boy, the son of a slave-holder. Though the slaves did not 



to CONTENTED AND HAPPT. fTO 

Steal from me, I sometimes heard of their depredations on the garners 
and hencoops of the slave-holders. C. Stewart Renshaw." 

Slave-holder. Is it possible? Why was this ? 

Abolitionist. I will tell you. Mr. Renshaw was the warm friend 
of the negroes, was laboring for their elevation, Acknowledged their 
righ*^, and they knew it." 



For the A. S. Record. 
"CONTENTED AND HAPPY." 

Proof. Some time since, a mother and two children escaped from 
slavery in " the low countries," and came up the INlississippi and Ohio 
rivers to Cincinnati. After being in that city a few days, she heard 
that the agents of her master were in pursuit of her, and had already 
arrived in the city, and were searching her out. She had breathed the 
pestilential atmosphere of slavery and the pure air of freedom. She 
loved the latter, — for God nad adapted her lungs to inhale it. She re- 
solved never to become a slave aga- 1. Especially was she determined 
that her children should not wear a chain. Fearing her pursuers might 
learn the place of her concealment, and if they did not succeed in 
taking her, might carry off her two little children, by robbing her of 
them while asleep, never did she, for many days, go to bed at night, 
without first binding the children to bsr body with a piece of the bed 
cord, and depositing a razor or sharp knife under her pillow ; so that, 
if suddenly seized, she might take the life of her children, and then 
her own, rather than be carried back into slavery ! 

A MAN in Cincinnati, who had formerly been a slave in Virginia, 
was asked if he had not rather be the slave of a kind master in Old 
Virginia, where he had plenty to eat and drink and Hght work and no 
whippings, than to live in Ohio, where the laws were so severe, and 
he had to work hard for a living. He replied, " I had rather be a free 
man, and own my own body, and call my wife and children mine, and 
be compelled to beg my bread from door to door, and go to the Ohio 
river to drink, than to be a slave in Virginia, where I used to hear the 
cries of my poor perishing brethren, as they were daily beat and whipped 
by the cruel overseers." 

[There was moral sublimity in this answer. This man looked not 
on his own things, but on the things of others. He could not be joy- 
ous, while his " poor perishing brethren " were in anguish. If all had 
this spirit, how long would slavery endure ?] 



James Bradley, an emancipated slave, formerly of Lane Semi- 
nary, speaking of the heaven born and irrepressible longings of the 
slaves for freedom, gave utterance to his own feehngs thus : "Even 
liberty is bitter to me, while my brethren remain in bondage." 

[That sentiment is worthy of an angel. It is entering fully into 
the injunction of the Apostle, to " Remember them that are in bonds 
as bound with them."] 



flj :fOETRt. IS 

For the A. S. Record. 

Monarch ! on thy throne of power — 
Maiden ! in thy silent bower — 
Sailor ! o'er the bright bhie sea — 
Laborer ! 'neath the forest tree — 
Painter ! forms on canvass throwing, 
With more than mortal beauty glowing- 
Poet ! in thy bright Ideal, 
Blending the fancied ■with the real, 
Till common things and faded seem 
Fresh, from the splendors of thy dream — 
Mother ! with thy babe at rest, 
Softly pillowed on thy breast — 
Father ! at thy happy hearth — 
Infant! in thy careless mirth — 
Sage ! enwrapt 'mid ancient lore- 
Peasant at thy cottage door — 
Saint ! whose offering of prayer, 
Angels unto Heaven bear — 
Ml who on the land or sea 
Dwell or roam at liberty, 
Fair, and Wise, and Good, and Brave, 
Join to free the outcast Slave ! 
Join ! in crusade holier far. 
Than that 'gainst mosque and scimitar — 
Join by the ties of earthly love, — 
Join by the hope of bliss above, — 
Join by the seal of Heaven, imprest 
By God himself in human breast, — 
Join for his sake whose pitying care, 
All castes and every color share ! 
Slavery breaks the highest laws, 
Wrests justice from the poor man's cause. 
Rends asunder friend and brother, 
Parts for ever child and mother. — 
Pleasure in the bud is blighted. 
The rising day of Hope benighted. 
All that 's high in man — effaced, 
All in woman pure — debased. 
Each trace of lineage from on high, 
Worn out and lost by Slavery ! 
Oh ! join, nor let the fertile soil 
Be cursed by unrequited toD, 
Nor the bright sun from his high path behold, . 
Man by his brother mortal, bought and sold ! 
Immortal man, by man immortal, driven 
Far from the only hope to mortals given — 
Oh ! join, and warn the Tyrant ere too late 
Wh?t from offended God must be his fate, 



13 



ViZ 



Join 'till erect each drooping head ye see, 
Each fetter broken, all the oppressed gone free, 
'Till Peace to all her many colored bow displays, 
And all unite to sing a common Father's praise I 



Anna. 



RECEIPTS 



Into tha Treasury of the American A. S. Society, 

from April 15th to iVlay 15th, 1836. 
Vermont, A. S. Society, per E. H. 

Prentiss, $100 00 
Providence, R. I. T. & R. 5 00 
Ashburnham, Mass. S. Goodyear, 5 00 
Amherst, " A Colleeian, 1 00 
Boston, " Wm. L. Garrison, 5 00 
" " Dr. S. Brown, 50 
Fall River, " Miss S. G. Buffum, 5 00 
Harpersfield, " David Penfield, 5 00 
Hebronville, " A. S. Society, 1 00 
Lenox, " Dr. O. W. Brewster, 2 00 
" " Mr. Robbins, 1 00 
Mexico, " D. Chandler, 5 00 
Sherburn Palls," Dea. P. Pield, 5 00 
Brooklyn, Conn. A. S. Society, 10 00 
" " Friends at Monthly Con- 
cert, per S. J. May, 3 00 
" From Friends, 9 00 
Meriden, " Individuals per A. A. 

Phelps, 41 00 

Hampton, " James R Guild, 5 00 
New Haven, " A. S. Society per S. S. 
Jocelyn, on pledge of 

1835, 150 00 
" " Students at Theological 

Seminary, 10 00 

Plymouth, " Friends, per J. C. Lewis, 3158 

Vernon, " N. O. KeUogg, 2 00 

. Weston, " John Turney, 1 00 

Cortlandt ViHage, N. Y. Henry Eels, 1 00 

Arcade, N. Y. A. S. Society, 12 00 

Norfolk, " A Friend, 5 00 

Peterboro, " Gerrit Smith, 2000 CO 

Rochester, " Mrs. O. Stone, 50 

Schenectady, " Rich. P. G. Wright, 10 00 

TJtica, " E. H. Knowlton, 5 00 

Yorktown, " Dr. H. White, 5 00 

Whitesboro, " Juvenile A. S. Society, 12 00 

New York City, Arthur Tappan, 250 00 

" Jolin Rankin, 100 00 

" W^i/am Jay, 100 00 

" Anonymous, per W. S. 50 00 

" A 4. Phelps, on pledge 

of 1835, 59 00 
" V/esleyan Juvenile A. 
S. Society, per J. S. 

Dewey, 10 00 
«• MonthlytJoncertofCol. 

Ch. per T.S.Wright, 13 60 
" Lady a'. Anniversary, 1 00 
" Esther Lane, 5 00 
" Rev. G. Bourne's mar- 
riage fee, 5 00 
«' T. R. Chipraan, 50 
Boonton, N.Jersey, A. S. Society, 20 00 
Harpei-sfield, " From Friends, 1 00 
Lyons Farms, " Miss S. Meeker, 2 00 
North East, Penn. A. S. Society, 5 OO 
" A Friend, 1 00 
Leicester, " Eliza Earle for Ladies' 

Pledge of $20, 5 00 

Pittsburg, " J. B. Vashon, 10 00 



PhilaJelphia, Penn. Rebecca Buffum, on 
pledge of $15 for three 
friends, 5 00 

Ohio, Columbiana & Fairfield A. S. Society, 

per Lot Holmes, 10 00 

NewGai-den, Ohio, per B. B. Davis, 5 00 

New Athens, " A. S. Society, 10 00 

Oberlin, " A. S. Society, per H. 

Lyman, 50 00 

Ripley, " Mrs. Rr.chel McLain, 1 00 

Vernon, " Levi Sutlifl', 4 08 

" " Dying Legacy of Mrs. 

L. Sutliff, 6 00 



$3182 68 



JOHN RANKIN, Treasured, 

No. 8, Cedar St. 
New York, May 15, 1836. 

Quarterly Collections received by the Publishing 

Agent, from April 1st, to May 1st, 1836. 
Audover, Mass, -' " 



Mrs. Eyiory, per T. 

Douglass, 
Students in Seminary, 
A. Stillson, 
per Philena Hunt, 
per R. Pike, 
per T. Kellogg, 



Brooklyn, Conn. 
Buffalo, N. Y. 
Bettsburgh, " 
Cazenovia, " 

Cleaveland, Ohio, John M. Sieriuig 
" " S. L. Severance, 

" "A. Penfieid, 

" " S. T. Hamlin, 

L. W. Crittenden, 
per John Hou^h, 
Virgil Squire, 
per D. R. Curtis, 
per Mr. Whitney, 
A. S. Society, per J. P. 

Knox, Esq. , 
per W. W. Bancroft, 
per D. Bushnell, 
Sam. S. Wells, 



Clarksville, " 

Centreville, R. I. 
Oarien, Conn, 
f'ulton, N. Y. 

Granville, Ohio, 
Hartford, " 
Kingsbury, N. Y. 
Norvvalk, Conn. 
New York, 
Oneida Institute, 
O.xford, Ohio, 
Perry, N. Y. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 
Palmyra, N. Y. 
Portland, Me. 
Rome, N. Y. 
Sherburn, N. Y. 
Waitsfield, Vt. 



per J. Warner, 
A Female Friend, 



per Lucretia Mott, 



Clapp, 
per Miss Winslow, 
per Dr. Blair, 
per J. C. Hajrington, 
Ithamer Smith, 
Whitesboro, N. Y. Oneida Institute, per W. 

Wallon, " A. P. St. Joiins, 

Windham, Ohio, Rev. Wm. Hanford, 
Waterville, Me. Subscribers, 



$1 50 

4 50 

6 75 
12 74 

5 00 

7 00 
12 00 

6 00 
200 

75 

3 00 
5 00 

5 00 

4 00 
3 00 

5 00 
25 00 
10 00 

6 00 

7 OO 

1 25 

6 81 
3 00 
750 

25 00 
12 00 
10 00 

5 00 

6 00 

2 00 

10 00 
1 00 
5 00 
650 



R. G. WILLIAMS, 
Publishing Agent, comer of Nasau and 
Spruce Streets. 
Total $3414 



3C 



THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 

Vol. II. No. VII. JULY, 1836. Whole No. 19. 

HINTS ON ANTI-ABOLITION MOBS. 

For three or four years past, a small but rapidly increasing portion 
of the community have waged a moral warfare with slavery. By this 
is meant, that they have endeavored to persuade every body to regard 
as a SIN against human nature, and against God, the holding of men 
in involuntary bondage as brute beasts, " goods and chattels," mer- 
chandise, — A sin, which, like every other, ought to be immediately 
abandoned. 

In connexion with this moral warfare, it is notorious that there is 
hardly a city or village in the land, in which there has not been a 
tumultuous outbreak of popular indignation in the shape of brute 
force — or, more briefly, a mob, to frighten into silence the promulgators 
of this plain, self-evident, and by no means novel doctrine of human 
rights ! What is worthy of special remark in regard to these mobs, is 
the fact that they have all been Anti- abolition, not Abolition mobs. 
The brute force has always been on one side. It has always been 
against the cause of abolition. And it may be remarked, by the way, 
that the anti- abolition side would not have resorted to physical force 
if they had had a superabundance, or even a moderate supply, of 
argument. 

Now, it is of late often said — " The day of mobs has gone by." 
This is a great mistake ; and it is partly to correct this mistake, and 
partly to put the friends of human rights on their guard, that we have 
taken up the paa. 

Anti- abolition mobs will die on the same day with slavery, and not 
before. 

But why will not mobs die before slavery ? Because, 1. Slavery is 
a system of violence and wrong, both physical and moral, and will 
always defend itself by violence and wrong, physical as well as moral. 

2. Our constitutions of general and state gover»ment, which are 



si HINTS ON AN 1 1- ABOLITION MOfiSi [74 

founded on the doctrine of equal rights, of which slavery is the most 
enormous violation, will not permit abohtionists to be silenced by law, 
hence they must be silenced, if possible, by violence against law, or, 
slavery must go down. 

3. Though mobs can never put down aboUtionism, so long as the 
laws of God endure, yet slaveholders and their abettors will always 
be too blind to see it. 

4. Thousands of northern merchants, manufacturers and others, 
share with the masters in the unjust gains of slavery. To say that 
slavery is a sin, touches their pockets almost as directly as those of the 
slaveholder ; it excites as much wrath, and must naturally call forth 
the same violence that the slaveholder is wont to bestow upon all who 
question the mandates of his sovereign will. 

5. So long as slavery exists, slaveholders will give their presidential 
votes with reference to the support of it, and so long will the whole 
horde of hungry sycophants who seek offices in the gift of the presi- 
dent, do the bidding of slaveholders — and so long will they be bidden 
to raise an ti- abolition mobs. 

6. So long as slavery exists, the men at the north, whether at the 
bottom or top of society, who love to live in idleness, will sympathize 
with the oppressor, and so far as they can do it safely, will mob or 
murder every abolitionist. Why ? Because they have no true and 
conscientious regard for law and order. A man who can, to any extent^ 
act on the principle of slavery, can have no just regard for the supre- 
macy of the law, for slavery is in the highest degree the triumph of 
brute force over lav/ — the substitution of the dictates of arbitrary will, 
for the restraints of righteous principle and constitutional enactments. A 
man who believes that, in some circumstances, unoffending, unconvicted, 
mitried men, may be justly deprived of their liberty, must of necessity 
be corrupt enough to believe that, in some circumstances innocent citi? 
zens may be mobbed in defiance of law. Such a man may be 
expected to encourage mobs, in some circumstances ; always, of course, 
"for the good of the country." So long as slaveiy exists, there wiU be 
abundance of such men at the north, men who love idleness themselves 
and reverence it in otliers, men who hate industry themselves and 
despise it in others, and who will for ever sympathize with the tyrants 
who can get the most work with the least pay. Indeed, if there were 
not such men at the north, slavery would instantly cease. They are 
its most efficient supporters. 

If the causes above mentioned will continue to operate so long as 



75 j THE WAT IN WHICH THESE MOBS ARE GOT UP. 3 

davery exists, and if abolition shall continue to flourish as it has done> 
then it is plain that more and stronger occasions will be furnished for 
mobs. The day of mobs is not yet past. It becomes us therefore to 
profit by our experience. 

THE WAT IN WHICH THESE MOBS ARE GOT UP. 

Thet never originate with the rabble. The aristocracy must have 
the sole credit of projecting, training, and leading them. No sooner is 
word received that an anti-slavery lecture or meeting is to take place, 
than the great men are in motion. " They are afraid that their city or 
village will be disgraced by a mob, which they say, in the face of such 
outrageous provocation it will be hardly possible to prevent. They 
think law and order ought to be preserved, but still they cannot find it 
in their hearts to blame the people if they should teach the abolitionist 
a salutary lesson. If men will brave pubhc opinion they must take 
the consequences !" Such woful predictions along with abundant 
calumnies of the abolitionists are plentifully imparted in the bar-rooms, 
and stores, and at the street corners, where the wretches for whom the 
law has terrors will be most likely to hear them. These poor fellows 
reason thus, "Who knows better what the law can do than Judge 
So and so 7 and then the lawyers, and the congressmen, and all the 
great men think so too. One thing is certain, there will be a mob. If 
the judge meant to stop it or punish it, he would not have talked so 
about it. So we'll go and see v/hat will come of it." There are few 
places where there is not a mass which may be easily excited in this 
way to any amount of disorder and riot. 

It is wonderful how uniform is the history of all these disturbances. 
From one you may know them all. The head of the mob is composed 
of the expectants of office, the rich who love to oppress, the men who get 
their living by pandering to a base public sentiment, the professors of 
religion who shut out light lest they should see their duties. The long 
tail of the mob is made up of the sweepings of society, the reprobates 
from every thing good, men who drink deeply to revenge themselves 
upon the temperance reformation. In the head there is an intelligent 
hatred of aboUtion, and love of slaveholding. In the tail there is httle 
else for motive but a hatred of moral obligation, and a desire to trample 
on law and order with impunity. Nine-tenths of the rabble who for 
three nights had possession of the city of New York, had not the slight- 
est conception of the doctrines of those whose houses and churches they 
were demolishing. All they knew was, that so long as they attacked 



4 THE DUTY OF ABOLITIONISTS. [76 

only the abolitionists and the " niggers," there was no danger of bullets 
er bridewell. This was all they wanted to know. 

THE DUTY OP ABOLITIONISTS. 

1, The true originators of these mobs should be held responsible for 
them, before the world. Their inflammatory paragraphs, and harangues, 
and measures should be treasured up against them. It is an injury to 
charge the mischief upon their blinded dupes. Let not the leaders 
escape on the plea of neutrality. If the object of the mob were plunder, 
and a man of this class were to stand upon his neutrality, he would be 
set down as an abettor, and charged with an intention of sharing the 
spoil. With regard to men in public life there can be no such thing as 
neutrality. Their silence is all that the mob wants. We are greatly 
mistaken if in some of our cities the respectable fomentors of riots have 
not received a lesson which they will not forget to their dying day. 
They have been placed upon their good behaviour, and the credit they 
take to themselves, for the fact that more recent abolition meetings 
within their sphere have been held in peace, is both a proof of their 
former guilt, and of the salutary effect of the discipline applied to 
reform them. These inflated aristocrats would never venture to get 
up a mob if they did not expect to escape fi-om the responsibility of it. 
" We have come here to inform you," said the Utica " Committee of 
twenty-five," to the State Anti-Slavery Convention, "that if you perse- 
vere, we will not hold ourselves responsible for the consequences." 
But they were responsible for all the disturbance and violence which 
did occur, as well as for all that might have occurred, for the mob had 
been preached up by themselves, and it had followed at their heels, not 
unbidden. Let the names of the instigators always be published, and 
let them be made to understand that, if they take the course of predict' 
ing and justifying mobs, they will be held responsible for the conse- 
quences. 

2. There should be no unnecessary provocation. It is not the busi- 
ness of aboUtionists to boast what they will do, nor to pit themselves 
against the brute force of their opponents, but to change the public 
mind by a fair and fearless exhibition of the truth. Mobs are exceed- 
ingly to be deprecated, as ruinous to the morals of those who partici- 
pate in them, and dangerous to the cause of free government. There- 
fore eveiy thing should be done to prevent tliem, except to yield that 
which is the end of all law and government, the cause of human rights. 
Everything should be done to quell them, except to fear them and 



77J THE DUTY OP ABOLITIONISTS. 5 

obey their mandates. Here it may well be remarked that the extreme 
apprehension manifested by some abolitionists, and their overstrained 
caution while making arrangements for meetings or lectures, has not 
tended to prevent a mob, but quite the reverse. The cowardly oppo- 
sition is greatly encouraged by any signs of timidity on the part of 
abolitionists. We should go straight forward, and the suspicion that 
our fellow-citizens will disgrace themselves by a riot, should never be 
suffered to escape from the lips of any one. When such a thing occurs, 
we should not treat it as a thing which was to be expected, but should 
never seem able to understand how Americans can mob any body for 
proclaiming the doctrine of our memorable Declaration of Independ- 
ence. Cowardice in a good cause is sure to receive a plenty of the 
kicks and cuffs of cowards. 

3. Abolitionists should never suffer themselves to be driven from a 
meeting by the menaces or the noise or the missiles of a mob. What! 
Should they sutler themselves to be cloven down in their seats? Should 
they put their lives in jeopardy where no principle is involved ? It is 
hardly necessary to decide this to establish our proposition. Threats 
are not always dangerous. Courage is not the attribute of a mob. 
And more than all, it should be remembered that anti-abolition mobs 
are of a peculiar construction, as we have attempted to show. They 
are led by " gentlemen of property and standing," who know very well 
that a murder would not advance their interests. The miserable tools 
seek only to make that amount of disturbance which they understand 
can be made with impunity. The most enormous threats and the 
most profane oaths are as cheap with them as any other noise. But 
their threats have no more to do with an execution, than their oaths 
have with the truth. It is their province, as it was of the ass in the 
fable, sent to drive the beasts into the clutches of the lion, to fnghten 
by a tremendous braying. A certain daily editor'*^ in New York, must 
have the glory of perfecting if not inventing this scheme of putting 
down the abolitionists. "To be sure," he admits, "it is wrong to mob 
the abolitionists in their meetings, all citizens have a right peaceably 
to assemble, &c. ; but then xoe have a right to go to their meetings and 
say what Ave please." On this principle he calls upon all patriots to 
attend the abolition meetings and drown the speakers with clamor. — 
We can see no good reason to believe that any of the mobs got up to 
put down abolition meetings, on this plan, are likely to go much be- 

" James Watson Webb, of the Courier and Enquirer, seconded by many other 
editors, some of them professedly pious. 



6 THE DUTY OF ABOLITIONISTS* [78 

yond this tongue valor. Now whatever the duty of the aboHtionists 
might be, provided the object of the mob was known to be blood, it 
eannot be their duty to yield and retire, when the object is obviously 
nothing more than to drive them out by clamor. Let them see that 
nothing short of slaughter will accompUsh their purpose, and they will 
relinquish their wicked attempts. But what is gained by standing out 
against the deafening, diabolical uproar of a drunken mob ? As to the 
rioters themselves, perhaps nothing, but as to the public, much. It 
gives a full proof of serious intentions and genuine sympathy for those 
in bonds. It will greatly diminish the frequency of mobs, for the civil 
authorities to see that by their permitting an outrageous breach of the 
peace they gain nothing but shame. It strengthens the courage of 
abolitionists to see that such a storm of wrath and railing can be lived 
through. On the other hand, let it be understood, that the first yell or 
the first brick-bat will put an abolition meeting to flight, and there will 
soon be in every place an organized band ready to play the game. If 
aboHtionists have not made up their minds to face the brunt and run 
all the risks of mobs, whatever they may be, they might as well sit 
down in silence. 

4. There should be no forcible resistance or menace of any kind. 
Every unpopular cause must owe its success to its endurance of per- 
secution rather than to a physical vindication of its rights. And it is 
not necessary here to settle the question of the right or wrong of phys- 
ical resistance, for whatever we may think of that, it is the most mani- 
fest and glaring folly for abolitionists to descend from the ground of 
argument where they have all possible advantage, to the ground of 
brute force where their enemies are a thousand to one, and must 
achieve an easy victory. A single act of violence on the part of an 
abohtionist is sufficient provocation for a general onset, and its evil 
influence will extend from one end of the land to the other. Alterca- 
tion between individual abolitionists and mobocrats in the midst of a 
mob, is hardly less to be deprecated than violence. Words might as 
well be expended upon wild beasts. Let the mob have the credit of all 
the noise and disorder, while the friends of human rights retain their 
position with the calmness of reason and reliance on God, till the rage 
and rum of their adversaries has time to evaporate, for evaporate they 
will in a few hours, and together. Again. 

5. The threat of a mob should never prevent a meeting. When a 
right, and above all that right of rights, free discussion, is called in 
question, then is the time to exercise it. Better to be driven from a 



79] THE DUTY OF ABOLITIONISTS. 7 

meeting by a storm of mob missiles and the satanic yells of the most 
villanous crew that a profligate aristocracy ever raked from the ken- 
nels of vice ; better lose the life blood like water, than to submit now 
to the gag, on the subject of the household rights of man. Why, gag- 
ging is always only preparatory to robbery or mtvrder, and if the matter 
is to be attempted, we may as well lose hfe first as last. It may be 
supposed that by a little waiting the storm will pass over harmless — 
the mobocrats will forget the^^Siihject, and by and by we may talk openly 
and plainly — ^Yes, and then they will remember, and their insolence 
will be tenfold greater than before, as they will have found out our 
weakness and their own strength. If abolitionists yield now, till the 
storm passes over, the day of grace for America is gone. There is no 
safety in retreat or standing still. But in going forward there is hope. 

But while we recommend unflinching straight-forwardness in regard 
to mobs, we would by no means assert that wherever a mob is to be 
expected, there abolitionists should for that reason make it a point to 
hold meetings. This cause can command in its service but a given 
amount of energy, and of course that should be expended where it will 
tell most effectually. There is no question that lectures will effect 
more where reason bears sway, than where a mob does. All reform- 
ations commence and flourish most where the moral atmosphere is 
clearest. They do not commence in crowded and morally pestilential 
cities, but in the country. In the city, the brains of men are apt to be 
set to whirling like the carriage wheels, and their hearts to be hardened 
to human wo, by overwhelming and everywhere present spectacles 
of mingled vice and wretchedness, and their necks are so eternally 
bowing to pomp and vanity, that it is little wonder if they lose all man- 
ner of rectitude. But in the country, where the mockery of human art 
has not shut God out, tlic claims of humanity stand a better chance of 
a fair hearing and a righteous support. There is hardly room to doubt 
that the same labor in the cause of abolition, produces tenfold more 
fruit in the country than in the city. And this not simply because the 
country is more free from mobocracy than the city, but because there 
moral power lives and reigns more triumphantly. Cities afford the 
physical means of spreading the truth, but morally, in themselves, they 
are immense, stagnant, putrefying pools, which can only be kept from 
breeding general pestilence and destmction, by the purity of the 
streams which flow into them from the country. 

6. Wicked, abominable, and dangerous as mobs are, in the cause of 
abolition, great advantage has been and may be derived from them. 



8 THE DUTY OF ABOLITIONISTS. [80 

Suppose that the southern states were full of mad dogs which were 
beginning to bite the people, and suppose we of the north were quite 
asleep to the matter, confident of our safety though exposed to danger, 
having in our hands the means both of prevention and cure, but quite 
ignorant of hydrophobia, and careless of the fate of our neighbors. And 
suppose it were the object of a lecturer to stir us up to act for the rehef 
of others and our own salvation ; would it not prodigiously increase 
his power, if in the course of his lecture half a dozen men, bitten by 
mad dogs, and foaming with canine madness, should rush in among 
his audience ? There would be proof positive, not only that hydro- 
phobia was a dreadful disease, but that his northern hearers were 
endangered by it. Now, in regard to slavery, if all at the north who 
are interested in their pockets to support it, were to tolerate abolition 
lectures with perfect indifference, there would be some reason to 
believe the stories they tell us about the mild and beneficent nature of 
slavery, as practically exemplified at the south. But now we know, 
and can effectually illustrate, the diabolical horrors of the system which 
crushes our colored brethren at the south, by the malicious, mean and 
murderous outrages upon their humble advocates at the north. "When 
was a good cause, or a manly cause, or even a tolerable cause defend- 
ed by hard swearing, brick-bats, and stale eggs, wielded by mobs of 
gamblers, debauchees, and sots, marshalled by well-dressed extor- 
tioners and cringing office-seekers ? Really, it is difficult to say 
which is least to the credit of slavery, the character of these mobs, of 
the leaders, or of the missiles. The M'Duffies will mistake their 
interests, if they do not immediately pass word to their faithful allies at 
the north to put an instant stop to these mobs. Every abolition lecture 
they break up is a ruinous victory to the cause of slavery. The abo- 
lition lecturer comes into a place with his brains and his pockets full 
of facts and arguments to prove that slavery concerns the north, is 
supported at the north, endangers the north. The mob breaks in and 
drives him from the church. The next day he meets the same, or a 
still larger audience in a barn perhaps, and says, "the occurrence of 
yesterday renders it unnecessary for me, as I had intended, to develop 
and illustrate our connexion with and support of slavery, I shall there- 
fore pass to the next topic." Bat, if the lecturer should be entirely 
driven off", the audience, dispersed by a pro-slavery mob, would not 
fail to make the same inference. 

7. The salvation of our country now depends upon our living down, 
and working down, these mobs. They have already triumphed over 



81] MOB IN l^OCKPORT — TRIUMPH OP TRUTH. 9 

law ; it is ours to show them, and the country, and all future genera- 
tions, that such a triumph must be short, and soon repented of. It is 
ours to show that when a proud and tyrannical majority overleaps the 
sacred bulwark of the constitution, to trample on the minority's /recttom 
•of speech, they shall then meet a terrible avenger in the person of calm 
TRUTH, by whose unerring pencil and unfading colors, they shall be 
hung up on the canvas of the sky for everlasting contempt — a salu- 
tary warning to coming ages. Let us plead the cause of the poor and 
the needy, for his Redeemer is mighty. 

In illustration of some of the previous remarks, we subjoin from the 
Emancipator the closing paragragh, in an account of the recent mob 
in Lockport. Near the close of Mr. Weld's lecture there, a meeting 
was called of the abolitionists of Niagara county, to organize a County 
Anti-Slavery Society, and the use of a church was obtained of its 
trustees. The mob, headed by the first judge and sheriff of the 
county, met at the same place. The result was as follows, and we 
hope it will teach abolitionists not to fear " the face of clay." 

" One resolution decreed, that Mr. Weld should leave the place, and 
demanded an answer on the spot. Of course, he refused to respond 
to the call of the mob, although liis answer was repeatedly and loudly 
demanded by its chairman. Another resolution declared, that no 
County Society should be formed. After about four hours of such 
tiirmnil, the irioKooratio m<=oting aio^uivcii, though scarcely any persons 
left the house. During all this commotion, the abolitionists kept their 
seats. The xip roar having ceased, Mr. Weld rose and said, the abo- 
litionists would now test the question, whether they were slaves ivith- 
out rights, or men with rights, by proceeding to organize the Niagara 
County Anti-Slavery Society. The Constitution was then read, and 
the society duly organized, the judges and sans culottes looking nn. 
Mr. Weld then said, it was well understood that this was to have been 
'bis last lecture, having been so announced some days before, and well 
known to the mob, and hence they had shown their courage in resolv- 
ing that he should leave the place, after he himself had resolved that he 
would do so. But duties alter with circumstances ; and he would now 
stay, and test the question, whether oiu* constitutional rights were 
realities or mockeries, and whether Statute law or Lynch law pre- 
vailed in Lockport. Accordingly, with leave of divine Providence, he 
said he should lecture in that house on Monday, at 2 o'clock, P. M. 
— remarking, that if the lecture passed off without interruption, it 
would be his last, but if not, he should stay in Lockport and contmue 
to plead for constitutional hberty, and the supremacy of the laws, till 
liberty or he was defunct. After a session of five hours they adjourned. 
Monday came, and with it an immense assemblage, crowding the 
house to overflowing as on Saturday. Mr. Weld lectured between 
four and five hours, and at the close of his remarks, four hundred and 



10 THE BILL OP ABOMINATIONS. [82 

eighty neio members united with the Anti- Slavery Society. There being 
no disturbance, he lectured no more, and soon left the place. It was a 
glorious triumph of courage over cowardice, right over wrong, liberty 
over anarchy, religion over heathenism." 



"THE BILL OF ABOMINATIONS." 

BY J. G. WHITTIER. 

[From the Essex Gazette.] 
Lines written on the passage of Pinkney's Resolutions in the House 
of Representatives, and of Calhoun's " Bill of Abominations" in the 
Senate of the United States. 

Now, by our fathers' ashes ! — where's the spirit 
Of the true hearted and the unshackled gone? 
Sons of old freemen, do we but inherit 

Their names alone ! 

Is the old Pilgrim spirit quenched within us ? 

Stoops the proud manhood of our souls so low, 
That Mammon's lure or Party's wile can wm us 
To silence now ? 

No — when our land to ruin's brink is verging 

In God's name, let us speak, while there is time I 
Now, when the padlocks for our lips are forging 
Silence is crime ! 

What ! shall we henceforth humbly ask as favors 

Rights all our own ! — ^in madness shall we barter 
For treacherous peace, the freedom Nature gave us, 
God and our Charter? 

Here shall the statesman seek the free to fetter ? 
Here Lynch law light its horrid fires on high ? 
And in the Church, their proud and skilled abettor, 
Make truth a he ? 

Torttffe the pages of the hallowed Bible 

To sanction crime and robbery and blood. 
And in Oppression's hateful service, hbel 
Both man and God ? 

Shall our New England stand erect no longer. 

But stoop in chains upon her downward way, 
Thicker to gather on her limbs and stronger 
Day after day. 

Oh no — metliinks from all her wild green mountains—- 

From valleys where her slumbering fathers lie — 
From her blue rivers and her welling fountains, 
And clear, cold sky ! 



gS] THE BILL OP ABOMINATIONS. 11 

From her rough coast and isles, which hungry ocean 

Gnaws with his surges — from the fisher's skiff, 
With white sail swaying to the billow's motion, 
Round rock and cUlE 

From the free fireside of her unbought farmer— 
From her free laborer at his loom and wheel ; 
From the brown smith-shop, where beneath the hammer 
Rings the red steel ! 

From each and all, if God hath not forsaken 

Our land, and left us to an evil choice, 
Loud as the summer thunder-bolt shall waken 
A People's voice ! 

Startling and stern ! — the Northern winds shall bear it 

Over Potomac's to St. Mary's wave ; 
And buried Freedom shall awake to hear it 
Within her grave. 

Oh — let that voice go forth — The bondman sighing 

By Santee's wave— in Mississippi's cane, 
Shall feel the hope, within his bosom dying, 
Revive again. 

Let it go forth ! — The millions who are gazing 

Sadly upon us, from afar, shall smile, 
And mito God devout thanksgiving raising, 
Bless us the wliile. 

Oh — for your ancient freedom, pure and holy. 

For the deliverance of a groaning earth. 
For the wronged captive, bleeding, crushed and lowly, 
Let it go forth ! 

Sons of the best of fathers ; will ye falter 

With all they left ye periled and at stake I 
Ho — once again on Freedom's holy altar 
The fire awake ! 

Prayer- strengthened for the trial, come together. 

Put on the harness for the moral fight. 
And with the blessing of your Heavenly Father 
Maintain the right ! 



APPOINTMENT OF ASSISTANT TREASURER. 
The Executive Cominittee have appointed Mr. Lewis Tappan, As- 
sistant Treasurer, to act during the absence of Mr. Rankin in Europei 



12 



£84 




Who bids ? 
"INCENDIARY PICTURES." 
Owing to the absence of the Editor no " incendiary picture" was 
prepared for this number of the Record. We have, how-ever, pro- 
cm-ed and placed above a little one — "inflammatory, incendiary, and 
insurrectionary in the highest degree" — which is in common use at 
the South. The cast from which it was taken was manufactured in 
this city, for the southern trade, by a firm of stereotypers, who, on 
accoi:fnt of the same southern trade, refused to stereotype the Record, 
because it contained just such pictures ! Now, how does it come to 
pass, that this said picture when printed in a southern newspaper is 
perfectly harmless, but when printed in the Anti-Slavery Record is 
perfectly incendiary ? We have nothing further to say about it till 
this question is answered. 



Into the Treasury of the American A 

from May 15lh, to June 21th, 1836. 
Bath, Maine, Friends, $13 00 

Champlain, N. Y. PruiJential Com. of C. 

Benev. Soc. 11 00 

China, N. Y. , C. O. Shephard, Esq. , 5 00 

Hartwiok, N. Y., per S. Mayiiard, 1 09 

Jersey Tovsnship, 0., Friends; per E. White- 
head, 5 00 
Mansfield, Ct. Dr. j. Adams, 3 00 
" Miss S. Ellsworth, 100 
Massachusetts, A FrieEd, 25 OO' 
Middletown, Ct. , per J. Gf. Baldwin, on ac- 
count of pledge, 25 00 
NewYorlt City Ladies' A. S. Society, ($120 
of which are frora the A. S. Sewing So- 
ciety,) 130 00 
New York City, Arthur Tappan, 250 00 
" John Rankin, for June, July 

and August, 300 00 

" Rev. James Lilley, 2 00 

" Charles M. Hyatt, 1 00 

" N. Cbmstook, 25 

" A Friend, 1 25 

Portland, Maine, Young Men's A. S. Society 

per Gen. Appleton, 40 00 

Rochester, N. Y. A. S. Society, per G. A. 

Avery, 34 44 

" " C. H. Graham, 5 00 

Rome, " Dr. A. Bkir, 2 50 

Ripley, Ohio, A. S. Society, per J. Shephard. 27 00 
South Bridget on. Me., Gen". S. Perley, ' 20 00 

" " Rev. J. P. Fessenden, 4 00 

Scarsdale, N. Y., A Friend, 1 00 

Tompkinsville, N. Y., per Wm. McGeorge, 1 13 
Vernon, Ct., George Kellogg, 5 50 

Valley, Pa. , Rev. James NoLU^e, 1 00 

Wattsbury, Pa., Rev. J. B. Wilson's Congre- 
gation, 2 88- 



RECEIPTS 

, Society, 



York, N. Y., Ihdkiduals, per Wm. Mc- 

Crackan, 54 6!f 



LEWIS TAPPAN, Assistant Treasurer 

No. 3, Spruce St. 
New York, June 21, 1836. 

Quarterly Colkciions received by the Publishing 

Agent, from May Ist, to June 1st, 1836. 

Andover, Ohio, per A. Coleman, $4 50 

Brighton, N. Y. , per Dr. W. W. Read, 3 13 

Dartmouth College, per J. Lord, 2 00 

Hudson, N. Y.,per Miss M. Marriott, 5 77 

Kingsboro, " per S. S. \\' ells, Esq., 8 00 

Loudoun, N. H. per Mr. Chamberlin, 5 00 

Little Campton, R. I. per Mrs. S. S. Wilbotir, 5 00 

Marcellus, N. Y. , per A. Rockwell, 2 25 

New York, per fi. Owen, 25 

" " 1 90 

Norwalk, Ct. per Mr. Warner, 1 SO 

Oneida Institute, N. Y. per W. I. Savage, 10 50 

Peterboro, N. Y., per A, Raymond, 12 00 

Rochester, " per Dr. W. W. Read, 2137 

Walton, " per A. P. St. John, I 50 

Whitesboro, " per Rev. B. Green, 2 77 

Received for the Eraancipalor, 246 00 

" Voice of Freedom, 171 10 

" Human Rights, 91 66 

" A. S. Record, 27 62 

" Quarterly Magazine, 26 25 

" Books and Pamphlets, 366 84 

$1016 01 
R. G. VSaLLIAMS, 
Publishing Agent, corner of Nassau and 
Spruce Streets, (No.3 Spruce.) 
Total, .V r $1988 68 



THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 

\0L.I1. No.VIII. AUGUST, 1836. Whole No. 20. 

COULD THEY TAKE CARE OF THEMSELVES? 

** GtTARDiANSHip ! GUARDIANSHIP ! ! The slavcs, as a body, are a 
poor, lazy, ignorant set of savages, so accustomed to depend upon 
their masters for the necessaries of Ufe, that if suddenly freed they 
would not know how to take care of themselves, and would be inevi- 
tably plunged into much greater suffering than they now endure." 
Such is one of the arguments against paying wages for labor and 
yielding to people their just rights. Says J. K. Paulding on Slavery, 
page 277, " To set the slaves of the south at once, or at any time, free, 
must inevitably produce similar consequences to those which would 
result from suddenly withdrawing children from under the wing of the 
parent, and setting them adrift on the ocean of the world, without 
experience and without protection." 

Well, if the slaves are u'lable to take care of themselves, no doubt 
they ought to be taken care of — common humanity requires it. The 
question is, how people, who are supposed to be unable to take care of 
themselves, should be taken care of. We cannot answer this question 
more to our own satisfaction than in the language of the law of the 
state of Mississippi in regard to " idiots, lunatics, and persons non 
compos mentis" — i. e., who have not mind enough to take care of their 
bodies. " The Orphans Court of each county in this state is hereby 
authorized and empowered, in their respective counties, on request 
made by the friends or relatives of any idiot, lunatic, or person non 
compos mentis, or by the overseer of the poor, for the district in which 
such idiot, &c., resides, by writ to direct the sheriff of said county to 
summon twelve good, discreet and lawful men of the county, and 
Heighborhood of the residence of such persons, to make inquisition 
thereto on oath ; and if the person said to be an idiot, &c., shall be 
adjudged by such inquest (or a majority of them) to be incapable of 
taifing care of himself or herself, they shall certify the same, under their 



2 eOOLD THti rA&K OAftK OF THKMSELVES / [8© 

hands and seals, to the Orphan's Court, and the said Orphan's Court 
shall appoint some suitable person or persons to be guardian or guar- 
dians to such idiot, &c. ; directing and empowering such guardian 
or guardians to take care of the person and estate, both real and 
personal, of such idiot, &c. And the said guardian or guardians shall 
make a true and perfect inventory of the said estate, and return the 
same within the same time, and account with the Orphan's Court as 
often, and in the same manner as guardians to orphans are before 
directed by this act, and shall give bond and security m like manner ; 
and the said court shall have the same power and control over such 
guardian or guardians, to all intents and purposes, as over guardians to 
orphans.''— (Bmserf Code of the Laws of Mississippi, chap. 9, sec. 136. 
Natchez, 1824.) Another section of the same law makes it the duty 
of these guardians to render up the property and control of their 
wards, whenever in the judgment of the Orphan's Court such wards 
are able to take care of themselves. 

To such sort of guardianship there can be no objection. It is not 
slavery. It does not entitle the guardian to use the labor and property 
of his ward without responsibility, and without reference to the rights 
of the owner. It does not allow him to transmit the ward and his 
offspring from generation to generation, to his posterity, along with 
his other goods and chattels. It does not allow him to whip out of 
him as much labor as he pleases. It is a temporary relation which 
ceases with the necessity which created it. If then it shall be proved 
that the slaves in Mississippi cannot take care of themselveSy it will not 
follow that they ought to be retained in slavery another moment, but 
that they ought to have the benefit of the law above quoted. 

But, are the slaves capable of taking care of themselves ? As the 
Orphan's Courts do not seem likely to make any serious inquest into 
this matter, we propose to take up the inquiry to the best of our abihty. 

The question must be settled by FACTS. The opinions of all the 
slaveholders in the world cannot weigh a feather, because they are 
interested, — their guardianship is too profitable. The Rev. James 
Curtin, a missionary slaveholder of Antigua, when examined before 
a Comnattee of the House of Lords, in 1832, thought it would take 
" half a century" to fit the slaves of Antigua for freedom — the gener- 
ality of them " would not do at all to be freed." But it has since been 
found tliat they were all fit on the 1st of August, 1834. Sir C. B. 
Codrington, who owned the whole population of the island of Bar- 
buda^ besides many hundred slaves in Antigua, wrote to Mr. Buxton 



87] COULD THEY TAKE CARE OF THEMSELVES ? S 

in 1832, that he would be glad to free his negroes, but his agent had 
written him that if he did so, not one fourth of them " would be alive 
at the end of two years."* They have been free two years, and the 
British public has not yet been troubled with any complaints of their 
starvation. The West India slaveholders, generally, predicted uni- 
versal ruin as the effect of emancipation. Never were false prophets 
more signally put to shame. If the opinions of British slaveholders 
were worthless, why should we rely on those of American slave 
holders ? 

Neither can we rely on the opinions and general statements of mere 
travelers and sojourners. Because a man has seen slaves with his 
own eyes, it does not follow that he is competent to pronounce against 
their ability to take care of themselves. His testimony is inadmissible 
in this court ; 1, because the chance is, that he sympathizes with the 
class with which he associated ; 2, because he may have been deceived 
by the slaves, who always pretend to more ignorance, recklessness 
and contentment than they really possess, for the sake of lightening 
their bondage. Stupidity is worth too much to the back and shoulders 
of a slave not to be counterfeited. It is the fate of most travelers and 
many of the masters to take a good deal of this counterfeit for true 
coin. 

We shall appeal to facts, stated by the advocates of slavery them- 
selves, or which have been open to their cross-examination. 

I. It is a general fact that the slaves industriously cultivate their own 
patches, after having performed all the labor required by their masters on 
the great plantation. And this they do notwithstanding their allow- 
ance, which is said by their masters to be sufficient for their subsist- 
ence. The slaves in the British colonies received from their masters, 
as a general thing, only a few salt herrings weekly, and permission to 
labor one day every fortnight, besides Sundays, upon their provision 
grounds. And as they thus worked out their own subsistence by 
laboring not more than 78 days in the year, it was very rationally 
argued that they would be able and willing to get their hving when 
allowed to work for themselves the whole 365. But it may be said, the 
West Indian slaves had been always trained to labor for themselves 
by necessity, hence when they were freed they had the habit of taking 
care of themselves, along with more abundant opportunity ; whereas 
the American slave, having been accustomed to depend upon his 
roaster both for food and clothing, will be thrown upon the world 
* ATiM-Siavery Kenorter* vol 5, p 30!.; 



4 COULD THET TAKE CARE OP THEMSELVES ? [88 

with neither the forebodings of want nor the habits of providence. 
Let us for the sake of the argument grant that the allovi^ance of the 
American slave is abundantly adequate to the supply of his animal 
wants ; what say the witnesses ? 

The late Edwin C. Holland, Esq. of South CaroUna, in his " Refu- 
tation of the Calumnies circulated against the Southern and Western 
States, respecting the institution and existence of Slavery among 
them," &c. — published in Charleston, (S. C.) 1822 — ^has introduced 
the statements of a number of the most extensive planters in that state, 
in relation to the treatment of the slaves. 

Benjamin D. Roper, Esq., says, " It is not uncommon for an 
industrious negro to have finished his task by three or four o'clock. 
In common, each hand is allowed to cultivate a task (patch?) on their 
own account, and time allowed them cO prepare and plant their com, 
peas, pompions, melons, &c. &c. In addition to this, sufficient ground 
contiguous to their dwellings is allowed them for gardens, from which 
many of them raise fruit and vegetables amply sufficient for their fam- 
ilies. Many of the negroes raise hogs, ducks and fowls, and have 
their bee hives, whence they indulge themselves in some of the luxuries 
as well as conveniences of Ufe," p. 50. This witness states this to be 
the general fact on plantations, so far as his " knowledge extends.'* 
And he adds in regard to these very slaves, that " they are fed half the 
year on corn, and the other half on potatoes — that their dwellings are 
commodious — that they enjoy as good medical attendance as the mas- 
ter and at his expense, and that "they are clad in winter with the best 
woollen plains, and in summer with osnaburgs." Please to weigh the 
testimony. The witness could have no motive to overrate the industry 
of the slave. If he has not overrated the liberality of the master, then 
he proves that the slave will labor with no other motive than to supply 
himself with luxuries and elegancies — if he has, still the slave labors 
with no other motive than to relieve his necessities. 

Says Elias Horry, Esq., " Each grown negro is allowed a small 
field, say from a quarter to half an acre of land, or more if he desires 
it, which he plants, and the profits of which he appropriates exclusively 
to his own use. They are permitted to raise poultry of every descrip- 
tion, which they either sell to their master or send to market. If they 
are called upon to do any extra work in their oicn time, they are regu- 
larly paid for it. In one instance I paid in one year to a carpenter 
belonging to me 5^150, for extra services of himself and two sons, in 
rearing the frames of five negro houses, I finding stuff," pp. 56, 57. 



89j COULD THEY TAKE CARE OF THEMSELVES 1 6 

Still stronger is the testimony of George Edwards, Esq. Speak- 
ing of the slaves on his own plantation, he says, that their provision 
grounds are cultivated for them under the administration of his 
managers and drivers, and yet after this excess of care for them, the 
negroes still manifest a strong disposition to take care of themselves, — 
for he adds, " Independent of their crop, I permit them to raise hogs 
and poultry of every description, and many of them supply themselves 
toith bacon dwing the lointer, and have hogs to dispose of," p. 49. So it 
seems, let the planters take what care they will of their human prop- 
erty, that property alv/ays seizes every scantling of time and oppor- 
tunity to take care of itself. 

Similar testimony is to be found in Paulding's recent " Defence of 
Slavery." He introduces letters from two distinguished slaveholders 
in Virginia, in reply to a set of interrogatories which he had proposed, 
and himself vouches for the truth of the pictures which they present. 
One of his witnesses, " a gentleman possessing a large estate, and a 
very considerable number of slaves, in what is usually called Lower 
Virginia," thus speaks of the care which the slaves take of themselves 
in the time left at their own disposal. " A great many fowls are 
raised : I have this year known ten dollars' worth sold by one man at 
one time. One of the chief sources of profit is the fur of the muskrat; 
for the purpose of catching which the marshes on the estate have been 
parcelled out and appropriated from time immemorial, and are held by a 
tenure little short of fee simple," p. 1 92. Here are notions of property as 
well as provident industry among these poor non compotes, who do not 
know how to take care of themselves ! Again, says the same witness, 
" Besides the food furnished by me, (and which he had just pronounced 
'abundant,') nearly all the servants are able to make some addition 
from their private stores ; and there is, among the adults, hardly an 
instance of one so improvident as not to do it ! /" p. 195. Mark this ; 
the slaves are so provident that they add luxuries to abundance, and 
that by their spontaneous labor, after toiling enough to support their 
masters on the v/orn out tobacco-fields of lower Virginia ! Could not 
these slaves, if they had nothing else to do, take care of themselves ?* 

* The same witness states a fact on page 198, with comments, which show 
that the masters, rather than the slaves, mistake idleness for liberty. " My 
Clearest neighbor," says he, " a man of immense wealth, owned a favorite 
servant, a fine fellow, with pohshed manners and excellent disposition, who 
reads and writes, and is thoroughly versed in the duties of butler and house- 
keeper, in the performance of which he was trusted without limit. This man 
was, on the death of his master, emancipated with a legacy of $6,000, besides 
about $2,000 more which he had taeeri permitted to accumulate, and ha«? 



6 COTTLD THEY TAKE CARE OP THEMSELVES ? [90 

Another witness called to the stand by Paulding, expressly to con- 
tradict the falsehoods of the " Satanic abolitionists," is a Judge residing 
in the Virginia valley. His testimony in regard to the extra industry 
of the slaves in rearing hogs and poultry is the same as that already 
quoted. He says that any extraordinary diligence of the slaves during 
hai-vest-time " is more than made up by their being allowed, at its 
termination, a few days" — for what, do you think, reader ? — is it to 
froUc and fish, like a New England farmer's boys — or to doze, Uke 
Hottentots, in the smoke of their cabins? No:— but "to labor for 
themselves, or for others who have 7iot finished, and from whom THEY" 
RECEIVE WAGES," p. 208. 

Not one of all these witnesses pretends that the slaves are idle in 
their oivn time, or that they ever refuse to work for wages. Now if the 
love of wages, and of little additional comforts and luxuries, ghmmer- 
ing through the cracks and crevices which the general usurpation of 
the master has left, can excite the industry of the slave — can fructify 
his patch and fill his little garner — would he starve if that usurpation 
were taken off, and the broad sunshine of better motives let in ? If 
while a slave, a man will labor freely for luxuries, will he not as a 
freeman labor, when he must, for necessaries ? 

II. It is a general fact that the slaves that have been emancipated, 
either at home or abroad have always, when not forcibly prevented, taken 
good care of themselves. 

In these United States no class of our population is allowed to 
starve, or to suffer greatly from want. — If any individuals prove by 
their suflfering that they are incapable of taking care of themselves, 
there are persons whose duty it is to take care of them. Now as but 

deposited with his master, who had given him credit for it. The use that 
this man, apparently so well qualified for freedom, and who has had an op- 
portunity of traveling and of judging for himself, makes of his money and his 
time, is somewhat remarkable. In consequence of liis exemplary conduct, 
he has been permitted to reside in the state, (how generous m Virginia not to 
banish one of her sons, worth $8,000 !) and for very moderate avages occupies the 
same situation he did in the old establishment ; and will probably continue to 
occupy it as long as he hves. He has no children of his own, but has put 
a little girl, a relation of his to school. Except in this instance, and in the 
purchase of a few plain articles of furniture, his freedom and his money seem 
not much to have benefited Mm." We are on the verge of a discovery, gentle 
reader. The slaves are unfit for freedom, because, if they were free they 
would continue for " moderate wages," to occupy the " same situation" as 
before ! Had this butler, with his $8,000, kicked up his heels, as soon as he 
got his liberty, bought race horses," lounged at watering places, drinked deep 
and played deeper — like some whiter men with less money — then he would 
have been a noble fellow, perfectly able to take care of himself, — nothing then, 
but his unfortunate color, would have stood between him and gentlemen of the 
highest circles. His freedom and his money would have been a great benefit 
to him I 



91] COXTLD THET TAKE CARE OF THEMSELVES ? 7 

a small portion of the free colored people are to be found in the care of 
these persons, the inference is inevitable that the rest are capable of 
taking care of themselves. 

Slaveholders accuse the free colored people of the south of being an 
indolent and vicious part of the population, but at the same time they 
are obliged to confess a cause for this worthlessness which would not 
exist if slavery were abolished at once. Hear the testimony of John 
A. M'Kinney, Esq., of Tennessee : " Ever since that ill-fated day, 
when the first African slave set his foot on this continent, or at least 
since that day when the first manumitted slave walked abroad, claim- 
ing and seeking the privileges of a freeman, it was clearly perceived, 
that in a community xohere slavery still remained, it would be a source 
of countless ills, to have in the country a class of persons, who could 
neither be accounted bond nor free, and who could not be permitted to 
associate with either the master or the slave." — {Jlfrican Repository^ 
vol. 6, page 226.) Again, "If there is in the whole world a more 
wretched class of human beings than the free people of color in this 
country, I do not know where they are to be found. They have no 
home, no country, no Idndred, no friends. They are lazy and indo- 
lent, because they have no motive to prompt them to be industrious. 
They are in general destitute of principle, because they have nothing 
to stimulate them to honorable and praiseworthy conduct. Let them 
be maltreated ever so much, the law gives them no redress, unless some 
%vhite person happens to be present to be a witness in the case. If they 
acquire property they hold it by courtesy of every vagabond in the 
country, and sooner or later are sure to have it filched from them." — 
(Ibid. p. 228.) 

So far as regards the character of the free colored people^ this testi- 
mony is grossly false, as will presently appear ; but for this very reason 
it is worthy of the more credit in regard to the cause which operates to 
depress this persecuted class. Mr. M'Kinney was advocating the 
banishment of the free colored people to Africa : of course he was 
tempted to make their character as bad as possible ; he had no motive 
however to make out his white fellow-citizens any more cruel and 
unjust than they really are, but the reverse. Throughout all the south, 
free colored people are deprived of the benefit of colored witnesses, 
whenever a white is a party. They are everywhere subject to the 
clanger of losing their liberty by the registration laws, their liberty 
being forfeited if their certificates of freedom be not duly registered, 
generally, once in three years. If the old certificate happen to be lost 



8 COULD THEY TAKE CARE OF THEMSELVES ? [92 

SO that it cannot be produced, it lies with the discretion of the court 
whether to grant them another, or permit them for the want of it to be 
imprisoned, and sold for jail fees. In Georgia a free negro can hold 
no real estate, nor can a white man hold it for his benefit without 
incurring a penalty of $1,000 ; he must be registered annually, and is 
compelled to work 20 days each year for the public, and pay $4 extra 
tax. Slaveholders have thought it the best argument in favor of 
slavery to point to emancipated people and say, " See, how much 
worse off than the slaves." And they have tried hard to make this 
arg'timent as they have gone along. But they have failed. In spite 
of their cruel laws the emancipated people have taken care of them- 
selves, so as to give slaveholders more trouble than all other causes put 
together. William B. Giles, Governor of Virginia, addressed a 
long defence of slavery to General La Fayette, in 1829, from which 
we take the following extract : — " In relation to the free people of 
color, I am far from yielding to the opinion expressed by the intel- 
ligent Committee of the House of Delegates of Virginia, and the 
enthusiastic memorialists of Powhatan, respecting the degraded and 
demorahzed condition of this caste; — at least in degree and extent. 
It will be admitted that this caste of colored population attract but 
httle of the public sympathy and commiseration, — in fact, that the 
pubUc feeUng and sentiment are opposed to it. It is also admitted, 
that the penal laws against it have been marked with peculiar seve- 
rity ; so much so, as to form a characteristic exception to oxu* whole 
penal code. When I first came into the office of Governor, such was 
the severity of the penal laws against that caste, that for all capital 
offences short of the punishment of death, and for many oflTences not 
capital, slavery, sale and transporlatiGn, formed the loretched doom de- 
nounced by the laws against this unfavored, despised caste of colored 
people." (How much happier then, according to Governor Giles, the 
lot of the free colored man after all, than the " wretched doom" of the 
slave !) " About two years since this extreme severity of punishment 
was commuted into the milder one of confinement and labor for stated 
periods in the penitentiary. I have also reason to fear, that under 
the influence of general prejudices, the laws, in some instances, have 
been administered against them more in rigor than justice. Yet, 
notwithstanding all these deprecated circumstances, the proportion of 
convicts to the whole population has been small. During the exist- 
ence of those extreme punishments, up to the present period, the 
whole population of tliis description of people mav i^p ^or«oif|or<i/^. nt 



93] COULD THET TAKE CARE OF THEMSELTES ? 9 

the beginning, to be about 35,000, now increased to about 40,000 — in 
despite of all the efforts of the Colonization Society, and notwith- 
standing the operation of the laws in favor of emigration, and against 
immigration. — During the existence of these extreme punishments, the 
annual convictions for offences did not exceed eleven, (11) upon an 
increasing population of 35,000. — Since the commutation of the pun- 
ishment, the annual average of convicts upon the increased population 
of 40,000, is reduced to eight, (8) as will be seen by an official report 
of the Superintendent of the Penitentiary, forwarded herewith. The 
proportion, therefore, of the annual convictions, to the whole popula- 
tion is as I to 5,000. These facts would serve to prove, almost to a 
demonstration ; 1st, That this class of population is by no means so 
vicious, degraded and demoralized, as represented by their prejudiced 
fi-iends (friends !) and voluntary benefactors. And 2d, That the evils 
attributed to this caste are vastly magnified and exaggerated." 

These are stubborn facts against opinions and prejudices. If the free 
colored population were not in fact, very virtuous, industrious, useful, 
and well nigh indispensable, they would long since have been pun- 
ished back into slavery, or banished fi-om the State. The fact that 
under all their cruel disabilities they do incrSaf;e by natural generation, 
is abundantly sufficient to show that they can take care of themselves. 

Equally unfortunate are the slaveholders in appealing to the case of 
the free colored people in the free states. Though to our shame these 
people are under the ban of prejudice even here; though they are 
thrust away from the most respectable and lucrative employments, 
and made to labor at the greatest possible disadvantage, it is notorious 
that they get a better living and are less burdensome to the commu- 
nity than the poorer class of white people. The following testimony 
is from " The Friend," published in Philadelphia. " In the city and 
suburbs of Philadelphia, by the census of 1830, they (the colored) 
constituted about eleven per cent, or one ninth of the whole popu- 
lation. Prona tJip annxmnt of the giiarHians nf the poor, printed by 
order of the Board, it appears that of the out-door poor receiving reg- 
ular weekly supplies in the first month, 1830, the time of the greatest 
need, the people of color were about one to twenty-three whites; or not 
quite four per cent, a disproportion of whites to colored, of more than 
two to one in favor of the latter. *** + + **+ One cause of 
this disproportion which we presume is but little known, but which 
is worthy of special notice, will be found in the numerous societies 
among themselves for mutual aid. These societies expended in one 



10 COULD THEY TAKE CARE OF THEMSELVES ? [94 

year, about six thousand dollars for the relief of the sick and the indi- 
gent of their own color, from funds raised among themselves. * * * 
* * The taxes paid by the colored people of Philadelphia, exceed in 
amount the sums expended out of the funds of the city for the relief 
of their poor." 

In the city of Pittsburgh there are 1,200 or 1,500 colored people, of 
whom the " Saturday Evening Visiter" of that city, says : — " It is but 
an act of justice to a majority of this people to state, that they are 
making good progress in knowledge and sound moi-als, and that they 
are doing much to educate their cliildren well," 

A mass of testimony to the same effect might be produced if we had 
room. It is sometimes said there are more convictions for crimes 
among our free colored population than among the whites in propor- 
tion to their numbers. This is true. But, first, it is unfair to compare 
the free colored to the lohole white population. Let them be compared 
with an equal number of whites who have had the same advantages 
for obtaining property and education — to say nothing of the persecu- 
tion of the colored man. Secondly, let crimes be compared in respect 
to their enormity. It will be found that the greatest criminals are 
among the whites. A single white man has frequently committed 
greater outrages upon social order, or depredations upon property, 
than all the colored men now in our prisons, put together. Our cities 
ought to know that when they refuse honest colored men Ucenses to 
drive carts and the like, they do in fact hold out a premimn to crime. 

The history of all the emancipations in the world shows that when 
people who have been compelled to take care of masters, are freed 
from that burden, they can and will easily take care of themselves. We 
must pass over emancipations in St. Domingo, Guadaloupe, Cayenne, 
Colombia, Mexico, Java, Cape of Good Hope, British West Indies, 
&c., in none of which did the emancipated find any difficulty in taking 
care of themselves, for want of room. There is, however, one very 
marked case of emancipatinn on record, to which a« it is perfectly con- 
clusive of the position that none are so ignorant or degraded as not 
to be able to take better care of themselves than any masters can be 
expected to take for them, we must refer. 

It is universally contended by slaveholders, that fresh imported 
Africans are more ignorant and savage than any creole slaves. We 
are not disposed to deny it. Well, in 1828, there were in the island 
of Antigua about 400 Africans, that had been taken by British cruisers 
from the holds of captured slave ships. They were partly supported. 



95] COtTLft THEY TAKE CARE OF THEMSELVES ? II 

in idleness by the Custom-House, and in part distributed among the 
inhabitants, nominally as apprentices, but really as slaves. They 
were altogether the lowest order of Helots hi Antigua. By a despatch 
from the British ministry the Governor of Antigua was directed to ap- 
prize all these Africans that they should " be permitted to live in the 
colonies precisely on the same conditions as any other free persons 
of African birth and descent, so long as their own continued good 
conduct may render it unnecessary to resort to any measures of co- 
ercion." And certificates of liberty were ordered to be given to all 
*' who should either have served out their apprenticeship, or who, not 
being apprenticed, should be reported capable of earning their own 
subsistence ; and that none should hereafter be apprenticed who were 
not incapable of maintaming themselves by their own labor." In 
pursuance of these instructions the Governor of Antigua set free 371 
of these people m a single day. This was in December 1828. On 
the 25th May 1829, the Governor Sir Patrick Ross, says in his official 
despatch, "It affi)rds me much satisfaction to have the honor of report- 
ing that during a period of five months which has expired since they 
were set at large, I have not received a single complaint against them; 
nor has one of them been committed by a magistrate for the most trifling 
offence. There has not, to my knowledge, been any application from 
them on the score of poverty, and they appear to be in general, indus- 
triously occupied in providing for their own livelihood." So well sat- 
isfied were the British ministry with this experiment, that tliey pro- 
ceeded upon it to liberate all the slaves belonging to the crown in the 
various colonies — and with similar success. But the cream of the 
matter is, that the colonial agents in England, seeing that tliis satis- 
factory report was likely to lead to further consequences, wrote home 
to the Antigua legislature that the statement of Sir Patrick Ross must 
by all means be disproved. The legislature was roused to the flood- 
tide of slaveholding wrath, and after going through a mock investiga- 
tion, resolved that the liberated Africans were, in spite of Sir Patrick 
Ross, a set of idle, wortliless, profligate vagabonds ! These resolvf 
tions, unbacked by a single fact or document, they transmitted to the 
ministry, and were by them reminded, that they had been authorized 
by the very instructions for the liberation of those people, to remove to 
Trinidad any of them who within seven years, " should be convicted of 
theft, or any other offence against the peace of society, or should be found 
seeking subsistence as a common beggar or vagrant, or should become 
chargeable on any parochial or pubUc rates, except in case of sickness 



12 



COULD THEY TAKE CARE OF THEMSELVES ? 



[96 



or other inevitable accident" Yet the Antigua legislature bad not 
taken measures Jw the removal of a single one of these vicious vaga- 
bonds. Nor had any case occurred in which such measures could be 
taken, up to April 25th, 1832 ! ! 
J On this one fact we are willing to plant ourselves, and defy all the 
slanderers of our colored brethren in the universe. If 371 poor, igno- 
rant, ill-assorted reUcs of the " middle passage" suddenly set adrift 
could get a Uving in the very teeth of a legislature of furious slave- 
holders, who dares say that there is a single plantation in the United 
States where slaves are too lazy, ignorant or stupid, to get a living if 
fair toages were offered them? Who dares say that the miUions 
whose toil now supports their masters and fills the national cofiera, 
would not, if permitted, take care of themselves ? 



RECEIPTS 



Into the Treasury of the American A. 
S. Society, from Jime 21st to July 
28th, 1836. 

iindover Theol. Sera, per T. Duglass, $4 00 

Amesbuiy, Mass. , Robert Scott, 2 00 

" " Samuel Fielding, 2 00 

Biissfield, Mich., U. H. Lewis, I 00 

Canada, a friend, per Jesse Talbot, 2.5 00 

Carlisle, Pa. , collection in a Sabbath school, 

per John Peck, Superintendent, 5 CO 

Connecticut fiiends, per Misses Smith 5 00 

Great Falls, N. H., balance of pledge of $50, 

made May, 1835, 10 00 

Hampton, Ct. , collections on the 4th July, per 

Rev. S. J. May, 15 00 

Hannibal N. Y.. A. Rice, Esq. 5 (JO 

" " Joiin Sikes, 1 00 

Middletown, Ct., A. S. S. on account of 

pledge, per J. G. Baldwin, 50 00 

New York city, Messrs. Colton & JenJtina, 25 00 
" Rev. L. Clark, 5 00 

" J. W. Higgins, amount of 

pledge, made May, 1835, 
m behalf of colored people 
in Dey street church, WO 00 

" Lewis Tappau, 115 52 

" Peter Shapter, 5 00 

«• J. W. Hubbard, 1 00 

" A. Tappan, 250 00 

" R. G. Williams, on account 

of $100 pledge, 25 00 

New Hampshire A. S. Society, per G. Kent, 100 00 
Oberlin, Ohio, Wiu. Lewis, 5 00 

Philadelphia, Pa. , J. Cassey, 50 00 

Perrysburgh, Ohio, Mrs. J. W. Smith, 10 00 

Rome, N. Y., Dr. A. Blair, 6 00 

Rupert, Vt., per A. Johnson, 1 63 

Springfield, lU., E. Wright, 2 50 

Stratford, Ct, per Mrs. M. Curtis, 3 00 

Biaem, N. J. , Abby Goodwin, S 75 



Sandy Hill, N. Y., litfle girls, per Mia S. 

Stow, O 

Washiaglon, Pa. collection at the anniversary 

of the A. S. Society, July 4, 183«, WIS 

" " M. B. LeMoyne, 22 78 



Fri.&i 



LEWIS TAPPAN, Assistant Treasurer, 
No. 3, Spruce St. 

New York, July 28, 1836. 



Quarterly Collections received 
Publisliing Agent, from June 
July 1st, 1836. 
Centreville, R. I. , D. R. Curtis, 
Decatur, Ohio, Rebecca M'Coy, 
Honesdale, Pa. , per Isaac P. Fos 



1)ythe 
1st to 

$4 00 
150 
6 75 
300 
25 
75 
25 



New York city, S. Angel, 

" John Usmar, 

" J. Caipenter, 

" H. Owen. 

" Miss P. Tucker, 

Oneida Institute, per W. J. Savage, 6 00 

Putnam, Ohio, per H. Nye, 5 OO 

Ripley, Ohio, S. Hemphill, 1 50 

So. Hanover, la., J. G. Wilson, I 50 

Whitestown, N. Y. , per John Wait, 10 00 

WalerviUe, Me,. J. M. Rockwood, 75 

Received for the Emancipator, 176 62 

" Voice of Freedom 133 73 

" Himian Rights, 51 33 

" A. S. Record, 35 72 

" Quarterly Magazine, 26 00 

" Books and Pamphlets, 150 99 

$616 27 
R. G. WILLIAMS, 
Publishing Agent, corner of Nassau and 
Spruce Sureete, (No.3 Spruce.) 
Total Recdpu, $1502 30 



THE 



ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD 



Vol. II. No. IX. SEPTEMBER, 1836. 



Whole No. 21 




HOY/ CAN IT BE DONE? 

It is said, " the principles of the abolitionists may be true, but how 
can they ever effect thpir olyect ? Slaveholders will not listen to argu^ 
ment. The whole North combined, v/ould have no constitutional 
power to abolish c-laveiy in a single slave state. Why then organize 
a force Avhich can have no power to act ?" 

What is the meaning of that mob dragging off * broken printing 
press ? What is the meaning of the crowd around yonder church, 
swearing and throwing stones at a peaceful lecturer? What is the 
meaning of the terror and indignation of slaveholders at the in- 
crease of abolitionists in the United States ? These things certainly 
do not mean that slaveholders are afraid of losing their character by 
the misrepreseritations of abolition presses and lecturers. If that were 
the fear, the\' have a hundred presses and lecturers to one. Nothing 
in the world would be easier than to overwhelm the abolition calum- 
niators with disgrace by publishing the whole truth, Almost all tha 



^ HOW CAN IT BE DONE? [98 

commercial and political papers at the North, to say nothing of their 
own and the majority of our clergy of all denominations, are ready 
and anxious to defend them. Truth is great and will prevail, every 
body knows. Suppose a little spiteful periodical is set up to oppose 
some fair and honorable business ; how soon it goes down ! Nobody 
flounces; nobody raises a mob. The party attacked simply gives 
the public the truth, through the ordinary papers, and the assailant 
soon descends to the land of forgetfulness. Or, the same thing is 
calmly done in a court of law. Now, if the slaveholders feared mis 
representation or calumny, they would have taken tliis course, or in 
structed their friends, the mobocrats, to take it. 

Again, the slaveholders do not fear that printing and lecturing on 
slavery at the North will excite their slaves to rebellion. If they did, 
they would not copy column after column of the abolition papers into 
their own. Says one of their own papers, the United States Tele- 
graph, " We do not believe that the abolitionists intend, nor could 
they, if they would, excite the slaves to insurrection." When a man 
has friends to fight his battles for him, there is less danger of his fight- 
ing himself The slaveholders of Jamaica charged the last insurrec- 
tion of the slaves in that island upon the abolitionists ; but how did it 
turn out ? It was found to be undeniable that the insurrection was 
caused by the slaveholders themselves refusing to take any measures 
for the ultimate relief of the slaves, and their threat that they would 
transfer their allegiance from Great Britain to America, provided par 
liament should interfere in behalf of the slaves ! 

Again, the slaveholders do not fear a physical attack from the 
North — a liberty crusade. They are too courageous for that. Be- 
sides, if they did fear it, they would be afraid of hastening it by these 
mobs. What, then, is the reason why slaveholders excite their friends 
and allies to destroy abolition presses, and interrupt abolition lecturers? 
It is this, they know that abolition papers and lectures will convince 
people that slavery is sinful ; and when that is done, they can hold 
slaves no longer, consistently with their own reputation and peace 
of mind. 

Hear what the great apostle of slavery. Gen. Duff Green, says 
about this matter ; 

"We are of those who believe that the South has nothing to fear 
from a civil war. We do not believe that the abolitionists intend, nor 
could they, if they would, excite the slaves to insurrection. The 
danger of this is remote. We believe that we have most to fear from 
the organized action upon the CONSCIENCES AND FEARS OF 



99] HOW CAN IT BE DONE ? % 

THE SLAVEHOLDERS THEMSELVES ; from the insinuation 
of their dangerous heresies into our schools, our pulpits, and our domes- 
tic circles. It is only by alarming the consciences of the weak and 
feeble, and diffusing among OUR OWN PEOPLE a morbid sensi- 
bility on the question of slavery, that the abolitionists can accomplish 
their object. Preparatory to this, they are now laboring to saturate 
the non-slaveholding states with the belief, that slavery is a 'sin 
against God ;' that the national compact involves the non-slaveholders 
in that sin ; and that it is their duty to toil and suffer, that our country 
may be delivered from, what they term, ' its blackest stain, its foulest 
reproach, its deadliest curse.' " 

Does Gen. Duff Green, or any other slaveholder, or any other man 
of sense, regard this preparation as vain and idle ? Do the mobocrats 
themselves regard the printing and lecturing of the abolitionists as 
vain and inefficacious ? Certainly not. If they did, they would en- 
deavor so to persuade their principals at the South. The mobocrats, 
who destroyed Mr. Birney's press in Cincinnati, were men of the first 
standing in society ; men who well understand the power of the press. 
They well knew that their enterprise was peculiarly delicate and 
dangerous. They knew that the mob they were cheering on, might 
soon turn its fury upon themselves. But their Southern trade was in 
danger. Something must be done. And they ventured on a step 
which will damn them to everlasting infamy. Would they have done 
so if they had beUeved Mr. Birney was laboring against slavery all in 
vain ? JN o ; they knew that every number of the Philanthropist made 
slaveholding less reputable, and hastened its downfall. They knew 
it was troubUng the consciences of their Southern customers. They 
saw no hope of participating in the gains of slavery, except by tramp- 
ling out the fire while they could. 

Now, we have the clearly expressed opinion of the slaveholders 
themselves, and of their intelligent and humble servants, the mobo- 
crats, that the presses and the lecturers, if they are suffered to go oji, 
will overthrow slavery by acting upon the consciences of slaveholders, 
and that they have very properly commenced the work at the North. 
The question remains, whether this course of measures can be put 
down. It evidently cannot be put down by laxo, for the very reason 
why mobs are resorted to is, that the law is insufficient. The con- 
stitution guarantees freedom of speech and of the press. Can the abo- 
litionists be put down by mobs ? It would seem to be the opinion of 
very wise men that they can be. A great many mobs have been 
excited, and always by distinguished men. Yet the event has, thus 
fiir, remarkably failed to prove the wisdom of the authors. In every 



4 HOW CAN IT BE DONE? [100 

instance the abolitionists have been the gainers. It is in every body's 
mouth that a persecuted cause is sure to gain. And, if we mistake not 
the signs of the times, there is not hicely to be any lack of persecution. 

But perhaps some of the very cautious will not be willing to rely on 
this strong testimony of slaveholders themselves, to the efficacy of aboli- 
tion measures. To such, we must suggest some other considerations. 

What was the condition of the South, and of the slavery question, 
when the abolitionists commenced their labors? What lesson had 
experience taught? Why, manifestly, slavery was rapidly increasing, 
striking its roots deeper in the soil, and throwing its branches wider in 
the air. The reputation of the South w^as high. Nothing was more 
respectable than to have gone to the South and become a slaveholder. 
Still it must not be supposed that there was no opposition to slavery. 
For years there had been the very same cautious, prudent, unpro- 
voking opposition to slavery, which is now recommended to the aboli- 
tionists. Slaveiy had not flourished from any want of arguments to 
prove its sinfulness, " in the abslract." It was not for the want of 
argument against it, indeed, that it was commenced in the first place. 
It was begun and continued in open defiance of that Christianity 
which, eighteen hundred years ago, pronounced ail men of one blood. 
It would, therefore, have been most childish folly in the abolitionists to 
have expected to convert slaveholders by mere argument. They never 
expected to do any such thing. They never expected tn mnqner with 
weapons, which in a thousand trials had always /ai/ec?. 

New England boasts to have been always opposed to slavery. In 
argument she may have been, for aught we know ; but we assert, fear- 
less of contradiction, that till the year 1830, there was not one of her 
villages where it did not add to a man's credit, in the general estima- 
tion, to pass for a southerner and a slaveholder. There was balm enough 
in this respectability to heal all the consciences wounded by the pru- 
dent and '^ good spirited" arguments against slavery in the abstract. 

What, then, with the light of experience, was the course struck out 
by the abolitionists ? It was to denounce slaveholding as a sin in all 
circumstances, and place the determined slaveholder on the list of 
felons, as worthy to be excluded from the society of honest men as the 
pickpocket, the counterfeiter, or highway robber. It was to begin at 
the North with the people who profess to be opposed to slavery, and 
yet gape, and admire, and bow the knee to the haughty southern 
nabob, who comes among them upon his summer ramble, flush with 
the hire that has been kept hack from the laborer. It was to proclaim 



101] HOW CAN IT BE DONE ? 5 

that any other unrepenting criminals might as well be admitted to the 
church of Christ, as those who are guilty of making merchandise of 
His people. It was to proclaim, in high places and low places, that 
slaveholding is only a comprehensive kind of STEALING, in wliich 
the thief takes owner and all, from generation to generation. It was 
to brush away, with the besom of common sense, the notion that such 
iniquity ever could be justified by laio. It was to combine against it 
all men of all sects and parties, whose minds were open to truth and 
their hearts sensible to humanity. Will such a course succeed in 
reforming the slaveholder ? No, say the would-be wise men. If you 
would convince the slaveholder, you must not call him a felon. You 
must approach him courteously ; you must not exasperate him ,- you 
must remember that " a drop of molasses will catch more fhes than a 
hogshead of vinegar ;" your words must be smoother than oil — just as 
if all this be-slabbering with holy flattery was going to convince any 
body, after having been tried in vain for fifty years ! But the ques- 
tion is, whether the slaveholder is a felon or not. Arguments must 
be adapted to the character which is to be influenced. The reproof 
which would be very efft ctual with a moral youth, who had for the 
first time given way to strong drink or bad company, would be lost 
upon the hoary sot or the confirmed gambler. If slaveholders are 
guilty of a worse felony than highwaymen, it is very absurd to ap- 
proach them smilingly, and reason the matter as if they were high- 
minded, honorable, and honest men. The smile destroys the argu- 
ment. If we are so bad as your argument makes us, they may well 
say, why treat us with so profoimd respect, why commune vdth us as 
Christians, why stand in fear of calling us by our right names ? Crime 
is crime, no matter how much it may be respected, and it always 
hardens the heart. The longer it is indulged in, the less susceptible 
is the heart to reproof. If any thing can reclaim the hardened crimi- 
nal, and bring him to true repentance, it is the ivhole truth. It may 
exasperate, it may call forth a tempest of wrath, but it will be, after 
all, more powerful than all the flattery in the world to convince of sin. 
Especially is this the case when the truth is spoken by the whole 
world. Slaveholders have had the public sentiment of the world in 
their favor. Bolstered up by it, they have bid defiance to what they 
have pleased to term a handful of fanatics. It is very easy for them 
to say, that they v/ould not be persuaded though the whole North 
should become abolitionists. When the North shall have become so, 
they will be in new circumstances. The lying smiles which feed their 



6 HOW CAN IT BE DONE? [102 

vanity will be no more. The last echo of that monstrous lie, the 
" noble chivalry of the South," will have died away. The rust of the 
gold and silver, which they ought to have paid to their poor laborers, 
will eat their flesh " as it were fire." Let a slaveholder present him- 
self any where among honest men — it will instantly be whispered in 
liis ear, go home and pay your laborer's. Nay, it will not need to be 
whispered, he will read it on every face he meets. Go home and pay 
your laborers, pat tour laborers, PAY YOUR LABORERS, 
will ring in his ears till he will be glad to get back to the land of tasks, 
whip-carrying overseers, and human-flesh auctions. And even there 
his ears will be full of the echoes, PAY YOUR LABORERS, pat 
YOUR LABORERS, pay your laborers ! Talk of the honor, peace, digni- 
fied leisure of the wealthy southern planter, in such a state of things ! 
Why, the fiction is forever exploded. The slaveholder sees in every 
strange face the mirror of his crime. Not to know a man, is to sus- 
pect him of being an abolitionist. There is more fear of the aboli- 
tionists at the South, even now, than there would be of ten thousand 
assassins, were they known to be lurking through that country with 
poniards and pistols, bent upon murder. Oh! that dreadful poison- 
ous heresy, that men ought to be paid for their loork ! Never did Holy 
Inquisition have more trouble with a heresy, than the slaveholders 
have with that. They may as well bid an everlasting adieu to sleep, 
when this heresy shall have ^lot full possession of the North. The 
intercourse of the people of the South and North can no more be stop- 
ped, than that of the north and south winds. Unless God works a 
miracle to prevent it, slaveiy cannot stand after the northern half of 
the country becomes fully saturated with the doctrine of immediate 
emancipation. 

Here we have not taken into the account the Divine influence which 
accompanies truth. No wonder that the old system of dealing with 
slaveholders made no converts. It may have been very kind and 
charitable, and well meant, but it was a system officdtery. God does 
not help such a system. He sets his seal upon the truth. There has 
not been, in the history of the world, an instance of the reformation of 
a people from any corrupt or wicked practice, effected by flattering 
language and concealment of the truth. Both prophets and apostles 
held the language of stern rebuke towards the wrong-doers with 
whom they had to deal. Peter did not scruple to call those murderers 
whom he would convert, and yet they were converted by thousands. 
But we need not cite examples to prove that honest, plain dealing 



103] HOW CAK IT BE DONE ? 7 

is the only dealing that has ever had power over wicked men. It is 
not for us to say, \sUether or not the slaveholders of the United States 
have sinned away Lheir day of grace ; but if they have not, we are 
sure that the truth is the only thing that God will ever bless to their 
conversion. That he has blessed and is blessing the truth already, 
there are abundant indications.* Who is now pleading the cause of 
the slave, witli perhaps more effect than any other man ? James G. 
Bimey, Esq., a converted slaveholder, who has emancipated his slaves. 
But, it is absurd to look for fruit before the tree has had time to fix its 
roots in the soil. The city of New York has voted several millions of 
dollars to bring the Croton river to supply its inhabitants ^vith water. 
Many thousands of dollars have been already expended, and yet the 
people who peddle water in carts go about the streets, and may take 
up their proverb, and say to the honorable corporation, " Show us 
what you have done. You have spent floods of money, but not a 
drop of water has come from it all. Pray let us have something prac- 
tical. Till you show us the water spouting from the pipes, we shall 
never believe that New York can be supplied with water but by 
selling it at one cent per bucket .'" 

* The following is from the Philanthropist, edited by Mr. Bimey, Apiil 1, 1836 : 
*= It is frequently said by our opponents that the doctrines of abolition have 
not released a single slave from his bonds. This is not strictly correct, now, 
as everyone will see, nor iias it been at any time, since the charge was made. 
We will give the number — and we wish it was larger — that have been eman- 
cipated to our own knowledge, and as we believe, through the influence of the 
doctrine above mentioned. Should other cases be Icnown as having occurred, 
or should any hereafter occur, v/e shall feel obliged to any one who will give 
us information of them, that they may be published. 

Jolm Thompson, Jessamine co. Ky. emancipated 2. 

James G. Bimey, (then) Mercer. " 6. * 

James M. Buchanan, " 3. 

Andrew Shannon, (minister) Shelby co. " 5. 

Mrs. Meaux, Jessamine co. " 1. 

Samuel Taylor, (minister) do. " 1. 

Peter Dunn, Mercei co. " 2. 

Arthur Thome, Bracken co. " 14, 

"A Mr. Doake, of Tennessee, as we are informed, emancipated a family of 
slaves in consequence of a conversation with an abolitionist now liAring in 
Oliio. We do not know what number made up the family. Tliey came to 
Ohio— and when the colored man, who was the father of it, first saw Mr. R,, 
to whose instrumentality is attributed tlie manumission of himself and family, 
he siied, abundantly, tears of joy and gratitude. Can slaveholding confer such 

heartfelt pleasure, as that enjoyed by Mr. Doake, Mr. R , and the happy 

family made free bv the Truth?" 

We ha^•e good reason to believe that this schedule contains but a small part 
of tl'.e slaves that have been emancipated in consequence of the labors of the 
abolitionists. Indeed, if we are not mistaken, as many more have been eman- 
cipated by three individuals, one in Tennessee, one in Virginia, and one in Mis- 
souri. At the present price of slaves, there is no doubt but the slaves already 
emancipated by the doctrines of the American Anti-Slavery Society, would, 
if puichased, have cost more than the whole income of that society since it 
came into existence. 



8 HOW CAN IT BE DONE ? [104 

But what if slaveholders can never be convinced ? What if they 
are past the reach of abolition arguments ? Does it follow that the 
Anti-Slavery Society ought to disband itself, or alter its course, or 
slacken its pace? By no means. Slaveiy, wherever it exists, is 
dangerous to liberty everywhere. Slaveliolding is a contagious eviL 
Slavery in Russia as much concerns us as the plague or the cholera 
would in the same country. If we could not suppress those diseases 
there, it would become us to guard ourselves against tliem. Much 
more would it, if they were ravaging one half of our own country. 
Now, what safeguard have the millions of our laborers and mechanics, 
and the tens of millions of their posterity, that they shall be free, and 
at liberty to set their own pnce on their own labor, but the great prin- 
ciple which they have been taught to consider as the foundation of our 
happy government, that all men are horii free and equal ? In one half 
of our own Union, to which we are bound with cords that are called 
sacred, this great principle is practically set at nought. Slaveholders, 
whose voice is law at the south, despise the principle from the bottom 
of their proud hearts. They not only despise the principle, but they 
despise the laborer. They despise the whole north, because its hills 
and valleys are cultivated by those who own them. They have the 
impudence to recommend to our capitalists and rich men their owti 
system of getting work without wages. Let every free laborer read 
the following paragraphs from the last annual message of George 
M'Duffie, governor of South Carolina, and judge whether his rights 
are in no danger from slavery. 

"Reason and philosophy can explain what experience so clearly 
testifies. If we look into the elements of which all political commum- 
ties are composed, it will be found that servitude in some form, is one 
of the essential constituents. 

" No community has ever existed vvnthout it, and we may confi- 
dently assert none ever will. In the very nature of things there must 
be classes of persons to discharge all the different offices of society, 
from the highest to the lowest. Some of these offices are regarded as 
degrading, though they must and will be performed. Hence those 
manifold forms of dependent servitude which produce a sense of supe- 
riority in the masters or employers, and of inferiority on the part of the 
servants. Where these offices are performed by members of the po- 
litical community, a dangerous element is obviously introduced into 
the body politic. Hence the alarming tendency to violate the rights 
of property, by agrarian legislation, which is beginning to be manifest 
in the older states, where universal suffiage prevails without domestic 
slavery ; a tendency that will increase in the progress of society, with 
the increasing inequality of wealth. No government is worthy the 



106] HOW CAN IT BE DONE? B 

name that does not protect the rights of property, and no enlightened 
people will long submit to such a mockery. Hence it is that in older 
countries different political orders are established to effect this indis- 
pensable object ; and it will be fortunate for the non-slaveholding 
states, if they are not, in less than a quarter of a century, diiven to the 
adoption of A SIMILAR INSTITUTION, or to take refuge from 
robbery and anarchy under a military despotism." 

Against this abominable doctrine, what voice has been raised through 
the whole south ? Not a whisper. If there is a heart there that re- 
jects it, it is the poor, fettered, trammelled, bruised, broken heart of 
the slave. The man who wears, we do not say owns, that heart, may 
be white, but he is a slave ! This doctrine of M'Duffie is the doctrine 
of the south. There is not a man in her thirteen republics that dares 
stand up and deny it. And this is the country to which we are indis^ 
soiubly linked — to which we were wedded before heaven and earth, 
and yet we are not to proclaim our abhorrence of slavery ! Do we 
need the gift of prophecy to see that on such terms we shall soon find 
ourselves in that condition of laborers recommended by governor 
M'Duffie? Let it be understood we do not object to UNION with 
the south, but to the TERMS on which they tell us we must purchase 
it. If we had known at first that our interference, so far as the slaves 
were concerned, would be ineffectual, it would still have been our duty 
to act as we have done, for conscience does not allow men to be silent 
when such iniqi ity is perpetrated before their eyes ; but in the course 
of our interference it has come to light, that the slaveholders, so far 
from thinking of giving up their own slavery, were engaged in a secret 
crusade against our liberty. We had a right from nature, guarantied 
to us by the constitution of our country, to express, in such terms as 
we pleased, our abhorrence of slavery. We have dared to use the 
right. And what has been the result? A display of tyranny as atro- 
cious and detestable as was ever enacted in Babylon, Rome, Constan- 
tinople, or Moscow — as bad as the worst doings of Herod or Nero. 
The south demands that our mouths shall be gagged by law, that no- 
body shall disrnss the subject without her leave. To back up her 
demands, she flogs or murders every northern citizen within her limits,* 
whom she pleases to suspect of abolitionism. She offers rewards for 
the heads of peaceable citizens. On the strength of open perjury,] she 
demands northern citizens to be delivered up to her as criminals. But 

* See the case of Amos Dresser, flogged at Nashville, and Abbe Dean and 
others, hung without trial in Mississippi. 

1 The grand jury of Tuscaloosa county (Ala.) found, under oath., that R. G. 
Williams, who had never been in Alabama, was & fugitive from that state. 



10 HOW CAN IT BA iiONE? [106 

the tyranny nai not been all;- at the south. The northern aristocracy 
have done their part. The most influential presses of the principal 
cities have taken the side of the slaveholder in the same lawless and 
murderous spirit. By the most shameless falsehood they have raised 
mobs against the abolitionists, rifled their houses, sacrilegiously broken 
open their churches, and invaded their peaceful and lawful assemblies 
with clamor and missiles. Look at five thousand men in the city of 
New York, with the rage of incarnate devils, pouring in upon a de- 
fenceless meeting of " twenty-two men and two women," on the 5th 
of September, 1833 ! Look at all the daily editors, except one, in the 
same city, applauding the outrage upon an abolition meeting on the 
4th of July, 1834 ! See the scenes that followed five or six days after ! 
Look at the murderous outrages upon the colored people of Philadel- 
phia in the next month ! Consider well the committee of twenty-five 
honorable aristocrats of the city of Utica> who, by violence and lies, 
broke up a peaceful convention in that city on the 22d of October, 
1835; and the five thousand gentlemen of " property and standing " 
in Boston, who, by brickbats and hard swearing, broke up a meeting 
of ladies on the same day, and dragged a citizen through the streets 
with a rope, for the crime of printing against slavery. Do not forget 
the imitations of these outrages in almost every considerable village in 
the land ! Study the last mob in Cincinnati — the great men of that 
city — civil authorities, mayor and all, dragging Mr. Birney's printing 
press to the Ohio river ! Study the whole, as having occurred in a land 
of light and law ! Study it in its political aspect — the south as one 
man standing up, whip in hand, and saying to both political parties at 
the north — " gag the wretches or take this — make an end of them, or 
we fling away your candidate for the presidency !" We appeal now 
to plain common sense, would the slaveholders of the south and their 
party among us, have put themselves to all this trouble against the 
abolitionists, if it were not their intention to cram slavery down our 
throats as fast as possible ? No. The gentlemanly mobocrats among 
us are determined to have, as M'Duffie says, "servitude in some 
form," and they have no grpat horror of that form which exists at the 
sou th. 

The mere discovery of this grand plot against our liberties and the 
hopes of mankind, is worth a thousand times more than it has cost ; 
and, till the whole conspiracy is crushed, there will be work enough 
for the Anti-Slavery Society. Whether we can succeed in breaking 
the fetters of the slave or not, there is something to do to keep the 



107] BASENESS NOT UNPARALLELED. 11 

same galling irons from our own limbs. The tendency of riches and 
power always has been to the oppression of the laborer, and liberty 
has flourished only where a struggle has been kept up for it — only 
where its great principles have been constantly flashed in the face of 
the oppressor — only when the subjects of oppression have been kepi 
alive to their rights. In maintaining the rights of the slave, we are 
maintaining our own and our cliildren's. Never shall we yield the 
former till we have made up our minds to give up the latter. The 
day when we cease to speak and print the self-evident truth that he 
who "useth his neighbor's service without wages, and giveth him not 
for his work," is a tyrant and a felon, and no Christian at all — will be 
the day when our tongues are cut out and our hands pinioned ; it will 
be the day when we are reduced to the sad condition of our colored 
brethren — mere disposable property. 

The last argument, and it is the strongest of all, which we shall 
offer, to show that anti-slavery measures will overthrow slavery, is the 
very fact that slaveholders have been exasperated by them, and wrought 
up to frantic madness. Passion is not a lasting principle. The rage 
of the south has effected two things. 1. It has exposed to the whole 
world the wickedness of slavery. 2. It has placed the slaveholders 
themselves in a position where they must consider and weigh the ar- 
guments of the abolitionists whether they will or not. If I hsten coolly 
to a reprover and let him go his way, I may forget his reproof. But 
if I fall into a passion and kick him out of doors, I shall never be able 
to forget why I did it. The chances are mightily increased that the 
reproof will haunt me till it drives me to repentance. 



Baseness not unparalleled. — The Norfolk Herald of August 
17, gives an account of a colored father selling his own children, and 
filled with a just indignation, is at a loss for epithets to characterize 
the depravity of the act. But the baseness is not, as the Norfolk 
Herald supposes, unparalleled. The editor of that print need not have 
gone far to find very respectable white fathers who have sold their own 
children. It is not an uncommon practice among slaveholders. We 
have seen more than one man who had been sold by his own father, 
and we once saw a father who, having sold the mother to a New 
Orleans trader three years before, was on his way to the same city 
with his four children, as they believed and we have no doubt, to sell 
them into the same bondage. Miss Grimk6, herself a southern woman, 
charges this practice upon the whites of the South. — See her Appeal, 



12 



[108 



Is it any wonder that colored people should sometimes follow the ex- 
ample ef baseness set them by the honorables of the upper caste ? It 
is rather remarkable that they do so no oftener. Here is the account 
from the Herald. 

"Unparalleled baseness shall we call it? The term is not suffi- 
ciently significant, nor can we conjure up an epithet to characterize 
the features of depravity belongins to a transaction which has just 
been related to us. Let the reader judge. A white man, whose name 
we withhold for the present, arrived here a few days ago in a small 
craft from Richmond, having with him a negro man and two boys. 
Ke offered the boys for sale to several persons, but the price, seven 
hundred dollars, being thought too high, he lowered it to four hundred 
and fifty dollars, which inchiced a suspicion that he had not come 
honestly by them ; but to this suspicion was opposed the ready de- 
claration of the negro man, that ?vir. had bought him and the 

two boys, who were his children, in Petersburg. Still, however, it 
was thought proper to investigate the matter, and the white man with 
the negroes Vv-ere taken to the mayor's office, when the truth came 
out, that the negro was a free man, belonging to Petersburg ; that the 
boys, also free, were his own children, and that he had entered into a 
compact with the white monster to carry the children abroad and sell 
them and divide the money." 



RECEIPTS 



Into the Treasury of the American A. 
S. Society, from Julv 29th to Au- 
gust 16th, 1836. 

Boston Female Ami-Slavery Society, $Ci30 CO 

" G. C. Burleigh, $55 on last year's 

pledee, and $10 on this yera's io 00 

" from Friends, 97 

Chester, Vt., Jesse Stedrnan, 10 LK) 

Danvers, Mass., Abner Sanger, 100 00 

Fall River, Mass., A. S. Sewing Society, 10 CO 

" Ladies' A. S. Society, 30 00 

" from Frien:;s, 1'2 F5 

" A. S. Society, Zy^ OC 

" Sarah G. Bulfam, ia W 

Fair Haven, Ms., A. S- Society. SO 00 

" a Friend. .5 00 

Hudson, N.y., A.S.S., oerH. T>. Ila-i^phnes, 1'y <M} 

" " H. P. Slciiiner, ' 1 !.0 

Lynn, Mass., Female A. S. Society, ;^0 (>i 

" " A. S. Society, 182 00 

Monroe co., N.Y., A.S.S., per G. A. Avery, 50 tn 

i-i -/3 

Massachusetts, loaned by a Friend, 1000 00 

Nonh Yarmouth, Me. , coileciion 4th July, 5 00 

New- York City, Henry Keep, 200 i,0 

" Yotin.s Men's A. S. Society, 

pledge of 1835, 100 00 

To..vr.rds pledge of ISSo, SJi) ('0 



People of color, per Rev. S 



New Bedford, Mass., A. S. S 

ing some donations from indi- 
viduals not members of tlie 
society, and ^-61 from the peo- 
ple of color, 4v2 CS 
Norwich, Ct., Ladies' A. S. Society, 1 1 80 
Pompey Hills, N. Y. , per Rev. J. Grid ley, 3 00 
Penn^lvania, Robert Pur-is, am't of pleage. 50 00 



Rochester, N. Y. , Female A. S. Society, per 

Mrs. MaUiews, 50 OS 

Sprin-^field. Kv. , Rev. Samuel Lynn, 5 00 

Sandwich, Xlass., A. S. S., towards pledge, 50 00 

Taiiiiton, Mass. , a Friend, 50 

" " J. Hodges, 5 00 

Troy, N. Y. . Gurdon Grant, 46 00 

UxbriJs:e, Mas.s., Female A. S. S., pledge, 50 00 

$-3643 55 
LEWIS TAPPAN, Assistant Treasurer, 
No. 3, -Sprr.ce St. 
New York, Angiist £S, X^C 

Quarterly Colleclir.i^s received by the 
I'ublisliing- A'jent, frcm July 1st to 
Au?!jst 1st, 163fi. 

$8 00 
4 50 
300 



12 

1 25 
10 00 
146 80 
107 00 
52 00 
5 75 
14 00 
?S9 25 

S742 48 
R. G. WILLIAMS, 
Publishing Agent, corner of Nassau and 
Spruce Streets, (No. 3 Spruce.) 
Total Receipts, $4390 91 



AinL-.>;!)U 


■y, Ma^;^•., per J. A. S?jgent, 


T^ari.-n, 


(;i.,S. W. Raymond. ' 


Ne-.\ ar! 


,N..T.,Dr. J. M. WEtfd, 


New-Y 


irk. H. Owen, 




'H. Daviison, 


" 


J. UsPiar. 


" 


Mi.3P. tiicl^er. 


" 


A female, 


'-'■■ indhr 


m. Ohio. Rev. \V. Ilandford, 


Receive 


1 for F,:nancipalGr, 




Vulce of Freedom, 


" 


Human Rijrht=, 


'■ 


A. S. Rc-CTi. 


" 


Qnartpr'y Mfi-azUie, 


" 


}'i^l.4icaaon.^, 



THE 



ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 



Vol. II. No. X. OCTOBER, 1836. Whole No. 22. 



SLAVERY AS IT IS IN PRACTICE. 
We have before us two documents penned by persons who have 
long resided in slave states, and know all about slavery as it is in 
practice. One of them is the reply of a " member of the Synod of 
Kentucky," understood to be President Young, to the vindication of 
slavery by Rev. Professor Hodge, of Princeton. The other is Dr. 
Nelson's address to the Presbyterians of Kentucky and Tennessee. 
From these documents, which none who know the authors will dare 
to call in question, we proceed to quote a few facts, to illustrate the 
wickedness of slavery, as it is in practice. Professor Hodge says, it 
is not necessarily sinful to hold a fellow-man in bondage. That is, if 
you give him a " fair compensation for liis labor," respect his " marital 
rights," and allow him "free scope" for "improvement," you may, 
without sin, hold him in a condition in which he is every moment lia- 
ble to be sold as a brute and stripped of all ! Just as if there were 
any such things as " fair compensation," &c. in such a condition ! 
In this absurd sentiment, President Young seems inclined to agree, 
so far as regards theory; but by undeniable facts he proves that it 
amounts to nothing in practice. Hear what he says about the prac- 
tice— the practice of CHRISTIAN masters. 

Let us compare the conduct of Christian masters with xohat the re- 
viewer admits to he their duty. They are bound, he tells us, to grant 
to their slaves /m?Z compensation for their services; to avoid all 
separations of husbands and wives, parents and children ; and to use 
diligent efforts for their intellectual and moral improvement, as well as 
for their physical comfort. " Christianity enjoins a fair compensation 
for labor ; it insists on the intellectual and moral improvement of all 
classes of men ; it condemns all infractions of marital or parental 
rights ; in short, it requires not only that free scope should be allowed 
to human improvement, but that all suitable means should be em- 
ployed for the attainment of that end." Again — "Let Christians 
enforce as moral duties the great principles of justice and mercy, and 
all the specific commands and precepts of the Scriptures. If any set 
of men have servants, bond or free, to whom they refuse a proper 



g SLAVERY AS IT IS IN PRACTICE. [110 

compensation for their labor, they violate a moral duty and an express 
command of Scripture." Again — " The principle that the laborer is 
worthy of liis hire and should enjoy it, is a plain principle of morals 
and command of the Bible, and cannot be violated with impunity." 
These are statements in which we most heartily concur. They pre- 
sent eternal truths, by wliich every man, who holds his fellows in 
bondage, must be judged. But is the treatment which Christianity is 
here admitted to require, ever exhibited ? Possibly — possibly in some 
rare cases. An extensive acquaintance with Christian masters enables 
us to point to not more than three or four who are acting, in this mat- 
ter, on the principles of the Gospel. There is not one in a hundred, 
with whom we have ever become acquainted, who, if solemnly ap- 
pealed to, could declare that he is even making an approximation to 
his duty, or giving any tiling like a fair compensation for the services 
rendered by his slaves. If we admit the principles laid down by our 
reviewer to be the principles which religion inculcates, and on which 
it is eveiy man's duty to act, the question whether • the mere holding 
of a fellow-man in bondage is right or wrong, is no longer one of any 
practical moment to the mass of slaveholders. They are sinning 
deeply, tohether this question he decided in one loay or the other. Tho 
reviewer is but a nominal defender of slaveholding — he is not even a 
nominal defender of the conduct of slaveholders ; for while he shows 
that the holding of men in bondage may, under certain circumstances, 
be innocent, he at the same time fully shows the sinfulness of the 
treatment received by their slaves from almost every Christian master. 
This fact ought to be distinctly recognised. For we have often ob- 
served, how strangely men pervert and abuse the reasoning which 
proves that the mere holding of slaves is not necessarily sinful. They 
appear to consider that the proof of this position warrants them in all 
their customary doings. Because God's word does not denounce 
power over our fellow man as, in all cases, unlavvful, they seem to 
feel that they are allowable in taking the services of those who are 
under them without compensation, and in utterly neglecting their 
moral and intellectual advancement. They do not appear to observe 
that the asserters of the possible innocence of slaveholding, admit its 
criminality in the cases of all masters, vrho are neglecting the duties 
of compensation and improvement. The abolitionist denies the right 
of the master over his slaves, and condemns him for holding them : 
the advocate of the master asserts the right to hold, but condemns 
him for the unjust exercise of his power. The abolitionist denounces 
the master as a violator of that law of the Lord, which forbids man- 
stealing ; the advocate of the master clears him of this charge, but 
leaves him convicted of breaking another equally express and sacred 
injunction — "Thou shalt not take thy neighbor's sei-vice without 
wages." What would be the effect of a practical recognition, by 
slaveholders, of the scriptural doctrine of a full compensation to the 
laborer ? They would feel that nearly all that was valuable to them 
in slavery was gone. Unrequited labor is the ingredient in it which 
makes the compound, called slavery, agreeable to any man. Extract 
this ingredient, and what is left is a caput mortuum, which its posses- 
sor loathes, and from which he would seek to escape. The master 



Ill] SLAVERY AS IT IS IN PRACTICE. 3 

now enjoys th^s services of his slaves without paying for them. T© 
give them wages, would be, to relinquish the only profit of his own- 
ership — it would be paying for that which he now gets for nothing. 
The worth of a sslave to his master arises from the legal right which 
the master has to appropriate to himself the proceeds of the slave's 
labor ; and if the i\:aster's views of morality should prevent his avail- 
ing himself of his legal right, the slave is no longer worth any thing to 
him — he might as well, as far as his own interest was concerned, 
emancipate at once. Nothing but benevolence towards the servant, 
or an unfounded fear lest he might not be able to secure his voluntary 
services if he were freed, could induce a master to retain in bondage 
one to whom he was rendering a full equivalent for his services. We 
scarcely believe that any one, who is not engaged in measures of 
emancipation, will claim to be acting on the principle of fair compen- 
sation. But lest, perchance, any one should deceive himself on this 
point, we will exhibit some data from which we may infer what action 
the adoption of this principle would demand. A fair compensation 
for any article is its current price. To remunerate a laborer fairly, 
would be, to give him what his services would command in the mar- 
ket. In Kentucky, an ordinary hand wiU hire from seventy-five 
dollars, up to one hundred and twenty. The master freed from 
charges for food, clothing and medical attendance, receives this amount 
as the clear profit of his ownership. If these are the wages which a 
slave can earn, if hired out, ought not the master, when he retains his 
services on his own farm, or in his own shop, to render, on the prin- 
ciples of the reviewer, this amount of compensation ? Ought he not 
to give to the servant the nett profits of the servant's own labor ? A 
great many reasons can be urged by ingenious men, to show why the 
master ought not to grant this remuneration. But they all amount to 
the reason said to have been assigned by a celebrated English divine, 
for retaining two livings, when he could only perform the duties of 
one — " I cannot afford to keep a conscience." 

In the region where we reside there is no pretension to the merit of 
compensation. Every one knows that among us there is, except in 
some rare instance, nothing of the kind. But it may be said that, in 
some parts of the south, slave labor yields so httle, that a bare support 
is all which a master can afford to give as remuneration. The daily 
task of some southern slaves is not, we are told, more than one third 
of the work which a white man will perform at the north. With 
these small tasks, they cannot be supposed to earn more tlian their 
food and raiment. We grant, in fact, that they frequently do not per- 
form more than one-third of the work which they are capable of exe- 
cuting. But why is it ? Simply, because they receive no remivneration. 
Like ourselves, they cannot work without proper stimulus, and this is 
not presented. The fear of the whip can do much ; but it cannot 
communicate such an impulse as the hope of reward : besides, the 
operation of the latter is healthful to the bodily system, producing per- 
manent vigor, ease, and rapidity of muscular movement, while the 
operation of the former ultimately produces sluggishness, torpor, and 
exhaustion. And when humanity prevents a master from that vigor- 
ous appUcation of the lash which is usual at the south, the amount of 



4 SLAVEHOLDING MINISTERS OF THE GOSPEL. [112 

uncompensated labor performed, naturally sinks towards the minimum 
of the laborer's support. The slaves well know that even their Chris- 
tian masters never dream of remunerating them for their services. 
All the proceeds of tlieir labor, over and above what is required to 
support themselves, go to their master. They naturally, then, feel 
that it is their interest to do as little as possible. They know that 
despatch in the performance of their task would be followed by an in- 
crease of their task. An increase of industry on their part would, 
they well know, be productive of gain, not to themselves, but to their 
masters. But if a task were assigned to them, whose results would 
be about an equivalent to the cost of their support, and the remainder 
of their time, after its daily completion, could be guarantied to them, 
to be employed perpetually for their own benefit, a new scene would 
open upon the eye of the master. And is a man now to set up a claim 
to being a compensator, because the operation of the system of injus- 
tice and oppression on which he has been acting, has reduced its 
victims to that point of indolence and negligence, where they will only 
raise enough to clear their own and their master's necessary expenses ? 
The facts prove, not that he strives to elevate his slaves, but that his 
gj-stem tends to degrade them — not that he acts justly towards them, 
but that his injustice is not, in the long run, very profitable. Instead 
of complacently hugging himself in the idea of his being a compensa- 
tor, he ought immediately to set in operation a system of measures 
which would lift them from the degrading indolence and imprudence 
into which his past treatment has plunged them. 



SLAVEHOLDING MINISTERS OF THE GOSPEL. 

From the same document we extract the following facts to show 
what is the natural influence of the gospel ministry at the south. Is 
any one so blind as to expect slavery to be overthrown by Christianity 
under such teachers, or under a church which tolerates them? 

Few, indeed, scruple to sell their slaves to the south, as soon as 
they find their labor unprofitable. And can such men talk of dis- 
charging their duty to their slaves? Can they inveigh against the 
abolitionists, because, forsooth, they hinder them in their benevolent 
exertions for the negro's improvement ? Can they denounce imme- 
diate emancipation, because it is fraught with evils to the colored 
man? They practise imposition upon others — we trust, too, upon 
themselves. Interest, sheer interest, regulates their conduct towards 
their bondman. They regard him as a chattel, whose appropriate use 
and highest end is, to subserve their interests. We have known of 
slavetraders boasting that they had purchased some cf their chained 
gang from Presbyterian elders. We have recently known of two 
ministering brothers selling into the terrible bondage of the far south,* 

* We use the phrase "terrible bondage," because facts in our possession, of 
unquestionable authority, show us that the general condition of the slaves there, 
compared with what it is in Virginia and Kentucky, is terrible. 



113] SLATEHOLDING MINISTERS OF THE GOSPEL. g 

the one two thousand, the other five thousand dollars' worth of slaves. 
Alas ! that truth and dut}' should compel us to record such facts. We 
could weep over the occurrences which are daily exhibited through* 
out our slaveholding churches. Good men have long countenanced 
these acts. Conscience has been asleep. It is surely time that it 
should awake. 

A solemn responsibihty in reference to this subject rests upon the 
preachers of the gospel. " For the priest's lips should keep knowledge, 
and they should seek the law at liis mouth ; for he is the messenger of 
the Lord of Hosts." But if the requirements of God are such as the 
reviewer represents them to be, the Holy One of Israel might justly 
address us as he did the sons of Levi, in days of old — " Ye are de- 
parted out of the way ; ye have caused many to stumble at the law."* 
We speak not of those who have been trafficking with that object of 
universal execration, the brutal slavetrader. Many of our preachers 
have sedulously and conscientiously refrained from making merchan- 
dise of men ; but they have as sedulously, if not as conscientiously 
refrained from addressing masters in the style, which the reviewer 
thinks God's word directs. They have discharged their negative 
duties — their positive, they have utterly neglected. Where is the 
southern preacher, who "enforces moral duties, the great principles 
of justice and mercy, and all the specific commands and precepts of 
scripture," showing their application to the treatment of servants, and 
thus teaching the master his ivhole duty towards his slaves? To 
show the extent of the dereliction of duty, on this point, we will men- 
tion a fact. One of our synods in a slaveholding state, some years 
ago, recommended to the preachers to read in their respective churches 
the minutes of the General Assembly on slavery, passed in 1818. On 
inquiry, we have heard of but one congregation in which, up to this 
time, the recommendation has been carried into effect. A consider- 
able number of the preachers inculcate the duty of masters to provide 
some kind of religious instruction for their slaves. Very few, however, 
ever do more than touch upon the subject incidentally. We rarely 
find any efforts to do good in this way, commensurate with the mag- 
nitude of the object. When the question was recently proposed indi- 
vidually to the delegates in a presbytery embracing twenty-seven 
churches, "What is doing in your church for the moral and religious 
improvement of the colored people ?" The answer from all the 
churches present, except two, was, ^^ nothing.'''' The natural con- 
sequence of this neglect is, that the spiritual condition of the slaves 
is deplorable. But how is it with the master's responsibility for the 
intellectual improvement of his slaves ? We never have heard of 
more than txoo or threes who ever alluded to tliis duty, or to the duty 
of compensating the slave for his sei-vices. 

The intellectual improvement and compensation of the bondman 
are gospel duties. They are everywhere neglected. We see it, and 
yet are silent. Sin stalks around us unrebuked. Our moral sensi- 
bilities can only be awakened by the sins of the abolitionist. Our 
virtuous indignation finds him out, though a thousand miles distant 

* Mai. li» 28. 



6 SLATERY A SYSTEM OF LICENTIOtTSNESS. (ll4 

from us, and hurls its anathemas at his head. " We wish," we ex- 
claim to them, " for no foreign interference." No, truly — for it may 
make us feel that we are slumbering at our posts. It may awaken us 
to a difficult and uncomfortable yet obligatory work. There are some 
things wrong about the abolitionists, for which they ought to be with- 
stood in a fitting and Christian spirit. But why do we attempt to cast 
the mote out of our brother's eye, while we neglect the beam that is in 
our own eye? Many write against the aboUtionists, and preach 
against them, and pass ecclesiastical censures upon them — yet the 
slaveholder escapes them unnoticed. Their courage is exuberant in 
rebuking the sins of a feeble minority who are at a distance, — but a 
sinning majority who are before their doors they fear to confront. So 
far from throwing the light of divine truth on the prevalent practices 
of slaveholding, many ecclesiastics are engaged in lulling the con- 
sciences of those whose unaided reflections have led them to suspect 
that holy writ condemned their doings. It is surely time that there 
was a change. There must be a change, or judgment will not slum- 
ber. Let the principles which ought to guide the conduct of the 
master, be embodied in resolutions by all our ecclesiastical assemblies 
— and let them be read and enforced from every pulpit. The ignorant 
would be, in some degree, at least, enlightened ; sleeping consciences 
would be awakened ; and latent scruples invigorated into principles 
of action. 



The following testimony is from Dr. Nelson's Address to the Pres- 
byterians of Kentucky and Tennessee, pubhshed at large in the 
monthly Emancipator, No. I. 

SLAVERY A SYSTEM OF LICENTIOUSNESS. 

You know that amongst the two and a half millions of blacks in 
our nation, the laivs recognise no such thing as marriage! No regular 
minister of the gospel ever solemnizes the ordinance for them. If he 
did, he would be taking promises which the parties have no power to 
fulfil. He dare not mock God by solemnly exacting covenants which 
are mere nullities. If the blacks, without license, get some one of 
their own number, (unauthorized of coui-se,) to perform the semblance 
of a ceremony, it is looked upon as a mere mockery. The master 
who sells them apart, can be called to no account for it> It is known 
that the law allows it The slave who changes states or counties is 
never asked when he chooses one whom he calls wife, whether he 
did not leave one behind him. He is not asked this lohen he joins the 
church ! You know that several millions of human beings are raised 
to a perfect system of promiscuous concubinage. Aside Irom the fact 
that males and females are placed with their beds almost touching, or 
if not in the same room, their apartments join and doors have no bolts, 
and that these millions have no character to lose, no reputation to 
sustain, you know that these deathless beings arc trained up to inevi- 
table uncleanness. Of the grown females belonging to more than 
two millions of our race, nearly every one is either a prostitute or an 
adnlteress, and every grown male either a fornicator or an adulterer. 



115] PREPARATION FOR EMANCIPATION. 7 

1 Corinthians vi, 8 and 9 — " Nay, ye do wrong, and defraud, and that 
your brethren. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit 
the kingdom of God ? Be not deceived ; neither fornicators, nor idol- 
aters, nor adulterers," &c. Now who is it that tempts the poor slave 
to commit these crimes — First, by the withholding of that instruction 
which can fortify the soul against them, and Secondly, by placing 
them in situations where it is morally certain they will be committed. 
Would you treat your own children in a similar manner ? If not, 
who gave you a right to treat the children of others thus ? I speak as 
unto wise men, judge ye. See also chapter 7, verse 2 — " Nevertheless, 
to avoid fornication, let every man have his own wife, and let every 
woman have her own husband. Let the husband render unto his 
wife due benevolence : and likewise also the wife unto the husband." 
I ask, can the slave keep these commands ? If not, who is it that as- 
sumes the responsibihty of standing between his Creator and Judge, 
and one of his reasonable creatures, so as to render it impossible for 
him to obey ? 



PREPARATION FOR EMANCIPATION. 

[From the same.] 

"Another train of facts with which you are acquainted. The 
wicked, who are saying by thousands around you, that they wish 
slavery could cease — but that the slaves are not yet prepared for free- 
dom, &c. speak falsely, and you know it. They are not sending their 
slaves to school, as they send their children to school, to prepare them 
for freedom. (And, my friends, you are not sending your slaves to 
school for such a purpose.) They do not send them to the Sabbath 
school, slow as would be such a preparation, and you cannot send 
yours. You know they speak falsely, because they do not free those 
who are active, lively, vigilant, and fully capable of taking care of 
themselves. They speak falsely when they say they fear revenge, 
should emancipation be generally practised. I have never known a 
case for thirty years observance, and I might venture to predict you 
never have, where the liberated slave was not ready to hug the feet of 
the man who did him justice ; yea, to kiss the ground he walked on. 

" Each nation has some striking feature of character. The most 
prominent characteristic of the black appears to be gratitude, when 
justice has been fully done him. The warmth of an African sun seems 
to glow in his affections. I once asked the man who drove two hun- 
dred in his cotton field, (we had been conversing of a meditated insur- 
rection which had been disclosed by the blacks themselves,) Do you 
not dread future plots, and on what do you rely for safety? 'We de- 
pend,' said he, 'upon the fact, that existing affection between master 
and servant, or between mistress and maid, will alv/ays disclose the 
danger.' This sentirnent was extensive before the abolition contest 
dove th"m to deny it" 



8 SLAVERY IN LOUISIANA. [lib 

SLAVERY IN LOUISIANA. 
C. C. Robin, a French traveller, who was in Louisiana from 1802 
to 1806, gives a very particular account of slavery as it then existed 
there. His candor is so unquestionable, and his description is so 
exactly applicable to the institution as it still continues, that we trans- 
late a few extracts. 

MODE OF FLOGGING. 

" While they are at labor, the manager, the master, or the driver 
has commonly the whip in hand to strike the idle. But those of the 
negroes who are judged guilty of serious faults, are punished twenty, 
twenty-five, forty, fifty, or one hundred lashes. The manner of this 
cruel execution is as follows : four stakes are driven down, making a 
long square ; the culprit is extended naked between these stakes, face 
downwards ; his hands and his feet are bound separately, with strong 
cords, to each of the stakes, so far apart that his arms and legs, 
stretched into the form of St. Andrew's cross, give the poor wretch no 
chance of stirring. Then the executioner, who is ordinarily a negro, 
armed with the long whip of a coachman, strikes upon the reins and 
thighs. The crack of his whip resounds afar, like that of an angry 
cartman beating his horses. The blood flows, the long wounds cross 
each other, strips of skin are raised without softening either the hand 
of the executioner or the heart of the master, who cries ' sting him 
harder.' 

" The reader is moved, so am I ; my agitated hand refuses to trace 
the bloody picture, to recount how many times the piercing cry of 
pain has interrupted my silent occupations ; how many times I have 
shuddered at the faces of those barbarous masters, where I saw in- 
scribed the number of victims sacrificed to tlicir ferocity. 

" The women are subjected to these punishments as rigorously as the 
men, not even pregnancy exempts them ; in that case, before binding 
them to the stakes, a hole is made in the ground to accommodate the 
enlarged form of the victim.* 

" ifis remarkable that the v/hite Creole women are ordinarily more 
inexorable than the men. Their slow and languid gait, the trifling 
services which they impose, betoken only apathetic indolence ; but 
should the slave not promptly obey, should he even fail to divine the 
meaning of their gestvires, or looks, in an instant they are armed with 
a formidable whip ; it is no longer the arm v.liich cannot sustain the 
weight of a shawl or a reticule, it is no longer the form which but 
feebly sustains itself. They themselves order the punishment of one 
of these poor creatures, and with a dry eye see their victim bound to 
four stakes ; they count the blows, and raise a voice of menace, if the 
arm that strikes relaxes, or if the blood does not flow in sufficient 
abundance. Their sensibility changed to fury must needs feed itself 
for a while on the hideous spectacle ; they must, as if to revive them- 
selves, hear the piercing shrieks, and see the flow of fresh blood ; 

* on fait un trou en terrc dans le lieu ou P on jugc que doit 

the plac^ le ventre. 



117] SLAVERY IN LOUISIANA. 9 

there are some of them who, in theu* frantic rage pinch and bite their 
victims." 

THE PROTECTION OF THE LAWS. 

" It is by no means wonderful that the laws, designed to protect the 
slave, should be little respected by the generality of such masters. I 
have seen some masters pay these unfortunate people the miserable 
overcoat which is their due ; but others give them nothing at all, and 
do not even leave them the hours and Sundays granted to them by 
law. I have seen some of these barbarous masters leave them, during 
the winter, in a state of revolting nudity, even contrary to their own 
true interests, for they thus weaken and shorten the lives upon which 
repose the whole of their own fortunes. I have seen some of these 
negroes obliged to conceal their nakedness with the long moss of the 
country. I have been a witness, that after the fatigue of the day, their 
labors have been prolonged several hours by the light of the moon ; 
and then, before they could think of rest, they must pound and cook 
their corn ; and yet, long before day, an implacable scold, whip in 
hand, would arouse them from their slumbers. Thus, of more than 
twenty negroes, who in twenty years should have doubled, the number 
was reduced to four or five." 

THE EFFECT UPON CHILDHOOD. 

" The young Creoles, idoUzed by their weak parents, make the ne- 
groes who surround them the playthings of their whims ; they flog, 
for pastime, those of their own age, just as their fathers tlog the others 
at their will. These young Creoles, arrived at the age in which the 
passions are impetuous, do not know how to bear contradiction ; they 
will have every thing done which they command, possible or not; 
and, in default of this, they avenge their offended pride by multipUed 
punishments. The sad melancholy of these wretches, depicted upon 
their countenances, the flight of some, and the death of others, do not 
reclaim their masters ; they wreak upon those who remain the ven- 
geance which they can no longer exercise upon the others. Over- 
whelmed at length in ruin, these Creoles seem still to escape remorse." 

IGNORANCE AND WASTEFULNESS OF SLAVES. 

" The negroes being continually under the hand of a master, having 
no right of property, nor power to make contracts, nor to sustain civil 
actions, nor, in fine, having any of those civil interests and mutual ob- 
ligations, which among our country people exercise and develop the 
intellect, it follows, of course, that their intelligence must be extremely 
limited ; and it is so, to a degree of which a European can with diffi- 
culty form a conception. I have seen them unable to count five or six 
pieces of money ; it is rare to find one of them who can tell his age, or 
that of his children, or how many j^ears since he left his native coun- 
try ; at what time he belonged to such and such a master, or passed 
to such another : with so slight ideas of the past, they must necessa- 
rily have less of the future ; hence they are deplorably careless. They 
use, or rather, waste, whatever clothing they happen to have, without 
a thought that they may need it some other day. They break and de 



10 SLAVERY IN LOUISIANA. [118 

stroy whatever comes into their hands with the same carelessness. 
That which pleases them most, they soon abandon with the greatest 
indifference. Without ideas of saving, order, or economy for them- 
selves, they have nothing of the kind for their masters : thus, those 
who are reserved for domestic service in the house have a disagree- 
able task ; they cannot become accustomed to the regular arrange- 
ment of which a careful housekeeper is jealous ; it is necessary daily 
to repeat to them the order which belongs to every day — indeed, to 
repeat it to them every moment ; and the mistress of a house whose 
family ;s numerous, and its details somewhat multiphed, finds herself 
sufficiently occupied every hour of the day solely in giving orders to 
her numerous domestics. That which is commanded them as the 
most important, is no better executed than that which is indifferent ; 
and those vessels and pieces of furniture which are precious, for their 
beauty, go to pieces or are mutilated as soon as the most common 
things ; so incapable are they of discerning or calling to mind the cir- 
cumstances in which they should redouble their watchfulness and 
caution." 

MORALITY OF SLAVES. 

" Are these slaves, with notions so limited and confused, with whom 
the strongest argument is the bloody lash, susceptible of morals? 
There must be some ideas of order to understand goodness, to feel 
the charm of virtue ; there must be a will of one's own, and that will 
must be exercised to contradiction before it can courageously battle 
with vice. Tne slave then, in his destitution of light, and his pros- 
tration of will cannot have a character for morality. Good and evil 
to him, are what he is commanded, and what he is forbidden ; his 
will is only that of other people, and his whole energy tends to destroy 
in him his own self, the conservative principle of every being, for the 
sake of putting in its place the capricious seZ/ of somebody else. Ask 
a slave if he can get you such and such a thing, if he can be free to 
perform for you such a task, he judges from these questions what you 
desire, and not having the strength to say no, which would perhaps 
displease you, he answers affirmatively ; and the more you seem to 
desire what you ask, the more he adds to his promises. I have re- 
marked this, whenever I have addressed them, whether I had really 
need, or wished only to try them ; but no sooner have they left you, 
than they give themselves no further trouble about their promises, 
they act as if tliey had forgotten them, and the next time they see 
you, it is with the same assurance as before ; shame for a he is un- 
known to them. A lie is so often useful to them, and the trutli so 
often disastrous, and their aptness at a he is such, that they take in 
sustaining it, an air of assurance and tranquility which imposes upon 
strangers ; often the terrible preparation for punishment, and the re- 
doubled blows of the whip, cannot extort from them the truth. Of 
course we no more expect to find in them that species of fidelity which 
respects the property of others ; can those who have no property 
themselves, and know not what it is to have it, find any thing good in 
a virtue which is never otherwise than harmful to them ? 

"It may also be said that they are all thieves, so rare are the excep- 



119] CRIMES AND PUI^ISHMENTS. 11 

tions J and their impudence and cunning are incrjedible. On this ac- 
count they make their masters sufficiently unhappy ; they devastate 
their poultry yards, their orchards, and their gardens. To defend 
against them, it is necessary to surround these places with high pali- 
sades Uke a fort, and even these obstacles they know how to surmount. 
I have seen a house with beehives near it, at forty feet distance, they 
came at night and robbed the honey. In travelling upon the river, 
it has happened that one has been taken in the act of steaUng in the 
very boat where I was sleeping." — Tom. 3, pp. 175, 192. 



THE DWELLINGS OF SLAVES. 

The best possible testimony as to the condition of the slaves, is that 
of the masters, when given incidentally. They certainly can have no 
motive to represent their condition as worse than it is, and they have 
abundant means of knowing. We take the following from " A De- 
tail of a plan for the Moral Improvement of Negroes on Plantations. 
Read before the Georgia Presbytery, by Thomas S. Clay. Printed at 
the request of the Presbytery." Mr. Clay is lumself a slaveholder. 
He says, on page 13, 

"A subject, not less important, presents itself in the dioellings of 
the negro, and, until greater attention is paid to this subject, it will be 
impossible to inculcate and maintain that regard for decency, which is 
so essential to good morals. Our physical habits have a vast influence 
on our moral ; neither can they be entirely separated. Man is a phys- 
ical, as well as a moral being ; and this fact must always be kept in 
view, in our endeavors to give elevation to liis character. Should we 
fail to do this, the subjects of our philanthropy will point out the incon- 
sistency, and distrust our sincerity. These reflections are strikingly 
applicable to the evils obviously arising from the mode of lodging in 
negro houses. Too many individuals of different sexes are crowded 
into one house, and the proper separation of apartments cannot bo 
obsei-ved. That they are familiar with these inconveniences, and in- 
sensible to the evils arising from them, does not, in the least, lessen the 
unhappy consequences in which they result." 



CRIMES AND PUNISHMENTS. 
The same v/riter says, on pages 17 and 18, 

" There are several prevaiUng errors connected with crime and pun- 
ishment, in the present system of plantation discipline, and, first, there 
exists a wrong scale of crime. Offences against the master are more 
severely punished than violations of the law of God, or faults which 
affect the slave's personal character or good. As examples, we may 
notice that running away is more severely punished than adultery, 



12 



RECEIPTS. 



[120 



and idleness than Sabbath-breaking and sweanng, and stealing from 
the master than defrauding a fellow-slave. Under the influence of 
such a code as this, it cannot be a matter of surprise that the negro 
forms false estimates of the comparative criminahty of actions. And 
further, the general mode of inflicting punishment tends to confound 
these distinctions. The whip is the general instrument of correction ; 
and so long as a negro is whipped, without discrimination, for neglect 
of work, for steahng, lying, Sabbath-breaking, and swearing, he will 
very naturally class them all together, as belonging to the same grade 
of guilt. In a good code of disciphne, the punishment will always be 
suited to the nature and enormity of the crime ; and it is highly im- 
portant that this measure should be well adjusted, for the common 
people will judge of the criminality of the act by the nature and extent 
of the punishmfent 



RECEIPTS. 



Into the Treasury of the American A. 
S. Society, from August 17th to Sep- 
tember 24th, 1836. 
Andover, Mass. , A. S. Society, $100 00 

Female A. S. Society, 15 00 

two ladies, 1 75 

, A. S. Society, 41 35 

Female A. S. Society, 10 00 
Rev. C. Simmons, 10 00 

for Plymouth county 
A. S. Society, £5 00 

Belfair, Ohio, John Stone, on account of 



Bethel, Vt.,D. Grain, 

" " James Murah, 
Bradford, Mass., A. S. Society, 
Cornwall, Vt., A. S. Society, 
Derry, N. H. , two ladies, 
Dover, " Ladies' A. S. Society, 



Amesbury, ] 



Attleboro, 
Abinffton, 



A. S. Society, 
Darien, Ct. , Friends, by W. Whitne; 



50 UO 
10 00 

3 75 
50 00 

110 00 

4 50 



-7' 
Fallowfield, Pa., A. S. Society, by James 

Fulton, 30 00 

Flushing, L. I. , Friends, by W. Tillinghast, 10 00 
Great Falls, N. H. , A. S. Society, 70 00 

Hallowell, xMe., Eben Dole, Esq., 

" " Dr. Brown, 

Haverhill, Mass., J. G. Whittier and others, 
" " Female A. S. Society, 

" " A. S. Society, 

Femak Benev. Society, 
A. S. Society, ^ 
Wm. Oaiies, Esq., 
Young Men's A. S. S. , 
Ladies, 
" " Friends, 

Lebanon, N. H., Mrs. A. Allen, 
Middlebury, Ct., Rev. T. Atwater, col- 
lected iji his congrega- 
tion, 



Hanover, 



Ipswich, 
Lowell, 



100 00 

10 00 
5 00 

16 16 
159 00 

2,5 00 
150 00 
100 L« 

30 75 
S 6.5 

1 kl 



CO 
N. H. State A. S. Society, by G. Kent, Esq. , 300 l.K) 

1 00 
H 00 
27 17 
100 (XI 
14 00 
50 
11 80 
3 00 
19 00 



Newtown, N. H., Ebenezer Peaslee, 
New Hampshire, a friend, 

" . Rev. Geo. Stors, 

North Yarmouth, Me., A. S. Society, 
Newburyport, Mass., A. S. Society, 

" " Female A. S. Soo. 

" " a friend, 

Norwich. Ct. , Ladies' A. S. Society, 
Ne\v Haven, Ct., W. M. Burchard, 
New York city, Wm. Shotwell, 

" people of color, by Rev. 

" E. S. Cornish and Mrs. 

Hester Lane, 



" Rev. A. Bruce, on ao- 

coiint of pledge, 5 00 

Ottawa, HI., E.H. Knowlton, 2 00 

Portland, Me., A. S. Society, 300 OO 

" " Juvenile A. S. Society, 6 00 

" " a lady, 6 60 

Portsmouth, N. H .Friends, 50 00 

Pawtuclcet, R. I., Female A. S. Society, 15 00 

" " A. S. Society, 62 00 

" " Jnvenile A. S, Society, 50 00 

Rhode Island State A. S. Society, 139 00 

Ryegale, "Vt., Rev. G. Milligan, 5 00 

Reading, Mass. , John Darnon, 15 00 

Syracuse, N. Y., Seth Conklin, 13 00 

Weymouth, and S. Braintree,UnionA.S.Soc.,50 00 

Washington co., N. Y., A. S. Society, 40 00 

$2506 30 
LEWIS TAPPAN, Assistant Treasurer, 
No. 3, Spruce St. 
New York, September 24, 1836. 

Quarterly Collections received by the 

Publishing- Agent, during the month 

of August, 1836. 

("azenovia, N. Y. , per Truman Kellogg, $'6 00 

Haddam, Ct., D. C. Tyler, 1 SO^ 

Honesdale, Pa., S. Stevens, 75 

Kingsbury , N. Y. , S. Wells, 7 00 

Norwalk. Ct., J. Warner, 7 00 

New York Mills, per Rev. J. Pettibone, 6 00 

n. Owen, 23 

" J. Usniar, 25 

Oxfor.d, Ohio, Rev. J. Craven, 5 00 

Portland, Me. , L. E. Winslow, 10 00 

Philadelphia, Pa., Female A. S. S. per 

Luoretia Mott, 25 00 

Putnam, Ohio, H. Nye, 4 75 

Troy, N. Y.. per G. Grant Esq., 27 00 

West Watervilie, Me. , E. Foster, 1 50 

Walton, N. Y., A. P. St. John, 5 CO 

West Arlington, Vt., Dr. A. McKee, 20 00 

Received for the Emancipator, 375 23 

" " Human Rights, 61 94 

" " A. S. Record, 33 81 

" " Quarterly Magaiine, 45 00 

" '' I'ublications, 301 12 

$917 10 
R. G. WILLIAMS, 
Publishing Agent, corner of Nassau and 
Spruce Streets, (No. 3 Spruce.) 
Total Receipts, $3453 40 



THE 



ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD 



Vol. IL No. XL NOVEMBER, 1836. Vv^hole No. 23 

FACTS IN REGARD TO THE WORKING OF THE 
BRITISH ABOLITION ACT. 
We propose in this number to give a condensed view of the results 
of the aboUtion of slavery in the British colonies, as they may be 
gathered from the official reports of the governors of those colonies to 
the authorities of the mother country. The reader will please to 
recollect that these statements, though neither the latest nor the most 
satisfactory, are official. If any one chooses to call them in question, 
we can refer him to the Parliamentary Papers, printed by order of the 
House of Commons, where they may be found. 

JAMAICA. 

NUMBER OF APPRENTICES, 320,000. 

The Marquis of SUgo, in his despatch dated August 13, 1834, 
says: "In all parts of the island, Avitli the exception alone of St. 
Ann's parish, the transition from slavery to apprenticeship has been 
effected in the most satisfactory manner. It is a remarkable feature 
in the progress of that transition, that the first of August was devoted, 
in most parts of the island, to devotional exercises. On Sunday the 
places of worship wore again unusually crowded, and the day passed 
over in the most orderly and quiet mannei-. My reports from all parts 
of the island, with the exception of St. Ann's alone, state that on 
Monday the apprentices turned out to their work with even more than 
usual readiness, in some places with alacrity, and all with good 
humor." 

But why the exception of St. Ann's parish ? 

The same despatch informs us — "From what Col. Macleod has 
informed me, I am confident that as soon as the misunderstanding is 
got rid of, they will bs quiet, unless forced into rebellirm by the conduct 
of the overseers, and, I am sorry to say, of many of the masters and 
managing attorneys. My letters by yesterday's post have confirmed 
this opinion, as there liave been several petty disturbances, attended 
with cases of punishment, in St. James's, Westmoreland, and St. 
Ehzabeth, in almost every instance caused either by the intemperate 
conduct of the overseers, or exaction by the proprietors or managers. 
The mothers have been refused time to suckle their children, the usual 
old women as nurses have been withdrawn, the field cooks have been 
withdrawn the paths leading from their huts to their provision grounds 



i Facts ix\ iieuaru xu xue working [H 

have been stopped. Many instances of discontent for similar causes 
have been reported to me iVom St. Thomas in the East ; but except ir. 
those parishes above named, nothing can equal tlie good temper anc 
tranquillity with which all is going on." 

The apprentices are obliged by law to work forty and a half hours 
a week for their masters, and the rest of their time is at their own dis- 
posal. It is important to remark, that, notwithstanding the prophecy 
of the planters to the contrary, the apprentices have always been 
ready to work for ivages in their own time. Some of the masters, 
however, have not been so wilUng to pay wages. The Marquis of 
Sligo, in his despatch dated 21st June, 1835, says: "Mr. Walsh, or' 
of the specials, reported to me, that when he named to a relative Oi 
one of the principal resident proprietors, who was complaining that the 
apprentices would not be able to get off his crops in time, that he was 
authorized by them (the apprentices) to offer their labor in their oion 
time, at the usual rate of wages, Is. Qd. currency, or Is. sterling per 
nine hours, he ivas desired to hold his tongue, and not to speak to the 
old gentleman about it, as it would make him angry, he having firmly 
resolved never to pay any loages to any of his former slaves.''^ 

Among other important facts in tlie same despatch, the governor of 
Jamaica states the following : 

" The quality of the sugar made this year is bona fide far superior 
to what has been heretofore made by night work on the majority of 
estates in this island. 

" There has been by far less stock lost in this year's crop than in 
that of preceding years, and in many places it has been taken off by 
a smaller number. 

"The apprentices generally are evidently becoming more reconciled 
to the system, and work cheerfully for money-hire both night and day, 
and they are becoming better behaved every day. 

" The ginger, arrow-root, and coffee plantations, are as flourishing 
as ever they were known to be. 

" The negroes will improve, because they have done so since the 
first of August, gradually but certainly, in all parts where severity 
has not been practised. 

"They passed their holydays at Christmas in an unusually orderly 
manner ; and there were, literally speaking, I verily believe, not 
twenty absentees from their labor on the 27th of December, and they 
worked on New Year's day without a murmur. 

" They now dig cane holes in many parts of the island at one half- 
penny per hole, earning a dollar a day, digging 160 often in a day, 
when 70 or 80 was their task during slavery. 

" On the whole, I come to the conclusion, that the perfect success 
of the new system during the continuance of the apprenticeship, de- 
pends entirely on the conduct of the white people ; and that if it fails, 
on them will rest the entire blame."* 

It must be remembered, that Lord Sligo is himself a West India 
planter, and not one of the leaders of the Anti-Slavery Society. 

* Parliamentary Papers, sess. 1835, No. 278—1, p. 216. 



123] OP THE BRITISH ABOLITION ACT. 5 

The governor of Jamaica has also submitted a multitude of reports 
from the special magistrates, which unanimously corroborate his state- 
ments. 

/. Daughtrey, special magistrate at St. Elizabeth's, says : 

"No instance has, I beUeve, occurred in this quarter, of their 
refusing to work for wages : at any rate, they are doing it now when- 
ever required ; and it is within my knowledge that they are even soh- 
citing to be so employed in their own time. Their free labor has 
more than once been pointed out to me with expressions of approba- 
tion at the manner in which it had been performed. It has happened 
to me several times to see them paid ; and I observed with pleasure, 
that, instead of any murmuring at the rate of wages (at first a rather 
common occurrence), they drew up for ^ the cash,'' as they emphatically 
termed it, with their very best looks and best manners. They are 
capital reckoners of what they have to receive 5 I would almost defy 
any one to cheat the most stupid among them out of the smallest that 
is their due. They are characteristically fond of money."* 

S. Pryce, special magistrate in Trelawney, says : " I have much 

{)leasure in reporting to your Excellency, that the whole of this popu- 
ous and extensive district, assigned to my management by your lord- 
ship, is perfectly tranquil and orderly. 

"The apprentices are becoming 'better behaved, and more recon- 
ciled to their managers under the new system, tlian heretofore. They 
are gradually settling down to their duty, and performing their work 
steadily and well. 

" The apprentices generally appear to pay more attention to the 
religious observance of the sabbath than formerly. 

" Thfiy appear desirous of having: moral and religions instruction, 
and express a desire to have their children educated ; none of whom 
have they, in any instance, apprenticed to their former masters. 

" They express an anxiety about their houses and grounds ; and on 
one occasion, I was asked by an apprentice if he could legally pur- 
chase and own land. 

" Since crop, I have had only one complaint from any manager in 
my beat (46 properties and about 9,000 apprentices), of the appren- 
tices not working faithfully ; and, on investigation, I am satisfied the 
overseer himself was to blame, having stopped their allowance of 
herrings, and worked the apprentices eight hours per day for five days, 
in place of nine hours, and thereby depriving them of their half of 
Friday. 

" I regret to state, that several of the subordinate planters still cling 
to the old system, and cannot divest themselves of their old prejudices 
and arbitrary disposition towards the apprentices, who on their parts 
have not had sufficient time to reconcile themselves to their former 
oppressors. 

"Complaints are greatly diminished since the commencement of my 
duties, and they have become more of a casual than of an important 
nature, frequently between the apprentices themselves only. 

* Parliamentary Papers, sess. 1835, No. 278—1, p. 23. 



4 FACTS IN REGARD TO THE WORKING [124 

" In closing my report, I very humbly submit to your Excellency 
(from an experience of thirty-four years in the colony), that the pros- 
pects for the next year's returns are as flattering as can reasonably 
be expected, and are quite at variance with the nev/spaper reports."* 

" R. J. Langrish, special magistrate, Lower Clarendon, says : " The 
crops on almost every estate are finished, and, generally speakin^j, 
have exceeded those of last year both in quantity and quahty. The 
state of preparation for next year's crop, on all well regulated estates, 
is as forward as the diminished number of hours will allow. Com- 
plaints have decidedly diminished, but I regret to state I have been 
under the necessity of punishing some of the employers for cruel 
treatment to their apprentices." | 

^. Macteod, special magistrate, St. Dorothy's, says : " The crop is 
fast drawing to a close, and will, I hope, present a gratifying return. 
The success of the Whim estate has been remarkable. Tliis property 
made last year 140 hhds. and 60 puncheons, but has this year com- 
pleted no less than 240 hhds. and 110 puncheons ; and all this with a 
very trifling quantity of extra labor. Your Excellency's estate of 
Kelly's, regard being had to the comparative number of negroes, 
seems to have done still more than the Whim , and I am happy to 
add, that on neither property has there been a single corporal punish- 
ment since I have been a special magistrate in St. Dorotliy."t 

BARBADOES. 
NUMBER OF APPRENTICES, 82,000. 
The following extracts from the despatches of Sir Lionel Smith, the 
governor, will suffice to show the effect of emancipation in this island. 

« 2fi^/i, .,'?«3- 1«^-1. 

"I have the honor and satisfaction to state to you, that peifect 
tranquillity, by my latest accounts, exists in all the islands of the 
Windward government. § 

" Grenada, on the commencement of the apprenticeship system, 
was partially disturbed by refractory negroes on two estates. The 
prompt action of the civil and military authorities immediately restored 
order. 

" In St. Vincent's, one estate only struck work, and order was soon 
restored. 

" In Tobago and this island, the negroes have been perfectly orderly 
and steady at their duties." || 

" 5th JsTov. 1834. 
"I have much pleasure in reporting the existence of perfect tran- 
quillity in this and the other islands of the Windward government."1f 

" 3d Jan. 1835. 
"I have great pleasure in reporting general tranquillity and indus- 
try among tiie apprenticed population of tlie Windward islands."** 

•* Parliamentary Papers, sess. 1835, No. 278—1, p. 246. t Ibid. p. 248. 

t Ibid. p. 262. <) Ibid. pp. 56, 57. II Ibid. p. 72. T Ibid. p. 78. ** Ibid. p. 88 



25] OF THE BRITISH ABOLITION ACT. 5 

In his despatch of the 28th of April, 1835, the governor thus 

expresses himself: 

" It would have been singular, if, on entering into their state of 
modified freedom, the apprenticed laborers had in general displayed 
any insurrectionary movement. They had every thing to hope from 
a passive obedience to the law. Their minds may reasonably be 
supposed to have predisposed them to accept the proffered boon thank- 
fully and quietly ; and, in fact, their transition was most orderly 
accomplished ; and in the same quiet state they have remained. 
Your lordship will learn with surprise, that although we have been 
for four weeks without any rural police act, the business of the estates 
has progressed as usual, and the general peace has not been any where 
disturbed."* 

BRITISH GUIANA. 
NUMBER OF APPRENTICES, 90,000. 

Sir James Carmichael Smyth became governor of this colony in 
June, 1833. On 4th March, 1835, he thus writes: 

" I do not believe that at this moment there is a single estate in 
British Guiana on which a reasonable proportion of work, commen- 
surate to seven and a half hours' labor, is not performed by the ap-* 
prenticed laborers. I deem it my duty further to remark to your lord- 
ship, that since the first of August there has not been an instance of 
a white man upon an estate being struck or ill-treated by a negro ; 
nor has a single building or cane-field been maliciously set fire to. 
These facts speak strongly in favor of the laborers. On one estate 
(La Hague) the sea-dam gave way early on a Sunday morning. The 
negroes, without waiting to be summoned, ran down in a body with 
their tools, and instantly repaired the dam ; thus preventing the estate 
from being ruined for several years. The manager (who is a very 
intelligent and superior man, and has acquired completely both the 
confidence and the respect of the people) assured me that the laborers 
neither asked nor expected any remuneration for performing this ser- 
vice. On another estate, called La Bonne Intention, the buildings 
accidentally caught fire. The fire was extinguished by the exertion 
and good- will of the negroes. The manager assured me, that he was 
compelled to order the laborers to come down from the tops of the 
buildings, and not expose themselves to the very imminent danger 
they voluntarily encountered to preserve their master's property."! 

" Uth April, 1835. 
"It appears from the statement enclosed, that from the river Deme- 
rara alone, 4,676 hogsheads of sugar have been shipped during the 
last six months, more than (with a diminution of one-sixth of his 
labor) the planter had a right to expect ; and more than was produced 
by slave labor during the same periods in 1831 and 1832. If, in reply 
to this observation, il should be stated that the planter has paid for 
extra labor, it may be remarked, that it has been money well laid out; 
4,676 extra hogsheads of sugar, fetching each (in the sugar market) 

* Parliamentary Papers, sess 1835, No, 278—1, pp. 90, 91, t Ibid. p. 173, 



6 FACTS IK REGARD TO THE WORKING [186 

from 201. to 25L, afford a total (even at 201. each) of 93,520Z. ; a profit 
which will surely induce the planter to lay out much larger sums 
than he has hitherto, in the payment of extra and willing labor."* 

" 25th May, 1835. 

" Every thing is going on as well as could be wished. All that 
foolish excitement which lately prevailed among the white population 
is at an end. The reaction has been almost as rapid as was the sud- 
den burst of angry feeling. "f 

'' 6th July, 1335. 

" I beg leave respectfully to draw your lordship's attention to the 
following facts, taken from a careful inspection of the custom-house 
returns of the quarter which ended on the 30th ult., and compared 
with similar documents of the four preceding years for the same 
period. 

" The average quantity of sugar entered for exportation at the 
custom-house in Demerara and Essequibo, during the June quarters 
of the four years preceding the present one, amounts to 10.723 hogs 
heads per each. As the planter is entitled to one-sixth less labor from 
the apprentice than from the slave, one-sixth less produce might rea- 
sonably, under present circumstances, have been expected. For the 
June quarter of the present year, consequently, if 8,926 hogsheads 
of sugar had been entered for exportation, there could have been no 
just ground of complaint against the apprenticed laborer. Your 
lordship will, however, learn M'ith pleasure, that 13,189 hogsheads 
have been entered ; being 2,466 hogsheads more than was produced 
in the same time under the slave system, and 4,263 hogsheads above 
what the planter had a right to calculate upon with his diminished 
labor."! 

The governor proceeds to compare the produce of rum, molasses, 
coffee, and cotton, with the average of the four preceding years, and 
finds that in all, except molasses, the produce is greater ; and of mo- 
lasses, more has been produced than the planter had a right to expect 
vith the diminished labor. He adds : 

"The protracted illness of the collector at Berbice has hitherto pre- 
vented my being furnished with similar returns from that district. I 
understand, however, that the documents from thence will be even 
still more gratifying." 

MAURITIUS. 
NUMBEE OF APPRENTICES, ABOUT 70,000. 

The Abohtion Act did not take effect in this island till the 1st Feb- 
ruary, ]835.§ Some days after, the governor, Sir William Nicolay, 
thus writes to the secretary of state : 

" l6^/i February , 1835. 

"A vessel being on the point of sailing for England, [ have to 
report, with much satisfaction, that the new system, occasioned by the 

* Parliamentary Papers, sess. 1835, No. 278—1, p. 175. t Ibid. p. 176. 

X Ibid. p. 177. 

^ The delay was occasioned by the remoteness of the island, it being situated 
in the Indian ocean. — Ed. 



1S7] OF THE BRITISH ABOLITION ACT. 7 

act for the abolition of slavery, continues to work well ; masters and 
apprentices appearing content." 

As a large number of the slaves on this island had not been duly 
registered, and consequently the apprenticeship act did not apply to 
them, the British government has ordered the governor to proclaim 
them unconditionally free. We have not yet heard the result. 

ANTIGUA. 
FORMERLY 30,000 SLAVES— WHITE POPULATION ABOUT 2,000 
Mr. Henry Loving,* the superintendent of police, thus reports to 
the governor : 

" 1st June, 1835. 
" The progressively healthful state of affairs in this island, leaves 
me but little to remark upon this report for tlie month of May ; and I 
am happy to have learnt, from the best authoiity, that some gentlemen 
of rank, possessing estates in this country, who, from a want of due 
patience, had recently predicted the ruin of the landed interest, are 
now of a different opinion."! 

Nowhere in the West Indies had the chains of slavery been more 
galling than in Antigua. Nowhere was abolition more violently op- 
posed by the masters. They prophesied the utter ruin of the island 
if it should ever take place. However, on finding that by an imme- 
diate emancipation, instead of the apprenticeship system, they would 
sooner get the compensation money, they resolved to venture upon the 
act which they had so often deprecated as the highest folly. As this 
case embraces all the dangers which can possibly attach to an act of 
immediate abolition, it will be well to recur to tlie Antigua journals, 
and see how the change from absolute slavery to full and unconditional 
freedom passed off! It is now admitted by all, that the state of society 
in Antigua is perfectly safe, and the island more prosperous, than ever 
under the slave system. Let us see how it passed its perils. The 
Antigua Fi-ee Press, of August 7th, 1834, says: 

" The great doubt is solved ; the alarming prognostications of the 
advocates of slavery falsified ; the highest hopes of the negro's friends 
fulfilled, and their pledges honorably redeemed. A whole people, 
comprising 30,000 souls, have passed from slavery into freedom, not 
only without the slightest irregularity, but with the solemn and deco- 
rous tranquillity of a sabbath. 

" The religious services appropriate to the event were commenced 
by the Wesleyaus holding, according to a practice — ■'^^jihar to them- 
selves, what is called a ' watch-niglit.' The place" "'' "forship were 
numerously attended, particularly by the slaves, an>, r- the hour of 

* ]Mr. Loving is a man of color, the son of a negi'ess, and who had hims'jif 
been a slave till ne was nine years of age. 
t Parliamentary Papers, sess. 1835, No. 278—11, p .J- 



8 FACTS IN REGARD TO THE WORKING [128 

twelve, they received the blessing of freedom on their knees, while 
engaged in supplication and thanksgiving to the Author of all mer- 
cies. Friday, the day of jubilee, presented such a scene as was never 
before witnessed in Antigua. From an early hour in the morning, 
multitudes were seen moving from all quarters to the house of God ; 
and, at the hours of prayer, every church and chapel, perhaps without 
exception, overflowed. In St. John's and Parham particularly, they 
were literally crammed, the doors and windows crowded, and hundreds 
after all were obliged to remain outside. We attended in the morning 
at the Moravian chapel in town, and are persuaded that there were 
assembled there not less than between three and four thousand per- 
sons, including those in the school-room, where there was sei-vice 
hkewise, together with such as could not obtain entrance in either 
place. 

" But it was not merely from contemplating the hitherto unequalled 
multitudes of worshippers who filled and environed the houses of 
prayer, that the benevolent looker-on could derive a sublime and hal- 
lowed pleasure ; a more striking object of wonder and delight was the 
demeanor of the people universally. It not only claimed the credit of 
being orderly, but was in the highest degree decorous and praise- 
worthy. While every countenance beamed with happiness, there 
was no unbecoming excitement. Their joy was lively, indeed, but it 
was calm and chastened ; and even with regard to their dresses, there 
was no gaudiness nor attempt at finery; every thing was clean, neat, 
and suited to a day of general thanksgiving. The thought occurred to 
us, — if the philanthropists of Britain could have witnessed the sight 
which we were privileged to behold, hov/ gratefully would they have 
acknowledged that all their sohcitude, and exertions, and expense, in 
behalf of the poor enslaved negro, were now amply rewarded. For 
our own part, we felt, that if it were possible and requisite, we could, 
for another such consummation, consent again to suffer the calumnies, 
persecution, and poverty, which have been (and still are in pretty large 
measure) inflicted upon us for pleading the cause of our oppressed 
brethren. 

" It is exceeding gratifying to learn, from all parts of the country, 
that the sense of propriety manifested by the negroes everywhere in 
public, was not thrown off upon returning to their habitations. So- 
briety and decency maintained their rule everywhere ; and the noise 
of dancing and revelling was not heard to proceed from any hut, as 
we understand, throughout the island. 

"But the good conduct of the negroes did not end with the day of 
thanksgiving, when the solemn impressions made by the religious ser- 
vices might 1)6 supposed to have worn off, at least in many instances. 
A week has nearly elapsed, and although all eyes and ears are open, 
and reports spread rapidly, we have not heard of a single act of inso- 
lence, insubordination, or violence, committed by any one of them, 
under false and hcenticus notions of freedom. It is true, that at first 
they almost all refused the terms of hire proposed by the proprietors 
and attorneys ; but a little reasoning lias prevailed with them ; and, 
according to the accounts from the country, there cannot be more than 
one-fifth holding out for higher wages. There is no doubt, however. 



129J OF THE BRITISH ABOLITION ACT. 9 

that these will speedily accede likewise. We feel it to be our duty 
here (and a very gratitying one it is), to bear testimony to the services 
of our friend, Mr. Loving, the superintendent of police, whose exer- 
tions in the performance of his duties have been unwearied, and to 
whose conciliatory expostulations and advice it is mainly owing that 
the laborers have so speedily returned to the employment of their 
former masters. This gentleman, since assuming office on the first, 
has visited almost every estate, for the purpose of explaining to the 
people their exact condition, duties, and interest ; and his addresses 
have everywhere been attended with the best effects." 

On the 14th of August, the same pap^sr says : 

" It is with the highest satisfaction we announce, that we know of^ 
and beheve there is, no gang of laborers in the island, which has not 
returned to its accustomed employment. TranquiUity prevails every- 
v.here ; indeed, it has never been broken ; for, although many negroes 
held back from work for some days, in expectation of higher wages, 
not a single instance of riotous misconduct has occmTed.'''' The same 
state of things has continued, according to the journals, down to the 
present time. 

MONTSERRAT 6,000 APPRENTICES— NEVIS 9,000— TOR- 
TOLA AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS 5,000— DOMINICA 
15,000 

" We class these four islands together, as they form a part, along 
with St. Christopher's (of which we shall treat separately), of one 
general government (that of Antigua), and also because the same 
general terms will nearly apply to all alike, with slight variations. 
The minds of the negroes, in all of tlrem, were, to a certain degree, 
affected by the difference of their lot from that of the population of 
Antigua. They submitted to the system of apprenticeship very reluc- 
tantly indeed, but with no murmurs loud enough to cause any very 
serious alarm, or to indicate any purpose of com "lined resistance, ex- 
cept for a few days on the part of the slaves on some French estates 
in Dominica. With this slight exception, the governor represents the 
black population, generally, as having conducted themselves with 
great propriety and decorum, and states his belief, that the rumors of 
any failures of the crops had proceeded as much, if not more, from 
the vague apprehension of the planters, as from any reluctance on the 
part of the negroes to perform their duties. All these islands had 
continued, with these slight exceptions, to enjoy an imdisturbed tran- 
quillity." 

ST. CHRISTOPHER'S. 
CONTAINING ABOUT 18,000 APPRENTICES. 
"In this island, more than any other, was the grievance of the ap- 
prenticeship felt by tho black population, as they contrasted their own 
situation with that of their neighbors in Antigua. They regarded 
their masters as depriving them of rights to which they considered 
themselves equally entitled by the will of their sovereign ; and the 
sub-governor, having been himself a slave-holder, could obteiin no 
credit for his explanations ; which, on the contrary, they drowned 



10 FACTS IN REGARD TO THE WORKING [130 

with clamor." Notwithstanding these unfavorable circumstances, the 
governor thus expresses himself in a letter to the secretary of state, 
of the 1 8th Nov. 1834: 

"it gives me sincere pleasure in stating, that the apprenticeship 
system goes on far better than I beheve any one anticipated. The 
negroes are in general very quiet, and, with a very few exceptions, 
work well ; numerous planters say that they get as much work done 
under the new system, as ever they did during the existence of slavery ; 
and some gentlemen (a good many) go so far as to say they get 
more."+ 

ST. VINCENT, CONTAINING ABOUT 22,000 APPREN- 
TICES—GRENADA, ABOUT 24,000— TOBAGO, ABOUT 
1 3,000. 

From Tobago, the lieutenant-governor, General Darling, on the 
31st December, 1834, addressed to the secretary of state, Mr. Spring 
Rice, the following satisfactory statement: 

"If I might venture to form an opinion on the experience of the five 
months that have elapsed since the extinction of slavery, I should say, 
there is no reason whatever to apprehend any trouble or insubordina- 
tion in this island under the system of apprenticeship ; which, notwith- 
standing occasional complaints of late turning out to work, will upon 
the whole prove as beneficial to the interests of the proprietor, as the 
former system ; and this, too, without reference to the greatly improved 
condition of the laborer."f 

TRINIDAD. 
THE NUMBER OF APPRENTICES ABOUT 23,000 

On the 22d of May, 1835, Sir Q. Tlill, the governor, thus writes : 

" The sugar crop is now more than three-fourths finished ; it will 
produce (I expect) as much revenue as last year, and with general 
contentedness on the part of the apprentices. 

" I delight to remark, that punishments have materially decreased ; 
on some estates, none have been inflicted since October last; and I 
entertain a strong belief, that there is an advance towards a moral 
improvement, which, if carefully promoted, will reahze the most san- 
guine hopes of the promoters of the important change effected on the 
first of August last."j: 

ST. LUCIA. 
CONTAINING ABOUT 13,000 APPRENTICES. 

In this island, tlie great change has been effected without the slight- 
est disorder or disturbance. On the 12th of July, 1834, the new 
governor, Sir Dudley St. Leger Hill, issued a proclamation, announcing 
the approaching emancipation of the slaves on the first of August 
next, a day which he appointed to be observed in all churches and 
chapels as a day of general thanksgiving to Almighty God, for having 
in his infinite wisdom visited the people of this land with so gracious 

* Parliamentary papers, sess. 1835, No. 278—11, p, 94. 
t Ibid. p. 181. t Ibid. p. 212. 



131] OF THE BRITISH aBOLITIOK ACT. IJ 

a dispensation of his good providence ; and likewise, of humble inter- 
cession and fervent prayer, that he may be pleased mercifully to fur- 
ther this important change to a peaceful and happy end. 

The governor reports in his letter of the third November, 1834, as 
follows : 

" It is with no ordinary satisfaction that I profit by this opportunity 
to inform you, that the tranquil and orderly conduct of the apprenticed 
laborers fully justifies my giving you an assurance, which cannot fail 
to be gratifying to his Majesty's government ; and that is, that the 
abohtion of slavery has not, up to this period, interrupted the industry 
which was customary previously to that happy event."* 

HONDURAS. 
THE NUMBER OF APPRENTICES IS ABOUT 2,500. 
The governor. Colonel Cockburn, on the 15th of December, 1834, 
wrote as follows : 

"The apprenticed laborers are going on well ; an - Vhough nearly 
the whole of them will be assembled here at tiie en^iung Christmas, I 
do not anticipate any disturbance, complaint, or difficulty ."f 

BAHAMAS. 

THE NUMBER OF APPRENTICES ABOUT 9,000. 

In these scattered islands, some acts of insubordination occurred in 
the first instance, but unattended with violence of any kind. On the 
5th of March, 1835, the acting governor reports : 

" I am happy in being able to report to your lordship, that tranquil- 
hty prevails throughout these islands, and the inhabitants appear to 
look forward to an improvement in their circumstances, which will 
contribute to the general contentment."| 

GRAND CAYMANAS. 
CONTAINING ABOUT 1,000 NEGROES, FORMERLY SLAVES. 
These small islands seem hitherto to have been almost excluded 
from the pale of society, though not very distant from Jamaica. The 
slaves in the Caymanas had never been registered. The Abolition 
Act declared all unregistered slaves to be free from the 1st of August, 
1834. After some delay, the secretary of state ordered them to be 
declared free ; and Lord Sligo prepared to issue a proclamation to that 
effect, which was accompanied with an address. On the 3d of May, 
Lord Sligo himself visited these islands with the proclamation and 
address, in order to sooth the proprietors, and to calm and instruct the 
slaves, who were mutually thunderstruck by the unexpected proceed- 
ing, which took place on the morning of his arrival. The whole aflair 
appears to have passed over very quietly. 

* Parliamentary papers, sess 1835, No. 278 — II, p, 225. 
t Ibid. p. 246. t Ibid. p. 265. 



K ^KIPTS. [ISSJ 

BERMUDA 
FORMERLY THERE WERE ABOUT 5,000 SLAVES. 
The legislature of this island declined, as is wl'U known, to subject 
their slaves to the apptcnticeship, and declared them entirely free from 
the 1st of August, 1834. Tlie law admits to the elective franchise all 
the free who are duly qualified. Not the slightest symptom of disaf- 
fection or disturbance appears to have at any time occurred in this 
i^^and. 

CAPE OF GOOD HOPE. 

THE NUMBER OF APPRENTICES ABOUT 35,000. 

The governor of this colony, in his despatch to the secretary ol 
state, dated 6th December, 1 833, writes thus : 

" From the reports of the public functionaries, from the communi- 
cations I have received from many other individuals who have the best 
opportunities of ascertaining the state of the public mind, and from 
my owri personal observations, I feel that I may venture to assure you, 
that there is no cause to apprehend, on the pari, of the slave proprietors 
in this colony, any openly avowed hostility to the bill ; still less any 
thing partaking of systematic resistance to it, or that the measure will 
be here productive of any collision between the different classes of 
society." 

On the Jst of April, 1834, the governor, Sir Benjamin D'Urban, 
wrote that he had granted permission to the inhabitants of the colony 
to hold a public meeting, to consider and suggest the measures that 
might be requisite in this crisis of their affairs. Among these mea- 
sures was a proposition to abridge the period of the apprenticeship by 
two years, so that all slavery should terminate in tliis colony on the 
1st December, 1838, instead of the 1st December, 1840; the majority 
of their slaves being domestic, and not predial. 



RECEIPTS 



Into the Treasury of the American A. 

S. Society, from September 25th to 

October 17th, 1836. 

Albany, N. Y., T. Fassett, $;3.5 00 

Bridgeport, Con., W. R. BunnsUs, 3 ua 

Billexica, Miiss. , a friend, 5 DO 

Cortlandt, N. Y., a friend, 1 Oi> 

Glastenbury, Con. , a coio-red girl, 1 00 

" " from friends, 5 00 

Genesee co., N. Y., A. S. Society, by J. B | 

Halstead, 20 00 

Hampshire co. , Mass. , by P. Field, 20 00 

Munroe, Oliio, by Col. W. Lewis, 5 00 

New Yorlt city. Juvenile A. S. Society at 

Chatham street chapel, 7 Go 

" Juvenile A. S. Society, 2 3S 

Philadelphia, Miss R. BuB'nm, 10 00 

Peterboro', N. Y. , Gerrilt Smith, Esq. , 1 ,000 00 
Sandy HUl, N. Y. , little gids, Ho 

A friend, 75 

A stranger, 1 CO 

From H. B. Stanton, financial agent (par- 

UcuJars hereafter) 453 42 

$1570 45 
LEWIS TAPPAN, Assistant Treasurer, 
No. 3, Spruce St. 
New York, Ootobei 17, 1836. 



Quarterly Collections received by the 
Publishing- Agent, during the month 
of September, 1S36. 

Andover, Mj.'^j., Thomas Duglass, 
Uraiivilte, Oliio, K. C. Wright, 
Nc'A- York.II. Wwcn, 
■ J. l:s:-..ar, 
Onei.la Institute, N. Y., per W. J. Savage, 
Rome, N. Y., ^cr Dr. Blair, 
Syracuse, N. ^i ., per S. Conklin, 
Received for tlie Emancipator, 

" " Human Rights, 

" " A. S. Record, 

" " Quarterly Magazine, 

" " l^ublijalions, 



S5 00 

38 00 

25 

25 

17 50 

10 00 

300 

263 15 

CI 44 

5 00 

47 83 

288 17 



$742 59 
R. G. WILLIAMS, 

Publisiiing Agent, corner of Nassau and 
Spruce Streets, fNo. 3 Spruce ) 
Total Receipts, $-2313 04 



THE 



ANTI-SLAYERY RECORD 



Vol. II. No. XII. DECEMBER, 1S36. Whole No. 24. 



DOES THE BIBLE SANCTION SLAVERY? 

We must first settle the meaning of the term slavery. "A slave," 
says the law of Louisiana, " is one who is in the power of the master 
to whom he belongs. The master may sell him, dispose of his person, 
his industry, and his labor: he can do nothing, possess nothing, nor 
acquire any thing, but xohat must belong to his mastery " He is a chattel 
personal,''^ says the law of South Carolina, "fo all intents, construc- 
tions, and purposes, whatsoever.'''' It may be added, that he came into 
this relation (the relation of a thing to an owner) without any fault or 
consent of his own. This definition of slavery, furnished by law, is 
a true description of it in fact. This, then, is what we mean by 
slavery, the bein^ held in the relation of a mere thing to some man. 
This is the American meaning of the word. And it is in regard to 
this meaning that wo inquire whether the Bible sanctions it. 

ia tliat comprehensive summary of Bible doctrine called the Ten 
Commandments, the right of property is recognised and guarded by 
the prohibition, "Thou shalt not steal." This prohibition is of 
universal appliijation, meaning thou shalt not steal from anybody; 
therefore it presupposes in every man a right to use the products of 
his own labor, and much more the limbs with which he labors, as he 
pleases. No man is allowed to take from another his property with- 
out his consent. The word steal covers the whole ground o^ fraud, 
whether secret or open. Nov/, it is no matter whether you call slave- 
holding, as above defined, stealing, or not. It is at war with the doc- 
trine of the eighth commandment, because it destroys in the slave the 
right of 2)roperty, which the commandment sacredly guards. It does, 
by one comprehensive and perpetual process, all which that command- 
ment solemnly prohibits. There is no doubt that I violate the eighth 
commandment, if, meeting a man upon the highw^ay, I order him to 
stand and deliver, — if I take his watch and his purse. But those 
things are perhaps tlie avails, over and above his food and clothing, 
of a year's labor. Should I have done less violence to the command- 
ment, if I had met the same man a year sooner, and compelled him to 
work a year on my farm, feeding and clothing him, to be sure, but 
taking all the profits ? Should I have done less, if I had compelled 
him to work for life ? Should I have done less, if, instead of seizing 
the man, I had seized his mother before his birth, compelled her to 
work for mc, and laid the claim of absolute ownership to her child as 



$ DOES THE BIBLE SANCTION SLAVERY? [134 

soon as it was bom ? Surely not. There would be little use of the 
eighth commandment, if men could get round it so conveniently. But 
whether slaveholding be profitable or not, it violates the prohibition, 
"Thou shalt not steal," inasmuch as it sets utterly aside the right 
which the prohibition was designed to guard. 

Before we go any further, then, it may be remarked, that IF the 
Bible sanctions slavery, the Bible is totally inconsisterit with itself, and 
consequently is unworthy of any respect. So, if our inquiry turns out 
in favor of slavery, it is the Bible that must fall, and not the rights of 
human nature. 

Now, says the slaveholder, slavery was recognised in the very ten 
commandments from which you have quoted. " Thou shalt not covet 
thy neighbor's man-servant, nor his maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his 
ass, nor any thing that is thy neighbor's." Here, continues the slave- 
holder, the man-servant and the maid-servant are spoken of as belong- 
ing to the neighbor, just as much as the ox or the ass. Let us look 
at this argument. The slaveholder assumes that the servants are 
here put upon the same relation to their master as his ox or his ass. 
But the commandment first says, " Thou shalt not covet thy neigh- 
bor's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his man- 
servant," &c. On the slaveholder's argument, the tvijfe too is placed 
in the same relation to her husband as his house, or his ox, or his ass. 
This is proving a little more than even a slaveholder would wish. But 
if the relation of the wife to her husband is not the same as that of an 
ox to its owner, it follows that the relation of the servant to his master 
may not be the same. The argument proves too much to be good for 
any thing. 

If servant necessarily meant slave, we might possibly be driven to 
grant that the very prohibition against coveting a man's property, is a 
good warrant for taking the man, property, and all. But as there is 
no necessity of understanding servant to mean slave, and as it is no 
more than fair to allow, while we may, that the tenth commandment 
is not a piece of nonsense, we must be permitted to wonder that a 
slaveholder should dare to meddle with it. Thou shalt not covet 
ANY THING THAT IS THY NEIGHBOR'S. How, then, canst thou pre- 
tend to be the owner of thy neighbor himself? How canst thou say 
that thy neighbor can " possess nothing, nor acquire any thing," but 
what must be thine? "Thou shalt not covet," cries the preacher, 
and at the same moment he holds several of his neighbors as mere 
" chattels personal,'''' under an overseer whose business it is to get out 
of them as much work as he can, withmit paying for it. Every hour 
of the slave's labor is coveted, every blow he strikes is coveted ; if it 
were not so, he would be free. Here, then, we take our stand on the 
tenth commandment ; it cuts up the whole system of American 
slavery, branch and root ; it digs under, and turns out of the soil, the 
whole thing. The slaveholder violates no positive commandment, it 
is said. Nay, he violates the tenth commandment, from one end of it 
to the other J and more than violates it, for he not only covets his 
Heighbo-r's property, all that is his, but he covets all that he may or can 
have — he covets the man himself, and puts his covetousness thoroughly 
in practice. There is but one road which leads to slaveholding, and 



135] DOES THE BIBLE SANCTION SLAVERY? 3 

that is the road of covetousness. The Bible forbids a single step in 
that road. How, then, did the slaveholder get to the end of it without 
violating the commandment? 

But again, suppose for the sake of the argument that the man- 
servant and the maid-servant were slaves in the Carolina sense of the 
word. Does it follow, because I may not covet George McDuffie's 
slaves, that he has a right to hold them ? Or, does it follow from the 
fourth commandment, that because George McDuffie has no right to 
make his slaves work on the sabbath, he has a right to drive them to 
his cotton fields every other day in the week ? IN o such thing. No 
matter whether the people to whom the Decalogue was addressed did 
have slaves or not, both the eighth and the tenth commandments settle 
the question that they ought not to have had them. They were solemnly 
proliibited from taking a step towards having them. 

So far as the cause of immediate emancipation is concerned, we 
might rest the case here. After getting the command, Thou shalt not 
eat of the frait of a certain tree, we see no need of waiting for another 
command. Thou shalt not eat a bushel of that fruit; nor of ransacking 
the sacred pages to find a permission directly to the contrary. But as 
slaveholders will have it that slavery is a divine ordinance, for the Bible's 
sake we will endeavor to find what ground they have to stand on. 
We will endeavor to find where it is that the charter of the world's 
liberties makes merchandise of men, — in what part of the tidings of 
*' peace on earth and good- will to men," it is, that some men are made 
the property of others. 

THE CURSE OF NOAH. 

And Noah said, " Cursed be Canaan ; a servant of servants shall 
he be unto his brethren." Gen. ix, 25. 

Slaveholders must perform two impossibilities before they can get 
any authority for their deeds from this text. 

1. They must prove that this passage is a command, or at least a 
permission to enslave the descendants of Canaan, and not a mere 
prophecy that they would be enslaved. For a mere prophecy would 
no more justify them, than the abundant prophecies of Christ's death 
justified his murderers. 

2. They must prove that the very people they hold as slaves are the 
bona fide descendants of Canaan. It will not do to say that thty are 
probably descended from Ham the father of Canaan. Ham had three 
sons besides Canaan ; viz., Cush, Misraim, and Phut. And we are 
not told that either of these or their father was placed under the curse. 
If the slaveholders must needs be the executioners of the divine sen- 
tence upon the devoted descendants of Canaan, let them see to it that 
they do not get hold of the wrong victims. The sheriff who hangs a 
man not named in his warrant, becomes a murderer. There are 
surely ten chances to one that the southern slaves are Cushites and 
not Canaaniles ; but, if they were Canaanites, how do their oppressors 
know that the curse has not spent its force ? One would think from 
the scripture history, that the punishment of the wretched Canaanites 
did not lack much of being complete some scores of centuries ago. 



DOES THE BJBLE SANCTION SLAVERY? [136 



PATRIARCHAL SERVITUDE. 

Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, had servants born in their houses, and 
bought with their money. 

It would be difficult, however, to show that their conduct in this 
matter is commended to us as an example, any more than their having 
a plurality of wives. But suppose it an example. What is it? 
They had servants, and their having a great many went to show theh 
riches. Some of their servants were bought with their money, and 
some were born with them. But were any of them slaves ? Yes, 
the slaveholder will say, if they were bought. W e say, no. This 
will depend upon the questions, who was the seller, and what were the 
conditions of the sale. It may have been that the persons bought 
were parties to the bargain, and instead of selling the absolute owner- 
ship of their lives and limbs, they only stipulated to perform certain 
services. It is impossible for the slaveholder to prove that this was 
not the case, while there are several reasons why we may fairly pre- 
sume it was. 

1. The fact that in those primitive times it was customary for a man, 
who was become poor, to sell himself as the servant of some rich man. 
See Leviticus xxv, 47, and Genesis xlvii, 19. The phrase, to sell one's 
self, is common in Scripture. See 2 Kin^s xvii, 17 ; Isa. 1, 1, and lii, 3. 

2. From the occupation and mode of hfe of the patriarchs, their ser- 
vants could have been of no value at all to them, unless they acted vo- 
hmtarily. It is difficult to see how wandering shepherds, whose slaves, 
if we must call them such, were employed in tending their flocks, 
could have prevented any one from escaping when he pleased, or have 
recovered any one after liis escape. Think of the awkwardness of 
setting a driver, with his slave-whip, to drive a parcel of slaves to look 
after his master^s cattle, as they browse over the hills. 

3. We read in the fourteenth chapter of Genesis, that Abraham 
armed 318 of his trained servants, and led them out on a military adven- 
ture. Such a procedure would be madness on the part of a southern 
slaveholder. It shows that Abraham's servants were not slaves whom 
he held against their will, but rather the free subjects of a liberal 
prince. 

Again, the mere act of buying a man wdth money does not make 
him a slave. Men are sometimes bought for the veiy purpose of 
setting them free. I may buy a man with the expectation of receiving 
in his services a compensation for the purchase money, and yet lay no 
claim of property to the man, and pretend to no right to sell him, or 
to dispose of his person and his labor. A man may sell himself as a 
servant for life, it being understood that in rendering such service he is 
ever to be voluntary. But it is absurd to suppose that a man should 
sell himself to be a fersonal cl ctltel, like the American slave ; for in 
that case the very price receiveu by him at once becomes his master's. 
When, therefore, we read of the patriarchs buying men with money, 
and of men selling themselves for money, we are called upon to beUeve 
nothing more than that the parties bargained together, the one party 
paying money, and the other service — we surely are not called upon 



137] DOES THE BIBLE SANCTION SLAVERY? 5 

to believe that either party annihilated itself or bargained itself into 
a nulhty, as the servant must have done if he became a slave. 

As to the servants who were born in the families of the patriarchs, 
they could not have been born to a worse condition than that into 
which their parents had sold themselves — viz., a condition of voluntary 
service. 

What likeness any mortal can discover between Abraham as a 
master of servants, and one of our southern planters as the owner of 
his gang, it is utterly beyond our power to imagine. Whoever thinks 
it would have comported with the character of the father of the faith- 
ful to encourage kidnappers and land-pirates by buying their booty, 
or that it would have become his sanctity and heavenly-mindedness 
to steal and enslave poor unoffending men and women with his own 
hands, must enjoy his opinions alone, so far as we are concerned. 

We affirm that patriarchal servitude was perfectly volimtary, and 
challenge proof to the contrary. The burden of proof justly lies on 
those who hold as good authority an example, which, according to their 
interpretation of it, was openly at war with the moral law of God. 

THE MOSAIC BOND SERVICE. 

" Both thy bondmen and thy bondmaids, which thou shalt have, 
shall be of the heathen that are round about you, of them shall ye buy 
bondmen and bondmaids. Moreover, of the strangers that do sojourn 
among you, of them shall ye buy, and of their famihes that are with 
you, which they begat in your land, and they shall be your possession. 
And ye shall take them as an inheritance for your children after you, 
to inhent them for a possession : they shall be your bondmen for ever." 
Lev IT. XXV, 44 — 46. 

This means a great deal more to the ear of an American slaveholder 
than it ever meant to the ear of a Hebrew. The former supposes 
bondmen and bondmaids to have been men and women slaves. He 
supposes these bondmen might be sold by their masters, that they 
could " possess nothing, nor acquire any thing," but what would be- 
long to their masters. He supposes they were chattels personal in the 
hands of their owners. In all these suppositions he is mistaken, for 
the following reasons : 

1. There is a total want of proof that they could be sold or alienated 
in any way. 

2. These bondmen and bondmaids could not have been stolen men and 
women, because man-stealing was a capital crime by the law of Moses. 
" He that stealeth a man and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, 
he shall surely be put to death." Ex. xxi, 16. This law was of uni- 
versal application to both Hebrews and heathen, and it is very import- 
ant to study its bearing. When Moses gave the law, there were of 
course no bondmen in Israel. The question is, how there could come 
to be any, according to law. An Israelite might buy a heathen if he 
had the money ; but who should sell him ? No Israelite or sojourner 
could take or steal a he.? then for the market. No heathen from abroad 
could bring stolen heathen into Israel for sale. Nor would it do to 
go abroad and buy a man who was stolen. There could be no legal 



if DOES THE BIBLE SANCTION SLAVERY? [136 

bargain for a bondman, except in the one case where the seller and the 
sold were the same identical paHy. In other words, the Israelites 
could not buy, unless the sojournt r or the heathen should sell himself. 
But if he sold himself, he must retain his rights as a party, otherwise 
the sale would be but a trick — man-steahng under another name. 

But if the purchased bondmen and bondmaids were not slaves, 
what were they ? In what condition did they serve ? We answer, 
they were people, who, for a valuable consideration, bound them- 
selves to obey all lawful commands of a master till the year of Jubilee, 
if they should live to see it. Their bodies and souls, and their off- 
spring, were their own ; their service was their master's 3 and to this 
extent they were his possession, and might be handed down to his 
children. 

But were they not to be " bondmen for ever ?" Does not this mean 
that they were to serve for life, and their children after them, from 
generation to generation ? Certainly not. The law of the Jubilee 
was express and universal,* " Ye shall hallow the fiftieth year, and 
proclaim liberty throughout all the land to all the inhabitants 
THEREOF." The clause, " and they shall be your bondmen forever," 
must be interpreted in consistency with this lav.' of Jubilee. If we 
look again attentively at the whole verse, we shall see that the heathen 
are distinguished, in regard to bond service, from the Israehtes ; so 
that the sense is, your servants shall always be of the heathen, but 
over your own brethren, the Israelites, ye shall not exercise such 
authority. Why God made this distinction between the Israelites and 
the heathen, it may not be necessary for us here to inquire ; it is suffi- 
cient to know that the law did not allov/ the infringement of a.ny man's 
rights — it did not tolerate the slavery of even a heathen. 

But some one may ask, did not the Israelitish master, under the law, 
have power to beat and bruise, to flog and maul, his bond servant ? 
Does not the law say, that if the master smite hi'S servant so as to kill 
him, but not within a day or two, he shall not be punished, " for he 
(the servant) is his money ?" So it does. But this surely does not 
confer upon the master the right to beat v/ith the rod. It only pre- 
supposes that he might do so, and points out the law of evidence by 
which he should be judged. The facts, that the servant was worth 
money to the master, and that he continued a day or two, were evi 
dence that the master did not design to kill him. 

But, let us interpret the permission to buy bondmen as we will, 
there was another provision of the lav/ M'hich made it absolutely im- 
possible to hold bondmen as slaves. Such a provision of law, if pro- 
claimed now in these United States, in the ears of bond and free, 
would put an end to slavery almost as soon as an act of universal, 
immediate abolition. If it had been the law of the land from the first, 
slavery would never have existed. Y/hat would our slaveholders say 
of an act of congress, giving to slaves universally permission to run 
away; or, what is the same thing, forbidding the delivering up of any 
fugitive? I'hey would call it the destruction of their peculiar pro- 
perty, and very justly. Yet, when they quote the passage in Leviti- 

* The fact is manifestly recognised by the Saviour, when he says, John viii, 
95, " The servant abideth not in the hoxise for ever, but the son ahideth ^vei " 



139] DOES THE BIBLE SANCTION SLAVKRl ? 7 

cus as a divine permission of slavery — the sacred ordinance thereof — 
they are sure to forget that there is in Deuteronomy precisely such a 
law as we have described — a law which protected every fugitive in 
remaining in the place tvhich he chose. You may buy, says the divine 
law, as many bondmen of the heathen as you please ; but remember, 
you buy them under the following law: |lCJ^ "Thou shalt not 
Deliver unto his master the servant which is escaped from 
HIS master unto thee. He shall dwell with thee, even among 
you, in that place which HE shall choose, in one of thy gates 
WHERE IT LIKETH HIM BEST : thou shalt not oppress him."* 
Deut. xxiii, 15, 16. Talk about property in human flesh under such 
a law ! Could language more jealously guard the LIBERTY of the 
servant ? If we are led to wonder why the divine law should thus 
disregard the claim of the master, who had paid his money, and might 
be able to show before the elders of the city to which his servant had 
escaped, that the said servant owed him service or labor, we can have 
full explanation in the fact that the Hebrews were to be kept in mind 
of their own servitude in the land of Egypt. "Thou shalt not op- 
press a stranger : for ye know the heart of a stranger, seeing ye were 
strangers in the land of Egypt." Ex. xxiii, 9. " I'hou shalt remem- 
ber that thou wast a bondman in the land of Egypt," &c. (Deut. xv, 
15 — xvi, 12 — xxiv, 18. 22, and many other places.) Hence the divine 
law took the very fact of a bondman's fleeing as good evidence against 
the master's claim, and allowed him to offer no proof, nor enter into 
any proceedings v/hatever, for his recovery. O how we wish this hu- 
mane, this Godlike law, were the statute law of our land ! But let 
slaveholders and their abettors remember, that in the court of con- 
science it is law yet. Its principle and moral force has never been 
annulled. 

How, then, stands the matter of Mosaic bondservice? Thus: the 
liberty of every poor man, Hebrew or heathen, is guarded by the 
sword of Jehovah, before and behind. The permission to buy bond- 
servants stands between two effectual safeguards of inalienable rights. 

1. The law awarded death to the man who sold another without his 
consent. 

2. It shielded any and every fugitive from the possibility of an invo- 
luntary recover3\ 

And all this was not enough. Lest, even under these safeguards, 
the rich should take too great advantage of the poor, and forget that 
God has made men equal, every fiftieth year proclaimed LIBERTY 
THROUGHOUT ALL THE LAND TO ALL THE INHA- 
BITANTS THEREOF. 

Halielujah to the God of the Bible ! We ask no better act of abo- 
lition than this. 

* It is objected by some commentators that this law applied only to foreign 
servants escaping into Israel. But, in the first place, the comment is wholly 
gratuitous, and, in the second, if Israel had given this protection to foreign 
slaves, foreign ma.«ters would have taken good care to accommodate fugitive 
Israelites. 



8 DOES THE BIBLE SANCTION SLAVERY? [140 

THE PROPHETS. 

" Woe unto him that buildeth his house by unrighteousness, and 
his chambers by wrong ; that useth his neighbor''s service without loageSf 

and giveth him not for his ivork; did not thy father eat and drink, 

and do judgment and justice, and then it was well with him ? He 
judged the cause of the poor and needy ; then it was well with him : 
was not this to know me ? saith the Lord." Jer. xxii, 13 — 16. 

Jeremiah was called an incendiary in his own day, and thrust into 
a filthy dungeon, from which he was relieved by the kindness of a 
certain negro, named Ebedmelech. He was not a man to flatter op- 
pressors, and we might quote many more passages from his writings, 
which we presume are never preached from in southern pulpits. His 
■ woe " rests upon every slaveholder. Yet his prophecy is to be found 
within the lids of the Bible. 

But Jeremiah is not the only anti-slavery prophet. Isaiah, the son 
of Amoz, wrote very severe things against slaveholders. Indeed, he 
'lifted up his voice like a ti-umpet" on the very subject of immediate 
emancipation. For there were in his time a set of people who made 
great pretensions to pietij, put on long, sanctified faces, fasted and 
afflicted their souls religiously, but in the midst of it all exacted the 
labor of the poor, and made great use of the " fast of wickedness." 
Isaiah plainly tells them what sort of fasting would be more accepta- 
ble to the Lord. " Is not this the fast that I have chosen ? to loose 
the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the 
oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke ?" Some learned 
divines of our day tell us that this does not refer to the yoke of slavery, 
but to the oppression of poor debtors. Very well. Our argument is 
much obliged to the reverend doctors. The crime, then, of the sanc- 
timonious aristocrats whom the prophet here rebukes, was that of 
rigorously exacting labor of their poor debtors. This was the yoke 
they were to break. What would he not have said if they had been 
guilty of exacting labor with the cart-whip of those who owed them 
not a penny ? Ah ! would he have hushed his voice and spared his 
crying aloud, if every sixth man in Israel had been reduced, without 
either crime or debt, to the condition of a chattel — a brute beast ? Our 
slaveholders make as much shoM' of piety, but their oppression is ten- 
fold more cruel, and of course the language of the prophet applies to 
them with tenfold force. 

This is only a sample of the language of the prophets. No man 
can read a tithe of their generous and indignant denunciations of op- 
pression of all soils, and bslieve that the Bible sanctions the mean, 



141] DOES THE BIBLE SANCTION SLAVERY ? 9 

piratical, abominable system of property in human flesh. We hasten 
to say a few words of 

CHRIST AND HIS APOSTLES, 

" All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye 
even so to them ; for this is the law and the prophets." Matt, vii, 12. 

Ingenuous slaveholders (for there are such) are often troubled with 
this divine interpretation of the " law and the prophets." And well 
they may be. None so careful as slaveholders to exact of others due 
deference to their rights ; — ^^'tbe loudest yelps for liberty" ai-e from 
the drivers of negroes, and their consciences may well ask them, in 
viewof Clirist's rule, Why don't you extend to others what you are so 
ready to require of them ? 

Christ. Are you willing men should hold you in bondage, as mere 
merchandise ? 

Slaveholders. No. We would die first. 

Christ. Then release your slaves instantly. 

Tliis is the whole of the matter, as it stands between Christ and 
slaveholders. Now see how they writhe on the point of the divine 
argument. They say, to be sure, we ought to do to our slaves what 
we, in a change of circumstances, should wish them to do to us, cori' 
sistently loith the relation existing between us.* A pretty way to beg 
the question ! The very point to be considered is, whether the relation 
itself is consistent with the Saviour's rule. — Do to others as you would 
be done by. Would you think it right for another, under any pre- 
tences, to place himself in the relation of an oicner to you? No. Then 
why do so to him ? " Oh," says Professor Dew,t " the benevolence 
of the Omnipotent has made the mind of man pliant and susceptible 
of happiness in almost every situation and employment." Hence, he 
infers, we should not judge the slaves by ourselves. They may be 
much happier than we are. This is the same logic that the tender- 
hearted fishmonger applied to his eels, which suffered less when 
skinned alive, because they were used to it. The slaves have become 
accustomed to the yoke, and it is no longer an inconvenience to their 
necks, though with our habits and feelings we would rather die than 
wear it. Thus do some slaveholders get along with the Saviour's rule, 
break it all to pieces, and do as they like. 

Others acknowledge that in the abstract the rule forbids slavery, 
but then, why did not Christ and ^;iis apostles so apply it ? Slavery 

* See Rev. Dr. Furman's Expositiou £ the Views of the Baptists of S. C. 
t Anti-Slavery Record, "V ol. I, p. 47 



10 DOES THE BIBLE SANCTION SLAVERY? [143 

existed in their days, yet they never once said it was opposed to the 
"law and the prophets." They did not "preach up an abohtion 
crusade." Well, suppose they did not. Here are the " law and the 
prophets," which speak for themselves. The rule is as clear as the 
multiplication table. I might as well say, To be sure, by the multi- 
plication table, applied to the question, the interest on a thousand 
dollars for one year, at six per cent., is sixty dollars ; but the inventor 
of the table made no such application, although there were dollars and 
interest in his day as well as ours, — therefore I'll not believe in inter- 
est ! But how do we know that Christ did not apply his rule to the 
slaveholders of his day ? Why, because it is not written in his history. 
Well, is every thing that he did recorded there? No. St. John says, 
if it had been, the world itself could not have contained the books ! 
Hence the wisdom of applying the general principles of the Saviour 
only where we know that He applied them. Let us put the compass 
He has left us in our pockets, and go only where we can see the wake 
of His boat on the waters, and His foot- prints on the sand ! 

But the testimony of the New Testament against slavery, as it 
now exists, is not confined to its pure and philanthropic general 
principles. Paul classes men-steders with the vilest of criminals.* 
The word he uses is andrapodistai, literally enslavers, man-merchants. 
It designates all those who are guilty of bringing their fellow-men into, 
or retaining them in the condition of andrapoda — slaves. Here the 
apostle strikes at the foundation of American slavery, as a system of 
man-merchandise. He classes all who take part in it with murderers, 
whoremongers, liars, and perjured persons. Let it not be said that he 
elsewhere speaks of masters as " worthy of all honor," &c. These 
masters he calls despotai or kurioi, and the servants douloi or oiketaif 
words which every Greek scholar knows to be perfectly general, and 
to include masters and servants, who stand on a perfect equaUty of 
rights, as well as others. Before slaveholders can claim that they 
were favorably noticed by the apostle, they must prove that he noticed 
them at all, except under the epithet " men-stealers.^^ In all that he 
has said about despotai and kurioi, he may have referred only to those 
who were the masters of voluntary servants. He certainly did not 
refer particularly to slaveholders ; whereas, the word andrapodistai 
refers exclusively to them. American slaveholders are all andrapo- 
DisTS, and their poor slaves are emphaticallv andrapodes — men 
trampled under foot — down-trodden. 

* 1 Tim. i, 10. 



3(43] DOES THE BIBLE SANCTION SLAVERY? 11 

Again, the apostle James denounces expressly those who withhold 
the HIRE of the laborer. " Behold, the hire of the laborers who have 
reaped down your fields, which is of you kept back, crieth ; and the 
cries of them which have reaped are entered into the ears of the Lord 
of Sabaoth." James v, 4. What could be more pointedly and ex- 
pressly aimed at slaveholders ? They keep back the liire by system. 
The profits of labor belong of right to the laborer. The slaveholder 
takes the whole to himself No matter how great the demand for 
labor, the slave reaps from it only loss, and stripes, and tears. He is 
driven the harder, and fares no better. The prosperity of his master 
IS woe to him. The riches of the Avhole South is built on the hire of 
the laborer, kept back! 

Again, Paul says to the Corinthians (1 Cor. vi, 10), "Be not de- 
ceived, — neither thieves nor covetous, — nor extortioners, — shall inherit 
the kingdom of God." Here are three classes of violators of their 
neighbors' rights. The latter epithet designates those who force others 
to contribute to their wealth. It will be applicable to slaveholders so 
long as slavery is a system of compulsory labor. 

But our opponents will tell us that all servants are commanded to 
obey their masters, no exception being made of slaves. "Let as 
many sei-vants as are under the yoke count their own masters worthy 
of all honor," — i. e. respect — observance — why ? Mark the reason 
which the apostle assigns, " that the name of God and his doctrine be 
not blasphemed.''^'*' The apostle nowhere enjoins obedience to masters 
because they have a right to it, as parents have to that of their child- 
ren. The very reason here assigned implies that they might not have. 
Christian servants were to submit to extortion for the gospeVs sake. 

But were there not '^believing masters," who held servants "under 
the yoke?" Doubtless masters were converted who had held servants 
in that manner. But as believing masters, they could do so no longer. 
They must now " give unto their servants that which is just and eqxiaV^ 
Servants are exhorted not to "despise," that is, to continue in the ser- 
vice of such masters, not, surely, because the " yoke " was a righteous 
one, but because the brotherhood of the gospel had broken it. 

What does Paul say to Philemon in the case of Onesimus? 
"Wherefore, though I might be much bold in Christ to enjoin thee 
that which is convenient,"— i. e., right, or just, — " yet for love's sake 
I rather beseech thee," &c. And what did he beseech ? Why, that 
Philemon should receive Onesimus, " not now as a servant^ but above 

• 1 Tim. vi, 1 



12 



RECEIPTS. 



[144 



a soirvant, a brother beloved, both in the Jlesli and in the Lord." 

And Paul further says to Philemon, " having confidence in thy obe- 
dience, I wrote unto thee, knowing that thou wilt also do more than I 
say." Does this look like sanctioning Philemon's property in One- 
simus ? 

Oh ! it is a foul slander to say that the Bihle, either by its words or 
its silence, sanctions holding men as merchandise. It is blasphemy 
against the blessed Saviour, who came to '' preach deliverance to the 
captives, to set at liberty them that are bruised," to say that he lends 
his sanction to the chains of a merciless personal bondage. 



RECEIPTS 



Into the Treasury of the American . 

S. Society, from October 18th to N 

vember ICth, 1836. 

Albany, N. Y., Miss C. Penniman, $10 

" " Ladies, 2 

Ashbiimham, Mass., ladies, by Mrs. H. 

iM. Bancroft, 8 

Boston, " from colored friends, 30 

Bradford, " A. S. Society, 50 

Cummington, " from friends, per A. 

B. Wai-iier, SO 

Clinton, N. Y. , Rev. H. H. Kelloeg, a 

Cumberland, R. I., from a lady, by A. 

Fairbanks, 15 

Greenville, Conn., A. S. Society, per W. 

H. Coit, 28 

Kingston, N. Y., Rev. J. L.illey, 1 

North Yarmouth, Me., A. S. Society, 6 

Norfolk, N. Y., N. Sackvider, 3 

New York city, from friends, 1 

« " John Rankin, for Sept., 

Oct. , and Nov. , SDO 

Ohio State A. S. Society, by iZ. V/eetl, 10 

Pittsburgh, Pa., from .T. P. Gazzam, $'^0 
" " " B. Brov.-n, 10 

" " " W. H. Clark, 10 

" " " JohnHannen, 10 

" « " J. B. Gribble, 5 

" " " J. B. Gribble, jr., 5 

" " " Joim Dickson, 5 

" " " John Marshall, 5 

" " " H. C. llowells, 5 

Richland, N. Y. , Mrs. and Miss Holmes, 2 
Rocliester, " female A. S. Society, on 

account cf pledge, iH 

Union College, N. Y., per G. L. Le Roe, 8 

Washington, Conn., D. G. Piatt, 6 
Woodstock (North) , Conn. , from frieuJs, 

Vernon, N. Y., Thomas Williams, 5 



8G33 15 
The following are the particulars of the 

sum received from H. B. Stanton, and 

included in the receipts last month : 
Boston,Salem street A. S. Soc. ,by I. Field, 100 00 



Dorchester 
Grotau, 



Cambridgeport, Mass., A. S. Society, 

" " female A. S. Society, 

" A. S. Society, 
" A. g. Society, 
" female A. S. Society, 
" a lady, 

" female A. S. Society, 
" A. S. Society, by G. 
Russell, Esq., 
d Braintree Union A. S. 
Society, 



Newburyport, 
Plymoutli CO., 

Weymoutli ai 

A friend. 



$45 25 
30 00 

100 00 
65 00 

35 OO 
5 00 

36 05 

12 00 



$453 42 
LEWIS TAPPAN, Assistant Treasurer 

No. 3, Spruce St. 
New York, November 16. 1836. 



Quarterly Collections received 
Publishing- Agent, during the 
of October, 1836. 

Haddam, Conn., D. C. Tyler, 
Honesdale, Pa. . S. Stevens, 
M:u-iellas, N. Y., A. Rockwell, 
New York citv, H. Ov.-en, 

" " J. Usmar, 

" Mills, N. Y. , per J. Pettibonc, 

" " " Geo. Peacock, 

Norwalk, Conn.. J. Warner, 
Philadelphia. Pa.', Lacretia Mott, 
Sandy llill, N. Y., Sarah Stow, 
Sins Sing, " C. Roscoe, 
Tompkinsville, N. Y. , Wm. McGeorge, 
Received for the Emancipator, 

" " Human Rights, 

" " A. S. Record, 

" " Quarterly Magaziae, 

" " Publications, 



by the 
month 

$1 50 

25 

4 50 



3 18 
12 00 

7 OO 

25 00 

50 

1 OO 
425 

142 50 
27 25 

2 75 
21 50 

285 96 



$539 64 
R. a YvILLIAMS, 
Publishing Agent, corner of Nassau and 
Spruce Streets, (No. 3 Spruce.) 
Total P.eceipts, $1172 79 



(147) 
LEWIS DESROULEAUX. 

A planter of St Domingo had a confidential slave, whom he was per- 
petually flattering with the hope of speedy freedom ; but the more pains 
this favorite took to render himself useful, the riore firmly wore his fetters 
riveted. Lewis Desrouleaux, whose schemes for obtaining his hberty 
rendered him very economical and laborious, soon amassed funds more 
than sufficient to purchase his freedom. He offered them with transport 
for the purchase of his independence, which had been so often promised 
him. " I have too long traded with the blood of my fellow-creatures," 
said his master to him, in a tone of humiUation : " be fi-ee ; you restore 
me to myself." Immediately the master, whose heart had rather been 
led astray than corrupted, sold all his effects, and embarked for France. 
Pie was obliged to pass through Paris, in order to reach his province. His 
intention was to make but a short stay in that metropolis ; but the various 
pleasures he met with in the capital, detained him until he had foolishly 
dissipated the riches which he had acquired. In liis despair, he thought 
it less humiliating to solicit, in America, assistance from those who were 
obliged to him for their advancement, than to ask it in Europe of those 
who had ruined him. 

His arrival at Cape Franfois, in St. Domingo, caused a general 
surprise. No sooner was his situation known, than he was generally 
forsaken ; all doors were shut against him ; no heart was moved by 
compassion. He found himself reduced to the necessity of passing the 
remainder of his days in that retirement and obscurity which is the con- 
sequ'ince of indigence, and especially when merited, when Lewis Des- 
rouleaux came to throw himself at his feet. " Condescend," said that 
virtuous man, " to accept the house of your slave : you shall be served, 
obeyed, and beloved in it." But soon perceiving that the respect which 
is due to the unfortunate did not render his old master happy, he pressed 
him to retire to France. '' My gratitude will follow you," said he, em- 
bracing his knees: "here is a contract for an annual income of one 
thousand five hundred livres, (sixty-two pounds,) which I conjure you to 
accept This fresh instance of your goodness will be the comfort of my 
days." The annuity was always paid beforehand ; and some presents, 
as tokens of friendship, constantly accompanied it from St Domingo to 
France. — Raynca's European Settlements. 



Privce Naimbanna, of Sierra Leone, who was in England during the 
discussion of the slave-trade in parliament, talking one day of a distin- 
guished member of the house who proposed the gradual abolition of the 

slave-trade, said, " Mr. should have his carriage drawn by 

for they go very gradually." — Wadstrom^s Essay on Colonization. 



INTEGRITY— AVARICE. 

A man residing near Washington, had a slave of such known integrity 
and industry, that, for many years, it was his practice to send him to 
Baltimore, with his wagoa laden w'th various produce, the sale of which 
he entrusted to this slave ; by which means large sums of money often 
passed through his hands. He perfortned this service so much to hia 
master's satisfaction, that he scarcely ever employed any other persoQ"^ 
for thesepurpogeg. 



(US) 

This faithful slave had a wife and a large family of children, who re- 
sided in a hut close to his master's house. He was allowed a small 
portion of time, weekly, to do something for himself ; and being frequently 
employed by the neighbors to do little errands for them in Baltimore, he 
had, during many years of care, and frequently by hard labor when others 
were at rest, scraped together about two hundred pounds. He made an 
offer of all this to his master, for the freedom of his family ; but the master 
refused to give him his liberty on any condition, alleging that he could not 
meet with another in whom he could so confide. On finding his master 
inexorable, his disappointment and distress were extreme ; and, in the 
anguish of his heart, he determined to leave his wife and children, and 
take the first opportunity of quitting the country for ever. However, he 
concluded to call on a person who had always been his friend and adviser, 
to inform him of his resolution. This friend sympatlrized with him in his 
affliction, went immediately to the master^ and used every endeavor to 
prevail upon him to accept the money offered. He represented to him 
the exceedingly ungenerous return he was making to the poor man, for 
his fidelity and industry ; as the only plea urged by this unfeeling master, 
for his cruel conduct, was the uprightness and integiity of his slave! But, 
alas ! avarice is deaf to all arguments but those of self-interest. The 
hardened task-master was inexorable to all reasonings ; and as nothing 
that this friend could say had any effect upon him, he thought it his duty 
to endeavor to reconcile the poor slave to his hard lot, and to persuade 
him not to leave liis wife and children. In tliis he was more successful ; 
for the poor man concluded to remain with them, and endeavor to bear 
his burden with patience. — Sutcliff^s Travels in America. 



PCJ^MONTHLY SUBSCRIPTION PLAN. 

As the subscribers and collectors on this plan, do not find it convenient 
to remit their subscriptions promptly as often as once a month, it has been 
thought best to change it to a Quarterly Subscription Plan. (See next 
page. ) Those who choose can remit once a month as heretofore. 

This change has been made to suit the convenience of our friends, who 
say they can collect and forward subscriptions promptly once a quarter, 
but cannot find time to attend to it once a month. Punctuality is the life 
and sold of this system. Hereafler, we hope the subscriptions will be 
promptly remitted as they become due. Yv'e wish eveiy one who is will- 
ing to act as a collector, immediately to circulate a subscription, ascertain 
the amount he will become responsible to collect and forward regularly 
through the year, and give notice to the Publishing Agent, how many 
Records to forward, to supply each subscriber as stated on the next page. 

Some females have with great promptness and efficiency engaged in 
this work. Are there not many others ready to follow their example, and 
thus lend their influence to hasten the deliverance of tens of thousands of 
their sisters from a cruel bondage ? Let the duai terly Subscription Plan 
be adopted by every friend to our cause, and each one give as the Lord 
has prospered him ; and if scattering light and truth will bring about the 
abolition of slavery, the work will be speedily accomplished. 

IdP' Those whose subscriptions are in arrears for the past year, we 
iwpe will make up the deficiency and forward it without delay* 



(149) 
LIBERTY OF THE PRESS. 

" In Prussia, liberty of opinion was unlimited. The Marquis of 
Brandebourg was fully confident that he could not obtain the throne 
of that country unless Avith Protestant principles. Since then, things 
are altered, and the natural defender of our Protestant liberty has con- 
nived with the ultra-montane party to suppress it ; he even converted 
to his treacherous designs, that deadly weapon the censorship, invented 
and directed against us by popery. 

" Plow extraordinary ! VVe Germans are the strongest and the most 
ingenious people in the world. Princes of our race will be found on 
every throne in Europe ; our Rothschilds are the kings of money ; our 
learned men the sovereigns of science ; we are the inventors of print- 
ino- and gunpowder, and still one of us dare not fire a pistol-shot under 
pain of being fined three dollars for the offence ; and when one of us 
inserted the following paragraph in the Gazette de Hambourg, ' I have 
the pleasure of informing my friends and acquaintances, that my ^vife 
has given birth to a child as beautiful as liberty,^ Doctor HofTmann takes 
a red pencil and erases the word 'liberty.' 

" Whether this will last much longer, I cannot say ; but this I 
know, the question of the liberty of the press which at the present 
moment is the subject of such vehement debates in Germany, is sig- 
nificantly connected with the questions I have discussed above ; and 
I have an idea its solution will not be attended with material difficulty, 
if we for a moment consider that the liberty of the press is the mere 
consequence of hberty of opinion, and, therefore, incontestably a Prot- 
estant right. Germany has already shed her most precious blood 
for the maintenance of similar rights, and her natural courage may 
possibly be again put to the test in the present instance." — H. Heine, 
as quoted by t/ie Westminster Review. 



A SLAVE EXECUTION. 

" A narrative of the life and adventures of Charles Ball," formerly 
a slave in Georgia, is about to be published at Lewistown, Pa. Its 
authenticity is well vouched. From a portion of it, published in the 
Lewistown Republican, we take the following paragraphs. The facts 
occurred in Georgia, and the narrator was called as a witness on the 
trial. It is necessary to premise, that Lucy was the housekeeper and 
mistress of her master. Being more attached to a young slave, named 
Frank, on a neighboring plantation, she conspired with him to murder 
her master. The only witness of the deed was another slave named 
Billy, who on the trial was found innocent of any participation. 

" On the morning of the execution, my master told me, and all the 
rest of his people, that we must go to the hanging, as it was termed by 
him as well as others. The place of punishment was only two miles 
from my master's residence, and I was there in time to get a good 
stand near t!ie gallows tree ; by which I was enabled to see all the 
proceedings connected with this solemn aflfair. It was estimated by 
my master, that there were at least fifteen thousand people present at 
this scene, more than half of whom were blacks ; all the masters for a 
great distance round the country having permitted or compelled their 
people to come to this hanging. 

[See Cover, page 3.] 



(150) 

" Billy was brought to the gallows with Lucy and Frank ; but was 

J)ermitted to walk beside the cart in which they rode. Under the gal- 
ows, after the rope was about her neck, Lucy confessed that the mur- 
der had been designed by her in the first place, and that Frank had 
only perpetrated it at her instance. She said she had at first intended 
to apply to Billy to assist her in the undertaking ; but had afterwards 
conniiunicated her designs to Frank, who offered to shoot her master, 
if she would supply him with a gun, and let no other person be in the 
secret. A long sermon was preached by a white man under the gal- 
lows, wluch was only the limb of a tree, and afterwards an exhortation 
was delivered by a black one. The two convicts were hung together , 
and after they were quite dead, a consultation was held amongst the 
gentlemen, as to the future disposition of Billy, who having been in 
the house where his master was murdered, and not having given im- 
mediate information of the fact, was held to be guilty of concealing 
the death ; and was accordingly sentenced to receive five hundred 
lashes. I was in the branches of a tree, close by the place where this 
court was held ; and distinctly heard its proceedings and judgment 
Some went to the woods to cut hickories, whilst others stripped Billy 
and tied him to a tree. More than twenty long switches, some of 
them six or seven feet in length, had been procured ; and two m.en ap- 
plied the rods at the same time, one standing on each side of the cul- 
prit ; one of them using his left hand. I had often seen black meu 
whipped, and had always, where the lash was applied with great se- 
verity, heard the sufferer cry out and beg for mercy ; but in this case 
the pain inflicted by these double blows of the hickory, was so intense, 
that Billy never uttered so much as a groan ; and I do not beUeve he 
breathed for the space of two minutes after he received the Srst strokes. 
He shmnk his body close to the trunk of the tree, aroun which his 
arms and legs were lashed ; drew his shoulders up to his le&d like a 
dying man, and trembled, or rather shivered in all his memocrs. The 
blood flowed from the commencement, and in a few minui. ;S lay in 
small puddles at the root of the tree. I saw flakes of flesh as ong as 
my finger fall out of the gashes in his back ; and I believe he v as in- 
sensible during all the time that he was receiving the last two hit dred 
lashes. When the whole five hundred had been counted by the Der- 
son appointed to perform this duty, the half-dead body was unbound 
and laid in the shade of the tree upon which I sat. The gentlen en 
who had done the whipping, eight or ten in number, being joinea oy 
their friends, then came under the tree, and drank punch until their o.n- 
ner was made ready, under a booth of green boughs at a short distance. 

" After dinner, Billy, who had been groaning on the ground where 
he was laid, was taken up, placed in the cart in which Lucy ana 
Frank had been brought to the gallows, and conveyed to the dwelling 
of his late master, where he was confined to the house and his bed 
more than three months, and was never worth much afterwards, while 
I remained in Georgia. 

" Certainly those who were hanged well deserved their punishment, 
but it was a very arbitrary exercise of power to whip a man until he 
was insensible, because he did not prevent a murder which was com- 
mitted without his knowledge ; and I could not understand the right 
of punishing him because he was so weak or timorous, as to refrain 
from a disclosure of the crime ihe moment it came to his ears." 



151 

For the Record. 

FACTS WORTH REMEMBERING. 

[Oh, the fanatics !] 

Dr. Adam Smith, as early as 1759, held up the people of color in an 

honorable, and their tyrants, in a degrading light. 

John Wesley, in 1774, undertook tlie cause of the poor people of 
color. 

The Abbd Proyart, in 1776, published at Paris his History of Lo- 
ango, and other kingdoms in Africa, m which he did ample justice to 
the moial and intellectual character of the natives there. 

David Hartley, M. P., son of Dr. D. H., made a motion in the House 
of Commons, in 1776, "That the Slave-trade was contrary to the laws 
of God, and the rights of men." 

Dr. Gregory, in 1784, in his Essays Historical and Moral, gave a 
circumstantial account of the Slave-trade, and expressed his abhor- 
rence of it. 

James Ramsay, Vicar of Treston in Kent, Eng., became an able, 
zealous, and indefatigable patron of the cause of the people of color in 
1784. 

M. Necker, in 1785, in his work on the French Finances, came out 
in the cause of the people of color. [His grand-daughter is the present 
Dutchess de Bro^lie, wife of the Prime minister of France, a pious 
lady and an abolitionist.] 

The poet Cowper, in 1785, uttered his sentiments in regard to the 
cruel system of slavery. 

George Fox, the founder of the society of friends, took strong and 
decided ground against the slave-trade. 

Richard Baxter left liis testimony against the wicked traffic in 
human flesh. 

Anthony Benezet, was born at St. Gtuintin, in Picardy, France, and 
died in Philadelphia, in 1784. He was one of the most zealous, vigi- 
lant, and active advocates which the cause of the oppressed people of 
color ever had. 

George Whitfield, in 1789, turned the attention of many to the hard 
case of the people of color. 

Dr. Bsnj. Rush, of Philadelphia, purchased a pew in St. Thomas's 
Church, (colored) and attended public worship with the oppressed 
people of color. In consequence he lost half his practice, but after- 
wards public opinion changed, and he recovered his professional bu- 
siness. 

Mr. Roscoe, of Liverpool, Eng., worte a Poem, about forty years 
ago, entitled "• The wrongs of Africa," and gave the profits of it to the 
Committee of Inauiry into the condition of the people of color. 

Mirabeau, in 1789, lent his whole strength and influence to the 
cause of the people of color. 

Mr. V/cd£wood made his manufactory of earthen ware, contribute 
to the cause of the oppressed during the early struggle of the aboli- 
tionists in England. 



152 
SONNET. 

TO WILLIAM WILBERPORCE, ESQ., APRIL 16, 1792. 

By William Coioper. 

Thy country, Wilberforce, with just disdain, 
Hears thee by cruel men, and impious called 
Fanatic, for thy zeal to loose the enthrall'd 

From exile, public sale, and slavery's chain. 

Friend of the poor, the wronged, the fetter- gali'd, 

Fear not lest labors such as thine be vain. 

Thou hast achieved a part ; hast gained the ear 

Of Britain's Senate to thy glorious cause; 

Hope smiles, joy springs, and the cold cautious pause 
And weave delay, the better hour is near, 
That shall remunerate thy toils severe 

By peace for Afric, fenced with British laws. 

Enjoy what thou hast won, esteem and love 
'rom all the just on earth, and all the blest abovSi 

"WE NO SEN', YOU NO COME." 
Some years ago a number of Negroes, in Jamaica, escaped from 
the cruel bondage of their task-masters ; and, retiring into an unin- 
habited part of the island, built a httle town, which they called, " We 
no sen'', you no come.'''' Here they lived some years peaceably, indus- 
triously, and comfortably, upon the fruits of their labor ; having about 
two hundred acres of land, thickly planted with provisions, in the 
finest condition, with abundance of hogs and poultry. They thought 
that, if they kept themselves at home, they could not be discovered ; 
and if they did not meddle with others, others could not meddle with 
them. However, in the year 1825, they were discovered by the 
whites, who sent out an armed force against them, destroyed their 
town and provision-grounds, and killed, took prisoners, or dispersed, 
the whole of this happy ami peaceable community. 

t^ Shooting Excursion. 



NOTICE. 
All donors to the funds of the American Anti-Slavery Society to the amoxint 
of ten dollars or more a year, shall be entitled on application at the Society's 
office, to one copy of each of the publications published by the Society ; and 
each donor of five dollars and less than ten dollars, shall be entitled to receive 
one copy of each of the periodical publications issued by the Society during 
such year. 



QUARTERLY ANTI-SLAVERY MAGAZINE. 
This work is issued on the first days of October, Jantaary, April, and July. 
Its plan comprises, 

1. Original Essays on subjects connected with the Abolition of Slavery. 

2. Reviews of works on such subjects. 

3. Facts pertaining to the System of American Slavery, and our colored pop- 
ulation genera) 'y. 

4. Anti-Slavery Intelligence from abroad. 

5. NotiCbS of works which relate to Slavery. 

6. Interesting selections, in prose and verse. 

7. A brief summarv of the progress of the Abolition cause. 

The price is one dollar a year, ahoays in advance. Any individual reraittii^ 
five doliaiP f°-ee offoatagey will receive six coyiea. 



153 

FACTS FROM THE WEST INDIES. 
A highly inieUigent and respectable gentleman, who has been long 
resident in Jamaica, called lately at the office of the American Anti- 
Slavery Society, and made the following statements. 

1. I'he troubles which succeeded the change from slavery to ap- 
prenticeship in Jamaica, arose from the perverse conduct of overseers 
and managers, who took great pains, by the most cruel and arbitrary 
measures to provoke the apprentices to acts of insubordination. 

2. The state of things is now better. The planters themselves be- 
gin to be satisfied with the change, and confess that they have suffered 
no loss by it. 

3. The schools and churches of all denominations are thronged. 
All classes of the emancipated manifest the greatest anxiety to learn. 

4. Formerly, the slaves collected on market days, were in rags and 
vrretchedncss ; now they are, almost without exception, well clothed. 
The demand for dry goods has greatly increased. 

5. The moral condition of the colored population is so much im- 
proved, that in the late Christmas hoUdays — the ten days' carnival of 
the West Indies — there was not a single arrest for improper conduct 
on their part in the city of Kingston. 

6. Heretofore the military force in Jamaica has been obliged to 
make incessant and fatiguing marches to preserve order, and this at 
an expense of about four hundred lives per annum ; last year the 
troops have occupied but three or four stations, it has not been neces- 
sary to move a man, and good health has been preserved. There is 
now not the slightest fear of insurrection. 

7. There is the utmost readiness on the part of the apprentices to 
work for wages, m their own time, and such labor can be had for one 
penny an hour. 

8. The remaining time (four years) of an apprentice is note selling for 
as much in Jamaica as the whole man would have brought befoi'e the 
passage of the emancipation act! 

How honorable is this testimony to the emancipated slave, and how 
perfectly conclusive of the safety of emancipation ! Yet all this has 
been achieved in spite of the most obstinate determination on the part 
of the planters, and especially of the overseers and managers, to frus- 
trate the experiment and adhere to the WHIP. We have some 
remarkable proofs of this dogged and inhuman obstinacy. The fol- 
lowing may be relied on as authentic. 

Extracts from the ktter of one of the Jamaica planters to a stipendiary 
magistrate, requiring him to try some offending negroes. 

" On Friday, here, the negroes, contrary to the headman's orders, 
previous to working the time due, before sundown left the field. The 
authority of the headman is destroyed, and unless the lash is applied, 
I see nothing but insubordination and rebellion. 

"Lord Chesterfield said to his son, '•The Graces, the Graces, the Graces.'' 
Now those who know the negro will say, Hhe cat, the cat, the cat.'' 

" If you will make an example with the above, I shall be glad to 
see you as soon as convenient. I should not like your saying anything 
about the hours of labor, but leave that to the negroes and myself. Any 
further interference therein will disturb their confused understanding. 

" If we had that brave and most excellent soldier Pictou here, wiSi 

[See 3d pa^e o/cwer« 



154 

the reins in his hands, he would hang some of the black scoundrels 
of St. Thomas in the vale — proclamations and talk won't do for 
Gluashee. Unless you come with the determination to flog, I rather 
you do not come officially. 

" When one has to do with a stubborn animal, who will not beheve, 
who will not listen to reason, why then he must be flogged, unless 
you wish to spoil him. 

" I wish you had the command of a good ship, and that you would 
ship three sturdy magistrates, not of the class les anas de noirs, accom- 
panied by three boatswains six feet high, four feet five across the chest, 
and quids of tobacco as large as eggs in their cheeks, to start our black 
savages with ropes' ends. It would do both their morals and theii 
understanding a great deal of good."' 

EXPENSE OF CLOTHING SLAVES IN LOUISIANA. 

" We shall notice one of the leading facts made known by the Com- 
mittee of the Baton Rouge Agricuitural Society, and conclude. It 
seems that the whole cost of clothing eighty full hands is only one 
thousand two hundred dollars a year ; that is, fifteen dollars a person." 
—Junes' Register, Vol. 39, p. 211. 

CONSISTENCY OF A REVOLUTIONARY HERO. 
" A few days ago passed through this town the Hon. General Gates 
and lady, on their way to take possession of their new and elegant 
seat on the banks of the East River. The General, previous to leav- 
ing Virginia, summoned his numerous family and slaves about him, 
and amidst their tears of afl^ection and gratitude, gave them their 
FREEDOM ; and what is still better, made provision that their liberty 
should be a blessing to them." — Baltimore paper, Sept. 8, 1790. 



NOTICE. 

All donors to the funds of the American Anti-Slavery Society to the 
amount of ten dollars or more a year, shall be entitled on application 
at the Society's office, to one copy of each of the publications published 
by the Society ; and each donor of five dollars, and less than ten dol- 
lars, shall be entitled to receive one copy of each of the periodical 
publications issued by the Society during such year. 

aUARTERLY ANTI-SLAVERY MAGAZINE. 

This work is issued on the first days of October, January, April 
and July. Its plan comprises, 

1. Original Essays on subjects connected vnth the Abolition of 
Slavery. 

2. llevicvjs of works on such subjects. 

3. Facts pertaining to the S\^stem of American Slaveiy, and our 
colored population generally. 

4. Anti-Slavery Intellisence from aboad. 

5. Notices of works which relate to Slavery. 

6. Interesting selections, in prose and verse. 

7. A brief summary of the progress of the Abolition cause. 

The price is one dollar a year, always in advance. Any individual 
remitting five dollars, /rs£ of -postage. wlW receive six copies. 



155 

THE LICENTIOUSNESS OF SLAVERY. 

At the first anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society, 
May, 1834, Mr. James A. Thome of Kentucky, made a most astound- 
ing disclosure of the licentiousness which grows out of the Slave 
system in his own State. He closed it with the following emphatic words. 

" 1 would not have you fail to understand that this is a general evil. 
Sir, what I now say, I say from a dehbsrate conviction of its truth ; 
let it be felt in the North and rolled back upon the South, that the 
slave states are Sodoms, and almost every village family is a brothel. 
(In this, I refer to the inmates of the kitchen, and not to the whites.) 
* * * * i^Qi Yne be understood here : this pollution is the ofF- 
spring of Slavery ; it springs not from the character of the negro, but 
from the condition of the slave.'''' 

The unbounded wrath and railing with which this disclosure was 
received in a certain quarter, is indicated by the following sentence 
from Dr. Reese's "Review" of the first Annual Report. 

" If this young man [Mr. Thome] had any character to lose, it is 
forfeited forever; and having refused to retract, though called upon to 
do so, the fals3 and offensive statements of his first speech, and re- 
peated in his second ; he must endure the brand of a calumniator', 
which the Rev. Jolm Breckenridge, another Kentuckian, has burned 
into his forehead.^'' 

Now, what shall be done with the "Kentucky Union, for the 
moral and religious improvement of the colored race," a Society re- 
cently formed of some of the most distinguished gentlemen, both oi 
the clergy and laity at Lexington, Kentucky ? In their circular to the 
ministers of the gospel in the state, they say : — 

^' To the female charactei- anwng the black population, we cannot 
allude but with feelings of the bitterest shame. A similar condition of 
moral pollution, and utter disregard of a pure and virtuous reputation, 
is to be found only without the pale of Christendom. That such a 
state of society should exist in a Christian natici, claiming to be the 
most enlightened upon earth, without calling forth any particular at- 
tention to its existence, though ever before our eyes and in our fami- 
lies, is a moral phenomenon at once unaccountable and disgraceful." 



FREE DISCUSSION. 

The following is an extract from one of Daniel Webster's speeches 
in Congress. If the eloquent lips that so nobly uttered it shall for ever 
lefuse to plead for the down-trodden miUions of our brethren in this 
land of boasted freedom, our hope is that the sarre God who made 
them, will make others no less eloquent thai will utter the sentiments 
of a more generous heart. 

"Important as I deem it to discuss, on all proper occasions, the 
pdicy of the measures at present pursued, it is still more important to 



156 

maintain the right of such discussion, in its full and just extent. Sen- 
timents lately sprung up and now growing fashionable, make it neces- 
sary to be explicit on this point. The more I perceive a disposition 
to check the freedom of inquiry by extravagant and unconstiturional 
pretences, the firmer shall be the lone in which 1 shall assert, and the 
freer the manner in wliich I shall exercise it. It is the ancient and 
undoubted prerogative of this people, to canvass public measures and 
the merits of public men. It is a ' homebred right,' a fireside privilege. 
" It hath ever been enjoyed in every house, cottage, and cabin in 
the nation. It is not to be drawn into controversy. It is as undoubted 
as the right of breathing the air or walking on the earth. Belonging 
to private life as a right, it belongs lo pubhc hfe as a duty; and it is 
the last duty which those whose representative I am, shall find me to 
abandon. Aiming at ail times to be courteous and temperate in its 
use, except when the right itself shall be questioned, I shall then carry 
it to its extent. I shall place myself on the extreme boundary of my 
right, and bid defiance to any arm that would move me from my 
ground. This high constitutional privilege I shall defend and exer- 
cise, within this house, and without this house, and in all places ; in 
time of war, in time of peace, and at all times. Living I shall assert 
it, dying I shall assert it ; and should I leave no other inheritance to 
my children, by the blessing of God I will leave them the inheritance 
of free principles, and the example of a manly, independent and con- 
slitutional defence of them." 



[From the Emancipator.] 
THEOLOGY AND SI. AYERY I— Who buys ? 

The following advertisement was copied from a southern paper in 
one of our news-rooms : 

NOTICE. 

On the first Monday of February next, will be put up at PUBLIC 
AUCTION before the Court House in Sumpterville and knocked off* 
to the highest bidder, the following property beioiiging to the estate of 
the late REV. DR. FURMAN, viz :— 

A plantation or tract of land on and in the Wateree Swamp, 
through which the road passes from Statesburg to Columbia, consisting 
of 2000 acres of land of the first class for cotton and corn, and the finest 
range for stock. 

A tract after the first quality of fine land, on the waters of Black 
River within four miles of Sun)pterville, from 600 to 800 acres. 

A lot of land in the town of Camden. 

A LIBRARY of a miscellaneous character, CHIEFLY THEO- 
LOGICAL. 

2T NEGKOES. 

Some of them very prime. Two mules, one horse and old waggon. 

Conditions. — For the Wateree tract, one sixth payable on the first 
of January, 1836, the balance in five equal instalments. For Black 
River land, one half on the first of January, 1836, balance in twelve 
months thereafter. For the Camden lot, a credit of twelve months. 
For the negroes, one half on the first of January, 1836, balance on the 
first of January, 1837. For the other property, cash, bonds or notes, 
with interest annually on the whole amount, with personal security, if 
required. Jan. 17, 1835. 



157 

"THE EVIL WAS ENTAILED UPON US." 
[From Green's Four Sermons'.] 

Few can have the face to sa}-, that guilt, hke gold, may be transfer- 
red by inheritance. It consists in the workings of the heart ; and no 
man when he passes into eternity, leaves his heart behind. Entailed 
guilt must arise f;-om imitating the sins of progenitors. The doctrine 
which I would now expose and correct, teaches, that the practice of 
any vice becomes less and less wicked, as it passes down fi-om gener- 
ation to generation. In process of time, then, the grossest species of 
inquity may lose all its hateful qualities and noxious tendencies. 
What in the ancestoi was damning guilt, in the descendant may be 
innocent. Crimes, as iSul as a demon's heart, may, by this method 
be reduced to angelic parity ! Had this doctrine been admitted by 
Jehovah; when could he have pronounced the iniquities of theCanaan- 
itish nations "full" ? Every new generation of idolaters would have 
been less guilty than their fathers ; till at length a race might have 
been expected, who should practice the most shocking abominations 
with innocence and impunity ! Had our Saviour admitted this doctrine, 
on what grounds coTild He have threatened the guilty men, who were 
eager to dip their hands ia His blood, with a punishment more terribly 
severe, than fell upon the murdeiers of prophets ? Why, according 
to this doctrine, the more light the transgressor has, the less guilt he 
contracts! He may sympathize in the wicked feelings, and approve 
the wicked deeds of his fathers, and thus awaken his heart to the 
worst exercises, without partaking of his father's guilt! He may see 
his father bleeding, groaning, dying under the weight of his iniqui- 
ties : and eagerly emlirace and recklessly pr-actice the same iniquities 
with comparative impunity ! Such doctrine bears upon its face the 
stamp of absurdity a:id impiety. The falsehood, which it carries in 
it, is only equalled by the mischiefs which it is fitted to produce. 

And yet, some philosophers have the face to tell us, that it is a full 
excuse for certain crimes, that they have long and stoutly been per- 
sisted in ! They have been for ages, the dying legacy of fathers to 
their children. And what less could the ili-fafad ch.ildren do, than 
thankfully to take and eagerly enjoy the foul inheritance ! How hard 
must be fiie heart, which could blame them for the sins v/hich have 
been entailed upon them ! On this ground it is, that we sometimes 
witness cflbrts to vindicrite slave-holders. Tho present race try to 
throw back their guilt upon their dead and putrid ancestry. Or, if 
they fear, that in so doing, they may v»'0und the reputation of their 
progenitors, they lay it on the head of the king of England ! 

But, lei t'le slave-'nolder j^now, what the thunders of avenging Heaven 
will one day teach him, that he is more d(!eply guilty than his prede- 
cessors in crime. He l3reath?s their spirit, and adopts their habits, and 
exhibits their character, amidst clearer light than they abused. Their 
history furnishes him with weighty lessons of instruction, which he 
ventures to disregard ; urges, as in peals of thunder, impressive warn- 
ings on him, which he madly neglects. While he refuses to let go the 
sufferers, whom he holds in bondage, he is " treasuring up wrath against 
the day of wrath." Ashe would escape the ^orm, which for ages has 

[See Cover, prtge 3. 



been gathering m the heavens, let hmi withdraw his hand from his 
brother's tliroat And let those, who soothe the fears and hush the 
conscience of this wicked man, hy prophesying in his ears their dreams 
about entailed iniquily,* cease to deceive, and mislead, and destroy. 
Why will they paUiate liis crimes? Better try to save him from the 
iiulgments, which certainly await him. Better hold up before his face 
his guiit and danger, and try to stop him in his mad career. Thus 
only can they hope to deliver him from the wrongs and tears and blood 
of all the slaves, who have been consigned to chains, from the day 
when the first man-stealer placed his cloven feet on the shores of 
Africa to tlie present hour ! 

* On a speech of Mr. Breckenridge, published in the African Repos- 
itory for August, 1831, Mr. Gurley, the Secretary of the An^rican 
Colonization Society, thus remarks. "We consider slavery to be an 
evil, which cannot, without producing evils greater than itself, be abol- 
ished, except by cautious, deliberate, and gradual measures* The pre" 
sent generaiion did not produce, and are not therefore responsible for, the 
existence of the present form of society in our Southern cow.nmniiies. If 
the state of things is lorong, it should be set right, hut only icith due re- 
gard to the rights and interests of all parties^ — See pp. 1S5, 186. 

On a Sabbath evening, a slave-holder falls into deep meditation on 
the import and various bearings of the Saviour's golden rule : " What- 
soever ye would tliat men should do to you, do ye even so to thenj." 
At length, in an under tone, he gives expression to the feelings of his 
laboring bosom. "No, no! I could never consent to be a slave f 
What, to be subject to the will of an irresponsible master! To be 
worked, and fed, and treated like a beast ! To see my wife exposed, 
helpless and unprotected, to the pollr^on of unbridled lust! My 
children like swine driven to the market ! My soul sickens at such 
thoughts! No, I could not be a slave! 1 could sooner embrace death 
in his most haggard form ! Alas, the Bible has fixed a barbed shaft 
in my trembling heart ! I can never more find peace, till 1 give 
up my brethren, whom I hold in bondage. But what have I here ? 
Ah, a number of the African Repository. Let me sliut up the Bible, 
and see what it contains. What ? What is here ? ' The present gen" 
eration did not produce, and are not therefore responsible for the present 
form of society in our Southern convyixinlLies.' Had I found any thing 
like this in my Bible, I should have escaped those pangs, which have 
almost broke my heart. These w^ords seem to soothe me. " I am not 
responsible.''^ But stop. Is this true ? It strikes me with an impres- 
sion altogether different from that, which the awful denunciations of 
the Bible make upon me. It does not threaten me with the wrath of 
God, if I refuse to ' break ever}'^ ^'oke.' (Isa. Iviii. 6.) Let me think a 
moment. Mr. Gurley is a pious man, a7id a Christian minister. He 
knows more about the Bible than myself He professes too, to be 
engaged in labors for the benefit of colored men. And he says, ' I am 
not responsible,'' at the very point, where a sense of my responsibility 
had well nigh crushed me. If I perish in my guilt, be my damnation 
on his head ! Henceforth, I will read Mr. Gurley more, and my Bible 
less!" :/ ^ :i 



159 

THE INCENDIARY PUBLICATION BILL. 

The editor of the Essex Gazette, thus remarked on this rescript of 
despotism just before it was worthily sent down the back stairs of the 
Senate : 

" All pamphlets and papers written or printed touching the subject 
of Slavery" are to be prohibited. Let Daniel Webster then keep his 
Plymouth speech at home. Let no negligent postmaster suffer the 
Constitution of Massachusetts to slip through his fingers. Let him 
look sharply for the Declaration of Independence. It is an incendiary 
document, written by a pernicious old incendiary, by the name of Jef- 
ferson. And let him see to it that the writings of that same Tom. 
Jefferson and Geo. Wythe and Patrick Henry — three notorious fan- 
atics — are kept out of Virginia. Let not the debates in the Virginia 
Legislature in 1832, be sent to their authors. Let a cordon sanitaire 
of Argus-eyed postmaster?, men who are keen in detecting aboli- 
tionism, and who can 

Sever and divide 
" A hair 'twixt North and Nortlswest side!" 
be set around the slave states. Let the Lynch clubs stand ready to 
lend assistance, by searching the pedlars and wooden nutmeg sellers 
from the North, lest amidst their " paper rags" the word " slavery" 
may be lurking. For ourselves, we warn the South to beware. If 
this Bill becomes a law, v»^e mean to send the Constitution of Virginia 
and the Declaration of Independence right into the heart of Virginia. 
Let the '^Ancient Dominion" then poise itself upon its sovereignty, 
turn its house of delegates into a great Lynch club, keep out these 
"incendiary publications;" and like Gov. Hamilton for his sugar, 
" go to death" for its negroes ! 

Will this bin pass ihe house ? We think not — in the name of jus- 
tice, reason, and republicanism we praj^ it may not. 

MARRIAGES IN HAYTI. 

Cluoted from the Royal Jamaica Gazette, a pro-slavery paper. 

<«' When it is considered, what the manners, habits, and religion of 
the former Colonists were, it is not astonishing that the Haytians of 
the present day should be deficient in certain moral obligations. Mar- 
riage, it is well known, was never considered by the French as a bond 
of society, much less as an ordination of religion ; consequently women 
liAnng with men, without marriage are to be found everywhere. In 
fact, this sort of connexion is by tar the most frequent, but the woman 
is considered, and deservedly so, in every respect, as a married wife. 
In these connexions, cases of infidelity it would appear, are rare, the 
woman being highly respected in society, and enjoying, generally, 
the full confidence and esteem of her husband, shows an independence 
of mind, a devotion and affectionate concern for his interests, which 
could scarcely be credited ; but so it is, in spite of our English preju- 
dices, we are forced to allow they have all the merit, and preserve 
generally the respect paid to married women ; in fact, the customs of 
the island oblige them to look upon these conventional marriages 
with equal respect as the legal ones. 

Of late years, formal marriages are much more common, and will 
no doubt increasej as civilization progresses, as they are much more 



160 

encouraged by the laws. The condition of the female sex, however, 
appears to be somewhat degraded. The greater part of the house- 
hold drudgery necessarily falls upon them, from the general want of 
servants. Females of respectable families are constantly obliged to 
perform the meanest offices, &c., and they have consequently little 
time for the cultivation of the mind. They are excellent seamstresses, 
and good housewives. Here and there you will hear a piano or a 
guitar, but in general, simple reading and writing are the limits of 
their acquirements. They are excellent dancers, and dress with great 
neatness and modesty. On gala days, nothing can be more admira- 
ble than the great taste, rich and simple " elegance" of their attire. 
They are peculiar in wearing a madrass handkerchief about their head, 
with high tortoise-shell combs, and although no absolute beauties may 
be found amongst them, they are g-enerally pleasing, with handsome 
and expressive countenances, with fine black hair, and are elegant fig- 
ures, especially those of the mixed classes. It appears that marriage 
in Hayti is attended with a great deal of formality. The parties first 

to before the Notary Public of the parish, or properly speaking, Of- 
cier Civil, with witnesses, who generally consist of the greater part of 
the families of each party, where the contract of marriage is formally 
registered; afterwards follows the religious ceremony. Benediction 
is performed in the church ; the relations and friends of the parties all 
attend in full dress ; the ceremony finishes with a dinner, ball, and 
supper. The whole is conducted with the greatest decorum and 

decency." — 

ANECDOTE OF JEAN PIERRE BOYER, PRESIDENT OF 
HAYTI. 
Before the abolition of Slavery in the British colonies, two Slaves fled 
from Jamaica in a sloop, which they steered to the island of Hayti. 
Upon landing they left the sloop and fled to the mountains. Boyer 
immediately informed the Governor of Jamaica of the fact and ofl^ered 
to return the sloop as soon as it should be properly claimed. A Brit- 
ish captain was directed to proceed to Hayti and demand not only the 
sloop but the runaways. This officer and his second in command 
were received by Boyer with great poUteness in his princely palace. 
They stated the claim to iae sloop, and it was promptly restored. 
But it was a very " dehcate" matter to ask the President of a " free 
negro" republic for the fugitive slaves. The gallant British captain 
hesitated, looked imploringly at his second, and revolved in his mind 
the alternative of broaching the question or going back in disgrace. 
At length he ventured to say, "Your Excellency is probably aware 
of the two slaves — " "Yes, and you are instructed to demand them, 
also!" exclaimed Boyer, starting from his seat and assuming a gravity 
any thing but agreeable to the pale faced applicants. A silence en- 
sued of some minutes, every minute of which was an age to the cap- 
tain, while Boyer strode sternly up and down the hall. At length he 
relieved the two officers from their embarrassment by saying, "I have 
heard that slaves sometimes escape from the colonies to England, will 
you please to inform me whether they are delivered up on claim of 
their masters?" "No," replied the captain, "every man is free in 
England ; the law allows no slavery there, nor can the master recover 
his slave there." " Well," said Boyer, " tell your king it is just so in 
Hayti,'^' 



161 



LETTER FROM A NEW ENGLAND CLERGYMAN. 

In the summer of 1821 I journeyed in Virginia. It was there for the 
first time I saw slavery. Only the ordinary, every-day sights met my 
eyes, but these were enough to fill my soul with grief and indignation. 
I saw men and women, less than half clad, toiling in the fields with 
evident reluctance, " because forced to do it." Their spiritless coun- 
tenances showed too plainly the want of intellectual and moral culture; 
and their squaUd looks bespoke a sad deficiency of those things, which 
are needful for the body. The most shocking spectacle that my eyes 
beheld, was a drove of human beings driven along the road like cattle, 
(only with less of liberty, for they were handcuffed and chained to- 
gether,) to be sold in some more southern state. 

I repeatedly spoke to my fellow-travellers on the subject of slavery. 
Some were ofiended at my introducing the topic, and replied to me 
angrily. Others entered readily into conversation upon it, and were 
wilhng to hear all I then had to say. I was particularly interested in 
a conversation that I had with a gentleman of Fredericksburgh. 

" The slave system works badly," said he; "I am heartily sick of 
it, and have in efiect abandoned it on my plantation." " Aih, how is 
that," I replied, " what do you mean ?" " Why," said he, " I found 
that the income of my plantation was barely enough to support the 
work people, and that the care of it was more trouble to me than it 
was worth. My overseers had proved to be scoundrels, and needed 
as much overseeing as the slaves. So I abandoned all thoughts of 
supporting my family on the proceeds of my plantation, and deter- 
mined to remove into Fredericksburgh, and devote myself to my pro- 
fession, (the law). I dismissed my white overseer, called 'the people' 
about me, and told them my plan — that I was going to leave them, 
and live with ray family in the city, 1 5 or 20 miles distant. Now, ' my 
boys,' I wish you to take good care of the plantation, and let me see 
how well you can manage for yourselves and for me. 'Ay, ay, massa,' 
cried several of them, with looks full of meaning, ' you shall see how 
well we can do, Massa.' A generous ambition seemed to be, at once, 
lighted up in their bosoms. They soon after chose two of the most 
capable and judicious slaves on the plantation to be their leaders — the 
very ones I should have selected myself for the trust, if I had not pre 
ferred to let them manage as they pleased. 

Some weeks after my removal to Fredericksburgh, there occurred 
one of the holidays, which it is customary to give to the slaves, and I 
thought it would be a good time to visit my plantation, and see how 
* the people' were getting on. I went accordmgly, and to my surprise 
found them all hard at work. ' Ah !' said I, ' how is this ? Have you 

forgotten this is day?'* ' Oh, no, massa,' they replied ; 'but 

then you know such a crop would suffer, if we should let it alone 

to-day. And you know, massa, now we can take day when 

we mind to,' tney added, with countenances beaming with the con- 

* The g«ntl«man mentioned the name of the day, but I have forgotten it. 

IVZF* See page 3d of the cover. 



162 

sciousness of some freedom. Of course I assented, right glad to find 
they took so much more interest than before in the welfare of the plan- 
tation. Formerly it had never seemed to be any concern of theirs, 
whether the crops were abundant or scanty, got in well or ill. 

Five or six weeks afterwards, a report came to me from some of the 
neighbors, that there was an insurrection upon my plantation. 'Poh,' 
said I to the messenger, 'that cannot be, for they have nothing there 
to rise against.' However, out of respect to their fears, I immediately 
mounted my horse, and went to see what the disturbance was. The 
gate of the plantation was thrown open at my approach, and I was 
received by 'my people' with every expression of joy. They were 
dressed in their best attire, and were devoting the day to frolic, in lieu 
of the day on which they had worked." 

This narrative interested me deeply then, although I did not per- 
ceive then, as I do now, how much it proved. I inquired of the 
gentleman, how long his plantation had been thus in the hands of his 
slaves, or ' people' as he called them, and what had been the results 
of the experiment? He replied that it was then about three years 
since his removal into Fredericksburgh — and that there had been 
much less disturbance and trouble of any kind on his plantation than 
formerly — that his ' people' were every way in better condition than 
they used to be — and that the plantation had been more profitable to 
him than ever. 

Yours truly, 

S. J. M. 



The following statements are from a London paper, March 23d, 
1836. 

In the House of Correction, at Kingston, Jamaica, by the testimony 
of Lord Sligo, at the time he wrote, there were but ten inmates ; while 
under the slavery system, there were never less than fifty. The Gov- 
ernor of Demerara, also, asserted that since the act of abolition, not a 
single instance had occurred of a negro being punished for an assault 
on a white ; and the despatches from all the governors proved " that 
the most perfect industry, order, and tranquillity, prevailed throughout 
the island." 

In regard to produce, it was reported by Sir Carmichael Smith that 
the amount of sugar entered for exportation at Demerara during the 
first year of emancipation, exceeded that of a year of slavery by 2,466 
hogsheads, and taking into view the loss of time, the increase was not 
less than 4,200 hogsheads, or a quarter of the whole. 

The member of Parliament from Lymington, who held a large 
property in Antigua, (where the apprenticeship was abandoned for 
immediate emancipation,) stated, that for nine years previous that he 
held the property, he had suffered an aggregate loss of not less than 
7,000/, but that since the emancipation he had rented it for 1,200^ 
per annum for three years, after which the rent was fixed at 1,500 
a year. 



163 



[From the N. Y. Evening Post.] 

EFFECTS OF EMANCIPATION. 

The results of tlie British Emancipation Bill, in a pecuniary point 
of view, are truly surprising. To the astonishment of even tlie most 
san^ine friends of abolition, the plantations of the colonies are more 
productive, more easily managed, and accepted as security for higher 
sums on mortgage than ever they were under the slave system. The 
following is an official statement of the comparative quantities of the 
great staples of West Indian produce exported from Georgetown 
(Demarara) and Berbice, in the first quarter of the present year, and 
the three preceding years : 

From Georgetown, (Demarara.) 



Average exports of the first quarter of the 


Export during 


Increase since 


Decrease since 


three years preceding emancipation. 


corresponding 
qr. of present 
year. 


emancipation. 


emancipation 


Sugar— Hogsheads, 12,248 


14,742 


2,494 




Tierces, 68 


779 


711 




Casks, 1,379 


1,099 




208 


Rum— Puncheons, 5,510 


5,510 






Hogsheads, 1,136 


1,408 


272 




Barrels, 301 


358 


57 




Molasses— Hogsheads, 8,036 


8,786 


750 




Coffee— Pounds, 496,838 


602,700 


105,862 




Cotton— Bales, 805 


718 




87 


Being an increase on the whole of about twenty 


per cent 




From Berbice. 






Average exports of the first quarter of the 


Export during 


Increase since 


Decrease sinca 


three years before emancipation. 


corresponding 
qr. ot present 
year. 


emancipation. 


emancipatica. 


Sugar— Hogsheads, 2,638 


4,347 


1,709 




Tierces, 200 


444 


244 




Barrels, 160 


401 


241 




Rum— Puncheons, 1,069 


1,579 


510 




Hogsheads, 1,526 


248 




1,278 


Barrels, 6 


17 


8 




Molisses — Hogshet^ds, 797 


,308 


511 




CofToe— Pounds, 286,500 


596,400 


309,900 




Cotton— Bales, 334 


374 


40 





Being an increase on the whole of about fifty per cent., and on 
coffee of about one hundred per cent. ! 

The above statements are taken from the Standard, an English 
journal which predicted nothing but ruin to the planters from the abo- 
lition of slavery. 

The hvindred million indemnity thus appears to have been a com- 
pensation of a novel kind, a compensation for being made richer. 



164 



THE ENNOBLING INFLUENCE OF SLAVERY. 

Extract from the will of William Clarke, St. Thomas-in-the-East, 
Jamaica, in the Secretary's office of that island : — "It is also my wish 
and desire that my executors, hereinafter mentioned, do manumit my 
three reputed brown children by Rose, viz., Eleanor Clarke, Janet 
Clarke, and John Clarke ; and that my executors, hereinafter men- 
tioned, do purchase a negro girl for each of my reputed brown daugh- 
ters aforesaid, as soon as convenient after the debts are paid. And it 
is my wish and desire that their mother. Rose, shall attend, as a 
slave, on my two reputed daughters aforesaid, during the first ten 
years." — Twenty Millions thrown away &-c. 



LOVE OF FREEDOM BY NEGROES. 

Immediately after the British statute had passed which professed 
to emancipate the slaves in our own West Indian colonies, I visited 
St. Thomas, a little sugar island belonging to the Danes. All the 
blacks there speak English, as St. Thomas was for many years during 
the last war in the possession of the British. On landing, I addressed 
one of the black slaves as a Dane ; he instantly replied in very pure 
English, free from the usual colonial " patois," " I am an Englishman 
born — I am not a Dane." "What, were you not born a subject of 
Denmark?" "No, sir; when I was born the flag of Great Britain 
was over that fort, and would to God it was there still : I should now 
be a free man, with my other fellow-subjects in the British islands. 
It was a bad day for the poor slaves Vv'hen the English gave up St. 
Thomas and Santa Cruz to the Danes — they will never have the heart 
to make us poor blacks free ; but we who were born under England's 
flag ought to be free. We are Britons, and ought not to be slaves to 
Danes." — Ibid. 



THE GAG LAW. 

The difficulty of gagging by laic is, that it is necessarily so general 
and sweeping that it often most oppresses those for whose benefit 
it is resorted to. After the slaveholders have made the whole South 
as dark as a cellar to keep the northern light from the slaves, they 
themselves are the persons who have got to stay there and enjoy the 
darkness. It is upon their newspapers and correrpondence, and not 
ours, that their champion, Calhoun, would set the postmaster's clerks 
a pillaging. We are not surprised therefore that the Natchez Courier, 
in condemning the casting vote of Mr. Van Buren in favor of the gag 
laio, should ask, "Where is the man in the South who would not 
rather receive a bushel of abolition trash, (which he can easily burn,) 
than to have his own private affairs pried into by every rascally deputy 
postmaster, or clerk, who might choose to say lie suspected they con 
tained incendiary matter ?" 



166 

THE CAUSE OF RUIN TO ST. DOMINGO. 
The French traveller, M. Robin, from whose pages we have made 
several extracts in this number, assigns a cause for the destruction of 
the white colonists of St. Domingo. That cause is now in full opera- 
tion in our country. As M. Robin wrote while the scenes of St. 
Domingo were fresh, and as he wielded the pen of a philosopher, his 
remarks are worthy of consideration. He says : — 

" The sentiment of the colonies, and especially of Louisiana, is that 
the people of color should never be permitted to rise to the preroga- 
tives of the whites. This sentiment springs from a pride which, 
always exclusive, insulates and weakens ; it is the pnde which has 
ruined St. Domingo and has rendered its revolution so tyrannical. If 
the proud colonists had not odiously separated themselves from the 
mulattoes to whom they had given life, and if they had not still more 
extravagantly divided themselves into the little and great whites, into 
whites not resident, and resident on the coffee and sugar estates, the 
most flourisliing colony in the world would not have been changed to a 
frightful desert. And with these Louisianians, who have now among 
them the fugitive wrecks of those proud colonists, just as in St. Do- 
mingo, but with still greater folly, I have seen an arrogant class of 
sugar-growers, treating with disdain a political union with the more 
modest class of corn-growers ; the results of this may be recollected.* 
As in St. Domingo the black blood has become so impure, that the 
smallest portion of it degrades the white blood." 

****** 

" This prejudice of the necessity of an immeasurable distance be- 
tween the two colors, is certainly the greatest scourge of the colonies 
and of European commerce. By restraining to so small a number the 
privileges of citizens, we see this small number exposed to the dangers 
of internal revolutions ; and by their weakness in regard to invasions 
from abroad, life and fortune there become precarious, which is equally 
injurious to moral and intellectual advancement. The primordial 
and indelible title to consideration, being that one is white, he contents 
himself to do without being either useful, virtuous, or wise — he be- 
lieves himself above these qualities inasmuch as the colored man in 
whom they may be met with is still nevertheless an abject ; and these 
same men of color, though free, not being able to gain respect by 
good morals and intelligence, remain in their degradation ; they have 
indeed, besides the vices of the whites, all those which pertain to their 
condition."— Tom. 3, pp. 210—212. 

* See Tom. 2. chap. 57. 



166 

ANECDOTES OF SLAVES. 

" While I was at New Orleans, a person whose slave had fled, 
offered a reward of twelve piastres to any one who would bring him back. 
A negro slave brought him back, and when the reward of twelve 
piastres was offered, he repHed, The only reward I ask, is that you 
would pardon him xohom I have brought hack ; the master accepted the 
proposition and kept the money. I found that this master had the 
soul of a slave, and the negro that of a master. I have seen in Mar- 
tinique a young negro who, having earned sufficient for his ransom, 
preferred to remain a slave and ransom his mother. 

" Among the fugitives from St. Domingo who arrived in Louisiana, 
tiiere were some whose slaves followed them from attachment. The 
reward of these too faithful servants has been to be inhumanly sold /" 

Robin's Travels, Tom. 3, p. 203. 



LOVE OF LIBERTY. 

[From the Commercial Advertiser, 1822.] 
"The captain of a vessel from North Carolina called upon the 
police for advisement respecting a slave he had unconsciously brought 
away in his vessel, under the following curious circumstances : — 
Three or four days after he had got to sea, he began to be haunted 
every hour with tones of distress, seemingly proceeding from a human 
voice, in the veiy lowest part of the vessel. A particular scrutiny was 
finally instituted, and it was concluded that the creature, whatever or 
whoever it might be, must be confined down in the run, under the 
cabin floor; and, on boring a hole with an auger, and demanding 
' Who's there ?' a feeble voice responded, ' Poor negro, massa P It was 
clear enough, then, that some runaway negro had hid himself there 
before they sailed, trusting to Providence for his ultimate escape. 
Having discovered him, however, it was impossible to give him relief, 
for the captain had stowed even the cabin so completely full with cot- 
ton, as but just to leave room for a small table for himself and the 
mate to eat on ; and as for unloading at sea, that was pretty much 
out of the question. Accordingly, there he had to lie, stretched at full 
length, for a tedious interval of thirteen days, till the vessel arrived in 
port and unloaded, receiving his food and drink through the auger 
hole. 

" The fellow's story is, now he is released, that being determined to 
get away from slavery, he supplied himself with eggs and biscuit, and 
some jugs of water; wliich latter he was just on the point of deposit- 
ing in his lurking-place, when he discovered the captain at a distance, 
coming on board, and had to hurry down as fast as possible, and leave 
them ; that he lived on nothing but his eggs and biscuit, till discovered 
by the captain ; not even getting a drop of water, except what he had 
the good fortune to catch in his hand one day, when a vessel of water 
in the cabin was upset during a squall, and some of it ran down 
through the cracks of the floor, over him." 

That the captain should confess to the police the sin which he thus 
"unconsciously" committed, is not very creditable to his humanity; 
even the editor of the Commercial thought the man " should, surely, 
never again be brought under the lash of a task-master." — Ed. 



167 

The following tale of horror illustrates the cheapness of human life, 
where man is made an article of merchandise. Slavery makes mur- 
der a mere trespass upon property ! The story may be found in a 
note to Wilberforce's Appeal, page 57. 

Extract of a letter from the Attorney- General of Barbadoes, to the 
Governor of the Island, Lord Seaforth. 

" A Mr. , the manager of a plantation in the neighborhood, 

had some months before purchased an African lad, who was much 
attached to his person, and slept in a passage contiguous to his cham- 
ber. On Sunday night there was an alarm of fire in the plantation, 

which induced Mr. to go out hastily, and the next morning he 

missed the lad, who he supposed intended to follow him in the night, 
and had mistaken his way. He sent to his neighbors, and to Mr. C. 
among the rest, to inform them that his African lad had accidentally 
strayed from him ; that he could not speak a word of EngUsh, and 
that possibly he might be found breaking canes, or taking something 
else for his support ; in which case, he requested that they would not 

injure him, but return him, and he, Mr. himself, would pay any 

damage he might have committed. A day or two after, the owner of 
the boy was informed that Messrs. C. and H. had killed a negro in a 
neighboring gully, and buried him there. He went to Mr. C. to 
inquire into the truth of the report, and intended to have the grave 
opened, to see whether it was his African lad. Mr. C. told him, a 
negro had been killed and buried there, but assured him it loas not hisy 
for he kneiv him very well, and he need not be at the trouble of opening 
the grave. Upon this the owner went away satisfied. But receiving 
fiirther information, which left no doubt upon his mind that it was his 
negro, he returned and opened the grave, and found it to be so. I was 
his leading counsel, and me acts stated m my brief were as follows : 
That C. and H. being informed that there was a negro lurking in the 
gully, went armed with muskets, and took several negro men with 
them. The poor African, seeing a parcel of men coming to attack 
him, was frightened; he took up a stone to defend himself, and 
retreated into a cleft rock, where they could not easily come at him ; 
they then went for some trash, put it into the crevices of the rock 
behind him, and set it on fire : after it had burnt so as to scorch the 
poor fellow, he ran into a pool of water close by; they sent a negro to 
bring him out, and he threw the stone at the negro ; upon which the 
two white men fired several times at him wdth the guns loaded with 
shot, and the negroes pelted him with stones. He was at length 
dragged out of the pool in a d3ring condition, for he had not only 
received several bruises from the stones, but his breast was so pierced 
with the shot, that it was hke a colander. The white savages ordered 
the negroes to dig a grave; and whilst they were digging it, the poor 
creature made signs of begging for water, xohich was not given to him; 
but as soon as the grave was dug, he was thrown into it, and covered 
over ; and there seems to be some doubt whether he was then quite dead. 
C. and H. deny this ; but the owner assured me he could prove it by 
more than one witness ; and I have reason to believe it to be true, 
because on the day of trial C. and H. did not suffer the cause to 

[See p. 3 of the cover.] 



168 

come to a hearing, but paid the penalties and costs of suit, which it is 
not supposed they would have done, had they been innocent. 
" I have the honor to be, &c." 

Mr. Wilberforce proceeds to remark : 

" The same transaction, with another far more dreadful murder, in 
which there was a dehberate ingenuity of cruelty, which almost ex- 
ceeds belief, but of which I will spare my readers the recital, is related, 
with scarcely any variation as to circumstances, by the advocate-gene- 
ral, who, as well as the gentleman of whose estate the criminal was 
the manager, and who was at the time absent, expressed their most 
lively indignation against such horrid cruelty. It may be proper to 
remark, that the story of the poor boy strikingly shows that such pro- 
tection as the negro slave occasionally receives from the laws, is too 
often to be ascribed rather to the master's care of his property, than 
to any more generous motive. The master, in this case, when he had 
only reason to believe that a negro had been killed and buried out of 
the way, and not that it was his own slave, goes away satisfied. Is 
there a human being who in this coimtry would have so done ? Again, 
it is a suggestion which the circumstances of the story enforce upon 
us, that the crowd which was now collected, instead of being shocked 
at such barbarity, were rather abettors of it ; and then we hear the 
white savages (as the attorney-general justly styles thera) order the 
negroes who were present to dig a grave for their wretched country- 
man. They knew tlieir eatate too well to refuse ; and accordingly, 
with a promptitude of obedience which, with all our ideas of their 
sunk and prostrate spirits, must surprise us, they immediately executed 
the order." 



THE DESTRUCTION OF TYRANNIES. 
The slave-holders and their apologists tell us very frequently, that 
our abohtion efforts only put the masters imder the necessity of re- 
stricting the privileges of their slaves ; so that, instead of breaking, 
we only aggravate and eternize the chain of slavery. Do they say 
this without a blush ? Let them no longer accuse us of harshness for 
calUng them tyrants. This very plea, by which they would stop our 
interference, what is it but a confession that they are far gone in 
tjn^anny? We beg these gentlemen slave-holders just to look at their 
own faces in a mirror of the best plata glass, recently made in Paris ; — 
as follows : 

" That which destroys all tyrannies, and will destroy them faster 
now than ever, is the impossibility of their checking themselves in 
their ways. Some fatality draws them on; one necessity begets 
another, so that, being forced ahoays to make their oppression heavier, 
always to sink themselves deeper in wickedness, they at last meet 
another necessity superior to that which pushes them on — the invinci- 
ble necessity of the laws which govern human nature. Arrived there, 
they can neither advance nor retreat j — the past crushes them against 
the future." — Jihhi de La Mennais. 



169 

The following article is from an English paper of some two years 
ago, and was evidently taken from one of the journals of Charleston, 
S. C. — the city which rejoices in the patriarch, George McDuffie : 

THE LAND OF THE FREE. 
"In an American newspaper, pubUshed in one of the Southern 
States, we find the following : 

* LINES TO THE AMERICAN FLAG. 

' Bear up the standard, bear it high, 
Until it fla:;h against the sky. 

The banner of the free 
Oh ! let it there in splendor float, 
To martial drum and bugle note. 

That all the world may see ; 
' And, gazing on its stripes and stars. 
Look for their freedom not afar, 

But beaming in the East. 
Ring forth the cJarion's thrilling peal. 
That every knight of heart and steel 

May sit at freedom's feast. 
Flag of the free ! flag of the free ! 
'Tis THINE ALONE to clalm the knee, 

The homage of the brave,' &c. 

" The ' freedom,' it would seem, is only for the ' Knights of heart 
and steel,^ for in the self same newspaper we find the following adver- 
tisements touching a numerous class of Americans who happen to be 
of a darker complexion than the ' Knights of heart and steel :' 

" No. I. — ' Negroes. — A lot of uncommonly likely negroes for sale 
— fellows and boys. Sold for no fault. Inquire,' &c. 

« 2. — ' Ten dollars reward. — Run away from the subscriber, a ne- 
gro boy named January ; rather chunky built, with thick cheeks or 
jaws. The small part of his right leg having been broke, or badly 
hurt, shows different from the left, which is notable ; and he says done 
by a horse when he was small. Any person that will bring him to 
me, or lodge him in some safe jail so that I may get him, shall have 
the above reward from me. — William Watson.' 

" 3. — ' Negro men wanted. — Cash will be paid for negro men from 
18 to 30 years old Apply at the store of Graham and Hope.' 

"4.— 'The undersigned will sell, by pubhc auction, without reserve, 
123 negroes,' &c. 

" 5. — ' For sale, by private contract, a likely negro woman ; a negro 
girl and boy, brother and sister. Sold for no fault, and warranted 
sound. Terms, cash.' 

" 6. — ' Negroes wanted. — Cash will be paid for likely negroes of 
both sexes, from the age of 10 to 20 years. Persons having such to 
dispose of, may apply to Hugh M'Donald.' 

" 7. — ' Brought to Augusta jail, on the 17th instant, a negro man 
who calls himself Riley. The owner is requested to come forward, 
pay expenses, and take him from jail.' 

" 8. — ' This day, the 6th instant, will be sold, at the North of the 
Exchange, at eleven o'clock, a Wench, about 38 years old, a field 
hand, with her child, 10 months old. Also a Wench, 45 years old, a 
good dairy woman, poultry-minder, and nurse. — Conditions, cash.' 

[See p. 3 of the cover.] 



170 

"9. — *Cash! cash! cash! — The highest prices will be given for 
negroes of every description. Apply in Beaufair street, one ^or from 
Coming street.' 

" 10. — ' Fifty dollars reward. — Run away from the subscriber, his 
negro woman, Patsey — about 45 years old. She has two scars on the 
right cheek, made by the whip. The above reward will be given to 
any person who will deUver her to the subscriber; or $25 if confined 
in any jail, so that I can get her. If she was not stolen, it is expected 
that she has endeavored to get back to Virginia, where she was raised. 
She was bought of John Lane, a negro speculator. — Henry Bird.' 

" And yet, notwithstanding all this openly avowed traffic in slaves, 
Jonathan would have the world believe that his country is par excel- 
lence ' the Land of the Free !' Fiddle-de-dee, brother Jonathan ; — 
your vaunted 'stripes^ remind us of the 'marks of the whip' on the 
face of Mr. Bird's negro woman, Patsey ; and * all the world may 
see ' that your ' stars ' are bedimmed with the sighs and groans of the 
thousands and tens of thousands of human beings whom you detain 
in hopeless slavery." — Morning Herald. 

MAHOMETAMSM AND CHRISTIANITY. 
Extract of a letter from E. S. Mdy, Esq. 
" The other day I was introduced to the Turkish charg6 d' affaires. 
I asked him if there was any prejudice in his country against the 
blacks. His reply was that no Turk ever despised any one on account 
of his skin. 'I have African slaves,' he added, — ' when they behave 
ill, I do not sell them, as some do — I dismiss them from my service. 
They take their meals in common with those of their own rank in 
life, without distinction of color. It would be against th« principles 
of the Mahometan religion to treat any human being with disdain, or 
to suppose that God was a capricious or a partial parent in bestowing 
various forms and tints on his children.' Ought not Christians to 
blush at the contra.st? Among the Turks and Persians, negroes 
rise to the b'ghest offices in the state." 



TEN DOLLARS REWARD Will be given for 
the apprehension and delivery of m3r negro woman 
named Libby, or Lucy, as she sometimes calls her- 
self, who absconded the evening cf the 21st inst. 
The said Libby is about 30 years old, 5 feet high, 
stout built, with very large lips, and very much 
scarred about the neck and ears, occasioned by whip- 
ping; had on when she left a blue striped domestic 
frock, and old plaid cloak, with a handkerchief tied 
round her ears, as she commonly wears it to hide the 
scars. She was seen Friday at the Orange Grove, which qu**e hkely 
she may be lurking there yet. ROBERT NICOLL, 

Dec. 29 — 71-tf. Dauphin-st., between Emmanuel and Conception. 

The above is taken from the Mobile Commercial Advertiser. Now, 
what must be the public feeling — the nether mill-stone hardness of the 
public heart — where a man dares to out his name to such an advertise- 
ment ? — Ed. 




