Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library /The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/negroslaverybrieOOIond 



NEGRO SLAVERY. 



A BRIEF VIEW OF THE MEASURES PROPOSED TO BE ADOPTED 
BY HIS MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT, AND OF THE MANNER IN 
WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN CARRIED INTO EFFECT BOTH IN 
THE CROWN AND IN THE CHARTERED COLONIES TO THIS 
TIME, JULY 25th, 1830. 



1. — To provide the means of Education and religious Instruction for 

the Slaves. 
Neither in the Crown nor in the Chartered Colonies has a single 
legal provision been made for securing either the education or the reli- 
gious instruction of the Slaves. Sir George Murray in his circular 
letter to the Governors of chartered colonies, of the 15th September, 
1828, (See Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 52, p. 54,) urges it upon them 
with great force that provision should be made for these objects by 
law ; and yet the new Consolidated Slave Code for the crown colonies, 
contained in the Order of the King in Council of the 8th of February 
last, and which is held out as the model of legislation for the chartered 
colonies, makes not the slightest provision on the subject. (See Anti- 
Slavery Reporter, No. 58, p. 148.) 

2. — To put an end to Sunday markets. 
The Order of the 8th February last abolishes Sunday markets in all 
the crown colonies, and empowers the Governor to appoint another 
day for that purpose. Two of the chartered colonies, Grenada and 
Tobago, have also abolished Sunday markets. The others, instead of 
abolishing, have legalized and established them, only limiting their 
duration, in one colony, that of Barbadoes, to nine, and in other colonies 
to eleven o'clock. But even these enactments are altogether illusory, no 
relief being thereby given to the slaves, nor any boon conferred upon 
them, as will appear under the succeeding head. 

3. — To make Sunday, which has hitherto been to the slaves a day of 
labour in their provision grounds, henceforward a day of rest and 
religious observance, by allowing them equivalent time in lieu of 
Sunday, for cultivating their provision grounds and for marketing. 
In no one instance has this recommendation been complied with. In 
no colony, whether crown or chartered, has equivalent time in lieu of Sun- 
day been given by law to the slave, so that the mere prohibition of Sun- 
day markets, or the mere appointment of another marketday, even where 
such prohibition and appointment have taken place, will not afford to 
the slave the opportunities of rest or religious observance, or the power 
of attending the market on any week day unless that day is secured to 
him by law. In fact, no equivalent time being allotted to him for that 
labour of raising provisions for himself and family, to which the Sunday 
has hitherto been devoted, he must of necessity still employ his Sunday 
for that object, otherwise he and his family must starve. This point will 
be found fully explained and proved in the Reporters, No. 41, p. 315 — ■ 
318, No. 52, p. 67, No. 58, p. 134—139, and No. 60, p. 196—199. 
It will be found further illustrated and proved at p. 19, 20, &c. of a 
pamphlet recently published by the Rev. Mr. Barry, a Methodist Mis- 
sionary, from Jamaica, under the title of " a letter to Sir George Murray." 
What possibility can exist either of rest or religious observance on the 



Sabbath under such circumstances ? And yet it is hypocritically argued 
that to make the slaves religious, is a necessary prelude to their free- 
dom ; and that all idea of their emancipation must be postponed till 
this first step shall have been taken. But after seven years of promise 
this first step has not yet been taken in any colony, nor if left to the 
colonists themselves will it ever be taken. In order to education and 
instruction time is obviously required, and that time they have not given, 
and will not give, even to the children. The universal refusal of the 
colonists to grant to the slaves equivalent time in lieu of Sunday, when 
viewed in connection with the clauses, in the disallowed Acts of Jamaica, 
which prohibit the slaves from attending divine worship between sunset 
and sunrise (all their other time being passed in hard labour) proves 
most clearly, notwithstanding the professions of the colonists, that their 
real object is to prevent, not to promote education and religious in- 
struction. 

4. — To admit the testimony of slaves in civil and criminal cases. 

In the new Order the evidence of slaves is made admissible in all 
the crown colonies in the same manner as that of free persons ; except 
that a court or jury may advert to their servile state as affecting their 
credit. (See Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 58, p. 146.) 

Of the chartered colonies Grenada alone has admitted the evidence 
of slaves without restriction. In the other chartered colonies the 
restrictions imposed on that admission are of such a nature as to render 
their apparent concessions perfectly futile and valueless. (See ibid. No. 
33, p. 180, No. 38, p. 266, No. 43, p. 348, &c.) 

5. — To legalize the marriages and to protect the connubial rights of 

slaves. 

The new Order of February last, legalizes slave marriages in the 
crown colonies, by all classes of religious teachers, it being provided 
however that such marriages shall not invest the parties or their pro- 
geny with any rights at variance with the owners title to them and their 
services. (See ibid. No. 58, p. 131, and 141.) 

In none of the chartered colonies are either adequate facilities or 

sanctions given to marriage, on the contrary in all of them the most 

absurd impediments are interposed. (See ib. No. 29, No. 33, p. 179, 

No. 38, p. 265, No. 43, p. 347, No. 48, p. 279, and No. 60, p. 195.) 

6. — To prevent the separation of Families by Sale. 

The new Order in Council is a great improvement on the former 
Orders, inasmuch as it prohibits, in all the crown colonies, the separa- 
tion of families, not by judicial sales only, but by sales of whatever 
kind. No adequate provision however has been made for obtaining and 
preserving a record of those family ties which the law forbids to be 
broken. 

In all the chartered colonies the pretended attempts to remedy this 
evil, are in a remarkable degree evasive and worthless. (See ib. No. 
18, p. 251—254; No. 19, p. 272, & No. 28, p. 85—90; No. 33, p. 
179 ; No. 38, p. 264—274, and No. 52, p. 74.) 

7. — To protect the Slaves by law in acquiring, possessing, and 
transmitting Property. 

The new Order in Council confers on the Slaves in the crown colonies, 
the right of property; and the right also of prosecuting and defending 



actions at law in respect to such property. Slaves however, are debarred 
in all the colonies, whether crown or chartered, from cultivating or 
possessing, buying or selling any of the staple articles of culture, such 
as sugar, coffee, indigo, cotton, &c. &c. &c. (See ib. No. 58, p. 142.) 

The legislatures of the various chartered colonies, have pretended to 
legislate on this subject, but their enactments are of the most ineffective 
and delusive description. (See ib. No. 29, p. 103; No. 33, p. 179; 
No. 37, p. 242 ; No. 38, p. 264—274, and No. 60, p. 201.) 

8. — To grant to the Slaves a right of redeeming themselves or 
any of their family, at a fair appraisement. 

In none of the chartered colonies is this right given to the Slaves. 

In all the crown colonies the new Order has imposed the compulsory 
manumission clause (a clause however which falls far short of the 
Spanish law) — but it introduces some new and oppressive provisions 
to the disadvantage of the Slave. One is that if a donation shall be 
given to the Slave to enable him to purchase his freedom, the manu- 
mission shall be void. Another is that if an owner or manager shall 
allege, that within the preceding five years a slave had committed a 
theft, all further proceedings towards his manumission shall be stayed 
for five years. (See ib. No. 58. p. 132 — 145.) 

9. — To limit the power of arbitrary punishment possessed by the 
master and his agents, and to restrain its abuse. 

The new Order of February 1830, omits that clause in the former 
Order, which inhibited the master from inflicting punishment on his 
slave until 24 hours had elapsed — a most unhappy omission when 
the violent and impetuous habits of those who have the power of arbit- 
rary punishment in their hands is considered. 

The master, in the crown colonies, and by the legislatures of two or 
three of the chartered colonies, is limited to the infliction of 25 lashes 
at one time, — but in the chartered colonies generally, the power of 
punishment remains as it was. Not only may 39 lashes of the cart- 
whip be inflicted on any man, woman or child, for any offence or for 
no offence, and without being obliged, within that limit, to render a 
reason for the infliction ; but the master may further imprison in the 
stocks or in the workhouse, for any length of time he may think proper, 
without being liable to any penalty for so doing. (See ib. No. 60, p. 205.) 

10. — To provide that a regular record shall be kept, and a regular 
return made of all arbitrary punishments by the master or his 
agents: 

The necessity of this record even in the crown colonies is confined to 
plantations, and it is not required in the case of mechanics, domestics, 
&c. not attached to plantations ; — and yet these are still more exposed 
to the excesses of passion and caprice than even the field-slaves them- 
selves. (See ib. No. 58, p. 141.) — In none of the chartered colonies is 
any return required of arbitrary punishments by the master, or even any 
adequate record of such punishments. 

11. — To abolish entirely the practice of flogging Females. 

In the crown colonies, female flogging is abolished — but it is not 
abolished in any one of the chartered colonies. The Assembly of 
Jamaica refused by a large majority, to enact that women should cease 
to be indecently fogged. (See ib. No. 29, p. 107.) 



—J 



. 12. — To abolish entirely the use of the driving-whip in the field, 
as a stimulus to labour. 
Of the chartered colonies, the Bahamas alone (where there never 
was any driving) has abolished the driving-whip. In the new Order 
for the crown colonies, there is a change of terms in the prohibitory 
clause on this subject which, it is feared, may open a door to great 
abuse. The former Order forbade the use of " any whip, cat or other 
instrument of like nature," "for the purpose of compelling or causing 
any slave to perform labour of any kind or nature whatsoever. 1 ' The 
present Order omits the clause in italics, and forbids the use of " any 
cat, whip or other instrument usually employed in the punishment of 
slaves ; '' instead of " other instrument of like nature" — so that a goad 
might, under this new form of expression, be used to stimulate the 
labour of the human team if a master saw fit to use it. (See ib. No. 
58, p. 130—139.) 

13. — To appoint protectors of the Slaves in every Colony. 
This is done only in the crown colonies. The chartered colonies 
have all refused to appoint a Protector of slaves. 

14. — To provide that in future no person being a Protector of Slaves, 

or interested in Slave property , should be appointed by the Crown 

to the offices of Protector of Slaves, Governor, Judge, Fiscal, 

Attorney-General, Bishop, Clergyman or salaried Teacher, and 

generally to any function connected with the administration of 

the Slave laws. *■ 

This has been carried into full effect in the crown colonies with 

respect to Protectors, but not with respect to Assistant Protectors 

(See ib. No. 58, p. 133). These are, to a man, Slave proprietors. 

In the chartered colonies this proposed reform has had little or no 

operation hitherto — except that it is believed that the Government have 

not lately appointed Governors or Judges from among slave holders. 

15. — To provide that in questions involving the Slavery or freedom 

of individuals, the presumption of law shall be in favour of 

freedom. 

This rule has been adopted by Grenada, but by no other of the 
chartered Colonies. In the crown Colonies of Trinidad and St. Lucia, 
it is also acted upon. 

16. — To purify the administration of justice. 
No steps have yet been taken to this end. 



No measures have been taken or even proposed by Government, for 
abating the intensity, or shortening the duration of that excessive toil, 
which is, at this moment, wasting negro life at a dreadful rate. 

But even were this and all the other measures enumerated above, 
carried into full effect, it could only be regarded as a step towards that 
consummation which is never to be lost sight of, the early and 

TOTAL ABOLITION OV SLAVERY THROUGHOUT THE BRITISH DO- 
MINIONS. 



London ; Bagster and Thorns, Printers, Bartholomew Close, 



