THE LIBERATOR 



roL.. i. 
■* 


WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON AND ISAAC KNAP P., 


PUBLISHERS. 


[NO. 2. 


Bosto.n 


Massachusetts.] our country is the world — our countrymen ark ma 


kind. [Saturday 


Januarys, 1831. 



THE IIBER&TOR 



WM. fc. GAHJBJBOS, 
Stephen Fatter, P, 



fly Two Dollars per annum, payable ii 
Q5» Agents allowed every aiitb copy gro 
(LT-Soantooriptioii will be receive d fori 
' '{CT" AI| r i. [li>rr : rad™uimmiieationaiouBtb( 



THE LIBERATOR. 




.<?. aiettotB thereof ; 1 



u r.li^iii ul s r i ■„.-< riii ir. i] ill; 1 ']! 




roUoVor the 
The charac- 



l&'Thore is not tlie leant datiger of a n 
hellion among the slaves; and eveu if the 
should revolt en mailt, what could they do 
Thoir united phyaien.! force would be utterl 
contemptible. 

11. Nona tint fanatics or idiots desire in 
mediate abolition. II' the slaves were liber 
uted »t once, our throats would be cut, and i 
our houses pillaged-and burntl 

12. Our alavas must be educated for free, 
dom. Our slaves must never learn tlie alplia 
bet, because know I edge would teach them t< 
tliruw off their yoke.' 



r I'opiiUiiiniKiftli.'UiiitriiSt.iitos.' The 



is uo doubt tlial misih 



e 



THE LIBERATOR 



liment of it ; and that we ought to miller, 
.id our Lord and his apostles, un resist! iijjly 
Mowing thatvengeancu belunjrstoGocLand 
vill certainly repay it where it is due ;— ' 
eving all this, and that the Almighty will 
vcr the oppressed in a way which they 
w not, we deprecate tho spirit and teuden- 

American people, ns a nation, tfi denounce 
s bloody or monstrous. Mr Walker but 
■ them in their own coin, but follows their 
I creed, but adopts their own language. 



be, and^even without ' 
;tion alleged against * 
ites, withou- 1 



therintended to in 
to produce such, on 
The truth, I am r 

tlie ^exception, per 

cretly among the 
purpose ot fltimu. 
blood.— it is notpul 



behave bout where they are best treated, 
and where the kwa and public opinion pay 
most regard to their rights; and that measures 
of severity which are resorted to, to keep down 

In my nexl essay, 1 shall consider the 
actual situation of tlio colored population of 
t'.o United States. 

P. H. 



h, in default "fluid, Kill mko you 
injm vour business mid your family, oud lodge 

- t - «j»il, (4) 

..wery is au-cvil, and ought to be abolish- 
ed. (.1] Imprisonment for debt is a greater 
evil, and ought to Ivi .ibolishod. (Ii) Hut the 
difficulties which impede the efforts of phi- 



- great, o 



ition of the condition oftha debtor an 
ironsidcrablo or altogether ii.iujrinarj 
i.the pride of the Stare .Shits, that in 
of tl* enforcement of the law ofim 
ent for debt am there few, very few, ii 



rd man be opulent for eternity ;- 
□r bodily tortures, if I suffer in 
righteous causo ; — I care not for the aspersions i 

lestimony ; — I care not for tyrannical nutlior 
if I serve my (Jod and benefit my fellow ci 
lures by lawfully resisting it. Wherever 
preasiun, fraud and violence exist, 1 am 
exposing t'i merited infamy the tyrant and 



■e false, and made only 



r guilty countrymen, who put arguments 
to the mouths, and swords into the hands 
the slaves. Every sentence that they 
■ite — every irord that they speak. — every re- 



'I 0 



ength the time is come 
ill no longer hear to b< 
ra are the best lawgiver! 



(1)8 



■■ay o 



of the 



And yet 



it How, 

with what coolness of manner, with ■ 
mildness of tone, with whit liberality of 
timent, some people discourse on the subject 
if slavery. They wonder how die trivial fact, 
of human beings are hold in 
■ this country, 

body. Hut if an inj 



is and treated like bi 



The recent formation of an Auxiliary Col- 
oniiation Society in Worcester County, Mass. 
calls furth the following commentary fromthe 
editor of the Boston Stute^jian: 

■ We were, however, rather surprised to see 
the proposal of sending the free negroes to 

It woulTbe as' well aUeast to talk of sending 
l!i'-M! reverend gentlemen back ti 
their native land: The negro is. 



to earth and ruakos life mludil 
fire of the negro, and not a w 
begging, be really the object ii 

and vindicate tho iijlr- . i" r 1 1 . ■ i 
' 1 upon by t' 



to theii 



liildi.-i 



dog of theirs — hov 

(3) A libel upon common se 
upon freedom — a libel upon c 



(3) Enjoymentsofflluvcry? Ofcotrrse, 

equoney of pleasant flagellations, in t 
ost total absence of mind, in the destr 
nonsofhfe— Stc.&c.c 

(4) We do not condemn, but rather I 

■nthe subject of imprisonment for debt. ! 

unavoidable misfortune a criu.o. 'filill/tli 
leopla must be their own judges in this mal 



iss drders. IV// wc nut nf riir'iij — folk 
' I !ii' [ir.ipi'rlv ■ ■["tin ■ plant.:- in Ins skives. 
V the right— I acknowledge not the pro- 
perty. The principles, the feelings of our 

Be the appeal made to the understanding or to 
the heart, thesuntence is tlio same that rt '- 
"a vain you loll in<- r.f the lims thru 



tlinui.alimil ;df wnrlil, (In sniiu: in nil till.! 
sucb as it won bolero tin' J:,rine- goliius 
Iambus pierced the night or ages, and ope 
to one world the sources of power, wealth and 
knowledge ; to another, all unutterable i 



I bythefingerol'Godon 

lespiso fraud, and 
hor blood, they shall n 
the wild and guilty fcnl 
properly in man ! In v 



; oi-u,. 



ghly 



lanti of the Almighty, whether the ol, 
lew, denounce such unholy pretcnsioi 
hose laws did they of old refer, whi 
aincd the African trade. Such trcal 
.hey cite, anil not untruly ; for by one 
"ul compact, vou bartered tho glories < 
ill blood. Yet, in 
.es, that i " 



s'avea. And the lale dinners, and illuiiuna- 

Boutli, over the downfij of tie Frrwn tyrant, 
Charles the Tenth, furnish so many reasons, 
to the slaves why Ihey should obtuji thi'ir / 
own rights by violence. 

Some editors have affected to doubt whether 
the deceased Walker wrote this pamphlet— 
On this point, skepticism need not stumble; 
the Appeal bears the strongest internal evi- 
dence of having emanated from hia own mind. 
No white man could have written in language 
so natural and enthusiastic. 

The following table shows the relative pro- 
portion-of the Whites, Slaves and Free Blacks 
in the West India Islands and Colonies. Ja- 
maica eilubila a fearful disparity between ita 



5,500 
4,000 
15,000 I 



in i;, r I 



orld but unless they 



selves, the fault is t 

.and soul with'llov, 
■nterprise; but let b 
■ -lulousbyWlki 
lavery over A 
(5| Yet the philauthroi; 

"li)"Then, as a people, 



s if they s 



if Africi 



■ put to death I 
other pirates. How came this change to ' 
:? ■Nut asMirodlv hv parli;iio'-ut loiuling 
" ay : but tlio oountry .li lori^tli ii-.v.ike ; 
ill'liVinli'.ll nf tin: people nas kinJlutl; il. 

'■■Ild.'d ill II h'r. and Pinole tlio tniltic, 

scattered its ™ilt.v profits fo the wind.;, 
i.-, thon, let tlio philters bewnro-let their 



1,800 
800 
(2,000 



Editors all over the country are 
to insert the following advertiser 
trust that there will be a thousan 
pens put into motion for tho prise. 

A Premium of Fifty Dollars, [he ! 
a benevolent individual in the Stat 
and now deposited with the Treas 
Pennsylvania Society for promoting 
tion of Slavery, &c. is offered to 
of the best Treatise on the folk 
jecti 'The Duties of Ministers am 
of all denominations to avoid the sto 
ry, and to make tho 



south, l 



0 tins: 



Theooomosir 



b ' d.-strcjTil if his w.,rk nllnll I"' 

Six months from tliis date are af 
tlie purpose of ri-L-.-jivi.it' Mi>- K.« :v. 

Tho publk-Mi hi 1 .-...-,.1.11. ,.n o 

rerrerl Tract will bo regulated by tl 
sylvonis Society above lui'ntioni'.l. 

W. R*wi.e, 1 
J. Pbestob, SQ 

TllOHAS SlIieLKt, ) 

Philadelphia, Oct. 11. 



nolt School in Ltisriov— Tho Femi 
liiation Society of Riclimond and Mi 
Chester has taken incipient measures lo ud 
a Frmnie School in Liberia. Had it i 
er establish a wioiikir sohmil li.n livo co[ 
ed females in Richmond and its vicinity ? 



Mauritius P.OGO 7<i,000 15,100 

Total 108,150 H12,700 143,707 

The Centinel, a few weeks aince, contained 
a notice from the Sheffield Iris, of the sale of 

,■ V. \\ ||. |- r !|. 

shilling. 'It is surprising,' Hays the editor, 
'that tliis barbarous custom ahould bo tolera- 
ted in England.' So it is, Mr Adams ; the 
annual sale ul' thousands of human beinga, in 
tliis country, ouniuit ho compared with the 
above atrocioua act. A lit why? Because 
one white akin is worth millions of a sable 
complexion. Isitnot? 

Mcrilcd 1'anithmrul. — A Dr Allen has been 
sentenced int '[■oN.i^ii!-. Loni-iaoa, to fourteen 
years imprisonment f.,r negro stealing. It 

How ought they lo he punished, who hold 
their slaves in perpetual bondage, cither by 

equal lo the medical kidnapper? What is Die 
difference between stealing men, and holding 
in bondage after they have beenstolen * 



JOURNAL OF THE TIMES. 




SATI RIIAV, JANUARY H, !«ll. 



e Mos. 



of the 



It gives us pleasure to lost", that the dar 
genius attempt to cull a Convention in Bout 
Carolina has failed in both Houses of th 



their lives— with their all— in order to gratif 
their hostile feelings toward the free elates. 

In process uf time, one thing is certain 
they must either give up their slaves or th 
Union. The root of bitterness between th 
North and the South is slavery ; and, until : 



air. His 

apologises for its great length, but wo arc hard- 
ly disposed to forgivo him. 

Nothing further has boon done toward a 
final adjustment of tite Massachusetts Claim, 
although the Governor has spared no 
to complete the business. The tnrdii 

The State Prison is now made, emi 
what a Penitentiary should become— a 
of just yet merciful correction, and of the 
means of moral reform- Already the fierce 
and turbulent spirit is soon to yield, and habits 
Of submission, useful occupation, and patient 
industry, to be funned. With the advance- 
ment of moral purposes, it is gratifying to find, 
that the pecuniary affairs Df the Prison aro 
also improving. 

The accounts of the Treasury Department, 
for the post year, show an excess of cxpt 
tures overreccipts ofSlO/raL 16. TheHlate 
Debt is now $114,100 00. 

His Excellency says that liberal principles 
and acknowledged civil rights are every where 
breaking the sliacklcs of oppression, [eicept- 
ing in this country, he should have said,] and 
the minds and hearts of freemen will sympa- 
thise in the smugglings, and respond with con- 
gratulations to the triumphs of liberated and 
disenthralled nations. 

There are two important measures, which, 
bb tho Governor has forgotten to recommend 
them to the notice of the Legislature, we shall 
urge for immediate adoption. The first is, the 
obliteration from the Statute Book of the fol- 
lowing section of tho Act of June 32, 1780: 

' Md be it further cnacltd. That no person 
by this Act authored to marry, shall join in 
marriage any white person with any Negro, 
Indian or Mulatto, on penalty of the sum of 
Fifty /Wk/j, two third parts ^thereof to the 

milted, ai 



■red by tl 



of the inalienable rights of every roan, name- 
ly, ' the pursuit of happiness '—disgraceful to 

of justice — and utterly absurd and preposter- 

Another suggestion is, that the Legislature 

Representatives in Congress to exert their in- 
fluence for the abolition uf slavery in the Dis- 
trict of Columbia. 



od. It is, as usual, full of valuah 
Friend Lundy i. norms the public, 
Grand Jury of the city of li'dlmmr.- 

animadversions upon the conduct < 
jury, in Garrison's second suit':! 

We regret, though we readily i 
liberty he has taken in publishing 
private lettcrs.(l) Confidential or 
language is not 



i be n 



e pillar 



■cks of millions 
I' human beings for the benefit ofafewplunt- 
rs, and the curse of the whole country, 
'hey are weary uf the. loud of guilt which 
upusi'd upon thi'in hy the compacL 
While we detest the principles anc 
ces of the South, wo pity her despera 
ition. Her complaints are not mere ] 



able aspect? Does the tariff, or the system of 
internal improvements, generate her diseases? 
No : tho canker that is upon her vitals— the 

■ ■ill--'- IS hIL'lililiLJ [lit li'i'l- — r.ll'- phii'ie' 

thru, is relarditi;.' the jm 1 reuse ..Hi- r population. 
ii lUmery — anrfnolninir but ilartnj. We wish 
to relieve her, by endeavoring to remove the 

happy and flourishing as her more fortunate 
sisters; norshall we givo up our efforts tu 
save her, even at the risk of being set down 



The hearts of some individuals aro like 
—concealed hy tin' frigidity of a wintrj 
mosphero that surrounds, envelopes and 
duratos. These may bo melted by the rays 
of humanity, the wanutli of cipoHliilution, it. 
the breath of prayer. Others are like uda 
mantinc rocks; they require a pondcroui 
sledge and a powerful arm to break them ii 
pieces, ur a cask of powder to blow them tip 
Truth may blare upon them with mid-day in 
tenseness, but they cannot dissolve. 

INDIVIDUAL DUTY. 

Every one who comes into the world, should 
do something to repair its moral desolation 
and to restore its pristine loveliness ; and hi 
who does not assist, but slumbers away hit 
life in idleness, defeats one great purpose of 
his creation. Hut he who, nut only refusing 
to labor himself, endeavors to enlarge an. 
perpetuate the ruin, hy discouraging the hearl 
of the more industrious, and destroying thei 
hi' nuti I'ul works, is a monster and a harbariai 
in despite of his human nature and of civili 



07T 8 



iBtheal 



re lea 



. . Legislature of Georgia has past 
Resolutions, authorizing the Guvoriior of the 
State to resist the precept of the Supreme 
Court of the United States! This looks like 
rebellion. - 



Has a colored man brains? Con ho think 
— con he talk — can he write ? Has he the 

Here is a letter from one in a distant cily, 
which may answer these queries. We ore 
acquainted with the writer, and very proud, 
too, of hia friendship. Pew white men pos- 
sess a better head or heart. 

1 Dear Sir— I am estremely happy to hour 



The laws uf the southern states recognise 
slaves ee properly, and place them on a level 
with cuttle. See how they punish their cattle 

kick his master to death, or break into hi! 
kitchen, ought he to he Imng hy the neck, oi 
burnt at the stoke? Undoubtedly, if he oi 

Elijah W. Kimbrengh and negro Carey 
were executed at Raleigh, N. C. on the 5U; 
ultimo ; the first named Fur the crime of mur- 
drr, and tho latter for breakinginto an unarm- 
fried kitchen or onl-iottft, and robbing it of ar- 
ticles worth not more Ihanjitic dollart ! • 



The Americans and English in Paris 
given a dinner to Lafayette— 200 person! 
down. The General rippem-cl in lull uniform, 
is commander in chief of the National Guards. 



riiiil'll,. 'i 



iprovt 



merit and happiness of the human 

When will tho American people respond 
'Amen!' to tins noble sentiment, and grant 
clival rights to those upou whom they now 
trample ? What is the In^iage of Lafayette, 
in relation to their tyrannical conduct ? Hear 



1 Whi n I -l rn indulging ininyvi 

lortnyingto be told thot in that 
lurse portion of. lire people ore 



I of Ami 



throughout the Union, 
inarching with rapid si 



iln.-il >n I he subject. 

Alth.MO'h th.; Hi.illVrri Sl.rn.-H have enacted 
]vcrc laws against the Free People of Col- 



,e conducted hy Ms William J.Snelling. Tl _ 

ivork is printed, in an elegant manner, every 

™"fi' u't fil " , "' ns l 9 J CB P [ ll ^ ,e °'' """""j; 

,vli;,t"hr i-\ili;''- r 't..'l.. r . wo 'doubt not he" J 
mcomplish. We have a word to say, ne 
s/eck, in relation to his remarks on slavery. 

'The Christian Soldier,' a new religioi 
loper, published hv .Mes-ra Johnson ,V Kir 
lalLwas issued in this cily on Wednesday 
asL Tho typography is elegant, and the cd- 
l.irird departj 1 1 cut well filled. 

'Tfio Now-Kngland Baptist Herald,' N. 



We ri 



huh. ■; ii 



the American Colonizaliun Society is 
in principle and impotent- in design ; ; 
shall thoroughly sill, its pre ten-* ions u 
quent numbers of the Liberator. 



05" Strictures upon the libel suit are in 
typo, but reluctantly deferred until our next 
number. 



turn: prist. /;/,... .;'.',„,, I:, 

and driven back by them. Thej were lately 
iot at hy a party of eight men, but escaped. 



FOBEIGM -fc DOMESTIC ITEMS. 

Louden papers lo the l(lth,r.nd Liverpool tu 
Urn flh ult. have been received. 

It is said that on alliance, offensive and dc- 



Thr.' French in 
Affairs assure i.ii 
place on the con 



li:,VUJg m, , M ,. | i,, ,j, 1M |;. r i,., ^r.ul. 

.'its <■[ Hriliih MinMrt.—lt apnea 
I'avi I, r.-v i:- Mi vears ot'oee; Lord II 
T,7; L..ni l,:ins(h..v„e ;,(J ; Lord Moll 
-111: L-.nl fi.nlorich 1.- : Lord Althei 
I...V.1 lliirlirim '■>,■'-■ l,..rd 1'ahiier-lmi 1' 
Duke ol'Ric! 



The 



of slavery in the West Indies 
still claims the attention of Parliament. 

to the numberof 900,000 men) with 400 pieces' 

It is computed thtn in Jimuiirv. Itftl, inde- 
pendently of the great force of Notional Guards 
every where armed ami equipped, France will 
Ihjv.- a r.-jrul^r army of WO.IIOO m~ 

The present King of Eiiglan ' 



.' oi:f'T'>T,OL: 



The loll. .wim- is the result of tlie election 
in Esses North, on Monday last, for a Repre- 
sentative to Congress :— Whole number of 
votes, 4H77; necessurv to a choice, 3430. Mr 
Cushing had 1!«3 ; Mr Marston 12119; Mr 
Osgood (the Jackson cumlidotc) layS; scat- 



of-lf.OHO souls. 1, riving increased eighty per 
cent, since 1(120. 

The entire Anti-Jackson ticket for Con- 
gress has prevailed in New.Jnrsey. 

In Illinois, Gen. J. M. Robinson, n thorough 
friend of Jackson, has been elected to fill tie 
vacancy in Congress made by the death of 
the late John MTjino. 
The convention bill has been lost in the 
C. Legislature, the majority in 



jchless than 
thellous. 



>f Repress 



,i either 



ttlint 



-The 



1. Knapp,jr. t 
...loni, on I'm. 



of lilin. 



11)1,(156; in li2U, fi.-i^ll.— 
icresse, 105,844. 

Hishitny /toMrjT/.^George Crosby was 
■ hhed offelXJO in c.sh, mid a wnlch and gold 
lain, by two men. on the Nnh-m Turnpike, 
„. -u_ -;,.i.. ,f ti, E 



tith ult This event has 
lent in Salem. The robbi 
The population of Pari 



d the a 



M A R R I A C. F. S. 



B E A I'HS. 



io 



THE LIBERATOR. 



TO THE FREE PEOPLE OF COLOR OF 
THE UNITED STATES. No. I. 
I address you as men — I address you as 
freemen— I address you as countrymen. You 
are tho rational creatures of one common Trc- 
ator; yon derive from nature tlie inalienable 
right oflibertyj you ore Americans by birth, 
and entitled to all- the benefits of a republican 



ficiontly protected i 
This state of tiling: 
selves, but more it 



er your own rvuthonty, 
ho sold at public or pri- 
iu may worship-Gud nc- 
i of your own conscience, 
)( your own labor. But 
r many unjust and griev- 
ia nut bold that rank in 

ted upon' us on inii 
in your attainments and 

L owing partly to JW 



COLOSliiAl 



Having observed a 



i siiiT^csl lIji- jjti ■! irii'1 v ut 

,t i„ iiu* ,itv. M) o<- 



d of our whole colored population ■ (II; 
et then a meeting be immediately called in 
lis city, to which gentlemen no" present 
om all parts of the state b1ib.11 be invi- 
d. Let a state society^ formed, auxiliary 



id walls will allow ; where wo can become 

ispcc-tablc, wealthy, and hold offices, as we 

ay under the laws of England.' 

We have listened In language like" this, but 
generally mure violent, without being able to 
-?ply any farther, than that — a; 



veyance t" 
tiered Lib 

.ftiic Plymouth Pilgrii 
vinter, and several cult 
n Virginia, before any 

and competent qualifications from offices or 
" ' ' 'ine'um!. .i'si'u'n. 



the more cruel shotts i.( ]nililu: 
thermore, tlio colorc.l tilir.-n 
outlawed as to tin: benevolent I 



■„li;<-!ii.V Jusl 
lunroe. Willi: 
in, and those t 
liti.:;il p:irlv ii 
g roll ef its Ik 




:ria to be no otherwise 
tes to strangers. Half 
is died during the first 

r^rrroTtij-ir 117 



ii Libcri 



willnc 



ljuedcc i 

lliov may there li.rm a powerful and glorious 
— — -allourarti(except that 



but only shows the strength, tlio bitten: 
snd Ho blindness of prejudice. Had it 
been fin Clarkson and Slurp-, slavery luiL'lil '' 
have been recognised in England unto 
d.,. 

I shall not dwell, at present, upon the sub- 
ject of colonization, as doubtless the greater 
portion of you know my views in relation to it, 
and I believe they fully coincide with yours. 
It is probable that many of your color, in flif- ' 
ferent parts of Hie country, maybe induced tc 
emigrate to Liberia, Hnyti, UpperCanada, one 
other places. But these will bo liko the fall- 
ing away of groins of earth from a mountain 
As a body, you will inevitably remain in the 
Dnited States as long as the whites ; ennse- 
quently, you must strive to get a full and im- 
mediate recognition of your rights. Caaet 
of oppression of some of your number air 
constantly occurring at the soot!.: these art 
actionable, and must be carried to the Supreme 
Court for trial. Pnr this purpose, a sinal 
fund will be necessary to fee your lawyers. 



iniary prosperity of the colon; 
iris in the eighth veor til its 
mile,! In .-7(>,0u0. 
ha sole object of the society is 



1 themst; 



professing 
(■-') The 



o do with the inala- 



' H-rV let I 



'. '''h'l'it.' 



i, there appear to be very yi 



.(1) 1 
n. Unit 



con gcTrid oflhnm* 
s.(3) The negroes 
j brought us here, in 
I sordid motives, for 



mtryn.e 



;o you : 



ledge I 



I III I IN 



iliflhe si. 
(5) God forbid ! And yet mere ore 
two woys to break up the slsvc system- 
Lbtr by iiioral force on the port of the m 
,,]■ (ihisi. nl liine iiu that of the slaves. 



Thor 



fibre-,. 



-I lined tc a Ciige bung 1i|i ; 



_ i ny, establish 

he world; drenuf the [ r, mid entirely supported by pri- 

lining con- vote benevolence, at au annual expense of 
a the roof $11200. 



THIS LXB1RATOR 



VOIj.1.] WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON AND ISAAC KNAPP, PUBLISHERS. [NO. 4. 

Boston, Massachusetts.] our country is the world — our countrymen are mankind. [Saturday, January 22, 1831. 



V iS 2 tlllHi V 0 IB 

AT NO. U, MERCHANTS' HALL. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, EDITOR. 

ICPTvvoDennrsTieruonurn, payable in odranc- 

j£ZF* Agent, allowed every eisEh ropy. 

ICJ- No subscription -ill be teceivcd for t sher 

JCJ-AII letters and communications moil t 



THE LIBERATOR. 



■ 7VII M . 



it Of right! 

of Ike planter in hit ilueet. I deny Ih, 
— I acknowledge not the prop/rii/. Thcprin. 

in rebellion ogninit it. Be the appeal 
to the understanding or la the heart, the len- 
ience is the same that rtjtetl it.'— Ilronghur 



The fael is, it is time to repudiate 
, wo mean, which hove for their design 



This is ooi view of the subject. 

31 He Bdiror o/fJis Liberator. 

Bin— I believe that these descondnnls of the Af- 



>Me alHent country, or remote port 

The idee suggested many years agn by 
on, I believe, of colouring tliam it 



Bte giving place to a race of republican blooded inn- 
laltoes ; hub! !be»e are becoming more assimilated 10 
Iheir white fathers und brothers in maimers, inlbr- 

2. Thosoporior ntlrnclioru of the soil and cli- 
mate of Looisionoond Florida, for the cultivation 
of soger end other profitable products, end the Don. 

gil, be. to these end the adjacent Statu and Terri- 

S. The determination manifested at the South 10 



oftheir colored papulation, as these will be UleL 
only dependanee , jjs ivcll Li': dffmcc renins* ov- 
tetnal enemies, as for the supply of Iheir physica 
wants and animal comfort. 

population, whereby their power to command j 
portion of the attentions and woallh of the slave- 
holder! hi rapidly ongtnooting. Tiiii fact is ron. 
tiered Htill more important of late, as tho white pee. 
pie of Georgia and the adjacent Statue seem deter. 

MiiiiiB[ipi, or out of tho wotlt 



: tell you, tbal I allude to the 
to of Africon slavery. Wbatevci 
ilenualion of tho practice, it is est Li 



the Federal CoustiJlioo"' It is sum" moi 
of nujret, Ihot since tho etkibiliOn of in 



EDITORIAL 

At the request of my anooymoaa ceni 
I suppress the proponed |.(jl]li.::iiKi[i o( 
upon the first number of Hie Liberator, 
the public is not great. They woul 



irutle nambe, I 
i trouble lost year 



r gr.;..ilj <::r in jn. 

ndtbe Mowing 
Iston Christian 

ttimore, for my particular edilb 



toflbeC 



s of .Unit 



',Url...r. 

r. Willi these romarl 



*.nd bain 



» ■*»> P r "f 
l friend 10 til 



ejusl those, winch will most LTii. iu ,Lly i<".:. 
hole project, DJaltiladei who might wish to 



Having Tailed in Rallinu 
ietid, I can baldly oxpwl 

lembly Ihe same. Ned 



Will yon allow a warm friend le Ih 
j advocate to oiler you n suggest 
nod 10 □» that it wuulii puilly eikjij III.' 
a of your paper, if a small poru.in ,1 it wi'n 
appropriated to tho use of Ihe young, 
a woald find eager lislencrs, and m 
cesiible lo the force of truth, and indigi 



t sympathy, wlllr 



ivill prepare th'n 



ir opinions— thescfe re timu only in wauling, and 
,r wdl pass away with those who defend it.' By 
- T ■" : 1 1 -. yi.iir-i.il" iu L lie apprehension of children, yon 
I alio often do more than you could in any olber 

ices or older persons. For there is, perhaps, do 
ter way of removing error, than by Leading the 
id back to tbo lint simple view of a subject. 
Set) you would present lo a child. And since 
there if much ignorance as well as prejudice oa the 



.; you might hopa for i 



•ml Ihey wbo all. 



icasiormtly, [be young leaders niigbt bo referred to 
,y article in your paper, wliiih. though not in- 
rtwl for tlitm, is adapted to their perusal. 
A juvenile department mey also malts year paper 



and thus 



. ,,r iii.. t 



JUVENILE DEPAETMEUT 



' I think they aro very pretty,' raid Lucy i ' di 
Kyenr- 

• Yes; I hare always liked those lines eicoedingly 
id now I shall be glad 10 bear yau repeat luem.' 



id wear tho chains, tlnn fisten Ihem on him." 
Did you select this passage yourself, my dear i 



iid bet 
■ No, molh 
• I like Ihe 



OV - I kl 

bo willing 1 ' 
in io saner inn hardships of a slave, : 
i.ike any ono-eUe sailer Idem. 1 
■What is .staves' aaid linle Ilelet 
body ibatweihs very bard ? ' 

fatliei; 1 1 have been working very 
bard at my office to-d«y, and John Wilson has wo 
" very bard sawing wood for ns, and be WD 
f hitd every day; bat we are neilbsr al 
■es. Hut if I were forced to work for some 01 

my having agreed with him to work Tor liiin, i 
lis meal cadd boot mo end punish me ifldid 



igbt to liovo to work for the man, 
bim you were willing lo work for bii 
give you same money. Thai's the i 



■ IVilnpV , 



■aid Helen, 'wool 

-Ms jell I ' 



Mher plane, and moke me wt 

• [ should Del like to have him carry yea 
om alt of os. Fattier, how could yoncome 
*y body's staves' 



'Myd, 



Id her father, -I belii 
modo any body'a si 
i. Hat I can tell yon a 



'Oh yes,' said Helen, 'da teUme.' 
1 Begin about Iborr boing broogtii rmm Africa,' 
id George. 

' In Africa,' said their lather, ' ■ tho MUDUy 



« people of» 



' What did Ibey do so .for,' said Helen. 

■The people who bougbl them wauled to Imvo 
Iavi4 le woik for them, and ihe people wlio carried 
bem away from Africa warned to goi money by 
elllng them,' said her fnlber. 

1 1 think,' said Lucy, 1 tbay had betler been poor 
II tlieir Lives, than Lo have gel money by being so 

• Wot it wicked ■ ' mid Helon. 

■ Why, Helen! ' aaid Lucy, in a tone of great ss- 

raald be wicked for any body lo couie and steal 



any body whocaruil a 
then self yon tobesoi 
lived, wbo woald mi 
whip yau with a gren 



very, very wicked," said Helen, 

said her father, ' you have quite 
i sister. Helen, yon ore in no 
a of theiiltle 



«uy from tb 



and the t 



nastora who bought the 
irk, and these people and 
s spoken of iu Ihe poetry 



sn who(have ever been b„ugbl and said for sla 
Ibe wotTd oould gain for their inasler..' ■ 



T cbni" ^uruti 
call j chained/ u 



nowba-ly to I: 
I I 



JOURNAL OF THE TIMES. 



J.i 



SPIRITKII SEVriMKSTS. 

The following ii an oilract of naolher iBIle 

laded to in our sec arid number. We are milly 



writers. We heps thai our Philadelphia friend will 

follows, there is something for tile meditation of col- 
onization acliamera, as wall as fui reader, in s ca- 
end. 

' Philadrlphia, January 13, lfl:)l. 
Dear Sir— I have received, with addition- 
al pIcoHUre, the first and second number of 
the Liberator. It contains unanswerable, ar- 
gumenta, and unmasks hypocrisy ; and it ad- 
monishes those divines, who are constantly 
declaring to their congregations, that the Free 
People of Color cannot be happy in 



lomo indefinite period, without onci 
Jiff to hasten the hour of its approm 
thing like active exertion. Theyai 
ly willing tlint the good work of emt 
-hntild be accomplished— that-"" 



try- 



self, whoso family has residod in the t 
Pennsylvania ever since the grant lawgiver, 
William Penn, came last to this state from 
Englondi and who fought for the indepen- 
dence of my country, whose Declaration as- 
serts, that all men are born with free and 
equal rights ? I was seven months on board 
of the old Jersey Prison ship in the year 178U, 
'the times that tried men's souls;' and am 
I now to be told that Africa is my country, hy 
soma of those, whose birth-place is unknown? 
Is it not a contradiction to say that a a 
an alien lo the country in which ho was 
To separata the blacks from the whitei 
impossible, as to bale out the Delaware 
a bucket. I have always been decidedly of 

take hut half the pains to improve the children 
of color in their own country, and expend but 
half the money that they are devoting to ac- 
complish their visionary scheme of christian- 
ising Africa, hy offering premiums to muster 
mechanics to take them as apprentices, they 
would do more to destroy prejudice than any 
thing else. When I look at this globe, con- 
taining eight or nine hundred millions of in- 
habitants, and see that they differ in color 
from the frozen to \he temperate and torrid 
zones, and that every thine i- variegated, 1 am 
astonished that any man should he so preju- 
diced against his fellow-man ; hut we pray for 
the aid of the Almighty to take the scales from 

of the instruments in commencing the work. I 
know your zeal, and heartily wish you success. 
We have lately heard of the change in the flrit- 
iah Ministry, and of the determination of the 
new ministry to do awny with the curse of sla- 
very in their colonies. The year 1831 seems 
to be big with great events. Mankind are 
becoming more enlightened, and all tyrants, 
and the tyrants of this country, must tremble.' 



isclves, during tin- proems of this trans- 
formation. They acknowledge the deep ini- 
quity of tlig system of slavorv, hut thi'v art a- 
if tin: a.lmis/ii.n i>f its eri.ui'iialilv, instead ol 
lerely prefatory to amendment, wn. 
rficient nf itself to satisfy all the de- 
"justice, to silence all the reproache* 
>. Theyappcar- 1 



ce;— or rather, the high and true rule of 
loral equity, by which ihoy meet out justice 

'yes, swerves instantly from 

re when the rights of llii-ir 
o brought into competition 



just and natural rig^it to ^ii 



enched in some terrible scene of ri 

i coiill iii;mlir>ri I'n.m Iheir native home, n 

' ' g been dragged to some distant lai 
sold into perpetual li'imlne/e— then, i 
iIit such circumstances, tin: right of the ill 



d he 



if burden, to the 
/ens — proviih'il. 



n regard to relig- 
atui interesting topics, de- 
hem a eomidemtion by itself, 
may possibly at some future 

-If all these trailers n 
, wl„, is to make it ? 
: make it wlio understai 



LVPfN MIRROR. 
The acqniaitioa of a virtuous and an intelligent 

III'- I - ' !"■ :i.-:--- 

ing. It gives us pleasure, therefore, to learn, that 
Alonzo Lewis, Esq. has taken charge of the Lynn 



e follow 



, Iiamarai 



' Siltnn, as I do. in si«ht of tbu mnnumenl on 
Hunker [(ill, where our fathers breasted 1 the ruing 
f foreign oppression — in sight of the Slats 

of Americans bava been advocnted^by nalriot- 



o nil if lite lied, the 
dent, and the i. 
They who suffer 



imienlof jur 
Tiie y .'an 



r duty t 

■qihlte to 

.- :..V.", 



cessary as intellect, and that the most capable 

be depended upon. 'So it was said of Mr 
Brougham,a scholar whose splendid talent: 



aiiiviiOiill.Me t'reiTlinri— it cannot bo supposed that 
I should advocate am measure* but those oflibony. 
I and the rights of men, both civil aod loligioas. Rut 

pen bo employed in disseoii outing principles which 
thai] tend In impair the sacred sanctions of religion 



a powerful acquisition lo the ami- masonic cause. 

ICT We s'e ejceeuinglj- obliged to the gentle- 
man who transmitted to us, through the Pest Office, 
' Thoughts and Facta respecting the Civilization of 
Africa.' a valuable article in the Loodon New 
Monthly Magazine for December. We shall mats 



1,1 iir.'i.m VI.-. 



Mike lor the general good. The 




. I2,anfl Of 



f Surih Carolina, 



1« 



LITERARY) MIBCELL 



AIEOUS AMD MORAL. 



LITEH AB Y. 

Fur the Libera 
A SP0K TO INDOLENCE. 
Whan T roiled upon tho lapse of lime, 

Ilow brMand evanescent is man's dlte, 
How high the steep that yealhfal [:mg most 



ooktbo 



n.lygrs. 



MISCELLANEOUS, 



My dear Readers! The whale which nwal- 
owed thn recreant prophet, may he likened to 
he miLy monsters which swallow up the 

When an individual becomes the slave of 
ippetite, and gives himself tn the habits of ii 



But who, by wealth, force, fraud, or lusty (oil, 
Though sweet Id. eloquence, or strong ia pow. 

Cm take Dsn Time a portion df hit spoil, 
Or gel renewed the charter of an hoar, 
Or add one moment unto lift's poor dower; 

Can seize to-morrow « lisi Il-.Iliv ii'j.'cit J ■ 

Bund up — tho pri/o of honor proudly inks : 
Thinu u a high and most courageous part ; 
, Then he aot slab by lodolence'e dan ! 
Bat ia ibe noble nrifc ho 6rsi to lad. 
And for lira rights of Dion e'en dan lo bleed. 



on Ms JVew Eri-fnwl Weekly Herd- 
TOE FAIR QUAKERESS. 



.,r von 



-yet o. 



No pule firmrl Blii.no— n blemish 00 the pure 
Aad snowy luBlre of iis livid light — 
No radiant gem shouo beautifully through 
The shadowing of her tresses, ass alar 
Through the dark sky of midnight; and no wreath 



Of oi 



mbernuacolyoocl 



and lip, 



>arly jnlap, tlte stupifying 
mill tli.' st i in ij lut i Li g ■-Dfkta.il, may wo not e 
tin iclnil'. hull, Hu-titiiiicrtt him tip.' 

OBttoallsentime 
uf decency, callous to all sense of shame, as 
' ,-niJlhiafrcultiesintheintn^icatingboi . 
indulge in habits of drunkenness, till he 
unes a loathsome anil disgusting object to 

Ids nearest and dearest friends; can 

with the ancient writer exclaim. As 
in Ihc whale's bdly at Uasi three days and three. 

When we see the young man hurrying along 
in tlii; pursuit of pleasure — following thn idr 
phantom tlirough every scene ofdissipati 
— in mirth anil revelry, in carousals and brm 
els — may wu nut say, the ichide halh nealloictd 

When an individual becomes the constant 
tteudant on tho gaming table— risks hi 
me, tlie ponce and happiness of his fo 
u Uio shuffle of a card, or the throwing of the 
ice — can wo not also exclaim, the whale halh 
' Sfcitftou'ctl him up J 

to sec families of moderate fortum 
e precepts, or economy, to dash on 
extravagance of the times, aping 

all been swallowed tip the whaled 

When wo see the merchant neglect hi: 
counting room ; entrust his business* loiipviil; 
and clerks, while ho dashes away in his git 
' lurriclo, drinks cbampnigne at the Hotel 
iiiirieriil water ;il the .Springs— may wi 
■-r Il,:it flu whiU \i,ll fu'nltw hint tij, .' 
lion wo sei! tilt! politician triivellinj 
igh the ci-iinr ry, tiutaus.niing tin. 1 luob ri 
ilf-rs mill gatherings ; drinking whiskey u 



' ;.ll th 



Moved dewn the dance 1 
Is lighted up like snnihiu 
Of the light viol and llio 
Aad the deep tones of in 



, mid the versed in all 

ce to music, when the hall 
id the them 
loir Ante, 
lod softened down 

She has not mingled with the hollow world, 
Nor tampered with its mockeries, nntil all 
Thn delicate perceptions or the heart— 

Of maiden dignity, are lost withb 

The maze or rashion and the din of crowds, 

Yet beamy halh its homage. Kings ban bowed 



For tho regard nil glances of a child. 
Yea— the high nnes nnd powerful of EBith— 
Tho helmed sons of victory— the grave 
And schooled philosophers — the giant men 



viespun dinners, and making stump or^ 

stead ofnince, he will timl himself at the end, 
in Ike billy of the whale? 

In line, my reinleiv. wc mnv rencirk, bv way 
of improvement, lliat the whales of this litter 
day are much more voracious than that of old 
inasmuch as the whale which swallowed the 
prophet Jonah cast him forth again after the 
■bird day. But in our days, when I 
nortol once gets within die jaws of 
iter, he is lost forever ; ho is not so 
is to be vomited forth on dry land. 
A LEARNED DOCTOR 

The Editors of the Lynchburg Virginia 



To the Publik Peple. 
In efferia of my samcii to my folio citesens as a 

has fur ihesejlait nine month pul^puda the 

and 1 do hope that my nuteral turn and It 
I..:;. Mi. iviili die most closest oliservation wi 
le me to the publik conl'edence. It would b 



M^^d >«i>» ii Simples 
omboor, gymsqm weeds am 

oilier pluiTts^r the same k 
lud ii good deal leiiens 



ended any of Ibeu United 

■hat will° b« ut olijiMien'w 
leal online collidgs fellows 

I udV vo a^send w Kt™ 
e a pursan fiai of his back 
uld nd donte E ivo him cold 



u.tha tuneful greeting of a 



Nor deem ya that hen! 



man, whu esirrieil a Imnl from Scotland 
the Irish Channel, to prove to his coun- 
trymen, that it would live in Ireland, in spite of 
orcism of St. Patrick. This toad lived 
im several years, and grew ho tame, that 
if would come of .Is own accord tobe fed. lu 
tc food wasearth- worms and slugs. Dur- 
<■ winter it r-'gularly disappeared, secret- 

l..nln, in mjii,,. eeiiv.-nient ri-ire.it 

7 iu hiberntttioo. When tlte weatlicr 
become warm agiin, in spring, it never railed 
to sppoar, and sometimes oven returned into 
Uw pailor to &wetuicn its roluiiir— FeruiBin. 



' A TREE OF LIFE. 

Tlie .Wiznrmvi: Ir'f.the grutrth oftho Pam- 
is and other provinces in South America, 

:prcssly provided by 

nance oi the rude in- 
id, if it were by 
an accident to be exterminated, it js scarcely 
too much to say that tho population would fol- 
low it ! It is the universal sustenance of the 
poor, the idle, and the destitute I there ia 
drink made from its bean-like pod, which 
really excel lent— its seeds are ground into pai- 
ns tho general food for cattle— and its branch- 
es, which ore studded with sharp-pointed 
;■:..! ui'..i.|.w.l to- 
gether into a sort of palisade, which even 
stowing bull will notattempt to break through, 
though he see the tempting pasture on the 
other side. Tho wood, too, is not only excel- 
lent for all agricultural nnd anilnteetnrul pur- 
poses, but is, from its hard and solid tr 

almost as durable as coals, for fuel. F 
even dogs are fond of the pod, and pigs fatten 
on it bciur than on any other food. The former 
will 'often leavo their homes, and live ir 
gamiva woods as long as the pod is in sen 
and tho poor inhabitants will none of them ■ 
— nor need they— whilo Clint portion of the al- 
garrova tree lasts. 

l OW KB OF HABIT. 

In regard to food, it is very certain that hab- 
it can raise us above the standard of ordinary 
men. * Meat and drink to which we are ac- 
customed,' says Hippocrates, ' agree with us, 
though naturally [>ernicious! but not those 
aliments to which we lire ncnuslnuicil, though 
naturallywholesome; 1 and hence tiirth lie con- 
cludes tii at it is more beneficial to adhere to the 
same sorts of food than to change them abrupt- 
ly, even though wo substitute better in their 
ntead. Alexander the great, when in India, 
Ten nd itneecisnry to forbid his army the use of 
wholesome food, because it carriedofitho men, 
owing to their not being 



jfCelBUa,that, 'what- 
ever is contrary to their habits, whether it be 
liard or soft, is prejudicial to health.' 

Libiin iiiliimrs us, that the Ethiopians cat 
scorpions, and Mcrcuriolis states that the 
Went Indiana out toads. It is said in I'adua 
and Rome there wore two children win, ate 
scorpions, and a girl took pleasure in eating 
frogs, lhtards, serpents and mice, and all sorts 
orinseots. Another nto live lizards ami cater- 
pillars with pepper and vinegar. Of spider 
eaters, who grew fat tunui ilie-e dis-gus'i iug in- 
" t holf n iWn iu-ta.ii c- 
i. Galen relotcs of an 
old woman, lliut she had gradual I v Imhirusitt.'d 
herself to make ainetd ofheimocfc ; and Bee* 
tus Ihupiricus us.iurc^ us. that there have been 
persons who have taken thirty drachms of 
that poison without injury. A student at llnlie 

which he took with his food "from a boy; and 
though at limt it occasioned vomiting, yet in 
time he could bear a considerable miuutity. 

himself needlessly to physic, breaks down the 

cany him in safety over tho abyss of disease. 

ON FEAK. 

The passion of fear sometimes shews itself 

most unlikefyto entertain such a guest A 
French author related a whimsical instance 
of this kind ('buries Custavus, of Sweden, 
ras besieging Prague, when a boor of must 
•aronrdisuiry visile de-insil admittance In Ins 
cut, aud being allowed onlruuce. utlerotl, bv 
:ay of amusing the King, to dov„ur a whole 

'& old't^enend Korlin^, re, '"h P Tood b°' 

ad not got rid of the prejudices of his child- 
ood.hiiiled tn hiu royid muster, that the peus- 
ni ought tube burnt tis a Sorcerer. 'Sire,' 
aid Uio follow, irritated nt the remark, 'if 
unr Majesty will but make that nlil eenlle- 
nati take off Ids sword and his spurs, f will eat 

him before your face hetbre I begin the pig.' 

Cri. Keniugsmaro (who had, at the head of r 



mdy of Swedes, performed wonders against 
' ■ \llHlriuus. ami who was lenkod upeii as 
.fjhe bravest men of the age,) could nut 

amed by a mont h.ile.ei-i mul |ireternatii- 

i|.luisi if the Iriehilii] pr'ssiml's jaws. 

uut uttering a word, I lie vi'Iitiui siuhlmdi 
drotmd,ranoutol't.hc et.urt, am! ilnni.'h't 
■It' nnsal'e till lio hail arrived ill Ins quar- 
... . where he remained twenty-four hours, 
locked up, securely, before he had got rid of 
the jianic which had so severely affected him. 



earned Judgo, ia England, whilo trying a i 
injahip desired oaa of the officers to make 



mote honesty a man has, the less he affei 
■ or a saint : the alluclalion of ssictitj ii 
bbUk on lie law gf piety.— lava tor. 



Trim's tipUmtdiw of the A'i/U. t'oinaiun.f- 
meni.— ' Pr'ythee, Trim,' quotli my father— 
'.what dost thou mean, by honoring thy father 
and mother ? ' 

'Allowing them, an't please your honor, 
three, halfpence r: day, nut. of my pay, when 
they grow old. 1 ' And didst thou do that. 
Turn ?' said Yorick. 1 He did indeed,' repli- 
ed my uncle Toby.—' Then, Trim,' said Yo- 
rick, springing out of his choir, and taking the 
Corporal by the hand, ' thou art. the best com- 
mentator upon that part of the Decalogue; 
and I honor thee more for it, Corporal Trim, 
than ii' thou lindnt liad a bund in the Talmud 
itself.'— [Seme. 

Cohiho to tsk Fomr.— A yonng lady whda 
walking with a gentleman, stumbled, and when h*r 
companion, to prevent her fall, grasped her hand 
somewhat tightly, ' Oh, sir 1 1 she simpered, ' if it 



MORAL. 



BOSKET 
is lonk buck on hours long put a? 



Still flies unwearied Time-on still we go— 

And whither — (Into endless weal or wo. 
As wo huve wrought our parts in this brief play. 
Vet many have I seen, whose, thiu hlonch'd locks 

Bat ill became a head where Folly dwelt ; 
Who, having past the storm with ill iu shacks, 

Had nothing learnt from wlial dley saw or fell. 
Crate spirits ! that can look with heedless tje 
On doom unchangeable, and fill eternity I 



QUESTIONS ON PEACE. 

iminendsble la it not congenial with thi best 
atrocious =r human nam™ • Jioes not the Spirit 
ffPsac spring from the love of Uod nnd man ;— 
Joes it not promote the exercise of love, good-will, 
nd benevolence '—Is nut Peace in our fi.uili*,, in 

he world, "truly d^Rble":— Is uo't Peace "he ^a! 
enl or many blessings;— [lave not Chris' -~t 
Aposllas commanded all men la live in pi 



r? -rr£cot D Len,a 
' Penes wilh Cud >i 



the desi-a or 
utijtcl el' the 



it Puacs oue or the last li 

. ( „..llt|.d l„ Iu. felluwe.i: If ,,„, (.■,e J l„, t,e ■ 
Uod ofPeacn; e„r IteileLin,:,. tl„. }•„,„., 
Penes ; oar Sanelilitr. dir. Spiril „f J We ; and 
■„„ ^.„.!.. i.- Is:.™ I„. il, e l.oipelorPeac*; j, 

lloV.toT^Th^SoBs^ofPeaee [ ° P " >1 ™ *■ " 

■■'i- '". U»- I'.l ■ \:l..:"s." li ;.|'u, 

iropu.ed fur your farther consideration. 

«l™' 0 to ™" glemLiriir 9 ?il,"hul nVei^oc 



THE FKESS, 
It "a worthy of remark that the irt of printing, 
' i u' P Xr'tl''se" n Bt' n0 '"l" 10 n'"" J ' w, "'' l - ia 
wed to mingle with and inllaeniie^tho' "aws. 

Whether there bo any -i: Ii n v , ..mmeitiua 

btween this art, and pure rcliciei,, w,'-hi,]| , 10[U |_ 
impt to decide. It is clear, however, that this art, 

bio ; that it bus spread with fjliristkinily,— fotsll mis. 



influenced by CI 



' 11 Lltsrilid ! leave 



sarly limited by Ibo b 



3 PRAVEIt. 

or Miulngmcar Is the rol- 
id to bo used by the Mod- 



speck.^ O nfost Mighty I because I am weak. O 
Itource or Lire I because 1 draw nisb to tho irrave 

" n -^- 1 ' ' - J -^- - oAn- 



iseirby hH friendly aud 



O All-Sullicie 
to Chrut.— LtAb.tr, in 



his original style, says ! — • God does net draw men 
as the/hangman palls a thief up the loddnr, sod on 
to tho gallows ; hot hs kindly allures aud attaches 



Is there is any liarm in doing tlbis I ' The nueatieu 
ioIvcs aiMttoi 1— ' U that* any Urn in hmuf j| 



THIS LIBERATOR. 



WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON AND ISAAC KNAPP, PUBLISHERS. 



[NO. 6. 



Boston, Massachusetts.] 



a COUNTRY IS THE WORLD — OUR COUNTRYMEN ARE. MANKIND. [SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1831. 



& silos a 2? ©is 

„- AT NO. 11, MERCHANTS' HALL. 
Wit LLOYD GARRISON, EDITOR. 



Jt3» Two Dollars pe 
JO* No sobscriptior 



1C3* All leLtera and commnnict 



THE LIBEHATOB, 



kite nendtipnc fraud, and ImMI rnpi*', 
id ntftor blond, thn/ ihatt etk'l lei'h india- 
iliin tAe teitd awl guilty fantasy, thai man 
;n twl<l prap'rty iti tnan .' ' — II Hour n * ni- 



■ Dnn't you 
u, nol long sit 



' Ml*-. ;t- W- : ; MlH ■■ 

r). I 'B loom you how 10 ran away again. 



SLAVERY. IN MISSISSIPPI. 

Thj following oMraclrrfo letter from ■ lady in 
Miv^aippl, (Ihvorubly known in MaMchosolht, it 
b m.kl, ns Ihe ' Maid or I In (irtwo.'l 10 her Nephew 
Id lh'*3laM, wo find in Iho New-Hedfonl Weekly 
It, Thewriler, hsee.no, noes cm find Iho 

^ continuing r>]avurv, (!) onlil emancipation con lio 
s^clod by a gradual process. ' Whether llti* lady 



II President c( Iho United 
;y. If the people prefc 



i Hon should you like to liave a block m 
your daughter ; ' 

' 1 am not mn tried — 1 have DO daughter. 

suy, thai slaveholders generally >hoold lit 
rsonsto afieel rastidiuusueai on lhal po 
sy seem lo be enamored wilh ur,i.f/_: rrrji .. 



Hon 



n Maryland =>liivf:l 



SPIRIT OP VERMONT. 
Tho editor of ihe ■ Mom of the Ureen 
ins'— a spirited paper published m Mimi 

ituber, nsi (lie lobowing energetic language on 
the subject of slavery : 

II h devoted to Iho B1UO ofBrnnnc^pnt 



„ ity — n.meJO thinf-ilko gui 
inns soil h-"~ u 



Thefuro neither so well treated, asa body, by Ibnir 

hub Tpon their sonls. Hot hi It is. Our New 

MM nnd there they ' tint endure, then pity. thoi 
emhrioe ' thu horrid monster, nnd send borne pulli 
alive* in bohulf or sonl-buyera «"1 soul-dcstroyeri 

Iho dominion or Yankee task-masters ! 

W» ore not surprised 10 learn, Ihsl ■ very man 
nii'imvi; slavrlmlders in Mississippi ' in friendly I 



(ilsdlywooW I complete 1 
cr of tm adopted Suite, h 



*tled slaveholder. They are copied Com the list 
imberof the Genius ,.f Vnwtnal 

leu enriches ils pages with her prodnolions, 
^TIIE KING-FISHEH,^ 



The deep clear lint of their own pore Hue. 

Hut wbal that is bright, on earth may tut.' 
Soon wore the days of bur sunshine past : 
On come Iho slorm-wiuds muttering loud, 
i-ii.j before [Iiliii the thunder cloud ;■ 
And bster, as Boshed the lighniug's Same, 
Dashing to curlhlhe slcy-iorienls come. 



Till high aroond h< 
Oh! if affection lik 



^'nJ'^Avi ha" 'riVds/hrf^p'r^ Ilia 



JlsariiViSkatS 



kidnap a fellow being, or hold him in bondage : 

iesa's'iurulinlhosightorGo.l.' 

The man und his crow were confounded. What ! 
to hear such seuiiraenu in Mary load, —and in jail, 
loo! Looking them full in iho foce, and. getting 
no reply, I walked a Tew steps to tho door. After 



ifl them when "tar ^"whi^^ 

or actinn,_New-Englund most hcar^ 

^iDtic^N ew^jgUind- 1 lei °tho" torch* c I 
„■ light.-.!, f> avert the doom th u oil 



lavery is righl.' 

'Ah!' replied I, 'that is a 
olo crconduct. I have alwa 

ihape of fraud nnd oppreseioi 
ihookl be glad to hear your lei 



nting, even — what reuiainu to Ijo proved— lhal c 
Africuns are Ihe desoondauta of Ham, Koul 
10 was ■ prerfirliou of Tuture icriilu.l,-. and i 



happy n 



OVR FRI5E < tJlNTRV I 

ion from 'the pen of Mrs B ] lale. recendj- puhlisl 



re cannel ima 
uiitrjf Ij.ok 



liillowing eilract from Ihe Diary or Judge 
" ScwIilUollhwHinle, shows on early friend Ic 
jf einantiipiiuoii .unl Lli.- ligliln i,f |U.< 1,1 



In homage lo a mnrlul power : 
, never iieec lias tyrant reigned, 
,ti never here has Ihonght been chained. 
" Then who would fullow liusope-s sickly light, 
When here ihe soul may put forth all her migll 
And shew the nations as they gnie in nwo. 
I'hoi wisilam thvelh wilh Liberty and Law ! 

'■I'ree.hnn o'er all the earlb.aatl liod aleue nigns Uan 



'a daathless nature prest ! 

rds that are cherished then ; 
.mother's rrantie haW, 

' :i.i ^:ii :l : 



j ring hand, lo lite idle 1 



oved, and fitted &flU — the object being 
ave traders li.-ii, using Ibe eotmly jaui 



f Iho Stale by descent, devise or mi 
rith the descendants 0 r each. Slav, 
ravelins ]i.is*iilg through Iho Stale al 

Until the testimony or persons o 
vhilo criminals bo admissible in our 
I justice, all laws erucled for Iheir 
umpsraliiely nugatory 



Wlthoai 



in ivvii!tn:l;y, 
:mM« of Jan. 



nviit «iil !,. 



mostcrae] Irenlinent. Slajeholders are totaBy in- 
capacilalcd 10 legislale humnaely and wisely in be- 
half of their iIbyos. ■ Trust not,' eiid the late S«- 
relsry Canning of England, in 17113, in speaking of 
Colo a inl Slavery— .tad an experience of thirty yean 
has proved the truth of Ills words :—■ trust not the 



THE LIBERATOR. 



WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON AND ISAAC KNAPP, PUBLISHERS. 



[NO. 7. 



Boston, Massachusetts.] 



OUR COCNTRY IS THE WORLD — Oil it" COUNTRYMEN ARE MANKIND. [SATURDAY, FEBRUARY ]2, 1831. 



AT NO.* 11, ME It CHANTS' HALL. 
WJH. LLOYD GARRISON, EDITOR. 

ICPTwoDiilbirspcrannum, payable in advance. 
ICT AgoBii allowed every sislh copy ^ ^ 

or period than sis moults. 



THE LIBERAIOB. 



A VOICR PROM SEff-YORK! 
Id the fnori\pninber of the Liberator, we n 
lionod llio formation of a ColonffiHiou Soi.iel 
New-York, nutiliarv to the Parent Society, and 



Uowing • liesololions of Hut People < 



York, llnd Id Ik palilislled. together with these Hes- 

olutions, ii nil [he same ho signed by Ihu Chr : 

and Secretary. 



P Deli., Secretary. 



oris. To our prejudice, w 



I subject ; they ore opposed to eloign 
its the. auk, the tunra viulent "^^P^ 

q 5 q 5 

.: ESOL1 i AC. 



ilemnly protest against that Christian philur 
hick, in acknowliidging onr wrongs, eoit 



V 111.' V III ill.. Mine el' lllrr.-G ' lighlS " 
, >, Imi. ^i., ! , ili;.i wh. ;it.- L ;l .li-hn. I ■nil Hi'.'. 



lining wealthy find lenrned men, and 



ngage actively in trie furtherance or plans for 
nprovemeiit of ear ninrnl and pnlil,,;.! fen, li 
i the country of oar liillb. It is loo lute nov 
i.in.l -villi i nl'.i 1 1.> lily :iny line of iho rocee of in 



beruaen u* und Ihu whites, and givo to prejudice 
icnfijld , ignr. L[ bus produced u mistaken scnlant 
towrjrd* us. Africa id considered [he home ef the 

dr^jJiHrMfortiwd into a 1 mavriannry .' to instruct 
the pint iples of Christianity, and the arts of civiiii 
life. Tlte Friends liavu been the lost to nid Ibesy 
tem pvvuod by the Society's advocates. And i 
rav jfjt Me feel it) thul in proportion us the; bccoi 



jui-i tn benefit us, why not 
heru^ Wlml keeps us dawn bu 



t employ 



Lnu»ii[ ii- 



will not encourage them, 
inferior .ice. Look el [he glaring injustice InwaJ 



i gentlemen know but little ofa luge purlin 
ilororj population uf this city. Their opir 



OOMMUIIIOATIOHS. 

[Cpllerc is additional evidence of the omWn 
ble opinion entertained by our colored brethre 
rclaUvc 10 African colouiintinn. H e like to hoy 



in evident, In any in 
vide his work entitled I 



Africa DniSrHd ; end that w 



impossible fur any while 
renon to oust tnnre. I deny it. Will some ef 
Iidbu guardiau angels of the people of color (dim* 

r state with thoniselres, can live any longer b) At- 

ertion that any man of common settee could make, 
iilara it is supposed, bi some have already said, 
nut we are void of understanding. If we had been 
om on that continent, the transportation would be 

onsider the ['oiled Stales our Borne, and not ATricr. 
s [hey wish [a make us believe ; — and if wo do 
migrate, it will be to a place of our own chain*. 
1 nuuld also mention to the supporters of the Coo- 



ts ohildrefi it is almost im, 

:es generally 

i.iiiricv i; -■■■■.l:ii: : ;. .vli.L-lt is 
id among laborers, there it * 



nun of color to be seen, whni 



ill only »y. 



TO THE PEOPLE OF COLOH. 

Why inactive? why asleep ? why this prodigal- 

hsraj! Throw off jour inertoets 1 far too long 



inihilatiou of these habits, that men aspire 
ii [liin^^. And arc you no[ mtn— farmed 

.ili,.r ut'tlie Im n species— moolded ufler 

image oryonr Crnur— endowed with a- 
Nvc-ifd „ II ii,, jntiViLoiis which De- 



Rome up, and dispereo the mists of igno. 

edge illumine your minds. Hive there not 
samples enough among yon to convince *"* 
keplicnt, that you are susceptible of all thai 
man powerful! Have not Iho columns of 
the Liberator already evinced, that yon ore able In 



And first, 1 weald suggest the propriety of esCsb- 
lilitirj reading, debating societies. So. If you can. 

■ by the 



imted eiortions. O, bow viio, 
that all which is oeedfnl fiw 



>ur benevolent white friends. They have den 
uch, it is true, and (iod will abundantly reward 
em. Yes — tboir nuines w ill be recorded on the 
mala nHline, and thousands yet unborn wdlpsj ■ 
of gratitude la their memory. Rot tbnre 



sM(W 



and yon 
to lite wheels. 



n do it 



T. ITERART; 1HI8CE HUMPS AMD MORAL. 



IITBB ART. 




uly, and am to have no pension ! They ara gaing 


MORAL. 




ALBUMS. 




THE CONVERTED HEATHEN. 


A lovely Apparition. »nl P ° ' 






Tfy Rev. JVm- Swan, AliKsiontty at Sttingiruk. 
There mi a man whose vary name once ahed 








w T h W . d °™ "J d ^ 1 ' °" 0, " r h y" d ° , h °°1 d d ; 
















It. solace in Iho wild distracted eooad 














• !ls:: £™^.^«,'. 


Or children wailing when Ihe mo islened 'ground 
Deslmclion his delight, his pastime to give pita. 








■\ d'h"" 1 ! '"h "' "*u ^ 'n™ 6 " 1 *'" p ' 




known In | '^^*™^ i " 0 °'i C ^ il l0 ; '": 
ZtZvLlX Wtttar ha, ,\Jg»iM~t. 






A Creatarc m loo b.igbl or good 


ltd monition., nfTeclionrde appeals, * irtu °" s nnD e'" 1 ' 








:hon with pointed BilosioD., dimgiutiog hyperbole, and | 








There ore those who wing Ihronch Ihe wbolo 




Dindi'r^o^e '^Lt^'^,' ^ 
He reads the page enroll. ; his Penis remove ; 




and ingcoiou. comparison., In-dry embellishment.. 






r "tr, 




W0.D.1T(.IIT8. 


rut gem of nighl, thoy multiply parallels and rasero- 




ORTHODOXY AN V INFIDELITY. 


They have told mo lhat than nil 






llui.iiiii'r [ .lluabi are either r/ot.is, ot enecara. 






ging aad helping other, to do, every indi^atably 


They hito-iol.l mn ihnl in lom, 
Pride and envy nils Ihy breasl ; 


Now, coinpluiwnU .re rcdundnnt aad cheap; and 




f.'r ,n Cn- ii'"'-" ih. Ni" 1 '"ef Bnive'rMl'°T'lat 


Tell melrulyi'yosomo, . 


— tj M i' U rf-n h "v- ra iBjr'iyhitrL'^CiiMd 






Tell ine.lody.kilu.' 


MISOELLAITEOnS. 




)ir>. ( ...Mi.«i lo iI,, l. wetilih. ^ Ihose •>'""*»r ih» 


We.e my rival near In Ihco : 


HOW TO (JET A PENSION. 




t/£r™me^"lhj^ 


Thai lliose cheek,. thus over-proad 






^'^"a^eq^iv'dlh'eie™ fc r "a!I lh^ 








Sabtalh 8dXtl"™he. tre a^makin" aToeh.1 
!!lo* oHlie' ^i™™ Well''; ,, bem°aro owLyce"a™ B , 




TiFpSHFJeTZ ofth* three immortal 




po^' TC"i!ti™, -snnt'l 0 pbl°WelnsiIe5 


riuhnTC are'Tp of pile, 












Burind.in his Anatomy on Jive Melancholy, nite. 




No'l that I believe Iheni— yet. 












S'™]i'S.2jSK. , iMZ , i£™ 




HOW SLEEP THE ROOD I 
How .leep Ihe goad, who sinlt to real 








When spring, wilh *nfy finger, mid. 
Betwm 10 deck their hallowed mould, 


ijty'k nil day , and "do? 'not* retum mlillf ™ lin« 






Ttail h rncy l >fee't™ve7"M^od' d ' 






Vy form, onseeti Their dirge I. solig : 
The™ honor corns, a pilgrim grey, 
To Wihh the turf llial »H|B their clay ; 
And freedom "bell awhile repair, 
To dwell a weeping hermit there. 


Ilicy were duiru/al the t'nle do In ifrave. 






the poo. boy then p/u killed Ihtrtf 




dor tliem unable u do onoagh ; aad when pove.lj 


BLEEP 








The f.irest thing mai human eye, may iitw. 
An the glad morning uf the mind il.iwrd through : 


lis pant™ loon* and hid thmn, lo piovenl his going oat 




g,eat and e,i«-.a.ivo opemlion-, Ihe P«Jk*U^ of 
Ihe a^plieafioo U^oVnTealth aa^S"'.^ 


Thete wdHIcx lip* mi yet hove only smiled 
On life, nor hath on evil mini dao'led 


Henlly, 1 don't know where he col the punlnlnow 




in bonsiral hat fraill«K epecolajiot*. ^Orthodoi pbi- 


EyMlhslnre closed like How™, whoso tears Iredew 














EJ-riGACY OF A REVIVAL. 










Tbu oga ilioll find them Hill uuclillled by crime 0 




;{!;'*] i *rTifS%S?? 




FIDELITY OF WOMAN. " 








Net .he with tn.lto.Od. k„ her Sa.ioo, <hmg ; 
Not she denied him with unholy tongue ; 
fiho, while apostles ihraok, coold danger brave, 
Lost at ha cruaf, oud earliest at iiis grave ! 


n °No'. °™ 

Not .uthcient, indeed. 1 have lom my wi in lb 
Ibrco jniiuunnl day. ol'the aTlh, and M 0 


sssrs-ssiassaras. 


i gToce of broaches, a watch' machine, ncnu hies. &c. 
' 4 Ji u.ucnj'l. 



THIS LIBERATOR. 



WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON AND ISAAC KNAPP, PUBLISHERS. 



Boston, Massachusetts.) 



OUR COUNTRY I: 



F. WORLD OUR COUNTRYMEN ARE MANKIND. 



[Saturday, Atkil-16, 1831. 



:? :& a & ui $ it t 

SLAVERY OF THE OTEGROES, 

vaiTTii in thi mi 1776. 
By Thanvu Day, Esq. Author of ' Sandfard Merlon 

ADVERTISEMENT, 



LOther, infiilK liis person, or force him to labor for our 
rv or caprice, iihtoIv because he is weaker; this princi- 
vill bo equnlly fatal to ourselves, when Ibrtunc shalUtrip 

of soperiuriiv. Ymi sn' :■"> r^u-inber llmt, upon thin 
nsitinn, vinir Slaves, the instnut tln v ahull become the 
lfjofit, "ill have n riiiht 1" the servirw of yourself and 
y other fjontlenuiii ul'tho siuitliern colonies; will hove a 



;hn! ,<l 



SB Tot 



,r„h y™ 



goad you to overv species of servife drudgery, and punLHi 
fou for their amusement and caprice; wifl have a right to 
aiist yonr youth in *'-rviniil". nnd !■■ abandon your age to 
tchodness and di*cnsi's : in mio *id, fcir, they will have 



■ l 'Thl, B oul' n r i 



(treslest possiBlc Aigrci 
whieh, either by fraud o 
sonal security of indiv 
things which they have 



On the contrary, every disposition, 
iolcnce, tends to interrupt the per- 
-I-. or to deprive them of those 
|uired by their industry, is detri- 
, . ness, and would, if carried to tho 
hie degree, entirely, destroy that £art of the 

.hicii beings endowed with particular faculties 
other; which rules, when properly observed, 



?rinl hMuh upon i 
e father, we shall fin 



tic ''wilfdeny 1 these* 
, as the impression; 

are by the moral ista 
■d by different mo- 
; while natural re- 
to believe that the 
t ah attention to thi 

tedly' below. But 

t ; the clouds whicl 
nnd tlie gradual pro 
ors and diSicukies 
srfnincd. 

is easy to apply then 
nd'w, therefore, a 



at 



:testnble tlinn rubber 



, yet that every o 
i; and that while c< 
e Deity in 



.- an; guilty of no faults? 



ic rights which yoe. 
tircly lost them by 
s to 6e beyond the 



to prove yonr strength; 
li.' iT.ninil r.i fcL'il vf'iir 
lr would you rip up the. 
■n iiliiiL" him, to improve 
ivmihl, nor dan' von rum- 
youhave no right to do 



she P detends her chastity? Either 
their labors, or acknowledge that 



;■!.-- mrti : 



T H E LIBERATOR. 



fresh, nnd <ivan boldly, if occasion impi'irc it Hul 



iour colored ctoinnnd rn 
i be iBtioririutgd b. thi* m 
i bighm degree cscnN.T 



■I JUTEMILB DBF AHTMEITT . 



IMUIC, 111... 

... n»<l i-u I. 




relieve Ihc onjjtMx.'il is tlm' n..i'i pjorinu' 
i mui in capable (it; jl i* in wine measure doinj- ll 
; bualnoH of Hod and Providence. 



lhgtrvlowo, Md. to ei^iyou™«ideighlnKinihi 
nfinemenl in lbs Poniienlinry, for nn null mid 
llcry upon 0 while man , mid nooning • >!«■> 



I »u [[linking if Ihey hod [I 



LITERARY, MISCELLAM EOUS AND MORAL. 



LITERARY, 



FC7" We ure surprised lo see the following wr 
like orticCu io Ihe Southern Religious Telegraph, I 
two reasons— Em, tile editor ufthot paper nrafeaj 
id tie d minister D r the Prince or Puce— and « 
nndly, the >|iiril of Ihe address fully authorises ll 
.laves lo lit upaodoUermiunlu their mute™, lfll 
Pule may kill their tyrants, why may Dot the blucki 

ADDRESS TO POLAND, 
W™"« uZ BeZ^LeTruin *lSiS'— "" Hy ™*' 
i'^ti IIpa * r ° 11 ! hl1 t; " pt '' nl > Heeding country savt 
ViM though deslroction sweep time lovely plains. 



■jr Cur. 



The sleep she bus 50 long ci 
To freedom's holy light advam 
Deep wading tl. rough In.r ij 

The cloud which hovered o'er 

And ihs hns sworn n vnlijint br 



ml culling 111 



Thalb 



The Almighty Maker's conquering form— 
"fx Ho commands you not 10 bow. 

'TLi He who rode upon the cloud, 
Tlial seemed like pillowed fire above, 

"i'ia He who spoke, the heavens bowed. 
And echoed Ibrih Lb: power und love. 



Polnnd, arise ! hear from Ike went.. 

Tlie shouts „r brother, hail your 1 
Yam effort, si, nil bn nokly Lint, 
'K V ^^ 1 " r '" r ' ce ' l0BI '' , "' l > b "' 

THE GRAVE. 

How sweet to sleep where nil i. per, 
Where sorrow cannot reach Iho In 
Where all life', idle throbbing- cess 



And lowly griof ood lordly pride 

Lie down, like brothers, lido by tide I 

The hrenth of slander cannot come 

To break (he calm Hint lingers there 
There ■ no dreaming in the tomb. 

Nor waking 10 despair I 
Unkindncss eonnot wound us more 



IH ISCELLiliioiIS, 



When twu human beings meet together, or what 
:on»quenco a Iho color of their skiiS 10 llwi, mutu- 

niinds 1 Z°co'" l .^T UCli0n he'' l;0nV6 ' , ° lli ' 1 ''' 

So^n™ hafoDO 1 ^ b'fe'k '"ThT" h aim ^™™| 

was iho, of n gcnllomon and a philosopher, alUiou/h 
akin was us black as jet : And wbero was the 

''-' ' - dnys oi '/■„,„, „;„,. D f liberal and 

'"■sscd wind, nhn ninlj not listen villi uVIMit 1.1 
■od in u.. circle Hint Jul 
irom ins hps. Ue possessed go- 

— „■.„,„,, ,vho would ili-jiku n, mud, „r 

these a, he did, if not dopreswd by the gulling yoke 

ifivery, iLinl'uriLu f u-jinni,,,^, „, i !,„ ,..,", unl- 

™h£ -Jlfri p " Jo /^ Piejudice cm the pan of 



1 Ho 



9 of fear, 



It speaks of wo burning victim's cry. 
On the heathen *i vengeful pile ; 

And bids him see, when orphans sigh, 
The exulting murderer's smile ! 



■""ill tlm ;i,nrney of Earth, 



'Lh.,IV.i: ( ,«-in 3 anonymous letter was received by 

-I l Jill Ii. I'etill.. I.-.I. ailll.l"il till! I'll.t tlllifi! Oil ill"' 

l-Lth April. 



■ Lord Jesus Christ, 1 



Who uinlui hlTcr 



ionlhfdl 



ii:l I, 



And Passion's pulse lies hushed and Kill, 
Beyond the ruach of iho Tempter's skill. 
Tils mother — sbn holh gone lo sleep, 
With her babe open her breast— 



[ollu, the day before Good Frkloy of Inst y, 
■ in linn -rtiic person.,™ imbiliKllhuit™, 
or 1„. kli.iuii, p.i~,ti B lineup III.- L|;,.|. lf in, |„ 

"cli" and" T^lh' '"""J "ha*" 2* 
im'™™xktoi Jok^'aI! PC "°'" : " """ 
Ihe male pnpulntion orMullu belong 10 ecctofiosueu 
or monastic orders. It is ronMuknblu to what an el 

. the vi™ 0 f^ re p^p| s ° Ve Cages' ^Tlfc 
her are in every .hep. Even^drnm Kller 
lamp over barntng in tlie evening before om 
pictures, in n corupicnuus place. ]| in snk 

... r . -jrning horuro the Virgin, to i,„ 0 ko her aid ii 
gatnmg tlie wages ofpio-rittitiun. 

^ Singular Dnvlliiigt.— Ths Georgian or Tnnai 

the lop is covered with beams of wood, llranchn'o 

mnkes it love] with'lha grou™ The^nntiva'are 

mo q ic^u'rwmTu JP f'rt' , ' he i' " JB S "' b ? 

the Inmlw 10 fall through" n'nd b^H'w 



groeerul than all nili. .-.IwoiiM | n„ lir „ : 

mtiping willow. Its longsilk-likebongbs'droopri 
lass ponsively lhan llw eye-lids of some sleepi 



CmUinil.- Iltir Tnir renders ere rrapeclfully m- 
''aT" .■n. t lem-m t tbr''wh 0 , '''Ih " f ee ™"''"" lD " 
then or5iL7f^nLTp/L,.*™™^ 
of Flora's dictionary, ,1 is generally understood as 
an evidence of prr/ercrcc eve, oil ether snilor,.- 

ver u ronimr.rh.sl offered' l<i '',,.„ ,,„. 
irstnnd,^ ■ how much the youth is dutzled by 
inrms; exhibit then the f/ r .rr?i upp't, end 



Who i, Inaving hi. father', soil, 
With the heavy heart of n eonquced foe 

Through a weary way In toil. 
"Tis Pity's voice Hint ii brenlhing low- 

'Ti. Pity's voice, tha^is nTver'slow 
To relieve 0 mm** pain ; 

And rcorful gloom 1. shadowing lliem. 
Where Religion', tone is still ; 



Ofnt 



bound! 



Untouched hy the piercing sound .' 
Creatures that reason hnili never tnight, 

Ami stem With funlm^. nl'^ympathy fraught — 
Shall wo pit; less dtun thoy 1 



Till the Pagan shout is forever still. 
Or clunged to Religion - . ™ng ; 

That in sorrow hnth lingered long 
Till Hurmnh's daughter!, shall join Iho f 

Of the great Redeemer's worth. 
And Alric's wilds respond the leys, 

Thnt swell through tlie giaiefnl earth 
Till he who roams b, Ihe Gouge,' side 

Aud the red man, long noblest. 



dcblcd for this act of jipt Festilolicn.— ['low safe"is"lt 
to trust in the Lord ! How nhle is He lo protect our 
properly Trom the evil man ! If the Lord be fur us, 
■■ L o cnu bo against us? O, nbttsed friend ! pardon 
wrong, and help to spread a gospel so honoinhlc 
Jod— » safe for man. Hovr shall we oscnpe, ir 
neglect so great a salvation 1 1 

lie Christian bo not t.._ 

rtahily deserves to be.' Mr Pete. . 

.11 enel.1,,.,1 10 th„ Home Mbisionnry Society, 
hcra it will be employed in spreading that gospel , 
Im li li:is l I b 1 1 -: mi iL.-. I intii repealunco the heart of 



FREE GROCERY STORE, 

du/li.Eo.( comer 0/ M (• JvVofc Sit. 
PHILADELPHIA. 

CPE1RCK, grateful for the encoorageraont 
■ l«-lMi:.r.-....-,ifc<l. „i.,l..„f ,/„,,,-„., 

ra ^ Cd ^e / r 7^ ™^««^'i'vT' 1 ' n ^ i ^nl 



„.e desirous or bearing Ihoi, testimony against 
e Bf, ^i t ? *^ m8 hl™ie "1° V^'di ^ m 



vingmayi.a 
from Porto 



in France and the present one in Poland,' aur 

ncntsorthe slaves in Llie wIsl'lnTi'j ," 

1 "'I'.'Iim-il ■ 1..' 
alf of tt once gallant und chlvnfoos nation 
ng under the chains or despotism, there Bj no 

gulling and degrading.— -MimcAcitir Ham, "* """^ 

A hlllr unload l.i.v ivho I111I been gent to a Ihea. 
Ire in Philndrlpliiu In >.wi.>.p tl,„ ,-Iihniiii -. >v.n f rlc iu. 
™"fj£> a W ™»n nom " d Wilkin,, who toldTiim 

mlTin oJld shook win.' skull l.ones ;u " TU-- 

hov Ml ml.. 1,1. and ,i„., s „n„ night. Wntkin. 

was committed for trial by Alderman Ituuu. 

^ J^rr«rr._l r 182b, u, 0 population of Sicily 
iiuounled to ] .TBII.dlH! soul, ; SUll.lWO of these were 



of n^hThovo 1 'rtSled 



'!. ■-. ■■!.-. 

tno lri ° B idT PPr ™ kf " orl,ilQ1 " jj2 nr pl™ 
a third pan of the hurry. ' 



From Hie Lynn Mirror. 
TUT. SABBATH. 

.miug dawns in lilenco. The light til 
tinged by the red raj, „r the rfsfng ra 



Nil Jill ill:; -,, null H't lire.iks till? sti linen of nil Ii 
■ho door. oTlhe vilfcg™ ure dosed, fur Ihe in™ 

" '!'! '"' 1 " ril 'y ..h..., ,1.111 

11.1.M1' |.ray.Tt,t tin- p,,!,, I., I , „, I, 1,.,. 



COFFEE-& JJomingo .nd Java ; nitniling 
CHOCOLATE— ilamiiactared fiom St Do- 



ple Sugar ; retjilint pri™ M ,. f .„ tH ,„,, „„]!„„ 

COTTO.V ■<—(,„■ if,,, ..„,.. !,,. ■ 

im North Cnrolinu Cotton ; retailing priw 



i.'ii. II.tLF.si',1„X!8B 4- CC 
Ml).\-_SEU.I1!S. x SMItKt.vti ,v (HE 
knturedfmmSt Don 



«Iin n TF.-IK of a superior uoulitv - 
and Common Oil, Wine., tc. orv.rioui 



s ol the long rows nf warehouses are barred 
weary horse stands rpin-ilv 111 hi- , L;I ||, ,„„( |„ M ,| 
ure no mora heard in the market place. The 
,0^™ "Tl^iTlhe'sfbh'tn ° rU ' Eir "°' Cn " 1 

A^eavy floodVflighrrolls^n silence through the 
depths orhenven. Nothing ennsmp itsTrrais. 
" • immensity or.pace b, deluged with 

■nghmcst Thedark' '-■ ■ 

I away fenrrully hero.- ,„ 
inuons nre wcaK as Iho spirits of ovil, before the 
mar oTlhe mailed archangel, They relin' in ^i. 

'^raa^ejionger or Cod. 811 linotion of 

slilluoa. ft is the pMl o C f hel'll'—l'i'oTr loud" toneS 
ugh the valley., an^ are ra-ecl»ed, 



'°Tho , d»eh™ 1 io 



if iho -inner is metier 
.tis staff, feels hlmBcir 
1 mi grace d. 



iak 3 or the ar. „ 

thousand cots, and a ihonser* 
»« " aittnmon,. Thebon 

on thu wing, or devotion, 3 it 
the acceptance ofllenven. 



hi .1 ■:„■ ,i 



tied drop, which fall on Iho forehead of 



I garden. The wotds ol 



5iilil.re.Me. 



HO. 2 Jk 3, 

I rr.ar of Dock Squarr, near the Cily Taeen 

E O S T O Iff , 

^OLOGNE^dUvend"^ 

1 A '*i'ine U a' * l>e * 11 m ^ ° f roll °' 

im., .if K.ise, .ilacaasnr end Ant; 

..osst, Bear'n Oil, Coronet Oil, Zm , 

Lssencs Soap, I*mon and Hercainol. Hun 
I Pot Pomatum, ' 

M.-..I. Vimhes und"TeTtl 
-.luuici ownn s uown Powder Pnfls, LmeBnn'a 
and I't'i.iioy's^.i.^.rinoT.Hh.l'cckelnod Dress 

Comlu, Court Planner, |{,,,| i„,„.|, ,| lir j. „ 

Playiug Cards, Old t;ru.lu.h Itaion, H. Uurko'. do' 

•ieotleinen'. Shaving Soap, firsl quality, from (VimT- 
or, Englnod ; Rose do. 1V„|, |l„l| Si i;,^^ 

iVallels, Pencils and Cm,, Toelh rovrdu.. Pocket 
,:,i, :,.,;„■;,-. S.iunHe,.M-„.lin- Tongs, Urro an J 
lm.ll Blackball. Day and Ma'rtin's^Raal \pZ 

Hacking, Miirren »,li,. ■,!„,,■, s,l,,!, ,,J a[J .,i 

■enoil Com, Collor,, tiiock., StilTnet,, Glore. 
luugo GoruianHon,,, Itriianninnnd Woml™ l,,U, 
ring IWs, ].i S lil ISiuus. -|\vlv«t., Iluriiinn,,- 
icralches and Curls, Hut Pins, fcc 
ito^foT -^y 1 "" 1 *'* 0 ■"■mtment of aniclet reqni- 
N. 11. Raioraand Penknives put in oil isle ordui 



VOL. I.] 



WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON AM) ISAAC KNAPP, PUBLISHERS. 



LNO. 23. 



Boston, Massachusetts.] our country is xhe world — oT'R countrymen are mankind. [Saturday, June 4, 1831. 




LITERARY, MISCELLANEOUS AND MORAL. 



1ITEHAET. 



urn of tier Birth-Day, Jane i 
ULh been Hid or sung ofwODJUB, 



Llpeoing nod ripening 'n 



> of ihe moments that flit by j 



. Though i.ear-s'lghied, 



gloriously lighted — 



Tile ladi.-i- fern, ., ber ft , 



Wherein I Tin Licelieiifj olnidli 
■ The lion of Ihe day. ' The tbjOW 
Hal ill the lion 's dignity l'iJil« : 



10 in flaming i. drin 



Her lipa— more opalcnlly red than wise 

Her raven locks k;ir_ !;.:.-..--.,;lv inlv.- I ; 

Her Jipcft lair /I-.- Nairn,- in lit jl.-siirii ; 
And then her ayes ! ao eloquently bright, 
V 1 1 .■ndi: ivunl'l recoil beftne their light ! 

■-*■• *V. 
Night folio™ day— end rot, long oiercise : 

'I'll., rn. M.I ,h-|..v till.- jr.- v i-ii- 

Thai lovely object vanished from my eyes- 



-, pardon this digrowion 
use moti palpably dutll 



Unless., indued, you n 
l-nst, striving to get hnn 



oveliness, had p I. 

ey had resided 

e for David S pi 



ough long-winded slory ; 



:hsrgor forinady prancing; 

ind epcars, and crests, vera brightly 

King: 

le Governor ! how mil bis Aids ! 



IWI..M. i 

My limp, 



Simply to ask ft 



lul hash-eyed hope and gcnilo peace atte 
■ad Ibi good Sliepherd from all ham def 
XVII. 

Sooner or lata, in thy path be slrown 
lore thorns thao roses ; if affliction rears 

I lei pallid form to weigh thy spirit duwi 
■ ncaroe a sunny ray thy Toouieps cheers ; 

If friends prove false, nod envious rivals 



MTSOELLA3EOtfS. 



A lady residing at the M 

he wished to rewardTl 
:es,she gave Mm, wj 
ey which enabled biint 



into poser ly , iDislbrtiina had overtaken h-r,aod nbe 
found oernelf in nldnga, pooi. aoluary . neglect- 
ed, and in -out nf the toinma.i comfortt 'of lift- — 
thai pjd b>ard of l^r anhsppycond ipjn.uod .Hime- 
dtsleji camo to the tnwo end sough: hei out 10 her 
hamula ojode ; »iih -he otmoM reject he etpnwed 
'lie concruo al finding hu* bi-ngm) ad* in » rcdocod 
etule, Bed implored her to mnie to bv estate, end 
How hnn thi- gratihr-M-i.i |m -I -ic. f,:i he, I ,t^<r 

lg evinced hy her old aiirvant. but declined his nf- 

ii'[iii"li hi-i ilii-ij^n l 'My good mistress, 1 aaid ho, 
oblige me bj accepting ray ■en-ice* ; when ^nq 

Mf'eVand'nuTfonly^do'my rniytiasKu^yon 
e my prosperity when joe are 111 need.' If 
urgent ec"caUea at length preiailed, and the lad 



ea clash 



ily -gainat t 

xvni. 

. but court [itis 



y humble ollering 
As warm ray wii 
rrchauca anollier i 

II llicn, oii'.rroar: . 
(1) Formerly tut 



ght an evening taper, 
iX. 

■ pleasing in address, — 
ir thy hnppinem ! 
loncbiogly eipress : 



n prohibited. Of ct 



PROSPBOTUS 

THE I. Iltr.lt (TO!!, 

(Ome aj AfiMit. f.mmrtfiUuai 
Ktuucipauiin ia tlm nrdfr ofim? d»y. Giory 
hi find iii tl.i' liiulipHt, Lhe.t the rifhu of row 
are beginning tub" univansej]/ undPnrtonil,ea. 
aertrd im: ob!Bir-nd— th»l fnn inquiry isebitun! 
in liH p»rth, armkinc the towiTn of dnl and *c ■ 
eWiiisucil domir.ulion, rpi-iiiiu; tbe prienii 
diinre. giving frw'rlotn the tuntits, aad rP- 
generating tie wnrid. Netiotm im bora in ■ 
day. The empire* i.fth» old wotWare inrrt.- 
u) with liberty.ar.d ronilNti™ is nmrchiB); oti- 
ward witli an eimhii'iaif 9t<ip, and UuMiree are 
crambltnii to the ilu-i, ajid friU'i* areevfry- 
whore falling, and VuU; 14 vniu|iimhine emT, 

and nations are ju g inmur.age, anJpeople 

of everv trilie and t'lti^no and mlnr :ire ahoiit- 
inn;, LIRERTY A^D KtlOALITY ™«- 
LIBRRTV AND EUUAI.ITY roatxi! 

It is right thut it nliuulti be ho. It ia right 
that maiisln,iildhf,ashpwaa nia/lc, bill 1 a lil- 
llo lower tlian the uiiyt U' To d«gradf liirn tn 
the BiTVitiifli! anil cunditinn of n beast, is a l!a- 
erant insult to Ihe (.'realor, and a war upon 
inajikinrl An oppressor in a hateful object; 
hia claims are mnnatr'nis ; he deserves timnin- 



^rafghrfr 



lind pejson, will enable I 



MORAL. 



i-lifv the nicked fordovolin; 



needed either for maintenance, or luxury, 
er UK than thnt nf being boarded, is a 
lor of praise than of ecnsnro, with worldlinj 



0 day.' 

(8) Boston ia truly ;i princi'ly city ; but her [nc; 

lounded hy Ihe prettiort'vXgea in the worTd— « 
haaccH her vnluo a thousand fold. 

(3) ThiaUngminlepiiluco.saidtoborichly fut 

delightful promenade— lhe g Coramon and Mall—of 



sltoU thou labor, and Jv all thy u-nrk 

ilhoal going ro church I Why they are geoeraliy 
■ rpphi ulin either rarely pi In t-lnir'ch iIililjui'Im*. 
.■on or the l.ord'n day \ or rarely work themselves 
in noyduy of Uie wouk. T ^ e T^ ra P son . le »bo go 

I'hilad-lfhia*. 



olutiona, ihe following vrns unariiraouxly 
he late meeiiiig of the- ft'ntionnl Lyceum 
r\ow-Vork: 

, unanimous^/, That in the jndgm*nt 
1111, a pi.rrion of the Scii|,riiir.- oo^iil in 
■'id <liil>t In ...fell irornmon school ; and 
i> berohy reepoctfully recommetideil by 



publish tha n to run htm l.n 11 m 
ho mnltilude delight to palrDh- 



.|";l'. li.i-in.|.nr,itlol. Tlieircarcasaea 

to lite fowls of honi-en ; their 

ttie L'lound whioh they till ; 

„ ,, Jieyflrelnroniled vi^ith red h .t 
branda ; tliey nre torn asunder ut tlie aucrifire 
uf every natural mid douieatif. relation; they 
nte fnihl like cattle; they are aeantily led with 
(lie car-n.t nliine.it ; thoir nudity is but half 
concealed hy rsjiri. lint, more than ulL mid 
worse tlian all this— terrible as itia— thev ate 
immortal bein t >B, bnt U10 ryea of tlmirsoiifs are 
put out; they are rational beings, but their in- 
tellects are crippled ; they are accu notable he- 
rs, but the light of (lie gospel ia hid from 

It is the design of tlie Liberator to overthrow 
-. Imrnhlr: servitude, mid In break these fet- 
-. The r-ntFTprisr- is great, but ilia not dea- 
■■■ !■■ : rh-. .iiiii.-rilii,.s ii. in., nay are numer- 

i.dant. We e\pect to conquer through the 
ji'-ty of public opinion ; our hope is on God, 



likewise ia its removal a national duty. One 
Slate ran not meet it single-handed ; one sec- 
tion of rhe country cannot destroy it. The peo- 
ple, the whole people, must engage in the work ; 
every man, and every woman, and every child. 
Wa have all committed the act of oppression, 
directly or indirectly ; there is innocsnt hlnnd 
H|". ■-■ <rarnii-ms, tlliTC \* 



.-eltlr • 



ilion of 



rights end in 
TIip Liberator will contend earneatly 
leir complete enfranchisement, uiid for 
-in' Int. pulihi'iil. lilti'lli'iniinlnnd rrlijiniw 
lrcinenL It will interrogate public iu- 

franuyoflsw. 

- lir.-t rini.ib.T of ihe Liberator was 13- 
Jantmry I, IrSII, without a subacriher. 
itronttge has steadily and flatteringly in- 

nttitne. lis chi.ni. tor I.- niitlinently i!-- 



Appalling as is the evil or slavery, the proas 
able to cope with it ; and without the agency 
of the press, no impression can be made, nrt 
plan perfected, no victory achieved. Our ap- 
peal ia directed to this community— to this 
-to New-Kngland— to the whole nation, 
it be made in vain? 
Editors of newspapers, who are friendly to 
the cause of emancipation, are requested to 



HARRISON & KNAPP. 



sheet and in a handsome n 

num. No subscription will be received 
for a shorter period than six months. 

livery individual who procures and becomes 
responsible f„ r live subscribers, will be enJtled 
- lixthcopy. 

ilon, Junel, 183]. 



The v 



1 of Jan 



II. formerly of Will, 



■ i.irViin.wvj. N 

.d mm 7 . Hum,,,. 



boy«, and all living nnddo- 



The game began in ISIS, and ei 



jjrcmnUlH b W -thiruj C™i— the w "J*.^ ™ > ™ 



brooghl, S |ind new LI proposed by H 



THE LI BERATOR. 

aT vo ice fro m etTcT la N D 1 

AMERICAN COLONIZATION SOCIETY — LIBERIA. 



iaew already pari of my 



v!$!ed in. and DC! 6nd.i-JJ on 



era 1 leg ml I 
imbor| M Kieb.iiaoJ | nU 



Tub Smart? was (brmcd in Ihe United Slates, in 1S17. 

[U objecC™piiprwMd by^eTf.Tsee 1 3tTi Report, page 41', app. B.ul. a,) " 
mjwfi tin' Ire" ui\ : ,>li.'ir. r. ■-!.!!!.:: id ■!..■■ t.'nM..'J Klines' in Africa, oi 

' jl^ilWEhrittd Hum ham M I l.fipfljff I ml n villi Mnrlm 3. That they have about 500,000 free blacks.- 

3. Turn In. tn Hi--- l" a-.-- in-" r i;.i..ilv mt rousing. 4. That bo\h ore ■■ ,\ .iee. Imil'Iv depressed and degraded. 
The duty nf the United States to them, is tlio same cjactly an *e ate lo .,nr floured re I low. subjects in qui 
1 colonies, vit to i.bi-v Hod. In- l.'tui^' ile'in j-.i lr"". Uy pl-"'inL' iheui henrat'i vvn" ami eipulable lows, and by 
ig them all and treatim- lit" Itn-r lir^.'ji ; tint i~ t'i -jv. t'n' mirpii -Lenalii.' thm "I Ihe people nf the United 
esis to emancipate their 3,000,000 slaves, inJ to raise tlie 500,000 free coloured people to that estimation in 

r T?°. U .L e _ t ?" nl ?.__ CjlonJjjatloa Society deliberately reject* both oflTlese firat great duties, and confines itself 
TricBofthe free col.i'.ired pff.pl>'.' Tliey Hay, in pi,.*" nl'tlimr l.'HIi Hopurt. '■ To abulitioti 



ould not 



It"' 



hi.; ii.i.i 



m this side of the Allan 
■eat crime of Negro slavery at, 
a few, f ur the meat and sacrer 



page 8, " Emancipation, with the liberty tn 
Now in thus deli lie ratrh- l.'ttlng til- ■ 
slricted act ul'very J.i!i, L .u, be i .. vi.:. ■:»- 
they bun the great cause of i'v ■ria-Muj 

1. B? offering til III" mil .11 a Iv.pe, m nmuu ...mi) «. u,-.. ™i 

the coloured people abroad— Uiey md lure ill .t.- ami more, as thia hope prevail: 
unalterable, and immediate duty of lighting them at hoioe. 

2. By rein. hi ii l- "lialen'r number]] li". from th"ir name ru'.iiitry. tli" mini!.. 

the hope of their ever recovering their own liberty — and the more and the longer 

3. The more the people of the United States [and this is equally true of G. 
duty, difficult, expensive, and partial a s it must be, and rriiu mil i,* it uiiini. rtimv. 

thev ui.otlietr Negro fuliow-subjeetn, ofputiinf.' (Finn, bell.rc ill.' Inn-. ii[ pan' 

he jitelv t„ fee) th'.ar sin iu i-ontinuing to wrong them; and the loss they feel tliei 
to repthinfit, and it du tbe« duty. 



;rasping, or getting rid of 
■■' i i. id the superior, 



ill they become— the lesfl will be 
will the? be trampled upon. , 
i \n Britain) .-mbstimte n kulf-maif 
ahlv is— for the tr/ralf duty which 



•r Ike i 



led, the 



is powerfu >y conduce* tn e>-.ing. 
iretent »J] that glonona eaert.on, which would make tb>-ni a blmir. 
irncsnCokr.iiauor. Society Take* up a nrsrhced. a' rmel l» r.,|. un 
:l a upon it, u if it were an ir.-clragable -nun . ngti it, as inch, upr 
:e, to unite Mot jnn.tvatfy Imf, "!nrh is ur.e ef the pri-atest Btaii.s it 
grtiitKBt ikiiuiL'fs that could pos>.li;v afl..l i." fr.-f ■ oimirr.' pi "pi. . 
rablv lalae. Far be the pcrt.nac.iy 'of pre udie e -hat .t ma?, 10 bmoi 
nniaigaiuatod in all respects, in >.,ua'. brotherhood with, the wb.tfB, it • 
I tha -xkrdrian "l.th prui.ufrc ho>I perpti. ato the un-nti-s, i« th 



:ng that the blackf nf A 



'dirt dc«prnu!oiu rf 



VA9 COGVILL, 

- GIBBON. 

- OtUMBJa 



'Thiiiii'l 



-by checking the A 
inditcorroborateai 



I' luJ t.ie A.i-. -.c r Cfl. mnsn'i S. .., t, .ui.-e.C .n e.-„i ' ,. i|, ;r k ie<a op [hi 
the people ..I ihr Uciu d Siaif-. .i «n.,ii on « prf.ic u e r . > pi- nf the United 
net thev «™ gin'n over, thr»ugh then uh.t n.rv .r i r, ii:u , i ■•, Vl.eve shej tn I 
in [bar m qui'/ B -t thev ban Do) s m c H llad .n tlUWuhiruj tUa fear!..l fact ap.,i 
!•»)■ contir.ue cipable uf repeutanee, .tnrrrr can be true. lUt the prnud and bsnei.il 
l< a'hciiaTe Uirm ir r. 'Ii-.n ;iki.-ed ticit-er, tray m', will r.ot, ii.mbi not, yield to 
tVurd nfGod-toltf b e- d «-(p-r. « f trjth and love. 

The AmenrTn (V..r. -olior. Ser.n. i- bea itiful and beneficial an far a> it sup 
S.e.-.-a Ui.ne, tunu-tdicnFiiil" Mr.ce. c^.l./at. >n. c. n.-...rce. and genuine rhn«tii 
SlavB Trado— and jv serving .r. kip the timnranta won rnj-sc tj -asb I- L.bena. 

But it powerfulfv tends to veil Ihe exiting and outrapeoUH alrocity uf Negro Slav 
I.." p.-iiple ...I' ij.J...ur. nli'ith'-r oin! nf! ur ; >f;e. "tn- ol'th" mewl base, LTiuuidleis, ami cruel prejudices, that hae ever 
disgraced the powerful, or afflicted the weak. 

The following calculation- mm tur.i" liinher lijtht upon the subject. 

■I',,... r,,j., ,. s;„i. '■;.!.', M ■ 

The American Colonization Society has existed for 13 years, and has exported yearly, upon an average, about 
150 persons. 

Meanwhile the natural yearly iiii'reas- has b".', r.ii.CI-11 i-u.ils : and nearlt a million have died in slavery.. 

But it may be said this is onlv the beginnm;:— mi. re mav h- "ip'Tt. il li.-n-nl't. r. ■ Let us isee. 

The average pri;c or transporting <■;■, h nlr, i,le:,l i- ■■liiii'-mil ill S()d..ll.irs: sup].!,-.' il I" b" reduced to 2P, 

and then, as 5<i,"0Ct> must be "XKH't.'il venrlv, :n ..rili-r. uiereh- l„ prevenl iin'ren-e, I.!'-". .Uh : ■ n ■ ..M b" y.-nr.y 

r"0.m o iie -iinpK- t:.r trau?portnUon. Where is this va--t sum t.i come I'm i ? Or -n: -f it supplied. Mill, in ihe 

uian ,.f er 'ami " r.'ichifln,-.-. an it now e.M.m, there would be no rfrtKMc .' Two millions of human beings every 

30 years would still be tool and dit in Slaver? ! ! 

But perhaps you wish lo eslini'iii-ii ih" . l iine in IhirtvycBrs. 

Then you uhm >-_nn In i Mi-p 'tine: at lejst 100,000" yearly. In order lo do this, you must have an annual in - 
ODttt , riipiiardsof 4000,000 dollars; and if you hove not only to transport, but also W purchase, you would probabl? 
want yearly, tictnty millions more!."- 

where are you to get this ? — 

Or suppose it got, and still one generation would perish in i!i"it ut"!.:Ii.>i!i:!-^ ; 2,OriO,(K10 nf inmiortal uoula— 
plunil ri a,' ."ii nf Tin n,.-i-i-a,T:-i! ri.-l,l:' „f liiiman nimir.' . nf,v>\.l- "/if ru- Wir.rarrt-, and evrl.Klingly iilrlAtnoWr, 
n..'Ui".i-ri.li;:i.i'-r".l-'v..,il.l Imve perished unrtdnmnl. anil "..lie I" eeuii"in\-nu at the bar of Cod. 

■ ' ^ - m! iiuiiiil ,.,;i„-;,v, "OI..".--,ti i iK',:,,urselves,snd 

ify others, that if we transport" 1 - 



ropprex 



e [he r. 



>1» indulf-e tr,t irnnr h e rrpi.^nar.ce "hieh w 

> aeoloured akin. We rcallv nVHuet il better, to enl« u 
•en Uvea in it, ,cl .lerabie 'iy • o.n, should the? obstina 
sttsr, than bumbling ouraelves before our brother and oni 

^•nnt e>ich laniruage ainnlai to the awearer'apra?^' I 

lirest Britain and Hie fn'm Si-tcs.ti.e t .« u.'..»l f>.«-.red, ■ rd tl.e t~u m.'t guilty niti-n. .■pen earth, both 
eed retuhc. They ought id to b.. ihn r, m iluo v >!rar ai d hti.uurabie to earh other, in all that is trie and kind, 
ut never, never, let : - ii.jert ei.e ..n»ther .n guilt. 

People ..fCeal Hril-:n, ;l v ...r Lo- rr»- ,i :,,iv- *.r.,.-io g,,e nrero .'.a.erv ni rest, bntlo put .tdown— 
ot by lettion the 1/unk al.^ne, wh > you id t bu-v i. I mpio/ .IT. ..: ,o njiy oil . ■- to Inp orT, a few of 

ic straggling branclu-a b-^t bv .oy.ng a.e's.e at ^icetj.^ r>. I-, and iv , ,i;.o-; - i"i".: nerve int.. the steal,. 

I! this great pn.imtree 1,,-t ..c , .. iml nf a ss-.ir..i...b.c and I.ea-U.-.-- .n,,,i,iv. loll before you, anu Ua 

id:uve,and God ai d ii.si., a:ica' urtvy u.er .ts ruin. 

Hearken-tiiutsa.!'. ti e I, r.l, " R.ib not the poor, because .ne is poor, n*ii:.i-i f i-'I." afli.-tod ,n the gmW. 

or the Lord "dl plead tkt .r cause, and sp.U the sool uf those that spoded thsn. n Prov. utu. 3S,«1. 
/Won, Juig 15, 1031. C. STUART. 

SYNOPSIS Of PRECEDING CALCULATIONS. 



icy* The SMihcni ptNttmt ; I TWa—ph tawbsioj do f->™ a, a**, 

■ iktHiin^lv "11 "III.: i '.erl hi-'i.i. b'.t [| Ml 11. ,i ;. i.-ii ,|, a.,', "...r. 1 ... ..I 

Lkilcnlioii ill- ".u^li ihf .In t'lilnl im -Diiiiiinii.. iiill.l ii rtiU'/.e^ — aad 











\ HI. Jin- 


















r 













m 2,wm.«imii, H'w 



I 



r»: ii i. inn i :,n -j.ikhmuh! 



" Wnj.hyi.ij, nwkn juu cltaii, |iui au.K- ilic evil "i" , ■ .1 j. Iiimh I.. I.-1.. 

SPt, oliuvu the iiiiprrMFLl, ja.lep ihe I'.hIi.i Ii ^. iile^.l fur ihp widow/ 1 

" Hut if in rcWsod rtlni.yi; ilull !• ucvuuml with [La ..nrd— for Uw 



LITEKAKY, MISCELLANEOUS A X 1> MO{tAl. 



LITER ART. 



/Vum isc JKtMdawlfi WW" 

Tim following verms by Mia Gouki, will 
pan, well with Mn Heinanl. No lady in tl 
8. oicepl Mrs Sigournuy, writes so well as 

TO THE SIAMESE TWINS. 
Mysterious tie by tho Hind above. 



And watched by your Maker's eye 1 
May both, Dt the close, one call obey 
To shine 09 twin onus on high ! 

H. F. G. 

DEATH. 
Ah i that funereal tall ! loud tongue or titan ! 
What won an centred in that (V ightfol Hand I 
It calls ! il colls ata with n mite sublime, 
To the lone chambers of lite buiiil ground. 
My life's lirat footsteps ore midst yawning grates j 

A scythe of lightning Uial polo spectre waves, 
Mows down man's days like grass, and homes by 



Devours the pride of glory 



All tenderness — exringuiahea the stars. — 
Teals from the firmament [he flowing son. 

But marUll man forgets mortality ! 
His dream* crowd ages inlo lift's short day ; — 
While, like a midnight robber mealing by. 
Heath plunders time by hoar and hoar away. 
When least we fear, then is the traitor nigh ! 
Where most secure we seem, be love. 10 come : 

Lc« sore than he, the lightning strikes the dome. 

■MiM. 

SKETCH OF A YOUNG MATROX. 
How beautiful the look'd ! at o'er her child 



While on ill jolly fringe, did lightly lie 
A gem-like drop - affection's tribute 

I low man than beautiful, dues Beauty 



MI3CE LLANEOJ3. 



IMPROVEMENTS AMONG COLORED 
PEOPLE. 

We cnfiv tin! following interesting ailiclo from 
in! lio. in:-t':i Observer. A correspondent of that 

In passing through the African eelUcinunt in the 
. ■ j :.. known by the namoofWil- 
jerforce, I was much pleased to observe lire eier- 
;ions ranking omong Ihom to rise above prejudice 
Ind llavery. Judging t'rLiin uh;u I sjw tvhil., dime. 
I .111, ol'iiii' e|iimuri Ll.it tin. ci.lo.ny wdl ere long, 
convince thoeuoiuies of the African race, ofliaviug 
spoken wrong conceining them. So tarns it ro- 
' their itiihs-iosil--- '■ - 



it, I oil) ready to my that 



murdered by the blow of a iputlily over the right 

The present possessor, who purchased Ihi 

at llobart Town for two "mucus, infonu 

that heads of tins iwr —'— 

litre can be 1 



Hi, 1 .■.iii-iii-iliochildrenoNluin. They bavt 
prosperaosdayscliool,cousi6tillgof2Uor BO 0 
dren, who ahead every day. deoobtly clad. The 
in -1 111 cli .1 .it this school is Mies I'. Ibe daughter of 
Kov. .Mr r. of .\ew-Yorh, whose ciiuructer, ability 
..ml v.i Ihj.' mil i|ujlil'y her ior her station. 

t) S.n.kiili Iheru ure WO sermoni preached, 

one l.tr Kcv. Mr f'.ml, and the Other by [lev. Enos 
Adams. Sabbath afternoon there is a Sabbath 
School, superintended by Mr Aostin Stewart' 
ofRocbssler. All ages attend the Sabbath 1 
and manifest great eagerness to receive religious in- 

The BjOTIiont which this company ordospi 
blacks ore making to raise themselves Irom their 
graded tarnation, claim tile sympathies and aid 
l lii ii:l 1.11 i.'i and philanthropists in their behalf L 
mi other people, whoa engaged in any good cau», 
and moved to complete 11 from the best urolitis, 
they havo no disposition to feint by the way. 

PROGRESS OF VIOLENCE. 



Chief Mjsriitrate of the notion, I 



A Head D f a Department lying" in wait in 
lional edifice, dedicated to civil order aod | 
IDiilil, ntl'l ftrtnil ins; tin; streets, of tllO Capil 

Tho same cballeoging unollier of his collet^,.... 

Subordinate officers of the Government openly 
joining in tho affray, and retaining their placet to 
lbs scandal of the countrj and the grief of all good 

One of them turned not from sheer fright 
eipressian of public opinion, now unpointed a spe- 
cial messenger under the pretence of carrying impor- 
tant despatches to several courts in Europe, but in 
ntdity 10 fnotish on apology for firing him per 

I pi lo I d a 1) 

The horrible outrage of Poller, 111 North C; 



St*' Woods 

ins of negroes, 

than most of the above 



..■■"I inni ^ . 1 our ;lii 

The Dirt at New 1 liivcu and assault up 
House of Arthur Tnppun, because be is wi 

liruj the condi lien oflbu Africans whom w 
nation have deeply injured. 

were guilty ones, (if they can bo southed ! hot they 
ore no more to than the Poles, or than we were with 
respect to Ueurge HI.) concerned in the late 

The threat! 10 assassinate Mr. Garrison, 1 



.■-tjoji. — .11... 



ekuitl 



■niEE, tKJVEi;i;ii.iN,A\D imjitenlik.w 

STATES.' 

<;,.:._: 1,1 diiim* the right of condemning to liurd 
1 ■ . toto tha Cherokee Country, wL - 



mund those resolute citizens at the hands afoot Gt 
eruor !— fTarcater Femian. 

TnAri-it in Huh an Hub. Tho Bydnoy 
Giselle, of tile l-th of April , contains a gove " 
i.r.l.-r, [I... ,.!.|,.,-: ..I'lvinrli n Hi [.;il in ,-n.| 10 

singular kind uf trallic carried on by die mash.. - . 

ciewtof lessels, trading heiwton that Colony nod 



e eagerly booghl by Enru- 
donbl Ibrat the Now '/.■■:.- 



r P Uud°s™inf™ 
put an end to,— 



who fron 



h I'lnkin.-, l:'-i.j. 

.10 Island of Hispankda. 

homo the name of MOUSSE * 
attachment lo the family, into whose 
his good fortune 10 fall, on being landed 
re ship which brought bitn from I"' - """ 



eooil end (a it Mil 
the family, who 

till. Ili-'lCNllli! 

f.lNlllv ,.,.,ll. „l„ 



in Mouday.dopositi 



f\u un-ilMr- anil ftspoliliri — ' Flee writing 
id despotism/ toys Dr Chnnuing, 'are suob im- 
ocable foes, that we hnrdly thiuk of blaming e ty- 
.nt for not keeping on with tlie press. Hu cannot 
in. Ho might as retsonably choose a toleauo for 



slavery, and by turning tho press, that greet organ 
of truth, into an instrument of public delosioQ and 

case of Judge Marshall isonoofttie rnosl 
ery, One of the surgeons present at the op- 
el. '[..in lb.; Mill ef laiae peas down lo that 
II shot, taken Iron, the veoerable sulTerei, 
actually counted ; and the whole number 

difficult, that instead of one or two minutes, tho op- 
eration was necessarily protracted to ahovo twenty, 
JVot a groan escaped hit lips, nor was there a per- 
ceptible twinge of u muscle. Tho wonder is. that. 



lately espied u huge bassinHurli 



prize, which weighed forty pounds. ™ 
^Self-pa^n^ Dmlor—ll was said of 0 Dalh 



caK"y"wn.™wrru' 
given him by his fellou, 



that when taken 
with In- lliriicriu 
that bo waj a mt 



in the morning of Saturday 
night. The poor 1 



illered the bone» un the tombs, unt! 
ilanj. elloru were mode 10 iudoco him to desist, urn 
isuof m t^^fXrm'ing^ii^rcndei in 5 li in M ^ , a !'i 



terts that bo knew a Lady of the II 
ill,.. r.iH'ri oi t.'.Ltliiiijue If. who hep 

lube*. Shall 
ir head dress, at 



fram*™ STtbst °tJn. C 'lady" wore™ w ig^Th. 



Mr. Lumpkin is J very ordinary man ; inferior 1 
his i: urn pel it or in mind and education i but I hope 
belter citizen. Since the days el" Ihe ruiehmei,. 
do not remember a parallel to Governor Gilmer In 
political iniquity. Sir. Troop was inflammatory ; 
bin never l.eyond tho line which separates Executive 

I .1 m3 i 1 ■ i : it ji.iw.t. tiilrneris a tyrant ol" Uio wi ' 

1 ... 1 1 -liLwini^ not only a reckless disregard oft 

Ibe^KiaryiBltartlyof^ownSuie 08 Parljrso 

insignod lo infamy. His conduct in 
aged him - 



to t.t.onkeo.' 
: oil,,,!,, 
. and [lionysiu 



,1 i y :\, 



.en^nb^aVmCed^trfle'! lie iliy^uv*'-™ 

dbl and happy. They wore equipped 

e uniform of the prkon, with the u^u.,1 bailgi's 
miiiiak a It, in I icil. duo of lb.™ in employed 10 
making bedsteads, and the oilier in turning a largo 
wheel, — grinding like Samson, in he prison house. 



MORAL. 



5STK 



le writer™ru!i. nnic£ 



onuge, foundtd upon 



f nhsurdity by its ap|iurent ob- 



Whileyou soy that lb 



hand - those who hare Ihe IrjtsT piety themselves aro 
1 ■ I man is the first to dulcet a fraudulent 

h ANn CossmurricES, Nothing is plain- 
■ of duly, from nny^pretendij foietight 1 of 



TEMPERANCE HOUSE 
AT QHIMCY. 

Till- S ,-ril.cr nspeCtfUly informs his friends 
and the public, thai he has taken a large and 
hiliii.ilVii-. I li'iiw rjlseesnll* Miuiiied, at Uio Foor 
orners. in Uoincy, [t* miles from Itoston.t for Iba 
tcommodatiou of Travellers and such Cmnpnny no 

silors, and 10 gratily their desires. JVn Spirituous 

ay ho obtained at all hours of the day. — Boarders 
in bu accommodated on liberal terms. 

It. DOWNED. 



VOL.. I.] WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON AND ISAAC K N AP P, PUBLISHERS. [NO. 46. 




JOURNAL OP THE TIMES. 



.1.. , . ■. ■ .,■ ■ ; ■ ■ ■■ 



:.u|,|,h III.-. I 
80,110" and 

d ™*Tta Eoglut 



and the Wi 

■ v -nil k. .Ill *■..!]!.! 1 1 -.i i ! r ■.■ ■ ■ -- ■_■ i " 
:-- bondogo, iliat their 

and, every year. 

, uid Ion of life ere 

tot-.. - gei.Or.1.. 

often e. ( hi«i Ikiufi 
ire roused from stini 

'<■'"■ 

Odin When tney 
ns,J. Tbe drrmt 



or slaves, within the liui hull' century. In 

ion id n miracle. To these ion; bo added 
■ ho following interesting fuel, lately communicated 
by Lord Howick in tho Driluh House of Common. 



Lord Ho wink mid, ihai before ilio orders were 
nl out 10 emancipino Iliac alarei^ha government 

■no orders tn DM MM CM Hi! socVVformotion 
is foil; considered. Besides Ibis, he conld earns 



Mr, Hume said, that tire Noble Loid bnJe uiadt 
•atamenMlie substance of which | M lad liiriisel 



BOSTON, 



SATi iuiAV. Novr.uur.it i 



■ opposition lo slavery in llii' Colonic.-, are giving Ihe 
American people un esnmple which musl be ir.ii.jcei- 
ted, orlhu fearful judgments uf God will destroy 
lbs guilty land. Wilberforce and Clnrksoo, uiiur an 
iMMMil warfare uf marly years against the atro- 
cious system, — incut-dual because llisy were led n- 
stray hy the ignis-firluus. chadvai. asom'I tort, 
— together with Ibo most influential men in thai 
country, sustained moreover by the great body of 
thn clergy mid their flocks, arc urging Pirlioruonl to 

flesh enough has been Joshed, and blood enough 

too many bodies hove L,.en warn out by unrequited 



ed; thatsluvchi>W,3W!ll ,„.-, 
en, nor voluntarily omnncipal 
aurriri. : rlj.il Uc.inu, I1ii:i. mi.:;. . Jii-[i, i-, It .'linim, 
all assert Ihe right of personal libarly ; and 
I.M.MEDIATi: AllOI.llTON is ihe only cure To 
malady cfslav 



fee 



i of the > 



o Afrits 



> fdlow 



nil. Al Ihe last mealing of Parliament, u| 
■or FIVE THOUSAND petitions were rec 
preying for Iho speedy overthrow of sln.ory 
Colonies 1 The British Government htrs giv 
ders for the emancipation of all Iho slaves whi 
the properly of iho ciown. Wo may ejtpeci r 
to hoar tho glad tidings, [ravelling on Ihe wir 
the wind over ihe broad Atlantic, thai EIGHT HUN- 
DRED THOUSAND human beings nro restor 
. ibe dignity and privileges of freemen. 

immediate abolition, 

|CJ= To suppose that our live* would bo « 
folly, and directly charging Iho Almighty will 



1 OBJECTIONS TO COLONIZATION. 

Tho American Colonisation Society ought not' 



the onemy offhe Sabbath, or Sabbath Shoots, of 
Foreign end Domestic Missions, df Bible nnd Tract 
Societies:, of Abolition,— in short, of ovory Ihing that 

but to find il copied approvingly into the American 
Spectator, al Washirrgtan. shows u congenial ily of 
mind which we did not expect le >ec. The piece is 
a fuir specimen oflhc hypocritical cunt which is 
used l>y llie. enemies of [he si ni c ]ropalnlion. Where 
is its sympaihy for Ibe Iwo millions or bleeding 
slaves, who are whipped and sold like cattle in our 



■re 'Ligrnd , d w benTho " 
d. The free colored m 



ter seeing their husbands, fathers, brolliets end 



li i\.:ii; ■:. 
■nderedlh. 



io dark' Again wo solemnly call open them to 
nose, before they bring down on Ihe heads of their 
rethren, and upon the heads of those whom they 
re lending to dcspeiatioo, a train of horrors Jl 



If you will coosoll Clsrltson 



opposed lo Ihe wishes and ssnlimenls of thn great 
body of the free people of color. r[:p.::ii.ii-v mpi> 
ed in the most public manner, but cruelly disregr 
ed by it. 



psnsnra in recording tho destruction of Ibe colonists, 
rosof prejudice and cru- 



n moral persec 



:ii' paper. ■■pcjI.Li^ hi re Lore oce lo lb e slave. 
rxUeed n n runaway from the Secretary nf the 
?ricun Colonization Society, says, ' Mr Gurley 

g /rce.y and ToilfiriirfjMo Liberia.' We me 
lied wjiii this ciplanniion. Tho compulsory 



A FKiHTI.Ki CLERGYMAN. 
A 1'olislr meeting was lately held in Georgetown, 
D, C. ai which [he Jim, Isaac Orr, Editor of the 
American Spectator and Siigmatizsr-Guneral oTour 
colored population, presided I He made a very pa- 
triotic speech, fall of revenge, blood and valor, in 
bebair of those ' ruiralici.' 'monsters,' ' cul-throels.' 

vol'ters in Virginia— some of Ihem h, Mr Orr)_ihm 

urging Ihem lo destroy their masters. This is lira 

A minister ofHim who lelle his followers to over. 

ing one portion of the liuiii.in family tu lniir.lu'r a- 
nolher I — encooraging a warfare which has already 
destroyed, ool merely silly men, women and chil- 
dren, |n in Virginia,) but upward., of ONE HUN- 
DRED THOUSAND, nnd entailed rnin and de- 
spair upon a far greater Dumber ' Is this iho spirit 
of Christ! 

The following among other resolntiont was unan- 
imously passed at thn meeting : 

fiesofoed, Thai the Poles, in this their eecond 
straggle for liberty, Itave received our most cnrdiiil 
sympaihy. We have regarded thw dovoled peopla 
n engager] in a mosl holy and glorious cans. 

They who say that the Poles are ' engaged in a 
most holy arid glorious cause/ and yet dsuounco 
the slaves for perpetrating the same bloody acta nnd 
aiming at the some object, arc, lo say Ihe least, very 

NEW-YORK TRAVELLER. 
Mr, Freemen Hunt (formerly oftho firmofPut- 
deinStHnnl.onhiicily.) has issued n 'Prospectus 
of a newspaper, lobe published in the Cily orNow- 
Vork, every Wednesday morning, to be devoted to 
the interests, wimls, and convenience of Ibe poblic 
generally, and travellers especially, nnd to be enli- 



Sociely might bo formed (in our large cities] 
of Ireepeupleofeolor.^ intending lo emigrate to Li- 

Emigrating Society ; end conneeled with this, let 
'iere be n Savings Bank, in which those who wish 
g^o 10 LiberB, may fcpciile fnim lirne B Urasj, 

eir fathers. — J/riean RcpQlUanj. 



ju.uterl .,1. . 
ItSSpora 



uge imperial i 



187 

ecially by co|npfrriil^ »al", probably in theaama 
■ould be their champion against imposition and 



fluoric by bis disembodied onlagonisl. 

Awn the ffailiinglon Spectator, 
CHALLENGE ACCEPTEO. 

cale of the Colonranion Socieiy, lo lereird'it ogoin« 
him. ! am reedy, and now prescribe the hunts. 
He shall^rnblrsh flnrl, in iho Spoctatiir, Ga- 

ullimoro Chronicle or Amsriean, or irTliii? Tnlelh- 
mcer or Telegraph of Wujhingtoi, City. The Br- 



io paper ; a copy orthc^paper. contnining ih. 
■ l ■ ■ . r - ih.: I l 1 1 1 ii iv in g ni.idest panignrph fur I 



Wsl 



I of the a 



.llerisores wt , 

■ iho U;mi;.hIi:lil si'Lllenieitl. ^Iircb it reprosenLed n 

10^0 or color. 'l^emovemc'iiu'Vlhe War^n™ 

ley are sent luck lo th.ir native land. Ihn better. 

LuiBtH Jourata/. 
ICp Very alarming, indeed, to the prejudice 
id pride of Ihe vulgar, to see Ibe^frae people of 



irinted in Uoslon, wKich is devoicd to 



libeller, a shameless Ui 

Jlbtlitian of S/aorTV — The inhabitants 
.acca, who caiTy on all their domiaUc all 



if Ma 

Llarily come forward and 



A letter from Southampton, Va. lo me Norfolk 
rent of Ibo Colonization Society, slates thai 246 

nlwrk for liberie, nnd tho agent has advertised for 

The colored preacher, James Grimes, hn been 
tqnitted of conspiring lo rebel. St Norfolk, Va. 

Chief Julian Marshall lira ultoined Iho ago of 
ranHy-stj:. 



In Wilkeaborre, Pa. a man named Heacocll, lale- 
ly tried Ibo strength of a keg of powder, which h* 

goint; lo il-" f,ir bla^lin^- He ignited a few 

grain iuhia hand, wlien a spur, went intn the ksg. 
ulciv up Iiih lioo>c, killed his lilllo daugbler, end his 
owi. lilo isdespeired of. 



WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON AND ISAAC KNAPP, PUBLISHERS. 



Boston, Massachusetts.] 



IS THE WORLD — OUR COIfNTR VMEN ARE MANKIND. [SATURDAY, DECEMBER S, 1831. 



AT NO. 11. MERCHANTS' HALL. 
WM. LLOYD GAB BISON, EDITOR. 



L i" ju .lid bt 



er period than si 
tO- Aaeau a 

ICP ATI let* 



'Ill'am Asdiii«'ok, JVeur London. 
„', ,, \ llr.M.. JVtio-Vvrk City. 

- - !(..., ,.ti. /J.'.n.'.-lun, J?. F. 
Aitiiv l>" t'mnhkctnw.Jf. r. 

nnjCwti, Pliladi/p/iiu, Pa. 

B Vasiiok. Piltiitu-s*. Pa- 
■,.,,„,.; Oir.-T.'n. /I.irri.brirg, Pa. 
'ho Mil H a mb l iron, Jeimcrvillc, Pa. 

.,,1 ■-- 1'irii. farlillt. Pa. 

injai.it. Losdy, Wsitiivtliin Cily. Z>. C. 



THE LIBBRAT 0 a ■ 



wb Ihe wind of public opinion, 
succeed in panning The church 
from lbs guilt ot slavery, lbs Moody system mil 
loilafsll. What ia obviously the duty 
teligious journali at lh» jnnctore 1 

the proposed convention. 



we as. The loner appears to roe tiie more piou 
la result- Embarransrneiilt, such as those wbi 
ill for this wnvoulion.do nol spring front the da 
Whatever be Ihe mend causes by whirl! Uitv j 
prcdaccd. [he band of the lj>id is in them. 1 Sh 

bra Ihe enemy, or in confusion, beating du> 

id ii chastising as ? Wa mast know whnl r 
i ere, and so must repanland pel them nw: 

imonts will he useless. We may bo chargesi 

h winkmg Ht other people's metaphysics and m 

idacled byyolcntary aswoialioos.orby [lie cllnr 

thai Ihe Lord U pleading u controversy with as. 



i Immortal sjals in slavery ! Snbjectl of tb 
i of Cod, and tha purchase of the preoitiv 
i ol Christ, is slavery 1 Beings capoblo of a 
riesiings of civil aociaty, deprived of tbetn al 



A FAITHFUL APPEAL. 

following pungent essay sboald cause II 
e to whom it is addressed , to tingle. Tbanki 



teholdin; Slates 

0(h. Nothing is 
,o habitually ni 



they acknowledge at ll 
properly 1 1 and who 
loll, In whip and mam 



in table,) 



are traffickers in (ho bodiestind souls or men. Tl 
abettors of slavery are ■ n mill-stone hanged al 
;ho neck of the church, from which she mast bolt 
sued, or she will be drowned in the depth of the > 

that every owner or slaves SB) really and trul 
kidnapper as if he had stolen his victims art theci 
of Africa. Tbesophbnry ofihe worldcunnol re 
the charge. The people of this country, Ihrough 
Congress, have virtually passed [CP SENTENCE 
OF DEATH upon every slave owner in [he repe- 



at of Africa 
of common 



will I 



, and pursuiti the 

fi Thoaowjoara 

si:..,-,. ..,..-,! 



infill, (see Digest, page 338, 3*7.) What 
italeslo acknowledge, (hat, in principle. 

rt 



divine insiiiaiion, a 
Abraham and [ho wr 

" "?*JIt! 



.. esiahlisn slo- 
ven'. To quiet us on this mbjncl.lhey point to neigh- 

I ■■■lis whniu d ill! ire mi; ol" opinion crisis, ' nu[- 

wilhrLnnding which [hey live in charity and peace.' 
And they toll us, 1 Ibis is according lo the doctrine 
and praclico of Ihe Apostles i • andlhey 



Thoy o 
o will de| 



they hod hoped to abolish slavery , 
renting Ihcir benevolcnl efforts 10 



ks absurdity of an ecclei 
... .,_],!,« »», and .bewinf, 
practice it aid vol be good chrali 



of easlivingt 



to be bold up to Ihe lighi, thai all cancer 
ee ll, Alas i the proof is Ino easily m 
Look for a momenta! Ibasu appalling fanl 

dren, some of the Slates have enacted laws for pun- 
ishing iham when found asaaaibled lo hear Ihe ros- 

have prohibited Sabhalh schools foe thtjr IMtrnclion. 



people ctisct 



lift thekhaTd Let, shall be pat lu 
I Ihe penitentiary for life. In thu iimoiiu, 
re we doing i Ara we diligenlly naing tl 



J™^o/ ™" "'csif 
Gennral Assembly dom 



■especl duo to that venerable body. In some court- 
■ries, questioning the infallibility of Ihe church, would 
lost a man his bead. But we ate protestanls. ll 
a notorious that the asnmbly will not say, that dis- 

Jeflc'liolnni 



Vne troth is, 
Preshytcriati church 



io communion and good standing 

read Ibis vvilMut feeling ashamed. Som 
poor ciealsrt know bellcr than 10 ir -lass 
nut -And Bine orthem (ignorant things 
knp .i i tat .-tarvntion and whippi 
In,,,!,*, ,.imiwte-«t byn 
by anolhct Did Ihe osacmbly 1 
that in the jnMI day, no one will be 

itsppen Blws belonged to aur church? ^ «ldg« 



.ireach Ihaltlavoholdera must repeal. Such preach- 
ing by a slave hoi ding minister wonld be so goods 
joke ihat sides and benches would fail. What can 
tbey du . r Like other men when in pain, they cry 
— -id Ihey isll thEiiruih when Ihey say Ihal rnove- 



g, nnd preach 10 slaverk 
aalhenpoade Jamoa did— ' go to oow.ya rich 
weep and bawl for Ihe muene, Ihat shall coma 
you— behold Ihe hirecflhe laborers who have 

" ud. crioth; end liie criau of ll:."in ll ,! 
ara eBlered into the can or Ihe Laid ofSebi 
What art our -Wisjion-rr- s Soeirliri do 
Weshlll only sav thalthev employ men who 
per th. *r&° S m hie -og-r. ll!o l a taetl an 
Alherles, and thnl loin aside lh- >trsn ; cr Ire 



srlKl'hu'itde'ones, 



tome.' Th, 

tel. And slave sel- 
ihcraor bis body, Tor 
id Iho difference is, 
makin^a^ood 



io ho that pervertelh tha judgmenl 



and all Ihe peep 



oniiem have ac-juired splendid follones by selling 
., . 1 ,.___ lsoo|il ,f lueirpnor oeighhocs. ' And 
have traded deeply in tha member. 

r'ubcilv. Of cnarJc.au nrplicantf" 

membership, c. licensure lo preach Ihe gospsl, 
rh.iii"ii hi- hiiiidi were red wilhdicso sins, will mil 
„ d.iilcnllv- fin nnv avow it, that he has rorn 
re wirefiomhe. hnshand. Ho may havo sn«ch- 

rotbsr"o mS it with bis hogs and cnllle. Hi insy 
lis eompelled Ihe friendless slran^r to wok hard 

i/tbeir children. Bui alaverj ^^eeetn^ is too 

|mo."beThoanMu^ted.' n ° U " b '"' 7 

Whnlart our minuter, deing' Alas ! many 
T Ihem are the llaveholders. ^ Aiid^ra.^ of them 

rovcnl Ihem from reading. In lh- mean time, 'the 
iv.iii a Ii 

nd'oecCFionolly crying prudnnct when they dis- 
.avet tymptonn ofuueosmeH aiiong their MM 
1 lately travelled through a slavj region where Ihe 
eyitem is only maturing. I passed some splendid 

-,.■■::■■ .:..■■:.■■■.■■■■ ■ 

■ I could tiol hear or one ilouusbing »b- 
r dvin™ The nccounl was, tttat/" 



Within Ihe lael year, wo nave nmiu ™ t .„..- 
plsims by our slavobolduig biethren, against those 
who, by printed resolutions nnd pamphlcli, aie do- 
clnriag alavary a sin which calls for Ihe exorcise Df 
diacipTios. ll s«m» that in mora regions tbsn one, 



: . :. 



hard.' The condi- 



-n.l lal« 



the lirsl Ibings wo hear or.'omo of our Missionaries 
io the slave region, "a— Ihey havu become ihe weallby 

are onJuring in Iho^work oflho gospel, may bo seen 

poofc^ootuiu who ate stripped of all lint makes 
life dutiable— and some of then, systematically kepi 

Ihinp used tn be kept in Ihe dork. But the alave- 
holding spirit is becoming imprudent. I now recol- 
lect a report wilhin the lost year, in which wa els 
told of aome of Ihe rogolslions of tht^farnt. ^ A 

beaveiwJariog law or thai region, which we alluded 
Id in the commencement ; and laments thai those 
law makers did not know thai religion would make 
slaves more industrious. But to shew us that ha has 
learned lo keep out or danger, as well as Io manage 
slaves, ha lemerfo-we submil, for we roue! not 

was published lor the edihcation of iho churches , 
or perhana for Iho instruction ofyuong students, who, 



icliko Luther, mast speak oul.^taiugh every tile 
SlSrioihing'be V" in r^ard to lhe« thioga? 
Shall the ministers in '"•J^y^^"^™™^ 
onTlroahlH, and say nothing aboat sins or which 
airy'in'lto'race'an^for which the Lord baa pledged 



end Baa- 

5E 



2nd. To rec 
unnocted with Ihe Fresbytet 



e Mission 



rfthe Assembly, cot 
la aLi^ of slave holding, 

, sin , and report tbem forthwith to, the Pres-. 

byteriaa to which Ihey belong. 



[ T E K A R ¥ , MISCELLANEOUS AND MORAL. 



IITSBA R^Y ■_ 



0 pars of liMrt ! thou need's! not ink 
What this strong music in the soul m. 

'Tii nut for gold I love y», 

'Tisnotfor power nor fume; 
'Twae not for these I askud (heo 
To laks and wear my name. 
'Tin not Tor drees I love ye, 

■ of Una*; 



Twos not for I 



LL,i(.:J III 



HI8OEI1L A II 13 OPS . 



11 ma. nol be generally known, thjt_ n society 
colored femnle. Tin beta organized In I lira ell 
' '.ami the title of the Femnla Literary Associutii 

' FtAaAlplull- The ndvu stages^ reallting fro 

hopertat it m'oy interest iheiifriendj and indu 
m colored Mien in other places to imitate their 0 
mple, 1 have thoogtll proper to Mod this inform 
1 „.„„,i hmirr oive in idea of tbeirobiei 
opy of Ibeir < 



To ba forever mine. 
-Ti» not for looks i love ye. 

These have 00 power 10 charm me, 

Thon young and fairy girl ! 
Thy gold— like dross 1 deem it ; 

Thy beauty soon will fade ; 
The grave will soon destroy it, 

When nature's debt b paid. 
•mtftr %/ieart/iot>e ye. 

"Pis only thai. I ween j 
And only that has charmed me, 

Aod may its power he seen, 
Till flowers bloom bright around me. 

And green grass grows above, — 
Till I can no more oall ye 

The only one I love. 



The following lines wore suggested by the two 
signal instances of female justice, lately recorded i 
the Genius of Universal Emancipation. 

THE ENFRANCHISED SLAVES 

Oh, blessings on thee, lady ! we could lie 
Down nt thy (sol in oor deep gratilude, 

So thou couldst bo iiiado happier by oar bluotl '. 
Tel life has never seemed « dear, as now 
That we may lift n free unbiondsd brow, 
la the deep sileaca of the starry night, 

Oor lips shall call down blessings on thy head [ 
And the tint gush nf light. 

That in its splendor o'er Iho norld is spread, 
Shall view ns bowed in prayer, that life may bo 
A calm and sunny day of joy for ■" 



FEMALE LITER AH Y ASSOCIATION', 

At n meeting convened at Philadelphia, Septem- 



imbor 20th, when the fallowing Preamble and 

PREAMBLE, 

nve engaged the attention of mankind in the U- 
ereutefasVthewo 

irtered by persons of judgment und ^penetration, us 
leslomed^upDn us by the God of nature ; it there- 
Is daughters of a despised 



lighten the understanding, to 

— - lj -?plng, tbst 

.y in a great 



mure, break down t 



io lift ::n 
asjdskm 



Of the rnde lash ;— they ne'er, like os, shall know 

Fot this we bless lliee, lady ! and may Heaven 
Poor down its frequent blessings on thy brow. 

And to thy life ho given, 
Ofl through its sunset hours, such bliss as now 
It swelling round thy heart— scarce less than thein 
Who pour for thee their deep nnd gratefol prayers 

THE AUTUMN EVENING. 

Behold Iho westorn evening light ! 

Kmolts in evening gloom ; 
So calmly Christians link away, 

DcHctrding to the tomb. 
The winds irraliic low ; the withering lllf 

So gently glows lie porting breath, 

When good men .ease 10 he. 
Hon beaoiifhl on all m.hills 



So faith springs in the heart of those 

Whose eyes ire dimmed with tears. 
Bat soon the morning's happier light, 
And aye-hdi that are ssa'l'd in death, 



CENSUS OF 1 
The number of inliabitants in 

™Fre1 whi£p™n." U 



The populotii ... 

v.- I ■ ■ ■!•:.. 11 - : 
,S47,872; Virginia 1,211,266; ~" 



FOURTH REPORT OF THE AMERICAN 

TEMPERANCE SOCIETY- 
The Fourth Report of the American Temperanss 
Society is published in a pamphlet of about 12t> pages. 

id its progress up to May 1, 1831, It alio embodies 

osa principles are illustrated in their various hear' 
Ke nature of ardent spirit, and its effects upon lb* 



Should every parent supply his children with a 
copy, and thus lead them from principle founded 



equaft^wllh those of oor'fel low beings, who differ 



moiety for the promotion of this great object 
lalled' The Female Literary Association of 
lelphia. ' Conscious also, thai rules and rcgh 
when" properly enacted and administered, 

CONSTITUTION, 
-tfrlirle 1st, The officers of this Associate 



Vr°| , ™S§! V ™shaU ha the duty or tho^ Presiden' 

jn^lo preserve order, propose aff motions proper! 
lode and seconded, sign all orders upon the Treat 

\«r/.°4™ The Vice President shall preside in th 
iscncaof the President. 
Art- jlh- It hImlII be 'lie duly of tho Secretary, c 

rdcri drawn upon the Treasurer, and sucb proceed- 
oaustssil bss deemed requiaile, and file sue! 

PS J™. Gth! 1° 6°ial!^ [ me 0 da'ly ofth'o Troasur 
oiled and hold [he funds of the i.f:ii!:»r; : j. 

■ .: ■■ li- 



Jirt. Till. The Agent shall be nnlboriled 10 si 
ribefor, and rocciecsuch periodicals us IhnAssor 
m may direct, end tee Ihnllhej be car. fuilj I;'- .i 



books belonging to lhe Association, nnd sifter each 
meeting, lake care tbat they be placed in the Libra- 

' y 'Art. 9th. It shall be the doty of the Commiltei 
of Exsra^usriisn to inspect and read to the Associa- 

ehall be to procure suitable boolrs Tor the Assoc ia. 
tion, and present their bills, properly signed, to the 
Treasurer for psymeni- 



Ve yesterday had an opportunity of esauiining 

Dieted l>y our talented fellow-citizen, ALOMiti law- 
is, Esq.— in ncoordnnco with the requisition of the 
late Law ofthe Commonwealth. ^ ^ 

if the Streets, Beaches, Ponds, fco. which ore given 

ipon tho^Geology of our rugged hills, and seabeaten 
Ijon - which evince a mint thorough topographical 
raowledge of every nook nnd corner. 
Tha sltiolest soretiny was necessary to detect it m 

with any Map that will ho returned Id the Secretary 'i 
uflice.— Lynn Record. 

On Sa(urday lira 22d Oot. a woman by the name 
of MeClean, in iho township of Cobourgh, U. C. 
died beside the mad, from drunkenness and eipo 
sure. Her husband w.as with her, until she sun 
down, when ho endeavored lo go on^w a neighbc 

down also, and lay till morning ; when he wis nt>l 

Two men near Frankford, (Ken.) a ihorl tirr 

was settled by the strongest man beating the braii 
,[ (il'slie oilier. Both were drunk. 
Poland has again passed under tbo yoke. Her 
_ldiers liavo dispersed, and ber wirriotsha.e sought 
safety in flighL Bkryineckl, Csnrtorjiki , Roiydii, 
and kaminski have passed inlo Gollacia. 

: grand system of Copernicos actoally remaia- 
manuseript after it was fulW prepared, for 

ir die perils of publication, 
two several occasions, was Galileo forced to 

! Vermont House of Representatives. lbS 10 
ive instructed the Judiciary commit lee lo bring 

.i ■■.!■ .1 pri^onmenl fordobton nil con- 

ifletJan. I, no.t. 

< cost of tho banking honss of the United 
States Dank, ul Philadelphia, was 82" ,432, nnd 
the lot cost S15o,568— lOtol, 41 3,000. 

Domcsfic Industry— It has been found out in 
New llampsliire, Man! Wer^p^/™ ornoiufh- 

ory is well-founded. 



The Report may be obtained nl the Bookstores of 
:rl,lui i: Marvin,' Boston ; Whipple t Lawrence, 

ilowiand, Worcester 'KWiSoMf N^Itharnp'on ; 
iriiiiin, Little, ii Co., Springfield ; J. 9. tt C. Ai- 
ls, Amherst ; Win. S. Bartlell, Flyinoulh ; G. 
rdo, k Co., Portland ; J. C. Plummer, Bangar ; 
W, Shephnrd, Portsmouth : Lli French, Dover ; 
Marsh, Unpen U Lvon, Concord ; Thomas Mann, 
"—aver ; Benjamin Uurko, Nashua ; D. V. Rob- 

1, fcl_o..lriirlniid ; Kuwcll, Hubbard, fe Co... 
In-vich; Ik/rkiuli Howe, New-Haven; Isaac 
IViko.i, Providence , JonMlian l.eavitt, Hew- York ; 
John P. Haven, New- York ; Oliver Steele, Albany j 
Wm. Williuui?. flier, : E. Park, Si Co. Rochester ; 
_ rr & Hogan, Philadelphia ; R. Patterson, PitH- 
ll i Josepn Jewett, Baltimore ; D. W. Harrioo, 
Charleston | and in various other places. Tbe 

unol 'Temperance ihrotignou Ui« United' Slates. 
[CJ= All Editors of papeis, frieadly to the Close 
^emperaoce, are requa^^inse 



MORAL. 



For the Liberator. 
COIORED TEMPERANCE SOCIETIES. 
In the discharge, of my doty as Agent ofthe Nov 

' " a numberof Tamp aranco meetings among IE 
I eongregaiions of Iho cily. Tho following a 



ho meeting holdsn in Rov. Mr \ 
gregalion, (Prcsbylorian,) 29weroadd< 

making more than 6I> tbat bare been 
a few months. At two meetings which 
Abyssinian Baptist Church , 40 names i 



ing ground in Iho eonntry. Nnt that in New- 
England, or any where else. It requires n year lo roll 
over our heads lo convince us ofthe everlasting mer- 



... _ ...ij thing oriheso, and can, for a mocneat. 

Yet, though every irwant n "e°f.uilf 0 | in'bletsinsi, 
0 are inntleniivo, and do not regard ; we aw igno- 
nl. and do not appreciate : we are ungrateful, end 

and them. The best require' to ho reminded of 
leir doty, and the thoughtless must be told of it al- 

fttn hnshandman rejoices for the harvest is ripe, and 
d of hw_ 

the Giver of all things. Then, especially^ should he 
pour forth the grateful incense or his praise ond de- 

Tho Almighty dcrerves the proiseofhis creatures, 
be^flower^ pays its worship in fragrant eihalatioii, 

iff the fore* procfa 



.Wonr/fi-,— Agairwt slander them is no defence, 
ell cannot boast so foul a fiend ; nor man deplore 
, fell a foe. It stabs with r, word— with a n,-,d— 

pestilence walking in darkness— spreading for and 

it is tha heart-searching dagger of tho dark assassin ; 
it is the poisoned arrow whose woond is incurable ,. 
it is tbo mortal sting of the deadly adder — murder 



. 4th, No lustration or amendnjanl shall I 

.0 tills Constitution, unless it be proposed et 

slated meeting, and receive the voles of IV 
thirds ofthe member, present, tha succeeding one 
After soma suitable by-lawa ware passed, t 
meoliuE proceeded to the election of officers, a 
then Hiijeurned. 

Dislrejjins- fnintorecfr.— The ship Lady Digbj, 
from Liverpool for Q-uebec, was wrecked on tha 
2Bth Oct. off Byron's island, thirty seven pass 
drowned. Tho crew and remaining passenger 
taken olT by the ship Thames. 

A Parisian Chemist is said lo have discov 

dying moment, bnl (be Bible. [John Bsldon. 



Temperance meetings at the Methodist place of wr 
ship in Mulborry-straet. At tho first, 24 names we 
taken ; at the second, 9 ; nl iho third, 21 ; nubii 
in all 54. I have likewise attended a Temperan 
meeting at the Bethel Methodist Church in Elizabet 



a few na 

i or a Temperance Society. I inls^ahostlj, 
ild another Temperance meeting there. At a 
Temperance mooting which 1 recenilv helJ in tin 
Method rat Church in Brooklyn, L, l.,2J wets added 



„itli, 



third. It will bo lime for the wh 
uperiority when thny havo belter 
ce meetings than Lhese. 

ORIGEN BACF 
New-York. Nov. 14, Utl. 



Tin: A 

The 22d biennial stated meeting oflhs ' Ameri- 

very,' tic. will bo held at Washington City, on the 
second M.ind-i, In January nest, al 10 o'clock, A. 
M. li.e Aholilion, Manumission, Anti^laverj, 

arc emitted lo a representation, and are invited to 
pirticipolo. 

On behalf of the Convention, 

IFojnmj-fon, Sipl, 23d, 1S3I. ^ 
N. B. Prtnleis of newspapers, favorable lo the 
ruse of freedom, ara respectfully requested togiva 



United Stales, may think propi 
the number of any ona Seoietj 



1 




