Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library /The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/mutualobligationOOphil 



THE 



<^, 



MUTUAL OBLIGATIONS TO THE EXERCISI 
OF BENEVOLENT AFFECTIONS, 



AS THEY RESPECT THE CONDUCT OF ALL TK.R 
HUMAN RACE TO EACH OTHER, 



'ROVED,, AND APPLIED TO THE STATE OF Tlii^ 



SUFFERING AFRICANS. 



BY PHILJDELPHGS. 



r»»Ecr&E ovv o*>i.7tpjUiowj, KOiSwj X9U 'UTix.rv^ Vjwwv oi«r*j|Ui)v sr«. 



LONDON: 
SOLD BY H. GARDNER, IN THE STRAND. 



Price IS, 






THE following pages luere cttnfofed with a defire to conciliate the af- 
fcSlion^ and rouze the nati've generojity of thoje Britom into ivhofe handt 
they may fall^ to unanimity in a meafure luhich muji refleSi a lujire 
ufon them to all fuccecdlng age$ ; nuhtn they pall deli-ver the almoji ex- 
baufled captive from thofe difgraceful bonds, "which human nature ought 
tofpurn at the idea of ri-veting upon any individual. — 7he Author ^ 
after he bad completed his plan, (and ivhich is now offered, with the 
greateft diffidence, to the public notice, with a ivip only of interefting 
their feelings as men, and fis brethren) ivas pointed, by a friend, to 
the note inferted, on the crowding fuch numbers of unhappy Africar.s 
within fo narrow a compafs. The cruelty of fuch a proceeding /peak's 
in thejlrongeft language to the feelings of all, except such hardenep 
S'B.mcs iv ho are engaged in this infamous traffic. —^ Numerous notes 
might ha-ve been added in 'various parts ; but the Author was defirous 
ef offering his eiun fentiments, tvithout introducing faffs which are in 
the hands of fuch numbers. 



This Jmall Tribute is refpeSffully dedicated^ -with the hope it will be candidly 
•viewed, to thofe Champions far the caufe of Infulted Humanity, 

THE SOCIETY INSTITUTED FOR THE PURPOSE QF 
ABOLISHING NEGRO SLAVERY, 

BY THE AUTHOR. 

Tie profits, if any, ar'ijing fnim the fale «f this pamphlet, wdl be 

appropriated to the difpoftion of the Society, and thofe 

purfofesfor ivhieb it was infiitutedi 




ACTS XVII. 24, 2^, 26. 

GOD, that made the nvorlJ and all things therein, (feeing that He is 
Lord of Hea-ven and Earth J giiieth to all, life, and breath, and all 
thiiigs ;, and hath made of one blood all nations of men, to dwell on- 
all the face, of the Earth. 



JlHE exiftence of a Firft Caufe is a truth which 
comes home to the confcience of every individual of the 
human race : and that man violates the plaineil: didates 
of reafon, confcience, and obfervation upon every fcene 
of nature which the univerfe prefents to his view, who 
denies, or even doubts, the exiilence of a God. Na- 
tions or kingdoms totally abforbed in the mofl fottifh 
idolatry, retained fome ideas of a Superior Power, to 
which they ^fcribed the formation of the world, and the 
introdnftion of mankind, as a fpecies of beings defigned 
for the enjoyment of thofe comforts which they beheld ; 
and which were offered to them, not v/ith a parfimo- 
nious hand, but Ihowered down in the greateft profu- 
lion, and with a fufficiency to fatisfy completely every 
rational defire. 

The-regularity of the feafons, the bleffings diffufed by 
the genial beams of the fun, and prolific fliowers from 
the clouds, are means defigned by Providence for exci- 
ting the latent powers of nature, and invigorating the 



iprings of vegetable life ; thereby fo perfect, not onlv 
the beauty of every plant, herb, and tree, but to render 
them inftrum,ental to the fupport of the animal fyftem 
of thofe myriads of beings which were to be called 
forth, in a regular fucceffion, to participate of the fruits 
of the divine bounty, wifdom, and goodnefs. If we 
examine with any degree of due attention the minuteft 
portion of the divine works, what aftonifliing tokens of 
infinite wifdom and goodnefs appear in fitting creatures 
with forms fuitable to thofe fituations in life they were 
dcligned to fill : their capacities for happinefs and enjoy- 
ment befpeak that difcernment which perfe6llj^ qualifies 
them for thofe bleffings intended by the Author of 
nature, the Giver of every good and perfect gift. In 
all tliefe inferior works of his hands (if I may term 
them fo with propriety) his glory blazes forth with 
unequalled lufire. Yet, after our conceptions are raifed 
to the utmoll degree, in contemplating his goodnefs in 
the animal and vegetable creation, there are Hill heights 
to which we may be tempted to foar, but muil confefs 
ourfclves inadequate to the fubjeft. If we turn our eyes 
to the rational creation, we fliall difcover a being poffef- 
fed of all the' animal powers, with an additional gift, 
which renders him as much fuperior, and infinitely 
more fo, than the mofl perfeft animal is to the clod of 
earth, which is deftitute of any vital energy, Man 
is endowed with a rational foul, an immaterial fpirit, 
breathed into him originally by the Almighty, whereby 
he is allied to angels, and rendered an heir of immor^- 
taliry. He is emphatically ftiled the offspring of the 
Deiiv, with refpe6t to thofe thinking, aftive powers 
vyhich ennoble, more or lefs, every individual of the 
human race. And herein confiils the dignity of his 



[ 3 ] 

nature, as proceeding thus qualified from the hands 
of the Great Artificer. The Pfal mill:, giving a loofe to 
devout meditations on this interefting fubjeft, thereby 
to raife fome animated ideas of the divine bounty and 
goodnefs, and excite a frame of thankfgiving for thofe 
bleffings, and a proper temper of mind under a fenfe of 
them, thus defcnbes the favors of Omnipotence to the 
children of men : — " Thou had made him a little lower 
than the angels, and hail crowned him with glory and 
honor. Thou madell him to have dominion over the 
■works of thy hands ; Thou hafl put all things under his 
feet: all flieep and oxen, yea, and the bealls of the 
field, the fowl of the air, and the fifli of the fea, and 
whatfoever paffeth through the paths of the feas. O 
Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy nam-e in all 
the earth !*' 

- Man, as a diflinguifliing part of the works of God,, 
was originally formed in a very different manner from 
thofe creatures over whom he was appointed the fubor- 
dinate ruler, under God, lie was created fole ; his fub- 
jeiSfs numerous. From him, and thaf gift of the divine 
bounty, which was gracioutly provided as the folace add 
comfort of his ejcillence, as a focial creature, proceeded 
thofe numerous families, with all their Yario;:s diltinc- 
tions, which peopled the furface of the earth. Arul 
though by a general corruption of manners, and an nni- 
verfal depravity of heart, the Almighty was induced to 
exterminate an abandoned race, aunoil: totally by a de- 
luge : yet by one family, as at firlT; by. one pair, ihey 
have been again multip'ui:d to thofe innumerable railUoiis 
which now cover rhe globe, Doubtlefs the fame power 
and wifdom by which inferioi' ranks of beings v.^qrc 

E 2 



[ 4 ] 

created, could as ealily have formed the human race 
equally numerous, or more fo : yet, among other rea- 
fons why this mode was not adopted, the following 
appears to carry fome weight : — Man, as before obfer- 
ved, was defigned for a fecial creature, and the interefts 
of various families might have been efteemed and opera- 
ted fo contrary to each other, that they would have 
been the fources of perpetual bickerings and animofities, 
which ought to be eifeftually baniflied by this conlider- 
ation, that they are all derived from one fource ; and 
therefore, though the removes might be diflant, the re- 
membrance would, on any temptation to afts of rapine 
or blood-fliedding, fmite their confciences, and intereft 
their natural feelings on the part of confanguinity, if 
thofe of comxmon jullice or equity v/ere at any time 
weakened. Thefe reflections, that they were ail mem* 
bers of one large family, would promote peace and har- 
mony, love and benevolence, if ^duly confidered, and 
confign the irritable paflions to oblivion ; or, otherwife, 
take off the edge of their acrimony and rancor. 

And this obfervation, if founded on clear and univer- 
fal truth, ought undoubtedly to be verified in the con- 
du6t of all men, without exception, towards each other. 
Our fentiments fliould, without difpute, influence our 
praftice, from this principle, — " that he who made us 
in the womb made him alfo. And did not one fafliion us 
in the womb?" Do we not pofl^efs the fame external 
form ? Do we not enjoy the fame intelleftual powers 
(though perhaps the opportunities of unfolding them, 
or calling them all into a£tion, is not afforded to all 
equally),? This mufl: be evident to the moll fuperficial 
obferver. ■ — Where the faculties of the mind are abfor- 



[ 5 ] 

bed by conftant and laborious employment, we might as 
well expe6i: to gather grapes from thorns, or figs from 
thiftles, as to difcover any remarkable exertions of ge- 
' nius, or the underllandiag, out of that line which takes 
tip all the thoughts and contrivances. It is pofiible fome- 
thing might be effected to accomplifli the labor of the 
hands with the leaft Lodily exertions, fo as not to wear 
out the frame prematurely. And this would be the 
extent of the thoughts and wifiies. 

Deprived of means of inflruftlon whereby the under- 
flanding and judgment might be properly exerciied, the 
foul would remain ignorant of her own powers and abi- 
lities. Vv-'ithouc the improvements of fcience, thofe lii- 
jninaries, which have flied fuch luilre upon thefe and 
other kingdoms, would have emitted only faint or ob- 
"-fcure rays ; and names which will be the aftoniflnnent 
of all fncceeding ages, had funk in the undiftinguifntd 
mafs, without tranfmiffion to poflerity. The facuiti; 3 
of the human mind require conftant cultivation ; either 
to retain the knovvlege they have acquired, or increafe 
their flock of ideas. Without cultivation they will he 
like a garden or field overrun with noxious weeds. If 
worthy and good principles are not planted, thofe of a 
contrary nature will carry off all the vigor of the ruiiid. 
Only take a fliort retrofpeft of the ftate of Europe, in 
general, during that period when mental blindnefs and 
depravity overfpread the ditlcrent countries. Could it 
then have been imagined, that the fame ipecies of bcini';s 
inhabited thofe kingdoms and nations who, by the gra- 
dual extent of chriftianity, have had the filiii in lon:e 
meafure removed from their eyes and hearts; and 
are now crvins: after knowlei'c, and lifriptj v,p their 



[ 6 ] ■ . 

Toices after underilanding. A new world, if 1 may fo 
cxprefs myfelf, offers itfelf to their aflonifhed fight : 
philofophy, arts, and fciences rear their heads ; the 
benevolent affections acquire frefli vigor j and univerfal 
philanthropy embraces all. , 

The feelings of humanity, even if we had no other 
criterion, would have great weight in eftablifhing an 
hypothefis with refpeft to the congeniality of our nature. 
Perhaps there is fcarce an inftance to be found, unlefs 
the perfon hath been previou fly hardened byfome exter- 
nal circumftances, oir fo uncommon a portion of obdu- 
racy in the human conilitution, as that the fufferings of 
any man fliould be an objeft of pleafure, ' or even of in- 
difference to any other : — I fay, with refpefl to this 
obfervation, thofe feelings of humanity are fo much in 
imifon in every individual, that the fight of a miferable 
Of fuffering objeft rouzes our compaffion and tender 
affections ; our bowels yearn over the unhappy creature j 
the tear of fympathetic pity fcarts into our eyes j and 
our hearts fink under the weight of forrovvs with which 
we have no perfonal connexion ; we ficken at the hear- 
ing only the well-told-tale of imaginary woe ; we rejoice 
in the deliverance of others out of critical or dangerous 
circumftances, and feel as if we ourfelves had efcaped 
out of fome imminent or unthought-of danger ; in one 
word, " we rejoice Vvith them that rejoice, and weep 
with them that weep :" and hereby prove our affe£tions 
and paffions are the fame, are influenced by the fame 
objects, by the fame hopes and fears, and we naturally 
entertain a common expeClation anticipating the infe- 
rences of realbn, and alTuring u?, that we fliall find 
firuilar effefts in oth-ers. 



[ 1 1 

1 might flievv, in a variety of inftanccs, the conflitii- 
tional proofs of this aflertion, that God has made of one 
blood, all nations of men that dwell upon the face of 
the earth ; but Ihall take it for granted, that thofe dif- 
tindtions which are vilible, are only fimple variations, 
without affefting the faculties of the mind, or intellec- 
tual powers ; and proceed to confider the duties and 
obligations requifite towards the Creator, and the human 
race, in their collateral capacity, as defcendants from 
the fame Original, as deriving their fource from the 
fame common Anceftor, as redeemed by the fame Savi- 
our, and as having their hopes and expettations fixed 
upon the fame important bleffing, — eternal life. 

Our Creator, Preferver, and Benefactor demands our 
mod exalted love, our highefl veneration, our moft 
faithful fervice and undiflembled obedience ; our heart, 
our foul, our mind, and our ilrength, our moll exalted 
powers to be exerted in this employment ; and our 
neiohbour and brother we. are to love as ourfelves : 
which are the two principk reqiiirements of all natural 
and revealed religion. 

Though the principls intention of the apoftle Paul, in 
his addrefs to the Athenians, was to reclaim them from 
that idolatry wherein they were immerfed, and to raife 
in their minds the defire of a knowlege of the Deity, 
from a view of the immenfity of his works, in the cre- 
ation of the world and all its numerous inhabitants; who 
were all the care of his providence, who were the fub- 
jefts of his moral government, and, in a fnture flate, 
were individually to appear before his awful tribunal 
and there receive a juft recompcnce for all the deeds 



[ 8 1 

done in the body. — Yet, as I am addreffing myfelf to 
profefled Chrillians, to perfons who have been through 
the whole of their lives favored with that revelation 
which they in general acknowlege to be of divine ori- 
ginal, it will not be fo riecellary to inlill upon the proofs 
of the being and perfeftions of God, at this time, as 
upon the duties and obligations men are mutually re- 
quired to fulfil towards each other ; but from which 
their paffions and intereils fo far warp their minds, as 
they are thereby frequently tempted to rejecl or defplfe 
the authority of their Lawgiver, and ftrike out into 
fuch a mode of conduft as is more fuitable to their cor- 
rupt afFeftions and depraved hearts. 

It is an obfervation that will always retain its force, — 
If we really love God, that loVe will extend itfelf to all 
the works of his hands, whether rational or only animal ; 
agreeable to the faculties of which they are partakers 
in common with ourfelves, or that ftate of being and 
exiftence whereby they were fitted for filling up their 
place in the univerfe. To our fellow-men, our benevo- 
lence will be due upon the moll: extenfive plan, our hearts 
will be enlarged from every coniideration that can work 
upon the feelings of humanity. We fliall not merely 
confine our willies to thofe v/ho move in our own con- 
trafted circle ; but every nation, every climate, every 
country, where there is a rational creature, \yill be the 
objeft of our comprehenfive defires, of our fervent 
prayers, that they may enjoy thofe inefiimable bleffings 
to the fuUeft extent, of which we either partake, or to 
which reafon, improved by revelation and true religion, 
poi?Us, as the felicity, the fupreme felicity of man. 



Do we v/"uli to enlarge our conne6tjori'! vvuii ou: oi^ 
tliren of mankind ? — The purpofe for v.'hjch this ;yill' 
h formed, ought to be, a delire to increafe their iutei- 
iec^usi happinefs, to open their underftanding:, to com- 
mimlrate new fourcss of knor/lcgc j to introduce, noi 
merely thofe arts and fciences which '^vill raiie their iin- 
portance in a comraercia! fcjile, by encreafing tiieir 
v.-anr';, and creating and encouraging habits of indullry^ 
with the extenfion of manufaftures . Thefe indeed uie 
neceiraryin the lift of the comforts of civil liie, the ideas 
'.vhereof are very weak and imperi'ecl among a larger 
proportion of the inhabitants ot the world than we are 
.ib:e adequately to conceive. — Yet is this all ? It our 
^^fforts were to fubiide into attempts for animal gratifies- 
tione, the ebullitions of caprice^ fancy^ or whiin, are 
we aniwcring the purpofes for which we were fent into 
the 'wvorld ? Can we lay our hands upon our hearts, and 
appeal to God* that v/e have confcientioutly performed 
the whole of our duty ? Surely no : fomething of inii-' 
nitely greater confequence yet remains behind. To this, 
then, iet us turfi our attention ; and afk, what is oUf 
duty farther on this point ? There are duties wherewith 
the eternal intereflj of rnen are moll; intimately connec- 
ted : — The obligations to morality and reiigiono If 
we fee individuals, or nations, funk in ignorance, or 
mental depravity and blindnefs ; will not true compaffion 
excite us to .concert the moft rational plan of raifing 
them to that intelleAual importance, Which the noble, 
but degraded, faculties of their minds demand, with 
an earneftnefs and vigor>wme degree proportionate to 
the fuperior value of the foul, above every other con= 
lideration. It is neceflaty, however, in this point, to 
confult the didlates of that prudence and piety which the 



[ 10 ] 

Gofpel teaches J to make it evider.t, not only to thofe we 
attempt to inftru6t, but to every obferver, that we are ac- 
tuated by the pureft principles of chriilianity, that our 
only defiie is, to point out to them, and put them into the 
path that leads to eternal life; to make them acquainted 
with the nature and confequences oi that liberty which is to 
be chained through Chrift, from thatjlavery and bondage 
tvhich is of the molt humiliating kind, which benumbs all 
the faculties of the foul, and reduces to a ftate mofl aptly 
compared to death. To difplay, in all their luftre, as far 
as our weak abilities are equal to the work, "to fuch who 
are yet unacquainted with thofe fundamental truths, 
the glory and perfeftions of the Deity, in his works of 
creation, providence, and redemption ; his infinite love 
in providing for the future happinefs of his creatures, in 
fending the Son of his love, who is the brightnefs of his 
glory, and the exprefs image of his perfon, to recover 
loll man from final perdition ; who by his atonement 
and facrifice for fin condemned fin in the fieili ; by his 
refurredion from the dead, and reftoration to life, gave 
an ocular demonftration,' to his profeffed dilciples and 
followers, of the truth of his pretenfions, that he came 
from God ; by every miracle performed by him and his 
apoftles, a frefia feal was fet to the truth of thofe doc- 
trines whofe only tendency was, to make mankind wife 
and good : to this purpofe he fet before them a perfe6t 
€X3mple ; an example replete with every grace and vir- 
tue; exhortin.gand commanding propriety of condu£l, 
and perfection of charafter in all his followers to the 
end of time. And, to render their endeavors fuccefsfuL, 
divine influences were prqj'aaifed and provided ; the Spirit 
of holinefs and purity to inflruft and fanftify their minds 
in this v/orld, by a courfe of mortification of fin, felf* 
4 



I " 3 

denial, with refpeft to every vicious indulgence, and 
genuine piety and univerfal righteoufnefs, to prepare 
them for the enjoyment of his heavenly kingdom. — 
Thefe are truths revealed with evidence fufficient to 
anfwer^every objeftion, by the facred fci-iptures. Thefe 
are do£lrines, with many others of a fimilar and equally 
important nature, contained in that rule of faith and 
pra£tice, the Gofpel Revelation ; and which the friends 
to the human fpecies v/iftx to inculcate to the utmojQ: of 
their power, and render the knowlege of them as ex- 
teniive as the habitable globe ; that every individual 
might, if poffible, reap the advantages to be acquired by 
them, and live agreeable to the principles of reafon 
and true religion. 

Yet we have abundant caufe to deplore the fatal influ- 
ences of vice, and the depravity of the human heart, 
that this kingdom of righteonfncfs and peace, eflablifiied 
by our blefled Lord, and which is net of this world, 
has been deformed, and its energy, in a great meafure, 
dellroyed and counteraded by the fliocking enormities 
pra£tifed by his profejjed fr'mids ] but, with this profef- 
iion, deftitute of every good principle, deftitute of that 
public and private virtue and goodnefs, which heretofore 
"was the dilHngnirning chnrafter of genuine chriftians ; fo 
far from fuftaining the character of fervants of God and 
difciples of^the bleiled Jefus, they have been worftiip- 
pers of mammon, and feeking every opportunity, with- 
out regarding the common, univerfal notions ol: juib.ce 
and equity v.'hich had obtained a fanftion in the worft- 
informed countries, of accumulating immenie property 
by the moft nefarious methods, though they could not 
enfure their enjoyment of it for one moment after con.- 



tt acting the gaiit conlequent upon fuch acquifitions. And 
commerce, which was defigned by Providence to conneiS 
the diftant parts of the world in the bonds of amity and 
mutual convenience, to difFufe the bleflings of civiliza- 
tion and comforts of life upon the mod extenfive fcale, 
is diverted from its original intention, when deformed 
by avarice, fraud, ambition, of any other noxious vice ; 
when the persons of men are made the objects thereof, 
inltead of the materials which are the natural produce of 
different countries ; and which, cuftom has introduced 
as the conveniencies, or habit has taught them to efteem 
the neceflaries of life. 

The Great Governor of the univerfe, from his know- 
lege of the human heart, and forefight of the future 
behaviour of his creatures towards each other, thought 
fit, in his infinite wifdom, to eftablifh, more efpecially 
amongft the defcendants of one branch of his great fa- 
mily, a code of laws of a moral as well as ceremonial 
nature : thofe of a moral tendency were fuited to incul- 
cate good government and propriety of" conduit: to the 
world at large ; and were defigned to be of perpetual 
obligation ; that is, as long as the prefent fyflem was 
continued. Thefe laws were calculated to perpetuate 
benevolence and love in all fucceeding generations ; and 
to banifh entirely, or remain as a conltant protelt againil 
thofe criminal aftions whereby they might be broken, or 
the fpirit and true meaning of them invaded. Their 
excellency and worth is at prefent acknowleged by all 
profeiTmg chriflians, and they are admitted into every 
fyftem of legiflation amongft them, as the foundation 
of every principle of natural juflice and equity which 
binds men to each other. And if we advert to nations 



I 13 ] 

who were without thefe written inflru(5lions, we fhall 
evidently difcover the Almighty left not himfelf without 
witnefs, by impreffing upon their hearts fuch fentiments 
as were congenial to human nature. Thefe perfons, ha.- 
ving not the law, are a law unto themfelves, which fliew 
the work of the law written in their hearts ; their confci- 
ences witneffing with them, and their thoughts the mean 
while accuiing, or elie excufing one another. They 
either had, or might have obtained fuch a knowlege of 
God, from the vKible creation around them ; or the 
light of their underftanding, as to be fenfible the prac- 
tice of unrighteoufnefs rendered them objefts of the 
divine wrath ; and that in the practice of their duty 
towards their fellow-men, they experienced a gratifica- 
tion and complacency of mind which aflured them of 
the reditude of their conduft. — But this part of the 
argument I ihall not at prefent confider : as my defign 
is not to inveiligate the duties and obligations incumbent 
upon every branch of mankind to each other ; but more 
eminently of thole who enjoy the unfpeakable bleffing of a 
Gofpel Revelation to thofe who are non>j deftitute of it ; 
and the neceffity of fpreading the lame knowlege if they 
wifli to promote the happinefs of their brethea- 

We may here obferve the laws and inilitutions of the 
Deity are marked with a preciiion which cannot be mif- 
taken ; they are couched in the concifeil terms, they 
rorretl every vicious principle and moral diforder, and 
are a perfeid: example to every human legiflator, to en- 
deavor to check the commiliion of irregular adtions. 
Laws were not originallv defigned fo much for the pu- 
nidunent as prevention of evil ; and hold out their' 
-lautftiona for the terror of thofe wbof<? minds were uu- 



[ H 1 

affefted with a fenfe of duty or good principles. — God, 
as the Creator and Univerfal Governor, had an exclufivc 
authority to propofe regulations for the ufe and advan- 
tage of thofe creatures he had formed, to fill iip what 
would otherwife have appeared a chafm in the rank of 
beings ; and to them, in mercy, he propounded necef- 
iary rules, not only to point out propriety of behaviour 
towards him, but to all thofe who were invefted with 
^3t^ like faculties as himfelf, and defcended from the fame 
common parent. The animal world, as before obferved, 
was fubmitted to the dominion of man ; but man him- 
felf was free, and fubjeft only to the dominion of God, 
his fole rightful Lord and Ruler ; unlefs, when they 
were multiplied in fubfequent ages, for the advantage 
of fociety, they might fee it necelTary to colleft them- 
felves into bodies, and depute fome perfon or perfons 
of fuperior imderftanding and fagacity to conduct thofe 
affairs to which the community at large could not Vvnth 
equal effeft attend. When thus formed into communi- 
ties, from different tempers and difpofitions, fome might 
be found not fo attentive to good order and the praftice 
cf virtue, as the interefts of fociety demanded^jon this 
account > and becaufe large bodies of perfons will ne- 
ceffarily contain fome unworthy members, whofe evil 
examples might be contagious ; it has been always ef- 
teemed of the higheft advantage to promulgate fuch 
regulations as would tend to maintain public peace and 
tranquillity. To this purpofe the Almighty himfelf 
iflued a fyftem of laws, to the obfervance of which he 
required the ffriftell: attention. They expreffly forbid, 
among other things, taking away the life, or any fpecies 
of aftions which might produce fuch confequences ; pur- 
loining the property of another, either by open violence 



r: t5 j 

or fecret fraud ; and even fo much as the wifli to enjoy 
that property in prejudice of another. The fecurity of 
life and the protection of property were then two of the 
rules laid down for the obfervance of the Ifraelites, and 
they retain the fame efficacy for regulating the conduft 
of all mankind towards each other, in every part of the 
world. If there is no right to the life or property of 
another, his per/on is equally free, bts liherty ought not 
to be infringed, and no one has a right to bring his bro- 
ther into bondage ; unlefs he has forfeited his liberty by 
criminal condufl, or becomes amenable to the fentencc 
of thofe laws which that country has adopted that grants 
him prote6ti6n. — But I am neither capable, or, was A^ 
fo, do I think it neceiTary to enter into a difquifition of 
the propriety, or impropriety of national codes, how- 
ever they may fliock my feelings in a variety of inilan- 
ces : yet I would hold up to every individual the im- 
mutable rule of juftice and equity^^to legiflators as well 
as the governed, that abfolute command, — " WJjatfo- 
ever ye ^Mould that jncn JJjould do unto you, do ye alfo unto 
them : — for this is the la%v.^' — This ought to be the 
foundation of every aftion, whether political, moral, or 
religious. And whatever is contrary to this, howfoever 
the perpetrators may refine upon their conduft, or at- 
tempt to explain the ipirit of it away, fuch an one is 
abfolutely and unconditionally felf condemned by the 
fentence of that God who is truth it/elf. Examine, if 
it is neceflary to c^ear your underil:andings, or inform 
your judgments, You, whofe avarice is infatiable, who 
are engaged in thofe infamous pradices, at the bare 
mention of which nature fliudders, which reafon and 
religion mark in the catalogue of the blacked vices, and 
even the untutored favage rejei^s with horror, but which 



[ i6 j 

the moft deteftable policy covers with a flimfey mantle j 
examine the laws of the Eternal Jehovah, and if you ar« 
able to contend with him, continue to break them with* 
out dread of the- confequences. He that guarded the 
property of man with fuch an awful fanftion, furely had 
an equal regard to his perfonal liberty, and the fecurity 
of that firil and gi-eateil: privilege of our nature. There- 
fore he fays, — " He that flealeth a man and fdleth 
him, or if he be found in his hand, he fliall furely be 
put to death." — The apoftle Paul, in his firft epiftle 
to Timothy, ch. i. v. lo, flaows the neceffity of fuch 
laws, either to prevent the commilTion, or pvinifh the 
perpetrators of thofe crimes which affect the community 
in general ; and alfo to preferve the weak from the ra- 
pacious hands of infolent and treacherous villany. And 
be there exhibits a lift which fills the mind with horror 
at a view of the depravity of human nature ; and with 
the perfons particularized in that dreadful defcription 
he ranks men-flealers ; thefe indeed may be equally 
guilty with the former ; as the effefts of their crimes 
are produdive of every Qnormity that can difgrace or 
demonize the rational powers of men. Let every friend 
to humanity difclaim all connections with them, and fay 
tvith the patriarch, — " O my foul, come not thou into 
their fecret, unto their afTembly, mine honor, be not 
thou united;" for unlefs they forfake fuch a praftice 
they deferve to be excluded from the common bleffings 
of fociety and friendftiip, and to wander like the iiril 
jiUirderer, as fugitives and vagabonds, in a defolate and 
uninhabited land. — 

The provifional law, by the fame authority, for thofe 
who bad efcaped fron^ a ftate of flavery, is of fuch a 



t 17 3 

nature as abfolutely deftroys the vifionary claim of right 
or juftice in thofe who detained their brethren in bond- 
age ; and makes a remarkable dill:in6tion between a flate 
of fervitude z.wdi Jlavery. Thofc who fled from the latter, 
were to be received with open arms, and admitted to 
the liberty of dwelling in any part of their country which 
,vaB moft agreeable to them ; and there was a ftri6t com- 
aand they fliould not fuffer any kind of oppreilion ; out 
of a fympathetic compaflion iwm thofe who, either 
perfonally, or in their ancellors, had fmarted under the 
fufferings of fuch a ftate ; thofe who fled from a tempo- 
rary fervitude were to be reftored to their imalters, unlefs 
there was a juft and fufficient ground for their releafe ; 
fuch as cruelty, or negligence in difcharging obligations 
Xo which they had fubjeded themfelves. 

So cautious was the Great Lawgiver to prevent any 
circumftances that might have a tendency to excite a fe- 
rocious and fanguinary difpofition, a hard and unfeeling 
temper, that whenever publick juftice demanded its 
rights upon the moH atrocious criminals ; or punifliments 
not capital \vere to be inflicled upon bi'eaches of good 
order and natural equity \ in the former, they were not 
to forget that they were men ; and though an excifion 
was required, it was not to be attended with any unne= 
cclTary cruelty, but a fpeedy diflblution : towards thofe 
who were the objefts of lefs rigorous penalties, mildnefs 
was recommended and inforced by the befl: motives ; left 
they fhould be rendered vile and worthlefs in the eye3 
of the judges or the people at large; as offenders would 
be thereby p:ecluded from a probability of repentance 
for their mifco«du(51:, and an inclination or wifh to for- 
fake thofe evil courfes which had covered them ^vith 



I ^8 1 

ignominy arid reproach : by mildnefs they might be eri* 
couraged to conlider that difcipline as falutary, and as 
preferving them in the iflue from final deflrudion, Thefe 
confiderations are highly neceffary and peculiarly afFe£t- 
ing on the view of all men, as deriving their exiftence 
from one common^ fource. On this account the .propria 
ety of the divine laws and regulations appl y - them ^ves 
to our feelings v\'ith the ftrongelt energy. For as we 
entertain a natural predilection towards thofe who are 
united to us by the bonds of confanguinity, and are 
peculiarly interefted in their welfare or fufFerings, we 
are hereby inftrufted to confider every individual of the 
human race as {landing in the fame relation to us ; and 
therefore they have all an equal title to our afFeftionate 
regard as men : •' and no man," fays the apoftle, " ever 
yet hated his own flefh, but nouriflies and cherifhes it." 
Here, then, our duty is fpecified in unequivocal lan- 
guage ; and however we may be deficient in the per- 
formance of thofe points humanity requires, thus the 
matter will fland in the fight of God ; and this he hath 
affured us will be the foundation of his final difcrimina- 
•tion of charaders when they are fummoned before his 
awful bar, to receive a recompence for all the deeds done 
in the body : thofe then will receive judment^ without a 
mixture of mercy, who have- fiiowed no mercy : and 
hov/ dreadful and alarming fuch a fentence will be, it is 
impoflible for the human tongue to utter, or human 
faculties to conceive. May none of us be convinced of 
its reality by our feelings ! 

, As the Gofpel difclaims any attempt to bring the hu- 
man race into a llate'of flavery, nay exprefiTes the utmoU 



C 19 3 

abhorrence of fucli conduftj Reafon is equally inimical 
■to fuch an unjufl claim. 

By Reafon, I mean thofe genuine dictates, fo far a9 
we can difcover them, unfophiflicated by the corruptions 
of bafe and unnatural vices, whereby the powers of 
the mind receive a falfe bias. I call them unnatural 
vices, becaufe they originate in a depravity of temper, 
generally acquired either from the evil examples around 
us, or indulgence of paffions and afFeftions in themfelves 
good ; which, yet, when fixed on wrong objefts, gain a 
fuperiority which is deflruftive of benevolent afFeftions 
and virtuous habits. Reafon demands an exertion of 
our mental faculties to promote fuch plans as fhall be 
produftive of mutual advantage to all who partake of 
the fame nature : this gift of Providence was never in- 
tended by the Governor of the univerfe to waftc its vigor 
in framing fchemes for the fubjugation of the fouls or 
bodies of men ; or compelling the weak to fubmit to 
the more powerful. Indeed, covetoufnefs and ambition 
advance pleas of this kind ; pride and haughtinefs raife 
ideas in a prefumptuous mortal diametrically oppofite 
to truth and fobriet3'-^of thought : reafon allows a mode- 
rate difference in the degrees and ranks of men ; a free 
fiibordination, whereby they are rendered mutually ufe- 
ful to each other : by this diverfity fecial afFeftions alfa 
acquire flrength, and loyc a:nd harmony become more 
difFufive. But becaufe one, or a com.paratjvely fmall 
number, are pofleffed in a larger proportion, of fome 
of the adventitious benefits of fociety, is it a confequence 
that they have a right tocp.mpel others, over whom they 
can claini no authority or fuperiority but what is acqui- 
red by the iron hand of power, or any other means than 



[" 20 3 

an affumed authority equally unjuH, yet at the fame 
time pregnant with every natural and moral evil, which 
leaves the deepefl; veftiges of deftruftion in their paths ? 
I aik, is it confonant to reafon to fearch out and depopu- 
late diftant climes, for°vi£tims, to gratify the voluptuouf- 
nefs of a few ftrangers j or that fome other countries, or 
individuals, may enjoy what cuftom hath taught them 
to call the neceflaries and delicacies of life ? Reafon will 
inftruft us to moderate our defires; reafon will inftru£fc 
us, the fev/er our wants the more agreeable to nature, 
enjoyment, and true fatisfadion. That the happinefs of 
life doth not confift in abundance, but mediocrity ; that 
it dbth not confifl in gratifying the capricious demands 
of a whimfical palate ; that no comfortable reflexions 
can be raifed upon a retrofpeft of paft time, merely to 
©bferve, we have enjoyed a larger proportion of what 
are termed the good things of life. — But, have we 
employed our time in cultivating thofe intelleftual pow- 
ers and faculties which are the diftinguifhing charafter- 
iftics of man ? Did reafon ever excite any individual to 
toil, to fweat, to bleed, or to die by the mofl infup- 
portable anguifli, to gratify the loweft and mofl defpi- 
cable indulgences of animal life ? Would reafon ever 
bring a fellow-man, upon whom was {lamped the fame 
image of the Deity with ourfelves, into the moft degra- 
ding circumftances, if he had not brought himfelf into 
that fituation as a puniftiment of thofe vices which ren- 
dered him a publick enemy to all decency, and good 
order ; to the well-being, or even the lives of others ? 
Crimes loudly demand punifhment for the injuries 
they have produced : but perpetual flavery even of the 
offender himfelf, is an objeft rather of horror than 
of fecial juftice : the individual it plunges into the 



C 21 } 

loweft abyfs of defpair ; the community it flrikes with 
the bafe and petrifying idea of defpotic power; it is 
therefore neither ufeful for information, nor for exam- 
ple ; but to be avoided by the policy of every countiy 
which regards the temper and fpirit of the people ; and 
wiflies to preferve the inviolable rights of humanity : 
and even were thefe principles to be overlooked, at lealt 
thofe who are innocent have a right to freedom. By 
what claim of juflice or equity can the inhabitants of one 
country, or nation, feize on the harmlefs, inoffenfive ■ 
inhabitants of another, and force them into perpetual 
flavery ? In fuch flagrant injuftice there is a wilful, and 
deliberate breach of the laws' of God ; of every idea of 
good government, of the rules of reafon and moral 
equity, and of that right every individual hath to liberty, 
without being fubjeft to compulfion, violence, and the 
terrors of flavery. 

The perfons upon whom this arbitrary ilretch of un- 
natural rapine, fraud, and villany hath been, and is yet 
exercifed without compunftion or remorfe ,• may with 
an equal degree of juftice, and perhaps with more, by 
way of retaliation for their unmerited fufFerings for cen- 
turies, commit the fame depredations upon the perfons 
and properties of their cruel perfecutors : — and would 
they be objefts of pity and compaflion ? Would not the 
proper anfwer to fuch be, — " Verily there is a righte- 
ous Judge that ruleth among the children of men ? " 
— Let then the guilty in this, as well as in every other 
refpeft, " ceafe to do evil, and learn to do well j to do 
juftice and judgment, for the righteous Lord loveth 
fuch; and fuch only fii|U profper in their ways." 



E 22 } 

As the praftice of bringing any of the human race- 
iato flavery is contrary to religion and reafon, it is like- 
wife contrary to the beft feelings of our nature. It 
is, in one word, abfolutely, and to all intents and pur« 
pofes, — unnatural. 

Our fouls, our nature revolts at the thought. Let 
even the wretch whofe mind is callous to the fentimenta 
of humanity, view the paths which have been taken, and 
are yet purfued iar to accomplifli this inhuman traffick, 
and if his heart is not harder than the nether millflone ; 
if ever one ferious thought flafties over his mind, though 
as inilantaneous as the lightning, — he will tremble ; — 
his confcience mufi: be on the rack ; — and fome com- 
punftion for the undeferved mifery he hath perpetuated 
wpon, not folely an individual, but multitudes, will fmk 
him in defpair. — Can thofe expeft to find mercy them- 
felves from the hand of God, who have their hearts 
Heeled againft that molt amiable of all focial graces with 
which the human breaft can be ennobled ? — A difplay 
of only an imperfeft fketch of the feelings, the agonizing 
tortures which fall to the lot of the unhappy fufferers 
tinder this ignominious treatment, will apply itfelf to our 
hearts with an energy and fympathy that will make an 
jrapreffion, more lading than any other argument which 
can be offered ; and convince us of the truth aflerted by 
the Apoftle. We feel ourfelves interefted in their fate ; 
we fliudder at the cruelties inflifted upon them ; and 
our jufl indignation is roufed againft thofe who have 
thus degraded the dignity of our nature in the face of 
the world, without a blulh upon their countenances. 

Let us only difpaffionately view the lituation of thofe 



ivietchetl creatures, whom a wife Providence permits, for 
infcrutable purpofes, to fuflain fuch indignities ; it muft 
appear unnatxiral in the perpetrators and a£tors in thofe 
deplorable fcenes. View the objects of their facrilegious 
rapacity and avarice, in the enjoyment of the bleflings of 
domeftic peace and ti-anquijjity, with their families and 
connections ; partaking of the comforts arifing from the 
bountiful gifts of the God of nature, in a climate abound- 
ing with every thing that cart adminifter to the real 
wants, or fuperfiuous wifhes of its contented inhabitants, 
with a happinefs and fertility of foil, that doth not re- 
quire any painful exertions to reap the fruits of their la- 
bors. The prolific vigor of nature fupplies their neceffi- 
ties with an aftonilhing increafe, of which the poffeflbrs 
of lefs happy regions can fcarcely form a conception, 
Thefe bleflings they enjoy without murmuring or repi- 
ning, — v/ith a degree of contentment and fatisfaCiion, 
thofe who boail of fuperior advantages from civilization 
too rarely cherifli. They have, from habit and fituation, 
the happy art (not to them, indeed, an art, but feldoni 
learnt, where extreme refinements prevail) of circum- 
fcribing their v/ants, in general, vvlthlii the compafs of 
their enjoyments. They do not appear, at leaft for 
many centuries pall, to have cultivated an intercourfe 
with more diflant nations, to add to their flock of be- 
nefits : but parents and children, hufbands and wives, 
the governors and governed were perfeftly eafy with 
their lot : and, for any thing that appears to the con- 
trary, they even yet continue to fulfil the duties of 
faithful fabjefts to their fuperiors, tender parents, obe- 
dient children, affedionate, obliging, and fincere as 
hufbands and wives ; compaffionate and willing to relieve 
not only the diltrefies and wants of thofe v/ho dwell 



I H 1 

upon the fame continent, but of Grangers and enemies 5 
faithful and equitable, juft and honorable in their pub- 
lick and private dealings, either with foreigners or each 
Other. In former ages, bleft with flrength of mind to 
conceive, and abilities to cultivate, not merely the more 
common arts and fciences ^of which Europeans make 
their boaft, but to inveftigate thofe of the moft abftrufe 
and complex nature, and elucidate them ; in fhort, their 
mental faculties have appeared equal, in pafl: ages, if 
not fuperior, to thofe of colder climates ; they have 
produced the moll: pious and judicious divines, the moft 
fagacious ftatefmen, the moil: accompliflied and fuccefsful 
generals, the keeneft and moft penetrating lawyers, the 
moft fage and learned phyiicians, the moft ingenious 
and flalful mechanicks, (which occafioned a law about 
the year 328, or 329, to employ Africans in preference 
to others, through the wide, extended empire of Rome, 
for their docility in learning, and their fuperiority of 
ikill, after inftrudion, in improving upon mechanical 
inventions) the moft brilliant charafters in every walk of 
life, from the humble citizen to the elevated prince that 
wields the fceptre. — And this may, in fome degree, be 
explained on rational principles : viz. A climate replete 
with ftriking, natural images prefented to the imagina- 
tion and judgment,' together with their food ; which is 
adapted, not to burden the body, or darken the mind, 
but leave the faculties fufficient room to difplay them- 
felves to advantage. And as they once were eminent 
for thefe excellencies, to what can their prefent failure 
be afcribed, but a negle£l of inftruftidn, a lofs of thofe 
means of improvement they once happily poflefled. This 
makes that diflindtion between civilized and favage coun-, 
tries. It was the abfence of this rendered the inhabitants 



I -'-5 J 

iji thib land in paJfi; ages, painted favages j Itrangers W 
ihe comforts and enjoyments of fecial life : and as the 
different arts and fciences have made their tranfit over 
the globe, ignorance and blindnefs have in many places 
refumcd their em.pire, for the fame reafon that night 
returns on the abfence of the fun. — And why fhould 
not the fame, or even greater, refpeil be paid to the 
untutored de/cendant of a v^^orthy African, as to the 
prefent inhabitants of that fpot, or land, where the 
proud miftrefs of the world once unfurled her infatiable 
banners ; but where now refides the undiflinguifiied 
pofterity, who united their utmoil: efforts, Vvith fatal 
fuccefs, againfl arts and fciences, till grofs darknefs 
^clipfed all the former glory of Rome ; and fupevllition 
reared her portentous trophies on the buried ruins of 
civil and religious freedom ? — Surely fome veneration 
js due to the pofterity of thofe memorable characters, 
whofe purity of blood does not appear contaminated by 
fuch heterogeneous mixtures ; whofe national peculi- 
arities ftill remain the fame. But this long-negleded 
quarter of the earth might have yet continued an obje6b 
of difregard, had not that huiiger for gold, and avarice, 
which knows no bounds, prompted needy adventurers 
to fearch after this fafcinating metal at the hazard of 
their own lives ; with the probability of extirpating every 
remaining good principle. This induced thofe men 
priginally to invade the peaceful dwellings of the inno- 
cent African j and if they could not obtain this produce 
of their countr}'^, to feize their perfons, and carry them 
into diftant lands ; where others, deftitute of the fear of 
God, the love of their brethren, or the common djjftates 
of humanity, purchafed the trembling and aftoniflied 
ilranger, and employed him in works fo far exceeding th§ 



C ^ 3 

yjeaiaic of humto firehgth even in its beft ciriumftaB-' 
ces, -aiKivvkh the fairefl encouragement ; (how difpro* 
portionate then to the fLrength, the fpirit, the f^off^le 
exeitiohs of a wretched, despairing captive; exhaufted 
^vith the horrors of his dreadful voyage, trerhbiing be- 
neath the fcourge, and enfeebled in every power by the 
torpid influence of flavery ! ) that even the vigor of the 
brute was nor able to fullain, but he foon funic under 
the burden. 

Turn your eyes, though but for a moment, upiori the 
ilcps pui-fued in this infamous traffick ; and theri lay 
your hands upon your hearts, and afk yourfelves, — Is 
this confiftent with the feelings of men, were the cdm* 
mands of religion to be utterly difregarded ? View the 
unhappy objeft of this criminal, this inhuman, thii^ 
impious commerce, enfnared by every difgraceful aifti- 
fice, torn by violence from his native country, to whicft 
every individual has a natural predileftion ; from every 
eonnection, cemented either by friendfliip, affeftiori, or 
blood ; which twine round his heart, are interwoven in 
his conilitution, and form the felicity of his life. ThlS 
cruelty is excrcifed, not only upon the robuft and pow- 
erful, upon men ; but the fofter fex, the harmlefs child,, 
the innocent and helplefs fuckling equally fhare in ^(^ 
fame common evil. As to the means ufed to entrap the 
unwary, or bring all ranks, indifcriminately, into bond- 
age; they are fo replete with horror, cruelty, HM 
blood; fuch refinements upon every thing whic'h is in- 
imical to the feelings of humanity, that we wifh they 
could be expunged from the page of hiftory, and -cdh- 
figned to perpetual oblivion : and are ready, under tlid 
horrors of fuch outrages, to difclaim the riiime of meri. 



C ?7 3 

— y^t, fuch wrong? arc perpetrated, fuch jniferies daily 
inflicted ! — What muii the conceptions of the poor, 
diftrefle^l fufferer be, wheti he finds himfelf arrefted by 
the hand of a fuperior power, and about to bid an evcr- 
lafting adieu to all thole comforts and enjoyments where- 
with he had formerly folaced himfelf through the paft 
period of life, and confined in bonds, within a fmall 
compafs*, among hundreds of his juffering fpecies ; 



* « I fliall give tlie Reader the diraenfions of two yeflels that 
failed, about fix months ago, from a Britilh port, to the coafl of 
Africa, for flaves. I do not mean as tenders to other fhips ; but to 
coUeft them on their own account, and to carry them to the 
colonies. 

" One of them was a veflel of twenty-five tons. The length of 
the upper part of the hold, or roof of the rooms where the flaves 
w^re to be confined, w.is thirty-one feet. The ^reateft breadth of 
the bottom, or floor, was ten feet, four inches 5 and the leaft five. 
The depth, or heighth, was rather lefs than four. This veflel was 
calculated and failed ior fe-venty flaves. 

** It is clear, that none of the unfortunate people, perhaps at this 
foment on board, can (land upright ; but that they muft fit down 
and contrail their limbs within the limits of little more than three 
fquare feet, during the whole of the middle pafiage. 

" The other veltel meafured eleven tons. The length of the apart^ 
rnent for the flaves was Tvventy-two feet. The greatelt breadth of 
the floor, eight j and the le-ift, four. The depth two feet, eight 
inches. This veflTel was Cdkulacgd and failed for thirty (laves. 
" Any perfon of a moderate height, (landing upon dry ground, 
- t>y the fide of this vefTel, might overlook every thing upon the deck ;' 
as her .height from the keel to the beam was but five feet, eight 
inches :" three of which were eqgroiTed by ballaft, pargo, and pro- 
yifions } and the reft was left for — flaves. 

■'*' The only idea that will, perhaps, ftrike the reader, in exami- 
fting thefe dlmenfioris, will be^ that the apartment muft be In ()iage 
and fize, as well as in heat,- umilar to an or:-;. -^ And tqj fhev.- 



t ^« 1 



fubje^ to every indignity and abufe that can be inftl£iecl 
by a capricious and unfeeling tyrant, who hath not fa 
much as a iingle idea of alleviating thofe unmerited dif- 



how prepofteroufly the advocates for flavery talk, when they declaim 
upon the accommodations for flaves ; this very boat was built for the. 
pleafure and convenience of zbontjix iT&<i perfons upon the Severn. 

" If it fhould be faid, that the larger veiTels have better accom- 
modations : I reply, that it can only be in the height of the room, 
the flaves being flowed equally clofe. *- In fome of thefe they have 
not had fo much room upon the floor by one fquare foot, as in thofe 
which have been jufl fpecified; for I have known the number of 
ilaves which many of them have carried, and have had the^r apart- 
tnents meafured. 

*' Being flowed in the manner thus defcribed, they foon begin to 
experience the efFe£ls which might naturally be prefumed to arife 
from their fituatlon. In confequence of the peflilential breath of 
fo many confined in fo fmall a place, they become fickly. and from 
the vicifTitude of heat and cold — of heat, when confined below, 
and of cold, when fuddenly brought up for air — a fiux is genera- 
ted. Whenever this diforder attacks them, no penxan be adequate 
to the taflc of defcribing their fituation. Imagine, only for a mo- 
ment, the gratings to be opened, but particularly after a rain, which 
has occafioned them to be covered for fome time j the firfl fcene 
that prefents itfelf is, a clufler of unhappy people, who, overcome 
by excefnve heat and flench, have fainted away. 

" The next that occurs is, that of one of them endeavoring to prefs 
forward to the light, to c^tch a mouthful of wholefome air, but 
hindered by the partner of his chains, who is lyipg dead at his feet, 
and whom he has not fufficient llrength to drag after him. 

*' The third is confplcuous in the inftance of thofe who are juft 
on the point of fainting : and who are wallowing in the blood and 
mucus of the Intellines, with which the ^oor is covered. 

" Such are the fc(?nes that univerfally prefent themfelves : — and 
how agonizing and infufferable their fituation mufl have beer^ 
during this period of their confinenaent, none, I believe, can pofll- 
^ly conceive, unlefs they had been the partners of their chains." —? 



treiTes vvhieh make their hearts ready to burft with an- 
guifh ! After being the fubjefts of every thing which .is 
the greateft poffible outrage to the lowell: notions of 



CtAKKSoN's E flay on the Slavery and Commerce of the Human 
Species. Second Edition, p. 92, 93, 94. 

Can any individual read this without feeling his rcfentment In- 
flamed to the highefl degree ? — If fo j he ought to be forever dif- 
owned by his fellow-men. 

The dreadful and malignant confequences arifing from crowding 
the unhappy Negroes within fo fmall a compafs during their paffage 
from Africa to the Wefl Indies, whereby they are deprived of thofu 
advantages arifing from a free circulation of air, &c, and many 
fevere bodily indifpofitions join to render the feelings of their minds- 
more aeute and poignant ; their diftrefles in this flate have given 
rife to a temporary expedient, by a bill, juft brought into parlia- 
ment, by Sir W. Dolben, whofe compaflion was excited on a 
view of this enormity, to afford the prefent fufFerers a momentary 
relief: not with a defign to become the foundation of any future 
regulations, as all pretended regulations in this traffic xan never 
reconcile it to the natural principles of humanity and juftice, which 
are abfolutely, and in toto, at variance with the principle and prac- 
tice j but to meliorate their condition and reftrain fome of the 
horrors attending their voyage, during die prefent fcffion of parlia- 
ment ; whicS", from an unforefeen and unfortunate cifcumtlance, 
there v/as a kind- of neceffity of deferring the intended relief, by 
the long arid dangerous iilnefs of Mr. WiLBERFORCE, who gave 
notice of his defign to bring in a bill for that purpofe. Waiting- for 
his refloratlon to a ftate of convalefcence, fo much time unavoidably 
elapfed, as rendered it necefTary to defer the bill to the next feffion •• 
when, there is fufficlent ground to believe, this important work 
will be confummated in defiance of every obftacle raifed by~thofe 
who prefer the gains of an unrighteous and unnatural commerce, 
to the claims of humanity, equity, and the laws of God. — ^ There 
is reafon for general gratitude to the goodnefs of Providence, that a 
.perfon is raifed up and infpired with fuch an undaunted fpirit. 
JM^y his virtuous endeavors be crowned with fuccefs, and the na- 



[ 50 ] 

decency and mpdefty, i(Jm;ing their ^ranfport^tjon j thfy, 
arrive 9t length at that period whe^ their forrows ought 
to be at an end, when fome compenfation fhould take 
place for the unkind and ungenerous treatment under 
which they have languifhed : yet, inf^ad of the profpeft 
brightening, the clouds gather with a more formidable 
afpeft, the ftorm will foon burft upon their devoted 
heads with tenfold fury : — they are transferred over to 
fome avaritious planter, who purchafes them like beaft^ 
cf the jfield j tliey are delivered into the hands of fome 
cruel talkmafter, and deprived of nourifliing an^ necefTary 
food ; fubjeft to the inceflant exercife of the lafh, which 
macerates their naked bodies, and covers them with 
wounds and bruifes ; their flrength is foon exhaufted, 
nature not being permitted to recruit herfelf vyith proper 
reft, deprived even of the melancholy pleafure j(if J. 
inay fo term it) of reciting pr contemplating upon their 
misfortunes, under the penalty of an encreafe of punifli- 
ment f for thinking,' fubjeited to every accumulated 
niifery and diflrefs from the mafter or his fervants i they 
fipk at length under their burdens, and their place is 
fupplied by freih objefts, who are to fullain the fame, of 
greater forrows. And for what ? — To gratify the pa- 
late of ftill greater grangers, who are placed at a much 
farther diftance ; but who have, in general, hitherto 
been ignorant of the toil, the fweat, the blood, the 



tion at large long flourish under the influence of thofe counfels 
which are the refult of prudence, juftice, and incorruptible Inte- 
Srity ; and, after the . long exercife of every public and private 
virtue, may he obtain that reward which the Great Governor of 
the world will beilow upon all his faithful fervants ! 



^^'\^1ch=\iv^ve' iJe'eti t^Cntcedi to pfdcift*€ tlcitm a mo- 
iiitntary pleafure. 

■ KKre it might be riatiir^lly aflced, — In all this n«e» 
^ei^ and \Vt4fte of the htfrtian race, though their bodifei 
have been deffroyecf, whether feme attetitibn hath riot 
been paid to the improvement of their rtiinds, to fefcue 
them from the blindncfs and ignorance whereiri they 
were found ? Have not profcfTed Chriftians flVovm foiHc 
(Tonipailion to their fouls, and endeavored to illuminate 
their underflandiiigs, by making them acquainted with 
the facred fcriptures ; thereby bringing them fo the 
knowlege of the truth as it is in Jefiis ; difplaying that 
future happinefs referved for all thofe who are rnade 
holy, who are purified by the grace and fpirit of God ; 
of every nation and people under heaven ? — This 
is a queftion to which an anfwer mUft, in general, be 
returned in the negative, — • Doth not this Gofpet con- 
demn, «in the firongeft and fevereft language their own 
breach of its mofl glorious and benign precepts, ibpji 
cfjhenx)uig mercy f What a perpetual fatire are fuch men 
upon themfelves ? How do they obftruft the progrefs 
of chriilianity, anti render even the very name diftguft- 
fid to thofe who lee only the vices it reprobates, but 
none of the virtues it fo powerfully recommends, and 
peremptorily demands from all thofe that are the real 
difciples of the Bleffed Jefus ? If there are bleffings to 
be obtained by chriftianity, is it not the duty of every 
chriflian to render them as extenfive as poffible, to bring 
every human creature to the enjoyment of them ? The 
command of our Bleffed Lord was, to preach the Gofpel 
to every creature under heaven. And if the falvation 
and deliverance of the foul, and impreffiog upon it the 



I 32 J 

it?>age of God in righteoufnefs and true holinefs 5 li 
implanting the feed of every grace which can exalt the 
nature of man j and the crowning the faithful follower 
of Jefus with everlafting life, are bleffings of the greateft 
importance ; furely this religious fyftem demands our 
moil flremious endeavors to inculcate it with the greateft 
diligence and care, — If to this we add the ■unfpeakable/ 
love^ and ■ jmpaffion manifelled by Jefus to fmful men» 
who left the regions of glory, the bofom of his Father, 
and was veiled in human flefli, who became a man of 
farrow and acquainted with grief; who fuffered every 
indignity and reproach from implacable enemies during 
the whole period of his life ; and, at length, fuffered a 
mofl painful and ignominious death, — tbe death of a 
Jlavc^ of a w^retched outcafl: neglefted by earth and hea- 
ven, to purchafe life and happinefs for ^is at the expence 
of his own ; can we refleft upon the humiliation, the 
fufferings, and the death of Chrill, without the ftrongefl 
emotions of gratitude, without feeling fome goo^ affec- 
tions flruggling to vent themfelves in obedience to his 
commands ? Can we view the human race colie£live!y, 
as interefled in thofe very important privileges, and fhall 
we be the unhappy inflruments of hardening their 
hearts, of exciting them to rejeft this Saviour and hig 
gracious offers vvith contempt and abhorrence, through 
onr vices and enormities ? — How unfpeakably dreadful 
mufl our condemnation be at the day of final judgment. 

If, as our Lord hirafelf hath poUtively alTerted, it were 
better for that man, that a millftone were tied about 
his neck, and he was cafl into the midll: of the fea, than 
that he ihould offend the confcience of the very leaft, 
the feeblefl-minded of his followers ; what mufl be 



[ 33 ] 

, their punifhment who prevent the reception of the Gof- 
pel by millions ; or refufe to inftru6t the ignorant, who 
for centuries have periflied through lack of knowlege, ia 
numbers too great, almoft, for the ftrongell combination 
of figures to call by their proper names, to evince their 
magnitude ? Will not fuch firft-rate finners, and their 
defcendants treading in the fame fteps, with terror and 
amazement, call upon the rocks and mountains to fall 
upon them, and hide them from the face of their Judge, 
when he fliall come to make inquifition for blood, when 
he fliall call them to an account for thofe human fouls 
which have been loft through their inftrumentality or 
neglect ? And if one foul is of more intrinfic value than 
the whole material world, what muil be the worth of 
myriads ? May this refleftion, which is of fuch unfpeak-- 
able, I may fay, infinite importance, ftrike deeply every 
ferious, thinking perfon, and perfuade them to adl con- , 
liftently with fuch an awful and affeiling fentiment ! 

Thefe are the ideas we ought to entertain with refpe£t 
to our duty towards mankind colleftively, as participa- 
ting of the fame nature, the fame intelleftual powers and 
faculties, the fame original feelings, impelled or excited 
by the fame motives, hopes, and fears ; capable of the 
fame enjoyments and improvements of a moral and reli- 
gious kind ; candidates for the fame happinefs, and 
which m^ft be obtained by the fame means. 

Hence we are led to bow to that Infinite Wifdora and 
Benevolence which conne6led the felicity of his creatures 
and his own glory in fo infeparable a manner, that what 
promotes the former difplays the . latter with the moil 
amiable luflre : the formation of the univerfe and every 



£ 34 i 

rank of beings point out the perfettions of his nature, iri 
a light that muil: leave every rational creature without eX" 
cufe,who doth not give him the glory due unto his name. 
The blefiings of his Providence, and the richer gifts of 
his grace, demand a tribute of univerfal praife and 
thankfgiving : for thefe, let all the works of his hands 
magnify and adore the Univerfal Maker, Governor, and 
Benefactor. He not only befiows the comforts of life ; 
but every other of an inferior nature is the effeft of 
Infinite Wifdom and Goodnefs, without any defert in 
the creature ; who can claim nothing of right, but muft 
receive all as the fruits of unmerited favor from him, 
whofe tender mercy is over all the works of his hands ; 
and who beftoweth upon all the univerfe general tokens 
of his kindnefs, to fill their hearts with food and glad- 
nefs, and raife a devotional and pious frame of mind, 
with humble and fervent endeavors to fliew forth his 
praife. 

The mercies we enjoy fliould not only fill our hearts 
with thankfulnefs on our own account, but raife our 
compaffion for thofe who languifli under the want of 
them ; and more efpecially when fu'ch miferies and fuf- 
ferings have not been apparently merited by flagrant 
enormities. 

When we hear, or read, of myriada fwept off by ' 
contagious diforders, by famine, by earthquakes, by the 
fword, or any defolating judgment, or vifitation, our 
bowels yearn over the futferers, our fympathy is roufed, 
from a conviftion, that we are liable to the fame calami- 
tics ; yet we bow with fubmiffion to the difpenfations of 
an alUvife Providence, to that Almighty Being whofe 



[ 35 3 

ways are in the deep waters, and whofe footlleps we do 
not comprehend : we are afliired, that infinite wifdora 
and goodnefs dired: all his dealings ; that juflice and 
equity are the eflablilhmcnt of his throne ; that the 
Judge of all the earth does no othervvife than right. — 
Yet, there are many circumftances in Providence for 
which we cannot account ; their propriety we cannot 
poffibly fathom by the moft vigorous exertions of reafon. 
The expoftulation of the prophet, which we fee daily 
verified, fills our minds with wonder and allonifliment ; 
not merely at the forbearance of God exercifed towards 
the wicked and profligate, but in our endeavors to juilify 
the ways of God to men. All acknowlege, that God 
is of purer* eyes than to behold evil, and cannot look 
upon thofe grievances fnch numbers feel and lament, as 
an unconcerned fpeftator : — " v/herefore lookeii thou 
■upon them that deal treacheroufly, and holdefl thv 
tongue when the wicked devoureth the man that is 
more righteous than he ; and makeft men as the fiflies 
of the fea, as the creeping things that have no ruler 
over them ? They catch them in their net,- therefore 
they rejoice and are glad. Shall they therefore emptv 
their net, and not fpare continually to flay the nations ?" 
— Have we not much more reafon to deplore the 
wretched fate of thofe, who foil under the pov.'er of 
men whofe very tender mercies are crueltv, than fuch 
who are facrifices to the convnllions of nature, or the 
ravages of diftemper, "tital the full elucidation of the 
defign of Providence in permltling thcfe evils, is to be 
expefted when the councils of eternity fhail be hereafter 
difclofed, in a fiate of happinefs and perfection : but 
tisst in the prefent Hate, one intention of the Deity we 
may alTure ourfelves we do liot raifapprehend ; — That: 



I 3^ 1 

from the impulfes excited by thefe diftreffing fcenes, we 
fhould learn to cultivate the humane and beneficent 
afFedions. 

Can we fupinely bear to fee the tender orphan flretch- 
jng out its innocent hands to a wretch deflitute of com- 
panion, a ftranger to mercy j to one ftained with the 
blood of its parents or proteftors ; and ftretching them 
in vain ? Can we look upon a mourning and difconfolate 
widow forced from her hulband, her offspring, her 
country ; doomed to the grolfefl^violation j her foul torn 
with anguifh, under a fenfe of complicated guilt which 
her nature and fenfibility abhor ; and whifh may pof- 
iibly be reiterated through the remains of a miferable 
exiftence ? The hulband ftripped of his all, robbed 
of himfelf, his honor, his reputation, and his life ; 
if not deflroyed in defending his perfon, his property, 
and his family ? — His value eflimated in his own 
country by thofe worfe than favages, at the price of one 
intoxicating draught to his arbitrary ruler, or infidious 
neighbour, by thofe unoffended ruffians, vvhofe fole de- 
light is to plunge kingdoms and nations into general 
mourning and univerfal horror ; as all that remain have 
reafon to dread the fame treatment as the feafons re- 
volve. — Can a parent of "either fex; a child in whofe 
breaft reafon is only beginning to bud ; or thofe who are 
rifing to maturity, in a land that boafls of civilization, 
of liberty, and, above all, of the light of chrifliahity, 
bear to hear, or know, fuch mournful tragedies are 
dally carrying on, and not enter their proteil againft 
them, on the bafis of infulted humanity ? If fuch perfons 

are to be found, we muil fay, they are unworthy thofe 



[ 37 1 

common bleffings of Providence, whereof they can fo 
cooly and unfeelingly deprive the pofleffors. 

It is not fufficient to reft in endeavors to excite an 
affedionate concern for the miferies of others ; but we 
mufl: exert ourfelves to relieve their minds, and remove 
their burdens. — The Prieil and the Levite were hardly 
fo deftitute of fenlibility, as not to feel fome rifings of 
pity in their minds on a vievv of the deplorable condition 
of a haplefs flranger, whofe bleeding wounds folicited 
that relief he was too weak and exhaufted to aft. They 
might poffibly felicitate themfelves upon the acutenefs of 
their feelings ; that they were not fuch hardened wretch- 
es, who could bear to look upon an objeft in fuch a 
fituation without finding fome emotions of compaffion. 
Yet of what avail v/as this, though it might be true in 
the theory, when they paffed over to the other fide with- 
out adminiftering any relief to a brother in diflrefs ; and 
perhaps the next trifling objeft erafed the flight and 
momentary impreffion ? Of what avail will our knovvlege 
and feelings be, if our hearts are not warmed by the 
exercife of mercy ? Every one hath it in his power to 
contribute fomething towards promoting fuch an univer- 
fal frame and temper, by not permitting good impreflions 
to coolj by their purfes f or, if an ability of that kind is 
wanting, to encourage the good work in others, by ad- 
vice, by folicitation, or by their fervent prayers at the 
throne of mercy, pleading for a divine blefling to attend 
every laudable exertion on the behalf of injured human- 
ity ; and that the minds of the aftive may be infpired 
with fuch juft and pertinent thoughts, as will molt ef- 
feftually promjOte this great and glorious work : — Re- 
iioring liberty and freedom to the opprcfled, and remo- 



[ 38 3 

vlng their heavy and almofl infupportable burdens. And 
this, all are- under every obligation to perform to the 
utmoft of their power ; obligations, arifing from every 
motive which can influence the minds of men and chrift- 
ians. Our obligations as men we have already pointed 
out, from the common feelings of nature and confan- 
guinity : they are farther ftrengthened from a fenfe of 
the miferies inflifted upon the unhappy fufferers, by 
men of the moft abandoned and profligate charaiters, 
who are dead to every tender and compaffionate idea : 
and have totally loll that inftinftive foftnefs which en- 
dears animals of the fame fpecies to each other, unlefs • 
irritated by perfonal injuries. 

Thofe who purfue this deteilable traffic, are defcribed 
by an infpired penman in fuch a mannner, as will render 
them objeci:s of difguft to every friend of humanity. — 
*' Their mouths are full of curilng, deceit, and fraud; 
under-their tongues are mifchief and vanity : they lit in 
the lurking places of the villages, their eyes are privily 
fet upon the poor : they lie in wait fecretly, as a lion in 
his den ; they lie in wait to catch the poor ; they draw 
them into their net; they crouch and humble themfelves, 
that the poor may fail by their ilrong ones : they fay, 
come, let us lay wait for blood, let us lurk privjly for 
the innocent without caufe : let us fu' allow them up 
alive, as the grave ; and whole as they who go down 
to the pit': wc fliall find all precious fubftance, we fhali 
fill our houfes with fpoil." — This is the language, this 
is the conduel of thofe remorfelefs wretches, who fay in 
their hearts, " God hath forgotten, he hideth his face, 
be will never fee." But they lay wait for their own 
blood. And, though they may attempt to fupport them- 



[ 39 ] 

ftlves ill thefc iniquitous praftices,by the vain imagination 
that God will not requite them : he hath declared, " he 
hath feen it, and will requite it with his hand, that he 
will plead the caufe of the poor, an,d be the helper of 
the diftrefled : that he will judge and avenge them of 
their enemies." — Let all fuch dread the vengeance of 
that Almighty Power from whofe prefence they cannoC 
flee ; whofe arm is able to intlid puniihment that will 
make the iloutefl heart tremble ; and whofe juftice is 
engaged to vindicate its injured rights, by the deftrudioii 
of incorriofible offenders -. 



* It may not, perhaps, be improper to take feme notice of an 
objeftion or two that have been offered witli a confiderable degree 
of confidence, by thofe perfons who are engaged in this traffic. 

They aflert, that many of thefe unhappy Africans are removed 
from a ftate of great diftrefs and peril in tlieir own country. 

In anfwer to this ftatement of their original fituation, we may 
remark, — That, although the moft populous communities within 
the extent of that traffic enjoy a confiderable degree of eafe, free- 
dom, and happinefs, there are it is confeiTed, governments of a 
different defcription, arbitrary and cruel ; and that the fubjeiSs of 
them muft he in a ftate of much infecurity. That, however the 
evil tendency and effeft of fuch conftitiuions of government have 
been probably (indeed, certainly) much augmented by the edge 
given to the avarice and defpotifm of their rulers, in confeqnence 
of our encouraging their traffic in the liberties of their unhappy 
fubjeifts. That by thus ftrengthening the arm of oppreffion, and 
fnrnifhlng a new incitement to the fury of rapacity, we increafe tlie 
\rretchednefs of thofe who remain at home, and can offer no apo- 
logy for forcing others into fervitude in remote regions, on the 
pretence that fuch commutation is for their advantage : ilnce we 
have no right, In any cafe, to inflidt a great pofitive evil, under 
pretence, that othe^were, in our apprehenfion, inflidling an equal, 
or even a greater. We are ankvcrable for our oivn gj'.Ut, whatever 
may be the guil( of othei-s. 



[ 40 ] 



The voice of nature and fcripture equally teach us to 
ibve all mankind as our brethren. Therefore it is faid, 
touching brotherly love, " it need not be written unto 



It has likewife been afferted, with no fmall degree of boafting, 
that flaves are well treated, and live comfortably. ■ — Here we (hall 
obferve that this muft of necefTity be anderftood (when the largeft 
allowance fhall have been made that candour or credulity can make) 
as, not poffible to be admitted without very numerous exceptions. 
That, were it true in every inftance, it is no anfwer to the feizure, 
cr purchafe of the unoffending natives ; none to the horrors of a 
calamitous voyage ; the death and defolation confequent on the 
procuring and conveying them to the Weft Indies : that it is there- 
fore no anfwer to the great principle upon which the friends to 
humanity, to the commercial and national honor of this country, 
are proceeding. — That the negro trade from hence to Africa, 
and from Africa to the Weft Indies, ought to be abolifhed j nothing 
which can happen there being capable of removing the infuperable 
objedions to the very nature (to fay nothing of the circumftances) 
of the commerce : but that their treatment when arrived, however 
mild it may be, and confidered as lenity or indulgence towards 
brutes, is cruelty and extreme Injuftice towards men, to retain 
innocent human beings and their pofterity for ever in a ftate of 
llavery. That to Britons it ought to be enough to fay, — Will you 
be inftrumental in furnifhing a fupply of a race of men, from what- 
ever region, or of whatever color, who you know when obtained, 
if they furvlve the means of their procurement, are doomed, with 
their offspring to be treated as the property of a fellow creature : 
whether he fpares them for his intereft, compaffionates them from 
feelings that will fprlng in fome bofoms, in fpite of habit or preju- 
dice ; or torments, infults, or deftroys them for his humor : pro- 
perty, to go with the other ftock of a plantation, and await all the 
changes of difpofition in fucceflive matters, or overfeers of eftates ?, 
Will you furnifh a fupply of flavery ; or do you wait for circum- 
ftances of aggravation ? Is there not enough in the name and nature 
of flavery, to refolve you, that fuch commerce fliall not continue 
under your fanftion ? if it were poffible any human authority could 



£ 41 J 

you, for ye are taught of God to love one another : — 
** If a man fay, I love God, and he hatcth his brother, 
he is a liar : for he that loveth not his brother whom he 
hath feen, how can he love God whom he hath not 
feen ? And this commandment * have we from him, that 
he who loveth God, wiH love his brother alfo ; for whofo 
fliutteth Tip his bowels of compaffion from him, how 
dwelleth the love of God in him ? " — Our love is to 
be roanifefted, not only by tokens of natural affeftion, 
in promoting their temporal advantage ; but their fpirit- 
ual improvement in every grace and virtue. Do chrifli- 
ans believe and affuredly expeftj that a period fliall arrive 
in this world, v/hen the fceptre of the Redeemer Ihall 
extend its benevolent fway over the whole rational cre- 
ation ? Do they daily pray, that the kingdom of God 
may come, and his will be done on earth, as it is ia 
heaven ? This event muft, in the nature of things, and 
courfe of Providence, be produced by adequate means ; 
by the extenfion of good affections, as well as knowlege. 
Thofe do6trines, which have formerly illuminated fo 
large a part of the earth, loft their efficacy through the 
vices and lukewarmnefs of profelTors. By thefe means, 
the once celebrated churches of Alia lofl the light they 
did not improve, and fank into bodily and mental fla- 



be fo cruel as to confer a fanftlon upon It. It fliould rather be faid, 
— Will you permit a traffic of fach iniquity and horror to be 
imputed to the laws, and to the name of Britain ? 

* " A new commandment I give unto you : that ye love or ? 
another : as 1 have loved you, that ye alfo love one another. By 
this fhall all men know that ye are my dlfciplss, if ye have-love 
- cne to another." 

G 



I 4^ 



\ 



very ; the flanclai J of Mohammedan impoftufe and cie- 
luiion being erefted, ^and florrifliing, where evangelical 
purity in doftrine and pra61ice once prevailed. An 
undue love of this world contributed'principally to wean 
their hearts from more important concerns. — This was 
alfo the cafe in Africa, which once" abounded with nume- 
rous and fiourifhing churches, which' were remarkable 
for chriitian light and knowlege ': their careleflhefs and 
ioatten'tion to gofpel privileges procured a reftraint. 
This hath been the cafe with many parts of the earth, 
-^ Let us of this nation IdoTc to ourfelves, that our 
names «*€■ not added to the catalogue ! A gracious Pro- 
vidence hath given us repeated warnings : we have feen, 
in the hiflory of pafl ages, flourifhirig kingdoms brought' 
to defolation, for the fame vices which are found among 
us. Let us, therefore, feize every opportunity of avert- ' 
ing thofe national judgments- which 'yet hang over our 
heads ! let us, pay a flriil attention to the inllruftions of 
revelation, to break off our fins by righteoufnefs, and 
our iniquities by fliewing mercy, if it maybe a length- 
ening of our tranquillity ! let us hail, with gratitude, 
with rapture, every opportunity of this kind put into 
our hands, and improve them to the utmofl ! let us re- 
joice that we are not, apparently given up to hardnefs 
of heart, as a nation ; that the mercy of God is railing 
univerfal fentiments of benevolence and compaffion to- 
wards innocent fufFerers ! let us fall in with the tide, and 
account it a diiirnguifliing honor conferred upon us, i-f 
we are the firft of the nations of Europe (for America 
has already fet the example) to reach out our hands to 
the miferable, and give a noble example to every fur- 
rounding power, that the propriety of our condu£t, is 
in fome degree equal to the fuperior excellency of our 



-f n ] 

means of impmv^ripe^tl-jl^j^^ UOtj .unwortl]i)|;, ..meaji,,and 
felfifli confideiations daiiip the liGiig ardor!. but do your 
duty chearfully.j 'leaving ,^he event to him, who by his 
Providence will fp ,Q,vernile .^ery ^ircur^ftance, as Ihall 
promote, the public happinefs, and eftablifli it upon 
the heft, th^ flrono;eil . fovipdation : — the fupport of 
Omnipotence. • * 

If all mankind . are brethren ; if all are derived from, 
the fame fource ; then it cannot be efteemed prefump- 
tuous to point out, in a few words, the evident duty of 
all J from the head that is adorned with regal honors, to 
the roeaneil: fubjeft of government. 

Though kings are fo highly qxalted in the fcale of 
providence, and poflefs a legal fuperiority conferred 
upon them by their fellow-men ; yet this is not to render 
them tyrants and fcourges, but nurfing fathers to that 
part of the family over which they more efpecially pre- 
lide ; and by their examples ta encourage the praftice 
of humanity and benevolence : as their flations are more 
exalted, they will be more readily obferved as examples 
of virtue or vice. If their minds are not perverted 
by ambition, pride, and haughtinefs ; if their natural 
affeftions are not deprived of their proper tone, by con- 
flant fcenes of profperity,or a regular fupply of every thing 
which can gratify their appetites without the fatigue 
ofawifii; every circumflance adminiftering to their en- 
joyment as extenfively as the condition of fublunary things 
can admit. Yet even they mull feel they are men, li- 
able to the fame infirmities, pains, difordcrs, and death. 
They are dependant r,n the fame moral governmenr, 
objecls of the Tame providently; care. Jind have equally 



[ 44 3 

a Mafter in heaven : they muft ftand before the fame 
judgment feat to give an account of their conduft; and 
final happinefs or mifery will *be equally their portion, 
according to the improvement or abufe of their advan- 
tages. The character of one who honorably fulfils the 
duties of this office, is exemplified in fuch ftriking traits 
in holy writ, that it will ever remain a perfedt model of 
fuch virtues which ought to be confpicuous in thofe who 
prefide over large communities : — *' The UeJJing of hmz 
that ivas ready to perljh came upon me; I cau fed the wi- 
dow's heart to fing for joy : I put on righteoufnefs, and 
it clothed me ; my judgment was a robe and a diadem. 
I was eyes to the blind, and feet was I to the lame : I 
was a father to the poor, and the caufe which I knew 
not I fearched out. And I brake the jaws of the wick- 
ed, and plucked the fpoil out of his teeth : I delivered 
the poor that cried, and the fatherlefs, and hbn that had 
none to help hlm.^^ — No charafter is fo amiable as that 
which difcovers the moil: exalted benevolence ; as that 
which exerts all its influence to alleviate the fujferings of 
the community at large ; as that which reftrains all a6ts 
of violence and rapine, which curbs the impetuous de- 
lires of the vicious and irregular, which maintains de- 
cency, good order, peace, and tranquillity, by jufi:, 
wholefome, and equitable laws ; and, by an uniform 
attention to the interells of virtue, integrity, and genuine 
goodnefs, mercy, and love, difcountenances and endea- 
vors to banifli thofe turbulent and diforderly paffions 
which delight in fcenes of confufion, anarchy, and 
blood ; in gratifying the defires of him who was a murr 
derer from the beginning; and whofe perpetual aim is, 
to involve mankind in that punifliment which he fufFers 
as the fii-fl apollate from God and holinefs. Be wife, 



[ 45 ] 

therefore, O ye kings! be inflruftecl, O yc judges and 
legiflators of the earth! join, as a firm and compaft 
band, in counterafting the devices of thofe artful and 
infidious enemies ; let not ti^ie crafty infinuations of 
infernal agents feduce you from your duty ! you know 
there is a fuperior Lawgiver; you know the Supreme 
Judge marks your conduft, and will one day pafs an 
irreverfible fentence upon your aftions ; you cannot 
then fliroud yourfelves under the coverings of worldly 
policy ; nothing will pafs with him but goodnefs and 
true holinefs ; it will not be fuilicient to make fuch 
trifling excufes as impofc upon our fellow-men, to him 
who knows the heart : if therefore you would conciliate 
his favor, do judgment and juflice, without refpefS: of 
perfons, and the Almighty will blefs and proteft you ; 
your own confcleqces will afford you a perpetual feaft, a 
confolation of which none can deprive you, though you 
may be flighted and difregarded for your integrity and 
uprightnefs. 

Let thofe who are engaged in the purfuits of commerce 
refleft, that thofe mutual interchanges wdiereby they are 
connefted with diflant countries, carry in them the eftah- 
'lifirment of virtue, honor, generofity, and every good 
principle : that thofe are abfolutely, and to all intents 
and purpofes, forfeiting their good faith and benevo- 
lence, their claim to humanity, to public proteftion, who 
conceive the perfons of men may be put on a level with 
perifhable comm.odities. This is a fvilem of barter for- 
bidden by every lav/, divine or human: it is replete 
%vith injuilice, with crueltv, with everything that can 
defcrrn the human charac'ter, and render it an objeft of 
horror. 



E 46 3 

The threatenings of the fcripture are alfo pointed 
with |)eculi!ar ^verity again ft fuch perfons in this world : 
- — " Woe 'Tifht6%im that buildeth his houfe by unright- 
oufnefs, ' and his channbers by wrong; that ufeth his 
neighbour's fervice without wages, and giveth hina nought 
for his work : thine eyes and thine heart are but foi: thy 
covetoufnefs, and to flied innocent blood ; and for pp- 
preffion and for violence to do it. Woe unto him that 
coveteth an evil covetoufnefs, that he may fet his neft 
on high ; thou haft cohfulted fliame to thy houfe, by 
cutting off many people ; arid haft finned againft thy' 
fbul. Behold, fays the Almighty, I have fmitten my 
hand at thy diflioneft gain thou haft made, and will 
ihake thee out of my lap. If you do not fear my glori- 
ous and fearful name, and obey my corrimands, I will 
iTiake your plagues wonderful.*' — Is there not reafon' 
to dread, that fuch condu6l will bring a curfe upon that 
land, in general, which, after an acquaintance with the 
jnagnittade of this crime, doth notufe every lawful means 
in their power to prevent it ? 

Eyery order and defcription of perfons, from the 
higheft to the loweft, are under the ftrongeft obligations 
to render reciprocal fervices and benefits to each other. 
And thefe obligations are riot confined merely to that 
part of the community wherewith they are more imme-' 
diately conne(5led f but extend to the whole fpecies, 
without idiftinifrion. To all ranks of men therefore; 
would I addrefs myfelf ; I would call forth thofe innate 
feelings which God has implanted in their riature and* 
conftitution. — And may I not call in vain ! 

Are not the natural evils attendant on tlie prefcnt 



C 47 3 

ftate fufficient to excite pity and compaffion in the moft 
obdurate breaft ? Are they not fufficient to try the pati- 
ence of every individual ? Can we view a man, and a 
brother, with his countenance expreffive of the keeneli 
angwiftl, from fufFerings ahiioft exceeding human forti- 
tude ; can we view him with his body extended, as upon 
a rack, with acute or lingering diftempers, and, infteacl 
of alleviating, (if not by outward application) by offer- 
ing that univerfal balm of fympathetic pity and commi- 
feration, to intereft the feelings of the fufferer, add to 
thefe evils, and make the cup of forrow overflow beyond 
meafure ? This conduct would prove an infenfibility, a 
ferocity of difpofition which mufl create univerfal abhor- 
rence. If we ftiew compaffion and a humane temper 
towards thofe who are of the fame community, or fub- 
je£ts of the fame government and laws ; the more diftant 
inhabitant of the world hath an equal title to the exer-r, 
cife of the like vurtues. Here one fingle queftion honeftly 
and impartially anfwered will effeftually decide the point 
in difpute, and deflroy that infamous traffic which is a 
difgrace to all men*;and of all nations, — ■ to Britons ; who 
have fuch exalted fentiments of liberty, who have flied' 
torrents of blood to eftablifh it among themfelves, and 
who enjoy the greateft fhare of perfonal freedom of any 
colle,6live body under the fun. I would afk thofe cham- 
pions for liberty, whofe very laws will not permit a 
flave, under that diftindion, to exift in their favored 
land, by what authority they claim a privilege to enter 
the dominions of a free and happy people, a people not 
fubjeft to their laws, and over whofe perfons and pro- 
perty they have not the leaft fliadow of controul, and 
feizing their perfons by craft or open violence, conlign 
them over to perpetual ilavery, to a bondage which will 



[ 48 ] 

terminate only with their exiftence ? An authority of 
this nature when claimed, ought to be accompanied with 
the fandion of a divine commillion ; and that commiffion 
neither liable to mifconception or doubt, but armed with 
fufficient evidence completely to obviate every objeftion 
which might be offered, againft its authenticity* And 
till-fuch an ihftrument appears, the friends of humanity 
muft enter their unanimous and hearty proteft. againil 
thofe pradices, as irrational, unfcr.iptural, unj»ll, un?;. 
natural, and to the higheft degree diabolical. 

Let me therefore, my. brethren ! exhort and implore 
you, by the bonds of humanity,* by every principle of 
benevolence and compallion, by your regard to your 
own fouls, by your w-iflies to obtain future happin"efs,''hy' 
the dying love of Jefus ; let me befeech you by the mer- 
cies of God, and adjure you by the tefrors of the Lord, 
by the contemplation of that awful and interefling period, 
when you muft perfonally appear before the impartial 
tribunal of the Judge of all the earth, to give a ftriit ac- 
count of all the deeds done in the body ; by the dread of 
the Omnipotent Jehovah ; by thofe ftriking motives let 
me exhort you to aft, not only in this, but in every 
other lituation of life, in fuch a manner, as will enfure 
the favorable teflimony of a good confcience ; earneftly 
imploring the God of all grace to grant his Divine Spirit, 
and thofe influences whereby we fliall all delight, not 
only in knowing, but doing his vidll ; which is, to 
extend happinefs, to the utmoft of our power, to all the 
human race; to offer liberty to the captive ; and likewife 
to give the means of light to them that lit in darknefs 
and the fliadow of death ; to guide their feet in the way 
of peace : that, in the prefence of an aflembled world, we 



[ 49 3 

ijiay obtain the applaufe of our Judge, recorded in this 

afFefting language : '* Come, ye blelled of my 

Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from 
the foundation of the world ! for I was an hungred, and 
ye gave me meat ; I was thirily, and ye gave me drink j 
I was a ftranger, and ye took me in ; naked, and ye 
clothed me ; 1 was fick, and ye vifited me ; I was in 
prifon, and ye came unto me. — Verily I fay unto you, 
in as much as ye have done it unto the leaft of thefe my 
brethren, ye have done ic unto me.'' — And when thofe 
who have a6l:ed oppofite hereto fliall be ejefted into their 
allotted punifhment, the righteous fhall enter into life 
eternal ; into his immediate prefence, where there is 
fulnefs of joy, and pleafures for evermore. 




