Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/committeeappointOOmass 



COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS, 



IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JUNE 4, 1813, 

ORDERED, That Messrs. Thatcher, War^ 
reUf I-^LOYD, Boston^ Hall, Williamstown, Bates, 
jy'orthamjJton., with such as the Hon. Senate may 
join J be a Committee to consider so much of His Ex- 
cellency's Speech as relates to " an extension of our 
territorial limits" and forming new States without 
tlie territorial limits of the Unitfed States, with leave 
to report by bill or otherwise. Sent up for concur- 
rence 

TIMOTHY BIGELOW, Speaker, 

IN SENATE, JUNE 4, 1813. 

Read, and concurred, and the Hon. Messrs. Quin- 
Cy, Ashmun, and Fuller are joined. 

JOHN PHILLIPS; President 



The Committee appointed to consider " so much of His 
Excellency's Speech as relates to an extension of territorial 
limits " and forming new States without the territorrial limits 
of the United States," 
RESPECTFULLY REPORT— 



That they have considered the subject, commit- 
ted to their investigation with the attention and solic- 
itude, which its nature and importance demand. On 



ipdi^ss'd' 



the one side^ tliey liave been careful to give Ml 
weight to all ike obligations^, which are due from the 
people of Massachusetts to the people of the United 
States ; as resulting from the federal compact. On 
the other;, it has been their study not to forget the du= 
ties, which a powerful and independent state owes to 
itself and posterity ; on occasions, when great, con- 
stitutional, principles are, deliberately, violated. On 
occasions of this kind, in the opinion of your Com- 
mittee, the duty of a people is as plain, as it is impe- 
rious. The beginnings of manifest usurpations are 
never to be neglected. Since silence, on the part of 
the people is, always, taken as acquiescence by the 
advocates of usurpation. What power seizes,^ with- 
out riglit, to-day, it holds, tomorrow, by precedent ; 
and the day after, by prescription. A wise people, 
therefore, will always canvass every new pretension 
of power at the threshold. Being assured that the 
liberties of a people have nothing to fear from vigi- 
lance, and every thing from apathy. Nor, in the 
opinion of your Committee, will a wise people refrain 
from such an examination because the nature of the 
usurpation, or the circumstances of the period, may, 
in the judgment of some, render lartlier measures un- 
timely. Much is gained to liberty ^^ by a distinct as- 
sertion of the constitutional principles, on which it 
rests. And a people may lose by being ignorant of 
their rights, but never by understanding them. 

In entering upon this investigation, your Commit- 
tee have not omitted to consider the reasons for pres- 
ent acquiescence, in violations of the Constitution, 
drawn from the particular embarrassments, resulting 
from tlie war, and the encouragements, which ^Vd en- 
emy may receive from any evidence of discontent, at 
the present moment, among the states ; or among the 
people. They have given this suggestion all tlie at- 
tention it appeared to merit. But, in their opinion, 
this. objection lias tlie less weight, inasmuch as the 
particular subject of animadversion is independent, 



s 

altogether, of the principle of tlie war 5 so far as this 
principle is known. BesideSj it would be little else 
tiian a bounty/ on foreign war, if domestick usurpa- 
tion should find in it a sliield, or a sanction. Your 
Committee have given this consideration the less imr 
portance from the conviction,, they entertain, that the 
American people may liave peace, whenever the ad- 
ministration of the general government shall seek it, 
with a sincere disposition for its attainment. 

As your Committee have deemed it their duty not 
to be restrained, by such temporary considerations, 
from a deliberate and publick examination of the 
eubjeet submitted to their inquiry, so, also, they have 
not been disposed to connect this great, constitutional 
question with the transient calamities of the day, from 
whicli it is, in their opinion, very apparently, distin- 
guished, both in its cause and its consequences. In 
the view, therefore, they are about to present of this 
great constitutional question, they have confined 
themselves, strictly, to topicks and arguments drawn 
from the terms of the Constitution, and the history of 
the period, at which it was adopted ; and with a ref- 
erence to fulfil their duty to their country and poster- 
ity, by a distinct avowal of their opinions aiul the 
grounds of them, with the hope of limiting the farther 
progress of the evil, rather than any expectation of im- 
mediate relief, during the continuance of the existing 
influences in the national administration. 

The question, touching the admission, into the 
Union, of states, created in territories, lying without 
the ancient limits of the United States, has been con- 
sidered, by your Committee, in relation to constitu- 
tional principles and political consequences. By an 
Act of the Congress of the United States, passed the 
8th day of April, 1812, entitled, ^' an Act for the ad^ 
mission of the State of Louisiana into the Union and 
to extend the laws of the United States to the said 
State," the said State of Louisiana was admitted in- 
to the Union on an equal footing with the other States. 
This act was, in the opinion of your Committee, a 



4) 

manifest usurpation by the Congress of the United 
States of a power not granted to that body by the iVd- 
eral Constitution. The State of I*ouis^ ti'a wn,^ fornix 
ed, in countries situated beyond cLe limr':s qf the old 
United States ; according as those kimits were estab- 
lished by the treaty of Paris, commonly Ccdled the 
Treaty of Peace, in the year 1783 ; and as they ex- 
isted, at the time of the formation and adoption of the 
federal Constitution. And the position, which your 
Committee undertake to maintain is this, that the 
Constitution of the United States did not invest Con- 
gress with the power to admit into the Union, States, 
created in territories^ not included ivithin the limits 
of the United States ; as they existed at the peace 
of 17^3, and at the formation and adoption of the 
Constitution. Your Committee are thus particular, in 
stating with precision, the constitutional ground^, 
which they maintain, because the doctrine, here as- 
serted, has been confounded, sometimes, artfully, 
sometimes, negligently, with the questions, which 
have arisen, concerning the admission of Kentucky, 
Vermont, Ohio ; or which may arise, on the admis- 
sion of new States, to be created in the Michigan, In- 
diana or Illinois territories. With none of which 
Las the question, now under consideration any 
affinity. These last mentioned States and terri- 
tories all lie within the old limits of the United 
States, as settled by the Treaty of Peace, and as 
existing at the time of the formation and adoption 
of the federal Constitution. Now the State of Lou- 
isiana lies without those limits ; and on this dis- 
tinction the whole question of constitutional right de- 
pends. The power, assumed by Congress, in pass- 
ing this act for the admission of Louisiana, if acqui- 
esced in, is plainly a power to admit new States, in- 
to tliis Union, at tlieir discretion, without limit of 
place, or country. Not only new States may be 
carved, at will, out of the boundless regions of Lou- 
isiana ; but the wliole extent of South America, in- 
deed, of the globe, is a sphere, within which it may 



operate without check, or control, and with no other 
limit than such as Congress may choose to impose 
on its own discretion. 

Your Committee have, in vain, looked for any 
clause in the Constitution of the United States, 
granting such a power. In the first place, the par- 
ties, associating, are delared to be ^'^ the people of the 
JJmted States^^^ and the objects of the association are 
stated to be, " to form a more perfect union, establish 
justice, insure domestick tranquillity, provide for 
the common defence, promote the general welfare and 
secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our 
POSTERITY.'' Your Committee deem themselves au- 
thorized to assert, without fear of contradiction, that 
by the terms ^^ the people of the United States^^ — 
^' ourselves and our posterity,^' were intended the 
people inhabiting, and who should inhabit the States 
and territories lying within the limits of the Unit- 
ed States, as they were established by the treaty 
of 1783 ; and as they existed at the time of the form- 
ation and adoption of the federal Constitution ; and 
that none of the terms of the Constitution indicate 
the idea that foreign states, or kingdoms, or new 
states, created in their territories, could be admitted 
into a participation of its privileges. 

Indeed, it is not pretended, as your Committee un- 
derstand, by the advocates of this usurpation, that ij^ 
has any colour of justification, in the terms of the Con- 
stitution, unless it be in the third Section, of its fourth 
Article- The tenor of which is as follows : — 

Hect. 3. New States maybe admitted by the Con- 
*^ gress into this Union ; but no New State shall be 
^^ formed, or erected within the jurisdiction of any 
^^ other state ; or any state be formed by the junction 
" of tAvo, or more states, or part of states, without the 
^' consent of the Legislatures of the states concerned 
*•' as well as of the Congress. 

•^ The Congress shall have power to dispose of, 
'^ and make all needful rules and regulations respect- 



6 

^* ing the territoryj or other property, belongiiig to the 
^' United States : and nothing, in this Constitution, 
^^ shall be so construed as to prejudice any claims of 
" of the United States, or of any particular state."' 

Upon this section, your Committee observe, that, 
without reference to the known condition of the Unit- 
ed States, and the history of the times ■when the Con- 
stitution was adopted, if the terms of this section be, 
alone, considered and examined by those rigid and 
approved rules of construction, recognized on similar 
occasions and relative to other instruments, the terms 
do not authorise the power, wliichhas been assumed, 
but, on the contrary, do strongly and almost, necessa- 
rily, imply that no power was granted to admit states, 
created in territories, without the limits of the old 
United States. 

The section contains the grant of an authority and 
expresses certain limitations to that grant. The first 
clause of the section " New States may be admitted, 
piioiq iCj8A ^pgapui ^si ^^uoiun siij:^ o^ni ss^jSuoq 9i|| jCq 
and coraprehensive ; and had there been no objects, 
witliin the old boundaries of the United States, suffi- 
cient to exhaust the whole force of the terms, some 
doubt might result upon the subject. Yet, even, in 
such case, it would seem incredible that an associa- 
tion of states, forming a constitution for purposes, ex- 
clusively, their own, should transfer the power to 
Congress of admitting, at will, into a participation of 
their rights and privileges, any state, or kingdom, in 
any part of tlie globe, without expressing any limita- 
tion to the exercise of a power, in its nature, so great 
and critical. 

Happily, hovvcver, we arc not reduced to the ne- 
cessity of supposing such an absurdity. The fact is 
notorious and undeniable, that the terms relative to 
tlie admission of New States liad objects, within iJie 
limits of the old United State.'tf sufficient to exliausfc 
the full force of those terras, so that there is no neces- 
sity to resort to tiie creation of states, ivithout the an^ 



ti^nf limits, in order to give efficacy to them. On tlie 
contrary, every limitation of this power, contained 
in this section shows, that no other operation of it was 
contemplated, except within the old limits of the Unit- 
ed States. These limitations are relative to states 
formed^ or erected within the jurisdiction of any other 
state ; — to states formed by the junction of two, or 
more states or jmrts of states; — to the disjiosal and 
Wgidation of the territory, or projoerty of the United^ 
States ; — to a reservation in favour of any claims of 
the United States, or any pai'ticiilar state. 

Now is it to be believed, that a power to create and 
admit states, beyond tlie antient boundaries of the 
United States was granted to Congress, absolutely, 
without any limits, while the, comparatively, unim- 
portant power of creating states, witiiin the antient 
boundaries is guarded by so many and so strict limi^ 
tations ? Had the admission of New States, to be 
formed in countries, theti the parts of foreign and dis- 
tant kingdoms, been contemplated, would not some 
terms have indicated the conditions, the principles or 
occasions, on whicli suc]i amiexatioii of a mass of 
forelgjiers, with their territories should take place ? 
In the opinion of your Committee the entire absence 
of any such restriction is, of itself, conclusive evidence 
that such admission of foreign countries, far from 
being contemplated, was not so much as, eyen, con- 
sidered possible, by the framers of the constitution, 
or by the people at the time of its adoption. 

The situation of the United States and the history 
of the times, when the constitution w^as adopted, 
strongly, corroborate this idea ; indeed, in the opinion 
of your Committee render it so absolutely, demonstra- 
ble as to amount, in their minds, to certainty. 

Such was the situation of the United States, at the 
time of tlie adoption of the constitution, that the ad- 
mission of new states, in countries beyond the old 
limits of the United States does not appear to have 
been contemplated as an event probable, or even poe- 



sible. On the contrary, the writings of that period 
and the debates of the various meetings and conven- 
tions, assembled for the purpose of considering the 
constitution show, that the extent of the United States, 
even within its antient limits was one of the principal 
objections to the practicability of the proposed con-^ 
stitution, within those limits. Your Committee have 
in vain sought in the history of the discussions of that 
period, for the expression of any opinion, either by 
way of reason in favour, or against the constitution, 
that, by any possibility, it might be susceptible of that 
construction of late given to it, and to which they ob- 
ject. The idea does not seem to have entered into 
the mind of any one that it was possible that such a 
construction could be given, and for the reason above 
suggested, that the extent of the country, as at that 
time existing, was urged, and admitted on all sides to 
be one of the most forcible objections to the practica- 
bility of the experiment. 

It is Avell known that to secure the union of the thir- 
teen primitive states, and the advantages thence result- 
ing were the main objects of the federal constitution* 
To this was added the design of admitting such other 
states as might arise in their ovvn bosoms, or in ter- 
ritories, included within the general limits of the old 
United States. By the proceedings of the old Con- 
gress, subsequent to the peace of 1783, it appears, that it 
was in contcEnpiation to ^^reate and admit states, with- 
in the limits of the old United States, and not includ- 
ed within the particular boundaries of any state. But 
it appears no where, that, subsequent to the peace of 
1783, the admission of states, beyond the limits then 
established was ever either proposed, or publickly 
contemplated. 

Now it is very apparent to your Committee, that 
the power to admit states, created in J;erritories, be- 
yond the limits of tlie old United States is one of the 
most critical and important, whether we consider its 
nature, or its consequences. It is, in truth; nothini; 



9 

less than the power to create in foreii^n countries, new 
political sovereignties, and to divest the old United 
States of a proportion of their political sovereignty, 
in favour of such foreigner. It is a power, which, 
in the opinion of your Committee, no wise people ev- 
er would have delegated, and which, they are per- 
suaded the people of the U-uted States, and certain- 
ly, the people of Massachusetts, never did delegate. 
The proportion of the political weight of each foreign 
State, composing this union depends upon the num- 
ber of the States, which have a voice under the com- 
pact. This number, the Constitution permits Con- 
gress to multiply, at pleasure, within the limits of the 
original States, observing, only, the expressed limita- 
tions, in the Constitution. To pass these limitations 
and admit States, beyond the antient boundaries, is, in 
the opinion of your Committee an usurpation, as dan- 
gerous as it is manifest ; inasmuch as these exterior 
States after being admitted on an equal footing with 
the original States, may, and as they multiply, cer- 
tainly will become, in fact the arbiters of the desti- 
nies of the nation ; by availing themselves of the con- 
trariety of interests and views, which in such a confed- 
eracy of States, necessarily, arise, they hold the bal- 
ance among the respective parties and govern the 
States,constitutionally composing the Union, by throw' - 
ing their weight into whatever scale is most conforma- 
ble to the ambition or projects of such foreign states. 

Your Committee cannot, therefore, but look with 
extreme regret and reprobation upon the admission 
of the territory of Louisiana to an equal footing with 
the original and constitutionally admitted States : 
and they cannot but consider the principle, asserted 
by this admission as an usurpation of power, portend- 
ing the most serious consequences to the perpetua- 
tion of this union and the liberties of the American 
people. 

Although the character of this usurpation and its 
ultimate consequences ought, naturally, to excite an 



10 

extreme degree of alarm, in this quarter of the coun- 
try, as it indicates that ncAV and unconstitutional ar- 
biters, remote from our interests and ignorant of 
them, are admitted into the union, yet the nature of 
the remedy is, in the opinion of your Committee, a 
subject of mucii more difficulty than the certainty of 
the mischief. On the one hantl, it is the duty of a 
free and wise people to meet encroachments upon the 
principles of their constitution in their first beginnings, 
and to give no sanction to the continuance, or repeti. 
tion of such violations, by tameness or acquiescence. 
On the other hand, they are sensible that the people 
of Massachusetts, oppressed by the burden of an un- 
just and unnecessary war, are, at this moment, natur- 
ally, more solicitous about instant relief from existing 
sufferings, than about the distant consequences of po- 
litical usurpation. Nevertheless, in the opinion of 
your Committee, the Legislature of Massachusetts 
owe it to themselves, to the people of this State and 
to future generations, to make an open and distinct 
avowal of their sentiments upon this topick, to the end 
that no sanction may appear to be derived from their 
silence ; and also that other States may be led to 
consider this intrusion of a foreign State into our 
confederacy, under this usurped authority, in a con- 
stitutional point of view, as well as in its consequen- 
ces ; and that, thereby, a concurrence of sentiment 
and a coincidence of councils may result ; whence 
alone can be hoped a termination of this usurpation ; 
and of the evils, which are, apparently, about to flow 
from it. 

Your Committee, therefore propose for the adoption 
of the Legislature the following resolutions. 

Mesolvedy as the sense of this Legislature, that the 
admission into the union, of States, created in coun- 
tries, not comprehended within the original limits of 
, the LFnited States is not autliorized by the ielier, ()v 
the spirit, of the federal Constitution. 



11 

Resolved^ That it is the interest and duty of the 
people of Massachusetts to oppose the admission of 
such States into the Union ; as a measure tending to 
the dissohition of the confederacy. 

Resdved, That the Act passed the eighth day of 
April 1812, entitled " An act for the admission of the 
State of Louisiana into the Union and to extend the 
laws of tlie United States to the said State'' is a vio- 
lation of the Constitution of the United States ; and 
ihat the Senators of this State in Congress be in- 
structed, and the Representatives thereof requested, 
to use their utmost endeavours to obtain a repeal of 
the same. 

Resolved, That the Secretary of this Common- 
wealth be directed to transmit a copy of these Reso- 
lutions to each of the Senators and Representatives 
of this Commonwealth in the Congress of the United 
•States. 

By Order, . 

JOSIAH QUIXCY. 



