TEN YEARS 



O F 



EXPERIENCE 




There is strength 

And a fierce instinct, even in common souls, 

To bear up manhood -with a stormy joy 

When red swords meet in lightning ! — but our task 

Is more and nobler ! We have to endure, 

And to keep watch, and to arouse a land. 

And to defend an altar! If we fall. 

So that our blood make but the millionth part 

Of this great ransom, let us count it Joy ! 

F. Hemans. 




boston: 
oliver johnson, printer. 



NINTH 



ANNUAL HEPOET 



OF THE 



I300ton jTaitale ^nti-0IaDer2 00netB< 



PRESENTED OCTOBER 12, 1842. 



BOSTON: 

OLIVER JOHNSON, COURT-STREET 

1842. 



,>>.»fc>i«»-i»»>Jl>.J<»W<!«w'' » Ji 



/^^'^.^S-'73.'5 'S' 



OFFICERS OF THE SOCIETY. 



President. 
THANKFUL SOUTHWICK 

Vice President. 
CAROLINE WESTON. 

Domestic Cor. Secretary. 
HENKIETTA SAEGENT. 

For. Corresponding Secretary. 
MAFJA WESTON CHAPMAN. 

Recording Secretary. 
SARAH H. SOUTHWICK 

Treasurer. 
HARRIET JACKSON. 

Counsellors. 

MARY G. CHAPMAN, LOUISA LORING, 

ANNE W. WESTON, CAROLINE F. WILLIAMS, 

MARGARET SCARLETT, HANNAH TUFTS. 



^ 



©'=^=- 



REPORT 



It has been our practice for nine successive years, to 
give, at the end of each, a statement of the efforts that we 
have made, the obstacles that we have encountered, and 
the success that we have obtained. But, with each suc- 
cessive year, the number of those who receive our Report 
increases ; till, at length, it so far exceeds the number of 
those who possess any good information of our object, or 
our means of attaining it — of our principles, or our mea- 
sures — of our faith, or of our works, — that it becomes 
expedient for us, instead of beginning "with the year, to 
begin again at the beginning ; giving the whole, instead of 
a fraction of our knowledge and our experience, that both 
may be beneficial to the new audience who are seeking to 
know their duty that they may do it. We do not claim to 
be teachers, in any sense "which implies an assumption of 
superiority ; but we act under the overmastering conviction 
that they who have knowledge of a truth important to the 
welfare of all, are criminal if they withhold it from any. 

STATEMENT OF THE CASE. 

The great truth that has been borne in upon our minds, 
by observation of the course of God's providence, is, that 
SLAVERY IS A SIN ; and, as such, to be repented of and for- 
saker immediately. To this, vast numbers of persons, at 




6 

fii'st, yield a heedless assent. Hereditary Christians and 
Hepublicans, as such they may have agreed to the abstract 
proposition of the evil of slavery, thinking it, meanwhile, 
one in which they have no practical interest. ' There is 
slaveiy in Algiers — there is slavery in the West Indies — 
but what have ive to do with it ? ' They have overlooked 
the fact of the existence of slavery in the United States. 
No wonder that they should have done so, since, from the 
day of the constitutional compromise to the present time, 
the eifort has been continual, on the part of all the active 
leading men of the countiy, whether merchants or politi- 
cians, clergymen or editors, to cause its existence to be for- 
gotten. Man after man, as he came to a realizing sense of 
the fact, found it for his interest to keep it out of sight. 
Openly to uphold it he was ashamed ; to contend agamst it 
he was too selfish and cowardly. His safety lay in silence. 
In a country like ours, where, by reason of the extent of 
the elective francliise, pubhc opinion reigns paramount, the 
effect of tliis general silence of the non-slaveholders may 
be easily imagined. Year by year they became more and 
more timorous and selfish; the slave-power became more 
overbearing and rapacious ; wliile the forgotten slaves were 
increasing in numbers, and consequently in degradation and 
wretchedness -— for the more numerous they become, the 
greater injustice is necessary to keep up the system. The 
spread of intelligence among them must be prevented ; for, 
knowledge bemg power, no man possessed of it can be 
retained in slavery. That dangerous element, the free 
colored population, must be excluded from among them ', 
and hence a Colonization scheme is invented, expulsory 
laws passed, emancipations on the spot forbidden, and all 
those various means for safety in sin adopted, which are 
seen in the diabolical progress of the slave-codes. 

"When, at length, in 1829, the silence of death seemed to 
brood over the hopes oi Liberty ; when the number of slaves 



k 



had swelled up to two and a half millions, and the whole 
body of northern freemen also were lying bound to the sys- 
tem by the chains of political and ecclesiastical expediency ; 
at that moment, God put it into the heart of one then un- 
known young man, William Lloyd Garrison, to devote 
his Hfe to the great work of Emancipation. This was the 
tone in which he ever spoke, and liis words were called 
madness and fanaticism, denunciation and infidelity : 

* I determined, at every hazard, to lift up the standard jf 
emancipation in the eyes of the nation, ivithin sight of Bun- 
ker Hill^ and in the hirth place of Liberty. That standard is 
now unfurled; and long may it float, unhurt by the spolia- 
tions of time or the missiles of a desperate foe — yea, till 
every chain be broken, and every bondman set free ! Let 
southern oppressors tremble — let their secret abettors 
tremble — let their northern apologists tremble — let all the 
enemies of the persecuted blacks tremble ! 

' I am aware, that many object to the severity of my lan- 
guage ; but is there not cause for severity ? I ivill be as 
harsh as truth, and as uncompromising as justice. On this 
subject, I do not wish to tliink, or speak, or write, with 
moderation. No ! no ! Tell a man whose house is on fire, 
to give a moderate alarm ; tell him to moderately rescue his 
wife from the hands of the ravisher ; tell the mother to 
gradually extricate her babe from the fire into which it has 
fallen; — but urge me not to use moderation in a case hke 
the present. I am in earnest — I will not equivocate — I 
will not excuse — I will not retreat a single inch — and I 
WILL BE HEARD. The , apathy of the people is enough to 
make every statue leap from its pedestal, and to hasten the 
resurrection of the dead. 

' It is pretended, that I am retarding the cause of eman- 
cipation by the coarseness of my invective, and the precipi- 
tancy of my measures. The clmrge is not true. On this 



)c:^— ^=^:^i 



question my influence, humble as it is, is felt at this moment 
to a considerable extent, and shall be felt in coming years — ■ 
not perniciously, but beneficially — not as a curse, but as a 
blessing ; and posterity will bear testimony that I was right. 
I desire to thank God, that he enables me to disregard " the 
fear of man which bringeth a snare," and to speak his truth 
in its simplicity and power.' 

He did not speak in vain. Undaunted determination and 
generous self-sacrifice find their echoes in every heart. 
Multitudes, who had neither courage nor disinterestedness, 
were yet enchanted by this new sound to stretch forth their 
hands towards the plough; and though all such turned back 
at the first serious obstacle, yet many were then stirred by 
that voice to action, who have never since tired nor stayed 
to rest them. 

OUE, PRINCIPLES. 

Human impulse ever rushes to the conflict with slavery. 
Even a child naturally sides with the weaker party, iiTcspect- 
ive of right or wrong. But we do not rest on our impulses 
alone. After deep thought, careful examination, and fervent 
prayer for divine direction — after much reading of history, 
sacred and profane, and deep study of our own times in 
connection with the past, we have arrived at the following 
principles. That freedom is the inalienable right of every 
human being: That slavery is, consequently, essential 
wrong — concentrated iniquity — a sin against God and 
man — a direct violation of every divine law — productive, 
therefore, of incalculable misery and crime: That right 
and safety demand its immediate abolition : That the con- 
dition and circumstances of our land being such as they are, 
the only hope of procuring emancipation lies in gaining from 
every soul an acknowledgement of the justice and necessity 
of its taking place immediately. 



OUR MEASURES. 

The body of the people were ready hastily to acknow- 
ledge -that slavery was wrong ; even southern slaveholders 
deplormg it as an evil that had descended to them from their 
ancestors. But, the moment that symptoms were discerned 
of a determined opposition to its longer continuance, men 
changed their phraseology. The South began to declare 
that it was right, and to defend it from scripture, and the 
leading men in Church and State, at the North, to use all 
their influence with the people to suppress the consideration 
of the subject. Had it been proposed gradually to abolish 
it, no opposition would have been manifested; and for this 
reason, that no impression would have been made. What 
the slaveholders instinctively know can be easily demon- 
strated to others ; that every form of graduahsm is delusive 
and impracticable. Yet this delusion continually rose as a 
liindrance. Ignorance of the extent and practical working of 
the system was found to be a great obstacle. The idea of 
the colonization of free men of color, as a remedy for slavery, 
continually blocked up our path. The workings of the fede- 
ral government against Freedom, because its helm was ever 
in the hands of the slave-power, were discerned to be a great 
drawback to our hopes of success. Great strength, great 
energy, great enthusiasm, much money, were all needed to 
show these things to the community, so long kept hood- 
winked. A few individuals here and there in the land, awake 
to the necessity, adopted the order of nature, and associated 
themselves together, for the purpose of doing all things neces- 
sary to effect the abolition of slavery. Association was our 
first and most important means. It is the order of nature, 
that when human beings earnestly wish the accomphshment 
of any particular object, they look around them for help— - 
they unite -then forces — they become associated. Eegular- 
ity, division of labor, mutual understanding, being always 
advantageous, they consequently become organized. 
2 




10 

It may be easily conceived that our organization would 
be strongly opposed. Having the extinction of slaveiy for 
its object, it would naturally be looked upon with terror and 
hatred by all other associations with which slavery was 
intermingled. Hence it was that the cry arose, from the 
leading members of every association in the land — from 
business and banking associations, from religious and eccle- 
siastical associations, from missionary and benevolent asso- 
ciations, from the political parties, and, finally, from Church 
and from State, the great national associations, — that what- 
ever our principles might be, our measures were intolerable. 
Slavery being fostered in all these associations, they of 
course felt that ours were at enmity with them. The fact 
of our banding ourselves together showed that we were in 
earnest, and hence the subsequent developements of latent 
opposition, which gave occasion to the pretended friends of 
Freedom to say that we had put back the cause fifty years. 
Some, whose love of foreign reputation and desire to stand 
well with posterity induced them to profess to love our 
cause while they deprecated our union for its promotion, told 
us that we should defeat our own object by this ' agitating 
system.' But the healthy instinct of human nature, sus- 
tained by experience, was a surer guide than the diseased 
revoltings of souls enfeebled by the exclusive atmosphere 
of drawing-rooms, or the stagnant air of sectarian associa- 
tions. * You will lose your individuality, and Truth will lose 
her power, if you thus persist in shouting her dictates to 
excited crowds.' ' We shall each be strong in the might of 
the whole,' was our fervent answer. Our individuality will 
be strengthened. Depend upon it, the soul fully possessed 
by the love of Freedom will know when it is hindered, and 
will turn and do battle with whatever hinders it. Never 
fear for Truth. No crowd can smother her, as long as they 
i will let her speak. Her nature is to multiply converts, and 
k her torch shall enhghten them all, without losing its bril- 



11 

liancy. The crowd is the very place to present her claims. 
David thanked God that he had strength given him to ' tes- 
tify of her in the great congregation f and on this point we are 
in sympathy Avith David. Wliy should human society have 
been pronounced an evil, the moment it began to be founded 
on truth and justice ? Because it was felt to be in opposition 
to society founded on sin and wrong. It was not our print- 
ing, our publishing, or even our lecturing, that fell into con- 
demnation as horrible measures. It was the oneness of 
soul, whereby we did these things. It was the power of 
association, whereby the rebuke of one man was felt as the 
voice of ten thousand. As this ' measure ' has been so 
mightily blessed, and so maliciously misrepresented, it be- 
comes us to dwell a little in explanation of it to those whose 
attention is just turning to our cause, and whose minds we 
must disabuse of the clouds of calumny that hang between 
them and us. What we would not stoop to do for our own 
sakes, we will strive to accomplish for the slave's sake, for 
the master's sake, for our friends' and for our country's sake. 

And first, Ours is not an elective association. We know 
that we are, the wisest of us, feeble and short-sighted, as 
all mortals are ; and we dare not assume the responsibility, 
w^liich in our view belongs only to Divine Providence, of 
saying this man is unfit to aid the cause of Freedom, or we 
will not labor with that woman for its advancement. Heart- 
iness is with us the only qualification. Whosoever will, let 
him come. Let even the self-seeking hypocrite seem to 
come. The faithful exposure of his seeming is aU that is 
necessary to frustrate his evil intentions. 

Secondly, Ours is not an exclusive association. Calvinists 
though we may be, we dare not take the responsibihty of 
forbidding the Socinian or Unitarian to labor for the eman- 
cipation of the slave. Orthodox though we may esteem 
ourselves, we dare not, since the parable of the good Sama- 
ritan, go by on the other side, while the heretic is painfully 



12 

exerting his strength alone to Hft up the down-trodden suf- 
ferer by the way. White though we may be, we dare not 
exdude the man of color from our effort to liberate, educate 
and upraise his race. We should doubly blush to do it. 
Our brows would crimson at the thought of our inconsistency 
as well as our inhumanity. Wealthy or fashionable though 
we may be, we feel most honored by the friendship of those 
among our anti-slavery associates whose purity of principle 
places them above wealth and fashion ; and schooled as we 
may have been by poverty to a knowledge of things as they 
are, we will not proudly say, what can these worldlings know, 
who have never suffered ? It is sufficient for this purpose 
that our associates, of whatever character they may be, have 
one spark of humanity in their bosoms. We dare not say 
none but the good shall be our associates. For if the bad 
feel a single emotion of pity for the oppressed, it becomes 
not even the perfect to quench the smoking flax or break 
the bruised reed. We have found no contamination or in- 
convenience in letting any one labor with us to effect good. 
We act in contradistinction to the fashionable, the ecclesias- 
tical, or the political exclusive. We know what men mean 
when they say of this cause, ' Leave it to us, Methodists — 
Presbyterians — Baptists : — leave it to us church-mem- 
bers : — leave it to us leaders of society: — leave it to us 
Orthodox : — leave it with the influential, " the right sort of 
men :" — leave it with our party : — leave it with the Chris- 
tian pubhc' We should be dull indeed not to have learned 
that all this eloquence of deprecation means — leave it 

ALONE. 

Tliirdly, Ours is not an excommunicating society. No 
matter what inconsistencies a man be guilty of — no matter 
what treachery he may have committed towards his asso- 
ciates or the cause, or what changes his mind may have 
undergone since he first advocated it — no one can remove 
him from the association. It must be his own act and deed. 



13 

If he feels drawn to iis, lie comes ; — when he feels repelled 
from us, he goes — alike free and unquestioned. No mem- 
ber of the society has any power beyond that of forming 
and expressing an opinion of his conduct — a power equally 
possessed by every soul that knows liim, and not conferred 
by membership. 

Fourthly, Ours is not a legislating society. Among the 
many subordinate measures lying ready for choice, as wea- 
pons in an armoiy, the members select the ones that like 
them best. One has observed the influence of slavery upon 
the government with particular attention. He has seen 
slaveholders monopolizing offices, and marked aU the trick- 
ery by which their system has maintained ascendancy, till 
the substitution of other men seems to him the most impor- 
tant measure, and he gives his strength to poHtical action. 
Another sees how much deeper lies the spiritual nature than 
the worldly arrangements built upon it, and he appeals to 
the rehgious sentiment, and rebukes the wickedness of the 
church. A third feels as if prayer was the great instrumen- 
tality ; — a fourth trusts more in preaching. The Presbyte- 
rian or Congregationalist trusts to bring the influence of his 
church to bear upon slavery, by excommunicating the slave- 
holder and his apologist, as he does other sinners. While 
he who does not believe in the abstract rightfulness of such 
excommunication contents himself with exposure of the 
true character of such men, and blames as inconsistent 
those who do not on this point act up to their own ideas. 
It is no better than cheating an associate out of the time 
mutually set apart to abolish slavery, to use it to get 
him right on aU topics on which there is a diflerence of 
opinion. If the self-styled ' Liberal Christian ' wishes to 
convert the ' close communion ' Baptist, he takes another 
opportunity. Seeing that we are ah yet in time and space, 
from that fact grows the necessity of doing one thing at 
once ; and why not confine one's self, at the time specified 



■'^^ 



14 

for the purpose, to Anti- Slavery proper, unless it is the uni- 
versal wish of the assembly to look at collaterals ? 

An all-important measure is the speaking of the truth; 
and here, in the manner of speaking it, each man is governed 
only by his own constitution and conscience. One man is a 
son of consolation — another is a son of thunder ; — one 
fullest of pity, another of justice. One dwells on the mis- 
sionary, another on the mercantile aspect of the cause. 
One prefers to speak on a week day — another to invest 
his plea with the sanctity of the meeting-house and the 
Sabbath. One prefers a congregation called expressly to 
listen to him — another to speak to whatever assembly of 
professing Christians he may chance to be in. His neigh- 
bor, who is no Congregationalist or Presbyterian, and who 
perchance disbelieves the plenary inspiration of the Bible, 
will not justify him in following the scriptural rule given 
by Paul, that those denominations profess to be guided by. 
But, at the same time, that neighbor would cry shame on 
him for his inconsistency, should he refuse to act up to 
his own belief; as he does cry shame on those who deny 
their own religious views, rather than listen to an abo- 
litionist speaking for the long forgotten milhons in bon- 
dage. Shame on the Quaker who tramples out the inward 
Hght of humanity when it touches the lips of the abolition- 
ist ! Shame on the believer in the inspiration of Paul, who 
drags from the scene of his devotions that worshipper in spirit 
and truth who cannot scrip turally be convicted of wrong. 
The philosopher only — the advocate of the rights of man 
irrespective of technical Christianity — can consistently 
blame the abolitionist who makes choice of the measure of 
addressing, against then: will, an assembly of men convened 
for iheform of worship, in recommendation of the reality. 

Fifthly, Our society is not a universally reformatory one. 
Though the platforai is of circumference broad enough to 
receive the whole human race, it turns upon a single point — jk 



•— #=^ 



15 

the abolition of slavery. Our principles being such funda- 
mental ones, and being as they are applicable to all the 
wrong that is done under the sun, it is not to be wondered 
at that ideas of the emancipation of subjects from political 
bondage — of women from the subjugation of men, in the 
present arrangements of society — of the poor from the 
yoke they bear as the laborers of the rich — of the slaves of 
rehgious sects from the bondage of their respective sacer- 
docies — of citizens from the burdens of compulsory govern- 
ment — of the whole earth from sin and suffering — should 
have dawned or darkened upon the minds of our members. 
But we all know that whatever idea transcending that of 
the abolition of chattel slavery enters our minds, it is impos- 
sible to live it out in this association. However broad this 
platform, a very short experience teaches every one that he 
cannot live his whole spiritual life upon it ; and he thinks it 
no argument against our association, that it is not a church 
universal. Whoever among our members wishes to make 
other applications of these principles, does it at other times 
and places than those mutually set apart for their application 
to the sin of slavery in its most definite sense — the claim 
OF PROPERTY IN MAN. Whether this object be great or 
small, of more or of less comparative importance, it is the 
ONE AND ONLY OBJECT of the auti-slavcry societies. Yet, 
as every truth that the human soul enlarges itself to receive, 
is a part of every other truth, it is not possible for us, though 
we would, to sunder what God has joined. Truth is like a 
strong cable, wliich man measures and marks into fathom- 
lengths. The whole chain tightens whenever we cast an- 
chor, though we had thought in our inexperience that only 
a part of the length would pmj out. As ' one entire and 
perfect chrysolite ' cannot be made fragmentary but by an 
act of desperate folly, so of the complete jewel, truth. 
We are busied, as a society, in polishing one of its faces. 
We conscientiously expend all the common stock of time 

)c:^:= ^ --<^o( 



16 

and money upon that one, and we cannot help it that the 
Hght, in consequence, stiikes through upon the rest, remind- 
ing men of the necessity of cutting them also. The man 
of strongly concentrative character must not quarrel with 
the natm-e of things which shows so many other aspects of 
duty to minds differently constituted from liis o^wn. Nor 
need the comprehensive mind complain, unless the concen- 
trative one strives to bind it also to one idea. Our society 
has but one idea, but it is not a cramping-machine upon its 
members. Each and all of them can, if they dare, act freely 
in every other capacity as well as in this. If they find 
themselves, as abolitionists, in opposition to themselves as 
Congregationalists, Presbyterians, whigs, democrats, reh- 
gionists or politicians, it is because slavery has taken pos- 
session of these latter associations. In such an emergency, 
they must sacrifice either the sect and the party, or else the 
cause of the slave. ' They must hold to the one and 
despise the other ;' and according to the reality of their abo- 
litionism will their course be. Thus the day of anti-slaveiy 
judgment is rolling on. It has ushered in a new era. Pro- 
fessions have become valueless. Men begin to judge and 
to be judged by their deeds, not by their words — by their 
mercy, generosity, justice, fidelity, steadfastness, sincerity, 
honest and honorable bearing, — not by their facility in say- 
ing ' Lord, Lord.' Hence it is that abolitionists are charged 
with being uncharitable in judgment, by men to whom the 
truth is painful as flame. 

Sixthly, Our society is not a political party organization. 
Deprived though we are of the elective franchise, We yet 
might spend our strength in partizansliip, did we beheve it in 
the least calculated to promote our object ; did we not feel that 
our aim ought to be liigher and nobler ; did we not see that 
it is resorted to for the most part by men who have slavish 
ties of bondage yet strong upon their natures, and that, if 
sincere, the effect of their suicerity generally has been to 




@-=^o -^ 

f 

I open their eyes to the fact that the best effect of party strife 
is to secure, at the sacrifice of principle, certain elections ; the 
result of which is, after all, uncertain. To legislative peti- 
tioning — to interrogating candidates — to scattering or with- 
holding votes -— to procuring by such influence the nomina- 
tion of anti-slavery candidates, we give great comparative 
approbation. But we bear an equally solemn testimony to 
all about to join the cause against domg the dirty work of 
designing political partizans, even though they call them- 
selves abolitionists 2Jar excellence; and against voting for 
any but those who are determined on the abrogation of all 
constitutional and legal provisions of the National and State 
governments, which have for their object the sustaining of 
slavery, or in any manner assisting the slaveholder to mam- 
tain his dominion over the slave. 

Seventhly, Our society is not a doctrmal deba,ting club. 
In a large assemblage of persons, though they may be united 
for a single object, there will of necessity be such a diversity 
of mind, tln-ough the differences of bhth, education, gifts, 
knowledge, grace and goodness, and circumstances in life, 
that much talk may be necessary about all things, spiritual 
and temporal, in order to get the 2^oi7it faMy before the 
minds of all. Much patience may be also necessary to bear 
with illogical conclusions and crude and half-digested views. 
But is there a wise man, who loves Freedom, who will not 
exercise patience. While another brother is learning to be a 
wise man also ? On the other hand, will not the brother who 
comes newly into the cause consider himself bound to ' ask 
his friends at home,' rather than consume an unreasonable 
portion of their time in the meeting ? By earnest love of 
the cause, all possible varieties of mind are so harmonized 
that they differ without inconvenience, and without attempt- 
ing, in this connection, the hopeless task of universal agree- 

n ment 

1^ 3 

■@C^= ^ ^ ^ . 



18 

111 addition to these particulars, it is well to remark, that 
we are not an intolerant society. We blame not those who 
prefer to aid the cause by themselves, because they follow 
not us. But, inasmuch as we know ourselves to have been 
both successful and sincere in its advocacy, we know by 
that same token that whoever, professing to love it, at the 
same time attacks and vilifies abolitionists as a body, is 
either convicted of ignorance or of hypocrisy. 

One word more we are bound to add, though it will, per- 
chance, be considered the developement of a new principle, 
rather than the definition of a new measure. "Whatever it 
may be deemed, our deep sense of its importance occasions 
it to modify all that we do. We travel backward into the 
past, making centuries our stepping-stones. Retracing 
eighteen hundred of these foot-marks of giant Time, we 
fiiid ourselves in a scene not unlike the one presented by 
the passing hour. In the midst of bloodshed and oppres- 
sion — in the midst of a fierce struggle for freedom and 
independence on one hand, and slavery and subjugation on 
the other — on the plains of Palestine, then the battle-field 
between the stern-souled Jew and the despotic Homan — in 
the midst of scribes and pharisees, and doctors of the laws 
falsely called divine, a great principle was promulgated. A 
man arises, simple in manners, austere in morals, mighty in 
speech, powerful in illustration, and teUs the people that 
force is inefiectual and unjustifiable ; that retaliation ought 
no longer to have place ; that no human being should darken 
m blood the light of life in any other, however vile ; for that 
the heavenly Parent causes his sun to shine alike on the 
evil and on the good. This new Teacher proclaims as the 
standard of moral perfection, love to enemies, blessing to the 
malevolent, prayer and labor for the revengeful and the 
persecuting. This was indeed Eeligion — a rebinding of 
the broken ties of humanity I and in view of a principle so 
heroic and holy, however it may subject us to calumny and 



^=>® 



19 

reproach, we feel bound to declare to the slave, to the mas- 
ter and to the world, that whatever may be the measures 
that we adopt, they shall all be sanctified by the sphit of 
good will and peace. 

OUR OBSTACLES. 

The grand one is selfishness — the selfishness which we 
have determined to drive from our own hearts, but which 
we find cherished in the hearts of others. But tliis is so 
general a statement as to convey no definite idea to minds 
unused to the contemplation of the subject. We must, in 
order to be understood, select specimen characters of each 
variety of mankind, and show how self-interest prompts 
them to cast themselves across the path of this cause. 
There is the man of business, who fears to lose money, or 
the opportunity of making it, by being true to the principles 
of Freedom and Christianity that he learned as a child. He 
is concerned in navigation, and he wants the carrymg trade 
of the South. Or his fortune is in manufacturing stock, and 
he fears to mar it by any examination of this subject. Or 
he is a commission merchant, and wants consignments of 
southern products ; or an auctioneer, advertising negro-cloths ; 
or the creditor of the southern planter, holding a mortgage 
of the plantation and its southern live-stock ; or he is the 
owner of uncultivated lands, that he cannot help foreseeing 
will need slave-labor ; or he manufactures pistols or slave- 
whips ; or he is a teacher or a preacher, and fears his parish- 
ioners or the parents of his pupils. Perchance his sliips lie 
waiting a freight in southern ports, and are ofiered thousands 
of dollars 'passage money, which he does not feel equal to 
the task of refusing, though he must sign a bill of lading 
for said passengers, as though they were bales of goods, and 
must superintend their being crowded on board in irons, out 
of the prisons of our free nation, which are constantly lent 
for the slaveholder's accommodation. Again, he may per- 



20 

sonally have no interest at stake, but then he has one son 
a cotton-agent in New Orleans, another a clergyman in 
Mississippi, or a daughter whom he hopes to marry to a 
wealthy planter in Georgia. His taking an active part in 
the cause will spread ruin beyond liimself. Tlie vigilance 
committees of the South keep eagle watch, A f ngie step 
on liis part will ruin the reputation of his childi'en there, 
and even peril their personal safety. 

Then again, there are other relations in life than business 
ones. His church has named or may name him a delegate 
to the Baptist Triennial Convention, the Methodist General 
Conference, the Presbyterian General Assembly, or the 
Congregational General Association, and he loves that eccle- 
siastical distinction. Those bodies may severally come to 
the resolution that their respective denominations, or the 
interest of Zion at large, will lose gTound among the people, 
if they should become strict to mark slaveholding iniquity. 
Each local church will, in consequence, proscribe its abolition 
members. For a man to become an abolitionist, in this state 
of things, is to lose his Christian character. 

Political preferment, too, is denied to the advocate of an 
unpopular cause ; and the man who has looked forward to 
being Representative or Senator, Governor or Foreign min- 
ister, to a seat in the Cabinet or the Presidential chair — 
nay, even the woman who has hoped for these things for 
her son or husband — will close then ears to the cry of op- 
pressed humanity, and vilify and calumniate the abolitionist 
whose victory over his own selfishness is a reproach to 
theirs. Thus is each in terror of his neighbor, till all nobility 
of spirit is lost. No wonder that these craven souls hesitate 
to look an abolitionist in the face. 

The low standard of religion and morals is a most serious 
obstacle to the success of our cause. Slavery has almost 
prostrated the Chiistian religion in our land. There is so 
little vital piety in our churches, that whoever upholds the 



21 

anti-slavery cause within them makes himself a prey. The 
churches of the South hold slaves both in their church ca- 
pacity, and through their individual members, and are sus- 
tained as Christians and as Christian churches in so doing, 
by the churches and Christians at the North ! They all thus 
deny Christ as a Kedeemer ; and when he appears^among 
them, as of old in Judea, opening to them the book of the 
law, and declaring from it that he has come to proclaim 
deliverance to the captive, and the opening of the prison 
doors to the bound, — to proclaim the acceptable year of the 
Lord, to wit, the year of general emancipation ; they try, as 
did the Jews of old, to cast him headlong from the rock on 
which their city is built. 

A grand obstacle is the avowed and determined neutrality 
of a large number of persons, owing to a degree of ignor- 
ance, almost incredible, of the practical requisitions of the 
Clmstian religion. These are the persons who compose the 
great body of the church members of New England, partic- 
ularly the women, and for whose souls their respective min- 
isters must render an awful account. Nothing could more 
clearly depict the state of mind superinduced by the labors 
of pro-slavery clergymen, than the following letter, ' a true 
copy' of the mind ordinarily considered religious. This 
gross darkness the light of the anti- slavery torch Vvdll shortly 
disperse, and unless they repent, these clergymen will be 
left to say like Wolsey — 

' Had I but served my God with half the zeal 
I've served my ' sect, ' he would not in my age 
Have left me naked to mine enemies.' 

It is the nature of democratic principles to destroy ecclesi- 
astical domination, and the superstitions on which it is 
founded. Men who think, easily see that such assumptions 
of authority in spiritual concerns are in perfect harmony with 
the claim of ownership in the body. 



22 

Letter. 
' I tliouglit that I ought at least to have given you some 
reasons for my avowed neutrahty on the subject of slavery. 
Perhaps if I had, you might have been able to remove some 
of my difficulties. To say that I abhor slavery so far as I 
am acquainted with it, and that I wish it may be abolished 
as speedily 2iS j^ossible, is no more than every person of com- 
mon humanity will say, let their views in regard to measures 
be what they may. It is a wicked infringement of the 
rights of man, a foul stain on our national character, and 
one for which we deserve, and I fear may yet experience, 
the judgments of Heaven. It seems as though no philan- 
thropist can help pitying the poor slaves, and wishing to 
relieve them ; and no Christian can be insensible to the 
great moral evils of wliich this system is the source. I 
think the abolitionists have done good in waking up the 
community from their indifference on this subject, but I 
should be insincere if I did not say that I thought they had 
done injury too. The topic is a highly exciting one, and it 
it is almost impossible to read the facts and statements con- 
nected with it without getting one's feelings deeply enlisted. 
This I do not object to, provided it occupies a subordinate 
place in our minds. For, after all, it is not religion, and so 
far as it takes the place of religion, it ought, I think, to be 
deprecated. I have known those who had been devoted Chris- 
tians before they got engaged in this subject, to become appa- 
rently indifferent to the advancement of Christ's kingdom, 
and the salvation of souls around them ; seeming to feel 
that they were justified in neglecting the claims of the 
Saviour to their services, because the cause which interested 
them was so important. I have known several individuals, 
who were professedly pious and evangelical, leave the 
sanctuary where the doctrines of the Cross were proclaimed, 
and go to hear what they believed was error, because it was 
preached by one of their party. I do feel, more and more, 



)c:#=- ' ^ =^=> 

23 

that tliese '' smooth doctrines " will be the ruin of multitudes, 
who are thus taught to trust to their own righteousness for 
salvation ; and it is cause for deep regret that amj who hope 
they have been redeemed by the precious blood of Christ 
should, by their example, give countenance to such fatal 
error. Now it seems to me, that the anti-slavery movement, 
as it is managed in many instances, brings all denominations 
upon a level, and is calculated to sink those distinctions 
between truth and error, which ought never to be lost sight 
of These are some of the difficulties in the way of be- 
coming an abolitionist^ 

In consideration of the great numbers who have been 
deluded into thinking that the ' visiting of the fatherless and 
widows in their affliction ' is not religion, it will be time here 
well spent to say a few words. We would say to such 
minds as theirs, What is ' truth ' ? and what is ' error ' ? 
What are ' the doctrines of the Cross ' ? They acknowledge 
that it is true that slavery is a sin, which ought to be imme- 
diately forsaken and repented of, and that no Christian can 
be insensible to its great moral evils, which are a foul stain 
on us, and for which we deserve the judgments of Heaven. 
Does it not follow then, on their own showing, that the 
' sanctuary ' where the consideration of these things is stifled, 
with continual and laborious vigilance, is in fact no sanctuary 
at all, having lost its holiness when it began to reverberate 
the hypocritical ' Lord, Lord,' of those who do not the things 
which Christ said ? Does not the charge lie heaviest against 
you, decent professor, who ' hope that you have been re- 
deemed by the precious blood of Christ,' of ' going to hear 
error because it is preached by one of your party' ? Know 
that the abolitionists have no 2^<^Tt7/. They bind themselves 
to the interests of universal humanity, for this world and the 
next. What else is ' Christ's kingdom ' and ' the salvation 
y of souls' ? What is it to ' serve the Saviour' ? Is it not to 




24 

bind up the broken heart, to proclaim deHverance to the 
captive, the opening of prison doors to the bound ? Is it not 
to minister to the least of these his brethren, who are de- 
prived of all things, and steeped to the very lips in degrada- 
tion, crime and infamy, through the oppression practiced on 
them by liis pretended servants? It is a false and fatal 
idea, that this cause must ' hold a subordinate place, because 
it is not religion' It is reHgion, though not the whole of re- 
ligion. It is obedience to that second great commandment, 
' Love thy neighbor as thyself,' which is like unto the first, 
that commands love to God. And will you dare to say that 
love to man, in obedience to God, is not religion ? Will you 
dare to affirm that to love man, not as rich, or white, or 
wealthy, or honored, or one of the same sect, or belonging 
to the same party, or as worthy and admirable — but as 
Christ loved him, overwhelmed with oppression, poverty 
and grief, scorned because of his race, of another blood and 
other associations, and spotted with the sins that his oppres- 
sors have caused him to commit, — will you dare to affirm, 
that such love for him simply as the child of God, manifested 
in sincerity and self-sacrifice, and with no paltry idea of 
one's o'wn salvation in the deed, is not religion, and the 
Christian religion too? Would you maintain a man as a 
preacher of the gospel, whose life contradicted his lips at 
every step, because his belief was correct ? ' The devils 
also believe and tremble,' and ' faith without works is dead.' 
For the same reason that an abolitionist will not sustain in 
the ministry the drunkard, the debauchee, or their apologists, 
by his countenance or by his money, though their creed may 
be faultless — for that same reason he refuses to sustain the 
slaveholder or liis apologist as a minister of religion. They 
are criminal themselves, and the occasion of crime in others. 
They side and sympathise with the powerful and the wicked 
to enslave and corrupt the weak and the innocent. We 
know by that token that the advancement of the Saviour's 



25 

kingdom, and the promotion of evangelical piety, are not in 
their hearts. What sense have they of the character of 
God, or the perfections of Christ, who will not strive to con- 
form themselves and the world thereto? Having sinned 
away their moral sense, they resist every new application of 
their own professed principles, which the providence of God 
calls upon them to make. When we see them startled and 
excited to enmity by such a new application, we know by 
that token that their seeming acquiescence in any application 
of them is merely a mmgHng of superstition and servility, and 
not a heartfelt conviction. The man who, being a professed 
Christian, apologises for slavery in the United States, would 
not hesitate to do the same for the sin he now calls the 
deadliest, under a similar stress of public opinion, Tlirough 
the hypocrisy of these men, Christianity is degraded, even 
below paganism. ' The beasts,' says Euripides, ' are pro- 
tected by the rocks, and vile slaves by the altars of the gods.' 
Not so in Christian New-England ! At which of her altars 
can the slave take sanctuary ? It is the vile master to whom 
their shadow yields a refuge : — so like themselves have 
these cravens made their gods, on the soil that their fathers 
sought to have consecrated everlastingly to the God of right- 
eousness and truth ! 

Though abolitionists, in their associated capacity as such, 
are laboring only for the extinction of slavery, yet let not 
the pro -slavery clergy of our land wonder at that examina- 
tion of their claims now going on among their flocks, which 
has been induced by a comparison of those claims with their 
conduct on the subject of slavery; — an examination, of 
which, in 1837, we pointed out to them the beginning, and 
which is the natural fruit of their unrighteous course. 

Our cause is also delayed by the difficulty it meets in 
obtaining consideration from those women who, without 
having put their consciences into the hands of their minis- 
ters, are yet given over to frivolity, as their appropriate 
4 
_.^^ 




26 

sphere. With the arrangements of society respecting 
women, Avliich many admit to be the cause of this frivohty, 
we have, as abohtionists, nothing to do, but to urge upon 
women to do good, in carrying forward the anti-slavery cause 
by every right means, and according to their own conscien- 
ces, though all mankind stood in the way, marldng out for 
them their little round. Nothing, however small, should be 
neglected, that comes in the shape of duty ; but the less 
never should be allowed to supercede the greater. ' This 
ought they also to have done, and not to have left the other 
undone.' We commend, for the justice of its views, the 
foUoAving extract from Dr. Channing's pamphlet entitled 
' Emancipation.' 

' Woman should talk of the enslaved to her husband, 
and do what she can to awaken, amongst his ever thronging 
worldly cares, some manly indignation, some interest in hu- 
man freedom. She should breathe into her son a deep sense 
of the wrongs which man inflicts on man, and send him 
forth from her arms a friend of the weak and injured. She 
should look on her daughter, and shudder at the doom of so 
many daughters on her own shores. When she meets with 
woman, she should talk with her of the ten thousand homes 
which have no defence against licentiousness, against viola- 
tion of the most sacred domestic ties; and through her 
whole intercourse, the fit season should be chosen to give 
strength to that deep moral conviction which can alone over- 
come this tremendous evil. 

' I know it will be said, that in thus doing, woman will 
wander beyond her sphere, and forsake her proper work. 
What ! do I hear such language in a civilized age, and in a 
land of Cliristianity ? What, let me ask, is woman's work? 
It is to be a minister of Christian love. It is to sympathize 
with human misery. It is to breathe sympathy into man's 
heart. It is to keep ahve in society some feeling of human 



27 

brotlierliood. This is lier mission on earth. Woman's 
sphere, I am told, is home. And why is home instituted ? 
Why are domestic relations ordained? These relations are 
for a day ; they cease at the grave. And what is then great 
end? To nourish a love wliich will endure forever, to 
awaken universal sympathy. Our ties to our parents are to 
bind us to the Universal Parent. Our fraternal bonds to 
help us to see in all men our brethren. Home is to be a 
nursery of Christians ; and what is the end of Christianity 
but to awaken in all souls the principles of universal justice 
and universal charity. At home we are to learn to love our 
neighbor, our enemy, the stranger, the poor, the oppressed. 
If home do not train us to this, then it is wofuUy perverted. 
If home counteract and quench the spirit of Christianity, 
then we must remember the Divine Teacher, who com- 
mands us to forsake father and mother, brother and sister, 
wife and child, for his sake, and for the sake of his truth. 
If the walls of home are the bulwarks of a narrow, clannish 
love, through "which the cry of human miseries and wrongs 
cannot penetrate, then it is mockery to talk of their sacred- 
ness. Domestic life is at present too much in hostility to 
the spirit of Christ. A family should be a community of 
dear friends, strengthening one another for the service of 
their fellow creatures. Can we give the nmiie of Christian 
to most of our families ? Can we give it to women who 
have no thoughts or sympathies for multitudes of then own 
sex, distant only three days' journey from their doors, and 
exposed to outrages, from which they would pray to have 
their own daughters snatched, though it were by death ? ' 

If it must be, in the nature of things, that all women who 
embrace this cause are to find it working out deliverance 
also for themselves, shall that be registered against the 
cause, as a fault, by the descendants of the Pilgrims — the 
children of those who renounced ease and wealth, and rank 



28 

and fashion, for tlie same principles, and to whom the renmi- 
ciation gave freedom in their generation ? 

But, whatever be the causes of selfish frivolity among 
women, (and it would be departing from our track to give 
them time in tliis connection,) the fact of its existence is 
indisputable. Is there an abolitionist, whose soul has not 
sunk in him on listenmg to the prattle with which so many- 
set tills cause of humanity aside. ' Oh I I take no interest 
in it — how can I ? It is so poUtical ! ' As if a woman 
had no country ! As if it were not the brother of her youth, 
and the father of her children, who must go, though the 
summons find them at the funeral of their father, to quench 
the flames of insurrection with their blood ! ' How can you 
expect me to take an interest in all this ? The very mention 
of these wretched blacks shocks me — they are an inferior 
race — slavery and prejudice are the ordination of Provi- 
dence. They are very well off' at the South — let them go 
to Africa — they are the descendants of Ham, and the curse 
of Cain is upon them. Our minister thinks you are entirely 
in the wrong — my husband says the North has nothing to 
do with it.' Ah ! what a disclosure is here of the exceeding 
need of labor to diffuse information, even if this woman is 
honest in saying these things, and should be willing to receive 
it. Garrison's Thoughts on Colonization, L' Instant's Prize 
Essay, Slavery as it is, Stroud's Laws of the Slave States, 
Jay on the Action of the Federal Government, Mrs. Child's 
Appeal for that class of Americans called Africans — will she 
read all these ? Her ignorance needs them all. Will she 
profit by them ? Her minister and her husband will do what 
they can to prevent. We solemnly adjure all such, masmuch 
as they must answer for themselves ' at the dreadful judgment 
seat,' to examine and decide for themselves now, upon a 
question so momentous. ' How low, vulgar, and uninterest- 
ing !' says another. ' How can I care for such a subject? 
Its details disgust me.' And thus they refuse to consider 



29 

the subject in all its beauty and vastness. "What in reality 
is it ? Why, Freedom ! Liberty ! The ground-work of the 
human soul, without which it cannot have its being, but 
becomes brutified ! the theme of Greek and Roman story I 
the rallying-word of Gallic chivalry ! our own dearest her- 
itage from our English ancestry ! the breath of life to litera- 
ture, science, art ! the inspiration of eveiy soul-stirring bat- 
tle-song of Germany, or Switzerland, or Spain, or Scotland ! 
the soul of religion ! the embodiment of the sublime and 
beautiful in morality ! the synonyme of generous constancy, 
and courage, and fidelity, in this age of cowardly oppression 
and selfish treachery ! All this is our cause, which looks to 
you but as a disgusting, apochryphal story of a ' whipped 
back, washed with cayenne pepper water I ' You cannot 
come to our meetings, you say, because you hate a vulgar, 
unwashed crowd, ' sprinkled with negroes,' Ah I delicate 
friends ! what you so denominate is, after all, that grand 
part of God's creation, for which this 'brave o'erarching 
firmament,' and these ' high mountains that are a feeling,' 
(which you sometimes rave about,) were made. The voice 
of the common thousands, crying, ' Freedom forever ! free- 
dom for all I for the slave as for us and our children I ' is a 
sound that might waken even your dead hearts into life. It 
will shortly gain full utterance. Legislative hall, magnificent 
drawing-room, and metropolitan temple, too, notwithstanding 
the guard mounted in the pulpit, will ere long be filled with 
the idea ; and millions now lying crushed and imbruted, will 
be called up by it to their true place in the creation of God, 
of which your supineness and affectation of fastidiousness 
now help to deprive them. Are you ^villing to live, and let 
all this be done without you — nay, in spite of you? ' But 
your leading men are so unknown to us I That Garrison ! ' 
' One John Milton ! ' You have not the fault of Goldsmith's 
' Croaker.' You have not the gift of foreseeing, too strong 
upon you. Ill does it become any American to sneer, as 




30 

yon are constantly doing, at negroes. Not one of tliem 
do you meet, bending beneath the weight of -wi'ong and 
bondage, whose presence is not a powerful admonition to 
you to undo the wrong your fathers have done, if you would 
have your children live in peace and die in any other way 
than by the horrors of insurrection and anarchy. This, or 
the extinction of slavery, is the alternative. 

But ' these negroes ' are not of such despicable descent. 

Are you proud of bearing the names of Norman barons ? 

Think respectfully, then, of those who sprung from African 

princes, with the best blood of the South in their vems to 

- boot. 

But our most serioLis hindrance has been occasioned by 
those who began with us to advocate the cause, without 
counting the cost, and were turned back, against their better 
knowledge and against their conscientious convictions, by 
the pressure of the world upon them. As a traitor in the 
camp is more hurtful than an enemy in front, so such per- 
sons as these are often more detrimental to the cause than 
the slaveholder himself If at the moment when decisive, 
vigorous, uncompromising conduct is demanded by its inter- 
ests, one who has professed to desire its advancement is 
seen drawing back, apologising for slaveholders, sheltering 
the advocate of slavery from the disgrace he merits, giving 
up the friends of freedom to their false accusers, clogging 
the wheels of the movement with expressions of doubt as 
to the propriety of calling crime criminal, if the perpetrators 
chance to be Ms own spiritual or political leaders, or per- 
sonal friends, — if the professing friend is found thus con- 
ducting, he becomes the most serious of all obstacles. 
The last state of such men we have ever found worse 
than their first. When once they have been driven by 
selfishness or teiTor to retrace their steps, they immediately 
strive to justify themselves by calumniating the brethren 
they have deserted. They devote themselves, with renewed 



31 



energy, to the promulgation of slaveholding religion. They 
strive to sustain unclianged all those institutions of society, 
into which the roots of slavery have become so swarded, 
that an attempt to destroy them shakes the whole soil. We 
cannot give freedom to the slaves, but by removing tliis evil 
influence, — but by exposing tliis treachery and hypocrisy, 
wherever and whenever it obstructs the way. Treacherous 
hypocrisy, thus met, is utterly unscrupulous in its choice of 
weapons by which to repel the truth that destroys its chance 
of success. It is even ready to recall the grim old days of 
the conclave and the star-chamber ; and fain to steep the 
land in forgetfulhess of all that is glorious in the past, since 
the efforts of our English progenitors removed the brand 
of treason from the brows that bend to Kight before Allegi- 
ance, and since the Protest of Luther made broad the line 
between dissent and sacrilege. 

"When traitors and hypocrites become fully possessed of 
the fact, that slavery is so intertwined in our country with 
each wholesome plant as to stop its growth, they begin to 
declare that it is perilous to strive to pluck it up so vigor- 
ously. Nay — they ask, is it not wholesome in itself, in 
some circumstances ? As often as it is touched, its mandrake 
groanings are terrible to hear, and make the listener mad. 
' Church and State, Sabbath and Ministry,' they cry, ' must 
fall, if you touch slavery; and better, far better, that slaveiy 
should remain perpetual.' "When once the recreant soul 
reaches this conclusion of its backward track, it loses all 
claim to the name of abolitionist, and becomes the worst of 
all hindrances. The pride of consistency, however, compels 
them to claim the appellation. But in vain do they now 
strive to change the issue they at first raised, by resolving 
themselves into a thud political part^^, and endeavoring to 
escape the condemnation that their fii'st course of opposition 
incurred, by nominating each other as candidates for office. 
Their selfish folly is only the more apparent to us, and will 



32 

shortly become equally so to the few whom they have 
succeeded hi deceiving. To tliis insensate selfishness has 
it been owing that, in the shallow sea of national politics, 
the tide seems to run higher against the cause than it did 
some years since. Then a slaveholder could not be put in 
nomination for the Presidency. Now, Henry Clay, — the 
owner of slaves, the President of the Colonization Society, 
the man who said that he would never listen to a proposition 
for emancipation, — is put in nomination for that office. 

We are no partizans. Alike to us are whig or democrat, 
Daniel Webster or Henry Clay, Calhoun or Van Buren. Of 
Birney, too, we know that many tilings are dearer to him 
than Freedom. We judge each by liis conduct, and not by 
the flouting banner under which he ranges himself; and Ave 
find all unworthy of the approbation of abolitionists. But 
Henry Clay is the man who, from his Senatorial seat, once 
appealed to the Women of the North to keep silence on 
the subject of slavery. He may have long since forgotten 
it, but among us it is freshly remembered ; and we are 
impelled to answer him by the consideration that he now 
presents himself for the suffrages of our husbands, our 
brothers and our friends. 

ADDRESS TO HENRY CLAY. 

Sir, — From your place in the Senate, and in the hearing 
of the nation, you have addressed that portion of your coun- 
tryivomen who have given their countenance to the abolition 
of slavery, adjuring them to reflect and to desist. They 
owe a voice responsive to that adjuration, to you, to them- 
selves and to their country, and much more to the holy 
cause of Freedom, to which they have bound themselves. 

We have not thoughtlessly and carelessly sent up our 
spirits into the councils of the nation. It is not without the 
most careful scrutiny of the subject, and the deepest solem- 
nity of self-communion, that we have taken the position of 



33 

intense and life-long hostility to slavery. All your arguments 
before the Senate for its continuance, with others which are 
to our minds quite as weighty, have again and again passed 
before us, and have as often been found baseless and unsat- 
isfactory. You do but deceive yourself, in fancying that a 
form of rejecting our petitions would have stilled the agita- 
tion of the claims of three millions of your countrymen and 
ours, who have been rendered incapable of preferring those 
claims in their own persons, by the workings of your sys- 
tem. Would this heaven-daring amount of crime and injus- 
tice — would our grief and indignation, as we behold it, have 
been lessened by any possible mockery of forms ? No ! the 
work of universal abolition, which you correctly state to be 
our object, is one which can neither be checked nor arrested 
by the American Congress. It is a movement too grand and 
magnificent — too strong and too holy. Our free govern- 
ment, of which you speak — the dearest hope of civiliza- 
tion — has done a glorious work for the world universally. 
Its sixty years of operation have so strengthened the minds 
of many in the principles of freedom, that they revolt as 
from personal indignity when slavery affronts them with her 
baleful presence. Those principles have become an insep- 
arable pa^t of the existence of thousands and tens of thou- 
sands. They will teach them in the house, and they will 
speak of them by the way. They will live by them. When 
they behold them violated, they will overwhelm the unwor- 
thy deed with their reprobation, though Senates sit ignobly 
devising formulas by which to hush them. Of what avail 
is it to the slaveholder, that the general government has no 
power in the States ? When have the abolitionists petitioned 
it to exercise such power ? We know its limitations, and 
have never asked of you to overleap them. But, the gen- 
eral government is but the expression of the national heart, 
and it is with that heart we have to do. A moral revolution, 
such as began in the United States in 1829, never yet went 
5 



34 

backward. Witness the existence of Christianity — the 
Reformation of Luther — the abohtion of slavery by Great 
Britain. The powers of speech and of the press, invested 
as they are by this magnificent idea, with the awful sanc- 
tions of la^v alike and gospel, of reason and religion, operate 
in a circumference larger than that described by the ma- 
chinery of governments. Governments are but their guards 
and servants, not their masters. Their eifect must evermore 
be freedom. Year after year, the great free voice will come 
up stronger and stronger ; the agitation will grow wider and 
deeper. No Congress can stay it — no combination can 
check it. It is the voice of God, announcing to the earth 
that slavery shall be no longer. 

We have asked of the general government only what it 
is confessedly competent to perform, by the assumption of 
Congress itself, ever since its first organization ; by the con- 
cession of Congressional committees on the District, from 
time to time ; by concession of eleven hundred of the inhab- 
itants of the District itself, in 1827 ; by concession of grand 
juries of the District; by virtual assertion of ten State 
Legislatures ; by the recorded petitions of numerous bodies 
of citizens of the slave States, to be found on the journals 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives, between 
the years 1822 and 1830 ; by the concession of southern 
statesmen, legislators, and constitutional lawyers, whose 
great names time would fail us to enumerate. From all 
these, as well as from the millions of signatures to northern 
petitions, it appears that an overwhelming majority of the 
people of the United States believe, that, by the Constitu- 
tion, Congress possesses j90wer, unquestionable and undoubt- 
ed, to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia. All tliis 
is sufficient to overrule objections of far more speciousness 
and plausibility than the supposed suppositions of Maryland 
and Virginia at the time of cession, or than Mr. Clay's opin- 
ion of what makes a seat of government comfortable, avail- 



35 

able and convenient, or tlie disposition of some of the pre- 
sent inhabitants of the District to elevate themselves into a 
government for the United States on the subject of slavery, 
and to preserve forever, in the centre of the nation, a flow- 
ing well-head of shame and guilt and danger — a public 
nuisance and disgrace, which were it as offensive to the 
senses as it is to the soul, could not have place a single 
hour. Ai'e the United States to continue to sanction slavery 
because Mr. Clay's nerves are so indurated to its horrors, 
that he can be sufiiciently ' comfortable ' in a slaveholding 
District? Is slavery to be tolerated in the District, because 
the establishment of freedom in it would be an inconven- 
ience to the slaveholders of Maryland and Virginia ? Is the 
onward and upward march of a great people to be stayed, 
lest the seat of its government should become a refuge for 
the desolate and oppressed ? The vision your words have 
made to pass before us is too beautiful to fade away, without 
having stirred our souls to renewed exertion that it may be 
realized. It stimulates us to upraise again to God and men, 
the united strength of our supplication for the deliverance of 
a people groaning under centuries of wrong and bondage ; 
and never, till the last fetter melts away, shall we cease to 
call on you and every member of the government to let 
Freedom protect your chosen seat : — ' Hide the outcast ! 
Be^vray not him that wandereth ! Let mine outcasts dwell 
■with thee I Deliver him that is spoiled out of the hand of 
the oppressor I ' 

Our great confederacy, to which you, with so much pride 
and satisfaction, refer — what is it? and for what purpose 
was it formed ? To establish justice : but the man who 
does not feel, in every emotion of his soul, that the power 
which should chain and drive him past your capitol with 
scourgings is unjust — it becomes not him to take her very 
name upon his lips. Her bandaged eye sees no distinction 
between the dark representative of an unbroken African 



36 

line, and tlie white descendant of a hundred Enghsh pro- 
genitors. From justice only can spring that ' domestic tran- 
quility/ or that assurance of ' liberty for our posterity/ which 
the federal league was formed to secure. Two hundred 
years of wrongful legislation can effect no change in the 
nature of things. The being you claim as your slave is a 
man ; and therefore in him you never did have, you never 
can have property. It matters not to those who look on the 
affairs of Time by the light of Eternity, though all the years 
the sun has ever measured were summoned by you to ' sanc- 
tify ' your claim. Time can do many things ; but to destroy 
the incalculable difference between matter and spirit — to 
annul the eternal distinction between a child of God and 
the things with wliich God has surrounded Mm, a thousand 
years are as one day. 

Justice, you assert, claims compensation. Compensation 
to whom ? Most willingly and joyfully should $1200,000,000 
be paid by this nation, if it could compensate for wrong and 
outrage unutterable — for centuries of bondage and unre- 
quited toil — for forcible separation of families — for blighted 
aspirations — for darkened intellect — for the crushing out 
of the best hopes of this life, and the deprivation of those 
of another ! Millions on millions for the emancipated — not 
a cent for the slaveholder I But Mr. Clay cannot be serious 
in his assertion that emancipation would annihilate this im- 
mense value. It surely is not left him to learn of us, that 
emancipation only removes his calculation from its present 
fluctuating basis to the solid earth, the only secure foundation. 
Neither can it be possible that Mr. Clay fails to perceive the 
want of agi'eement between different parts of his speech. It 
cannot have escaped him, that if schools opened for slaves by 
humane and religious persons, were of any real utility to 
them, they could not have remained ignorant and unprepared 
for freedom. If the operation of those schools was the brutify- 
ing one of rendering men content in slaveiy, we rejoice that 




37 

the efforts of abolitionists have caused their suppression. 
Mr. Clay speaks of the requisitions of candor and impar- 
tiality, in one part of his speech, and, in another, claims that 
men of color shall be counted as live-stock. In one breath 
he appeals to the Searcher of hearts, to witness his love of lib- 
erty, and, in another, declares his immutable determination to 
oppose any scheme of emancipation, whether gradual or im- 
mediate. In one moment, he seems to dread that the colored 
race may gain ascendancy — the next, he dwells on their 
ignorance and numerical inferiority. Such inconsistency 
cannot have been unperceived by him ; nor can we, in view 
of his opportunities and abilities, venture to presume such 
ignorance as his speech supposes. "Was it unknown to you, 
sir, at the time of expressing" your dread of any interference 
with the peculiar institutions of the slave States, that nu- 
merous societies exist in Great Britain, comprising the 
choicest spirits of the nation, which have the abolition of 
&\^YQij throughout the ivorld for their express object? Do 
you not know, that no moral or religious enterprise ever was 
undertaken, that did not make its projectors feel, that ' their 
country was the world — their countrymen all mankind ' ? 
In this holy enterprise, Spain, France, Great Britain, Amer- 
ica, are as one, and each after each will the movements of 
their governments indicate the progress of Freedom through 
the nations. All the macliinery of publications, denuncia- 
tions, declarations, to which you allude, as wanton and cruel 
assaults on your institution, are brought to bear on this very 
question, as it exists both in European colonies and among 
ourselves. Englishmen, and men of all nations, whose moral 
'sense is outraged by slavery, have been laboring for its ex- 
tinction in the midst of our nation. Why hav^e we not heard 
Mr. Clay's indignant remonstrance against England? Why 
has not a burst of overwhelming accusation gone over fi-om 
the South to the British Parliament, as when seven thunders 
utter their voices? Why has all her action on this subject 



38 

been outrageous violence, or crafty diplomacy? Because 
the South is perfectly aware that moral efforts of men of one 
nation to change the hearts of men of another, are a violation 
neither of national right, nor of international law. Because 
Mr. Clay knows, that the ground on wliich the missionary 
stands is holy ; and if the truth he promulgates makes men 
feel willing to loose the heavy burdens and let the oppressed 
go free, Mr. Clay can but beseech him to be silent, and draw 
on a brilliant imagination to picture the dreadful consequen- 
ces of righteousness ; trusting, meanwhile, that the murder- 
ous spirit which selfishness and slavery arouse in men's 
hearts, may quench the spirit of freedom and humanity. 
But, civihzation, though long stayed in her progress by 
domestic slavery, has yet so far triumphed over barbarism, 
that speech and the press are abstractly deemed free. In 
spite of the blinding mists of slavery, Americans in the 
northern States, at least, begin to discriminate between trea- 
son and free discussion — between the preacher of right- 
eousness and the political emissary — between the exercise 
of man's just rights, and the infliction of horrible outrages 
in support of wrong. ' Why,' you exclaim, ' are the slave 
States wantonly and cruelly assailed ? ' Why do they wan- 
tonly and cruelly outrage the moral sense of Christendom ? 
' Why are your efforts confined to the free States ? ' Be- 
cause the spirit and the gains of slavery are diffused through 
all classes and conditions of society here. Because it is em- 
plo^ring time and means and opportunities to the best advan- 
tage, to work outward from our own hearth-stones. Cast 
yourself back into the recent past, and behold for ten suc- 
cessive years the outrage and insult — the demolition of 
humble dwellings — the violence of mobs — the flames of 
burning cities — w"hich have followed free words and right 
deeds in northern States, and you will instantly perceive that 
it is no unworthy consideration of personal safety that bids 
us make them the fulcrum by which to move the South. 




z^ ^ — — — =^=>( 

39 

No :— for while we gather around our own firesides, with 
all the shielding that our free State government can give us, 
and protected by the abstract opinions of our fellow-citizens, 
even now — in the very midst of us — 'sits Danger, with 
his feet upon the hearth !' It is the South which is operating 
upon the institutions of the North ! and the right of associ- 
ation denied" — of petition suffocated — of speech forbid- 
den — of meeting at the mercy of Violence — nay, the right 
to live overwhelmed by Murder - — attest with what success. 
It is the South who are outraging all the laws of neighbor- 
hood and humanity. It is you who have ' subsidized presses^ 
and made large pecuniary contributions.' It is you have 
' sent forth numerous missionaries ' through our borders, to 
attack our institutions and our persons. Yours cannot live 
unless ours perish. You have set fire to our beautiful capi- 
tals ; but, God. be praised, you cannot make us have recourse 
to retaliatory violence. "We suffer, and we know not when 
shall be the end. But, sooner or later, the hour will come. 
The slave will be free ! "We know it, because we feel that 
no Senatorial breath, however potent, no words, feebly pic- 
turing as a wrath to come that Avhich has already been real- 
ized, can melt away the free soul's resolute devotedness. 
No labor of the President of a Colonization Society to 
spread before us the frightful enmity between the races, 
will avail to prevent us from pouring forth the spirit of re- 
pentance, and reconciliation, and forgiveness, into the hearts 
of both. Nothing which deeply concerns the human race 
should excite derision ; but it will not be wonderful, should 
the inconsiderate, both at the North and the South, be at a 
loss whether to deride the ignorance, or to condemn the in- 
sincerity, which alludes with horror to the mingling of the 
two races, notwithstanding it goes on under the institution 
of slavery, unregulated and unchecked. You appeal to cu- 
pidity, to prejudice, to cherished hatred, — successfully, no 
doubt, for they exist to an alarming extent. You assure us 



40 

that the white man cannot treat the man of color peaceably. 
Sh, abolitionists are men of like passions with others, and 
have, like them, been colonizationists and slaveholders ; yet 
they have overcome their murderons hatred to the colored 
man. Men's hearts, and men's homes, are as open to him 
as to the white man, wherever the abolition sentiment has 
penetrated. The spirit of Freedom is even now wrestling 
in Massachusetts for a legislative acknowledgement of the 
essential equality of the man of color ; and that last relic of 
caste and its bigoted meanness, the marriage law, is about 
to be swept away. 

Freedom, you fear, would excite fearful struggle, disorder 
and distress, at the South. In Heaven's name, sir, what 
exists there now but struggle, and disorder, and distress, and 
stripes, and tears, and tyranny, and unrequited toil, and 
scorn, and wrath, and families parted by force, and a spirit 
of mutiny, and constant apprehension, and slaves assassin- 
ating their masters, and ignorant wretches massacred for 
firing cities in their insane vengeance, or hunted with dogs 
for asserting their freedom ; barbarism and oppression hand 
in hand, violence and murder in the halls of legislation. Sen- 
ators reaching their places in the councils of government by 
yielding up the hopes and rights of man whenever ambition 
demands the sacrifice ? And yet, Mr. Clay would consider 
the event a most direful one, which should put the cause of 
these atrocities in jeopardy ! He would have its considera- 
tion evermore shifted to the shoulders of posterity, from age 
to age ; and yet, while loading them with his own fearful 
responsibilities, he professes to have at heart, above all other 
objects, the well being of his own descendants and his own 
race ! and calls on the Searcher of hearts to witness that his 
own beats high with the love of civil liberty ! ! Has he a 
love of liberty who goes about balancing his own safety and 
covenience, his oivn descendants and race, against the eter- 
nal principles which guarantee the safety and freedom of 



41 

the world I Shame ! shame I indignantly exclaims the 
Christian, for the distinctive feature of his rehgion is its 
universality ; — the philanthropist, for he loves man ; — the 
true statesman and patriot, for they see that this question is 
no less a test now, than in the days of Wilberforce and 
Clarkson, of who is fit to destroy and who to save a nation. 
You call upon abolitionists to subdue in their hearts the love 
of universal hberty. We could not if we would — we would 
not if we could. We say with Luther, ' It is neither safe 
nor right to do aught against conscience. Here stand we — 
we can no other — God help us — Amen ! ' In a right- 
eous cause we know not fear ; though Mr. Clay is shaken 
with apprehensions of the evil consequences of universal 
hberty. Sir, your fears are no measure of your brother's 
rights. Is slavery a violation of them ? Keason and Reve- 
lation and the heart of man, and the voice of God in them 
all, say Yes ! and yet you bid us fear to present to you our 
petitions for the extinction of such parts of it as lie within 
your jurisdiction, and call this terror-stricken circle of cor- 
rupt pubhc opinion, which your judgement has marked out 
for us, ' our own appropriate and delightful sphere ! ' This 
style is unworthy alike of you and of ourselves — ahke un- 
worthy of the American Senator and the American woman. 
It is not the language of one high soul to another, and there- 
fore it passes by us as the wind. It is thus we educate our 
sons in Massachusetts. They must see us impervious to 
sophistry, or they will not truly appreciate reasoning. They 
must see us disregarding appeals to the educational weak- 
ness of woman, or they will have reason to despise the 
mothers that bore them. Unless they see us awake to the 
fallacies of an assumed authority, they will grow up its 
dupes and its slaves. If they behold us weakly yielding 
up our convictions of duty to freedom and humanity and 
God, when human love and honor are the bribes, can we 
expect them, in the struggle of life, which they are so soon 
6 



42 

to enter, to preserve inviolate their steadfast fidelity to the 
righteous and the true ? If they behold us overwhelmed 
with terrors at the rage of the wicked and unreflecting, can 
we expect of them a noble courage ? No : — smce our 
example will educate them, we shall labor to make it a good 
and worthy one. 

But, (since Mr. Clay dwells so much on consequences,) 
we will direct his attention to those which must ensue, if 
the slaveholding States persist in those aggressions upon the 
rights of the free States, which are the necessary con- 
sequences of slavery. The form of Union, which now 
exists, will speedily perish, as all that is valuable in the 
reality has long since done ; the slaveholding States will 
stand alone, and will be far more exposed than they now 
are to the moral influences which they so much dread. 
They are now shielded from the full force of these impres- 
sions by the interposition of their northern apologists, and 
by the existing form of Union. Those removed, they must 
repent or perish. Let him be assured, meanwhile, of our 
constant and devoted lives in the cause of Freedom, as long 
as hfe shall be given us. Let him be assured that — 

' Freedom's battle, once begun, 
Bequeathed from bleeding sire to son, 
Though baffled oft, is ever won ! ' 

OUR TEMPTATIONS. 

They are those which are incident to human nature. An 
abolitionist is a man of like passions with a slaveholder; 
and the only difierence between the two is, that the former 
is striving to subject his mind to the dominion of right prin- 
ciple and good feeling. But Covetousness stands by, to 
urge us to keep back a part of the price of abolisliing 
slavery; and Ambition prompts us to cling to place and 
power, at the sacrifice of principle ; and Pride makes us 
forget the lowly bondman by intense self-remembrance ; and 



43 

Vanity makes us ashamed to act in the presence of our respec- 
tive coteries, whether fashionable, pohtical, mercantile, lite- 
rary or clerical, in behalf of a cause which they all contemn. 
These are temptations from without, at the commencement 
of our course as abolitionists. Others assail us from within 
our camp. There are traitors in it, who have yielded to the 
temptations from without, and we hesitate to brand them as* 
such, lest we too should fall when tempted, and be compelled, 
in our turn, to feel the scorching infliction which it is the 
right and the duty of Fidelity to bestow. This is the tempt- 
ation of Selfishness, bidding us save ourselves pain and 
inconvenience, and, possibly, self-condemnation, at the 
expense of the cause. Some are tempted by the desire to 
make the cause subservient to their own advancement. 
These are they whose own little pubhc looks upon the cause 
with comparative toleration, and who are both busy and bold, 
until their efforts rouse the demon of self-interest in the cir- 
cle which bears down upon their own ; and then the kindred 
spirit that reigns in their own hearts rushes to join itself to 
the apparition they have unexpectedly to themselves evoked. 

There is a temptation which merits peculiar notice, be- 
cause it besets those whose majestic patience yields to no 
other assault. It would not, indeed, be wonderful, if the 
soul whose clearness of vision sees and unravels at a glance 
the intricate problems of philosophy or metaphysics, morals 
or theology, and seizes on the right amid all these various 
envelopements, without staying to reconcile it with some 
beloved doctrine or theory, and lives by it, at whatever cost, 
should become impatient of other men's delay, especially if 
it is waiting for them in loathsome jails to make up minds 
distracted by the multiplicity of worldly enjoyments. 

There is the temptation of false charity, which would make 
us doubt whether men are so bad as our own experience has 
actually proved them to be. There is the temptation of 
false humility, which makes us doubt whether we can per- 



44 

form what we yet acknowledge to be duty. There is the 
temptation of intolerance, which makes a man think that 
his particular measure is the only one, and which impels him 
to denounce all who do not adopt it as the enemies of Free- 
dom. There is the temptation to misanthropy, growing out 
of the ingratitude, treachery, and various villany, which 
•peel away from the cause of the slave, as it gets wedged 
into difficult paths in its onward course. 

This list might be, of course greatly extended ; but if this 
page suggests more than it expresses, it will not be, on that 
account, the less, but the more valuable. 

OUR PROGRESS. 

This head affords a place, where a history of intense 
interest to the moralist, the philanthropist, and the pscy 
chologist, might be recorded ; but we forbear, for it may be 
better read in the improved condition of the man of color, 
wherever our principles have penetrated ; in the improved 
characters of all who have embraced them ; in the changed 
tone of discussions in Congresses, Legislatures, Convoca- 
tions, Assemblies, Conferences, Lyceums and Families. As 
for written history, are not the materials laid up in the Anti- 
Slavery Offices ? Since all who choose can find them there, 
we will not take up time with records, but will simply state 
results. We will not make our Report a History, but ' an 
Experience.' 

OUR RESOLVE. 

We are bound to this cause, as to our religion, by all the 
most hallowed recollections and the most radiant hopes. 
As we look to meet God in peace at our last hour, and to 
be united in joy to our fellow-laborers departed, who devoted 
us in dying to the work of abolishing slavery, we renewedly 
vow ourselves to its accomplishment ; and whether we live 
to see that hour or not, we shall have the satisfaction and 
the improvement of high endeavor. 



PIOUS TRU S T 



(from the GERMAN OF KORNEr) 



BY ELIZA LEE FOLLEN. 



I. 

We call on thee, with looks of gladness. 
And on thy word we take our stand ; 

In vain with murder and with madness 
Would Hell deceive thy faithful band. 

The world may crumble and decay : 

Thy word will never pass away. 

II. 

Faith conquers not by faint endeavor ; 

Such good is only won through pain ; 
Freely its juice the grape yields never, 

'Tis by the press the wine we gain ; 
And when an angel seeks the skies, 
First breaks a human heart and dies. 



46 . 

III. 

Though in this life, full of dissembling, 
Temples of falsehood may be raised, 

And villains in high places, trembling 
At power and wisdom, shrink amazed, 

And with the coward's giddy fear. 

The awakened people's murmurs hear ; 

IV. 

Though brother turn away from brother, 
Though bloody deeds of hate are done. 

Though States the bonds of kindred smother, 
Forgetting their true glory's one ; — 

And that united for the right 

The world would own our country's might ; — 

V. 

Yet never of thy help despairing, 
Steadfast, O God, our trust shall be. 

That thou, the tyrant's doom declaring. 
Wilt set thy mourning people free : 

And though far off this day of Ught, 

Who knows but thou what day is right ! ^ 



TREASURER'S ACCOUNT 



Eliza F. Meriam, Treasurer, 

To Boston Female A. S. Society Dr. 
1841. 
Oct. 13, To cash, balance from last year, $64 75 
To do. received during the year, 160 08 

$224 83 

Contra, , Cr. 

1842. 
Oct. 12, By cash paid during the year, $206 91 
" " Balance on hand, , . . 17 92 

$224 83 

Boston, Oct. 12, 1842. 

E. E. Eliza F. Meriam. 



