C A U T I O 

T O 

G R EAT BRITAIN 

AND 

HER COLONIES, 

IN A 

SHORT REPRESENTATION 

OF THE 

CALAMITOUS STATE of the 

ENSLAVED NEGROES 

IN THE 

BRITISH DOMINIONS, 

A NEW EDITION. 



I I iflMW inriw 



y ANT. BENEZET. 



PHILADELPHIA* FWnled: tO : wi) : 6'N Reprinted and 
Sold by JAMES PHILLIP-^, in George-Yarb, 
Lombaro-Strset. 1784. 



fes. lS^-bH "&3- 



[ 3 ] 



A 




A U T I O 



T a time when the general rights and 
liberties of mankind, and the pre- 
fervation of thofe valuable privileges tranf- 
mitted to us from our anceftors, are become 
fo much the fubjects of univerfal confidera- 
tion; can it be an inquiry indifferent to any^ 
how many of thofe who diftinguifh them- 
felves as the Advocates of Liberty* remain 
infenfible and inattentive to the treatment of 
thoufands and tens of thoufands of our fellow 
men, who, from motives of avarice, and the 
inexorable decree of tyrant cuflom, are at 
this very time kept in the moil deplorable 
ftate of Slavery, in many parts of the Britifh 
Dominions ? 

The intent of pitblifliing the following 
meets, is more fully to make known the 
aggravated iniquity attending the practice of 
the Slave-Trade j whereby many thoufands of 
our fellow-creatures, as free as ourfelves by 
nature, and equally with us the fubjects of 

A 2, Chrift's 



t 4 J 

Chrifl's redeeming Grace, are yearly brought 
into inextricable and barbarous bondage -, and 
many, very many, to miferable and un- 
timely ends. 

The Truth of this lamentable Complaint is 
fo obvious to perfons of candour, under whofe 
notice it hath fallen, that feveral have lately 
published their fentiments thereon, as a matter 
which calls for the moft ferious consideration 
of all who arc concerned for the civil or re- 
ligious welfare of their Country. How an 
evil of fo deep a dye, hath fo long, not only 
pafTed uninterrupted by thofe in Power, but 
hath even had their Countenance, is indeed 
furprifing; and charity would fuppofe, mull 
in a great meafure have arifen from this, that 
many perfons in government, both of the 
Clergy and Laity, in whofe power it hath been 
to put a flop to the Trade, have been unac- 
quainted with the corrupt motives which gives 
life to it, and with the groans, the dyinggroans, 
which daily afcend to God, the common 
Father of mankind, from the broken hearts 
of thofe his deeply opprefled creatures : other- 
wife the powers of the earth would not, I 
think I may venture to fay could not, have 
fo long authorized a practice fo inconfiflent 
with every idea of liberty and juflice, which, 
as the learned James Fqfier fays, Bids that 
God, which is the God and Father of the Gen- 
tiles, unconverted to Chriftianity, moft daring 

and 



f 5 ] 

and bold defiance', and fpurns at all the prin- 
ciples both of natural and revealed Religion, 

Much might juftly be faid of the temporal 
evils which attend this practice, as it is de- 
ffructive of the welfare of human fociety, and 
of the peace and profperity of every country, 
in proportion as it prevails. It might be alfo 
ihewn, that it deftroys the bonds of natural 
affection and intereft, whereby mankind in 
general are united ; that it introduces idlenefs, 
difcourages marriage, corrupts theyouth, ruins 
and debauches morals, excites continual ap- 
prehenfions of dangers, and frequent alarms, 
to which the Whites are neceiTarily expofed 
from fo great an increafe of a People, that, 
by their Bondage and Oppreffions, become 
natural enemies, yet, at the fame time, are 
filling the places and eating the bread of thofe 
who would be the Support and Security of 
the Country. But as thefe and many more 
reflections of the fame kind, may occur to a 
confiderate mind, I fhall only endeavour to 
mew, from the nature of the Trade, the plenty 
which Guinea affords to its inhabitants, 
the barbarous Treatment of the Negroes, and 
the Obfervations made thereon by Authors of 
note, that it is inconfiftent with the plaineft 
Precepts of the Gofpel, the dictates of reafon, 
and every common fentiment of humanity. 

A 3 In 



[ 6 ] 

In an Account of the European Settlements 
m America, printed in London, 1757, the 
Author, fpeaking on this Subject, fays : ' The 
c Negroes in our Colonies endure a Slavery 

* more complete, and attended with far worfe 

* circumftances than what any people in their 

* condition fuffer- in any other part of the 

* world, or have fuffered in any other period 

* of time: Proofs of this are not wanting. 
6 The prodigious wafte which we experience 

* in this unhappy part of our Species, is a 
( full and melancholy Evidence of this Truth, 

* The Ifland of Barbadoes (the Negroes upon 

* which do not amount to eighty thoufand) 

* notwithstanding all the means which they 
4 ufe to encreafe them by Propagation, and 

* that the Climate is in every refpect (except 
9 that of being more wholefome) exactly re- 

* fembling the Climate from whence they 
4 come; notwithstanding all this, Barbadoes, 

* lies under a neceffity of an annual recruit of 

* five thoufand Haves, to keep up the flock at 

4 the number I have mentioned. This pro- 

* digious failure, which is at leaft in the fame 

* proportion in all our Iflands, fhews demon-. 

5 flratively that fome uncommon and unfup- 

* portable Hardship lies upon the Negroes, 

* which wears them down in fuch a furprifing 

* manner; and this, I imagine, is principally 

* the exceffive labour which they undergo/ 
In an Account of part of North- America, 
publifhed by c £homas Jejfery, printed 1761, 

fpeaking 



r 7 j 

fpeaking of the ufage the Negroes receive in 
the Weft-India Illands, he thus expreffes him- 
felf : ' It is impoffible for a human heart to 

* reflect upon the fervitude of thefe dregs of 

* mankind, without in fome meafure feeling 

* for their mifery, which ends but with their 
< lives. -Nothing can be more wretched 

* than the condition of* this People. One 

* would imagine, they were framed to be 
' the difgrace of the human fpecies : banifhed 

* from their Country, and deprived of that 
' bleffing, Liberty, on which all other nations 
' fet the greateft value, they are in a manner 

* reduced to the condition of beafts of bur- 

* den. In general a few roots, potatoes ef- 

* pecially, are their food - y and two rags, 
' which neither fcreen them from the heat 

* of the day, nor the extraordinary coolnefs 
' of the night, all their covering; their deep 

* very fhort; their labour almoffc continual; 

* they receive no wages, but have twenty 

* lames for the fmalleit fault.' 

A confiderate young perfon, who was lately 
in one of our Weft-India Iflands, where he 
obferved the miferable fituation of the Ne- 
groes, makes the following remarks : ' I meet 
' with daily exercife, to fee the treatment 
c which thefe miferable wretches meet with 
' from their mailers, with but few exceptions, 

* They whip them molt unmercifully, on 
f fmall occafionsj they beat them with thick 

A 4 6 Clubs, 



f Clubs, and you will fee their Bodies all 

* whaled and fcarred : in fhort, they feem to 

* fet no other value on their lives than as they 
' coft them fo much money; and are not 
' retrained from killing them, when angry, 

* by a worthier conlideration than that they 

* lofe fo much. They act as though they did 

* not look upon them as a race of human 
c creatures, who have reafon, and remem- 
' brance of misfortunes; but as beafts, like 

* oxen, who are ftubborn, hardy and fenfe- 

* lefs, fit for burdens, and defigned to bear 

* them. They will not allow them to have 
' any claim to human privileges, or fcarce, 
f indeed, to be regarded as the work of God. 
4 Though it was confident with the juflice of 

* our Maker to pronounce the fentence on our 

* common parent, and through him on all 
e fucceeding generations, That he and they 
< jhould eat their bread by the fweat of their 
' brow, yet does it not ftand recorded by the 
' fame Eternal Truth, That the Labourer is 

* worthy of his Hire? It cannot be allowed in 
e natural juftice, that there mould be a fervi- 

* tude without condition : A cruel endlefs 
€ fervitude. It cannot be reconcileable to na- 

* tural juftice, that whole nations, nay, whole 
c continents of men, fhould be devoted to do 

* the drudgery of life for others, be dragged 

* away from their attachments of relations 

* and focieties, and made to ferve the appe- 

* tites and pleasures of a race of men, whofe 

c fuperiority 



[ 9 1 

* fuperiority has been obtained by an illegal 

* force.' 

A particular account of the treatment thefe 
unhappy Africans receive in- the Weft-Indies 
was lately publifhed, which, even by thofe 
who, blinded by intereft, feek excufes for the 
Trade, and endeavour to palliate the cruelty 
exercifed upon them, is allowed to be a true, 
though rather too favourable reprefentation of 
the ufage they receive, which is as follows, 
viz. ' The iniquity of the Slave-trade is greatly 
' aggravated by the inhumanity with which 

* the Negroes are treated in the Plantations, 

* as well with refpecl: to food and clothing, 

* as from the unreafonable labour which is 

* commonly exacted from them. To which 
' may be added the cruel chaftifements they 
' frequently fuffer, without any other bounds 
' than the will and wrath of their hard tafk- 
' mailers. In Barbadoes, and fome other of 

* the Iflands, lix pints of Indian corn and 
*• three herrings are reckoned a full weeks 
f allowance for a working Have, and in the 

* Syftem of Geography it is faid, That in Ja- 

* maica the owners of the Negroe -/laves, fet 
. * afide for each a parcel of ground, and allow 

c them Sundays to manure it, the produce of 

* which, with fometimes a few herrings, or 
c other falt-fim, is all that is allowed for their 

* fupport. Their allowance for clothing in 
1 the Iflands is feldom more than fix yards of 

* ofenbrigs 



[ io ] 

* ofenbrigs each year: And in the more north- 

* ern Colonies, where the piercing wefterly 

* winds are long and fenflbly felt, thefe poor 

* Africans fuffer much for want of fufficient 
' clothing, indeed fome have none till they 

* are able to pay for it by their labour. The 

* time that the Negroes work in the Weft- 

* Indies, is from day- break till noon; then 
' again from two o'clock till dufk : (during 

* which time they are attended by overfeers, 

* who feverely fed urge thofe who appear to 

* them dilatory) and before they are fuffered 

* to go to their quarters, they have frill fome- 
' thing to do, as collecting of herbage for 

* the horfes, gathering fuel for the boilers, &c. 
' fo that it is often half paft twelve before 

* they can get home, when they have fcarce 

* time to grind and boil their Indian corn y 

* whereby it often happens that they are called 
€ again to labour before they can fatisfy their 
' Hunger. And here no delay or excufe will 

* avail, for if they are not in the Field im- 
' mediately upon the ufual notice, they mull 

* expect to feel theOverfeer's Lafh. In crop- 

* time (which lafts many months) they are 

* obliged (by turns) to work moft of the night 

* in the boiling-houfe. Thus their Owners, 

* from a defire of making the greater!; gain 

* by the labour of their ilaves, lay heavy 

* Burdens on them, and yet feed and clothe 
e them very fparingly, and fome fcarce feed or 

* clothe them at all> fo that the poor creatures 

6 are 



* are obliged to fliift for their living in the 
t beft manner they can, which occafions their 
f being often killed in the neighbouring lands, 
' ftealing potatoes, or other food, to fatisfy 
? their hunger. And if they take any thing 
( from the plantation they belong to, though 

* under fuch preffing want, their owners will 

■ correal: them feverely, for taking a little of 

* what they have fo hardly laboured for, 
' whilft they themfelves riot in the greater! 
' luxury and excefs. — It is a matter of afto- 

* niihment, how a people, who, as a nation 2 

* are looked upon as generous and humane, 
' and fo much value themfelves for their 

* uncommon fenfe of the Benefit of Liberty, 

* can live in the practice of fuch extreme op- 
' preffion and inhumanity, without feeing the 

* inconfiftency of fuch/ conduct, and without 
f feeling great Remorfe: Nor is it lefs amazing 

* to hear thefe men calmly making calcula- 
f tions about the ftrength and lives of their 
' fellow- men; in Jamaica, if fix in ten, of the 

■ new imported Negroes furvive the feafoning, 

* it is looked upon as a gaining purchafe: And 

* in mofl; of the other plantations, if the 

* Negroes live eight or nine years, their labour 
' is reckoned a fufficient compenfation for 
' their coft. If calculations of this fort 

* were made upon the ftrength and labour of 

* beafts- of burden, it would not appear fa 
S flrange; but even then a merciful man would 

* certainly ufe his bead with more mercy than 

1 is. 



f ™ 1 

' is ufually fhewn to the poor Negroes. — Will 

* not the groans of this deeply airlifted and 

* oppreiTed people reach Heaven, and when 

* the cup of iniquity is full, muft not the 

* inevitable confequence be pouring forth of 
' the judgments of God upon their oppreffors. 
? But, alas ! is it not too manifest that this 
' oppreffion has already long been the objecl: 
' of the divine difpleafure ; for what heavier 

* judgment, what greater calamity can befall 
' any people, than to become a prey to that 

* hardnefs of heart, that forgetfulnefs of God, 
' and infenfibility to every religious impref- 
f fionj as well as that general depravation of 
' manners, which fo much prevails in the 

* Colonies, in proportion as they have more or 

* lefs enriched themfelves, at the expence of 

* the blood and bondage of the Negroes/ 

The fituation of the Negroes in our South- 
ern provinces on the Continent, is alfo feel- 
ingly fet forth by George Whitfield, in a 
Letter from Georgia, to the Inhabitants of 
Maryland, Virginia, North and South-Carolina, 
printed in the Year 1739, of which the fol- 
lowing is an extract: ' As I lately patted 
' through your provinces, in my way hither, 
' I was fenfibly touched with a fellow-feeling 
' of the miferies of the poor Negroes . Whe- 

* ther it be lawful for Chriftians to buy Haves, 

* and thereby encourage the Nations from 

* whom they are bought, to be at perpetual 

6 war 



[ 13 1 

* war with each other, I fhall not take upon 

* me to determine; lure I am, it is finful, 
f when bought, to ufe them as bad, nay worfe 
' than as though they were brutes ; and what- 

* ever particular exception there may be, (as 

* I would charitably hope there are fome) I 

* fear the generality of you, that own Negroes, 

* are liable to fuch a charge ; for your flaves, 

* I believe, work as hard, if not harder, than 
' the horfes whereon you ride. Thefe, after 
' they have done their work, are fed and 
' taken proper care of; but many Negroes, 
' when wearied with labour, in your planta- 
' tions, have been obliged to grind their own 

* corn, after they return home. Your dogs 
e are careffed and fondled at your table; but 
' your Haves, who are frequently iUled dogs 
' or hearts, have not an equal privilege; they 
' are fcarce permitted to pick up the crumbs 
' which fall from their mailer's table. — Not 
c to mention what numbers have been given 
' up to the inhuman ufage of cruel ta£k- 
' mafters, who, by their unrelenting fcourges, 
e have ploughed their backs, and made long 
' furrows, and at length brought them even 
' to death. When paffing along, I have view- 

* ed your plantations cleared and cultivated, 
' many fpacious houfes built, and the owners 
' of them faring fumptuoufly every day, my 
' blood has frequently almofl run cold within 
' me, to coniider how many of your flaves had 
' neither convenient food to eat, or proper 

' raiment 



I H ] 

e raiment to put on, notwithstanding moil of 

* the comforts you enjoy were folely owing to 

* their indefatigable labours.-— The Scripture 
' fays, Thou jhalt not muzzle the ox that 

* treadeth out the corn. Does God take care 

* for oxen ? and will he not take care of the 
' Negroes alfo? undoubtedly he will. — Go to 
6 now ye rich men, weep and howl for your 
6 miferies that mail come upon you: Behold 

* the provifion of the poor Negroes, who have 

* reaped down your fields, which is by you 
e denied them, crieth; and the cries of them 

* which reaped, are entered into the ears of 
6 the Lord of Sabbath. We have a remark- 

* able inftance of God's taking cognizance of, 
c and avenging the quarrel of poor Haves* 

* 2 Sam. xxi. i. There was a famine in the 
6 days of David three years, vear after year; 
,* and David enquired- of the Lord: And the 
€ Lord anfwered 9 If is for Saul, and for his 
6 bloody houfe> becaufe he flew the Gibeonites a 
' Two things are here very remarkable : Firft, 

* Thefe Gibeonites were only hewers of wood 
' and drawers of water, or in other words, 

* Haves like yours. Secondly, That this plague 

* was fent by God many years after the injury* 
' the caufe of the plague, was committed* 
' And for what end were this and fuch like 

* examples recorded in holy Scriptures? with- 

* out doubt, for our learning.- — For God is the 
' fame to-day as he was yeflerday, and will 

* continue the fame for ever. He does not 

6 rejecl 



[ 15 J 

e reject the prayer of the poor and deftitute; 
* nor difregard the cry of the meaneft Negro. 
' The blood of them fpilt for thefe many 
' years in your refpective provinces will af- 
' cend up to heaven againft you/ 

Some who have only feen Negroes in an 
abjecl: ftate of flavery, broken -fpirited and 
dejected, knowing nothing of their fituation 
in their native country, may apprehend, that 
they are naturally infenfible of the benefits of 
Liberty, being destitute and miferable in every 
refpect, and that our fuffering them to live 
amongfl us (as the Gibeonites of old were 
permitted to live with the Israelites) though 
even on more oppreffive terms, is to them a 
favour; but thefe are certainly erroneous opi- 
nions, with refr°c~t to far the greateft part of 
them : Although it is highly probable that in 
a country which is more than three thoufand 
miles in extent from north to fouth, and as 
much from earl; ^ weft, there will be barren 
parts, and many inhabitants more uncivilized 
and barbarous than others -, as is the cafe in all 
other countries : yet, from the moil authen- 
tic accounts, the inhabitants of Guinea appear, 
generally fpeaking, to be an induftrious, hu- 
mane, fociable people, whofe capacities are 
naturally as enlarged, and as open to improve- 
ment, as thofe of the Europeans-, and that 
their Country is fruitful, and in many places 
well improved, abounding in cattle, grain and 

fruits : 



t >6 ] 

fruits. And as the earth yields all the year 
round a frefh fupply of food, and but little 
clothing is requifite, by reafon of the con- 
tinual warmth of the climate; the necefTaries 
of life are much eaiier procured in moil parts 
of Africa , than in our more northern climes. 
This is confirmed by many authors of note, 
who have reiided there; among others, Mi 
Adanfon, in his account of Goree and Senegal, 
in the year 1754, fays, ' Which way foever 
' I turned my eyes on this pleafant fpot, I 

* beheld a perfect image of pure nature; an 
f agreeable folitude, bounded on every fide by 

* charming landfcapes, the rural fituation of 
' cottages in the midft of trees ; the eafe and 
f indolence of the Negroes reclined under the 

* made of their fpreading foliage; the fimpli- 

* city of their drefs and manners; the whole 
' revived in my mind the idea of our firfl 
e parents, and I feemed to contemplate the 
' world in its primitive ftate: They are, gene- 
1 rally fpeaking, very good-natured, fociable 
' and obliging. I was not a little pleafed with 
' this my firfl reception; it convinced me, 

* that there ought to be a considerable abate- 
' ment made in the accounts I had read and 

* heard every where of the favage character of 
' the Africans. I obferved, both in Negroes 

* and Moors, great humanity and fociablenefs, 
' which gave me flrong hopes, that I mould 
' be very fafe amongfl them, and meet with 

« the 



[ '7 3 

€ the fuccefs I defired, in my inquiries after 

* the curiofities of the country.' 

William Bofman, a principal Factor for the 
Dutch, who refided lixteen years in Guinea, 
fpeaking of the natives of that part where he 
then was, fays, ' They are generally a good 

* fort of people, honeft in their dealings;' 
others he defcribes as ' being generally friendly 
' to ftrangers, of a mild converfation, affable, 
' and eafy to be overcome with reafon.' He 
adds, ' That fome Negroes, who have had 

* an agreeable education, have manifefted a 
' brightnefs of underftanding equal to any of 
'us.' Speaking of the fruitfulnefs of the 
country, he fays, e It was very populous, 
' plentifully provided with corn, potatoes and 

* fruit, which grew clofe to each other ; in 
c fome places a foot-path is the only ground 

* that is not covered with them; the Negroes 
' leaving no place, which is thought fertile, 
e uncultivated; and immediately after they 
' have reaped, they are fure to fow again/ 
Other parts he defcribes, as ' being full of 

* towns and villages; the foil very rich, and 
' fo well cultivated, as to look like an entire 
' garden, abounding in rice, corn, oxen, and 

* poultry, and the inhabitants laborious.' 

William Smith, who was fent by the Afri- 
can Company to vifit their fettlements on the 
coaft of Guinea, in the year 1726, gives much 

B the 



[ 18 1 

the fame account of the country of Delrnina 
and Cape Coffe, &c. for beauty and goodnefs, 
and adds, ' The more you come downward 
\ towards that part, called Slave- Coaft, the 
' more delightful and rich the foil appears/ 
Speaking of their difpofition, he fays, 'They 
f were a civil, good-natured people, induftri- 
' ous to the laft degree. It is eafy to perceive 

* what happy memories they are bleffed with, 
' and how great progrefs they would make in 
' the fciences, in cafe their genius was culti- 

* vated with ftudy.' -He adds, from the in- 
formation he received of one of the Factors, 
who had refided ten years in that country, 
f That the difcerning natives account it their 
' greateft unhappinefs, that they were ever 
' vifited by the Europeans. — That the Chrif- 
' tians introduced the traffick of Slaves ; and 
'that before our coming they lived in peace.' 

Andrew Brue, a principal man in the French 
Factory, in the account he gives of the great 
river Senegal, which runs many hundred 
miles up the country, tells his readers, * The 
' farther you go from the Sea, the country on 
' the river feems more fruitful and well im- 
' proved. It abounds in Guinea and Indian 
' corn, rice, pulfe, tobacco, and indigo. Here 
' are vaft meadows, which feed large herds 
' of great and fmali cattle; poultry are nume- 
/ rous, as well as wild fowl.' The fame 
Author, in his travels to the fouth of the 

river 



[ '9 ] 

river Gambia, expreffes his furprize, ' to fee 

* the land fo well cultivated; fcarce a fpot 

* lay unimproved; the low grounds, divided 
\ by frnall canals, were all lowed with rice; 

* the higher ground planted with Indian corn, 

* millet- and peas of different forts: beef and 

* muttoi * very cheap, as well as all other ne- 
e ceffaries of life.' The account this Author 
gives of the difpofition of the natives, is, 

* That they are generally good-natured and 
' civil, and may be brought to any thing by 
" fair and foft means.' Artus, fpeaking of the 
fame people, fays, ■ They are a fincere, in- 
' offenfive people, and do no injuflice either 

* to one another or flrangers.' 

From thefe Accounts, both of the good 
Difpofition of the Natives, and the Fruitful- 
nefs of moil parts of Guinea^ which are con- 
firmed by many other Authors, it may well 
be concluded, that their acquaintance with 
the Europeans would have been a happinefs 
to them, had thofe lafl not only borne the 
name, but indeed been influenced by the 
Spirit of Christianity ; but, alas ! how hath 
the Conduct of the Whites contradicted the 
Precepts and Example of Chrifl ? Inflead 
of promoting the End of his Coming, by 
preaching the Gofpel of Peace and Good- will 
to Man, they have, by their practices, con- 
tributed to enflame every noxious paffion of 
corrupt nature in the Negroes; they have in- 

B 2 cited 



[ 2° ,3 

cited them to make war one upon another* 
and for this purpofe have furni/hed them 
with prodigious quantities of ammunition and 
arms, wherehy they have been hurried into 
confufion, bloodfhed, and all the extremities 
of temporal mifery, which muft neceffarily 
beget in their minds fuch a general detefta- 
tion and fcorn of the Chrijlian name, as may 
deeply affect, if not wholly preclude, their 
belief of the great Truths of our holy Reli- . 
gion. Thus an infatiable deiire of gain hath 
become the principal and moving caufe of 
the moft abominable and dreadful fcene, that 
was perhaps ever acted upon the face of the 
earth; even the power of their Kings hath 
been made fubfervient to anfwer this wicked 
purpofe, inftead of being Protectors of their 
people, thefe Rulers, allured by the tempt- 
ing bait laid before them by the European 
Factors, &c. have invaded the Liberties of 
their unhappy fubjects, and are become their 
Oppreffors. 

Divers accounts have already appeared in 
print, declarative of the mocking wickednefs 
with which this Trade is carried on; thefe 
may not have fallen into the hands of fome 
of my readers, I {hall, therefore, for their in- 
formation, felect a few of the mofc remark- 
able inftances that I have met with, mewing 
the method by which the Trade is commonly 
managed all along the African coaft. 

Francis 



[ 21 J 

Francis Moor, Factor to the African Com- 
pany, on the river Gambia, relates, * That 
' when the King of Barf alii wants goods, &c. 
c he fends a mefTenger to the Englifi Governor 
' at James's Fort, to defire he would fend up 
e a floop with a cargo of goods; which (fays 
' the author) the Governor never fails to do : 
' Againft the time the veffel arrives, the King 
' plunders fome of his enemies towns, felling 

* the people for fuch goods as he wants, — 

* If he is not at war with any neighbouring 
' King, he falls upon one of his own towns, 

* and makes bold to fell his own miferable 
' fubjects.' 

N. Brue, in his account of the Trade, &c. 
writes, ' That having received a quantity of 

* goods, he wrote to the King of the country, 
' That if he had a fufficient number of llaves, 
' he was ready to trade with him. This 

* Prince (fays that author) as well as other 
' Negroe Monarchs, has always a fure way 
' of fupplying his deficiencies by felling his 
' own fubjects. — The King had recourfe to 
' this method, by feizing three hundred of 
' his own people, and fent word to Brue, 
( that he had the llaves ready to deliver for 
' the goods.' 

The Mifery and Bloodfhed, confequent to 
the Slave-trade, is amply fet forth by the fol- 
lowing extracts of two voyages to the coafr. 

B 3 of 



[ 22 ] 

of Guinea for flaves. The nrft in a veflel from 
Liverpool, taken verbatim from the original 
manufcript of the Surgeon's journal, viz, 

' Sestro, December the 29th, 1724. No 
c trade to-day, though many Traders come 
' on boards they inform us, that the people 

* are gone to war within land, and will bring 
4 prifoners enough in two or three days: in 

* hopes of which we flay. 

' The 30th. No trade yet, but our Traders 

* came on board to-day, and informed us, 
' the people had burnt four towns of their 

* enemies, fo that to-morrow we expecl: flaves 
'■> off. Another large fhip is come in: Yefler- 
* ' day came in a large Londoner, 

' The 31ft. Fair weather, but no trade 

* yet : We fee each night towns burning ; 

* but we hear the Sejiro men are many of 

* them killed by the inland Negroes, fo that 

* we fear this war will be unfuccefsful. 

' The 2d "January. Laft night we faw a 
' prodigious fire break out about eleven 
' o'clock, and this morning fee the town of 
9 Sejiro burnt down to the ground, (it con- 

* tained fome hundreds of houfes) fo that we 

* find their enemies are too hard for them at 

* prefent, and confequently our trade fpoiled 

* here % fo that about feven. o' clock we 

' weighed 



t n 1 

'* weighed anchor, as did likewife the three 
6 other veflels, to proceed lower down/ 

The fecond relation, alfo taken from the 
original manufcript journal of a perfon of 
credit, who went Surgeon on the fame ac- 
count in a veffel from New-York to the coafh 
of Guinea, about nineteen years paft, is as 
follows, viz. 

* Being on the coafl at a place called 
' Ba/a/ia, the Commander of the veffel, ac- 

* cording to cuftom, fent a perfon on more 

* with a prefent to the King, acquainting 
' him with his arrival, and letting him know, 

* they wanted a cargo of Haves. The King 

* promifed to furnifh them with flaves; and 
' in order to do it, fet out to go to war againfl 
' his enemies, defigning alfo to furprize fome 

* town, and take all the people prifoners: 
1 Some time after, the King fent them word, 

* he had not yet met with the defired fuccefs, 

* having been twice repulfed, in attempting 
f to break up two towns; but that he ftill 
' hoped to procure a number of Haves for 

* them; and in this defign he perfifted till 
' he met his enemies in the field, where a 

* battle was fought, which lafted three days$ 

* during which time the engagement was fo 

* bloody, that four thoufand five hundred 

* men were flain on the fpot.' The perfon, 
that wrote the account, beheld the bodies as 

B 4 they 



[ 24 ] 

they lay on the field of battle. ? Think (fays 
' he in his journal) what a pitiable fight it 
' was, to fee the widows weeping over their 
* loft hufbands, orphans deploring the lofs 
' of their fathers, &c. &c.' 

Thofe who are acquainted with the Trade 
agree, that many Negroes on the fea-coaft, 
who have been corrupted by their intercourfe 
and converfe with the European Factors, have 
learnt to ftick at no act of cruelty for gain. 
Thefe make it a practice to fteal abundance 
of little Blacks of both fexes, when found on 
the roads or in the fields, where their parents 
keep them all day to watch the corn, &c. 
Some authors fay, the Negroe Factors go fix 
or {even hundred miles up the country with 
goods, bought from the Europeans, where 
markets of men are kept in the fame manner 
as thofe of beafts with us. When the poor 
flaves, whether brought from far or near, 
come to the fea-fhore, they are ftripped 
naked, and ftrictly examined by the European 
Surgeons, both men and women, without 
the leaft diftinction or modefty; thofe which 
are approved as good, are marked with a red- 
hot iron with the fhip's mark; after which 
they are put on board the vefiels, the men 
being fhackled with irons two and two to- 
gether. Reader, bring the matter home, 
and confider whether any fituation in life can 
be more completely miferable than that of 

thofe 



[ 25 ] 

thofe diftrerTed captives. When we reflect, 
that each individual of this number had fome 
tender attachment which was broken by this 
cruel feparation; fome parent or wife, who 
had not an opportunity of mingling tears in 
a parting embrace; perhaps fome infant or 
aged parent whom his labour was to feed 
and vigilance protect; themfelves under the 
dreadful apprehenlion of an unknown per- 
petual flavery; pent up within the narrow 
confines of a veifel, fometimes fix or {even. 
hundred together, where they lie as clofe as 
poffible. Under thefe complicated diflrefTes 
they are often reduced to a itate of defpera- 
tion, wherein many have leaped into the fea, 
and have kept themfelves under water till 
they were drowned ; others have ftarved 
themfelves to death, for the prevention 
whereof fome mailers of velfels have cut off 
the legs and arms of a number of thofe poor 
defperate creatures, to terrify the reft. Great 
numbers have alfo frequently been killed, 
and fome deliberately put to death under the 
greater!: torture, when they have attempted 
to rife, in order to free themfelves from 
their prefent mifery, and the ilavery designed 
thorn. An inftance of the laft kind appears 
particularly in an account given by the 
mafter of a veifel, who brought a cargo of 
flaves to Barbadoes ; indeed it appears fo 
irreconcileable to the common dictates of 
humanity, that one would doubt the truth 

of 



[ 26 ] 

of it, had it not been related by a ferious 
perfon of undoubted credit, who had it from 
the captain's own mouth. Upon an inquiry, 
What had been the fuccefs of his voyage? 
he anfwered, * That he had found it a diffi- 
'■ cult matter to fet the negroes a fighting 
' with each other, in order to procure the 
f number he wanted; but that when he had 

* obtained this end, and had got his veffel 

* filled with flaves, a new difficulty arofe 
f from their refufal to take food; thofe def- 
f perate creatures chufing rather to die with 

* hunger, than to be carried from their native 
'■ country.' Upon a farther inquiry, by what 
means he had prevailed upon them to fore- 
go this defperate refolution ? he anfwered, 

* That he obliged all the negroes to come 
? upon deck, where they perlifted in their 

* refolution of not taking food, he caufed his 
c failors to lay hold upon one of the mod 
' obftinate, and chopt the poor creature into 
' fmall pieces, forcing fome of the others to 
e eat a part of the mangled body; withal 
' fwearing to the furvivors, that he would 
' ufe them all, one after the other, in the 

* fame manner, if they did not confent to 
6 eat.' This horrid execution he applauded 
as a good act, it having had the defired effect, 
in bringing them to take food. 

A fimilar cafe is mentioned in Aft ley's. 
Collection of Voyages, by John Atkins, Sur- 
geon 



[ *7 ] 

geon on board Admiral Ogle's fquadron, * Of 
' one Harding^ mailer of a veiTel, in which 

* feveral of the men-flaves, and a woman- 

* flave, had attempted to rife, in order to. 

* recover their liberty,; fome of whom the 

* mailer, of his own authority, fentenced to 
f cruel death; making them firft eat the 
' heart and liver of one of thofe he killed. 
'■ The woman he horded by the thumbs ; 

* whipped and flamed with knives before the 
f other Haves, till fhe died.' 

As deteftable and mocking as this may ap- 
pear to fuch, whofe hearts are not yet hard- 
ened by the practice of that cruelty, which 
the love of wealth, by degrees, introduceth 
into the human mind; it will not be it range 
to thofe who have been concerned or employ- 
ed in the Trade. Now here arifes a necelTary 
query to thofe who hold the balance and 
fword of juftice; and who muil account to 
God for the ufe they have made of it. Since 
our Engli/h law is fo truly valuable for its 
jujlice, how can they overlook thtye barbarous 
deaths of the unhappy Africans without trial, 
or due proof of their being guilty, of crimes 
adequate to their punijh?nentf Why are thofe 
majlers of veffels, (who are often not the mof 
tender and confiderate of men) thus Juff'ered 
to be the jovereign arbiters of the lives of the 
mijerable Negroes-, and allowed, with impu- 
nity, thus to dejlroy, may I not Jay, murder 

their 



[ 28 ] 

their fellow -creatures, and that by means fo 
cruel as cannot be even related but with 
Jloame and horror % 

When the vefTels arrive at their deftined 
port in the Colonies, the poor Negroes are to 
be difpofed of to the planters; and here they 
are again expofed naked, without any diftinc- 
don of fexes, to the brutal examination of 
their purchafers; and this, it may well be 
judged is to many of them another occafion 
of deep diftrefs, efpecially to the females. 
Add to this, that near connections muft now 
again be feparated, to go with their feveral 
purchafers : In this melancholy fcene Mothers 
are feen hanging over their Daughters, be- 
dewing their naked breafls with tears, and 
Daughters clinging to their Parents - y not 
knowing what new ftage of diftrefs muft 
follow their feparation, or if ever they fhall 
meet again : And here what fympathy, what 
commiferation are they to expect? why in-^ 
deed, if they will not feparate as readily as 
their owners think proper, the whipper is 
called for, and the lafh exercifed upon their 
naked bodies, till obliged to part. 

Can any human heart, that retains a fellow^ 
feeling for the Sufferings of mankind, be un^ 
concerned at relations of fuch grievous afr 
fli&ion, to which this opprefled part of ouj: 
Species are fubjected : God gave to mari 

dominion 



[ *9 ] 

dominion over the fifh of the fea, and over 
the fowls of the air, and over the cattle, &c* 
but impofed no involuntary fubjedrion of one 
man to another. 

The' Truth of this Pofition has of late 
been clearly fet forth by perfons of reputation 
and ability, particularly George Wallis, in his 
Syftem of the Laws of Scotland, whofe fenti- 
ments are fo worthy the notice of all con- 
fid erate perfons, that I fhall here repeat a part 
of what he has not long fince publifhed, 
concerning the African Trade, vi%. ' If this 
' Trade admits of a moral or a rational jufti- 

* fication, every crime, even the moft atro- 

* cioiis, may be juflified: Government was 

* infHtuted for the good of mankind. Kings, 

* Princes, Governors, are not proprietors of 

* thofe who are fubjected to their authority, 
■' they have not a right to make them mi- 
' ferable. On the contrary, their authority is 
' veiled in them, that they may by the juft 

* exercife of it, promote the Happinefs of 

* their people : Of courfe, they have not a 
' right to difpofe of their Liberty, and to fell 
6 them for Haves: Befides, no man has a 

* right to acquire or to purchafe themj men 
' and their Liberty, are not either faleable or 
' purchafeable: One therefore has no body 

* but himfelf to blame, in cafe he fhall 

* find himfelf deprived of a man, whom he 

* thought he had, by buying for a price, 

' made 



[ 3° 1 

* made his own; for he dealt in a Trade 

* which was illicit, and was prohibited by 
s the moft obvious dictates of humanity. For 

* thefe reafons, every one of thofe unfortunate 
' men, who are pretended to be Haves, has 

* a right to be declared free, for he never 
6 loft his Liberty, he could not lofe it; his 
' Prince had no power to difpofe of him: 
6 of courfe the fale was void. This right 
6 he carries about with him, and is entitled 

* every where to get it declared. As foon* 

* therefore, as he comes into a country, in 
e which the Judges are not forgetful of their 

* own humanity, it is their duty to remember 
c that he is a man, and to declare him to be 

* free. — This is the Law of Nature, which 
' is obligatory on all men, at all times, and 

* in all places.— Would not any of us, who 

* mould be matched by Pirates from his 

* native land, think himfelf cruelly abufed, 

* and at all times intitled to be free ? Have 

* not thefe unfortunate Africans, who meet 

* with the fame cruel fate, the fame right** 

* are not they men *as well as we ? and have 

* they not the fame fenfibility? Let us not* 

* therefore, defend or fupport an ufage, which 

* is contrary to all the Laws of Humanity/ 

Francis Hutcbinfon, alfo in his Syftem of 
Moral Philofophy, fpeaking on the fubjecl: of 
Slavery, fays, * He who detains another by 

* force in flavery, is always bound to prove 

< his 



[ S? 1 

his title. The Slave fold or carried away 
into a diftant country, mull not be obliged 
to prove a negative, that he never forfeited 
his Liberty. The violent pofleffor mufl, in 
all cafes, mew his title, efpecially where the 
old proprietor is well known. In this cafe 
each man is the original proprietor of his 
own Liberty: The proof of his lofing it 
mufl be incumbent on thofe, who deprived 
him of it by force. Strange, (fays the fame 
author) that in any nation, where a fenfe of 
Liberty prevails, where the Chriflian religion 
is profeifed, cuftom and high profpecl of 
gain can fo ftupify the confciences of men, 
and all fenfe of natural juflice, that they can 
hear fuch computation made about the value 
of their fellow-men and their Liberty, 
without abhorrence and indignation/ 

The noted Baron Montefquieu gives it, as 
his opinion, in his Spirit of Laws, page 348, 

* That nothing more aflimilates a man to a 
' beafl than living amongfl freemen, himfelf 
' a Have; fuch people as thefe are the natural 
' enemies of fociety, and their number mufl 

* always be dangerous.' 

The Author of a pamphlet, lately printed 
in London, entituled, An EJ/ay in Vindication 
of the continental Colonies oj America, writes, 
' That the bondage we have impofed on the 
f Africans, is abfolutely repugnant to juflice. 

' That 



[ 3* 3 

That it is highly inconfiftent with civil 
policy: Firfl, as it tends to fupprefs all 
improvements in arts and fciences; without 
which it is morally impoilible that any 
nation mould be happy or powerful. Se- 
condly, as it may deprave the minds of the 
freemen ; fteeling their hearts againft the 
laudable feelings of virtue and humanity. 
And, tartly, as it endangers the community 
by the deftrudtive effects of civil commo- 
tions : need I add to thefe (fays that author) 
what every heart, which is not callous to 
all tender feelings, will readily fuggeft; that 
it is mocking to humanity, violative of every 
generous fentimentj abhorrent utterly from 
the Chriflian Religion: for, as Montefquien 
very juftly obferves, We mufi fuppofe them 
not to be men, or a fufpicion would follow 
that we ourf elves are not Chriftians. ■ 
-There cannot be a more dangerous maxim, 
than that neceffity is a plea for injuftice. 
For who mail fix the degree of this necef- 
fity? What villain fo atrocious, who may 
not urge this excufe ? or, as Milton has 
happily exprefTed it, 

And with necejjity, 



* The tyrant's plea, excufe his devlifh deed. 

That our Colonies want people, is a very 
weak argument for fo inhuman a violation 
of juftice. — Shall a civilized, a Chrijlian 
nation encourage Slavery, becaufe the bar- 

* barous 



t 33 ] 

* barous, favage, lawlefs African hath done 

* it? Monftrous thought! To what end do 
c we profefs a religion whofe dictates we fo 

* flagrantly violate? Wherefore have we that 
' pattern of goodnefs and humanity, if we 

* refufe to follow it ? How long mall we 
' continue a practice, which policy rejects, 

* juftice condemns, and piety difluades ? Shall 
' the Americans perfift in a conduct, which 

* cannot be juflified; or perfevere in oppre£» 
8 lion from which their hearts mud recoil? 
' If the barbarous Africans {hall continue to 

* enflave each other, let the daemon flavery 
c remain among them, that their crime may 

* include its own punimment. Let not 
' Chriftians, by adminiftering to their wick- 

* ednefs, confefs their religion to be a ufelefs 

* refinement, their profeffion vain, and them- 

* felves as inhuman as the favages they detefl,/ 

James Fojler, in his Difcourfes on Natural 
Religion and Social Virtue ', alfo fhews his juft 
indignation at this wicked practice, which he 
declares to be a criminal and outrageous viola- 
tion of the natural right of mankind. At 
page 156, 2d vol. he fays, ' Should we have 
' read concerning the Greeks or Romans of 
' old, that they traded, with view to make 

* flaves of their own fpecies, whom they 
c certainly knew that this would involve in 
' fchemes of blood and murder, of deftroy- 
s ing or enflaving each other, that they even 

C ' foment- 



t 34 ] 

fomented wars, and engaged whole nations 
and tribes in open hoftilities, for their own 
private advantage; that they had no detefta- 
tion of the violence and cruelty, but only 
feared the ill fuccefs of their inhuman en- 
terprifes; that they carried men like them- 
feives, their brethren, and the offspring of 
the fame common parent, to be fold like 
hearts of prey, or hearts of burden, and 
put them to the fame reproachful trial of 
their foundnefs, ftxength and capacity for 
greater bodily fervice; that quite forgetting 
and renouncing the original dignity of 
human nature, communicated to all, they 
treated them with more feverity and ruder 
difcipline, than even the ox or the afs, who 
are void of understanding. -— Should we not* 
if this had been the cafe, have naturally 
been led to defpife all their pretended refine- 
ments of morality; and to have concluded, 
that as they were not nations deftitute of 
politenefs, they muft have been entire 
Strangers to Virtue and Benevolence^ 

' But, notwithstanding this, we ourfelves 
(who profefs to be Cbri/lians, and boaft of 
the peculiar advantage we enjoy, by means 
of an exprefs revelation of our duty from 
Heaven) are in effect, thefe very untaught 
and rude Heathen countries. With all our 
fuperior light, we inftil into thofe, whom 
we call favage and barbarous, the mofl 

* defpicable 



I 35 ] 

defpicable opinion of human nature. We, 
to the utmoft of our power, weaken and 
diflblve the univerfal tie, that binds and 
unites mankind. We pradlife what we 
mould exclaim again ft, as the utmoft excefs 
of cruelty and tyranny, if nations of the 
world, differing in colour and form of 
government from ourfelves, were fo poffef- 
fed of empire, as to be able to reduce us to 
a ftate of unmerited and brutiiTi fervitude. 
Of confequence, we facrifice our reafon, our 
humanity, our Chrifianity, to an unnatural 
fordid gain. We teach other nations to 
defpife and trample under foot, all the obli- 
gations of focial virtue. We take the moil 
effectual method to prevent the propagation 
of the Gofpel, by reprefenting it as a fcheme 
of power and barbarous oppreffion, and an 
enemy to the natural privileges and rights 
of men. 

c Perhaps all that I have now offered, may 
be of very little weight to reftrain this enor- 
mity, this aggravated iniquity. However, 
I mail ftill have the fatisfaclion, of having 
entered my private proteft againft a practice 
which, in my opinion, bids that God, who 
is the God and Father of the Gentiles un- 
converted to Chriftianity, moft daring and 
bold defiance , and fpurns at all the principles ; 
both of natural and revealed Religion! 

C z How 



[ 36 1 

How the Britijh nation firft came to be 
concerned in a practice, by which the rights 
and liberties of mankind are fo violently in- 
fringed, and which is fo oppofite to the ap- 
prehenfions Englifhmen have always had of 
what natural juflice requires, is indeed fur- 
prifing. It was about the year 1563, in the 
reign of Queen Elizabeth, that the Englifh 
firft engaged in the Guinea Trade; when it 
appears, from an account in Hill's Naval 
Hiflory, page 293, That when Captain Haw- 
kins returned from his firft voyage to Africa, 
that generous fpirited Princefs, attentive to the 
intereft of her fubjects, fent for the Command- 
er, to whom fhe expreffed her concern left 
any of the African Negroes mould be carried 
off without their free confent, declaring it 
would be detefable, and call down the vengeance 
of Heaven upon the undertakers. Captain 
Hawkins promifed to comply with the 
Queen's injunction: neverthelefs, we find in 
the account, given in the fame Hiftory, of 
Hawkins's fecond voyage, the author ufing 
thefe remarkable words, Here began the horrid 
practice of forcing the Africans into Jlavery. 

Labat, a Roman Miffionary, in his account 
of the Ifles of America, at page 114, of the 
4th vol. mentions, that Lewis the 13th, 
Father to the prefent French King's Grand- 
father, was extremely uneafy at a Law by 
which all the Negroes of his Colonies were 

to 



f 37 ] 

to be made " flaves ; but it being flrongly 
urged to him, as the readieft means for 
their Converlion to Christianity , he acqui- 
efced therewith. 

And although we have not many accounts 
of the impreffions which this piratical inva- 
lion of the rights of mankind gave to ferious 
minded people, when firft engaged in; yet 
it did not efcape the notice of fome, who 
might be efteemed in a peculiar manner as 
watchmen in their day to the different focie- 
ties of Chriftians whereunto they belonged. 
Richard Baxter, an eminent preacher amongft 
the Nonconformijls, in the lafl century, well 
known and particularly efteemed by moft 
of the ferious Pre/byterians and Independents, 
in his Qhrijlian Directory, moftly wrote about 
an hundred Years ago, fully mews his detec- 
tion of this practice in the following words : 

* Do you not mark how God hath followed 

* you with plagues ? And may no$ confcience 
' tell you, that it is for your inhumanity to 

* the fouls and bodies of men? — To go as 
' pirates and catch up poor Negroes, or peo- 
' pie of another land, that never forfeited 

* Life or Liberty, and. to make them Slaves 

* and fell them, is one of the worfl kind of 

* Thievery in the world; and fuch perfons 

* are to be taken for the common Enemies 

* of mankind; and they that buy them, and 

* life them as beafts, for their meer com- 

C 3 * modity^ 



[ 38 ] 

* modity, and betray, or deftroy, or neglect 
' their fouls, are fitter to be called devils than 

* Chrijlians. It is an heinous fin to buy them, 

* unlefs it be in charity to deliver them.- 

f Undoubtedly they are prefently bound to 

* deliver them 3 becaufe by right the man is 
' his own; therefore no man elfe can have a 
' jufl title to him.' 

We alfo find George Fox, a man of exem- 
plary piety, who was the principal inftrument 
in gathering the religious fociety of people 
called Quakers, expreffing his concern and 
fellow-feeling for the bondage of the Negroes : 
In a difcourfe taken from his mouth, in 
Barbadoes, in the Year 1671, fays, ' Confi- 

* der with yourfelvcs, if you were in the fame 

* condition as the Blacks are, — who came 

* fixangers to you, and were fold to you as 

* Haves. I fay, if this mould be the condi- 

* tion of you or yours, you would think it 

* hard meafure: Yea, and very great bondage 

* and cruelty. And, therefore, confider fe- 

* rioufly of this, and do you for and to them, 

* as you would willingly have them, or any 

* other to do unto you, were you in the like 

* flavifh condition; and bring them to know 
9 the Lord Chrift.' And in his journal, page 
431, fpeaking of the Advice he gave his 
friends at Barbadoes, he fays, ' I defired alfo, 

* that they would caufe their Overfeers to deal 
€ mildly and gently with their Negroes, and 

6 not 



[ 39 ] 

£ not to ufe cruelty towards them, as the 

c manner of fome had been; and that after 

' certain years of fervitude they mould make 

* them free.' 

In a book printed in Leverpool, called The 
Leverpool Memorandum- book, which contains, 
among other things, an account of the Trade 
of that port, there is an exact lift of the 
verTels employed in the Guinea Trade, and 
of the number of Slaves imported in each 
veffel, by which it appears, that in the year 
1753, the number imported to America, by 
verTels belonging to that port, amounted to 
upwards of Thirty Thoufand; and from the 
number of VerTels employed by the African 
Company in London and Briftol, we may, 
with fome degree of certainty conclude, 
there is, at leaft, One Hundred Thoufand 
Negroes purchafed and brought on board our 
ihips yearly from the coaft of Africa, on 
their account. This is confirmed in Anderfons 
Hiftory of Trade and Commerce, printed in 
1764, where it is faid, at page 68 of the 
Appendix, 6 That Eng/and fupplies her Ame- 

* rican Colonies with Negro-Haves, amount- 
' ing in number to above One Hundred 

* Thoufand every year.' When the verTels 
are full freighted with Haves, they fet out for 
our plantations in America, and may be two 
or three months on the voyage, during 
which time, from the filth and flench that is 

C 4 among 



[ 40 ] 

among them, diftempers frequently break out, 
which carry off a great many, a fifth, a fourth, 
yea, fometimes a third of them ; fo that taking 
all the flaves together that are brought on 
board our fhips yearly, one may reafonably 
fuppofe, that at leaft ten thoufand of them die 
on the voyage. And in a printed account of 
the State of the Negroes in our plantations, it 
is fuppofed that a fourth part, more or lefs, 
die at the different Illands, in what is called 
the feafoning. Hence it may be prefumed, 
that, at a moderate computation of the flaves, 
who are purchafed by our African merchants 
in a year, near thirty thoufand die upon the 
voyage and in the feafoning. Add to this, the 
prodigious number who are killed in the 
incurfions and inteftine wars, by which the 
Negroes procure the number of flaves wanted 
to load the veffels. How dreadful then is this 
Slave-Trade, whereby fo many thoufands of 
our fellow-creatures, free by nature, endued 
with the fame rational faculties, and called to 
be heirs of the fame falvation with us, lofe 
their lives, and are truly, and properly fpeak- 
ing, murdered every year! For it is not 
neceffary, in order to convict a man of 
murder, to make it appear, that he had an 
intention to commit murder. Whoever does,, 
by unjufl force or violence, deprive another 
of his Liberty 3 and, while he has him in his 
power, reduces him, by cruel treatment, to 
fuch a condition as evidently endangers his 

life a 



[ 41 1 

life, and the event occafions his death, is 
a&ually guilty of murder. It is no lefs mock- 
ing to read the accounts given by Sir Hans 
Sloane, and others, of the inhuman and un- 
merciful treatment thofe Blacks meet with, 
who furvive the feafoning in the Iflands, often 
for tranfgrefiions, to which the punifhment 
they receive bears no proportion. ' And the 
' horrid executions, which are frequently 
' made there upon difcovery of the plots laid 

* by the Blacks, for the recovery of their 
' liberty; of fome they break the bones, 

* whilft alive, on a wheel; others they burn 

* or rather roaft to death; others they ftarve 

* to death, with a loaf hanging before their 

* mouths/ Thus they are brought to expire, 
with frightful agonies, in the moil, horrid 
tortures. For negligence only they are un- 
mercifully whipped, till their backs are raw, 
and then pepper and fait is fcattered on the 
wounds to heighten the pain, and prevent 
mortification. Is it not a caufe of much for- 
row and lamentation, that fo many poor crea- 
tures mould be thus racked with excrucia- 
ting tortures, for crimes which often their 
tormentors have occasioned? Muft not even 
the common feelings of human nature have 
fuffered fome grievous change in thofe men, 
to be capable of fuch horrid cruelty towards 
their fellow-men ? If they deferve death, 
pught not their judges, in the death decreed 

them, 



r 42 j 

tliem, always to remember that thefe their 
haplefs fellow-creatures are men, and them- 
felves proferling Chriftians? The Mofaic law 
teaches us our duty in thefe cafes, in the 
merciful provifion it made in the punifliment 
of tranfgrerfors, D enter, xxv. 2. And it 
fiall be, if the wicked man be worthy to be 
beaten, that the judge fiall caufe him to lie 
down, and to be beaten before his face, accord- 
ing to his fault, by a certain number; Forty 
Jiripes he may give him, and not exceed. And 
the reafon rendered is out of refpect to 
human nature, viz. Left if he fhould exceed, 
and beat him above thefe, with many Jiripes, 
then thy Brother fhould feem vile unto thee. 
Britons boafl themfelves to be a generous, 
humane people, who have a true fenfe of 
the importance of Liberty; but is this a true 
character, whiiit that barbarous, favage Slave- 
Trade, with all its attendant horrors, receives 
countenance and protection from the Legifla- 
ture, whereby fo many Thoufand lives are 
yearly facrificed? Do we indeed believe the 
truths declared in the Gofpel ? Are we per- 
fuaded that the threatenings, as well as the 
promifes therein contained, will have their 
accomplimment? If indeed we do, muft we 
not tremble to think what a load of guilt lies 
upon our Nation generally, and individually 
fo far as we in any degree abet or countenance 
this aggravated iniquity? 

We 



t 43 ] 

We have a memorable Inftance in hiftory, 
which may be fruitful of Innxuction, if 
timely and properly applied; it is a quota- 
tion made by Sir John Temple, in his hiftory 
of the Irifi rebellion, being an obfervation 
out of Giraldus Cambrenjis, a noted author, 
who lived about fix hundred years ago, con- 
cerning the caufes of the profperity of the 
Englijh undertakings in Ireland, when they 
conquered that Ifland, he faith, ' That a fy- 
' nod, or council of the Clergy, being then 
' afiembled at Armagh, and that point fully 
4 debated, it was unanimoufly agreed, that 
' the iins of the people were the occafion of 
' that heavy judgment then falling upon 

* their nation; and that efpecially their buy- 

* ing of E?7glijhmen from merchants and 
c pirates, and detaining them under a mod: 

* miferable hard bondage, had caufed the 
e Lord, by way of jufl retaliation, to leave 

* them to be reduced, by the Englijh, to the 
6 fame ilate of 11a very. Whereupon they 
' made apublick act in that council, that all 
f the EngliJJj,- held in captivity throughout 
' the whole land, mould be prefently re- 

* ftored to their former Liberty.' 

I mall now conclude with an extract from 
an addrefs of a late author to the merchants, 
and others, who are concerned in carrying on 
the Guinea Trade; which alfo, in a great 

meaiure,, 



r 44 ] 

meafure, is applicable to others, who, for 
the love of gain, are in any way concerned 
in promoting or maintaining the captivity of 
the Negroes, 

* As the bufinefs, you are publickly carry- 
4 ing on before the world, has a bad afpeci, 
f and you are feniible moil men make objec-? 
' tion againfr, it, you ought to juftify it tq 
' the world, upon principles of reafon, 
' equity, and humanity ; to make it appear, 

* that it is no unjuft invalion of the perfons, 
' or encroachments on the rights of men; or 

* for ever to lay it afide. — But laying afide 
i the refentment of men, which is but of 
4 little or no moment, in comparifon with 

* that of the Almighty, think of a future 

* reckoning : confider how you mail come 

* off in the great and awful Day of account. 

* You now heap up riches and live in plea- 

* fure^ but, oh! what will you do in the end 

* thereof? and that is not far off: what, if 

* death fhould feize upon you, and hurry you 

* out of this world, under all that load of 

* blood-guiltinefs that now lies upon your 

* fouls? The gofpel exprefly declares, that 
' thieves and murderers mall not inherit the 
f kingdom of God. Coniider, that at the 
' fame time, and by the fame means, you 
% now treafure up worldly riches, you are 

* treafuring up to yourfelves wrath, againft 

■ the 



[ 4S ] 

e the day of wrath, and vengeance that (hall 

* come upon the workers of iniquity, unlefs 
' prevented by a timely repentance. 

' And what greater iniquity, what crime 

* that is more heinous, that carries in it more 
complicated guilt, can you name than that, 
in the habitual, deliberate practice of which 
you now live ? How can you lift up your 
guilty eyes to heaven ? How can you pray 
for mercy to him that made you, or hope 
for any favour from him that formed you, 
while you go on thus grofly and openly to 
dishonour him, in debafing and deftroying 
the noblefh workmanfhip of his hands in 
this lower world? He is the Father of men % 
and do you think he will not refent fuch 
treatment of his offspring, whom he hath 
fo loved, as to give his only begotten Son, 
that whofoever believeth in him, might not 
perifh, but have everlafling life? This love 
of God to man, revealed in the gofpel, is a 
great aggravation of your guilt $ for if God 
fo loved us, we ought alfo to love one ano- 
ther. Vou remember the fate of the Servant, 
who took hold of his fellow-fervant, who 
was in his debt, by the throat, and cafl him 
into prifon: Think then, and tremble to 
think, what will be your fate, who take 
your fellow-fervants by the throat, that 
owe you not a penny, and make them 
prifoners for life. 

* Give 



' Give yourfelves leave to reflect impaN- 

* tially upon, and confider the nature of, 

* this Man-Trade, which, if you do, your 
' hearts muft needs relent, if you have not 

* loft all fenfe of humanity, all pity and 
' companion towards thofe of your own 

* kind, to think what calamities, what ha- 
f vock and destruction among them, you 
f have been the authors of for filthy lucre's 
' fake. God grant you may be fenfible of 
•^your guilt, and repent in time!' 



FINIS. 



BOOKS Printed and Sold by J. Phillips, 
George- Yard, Lombard-Street. 

ESSAYon theTREATMENT and Conver- 
sion of AFRICAN SLAVES in the British 
Sugar Colonies. By J. Ramsay, Vicar of 
Teflon in Kent, who refided many Years in 
the Weft-Indies. In One Volume, Octavo. 
Price 5s. bound, or 4s in Boards. 

Historical Account of GUINEA, 
its Situation, Produce, and the general Dif- 
pofition of its Inhabitants. With an Inquiry 
into the Rise and Progress of the 
SLAVE TRADE, its Nature and lamenta- 
ble Effects. Alio a Republication of the 
Sentiments of feveral Authors of Note on this 
interefting Subject: Particularly an Extract of 
a Treatife written by Granville Sharpe. 
By Anthony Benezet. In One Volume 
Octavo. Price 2s. 6d. ftitched. 

THOUGHTS on the Slavery of the 
NEGROES. Price 4 d. 



«*f 



t. 



