Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/mralexanderbarinOOashb 



MR. ALEXANDER BARING S' 
SPEECH 

IN THE 

HOUSE OF COMMONS, 

ON 

THE 15th DAY OF MAY, 1823. 



MR, ALEXANDER BARING'S 
SPEECH 

IN THE 

HOUSE OF COMMONS, 

ON 

THE 15th DAY OF MAY, 182S, 

ON 

MR. BUXTON'S MOTION 

FOR A 

RESOLUTION DECLARATORY OF SLAVERY 

IN THE 

iMtisf) &olont*0 

BEING CONTRARY TO THE ENGLISH CONSTITUTION 

AND TO 

CHRISTIANITY. 



IOKBON : 

J. S. BRICKWOOD, PRINTER, 47, THREADNEEDLE-STREET. 
1323. 



THE 



SPEECH 



OF 



ALEXANDER BARING, Esq. 



HOUSE OF COMMONS, 

On Mr. Buxton's Motion for a resolution de- 
claratory of Slavery in the British Colonies 
being contrary to the English Constitution 
and to Christianity. 

Having been alluded to by the Honourable 
Mover, Mr. Baring rose to deliver his senti- 
ments on the very important subject before the 
House, which must be touched with the utmost 
delicacy, though he thought it necessary that 
something should be done. If there were 



facts of that extreme atrocity, which had been 
set forth, every risk must be encountered to 
get the better of the system which had pro- 
duced them ; and no time should be lost in 
setting about the work. But he considered 
the statements of the condition of the negroes, 
and the hardships to which they were exposed, 
made by the supporters of the Motion, as very 
much exaggerated ; and the House should be 
cautious how it reposed its confidence on 
those whose thoughts, for many years past, 
had been continually brooding on this subject, 
but who knew nothing of the matter from ex- 
perience, and had probably received a bias of 
mind incompatible with a sound and prudent 
decision. He preferred to confide in the tes- 
timony of the Governors of the Colonies, 
which had been read by the Member for 
Sandwich. [Mr. Marryatt.] He trusted to 
the accounts of gentlemen of education and 
merit, who had no interest in the Colonies ; 
and who had been directed by the Govern- 
ment, of which they were the servants, to 



give them a faithful account of the slave po- 
pulation. It was very improbable, that those 
high officers should mislead the Government. 
It was much more likely, that the supporters of 
the Motion should themselves be deceived, as to 
the general condition of the slaves in the West 
Indies, by those in whose narratives they had 
confided, and who may have drawn the pic- 
tures they have presented, as portraits of the 
whole, from individual likenesses, or solitary 
instances of oppression, after having exagge- 
rated them ; and thus have converted the dis- 
torted exceptions into the rule. He had no 
property in the West Indies, but he had been 
himself through the southern states of America, 
and had therefore witnessed the situation of 
negro slavery. From his personal observation 
in that country, and all the information he 
had been able to collect from the West In- 
dies, if he were considering the condition of 
the different classes of mankind, and the 
degrees in which they were deserving of the 
consideration of the Philanthropist and of 

b 2 



the Christian, the fate of the West Indian 
slave is far from being that which would first 
arrest his attention, or which he should con- 
sider as burthened with the greatest portion 
of those hardships, which are more or less the 
lot of all conditions of life. The name of 
slave is a harsh one ; but their real condition is 
undoubtedly, in many respects, superior to that 
of most of the peasantry of Europe. They 
were well clothed and well fed, and, he be- 
lieved, generally treated with justice and 
kindness. Their moral state is, probably, that 
which most loudly calls out for consideration 
and amendment. He hoped that, in this 
respect, considerable improvement would take 
place ; nor could he see what danger or 
injury could arise to the planters from a well- 
digested and prudently-executed plan of reli- 
gious instruction, by which alone the negro 
could be raised in the scale of human 
beings. Should, however, Parliament .de- 
cide, that any more material alteration 
should be effected in the condition of the 



blacks, the masters are undeniably entitled to 
compensation for any losses which such a 
new course of policy might bring upon them. 
We should otherwise be committing the gross- 
est injustice, under professions of justice and 
humanity. He teamed the country, that if 
the Negroes in the West Indies were liberated, 
either immediately or remotely, or in any ivay 
whatever, those colonies would be of no farther 
value to Great Britain. It would not be worth 
our while to keep up governments and garri- 
sons among them. It was ridiculous to sup- 
pose that a free black population in those is- 
lands, sufficiently enlightened to know the value 
of their rights, and to be able to appreciate their 
strength, would long continue to serve the in- 
terests of proprietors residing in England, or 
that England would long preserve any interest 
whatever in those colonies. He thought the 
plan of the Honourable Mover of the Resolu- 
tion for emancipating the children, born after 
a certain day, would be attended with very 
great difficulty, as well as much injustice.' It 



would convert a real property into an interest 
for life, and what planter would calculate his 
own interest so badly, as to rear up, at consider- 
able cost, those children, who would l)e taken 
from him as soon as their labour would be valu- 
able? Besides, at the time the slave trade was 
abolished, the promoters of that measure relied, 
with great reason, upon its good effects being 
felt, in obliging the planters to lake care of 
the children of their slaves, and of the mothers 
during and after their pregnancy. Deprived 
of the means of purchasing other slaves, it 
was said, that it would be highly their inter- 
est to do so; but now, according to the no- 
tions of the supporters of the Resolution, this 
principle was to be abandoned, and another, 
directly the reverse, substituted for it, which 
would make it the interest of the planters to 
neglect the children, in whom they would 
cease to have any interest. Such inconsistency 
was a proof that the abolitionists had not cal- 
culated their plans correctly, and therefore gave 
the House no encouragement to follow them 



9 

with any confidence. He could not agree 
with those who thought there was no danger 
of the slaves mistaking the nature of such dis- 
cussions in Parliament. It had been said by 
an Honourable and Learned Gentleman (Mr. 
Brougham) that the insurrection of the slaves 
in Barbados, which had occurred a few years 
ago, was not owing to their having mistaken 
the object of the registry, a measure at that 
time about to be established. He called upon 
that Honourable and Learned Gentleman for 
the authority on which he made that assertion 
[no answer'}. He (Mr. Baring), on the autho- 
rity of the governor of the island, Sir James 
Leith, maintained, that it was in consequence 
of the intervention of Parliament at that time 
being mistaken by the slaves; and from that 
instance of mischief having ensued, he argued, 
that further evil may be expected from the repe^ 
tition of the same causes. Indeed it was im- 
possible but that the arguments in their favour 
should cause great excitement in the minds of 
the slaves. If Parliament were to deliberate 



10 

whether the property of the rich in this coun- 
try should not be divided among the poor — if 
the poor were told that it was hard for them 
to live upon bread and water, while the rich 
feasted upon venison and champaign, (aiid, on 
the principles of Christianity, good arguments 
on such a topic could not be wanting,) it 
would be exhibiting an entire ignorance of 
human nature to suppose that such discussions 
could be entertained without imminent danger, 
even in the presence of a population more en- 
lightened and more accustomed to the occa- 
sional extravagances of free discussion than 
the negroes of the West Indies. The Honour- 
able Mover of the Resolution had given cases of 
negro slavery which had been put an end to 
without any convulsion or ill consequences having 
followed. Those who spoke of these instances 
could hardly express themselves in terms of 
sufficient delight. They were full of the beauty 
of the scene, in observing how gradually the 
whole mass of slavery melted and sunk away, 
without disorder of any kind, or any measures 



11 

on the part of the Legislature being needed, 
to prevent the danger and mischief usually 
anticipated. But he begged leave to say, 
that the instances mentioned are cases so little 
in point, that it would require much candour 
to suppose they could be selected, with good 
faith, by those who brought them forward. 
In New York, the white population was about 
a million. Its slaves, at the time of their 
liberation, did not exceed five thousand. It 
was impossible that the whites could fear any 
thing from the emancipation of the few slaves 
that were among them. It was the same in 
New Jersey, another instance which had been 
adduced. There the white population was 
very numerous, and the number of the slaves 
did not exceed ten thousand. In Pennsylvania 
the whites were nearly as numerous as in New 
York, but the slave population, owing to the 
exertions of the Quakers, has at all times been 
inconsiderable. The case of Columbia was, 
perhaps, a little more in point. Yet accord- 
ing to the statement of the Honourable Mover, 



12 

the free population was more than double that 
of the slaves, and the fate of that country can 
hardly be considered as yet sufficiently settled, 
to draw any sober conclusions from what is 
passing there. In Ceylon, another of his 
examples> the slaves were in a state of vassal- 
age, more like the condition of the ancient 
peasantry of England, und all classes con- 
sisted of men who derived their origin from 
the same source, viz. the Malabar race. That 
country was under a strong military govern- 
ment. Its tranquillity did not rest on the 
opinion of the freeman or the slave, and, there- 
fore, neither in this nor in the other instances 
brought forward, is there that resemblance 
with the situation of our West India colonies, 
where the slaves out-number the whites, in the 
proportion of at least 10 to 1, to constitute 
any thing like a perfect analogy. We are not, 
therefore, justified in believing, that slavery in 
our West India colonies would melt into free- 
dom, without convulsion, or that the agitation 
of questions of this nature is unattended with 



13 

imminent peril. We ought always to remem- 
ber, that the West India Planters are our 
brethren, the descendants of the same ances- 
tors, equally with ourselves entitled to the 
protection of the laws, and to the parental 
affection and care of the state. With every 
respect for the motives of the numerous Peti- 
tioners on this subject, he must confess, that 
he had witnessed too much the tricks and 
calumnies by which these representations were 
collected, to ascribe much weight to them ; 
and he conjured the Right Honourable Gen- 
tleman, as a Minister of the Crown, not to be 
led away by petitions so got up. They were 
signed by persons, few of whom had any 
means of information, and mostly by those 
who were in the habit of annually quieting an 
over-timid conscience by a subscription to 
missions and to some petition about slavery, 
of the nature of which they knew nothing, but 
from the distorted exaggerations of enthusiasts. 
When it was considered that these petitions 
were, as is well known, brought in such loads 



to the table of the House, in consequence of a 
plan organized by a few persons in the metro- 
polis, Gentlemen would ascribe to them only 
the weight they deserved- The operation of 
this species of organized delusion has been 
tried on several subjects in this House. It is 
now to be tried for the destruction of the 
West Indian Proprietors. However absurd the 
principles sought to be promoted may be, it is 
well known how difficult it is to resist, when 
in this country popular opinion is once raised. 
The Court, the Ministry must give way to the 
fashionable humbug of the day, and even the 
conclaves of Sovereigns, united at Vienna or 
Verona, must promulgate something about negro 
slavery, The Plenipotentiaries of England re- 
gularly suffer themselves to be sneered at for 
their hypocrisy in these great meetings, but 
they never fail to return home with a bundle of 
papers to lay before the House, to prove the 
great interest which the Emperors of Austria 
and Russia take in the fate of Africa. In this 
instance, state papers, full of humanity and 



15 

Christian feelings, are cheaply bestowed ; but 
if these great Sovereigns were very serious, 
one would suppose they could hardly want 
matter in their own countries, where slavery 
prevails in full force, to try the experiments 
they so authoritatively recommend. He could 
not but feel surprise, that the Honourable Mover 
of the Resolution had made so light of vested 
interests, charters of our Sovereigns, and Acts 
of the Parliament of the country, in this case, 
when, on a former occasion, he appeared to 
be so stout a champion for the sacred obser- 
vance of these titles to property. He recol- 
lected, when it was proposed by his Majesty's 
Government to give the people of this country 
a cheap and wholesome beer, which they might 
use at home, without the necessity of going 
to the ale-house, a measure which he (Mr. 
Baring) considered to be one of wisdom and 
humanity, because nothing could tend more 
to increase the comforts of the families of the 
poor, that Honourable Gentleman opposed it 
with all his might, and was as loud in plead- 



16 

ing for the maintenance of vested rights in 
one class of the community against all others, 
as any Member of the House. There was, 
perhaps, no alteration in our laws, which 
would more especially contribute to the well 
being of the labouring classes of this country, 
than emancipating them from that monopoly 
which put them at the mercy of a powerful 
combination, both for the price and quality of 
their principal beverage. The Honourable 
Gentleman was, in this instance, a most resolute 
stickler for vested interests, and even for 
rights, which few considered to be so evident 
as himself. He (Mr. Baring) was surprised, 
therefore, to observe the Honourable Member 
for Weymouth had said so little of the just 
claims of the Planters for the losses they might 
sustain from the experiments he recommends. 
[Mr. Buxton said he admitted their right to 
compensation.] If any man's property in this 
country be taken away from him for a general 
purpose, the laws awarded him compensation 
for it, and he must always enter his protest 



17 

against all violations of this wholesome and just 
rule : whether the West Indians are to be de- 
spoiled, or ourselves ; or whether the object, of 
which the owner is to be bereft, be slaves, or 
other property. He concluded, by wishing well 
to the endeavours of his Majesty's Ministers, in 
the execution of the delicate and difficult task 
which they had undertaken, trusting, as he did, 
that, looking at this question with a sincere 
desire of amelioration and practical improve- 
ment, they would also do so with the wisdom 
and caution of statesmen, who knew how to 
appreciate the great interests with which 
they had to treat. 



THE END. 



LONDON: 

PRINTED BY BRICKWOOD, 47, THREADNEEDLE-STREET. 



