
}m 



iBi 



■fh^^i^/V^'^^J^^^ 




Digitized by tlie Internet Archive 

in 2010 witli funding from 

Associates of tlie Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/lettersonslaveryOOdick 



LETTERS 



O !f 



S L A V E R Y, &c. 



LETTERS 



O K 



SLAVERY, 



B T 



WILLIAM DICKSON, 

FORMERLY PRIVATE SECRETARY TO THE LATE 
HON. EDWARD HAY, GOVERNOR OF BARBADOES. 

TO WHICH ARE ADDEDj 

ADDRESSES to the Whites, and to the Free 
Negroes of BARBADOES ; and ACCOUNTS 
OF SOME Negroes eminent for their virtues 

AND abilities. 

** Behold and fee if there be any forrow like unto our forrow." 

Jerem. Lam, I. I2« 

*' Pollentl ftabilita manu (Deus almus eandem 

" Omnigenis animamj nil prohibente dedit) 
*' Ipfa colons egens virtus, prudentiaj honefto 
** Nullus ineft animo, nullus in arte color," 

F. Williams, a Negro Poet 
and Mathematician. 



LONDON: 

PRINTEDbAND S:CLP EV Ji PHIL y ji* J^ ^li EOVGl',- f / RD, LOMBARB- 

stre>;t, 'Ai^K ?;OLD e'y ^j. jonr'Sf,yy.sTJ 'p/itTL^s church- 

TARD, AND ELLIOT AND KAY, OPPOSITE SOMERSET 
PLACEy JTRANd'.— -JU.3CC.LXXXIX. 







y^Mt 



yrf'^f$4^H ■"-^-%SM^ 



' //%.. fy,4/ 



( iii ) 



INTRODUCTION. 



MY original defign, was to lay before the Public a 
free and impartial fketch of negro flavery as it now 
cxifts in the ifland of Barbadoes ; to fliow how it would 
be affedted by the abolition of the flave-trade ; and to 
prove by arguments, founded on faSis-, the natural equa- 
lity of the natives of the immenfe continent of Africa to 
the reft of mankind. — I am confcious, I have not wil- 
fully misftated or exaggerated any one circumftance ; 
and I have written with the caution of a man who ex- 
pedls to meet with the moft pertinacious contradiction. 

To give as agreeable an air, as I could, to a fubje£t 

in itfelf dull and difgufting, I have preferred the loofer 
form of letters to the formality of a regular treatife.— , 
The Iketch I have given of the ftate of flavery in Ja^ 
maica was no part of my plan, but was drawn after that 
plan was compleated. 7 his I hope will apologize for 
fome repetitions in the latter part of my book. 

The name and authority of an author have perhaps 
greater weight with fome readers than his arguments. 
Such perfons regard a proportion as true, not fo much 
becaufe a celebrated man has demonftrated it as becaufe 
he has affirmed it. Thofe undoubtedly are bad argu- 
ments which require foreign aid ; but knowing that, on 
account of the obfcurity of an author, even good argu- 
ments do not always operate with their whole intrinfic 
force, I have had frequent recourfe to works of acknow- 
ledged merit, quotations from which, I am fenfible, form 
the beft part of my book. — Yet, as a citizen of the 
free republic of letters, I referve, in the fu!left extent, the 
right of private judgment, which will not furely be de- 
nied me while endeavouring to vindicate rights yet mors 

a valuable 



( i<' } 

valuable for an injured race of men. Of this right I am 
the more tenacious, as it is well known that feme, other- 
wife great and benevolent, philofophers, in their attempts 
ta gain certain ends, have gravely reafoned on phcencS- 
mena which never were afcertained or which never exift- 
ed, and have perplexed the world with fyftems ufelefs and 
incongruous in themfelves, contradi6tory to one another, 
derogatory to the glory of the Creator, and in their con- 
fequences, fubverfive of the deareft interefts of mankind. 
By the authority of thofe writers, or indeed of any defcrip- 
tion of writers, I do not think myfelf bound to be go- 
verned, except in fo far as they appear to me to have been 
governed by unbiafled reafon and philofophy. But, fcep- 
ticifm apart, which has mifled them into theories incon- 
fiftent with the fober parts of their ^'orks, the writers 
alluded to, like all the other great writers of Europe, 
univerfaDy favour the caufe which I think it my duty, as 
far as I am able, to fupport. 

Of the quick fucceflion of praife and blame the reader 
of thefe fheets will obferve fev^eral inftances which, if 
juftice be done to the writer, will not be attributed to 
him but to his fubje£l. In treating fuch a fubjeft, hnpar- 
tiality will affume fometimes the fmile of Panegyric, and 
fometimes the frown of Satire. To me it feems imprac- 
ticable to treat impartially of the fevere ufage of human 
creatures in language which fliall not appear more or lefs 
fevere : and altogether impoffible faithfully to defcribc 
fiiocking abufes, in a way that fhall be perfedlly agree- 
able to thofe who may be inclined to palliate or conceal 
them. 

On the other hand, I have laboured to guard the reader 
againft an impreffion which, it muft be owned, all faith- 
ful reprefentations of the Weft Indian flavery are but too 
apt to make on inattentive minds, I fcruple not to re- 
probate flavery, both in its confummately abfurd princi- 
ple,* and in its too general pradtice ; but God forbid my 
book fhould lead to the fuppofition, that there are not 

* That any man, whatfoever, Is competent to hold, In the per- 
fon of another man the fame abfolute property whicii he holds in 
a horfe, a dog, or even in any inanimate piece oi goods. See Black- 
8 tone's Comm. b. i. ch» 14. and Monteeq.uieu'3 Sp. of Laws, b. 15. 

perfons 



( V ) 

perfons of worth and humanity in the Weft Indies. Bar- 
badoes, in particular, is adorned with many fuch charac- 
ters ; and has even produced eminent advocates for the 
Africans. Not to mention private letters and an able 
anonymous writer, who figns himfelf A Wejl Indian^ I 
have underftood that a Mr. Alleyne (a name juftly dif- 
tinguiftied in Barbadoes for humanity and good fenfe) did 
himfelf and that, his native, ifland much credit by exert- 
ing his eloquence and learning in behalf of the negro 
Somerfet. To the honour of that ifland too, I ought to 
mention that it gave birth to that able and refpe6lable 
advocate for humanity Dean Nickolls, and to a cer- 
tain other clergyman, of great worth and learning, who 
hath favoured the fame caufe with an extra6l from his 
private journal which I have fubjoined in the appendix. 
The reader will determine whether the chara6lers of 
Joseph Rachell and Johm do moft honour to Barba- 
does where they pra6tifed their virtues, to the infuked and 
injured ^EGKO'Es^ or to human nature. 

But the character of the whites (and I will add of the 
blacks) in Barbadoes, depends not on that of a few indi- 
viduals, however diftinguifhed for virtue and talents. 
Every period ol' it's annals (I have reafons for wifliing the 
fa6t to be particularly noticed) hath been marked with 
loyalty and an attachment to England which, I humbly 
think, ought to recommend that ancient colony to the fpe- 
cial attention of Government. About the clofe of the laft 
century, a fnigle eftate in Barbadoes equipped a company 
of foldiers to be fent againft Guadaloupe. in the war 
before the laft, that colony raifed both men and money to 
aflift in the reduction of the French iflands : and their 
condu6l, on a fnnilar occafion, during the late war, 
ought to be remembered to their praife.* Yet every 
real friend of the colony laments, with me, the negle<3: 
of a militia, which, in proportion to the fize of the ifland, 
might eafily be rendered the moft refpedlable in the Weft 

* On very mature recolIe£tIon the author cannot be altogether 
certain whether the provifions mentioned p. 95, were adlually flip- 
ped or not for St. Lucia ; for he then lived in the country ; and 
the alacrity of all ranks to provide live flock and corn for fo 
patriotic a purpofe would make the fame imprefiion on the author whe- 
ther the fupplies were or were not accepted. It is fufficient fo; th,e ho- 
Bgur of the il]an4 that they were provided, votsd and offered. 

a 3 Indies^ 



C vi ) 

Indies, and which, could all the negroes be prudently re- , 
lied on, would be irrefiftible. 

I have reprefented the flavery of Jamaica exactly as I 
found it in their own paper?, which, independently of 
any thing I have written, demonftrate the horrid abufes 
pracSlifed in that ifland. But far be it from me to favour 
a fuppofition that there are not characters in that ifland, 
both public and private, who deferve well of mankind. 
Jamaica, it appears, may juftly boaft of a Gray, an 
Edwards, and no doubt of other diftinguifhed advo- 
cates for humanity. On thofe gentlemen in particular, 
and on the legiflature of Jamaica in general, the late una- 
nimity of that numerous and refpeftable body, in endea- 
vouring to meliorate the condition of the flaves, refle<5i:s 
much honour. Nor is this the only inftance of their con- 
duct which merits praife. * For the purchafe of v^^ine,' 
fays Doctor Hunter, 'ample provifion was made by 

* the ifland ; and it ought to be mentioned that the ge- 
< NERAL Assembly of Jamaica, both in this and in 
' every thing elfe, appertaining to the accommodation of 

* the troops, fhewed, at all times, a moil laudable difpo- 

* fition to make the greatefl exertions.'* — The fpirit 
good fenfe and humanity of the printersf of the Jamaica 
newfpapers oui;ht not to be forgotten ; for they have 
fliown themfelvesfuperior alike to the taunts of the 'pro- 

* fligate' and the malevolence of the ' unmerciful ;'J dif- 
couragements which all good men mufl: expert to meet 
with in the difcharge of their duty. Were I to give a fimi- 
3ar account of the Barbadoes printers and their worthy 
correfpondents, it would be faid I courted their applaufe. 
Let the humane enquirer into this fubjeCt compare the 
Barbadoes Gazette and Mercury with the other Weft 
Indian prints, and judge for himfelf. 

To a certain other fugar colony, the excellent t^2iySy 
of which the following is an extract, would have done 
more credit, had not The Council of that colony fent for 

* Obf. on tlie Difeafes of the Army in Jam. printed 1788 — p. 324. 

•j- 1 am forry to except the printer of the Sav. la Mar. Gaz. fee p. 1 10. 

■J See p. 141.— The primers of the Jam. Gaz. have inferted the D. of 
MiDDL E ham's valuable letter^ at full length, in their paper of March 
S. 1782!, 

the 



( vii ) 

the printer and commanded him not to prefume to infert 
any more fuch improper fluff in his paper— an interfer- 
ence which the Council of Barbadoes would have defpifed. 
The worthy and refpeiSlable author has dared, in the midft 
of enemies, to own the obnoxious efl'ays ; and I think it 
not improbable that they may come regularly before the 
public. ' We next behold,' fays he, ' our African con- 
ducted to the eftate of the proprietor, where, for a fhort 
time, his wants are well fupplied ; and he is treated 
with fome attention and indulgence. Happy would it 
be for him, and much to his owner's true iniere/i^ if 
this indulgence were founded on the pure motives of 
juftice and humanity ; and if it were part of a fyftem 
of rewards and punifhmenLs to govern him in propor- 
tion to his deferts. But forry we are to difcover, that- 
it is an indulgence merely to beguile him into the prefeiva- 
tion of his exi fiance — to train him on to that labour of 
which he muft foon take an ec^ual lliare with the reft ; 
and, when he is thus broken to the yoke, is to ceafe. 
It is indeed an indulgence cruel in its confequences and 
abfurd in its operation ; for inftead of being continued 
and increafed, in proportion to fervice and good con- 
duct, it is cuftomary to withdraw it at the time he be- 
comes ufefui — to leave him, in the vulgar phrafe ' to 
fhift for himfelf,' — to confign him over to a fyftem, the 
only charafteriftic features of which are coercion and 
punifhment. Here then looking up in vain for that 
notice and favour v/hich he may be inclined to deferve, 
and expecting nothing more for his beft exertions than 
the negative advantage of an exemption from corre6tion, 
he enters upon the train of his miferies and his toils. 
He is often fpoken to reproachfully* — always with in- 
difference, his little wants and his interePcs are too f e- 
quently paffed over with contemptuous negleui: ; nay 
fometimes his fupplications for forae trifling boon ex- 

* ' Ciirfes (if I may ufe a vulgar expreffion, -which for aught I know 
jnay not be peculiar to the Wefl Indies) Curfes do not make holes in the 
• ikin," though, in ferns cafes, they are peculiarly brutal, not to fay 
hurtful [itz p. 12.), I have therefore taken but little notice of the a- 
bufive language of drivers, &:c. &c. to flaveg. To me, when I firft ar- 
rived in the Welt Indies, the indecent language, oaths and imprecations 
I too often heard, not to mention other things which were ivboUy r.eiu 
to me, were, to the laft degree, fhocking and intolerable j but cuftom 
diminilLes the force of fuch imprcffuns. 

pofe 



( viii ) o 

« pofe him- tor aljufe' and punifhment. No kind no footh- 
' ing woi'd-s, that precious balm which benevolence pours 

* into the wounds of fufFering and of forrow, are ever 
' applied to him ; but unbeloved and unbefriended — the 

* butt of ill humour and of paflion — the fpe6lacle of over- 
' weening authority to look down upon and defpife — he 

* continues to beat the fame toilfome and wearifome 

* round, till death iffues that fummons, which he is not 

* unwilling to obey, and with the happy fuperftition of 
' his untutored mind, he anticipates his return to that 
' ftate' 

" Whtie JIaves once more their native land behold,'* 
No FIENDS torment^no christians thirjl for gold J^, 

The narrow limits of my work oblige me to omit fome 
collateral matter I had coIle6led, including an account of 
the ftate of fociety in Africa, extracted from the beft 
modern authors, and particularly from a work publifhed 
by authority, at Paris, 1776, intitled ' Hiftoire de Lo- 

* ango, &c. ' The Hiftory of Loango, Kakongo and 
' other kingdoms in Africa, he. dedicated to Monsieur' 
{the king's brother) ' by the Abbe Proyart.' This re- 
fpe6lable work, indeed, deferves a better reception in this 
country, than to be publifned in mutilated fragments ; 
for I will venture to fay, that a good tranflation of it 
would compleatly overthrow the orang outang fyftem, 
and effeilually quafh that filly fcepticifm, refpe6ling the 
moral and intelleclual faculties of the Africans, which, of 
late, hath wofully perplexed certain men of fcrupulous 
confciences, who in fuch cafes can have no refl: till they 
publifh their doubts, for the benefit of mankind. — Among 
other inftances which the prefent controverfy affords of 
the ftrong fupport a caufe may receive from the concef- 
fions of adverfaries, I mention with pleafure Lieutenant 
Matthews's voyage to Sierra Leone. This author is a- 
gainft the abolition of the flave trade ; but his account 
of the country and the inhabitants appears to be juft and 
candidj and it does fo much credit both to the heads and 
to the hearts of the Africans that I cannot but recom- 
mend it to the attention of my readers ; efpecially as the 
book contains not a fmgle argument for the toleration of 

* Pope. 

the 



C i^ ) 

the flave trade which can work conviction in minds ac- 
cuftomed to reafoning of any fort. AH fuch arguments 
vanilh before thofe of Mr. Clarkfonf like ghofts before 
the rifmg fun. 

I believe moft confcientious inquirers into this fubjeft 
are convinced that evils of the very worji kind attend the 
flave trade and the Weft Indian flavery* Such perfons 
will not wonder at fome warm language which has drop- 
ped from my pen. But the convi6lion of enlarged minds 
is not the convi6lion of the crowd who are feldom ftrongly 
affected with remote objects. Hence, perhaps, a cool- 
nefs, refpe6ling the JIave -trade ^ in fome who are profefled 
friends to its abolition : nor, can it be expefted that the 
whips and chains and tortures o^ JIavery will operate with 
their full force on men who have never witnefled their 
deplorable effedls. For my own part, I am convinced, 
particularly by the Jamaica papers, that the irrefifirible 
eloquence of a Chatham, the emphatic language of a 
Shakefpeare — nay the divine fervour of an Ifaiah could 
not have done more than juftice to this fubjeil* 

Still I (hall not be at all furprifed if certain readers.^ un- 
able to explain away fa£ts (not to mention arguments) 
fhould afFeil to reprefent thefe letters as the mere effu- 
fions of a heated imagination, and the writer as an intem- 
perate zealot, perhaps as a rank republican — juft as if an 
abhorrence of flavery implied a love of anarchy. The 
fatal efFe£ls thefe extremes have ever had on the happinefs 
of mankind fliould teach Britons to revere and to fupport 
the conftitution of their country as the nobleft that human 
wifdom ever devifed, or an indulgent Providence ever fa- 
voured, — But the author treats not of any kind of lawful 
government which is the very bond of fociety, but of ty- 
ranny which diflblves it ; not oiJubjeSfs or citizens^ but of 
Jlaves ; and not of political but of Personal Slavery 
— a ftate which is the very negation of law and morality, 
a ftate which, as he has proved it to involve every crime, 
can have no lawful exiftence among men ; and v/hich, as 
the worft of all poflible focial evils, all civilized nations 
and all wife ftatefmen, fhould, by a general combination, 

"fSee. Zflay on the Jmpdkyi &c, 

and 



i ^ ) 

and gradual meafures, labour to root out from the face 
of the earth. Such are the fentiments of Montefquieu* 
and of Neckar, and fuch, we humbly truft, are the fen- 
timents of a great majority of the Legiflature of thefe king- 
doms, and, particularly, of a Statefman to whofe virtue 
and abilities the credit and the conftitution of his country 
owe ftill more than thofe of the rival ftate do to a Neckar. 
— '* Would it be a chimerical proje6t," fays this laft 
great man, " to propofe a general compa5l by v/hich all 
*' the European nations fhould unanimoufly agree to z." 
" bandon the African Have-trade ?"f 



*^* The author has aimed at perfpicuity, but he pre- 
tends not to ftricSl technical propriety, of llile, which can 
be expe6led only from prcfellional men. In this refpe6t 
he may have failed ; but more perhaps in appearance than 
in reality. The imperfe6tion of tije remarks he has made 
on the flave-laws may induce fome humane and able gen- 
tleman of the law, w/:?^ refides or has refidecl in the Weji In- 
dies^ (and fuch he could name) to review the negro codes, 
ai>d to point out their numerous defeits and their general 
inefficiency. 

* For the fentiments of Montefquieu and Raynal, fee p. gg, note. 
•J- Neckar on Fii;ance, v. i. p. 330. 



TO 



TO SIR JAMES JOHNSTONE OF 
ELPHINSTONE AND WESTER- 
HALL, BART. MEMBER OF PAR- 
LIAMENT FOR THE BURGH OF 
DUMFRIES, ETC. 

SIR, 

I AM perfuaded the beft apology I can offer 
for the liberty I take in addrefling the fol- 
lowing Letters to you is, that they are inten- 
ded to promote the caufe of hunaanity j and, 
being the work of an obfcure individual, they 
will derive weight and importance from being 
addreffed to a Britifh Senator, who is pof- 
fefled of a large property in the Weft Indies. 

Truth affeds not the pompous language of 
panegyric. The part you take, in the enfuing , 
parliamentary difcuflion of the Slave Trade, will 
publifh to the world what language beft fuits your 
charafter. The oppolition of intereft, real or ap- 
parent, to principle, conftitutes an ordeal, which 
nothing ftiort of the moft pure and difinterefted 
virtue can endure. I will venture to fay, that 
the friends of humanity have no reafon to be 
anxious about the iiTue : for, to fuch men, and 
to fuch fenators, as Sir James Johnstone, and 
many fuch I truft there are, they may fafely com- 
mit the caufe of the injured Africans. 

With the refpeft due, not only to an honeft 
man, and to a virtuous Senator, but to a hw 
manet difinterefled Planter ^ I have the honour to be. 

Sir, your moft obedient, humble Servant, 

WILL"' DICKSON, 



( 2 ) 



L E T T E R II. 

^id me J altajtlentla cog'ii 



Rumpere f Virg. 

S I R, Fehr. 15. 1788. 

F all the prejudices that ever blinded mankind, that 
which leads our Afri:;an Traders and our Weft 
Indian Colonifts to imagine that they ought to be the 
fovereign arbiters of the liberties and the lives of the en- 
flaved Negroes, is one of the moft monftrous and abfurd — 
a prej udice peculiarly repugnant, if not in fome degree 
dangerous, to the conftitution of this free country. 

Such ufurped powers, it was eafy to forefee, would be 
fupported with a perfeverance proportioned to \h.€vc feem- 
ing importance, and to the degree in which they appear to 
afFe£t the interefts of the flave merchants, and of that ufe- 
ful, and, on feveral accounts, refpe6lable clafs of men, the 
Weft Indian Planters. When the interefts of men are en- 
gaged, their paffions will not long remain neuter. Hence 
it is altogether impoffible to write againft the African 
trade, or the Weft Indian bondage, without inducing 
cenfure or provoking refentment, if not perfecution. I 
confefs, therefore, that I fliould fcarcely have taken upon 
me to communicate to you, and, through you, to the 
public, the little knowledge of this difagreeable fubje6l 
of which I am poffefled, had not /, in common with 
every man who has refided in the Weft Indies, been 
publicly and earneftly requefted by the friends of huma- 
nity, and, urged, by the apologifts, efpecially by the 
anonyfnoits apologias, for flavery, to publifh what I know 
of the treatment of the flaves in that part of the world. 

Infupport of a bad caufe, bold and adventurous aflertion 
will often fupply the place of fa61:, particular truths will 
be magnified into univerfal propofitions, and plaufible fo- 
phiftry will affume the gait, and ufurp the throne of rea- 
ibn. I ftiould have continued to view fuch artifices with 
fecret indignation, had not a writer, who has alTumed the 
fignature of Civis^ in the Morning Chronicle of the 5th, 
been fo infufferably percmp<"ory in his language, that I 

rcfolved, 



( 3 ) ' 

refolved, at all events, that he fhould not pafs unnoticed. 
This writer appears to me to pofTefs, and if he be the 
perfon 1 fufpeil, I may fay, I know, he poflelFes, talents 
worthy of better employment than writing in a newf- 
paper in favour of flavery. I am ready to allow the 
perfon I allude to a great degree of perfonal worth In 
every other particular, and am willing to make ample allow- 
ance for h'3 prejudices. It would give me great pain, if 
any imnecejfary expreffion fhould drop from my pen which 
might '^erfonally hurt him or any of his friends. But, after 
all, I am perhaps miftaken in my conje61:ures. All I 
know, with certainty, is, that the language of C'lvh is in- 
decent, and fuch as if directed to, or obliquely aimed at 
me, I would in no fituation bear. I muft obferve too, 
that the prefent letters are not intended as a formal anfv/er 
to his piece, which may be faid to be the occafion., 
rather than the caufe of their appearance ; and that, 
whoever he be, I (hall take no farther notice of him, 
unlefs he fhould choofe, in propria perfona^ to controvert 
any of the faSis which I fhall mention, ai having fallen 
•within my own immediate obfervaticn. 

Another writer, in the above ufeful and well conducted 
paper, who figns himfelf A Friend to Mankind^ had affert- 
ed, that he knew an inftance of a Negro having been 
ftabbed to death by a white man, in one of the principal 
towns in a certain iHand ; and that the perpetrator of the 
deed efcaped with impunity. This, if I rightly remem- 
ber, is the purport of that writer's affertion. It corre- 
fponds fo very exa£tly with one deed which was commit- 
ted, while I refided in the ifland of Barbadoes, that, call- 
ing to mind the freedom with which, while there, I have 
often treated the fubjeft of flavery, and that, though I 
had it in my power, I never did enflave, or contribute to 
enflave, a fellow-creature, I have reafon to think, that 
fome of my Barbadian friends will fufpedt me to be the 
perfon who figns himfelf J Friend to Mankind, For 
their fatisfaftion, and to free myfelf from the odium of 
having officioully meddled in this bufmefs, I think proper 
to declare, that I am, neither diredtly or indireitly, con- 
cerned in the piece which bears that fignature. If I had 
written fuch a piece, I fhould certainly have made choice 
of fonie fad which fell more immediately within my own 
A 2 knowledge, 



( 4 ) 

knowledge , and v/here would have been the impropriety 
of fuch a ftep ? But, fince Ci-vis calls fo very loudly for 
na?neS'i I will tell him, that, fome years ago, one Bentham 
Jones ran a negro through the body with a bayonet, in 
Speight s-toivn^ Barbadoes. The negro was the property of 
the deceafed J'-fiph Harris^ Efq. of the fame town. 
Whether Jones was convicted or not, z.n6. fined for the 
deed, I do not at prefent recoUedl. Certain it is, h& died in 
his bed ; and yet, for aught I know, the law *, as it now 
ftands, might have been fatisfied. 

As I did not fee this deed perpetrated, I muft reft it on 
the p-eneralj uncontradided report of the town where it 
happened. Since, by having been, in fome meafure, com- 
pelled to publifh it, I have been dragged into a contro- 
verfy, which, but for the rooted prejudices and the appa- 

* ' If any negro or other flave, under puniiliment, by his mafter or 

* his order, for running away, or any other crime or mifdemeanors to- 

* wards his faid mafter, unfortunately fliall fuffer in life or member (which 

* feldom happens) no ferjon ivhatjou'ver Jhall be riable to any fine tbere- 
*■ for. But, if any man fhall of wantonnefs, or only of bloody minded- 

* nefs, or cruel intention, iv'ilfuUy kill a negro, or other flave, of his oivn, 

* he fhall pay into the publlck tr-eajwy fifteen pounds Sterling 5 but if he 

* fhall fo kill another mans., he fhall pay to the owner of the negro doublcthe 

* 'value, and into tht pub lick treajuiy tiventy -five pounds Sterling ; and he fhall 

* farther, by the next juflice of thepeace, be bound to his good behaviour, 

* during the pleafure of the Governor and Council, and not be' liable to 

* any other punifhment or forfeiture for the fame. Neither is he that 

* hlh another man's negro, or other flave, by accident, liable to any other 

* penalty, but the owner's ^sflioK af /aif. 'But, li awj poor fmall freeholder, 

* or other perfon, kill a negro or other flave by night, oat of the road 

* or common path, and ftealing or attempting to fteal his provifion, 

* fwine, or other ^oods, he fhall not be accountable for it ; any law, fla- 

* tute, or ordinance to the contrary notwithftanding.' Laws of Bar- 
badoes, No. 82, ch. ig. Hall's edit. 1764. This law was pafled in the me- 
morable yearOne thoufandfix hundred and EiCRTV-T.iGSiT ! — To annul the 
crime of murder, to fet a pecuniary value on the lives of men, and to cafh 
the price of blood into a public trcaju-y — there exifts not upon the earth 
a legiflature competent to enadt fuch a law ! ! It has been reprobated, 
in fevere terms, by feveral excellent writers. But the prefent inhabi- 
tants of Barbadoes ought not to be reproached for the barbarous adls of 
their anceftors, any more than the prefent Englifh ought to be reproached 
for the equally barbarous laws of villainage, whence thofe adls appear to 
\.j\vs. been copied, or the Scotch, becaufe the feudal tyranny had fome 
operation, in a corner of their country, within the prefent century. The 
Barbadians, however, it muft be owned, will be very hlameable, to ufe 
a mild term, if they fuffer thcmfelves to be governed any longer, ei- 
ther by the letter or the fpirit of this law, if they do not tear it from 
their fiatute-book, and confign it. to that utter and everlafting oblivion, 
to which, in this enlightened age, under the aufpiccs of a merciful king, 
every barbarous ufage, within the happy pale of the Britifli empire, is 
evidently haflening. 

rent 



( 5 ) 

rent interefts of men, could never have been a controverfy 
at all, I ftiall proceed to delineate the prefent ftate of 
flavery in Barbadoes, with freedom, but with impar- 
tiality. I (hall afterwards relate fome fa6ts, fimilar to 
that above mentioned, interfperfmg and adding fuch rea- 
fonings, as the fubjedl on which a great deal yet remains to 
be faid, may appear to fuggeft, or which a contracted plan 
will allow. 

In profecuting this fubjeft, I fliall moft carefully avoid 
all perfonal allufions, which can poffibly be avoided j and 
fhall decline mentioning fuch names as may tend to hurt 
the feelings of the meaneft innocent inhabitant of an 
ifland, for which, as an ancient, valuable and loyal Britifh 
colony, I cannot but exprefs my regard. I might juftly 
be charged with ingratitude, if I did not acknowledge, 
that I have been treated by many worthy and refpe6lable 
individuals, in that hofpitable ifland, with the greateft 
kindnefs; and, by fome, with marks offriendfhip and efteem. 
But the foldier does not fight with lefs ardour, becaufe he 
has friends in the enemy's pamp. No prhate attachment 
can vacate or fuperfede a man's public duty — his duty to 
his king and country, for example, or to hundreds of 
thoufands of his opprefTed fellow-creatures, or to the in- 
habitants of a whole quarter of the globe. The man who 
can raife his views to fuch objefts will difregard all at- 
tempts to mifinterpret his motives, or to impeach his con- 
dixxdi — he will pity the poor, narrow-minded authors of 
fuch attempts, and will rife fuperior to them. But, I am 
fure, thofe perfons in Barbadoes, whofe good opinion I 
value, do not expe6l me, or any man, to make a bafe, 
hypocritical profeilion of approving a domination, which 
(if one may judge by their humane conduit) they are con- 
fc'tous^ reafon condemns, and the heart detefts. Could 
I fuppofe them capable of forming an expeftation fo un- 
generous, I would fay to them, ' Amicus Plato, amicus 
* Socrates, fed major arnica himianitas,^ 

I have the honour to be, &c. 



A3 LETTER 



( 6 ) 



LETTER III. 
SIR, 

ALthough fiavery, properly fpeaking, admit of no dlf- 
tin^lions of rank, yet fome flaves live and are 
treated fo very differently from others, that a fuperficial 
obferver would take it for granted, they belong to clafles 
of men, who hold diftincSt ranks in fociety, fo to fpeak, by 
tenures effentially different. 

The porters, boatmen, and fifhermen in the towns, 
and on the coaft ; the black drivers, boilers, watchmen, 
and other black officers on eflates ; the mechanics ; and 
above all, the numerous and ufelefs domejiicsj both in 
town and country : All of thefe, comparatively^ and many 
of them, really^ live in eafe and plenty ; nor can they be 
faid to feel any of the hardfhips of flavery, but fuch as 
arife from the caprices of their owners, which, however, 
are, fometimes, intolerable enough. To thefe I may add, 
moft of the flaves who work out., as it is called ; that is, 
find employment for themfelves, and make their owners 
a weekly return out of their earnings ; alfo many, or, per- 
haps mofl of the flaves belonging to the fmall fettlers, 
called tef7-acre-?neny who raife provifions on little pofTef- 
fions called places ; for in general, it will hold good. 
That the happinefs of the flave, ca;teris paribus^ is in the 
inverfe ratio of the fize of the ef!:ate. 

On the other hand, truth obliges me to fay, that the 
great body of the flaves, the field-people, on fugar-plan- 
tations, are generally treated more like beafls of burden, 
than like human creatures 5 fmce they cultivate the land, 
v/ith no affijlance from cattle, and fuffer every hardfhip 
which can be fuppofed to attend oppreffive toil, coarfe 
and fcanty fare, bad lodging, want of covering in the wet 
feafon, and a degree of feverity which frequently borders 
on, and too often amounts to, inhumanity. 

Inorder, Sir, toform any thing like a juftidea of the con- 
dition of flaves, it is abfoiutely necefTary to attend to the dif-= 

tinitioAS 



( 7 ) 

tin£l:ions. t Another circumftance muft not be overlooked : 
The field-negroes divide their year into the crop-time and 
the hard t'mie. During the former, though they labour 
almoft inceflantly, the nutritious effedls of that noble bal- 
famic plant, the fugar cane, are very vifible on them. 
But, fhould the dry weather continue long, after the crop 
is over, as is often the cafe, the poor creatures, having 
then nothing but their bare allowance to fubfifl: on, foon 
begin to prove, by their famifhed looks, the total infuffi- 
ciency of that allowance for their fupport. Before the 
end of the drought, they are often quite emaciated. When 
the rains fet in, they are fucceeded by a quicknefs and 
luxuriance of vegetation, of which we have no example in 
this country. The field-negroes too foon begin to de- 
vour the crude fruits, and the produce of their little fpots 
of ground, which co-operate with change of weather, 
bad lodging, and other caufes, in inducing fluxes, and a 
difeafe refembling the dropfy. I even remember particu- 
lar negroes, who were regularly plump, or in good cafe, 
and emaciated or fwelled, every year. No man, who 
does not refide confliantly in the Weft-Indies, and who 
does not fee the plantation flaves, for a feries of years, 
and at all times of the year, can poffibly know much of 
their condition, upon the whole. 

Such, Sir, are the general rules ; but, like all other 
general rules, they admit of many exceptions. Thofe, 
who wiih for full information on this fubjecl, muft con- 
fult An Eflay on the Treatment, &c. by that fenfible, 
fpirited, and praife-worthy vi/riter, the Rev. J. Ramfay. 
That performance, fome local circumftances excepted, will 
apply very well to the Ifland of Barbadoes. 

It is equally my duty and my wifti, to do all the juftice 
in my power, both to the owner and to the flave. I 
therefore beg leave to mention fuch, of thofe local differ- 
ences, as appear to me, materially, to afFefb the condition 
of the latter. This will lead me to be a little more particu- 
lar than I intended on their treatment, which depends fo 
intirely on the various difpofitions and circumftances of 

■\ Such is the difference between the treatra-ent of houfe and field- 
negroes, that to turn a houfe negro into the fdd, is iinlverfally confidered 
as 2l punijhtnent I and, on fome plantations-', it is a very fevere punifliment* 
If a houfe.-ncgro ever choofe, or feem to choofe, to go- into the fxeld, 
it is to flee from ujifupportable domeftic tyranny. 

A 4 ' their 



( 8 ) 

their owners and managers, that it is altogether impoillble 
to '.vrite, on the fubjeft, with that degree of certainty which 
will effectually preclude the contradiction of thofe vjho are 
dijpofed and refolved to cavil. It is evident, that where the 
owner's will is the law, no rule can be laid down, which will 
univerfally apply to upwards of four hundred fugar plan- 
tations, befides a great number of cotton places, and other 
fmall poffeflions, into which, before the late hurricane, 
Barbadoes was divided. Of the uncertainty we are fpeak- 
ing of, abundant advantage hath been taken. Engaging 
defcriptions have been drawn of the comparatively happy 
ftate of the flaves, on particular eftates, and attempts 
have been made to make the public believe, that thofe 
defcriptions are applicable to all. 

But, Sir, is it not altogether aftonifhing, that men will 
infift that the flaves, in the Weft-Indian Iflands, are, upon 
the whole, well treated ; while, with the fame breath, 
they demand annual fupplies of people from Africa, to 
fill up the places of vaft numbers, who fink into the grave 
under this good treatment ? Is not this an excellent ex- 
ample of the Hudibraftic mode of reafoning ? ' Hoc fa- 
' tear , fed contra fic argumentor.' For, did the fun ever 
fhine upon that happy people^ who, far from increafing and 
multiplving, could not keep up their numbers by propagation ? 
What happy country, except fome modern European Colonies^ 
was ever known incefiantly to fwallow up its inhabitants ? 

But to proceed : The divifion and kinds of labour, as 
well as the number of hours the negroes are employed in 
it, are much the fame in Barbadoes as Mr. Ramfay re- 
prefents them in St. Kitt's. His affertion. That the plan- 
tation-bell rings about four o'clock, has been flatly con- 
tradicted j but this fhall not deter me from ftating what 
I know of this particular. I pretend not to fix the precife 
minute ; but I ever did hear it reckoned at or about four 
o'clock. I lodged for fome years, within hearing both 
of a church and a plantation-bell. The former rang at 
five o'clock, the latter a confiderable time before it. I 
always rofe early, often at five o'clock, for the benefit of 
air, exercife and fea-bathing ; and, when I wifhed to be 
up earlier than ufual, I defired to be called when the 
plantation- bell rang. It may be confidered as a warning- 
bell to roufe the negroes from their flumbers, and to pre- 
pare them for turnifig out, To my knowledge many of 

them 



( 9 ) 

them are in the field at dawn. \i necefjary., I could cor- 
roborate thefe aflertions with two other circumfrances, 
which I perfe£lly recolleft \ but at prcfent^ I decline men- 
tioning them, efpecially as one of them would be gene- 
rally difagreeable, an^ the other involves a perlbnal allu- 
lion. This rule I fliall obferve in other iriftances. 

As in St. Kitt's, fo in Barbadoes, the picking of grafs 
is a great hardfhip. Some circumftances, however, ren- 
der it eafier in the latter, than Mr. Ramfay reprefents it 
in the former ifland. The negroes certainly do not go 
fo far to feek it in Barbadoes, which contains far lefs va- 
riety of furface and expofure than St. Kitt's, and no emi- 
nences which deferve the name of mountains. It would 
therefore lefs avail the Barbadian negroes to wander very 
far from home, and to trefpafs on other eflates, which 
in refpe6l of vegetation, are more equally clrcumflanced 
than the lands can be in St. Kitt's. Little Indian or 
Guinea corn were planted in St. Kitt's when Mr. Ram- 
fay wrote. In Barbadoes, large fields of both are culti- 
vated J and Indian corn is very often planted among the 
young canes. The blades of this laft are excellent pro- 
vender or horfe meat^ as it is called ; and the Guinea 
corn, perhaps ftill more nutritive ^ is repeatedly cut down 
with knives for that tife, before it is allowed to fhoot. It 
is broke in about Chriftmas ; its blades, while green, 
having ftill afforded fome provender. About the fame 
time, they begin to cut the canes, the tops of which, af- 
fording, however, but poor nourifhment, maintain the 
cattle for the greater, part of the crop-time ; but when, 
towards the end of that period, they become withered, 
they are but of little ufe as provender. There is, in 
Barbadoes, no fubftitute for hay ;* fo that during the reft 
of the dry feafon, when ' Earth clad in rulTet, fcorns the 
* lively green,'f the cattle, and indeed the negroes, as 
we have feen, experience all the poverty of winter, with- 
out its refources. Indeed, notwithflauding the exertions 
of the latter, I have, in fome years, been furprifed that the 
former were kept alive ; fmce the natural grafs, weeds, 

* In Jamaica, they convert into hay Guinea grafs, the blades of In- 
dian and Guinea corn, and even the wire grafs, and four grafs, which, 
while green, no tattle will talte. See Long's Hiftory of Jamaica, 
yol. I. p. 453. 

f Churchill, 

and 



( 10 ) 

and vines, picked chiefly In the gullies and other broken 
land, muft be allowed to be very inadequate to their fupport. 
The natural grafs in the Weft Indies does not (o com- 
pletely cover the foil as in Europe ; fo that the picking 
of it is a very flow operation, and cannot but be diftref- 
fing to the negroes ; and it is more or lefs fo to the great 
gang, in proportion as the fmall gang, generally employed 
in weeding and picking grafs, is more or lefs numerous. 
I have often feen the negroes ferving the cattle in the 
middle of the day, and in the evening ; and I have, at 
times, met on the roads, gangs of flaves going to throw 
grafs by moon- light. The fmall patches of thofe ex- 
cellent fpecies of grafs called Guinea grafs, Scotch grafs, 
&c. alfo the vines of the fweet potatoe, plantain leaves, 
he. fcarcely appear to me to deferve a place in a general 
account. — In St. Kitt's, it feems the laiv fubje£ts tref- 
pafling grafs-pickers to a very harfh punifhment, twenty 
lafhes with a long cart-whip. In Barbadoes fuch a law 
exifts, but I do not think it is very rigidly executed. 

The mode of tying and feeding the black cattle in 
Barbadoes (for there are but few mules on that ifiand) 
on unfiieltered dung-heaps, called penns^ is perhaps, with- 
out a fmgle exception, as wafteful and abfurd in Barbadoes 
as it can be in St. Kitt's. For this, and the caufe juft men- 
tioned, the Barbadian cattle, in general, are emaciated and 
weak ; fo weak indeed, that I have often (een fourteen, 
fometimes fixteen of them faintly drawling along with a 
cart, containing two hogfheads of fugar. A flave, when en- 
trufted with abfolute power, will be as apt to abufe it, as a 
free man. The black carters not only beat the poor animals 
without mercy, but drive the butt-ends of their whips vio- 
lently againft their fides, which, in their emaciated ftate, 
very often occafions large wind-galls or ruptures. Nor 
do the creatures get leave to exert, with advantage, the 
little ftrength they poflefs ; for by this abfurd and cruel 
mode of driving, they often take a ferpentine dire6lion, 
and thus countera£l the efforts of one another. In the 
prefcnt method of tilling the land, intlrely by manual la,- 
bour, it would be difficult, if not impofllble, to fiielter 
and feed the cattle after the Englifh mode. As the dung 
is carried out, or diftributed over the lands intirely by the 
flaves, it muft be made on the field for which it is allot- 
ted ^nd the penn or penns muft be carefully propor- 
tioned 



( II ) 

tloned to the fize of that field. Hence a proper fhelter 
would require frequent removal, to fay nothing of the 
expence. That cattle, efpecially working cattle, ought 
to be protected alike from the oppreffive heats and the 
wafting rains, in that fultry climate, is certain ; and that 
the planters are convinced of this truth, appears from 
their generally furnifliing fheep-penns with fheds. I 
hope to be excufed for thus glancing at the treatment of 
brutes, while my fubjeft is that of men. ' A merciful 
'man,' fays Solomon, 'is merciful to his beaft ;' but, 
in the Weft-Indies, and, I fuppofe, in every country of 
flavery, the whole animal * creation groans, being bur- 
' dened.'t 

In St. KItt's, according to Mr. Ramfay, the planta- 
tion work, on fome eftates, is but little interrupted by 
Sunday. In Barbadoes, no plantation-bufmefs is done on 
that day, except throwing grafs to the cattle, and per- 
haps digging a few roots, for the allowance of the {laves. 
In crop-time^ however, the earlyh ours of Sunday morning, 
like thofe of every other morning, are too often infringed 
upon. Sunday is a day of reji to the cattle^ hut I cannot^ 
iv'ith any propriety^ affirm it to he a day of reft to thejiaves. 
During that day, the field negroes in Barbadoes are, al- 
moft univerfally, employed either in cultivating their little 
fpots of ground (which have been dignified with the illu- 
five name oi gardens) in order to eke out their fcanty al- 
lowance of food ; or in travelling, many of them, for 
feverai miles, to market, with a fev/ roots, or fruits, or 
canes, fometimes a fowl or a kid, or a pig. The ma- 
fons, carpenters, &c. do little jobbs on their ov/n ac- 
count. 

Mr. Ramfay tells us, that in StKitt's, fome planters 
truft to their ov/n fkill, or to quack medicines in treat- 
ing the fick ; but I may venture to affirm, that there is 
not a fingle eftate in Barbadoes that does not pay a doc- 
tor, at the rate of five fhillings currency, or about three 
and nine-pence fterling, annually for each neo-roe, fick 
or well. The do6tors either attend themfelves, or fend 
their journeymen, at leaft once a week, at all times. I 
have always underftood too, that the fick, in general, are 
well treated ; but, except in one (town) inftance, I can- 
jiot afRrm this, from my own knowledge. 
f St, Paul, 

Of 



( 12 ) 

Of the treatment of pregnant women, and of their 
babes on eftates, while the former are lying in, I know al- 
moft nothihg ; but, before they are delivered, and while the 
latter are at the breaft, their treatment is generally, I do 
not fay univerfally, fuch as Mr. Ramfay defcribes. When 
I firft went to Barbadoes, I was particularly aftonifhed to 
fee fome women far gone in their pregnancy, toiling in 
the field ; and others, whofe naked infants lay expofed to 
the weather, fprawling on a goat-fkin, or in a wooden tray. 
I have heard, with indignation, drivers curfe both them 
and their fqualling brats, when they were fuckling them. 

On the eftates of one or two eminently worthy and 
humane gentlemen, I have always underftood that the 
breeding wenches are treated remarkably well ; and par- 
ticularly that they are allowed proper clothes for their 
infants; and, when they come out, a new fuit, better than 
common, for themfelves, and a fmall matter in money ; 
but this is not the ordinary pra£lice. The children of 
dom.eftic flaves, and of fuch as belong to the middling 
and the lower ranks of people, are treated, in all refpefls, 
as well as white children, and, if any thing, thrive better. 

After the children on eftates are weaned, and are able to 
run about, they are often put under the management of 
a careful old v/oman, and are employed in picking vines, 
infe61:s, &:c. for the fmall and feathered ftock. Hence 
they are called the hog-meat-gang^ or the pot-gang^ from 
their being fed with drefted vi6^uals. Although an old 
woman, who has many to attend to, cannot be expelled 
to fupply the place of the motlier ; yet I have feen nume- 
rous gangs of fuch urchins, all in the beft poiTible health 
and fpirits. From the hog- meat gang, they are tranflated 
into what is called the little gang^ which is employed in 
weeding, colle61:ing grafs, and other light work, till the 
individuals who compofe it are able to take their ftation 
in the Threat gang^ a tranfition which compleats the hard- 
ship and mifery of a field negro. Till now he had been 
employed, as young people might be, and indeed, fome- 
times, are employed, without injury, in this and other 
countries. Now he muft till the ground, carry out the 
dung, and, in {hort, muft go through ^// the drudgery of 
hufbandry, v^^hich cattle perform in every civilized coun- 
try under heaven, except the V/eft-Indian Illands.* 

* ' How can a country be faid to be cl-vUixed, in which domejlk Jlavery 
« ftill exifts ?' Coxe'3 Travels into Poland, ^fc. vol- 3. p. J74t 

The 



( 13 ) 

The weekly allowance of a field negroj in Barbadoes, 
varies, like every other circumftance of his treatment. 
But I am of opinion, it may, in general, be fafely 
reckoned from fix to nine pints of Guinea corn*, an 
excellent fpecies of grain, or from nine to twelve 
pints of Indian corn f, which is lefs nutritive ; with 
three or four herrings, or from one pound and a half 
to two pounds and a half of faked cod-fifh, often of 
a bad quality. Formerly, they had fhads from America. 
More grain and lefs fifh is given in Barbadoes, than, ac- 
cording to Mr. Ramfay, is allowed in St. Kitt's ; an ad- 
vantage which may be owing to much greater attention 
being paid to the raifmg of provifions, in the former ifland 
than in the latter. Flour, and that worft of all fpecies of 
food, horfe-beans, form but a fmall part of the diet of the 
flaves, in Barbadoes ; but they frequently have eddoes J, 
and fweet potatoes 1|, and fometimes yams § and plan- 
tanes **, all of them excellent vegetables ; the allowance 
of which, as well as of the fmall quantities of falted beef 
and pork, which are ferved out to them (on holidays efpeci- 
allyl I do not recollect. "When they hole land, they have 
each about a gill of rum and molaffes, at noon. All the pro- 
vifions produced in Barbadoes are excellent in their kind. 
Indian corn is lefs nutritive, if not lefs wholefome, when too 
long kept, than European grain J but I take it no grain (wheat 
excepted) is more wholefome or nutritive than Guinea 
corn. I forgot to mention, as a part of tlieir food, pigeon 
peas tt> fo called from their having been formerly given to 
pigeons, and other feathered flock j but which are now 
difcovered to be very good food for men ; and, by many 
white people, are preferred to any kind of European peas. 
In fhape and fize they refemble vetches, and grov/ on a 
wooded ihrub, about the fize of tall broom. Ockras, JJ 
and feveral other excellent vegetables, enter more or lefs 
into their diet. — It m.ufi: be owned, that, when in health, 
the field-negroes never do tafte, at leaft they are not al- 
lowed, butchers meat, milk, butter, or any kind of frefi 
animal fubftance (fiying-fifh \\ fometirms excepted) wibich, 

when 

* The Holcus Sorglium of Linnsus, -j- Zea, Mays. 

\ Arum efculentum. )| Convolvulus Batatas. § Diol- 

corea Alata, Eulbifera, Sativa. ** Mufa paradifaica, 

•j-f Cytifus Cajan. \\ Hibifcus efculentus. 

[Ill Exocostus volitans. — The catching of fiying-fifh is, I believe, pecu- 
liar to Barbados They are caught, chiefly during the crop, and add to 

ths 



( H ) 

v/hen cheap, thofe who are iiear enough to the towns, 
occafionally buy with the money they receive, at nights, 
for horfe-meat and other fliolen articles. On the other 
hand, no fault, I think, can reafonably be found with 
the quahty of the vegetable part of their diet; efpecially 
fince the Indian corn from America has been, in a great 
meafure, exchanged for grain, produced in their native 
foil, to which the former is not only naturally inferior ; 
' but it was fometimes mufly, and too often damaged. The 
quality of their diet, in the grcfs, falt-fifli, &c. included, 
is, perhaps, not nearly fo obje6tionable as its quantity ; 
which, in general, is far from being proportioned to the 
toil they undergo. The grinding and lifting of their corn, 
after the labour ot the day is over, may be regarded as a hard- 
fhip, though not as a great hardfliip. Moft plantations are 
furnifhed with hand-mills for this purpofe; but a few have 
wind-mills with mill-ilones. Many negroes grind their 
corn, in their houfes, between two ftones. — Artificers, 
when working at their trades, have a izV, or near 6d, fler. 
per day, a very fufficient allov/ance. Somie domeilics are 
wholly, and others partly, fed from the family-table. 
Sometimes victuals are feparately dreffed for them. When 
they have no victuals, they receive 3 bits each per week, 
a moft ample allowance for people who cannot be faid to 
work, in the Englifli fenfe of the word. 

In St. Kitt's, according to Mr. Ramfay, they punifh 
with a ca7't-whip. The inftrument of correction corn- 
monly ufed in Barbadoes, is called a cozu-JJdny\w\xho\xt 
which a negro driver would no more think of going into 
the field, than a coachman in England would think of fet- 
ting out on a journey without his whip. It is compofed of 
leathern thongs, platted in the common way, and tapers 
from the end of the handle (within which is a fhort bit 
of wood) to the point, which is furniftied with a lafh of 
filk-grafs t, hard platted and knotted, like that of a horfe- 
whip, but thicker. Its form gives it fome degree of elaf- 
ticity towards the handle ; and, when ufed with feverity 

the plenty of that feafon. They are of a very equal fize, being about 
as big as middling herrings. Like the herring too, the flying-fifli, in 
fonrie feafons, affords much relief to the poor. I have feen them at all 
pricesj from 6 to 60 for a bit, or 6d. fter. 
-j- Agave Americana. 

(which 



( IS ) ' 

(which is far from being always the cafe) It tears the 
flefh, and brings blood at every ftroke. The law has li- 
mited the number of lafhes to forty *, or rather, forty 
fave one, which, if infli6led by an unfeeling hand, is a 
very fevere punifhment ; more fevere, perhaps, though 
lefs tedious, than tv/o hundred froni the cat-o-nine-tails 
iifed in the army. Nine and thirty laflies are very fel- 
dom, I may fay never, ordered by magiftrates, unlefs for 
crimes which really do deferve fuch rigour, and which 
in this country would often be puniilied with the gallows ; 
or, for flagrant infults to white men, which feldom efcape 
either publick punifhmient, or private revenge. Ov/ners 
very feldom go fo far, in a regular way. But, Sir, pu- 
nifhment is not always regular. Fits of pajjicr?^ to which 
even good owners are fubjeft, difdain the reftraints of law, 
of humanity, and of intereft. Intoxication., ill-nature^ and 
revenge^ declare open war againft humanity. In fuch 
cafes, no trouble is taken to count the ftripes ; but they 
are laid on, furioufly and indifcriminately, over all the 
body, the face, and the naked breafts of the wom.en fome* 
times not excepted. Then it is, that tyranny rages, with- 
out controul. Then it is, that the law {hould wreft the 
inftrument of oppreiTion from a hand Vvhich is no longer 
capable of ufing it with moderation. The law fhould do 
more. Sir : it ihould make the tyrant tremble, it fhould 
make him/w/^r, for daring to debafe a many^/r beneath 
the condition of a brute ! I 

Suppuration is alv/ays, and, in v/et weather efpecially, 
convulfions are fometimes the confequence of a fevere 
floo-gino; ; and the cicatrices of the wounds form large 
wheales, which the wretches carry to their graves. The 
backs and pofleriors of many of the flaves, of both fexes, 
which are often covered with fuch wheales, are melan- 
choly proofs of the feverity of their owners and managers. 
I have feen both m.en and women, at their field labour, 
lacerated with the recent or fuppurating wounds of the 
cow-fkin. Some few work with a chain faflened round 
both ancles, which, from its length, they are obliged to 
tuck up, to enable them to walk ; others have a chain 
locked, or an iron collar, with projeci:ing prongs, riveted 
round the neck j others a hoot^ or ring of broad bar-iron 

'* See Deut. chi xxv. vert 3, 

hammered 



( i6 ) 

hammered round one ancle ; and thofe whofe labour i^ 
nearly ftatlonary, are chained to a 56 lb. weight, or a log 
Cfwood*. Thefe laft, with v/hipping, confinement in 
the dungeon, fetters or flocks, are the common punifh- 
ments inflicted on runaways. But, on feveral plantations, 
they are not often incurred or inflicted. 

Mutilation, except by watchmen, or by the fugar- 
mllls, is very far indeed from being common in Bar- 
badoes ; and, as in St. Kitt's, when it happens, is 
mentioned, by the better fort of people, with confum- 
mate deteftation. It is to be lamented, however, that 
this is the only punifhment which owners fuffer for 
atrocious a(5ls of cruelty (for mutilation never fell within 
my immediate knowledge) to their own flaves. An ar- 
refl: and damages are the confequences of flriking, with- 
out provocation, the flave of another, when the faSi can 
he proved, I may affirm too, that dropping with burning 
fealing-wax^ or hot fyriip^ with other infernal tortures, are 
now very rare indeed in Barbadoes.f An inftance of fuch 
torture never fell within my obfervation ; and I recol- 
le6l only a few fafts of this kind which forced themfelves 
on my belief, and which I fhall afterwards relate. Still 
the common punifliments are openly and avowedly in- 
fliiled, too often with a degree of fever ity^ ivhich «o Indivi- 
dual of the human race ought to he fuffer ed to excrcife on a 
fellow-creature — a feverity which, in too many inftances, 
contributes to fhorten life, and which no abfurd claim of 
property, in the perfons of men, can poilibly authorize. 

Regular punifhments, in confequence of the fentence 
of a magiftrate, are infli£red by a conftable. Owners in 
the towns, when they punifh regularly, employ a fellow 
called a Jumper^ and who is generally a conftable. Be- 
fides his cow-fkin, the jumper carries in his pocket a 
rope, with which he ties up refraftory flaves by the hands, 

* ' If any perfon Ihall take ofT any pot-hook, ring, or collar, from a 

* flave's neck or leg, he /hall forfeit lol to fuch flave's owner, to be re- 

* covered as fervants wages } and, if the ofi'ender is a flave, he fliall re- 

* ceive 40 lafhes, by order of any Juftice," Laws of Barbadoes, No. 

* 116. d. 7, Hall's Abridgment, p. 62. 

•j- A Barbadian gentleman, now in England, on my reading the above 
paflage to him, mentioned an inftance of this horrid fpecies of cruelty, 
which, he is well informed, was infliflied about 2,0 years ago. But, 
though he is not difpofed to palliate fuch deeds, he thinks with me 
that they are extremely infrequent. 

till 



( 17 ) 

to a cleat,* till he inflI6l the number of laflles ofdefed. 
Some few people pay the jumper by the year; others 
fend for him occafionally, and many (perhaps too many, 
as things now ftand) feldom or never fend for him at all. 
The worthlefs pampered domefticks in Bridge- town, 
often really deferve to be vifited by the jumper, and fome- 
times by a more fevere executioner. — When I lived in 
Bridge-town, my fervant, who was left entirely to my 
management, and who, like very many of the flaves in 
that place, was an incorrigible gambler, was feen at his 
fport by a certain magiftrate. The fellow not only ftood 
his ground, after his companions had difperfed, but ufed 
fome very improper language. I carried him to the 
magiftrate he had offended, who politely left the pu- 
nifliment to me. As the fellow had never been before a 
magiftrate, I requefted that he would name the punifh- 
ment, and pronounce fentence with all due folemnity; 
when the puniiliment he ordered was — fix lafhes. I re- 
gretted that the matter had not been regularly tried, be- 
fore another magiftrate ; but, of my own foversign will 
and pkajurc, I ordered double the number of lafhes, 
which were inflicted before the magiftrate's door. — My 
gambler's next offence was of a more heinous nature : It 
was receiving ftolen goods to the amount of about three 
pounds Jlerling (which might have been proved by the 
evidence of the honeft man to whom he offered them, for 
a trifle) befides other valuable goods, in the theft of which, 
I really believe, he was concerned. The fellow was itn- 
tenced to receive twelve lailies. Here again I interpofed 
my authority^ and ordered eighteen ; but, in neither in- 
flance, did I allow the fkin to be cut. I muft own, no- 
thing but ftiame prevented me from having the full lafli of 
the law inflicced for an offence, for which, in this country, 
the culprit m.uft inevitably have died. Such lenity is 
certainly praife-worthy, when thefts are committed by 
poor half-ftarved field- negroes, whofe cafes are moft hu- 
manely confidered by magiftrates, in Barbadoes ; but it 
is evidently mifplaced on the town profligates, who, al- 
raoft univerfally, are well fed, and not worked at all. 
The t 'vo worthy and humane perfons above alluded to, 
muft- excufe me, if I fay, that they a^led very right as men 
and as gentlemen, but certainly very wrong as magiftrates. 

* Not oft' the ground j but merely to confine the offender to the fpot. 

B Severe 



C i8 ) 

Severe as the treatment of the fieid-negroes in Barba- 
4oes may appear, I have reafon to think that it is much 
milder than in moft of the other, efpecially the new iflands ; 
having repeatedly heard perfons, from thofe iflands, ridi- 
cule the lenity of the Barbadian difcipline ; and, indeed, 
the laxity of the police of Bridge-town deferves to be ri- 
diculed. I have heard a perfon, from one of thofe iflands, 
make a kind of boafl of their ftaking negroes down to 
the ground, and placing a driver on each fide, like men 
threihing corn. In Barbadoes, regular punifliment is 
never inflidled in this manner. The culprit always ftands, 
or, when refraftory, is tied up by the wrifts. Even this 
mode, to the female fex, at leafl, one would think fuffi.- 
ciently harfh. A zvonmn imploring 77iercy ! with her petti- 
coats or rags tucked up, or holding them up with her owa 
hands (and both I have too often feen) to have the whip 
applied by an unfeeling jumper or driver, and at the will 
of an owner or manager, perhaps yet more unfeeling, and 
on a part which decency ought to veil, is one of thofe 
lights at which uncorrupted nature revolts. — But fuffice 
it to glance at fcenes which cannot but afFedt the feelings 
of my amiable countrywomen, ' tremblingly alive,' as 
they are known to be, to every fentiment allied to huma- 
nity. Should any of them honour thefe fheets with a pe- 
rufal, I know that, at this pafTage, plain as it is, they 
will drop a tear. In Barbadoes, tears flowing from the 
eyes of ladies often mitigate the rigour of punifliment. 
The mothers and the daughters of a brave nation will not 
be lefs compafllonate. They will exert their irrefiftible 
influence, in favour of unprote6led, infulted, outraged 
women. With their native dignity, they will gene- 
roufly flrep between the violators of the rights of the 
fex, in Africa, and the innocent vidtims of their bru- 
tality. 

The punifhments of capital crimes of negroes againft 
whites, in Barbadoes, are dreadful and excruciating, to 
a degree far beyond any idea I could have formed of the 
duration and poignancy of human fufFering, had I not 
been an unhappy eye-witnefs of one of thofe fcenes of 
horror. In the year 1774, an overfeer, on a cotton- 
place, was murdered by the negroes, who were faid to 
have been driven to that zSt of violence, by opprefllion and 

hunger. 



( 19 ) 

hunger.* It was the practice, on that place, to give the 
Haves no allowance of food, during the plentiful feafon of 
the crop, but to leave them to fubfift, as they could, by 
committing nightly depredations on the neighbouring fu- 
gar eftates, or by correfponding with the thievifli negroes 
on fuch eftates ; at the fame time, that nothing was a- 
bated from their ufual labour. — For this murder, five ne- 
gro men were gibbeted alive^ and a negro woman, whofe 
guilt was not fully proved, was chained to the gallows, 
to be a fpeftator of their prolonged tortures. On the af- 
ternoon of the third or fourth day of their agony, I went 
to fee them ; but, in no inftance, did I ever fo heartily 
repent of my curiofity. ' Animus meminifle horret, luc- 
' tuque refugit.' By that time, two of them had expired, 
and were dragged into the fea ; and the furviving three 
exhibited a fpe(£l:acle of woe, which, at this moment, I 
fhudder to call to mind, and which no language can de- 
fcribe. The under jaw of one of thofe wretches had 
Hipped through the collar of the irons. Thefe were too 
long, but the collar was too fmall to let his head through, 
and had torn open his mouth, and dragged up his 
upper lip, nofe, and cheeks, over his eye-brows, leaving 
his upper jaw bare j fo that he was, in a manner, fufpen- 
ded by the head. Yet he ftill breathed, and his groans 
were truly piercing. The two others ftill fpoke, in 2. 
hoarfe, faultering voice ; but fo that moft of what they 
faid might, with attention, be underftood ; and one of 
them, more than once, called upon God to witnefs his 
innocence and his fufferings, and to receive his foul. 
Their afFeiling petitions for a little water were anfwered 
only by the worfe than brutal, by the favage, infults of 
the conftables and other poor whites, colledted around 
the gallows, who told them that they would get no water 
in hell, whither they were haftening ; for that they might 
be affured, God would have no mercy on their fouls, fince 
they had no mercy on the worthy man they had murdered « 
Indeed, fo much did thofe fellows (one of whofe order the 
negroes had killed) feem to enjoy the fcene, that a man. 

* ' But in regard there are fome mailers and owners of negroes, and 

* other flaves, who do not maks fufficient confcience of promding ivhat is nc' 

* ceff'ary for their negroes, or other Jlai'cs, and alloiving them time to plant and 

* provide for themselves, for ivhich caufe fuch negroes and other favss are ne- 

* ceffitated, &"€■' Hall's Laws of Barbadoes, No« 82, tl, 16, 

B 2 would 



(20) 

would certainly have been infulted, who had dared/in their 
hearing, to commiferate fufferings (o fhocking to human 
nature. To fome gentlemen, unacquainted with the bale- 
ful influence of flavery in hardening the heart, this laft 
circumftance may feem incredible. I cannot help it ; but 
I have the comfort to be confcious that I am relating the 
truth. The horrible, hideous, diftorted features, the 
wild, ftaring eyes, the piercing groans, and the agoniz- 
ing throes of thofe wretches, whofe whole frames were 
convulfed with inconceivable tortures, fo compleatly ' har- 
' rowed up my foul,' that it was long ere this fcene of 
horror ceafed to haunt my imagination ; and, while I 
breathe, I fliall never forget it. 

A few years ago, a moft fhocking murder was com- 
mitted, by the negroes, on a medical gentleman of ac- 
knowledged worth and humanity, and whofe unhappy fate 
was greatly and jufbly lamented by all ranks of people. 
Various were the conjectures on the motives which could 
inftigate the negroes to commit this horrid affaffination. 
For ray own part, I had, and ftill have, my doubts, re- 
fpe£!:ing that myilerious affair — myflerious, I fay ; for, 
befides fome other curious circumftances, it appeared ex- 
traordinary that the Doilor though murdered, was not 
robbed. Four negro men were burnt alive for this deed 
in Bridge-town ; but though I lived there, at the time, 
yet my curiofity had been fo thoroughly fatiated with the 
gibbeting, that I did not go to fee the execution. 

A favourite young wench, who had the care of her 
mailer's child, difliked the employment fo much, that ftie 
poifoned the infant, with laudanum. This was not the 
lirft child of her mafter's whom fhe was fufpedled to 
have thus deftroyed ; and the laft fail was fully proved. 
At the requeft of her humane miftrefs, fhe was hanged. 

Some years before I arrived in Barbadoes, a white per- 
fon was murdered by a negro, for which his fuppofed 
murderer was gibbeted alive at Orange-fort. After he 
had been fufpended, I think, for eight and forty hours, 
the real criminal furrendered himfelf to juftice, declaring, 
That an innocent man was then fufFerincr for a crime 
which be had committed ; that, if the man died, he inould 
be guilty of two murders, and that he rather chofe to ex- 
pire, by that dreadful, lingering torture, than to drag on 
a mifcrablc life, and, at lafr, pine to death, under the un- 

fupportable 



( 21 ) 

fupportable confcioufnefs of fuch guilt. The innocent 
man was accordingly taken down, and the criminal put 
up in his place, where he Hirvived fix or feven days. 
While the life of the former was in fufpence, as it was 
for many days, the gentlerhan, whofe negro carpenters had 
conftrufted the gallows, was thrown iuto fuch agony of 
mind, by the guilt which, with an amiable weaknefs, he 
fuppofed, he had incurred, by having had even this fmall 
concern in the bufniefs, that his faculties became mani- 
feftly deranged. He was feen to kneel down in the ftreet, 
and moft pathetically implore the Almighty, not to lay 
innocent blood to his charge. Nor is this to be wondered 
at ; for the horrible nature of this punifhment is fufficient 
to throw even the moft unconcerned fpetStator into a deep 
melancholy. I was afterwards well acquainted with this 
moft worthy and intelligent perfon, and often had a wifli 
to know his opinion of the juftice and expediency of fuch 
punifhments ; but I never could afk him the queftion. 
No doubt his opinion was the fame with thofe of a few 
other worthy perfons, his friends, with whom alfo I had 
the honour and the happinefs to be acquainted. 

The three firft mentioned murders are the only deeds 
of the kind, v/hich, fo far as I can recolledt, were perpe- 
trated by negroes, while I lived in Barbadoes, which was 
for upwards of thirteen years. Though, for fome years, 
I have been but ill able to defend myfelf, I have rode • 
and walked, for many miles, unarmed, and at all hours 
of the night, and never was once molefted by a negro in 
word or deed. A gentleman who refided, for a much 
longer period, in one of the Leeward Mands, affures me, 
that he remembers not a fmgle inftance of any white per- 
fon having been robbed, murdered, or . even materially 
hurt by a negro, except that one of thofe wretches was 
accufed oijiriking a failor, for which he lojl his right hand. 
Sailors, it muft be owned, are, fometimes, apt to treat 
the negroes very ill. In both iflands, there cannot be 
fo few as 120,000 negroes and people of colour, many of 
whom, it is well known, are daily receiving the moft 
intolerable provocation, are daily treated with the moft 
confummate injuftice. I cannot pofitively afTert that the 
above are all the inftances of whites murdered by negroes 
which occurred during my rehdence in Barbadoes. But 
let the number be doubled ; and then let the criminal 
B 3 calendar 



( 22 ) 

^BalendarSj of almofi: any country in Europe, be confulted 
for fuch an example of the infrequency of murder. Where, 
then, is the necejfity^ where is the expediency, of fuch hor- 
rible tortures ? Why, in the name of humanity, in the 
name of Chriftianity, in the name even of that frigid 
principle, policy.^ are negroes to be gibbeted and burnt 
alive, for the murder of white men, and the latter, at the 
worji, on\y fined and imprijoned for murdering them ? 

The happieft of men fhould I think myfelf-r— I fhoulcj 
indeed think that I had not lived in vain, if, even at the 
rilk of my own (temporal) ruin, by the cruel and infidi- 
ous machinations of interefted malice, this publicatiori 
Ihould, in any degree, contribute to prevent the repeti- 
tion of fuch execrable tortures. I fear, I have more to. 
anfwer for than the gentleman above alluded to, hadj 
for having concealed, but for a day, fuch {hocking fceries. 
from the public. 

I have the honour to be, &c, 



LETTER IV. 

^ L^ agriculture ne pourra jamais profperer la oii Pagri^ 
^ cult^ur ne pojjede rien en propre.' 

Cath. II. Imp. de RufT. Inft. pou? 
le nouv. code de loix. p. 83. 
SIR, 

"DY way of fupplement or poftfcript to my laft long, and, 
•*^ I fear, tedious, letter, I now beg leave very briefly 
to defcribe the mode of cultivating a cane-field, or of 
holing land, and turning or carrying out dung, which I 
have always confidered as the moft laborious tafks of the 
negroes. The firft circumftance that ftruck me, ori 
viewing this manual {pedes of cultivation, was, that weak 
Haves are unavoidably opprefTed by it. 

I have feen land lined off into fquare fpaces, four feet- 
each way, which, I believe, is the general rule in Bar- 
badoes. The holes, therefore, may be about three feet 
fquare, and {even or eight inches deep, virith a fpace or 

di/iance 



( 23 ) 

dyiance between each, and another Ipace or hank^ at right 
angles to the diflrance, to receive the mould.* The holes 
are dug, with hoes, by the ilaves, in a row, with the 
driver at one end, to preferve the line. They begin and 
£nifh a row of thefe holes as nearly, at the fame inftants, 
as poflible ; fo that this equal tafk muft be performed, in 
the fame thne^ by a number of people who, it is next to 
hnpojp.hle^ fhould all be equally Jlrong and dexterous; ef- 
pecially as few or no field negroes, who can wield a hoe, 
are exempted from it. Thus the weak muft be opprefled. 
The driver is often obliged to fet fuch negroes, as can- 
not keep up with the reft, to work, in a feparate corner, 
by themfelves 5 but, I am forry to fay, he too often firft 
tries the effe6l of flogging, which is alfo fometimes the 
punifliment for not digging the holes deep enough. 

In turning dung, a tafk equally as laborious, and, per- 
haps, more haraffing than holing, each negro carries, on 
his head, a bafketful of it. The gang muft walk over a 
furface, now rendered very uneven by the holes, the 
driver bringing up the rear, and often fmacking his whip, 
and, I wifh I could fay, I never faw him apply it to the 
backs of the flaves, to increafe their fpeed. But, I am 
forry to add, I have more than once feen this ; and, on 
one large plantation, in particular, I remember to have 
obferved, with indignation, a white driver ufing his whip, 
on a gang turning dung, in a manner altogether fhameful. 
Whether the driver or the ov/ner, who I think then refid- 
ed on the eftate, was to blame for this, I cannot fay. 
Here, Sir, is another equal tafk, to be performed in an 
equal time, by people of unequal ftrength. In turning 
dung, therefore, as in holing, the weak, under ftri6t 
drivers, at leaft, are unavoidably opprefled. Both of them 
are very laborious tafks, confidering the climate, the 
fcanty fare of the negroes, and the number of hours they 
work ; efpecially, as thofe tafks are often performed rather 
in a hurry, as when advantage is to be taken of a heavy 
rain ; or when the plantation -work, from, various caufes, 
happens to be backward, or has not kept pace with the 

* The origin of holing I take to have been, the impoffibility of ufing 
any other inltruments, than the hoe or the fpade, among the roots of 
the trees when the iflands were firft cleared. Barbadoes is faid to have 
been covered with wood of uncommon hardnefs. No other ixiode oi" 
culture Jiasj fince, been ferjoufly perfevered in, 

B 4 adYancenaent 



( 24 ) 

advancement of the feafon — circumftances thefe, which, 
in my humble opinion, would render the limited tafks 
propofed by Mr. Riimfay, impracSticable, except in fo far 
as various tafks might be fuited to the various ftrength of 
the flaves. 

in this vv^ork, the negroes have no help at all from cat- 
tle or i|nplements of hufbandry, the hoe and the bajketj 
only excepted. This circumftance alone may ferve to 
convince the public of the ftate of debafement to which 
the negroes are reduced. For what, Sir, would be the 
condition of the people even in this temperate climate, if 
the land, inflread of being ploughed, were, univerfally, 
dug with the fpade or the hoe, and the dung not only 
fpread, but carried out and diftributed over the fields, by 
human creatures, drudging under the fcourge of overfeers? 

Several obje£lions are made to the ufe of the plough, 
in Barbadoes.- — Some of the land, it is faid, is too full of 
ftones. Much land is ploughed in the northern parts, at 
leaft, of this kingdom, v.'hich is much more Itoney and 
gravelly than by far the greater part of the foil in Barba- 
does ; and ley-land, is, belides, often bound up with the 
roots of heath, furze, or broom ; but, in the land of that' 
ifland, there are no roots, v/hatever, that can impede the 
hoe, itill iefs the plough. — But other parts of the land are 
too fteep. — What an objedlion would this be to the ufe 
of the plough in fome countries ? I have frequently feen 
land ploughed, and fo, I fuppofe, have moft men who 
have vifited the mountainous parts of Britain, fo fteep 
that a furrow could only be taken in coming down hill, 
and ileeper than any arable land in Barbadoes, except in 
thofe parts of the ifland called Scotland and St. Jofeph's, 
which, though far from being the higheft, is the m.oft 
precipitous furface I ever faw. — But the foil of fteep land 
is apt to be wafhed away by the torrents of rain, and 
would be too much loofened by the plough. — Very fteep 
land might be holed, and, if the declivity be not exceffive, 
might be ploughed acrofs, and not up and down, leaving 
fpaces like the prefent banks.- — But there is not fufficient 
provender for the cattle. r-The preceding objections have 
a partial, this a very general application. It might, how- 
ever, in a very great meafure, be removed, by cultivat- 
ing graffes, ofv/hich there are feveral excellent fpecies ; 
and, perhaps, by fowing, rather than planting, Guineg. 

corn. 



( 25 ) 

corn. Of thefe, feveral crops might be produced in a 
year ; and it would be difficult to fhew, why they might 
not be converted into hay, as in Jamaica. Oats and 
beans might be had from this country. Ships, which go 
out in ballaft, might carry even hay. The truth is, that, 
hitherto, little attention has been paid to the raifmg of 
provender, juft as, before the late war, too little atten- 
tion was paid to the raifmg of ground-provifions. The 
cattle, at prefent, are too generally fed, or rather, for part 
of the year at leaft, more than half ilarved, on picked 
grafs and weeds, the collection of which, as we have ob- 
ferved, is a great hardfhip to the flaves. 

I have not affirmed that the plough would anfvver in all 
iituations, . for planting canes ; but this I can affirm, that 
a certain gentleman affured me, that he and, a neighbour 
of his, an eminently worthy and humane clergyman, 
found the plough to fucceed perfeClly in planting and 
digging provifions ; and he added, that the negroes were 
unfpeakably eafed by it ; but, I think, they were obliged 
to lay it afide for want of provender. For the fake of the 
former v/orthy perfon too, as well as the caufe of huma- 
nity, I regretted that he was rather in ftraitened circum- 
ftances ; and, it is well known, that improvements of 
every kind, are attended v/ith more or lefs expence. It 
is, indeed, impoffible to objeil to the plough in planting 
and digging provifions, which would be a great point 
gained. I have feen the land fo bound up with drought, 
that a negro, who might have dug 80, or even 100 cane- 
holes, in a day, in foft land, could not make out more 
than 50 or 60. The plough would, therefore, be of 
great ufe in breaking up cane-land, when fo hardened. 
The holes might, afterwards, be formed with the hoe— • 
if, indeed, there muft be holes ; but I do not fee why the 
dung might not be carted out to the land, then fpread by 
the negroes, and the canes planted with the plough, as 
the potatoe is in Britain — a root which, it muft be ob- 
ferved, is not indis:enous In this .country. But this, as 
well as fuch of the foregoing agricultural obfervations as 
do not depend on fa61:, I muft fubmit to the confideration 
of the candid and humane Barhadoes planter. 

The following quotation contains the opinions of two 
of the greateft virriters of Europe, on the abridgment of 
labour ; — * Such trades (thofe of manufacturers) were at 

* Athens 



( 26 ) 

< Athens and Rome, all occupied by the fl'aves' (white 
JJaves^ like thofe at Algiers !) ' of the rich, who exercifed 
them, for the benefit of their mafters, whofe wealth, 
power and proteftion, made it almoft impoflible for a 
poor free man to find a market for his work, when it 
came into competition with that of the flaves of the 
rich.* Slaves-, however, are very feldom inventive ; and 
all the moft important improvements, either in machi- 
nery, or in the arrangement or diftribution of work, 
which facilitate and abridge labour, have been the dif- 
coveries of freemen. Should a flave propofe any im- 
provement of this kind, his mafter would be very apt 
to confider the propofal as the fuggeftlon of lazinefs, 
and a defire to fave his own labour, at the m.after's ex- 
pence. The poor flave, inftead of reward, would pro- 
bably meet with much abufe, perhaps v/ith fome punifli- 
ment. In the manufactures carried on by Jlaves^ there- 
fore, more labour muft generally have been employed 
to execute the fame quantity of work, than in thofe 
carried on by freemen. The work of the former mult, 
upon that account, generally have been dearer than that 
of the latter. The Hungarian mines, it is remarked 
by Mr. Montefquieu, though not richer^ have always been 
wrought with lefs expence, and, therefore, with more 
profit^ than the Turkifh mines in their neighbourhood. 
The Turkifh mines are wrought by JIaves ; and the 
ARMS of thofe flaves are the only machines the 
Turks have ever thought of employing. The Hunga- 
rian mines are wrought by freemen^ who employ a 
« great deal of machinery^ by which they facilitate and 
* abridge their own labour.' f 

To a little genius, every new phoenomenon is a new 
myftery ; becaufe he has no general principles to refer it 
to. The views of great men are extenfive, and their 
reafonings and obfervations are of general and eafy appli- 
cation. Accordingly one would fuppofe Mr. Montef- 
quieu and Dr. Smith,, had the Weft-Indian flavery par- 
ticularly in their eye, when they made the above obfer- 

* This Is moft notoriouny the cafe in Barbadoes, So many blacks 
are now bred to all kinds of trades, that the poor white artificers ofcen 
find it difficult to get bread. 

\ Wealth ojl^atimt v. 3. p. 37. See alfo v, 2. p. 87, et feq. 

vatioASa 



( 27 ) 

vations. The whole of the above excellent paflage is 
true of our prefent fubjeft ; the latter portion of it parti- 
cularly applies to that part of it we are now treatino-. 
For Hungarian read Cochin Chincj'e^ for Turkilh read I4^^eji 
Indian^ for in read of, for neighbourhood rt^d Antipodes, 
and for Mines read Plantations^ and the application is 
compleat. 

But v/hile the Turks can procure flaves from the 
diftant provinces of their empire *, and fo long as the 
Weft Indians can import them from Africa, there is rea- 
fon to fear that no other inftruments than the arms of thofe 
JIaves will ever be found to fucceed, or, indeed, will ever 
be, earneftly^ perfevered in, in working the mines of the 
one or the plantations of the other. By the way, Sir, 
fnould it be objeiled to the few obfervations I have ven- 
tured to make, on the ufe of implements of huibandry,That 
I am no planter, I would anfwer. That Dr. Smith certainly 
never was in ancient Rome or Athens, and probably ne- 
ver in any country of ilavery ; that I queftion whether 
Mr. Montefquieu ever examined the Turkifh and the 
Hungarian mines, and yet that thefe great men reafon 
moft admirably and conclufively on flavery ; that, on the 
other hand, I (if it be not a fpecies of egotifm to mention 
myfelf, in the fame fentence, with two fuch names) have 
feen the Weft Indian huft>andry for years together ; that, 
though I always difliked it, I was for fome time, occa- 
fionally employed in It; and that I never faw any thing 
myfterious in the planting of canes and the making of 
fugar. 

But I, by no means, wifti the reader to reft on my 
di^luni refpefting the ufe of the plough. Accordins; to 
Mr. Long, it was tried fuccefsfully in Jamaica, and more 
land was turned up in a day, by a fmgle plough, and more 
effectually (for the hoe does not turn up the foil, efpeci- 
ally the deep foil, properly) than could have been effected, 
in the fame time, by lOO men. Land, which was ploughed 
before it was holed, produced three hhds. of fugar per acre, 
and by the common mode of culture, it yielded only two. 

* The plough itfelfxnlght be ufed, in fome fituations, per- 

* ' Egypt, according to Monf, Maillet fends continual colonies of 
? i/ack (laves to the other parts of the Turkilh empire, and receives, an- 

* nually, an equal number of WHITES, the one brought from the in- 

* land parts of Africa, the other from Mingrelia, Circailia and Tartary,' 
Hqnje's Lffiy on the Populoafnefs of Ancient Nations, 

* hapSj 



( 28 ) 

* haps, to advantage, or facing of labour,' Letters to 
a Young Planter, p. 3. I muft remark that this is the 
opinion of a peribn, who, afterwards, wrote an Apology for 
negro llavery; and that he there fpeaks of Grenada, an 
ifland incomparably more mountainous than Barbadoes. 
I know not whether I ought to mention the planting of 
canss, with the plough, in Cochin China, fmce I cannot 
procure Mr. Le Poivre's book. It appears, however, 
from a certain author who has quoted him, that the vaft 
empire of China, fuppofed, by fome, to contain as many 
inhabitants as all Europe, is chiefly fupplied, from 
Cochin China, with fugar raifed by freemen, with the 
plough ; that the annual export of that commodity is 
equal to 500,000 hhds. each 1600 lb, which confider- 
ably exceeds the quantity made in the Weil Indies, by 
all the European colonies put together ; and that the 
brown fugar is fold at 3s. 4d. fterling per hundred pound, 
■white at 6s. 8d. and candied at 8s. ' In the Britifti 

* iflands, the common price of fugar, in time of peace, is 
' generally found to be 25s. fterling per Cwt. In the 
' Eaft Indies, as I am credibly informed, it is no more 

* than 2s. 6d. And what is the reafon of this ? Why, 

* In the Weft Indies, fugar is raifed and manufactured by 
' f.avcs^ in the Eaft Indies, by freemen only ? * 

The laconic anfwer, as I before intimated, to the few 
hints I have ventured to oiFer, on the ufe of the plough, 
will probably be, ' Ne futor ultra crepidam.' But let no 
gentleman ridicule thofe hints, till he can confcientioufly 
affirm, that he has rationally and earneftly endeavoured to 
reduce to practice, and has a6tua}ly found impracticable, 
what Mr. Long has written on it's ufe, as the refult of 
his own experience and obfervation, in the 443 and 12 
following pages, of the firft vol. of his excellent Hiftory of 
Jamaica — a work which no planter fhould be without. 
Let him alfo confult the political Effays on the prefent ftate 
of the Britifti empire. ' Why, therefore,' the author of this 
laft ingenious v/ork,'aflcs, p. 279, 'iWhy, therefore, will the 

* Weft Indians not make trial of the plough? That in- 
« dolence, and idea of walking in beaten tra£ts, which is 
' fo prevalent in all concerned in the culture of the earth, 

* Difpute between Great Bntain and Ireland, by the able Dean of 
Cloucefter. 

< indeedj 



( 29 ) 

« indeed, peculiarly fo^ are the only circumftances to which 
* we can refer for an anfwer.' 

I have the honour to be, &c. 



LETTER V. 
S I R, 

I MUST now proceed to the moft mortifying part of 
a mortifying fubje£t, that of recounting fome particu- 
lar inftances of cruelty and murder. 

When I jfirfl arrived in the Weft Indies, every thing 
I heard and faw, concerning a ftate of mankind fo new 
to me as flavery then was, made a deep impreffion, and 
fome things were Indelibly ftamped, on my mind. In- 
deed I could have given a better account of the treatment 
of the negroes, after I had been fix months in Barbadoes, 
than I can at this moment. 

Among many other negroes, vi^ho bore more or lefs 
the marks of ill treatment, one of the firft objefts who 
prefented himfelf to my view, on my landing in Barba- 
does, was a negro man, whofe whole body, hxs face not 
wholly excepted, was covered with fears, moft of them 
old, but fome of them recent. One of his legs was loaded 
with an iron ring or boot^ at leaft half an inch thick, and 
upv/ards of two inches broad, for I never afterwards faw 
a larger. I eagerly enquired into the caufe of what I 
faw, and vi^as told that the man had been thus treated by 
his owner, a noted gambler, whom I, afterwards, knew 
to be a barbarous v^^retch. I afsed by what authority his 
owner thus treated him, and was anfwered, that he was 
his owner's property^ who had a right to treat htm as he 
plcafed. From that moment, I furpecl:ed that there was 
' fomething rotten in the ftate of Denmark.' Farther 
obfervation verified my fufpicion. I had read and heard 
general defcriptions of flavery ; but never conceived that 
the power of the owner was fo very abfolute and unli- 
mited, as I found it to be. — Could fuch a wretch be pu- 
blicly exhibited, in this country, he would make more 

converts 



( 30 ) • 

converts to the fide of humanity, than all that has beefi 
written on the fubjei5t. — At the bar of either houfe, a negro 
loaded with chains, and covered with fears and ftripes 
would effecStually plead the caufe of his much injured 
countrymen. 

In the year 1773, fome months after my arrival In 
Barbadoes, I, one morning, faw the body of a negro man, 
who had been run through, the foregoing night, it was 
faid, with a fpit. It lay in the dry channel of a water- 
courfe, near a fence within which the fa6t was committed. 
— The neighbours covered it with loofe gravel ; but, a 
fucceeding flood having wafhed off this flight covering, 
the naked, putrid corfe was again expofed to view, and 
removed to a little diftance. This flave was probably 
killed in the a£t of theft, to which flaves are often prompt- 
by their own bad difpofitions, but more frequently, perhaps, 
impelled by the irrefifl:ible calls of hunger ; which had 
been apparently the cafe with this wretch, v/hofe body 
was much reduced. This deed was never, that 1 heard 
of, fo much as inquired into ; and the deep impreffion it 
made on my mind, at the time, is my only reafon for 
mentioning it. To fpeak the truth, I v/ifh it may make a 
fimilar imprefiion on the mind of my reader. If it do, he 
will deteft flavery, as long as he lives. The naked body 
of a murdered man lying neglected, or treated, in all re- 
fpefts, like a dead dog, muft needs be a new and a fliock- 
ing fpe6tacle to any European youth, efpecially to a coun- 
try youth from Britain, on h'lsjir/i arrival^ in a land of 
flavery. 

Some time after this, I faw a fine, tall, young man, 
whofe limbs, efpecially his forearms, had been cut and 
mangled in a moft fhocking manner. It was faid, and I 
had every reafon to believe, this was done by a watchman. 
His vitals were not wounded ; fo that he ftill had fome 
flight appearances of life ; but it feemed to me, impoffible 
that he fliould recover. 

A perfon, juftly detelled for his cruelty, tied the hands 
of his negro man behind his back ; then, hoifting him 
up by them, with the diflocation of both his fhoulders, 
whipped him, while thus fufpended, very unmercifully. 
I did not fee this punifhment inflicted ; but the poor 
wretch entirely loft the ufe of one arm, which v/as attri- 
buted|> by the neighbours, to the cruel treatment juft de-^ 

fcribed. 



( 31 ) 

fcribed. His mafter, though a tyrant, was a well In- 
formed man, and probably had a mind to imitate the 
Ruffian knoute ; for I never heard of another inftance of 
of the fame mode of punifhment. The fellow either 
naturally was, or this treatment rendered him, defperately 
wicked ; and was afterwards hanged, for attempting a 
rape on a white woman. That he might have been ex- 
tremely rude to the woman, I did not doubt ; but that a 
fellow, difabled as he was, fhould make fuch an attempt, 
appeared to me rather improbable. This might have been 
the reafon why his punifhment was fo mild. The punifh- 
ment inflifted on negroes for this crime (an inftance of 
which happened many years before I went to Barbadoes) 
is too fhocking for defcription. 

In one of the towns, I, one evening, heard the report 
of a mufket. Sufpe6ting mifchief, I immediately repaired 
to the flreet from whence the found feemed to have pro- 
ceeded ; and there beheld one negro man lying dead, and 
another dangeroufly wounded in the neck. The piece 
had been loaded with fmall fhot ; arjd hence, I believe, 
was fired, not with an intention to. kill, but only, by 
peppering, as it is there called, to difperfe a noify crowd 
of negroes. To pepper negroes, with fmall fhot, is not 
common ; but fait or Guinea-corn, which fmart, but do 
not materially hurt them, are fometimes ufed for that 
purpofe. — At the inftance of the owner of both the flaves, 
an inquiry was made into this affair ; but, though it hap- 
pened in a populous flreet, yet as no white perfon was 
prefent, nothing was, or, according to the prefent laws, 
i:ouid be proved. 

I once heard the jumper * of one the towns boafl of 
* a deed without a name.' He boafted that he killed a 
negro (who, he faid, was an out-law, and had infulted his 
brother) that he took out his heart, and cut his body, to 
ufe his own words, * into pound-pieces.' From the well- 
known barbarity of this favage, I readily believed him. 
An affair which he afterwards tranfailed I was compelled 
to believe. An old lady, who had loft a fum of money, 
fent for this fellow, to try, by torturing her own flaves, 
to difcqver the thief. The mode of torture he ufed was 
this. He tied together, at one end, five fticks, each 

* See page 16. 

feven 



( 32 } 

fevcn or eight inches in length. Each of the flave^s four 
fingers v/ere put between two of the fticks ; fo that,* 
when the oppofite ends of the two outfide fticks were 
fqueezed, they a6ted as a fyftem of levers, of which the 
fingers were the fulcra. Let any gentleman try the effect 
of a pair of nut-crackers, or other inftrument, referable 
to the lever, on one of his fingers, and then imagine the 
pain to be multiplied fourfold, and he will get feme faint 
idea of this moft exquifite torture. On a fubfequent ex- 
amination of black witnefles, before a certain fenfible and 
humane magiftrate, it appeared that this fhocking and 
fingidar torture was inflidied in the open hall of the owner's 
houfe, which is fituated in a public ftreet, and that it was 
feen by a gentleman palling, whofe evidence of the tor- 
ture nullified that of the tortured wench concerning the 
theft. If this gentleman's affidavit did not nullify the 
teftimonies of the reft of the old woman's negroes, it, at 
leaft, fpread fuch a thick cloud of uncertainty on the 
^hole affair, that no capital punifhment followed. To 
interfere between owner and flave, except in the way of 
interceffion for a runaway, which is often made, is looked 
upon as being; very impertinent. He incurred the old 
lady's higheft difpleafure for what flie called his officiouf- 
nefs in looking in at her door; but, when it, afterwards, 
turned out, that the money was ftolen by a white man, 
who v/as intimate with one of her wenches, (he came to 
his houfe and very cordially thanked him, for having 
faved the life of the innocent negro who was fufpedted. 
Neither the owner nor the tormentor fuffered, or, in- 
deed, could, legally, fuffer, any punifhment whatever, for 
thus torturing innocent people. As I am particularly 
acquainted with the above gentleman., I dare mention 
this as a faft, which I can depend upon, as much, if pof- 
fible, as if I myfelf had feen it ; and, to the beft of mj 
recolledion, he related it exa6tly as above. — I overheard 
the fame adept in thofe hellifti myfteries, very near whom 
I lived for a few years, defcribe a mode of torture which 
he called cat-harping. This is fufpending a negro, by 
the thumbs and the great toes, in fome unnatural 
pofture, of which he did not give a very clear idea, 
and then whipping him, while thus fufpended. I do 
not recolle6t whether he faid he himfelf had inflidled 
this torture, or that he had feen it inflicted , but one or 

the 



( 33 ) 

the other he did fay. On occafion of this de{cription, a 
gentleman, who heard it, told me there was an inftance 
of it's having been infli6tedj about five and thirty years 
ago, by a perfon, now alive, who pofTefles a large eftate ; 
but who was then a manager. The (hocking particulars 
I fhall not relate, becaufe I heard them mentioned only 
as matter of report. 

Should it be afked why I hint at a deed which I do not 
undertake to fupport, I would anfwer, that this fpecies of 
torture has an appropriated name (though I never, but 
once, heard it) that I heard that name explained ; and that 
the infli£lion and the infliilor of this torture (who can- 
not poflibly be difcovered by my faint allufion) were men- 
tioned, by a perfon of veracity, as matter of current re- 
port, in the neighbourhood of the manager, who had, 
moreover, the chara(5ler of being cruel. '1 hefe circum- 
ftances, taken together, convince me that this horrid 
torture has been ufed, though, I firmly believe, it has now 
no exiftence, in Barbadoes. — It is neverthelefs proper 
and neceflary that fuch deeds fhould be hinted at 5 
becaufe what has been may be again ; for I know of no- 
thing to hinder owners from torturing their flaves, in any 
manner they chufe. The law takes no cognizance of 
fuch crimes. 

X, a man of property, cut ofFboth the ears of Z's ne- 
gro-man. Z, unable, no doubt, to prove the deed, and 
to recover damages, took his revenge by beating X, till, 
as was faid, the poor mutilated wretch interpofed, to pre- 
vent his owner from committing murder. Having- reco- 
vered of the blows, X indi6led Z, at the feffions, for an 
aflault. The cafe of affault was tried, at leaft I faw both 
the parties appear, in the public Court- houfe, in Bridge- 
town. I do not recolle(ft how the matter terminated : 
but it would be doing extreme injuftice to the better and 
the middling ckffes of people, not to add that, by them, 
X was univerfally hifled and defpifed. — 1 have no acquain- 
tance with this man ; but,, for the fake of his connec- 
tions, I am very forry that truth and humanity oblige me 
to mention this notorious inftance of crueltyand meannefs 
— meannefs, I fay, not in having had recourfe to the law, 
but in mutilating a helplefs flave. 

I fincerely lament that, to the above inftances of cru- 
elty and murder, truth and humanity conftrain me to add 

C a b.^ 



(34) 

a fa£fc which affe6ls the community ; or, at leaft, demon- 
ilrates the total inefficiency of the laws, of Barbadoes— 
a fact, which has never, that I know of, appeared in 
print, and which, though notorious as the meridian fun, 
will, I dare fay, be difputed, with the utmoft virulence 
and obftinacy. — In Barbadoes, Sir, I am forry to fay, 
there are fome owners, who, when their flaves become 
incapable of labour, from age, ill ufage, or difeafe, efpe- 
cially leprofy ; inhumanly expofe them to every extreme of 
wretchednefs, by turning them out to fliift for themfelves. 
The poor creatures generally crawl to Bridge- town, for 
the advantage of begging in that populous place ; and 
they are often to be feen in the ftreets, in the very 
laft ftage of human mifery, naked, famifhed, difeafed 
and forlorn ; to the great annoyance of the humane part 
of the inhabitants, many of whom I have heard complain 
of this difgraceful nuifance. While able, they wander 
about ; and, when their ftrength fails, generally fix in 
fome corner or thoroughfare, and depend on the cafual 
charity of the paffengers. 

Befides feveral worn out and leprous negroes, who 
frequented the more public parts of the town, efpecially 
the market and both the bridges, I particularly remember 
an expofed and worn out negro-woman, who was free 
from external difeafe, and who was, for a long time, a- 
bout Mr. Jackfon's gate, over the bay ; alfo a moft mi- 
ferable leprous woman, who lav, for a confiderable time, 
in the alley parallel to, and between, Broadflreet and Jew- 
ftreet. Of the fate of thofe wretches, I am ignorant ; 
but thofe who were ftationary cannot but be remembered 
by many people. Whether they may be difpofed tO con- 
firm or to contradiit my teftimony, is quite a different 
queftion. — One evening, on paffing the ruins of a houfc 
which, about three years before, had been thrown dov/n 
by the hurricane, I was alarmed by deep human groans. 
Following the found, which was my only guide, I per- 
ceived they proceeded from a negro who lay, on the lee- 
ftde of a wall, fLruggling in the agonies of death. Next 
morning, at dawn, I repaired to the place, and beheld 
the naked and extenuated corpfe of a negro woman, fur- 
rounded with ordure and vermin, bhe appeared to me to 
have been a worn out flave, and to have died of a flux ; 
for I faw no marks of cutaneous difeafe.-— Would to God, 

Sir, 



( 35 ) 

Sir, every man, who may be difpofed to think, to write 
or to fpeak favourably of llavery, had feen this melancholy 
lpe(5tac]e ! 

The only fhadow, and it is but a fliadow, of extenua- 
tion, which can be offered for this criminal praft'ce, is, 
that negroes who are very lazy, or very miferably opprelTed, 
have been fometimes known, by certain applications, of 
a corrofive or irritating nature, to induce and keep open, 
fores upon their legs and feet, to prevent them from - . ork- 
ing ; juft as a moft excellent negro-cooper in Bridge-town 
whom I heard mentioned, cut off one of nis hands with 
his adze, upon an unreafonable daily tafk being impofed 
on him. — One fellow, who was ftror? 2;ly fufpe6led of the 
above pra£lice, and of pretending to be lunatic ; but who 
was, otherwife, in good health, u fed to beg all day, for, 
in every thing that concerned his fubfillence, he fhewed 
no figns of lunacy, and lodged, at night, in an old kit- 
chen-chimney near me ; but he was fo noify and fo pro- 
fane, that 1 was forced to take methods to diflodge him, 
which I, at laft, effected, by rendering his dormitory un- 
tenable. 

Medical people are the beft judges of the extent of fuch 
pra61:ices among the negroes, which, indeed, I do not 
think are very common. Yet I can mention two well 
authenticated inflrances. A certain Dodtor found that a 
patient of his, who was a very worthlefs. drunken fellow, 
had removed hi? dreffings, and applied forne irritating ve- 
getable to an ulcerated toe. This fo ex^fperated the Doc- 
tor, that he immediately amputated the toe, which eixec- 
tually cured the fellow. Another, whom he had under 
his care, v/as fufpe£l:ed of a fmiilar practice ; and he, at 
laft, dete6led him fcraping the edges of his fores with an 
old knife, and about to apply feme ftuff of his o;vn. Up- 
on this, the Dodlor waihed the fores, of which he had 
feveral, with a moft tormenting mixture, I think it was 
fea-falt and rum. The fores, after this, healed apace ; 
and his patient was never more troubled with them. 

It is alfo faid, that fome negroes innoculate themfelves 
for leprofy ; but I ne- er could believe this ; for great muft 
be the lazinefs of that fiave, and horrid, indeed, muft be 
the tyranny under which he groans, which could force 
him to induce a difeafe, the moft pitiable, perhaps, which 
affliils the human fpecies. — But, granting thcfe fafts, if 

C 2 the 



( 36 ) 

the latter be a fa(Sl, their full weight, they never can ex- 
tenuate the brutal pra6lice of abandoning fuch wretches ; 
much lefs ivorn out^ aged and innocent people, who labour 
under no infedttous difeafe, or who have no difeafe at all. 
"i— That even leprous negroes are not univerfally aban- 
doned by their owners, I can give one inftance. A hand- 
fome, negro girl was ieized with, and died of, this fright- 
ful diftemper ; but her humane owner not only provided 
for her, at home ; but, by fome means or other, her 
clothes, which were of the beft kind, were kept clean 
and neat to the laft. I could mention fome inftances of 
white lepers being attended with equal care ; and I never 
heard that their attendants fuffered by this, their humane 
condudl. 

I do not, at prefent, perfectly recolleft any other ac?ts 
of murder and Ihocking barbarity, which fell within my 
own obfervation, or which I d,&tvn. fiifficiently authenti- 
cated ; but, to fay the truth, the murder of flaves is an 
occurrence which but too often happens in Barbadoes ; 
and unlefs it has been attended with circumftances of un- 
common barbarity, is feldom heard of, beyond the little 
diftriit where it happens. No coroner's inqueft fits on 
the body of a flave ; nor is any legal inquiry made into 
his murder, unlefs at the inftance of his owner ; but even 
this does not always take place ; for the proof of fuch 
deeds is peculiarly difficult. 

As I (hall not fwell this catalogue with deeds for which 
I have no better evidence than general report ; or indif- 
t\ndi recolledtion ; fo neither fhall I attempt the imprac- 
ticable tafk of enumerating the endlefs inftances, not of 
aSfual^ perhaps, but of virtual, murder, by hunger, fe- 
verity and oppreffion, which (pread a caliginous (hade 
on the annals of flavery, in the ifland of Barbadoes, 
This laft fpecies of mui'der is very far from being pecu- 
liar to that ifland ; but, in all ages and nations, ever has 
been, and ever will be, the neceffary confequence of hu- 
man creatures being reduced to the condition of brutes, 
by holding all that is dear to them on the bafe and ac- 
curfed tenure of unqualified perfonal bondage. 

It may be faid, there are laws for the punifhment 
of fuch enormities, as we have been defcribing. That 
laws may have been enabled in Barbadoes, for pre- 
venting; 



( 37 ) 

venting or limiting the abufe of the owner's exorht- 
tant power, I do not mean to deny ; but, I affirm that 
they lie, in a great meal'ure, dormant 5* and are very far 
from being generally and rigoroufly inforced. Men are 
fometimes puniihed, in this country, for cruelty to brutes; 
but I am forry to fay 1 know of no inftance of an owner 
having been even profecuted for abufmg his Have. But no 
laws can reach the namelefs and endlefs injuries which 
the blacks A'ery often fufFer from mifcreant white men, 
againft whom their evidence is not^ in any foape^ admitted. 
Many of the numerous, poor whites, in Barbadoes, whom 
we {hall, hereafter, defcribe, are totally ignorant and re- 
gardlefs of all laws human and divine. ' Mifera eft fer- 
' Vitus, ubi jus eft incertum, incognitum aut Iniquum.' 

It has been affirmed that an owner's regard to his inte- 
reft, independent of the law, will effeclually prevent him 
from abufmg his Have ; and fo it might, were there no 
other principle of a£lion in man. But a regard to inte- 
reji muft be a very ftrong principle in both parties, or 
their angry pajfions muft be very weak, if the eiFect af- 
cribed to the former be always produced. If intereft ref- 
train the owner from feverity, it v/iU more powerfully ref- 
train the flave from inducing that feverity ; fmce, to 
fleep in a found fkin, is ftill more the intereft of the latter 
than of the former. Whence, then, the complaints of 
the flaves provocations ? Poft-horfes and fand-afles, 
though, they have no paffions which ought to provoke men, 
are often worn out by oppreffion : Yet it is their owner's 
intereft to preferve their lives, as forming a very great pro- 
portion of his property. If a regard to intereft prevent 
not the gamefter, the drunkard or the fenrualift from ruin- 
ing their fortunes, why is it expelled to work fuch won- 
ders in defence of the flave, who, fometimes, may fall 
into the hands of a man who unites all thefe cbaracfters ; 
for, in every country, fuch men are to be found ? Thefe 
arguments will prove to others the futility of this prin- 
ciple. From long obfervation, I am convinced that the 
owner's regard to his intereft is, by no means^ 2ijufficient 
barrier againft his tyranny, efpecially when provoked, 

* ' Ifftaves ivere treated ivitb more humanity thati they generally are^ 

* and the la'ws of this ifland, for the ordering and governing of thsniy 

* "ivere duly fut in execution, they might be rendered very ufeful as well as 

* valuable,' Hall's Laws of Barbadoesj note at the end of No, 82. 

C 3 But 



( 38 ) 

But I do not affirm that It is no check, or that, on fome 
owners, it may not be an effe6lual check. — Thofe who 
are called life negroes fometimes experience the melancholy 
confequences of their prefent poflefior not being much in- 
terefted in their welfare. A bad man, who is to hold a 
fet of negroes, for example, only during the life of an in- 
firm wife, may be fufpe£ted of not being very anxious for 
their prefervation.f "The miferable lot of fuch flaves is 
univerfally confidered as the verj^ worft condition in which 
they can be fituated. But for the laws and cujloms of 
their country, Br'itijh apprentices would too often be as 
ill ufed as life-negroes; for human nature is every where, 
nearly the fame. 

I have the honour to be, &c. 



LETTER VL 
SIR, 

I Shall, now, with all poffible candour and impartiality, 
give 2i general Jkdch of the chara6ter of the Vv'hites in 
Barbadoes ; with refpedt to humanity and its contrary. 

The ladies^ as will naturally be fuppofed, deferve the 
firft place on flie fide of humanity — a virtue which many 
of them carry to an excefs, which is not only troublefome 
to their hufbands, but really injurious to their Haves. To 
the humanizing influence of the fofter fex, who are pro- 
portionably far more numerous in Barbadoes than in any 
other Britilh colony, the negroes are undoubtedly in- 
debted, in a great meafure, for the fuperior lenity they 
experience in that ifland. But humanity is not the only 
amiable trait in the chara6ler of the .carbadian ladies. 
Their ceconomy, fobriety, fidelity and attachment to their 
hufbands deferve much praife. They would fufpedl me 

•f- ' Tenants for life or dower wilfully deflroying or difabling fuch ne- 
* grocs, to pay treble their value to the p;irtj In reverfion.' Laws of Bar- 
badoes, No. 117, cl. 18. But flaves may be harrafied a thoufand ways 
without immediately difabling or dellroying them ; and when they are fo 
difabled or ckflroyed, the perpetrator remam to be contjiBed ! ! 

of 



( 39 ) 

of flattery, were I to exempt them from the common fail- 
ino-s of their fex — affeilation — a preference of frivolous 
men and frivolous accomplifbments, and a little indulgence 
in fcandal, that bane of every fmall community.- — Gen- 
tlemen of the learned profeffions, in point of humanity, 
are fcarcely inferior to the ladies. — The inhabitants of 
the towns may, in general, be faid to be humane. Many 
of them, indeed, treat their domeftics w^ith a degree of 
indulgence, which, in their prefent uncultivated ftate (for 
the foppifh drefs of the black beaux and belles does not 
conftitute cultivation) they are in general but ill able to 
bear, and which they very often abufe. Hence, the fid- 
dling, dancing, drinking, gamblings and the confequent 
quarrels, thefts and burglaries, which, every night, more 
or lefs, difturb the peace, and prey on the property of the 
inhabitants of Brjdge-tow^n. — Many of the independent 
owners of plantations juftly deferve places, and fome of 
them eminent places, on the fide of humanity. I faid in- 
depe-ndoit ; fmce, vi^ithout independence, an owner's hu» 
manity is likely to be little felt by his flaves. ' The quan- 
tity, quality and price of the provifions which a planter, 
who is indebted to his town-agent, can procure, depend 
almoft folely on the will and good pleafure of the latter. 
Should the poor planter complain, the levying of an exe- 
cution, or the foreclofing of a mortgage, are arguments 
powerful to filence him. I need not add, that, befides 
their inability to provide properly for their flaves, owners, 
whofe affairs are involved, are under ftrong temptations 
to over-work them, in order to get out of debt. 

The proportion of humane country people who are not, 
like the town's people, fubjeified, in a body, to the view, it 
is impoilible to afcertain. Some managers are of the mid- 
dling and the better forts of people, others of aclafs which 
we fhall prefently fketch ; and a few gentlemen of good 
education and in eafy circumftances, exercife that profef- 
fion. Thefe laft may naturally be fuppofed to be the moil 
diftinguifhed for humanity ; efpeciaily as they can live in- 
dependent of their employment, as managers. But where 
a man's bread depends folely on that employment, he 
muft, of courfe, accommodate his conduft, towards the 
flaves, more to the will of his employer than to his own ; 
and where his continuance in place depends, as it too 
often does, on that firft of all objefts, large crop?, the 
C 4 ilave 



( 40 ) 

Have will fuffer hardfhip from a hand which reluctantly 
impofes it. 

With refpe^l: to white inhabitants, Barhadoes is pecu- 
liarly circumftanced. The lands in that ifiand were ori- 
ginally cleared and cultivated by bond-fervants of that 
defcription This circumftance accounts for Barbadoes 
having even at this day, a far greater proportion of whites 
than any other European fettlement in the Weft Indies. 
In 1676, it contained about 50,000 whites,* a great 
part of whom have fmce emigrated ; but, before the great 
hurricane in 1780, the whites v^^ere ftill computed at 
22,000,+ a population, of itfelf proportionably greater 
than that of Britain in the ratio of 97 to 90. j To this 
number of whites, the bufmefs of the plantations, now 
cultivated by negroes, cannot give employment ; there 
being no departments for them to fill, except thofe of ma- 
nager, book-keeper, diftiller and driver. As every plan- 
tation however, muft fend, or ought to fend, its propor- 
tion of whites into the militia, many of them are ftill 
retained on the eftates, where they obtain a very fcanty 
fubfiftence by cult'vating, wjth their stun hanr/s, little odd 
(kirts of land which they hold as tenants^ by this kind of 

* See the Hiftory of the European Settlements in America, vol. 
2. p. 87. 

-)- One of the caufes of depopulation afligned by Dr. Franklin, is The 
JntroduBion of Sla-ves. « The negroes brought into the Englifli fugar 

* iflands, have greatly diminifhed the whites there. The poor are by this 

* means, deprived of employment, while a few families acquire vaft 

* eftates, which they fpend on foreign luxuries 5 and educating their 

* children in the habit of thofe luxuries, the fame income is needed for 
? the fupport of one, that might have maintained one hundred. The 

< whites who have flaves, not labouring, are enfeebled, and therefore 
« not fo generally prolific; (he Jla-ves, be'wg ivorked too hard, and ill fed, 

* their conjiitittions are broken^ and the deaths among them are move than the 

< hlrthz \ fo that a continual fupply is needed from Africa. The northern 

* colonies having few flaves, increaf? in whites. Slaves alfo pejorate 

* the families that ufe them; the whire children become proud, difr 

* gufted with labour, and being educated in idlenefs, are rendered unfit 
C to get a living hy induftry.' Thoughts on the Peopling of Countries. 

\ The area of Barbadoes, according to Guthrie, or rather Templeman, 
IS 140 fquare miles, equal to that of the ifle of Wight; but Mayo, in 
his map, makes it, 1 think, 106000 acres, or 165 5-8th3 fquare miles, 
•which 1 adopt, as being, probably, more accurate. Great Britain, on 
an area of about 77200 fquare miles, is computed to contain about 
Q, 000,000 of people. 1 have juft feen a map of Europe, which makes the 
area of Great Britain nearly lOOjOOO fquare miles ; but from what au- 
thority I cannot teH. 

piilitary 



( 41 ) 

military tenure. That all the lands in Barbadoes originally 
were, and that ports of them jlill are^ cultivated by 
WHITES, are clrcu nftances the more worthy of attention, 
as it has been boldly aflerted, that white men cannot 
ftand field-labour in the Weft-Indies. In the fequel, it 
will appear, that, in cafe of the abolition of the flave- 
trade, there wiL be no neceflity whitever to fubftitute 
white hands for black ones, in planting the fugar-cane ; 
yet, did fuch neceflity exift, I do not fee v/hy temperate, 
ieafoned white men might not perform that labour, in the 
open fields^ which, in Barbadoes, they oitea do perform 
among bufhes in the fides of gullies and other rough 
ground where they are expofed to the fcorching fun. with- 
out having much refrefhment from the cooling breeze. — ■ 
Why cannot white field-labourers ftand the climate, as 
well as failors, houfe, mill and fhip-carpenters, plumbers, 
copper-fmiths, black-fmiths, brick-layers, and mafons of 
that colour ? The fa£l is, that, in Barbadoes many whites 
of both jexesy till the ground, without any affiftance from 
negroes, and poor white-women often v/alk many miles 
loaded with the produce of their little fpots, which they 
exchange in the towns for fuch European goods as they 
can afford to purchafe. — The reft of the poor whites fub- 
lift by fiftiing, by the mechanic emplovments iuft men- 
tioned, or by keeping little retail-ftiops ; and fome of 
thefe laft make a pradlice of buying ftolen goods from the 
negroes, whom they encourage to plunder their owners, 
of every thing that is portable. 

Many of the poor whites are difpofed to take, and too 
many of them do take, every advantage over the negroes 
which the laws* leave in their power. Some of them too 
much depend, for a fubfiftence, on robbing the flaves 
of, or, at leaft, taking, at their ovv'n prices, the trifling 
commodities the poor things may be carrying to market, 
or, by feizing and illegally converting to their own ufe, 
articles of greater value which the flaves may have pur- 
loined from their owners. Should a flave ftruggle, as 
he often will, to retain the difputed article, a beatino- is, 
fometimes, added to the rohbeiy^ as it Is jufrly called, by 
the better fort of people. For fuch ufage the party injured 
has no redrefs, for he often dares not complain to his 

* See Hall's Laws of Earbadoes, No, 164, cl. 3. 

owner. 



( 42 ) 

owner, andj when he does, the fac^ remains to he proved. 
Thus a poor field-negro, after having; travelled eight or 
ten miles, on Sunday, is frequently robbto, b/ fome 
town-plunderer, within a fhort diftance of his for her) 
market, and returns home, fatigued by the journey, and 
chagrined from having iofc a precious day's labour, and, 
perhaps, the fruits of his addrefs, on ther&regoing light. 
To me it has often been matter of aftoniiliment, that 
white m.en are fo feldom knocked on the head, in confe- 
quence of injuries fo intolerable. I have heard both 
owners and managers regret that Haves are fo much 
in the power of ili-difpofed whites, in this very refpe6l, 
and humanely confider the theft of a few canes, a bottom 
of fugar, &c. as a venial kind of trefpafs, which they 
were often to expecl: ; adding, that even when the article 
Holen was more confiderable, as a pot of fugar, a jar of 
rum or melaffes, &c. they much rather wifned that the 
flave fhould have the ufe of it, than a worthlefs white 
man. I am inclined to think that this is almofl: the only 
evil which the flaves in Barbadoes fufFer in a greater de- 
gree, than thofe in the other iilands, owing to the greater 
number of poor whites with which that ifland abounds : 
nor do I fee hov/ on the prefent fyftem of things, this 
fore grievance can be remedied. 

In confequence of this redundancy of white men, in 
Barbadoes, their wages, as fervants on plantations (and, 
indeed, as clerks in the towns) are pitifully low; and 
are, fometimes, paid in indifferent produce, charged to 
them at a price which their creditors cannot allow, when 
they take fuch produce in payment for the coarfe clothes, 
which the poor fellows may have taken up, at a price, 
proportioned to the diftance and uncertainty of the pay- 
ment. Their diet, in general, is both coarfe and fcanty, 
fo fcanty, indeed, that, in order to get visuals, they are, 
fometimes obliged to connive at the villainies of the prin- 
cipal negroes on the eftates. Hence fome of the book- 
keepers, diftillers and drivers become worthlefs and aban- 
doned ; and, in truth, as unworthy of trufl: as the negroes 
themfelves. 

It cannot be expe(3:ed that men thus treated fhould, in 
general, be diflinguifhed for humanity ; but their want of 
that virtue is the lefs felt by the flaves, as the former are 
always under the immediate controul of the owners or 

managers. 



( 43 ) 

managers.— When fuch men become managers, which 
they fometimes do, we may eafily guefs what ufe they 
will make of the exorbitant, or, at leaft, the very ample 
powfers annexed to that ftation. Indeed they, fometimes, 
iofe their employment, merely on account of their feve- 
rity. It is alfo true, that the negroes, if they dillike a 
manager, though, perhaps, without any good reafon, 
fometimes teize and harrafs him, till they provoke him to 
treat them with feverity ; and then they run with com- 
plaints to the attorney or the owner, who, perhaps, is more 
to blame than either, by putting it out of the manager's 
power to feed the people well, and to work them mode- 
rately. 

Thus, Sir, in fome inftances, the ill treatment of the 
Have is owing to the inhumanity or ill temper of the ma- 
nager ; or, in fome degree, to thofe of the driver ; in 
others to the inhumanity, parfimony or flraitened circum- 
ftanees of the owner ; in others, again, to the perverfe- 
nefs of the flave himfelf, who, it muft be remembered, is 
72ot paid for the labour which he is compelled by ftripes to 
undergo. When all thefe caufes are combined, which, 
from diC; nature of the thing, cannot but, fometimes, 
happen, the flave muft be completely wretched, and every 
perfon concerned in his treatment, unhappy. 

From the preceding facts and obfervations, we may 
draw this general conclufion, which may, afterwards, be 
ufeful to us in our reafonings : That all pojjtble cafes of ill 
treatment refult^ either 7nediately or immediately^ from the 
REPUGNANCY {for it caymot properly he called a relation) 
which neceffarilyftihfijh between thofe natural enemies o-w^EVi 
and SLAVE. ' This, (fays Locke,*) is the perfect con- 
' dition oi favery^ which is nothing elfe but the ft ate of 
' war continued^ between a lawful conqueror and a cap- 
« tive.' 

On the other hand, it is perhaps equally certain. That, 
in countries where the greateft part of the inhabitants are 
in a ftate of abfolute, unconditional flavery, the little pro- 
te6lion and happinefs which the flaves enjoy, muft be ow- 
ing more to the lenity, good fenfe and fpirit of particular 
owners than to any protecting laws which can be dcv fed 
to bind fuch communities. Laws framed by owners (elpe- 

* On Government, b. z, ch. 4, 

cially 



( 44 ) 

dally by owners who are greatly out-numbered by their 
flaves) mult, at bell, be eafily eluded, partial if not op- 
preffive in their nature, and feeble in their operation. All 
hiftory bears witnefs to thefe truths, at the fame time, 
that they are, with demonftrative evidence, deducible from 
the conftitution of the human mind. ' According to an» 
' cient pra£lice,' fays Hume, ' all checks were on the in^ 
' ferior^ to reftrain him to the duty of Jubmijfion : none 
' on the fiiperior, to reftrain him to the reciprocal duties 
' of gentlenefs and humanity. '^^ He might have extended 
this obfervation to the colonies of lome modern European 
jftates, of the flave-laws, of which, we may truly fay, 

■ Humana malignas 

Cura dedit leges. OviD. 

We have feen how the white fervants and the flaves, 
in general, are treated in Barbadoes. There are no 
hond-Jervants now in that ifland. The laft, I believe, 
who vi^ere fold there, were a few of the deluded people, 
whofe lives were juftly forfeited, to the laws of their coun- 
try, in 1745. One of them ftill furvives ; and it will 
not be foreign to my fubje(5l to mention what I heard of 
his hiftory. — His mailer having underftood that the high- 
landers could not properly be called freemen, in their own 
country, tooic it for granted, that they were flaves, in 
the fame fenfe with the negroes in Barbadoes ; for it is 
probable that he could not diftinguifli between an oppref- 
five and ufurped domination, and a patriarchal kind of do- 
minion which though, like all other fpecies of arbitrary 
power, it was often abufed, and therefore was defervedly 
abolilhed, was yet founded on ancient cuftom, and, on the 
whole, was agreeable, if not, perhaps, flattering, to the 
prejudices of the people. He, accordingly, treated the 
man with great feverity ; and, at lad, proceeded to fuch 
excelfes, that the blood of the highlander was roufed, and 
he proceeded to equal excefl'es, in his turn. His mafter, 
finding his fervitude altogether unprofitable, and that he 
■was not to be reformed by ftripes and chains, gave him 
his freedom. How he afterwards fubfifted, I know not; 
but he has for fome years lodged in the poor-houfe in 
Bridge-town, totally blind and fuperannuated. He is at 
jio lofs for food in that hofpitable place ; but people are 

* Effay on the Pof uloufnefs of Ancjejit Nations* 

too 



( 45 ) 

too apt to give him money and ftrong drink, with which, 
I imagine, he was always accuflomed to befot himfelf. 
His countrymen are at no other expence with him than 
giving him his dinner, on the anniverfary of their tutelar 
Saint.* His companion^, I heard, were very well treated, 
and probably deferved good treatment better than he did ; 
for I have reafon to think his temper was always obfti- 
nate, and, like the temper of moft Britons, peculiarly 
unadapted for a ftate of flavery. 

Kenneth Morrifon, a poor, but unoffending, highlan- 
der, was reduced to the hard neceffity of indenting himfelf 
to the mafter of a Weft Indian fhip, who fold him, as a 
bond-fervant, in Barbadoes, many years ago. He was 
treated with great cruelty, and, in particular, was let 
down into an old well, as a place of confinement. Luck- 
ily he was able to prove this fa6t ; and fued for and ob- 
tained his freedom. Having been a good fcholar and a 
fober man, he commenced teacher ; and, in that capacity, 
was fo fortunate as to attract the notice of the Governor 
(I think, Governor Grenville) who difcovered his merit, 
fent him home for holy orders, and gave him a parifli. 
Having arrived at a refpeitable ftation, he did not forget 
that excellent maxim, ' Non ignarus mali, miferis fuc- 
' currere difco.' * He had fuffered perfecution, and had 
' learned mercy 'f Obtaining a place in the commiflion of 
the peace, he diftinguifhed himfelf by a fpirited, inflexible 
adherence to juftice, and * refpe^Tted not perfons in judg- 
' ment ;' a conduct which, in moft countries, will be 
more applauded by the poor than by the rich. Mr. Mor- 
rifon was many years re6tor of St. James's parifh ; and 
died, eight or nine years ago, much regretted, efpecially 
by the indigent and the unproteiled. 

I have the honour to be, &c. 

* The Englifii, Scotch, and Irifh have focieties for the relief of their 
poor countrymen, which were particularly ufeful to many diftrefl'ed fea- 
faring men during the late war. The writer of thefe letters had the ho- 
nour to be box-keeper or treafurer to one of thofe focieties, vihen he lefc 
Barbadoes — a circumftance which he does not mention out of vanity j 
but he thinks the public ought to know that the perfon who now ad- 
dreffes them was deemed worthy of confidence^ in that, as well as in a 
department of greater importance, 
'\ Sterne. 



L E T T j: R 



( 46 ) 



LETTER VII. 
S I R, 

HAVING given a free, but a candid and impartial, 
fketch of the general condition of the flaves, and of 
the chara61:er of the whites, fo far as it is concerned in 
the prefent fubjecl, I fliould now proceed to a more pleaf- 
ing tafk, that of paying my little tribute of juft applaufe 
to the virtues of fome worthy individuals. But unneceffary 
perfonal allufions of any kind may juftly be confidered as 
entirely foreign to a fubje6t of this public nature, not to 
mention the tendency they have to awaken detra£i:ion *; 
to which, however, the charasSters I now have chiefly in 
view may bid defiance. Suffice it, therefore to fay, that 
there are gentlemen refiding chiefly or entirely in Bar- 
badoes, who ftudy to make their flaves happy — as happy 
as is compatible with their prefent aehafed ftate — a ftatej 
however, from which one or two worthy perfons are en- 
deavouring to raife them ; and, I have been told, with a 
promifing degree of fuccefs. A few gentlemen of Bar- 
badoes, who refide conftantly in England, and whom uni- 
verfal fame allows to poffefs the moft confummate good- 

* All fmall communities are, more or lefs, infefted with flanderers. 
In Barbadoes, fuch perfons do not always content themfalves with luhjj- 
pering defamation ; but I have known the two preiTes teem, for months 
together, not with political, only, but with indecent and virulent, per- 
fonal invedlive. 'I'his aflfercion and feveral others I have advanced, I 
could fupport, if neceJJ'ary^ by extracts from a colledlion of Barbadoes 
papers, now in my hands. I have no perfonal caufe to complain of the 
anonymous writers of Barbadoes, having never been once fo much as al- 
luded to by them. But I always detefted the praftice of fcribbling in 
newfpapers, on any other, at leaft, than general fubjedts. In no newf- 
paper, did 1 ever make even the remoteft perfonal allufion, except-, 
in a piece figned Offavhis, in the Barbadoes Mercury, of November 13th 
1784. Tliat piece wai intended to place in tlie proper point of view the 
character of a refpeftable gentleman of the Ifland who poflefles good 
qualities, which he in vain endeavours to conceal, and who had been ra- 
ther lightly indeed, than injurioufly treated, by one of thofc fcribblers. 
I. CjT-'iTirji never was anfwered. 

Magna cji Veritas et PRiEvALEBiT ! ! 

nefs 



( 47 ) 

nefs of heart, take care that their eftates be fupplled with 
proper ftores of all kinds. I have always underftood that 
the managers of thofe gentlemen have it in their pov/er, 
aijd are JhiSily ordered to treat the flaves humanely. 

But, Sir, there is feme reafon to think, that many 
worthy Planters v/ho refide in this country, do not know 
every thing that paffes on their eftates, in the Weft 
Indies ; but this I know, that an apprentice to one of 
the eminently humane gentlemen I allude to, was almoft 
killed with downright drudgery ; and was fo much 
pinched in his food, that his father, who was v/ell able 
to maintain him, and v/ho lived at the diftance of 
three miles, was obliged to fend daily fupplies of drefTed 
vi6tuals for him and his fellow- 'prentice, a youth from 
this country. For this ill treatment, I am confident, 
the manager alone was blam.eable ; for, during the firft 
years of his apprenticefhip, the lad made no complaints, 
"having, at that time, had no reafon to find fault with his 
treatment. The plantation was then fuperintended by 
a gentleman, who never had it in his nature to treat any^ 
human being ill. I have fince heard the young man fay, 
that he was then treated with a fatherly attention 5 and 
particularly that he often dined at the gentleman's table. 
This worthy perfon gave up the management, 1 think, 
on account of his advanced age ; and was fucceeded by 
a young tyrant, who not only harraffed and ftarved, but 
often horje-tuhipt the youth, (for it is unlawful to beat 
a white apprentice with a cow-jkin\ after he had attained 
his eighteenth or nineteenth year, was near fix feet tall, 
and knew his bufinefs well. When decent, well edu- 
cated, white apprentices were thus treated, it is eafy to 
guefs what the negroes fufFered. Indeed I have heard, 
and I believe, that he ruled them with a rod of iron ; 
and, particularly that, while a batchelor, he, fometimes, 
treated fome of the young wenches ill, for no other rea- 
fon, but becaufe they refufed to fubmit to his luft. 

Vice ferves as a foil to illuflrate virtue. By way of 
compenfation to the inhabitants of Barbadoes, for having 
ftigmatized an individual of their number, I muft beg 
leave, Sir, to deviate a little farther from my plan, while 
I commemorate the virtues of the moll refpe6lable, I may 
well fay venerable^ Weft Indian gentleman, I ever had 

the 



( 4S ) 

the honour of knowing. The perfon I allude to^ was 
the late Henry Bishop, Efq. who was generally known 
by the name of the old Gentleman in Speights. — The 
excellent education he gave his children bear witnefs 
to his parental care. As a guardian, I have repeat- 
edly heard his praifes celebrated. As an owner, he was 
indulgent, even to a fault ; for a fault there certain- 
ly is, in exceffive indulgence to flaves. On their com- 
plaining of the feverity of any of his managers, I have 
heard him fpeak to his man of bufinefs to this effe£t, 
' Write to that fellow to take care what he does ; for 
' I will not fuffer him, or any man, to abufe my people.' 
When any barbarous deed was mentioned in his hearing, 
Mr. B. would openly exclaim, * The fcoundrel ought to 
* be hanged ! !' Such, I remember, was his indignant 
language, on feeing three wretches carried pall his door, 
who vv^ere chained together, and had been moft barbaroufly 
whipt, and brutally treated by their owner, who, by his cruel- 
ty, has fmce rapidly reduced himfelf to beggary. It is not 
wonderful that fuch a man fhould be hated by all, and 
both hated and feared by moft, of thofe whofe praife 
would be diftionour. Some cowardly mifcreant, whom, 
no doubt, Mr. B's. freedom had offended, one night, 
fired a mufket loaded with ball, into the apartment, 
where he flept. Though Mr. B. had, in the earlier 
part of his life, carried on a very great trade with the 
Americans, he was a declared enemy to their caufe ; and, 
from principle and conviiStion, was moft firmly and con- 
fcientioufly attached to his Sovereign and to this coun- 
try — a fentiment, indeed, in which Mr. B. was, by no 
means, fingular. I well remember, his fending (by a 
perfon who had lived with him about five and thirty 
years) to the comm.anders in chief of the fleet and army 
in America, each a hogfliead of his beft old rum, to 
drink fuccefs to the Britifti arms. — Thefe few loofe 
anecdotes, which I know to be true, will give a jufter idea 
than a laboured, fulfome panegyric, of the character of a 
man who did honour to the ifland of Barbadoes, and who 
would have done honour to any country. Such, Sir, 
are the very terms in which I have, more than once, 
heard Mr. B. mentioned by a certain honourable and 
worthy perfon, now deceafed, — an honeft man and a 
faithful, well informed fervant and Reprefentative of his 

Sovereign, 



( 49 ) 

Sovereign ; whofe pralfe was, on every account, eflim- 
able ; and, it is well known, that he never defcended 
to the meannefs of flattery. — Mr. B. died, much re- 
gretted, by every good man, who had the honour of his 
acquaintance, in the year 1781, aged 83. 

His funeral fermon, preached by ascertain learned, dili- 
gent and worthy clergyman, who, in the difcharge of his 
duty, never gave ' flattering titles unto man,' was one 
of the very few difcourfes of the kind jto which I have 
liltened with fatisfa6tion. 

Some account of the late Jofeph Callender, a humane, 
fenfible, placid and facetious old Quaker, ought to follow 
that of Mr. B. whofe conftant companion he was, for 
a feries of years ; and who did himfelf infinite credit by 
the choice of fuch a friend. But I have already too 
much receded from my plan. I muft obferve, however, 
that J. C. has often told me, that though he had fpent a 
long life in Barbadoes, he never was molefted, in any 
manner, by a negro ! 

I dare appeal, Sir, to every good man in the ifland of 
Barbadoes, whether, in thefe inftances, I have aimed at 
deceiving the living, out of refpedl for the dead. 

I have the honour to be, &c. 



I 



LETTER VIII. 

SIR, 

NEED not inform you— that more of our words and 
phrafes than men generally fuppofe are loofe, unmean- 
ing, and indefinite j and — that education engrafts on the 
human mind prejudices which the moft acute philofophers 
have not always been able to diftinguifh from original 
principles in our nature. In this fubjeft, we have ex- 
amples of, as well as exceptions from, thefe pofitions. 

Of loofe indefinite words and phrafes we have but too 

many examples 5 for moft of the controverfies which 

D in 



( so ) 

in all ages have perplexed and tormented mankind, are 
founded on them. Thus when we fay, A Spaniard, or 
any other fubje£l of an abfolute monarchy, is a flave, 
and, A negro, in the Weft Indies, is a flave, we make two 
very different affirmations, arifmg from the very different 
fenfes of the v^ordijlave. The mafter of a fervant or ap- 
prentice differs fo entirely from the mafter of a flave, 
that, knowing how apt men are to be mifled by loofe, 
popular terms, we choofe, in thefe letters, to write 
Owner and flave * rather than mafter and flave f . 
Again, mercy to a horfe differs from mercy to a man ; and 
I fincereiy wifh, there was not a fimilar difference be- 
tween humanity to a flave, in a country of flavery, and 
humanity to a freeman in a free country. Thofe punifti- 
ments would be accounted cruel, in this kingdom (at 
leaft \i arbitrarily inflicted) which pafs, in the Weft In- 
dies, for nothing more than ordinary difcipline. 

The advocates for a bad caufe, in order to make ' the 

* worfe appear the better reafon,' are often forced to avail 
themfelves of the imperfection of language we are fpeak- 
ing of. Thus, when the apologifts for flavery affert, 
that the negro-flaves in the Weft Indies are not in a 
worfe condition than the poor in England, they plainly 
can mean, by the -wor A flave^ nothing more than what 
is commonly meant by the v/ord drudge^ or a perfon who 
toils hard, and lives on a poor diet. The great Locke, 
who was well accuftomed to refolve complex into their com- 
ponent fimple ideas did not confound thofe terms. ' I con- 
' fei's,' fays he, ' we find among the Jews, as well as 

* other nations, that men did fell themfelv^es ; but, it is 

* plain, this was only to drudgery^ not X.o flaveryX Nor 
has that able and accurate reafoner, Dr. A. Smith, con- 
founded them. ' The Blacks, fays he, ' who make the 

* Owner and Jlwue, exprefllng the property the former abfurdly 
claims in the perfon of the latter. For the derivation of the vfordjla-ve, 
fee the Hiflory of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, vol. 5, 

P- 54-3' ^ . 

-j- « The odious names of majlcr and Jla-ve, the mofi: mortifying and deprej- 
f fing oi all diftinftions to human nature, vi'ere aboliflie'd.' Hiftory of 
Charles V. vol. i. p. 49. The benign fpirit of Chriftianity effefted this 
great changi-. For an excellent account of the manner in which our 
religion operated on the manners, the opinions and the civil rights of the 
Europeans, Ice vol. i. p. 321. of the fame admirable work, Gonfult 
alfo the Spirit of Laws, b. ai. ch. 3, 4, &C| 

\ On Coverument} B> z. ch» 4. 

greater 



( 51 3 

« greater part of the inhabitants both of the fouthern 

* colonies upon the continent, and of the Weft India 
' iflands, as they are in a ftate of Jlavery^ are, no doubt, 

* in a worfe condition than the poore/i people either in Scot- 
' land or Ireland. We muft not, however, upon that 
' account, imagine that they are worfe fed.' \ But, by 
the way. Sir, had Dr. A^ Snaith ever feen the treatment of 
the (laves, he would have faid. That, in proportion to 
their labour at leaft, they are often much worfe fed than 
any fet of people in thefe kingdoms. 

The labouring poor in England, it hath been faid, are 
flaves to necejfty. If this be the blind metaphyfical quid- 
dity which hath caufed fo much wrangling in the fchools, 
then our adverfaries miftake their men, for (fome) Englifh 
philofophers, not Englifh peafants, are enflaved by it. If 
that neceffity be meant, which binds man to his focial 
duties, then, I apprehend, the monarch on the throne is 
as much fubje^ted to it as the peafant at the plough-tail. 
If by neceffity be underftood, that law which faid, ' In 
' the fweat of thy face, fhalt thou eat bread,' then the 
Englifh peafant has the comfort to know that this merci- 
ful doom is not confined to him alone, but extends to 
every hufbandman and manufacturer in the world. — The 
Britifli poor, like the poor in all countries, certainly do 
fufFer hardfhips, fome of which are unavoidable., and others 
the effe6ls of their own vices ; but both muft be carefully 
diftinguifhed from thofe more galling miferies which pro- 
ceed from the vfiirped and ahifed power of tyrants. In 
common, too, with all their fpecies, from the prince to 
the beggar, they feel ' the heart-ach, and the thoufand na- 

* tural fhocks that flefh is heir to.' Whips and chains and 
tortures are arbitarily fuperadded to compleat the wretch- 
ednefs of the flave. And, Sir, is it nothing to be exemp- 
ed from thofe whips and chains and tortures ? Is it no- 
thing to have property, perfon and life effeftually pro- 
te6led ? 

But let us, for a moment, allovs^. That the condition 
of the Englifo poor is 7iot better than that of negro-flaves, 
will it not follow, a fortiori, that the condition of the 
Scotch and the Irijh poor is worfe ? Whence comes it, 
then, that miferable Scotland and miferable Ireland, far 

* Wealth of Nations, vol. 3. P'45o, 

D 2 from 



C S2 ) 

from requiring or receiving any foreign fupplies of people^ 
fend abroad fo many fupernumerary inhabitants, and fur- 
nifli fo many thoufands and tens of thoufands of brave 
and hardy foldiers and failors, to itand or fall by the fide 
of the Englifhj in fighting the battles of their country ? 
Thus, on the fuppofition, that the condition of the Weft 
Indian flaves is as vood as that of the Englifh poor, it muft 
be better than that of the poor of the fifter kingdoms ; 
and, confequently, fupplies of negroes from Africa are 
fo very far from being necefTary, that a vaft furplus of 
the blacks might be fent to people fome uncultivated re- 
gion. 

But this parallel, though execrable, is interefting. Let 
us therefore examine it a little more clofely. Had it been 
fairly drawn, houfe-negroes in the Weft Indies, vi'ould 
have been compared to domeftic fervants, in this country; 
artificers to artificers ; and field-negroeS to peafants. 
With refpe£t to food and clothes, I readily allow that the 
firft clafles are as nearly on a level, as they can be, in 
countries fo different; and, "from a houfe-negro, not a 
fourth part of the eafy bufinefs of a family is exacted, 
that an Englifh fervant performs. But can an Englifti 
fervant be flogged, or hampered in irons, at the pleafure 
of his mafter ? Can he be turned out to be loaded with 
dung, or to dig in the field, with a cow-flcin fmacking 
behind him ? I do not fay, that houle negroes, in general, 
experience fuch viciffitudes ; for very many of them never 
dug a cane hole, or received a fevere ftripe, in their lives ; 
but, fuch viciffitudes, all of them are liable to experience. 
— The condition of the black artificers approaches, in a 
general way, to that of white ones in this country, al- 
lowing, as before, for the efFe6ls of caprice and tyranny. 
Here the artificer, though he works, incomparably harder, 
has greatly the advantage of the houfe-negro ; for he is 
very often let out, and thofe who hire artificers do not 
punifti them, unlefs they be very worthlefs, and then, they 
do it by the owner's authority. — Between the field-negro 
and the Britifh peafant, God forbid the comparifon fhould 
hold good. Say, the latter works harder if you will, and 
lives as poorly as the former ; ftill, thank Heaven ! he 
fufFers not half the miferies of flavery. — The peafant can 
chufe or change his employer ; the negro is enllaved for 
life.— The peafant refts-.^ the flave labours on Sundays. — 

Biid 



( 53 ) 

Bad weather and the long winter evenings give the pea- 
fant fome refpite from the hardeft parts of his toil ; the 
negro drudges almoft incefTantly.— The peafant's family 
canrwot be feparated from him ; that of the negro, alas ? 
is often fcattered to the four winds. — The peafant may 
defend his perfon againft any aggrefibr ; at the negro's 
per'l, does he lift his hand againft the meaneft white 
man, who may chufe, in the abfence of whites, to attack 
him, — The perfons and the chaflity of the peafant's wife 
and daughter are moft effe£lually guarded from violence. 
— Before the negroe's face, whenever his owner or ma- 
nager thinks fit, his wife or daughter may be expofed 
naked and fcourged by the ruthlefs hand of a driver : and 
will it be affirmed that their chaftity is never violated 
with abfolute impunity ? — The peafant's evidence is goodg 
and the laws proted his life, as well as that of the firft 
nobleman in the kingdom ; the evidence of the negro is 
not admitted againft a white man, and, for this reafon 
alone.y were there no other, the laws do not, cannot pro- 
teSi him. — In two fignificant words, the peafant is a free- 
man; the negro is a slave. — In ficknefs, or old age, 
I own, and the many anxious cares attendant on a provi- 
fion for them, the cafe of the former is often more piti- 
able than that of the latter, under a humane and indepen- 
dent owner ; but we have feen that all owners are not 
independent, and have lamented that, to aged and infirm 
Haves, they are not, always, humane. 

Let no man fay, I attempt to explain away the miferies 
of the poor in this country. I have only proved that, on 
the whole, their condition is far more eligible than that of 
Weft Indian flaves, in general, is. In genera}.^ I fay; 
for, unlefs the parallel will hold generally, I fee no end it 
can anfwer, but to miflead the public ; if, indeed, any 
man of common fenfe can be made to believe fo incre- 
dible an aflertion. 

To what purpofe have the valiant Britifti nations ftea- 
dily perfevered, for centuries together, in vindicating 
their invaluable rights — the facred rights of men ? — to 
what purpofe have they nobly fought and bled, and feveral 
times hardily wrefted the iron rod out of the fell grafp 
of grim tyrants ? — with what propriety, can they be faid 
to have obtained and to enjoy advantages above every na- 
P 3 tion 



( 54 } 

tion under Heaven ; if, after all their heroic exertions, 
their condition be not preferable to that of negro Jlaves ? 

Such arguments as the foregoing, I have, fometimes, 
ufed in the Weft Indies ; but 1 little expefted ever to feel 
myfelf called upon to repel this moft daring, mofi infuf- 
ferable infult to my country and to her laws-^ in the cen- 
ter of the city of London. 

But, in my eagernefs to prove what, one might fup- 
pofe, w^ould need no proof, that the condition of poor, 
butyr^^, peafants, in Britain, is vaftly more eligible than 
that of Weft Indhn Jlaves^ I have loft fight of the fecond 
pofition, at the beginning of this letter, That the pre- 
judices arifing from education are, fometimes fo ftrong as 
to be miftaken for principles impreffed by the hand of 
nature. From that pofition, it would feem to follow 
that an education in a land of flavery, and the domination 
which, from their infancy, the Weft Indians are accuf- 
tomed to exercife over their flaves, will totally eradicate 
the tender feelings of the heart, and render them pecu- 
liarly tyrannical and cruel. This inference, likefeveral' 
other plaufible inferences, in our fubjeil:, is, by no means, 
juft. Not to mention, that the higher ranks of the Bar- 
badians are generally educated in England, it is not true, 
that, from their infancy^ they are accuftomed to domineer 
over the negroes. Even the meaneft Barbadians are 
brought up with very high ideas of the fuperiority and 
prerogatives of white men ; but the children (of the bet- 
ter fort efpecially) are not allowed to fhew them by any 
a61:s of cruelty ; at leaft, I never heard of, nor obferved, 
any inftance of this kind, worthy of notice ; and I had 
the beft opportunities for making the obfervation. Eu- 
ropeans, of whom, it is true, there is but a fmall propor- 
tion in Barbadoes, always appeared to me to be fully as 
fevere owners as Weft Indians. Thefe laft are very far 
from being more fevere, than any other men would be, 
if inverted with the fame unlimited power. The flave, 
perhaps, has been born on the fame eftate, or even under 
the fame roof, with his Weft. Indian owner ; has, pro- 
bably, been fed with the remnants of the fame board ; 
or may have been the humble companion or the faithful 
attendant of his childhood and youth ; and, above all, the 
Weft Indian has been familiarized with the perverfenefs, 
thicvifhnefs and negligence oi Jlaves, On the humanity 

of 



( 55 ) 

of the European the wretch cannot plead fuch claims ; 
and he who, in his own country, was accuftomed, either 
to command with gentlenefs, or to obey with alacrity, is 
not prepared to bear the perpetual provocations of Jlaves 
with the patience of a ftoic. 

But, Sir, abfolute power ever has been, and ever will 
be abufed. It is well known that apprentices^ though the 
power of their mafters is very far from being abfolute, 
but is limited by the impending terrors of the lavy, are 
often ill-treated in every great town in Britain ; and, par- 
ticularly, that the climbing-boys^ among the chimney- 
fweeps are very cruelly treated, even in this metropolis^ an 
evil which, it is faid, will fhortly engage the attention of 
the legiflature. If apprentices are ill treated in Londony 
are we to wonder that negro Jlaves are ill treated, in the 
JVejl Indies? Farther, free negroes are generally more 
fevere, becaufe lefs enlightened, owners, than white 
people ; black drivers are known to be more rigorous 
than white ones ; negro children often fuffer feverely un- 
der the lafh of their mothers ; dogs under that of watch- 
men ; and draught cattle under that of black carters. 
Marefchal Saxe obferved, that, in the quarrels which took 
place between his baggage waggoners and their horfes, 
the two-legged animals were alv/ays in the wrong. 
But be it remembered, that the negroes are not paf- 
five brutes.^ but men.^ endowed with reafon which con- 
demns, and with unconquerable paffions which rebel 
againft, fervitude ; and that thofe paflions are often kept 
in an unceafmg ferment by unrewarded toil and ill ufage, 
and, fometimes roufed, even to defperatlon, by afls of 
injufcice and cruelty. If fuch be frequently their treat- 
ment, is it furprifmg that flaves fhould be indocile, ftub- 
born^ averfe from labour, and regardlefs of their owner's 
intereft ? Such paffions are InfesSious : they fly from the 
bofom of one Have to thofe of his fellows ; and, as may be 
€xpe6led, by every man who has the leaft knowledge of 
human nature, the behaviour of the flaves is often fuch, 
that their owners and managers muft be more or lefs than 
men-, to bear their provocation. Hence a frequent con- 
flift between the angry paffions of the owner and thofe of 
the flave, a confli6l in which the former often lofes fight 
of his interejiy and the latter of his fafety. 

D 4 The 



( 56 ) 

The caufe of the conduct both of owner and Have, 
which we have been defcribing, is, by no means, to be 
looked for in the difpofitions of either party as men ; but 
in their repugnancy (for, if it be a relation, it is the re- 
lation of the devil and the damned) or in the oppofition. 
of their interefts and pallions, as owner and_/7<t"' — a po- 
iition' to which I before referred all the ill treatment of 
the ilave; and which, till I fee it's fallacy demonftrated, 
I fhall hold to be as certain, as any one principle in moral 
philofophy. 

Thus, Sir, we have no reafon to fuppofe that the white 
natives of the Weft Indies are more rigorous owners than 
Europeans ; or that either of them are more rigorous than 
any other men would be, in the like circumftances. 

On the other hand, many, I may fay, moft, of the 
Africans, when they firft arrive in the Weft Indies, are 
as imple and innocent as any country -people in Britain. 
Moft of them learn their villainy, or rather are driven to 
it, in the Weft Indies. 1 or, if oppreffion ' will make 
* even a wife man mad,' what will be it's effe6l on the 
uncultivated mind of a negro? Hence we may account, 
in fome meafure, for ir,e common and perhaps, partly, 
juft, opinion, that African negroes are more bloody-mind- 
ed than Creoles ; becaufe the fpirit of the former has not 
been fo entirely bowed down and cruflied under the yoke 
of flavery, as that of the latter. For what we call bravery 
in an European, our ftiameful prejudices have no other 
name than ferocity * in an African. — For the other fail- 
ings of the flaves — for unlefs they, themfelves, are wholly 
blameable for them, they cannot be called vicei — for their 
other failings, I fay, it is eafy to account. They have no 
character to fupport^ and are pinched in their foody there- 
fore they are thleviJJj ; they are compelled to work without 
pay^ therefore they z.xQjiubborti ; their genius and inclina- 
tion are not confulted^ therefore they ^ivefiupid; they have 
no interefi in their own labour^ therefore the are carelefs 
of its fuccefs ; no perfon confults their eafc^ therefore they 

• ' Forafniuch as the negroes, and other Slaves, brought unto the 
' people of this Jfland, are of barbarouS} wild and Ja'uage naturt ! ! &c.— 
l-*ws of Barbadoes, No. %z, 

confult 



( 57 ) 

oonfult it themfelves, and are k'7f, I afk, where is that 
virtuous people who, if thus treated, would not become 
thievuh, ftubborn, ftupid, carelefs and lazy*? By the 
way, Sir, if the negroes be fo much lazier than all other 
men, as has been pretended, what mud be the nature of 
thofe punifliments which force fuch beings to work ? 

But, although I am clearly of opinion, that Weft, In- 
dians are not more rigorous owners than Furopeans are, 
nor Africans more worthlefs Haves, than Europeans would 
be ; yet I am very far from affirming, that the being bred 
in a land of ilavery has not an irrefiftible tendency to fix 
monftrous prejudices (I fay nothing here of vlcei) in the 
minds of the mere, ignorant vulgar. The poor whites 
in Barbadoes have no idea that the blacks are, any way, 
intitled to the fame treatment as white men. — Once, I 
heard a poor white man affirming that a perfon, (I think 
a Moravian) ought to be hanged, for preaching to the 
negroes. I afked him, if he did not read, in his Bible, 
that the gofpel was to be preached to all mankind ? He 
readily confefTed his ignorance of the gofpel ; but ftill 
ftrenuoufly infifted, that the man ought to be hanged — 
for preaching to the negroes. A perfon (who, I thought, 
mignt have known better things) a/Terted, in converfation 
with me, that the negroes were a bafp race, and inferior 
to the whites — becaufe, forfooth, they had not fouls to be 
laved t, a reafon near of kin to that which was urged in 

* For half his virtues Jove conveys away, 
Whom once he dooms to fee the fer-vik day. 

Pope's Horn. Odyff. 

"f- ' ^ negro has a foul, an' pleafe your Honouf, faid the Corporal 
« (doubtingly) — I am not much verfed, Corporal, quoth my Uncle Tcby, 

* in things of that kind ; but, I fuppofe, God would not leave him 

* without one, any more than thee or me. — It would be putting one 
' fadly over the head of another, quoth the Corporal. — Jt would io, faid 

* my Uncle Toby— Why then, an' pleafe your honour, is a black wench 

* to be ujed ivorfe than a luhite one ? — I can give no reafon faid my Uncle 
' Toby — Only, cried the Corporal, fhaking his head, becaufe fhe has no 
« one to ftand up for her — 'Tis that very thing. Trim, quoth my Uncle 

* Toby, which recommends her to protediion and her brethren with heri 

* 'Tis the fortune of war which has put the whip into our hands no%v ; 
' inhere It may be, hereafter. Heaven knows — but, be it where it will, the 
' brave, Trim,- ivili not ufe it unkindly — God forbid, faid the Corporal—— 
' Amen ! reff onded my Uncle Toby, laying his hand upon his heart 

Sterne, 

the 



( 58 ) 

the fifteenth century, for enflaving them, namely, ' That 

* they had the colour of the damned.' In fhort, the vul- 
gar, in Barbadoes, are as much convinced that negroes 
are naturally inferior to men of their own colour, as the 
vulgar in all countries are, that the fun moves, and that 
the earth is at reft. Many fuch vulgar errors, the firft 
principles of the illiterate, might be mentioned ; argu- 
ments againft v^^hich may puzzle them, but cannot Ihake 
their belief. 

The extreme ignorance of many of the poor Barbadian 
whites, cannot juftly be attributed to the w^ant of op- 
portunities of inftru(£i:ion ; for there are fchools, in every 
parilh, v^^hich, I believe, are well attended to; at leaft, 
I knew two parochial fchools where this was the cafe ; 
but the poor creatures cannot always fpare their children 
from home, after they become capable of giving them the 
leaft aiuftance in their field-labour. Nor are the clergy 
blameable for that ignorance. There are, in Barbadoes, 
eleven beneficed clerg^ymen, fome curates, and feveral 
more in orders, who are not provided for. In general, 
they are far from being deficient either in point of learn- 
ing or exemplary condu61: ; and they regularly perform 
divine fervice in all the eleven churches, befides tv/o or 
three chapels of eafe. Moft of the churches are well 
attended, by the better and middling fort of people, 
efpecial.'y by rhe ladies. The large and elegant church 
of St. Michael, in Bridgetown (the infide dimenfions of 
which, including chancel and fpire, are 136 feet by 60) 
is better attended, I am forry to obferve, than a great 
number of both the eftablifhed churches in this kingdom. 
Several free negroes and fome flaves regularly attend di- 
vine fervice. I could mention a family of the former, 
v;hofc devotion is fometimes the object of what, in the 
prefent cant, is called /Z/V, in the Barbadoes newfpapers. 
The poor whites very feldom enter a church, except at 
cle6tions or funerals ; and are then, generally, in a ftate 
of intoxication. 

' Barbadoes is almoft the only colony where any tole- 
' rable degree of decency is preferved, refpeftmg an efta- 
' bliflied religion ; and, though there be 7nany and griev- 

* ous defeits in its conjiitution and government^ yet this cir- 

' cumftancc 



( 59 ) 

' cumftance gives It confiderable advantages, in point of 
' decency and civilization, above all the others^ cfpecially, 
' the new Iflands.' * 

I have the honour to be, he. 



LETTER IX. 

• ■ — Deus ahmis^ eandem 



* Omnlgmh anhnam^ n'dprohibente^ dedit^ 

Williams, vid. tit. pag. 
SIR, 

"t Tl TE have, hitherto, proceeded v/ith as much fecurity 
' "^ on the fuppofition, that the Africans are men co- 
ordinate w^ith ourfelves, as if the apologifts for flavery 
had not refufed to grant us any fuch poftulatum ; or as 
if they had not called in the joint aid of fophiftry and 
modern metaphyfic to wreft humanity as well as liberty, 
from an injured and infulted race of men. Shame on 
European pride, avarice, and tyranny, which, by wreath- 
ing the chains of flavery on their perfons, have funk the 
Africans to, or, at leaf!:, have kept them in, a flate fo 
brutifh as to give fanftion to a doubt, whether the flave 
and his haughty lord partake of the fame common na- 
ture ! ! 

On this very difficult part of my fubje6l, I cannot pre- 
tend to offer much that is original, though feveral 
thoughts and arguments I have, which, I think, I may 
call my own. A narrow plan obliges me to confine, to 
one letter, a difcuffion on which a volume might be writ- 
ten. My brevity is of the lefs importance, as the fubjeil 
has been very fully handled by much abler writers — by 
Buffon, by Beattie, by Ramfay, by Clarkfon, and lately 
by a perfon who had uncommonly good opportunities for 
making obfervations, as well as ability to draw conclu- 

* Ramfay's Eflay on the Treatment, &c. p. loSj Note, 

fions . 



( 60 ) 

fions from them *. Are the doubts of fome philofophers, 
wbofe means of information v/ere very much circum- 
fcribed, to be put in the fcale againfi: the orginru'iis and 
the /(3(^j- of writers, one of whom (Mr. Ramlay) fpent a 
great part of his life, and the other (Dr. Smith) I believe, 
his whole life, among different tribes of men ? The mo- 
tives of thofe philofophers for expreffing fuch doubts are 
well known ; but it is highly probable that the humane 
Voltaire, and the good-natured, benevolent Hume, would 
not have thrown them out, had they dreamt that their 
conjeSiures and their ajfertions, would have been magnified 
into arguments^ by the apologifts for flavery. With all 
due refpe£l to thefe, and to fome other great modern 
names, I cannot affent to this their doubt, any more than 
I can to fome of their dogmas. Several of their literary 
produ6tions are as admirable, as, in my very humble opi- 
nion, their philofophical, or rather unphilofophical chi- 
meras are abfurd : and, till their followers fupport the 
fiimfy, tottering fabric of their untenable philofophy with 
reafonings more accurate and conclufive than any we 
have yet feen, I fhall take leave to confider it, as a 

* The Rev. Samuel Stanhope Smith, P. D. in <■ An EfTay on the 

* caufes of the variety of complexion and figure in the human fpecies, 

• printed at Philadelphia in 1787, reprinted at Edinburgh In 1788, with 

* additional notes, by a gentleman of the Univerfity.' This gentleman 
IS B. S. Barton, member of the Royal Medical Society of Edinburgh, &c. 
author of a very "ingenious and interefting work, entitled ' Obfervations 
' on fome parts of natural hiftory, to which is prefixed an account of 

' * feveral remarkable veftiges, of an ancient date, which have been dif- 

• covered in different parts of N. America.' (See Kalm's and Carver's 
Travels). This laft curious account has already appeared, and the reft of 
the work will fhortly be publiihed. One part of it will be, 'An elTay towards 
' a natural hiftory of the North American Indians,' in which Dr. Barton, 
from his own obiervation, will rectify feveral miftakes, refpefting thofe 
tribes. He affures me, that Dr. Smith's account of the colour, &c. of 

the Indians, is perfedtly juft. Dr. Smith, in my humble opinion^ has, 

in a very mafterly manner, refuted the arguments of Lord Kaimes, to 
prove that there are different fpecies of men. See pre!, difc. to his Lord- 
fliip's fketches, which, in moft other refpeds, is a valuable work. That 
a writer of fo much ability and humanity ftiould have reafoned fo weakly 
on a fubjeft, which leads, we fee, to fuch ferious confequences, is only 
to be accounted for, from the well known effefls of hypothefes, in mif- 
leading the mind. Knoiuing, as 1 do, how grofsly one part of mankind 
have been mifreprefented, 1 humbly think, no man is fo fully competent 
to write on this fubjedt, as he who has rcfided among the people he means 
to defcribe, long enough to receive the full and fair imprefiion of their 
charadler ; and, even then, he ougbt to be unbiafled \i-<jwterejl^ ox prejudice^ 
which arc flill more unfriendly to mankind than bypothefes, 

. jumble 



( 6i ) 

jumble of refined fophiftry and heterogeneous paradox, 
which it is impoflible for the human underftanding (I 
know it to impoflible for my underftanding) to reduce to 
any thing like a confiftent whole. 

On the prefent fubjeit, though I am not a match for 
thofe writers in argument, ftill lefs in the illufive fem- 
blance of argument, I may furely fay, without vanity, 
that, in point of information, I have the advantage of 
them, having feen and ohferved more of the negroes, than 
any one of them, or, perhaps, than all of them put toge- 
tlier. And God forbid, I fhould be guilty of infulting 
the wretched and the forlorn, by affirming that any fingle 
inftance of their behaviour ever gave me the fhadow of a 
reafon to doubt of their natural equality, both in intelleii: 
ajid fentimezit to the Europeans. Sir, I never did obferve 
in them any mark of inferiority which might not very 
fairly be referred to thofe moll powerful caufes the favage 
Jiaie, which fuffers not the faculties to expand themfelves, 
combined with a Jiatc ofjlavery which, it is well known, 
debafes and crulhes every power of the human foul. Nay, 
fince Britons have been infulted by an execrable compa- 
rifon of their condition u'ith that oi negro JJaves, I will 
afk (but without any intention of offending) Wherein 
the fuperiority of- the poor Barbadian whites, over the 
negroes, confifts ? For my own part, though I have been 
at fome pains to fatlsfy myfelf, on this difputed point, by 
purpofely mixing with both, and putting their mental fa- 
culties to the tefb of experiment, I declare I never could 
difcover, in the poor, uninfrrufted whites, any other 
mark of fuperiority than the very equivocal one of colour, 
and fome flight differences in figure. 

I call colour (the principal difference in the varieties 
of men) a very equivocal mark of fuperiority. I cannot 
tell. Sir, what paffes in the minds of other men ; but, in 
my own mind, I never could perceive any conne61:ion 
whatfoever between my idea of intclkSi^ and my idea of 
colour. The white man reafons thus, The negro's colour 
is different from mine, ergo I am naturally fuperior to the 
negro. May not a copper-coloured man, or an oliv^e- 
coloured man, or a tavvney man, or a black man thus de- 
monftrate the natural fuperiority of men of his own colour, 
to all others ? By fuch fort of logic, we find the celebrated 

Francis 



( 62 ) 

/Francis Williams attempting to demonftrate the fuperl- 
ority of the negro to the mulatto : ' A fimple v/hite or a 
' fimple black complexion was refpeftively perfect ; but a 
' mulatto, being a heterogeneous medley of both, was 
* imperfe^^ ergo inferior.'' \ I fufpeit, Sir, that the ideas 
of intelle6l and of colour have a mutual dependence in 
minds which pretend to be fuperior to that of our black 
philofopher.— The whites paint the devil black, and the 
negroes paint him white; but do fuch chimeras prove 
the devil to be either black or white ? A man may a[fo- 
ciaie his idea oi blacknefs with his idea of the devil, or with 
his idea of ftupidity^ or with any other of his ideas he 
thinks proper ; but he ought not to reafon from fuch 
arbitrary aflbciations. 

The tru^ impcrtant natiojtal queftion, which has been 
fo long agitated by the Scotch and Irifh antiquaries, J 
will help farther to illujtratc my meaning. Set afide the 
fophiftry of both parties, and ftrip their arguments to the 
bare thought ; and, then, poffibly, they may be found to 
amount to thefe. My country, fays the Scotchman, lies 
to the northward of your's ; therefore, Ireland was peopled 
from. Scotland. Nay, replies the Irifliman, but my coun- 
try lies to th.G. foutfnvard of your's ; therefore Scotland vj as 
peopled from Ireland. Now, Vv^hat force is there, in thefe 
arguments, that is not refolveable into the prejudices of 
the cafuifts, couched in a laughable kind of emphafis 
which they are apt to place on the word my., when com- 
bined with the word country ? for, where is the connec- 
tion between the points of the compafs and. the antiquity of 
a nation ? Or where is the conne61;ion between the colour 
of the human fkin, and the faculties of the human mind? 
And, if it appear, that there is no connexion or relation.^ 
of any kind whatever, between ideas which, fome pre- 
judiced, and weak minds have abfurdly, unaccountably 
and unphilofophically ajfociated ; how, in the name of 

-|- Hift. of Jamaica, vol. 2. p- 478.^This argument, abfurd as it is, 
bas more of the appearance of logical conjzedtion than any other oi the 
kind, that has been offered on this fubjedt. 

\ See the Hiftory of the Decline and Fall of tjie Roman Empire, vol; 
2, p. 52S. 

common 



( 63 ) 

common fenfe, is it poiTible to infer the one from the 
ether ? 

Thus I have endeavoured to lay the axe of demonftration 
to the root of this moft monftrous production of difeafed 
imaginations. The fame mode of reafoning is evidently 
applicable to all the other marks of diftin61:ion, virhich 
have been fondly afiumed and confidently prelTed upon the 
public as marks of inferiority in the negroes. 

From a connexion of ideas fo very capricious and chi- 
merical we cannot expe61: very legitimate confequences. 
Towards the equator in the eaftern,* weftern, and mid- 
dle parts of the old world, the human complexion is black; 
towards the northern extremity of the temperate zone it 
is white ; and, in the intermediate latitudes, gradually 
verges from each extreme to the oppofite, making fome 
allowances for high and low, dry and moift foils, with 
other caufes which a6t on the complexion, efpecially for 
civilization and mode of life, by which it is well known 
to be greatly influenced. Now, if intelle61; had any con- 
nection with colour, we fliould find the like gradation ia 
the one as in the other. Thus, fince we find the Dane 
is fairer than the Frenchman, we muft conclude he is 
proportionably more rational ; contrary to what would 
feem to be the faCt:, for Denmark has not produced nearly 
fo great a proportion of men of genius as France. But 
genius — original inventive genius, hath fhone in nations 
of a much darker hue than the French, or than any nation 
in Europe. Not to mention that the Chaldeans were the 
firft aftronomers, let it be remembered that the i^gyp- 
tians, who are themfelves very dark, and who border on 
nations perfeClly black, firft inftruCled the proud Euro- 
peans in the rudiments of geometry; that the Arabians 
taught them arithmetic and algebra; and that the Indians, 

* The people of Pekin are fair, at Canton, they are nearly blacki 

* The Perfians, near the Cafpian fea, are amongft the falreft people in 

* the world J near the gulph of Ormus, they are of a dark olive. The 

* inhabitants of the ftoney and defart Arabia are tawney ; while thofe of 

* Arabia the Happy are as black as the i^thiopians.— The Jews are fair 

* in Britain and Germany, brown in France and in Turkey, fwarthy in 

* Portugal and Spain, olive in Syria and in Chaldea, tawney or copper- 

* coloured in Arabia and in Egypt.' Dr. S- S. Smith's Eflay, p. 35. See 
alfo Buftbu's Nat. Hi.ft. vol- 3, SmelHe's Tranf. 

wh(? 



( 64 ) 

who were alfo fklUed in thofe fciences, invented the diiB- 
cult and fcientific game of chefs.* 

Again, if it be juft to affirm that the blackeft and 
the faireft nations had different origins, may not the fame 
be as juftly affirmed of thofe of the intermediate fhades 
of colour ? Muft we not, then, conclude that the fwarthy 
Spaniard and the fair German or Pole are defcended 
from two original human pairs, of their refpeitive com- 
plexions ? At this rate, we fhall have Adams and Eves 
without number — one pair, at leaft, for every country. 
The difficulty will be to find gardens of Eden in fome 
countries, in Labrador, for example, or Lapland, or 
Kamtfchatka.f — 

But let us try whether analogy will throw any light on 
this fubjedl. Hogs, in this country are very often white, 
and flieep are univerfally covered with wool. In tropical 
countries, the former are generally black, the latter have 
a flight covering of fhort fmooth hair, and the rams in 
Barbadoes have no horns. No naturalift regards thefe as 
fpecific differences. Why then are the colour, and other 
peculiarities of the negro, regarded as fpecilic differences t 

Mofl animals are dellrined for, or, at leafl, thrive befl 
in, particular climates. Man was intended to affert his 
dominion over the inferior animals, in all climates. Hence 
he can roam, with impunity, from the ar6lic to the an- 
ar6tic regions, as the voyages of our late great naviga- 
tor evince. ' Nous verrons evidemment qu'aucun des 
' animaux n'a obtenu ce grand privilege ; que loin de 
* pouvoir fe multiplier par tout, la plufpart font bornes 
' et confines dans de certains climats,. et meme dans des 

* Wallis's Algebra, ch. 12. 

■]• — or Scotlaml, fay certain great vfrfts, whofe patriotic aim ever has 
been to unite this dimJcd kingdom, and whdfe briliiant irradiation have 
penetrated the gloom even of the weftern hemifphere. It is certain, 
Sievcithclefs, that the paradife of that country was at or near Edcnhuvghf 
as the name plainly imports- To the men of profound philological itidaga- 
tion we fubmit, Whether PtTW be not a mere cuntradion of the French 
word Paradise Nobis cnim verifimilc eji, nomen proprium Paris a Far ad is 
formari, eUder,do, fcil, literas a et D. Having; thus difcovered the Edens of 
ancient Caledonia, and of her ancientj great and good ally, we leave 
Other nations to find out their's. 

* contrees 



C 65 ) 

* contrees partlcullers.'* Man, It will be allowed, is 
the moft perfect animal, and his being lefs incommoded 
by local circumftances, than moft other animals, is un- 
doubtedly one of his perfections. — This eafy accommo- 
dation to climate, and the dominion man every where 
poffefles over other animals, demonftrate the fuperiority of 
his nature. And ought the being who, in Africa, fubju- 
gates the elephant., and hunts the lion and the tiger, to be 
accounted inferior to him who, in Europe tames the horfe 
and the ox, and hunts the wolf and the boar ? 

From the comparatively fliort experience we have had 
of the various climates of the earth, we cannot, or, at 
leaft, ought not, to decide, with dogmatifm, on the ef- 
fe(3:s of climate, during a long feries of ages. We have 
feldom feen climate, and favage manners afting together 
on Europeans in tropical countries. But where thofe 
caufes have been combined, the effeits have been very 
confiderable. According to Lord Kaimes himfelf, A 
Portugueze colony, on the coaft of Congo, in a courfe 
of time, have degenerated fo much, that they fcarce re- 
tain the appearance of men.f Another Portugueze fet- 
tlement, in Sierra Leona, and the Spaniards in the torrid 
zone of America, afford farther proofs of the fame etfe<5t. 
The former are affimilated in figure and complexion to 
the negroesj, the latter are become copper-coloured, like 
the Indians. II With refpeil: to the Anglo-Americans, 
' a certain countenance of palenefs and foftnefs (fays Dr. 

< S. S. Smith) ftrikes a traveller from Britain, the mo- 

* ment he arrives upon our (the North American) fhore. 
' A degree of fallownefs is viilble to him, which, through 

< familiarity, hardly attraCIs our obfervation. — This ef- 

* fei£l is more obvious in the middle and, ft ill more, in 
« the fouthern than in the northern ftates.'§ The effe6ts 
of climate and mode of living in America is farther 
proved by the whites, who have been captivated by the 
Indians, in their infancy, and by the Indian children, who 

* Buftbn Hift. Nat. torn xviii. p. 177. 
•|- Sketches of Man, prel. difc. 

I Treatife on the Trade of Great Britain to Africa, by »n African 
Merchant. 

II Phil. Tranf. No. 476, § 4. 

§ Dr, S, S. Smith's Effay, p. 37., 

E have 



( 66 ) 

have been brought up among the whites, and whofe co* 
lour and features affume a very near refemblance to thofe 
of the people among whom they have been educated.* 

Upon the whole, Sir, I am, by no means, fmgular in 
thinking, That as difFerence of foil and culture give rife 
to many varieties of vegetables, thofe of the potatoe, for 
example, or the apple ; and as very confiderable changes 
are known to be produced on fome fpecies of animals, as 
dogs, horfes, fheep, &c. by domeftication, climate, and 
other caufes j fo the varieties of the human fpecies may 
be produced by ih.tJJow but long continued znd combined 
operation of foil, climate and mode of living — by phyfi- 
Jical'iointdi with moral caufes. This doftrine is evidently 
favoured by the prince of naturalifts, Linnaeus. ' Afri 

* pilos contortuplicatos, quamvis albos, in hoc miratus 
•^ fum, collatis^ imprimis varietatum caufis in plant! Sj et ani~ 

* 7naliu?n generatlone amhigena^ nee tamen quidquam de 
' Mauris nigris et albis ftatui.'f 

This opinion of Linnaeus, I fliall reinforce with an ob.^ 
fervation of one of the greateft phyfiologifts in Europe : 
That moft animals in their wild ftate are of a dark co- 
lour ; and that, when domefticated, they generally afllime 
a lighter hue, and often become perfectly white. Of 
this we have very ftriking examples in the duck, the 
goofe, the dunghill fowl, the pigeon, the turkey, the cat, 
and others, perhaps, which may occur to gentlemen 
fkilled in natural hiftory. Let the apologifts for flavery 
beware, left they ftir up naturalifts to inveftigate this 
matter with redoubled ardour ; for it feems not improbable 
that the refult of their inquiries may be. That the negroes 
Sire the aborigines of mankind. 

Thus, perhaps, this interefting problem may, one day, 
be compleatly folved. We may, at laft, be able to ac- 
count for the various colours of men in the old, as well 
9S for their more uniform complexion in the new hemif-^ 

* Of this Dr. Smith gives remarkable inftances at p. 93, 94, aad his 
editor Dr. Barton, at p. 39, note, 

"^ Syftema Naturae, edit. 13. This great man, we fee, fpealcs on thl§ 
fubje^, with the caution \yhich becomes a philolbpher, 

phere, 



C 67 ) 

phere,* and for it's general refemblance to that of the 
Tartar hordes ; for the dark complexion of the Samoieds, 
and the clear brown complexion of the Otaheiteans. But 
this fuppofes a knowledge of fails which we are not yet 
pofTefTed of, a knowledge not to be obtained from the le- 
gends of ignorant, credulous, book-making travellers, 
many of which have been found by the great and juftly 
celebrated philofophers, who, of late years, have explored 
diftant regions, to be falfe — fables which fcarcely deferve 
a place in the humourous itineraries of Captain Lemuel 
Gulliver! * Nothing (fays Dr. S. S. Smith, p. 136.) 

* can appear more contemptible than philofophers, with 
' folemn faces, retailing, like maids and nurfes, the fto- 
' ries of giants, of tailed men,t of a people without 
' teeth, and of fome abfolutely without necks,' to which, 
I may add, the Formofan women, who, according to 
Struys, quoted by Buffon, have beards ; and the North 
American (Indian) men who, if we believe fome travel- 
lers, are abfolutely without them. 

It has been fuggelled, That the negro occupies a place 
in the fcale of being, or forms a link in that chain which 
connects the white man with the Orang Outang ; but, 
here, Sir, is a chafm, which it is impoffible for any ojie 
link to fill up J and, I am apt to think that the modern 
manufa6lurers of fyftems will have hard work to forge 
links fufficient in ftrength and number to conneil: crea- 
tures fo widely diftant as a human being and a Kakur- 

* The complexion of the North American Indians, is, by no means 
fo uniform, as has been imagined. ' In travelling from the great lakes 

* to Florida or Louifiania, through the Indian nations, there is a vifible 

* progreflion in the darknefs of their complexion. And, at the councils 

* of confederate nations, or, at treaties for terminating an extenfive 
' war, you often fee fachems or warriors of very different hues.' Dr. 
S. S. Smith's Eflay, p. 159. note. 

\ ' Among thefe (people of Manilla) fome have been feen who had 

* tails, four or five inches long, like the iflanders mentioned by Ptolemy, 

Les Voyages de Gemul'Ii Carreri, v. 3, p. 87. ■» ' Mark Paul fays, that 

' in the kingdom of Lambry, there are men with tails about a palm long 

* only.' — Struys exprefsly declares that (in Formofa) he fa\v a man witli 

* a tail more than a foot long.' Les Voyages de Struys, tom. i. p. 100. 
« It appears (fays Buffon) that Struys refls on che authority of Mark 
< Paul, as Gemelii Carreri does upon that of Ptolemy.' See Smellie's 
Buffon, V. 3, p. 87, 88, 89. 

E 2 lackou 



( 68 ) 

lacko.* The external refemblance, however, in figure 
and motion of fome of the monkey tribes, to mankind, 
is a ftriking and a mortifying refemblance. ' Simia quam 
' fimilis, turpiffima beftia, nobis!'! This circumfti.nce 
it is, which mifleads fuperficial obfervers j for their mo- 
ral ftru6lure is totally different from that of mankind. 
Indocile, fpeechlefs f, and, confequently deftitute of the 
power of abfl:ra6lion and the moral and religious fenfe, 
in real and ufeful lagacity, they fall much behind the dog 
and the horfe, not to mention what we have been told, of 
the ' half-reafoning elephant. J. The Creator, when he 
wifely allotted to every animal that portion of thofe myf- 
terious faculties, inftindl and fagacity, which was moft 
proper for their condition, feems not to have impreffed, 
on any being, inferior to man, the leaft fignature of 
himfelf. According.- ly fome philofophers chufe to charac- 
terize mankind by the religious fenfe, rather than by rea- 
fon, the former being, in their opinion, the moft unequi- 
vocal criterion of his nature. ' And God faid. Let us 

* make man in our image^ is the decifion of revela- 
tion. ' Homo folus Deum contemp]atur,'§ is the Ian- 
guage of philcfophy. Now it is certain. That the ne- 
groes have a juft fenfe of right and wrong, and make the 
common moral diftin6tions, with much acutenefs and ac- 
curacy. — They may even be faid to ' draw a hafty moral 
^ — a fudden fenfe of right. 'r— If they do not, I afk with 

* Llnnaeus's fynonymes of this animal are troglodytes, homo notflur- 
nus, homo fylveftris, orang outang-, kakurlacko. Buffbn's fufpicion that 
Linnaeus has confounded the orang outang with the albinoe would ap- 
pear to be groundlefs from the paflage we quoted at p. 66, ' Afn p'dos 

* quamvis albos,'' Stc. maur'tt nigris et albhf Sec. Perhaps the edition 
Buftbn quoted did not contain this paffage. || Ennius. 

•f Mr. Camper, in Phil. Tranf. for 1779, has demonflrated that prang 
outangs are, from the texture of their organs, incapable of forming 
fpeech. See alfo Dunbar's Eflays, p. 203. 

X The elephant has a fmall brain. See Sparrman's Voyage to the 
Cape of Good Hope, vol. i. p. 319. The fkuU of a rhinocero con- 
tained only a quart of peas, id. vol. 2. p. 106. 

^ Linn. Syft. Nat. edit. 13. — Such too is the language even of in- 
fidelity. ' To believe invifible, intelligent power, is a (lamp fet by the 
« divine workman on human nature. Nothing dignifies man more than 

* to be fclcftcd from all the other parts of the creation to bear tliis 
« image'' {Moffs's word) ' of the univerfal Creator.* Hume's Natural Hif- 
tpcy of Religion. 

what 



( 69 ) 

what JUSTICE the pretended^ fuperlor race of men inJliSi on 
them B.X EM P L AKY puniJhmentSf and^ fometlmes^ doom them 
to expir:' by horribk tortures °< — -Like other men, too, they 
believe in, and often appeal to the great God, the acquitter 
and the avenger, who. they firmlv and fondly believe, 
has prepared for them a better world beyond the grave. 
Nor, Sir, does either natural or revealed religion, fo far, 
at leaft, as I underftand them, teach us, that even fuch 
rude hopes, cheriilied, in the ' houfe of bondage,' by in- 
nocent, though ignorant, men, will be difappointed ; for, 
to whom little is given, of them little will be required.' 

Much ilrefs hath been laid, by certain authors, on this 
external, and, to hafty obfervers, illuuve, fimilarity of the 
Orang Outang to the human fpecies. I, therefore, beg 
leave to adduce the very ?reateft authority, on this point — 
an authority in which we ought to acquiefce, till the 
fullift information be obtained, concerning an animal fo 
very fcarce, fo very fhy, and of which fo little is known. 
' Speciem Troglodytes ab homine fapiente diJlinStijJimam^ 
*■ nee noftri genarh nee fanguinh efle, ftatura quamvis 

* fimillimam, diihium non efl\ ne itaque varietatem credas, 

* quam fola membrana ni61:itans abfolute negat^ et manuum 
' longitudo.'* 'The eloquent Buffon too, though he 
differ from the great mafter we have jufl: cited, in many 
particulars, yet agrees with him in this. ' Throwing 
' afide therefore, this ill-dsfcribed beings and fuppofino- a 

* little exaggeration^ in the relation of Bontius, concern- 
' ing the modefty of his female Orang Outang, there 

* only remains a brute creature, an ape^ of which we fhall 

* find more pointed information, in writers of better 

* credit.'' \ 

To the opinions of thefe great naturaliftsj I fliall add 
thofe of fome writers, whofe authority, in the literary 
world, is, at leaft, as great as that of Voltaire, Hume, 
Lord Kaimes, or any other fupporters of the contrary 
opinion. 

One of the juftly celebrated Do6lor Johnfon's bio- 
graphers blames him for his prejudices againft the inha- 

* Linnsei Syft. nat, edit. 13. 

•f Siaellie's BufFon, vol. 8. p. 80. 

E 3 bitants 



C 70 ) 



bitants of the northern parts of this kingdom. — Wherever 
we turn our eyes on human nature, we are (hocked with 
its vices, or mortified by its imperfections ; but that the 
fubHme moralift we are fpeaking of, fhould have laboured 
under a pitiable narrownefs of foul, which, far from em- 
bracing all mankind, could not find room for thefe two., I 
wifla I could fay, thefe three united kingdoms^ appears to 
me fo incredible, that I would willingly fuppofe his an- 
tipathy was more affected than real. Be this as it may, 
that prejudice in my opinion was more than compenfated 
by a prejudice of a very different nature : I mean that 
' favour to negroes^ which the prejudiced biographer has 
thought proper to condemn.* In the Dodlor's journal 
(Eafter day 1779) we find him talking, with his black 
fervant, on the facrament. Would fo able an obferver 
of mankind have converfed, on fuch a fubjecSl:, with a' 
creature, who, in his opinion, was but a little above an 
ape, and was not endowed with a rational and immortal 
foul ? If this be called an inftance of weaknefs, 'it muft 
be allowed to be a moft amiable one. 

* That a negro Jlove^ fays Doctor Beattie, who can 
* neither read, nor write, nor fpeak any European lan- 
guage, who is not permitted to do any thing but what 
his mafter commands, and who has- not a fingle friend 
on earth | but is univerfally confidered and treated^ as if 
he were ofafpecies inferior to the human \ — that fuch a 
creature Ihould fo diftinguifh himfelf among Europeans^ 
as to be talked of through the world as a man of genius^ 
is furely no reafonable expeftation. To fuppofe him 
of an inferior fpecies, becaufe he does not thus diftin- 
guifh himfelf, is juft as rational as to fuppofe any pri- 
vate European of an inferior fpecies, becaufe he has not 

raifed himfelf to the condition of royalty. 'f 'It 

would be ridiculous,' fays Dr. Fergufon, ' to affirm, as 
a difcovery, that the fpecies of the horfe was never the 
fame with that of the lion; yet, in oppofition to what 
has dropped from the pens of eminent writers, we are 
obliged to obferve, that men have always appeared 
among animals, a diflinSi and a fuperior race, that nei- 



« Sir J. Hawkins's Life of Dr. JohnfoDj at the end. 
f Effay on Truth, p, 462. 



« ther 



( 7« ) 

* ther the pofleilion oifimilar organs.^ nor the approxima- 
' tion o{ Jloape^ nor the ufe of the hand^ nor the continued 

* intercourfe with this fovereign artift, have enabled any 

* other fpecies to blend their nature with his; that, in 
' his rudejl ftate^ he is found to be above them^ and, in 

* his greateft degeneracy he never defcends to their level, 
' He is, in fhort, a man in every condition; and we 
' can learn nothing of his nature from the analogy of other 
' animals.'* — Nor is the opinion of a writer, who ap- 
pears to be rifing faft into eminence, lefs favourable 
to the caufe of humanity. * Europe,' fays he ' affeils to 

move in another orbit from the reft of the fpecies. She 
is even offended with the idea of a common defcent'y and) 
rather than acknowledge her anceftors to have been 
co-ordinate only to other races of barbarians, and in 
parallel circumftances, flie breaks the z;«//)'of the fyftem, 
and, by hnagining fpecific differences, among men, 
precludes or abrogates their common claims. Accord- 
ing to THIS THEORY, the opprejjion or extermination of 
a meaner race will no longer be fo Jhocking to humanity. 
Their diftreffes will not call upon us fo loudly for relief. 
And publick morality and the laws of nations, will be 
confined to a few regions peopled with this more exalt- 
ed fpecies of mankind. 'f 

But I muft not omit a very notable argument againft 
the Africans, from their hair, which is obferved to be very 
different from that of the Europeans. But fo is the jhort 
HAIR, of the African fheep, from the lo7ig wool of the 
European. So is the hair of moft rude nations from that 
of polifhed ones ; and the hair of individuals often differs 
from that of other individuals of the very fame family. 
The North American Indians and the Tartars anoint 
their hair; and the negroes, who inhabit climates incom- 
parably warmer, do not anoint it. The hair of the for- 
mer is long and lank, that of the latter fhort and curling. 
That climate, of itfelf, hath a very confiderable effect on 
the human hair, is evident from that of the Anglo- 

* Civil Society, p. 2, g, 

■\ Dunbar's Eflays, p. i6i. Surely thofe are execrable theones, vvhicli 
plainly give fanftion to the obpiejfion or exieiminatioii of a pare of the 
iiuman race. 

E 4. Americans:, 



( 7^ ) 

Americans ; ' for curled locks, fo frequent among their 
* anceftors, are rare in the United States.'* The hair 
of the negroes, with proper care, will grow to no con- 
temptible length, as is evident from the queues of the black 
beaux and the toupees of the black belles. — But what, 
I pray, has the hair of the head to do with the intellecSt ? 
Were the underftandings of men to be eftimated by the 
length of that excrefcence,"^ who could hope to equal the 
race of macaronies in intelle6lual endowments? But their 
diminutive fticks and their eye-fight, which has been late- 
ly fo defe6tive as to oblige the youths to wear fpe6tacles, 
would, perhaps, be more proper meafures of their un- 
derftandings. 

I have endeavoured to anfwer the preceding arguments, 
in the fenfe in which, I know, they are taken by the vul- 
gar, in the Weft Indies ; and in which, I fufpe<3:, they 
are underftood by perfons who rank themfelves far above 
the vulgar, not in the Weft Indies only, but even in this 
country. Thofe reafoners infer natural inferiority from 
the peculiar colour and features of the Africans, itmnedi- 
atel)\ or without interpofing any conne6ting idea. Other 
defenders of this fyftem, if I rightly underftand them, 
ftate the argument thus. ' The external peculiarities of 
the negroes are fo many fpecific differences. The 
negroes, then, are a'fpecies of men different from, 
and therefore, inferior to the whites.' But, by what 
logic can inferiority be deduced from difference offpecies, 
fuppofing it proved, any more than from the pretended 
fpecific differences ? And, is it more agreeable to phi- 
lofophy and to common fenfe to fay. He is of a different, 
and, therefore, an inferior fpecies of men, than to affirm. 
That he has a black Jkin^ and is, therefore, inferior?—' 
Some men may fuppofe it their intereft to cherifti fuch 
vulgar errors; but it is the bufmefs of philofophy to ex- 
plode them ; efpecially when, as in the prefent inftance, 
they are evidently repugnant to the happinefs of man- 
kind. 

Let it be obferved. That, although the knowledge I 
have of the negroes forbids me to fubfcribe to the crude 

* DoftorS. S, Smith's Eff, 

theories 



( 73 7 

theories which have been fabricated in fche clofets of phi- 
lofophers, to prove that there are different fpecies of men ; 
or to pay any regard to the very unphilofophical accounts 
/of ignorant, partial travellers, on which fuch theories 
are generally founded ; yet that I am far from arraign- 
ing the conclufiens which may have been drawn by ana- 
tomills from internal peculiarities in the bodies of Afri- 
cans. — But the 7nores animaliu7n, are juftly regarded, as 
more certain criteria of the mental powers, fo to fpeak, 
of animals, than any conclufion that can be drawn either 
from the external or internal peculiarities of their bodies. 
If, by long obferv^ation, and a habit of comparing the 
aftions and reafonings of the negroes, for example, with 
thofe of the whites, a man be fatisfied that the one is as 
rational and intelligent, ccsterU paribus^ as the other, it 
cannot be expected that any contrary opinions of ana- 
tomifts fhould fhake his conviilion. To the learned, I 
fubmit, whether fuch a convi<5lion ought to he fo fhaken ? 
And whether, if the Houynhnhnms were realized, we muft 
not account them rational beings, notwithftanding they 
had the bodies of horfes ? 

But, befides the convidtion forced on my mind, by 
arguments from analogy and by the general behaviour of 
the negroes, it may be proper to mention fome particu- 
lar fa6ts which have had their weight with me, and may 
have their weight with others, in proving the natural 
equality of the Africans to the Europeans. Many fimi- 
lar facSIs, I muft have witnefTed, which have flipped from 
my memory, though the convidlion they worked remains ; 
juft as a man may forget the demonftration of a mathe- 
matical proportion, but may retain and be convinced of 
the truth of the conclufion. 

It cannot be denied that the negroes, when put to a 
trade which happens to coincide with the bent of their 
genius, become as good, and, fometimes, better artificer?, 
than white men. I have feen a white carpenter drudging 
with the faw, jacking-plane, &c. and who could not lay 
oiFhis work properly, while a black one was employed in 
making pannel-doors, fafh-windows, &c. I have known 
the carpenter's work of a good houfe of two Tories, with 
a pavillion-roof, king-pofts, &c. planned and condu£led, 

by 



( 74 ) 

by a black carpenter— On the doors of fome of the negro 
huts, I have obferved wooden locks, at once fimple and 
well contrived, and vi'hich it was impoffible to open, 
without the wooden key, which had two or three fquare, 
poliihed prominencies, adapted to the internal parts of 
the lock, which I have alfo feen, but it cannot be ex- 
plained without a model. — ^In the learned Dr. Burney's 
Hiftory of Mufic, there are figures of feveral ancient 
mufical inftruments, by a comparifon with which, the 
banjay or coromantin drum would lofe nothing. This 
laft is a mofl: ear- piercing inftrument ; but, being pro- 
hibited, is but feldom ufed, by the negroes, in Barbadoes. 
The black muficians, however, have fubftituted, in its 
place, a common earthen jar, on beating the aperture of 
which, with the extended palms of their hands, it emits 
a hollow found, refembling the more animating note of 
the drum. — As filver-fmiths and watch-makers, the ne- 
groes ihew no want of genius. I have employed a black 
watch-maker who was inftrudled in the art, by a nioft 
ingenious mechanic and natural philofopher, in -Bridge- 
town. That worthy perfon (now deceafed) was bred a 
mathematical inftrument maker, in London ; and I knew 
him to be a perfon of too ftri(5t probity to have put 
people's watches into improper hands. — But, without 
enumerating fuch inftances, I might, at once^ have ap- 
pealed, for a proof of African Ingenuity, to the fabric 
and colours of the Guinea cloths, which moft people 
muft have feen. — By the word mechanic is generally 
meant a perfon who makes but little ufe of his rational 
faculty ; but it muft be remembered that tncchanical con- 
trivance is one of the higheft departments of reafon. 
Nor can this be otherwife ; fince, the fclence of mechanics 
depends entirely on mathematics, and hath exercifed the 
genius of an Archimedes, of a Galllseo, of an Emerfon, 
of a M'Laurin, and, above all, of that great ornament of 
this iflandj and of the human fpecies, i\it\m.m.ort.?i\ Newtoti, 

The fondnefs of the negroes for mufic, and the profi- 
ciency they fometimes make in it, with little or no in- 
ftru6tion, is too well knov/n to need fupport, from parti- 
cular Inftances. This their tafte for melody and harmonvj 
if it does not demonftrate their rationality, ought, at leaft, 
to be admitted as afl, argum?a,t io prgving their humanity. 

—The 



( :^s ) 

—•The fame may be fald of their patriotifm, a principle 
which glows in their bofoms, with an ardour which does 
them honour. That man muft be callous, indeed, who 
can remain an indifferent fpe(Sl:ator of a meeting of two 
poor Africans, who may have been dragged from the 
fame diftricl of their dear native land. On fuch occafions, 
after all parties had got fairly on their centers, I have 
afFefted to inquire into the caufe of their emotion, and 
have generally.been anfwered by another queftion, expref- 
five of extreme aftoniihment, that I ftiould be ignorant 
of It: 'Kail we no counteryincn^ Maffa ?'* One of 
Voltaire's marks of the fuperiority of the Iroquois and 
Algonquins over thofe whom he affeils to call European 
favages, is. That the former have a country, and that they 
love and revere that country, which he, too feverely, per- 
haps, infinuates the latter do not.f If this be a juft cri- 
terion, then are the Africans inferior to no nation upon 
earth. 

I have heard the negro chaplain of a black corps preach 
to a large audience of whites and blacks. Though his 
dialect was, by no means, good ; yet the weight of his 
arguments, and the native, untaught energy of his delivery 
were fuch as to command attention, and to reprefs ridi- 
cule. He had a colleague who gave out a hymn (I think 
from Watts) and prayed extempore. His diale6l was 
even worfe than that of the preacher ; but his prayer was 
fuch as would have rendered laughter criminal, efpecially 
when he implored the Almighty Father of Mercies, with 
tears, to behold, with an eye of pity, the deplorable igno- 
rance and debafement of his countrymen. A black 

teacher, who is employed by feveral white families in 
Bridge-town, writes a variety of hands very elegantly. 
I do not fay that this implies any great ftrength of reafon ; 
but it implies a tafte for the beauty arifmg from the combi- 
nation of flowing hnes and accurate proportions, a faculty 
very nearly allied to reafon. Yet more : he teaches Enrrliili 
and arithmetic ; and, I believe, affifts a certain able o^eo- 
metrician and worthy man in inftrufting the pretended 
fuperior race, in mathematics. Above all, he has the 

* Strange ! Are not we countrymen, Sir ? 
t Phil, d'lijft. 

reputation 



C 76 ) 

reputation of being an honeft man, and a humble, finccre 
Chriltian. 

To thefe Inftances of African capacity, I ftiall add two 
remarkable ones. ' Wanted to purchafe two negro car- 

* penters, one of which muft be able to carry on bufenefs by 
' himfelfy' &c. Barbadoes Gazette, March ift, 1786. 
— ' To be fold two valuable negro carpenters, one o^ which 

* is a compleat wheel-wright, wind-mill and houfe car^ 
' penter^ Sec. Barbadoes Mercury, Ode. 21ft, 1786. 
Would not an European carpenter who could, with any 
propriety, be faid to be compleat in thefe three branches, 
be accounted, rather an ingenious man ? 

Of nine negro fhip-carpenters, now in his Majefty's- 
yard at Antigua, three can read very well, four read in 
the bible, and two in the fpelling-book. 

I lately faw a fe6ii6n of the ftrata of a mine in Scot- 
land, which was laid down by the proprietor's black fer- 
vant, who is very ingenious, in other refpe6ls, and intlrely 
felf-taught. Among other arts, he excells in turnery. 
He plays on a very neat pair of bag-pipes which he him- 
felf made. They are tipt, at the ends, with common 
bone. 

Do6lor Barton tells me, that he was informed by a 
gentleman on whofe veracity he could depend, that the 
beft phyfician now in N. Orleans, is a Guinea negro, 
who gives a rational account of his practice, according to 
the reigning theories. Anthony Benezet., author of an ac- 
count of Guinea, devoted much of his time and his whole 
fortune to the eftabliihment of a negro-fchool in Philadel- 
phia. That worthy perfon declared, in Doftor Barton's 
hearing, that, were he to make a comparifon between 
the genius of the Europeans, and the Africans, it would 
be rather in favour of the latter. 

To the Latin Ode of Francis Williams,* * Denique 
' venturum, fatis volventibus, annum,' &c. the beautiful 

* Piibii/hed in the-2d volume of the HlHory of Jamaica, cum noth 
hypercritkh' 

poetical 



( 77 ) 

poetical pieces of Phillis Wheatly,* and the letters of Ig- 
natius bancho, we appeal for fpecimens oi African litera- 
ture. — Have their calumniators obliged the literary world 
with any fuch fpecimens ? 

But, for a decifive proof not only that the negroes are, 
but that, notwithflanding the late pretences to the con- 
trary, they are held and reputed to be rational, moral 
agents, I appeal to every black code which, under the facred 
name of laws, was ever compiled, by the Europeans, on 
the other fide of the Atlantic. Laws — pe?7al laws^ dictated 
by the fpirit of a Draco, if indeed. Tyranny, were flie to 
appear upon the earth, would not claim them as her own 
— laws, in which harfh reftraints are impofed on, and 
cruel punifliments threaten, helplefs Jlaves — laws which 
have reduced oppreflion to the grave formality of fyftem, 
have been enabled to govern the negroes. But laws are 
enadled to govern rational, moral, accountable beings 
only. It follows, therefore, either that the negroes are, 
or that the legiflators were not, rational, moral beings—- 
or elfe, that thofe black codes are founded in the moil 
confummate injuftice. 

But this argument may be carried a ilep farther. On 
the fuppofition that the negroes are not moral agents, co- 
ordinate with the whites, I afked with what juftke, and 
I might have afked with ■whztfe?ife, the pretended fuperior 
race inflict on them exemplary punifhments, and, fome- 

times, doom them to expire, by horrible tortures ? 

Thofe who dire6l the labours of cattle ftimulate them to 
exertion by ftripes. Dogs, being more fagacious, are 
puniflied, by the huntfman and the fhepherd, with more 
ieverity, and with fome little view to improvement. 
Every needlefs flripe, however, even on dogs or horfes or 
affes, is accounted a mark of the inflitflor's barbarous dif- 
pofition. But no perfon thinks of inflicting exetnplary 
punifliments on brutes. Boys, convicted of crimes, are 
treated more moderately than grown perfons. Extreme 
and unavoidable ignorance always weighs, or ought to 

* For fome account of this mofl extraordioary African girl, and fome 
elegant fpecimens of her poetry, fee the Rev, Mr. Clarkfon's excellent Ef- 
fgy on the Slavery and Commerce of the Human Species, zd edit. p. 121. 

weigh. 



( 78 ) 

weigh, more or lefs, in favour of an offender, except m 
cafes of murder, or other very flagrant crimes. Even 
among the Hottentots, ' The murderer has his brains 

* beat out^ and is buried vi^ith the murdered perfon, if he 
' be a man of quality ; but a fimple, ignorant body may 
' pay a ranjom.''* Thus puniftiments are, or, in general, 
oup^ht to be, proportioned to the moral improvement of 
the offender. But exemplary punifhments are inflidled on 
the negroes, 7nore fever e punifhments than the whites, 
for the fame crimes, are doomed to fuffer ; therefore, if 
their refpe£live punifhments be proportioned to their men- 
tal faculties, the negroes (for whofe irJl'-uSiion the lav^s, 
by which they are judged, make no effe61:ual provifion) 
are moral agents of an order fuperior to the whites — if not ^ 
they are treated with a criminal degree of injuftice and 
cruelty. Our adverfaries are welcome to take either fide 
of the alternative. Of all the figures in logic, none is kt 
formidable to fophlftry as the dilemma. 

Again, it has been denied that the negroes are capable 
of carrying on a chain of reafoning j but it cannot be de- 
nied, that, even -in Africa, they attain to the knowledge 
of the leading principles of morality, and even of that moft 
fublime and exalted of all truths, the exigence of the liv- 
ing and true God, the Creator and Preferver of all things, 
which, according to Hiime^ ' is a ftamp, fet by the di- 

* vine workman, on human nature.'X Now, if the ne- 
groes arrived at this truth, in the ordinary way, then we 
muft conclude their faculties to be equal to our's ; but if, 
as their enemies infinuate, they be incapable of forming a 
chain of reafoning, they muft have perceived that and 
other great truths, intuitively. If fo, not their equality 
only, but theiryw/)m(5r/V>' to white men will be demonftrat- 
ed. Of this faculty of arriving at demonftrable .truths, 
per falimn^ and of ' grafping a fyftem by intuition,' ijue 
have no more idea than a man born blind has of colours. 
We humbly afcribe it to fuperior orders of beings, and, in 
a tranfcendent and infinite degree, to the Deity. This 
is nobly exprefied by the great Dr. Barrow, in a pious 



* Ogilby's Africa, p. 594. 
J Natural Klftory of Religion* 



addrefs 



( 79 ) 

addre{s to the Deity, prefixed to his Apollonius. « Tu 
' autem, Domine, quantus es geometra ? — Tu um^ haec 

* omnia, intuitu perfpedta habes, abjqiie catena cojijequen- 

* tiarum, abfque tadio demonjirationum.' See alfo the 
Jcholium generale of the Principia, anl the conclufion of 

M'Laurin's account of the Newtonian Philofophy. 

Upon the whole, Sir, if I have failed in proving that 
the rational faculties of the Africans are equal, in every 
refpeit, to thofe of the Europeans, I muft confefs myfelf 
ignorant of thofe diftinguifhing marks, on which the lat- 
ter found their claim of fuperiority.* 

But, although It could be proved that the underftand- 
ings of the Africans are weaker than thofe of the Euro- 
peans, it will, by no means, follow that the latter have a 
right to enflave them ; fmce, on this principle, no fuch 
thing as national liberty could ever have exifted in the 
world. And it may be aflced what would become of the 
liberties of the lower orders even of .Britons, were their 
title to thofe liberties to depend on powers of reafon or of 
imagination, which bore but a fmall proportion to thofe of 
the great men who have done honour to this illand and 
to mankind ? 

Let the Europeans be fuperior in reafon. Ought they 
not alfo to be fuperior in point o{ jujlice and mercy ? And 
are they fuperior in juftice, and mercy? — Let the Afri- 
cans tell ! 

But, fetting afide reafon altogether, the pajjions of the 
negroes prove that they were not created to be Haves ; 
any more than the fierce lion was created to ' abide by a 

* mailer's crib, or to harrow the vallies after him,'f 
which appears to have been the deftination of the horfe 
and the ox. Thofe who complain of the paffionate vin- 
diSiive tempers of the Africans cannot furely be aware 
that they are demonftrating the utter repugnancy of ilavery 

* ' Upon the whole,' fays BufFon, ' every circumftance concurs in 

* proving that mankind are not compofed of fpecies ejjkntially different 
< from each other ; that, on the contrary, there was originally but one 

* /pedes,'' Smellie's Buff. v. S. p. 2c6» 

t Job. 

to 



( 8o ) 

to their nature. That a creature fhould have hten formed 
for a ftate which he abhors^ is an exception to the general 
oeconomy of the univerfe. That beings created for fla- 
very, fhould be endowed with ftubborn, rebellious, un- 
conquerable pinions v/hich fpurn the yoke, and often 
prove fatal both to themfelves and to their lords, is a pa- 
radox which we leave thofe of their lords who believe it, 
to explain, by the nev/ly broached theories of flavery. 
The theories of fcepticifm, v/hich have helped them out, 
on other occafions, v/ill afliil them on this. — It would be 
ftrange indeed, if there were not a clofe analogy, a cer- 
tain fympathetic affinity, between the paradoxes of fla- 
very and thofe of infidelity ! 

I am not fo confident of the ftrength of my reafonings 
on this, or any other part of my fubjeft, as to fuppofe 
that they will put fophiftry to filence. The changes will 
no doubt be repeated on a fet of battered and exploded 
arguments which, taken together, form fuch a group of 
abfurdity, as has been feldom prefented to the public— 
" Evils, it has been faid, are permitted by Providence. It 
is vain for man to attempt to flop their progrefs. No re- 
formation ought to be aimed at. ' Whatever is, is right.' 
— The Africans had got into a vile habit of cutting each 
other's throats. We pitied the poor creatures, and at- 
tempted to relieve them. For this purpofe, we encou- 
raged humane chriftians to drag, from their miferable 
native land, a fet of ugly, black, flat-nofed, thick-lipped, 

woolly-headed, ignorant, favage heathens. We deny 

that we have (hut out every ray of light from their 
minds ; that we have caufed them to ferve with rigour ; 
that our fcourges have lacerated their bodies ; that the 
iron of our chains hath debafed their very fouls. Dare 
any man affirm that ever we opprefled them ? — Yet un- 
der every means of improvement and, although they en- 
joy all the advantages of Englijh peafants, they ftill conti- 
nue contem.ptibly ftupid and ignorant, and incorrigibly 
thievifh and obftinate ? — They have, at times, even dared 
to queflion our right to enflave them, the facred right of 
the Jlronge/I. — Ergo they are inferior to us, in their men- 
tal faculties. They are little, if at all, fuperior to the 
Orang Outangs^ and were created to be our flaves. — Ergo 
the v^ft continent of Africa was peopled with one hundred 

and 



( 8r ; 

and fifty millions of the accurfed offst>ring of Ham^ to fcrve 
as a nurfery of flaves, for a kvf little iflands, at the dif- 
tance of fome thoufands of miles : that, by means of 
their toil, the favoured pofterity of Japhet, (who from 
policy were one day to extirpate the original inhabitants of 
thofe iflands) might have— rum for their punch, and fu- 
gar for their tea.' — Q^ E. D. 

Cor. Hence * n&gvo flavery is not only compatible 
* with found policy, but alfo With jtiftice and humanity.'*-^ 
Qi E. A. 

Such, in their primitive hakednefs, are the arguments 
urged in fupport of negro flavery* Trufting, as I do, 
that they have no manner of weight with you — and Goi> 
FORBID arguments for flavery fhould have weight with 
any member of the Britifh Legiflature I ! 

I have the honour to be, &g* 



POSTSCRIPT. 

I would fooner, Sir, 

' undertake to prove, by force 

' Of argument, a mari^s no h-orfe,'\ 
than to anfwer, all the objections that have been urged 
againft the bona fide harmlefs do6trine That the Africans are 
men. We fhall, however, endeavour to apply the * teft 

* of truth,' to fome of thefe very pertinent and very pro- 
found objedtions. 

The negroes, it is objected, have a fetid fmell. I ad- 
mit that fome negroes have a fetid fmell, and fo has every 
man, more or lefs, who toils and fweats much, in a ful- 
try climate, and negledls bathing. Many of the -negroes, 
however, have no peculiar fmell that I could ever difcover, 

* * Apology for Negro Slavery, by the author of letters to a young 

* planter.' This author has ferioujly quoted Ibe Spirit of Laws, in fupport 
of flavery. Montefquieu has treated that fubjeft in an admirable ftrain 
of fevere, but deferved, irony ; but it is impoffible to prefs into this vile 
fervice a writer of whofe deteftation of flavery the ridiculous arguments 
he ufes, will be a lading monument. 

+ Hudibras. 



( «2 >) 

««— But, granting it to be univerfal, what conne5:ion has 
a fetid fmell with the intellect ? If there be philofophers, 
however, who can fcent out men of parts, by power of 
nofe, we felicitate our country on the acquifition. Such 
intelle6lual ferrets may have their ufes. 

But the negroes have flat nofes.— How this became a 
national feature among the Africans, I cannot account, any 
more than I can account for the high cheek bones of the 
Scotch. But it is remarkable that it is yielding to civiliza- 
tion. The nofes of native domeftics are lefs flat than thofe 
of native field-negroes and the nofes ofthefe lafl than thofe 
of the Africans.*- — We decline ufing any Shandean argu- 
ments on this fubje<£l:; but we own we are mightily in- 
clined to expofe the abfurdity of an argument imported, 
from the nafal promontory, not by Slawkenhergius^ but by 
a certain French apologijl for flavery, who has found 
means to infinuate himfelf into the good graces, even of 
Englifhmen, to the great danger of the liberties of this 
land. He infifts, that as * the creatures are all over black 
* and havey?<7/ nofes^ they ought not to he pitied :''\ Admi- 
rable reafoning ! juft as if a man fhould fay, A poor, old 
woman is full of wrinkles and, therefore, ought to be 
burnt as a witch ; if, indeed, the guilt of heivttchirig be 
not oftener chargeable on the charms of young than of old 
women. 

But a negro cannot lay a table even or fquare in a 
room. Hence an obliquity of intelle£t. — The ftreets of 
many towns in this kingdom, and even of this metropolis, 
are crooked. If our anceftors, who laid out thofe ftreets, 
were to be half as much calumniated as the negroes have 
been, it would probably be aflerted, that they could not 
draw a ftraight line, between two given points, in the 
fame plane. 

Linnseus and BufFon afTerted that there was no affi- 
nity between the Orang Outang and the human fpecies. 
But we are happy in announcing to certain philofophers, 
that all their doubts, refpedling this matter, are likely to 

* See Dr. S. S. Smith's EfTay. p. 92. 

•|- See Montefquieu's Apology for Slavery, commonly called the Spirit 
ff Laws, b. XV, ch. 5, 

b9 



( 83 ) 

be fodrt cleared up. There is a purpofe ot marriage be- 
tween a Troglodyte gentleman and a Caffrarian lady. * 
If a match can be brought about between two perfons of 
rank, the vulgar will foon imitate their better?, in this, 
as in other, notable improvements. Certain goffippers 
who think themfelves amply qualified to negociate fuch 
an afFair, havcj for fome time, feduloufly laboured to ef- 
feft it. Nor is this to be wondered at ; for, as nothing 
improves animals fo much as crofling the breed, the Weft 
Indian market may, thus, come to be fupplied with choice 
anthropomoTphite mules— animals likely to be more dur- 
able and better adapted for herding with and fuftaining 
the drudgery of, brute beafts, than the African Anthro-' 
pophagi^ who have fomething in them which too much 
refembles the old leaven of human nature, ever to be pro- 
fitable, as labouring cattle. The philofophers too, who 
have long fearched for the aborigines of mankind among 
apes and drills, and fatyrs and monkeys and baboons, 
will become more intimately acquainted with their fpe- 
cies, and the Troglodyte ideas and language will become 
their own. In fhort, fo many good efFe6ls may be ex- 
pelled to refult from this match that we wait with im- 
patience, for its confummation, which, we prefume, has 
been poftponed, till the youth fliall have finifhed his 
ftudies, and taken his degrees at the Univerfity.f — We 
are told that Jockoo's 

parts and ready wit 

' Prove him for various learning fit;'$ 

* ' Ludicrous (read Indecent ot Jhock'ing) as the opinion may feeiD) I do 

* not think, that an Orang Outang hujhand would be any difgrace to A 

* Hottentot female'' Hift. of Jamaica, vol. 2. p. 364. Jt is mortifying to 
fee an author, of fo much general m^rit, mifled by travellers, whofe only 
aim feems to have been, to fill the world with monfters, of their iwn 
creating. Linnaeus and BufFon thought very differently. ' Inter Simias 

* (fays the former from ApoUodorus') ' inter Jimias -verfantem oporcefr 

* effsjimiatn.^ Syft. Nat. edit. 13. — ' Whatever refcmblance Cakes placcj 

* therefoie, between the Hottentot and the ^fe, the intei'val which 

* feparates them is mmenje.'' Smellie's Buff, vol. 8. p. 67. ■ Do<ftor 
Sparrman, a refpeftable pupil of Linnaeus, tells us he thinks it his 

* duty to ihew how much the world has been mifled, and the Hottentot 

* nation been mifreprefented,' He affirms that all the organs of the 
Hottentots, of both fexes, are the fame with thofe of other people j 
that their perfons are flender, their colour an umber-ycllow, their hair 
frizzled and that « their tout enfemble indicates health and content.* 
Voyage to the Cape of Good Hope, v. i. p, 181. 

•j^ Hiftory of Jamaica, Vol. 2. Page 370. J Gay, 

Fa fa 



( H ) 

fo that, when he fhall emerge into the phllofophlcal world, 
his name will, no doubt, be decorated with cabaliftical 
combinations of the Roman capitals and his knowledge- 
box brim full of entities and quiddities, and the late ad- 
mirable difcoveries about the materiality and mechanifm 
of human and bejiial fouls. Of the new theories of the 
different fpectes of men^ and the near affinity of the black 
fpecies to other monkies^ he is fo perfect a mafter, that, for 
aught we know, he may have already compofed fome 
elaborate le6lures, on that fubjeft, in the Troglodyte 
language, and which, it is probable, he will publicly de- 
liver, when an audience can be collected, who fufficiently 
underftand that ' hiffing dialcSi.*' To hear the honours 
of the race vindicated, by a learned and eloquent indi- 
vidual, will be a gratification of which no being can form 
an idea, who is unacquainted with the refined pleafure 
refulting from the eftablifhment of a favourite inifanthro- 
pic, antimofaicf or antichrijlian hypothefis. 

If a certain philbfopher formed his ^perceptions^' alias 
doubtful doubtSy into * bundles,' why may not we pack up 
the refufe of our objedlions, in the fame way, and thus 
difpatch them in the lump ? 

The calves of the legs of negroes are high ; their faces 
Concavej their noftrils tumid; their lips thick 5 their 
eyes round ; their chins prominent, &c. &c. &c. — All 
the world knows, Sir, that honeft John Bull has cheeks 
like a trumpeter ; that his Sifier Peg, poor girl ! though, 
now, treated as fhe fhould be, both by her brother and 

* ' Linnaeus, upon the authority of fome voyage-writers affirms that 
* they CONVERSE together iti a kind of hlfs'wg d'talefi,'' Hift, of Jam. 
Vol. 2. p. 360. It is not quite probable thai-, after Linnseus had 
pointedly delivered his opinion on this fubjedl (which our author basy 
but we have not omitted) he fliould infinuate that Orang Outangs ar- 
ticulate any thing like human fpeech. The words- of that great man 
are, " loquitur fihih.,''^ that is, when y^/V/y tranflated, he ffeaks, or n 
Jpcaks by hifsing,'' juft as a goofe may be faid to do, or as a turkey may be 
faid to fpeak by gabbling, ©"<:.— On what authority are we to reft the 
fhocking praftice wiili which the negroes in the heat of prejudice (for 
every man has his prejudices) are, feveral times, charged j and a parti- 
cular inftance of which ii faid to have happened in England, a few cen- 
turies ago (vide vol, 2. p. 313, Thofe ftories difgrace a work, in many 
refpe^te, valuable} efpecially as they ftand, unfupported by any au- 
thority, or ftiadow of authority, 

H 



( 8s ) 

by Mrs. Bull^ ftill has a thin vifa^e and high cheek 
bones ; that Lewis Baboon has a pair of long lanthorn 
jaws; that £<?r(5?»S^rM// has a fallow hide; and that the whole 
outward man of Nic Frog is clumfy and uncouth. Let 
the philofophers account for thofe ftriking differences, in 
the features and figure of fuch uear neighbours and rela- 
tions ; and let them decide which of thofe perfonages is 
intitled to precedence, in point of intellect, before they 
fet out on their travels, in queft of different fpecies of 
men, which are already more than half formed, in their 
own plaftic imaginations. 

We cannot difmifs this part of our fubje£l without 
animadverting on a paffage of the French apologiji before 
mentioned, in which he not only doubts of the human 
nature of the Africans ; but, what is worfe^ moft wan- 
tonly fneers a,t the Chriftianity of the Europeans ; as if 
all the world had not experienced how confcientioufly 
they practice their divine religion, and how grateful they 
are to the author of it, for that and all its concomitant 
bleffings. ' It is Impoflible, fays he, ' for us to fuppofe 
' that thefe creatures are men ; for the allowing them 

* to-be men, will lead to a fufpicion that we are not 

* Chriftians.'* If this be not irony, it is fomething very 
like it. But furely he does not mean It to be generally 
applied. Probably he alludes only to his own country- 
men. Be that as it may, we generous Britcr.s have the com- 
fort to be confcious that no fuch illiberal fufpicion is appli- 
cable to our countrymen. — Hiftorlans yet unborn In deli- 
neating the charaiters of certain nations, will be at a lofs 
which moft to celebrate, their enlightened zeal for their 
holy religion, or their entire conformit}' to her benevo- 
lent' precepts, in their dealings with the fimplc, uncorrupted 
part of mankind ; but particularly with the Africans. 
Language will fink under the dignity of a£l:ions which 
totally eclipfe all Greek and all Roman FAME.f 

* See Montefquieu's Apology for Slavery, b. xv. ch. v. the title of 
which is ' Of the Slavery of the Negroes." 

•j- I have, fomewhere, I think, in Hume's Effays, feen the modern 
French compared to the Athenians, and the Bri:ilh to the Romans. 
The former it is well known were mild, and the latter were rigorous 
saafters of flaves. 

F a LETTER. 



LETTER X. 
SIR, 

f\P the African Slave Trade, ftrldiy and properly fo 
^^ called, I cannot undertake to fay much that I 
have not learnt from others. The little I can fay, 
however, is of the very laft importance to this nation; for 
it tends to prove that that trade is carried on, at the ex- 
pence of the lives, not of the flaves only, but of numbers 
of that moft valuable clafs of men, Britifii failors. It 
is the practice of the mafters of Guinea men. Sir, after 
their bufinefs is finifhed, and they are about to fail, to 
fmuggle their ficlc failors afliore, and to leave the poor 
creatures, generally in a moft deplorable condition, ema- 
ciated and covered with ulcers, to beg in the ftreets. Iri 
BarbadoeSj they are generally fent to the alms-houfe in 
Bridge-town ; but the accommodations it affords are, 
by no means, fuch as to preclude the neceflity of begging. 
While they are able to walk about, the hofpitable inha- 
bitants very readily adminifter to their wants, and the 
medical gentlemen drefs their ulcers, and give them every 

humane ailliftance within their department.- One 

would think the lofs of feamen in the Have trade would, 
tf itfelf) be a fufficient motive for abolifhing that trade, 
Tor my part. Sir, I have ever confidered the great and 
peculiar hardfhips our brave tars undergo on the coaft of 
Guinea and in the middle paflage, as having a tendency 
to deftroy the very linews of the ftate. 

Having no data to proceed upon, I can form no 
eftimate of the numbers who perifli by this and the 
other hardfhips and cruelties which feamen endure, in 
a traffic which is at once the reproach and the bane of 
Britifh commerce. My want of information, on this 
head, is the lefs to be regretted, as the learned, humane 
and adive author pf the Elfay on the Slavery and Com- 
merce 



( 8? ) 

merce of the human fpecies * has been, for upwards of a 
year, employed, at the different ports, in colleffclng au- 
thentic vouchers of the lofs of feamen and the other ruin- 
ous confequences of the African trade. When his work, 
the refult of a very laborious but well conduced and fuc- 
cefsful inquiry, appears, the public will fee the Impolicy 
(as they have feen the inhumanity) of that trade demon- 
ftrated in a manner not only fatisfaftory, but dcciftve, \ 

The friends of humanity rightly conclude that the aboli- 
tion of the African trade would infure a milder treatment to 
the flaves already in our iflands. The planter, obliged to 
promote the natural increafe of his negroes, would foon 
abandon his parfimonious or oppreflive fyftem ; or, if he 
did not, his ruin would be certain. J Thus the property 
would fall into more humane hands ; and, in a few years, 
the fyftem of fiavery would be much reformed. It is 
incumbent on thofe who infift . on the neceility of the 
African trade, to (hew why our old fully fettled iflands 
ftill continue their demands for new negroes ; why the 
many hundreds of thoufands who have been imported into 
thofe iflands, fmce the commencement of that trade, never 
have fatisfied thofe demands ; and why the negroes, far 
from multiplying like other men, never have kept up their 
numbers. It is well known that they are a prolific race, 

* Tianflated from a Latin diflertation for which the author, the Rev. 
Mr, Clarkfon, was honoured with the firit prize, in the Univerfity of 
Cambridge, for the year 17S5. 

■\ Since the above was written the • Efiay on the Impolicy of the 

* Slave Trade' hath been publiflied, 

J 'When the principal nations in Europe, Afia and Africa v,fere united 

* under the laws of one fovereign, the fource oi foreign fupplks flowed 

* with much lefs abundance,'and the Romans were reduced to the mi/der 

* hut more tedious method oj" propagation^ In their numerous families, and 

* particularly in thth coanUy e&3.tes, the'/ eticourap;ed the marriage of their 

* Jla-vcs. The fentiments of nature, the habits of education, and the 

* poffeflion of a dependent fpecies of property, contributed to alleviate 

* the hardfhips of fervitude. The existence of a slave became an 

* oVjeB of greater -VA-LM-E^ and though his happinefs ftill depended on 

* the TEMPER AND CIRCUMSTANCES of the mafter, the. humanity o£ 

* the latter, inftead of being reftrained by fear, was encouraged by the 

* the faife of their own interef.' Hiftory of the Decline and Fall of the 
Roman Empire, Vol. I, page 48,, When the elegant hiftorian penned 
this appofite paflage, we cannot fuppofe he meant to allude to modern 
flavery. Mofi: probably lie did not even think, at the time, that he was 
befriending the caufe of humanity— Let the reader keep in mind that, 
among all the great v/riters of Europe, of all parties and perfuafions, there 
is btic om opinion on our fubjeft. 

F 4 and 



( 88 ) 

and that the Weft Indian climate is perfectly congenial 
to African conftitutions. Although they labour under 
every perfonal hardfhip ; although no care has ever been 
taken to proportion the fexes among the imported Africans 
(among the Creoles the fexes are proportioned, by a wife 
Providence) although marriage is not known among 
them ; and, above all, although, on attachments for debt, 
they are often fold, individuatly^ at public outcry, and 
even bought up f6r exportation, which affe6ls the total 
diflblution of their families, to the great anohiment^ no 
doubt of the refpe£tive purchafers of the difconfolate, fe- 
parated parents and their orphans; yet, under all thefe 
difad vantages, there is a very great majority of creole 
flaves now in Barbadoes, and they are univerfally pre- 
ferred, cater is paribus^ to Africans. 

All our iflands, except Jamaica, Dominica, and 
Anguilla have a greater, and fome of them a vaftly 
greater, proportion of inhabitants, than Britain and Ire- 
land. In truth the reader will not err much in thinking, 
that fome of them, at this hour, have a great many more 
people than, communibus annis^ they can properly main- 
tain. If Barbadoes hath not more people than it can 
properly maintain, fure I am, it contains a great many 
more people of all colours, than it does properly maintain. 
The whites are flill fo numerous as greatly to interfere 
with each other's means of fubfiftence, a circumftance 
which proves that there is much too great a proportion of 
that colour. This arofe from the introduction of flaves. 
'Were the ufe of cattle and hnplements of Im/bandry intro- 
duced, the prefent great numbers of negroes would be 
equally fuperfluous and ufelefs.— ^-Incredible as it may 
feem. Sir, there is, now, on that contra61:ed foot, a body of 
people far exceeding the num,ber of Englifh who had ar- 
rived in all North America previous to the year 1751. 

* There are fuppofed (fays Dr. Franklin) to be now 
^ (A. D. 1 751) upwards of 1,000,000 of Englifh fouls 

* in North America ; though, it is thought, fcarce 80,000 

* have been brought over fea.'* Jamaica alone 

contains /noye than thrice 8o,O00 flavesy exclufive of 
whites, Morons, free negroes, &c. 

* Thoughts on the peopling of countrlesn 

There 



( 89 ) 

There are, without doubt, many eftates in Barbadoes, 
that require no fupplies of African negroes ; and I could, 
almoft, venture to affirm this of feveralj but being an- 
xious, if foffihle^ to preclude contradi<3:ion, on this im- 
portant point, I will not rifque even my opinior on any par- 
ticular eilate. — The only inftance, of any remarkable in- 
creafe from the births, of. which I can venture to fpeak 
pofitively, occurred in one of the towns. — About the year 
1767, a gentleman married a lady who had a confiderable 
number of negroes. They were reprefented to me, as 
having been, then, a very idle debauched fet of people, 
and as having been in a fair way to ruin their too indul- 
gent miftrefs. By her hufband's prudent care, however, 
affifted by regular difcipline, they were foon rendered an 
excellent gang of field- people. They have been chiefly 
employed in the holing of land at fo much per acre. But 
they are not worked beyond their ftrength j and, when 
holing, a dinner ready dreffed, is ferved out to them., be- 
fides the ordinary allowance. The children are moft 
carefully attended to ; and, in fhort, they are better 
treated, in all refpeds, than by far the greater number 
of plantation-flaves. The coniequence of this manage- 
ment has been, an increafe of about one third. 

By meliorating the condition of the Haves, the aboli- 
tion of the African trade would be an excellent prepara- 
tory ftep for the gradual annihilation of flavery itfelf in 
our iflands.* Yes, Sir, I will not dilTemble that I ar- 
dently 

* The fentlments and conduft of the Polifh and Ruffian grandees, 
and of our Weft Indian planters, rafpefting their vaflals and flaves, are 
perfeiftly fimilar. The bugbear of emancipation is no lefs unreafonably 
terrific to the one than to the other. ' 1^ he generality ,'' (f^ys' a lace moft: 
intelligent traveller) ' of the Polip tiobks are not inclined to ejiabli/h or gi-ue 
} efficacy to any regulations in favour of the peafants, whom they scarce- 

* LY CONSIDER AS INTITLED TO THE COMMON RIGHTS OF HUMA- 

* NiTY. A few nobles, however, of benevolent hearts and enli'^ht- 

* ened underftandings, have afted upon different principles j and have 

* ventured upon the expedient of giving liberty to their vaffals. The 

< event has fhev/n this project to be no lels jz;^7ci&//i than humanej no 
« lefs friendly to their own interejis than to the happinefs of their pea- 
' fants.' — ' The firft noble who granted freedom to his peafants was 

< Zamoifki, formerly great Chancellor, who, in .1760, enfranchifed fix 
f villages in the Palatinate of Mafovia. Thefe villages were, in 1 771, 
« vifited by the author of the patriotic letters from whom 1 recei%-ed 
« the following iaforraatioa : On infpeftijig the pari/h regifters of births, 

*~ frons 



C 90 ) 

dently wifh for the total annihijiation of flavery, efpecially 
of Brit'ijh Jlavery. Yet notwithftanding the pointed de- 
teftation with which I have treated and ever will treat a<3:s 
of cruelty and oppreffion, I am an enemy to all fudden 
and violent meafures, an enemy to anarchy^ though a 
friend to rational liberty. Without referring to the nature 
of the political relation which the Britifh colonies bear 
to Britain, I have the very ftrongeft reafons for thinking 
that any plan which might be adopted for extending li- 
berty, (prote^ion may be immediately extended) to the 
negroes, muft be gradual in it's operation. 

In the firft place, our colonifts, under the connivance, 
if not the exprefs fan£tion, of the Britifti legiflature, in 
favour of the African trade, have vefted a very great part 
of their property in the perfons of Haves. The original 
fettiers of our iflands were the lefs to be blamed for this, 
as they never dreamt or fufpected that their property in 
fiaves was not as fecure and ought not to be held as invJo- 

* from 1750 to 1760, that is, during the ten years of flavery, immedi- 

* ately preceding their enfranchifement, he found the number of births 

* 434 ; in the firft ten years of their freedom from 1760 to 1770, 620, 

* and from 1770 to the beginning of 1777, 585 births.— During the 

* firft period there were Oiily 43 — fecond period 6a — third period 77 

* hirtbs each year. In their ftate of vaffalage, Zamoifki was obliged 

* to build cottages and barns for his peafants, and to funiiih them with 
*- feed, horfes, ploughs and every implement of agrkulture 5 lince their at- 

* tainment of liberty, they are become fo eafy, in their circumftancesj 

* as to provide themfelves with all thefe neceffaries, at their own ex- 

* pence ; and they llkewife chearfully pay an annual rent, in lieu of 

* the manual labour, which their mafter formerly exafted from them. 

< By thefe means, the receipts of this particular eftate have been nearly 

* tripled.^ — Prince Staniflaus, nephew to the king of Poland, has warmly 

* patronized the plan of giving liberty to the peafants.' — Coxe's Trav« 
V. I. p. 196, et feq. • In Riifsia a peafant may obtain his liberty, i. by 
» manumjflion ; 2. by purcliafe ; 3; hy fervlng in the army or no'vy ,'' — A 

* century ago, perhaps no one in Ruflia would have ventured to debate 
« thequeftion, Whether the peafants ought to be free ? But the fcience 

* and learning which are now dawning upon thefe regions, have alrea- 
« dy introduced fuch a fpirit of enquiry, that fimilar fubjcfts are not un- 
« frequently difcufted in public' — In J766, a prize was given at Peterf- 
burgh for the beft Differtation (and 164 were offered) on this queftion j 
« Is it moft advantageous to the ftate, that the peafant Ihould pofTefs 

* land, or only perfonal tffeBs ; and to what point ftiould that property be 

* extended, for the good of the public?' The prize-differtation was. 

< in fa-vour of the peafants.'' The author of it * recommends the legiflature 

* toconU'r u[)on the peafants z gradual Juccejsion of privileges, and to fol- 
« low the flow, but fure method of inJlruSipa. and improvement.'' See 
Cpxe's Travels, v. 3. p. 175 and 178. 



( 91 > 

lable as any other part of their property.* The prefent 
generation of Weft Indians, who fucceeded to that pro- 
perty, and fome of whom, to my certain knowledge, very 
much diflike it, do not appear to me to be blameable 
merely as they are owners of flaves. My countrymen 
muft not be offended, if I diftribute the bhime impartially. 
My very humble opinion is, that all perfons who ufe rum 
pr fugar, in other words, that the whole Britifli nation, 
and ABOVE all, the African traders^ ought to be conli- 
fidered as participcs crimints ; and it would be the extreme 
of injuftice and cruelty that one clafs, and a very ufeful 
and valuable clafs of men, fhould abfolutely be ruined for 
a crime (and a crime it certainly is) in the guilt of which 
eillzro. involved. 

In the fecond place I am convinced that liberty would 
be a curfe inftead of a bleffing to beings fo very rude and 
uncultivated as the field-negroes now are. We muft here 
admit, with fome limitation, the noble and generous 
fentiment of Salluft, ' I.ibertas juxta bonis et malis, ftre- 
* nuis atque ignavis, optabilis eft.f The field-negroes 
could not bear any great and fudden alteration of their 
condition. They muft be made fenfible of their value 
and dignity as men and, muft be converted to ChrijTmnity^ 
before they can be expeiled to aft properly as freemen, 
Foolifh profufion and low debauchery are the ufual con- 
fequences of a very poor man being fuddenly raifed to af- 
fluence. Idlenefs, drunkennefs, violence, in a word, every 
ipecies of excefs, would be the no lefs probable confe- 
quences of a numerous body of flaves, at leaft of brutifh 
field-negroes being fuddenly converted into freemen. 
Great, or, at leaft, improved and tried fpirits alone are 
capable of bearing fuch fudden tranfitions. No man, in 
his fenfes, who knows any thing of the Weft Indies, 
would ever dream of any meafure of the kind we allude 
to, which did not proceed by gradual fteps. Of the vaft 
body of flaves whom Mofes conduced out of Egypt only 
two entered, or, probably, vrere fit to enter, into the 

* I relate the fa£l i I do not attempt to juftify the principle; 

^ * / cannot conceive ivbat barm liberty can do to any man" ! ! 

A Brjtifh Peer, in his place, in the Houfe of 
tiords, in the year uucqLXXXVIII. 

promifed 



( 92 ) 

promlfed land. Perhaps the prefent generation of adult 
ilaves, too, muft be left to die in their chains, which are 
rivetted into and have irretrievably debafed every povi^er 
of their fouls. — But, on this moji delicate part of my 
fubjeft, I dare not obtrude any opinions of my own. It 
belongs to the humane enlightened and enlarged policy of 
the prefent, aufpicious period, to digeft a plan, which 
may promote the Interefts of the owner as well as the 
happinefs of the flave, which I contend are, by no means, 
incompatible. 

But I am perfuaded the friends of humanity have ne- 
ver entertained an idea of fo dangerous a meafure as the 
fudden emancipation of the flaves — a meafure which 
would moft probably prove ruinous to our fugar iflands, 
and would be little fhort of difbanding legions of igno- 
rant, lawlefs beings to deftroy the property and the lives 
of a fmall number of fettled inhabitants. 

But, although I cannot, without horror, contemplate 
the probable confequences of a fudden emancipation of 
the flaves ; yet I have good reafons for thinking that the 
Barbadian flaves, at leaft, would very well bear that im- 
provement of their condition, which would refult from the 
abolition of the African trade. 

Barbadoes is our oldeft, beft efl:ablifhed, and beft cul- 
tivated Weft Indian colony. The majority of the flaves 
in that ifland are Creoles^ who are interefted, as far as 
Jlaves can be interefted, in the profperity of that their na- 
tive land ; and are fo well reconciled, even to their pre- 
fent debafed condition, that nothing like an infurredtion, 
has taken place there for many years. Not that I fup- 
pofe that they, any more than other flaves, are deftitute 
of a defire for liberty. The holy flame may be fmothercd 
up, but can never be extinguifhed, in the human breaft. 
But I can conceive that cuftom, neceflity, fear and it's 
ofi^spring mutual dljiruft may produce a feeble kind of 
acquiefcence in a condition againft which human nature 
revolts. The very numerous free negroes and mulattoes, 
who are generally fober and induftrious, are well attached 
to the whites, on their relation to whom the mulattoes 
very much value themfelves. No ifland in the Weft 

Indies 



C 93 ) 

Indies has fo great a proportion of whites as Barbadoes ; 
and many white men are not afhamed to live in fuch ha- 
bits of intimacy with the female domeftic flaves, that it 
is next to impoflible a revolt could be hatched and come 
to any dangerous crifis, without being difcovered. In 
this, as in many other cafes, by the wife appointment of 
Providence, order arifes out of confufion. 

But, fo far as I can learn, no prophecies of war and 
bloodfhed have been uttered by the people of Barbadoes. 
I muft do the Barbadians the juftice to fay, that their 
general behaviour fhows but little of that corporal dread 
of the blacks which feems to pervade fome of the iflands. 
The truth, I believe, is, that they are confcious their 
treatment of the negroes, on the whole, Icfs deferves ta 
be refifted than that of the panic-ftruck colonies. The 
general confidence between the whites and the blacks 
which reigns in Barbadoes, does honour to both. I 
have walked and rode, as I formerly faid, at all hours of 
the day and night, often alone, always unarmed, and I 
never fcrupled co take fhelter, from a fhower, in the firit 
negro-hut I came to, often in a watch-houfe, at a dif- 
tance from any other dwelling ; though, fometimes, I 
knew not a negro on the plantation. Such humble cots, 
I ever did enter, with as little fear, as I entered my own 
chamber. Had the negroes been half fo favage as has 
been pretended, I muft inevitably have fallen a victim to 
their ferocity, having been many hundred times, abfo- 
lutely in the power not of Creoles only, but of Jfri- 
cans. — A conduct fo irregular, as that many of the town 
flaves, before defcribed, would never be permitted by a 
fufpicious people. On Sundays and holidays it is com- 
mon to fee many hundreds of negroes and mulattoes danc- 
ing and making merry, without the fuperintendence even 
of a conftable. If a well drefled white man wifh to 
enter the circle, the cry is, ' Tand a by, let Maffa come 
' forward !' when they immediately make way for him, 
refpeflfully bowing or court'fying as he pafles, often 
with a ' God blefs you MafTa,' and, fometimes, whifper- 
ing, loud enough for him to hear it, ' Da good Backra' 
(That is good white man). Such fcenes, in the envi- 
rons of the towns, where there is not a great mixture of 
po©r fi^l.d-negroes, would make a ftranger believe there 

■ is 



( 94 ) 

is no fuch thing as oppreffion in the ifland. Nay, fuch 
excellent animals are the negroes, that if not too hardly 
treated, they enjoy the dance and the fong on the planta- 
tions, where I have feen very large companies of field- 
people making merry, fometimes at late hours on Sunday 
and holiday evenings. Curiofity, I ov/n, when I firlt 
-arrived in the iJland, has led me out of my way, to mix 
with fuch nodlurnal meetings, both in town and country, 
when, fometimes, I did not know an individual prefent. 
In certain iflands, I fuppofe, fuch meetings and fuch ad- 
ventures would be looked upon, as very perilous indeed. 
Yet, I am here, alive, to teftify, that the only mark even 
of difrefpecSt, I ever experienced, was, that, on my go- 
ing up, the mufic, fometimes, has ceafed — a modeft hint 
for an intruder to withdraw. — Gentlemen often ride with 
piflols ; but more, perhaps, for ornament than ufe ; for, 
I believe, they are feldom loaded. — On the other hand, 
jumpers, negro-catchers, Szc. do not often go out, at 
nights, unarmed. — Thefe fails, though apparently tri- 
vial, tend to evince that the negroes, in Barbadoes, are, 
by no means, fo favage as thofe in fome other iflands 
have been reprefented to be. 

Throughout the late v/ar, large bodies of flaves in 
Barbadoes were armed with fwords and fpears. The free 
negroes had fire-arms, were well cloathed, at their own 
expence, and made a very good appearance. But no in- 
ftance occurred of their abufmg the confidence repofed in 
them. On the contrary, the negroes, both flaves and 
fteemen, exhibited, on all occafions, an alacrity, which, 
there is good reafon to believe, would have been very 
troublefome, if not fatal, to the enemies of what may be 
called by a bold figure their country. Indeed, I have often 
heard it affirmed, That, though the French might take 
Barbadoes, yet they could not poflibly keep it ; and one 
reafon always affigned, was, That the negroes would cut 
their garrifons to pieces, which, I verily believe, would 
be the cafe. The very flaves in Barbadoes are infpired 
with fomething like loyalty. The fame kind of contempt 
of the French, which actuates the bofoms of our foldiers 
and our feamen, hath taken poflTeflion of thofe of the ne- 
groes. Sentiment, rather than reafon, will ever rule the 
bulk of mankind i and, pfall fentiments, that of patrio- 

tifrn 



( 95 ) 

tifm is furely the moft proper to be cherifhed in the 
lower orders of anat'on, vvbo never will underftand the 
meaning of it's polite, modern fubftitute philanthropy.* 
In enlarged minds, the laUer principle will grow out of 
the former; for philanthropy i-^ no more inconfiftent 
with patriot-fm than the love of one's neighbours is with 
the love of one's family. Addifon's admired character of 
Sir Roger de Coverley would be incomplete without 'a 
' laudable partiality for his country;' and Lord Chefter- 
field was of opinion, that the perfuafion which every Eng- 
lifhman entertains of being able to beat ten Frenchmen 
had often enabled him to beat tvjo. 

Loyalty and attachment to this country pervade every 
clafs of people in Barbadoes.f — When our brave, ably 
conducted and vi6lorious fleet and army were languilliing 
with ficknefs, at St. Lucia, the white Inhabitants of 
Barbadoes fent them liberal fupplies of live ftock and of 
corn to feed that ftock. The unanimous vote of the le- 
giflature, by which thofe fupplies were raifed, was almoft 
unneceiTary ; for people of all ranks, feemed to vie with, 
each other, in contributing even more than their quota. 
I was not in to-vn, at that time, to obferve the conduft 
of any confiderable body of the negroes ; but when the 
news of the glorious viftory, of the 12th of April, ar- 
rived, the negroes in Bridgetown were almoft frantic 
with joy. Some gentlemen afFe6ted to call this a mere 

* Thofe who wlih to retain their fellow-creatures in everlafting 
chains cant very prettily about ' warm philanthropy ;' and ' fouls tuned 

* to the finer and foftcr fenfationsj' and thejlufton ' Benevolence, 

* indulging hsr Jweetejl gratification and enjoying her feaji of the foul, her 

* highell, moft delicicus luxury^' With what delicate languor do they 
drawl and lifp ouc ' liber-a-lity of fentimcnt,' and ' fenfibility — dear 

* delicate, fweet, foft, fine feeling ie.ni\i'•.\\t.^: \ of heart ?' — What plea- 
fure can there be in beflubber'ng the virtues not with the miik, only, 
but wi»'h pailfuls of the crean? and whole lirkins of ths iuiter of humaa 
klndnefs ?— a compoft yet more naufeous and hypocritical than any in 
Whitefield's Journal 1 — Bur let poor unlucky wight of an author only 
venture to differ in opinion from thofe men of feeling, and ftraightway 
they go to work, with the tar-brulh and the bag of feathers ! 

•f There is nothing wonderful in this. Barbadoes was originally fet- 
tled by loyalifts ; New England by independent republicans ; Pennfylva- 
nia by Quakers ; the eaft of Ireland had Epifcopalians fromE.^.gland j and 
the north of that kingdom Prelbyterians from Scotland j and the pre- 
fent inhabitants of each of thole fettlements ilill adhere to the religioiJB 
and pplitipal creeds of their refpeitive anceftors, 

effufion 



C 96 ) 

effufion of animal fpirits ; but I afked them from what 
fource any man's joy, even a philofopher's joy flows — 
from his head or from his keayt f — Are men, thus at- 
tached to Britain and to her Sovereign, ,to be, for ever^ 
debarred from iajling Britifti liberty, and from enjoying 
Britlfh protection ? 

The great hurricane, in 1780, put the whites rntlrely 
in the power of the blacks. The former could not leave 
the ruins of their houfes, having been employed in fearch- 
ing for and burying their dead, in collecting the fcattered. 
fragments of their efFeCts, and in providing for their im- 
mediate fhelter and fubiiftence. The few troops then 
in the ifland having been fimilarly employed, were in no 
condition to a£t. Between 2000 and 3C00 ftand of arms 
were buried under the ruins of the armoury, and thofe in 
the forts were either buried or rendered ufelefs. Yet the 
negroes remained peaceably with their owners ; and 
fhewed no figns of a fpirit of mutiny. I well remember, 
that the white inhabitants Vv^ere under greater apprehen- 
fions from about 1000 prifoners of war, than from the 
whole body of the flaves. This may feem incredible ; 
■but it is true. 

Nothing, therefore, is to be dreaded from the flaves in 
Barbadoes ; and / do very much fufpeSi that the fears of 
infurreCtions in the other iflands are exaggerated, if not 
groundlefs ; but I exprefsly bar the effe6ts of imprudence 
and ill ufage.* I need fcarcely add. Sir, that were the 
Weft Indian flaves converted to Chriftianity, were they 

* Political prophets, always think themfelves interefted in the accom- 
plifbment of their predidions. And it is eafy to lee, that if owners upbraid 
their flaves wiih the favour of the people of England, or with ' Alder- 

* men of London and Members of Parliament, having taken up the 

* cudgels In their behalf,' (See an abufive paragraph in a Jamaica paper, 
which we (hall afterwards quote) if fucb 1 fay pould be the imprudent 
condu(3: of owners, they may draw expreffions of joy from the more im- 
prudent flaves. Corredtion, perhaps brutal treatment, will icllow. The 
jealoufy of both parties, if thus roufed, may produce ill eftefts, though 
fcarcely dangerous effedts j for it is next to impoffible, fuch condudt 
fhould beeome general — Let it be obferved that the field-negroes can 
neither read nor write. — Yet they are {hrewd enough to know that mu- 
tinous condudt v/ould but tend to rivet their chains. They will dread 
that power which could cope at once with France and Spain and Holland 
and Ngmn America, 

protected 



C 97 ) 

prote6led from arbitrary violence, and, had they but the 
pleafirig phantom of liberty to hght for, they would form 
a phalanx more than fufficient to repel any force which. 
could be fent againft our illands — a phalanx incompara- 
bly more numerous, hardy zu^ fufcthtible of difcipUm than 
an ill eftablifhed, ill armed, undiiciplined, tattered rabble, 
of poor whites ; and fuch, if we except the town- cortl- 
panies, who were well trained and refpedlablcj the pri- 
vates of the Barbadoes militia were, during the immi- 
nently dangerous fituation of that important illand in the 
late war. The men are not deficient in perfonal cou«. 
rage; but very many of them have nothing to fight for, 
but the precarious poffeffion of little fpots of had land, 
on which they barely exifl:. I may fafely affirm, that 
they could not lofe half fo much by a defeat, as a nume- 
rous body of well treated, effectually prote6led and con- 
tented negroes^ who would sooner die than part 
WITH SUCH A CONDITION.* — The prefent white mili- 
tia have no pay, and, V\'hen they meet with accidents, 
far from receiving any kind of compenfation, they receive 
not fo ?nuch as thanks. This, in fome cafes, cannot but 
be peculiarly diftreffing. A poor fellow, from Britain, 
for inllance, in endeavouring, by his exertion and ex- 
ample, to ferve his country, in the hour of danger, or of 
ferious and univerfal alarm, is mutilated in the Barbadoes 
militia. If he have no refpe6lable friend to vouch for his 
charasSler, he muft return home, with as ill a grace, and 
he runs the rifque of being as much defpifed by his old 
friends, as if he had loft his limb for a crime. Such, 
under thofe circumftances, will moft probably be his re- 
ception in a cdurntry-place, where the very word Indies^ 
eaft or weft, commonly imports all that is opulent and 
fplendid and generous I — To any fuch man, it might be, 
fome confolation, if, he could ftill ferve his country, by 
promoting the fecurity of her colonies, or, which is the 
fame thing, the fecurity and happinefs of a body of men, 

* ' The maglftrates of St. Thomas and St. Cruz have more than ones 

* declared ' That the baptised negroes . are a greater Jeairity to thcKt thii.n their 
^ forts.' Succinft View of the Millions, &c. by the Church of the Bre- 

* thren, — ' As the Europeans lofe vigour by the heat of the climate, the 
' free negroes, efpecially thofe on the mountains, are the fafeguard of 

* the illand (Jamaica) 5 and it was by their means chiefly that a number 

* of rebellious negro flaves were fubdued, in the year 1760.' ^Lord 
Kaimes's Sketches, p. 22. EdJn. 1788. See alfo Hift. of jam. 

G v/hom 



( 98 ) 

whom a miftaken policy hath hitherto confidered not 
barely as aliens, but as outlaws — as enemies. 

Every Briton, who hath the true and laftlng glory of 
his Sovereign and his Country at heart, muft ardently wifti 
to fee the flave trade for ever annihilated. 

To adopt this meafure would be to tranfmit to pofterity 
the mild and benign reign of George III. with a luftre 
unequalled by that of any Monarch who ever fwayed 
the Britifh fceptre. To fave from flavery and from death 
the thoufands of innocent victims, who are annually drag- 
ged, in chains, from their native land, and who either 
perifh on the voyage, or are doomed to an ignominiouSj 
painful and perpetual bondage; by means fo noble to 
cfFe6t a nobler purpofe — to provide for the gradual ex- 
tenfion of the bleffings of civilization, liberty and reli- 
gion to millions yet unborn ; to exhibit to admiring na- 
tions an exalted and illuftrious example of clemency, 
juftice, and political wifdom : Thefe are actions altoge- 
ther unparalleled in the annals of this or any other na- 
tion, a6lions which the world would applaud and revere, 
and which future hiftorians would celebrate as the greateft 
that adorned a prince who was diftinguifhed, among 
his cotemporaries, as the promoter of morality and fci- 
ence, and the father of his people. 

Happily for his country, the genius and integrity of 
her patriotic, illuftrious and favourite ftatefman, furvive 
in his offspring. — It is incredibk, Sir, it is impoffible that 
thofe talents which have improved the finances of this 
country, which, by treaties and alliances wifely formed, 
have fecured her peace and extended her commerce, and 
which, on a late moft critical emergency, foiled and ap- 
palled the Houfe of Bourbon — it is impoflible, in a 
word, that thofe confummate falents, which, under Pro- 
vidence, have RESTORED Britain to her wonted refpec- 
tability among the nations, fliould be unaccompanied 
with that companion for the miferable which chara6lerizes 
every great foul. — The definition of heroic virtue confifts 
of two infeparable ^^ni^-^parcere fubjeiiis et debellare /«- 

Certain 



( 99 ) 

Certain illiberal fuggeftions might prevent a man front 
publicly avowing fuch fentiments, did he not know that 
they are the fentiments of the nation. — And is there not 
very great reafon to think, That it would be generally 
agreeable that the ftatefman whofe wifdom and public 
fpirit have fo largely contributed to the prefent prosperity 
of the country, fhould have the honour of contributing to 
wipe off the fouleft blot on her charader \ 

' Let it no longer be faid, That flavery Is counten- 
' anced by the braveft and moft generous people on 
' earth ; by a people who are animated with that heroic 
' paffion, the love of liberty^ beyond all nations ancient 
' or modern ; and the fame of whofe toilfome, but un- 

* weariedj perfeverance, in vindicating, at the expence of 
' life and fortune, the facred rights of mankind, will ftrike 
' terror into the hearts of fycophants and tyrants, and 
' excite the admiration and gratitude of all good men, t<i 

* the lateft pofterity.'f 

It hath been obferved, that the conquered provinces of 
free ftates have, in general, been more opprefled thait 
thofe of defpotic governments,! The fame obfervatiori 
will, perhaps, hold good with regard to their refpe6live 
flaves. Without recurring to hiftory, it is well knowHj 
and a mortifying truth it is, to Britons, that the na- 
tional code no'ir of our humane neighbours, affords the 
Have a greater degree of protedlion than can be expeited 



* De petits efprits exaggerent trop Tinjuftice que Ton fait aux Afr'i- 
cains\ car fi ills etoient telle qu'ils les difenC (fcil, homines) ne feroit il 
pas venu dans la tete de Princes d' Europe, qui font entr'eux tant de ton- 
•vent'wns inutiks, d'en faireuNE generale enfaveurde la mise- 

RICORDE ET DE LA PITIE ?' Efprit dc lolx Hv. XV. ch. V. ■ » 

— — ' Pour renverfer I'edifice de I'efclavage, etaye par de paffions S. 

univerfelles, par des loix fi authentiques, par la rivalite de nations fi 
puiffantes, par de prejuges plus puiffans encore, a quel tribunal porte- 
rons nous la caufe de Thumanite que tant d'hommes trahiffent de 
concert. Rois de la terre vous feuls pouvez faire cette revolu- 
tion.' ' En attendant cette revolution, les negres gemiffent fous le 

joug de travaux dont la peinture ne peut que nous interefler, de plus en 
plus, a leur d^ftinees.' 

Raynal Hlft. Phili et Pol. torn. V. p. 289. 

"t Seattle's Effay on Truth, p. 464, J Hume. 

G % M 



( too ) 

to refult from the narrow, partial, opprefllve, PRoviff^ 
CIAL laws of the Englifh. IVhat a glorious emulation is 
it^ for two great nations to rival one another in jujiice and 
humanity ?-~-Ltt it no longer be faid, that in the pra£tici 
of thofe virtues, Britons are inferior to Frenchmen, 

Let it no longer be faid that Great Britain, in point 
of juftice and humanity, is inferior to the ftates of 
of America. The Americans, while they declaimed 
and contended and fought for what they fondly fuppofed 
would be political liberty., held the Africans enchained in 
that wor/i fpecies of flavery, perfonal Jlavery ; for, ' when 
men talk of liberty they generally mean their own li- 
berty, and feldom fuffer their thoughts on that fubjedl 
to ftray to their neighbours.' — ' The treatment,' one of 
their writers tells them, with equal juftice and fpirit,— 

* The treatment we received from Britain is no more 

* to be equalled to our''s to the negroes^ than a barley-corit 
' is to the globe of the earth J^ It would be unjuft not to 
own, That the Americans have fince endeavoured to 
pbviate that unanfwerable obje6lion to their caufe — an 
objeftion which transformed all their pompous oratory 
into the moft ridiculous, contemptible bombaft. The 
Quakers in Pennfylvania, by ' loofmg the bands of wick- 
' ednefs, and undoing the heavy burdens,' f have con- 
verted fullen, reluctant flaves into diligent, faithful fer- 
vants.J So defirable a change cannot be, immediately, 

effected 

* Serious addrefs to the Rulers of America, refpefling flavery.— The 
following advertifement exhibits a moft lamentable Inftance of the truth 
pf the author's affertion. From the ' Confiitutional Gazette of Georgia, 

* March 5th, 1788. Ths fubfcriber advifes all people to caution thei* 

* (lames to refrain their rendezvous on an ifland, fituated on the marlhes 
< of Little Ogeechie, known by the name of May Ifland, otherwife they 

* ihall have the treatment of A WOLF, <without enquiry.'' W S— — . 

A Wolf agrees not with the vi^ords Jla-ves and they ; fo that Mr. S. 
himfelf muft have meant to perfonate the ivild beafl — Such was, and 
fuch, fw Gi:ar^ia 1 believe ftill is, conjiitutionai llhstty as it refpeds mifer- 
able flaves ! ! 

t Ifaiah. 

J ' The late refolution of the Quakers, in Pennfylvania, to emancipate 

* their flaves, feems to evidence a degree of pure and difinterefted virtue 
« 5n that people, beyond the example of the moft virtuous communities 
« of ancient times.' Dunbar's Eflay, p. 411. Their brethren, in this 
country, have fliown themfelves to be no lefs fenfible and zealous 
friends to mankind.— — Since the foregoing letters were written, every 

denoininatiea 



( lOJ ) 

effected in the Weft Indies, where the proportion of 
Haves is much greater than it was in Pennfylvania. But 
the Britifh legiflature, by aboHfhing the flave trade, 
would adopt the meafure moft likely to efFe6i it. This 
meafure, like other public meafures, may be attended 
with temporary inconveniencies to a few individuals ; but 
could not fail to be ultimately beneficial to this country 
and to her fugar colonies — an effect which all meafures, 
dictated by the enlarged fpirit of political wifdom, will 
ever, in the end, be found to produce^ 

Sir, I have now finifhed every thing I intended to fay 
on this moft interefting fubjedt. 

From the difpaflionate, merciful and, on every account, 
refpedtable, part of the little community of Barbadoes, I 
know, I fhall have inward approbation j and fome of 
them may, perhaps, reward and honour me even with 
public applaufe, 

I write not for the praife of perfons of the oppofitc 
charadter. — I would repel it as the vileft badge of infamy. 

denomination of Chriftians in Britain, and particularly, refpedlabia 
bodies of the clergy of both the national churches, have petitioned the 
Legiflature for the abolition of the flave trade. If we except a few (and 
compared with the whole nation, they are but a verj/eiv) perfons, who 
unreafonably fuppofe their interefts to be in danger, all defcriptions of 
the people feem to have but one wifli, on this occalion. Jn a word, 
never was a meafure, at once fo glorious and fo popular, recommended 
to the Legiflature 5 and great and juft applaufe' will redound to that 
adminiftration who fliall adopt it.' -Sooner would the author throw 
thefe fheets into the lire, than they fhould come abroad ftained with any 
thing like flattery j but he will give praife where praife is due. Ha 
■would not wiflito be prematurcin applauding the condu£l of his country- 
men ; but as he is not afraid to condemn the conduct Oifojne, and throws 
a Ihare of blame on alh it is but proper he fhould give the nation credit 
for the general and noble effort they are now making to wipe off the 
fouleft of all blots from their charafter. Would to Heaven they could 

prevent it from having a place in future hiftories ! The General 

Affembly of the church of Scotland have appointed theffth of November 
next, to be obferved as a day of folemn thankfgiving to Almighty God, 
in commemoration of the great and glorious revolution, of 
which that day will be the iirfl: centenary — a day ' much to be remembered' 
by Britons of all ranks and perfuafions. With great humility and 
refpeft it is fubmitted, Whether a petition from the lafl General ^JJembly, to 
the Legijlature, in favour of the innocent, opprefjed, and benighted men laho noii> 
groan under the yoke of British Bondage, -would not have been peculiarly 
froper and ivell timed? But, perhaps, fuch a petition} froiii the next 
■Affsrably, may not be too late. 

G 3 . My 



f 102 ) 

My fubjeftj I muft repeat it, as well as my defign in 
treating it, are entirely of a public nature. I have, 
therefore, moft carefully avoided all unnecejjary perfonal 
allufions. But, vi^hen the practice of individuals happens 
to coincide w^ith that v\^hich may defervedly meet v^^ith 
public reprobation, it is not furprifmg that offence fhould 
be taken at expreffions and pafTages with which it is al- 
together impoffible the innocent Ihould be offended. Let 
ilich perfons (erioufly weigh the well known adage^^ 

Qui capit, ille facit. 

In whatever manner my own little interefts may be 
affe^led by this endeavour to inform the minds of my 
countrymen on a fubje6l fo generally interefting, I will 
fay, with the poet,* 

' Welcome for thee fair Freedom, all the pajr^ 
5 For thee, fair Freedom, welcome — even the laft» 

I have the honour to be, &c. 



T H 



Pop,?. 



( 103 ) 
THE FOLLOWING 

LETTERS 

CHIEFLY RELATE TO THE 

STATE OF SLAVERY 

IN 

JAMAICA. 



* There is no fenftble and ingenuous man^ with whom I 
' have hitherto converfed on the fubjeSi^ who denies^ 

* that the negroes in this ijland are^ in general, 

* over-worked and under-fed, even on the 
' mildest and best regulated properties. 

* There is no fnan likewife who will ferioujiy jay^ that 
' 7iegro population has yet become an objeSl of fujfficient 
' 7nagnitude^ or that the beft means have been adopted 
' to produce it.' McNeill's Obfervations on the 
Treatment of the Negroes in the Ifland of Jd.^ 
maica, p. 44. 



LETTER. XL 
S I R, 

AFTER fome of the foregoing letters had been print- 
ed, and the following ones were ready for the prefs, 
I was agreeably furprized by the appearance of a pamph- 
G 4 let 



C 104 ) 

let intltled ' Obfervations on the Treatment of the Ne-^ 
*■ groes, in the Ifland of Jamaica, &c. in a Letter to a 
^ Phyfician in England, from Hedlor M'NeilL' I was 
agreeably furprized, I fay, by this publication ; for what 
can be more agreeable to an author than to fee his book 
confirmed, even before it comes abroad, by a writer of 
the adverfe party ? The difregard for the common fenfe 
and feelings of mankind, which is confpicuous in this piece, 
proves it to be of the apologetic kind ; but I dare appeal 
Co the public, whether it does not ftrengthen, inftead of 
weakening, the proofs I now fubmit to their examination. 
Indeed the confirmation of fome particulars and the con- 
feffion of others which the reft of my authorities do not 
explicitly mention, together with Mr. M'N's emphatic 
filence or ambiguity concerning enormities which appear 
to be too common in Jamaica, are my only reafons for tak- 
ing any notice whatever of an author who moft decifively 
refutes himfelf. Thus like all the other apologies for ne- 
gro-flavery, Mr. M'N's piece is, providentially, calcu- 
lated to fupport the caufe it is intended to fubvert. At 
p. 13, the author fays ' A negro in flavery, as I before 
' mentioned, is fupplied v/ith every thing he has occafion 

* for.' This is flatly contradidled at p. 44, ' There is 

* no fenfible and ingenuous man' fays our author, ' with 
' whom I have hitherto converfed on the fubjeil, who 
^ denies that the negroes, in this ifland (Jamaica) are, 
' in general^ over-worked and under-fed^ even on the mlldeji 
f arid befl regulated properties.^ In the original, the word 
' every,' in the affirmation, and the word ' general,' in 
the contradiilion, are in italics ; fo that the expreffions 
muft have been deliberate. Again, p. 10 'I have al- 
' ready endeavoured to convince you by incontrovertible 
' proofs, that the negroes, in this country, are generally 
' prote61:ed,' — not very confonant top. 31, where fpeaking 
of the confoiidated JJave-lazv, Mr. M'N.fays, ' lam, there- 
' fore of opinion that fomething more effectual, 
' fhould be introduced to curb the wantonness of 
' power, and to prevent the HAND of cruelty _/r^?/i 
f being extended.^ 

I fhall not here infert any more of our author's incon- 
gruities. But I am fo much convinced that his pamph- 
let, if read with common attention, will operate ftrongly 

in 



( 105 ) 

in favour of the Africans, that nothing but the expence 
prevents me from having it bound up, in flatu quo^ with 
thefe fheets. If there fhould be room, I may infert, at 
the end, a few more glaring and palpable contradictions, 
from this pamphlet. In the mean time, let the reader 
compare what he will find, in p. 2, ' But the happinefs, 
' &c.' %vith ' An action is brought, &c.' p 37. — *■ He 
' would have feen,' &c. p. 3, vjith ' All this,' &c. p. 
4.- — ' On a proprietor,' &c. p. 4. note, and * I have 
' been credibly,' &c. p. 9, and ' When he is feafoned,' 
&c. p. 25, with ' In the firfb place,' &c. p. ii.' — ' For- 

* merly,' &c. p. 4 and 5, xvith ' Unlefs it is,' &c. p. 5. 
— ' I believe there are,' &c. p. 10, and * That the bon- 

* dage,' &c, p. 45, with the declared end and airn of 
every apology for negro-flavery. 

But I cannot omit -fome paffages tending to exalt the 
planters of Jamaica at the expence of thofe of the Wind- 
ward Iflands. * You may remember, fays Mr. M'N. p. 
' I, that impreffed with a keen fenfe of the fever'ities^ in- 
' jiided on the helplefs negro, during my former refidence 

* in the windward islands, twenty years ago, I af- 

* terwards not only turned my thoughts ferioufly to a 
' confideration of the fubje6t, but co?nmitted the?n to writ-. 

* ing.' What a pity our author has not publifhed thofe 
written thoughts ! ' On my leaving Britain the laft time, 
' thofe imprefiions were vzther jirengthened by the perufal 
' of certain publications, which tended to roufe the indig- 
' nation and excite the pity of the public' — P. 2. ' On 
' my arrival in Jamaica, however, I found at the firft 
' view, the fcenes appeared very different from thofe I 
^ was formerly accuftomed to j for inftead of feverity, 
' cruelty, and injuflice, I obferved in the towns of this 

* ifland fuch a degree of lenity as often to occafion llcen- 
' tioufnefs ; and, in the country, a general attention 

* and humanity to the welfare of the negro, fufficient to 
' make bondage eafy.' — P. 6, note, * As to the article 
' of picking grafs, on which fo much has been faid by late 

* writers, no fuch thing now exifts in this ifland. I be- 

* lieve, however, that neither this alleviation nor that of 
? the plow has yet been generally introduced in the other 

* iflands. In Grenada, I am confidently informed, that 
^ the old pra6lices Hill prevail.' Thus our author ex-^ 

. prefsly 



( io6 ) 

prefsly affirms or admits, i. That the negroes In the 
Windward Iflands were feverely treated ?.o years ago. 
2. That their condition (in two very material particulars, 
at leafl) is not yet much meliorated. 3. That the pub- 
lications on that fubjedl (meaning no doubt Mr. Ramfay's, 
Dean Nickolls's, &c.) are founded in truth, 4.. That the 
Jamaica bondage is ' eafy,' and ' very different,' from 
that of the Windward Iflands. — To the three firft articles 
I moft readily accede ; but I cannot admit the lafl ; be- 
caufe I. It is contrary to the whole tenor of the follow- 
ing proofs which vi^ere penned in Jamaica, as v/ell as 
Mr. M'N's pamphlet. 2. It is particularly contrary to 
the lafl: fentence of the following defcription of a Jamaica 
fcramble, ' Why not adopt the method purflied at all 
< the Windward IJlands. 3. It is exprefsly con trad icSled. 
by the author himfelf in the paffage above quoted from 
liis 44th page. 4. It unaccountably and v^^idely differs 
from his own horrid defcription (p. 5.) of what flavery 
was ' formerly' in Jamaica, a defcription which, I am 
forrv to obferve, is not very explicitly authorized by the 
Iiiftory of Jamaica which delineates the ftate of things in 
that iiland about the period Mr. M'N. refers to. But 
we truft our adverfaries will go on to contradict them- 
felves, one another and us^ till, independently of the writ- 
ings which they vainly oppofe, they divulge all the horrid 
faSs which they labour to palliate or conceal. Be it ob- 
ferved, that Mr. M'N's ' confident information,' that 
old, bad practices flill prevail in Grenada is direCHy in 
the teeth of the ' Apology for Negro Slavery' we cited 
at p. 81. Farther, Mr. M'N. affirms that the ' Curfory 
* Remarks' ' accord perfeClly' with the ftate of things in 
Jamaica. According to the other apologift, thofe fame 
remarks fit Grenada to a tittle. Yet I have good autho- 
rity to fay that they are laughed at in the ifland to which 
they are profefTedly adapted. — If the deceafed poor '^ohin 
blundered egregioufly in his calculations for the meridian 

of St. K , what fort of conjurers muft they be, who 

contend that his farthing-almanack will equally fuit Pif- 
cataquay and Tobolfki ? Why will not the obftinate 
bunglers compute by they'z//? and univerfal canons we re- 
commend to them, and which have been fo fuccefsfully 
reduced to praClice by that prince of philomaths, the fen- 
fible and worthy /nVwr/ Richard of Philadelphia F 

But 



( 107 ) 

But to have done with fuch incongruous nonfenfe. It 
is not our bufinefs to reconcile the endlefs contradidlions 
pf our adverfaries ; nor can it be expeiled that any one 
writer fhould affign to each ifland in^ the Weft Indies it's 
degree on the fcale of humanity ; if, in truths any one of 
them may be faid to have advanced fo h'gh as the cool 
point of indifference But my late reis.rches into this 
fubjeit have only tended to confirm me n the opinion I 
gave at p. i8, and which with leave of Mr. M'N, I will 
repeat, That ^ fever e as the treatment of the Jield-negroes in 
^ Barbadoes may appear ^ I have reafon to think it is much 
* milder than in moji of the other ^ efpecially the new 
' ifands^' and I will add, that, with regard to Jamaica, 
what was opinion is now conviilion. Mr. M'N's gene- 
ral charge againft the Windward Iflands, (and Barbadoes 
is the moft windward ifland) renders it proper that my 
reafons for being of that opinion fhould be fubmitted to 
the examination of the public, i . Barbadoes is our oldeft 
colony ; and the flaves are likely to be more reconciled to 
their chains there, than in the more modern iflands, 
where there is a greater proportion of African negroes, 
2. The very fuperior attention paid to religion, in that 
ifland (fee p. 58.) 3. The much greater proportion of 
ladies {fte^. 38.) 4. Barbadoes contains no mountains 
and woods in which runaways can fo effedually fecrete 
themfelves, as in moft other iflands ; and the longer and 
oftener a flave ftays out, the more fevere is his punifli- 
ment when caught. 5. No ifland in the Weft Indies hath 
been fo long exempted from infurre£lions as Barbadoes, 
the white Inhabitants of which do not appear to harbour 
any confiderable fufpicions on that head. See page 93^. 
(S. Small fettlers, called ten -acre-men (whofe flaves are 
employed in the comparatively eafy culture of provifions, 
&c. ) abound much more in that than any other ifland. 
7 . The vaftly fuperior proportion of provifions ralfed in 
Barbadoes, not only by the ten-acre-men and the poor 
whites, but by the fugar planters. 8. The fevereft pu- 
nifliment, next to death, which can be infli6led on a Bar- 
badian negro is to be ftiipped off the ifland. 9. I have 
been told by a certain worthy and refpedable gentleman, 
that the annual decreafe of the Barbadoes faves is only one 
PER CENT, which is probably the leaft wafte of human 
life in any European colony within the tropics. 10. I 

have 



(108) 

feave heard perfons from St. Vincent, Grenada and To- 
bago, ridicule the Barbadian (or, as they farcaftically 
termed it, the Badiati) difcipline, on account of its lenity 
(fee p. 1 8.) II. In particular, my own obfervation 
enables me to affirm, that, on the wholcj the flaves in 
Barbadoes are better treated than thofe in St. Kitts are 
reprefented to be by Mr. Ramfay ; yet, as a general de- 
fcription, I ftill think his EfTay applies very well to Bar- 
badoes, and I mufl fay, that the more I confider this 
fubjeft, the more I am convinced that that valuable work 
was dictated by benevolence, candour and truth. The 
following proofs leave me not the Ihadow of a reafon to 
doubt that the Barbadian flaves are incomparably -better 
treated than thofe of Jamaica. 12. Laftly, I have ever 
heard it affirmed, without contradiction, in Barbadoes, 
and readily admitted in this country, that the flavery of 
that ifland, bad as it is, is the moft tolerable in the Bri- 
tifh Weft Indies. — I proteft the only evil I can think of 
(and a grievous evil it is) which 1 believe the flaves in 
Barbadoes fufFer in a greater degree than thofe in the 
other iflands is the injuftice to which the very partial laws 
leave them expofed, from poor, ftarving, unconfcionable 
whites, of whom that ifland has far more than its propor- 
tion. — ^The treatment of the flaves is undoubtedly lefs 
intolerable, in fome of the iflands than in others ; and 
much alleviation of mifery, might refult from their com- 
parative moderation being afcertained and made public, a 
point on which a careful examination^of the news papers 
of the different iflands would certainly throw fome light. 
Emulation is known to be one of the ftrongefl: motives 
which influences human conduct. 

In thefe kingdoms, fo productive of all that is great 
in human nature, is there no man whofe a(3:ive and per- 
fevering virtue is equal to this arduous but glorious un- 
dertaking ? Is there no benevolent, independent, intrepid 
Howard to explore the phnt^tion-dungeons where forlorn 
flaves, for attempting to regain liberty or flee from cru^ 
elty, lie manacled in fetters, tyrannically rivetted on their 
limbs; to trace the lacerations of the whip on their bo- 
idies, to fee * the iron enter into their fouls,' and to 
\veigh in- the fcale of pity their ' bread of affiiCtion'— r 
perhaps to behold, with horror, a wretch broiling alive 



C 109 ) 

\n the flames, or transfixed with tortures on a gibbet, for 
having been driven to an a6l of defperation by his oppref- 
for ; and faithfully to reprefent to the nation and to the 
legiflature the degrees in which thofe enormous evils 
exift in the different Britifh iflands ? Yes : The country 
which produced a Howard can alfo boaft of a Sharp 
and a Clarkson ; but their unwearied labours at home 
have been and are likely to be yet more valuable than 
they could have been abroad. To them, and the equally 
'meritorious Ramsay, the Africans owe much of that 
attention which is fo jultly and fo generally paid to their 
caufe. 

I have the honour to be, Sec, 



LETTER XIL 
SIR, 

"I N the beginning of the year (1788) the fubftance of 
-*■ the foregoing letters was flcetched and fubmitted to 
the review of feveral judicious and refpe<5lable gentlemen, 
who thought the fadts and arguments worthy of being 
laid before the public. Added to the length of time fome 
of thofe gentlemen kept them in their hands, a circum- 
ftance occurred which contributed greatly to retard their 
publication, but which, it is hoped, will prove highly fa- 
vourable to the caufe of the unhappy Africans. This 
was the procuring of an original letter from Jamaica 
which with extra6ls from fome late newfpapers of that 
Ifland, form the bafis of the following letters. I was 
willing to delay the publication, in hopes of getting fome 
farther information which has been promifed me 3 but 
which I have not yet received. 

What reception this neiu kind of evidence (and evi-. 
dence it certainly is, Inforo confcunt: cs^ at leaft) may meet 
with from a humane and difcerning nation, it becomes 
not me to foretel; but every gentleman to whom I have 
imparted my defign, is of opinion, that, in the prefenc 

advanced 



( no ) 

advanced Aate of the controverfy, a more conclufive 
mode of treating the fubje6l could fcarcely have been 
thought of; fince, in the newfpapers, nov/ in my poflef- 
fion, truths Jiand confeffed vi^hich the moft fubtle fophift 
will in vain attempt to invalidate. Popular fongs, and 
mufic, and proverbs, and diverfions ; ' but, above all, 
common advertifements in newfpapers are perhaps fome 
of the beft criteria of the manners, tafte, and character 
of any people. * 

The authorities of which I am pofTefled will enable 
me to give a fuller account than I expected, when I firft 
entered on this refearch, of the treatment of the flaves 
in Jamaica. — To begin with a defcription of z. Guinea 
fale, otherwife called a fcrambky as pradlifed in that 
illand. 

From the fupplement to the Jamaica Gazette of 

March 8th 1788, printed by Thomas Strupar 

and Jofeph Prefton, Kingfton : 

« The following defcription of a GUINEA SALE 

« was handed to us, by a correfpondent for publication : 

' At length the hour arrives and the words are uttered 

* with a loud voice, *' The fale is opened I !" The crowd 
' ill waiting immediately rujh down upon the terrified Afri- 

* The following paragraph is taken from the fupplement to the 
Savannah-la-mar Gazette of February 19th 1788. The author confiders 
the fcandalous Ucentioufnefs with which the moft refpcftable charadters 
are there treated, as a prelude to what he is to expeft from that and 
limibr quarters.^' A correfpondent obferves that as an Alderman of the city 

* of London, and wlio, at the fame time, is a member of the BRiTiSH^a/-- 
« liament, has, very humanely, taken up the cudgels in behalf of the unfortu- 

* nate people of colour, and as it is not doubted but that the reji of the Aldermen tvill 

* tender their ajfijiance, he would recommend to them each to contribute 

* his mite towards the purchaling a cargo of turtle, to be fent home as 

* a prefent to thofe deep ivaijied toad-eaters, which would greatly induce 

* them to join heartily in the cauje, and ftrenuoufly endeavour to put thofe 

* opprefjed people on a proper footing, &c, &c. The piece concludes witli 
fomething about ' 'violent^ tvrongheaded, bigoted luhite men,'' epithets morp 
Suitable to the enemies than to the. friends of mankind. — The writer of the 
following letters, inafmuch as he may not improperly be deemed a fautor of 
the caufe, and has not, for a long time, tafted ^n;e»y^r, hereby puts in his 
claim to a ftiare of the above promifed turtle. But he begs he may be 
allowed to drefs it in his own way, having a mortal averfion to the fea- 
foning of fuch cooks as thofe of Savannah-la-mar, which fcents power- 
fully of A[af«tida) but contains »ot owe fingle particle of Attic Jalt, 

* cans* 



( ni ) 

cans^ who, at fuch a fight ^ are injlantly Jiruck vjdh the 
rnoji dreadful apprehenjions. While many fall prof rate 
upon their faces^ others are feen clofely enibracing their 
co?npanlons^ expecting immediate death. Their cries., which 
are truly lamentable^ are communicated through the Jhip^ 
and they arc overtvhclmed with ama%ement^ forroiv and 
clef pair. From the hurry and eagernefs of thofe who 
are purchafer? upon fuch difmal occafions, a perfon not 
acquainted v/ith the abominable etiquette of a flave fale 
could have no other idea than that the wretches were to 
be had gratis. The fated price of sixty-eight 
POUNDS AND THE nxiTYj for each of the trembling cap- 
tives would be thought a romance. Some of the purchaf- 
ers more aftive than others, jump over the barricade, 
the perfon who follows very often happens to thruft one 
of his feet into the coat pocket of him who leads, and 
the lofs of a fkirt is the confequence ; whilfi: a thfrd 
has his hat knocked ofF and trampled under foot, and a 
fourth lofes one of his fhoes, Thefe cafualties generate 
no fmall degree of ill humour among the parties and a 
boxing match enfues. But this is not all. Confe- 
quences of the moft ferious nature fometimes follov/ 
— a life is loft, perhaps alfo the life of a valuable mem- 
ber of the community — not in the implacable vehe- 
mence of paflion ; but coolly and deliberately after rea- 
fon has refumed the throne. Fatalities of this kind 
are ov/ing to one of the parties fuppofmg himfelf in- 
fulted by the other ; a challenge is therefore offered 
and accepted, and it has been known that tv/o worthy 
citizens have been loft to fociety, the furvivor being 
obliged to decamp, in order to avoid making that dread- 
ful compenfation, which is due to the violated laws of 
his country. I fhall inftance the cafe of the unfortu- 
nate Mr. I — , who fell in a duel with Mr. B — , 
which was occafioned by a paltry mifunderftandina-, of 
the nature above defcribed, on board of a Guinea-man, 
Is not this fufficient to point out the abfolute neceffity 
of changing the fhocking ceremony pracStifed at Have - 

• fales ? Why not adopt the method purfued at all the 

* Wi}idward l^zndsV ^ 

As we are yet, in fome degree, in the dark, as to the 
end and nieaning pf this brutal afFray> I lliall fubjoin a 

palTags 



( II3t ) 

paflage v/hich explains it, taken from a piece intit 
' An Apology for Negro Slavery, or the Weft India 

* Planters vmdicated^ London 1786.' ' In this place,' 
fays the author, ' it is certainly proper to obferve, that a 

* mode of felling negroes is fometimes praclifed which 
^ ought to be abolifhed by a law of the iflands where it 
' prevails, as being repugnant to decency, and, in fome 

* meafure^ tO humanity. The cuftom I mean to repro- 
' bate is the felling a cargo of Haves by what is called a 

* fcrambki This is fiiutting them up in the merchant's 
' houfe or the area adjoining, and, at the beat of a drum^ 

* or fome other fignal, ail thofe who intend to become 
' purchafers rujh on fudclenly or, to ufe a military phrafe, 
' dajl] upon the aftonifhed and frightened negroes, and 
' endeavour to get hold of or to incircle in a cord, as 

* many of them as they can. Although the negroes are 
' generally prepared for this by being preinformed of 

* what is to happen, yet fome of the luomen and children 
' have been known to expire from an excefs of terror, 

* which is incited by a fcene of fuch confuflon and up- 

* roar. Nor is it uncommon for the purchafers them- 

* felves to go by the ears and quarrel about the obje6i:s 

* of their choice.' Such is the language even of an apo- 
loglji for negro llavery.* 

To compleat your idea. Sir, of this infernal uproar, 
you muft be informed that fome of the Africans, as is. 
underftood from thofe who afterwards fpeak Englifh, are 
fo poflelTed with the apprehenfion of their being bought 
up to be fattened and roafted and eaten, that they pine to 
death, or commit a6ls of defperation, from that caufe 
alone. The efFe6l of fuch an idea on their minds muft 
be the fame, as if the whites really fed on human flefh ; 
and, no doubt they look upon their purchafers as fo many 
furious cannibals ' ruftiing down,' to devour them. We 
are told that they are ' generally preinformed of what is 

* to happen ;' but who is the interpreter ? A failor who 
has made more than one voyage to Guinea may under- 
ftand fome words he hears on the coaft j a captain may 
know many fuch words \ but is it poflible that any man, 

* Mi\ M'Neill h totally filait on the fubjeftof a Jamaica fcramble. 

white 



( "3 ) 

Vliite or black, fhould be fkilled in the endlefs variety of 
dialedis, fpoken at tiie diftance of many hundred miles up 
the country ? 

I fuppofe it impoffibie to increafe the execration with 
which the reader muft contemplate the fcene of ferocious 
violence above defcribed, which, taking in all the fhock- 
ing circumftances, can have no parallel on this fide of 
New Zealand. Humanity has no place at a fcramble. 
Even common fenfe is excluded: 2cvA where h the fenfe 
of INTEREST which hath been triumphantly extolled as the 
guardian angel of the fla'ue ? — Come forward fophifts ! 
and explain to the world, how the intereft of the feller or 
the buyer is confulted, at a flave-fale, when mothers 
and their babes elude the clutches of brutal monfterSj by 
expiring at their feet ! ! 

I pretend not to reconcile the word ' iflands,' in the 
lafl: account of the fcramble, with the concluding fentence 
of the firfl 'Why not,' &c. The truth, I believe, is 
that the practice of fcrambling prevails in m^ore than one 
ifland. Certain I am it is not now ■praSiifed^ I had almoft 
affirmed that it never was praftifed, in Barbadoes ; for I 
never fo much as heard of it, till, having a mind to fee 
what fhadow of argument could be offered in fupport of 
flavery, I read the above paffage cited from one of our 
edver'faries. 

I have the honour to be, &c. 



LETTER XIIL 

SIR, 

TTAVING feen what kind of reception the African 
■'-^ftrangers meet with, on their arrival in Jamaica, let 
us next proceed to enquire into their fubfequent treatment 
in that ifland. 

H In 



C 114 ) 

In the Gazette of St. Jago de la Vega (or Spanlik 

townj of Jan. 24, 1788, publiflied by the printer 

to the Council and Affembly, I find the Following 

paragraph, which is one of the 

' Claufes in the St. Jago de la Vega police-law, 

* palled the 22d day of December 1787. 
' No perfons to expofe to fale, in or at the doors or 
' piazza's of any fhop or houfe, or in places adjacent 
* thereto, any putrid falt-fijh or other provifions, rancid 
' butter, oil, or other offenfive cojnmodity.^ or keep the fame 
' in any 'dwelling-houfe or out-office, to the annoyance 
' of any of' the inhabitants under the penalty of twenty 
' pounds for every offence, one moiety thereof to the poor, 
' and the other to the informer : A juftice upon view, 
' forthwith to caufe the fame to be feized and immedi- 
' ately deflroyed or burnt.'* 

From this claufe and the penalty, which will appear 
hereafter to be a very heavy one, I conclude that the 
provifions in queftion are fo utterly fpoilt as to be a 
great public nuifance ; that, in this ftate, large quan- 
tities of them are expofed to fale in Spanifli town; 
that thofe large quantities are. purchafed by famifhed 
flaves (for I know of no other animal which would feed 
on fuch trafh) and confequently that there are great 
numbers offamified or * under-fed' f JIaves in 'Ja7naica, a 
fafl which I will prefently confirm, by other authorities. 

Had I thought of it, I might have proved, by this fa6l 
aloyie^ that great numbers of the flaves in Barbadoes are 
moft grievoufly pinched in their food. Rotten provifions 
are not deflroyed or burnt, in that iiland ; but are bought 
by the ftarving negroes, with the price of the trifles they 
bring to market. Before the late war, though vaft, and 
fometimes fuperfluous, quantities o'i found provifions were 
imported, feveral whole ftreets in the towns ftunk pefli- 
lentially with the abominable effluvia of fubflances, which 
had been provifions, but which were often fo far difTolved 



* Mr, Long fays, That ' the greater number' of the Jews in St- Jago 
dc la Vega ' deal in damaged fait butter, hcri'mgs, heef, checfe, and train oil, 
' a congregat/on of /linking commodities, which is enough to poifon the 
5 air of their habiutions.' Hift, of Jam. voJ» z. p. 29. -j- M'Neill. 



( i^S ) 

hy putrefadlon, as to be expofed to Me In tubs. Moft 
of the lower kind of huckfter-fhops ftill emit no very 
agreeable odours. 

I now beg leave, Sir, to lay before you, an extraft of a 
private letter, which will throw very confiderable light 
on our fubjedl. The authenticity of the original, I am 
authorifed to fay, can be eftablifhed, beyond the reach of 
cavil. 

* Jamaica, March lo. 1776. 
— — — ' Then I went up to my new habitation, which 
is a very agreeable place. You at home form a wrong 
idea of Jamaica. I will alTure you the tvhite people 
hath great indulgence ; neither is it fo hot as you may* 
think it is. I have had a good ftate of health fince I 
have been here. I hope I Ihall be able to do better 
for myfelf than I could expe6l in England, if God fpare 
my health. Here are no taverns nor no public-houfes. 
Every eftate is our home. The white gentlemen are 
very refpe6tful one to another j fo there is no way to 
fpend my money, as ufual, in this part of the world. 
We fet the leaft ftore by the Sabbath-day. It is hard- 
to know this day from the reft. We are juft within 
20 miles of the church. There Is one in every parifh ; 
but the parifli very large. The living here isdifFerent 
from home. The bread groweth upon the trees, which 
I like very well. It groweth like a cucumber ; when 
roafted eats very well. I live better than half the far- 
mers at home. I feldom fit down to dinner without a 
difh of fifh, fowl and beef, &c. with rum and water, 
or punch to drink and a flave to attend us. I have 
done no ploughing yet.* The ploughs are come from 
England ; but the horfes all died, in their paiTages— » 

fix fine ones, coft 40I. each in Lincolnfhire. Dear 

father, the greateji hardjhip I meet with is to fee poor 
negroes flogged fo bad. I have feen them worfe whipt 
than ever ploughman whipt his horfes. We have a negro 
to drive them ; one driver to every thirty negroes, 
which ftand by them at work with a large whip \ and, 
if any mifdemeanor, they lay them down naked and whip 
' them according to their crime — thirty lafoes^ fofnetimes 

* Mr. M'Neill (obf. p. 6, note) fays the plough ' anfwcrs extremely 
* well in Jamaicat' 

H 2 SIXTY, 



( n6 ) 

^ si^TY, which will cut them raw ; and, if they make aiijp 
' refiftance, double the quantity. They have but 
' five fait herrings a wcek^ which is the hejl allowance, 
' and beft tradefmen have no more— fometimes nothing 
' for fix months together^ but what they can produce in their 
*■ own lands.) which they have only Sunday to work it. They 

* have about 200 acres of waile land to clear and raife 

* their food in, which produce them yams, plantanes, 
' coco and coiFee, tobacco, and moil: forts of vegetables 

* you have at home. You will think this very hard to 

* have fiejh and blood ufed fo as the poor negroes are ', yet 
' they look as fat as any working man at home. This 
' is the time they take off their crop of fugar ; which 

* they have hut four hours Jleep out of the twenty-four, 

* They work in the field all day, then boil fugar at night. 

* —So I think I have given you a good account of our 

* management here. Now I will give you an account of 

* my own employ at prefent — to look after the cattle, 

* and go with the wain-men to fee them load their wains 

* properly, at night to fit \n the boiling-houfe to attend 

* the negroes till twelve o''clock^ then call another up. My 

* work is nothing, only attendance. I expert going to 

* plough every day with the oxen, as we have no horfes, 
' Here is ninety good ftrong oxen., all able to work and 

* do work in the wains. We work eight Jieers in 

^ * ' Tradesmen and chief negroes receive a fi-ated weekly allowance of beef, 

* herring, or fait fifh, the rest occasionally.' Hift. of Jam. v. 
a. ^. /^()0.—\ im particularly wa? informed that the following were all 
they"w-«^a provifions, confumed in 17S1, on a Jamaica eftate, the pro- 
prietor of which is allowed to be both regular and liberal in his fupplies» 
••—30 cwt. of flour at 155,-4 cwt. do. at 17s. 6d.— 4 buibels oatmeal— 
4 bufliels gruts — izolb. barley — i bulhel fplit peas — 8 barrels mefe-heef—, 
4 barrels pork— z cwt. / qr. 6 lb. rofe butter— 70 barrels of herrings at 
gas. per barrel, is 112U fter. The whole cod of thefe provifions was 
186I. 7s. 6d. fter. On the eftate there were, in all 320 negroes, 20 of 
vrhom were employed about the houfe. Here 70 barrels of herrings 
were the allowance of animal food, for 300 field-negroes, for a whole 
year. A barrel contains from 600 large to looofmall herrings. Thefe 
laft are preferred for plantation ufe. Say therefore 1000, which will 
give nearly four jmall herrings and a half for the tveekly allo-wance of each 
negro.— It does not appear that the field-negroes, on this eftate, had 
any fcraps of falted meat, on the holidays. Eight barrels of beef and 
four of pork will not be thought too much for the whites, their guefts 
and the houfe favourites. Befides mefs beef is not given to field negroes. 
AU the other articles were for the ufe of the houfe and the fick* 

5 one 



C 117 ) 



* one wain, without any horfes before them. They go 
' like dogs,' &c. 

ROBt. BROWNE. 
* Mr. P - I hope you will communicate this to 

* Echv. Broiune my father j fo I have the honour to be 

* your moft humble fervt. 

* Robt. Browne.* 
*■ Dire£l: to me at J — G — K— , Efq. Plantane-gar- 

* den River eftate, St. Thomas in Eaft Jamaica.' 

Sir, the heroic and juftly ennobled Scotch ploughmanj 
Hay,* was not more formidable to the Danifh invaders 
of his country, than this honeft and humane Englifli 
ploughman is to the invaders of the rights of mankind. 
He alone is more than a match for a legion of fuch anta- 
gonifts. IfaBritifti peafant, aware of no contradiction, 
dreading no perfecution, cramped, embarralTed and ap- 
palled, by no CRITICAL terrors, and biaffed by no preju- 
dices but thofe generous ones which do honour to a man 
and to an EngliJh?nan-\ — if fuch a perfon, I fay, fhould 
draw a piClure of Jlavery^ ought we to doubt that it re- 
prefents the life ? His letter is worthy of a large com- 
mentary ; but I muft content myfelf with making a few 
curfory obfervations on it. 

First then, according to R. B. little or no attention 
is paid to religion in Jamaica, fee p. 58. — 2. It appears 
that the white fervants in Jamaica fare, or at leaft, that 
R. B. fared, incomparably better than men of his ftatioii 
in Barbadoes. Alas ! they * feldom or never fit down to 

* a difh of (frefh) fifli, (frefh) beef ov fowl. Let the 
reader judge whether or not a man can be faid to live 

* better than half the farmers at home,' whofe diet con- 
fifts of herrings, fait fifh or cargo beef, often of a bad 
quality, to fay nothing of the quantity. Fowl is intirely 
out of the queftion. Their vegetables, indeed, are ge- 

* See Henry's Hift. of G. Britain, v. a. p. 82 ; alfo the New Peer= 
age, art. < Hay Earl of ErroL* 

•f- ' Slavery is fo 'uile and m'ljerahle an eftate of man, t^nAfooppoJite to the 
^generous temper and courage of our nation, that it is hardly to be conceived 
< that an EngUJhman^ much lefs a Gentleman^ fhould plead for ir.* Lock* 
».n C.ovetn, B. i. ch. i. 

H 3 asraliy 



C ii8 ) 

nerally good ; but not fufficient in quantity, as I myfeff 
have feen.— 3. R. B's account of the ordinary punifh- 
ments in Jamaica is truly fhocking. Thirty^ fixty and fome- 
times ' double the quantity'' of lafhes infli6ted with a ' large 

* whip^ on a wretch laid * down naked /' Sir, I fcruple 
not publicly and pofitively to aver, that regular difcipline 
in Barbadoes, is mildnefs itfelf, compared to this ! R. B. 
fpecifies the number of lafhes, which fliews that they are 
regularly inflidted, fee p. 15. et feq.* — ^4. The befi al- 
lowance in the large, rich and fertile ifland of Jamaica is 
' five fait herrings, a week' — much about the ^^.allow- 
ance in the poor, little ifland of Barbadoes. * Beft tradef- 
' men have no more' in the former ifland ; in the latter 
4x11 tradefmen are treated better, in every refpeft, than 
the field-people. 5. ' Sometimes nothing for fix 

* months together, but what they can produce in their 
' own lands. 'f — This, I have very great reafon to believe, 
is fometimes the cafe in Barbadoes. J — 6. In Jamaica 

* they have only Sunday to work it'H — -juft as in Barba- 

does. 

* Mr, M'Neill (Obf. p. 22.) talks of negroes * receiving /o j»«?«j? 

* iaflies ;' but oientions no particular number, 

"}• See our motto, pi 103. 

\ My reafons for believing this are of a very cogent kind. Not to re- 
peat the general report refpefting the ftarved and gibhetted wretches men- 
tioned at p. 19, I have been officious enough to alk fome complaining 
flaves, What need they had for any other allowance, when they had 
plenty of cane-juice ? and have been anfwered, ' Water won't 'tand in a 

* pond without j»ai MafTa ?' fhrewdjy intimating. That fomething more 
folid than cane-juice was necefTary for their fupport. Others, whofe 
looks evinced the truth of their aflertion, have faid to me, ' Maffa no* 

* gie we no 'lowance' (Mafter gives us no allowance),— -Why fhould I 
hint at the bruifed tin pint-pots and the tin pint-pots with thick wooden 
bottoms which I have feen, or the * deceitful weights' which I and 
others have experienced P — for fliort weights and meafures are to be foun^ 
in all countries. 

II Mr. M'Neill (Obf. p. 5.) fays that • Every negro is allowed, 

* independent of Sunday, which he has to himfelf, throughout the 

* year, one day in each iQrtn'\s,ht, for eight inonthsSor the particular purpofe 

* of working his grounds.' This fuppofes the crop feafon to be only 
four months. In Barbadoes it is five or fix. I remember that, on one 
eftate, in St. Andrew's parifh, fugar was made, almoft during the whole 
year. If <■ every negro' in Jamaica has a day in each fortnight, I can 
only fay that 1 know of no regulation, in favour of the negroes in 
Barbadoes, that hath any thing like an univerfal operation. After all, ^ 

have 



( n9 ) 

goes.— 7. On tke eftate from which R. B. wrote, they 
had * 200 acres of wafte land to clear and raife their food 

* in' — an extent of land this, which perhaps no teneftates in 
Barbadoes can afford for itegro-grounds. But the cultiva- 
tion of provifions for the negroes in this laft ifland always 
was a part, and is now a very ferious part of regular 
plantation-hufinefs. — 8. R. B. mentions no other vegetable 
food than what the negroes could produce on their own 
grounds. Indeed his expreflion * nothing for fix months 
' together' and his mentioning herrings only^ gives us 
much reafon to believe that the negroes immediately un- 
der his eye, had no allowance of grain or roots but what 

. they fo produced. On the other hand, we iliall prefently 
fee a Jamaica eftate abounding in ground-provifions. 
Probably.^ fome Jamaica planters do, and others do not, 
follow the falutary and, in the end, oeconomical, Barba- 
dian practice of feeding their negroes, chiefly, with provi- 
fions which they themfelves raife. — 9. ^ It produces them 

* yams, plantanes, cocers' (as he fpells it, cm. the cocoa- 
nut,* or the coco,\ or chocolate-nut ? probably the latter 
as it is followed by) ' coffee,' &c. That a common 
field-negro worn down with daily and often with nightly 
labour, fhould, on Sunday, be able to clear wafte land, to 
raife fhrubs and trees which yield only an annual crop, 
appears, to my little Barbadian ideas, fo very incredible, 
that I muft take it for granted, thofe luxuries belong 
chiefly to the principal negroes, or perhaps to fome 
hardy rogue of a field- negro, who braves every hardihip, 
or has the addrefs to get others to work for him. Pro- 
bably what R. B. calls wafte land may be partly fituated 
in gullies, &c. where canes cannot be planted, and where 
trees of the floweft growth get leave to come to maturity. 
If fo, fome fuch fpots may be k&n in Barbadoes. But 
Qu, Whether, on new eftates, at leaji^ the negroes, be 
not, fometimes, deprived of the land they have cleared, if 
proper for canes, and wood land affigned them in lieu of 
it ? — 10. No fooner has R. B. mentioned thefe feeming 
l,uxuries, than he ufes this ftrong language * You may 

have learnt, fince thefe letters were penned, that the indulgence In 
<|'ueftion, is in efteft, taken a\vay, by the lately paffed confolidated ilav^ 
law. 

* Coco? Ruciferaj f Theobroma Cacao. 

H 4 « think 



C 120 ) 

« think it very hard to have flefti and blood ufed fo as th© 
•^ poor negroes are.' This I call ftrong language ; for- 
when the whole man is roufed by fome intolerable treat- 
ment received or obferved, is not ' fiefh and blood' very 
often ufed to fignify the outraged feelings of human na- 
ture ?— iio ' Yet they look as fat as any working mani 
^ at home 5' but then he adds, ' this is the time they take 

* off their crop of fugar,' March 10, about the middle of 
the moft plentiful feafon of the year. — 12. ' They have 
' but four hours fleep,' &c. This is too often the cafe 
in Barbadoes, (fee p, 11.) I have feen negroes colledling 
mill-trafh, which had been fpread out, in the mill-yard, 
to dry for fuel, at eight at night, when they had not 
nearly finifhed their work. I have often been in a boil- 
ing-houfe, where they were at work at leaft^ as late as 
nine o'clock ; and, at almoft all hours of the night and 
morning, I have obferved the flames iffuing from boiling- 
houfe chimneys, a certain proof that they were then at 
work.* — 13. ' At night to fit in the boiling-houfe,' he. 
— exactly the employment' of men in fimilar ftations in 
Barbadoes, — 14. ' I expe£t going to plough every day.' 
R. B. an unfeafoned European, approved of the climate 
of Jamaica (fee the beginning of this extract) and talks 
here very coolly of going to plough. This is one ftrong in- 
ftance that white men, were itneceffary, as it is not, might 
work in the fields of that ifland (fee p. 41.) efpecially 
fuch as do not exceflively indulge in pleafures too much 
followed there. R. B. had * rum and water and punch,' 
and fomething elfe, at his command. — 15. ' Here is 
^ ninety good ftrong oxen,' &c. We fhall, hereafter, 
prove how well cattle thrive in Jamaica, which is a point 
of fome confequence. I am almoft tempted here to make 
a bold affirmation — That there are fcarcely the above 
number of what an Englifli ploughman would call ' good 

* ftrong oxen,' in the ifland of Barbadoes (fee p. 10.) 
Sure I am, that the united flocks of many eftates therc;^ 
could not furnilh ninety fuch oxeri. 

* Mr. M'Keill (p. 5-) fays that during crop time ' every perfott 

* takes his Jpell or watch in the boiling houfe or mill one night in three,'' 
But, on eftates which are weakly handed, (of which he fays p. 36, there 
are many in Jamaica) do they not tajte fuch i^t\h<oftener? 

I cannot 



( 121 ) 

I cannot difmlfs this valuable extract:, without adding 
a few words to fhield it from the arts of fophiftry of which 
it's author was happily ignorant, * Their lands, ' fays 
* R, B. produces them yams,' &c. This bill of fare of 
excellent vegetables, drefled in a certain way, * might 
fafcinate the fcnfes, and make us believe that 

* On candied plantanes and the juicy line, 1 

' With choiceft melons and fweet grapes they dine, 5- 

' And with potatoes feed their wanton fwine :f j 

But the ' putrid fait fifli and other ofFenfive commodities* 

mentioned in the St. Jago de la Vega police-law, and 

R. B ' - - - 



for 



's. expreflions ' five herrings a week,' and * nothing 
fix months together,' undo the fpell, and prove tha£ 
the Jamaica flaves often pine with hunger, 

* They look as fat as any working man at home,* 
ergOj fays certain reafoners, their condition is as elio-ible. 
Sir, I cannot away with this grofs infult to the laws and 
conftitution of my country, which I have learned to value 
and to revere, by obferving the dire efFefts refulting from 
the want of them. I might now, with the help of this 
Engli/h peafant^ draw a parallel infinitely nearer the 
truth — but I forbear. I muft afk, however, a queftion 
which cannot be too frequently or urgently prefied home. 
Why the Weft Indian negroes, (who, as animals, are not 
inferior to any of their fpecies) if they really are as happy 
as Engliih peafants, do not, like Englifh peafants, keep 
yp tbeir numbers by procreation ? 

I have the honour to be, &c. 



* See Mr. M'Niell's obf. p. 3. where he defcribes ' groyes of plan- 
• tane, banana, and orange trees, loaded with fruit.' — « Styes filled with 
*. hogs, and flocks of fowls, ducks, and turkies.' But he immediately 
ladds (p. 4.) ' All this, 'tis true, although often, is not generally met 
« ivith^' 

t Waller. 



I. E T.T E R 



< 12* ) 



LETTER XIV. 

SIR, 

T believe you and the public arc yet to be informed, 
■■■ That the negroes in Jamaica are branded with 
their owner's marks and the Initials of their names, and, 
in one inftance before me, with the owner's firname at 
full length on four parts of the body. This Is quite a 
new difcovery to me ; for the pra6lice of branding flaves 
does not difgrace the ifland of Barbadoes. The full 
names of the owners, anfwering to the initials, are ge- 
nerally inferted in the feveral Jamaica newfpapers, in 
which I find fuch lifts as the following; but, for an 
obvious reafon, I omit thofe names, inferting thofe of 
the flaves only. 

From the Gazette of St. Jago de la Vega, of 
October II. 1787. 

Runaways in Weftmoreland work-houfe Odi. 2, 
1787. Cuffie marked R W or H W diamond at top.— 
Ned marked P within a diamond — Anthony appears to 
be marked W and WL in one-^Cuffie marked TH 
in one. 

Runaways in St. James's work-houfe, 061. 5* 
1787. Swanfey marked WM — Fortune marked PB 
diamond between. 

* Runaways in Spanifli town work-houfe, 0(3:, 10. 

* 1787. Daniel marked on hoth Jhoulders MD — Amba 
^ marked AF — Candis marked LG — Oroonoko marked 
c WF — Jafper marked B WB— Ned marked PE — James 
' marked with a triangler ftam,p — James marked B— 
' Downer a mulatto marked GC, C at top— William 
' marked, on the right Jhoidder RA {heart and diamond be- 

* tween) and on the left RA heart at top — Will marked 
< IT — Batty marked on hoth Jhoulders HP in one — Toby 
« marked DG— Molly and her child marked MF-— Quaco 
' BC on left breaft. 

Run- 



( 123 ; 

* Runaways In Spaiiifli town gaol, 0£l. 2. 1787. 
' Rofie and child marked CP heart at top — Mimba 
« marked SK—Billy DB — Pe^gy IT— Fidelia W~ 
« Cuffie TR, C at top— William WP, PG at top— 

* Walker MF — Mary F — Jafper WG, heart at top— ^ 
« Hunt RC— Induftry WI, C at top^Romeo B.' 

' Runaways in St. Mary's work-houfe, Od:. 3, 
' 1787. Rebecca CP, heart at top — Nancy ditto — Old 

* Eve ditto — Thomas CH — Phoebe IH, S at top— Eletta 

< U— Ben S— Billy WG— Bryan BE— Guy on the 

< right Jhoidder WD, and on the left IH— Bacchus EB, 

* diamond at top.' 

' There are befides, in this paper, fifty runaway /laves, 
^ with ' no mark,' and two who are faid to have no 
' BRAND mark.' — That you may be able to compare the 
marks (for the word brand occ\xxs not in the ftray-llfts before 
me) on the cattle with the brands on the flaves, I fub* 
Join the following advertifement. 

' St. Catharine's pound, OSt. 11. 1787. List of 

* Strays fent in.' 

* A bay ftallion, marked IN on the ofF buttock and 
fhoulder — A dark bay mare marked g;^ — A bay gelding 
mule EBL in one on near buttock — An Englifli forrel 
horfe, marked SI — Two forrel horfes marked IB, dia- 
mond between, on the off buttock — A bay mare marked 
AC, 8 at top=— A bay mare marked on the oiF buttock 
W, diamond at top—A dark bay mare marked 3, and 
diamond reverfed. There are befides three horfes and 
one mule which are faid to have Spanifh marks, and four 
with no vifible mark. 

In all, feve7iteen Jiray horfes and 7iinety-feven rujiaway 
Jlaves are advertifed in this paper. 

In the Gazette of St. Jago de la Vega, dated Nov. 8. 
1787, I obferve thefe remarkable brands.— -Apollo, alias 
Jack, marked WS on bis face and breaft — Robert marked 
RP on each cheek, and, above all, Kingfton marked 
YORKE 071 each foulder and breajis. 

In this paper there are belldes twenty runaways brand- 
ed, thirty-eight unmarked, and five with ' no brand- 

* mark'— alfo fixteen ftray-horfes marked, fix with no 
marks, and five with Spanifh marks — In all, twenty-feveti 

Jiray horfes ?ixA ftxty-ftx runaway JJaves are advertifed in 
this lafl paper. 

In 



( 124 ) 

In the Cornwall Chron., of Dec. 15. 1787. Nine 
Jiray horfes^ marked and unmarked, and eighty-four run^ 
' aivay Jlaves with and without brands^ are advertifed. 

It would be tedious to enumerate the branded and 
wretched fugitives advertifed in the large colleftion of 
Jamaica newfpapers before me. But I hazard little in 
affirming, That, though there are not many more than 
thrice the number of Haves in that ifland, that there are 
in Barbadoes, yet that, in the Gazette of St. Jago de la 
Vega alone, there are at leaft, ten times the number of 
runaways that appear in the Barbadoes Mercury and 
Gazette taken together. This circumftance and that of 
their not being branded muft be added to thofe I formerly 
adduced (p. 107) to evince the comparatively happy con- 
dition of the flaves in this laft ifland. 

That the Jamaica flaves are not always to be blamed: 
for running away (my firm bsUef is, that, nine times ia 
ten, they are not blameable) would appear from the fol- 
lov/ing advertifement, in the Gazette of St. Jago de la 
Yega, for Nov. 8. 1787. 

' To be fold a plantation and fugar work called Dover 
' Caftle, fituated, &c. It confills of ijoo acres of 

' land'- ' well timbered with all kinds of hard wopd^ 

' mahogany in great plenty, abounds with ground pro- 
' vifions^ plenty of Guinea grafs^ 'a very fine fet of works 
' lately compleated, 1 00 negroes well difpofed and ac- 
' cuftomed to the property, for a number of years. They 
* are grangers to running avjay^ &c. 

David Henriques. 

If Mr. H's account of his plantation be tolerably juf!r> 
we muit conclude him to be a very humane man. Not- 
withftanding he is fo weakly handed, has a great part of 
his land uncleared, and has lately built a fet of works, all 
frequent occafions of oppreffion ; yet^ we fee his people 
are ' ftrangers to running away.' But then, he has 
plenty of ' ground provifions' for his people, and plenty of 
Guinea grafs; fo that thofe people are not harraffed in 
■picking grafi for his cattle. 

I men- 



( 125 ) 

I mentioned the building of a fet of works, as an oc- 
cafion of oppreflion ; and I will give an inftance in point. 
A manager of a Barbadoes plantation, in the fame year 
that he made a large crop, ereiltd fome buildings. . The 
Haves, after toiling in the field during the day, carried 
ftones and mortar, &c. for a great part of the night. 
When the mafons, on leaving off work, had worked up 
all the m.aterials, they ftill found a frefh fupply, on the 
fpot, the next morning. 

The conftquence of this management was that fhortly 
after a great number of the prime field negroes died. 
The tyrant who thought by fuch forced exertions to re- 
commend himfelf tohis employer, (now deceafed, but who 
then lived in England) was, by the next packet, ordered 
off the eftate. As he could not find employment in 
Barbadoes, he fet fail for Jamaica, where he now exer- 
cifes his genius, and is what they call a topping manager. 
A gentleman lately from that ifland, now in London, 
tells me, that he is ftill famous for large crops and clead- 
lijh. Of this oeconomy he gave an inftance, in an eftate 
which was offered for fale. In order to enhance the 
price, it was neceffary that a large crop fhould be made 
and fworn to. Accordingly fuch an one as a Mr. I. was 
fent for, who made an uncommonly large crop ; but it 
coft a great number of the ilaves their lives. The 
gentleman very humanely and properly reprobated this 
conduit by the name of murder. 

Let us next, if you pleafe, Sir, fee what treatment the 
negroes in Jamaica often receive, in the evening of their 
lives, and what are, too frequently, their rewards for 
exhaufting their health and ftrength in the fervice of their 
owners. 

In the fupplement to the Cornwall Chron. of March i. 
1788 (Montego Bay Jamaica, printed by James Fannin) 
I find this paragraph. 

' A certain gentleman, fo we are given to underftand, 
' fhortly means to lay before His Honour the Cuftos and 
* the other magiftrates of this parifli, the outlines of a 
' plan for building an hofpital, at the Weft end of the 
' town, for the reception of dijohkd ncgroa abandoned by 

' their 



C 126 ) 

^ their owners^ whichj it is hoped, will be properly at« 

* tended to.' 

I have already (fee p, 34.) obferved that the prac- 
tice of turning out and abandoning aged, worn outj 
and leprous flaves utterly difgraces the ifland of Barba- 
does. In every inftance, I have taken care. That no 
man fliall juftiy charge me with partiality. But, as 
no perfon, fo far as I can learn, hath fully expofed the 
infamous pra6lice in queftion, I have been particularly 
careful in anticipating every thing that can poffibly be 
urged to palliate it. I can moft confcientioufly declare^ 
Sir, That, were it poffible for me to fit down to write 
an apology for that praftice, I could not think of, I had 
almoft faid, I could not invent^ any circumftance having 
the fmallefl: tendency to extenuate it, which I have not 
thrown with its full weight into the oppofite fcale. But, 
forry I am to fay, the oppofite fcale kicks the beam ; nor 
can all the feathers of extenuation, that can be collected, 
however advantageoufly difpofed, reftore the equilibrium, 
far lefs fink the fcale. The laft expiring breath of an ex- 
pofed negro, will diilipate fuch feathers, like chaff before 
the whirlwind. 

A lift in the Jamaica Gazette of Nov. 21. 1787, 
will enable us to form fome idea of the extent in which 
this Ihocking practice prevails in that ifland. 

' Account of negroes interred in the parifli of King- 

* Hon, by order of the Cjrijw^r, during the year 1786.* 



«' Jan. ; 


12. a man 


" July 31, 


; a man 


« oa, ji. 


1 a man 


Feb. I. 


a man 


Aug. 


10, 


, a man 


IS- 


a man 


3- 


a woman 




24. 


a man 


22. 


a woman 


4^ 


a man 


Sept 


:. 6. 


a man 


30- 


a man 


Mar. 2, 


a man 




10. 


a woman 


Nov. 15. 


a woman 


4* 


a man 




12. 


a woman 


16. 


a man 


21. 


a woman 




13^ 


■ a man 


27. 


a man 


Apr. 15. 


a woman 




[ a woman 


Dee. 4. 


a man I 


27. 


a man 




22. 


a girl 


10. 


a man 


May 24. 


a woman 




25- 


a man . 


20. 


a man 


June 19, 


. a man 




27 1 


a woman 


24. 


a mulatto girl 


24. 


a man 




a man 


26. 


a negro P 


Jul. 25. 


a man 


oa 


:r. 4, 


. a man 


27. 


a negro .? 



« Total 39 bodies."^ 



f FEES 



( 127 ) 

« FEES ON EACH.' 

«^ To the Coroner — — L. 3 — — 

«' Conftable for warning the jurors for the 

'' inqueft — — — — 7 6 

" Conveyance of the body to the grave — 10^ 

<« Burial — — ■ ■— — 10 — 



476 

" Multiplied by the number of bodies (39) 170 12 6 



I am willing to allow that fome of the wretched fub- 
je^ts of thofe inquefts died fuddenly, or from unavoidable 
cafualties. In the fequel, we will have abundant reafon, 
to believe that others were a^nally murdered. But I am 
of opinion, that the majority of them perifhed from being 
worn out or otherwife difabled in the fervice of, and after- 
wards abandoned by, their owners. My reafons for be- 
ing of this opinion are, That all of them appear to have 
been buried at the expence of the parifh, and that only 
fixtecn of them perifhed during the firft eight months of 
the year, which include the plentiful crop-feafon ; whereas 
three and twenty perifhed during the remaining four 
months, which, in Barbadoes, at leaft, (fee p. 7.) is the 
time of the year, when the greateft number of fuch wret- 
ches may be expedled to drop into the grave. 

I cannot compare this lift with any fimilar one In Bar- 
badoes ; for, as I before obferved, no coroner's inquell 
iits on the body of a Have, in that ifland. Why fuch in- 
queft takes place in Jamaica I pretend not to fay ; for, 
before the late confolidated aft paffed, the murder of a 
Have was not capital there. But I may venture to fay, 
that thirty-nine exceeds the proporiio?i of expofed flaves 
who annually perifh in Bridgetown, v/hither the majority 
of fuch wretches refort. This they may eafily do in the 
fmall ifland of Barbadoes ; but, in the large ifland of Ja- 
maica, fuch a majority cannot eafily refort to Kingfton. 

That thirty-nine is a moft enormous number ofcoro* 
Tier's inquefts for Kingfton and its neighbourhood, v/ill 
appear, by co{ifidering, that it is rather more than o?ie 
eighth of the average of deaths which annually happened 

v.'ithin 



( 128 ) 

within the London bills of mortality,* for eight yeafSj 
from cafualties of all kinds, many of which require no 
coroner's inquefts. Voltaire, in a paflionate effufion to 
D'Akmbert, dated June 29. 1762, mentions with very 
fevere reprobation, ' Sixty aflaffinations or frightful mur- 
* ders, confidered in all the r circumftances,' which had 
happened in France in a month, v/hich is at the rate of 
720, in a year. What would he have faid had he been 
told. That coroners had fat on one eighteenth of that an- 
nual number in a jingle dlftr'tSl of a Weft Indian colony, 
which altogether did not contain one fixtieth\ of the popu- 
lation of that kingdom ? He would have been ten-fold 
more fevere than, in this very letter, he was againft his 
countrymen for executing Callas. He had juft warmed 
his fine imagination, with that tragical affair. In fuch 
a moment, few men are accurate calculators ; and it is 
probable that his number fixty includes Callas, and per- 
haps others, w^hom he might have thought unjuftly exe- 
cuted. 

I have faid nothing of the tempting fees which are paid 
»for warning the jurors, to the conftables, who, if they 
have any refemblance to the conftables in Barbadoes, muft 
often, but I do not fay always, be both poor and worth- 
lefs. But the coroners are generally very decent men. 
The late coroner of Bridge-town died, of an apoplexy, in 
the very a£l of fupporting the caufe of a negro, or a mu- 
latto, with a warmth which probably was fatal to him. 

I have the honour to be, &c. 

* The only bills of mortality I have now at hand are thofe of 1753, 
1753', 1756, 1757? 1780 (when the rio^i happened) 1781, 1782, 1783; 
and the average of cafual deaths, in thofe years, is 309. — Bit by mad 
dogs, broken limbs, bruifed, burnt, choaked, drowned, exceflive drink- 
ing, executed, found dead, killed by falls and other accidents, murdered, 
overlaid, poifoned, fcalded, felf murder, fmothered, ftarved, fuflbcated. 

\ The population of Jamaica, of all colours, falls fliort of 300,000, 
which is but QTiz Jixty Jixth part of aOjOoo,ooo, the population afligned t(» 
France, 



LETTER 



( 129 ) 



"'^^•^'Tlflltf^-'*^'"''**"^ 



LETTER XV, 
S I R, 

TT Aving proved, I truflr, to the fatisfaition of everf 
•*••'■ impartial perfon, that the yoke of flavery, in Ja- 
inaicaj, is altogether grievous and intolerable ; let us now, 
if you pleafe, take a view of the laws which have been 
lately ena6led to alleviate it, as far as thofe laws appear, 
in the papers, before me. 
From the Supplement to the Cornwall Chronicle of Dec. 

29th, 1787, printed, at Montego Bay, Jamaica, by 

James Fannin. 

' The following claufes, we underftand, have beeii 
' propofed as an amendment and addition to the confoli- 
' dated negro-bill now before the Honourable Houfe of 
' Affembly^ and do much honour to the head and heart 

* of the gentleman who introduced them.' 

* And whereas the extretne cruelties and inhumanity of 
' the Managers, Overfeers and Book-keepers of eftates 
' have frequently driven flaves into the woods, and occa- 

* Honed rebellior.s and internal infurre^ions to the great 
' prejudice of the proprietors, and the manifeft danger of 

* the lives of the inhabitants of this Ifland ; For preven- 
' tion whereof be it enacted, and it is hereby enadled, 

* by the authority aforefaid, That any Manager, Over- 
' feer, or Book-keeper of any eftate or plantation who 

* Ihall or may hereafter be convi£led ,of inflifling any 

* unnatural or inhmnan punijhmentf on any flave or flaves, 

* ftiall be liable to profecution and to fuch fine and im- 
' prifonment as the Judges of the Supreme Court, or the 

* Judges of any of the Affize Courts may think fit. And 

* whereas alfo it frequently happens, that flaves come to 
' their death by hafty and fevere blows, and other impro- 

* per treatment of overfeers and book-keepers, in the 

* heat of paffion, and, when fuch accidents do happen, 

* the vidims are entered on the plantation-books, as hav- 

I ' Jng 



( 130 ) 

f ing died of convulfions, fits or other caufes not to be- 
^ accounted for, and to conceal the real truth of the caufe 
of the death of fuch flave or flaves, he or they is or are 
immediately put under ground^ without the infpe6lion or 
knowledge of the do6lor or doctors of the plantation 
whereon fuch accidents do happen. For prevention 
whereof, as far as pojfible^ and the better to enable the 
doftor and doctors of every eftate to take the oath pre- 
fcribed by this a£t, as to the increafe and decreafe of 
flaves annually on the eftates or plantations under his 
or their care, be it enabled by the authority afojefaid, 
and it is hereby enacted, by the authority of the fame, 
That, from and after the paffing of this adl, no flave or 
flaves actually dying fuddenly, on any plantation or 
efl:ate, whether by fits, convulfions or any other caufes, 
fliall be buried or put under ground, on any pretence 
whatever, until the dodtor or doilors of fuch planta- 
tion or eftate hath been called to and hath actually 
viewed the body of fuch flave or flaves fo dying fud- 
denly as aforefaid. And for the more efFeftual preven- 
tion of »zz.f;^<sf^ri and inhuman treatment of flaves, be it 
enabled by the authority aforefaid, and it is hereby en- 
a6led accordingly, That the Manager, Overfeer and 
Book-keeper or Book-keepers of every plantation do or 
fhall, on the 31ft day of December, in every fucceed- 
ing year, after the 31ft day of December inftant, make 
oath of the increafe and decreafe of flaves on the planta- 
tion or eftate under his care, fetting forth the caufes of 
fuch decreafe, the nature of the difeafes whereby the 
decreafe had accrued and arifen to the beft of his or 
their knowledge and belief. 

< The member (Mr. Gray) who introduced the a- 
bove premifed. That to his own certain knowledge un- 
common and VERY UNNATURAL, PUNISHMENTS Were 
often inflifted on negroes ; and that, in feveral inftances, 
he had been obliged to interpofe, as a magiftrate, to 
prevent actual rebellion, from fuch inhuman 
treatment.' 

This extrail difclofes a horrid groupe of causes of 
the INSURRECTIONS in the ifland of Jamaica. * Inhu- 
* man treatment' and * adual rebellion' neceflarily and 

mutually 



( 131 ) 

mutually produce one another. — But I muft leave you, 
Sir, to form your own refledlions on this delicate fubjeit. 
The following citations will help you to form fome idea of 
the punifhments in queftion. 

' For rebellion,' fays Sir Hans Sloane*, 'the punifh- 
' ment is burning them by nailing them down to the 
' ground, with crooked flicks on every limb, and then 
*■ applying the fire by degrees, from the feet and hands, 

* burning them gradually up to the head -y whereby their 
' pains are extravagant. For crimes of a lefs nature, 
' gelding or chopping off half the foot^ with an axe.'—- 
' For negligence they are ufually whipped, by the over- 

* feers with lance-wood fwitches.' — ' After they are 

* whipped till they are rawj fome put on their (kins pepper 
' and fait to ?nake them fmart : at other times, their maf- 
' ters will drop melted wax on their funs., and ufe feveral 
' very exquiftte torments.^ — We find a fimilar account in 
a hiftory of Jamaica, written about the year 1740, by a 
perfon then refiding in that ifland.f ' The rnoft trivial 
' error,' fays he, ' is punifhed with moft terrible whipping. 

* I have feen them treated, in that cruel manner, for no 
' other reafon, but to fatisfy the brutilh pleafure of an 

* overfeer, who has their punifhment mojlly at his dif- 
*■ cretion. I have feen their bodies all in a gore of blood.^ 
' the /kin torn off their backs with the cruel whip ; beaten 
' pepper and fait rubbed in the wounds^ and a large Jiick 
' of fealing zvax dropped leifurely upon them. It is no 
' wonder if the horrid pain o{ fuch inhuman tortures 
' incline them to rebel.' — According to Mr. Long,! in 
confequence of the rebellion, in 1760, ' Two of the St. 

* Mary ring-leaders. Fortune and Kingfton were hung; up 

* alive in chains on a gibbet ereiled in the parade of the 

* town of Kingfton. Fortune lived feven days, but Kingf- 

* ton furvived till the ninth.' — Gracious Heaven ! what 
a fpedtacle, for nine days, in a public parade I I § 

I 2 Before 

* Nat. Hlft, of Jam. Introd. p, 55. 

■|- See Benezet's Guinea, p. 68. 

j Hift. of Jam. v. 2. p. 458. n. 

§ Mr. M'Neill, either exprefsly or tacitly confirms all the above 
extrafts. — ' Were I to advance' (fays he, p, 19.) that punifhments, in 
' this country, are trifling and unfrequent, 1 fhould not only draw on 

niyfelf the imputation of grofs mifreprefentation and prejudice, but 



m 



C ^32 } 

Before I go farther, Sir, I muft declare, in addition to 
what I faid at p. i6. and elfewhere, That the drivers (or 
overfeers) and book-keepers, in their ordinary treatment 
of flave^, in Barbadoes, are not permitted to inflict, and 
do not infli£l, the ' very unnatural punilTiments,' much 
lefs ' hafty and fevere blows' caufing death, againft 
which the abcve cited claufe provides, and which the praife 
worthy propofer of it affirms are ' often infli£led on ne- 
' groes' in Jamaica. In Barbadoes, fuch perfons are 
obliged, on pain of abfolutely ftarving, as fome of them, 
from their great numbers, do, for want of employment, 
to {top far ihort of fuch horrid exceffes. The powers 
delegated to them are, comparatively fpeaking, very much 
limited, and never do extend beyond the ufe of the whip, 
which, however, if not flridtly looked after, they are but 
too apt to abufe. 

From the Supplement to the Jamaica Gazette of 
March 8. 1788. 
* Extra6l from the Confolidated Slave-law.' 
* And be it further enadled by the authority aforefaid, 

* That on the 28th day of December in every year (the 

* time of giving in as aforefaid) the do6lor or furgeon em- 
' ployed on fuch plantation, penn or other fettlement, or 

* where there is no do6lor or furgeon employed thereon, 
' then the owner, overfeer or manager fhall, under the 

* penalty of ie?t pounds, to be levied on the owner of fuch 
' plantation, for every negle£t, give in, on oath an account 
' of the decreafe or increafe of the flaves of fuch plantation, 
' penn or fettlement, and the caufes of fuch decreafe, to 

* the beft of his knowledge, judgment and belief.' 

» In faft aflert what Is not founded In truth. Pumjhmcnts are certainly 

* very frequent \ and to a mind aftuated by compaffion alone, thofe pu- 

* niihments are a fource of conftant pain. To me, 1 freely confefs, tihey 

* were very diftrefling, on my frfi coming to this ijland,'' [N. B. Our au- 
thor had been in the Windward Iflands] ' and, even at this time, after 

* having reafoned on the neceflity, and (let me add) the propriety of 
■* cr.RTAiN ptinijhments, the crack of the whip feldom fails to operate 

* on my nerves like an eletlric fliock. — But let us not be carried away 

* by mere fenfibilityj let us for a. moment fet Jla-very ajide.^— -Here our 
author enters on the beaten track of other apologifts for llavery, in which, 
we have not time to follow him. At p. 27. torments are confcffed— ^ 
' The Jlothful and unfeeling wretch will purfue his crimes, and remain in 
« a ftace of apathy, EVEN IN THE MIDST OF TORMENTS.' 

I'he 



( 133 ) 

The words * where there is ha do£lor or furgeon em- 
* ployed thereon' plainly imply that there are eftates in Ja- 
maica on which no do6tor or furgeon is employed, fee 
p. II. 

I before promifed to prove the penalty of twenty pounds 
for expofing putrid fait fifh to fale, to be a heavy penalty. 
To do this, we have only to compare it with the penalty 
of the prefent claufe, which is no more than ten pounds 
for negleiling annually to give an account upon oath, 
of the decreafe or increafe of flaves on every plan- 
tation. Ten pounds ! for not expofing to view, an 
account, in which we are warranted, by the preceding 
extraft, to fufpedl that a£lv.al murder may be included, as 
one caufe of fuch decreafe. What owner, what overfeer, 
or what manager would not fooner pay ten pounds than 
run the rifque of being tried for his life for murdering a 
Have or flaves? Tried for his life, I fay; in the fequel, 
"we may be able to eftimate the rifque of his being con- 
vifted and executed for fuch a crime. I afk any man of 
common fenfe. Whether he can bring himfelf to believe. 
That a man who (like a murderous I. fee p. 125.) hath 
diminifhed the number of flaves, on a plantation by op- 
preflion, or hunger, or cruelty, or all of them conjoined, 
be likely to give in the true caufe or caufes of that dimi- 
nution ? Still the real annual increafe or decreafe of flaves, 
if they can be obtained, may lead to beneficial confe- 
quences. 

From the fupplement to the Cornwall Chron. of March 

ift, 1788. 

" Extradls from the confolidated llave-law which is to 
" take effeSl this day.'' 

Thefe extracts are fo long that I am under the necef- 
fity of abridging them. 

** Work-houfe keepers, and goal-keepers, under the 
penalty of 10/. for every negleft, to advertife runaways 
in three of the newfpapers, once a-week; to keep them 
in cuftody until payment of the reward for apprehending 
them, with 2s. (yd. in the pound extra^ the expence of ad- 
vertifing, at ijf. 3^/. per month for each paper, and 6d. 
fpr every 24 hours fuch Have (hall have been in cuftody." 

* Ownejjs, 



( 134 ) 

*' Owners, &c. under the penalty of lo/. for each ofFencCi 
to be recovered, in a fummary manner, before any juftice, 
, not to turn away any fick, aged or infirm flaves. Any 
juftice is impowered to lodge any fuch flave in the neareft 
work-houfe, to be fed- at the owner's expence, but not 
worked until trial. If any owner refufe to pay the pe- 
nalty of lo/. with charges, the juftice, under the penalty 
of 20/. is to commit fuch owner to gaol, till he makes 
payment. One moiety of the 10/. to the [white) informer, 
the other to the poor of the parifh." 

*' Owners, &c. mutilating flaves, to be indi6led in the 
fupreme court of judicature, or in any of the Affize courts, 
and, on conviction, to be punifhed by fine not exceeding 
100/. and imprifonment not exceeding 12 months, and 
ftill be liable to an adlion at common law for damages. 
In very atrocious cafes, the mutilated flave may be de- 
clared free. The fine of 100/. in fuch cafe, to be paid 
to the parifh, who are to allow the negro (now free) 10/. 
a year, for life.* Any jufl:ice, on application of a muti- 
lated flave, is empowered to fend fuch flave to the neareft 
work.houfe to be kept and attended till there can be a 
meeting of the juftices and veftry of the pariih, * which 
*^ juftices and veftry fo met are hereby created and ap- 
' pointed a council of protection of fuch flave or flaves,' 
and are impowered to make farther inquiry into the com- 
mitment of the mutilation, and to profecute the offender 
at the expence of the parifh, and, in cafe he fhall appear 
capable of paying the cofts of fuch profecution, to com-, 
me nee fuit againft him for recovery of thofe cofts. The 
keeper of the work-houfe to deliver up the mutilated 
flave to the faid juftices and veftry under the penalty of 
20/." 

The firft claufe above quoted makes the expence and 
trouble of recovering runaways confiderable, which will 
help to prevent owners and others from driving flaves in- 
to the woods, by cruelty and oppreflion. Yet the greater 
the trouble and expence of recovering him, the harftier 
will be the treatment of the fugitive when caught. The 

* •' By the law of this Ifland (Jamaica) every perfon who manumits a 
*f negro flave is required to pay him annually lol. currency to prevent 
*< his becoming a burden or nuifance to the community. Ibis h far 
«* from being regularly complied witb." M'Neill's obf. p. 14* note. 

chainSj 



( 135 ) 

chains, pot-hooks, and boots will be heavier, and the dun- 
geons more crowded. 

On the next claufe, I mufl: obferve, Firft, That I do 
jnot fee how even the name of the owner of an infirm 
and expofed flave can always be difcovered. It is 
true, the names of the owners,, as well as of the flaves, 
are generally inferted in the runaway-lifts before me. 
How the worlc-houfe keepers find out thofe names, whe- 
ther by punilhment or not I cannot tell ; but, in Bar- 
badoes, runaways are commonly very unwilling to dif- 
cover their owner's names ; and the confufed founds ufed 
by Africans, are often as unlike the real names as the 
Otaheitean Toote^ lapane, and Torano are to thofe of the 
great navigator and philofophers Cooke, and Banks, and 
Solander — In the next place, I fcarcely fee a poffibility of 
conviiSlino; an owner of abandoning his worn-out flave. 
Gentlemen deteft the invidious office of informers. Be- 
fides, it is abfurd to fuppofe that they know every indi- 
vidual field-negro on the neighbouring eftates. The 
bread of the white fervants on the eftate to which the 
wretch belongs, will often depend on concealing the 
truth. Should a poor fettler, tempted by the ^5, dare to 
inform, he muft lay his account with perfecution.— > 
Laftly, an abandoned flave is to be lodged in a work- 
houfe until trial j but it does not appear that, after trial 
he is to have any other afylum than his owner's eftate. 
Let us fuppofe his owner convi6led, fined and perhaps 
imprifoned. I afk, what fort of treatment the flave is 
to expect from an opprefTor who had before turned him 
out to perifti, who is now compelled to take him home ; 
and is exafperated by the trouble and expence he has 
been put to, on account of an ufelefs wretch ? To the 
humanity and common fenfe of my reader I truft the 
anfwer. 

Under fuch circumftances, he will particularly deplore 
the fate of leprous negroes, who cannot fafely be allowed 
to mix with healthy people. A paragraph before inferted 
(p. 125.) mentions the outlines of a plan for building an 
hofpital for * difabled,' but it takes no notice of leprous 
flaves * abandoned by their owners.' This hofpital, we 
prefume, is yet, in contemplation. Such hofpitals, will 
I 4 be 



( 136 ) 

be built, over all the Weft Indies, and endowed, and well 
managed and fully adequate to their end— when flavery 
f^all change it's nature. 

The humane intention of the third and laft cb,ufe 
above cited appears on the face of it ; but, if perfons 
who mutilate their flaves are to be regularly conviiled by 
the evidence of whites only, then T fcruple not to exprefs 
very great doubts of the efficiency of this claufe in pro- 
te(5ling flaves from fuch heinous abufes of the owner'§ 
power. The council of proteilion may be ufeful in 
very flagrant and notorious cafes, which alone laws like 
the prefent are calculated to reach. While the tefl:imony 
of a flave againfl: a -yv^hite man remains wholly invalid, 
no law can fecure him from the cruel fangs of private, 
tyranny. Indeed it is not pretended, that the juftices and 
veftry of an extenfive Jamaica parifh will enter a man's 
premifes to inquire v.hy fuch a flave of his is reduced to a 
Ikeleton, why he praclifed fome fecret and, ' very unnatural 
punifhment' (which might not have left very evident ex- 
ternal marks) on another, or in a word, why his whole 
gang is ' over- worked and under-fed .'* The idea of a flave 
complaining to a juftice againft his owner is quite new 
to me. I fay woe to that flave who fhall dare to lodge 
fuch a complaint ! ! Befides how is a wretch who can nei- 
ther read nor write, to know that there is fuch a law in 
his favour? 

Mutilation is very feldom indeed inflicted by owners 
on their flaves, in Barbadoes. But mifcreant drunkards 
and defperadoes, who fometimes murder flaves, do not 
much hefltate in committing lefs atrocious ails of vio- 
lence on them." An elderly negro woman, vho 

worked out in Bridgetpv n, for her Qiyner, a friend of 
mine, looked up to me for prote6lion. One evening, 
fhe came to me, bathed in her blood, from a very large 
gafh in her head. The piece hung over her ear, and 
had not the cutlafs flanted off the bare fkull, her ear, at 
which the flroke ha J been aimed, muft have been cut off. 
Her life was in the more danger, as Ihe was fubj e£t to 
violent attacks of the fever and ague ; and llie was con- 
fined for feveral weeks. She faid fhe knew (and I ara 

* M'Neiil, 

prettj? 



( 137 ) 

pretty fure, I know) the white man who cut her, and that 
a great many negroes faw the deed done. This was no 
proof. Her owner, therefore, was obliged to bear the 
expence and the lofs of her labour. The very able fur- 
geon who attended her is now in London. — A valuable 
and inofFenfive negro man, belonging to an acquaintance 
of mine, was attacked, one evening, when going on his 
owner's bufmefs, by a white man, who, with one ftroke 
of his cutlafs, fevered one of his hands from his body. 
His owner, who could produce no white evidence, was 
obliged quietly to put up with the damage, and the poor 
fellow with the lofs of his precious Umh. 

The eftabliihment of work-houfes does credit to Ja- 
maica. How the negroes are fed in thofe work-houfes 
does not appear ; but their employment is pointed out 
in the St. Jago de la Vega police-law quoted at p. 1 14, 
' Corporation of the work-houfe to employ the negroes 
' received into the faid work-houfe to cleanfe the ftreets 
' lanes, &c. leading to the town; and to cultivate fuch 
' pieces or parcels of land, belonging to the parilh, as 
' the juftices and veftry fhali direct, for the ufe of the ne- 
' groes in the work-houfe.' The labour and difcipline 
of a Jamaica work-houfe cannot be expefted to be very 
moderate. By the fame police-law ' flaves found gal- 
' loping, or riding or driving furioufly, &c. the mafter or 
' miftrefs fhall forfeit 40 s. he. provided that if the 

* mafter or miftrefs fhall deliver up the flave oiFending 
' to be publickly punifhed by receiving 39 lafhes at the 

* 4 moft publick ftreets of the town, or fix days hard la~ 
' hour., at the work-houfe, in fuch cafe the mafter or 
' miftrefs fhall be excufed from paying the faid forfeiture, 
' 5^c. ' If the offender fhall be a free perfon of colour, 
" he fhall pay fuch fine as the juftice fnall think fit to im- 

* pofe, not QXCGzAm^ five pounds^ or be committed to hard 

* labour in the work-houfe for one tveek.' 

The only buildings, in Barbadoes, which bear any 
analogy to the Jamaica work-houfes, are the ca2;es, in 
the towns, fo called from their fronts being compofed of 
open frames of hard timber. In thole miferable re- 
ceptacles, which, next to the plantation-dungeons, are 
the moft lively emblems of flavery, runaways are con- 
fined 



C 138 ) 

fined in irons or in ftocks, till they are claimed by their 
owners. 

The Alms-houfe In Bridgetown for the reception of 
the (white) poor is the only apology for an hofpital, be- 
longing to Barbadoes. But, from the Barbadoes Mercury 
of Odlober 28, 1786, I perceive that a fubfcription was 
opened on July 7, for eftablifhing * The Barbadoes 
' General Dispensary, for the relief of the ftck poor.* 
To this charity, His Excellency Governor Parry and 
his lady, with a confiderable number of other ladies and 
gentlemen, liberally contributed; and the active hu- 
manity of that able phyfician Doctor Hendy was par- 
ticularly ufeful in promoting it Be the efFe6ts and the 
duration of this charity what they may, the public fpirit 
and humanity which adluated the founders of it, do them 
much honour. 

From that honour far be it from me to detra6l j but 
juftice to a humble remnant of a once highly favoured 
ftate calls upon me to obferve, That, of the fum fub- 
fcribed to this charity, upwards of one tenth was contri- 
buted collectively and individually by the Hebrew Na- 
tion ; though their numbers perhaps fall fhort of one 
twentieth of the white inhabitants of Barbadoes, and not 
one hundredth part of the property of the ifland is in 
their hands. Sir, this defpifed, (not to fay oppre£ed) but 
peaceable, loyal and, I will add, venerable^ people, ftill 
remember, as they were commanded, the afflidion of 
their forefathers, in the land of Egypt. This furely is 
an amiable principle ; and, for the peculiarity of their 
other tenets, v hile they difturb not fociety, they are not 
accountable to man. It i? remarkable that they were 
enjoined to ' fpoil the Egyptians'*— their opprefTors, in 
order, no doubt, to vindicate for themfelves the wages 
due for their fervitude. To fpoil opprejjors who ' muzzle 
— not oxen but — men " while they tread out the 
corn," muft, in all cafes, be allowed to be a very venial 

trefpafs, if not an indifferent adlion. Gracious 

God ! The Africans now groan in worfe than Egyptian 
bondage. They too are thy * oiFspring.'f * Though 

* Exod. ch. iii. vcr. S2, \ Afts ch. xvii. ver. ^%i 

' Abraha,ni 



( '39 ) 

< Abraham be ignorant of them, and though Ifrael ac- 
' knowledge them not; yet doubtlefs thou art their Fa- 
' ther,' and in thy appointed time and way, maugre the 
little, fordid policy of man, thou wilt be^ — ' their Re- 

' deemer.'* 

Weft Indian worfe than Egyptian bondage ! — This, 
to fome people, will found like a very empty and a very 
bold figure of fpeech. But what would thofe people think, 
if it could be proved to be ftri6lly and literally true ?f 
This difcuflion we humbly recommend to fome abler 
hand; but we may, hereafter, convert to fome ufe the 
well-known fa6l. That the Ifraelites increafed and multi- 
plied under Egyptian bondage.:}: The negroes it is con- 
fefled, decrease under Weft Indian flavery. 

I have the honour to be, &c. 



POSTSCRIPT. 



Sir, I have, very opportunely, received information^ 
That a negro woman, far gone in her pregnancy, was 
(hot dead by a white man (v/hom I fhall not name) In 
Bridgetown, Barbadoes, in May 1788. 

By the fame channel I learn. That a Bill making the 
murder of a negro capital, has paffed the AJjhnhly of 
Barbadoes, which confifts of 22 members, with only one 
diflenting voice. It was introduced by a gentleman of 
the law who poffefTes a plantation, and who, with fome 
ethers, does honour to the profeffion, to that his native 

* Ifaiah ch, Ixiii. ver. i6» 

•f This is clearly evinced by thefe texts, ' Would to God! we haij 

* died by the hand of the Lord, in the land of Egypt, when we fat by the 

* Jlejh pots, and when we did eat bread to the full.'' Exod. ch. xvi. ver. 3« 
E-very family of the Ifraelites had a lamb to celebrate the paflbver. id. ch. 
xii. ver. 3. The Ifraelites had ' flocjcs and herds, even 'very muck cattle' 

id. ch. xii. ver 38. 1 fubmit to the learned, whether an Egyptian 

was not capitally punifhed for murdering an Ifraelite. ' Apud iEgypcios» 
^ fi qu'n fer-vum fponte occiderat eum morte damnari asque ac fi liberum 

* occidifTet, jubebant leges.' Diod. Sic. 1. i. 

J Compare Gsn. chj xlvi. ver. 27. with Exod, ch. xii« ver. 37. 

Ifland 



( HO ) 

Ifland and to humanity. I fhall not comment on th^ 
' broad hints' of fome of his conftituents:* nor fhall I 
name that Member who could ftand alone in oppofing 
fuch a bill. 

I am alfo given to underftand, That ' worn-out fuper- 
annuated and leprous negroes do not, at prefent, difgrace 
the ftreets of Bridge-town;' but I may venture to 
affirm, That the evil is only removed from that place, 
not remedied ; fmce it is altogether incredible. That an 
owner who can turn out a flave to perifli will be con- 
fcientious in providing for him at home, whence the 
wretch had before been driven, by famine or, perhaps, by 
brutal ufage, (fee p. L35.) ' A public lazaretto' Ihould 
be built for the reception of leprous flaves. 



LETTER XVI. 

' ye ne puts iuer mon efclave ; mats je puis f aire coiiler 
* fan fang goute a goute^fous le fouet d'un hourreau.^ 

Raynall. 
' The laiv prohibits a majler from killing or cruelly pu- 
' nijhing a flave-, but how is a slave to go to law with his 
< Master?' 

Sparrman's Voyage to the Cape of Good Hope. 



I 



SIR, 

AM forry I cannot lay before you the claufe in the 
Jamaica confolidated Have law which makes it death 
to murder a flave. The only traces of that claufe, which 
appear in the papers before me, are contained in the fol- 
lowing paragraphs. 

From the Jamaica gazette of Dec. I. 1787. 
' Thurfday Nov. 29. The Houfe went into a com- 
* mittee on the confolidated flave-bill, and continued to 

* Tl;e Affsinbly of Barbadoesis annual^ 



( HI ) 

* fit upwards of three hours. We underftand that by 
' the bill, the whole fyftem of the law refpetlihig negroes 
' is entirely changed. A council of protedtioa is efta- 

* blifhed in each parifli, and many humane provifions 
' are introduced for rendering their condition as eafy and 
' happy, as poflible. It is alfo T[\2iAe felony without the 
' benefit of clergy to murder a flave — a claufe which, to the 
' honour of the houfe, pajfed without afingle dijfentir.g 
' voice' 

The unanimity, of fo numerous a body as the Aflem- 
bly of Jamaica *, in reftoring or endeavouring to reftore 
to injured men one of their violated rights, undoubtedly 
does them g?'eat honour. I am truly forry the Barbadoes 
Affembly was not unanimous ; yet I ftill adhere to my 
opinion of the comparative humanity of the inhabitants 
of that ifland. I am well afTured they never have been, 
and I know they vjill not he inferior, in the pradice of 
that virtue, to any ifland in the Wefl: Indies. 

From the Jamaica gazette of Dec. 5. 1787. 
' However the profligate and unmerciful may arraign 

* the policy which urged our prefent Afl~embly, to fecure 
' the lives of the poor flaves by making it felony without 
' the benefit of clergy to commit wilful murder on any 
' of their perfons, our correfpondent viev/s it as a mofl: 

* noble exertion of legiflative pov/er in the caufe of hu- 
' manity, which cannot fail of being highly acceptable 
' in the eyes of that Almighty and beneficent Being, who 
' is the fountain of juftice and mercy. The patriotic, 
' learned and eloquent Mr. Edwards, w/;o is fo great 
' an ornament and hlejfng to the country^ it feems, was one 
' of the moft ardent fupporters of this fublime benignity.' 
" God who hath made the world hath made oi one blood 
*' all the nations of men that dwell on all the face of the 
« earth."t 

* Forty-three members. The times of their meeting and their dura- 

* tion are at the Governor's pleafure. An attempt was once made to 
' appoint their term triennial, but the bill mifcarried. A Governor lias 

* been known to diflblve feveral ti.jnes in the fame y?ar.' Hill, of Jam. 

* vol. I. p. 57. 

■\ Afts ch. xvii. ver. 26. 

Sir, 



C 142 ) 

Sir, I mofl; chearfuUy fubfcribe to thefe juft encomiunis 
on the condu£l of the prefent AfTembly of Jamaica, and 
particularly on that of one of it's diftinguifhed and praife 
worthy members. Thofe gentlemen, I moft firmly be- 
lieve, have done every thing vi'ithin the compafs of their 
power (confiftent w^ith the prefent ftate of things, and the 
attention they owe to their conftituents) to fecure the 
life and promote the happinefs of the ilave. Would to 
Heaven I had grounds to fpeak in the fame language, of 
the efficiency of this claufe, as of their laudable endea- 
vours to render it efficient! But I fear that, like the reft, 
it muft be underftood vi'ith a falvo for one of the peculiar 
prerogatives of white men. It no where appears by what 
fort of evidence the murderers of flaves are to be con- 
vifted. ' There's the rub !' Till I Ihall be certain that 
fomething more chan the evidence of white perfons is ad- 
miffible, in this cafe, I will not, I cannot believe that this 
claufe will protect the life any more than the others will 
fecure the good ufage of the flave. Thofe who know 
that too many of our colonifts ' fcarcely confider' the 
negroes ' as intitled to the common rights of humanity'* 
will not be very confident of the rigorous operation of 
this law againft rich and powerful offenders. Againfl a 
poor, friendlefs fellow, it may, however, now and then, 
operate ; by way of convincing the people of this country 
how very facred the life of a flave is efteemed in Jamaica. 
The iflands of Grenada and Antigua have already fome- 
thing to boafl of, for each of them hath hanged her 
white man for flave-murder.f Of the Antigua inflance 
I know nothing ; but Prefton, the Grenada vidlim, I 
have heard mentioned in Barbadoes as one of the worft 
of men. His Chriftian name or nickname was Back- 
houfe or Bacchus, probably the latter, from his drunken- 
nefs. Some twelve or thirteen years ago, Bacchus 
Prefton fled from Barbadoes ; and, in Grenada, met 
with the punifhment his crimes, mofl probably, had de- 
ferved in his native ifland. Yes, Sir, this white man, it 
feems, was adtually, hanged by the neck till he was dead— 
fnly for killing a negro, as hath been triumphantly pub- 



* Seethe note p. 89. 

■\ Apology for negro llavery by the author of letters to a young 

»lanter, p. 37. 

lifhed 



( 143 ) 

liflied to the world. But, Sir, are two or three forlorn 
viilims fufficient to anfwer the demands of juftice? Are 
they fufficient — fcr where the lives of men are concerned, 
I muft and will fpeak out — Are they fufficient, I fay, to 
atone for the ocean of human blood, which under the 
defcription of virtual and a£tual murder, hath deluged our 
colonies, ever fmce the commencement of negro flavery? 
Sir, that atonement never will be made, nor will an 
effe6lual check be put to fuch horrid enormities, till the 
wretched outcafts of law and humanity fhall be received 
into fociety, and fhall enjoy that protection which is the 
undoubted birthright of every unoiFending fubje£l of 
Great Britain. 

From the fupplement to the Jamaica Gazette of 
March 8. 1788. 

* And be it enadted, by the authority aforefaid, that, 
' if any flave (hall offer any violence, by jftriking or 

* otherwife, to any white perfon; fuch flave, upon due and 
' proper proof, upon conviction before two juftices and 
' five freeholders, be punifhed with Death or confine- 
' ment to hard labour for life, or otherwife, as the faid 
' juftices and freeholders fhall, in their difcretion, think 

* proper to inflidt ; provided fuch flriking or conflict be 

* not by command of his or their owners, overfeers, or 

* perfons intrufled over them, or, in the lawful defence 
' of their owners' perfons or goods.' 

The former law was to this efFedl, * Striking or doing 
' violence to a white perfon (except by command of their 

* mafler or employer, or in defence of his perfon or 
' goods) punifhable at the difcretion of two juflices and 

* three freeholders according to circumflances.* Why 
did the prefent law make the foregoing unmerciful, and 
(fuppofmg the Jamaica negroes to be as well difpofed as 
thofe of Barbadoes) unnecejfary addition to the former 
powers of the juflices and freeholders, which, though 
termed difcretionary, I take it for granted, did not ex- 
tend to life ? It will be faid that it would be imprudent 
to relax pen-.l at the fame time that j:)ro/^<f7z«o- laws, or 
rather i^t femblances of protecting laws are enaCted, This 

* Hiftory of Jamaica, voK 2, p. 485, 

may 



( H4- } 

may be partly true, in Jamaica ; but I contend that, iii 
any cafe, it is unjuft to increafe a puniiliment to a degree 
fo infinitely dilproportionate to the offence. And who 
will fay, that Death, or, for aught that appears, a worfe 
punifhment, even confinement to hard labour (in the 
Jamaica fenfe) for life, is not infinitely difproportlonate 
to the crime of barely ftriking, perhaps only lifting a hand 
to ward off the ftroke of a tyrant, in the very adl of 
cruelty ? From what I know of the general tempers of 
flaves, I am perfuaded, that the rigid execution of this 
bloody claufe will but tend to aggravate the evil it is in- 
tended to remedy. 

By the law of Barbadoes (with the fame exceptions as 
above) ' If any Have fhall offer any violence to a Chrlf- 
' tian, by ftriking, or the like, fuch flave fhall be, for the 
' firft offence, feverely whipped, by order of the juftice 
' complained to ; the information to be given upon 
* oath : for the fecond offence he fhall be whipped, his 
' nofe flit, and be branded In the face with a hot ironj for 
' the third offence he fhall receive fuch greater punifDmcnt 
' as the Governor and council Ihall think meet to in- 
' fllcl.'* None of thefe punifhments, whipping perhaps 
excepted, have been inflliled in Barbadoes, I had almoft: 
fald, in the memory of man. But we have {ctn (p. 21.) 
that, in a certain other ifland, a negro loji his right hand 
for ftriking a failor, though no fuch offence had, for many 
years, been committed. Sir, the man who would attempt 
to juftify this punlfhment deferves not to breathe Britllli 
air ! The unmerciful tyrant who pronounced the horrid 
fentence ought himfelf to have experienced the unfpeakahle 
lofs of a right hand ! 

But why, it may be objefled, do I mention the mitiga- 
tion of laws which, in Barbadoes^ except in capital cafes^ 
I ov/n are generally executed with mercy ? And ought 
not thofe laws, for prudential reafons, ftill to hang, «z 
terrorem, over the lives and limbs of the negroes ? Thefe 
. obje£lions I might anfwer by alking, Whether the Bar- 
badians ever had any good reafon to repent of their lenity ? 
And whether fear be the only principle which adluates 

* No. 82. cl. 5. Hairs abridg. p; 60, 

the 



C M5 ) 

•the breails of flaves ? But where bad laws are in force^, 
bad confequences will follow them ; for there will always 
be found men difpofed to take advantage of them. Wit- 
nefs the cafe of M. againft A. in which, under the fan6lion 
of a barbarous and half forgotten law of Barbadoes, a 
violent attack was made on the perfonal liberty even of a 
free horn EngUJhmari^ who had long fupported a good 
'chara6ler in that ifland, and in whofe behalf that molt 
promiling young barrifter, Mr. Skeete, fo nobly diftin- 
guiflied himfelf. If fuch ftatutes can be proved to be 
unnecefTary, no caufe can be fliewn why they fhould not 
be repealed, or accommodated to the milder fpirit of thofe 
who are iriterefted in their execution, and the confequent 
civility of thofe on whom they are to operate. The black 
code of Barbadoes was evidently enabled by men lefs 
humane than their prefent pollierity, and whofe minds 
were incomparably lefs enlightened. The negroes, then 
moftly Africans, would be refraftory, or ' favage,' ih 
proportion to the harfhnefs with which they were treated. 
Hence harfh laws were thought neceffary to reftrain them. 
The crime and the punifliment of witchcraft were the 
offspring of ignorance and cruelty. What an age was 
that which faw the graveft characters of a nation ena6l 
laws againft phantoms of crimes conjured up by their 
own barbarifm ! The reafon, if fome of them ever had 
any reafon, of certain laws of Barbadoes, hath evidently 
ceafed ; and thofe refpedtable perfons, in that ifland, who 
wifli them to give place to ftatutes more becoming the 
moft ancient, humane and polifhed Weft Indian colony 
ever poflefled by the freeft nation upon earth, do certainly 
confult the fafety, as well as the honour of their little 
community. 

We truft, the day is faft approaching, when, adopt- 
ing' the maxims of a milder policy, the legiflatures of all 
the Britifh iflands, in the Weft Indies, will voluntarily 
purge their codes of injuftice and cruelty. ' Neceffit)', 
. « the tyrant's plea,'* which is urged in fupport of fome 
of their laws, exifts only in the timid imaginations, ndt 
to fay the guilty confciences of thofe who oppofe a more 

* '——And with recefsky the tyrant' i plea 
* Excus'd his dev'lifh deedi' Mii.toi>. 

K humans 



f 146 ; 

humane fyftem. To repeat the ftgnlficant words of the 
humane editor of the Barbadoes laws, * if flaves were 
* treated with more humanity than they genera'.ly'zxc* 
even the expediency of all fanguinary ftatutes would 
quickly vanilh. 

I have the honour to be, &c. 



LETTER XVII. 

SIR, 

/^NE great obftrud^ion to the operation of the coofoli- 
^-^ dated law profefledly calculated to prote6l the per- 
fons of flaves, is that (fo far as I can learn) it allows not 
she evidence of negroes, even of fuch as may have feen 
a murder committed, to have any place at all in convi6l- 
ing white criminals. I beg I may not be mifunderftood. 
I do not think it would be prudent, in the prefent ftate of 
things, to make the evidence of a negro equivalent to 
that of a white perfon ; but, is there no medium between 
allowing the evidence of negroes that weight, and allow- 
ing it no weight at all ? Are thofe unhappy men never to 
be confidered in any other light than that of ' brutes who 

* want difcourfe of reafon ?' Might not the teftimony of 
two or more negroes be made equivalent to that of One 
white perfon ? They are known to believe in, and on 
folemn occalions, or when fuffering unjuflly, they never 
fail to appeal to * the great God above, who knows the 

* truth;' They univerfally look, beyond the grave, for a 
ftate of retribution, with a fteadinefs which may put many 
of their oppreflbrs to fhime. Their oath, on a negro 
grave, is fo very facred among them, that, in cafes of 
perjury, they abfolutely pine to death, a confequence 
which does not always foUow that crime, in the moft 
enlightened nations. Such are the principles they have 
brought with them from Africa. Thofe of them who 
profefs Chriftianity might fwear on the evangelifts, and 
for farther fecuritjj on a negro grave.— This do£i:rine> 

though 



t 147 ) 

though tacitly favoured by a very feiifible writer in one of 
the Barbadoes papers before me, I know will generally 
be reprobated as very wild and very dangerous doctrine ; 
and it muft be acknowledged that while owners have the 
power of extorting from their flaves by torture or by 
threats, any declaration which may be agreeable to them= 
felves, it would not be fafe to reduce fuch doftrine to 
pra6tice. — Miferable, horrid condition, which to be tho- 
roughly reformed, muft be utterly annihilated ! if indeed 
a man, in the midft of this great and free metropolis, 
and in the year eighty eighty may venture to mention the 
gradual annihilation of British slavery. 

To what extent it is pra<5licable to reconcile validity 
of teftimony with a ftate of unconditional flavery, it is 
not my province to determine ; but I am clearly of opi- 
nion, That, till the evidence of negroes againft whites, 
fhall be allowed fome degree of force, all the laws which 
the wifdom of man can devife will be found incompetent 
to prote6t them ; and That till they fhall be effectually 
protected, every plan calculated materially to improve 
their condition and their minds will be found inadequate 
to it's end : for it cannot be expected that any oppreffed 
and injured people will readily embrace the religion of 
their tyrants. 

To the extenfion of fome other rights or rather prepa- 
ratory femblances of rights to the Weft Indian flaves, I 
think it impoffible for any man to obje£t, who does not 
wifli that they fhould always be confidered and treated 
merely as paffive inftruments of labour. It has ever been 
my opinion, Sir, that negro-evidence fhould not only, as 
at prefent, be valid againft negroes ; but that all crimes 
of negro againft negro fhould be tried by a jury of ne- 
groes ; their verdidt, in all cafes^ to be confirmed or re- 
verfed by a white jury. In many cafes, negroes would 
come more eafdy at the truth than white men. I do not 
fay, That this would difTeminate among them the feeds 
of moral diftindlion, for thofe feeds are already implanted 
in their breafts, as in thofe of all other men. It would 
do more : it would make them feel their dignity as ra- 
tional beings, and render them extremely felicitous of 
improvement j for none but regular men and chriftlam 
K 2 ihould 



fliouldbe admitted as jurors. I do not fee why fome of 
the enhghtened free negroes, and there are many of that 
defcription, might not a6t as conftables, in the above cafes, 
in fubordination to white conftables. But this office, as 
it now ftands, fome of them would diflike, as confidering 
themfelves (though they dare not fay fo) the fuperiors of 
many of the whites who exercife it. Many^ I do not fay all, 
for very decent men are fometimes forced to zdu as con- 
ftables, by ill-natured juftices. 

Black jurors and black conftables ! This propofition 
I know will be confidered in the Weft Indies, as treafon 
to the facred Majefty of a white fkin. I fee the farcaftic 
grin of ridicule and the malignant fcowl of afperity already 
formed. Afperity to individual men (not individual cruel- 
ties and abfurdities) I will not willingly deal in; but ri- 
dicule I will not fcruple to retort. I dare, however, 
promife my propofition a candid hearing from feveral re- 
ifpedlable perfons in Barbadoes ; and particularly from a 
certain humane and enlightened gentleman, on whofe 
eftate all black offenders are regularly tried by a black 
jury, and, I have been told, with the beft effe£ls. Their 
fentences, which are fometimes very fevere, are occafion- 
ally moderated by their owner, or changed into difgrace, 
of which negroes are not naturally more infenfible than 
white men. 

I have the honour to be, &c. 



LETTER XVIII. 

S I R, 

*1N cafe the flave trade is abolifhed, the public may ex- 
■■■ peft to hear very lamentable accounts, indeed, from 
the Weft Indies. It wi!l be affirmed, that, for want of 
new negroes, the eftates are abandoned and that agri- 
culture is rapidly declining in the IHands, juft as it was 
fome years ago affirmed that they could not exift without 
#)e American trade. The fujpenfion and diminution of the 

American 



( 149 ) - 

jfmerlcan trade obliged the planters to he at feme pains in 
raiflng provifions-^ the abolition of the African trade will 
oblige them to roife negroes. With what juftice the decline 
of agriculture will be attributed to the abolition or re- 
ftri£tion of the flave trade we may judge, before hand, 
by attending to the following paragraph taken from the 
Jamaica gazette of Dec. i. 1787. 

* A gentleman of veracity, who lately left the north 
' fide, aflures us that no lefs than three new fugar ejiates^ 

* which have been fettled within thefe few years, in the 

* neighbourhood of Buff-bay, were lately thrown up a?id 
^ abandoned^ and that the fame number underwent the farm 

* fate^ within thefe few months, near Port Antonio, a 
' ftriking proof of the decline of agriculture, which will, 
' moft afluredly, draw after it a decline of fhipping and 
^ navigation.' 

To what caufe or caufes, the evil here mentioned may 
be owing, I pretend not to fay. Certainly it is not 
owing to the abolition of the flave trade. Whether it may 
not rather be afcribed, to the toleration of that trade, the 
public will be able to judge, when they perufe the follow- 
ing quotation from the judicious author fo often before 
referred to. — ' To augment our negroes therefore by procre- 
' aiiony we muft endeavour to rernedy thofe evils,' (N. B.^ 
not irremediable evils) * which impede ovfrujirate it's na- 
' tural effect. And, to conclude, if the zuajie of thofe men 
^ Jhould become lefs^ the price of them would fall'., and the 

* fame annual demand might be kept up, by extending 

* our plantations, which is now produced by the mortality 
' of thefe people; eftates would be gradually well flocked 

* and rendered more fiourifhing, and the circumftances 
' of the planter would be totally changed for the better. 
' The pur chafe of new negroes is the mo/l chargeable article 

* attending thefe ejlates^ and the true fource of the dijlrejs 
*■ under which the owners fuffer \ for they involve them- 

* felves fo deeply in debt, to make thefe inconfiderate 
' purchafes, and lofe fo many, by difeafe, and other mean?, 
' in the feafoning, that they become unable to make good 

* their engagements, are plunged in law-fuits and anxiety, 

* while, for want of fome prudent regulations in the huf- 
« banding of their ftock, and promoting it's increafe, by 

jC 3 n-atwak 



C ISO ) 

^ natural means^ they entail upon themfelves a neceffity cf 
^ drawing perpetual recruits of unfeafoned Africans, the 
' expence of which forms only a new addition to their 
^ debts and difficulties.'* 

As, in Algebra, the addition of a negative quantity to 
an affirmative, diminiihes that affirmative, and as, in 
Swift's time, in the arithmetic of the Cuftoms, 2 and 2, 
inftead of making 4, frequently made only i ; fo, in the 
arithmetic of flavery, every addition of new negroes hath, 
by long and fatal experience, been found to operate as a 
diminution of flaves, and confequently of property. Bar- 
badoes, for example, in 1676, contained about 100,000 
Haves. The addition of Africans, fince that period, hath 
only ferved to reduce their numbers to about 80,000, that 
is (fuppofmg only 1000 Africans to have been annually 
imported, for 100 years) 100,000 4" 100,000= 80,000, 
an equation which no rule given by Newton or 
M'Laurin will reach; but which may eafily be folved by 
the principles laid down by Doctor Franklin and Mr. 
Jiume.* It would be ridiculous to afk when, at this 
rate, the illands v/ill be flocked with flaves. The truth 
is, that the abolition of the flave trade, by removing the 
primary caufe of depopulation, will promote the increafe 
of negroes in the Weft-Indies. On the planter's pro- 
perty it will operate as tht fubtraSiion of lofs^ which is the 
fame thing as the addition of gain, ^ 

Happy is the people who fee their own interefts in the 
proper point of light j but fuch is the imperfection of hu- 
man nature, that there does not, perhaps, exift, that nation 
or that clafs of men, who have never been terrified by chi- 
meras engendered in their own imaginations. It is well 
known that the happy union of thefe kingdoms was dreaded 
by many, as a meafure pregnant with ruin. Many real aijd 
many pretended patriots predicted or afFedled to pre- 
dict the downfal of Britain and the aggrandizement of 
America, from their feparation — events which, for aught 
that has fmce appeared^ are yet zX a very great diftanccj^ 

* Hiftory of Jamaica, vol. !?..p. 437. 

•j- See Franklin's « thoughts on the peopling of countries,' and 
Hunie's ' Effay on the populoufnefs of ancient nations,' to both of which 
we have been fo much ind^btedo 

and 



( 151 ) 

and which the prefent phcenomena of the commercial and 
political, worlds evidently contradi£t. The condu<5t of 
the Weft Indians, who, overlooking the fertile foil they 
trod, cried out, fome years ago, that they would all be 
ftarved, for want of the American trade ; that of the 
parties, in both kingdoms, who were diflatisfied with the 
late well concerted commercial treaty between Britain 
and France ; that of our ancient Barons and of the pre- 
fent Polifli grandees refpe61:ing their valTals (fee p. 89.) 
in a word the prefent dread of immediate ruin which 
di(3:ates all the meafures of the planters and the Liverpool 
merchants, refpedling the Have trade, are all inftances of 
popular infatuation, only to be equalled by the former mad 
fits of Knocking John^* who, on every trifling occafion, 
would run wild about the city crying out ' Oh ! Sirs, we 

* (hall all be deftroyed. Maid, wife and widow will be 

* raviflied; for the Great Mogul has got as far as White 

* Chapel, and I faw the Pope in a brandy-fhop in Wap- 



ping 1 1' 



I have the honour to be, &c» 



LETTER XIXo 
S I R, 

I AM forry I forgot to communicate to you earlier, a 
paflage which comes pointedly home to our prefent 
fubjedl, and perfectly coincides with the remarks I have 
made on the confolidated flave-law of Jamaica, and which 
I am happy to find are agreeable to '' the opinion of one 
5 of its framers,' This pafTage is taken from the fupple- 
ment to the Kingfton Journal of March 8, 1788, printed 
by Bennet and Dickfon, 

* We fliould be happy to witnefs the efficacy of the 
' lately pafTed confolidated flave-law. That it zoould 
* prove contradidory was the opinion of one cfifs framers i 

t See Tale of a Tub. 

K 4. ' and 



( ^52 ) 

' and that it will be found moft lamentahly deficient is oup 

* firm belief. 'Th.e wretched negroes who have fo long 
^ difgraced our flreetsjlill continue a thorn in the fide of hu-. 
^ man'ity.* They cannot be received at the work-houfe 
? among healthy flaves from principles of felf-evident 

* policy ; but that, for this reafon, they fliould be expofed 
f to every extreme ?nifery is not quite fo clear. This law, 

* incompetent as it is, impowers the juftices and veftry to 
' lay a tax oii the inhabitants for the purpofe of building 
^ a plape for their reception. Till this can be done, 
' we think no fenfible mind would object to the hire of 
s< fome houfe for their prefent fhelter.' 

You fee, Sir, the papers before me furnifh both text 
and comment of this law. I intirely agree with the 
fpirited printers of the above paflage, and I fmcerely 
thank them for their humane attention to the molt 
wretched of the human fpecies. That all laws which 
can be enaded to protedl creatures whofe teftimony 
againft their oppreffors is v/holly invalid, who are con- 
fidered and treated as mere beafts of burden, and whofe 
places, when they fink into an untimely grave, canfpeedily 
he filled up frojn a diftant country — that all fuch laws, \ 
fay, will ever be found ' moft lamentably deficient, in- 
competent, and contradictory,' is not only my ' firm be- 
lief,' but it is my firm conviction, a conviction produced 
not fo much by theory as by facSt and obfervation. To 
fuppofe it otherwife would be to give our colonifts credit 
for a degree of virtue which the experience of all ages 
and nations tells us is feldom or never to be found among 
men. It would be to believe them when, in effe6t, they 
fay, ' We own that no man ought to be trufted with un- 
limited power. The power of kings themfelves ought to 
be ftrictly defined and limited by the laws \ but it is not 
proper that the power of us planters over our negroes 
(hould be thus limited. We have a law within our 
own breafts f which fuperfedes the neceflity of any 
fuch limitations. This breaft-law, aided and inforced 
by the impending terrors of the confolidated flave- 
law, will protect negroes as efFedtually as negroes ouaht 

* Mr. M'Neill fays not a fyllable about * wretched negroes' dif- 
gracing the ftreets of Kin^fton, or any other town in Jamaica. 
■^ Apology for negro ilavcryj p- 56. 



( 153 ) 

to be protected.' But fuch pretences will fcarcely fatlsfy 
a difcerning public, who will judge for themfelves of the 
degree of protecStion which Jlaves can expe(R: from laws 
framed by their inveterately prejudiced owners who are 
pt once legijlators^ executors^ judges^ jurors^ parties and wii- 
nejjes. The little protedion flaves enjoy muft depend, 
and does depend, more on the fpirit of particular owners, 
than on fuch laws as we have been confidering, which 
are better calculated to make a tranfient noife in the 
world and afterwards to lie dead or dormant in a ftatute- 
book, and perhaps to miflead inattentive perfons, who 
never have refided in the Weft Indies, than to afford any 
effe6tual, any tolerable, degree of fecurity to the perfons 
and to the lives of flaves. 

I have now extracted from the Jamaica papers in my 
poffeflion, every material particular I can find relative to 
the treatment of the flaves in that ifland. 

The caufes of the rapid decreafe of the flaves in 
Jamaica, afligned by the very intelligent hiftorian of that 
ifland are — i. 'The venereal taint.' I never underftood 
that this difeafe is more fatal to negroes than to whites ; 
bat of this and the other phyfical caufes of decreafe candid 
phyficians are the only competent judp;es.* — 2. ' Yaws.' 
The author fays that ' experience proves that when left 

* to nature, and the ufe of flour of brimftone to keep the 

* humour in a conftant elimination towards the fkin it 
' gradually wears qff in about three years." I cannot 

* fay to what precife extent this difeafe prevails; but 
cleanly, Creole people are not much fubjeft to it in 
Barbadoes; nor can it by any means be jufl:Iy reckoned 

^ Of the few things peculiar to this difeafe in the W. Indi'es, it is 
^ perhaps the moft fingular that it fhould at the prefent day, be much kfs 

* frequent, in a country fuppofed originally to have produced it, than in 

* any part of Europe.' — ' In 331 patients admitted into the hofpital of 
f the 92d regiment there were only tivo with venereal complaints ■ and 

< in the other hofpitals, the difeafe was not more frequent.' Obf. on 
the difeafes of the army in Jamaica by John Huntex, M. D. F. R. S« 
and Phyf. to the army, p. 284. 

< The venereal difeafe is frequent in Africa | hut Is always eafily 
I cured.' Matthews's voyage to Sierra Leone, p. 136. 

a general 



( 154 ) 

a general caufe -of depopulation.* — 3. * The fmall-pox.* 
I never, in my life, underftood tljjt the negroes fufFer 
more from the feiaJI-pox than the whites. A friend of 
mine brought thirty negroes through this diforder, by 
inoculation, without any iofs, and comparatively with 
little medical ailiftance. I have heard of incomparably 
greater fuccefs. Our author indeed only mentions * this 

* as one principal caufe of depopulation which exifted 
^ here before inoculation was brought into general ufe, 
' which was not long ago. ' His book was printed in 1774, 
and refers to the ftate of things about the year 1768.— 
4. ' The removal of negroes from a dry to a damp fitu- 

* ation, from a fouth fide to a north fide parifli.' — 
' Even the Creoles do not bear thofe removals frorn 

* places where, perhaps, they have refided from the time 
« of their birth. And it is inconceivable what numbers 
' have perifhed in confequence of the law for the recovery 
<^ of debts^ which permits negroes to be levied on and fold at 

* vendue. By this means they are frequently tornfro7n their 

* native fpot, their deareji conneSiions, and transferred into 
^ afituation unadapted to their health, labouring under dlf- 
^ content, which co-operates with change of place and cir~ 
« cum/lances to Jhorten their lives.' This deftrudtive evil 
prevails alfo in Barbadoes : and proves how little the feel- 
ings of the negroes are confulted by the Weft Indian 
laws. Thus the being attached to the soil a moft 
grievous circumftance attending the Polifti and Ruffian 

* ' The yaws * is infeftious, and, like the fmall-poxj never attacks 3 

* perfon a fecond time. It is communicated by contaft, moft commonly 

* in the fame way that the venereal difeafe is' — ' If a negro that has 

* contrafted this diforder, be put in circumftances favourable to general 
< health; if he be not obliged to ivork, if he be alloived a good diet, and if he 

* be kept clean by frequent wa/hings, it will run it's courfe and, after a 

* time intirely difappear.' — The ^ yaws is a diforder not peculiar to the 

* negroes 5 for feveral of the foldiers were afflided with it.' Dr. 
Hunter's Obf, p. 306, 308. 

' Though they (the negroes) are not entirely exempted from them 
« {fevers) they fufFer infinitely lefs than the Europeans. There was the 

* Itrongeft proof of this in the negroes who were fent along with the 
' troops againft Fort St. Juan, of whom fcarcely any died, although few 

* or none of the foldiers furvived the expedition.' Dr. Hunter's Obf. 
p. 24.—- »•* Pulmonary conjumptions rarely originate in Jamaica.' id. p. 

wjfallage 



( 155 ) 

vaf/hllagtj would a£tua]ly be a great relief, a great blelT- 
ing to near half a million of men exifting within the 
Britifh dominions I — 5. 'Some planters think it good 

* policy to quarter their new negroes among the old 
' fettled ones ; but thefe hofts generally make their guefts 

* pay dear for their lodging and maintenance, forcing 

* them to be hewers of wood and drawers of water, and, 
' in fliort impofing on their ignorance without meafure 

* or mercy, until they fink under the oppreffion.' — 6. 

* The introduction of too many recruits at once has 

* often proved fatal to them.' — -7, ' The women do not 

* breed here as in Africa ; for, in {hort, it has never 
' been the planter's care to proportion the number of 

* females to males.' — 8. 'Worms are extremely fatal to 
' children in this climate, and deftroy more than any other 
' difeafe.' Are worms more fatal to children in the Weft 
Indies than in Africa, or to nea;roes than to whites ? — 
9. * Others frequently perifh by what is called here jaiv- 
' fallings which is caufed by a retention of the meconium; 

* by not keeping the infarit fufficie-ntly war?n.' Infants are 
not kept fufHciently warm in Barbadoes any more than 
they are in Jamaica, at leaft, after the month.— 10. 

* Moft of the black women are very fubjeil to obftruc- 

* tions, from what caufe, I will not prefume to fay ; but 

* perhaps they may be afcribed in part, to their ufmg 
' reftringent baths or walliing themfelves in cool water, 

* at improper periods.' Let the faculty determine, whe- 
ther the difeafes here alluded to, if indeed they be more 
common among black than white females, may not be 
' afcribed in part,' to their getting wet or fleeping in damp 
huts, after exceffive toil^ in a hot and moift climate. In 
the wet feafon the negrefles very frequently fulFer thefe 
unwholefome viciffitudes. — i r. ' Child-birth is not fo 
'' eafy as in Africa, and many children are annually def- 

* troyed, as well as their mothers, by the unHnllfiilnefs, 
^ and abfurd management of the negro midwives." Then 
why are not ficilful mid wives or accoucheurs employed ? — ■ 
12. ' Thus we find there are various caufes which pre- 

* vent the multiplication of negroes on the plantations ; 

* not but that wiifcafonable zuork may fometimes be added 

* to the lift.' I truft my readers are convinced, as I am, 
|hat downright opprejjion and cruelty may very often he 

added 



( 156 ) 

added to the lift. ' I will not deny' continues our au- . 
tbor, ' that thofe negroes breed the beft whofe labour is 

* leaft and eafieft. Thus the domejiic negroes have more 
' children than thofe on the penns ; and the latter than 
' thofe employed on fugar plantations.' I will add, that 
the domeftic fiaves in Barbadoes and thofe belonging to 
the middling and the lower claffes of whites are as prolific, 
as healthy and long lived as any people I evex faw.* 

Of thefe caufes of depopulation the ift, 2d, 3d and 8th 
may be called phyfical : the 4th, 5th, 6th, 7 th and 12th 
are owing wholly to mifmanagement and a bad lav^ ; and 
of thefe the 5th and 6th afFe6l African negroes only. In 
the 9th, loth, iith difeafe and mifmanagement are com- 
bined. The phyfical caufes muft be left to the faculty, 
who will fcarcely be of opinion. That, independent of 
mifmanagement, hunger, oppreffion and cruelty, the difeafes 
to which Africans are more particularly fubjedl are fuf- 
ficient to account for the unparalleled and enormous wafte 
of the fpecies in the Weft Indies. If it fhould be pre- 
tended that African difeafes depopulate the Weft Indies, 
we would have a right to afk, Why they do not depopu- 
late Africa itfelf ? 

* There are many negroes in Barbadoes with all the marks of extreme 
old age, gray hairs not excepted, which are thought by fome, to be 
rare among the blacks. I cannot exaftly afcertain any of their ages j 
but I knew a hoary headed negro woman a great grandmother, who, I 
think, nurfed, and who furvived, her very indulgent miftrefs who died 
about the age of 63. In the fame family there was an ancient African 
matron who, by the bye (for I have juft recollefted the circumftance) 
Tvhen fhe got up in the morning, ufed to trace a circle round her, on 
the floor, with her finger, at the fame time, muttering fomething. 
On my ageing her the meaning oi this ceremony, fhe replied, ' Da for 
« God' (' That is for God.') * How, Mama, faid I, does God live in 
•* Africa ?' ' Kai ! MafTa,' faid Ihe, ' God no all about' (' Strange ! Sir, 

* is not God every where ?') On the eftate of a certain humane and 
refpeftable perfon, I remember an old African man, from his form of 
benedidion, which was, ' God in a' Cop, God in a' bottom blefs you 

* Maffa.' Do our fafhionable philofophers fpealc more nobly of the 
Being who fills all fpace ; or will their favourite orang outangs ever at- 
tain to fo fublime an idea ? 1 particularly recoiled feveral other venerable 
Struldbrtigi who certainly do infinite credit to their owners. Sir Hans 
Sloane knew blacks in Jamaica 120 years old. « When old age has ren- 
' dered his farther exertions ufelefs, the hoary headed bondjman becomes 
^ often the partaker of liberty,' M'Neill's Obferv. p. 9, 

The 



( '57 ) 

The propagation of vegetables, of the inferior animals 
and of men, in favourable circumftances, unlverfally 
proceeds in geometrical progrejjton.* By an unvaried 
law of nature they continue to multiply till countries are 
fo fully replenifhed, with people, for example, that they 
interfere with each others' means of fubfiftence. Then, 
but not till then, is a natural limit put to the farther in- 
creafe of the fpecies in fuch countries. Heavy taxes and 
bad laws alfo check that increafe. The difficulty of 
maintaining families difcourages marriage. Thus many 
perfons remain fmgle, and leave no iffue, or they emi- 
grate to countries which want people, and which, in their 
turn, become replenifhed with inhabitants. 

Hence 

* ' Nor Is It neceffary' (fays Dr. Frankiin) ' to bring in foreigners 

* to fill up any occafional vacancy in a country ; for fuch vacancy (If the 

* laws are good) will foon be filled by natural generation. Who can now 

* find the vacancy made in Sweden, France or other warlike nations, by 

* the plague of heroifm 40 years ago ; in France by the expulfion of the 

* proteftants j in England by the fettlement of her colonies, or in Gui- 

* NEA by 100 years exportation of Jla-ves that has blackened half America ?' 
— • Was the face of the earth vacant of other plants, it might be gra- 

* dually fowed and overfpread, with one kind only, as for inftance, with 

* fennel j and were it empty of other inhabitants it might in a few ages, 
« be repleniflied, from one nation only, as for inflance, with Englifli- 

* men. — Thus there are fuppofed to be now (A. D. 1751) upwards of 

* 1,000,000 of Englifli fouls in North America, though, it is thought, 

* fcarce 80,000 have been brought over fea. This million doubling, 

* fuppofe but once in 25 years, will, in another century, he more than 

* the people of England.' — In fine, a -well regulated nation is like a poly- 

* pus ; take away a limb, its place is foon fupplied ; cut it in two, and 

* each deficient part fhall fpeedily grow out of the part remaining,* 
Thoughts on the Peopling of Countries. 

* The people of New England have all along doubled their numbers 
« once in 25 years,' — < Doctor Heeerden obferves that, in Madeira, 
« the inhabitants double their own numbers in 84 years.' Price oa 
Annuities, p. 204. See alfo Sp» of Laws, b. 23. ch. 16. and Smel- 
lie's BuFFON, v. 2. p. 36, 

About 70 years ago, a Guinea fliip was firanded on the Ifland of St. 
Vincent. The pofterity of the negroes who got on fhore, known by the 
name of the Black Charaibs, notwithftanding the wafting wars they 
have fuftained to maintain their independence, ftill amount, as I ara 
credibly informed, to between 2000 and 3000. 

* After the decifive viftory gained over the Spaniards In Jamaica, 
< their negroes' (the Marons) ' ftlU continued very troublefome.'— 

* The English procured feme blood-hounds and hunted thefe blacks like loild 

* heafis. Having augmented their numbers by procreation, and by fugitive 
•f il^vfs, they conjinu^d to diftrefs th? ifland for about 47 years, held 

« ant 



( ts^ ) 

Hence the world v/as originally peopled from on6 
human pair,* and, after the deluge, from the family of 
Noah. Hence the vaft increafe of the Ifraelites, even in 
a flate of bondage, f Hence, in modern times, the 
aftonifhing multiplication of European men, animals and 
vegetables in America, and of the potatoe, and perhaps 
other American vegetables, in Europe. Hence an over- 
plus of people in fome countries, as in Svi^itzerland and 
other European countries, and, in ipite of all obftru£lions, 
in Africa. Hence black cattle, flieep, &c. afford fo 
vaft an overplus for the food of man. Hence the great 
increafe of jiock in Jamaica \ and, to give no more in- 
ftances of fo notorious a truth, hence the increafe of the 

Black 

* out againft forty times their number' — * and at length were able to put 

* an end to the ftruggle by a treaty of peace the more honourable to them, 

* as it confirmed the full enjoyment of that freedom for which they had 

* fo long and fo obftinately contended' — ' Thefe negroes, although in-, 

* habiting more towns than at firft, are diminifhed in their number by 

* deaths, and cohabitation ivith Jlai/es on the plantations, inftead of inter- 

* mixing with each other'—' The whole number (of Marons) in all the 

* towns, is not augmented much beyond the above lift in 1749.' Long's 
Hift. of Jam. v. i. p. 124, 278, 279 and v. 2. p. 339, 340, 347, 349. 

* By calculation, it appears, that 953'ooo'ooo of people (fuppofed to 
be about the prefent number of the whole human race) might be pro- 
duced in 721 years (nearly) from one pair, uniformly doubling their num- 
bers every 25 years, or, which is the fame thing, increafing, uniformly, 
at the apparently flow rate of (nearly) 3 per cent, per annum, 

■\ The Ifraelites, Shortly after their egrefs out of Egypt and 430 years 
after the vocation of Abraham (fee Jofephus b. 2. ch. 5. Bp Patrick on 
Exod. and Playfair's chronol. p. 34) amounted to 6o3'550, ♦ from twenty 

* years old and upwards, all that were able to go forth to war,' (Num. 
ch. I. ver. 46. )• -If? following Dr. Halley and Mr. Kerfeboom, we ac- 
count the fighting men to have been about one-fourth of the whole, we 
may eftimate their number at about 2'40o'oco men, women and chil- 
dren. If fo, the pofterity of Abraham, by his grandfon Jacob, mutt have 
doubled their numbers in 21 years and 3-ioths of a year, nearly. But 
if, with Bp. Patrick, we fuppofe, that they amounted only to I'joo'ooo, 
of all ages, we Ihall ftill find that they doubled their numbers in aa 
years. • ■ This approximation to what we know hath taken place 
in modern times, at the fame time that it evinces the comparative 
mildnefs of the Egyptian bondage, is a good internal proof of the truth 
of the Mofaic hiftory. In this laft vie.v, the author humbly thinks 
this and fimilar inquiries worthy of the attention of the learned. 

■J The increafe of ftock in Jamaica, exclufive of about 8'Goe head 
flaughtered annually, is computed at 2S'ooo head per annum. See the 
Cornwal Chron. of Jan. 5. 17S2. Thus, we fee, there is no want of 
catclt in Jamaica for food and labour; but we fear the plough is not fo 

univerfally 



( IS9 ) 

Black Charaibs in St. Vincents, of the Marons In 
Jamaica, and of negro flaves when well treated on many 
of the eftates in the Weft Indies.* — That, on the whole, 
negro flaves decreafe> is a deplorable exception to the 
general procedure of nature. 

I cannot colleft authentic data on which to found a 
comparative view of the wafte of human life in the dif- 
ferent European colonies in the W. Indies ; and I in- 
dulge not in conjecture : But the following particulars 
will convey a general idea of that melancholy fubje6l. 
According to a French account, publifhed by authority, 
no lefs than 8oo-ooo Africans had been imported into the 
French part of St. Domingo, in 96 years ending in 1774, 
of whom there then remained only 290*000, viz. i50'ooo 
Africans and I40'000 Creoles, thefe laft being the whole 
pofterity of 650*000 Africans. During the fix years, 
immediately preceding 1774, the number imported into 
the fame colony was 103*000 and 61*000 had been born, 
making together 164*728, of whom, in that year, there 
remained in all, only 40*000!. A certain gentleman 
has favoured me with a copy of a M. S. account in his 
pofTeffion, of all the negroes and cattle, with the taxes 
raifed on them, in the feveral parifhes of Jamaica, in the 



univerfally adopted, as It fiiould be ; and who would think of feeding 
negroes on frefh meat, while indifferent fait provifions can be imported, 
at any price? "The ifland is well fupplied with provifions of every 

* kind, and could eafily raife more than fufficient for the inhabitants j 

* but the cultivation oi the fugar-cane is fo lucrative, that every exer- 

* tion is turned that way, and many articles are imported, which might 

* either be produced in the ifland, or their room fupplied with others 

* equally good.' Dr. Huntee's Obf. on the difeafes of the army in 
Jamaica, p. lo. 

* Mr. M'Neill (Obf. p. 35.) owns that * there is certainly r,t 

* denying the faB, that negroes, with proper attention^ will wa/f/^/y con- 

* fiderably ; for, upon many of the old eftates in this ifland' (Jamaica) 

* which have not experienced revjlufiom from debts or change of property ^ 

* there are ten, nay foraetimes twenty nati'ves for oti 'e. j^frkan-^ 

* but that the fupply from propagation alone, in any circuniftajsces, fhould 

* preclude the necellity of importing new flaves, is an idea, which, 

* pleafing as it may appear, cannot, I am afraid be admitted.' I leave the 
reader to form his own judgment of this and fimilar paffagesi 

•f- This decreafe is at the rate of 21 per cent, per annum, which, in 
78 years (nearly) would reduce the vfhole inhabitants of the globe 
to ten, 

years 



( i6o ) 

years 1734, 1740 and 1745 ; alfo of all the flaves im- 
ported into that ifland from March 28, 17 13 to Dec. t, 
1745, fpecifying the number of flaves and veffels each 
year. From this paper, which is much too long to be 
inferted, it appears that there were in Jamaica, 

Slaves. 
In 1734, — — 86 •546 

Imported, from 1734 to 1739, inclufive, in 
154 veffels, 

Negroes — ■ 36 '996 

Indians *— 41 



37*037 



123-583 

Dedu£t on the ifland 1740 — 99*239 

■ I — -d 

Decreafe in 6 years — — ■ 24'344 

On the ifland, in 1740 — 99*^39 

Imported from 1740 to 1745, inclufive, in 163 

veffels — . — — 36*493 

135732 
Dedu£l on the ifland in 1 745 — 1 1 2*428 

— < 

jD^tr^^ in 6 years — — 23*304 

Is does not appear what number of flaves were 
on the ifland in 1 7 1 3 ; but fuppoflng there were 
nojlaves then on the ifland, the number imported 
in 33 years, in 949 veffels, is 

Negroes — 221*534 

Indians — — 115 

Total — 221-649 

Dedu6t on the ifland in 1745 — 112*428 

Decreafe m '^'^ytzxs — — 109*221 

every fix years -^ 19-858 

' N« 



( i6i ) 

Ko kfs than 27*000 flaves were introduced into Jamaica 
in two years and a half ending in July 1766.* In 176! 
there were on the ifland 146*000; in 1768 the numbei' 
was i66'904t, increafe 21*000; but in two years and a 
half of this period 27*000 had been imported, and, if it be 
confidered that the period including 1768 was the moft 
flourifhing period of the flave trade, 27*000 more will 
probably be much too fmall an allowance for the other 
four years and a half. Here then is a decreafe of at leaft 
33*000 in 7 years. 

According to Raynall % 8*000*000 or 9*000*000 of 
Africans had been imported into all the European colonies, 
in the new world previous to the year 1774; and their 
wretchecl remnants did not then amount to more than 
1*400*000 or 1500*000. The former number is very 
probably equal to the whole population of G. Britain, or to 
about one hundredth part of all mankind — the latter alas \ 
falls fliort of the population of Scotland alone. — What 
a horrible pidure of European iniquity is this! The 
foremoft groupe compofed of the furviving Africans, 
famifhed, covered with fears, and loaded with chains — > 
the gloomy back ground befmeared with the blood of the 
extirpated American tribes! 

Thefe rates of decreafe far tranfcend the effeil of any 
known caufe of depopulation; and, if univerfal, would, 
in a few ages, exterminate the human race. The 
wretched policy of the feudal fyftem, unfavourable as 
it was and, in fome countries, ftill is, to their multipli- 
cation, j| did not exterminate, or threaten to exterminate, 
the valials whom it opprelFed. Scarcity, tempefts, vol- 
canoes and earthquakes have not depopulated thofe coun- 
tries to which they have been moft fatal. ' Men,' fays a 
learned writer, * will even increase under circujnjiances 
' that portend to decay. The frequent wars of the 
' Romans and many a thriving community, even the 
' PESTILENCE and the market /^r slaves' (parnobilc 
fratrum!) ' find their fupply, if, without defraying the 

* Long's Hift. of Jam. vol. 2. p. 444, 

•J- Id. p. 432. 

J Hill. Phil.ct pol. t, 5, p. 261. 

I See Coxe's Travels into Poland, &(» 

L ' fame. 



( i62 ) 

« fame, the drain become regular.'* — Strange that Africa 
is not exhaufted by felling flaves, while the iflands are 
exhaufted by buying them!— Thus it would appear, that 
all the ordinary and extraordinary caufes of depopulation 
are not nearly fo deftrudlive to the lives of mankind as 
the prefent West Indian Slavery and it's fweeping 
train of worfe than peftilential mifchiefs. Thefe, with 
fatal, becaufe incejfantly corroding, malignancy, can alone 
blaft the ftrong principle of life. In this one inftance 
hath the depravity of man been permitted wholly to 
counteracl^ the great law of Creation which faid, 'Be 
' fruitful and multiply and replenifh the earth,' — a law 
which pervades the univerfe, and preferves, in the molt 
admirable order, every fpecies endowed with vegetable or 
animal life. 

That a diminution of population may be, nay, actually 
is, fpeedily fupplied, by natural means, hath been clearly 
evinced : but, from whatever caufe fuch diminution may 
have arifen, it confers no right of fupplying the defedt by 
methods incompatible with juftice and humanity. A 
great number of the inhabitants of Sicily and Naples 
perifhed by the earthquake in 1783. Was the king of 
Naples, therefore, intitled to fupply the deficiency, by 
dragging into exile the people of a diftant land ? Would 
not even the attempt have been wicked ? And would a 
fimilar mode have been innocent in our unfortunate 
colonifts who furvived the great hurricane, in 1780 ?t 
If this would have been iniquitous, how unfpeakably ne- 
farious muft it be to replace by violence and perfidy in 
Africa, thofe whom mifmanagement, bad laws, oppref- 
lion and cruelty have deftroyed in the Weft Indies ? 

Having thus proved that the Africans, on their ar- 
rival in Jamaica are, at the Guinea fales, treated worfe 
than brutes J that they are * brand/d' like cattle; that 
they are pinched in their food; that their drudgery is 

* Ferguson, civ. fo, ed. 5. p. 236. 

•\ Suppofe/w/>fr cent, of the inhabitants, white and black, periflied by 
that dreadful vifitation, which, in Barbadoes, where it was moft fatal, 
was, I believe, pretty near the truth. Such a deficiency, it is plain, 
would be fupplied in lejs than ji-ve year z^ by a people increasing at the rate 
of only one per cent, per annumj or doubling their numbers in about 
70 years, . 

inceUantj 



( i63 ) 

Inceflant ; that the punifhments and * torments* infll<^ed 
on them are fhockingly fevere and often ' very unnatu- 
' ral'y that, in the decline of life, they are often ' ..pofed 
* to every extreme of niifery\^ that they are ofien uilledy 
and ' immediately put under ground -y* that the laws lately 
ena61:ed for their prote6lion are * ?no/f lamentably deficient 
' and incompetent ; and that, ' with prober atterti /v^' they 
increafe and ' multiply^' by procreation — having demon- 
ftrated, I fay, all thefe truths, and having had reafon to 
think myfelf called upon to take up my pen in this in- 
terefting controverfy, I now, in my turn, afk the advo- 
cates for flavery and the flave-trade hov^ they dare clank 
their accurfed chains in the ears of Britons, by avowedly 
attempting to juftify a traffic and a domination fo exe- 
crable in themfelves, fo peculiarly hateful to the great 
body of the people, fo fubverfive of the rights and fo de- 
jftru^live to the lives of mankind — fo utterly repugnant, 
not to fay dangerous, to the laws, to the liberties, and to 
the religion of this nation ? 

The foregoing fads and arguments will, I humbly 
hope, meet with attention from you, Sir, and from many 
other refpedlable and confcientious inquirers into the ftate 
of flavery, in the Britifh fugar iflands. But well efta- 
bliftied fa(Ss, and cool reafoning and warm expoftulation 
will, I fear, equally fail of working conviftion in minds 
preoccupied by inveterate prejudices, or by intereft or 
policy ill und^rftood. 

I have the honour to be, &c. 



1.2 CONCLU- 



( i64 ) 



CONCLUSION. 

"lyfTiTH becoming humility, and with all that refpe£t 
^^ which an ob (cure individual may be fuppofed to en- 
tertain for a nation whofe interefts it is his bounden duty, 
and his moll ardent wifh, to promote, the author would 
now intreat the ferious attention of all ranks and defcrip- 
tions of Britons, to a few confiderations which feem na- 
turally to arife out of the prefent fubje£l. 

Every man who does not difregard and revile the re- 
ligion of his country, will allow, that ' The Moft High 
' ruleth over the kingdoms of the earth,' and that nations 
can only be puniflied as nations^ that is, in this world. 
Moft dreadful plagues were fent, by a juft and ofFended 
God, to chaftife the Egyptians for exercifing a t3'ranny 
comparatively mild in itfelf, and wliich was not fupported 
by a murderous yZ^z;^ trade. The fcene of that difgraceful 
traffic, ' That Africa which is not now more fruitful 
' of monjiers than it was once of excellently wife and 

* learned mew, that Africa which formerly afforded us 

* our Clemens, our Origen, our Tetullian, our Cyprian, 

* our Auguftine; th?it famous Africa, in whofe foil 
' Chriftianity did thrive fo prodigioufly, and which could 
' boaft of fo many flouriflnng churchesy alas ! is now a 
' wildernefs. " The wild boars have broken into the 
" vineyard and eaten it up, and it brings forth nothing 
'' but briars and thorns," to ufe the words of the prophet. 

* And who knows but God may fuddenly make this 
^ Church and Nation, this our England, which Jef- 
*.hurun-like, is waxed fat, and grown proud, and hath 
*^ kicked againft God, fuch another example of his veu" 

* geance r"* 

Now let Britons call to mind the many diftinguiflied 
tleffings they have enjoyed, and the many dangers from 
which their peculiarly favoured country hath been pro- 

* See the Sermons of Archb. Sharp (grandfather of that friend to 
his country and to mankind, the prefent Granville Sharp, Efq.) vol. a. 
fermon I. which was delivered before the Houfe of Commons, April 
llth 1679. 

vedentlally 



( i65 ) 

videntlally delivered. Let them remember, in particular> 
tile alarming fituation of their affairs in the year lyBc, 
when, without a fingle ally, Britain maintained a noble 
ftruggle againft the powerful nations, which were com- 
bined, with her revolted colonies, for her deftrudion i 
when faction embarrafled her councils ; when a lawlefs 
multitude of defperate men carried fire and defolatioa 
through the ftreets of her metropolis ; and when a tem- 
peft, as if fent by Heaven to point out one caufe of all 
thofe calamities, ' fwept' fome of the Weft Indian Wands 

* with the befom of deftruftion'* Let Britons ferioufly 
contemplate that awful crifls, and then blame a fellow- 
citizen, if they can, for humbly recommending to their 
coniideration thefe ftriking palTages of fcripturt, fele6ted 
from a very great number which, alas ! are but too 
applicable to the prefent fubjeit. ' The nation to whom 

* they Jhallbe in bondage WILL I JUDGE SAID GoD : and^ 

* after thz.tjhall they come forth and ferve nie.^\ * What 

* mean ye that ye beat my people to pieces, and grind the 

* faces of the poor, faith the Lord God of Hosts ?J 

* Among my people are found wicked men. They lay 

* wait.^ as he that fetieth fnares' — they fet a trap — they catch 
' men. As a irap-czge. § is full of birds, fo are their 
' houfes full of deceit ; therefore, they are become great 

* and waxen rich — they are waxen fat — they Ihine — yea 
^ they overpafs the deeds of the wicked. They judge not 

* the caufe — the caufe of the fatherlrfs — yet they profper— 

* the right of the needy do they not judge. Shall I NOT 

* VISIT FOR THESE THINCS ? SAITH THE LoRD 

' SHALL NOT MY SOUL BE AVENGED ON SUCH A NA- 
' TION AS THIS ?'** 

Such are the tremendous denunciations of the Al- 
mighty againft avarice, injuftice and oppreffion. Similar 
crim.es deferve fimilar punifhments — greater guilt, more 
terrible vifitations. EJlo perpetua is the prayer of every pat- 
riotic foul: yet the hour of Britain's dilTolution, as a nation, 
muft — muft arrive. Let us no longer provoke indulgent 

* If. c, T4. V. 23. -f Afls, ch, 7. V. 7.' X If. c. 3. ver. 15, 

§ See Blayney's Jerem. 

** Jerem. ch. 5. y. 26 et feq. < The /mj 5/ opprefsion arp called 
« CRYING SINS — fuch as cry to Heaven for vengeance.' Lowth's coma, 
•n this paiTaie, 

L 3 Heaven 



( i66 ) 

Heaven to haften that awful event. Let not Britain, m 
her prefent profperity ' lay in her heart, I fit a Queen and 

* fhali (ee no forovv.'* But let her remember that (he 
herfelf hath experienced calamity — that fhe too hath 
groaned under the yoke of Tyrants ! and that hr cwn 
liberties have been fully eftabliflied only during one fhort 

century. — —But away with all mean ideas of a 

great, a magnanimous nation! There is yet virtue in 
Briions, and the memory of the G).oriO' s Revolu- 
Til N + will call it forth into adtion. A jubilee will be 
celebrated; and Prince and People will gratefully 
comrnemcrate the final delivery of Britain from arbitrary 
power.J The temple of British Liberty will be 
opened. The facred fire, fo fatal to tyrants, which 
burns in its hallowed recefles, will blaze — will fulminate : 
and AFRicAr<r SLAVERY, bound in her own execrable 
chaiiiS, will be utterly blafted and confumed on the altar ! ! 

* Rev. ch. 18. V. 7. * Slaves and fouls of men" are among the ' mer- 

* cbandiz^" of the city threatened in that awful cnap.— By the bye, it is 
wonderful what fome people find to laugh at, in the Rev. of St. John. 
Sir 1. Newop ai d Lord Neper, the greateft men, even Hume being judge, 
(fee Hift. of Eng.) that ever Britain produced, were fo far from ridicu- 
ling, that they wrote commints on that fublimebook. The firfl: 6 v. of 

he loch ch. contain fuch a groupe of exalted images, as is nowhere 
Ife to be fou/ \, in the fame compafs 
-J- * God feems, in this laft deliverance, in fome fort, to have united 
and brought together all the great deliverances which he hath been 
pleaied to work for this nation, againft all the remarkable attempts of 
Popery, from thebeginningof our reformation. Our wonderful delivers 
ance from the f jr'nidable Spanijh 'wvafeon, defigned againft us, happened 
the year 1588. And now, juft 100 years after, God was pleafed ta 
bring about this great and mojl happy DEtivERANCE. That horrid 
gun-poiude'- conjpiracy, without precedent and without parallel, was de«. 
figned to have been executed on the. fifth day ofNcvanhery the fame day 
upon which his Highnefs The Prince of Orange landed his forces here 
in England, So that this is a day eveiy way worthy to be folemnly fet 
apart and joyfully celebrated, by this church and nation, throughout 
all generations, as the fitceft of all others to comprehend, and to put 
us in mind to commemorate, all the great deliverances which God 
' hath wrought for us, fiom Popery andtt^s wjeparable companion Arbi«» 

* TRARY Power. Archbilhop Tillotfon's Thanfgiving ferm. for our 
deliverance by the Prince of Orange,' preached Jan. 3ifl; 1689, from 
Ezra, ch. ix, ver. 13, 141 J See p. loi, note, 



( 167 ) 

To the WHITE INHABITANTS in 

general and, in particular to the LEGIS- 
LATURE of the J/land of Barb AD 0Es» 

" I mujl he cruely only to be ^incl,'* Shakespeare* 

T Confefs I am entirely at a lofs in what terms to ad- 
■■■ drefs you, or how to exprefs myfelf with that freedom 
which becomes my caufe, without offending you, which, 
whatev^er you may think, is very far from my intention. 
My fentiments refpe6ling flavery are, and, as fome of 
you know, ever have been, fo diametrically oppofite to the 
unreafonable prejudices and the apparent interefts of very 
many of you, that I expe6t to be generally confidered as 
the enemy, if not traduced as the calumniator of the ifland 
of Barbadoes. Such a charge will give me but little 
pain, while I am confcious of the re6litude of my inten- 
tions ; and that I have Incurred your difpleafure, by a well 
meant endeavour to difcharge what I knoiv to be my 
duty to God, to my country, and to an mjured and op- 
prelTed race of men. 

Yet a very refpeilable number of you poflefs a large 
ihare of that good fenfe, candour and humanity which 
happily characterize the prefent age. Your virtues, in 
many inftances, compenfate for the glaring defeats of 
laws ena6led by your lefs enlightened anceftors ; and 
nave rendered the galling yoke of flavery confelTedly 
lighter in Barbadoes, than it is in any other Britifh 
colony. 

Still, It muft be owned, this is but a faint, a negative 
kind of praife. Go on to merit greater encomiums,— 
to preferve the eminent chara6ler for comparative hu- 
manity you fo juftly pofiefs, and which, you need not 
be told, that ftrong incentive to generous a£lions, emu- 
lation, will ftimulate the other colonies to equal, if not to 
furpafs. I cannot bring myfelf to believe, that, in this 
glorious ftrifej Barbadoes will yield to any colony in the 
W. Indies, 

>J/ 4 CouIJ 



( i68 ) 

Could I hope that my advice would be attended to, I 
would humbly and earneftly exhort you to begin your 
reforms by driving away every flave-lhip from your coaft, 
as the beft means of giving efficacy and {lability to your 
future regulations. 

For your own credit, as well as for the fake of hu- 
manity, 1 would refpe6lfully intreat you to expunge, for 
ever, from your ftatute-book a few laws which I have 
bluflied to hear mentioned and fee quoted in this country, 
as a reproach to human nature. * Would to God' ex- 
claims a certain well informed, refpe6lable and elegant 
writer, ' that the ftain which the favage ordinance of Bar- 
^ badoes has ftamped on the fpirit of colonial legifla- 
^ tion could be, for ever blotted from the page of hiflory.' 
And again ' Contemplate, if you can, Sir, without hor- 
? ror, the fpirit which could didate the following law of 
* Barbadoes.' * The only circumftance I can urge 
In defence of the ftatutes here alluded to, is that when 
enabled they were, no doubt, thought neceflary; and 
that, at prefent (except in punifhing capital crimes of ne- 
groes againfc whites which very feldom occur) your 
penal laws are, generally, executed with a moderation 
which does you honour. But it is to be lamented that 
the lenity of your magiftrates is far from being univerfaily 
imitated.— ^To your own good fenfe I appeal. Whether it 
be proper, or expedient, or juft, that the power of pri- 
vate individuals over their flaves fhould, in fail and in 
praftice, be abfolutely unbounded, while that of publick 
magiftrates is defined and effectually limited by the law : 
that the former, for example, may, or, at leaft, does in- 
fli6t as many ftripes or blows as he thinks proper, and 
for any or no fault; while the latter, for a real fault or crime 
cannot, and does not, exceed a ce;"taira number of ftripes. 
This may be agreeable to the dogmas of flavery ; but, 
you are confciouSj it is repugnant to common fenfe, pro- 
priety andjuftice. You know too that, by reftraining 
the abufe of power, you oblige men to confult their own 
inter eji^ which you are fenfible is very far from affording 
fufficient protection to many a miferable flave. In a 

* Remarks on the /lave trade and the flavery of the negroes, 4to, 
p. 77 and 85. Sec alfo Sharp againft the toleratiozi of flavery, p, 6"]% 
and Benezet's Guinea, p. 70, 

word. 



( i69 J 

word, * the punifhment by vjhtppmg fliould be brought 

* within feme limit; fo that owners or managers might 

* not, with impunity^ tranfgrefs, through the heat of rage^ 
'^ a fit degree o^ juji corre6lion.'* For trampling on the 
rights and claims of men every tranfgrenTor ought to fiif- 

fer ; for the murder of a human creUure, of whatever 
condition or complexion, and whether it be by hunger, 
by oppreffion, by repeated cruelties, or by immediate vio- 
lence, every criminal ought to DiE. 

The prefent language of your law, and, I am forry to 
add, of your pradlice, is, ' If a white man murder a 
' white man, he ought to die for it;' if a black man murder 
a white man he ought to expire by flow and barbarous 
' tortures ; but if a white man murder a black man he 
' ought to be acquitted. Is not the negro led to efpoufe 

* the very fame principles and creed, ex converfo /"f 
Lay your hands on your hearts, and declare your 

own confcientious opinion of thofe principles and that 
creed, Whether you ferioufly think that God and nature 
or juftice, or found policy^ ever dictated fuch principles 
or fuch a creed ? And whether the civilized flate of your 
community renders an adherence to fuch barbarous doc- 
tines, any longer neceflary, or even expedient ? 

Another ifland hath copied and pra£i:ifed the feverity 
of your negro-code. J It is now incumbent on you, to 
compile a code which, in point of moderation, juftice and 
efficiency^ may ferve as a model to that^ and to every other 
Britifli colony in the Weft Indies : — a code which may 
fiX the quantum of food and cloathing, and the periods of 
labour and reft, abridge the exorbitant power of owners 

*^ Long's Hill, of yam. b, 3. ch.5. which contains manyjudicious and 

• fpirjted remarks on the negro-code of that Ifland. -|- Id. Ibid. 

J ' The negro-code of this ifland (Jamaica) appears originally to have 

* been copied from the model in ufe ztBarbadoesi and the legiflature of this 

* latter ifland, which was firft planted by the Englifh, reforted to the 
' Englifli ■villdnage-lazusi from whence they undoubtedly transfufed all 

* th-At feverity which charaBerlzes them.' id, ibid. 

The eld legiflators of Barbadoes endeavoured to apologize fbr the 
feverity of their laws by affirming that ' negroes and other slaves are 

* of barbarous, wild and favage nature.' But to what caufe are we to 
attribute the feverity of the Englifh villeinage laws? Was it owing 
intirely to the barbarity of the poor, cpprcJJ'ed vaflal ? Do we not know, 
en the contrary, that the barbarity of the tyrannical lord was the chief 
caufe of that feverity ? — No, 82 was palled Aug, 8, 178S. Qu. Was it 
not one of James II's hws. It is well kjiown that he was an adven- 
turer in the flave-trade, 

and 



( ^7^ ) 

and -managers, and, in a word, effe&ixzWy fecure the Com- 
fort, protect the Persons and the Lives, and provide 
for the Religious Instruction of your Slaves. 

You have frequently entrufted your flaves and free 
people of colour with arms. Have they ever abufed your 
generous, unfufpicious confidence ? If they have not, 
furely you will not, now that the eyes of the nation and 
of the other colonies are upon you, hefitate to impart to 
them fuch a participation of thofe rights, (of which you 
yourfelves are fo juftly tenacious) as will fecure them from 
the abufe of power, and efFed:ualIy protedl their lives — 
rights, for the prefervation of which, and of your pro- 
perty, though they do not enjoy and are no way interefted 
in either, you expe6t your flaves to expofe their perfons, 
if ysur country fliould be invaded — even by an enemy 
who are faid to poflefs a certain virtue in a degree which 
is worthy of your imitation. 

Civilization, fcience and religion, it has be^n remarked, 
have hitherto held their progrefs from eajl to wefi. They 
now flourifh in the mild and enlightened region of Penn- 
fylvania. They may, in time, reach even California. 
Let not future experience contradict an obfervation 
which already does credit to your little country ; and 
from which Barbadoes, if you co-operate with the bene- 
ficent, and almoft apf-arent^ intentions of Providence, 
may be deftined to derive fo much honour — an honour 
yet greater than that of being one of the oldeft and moft 
loyal, if not the moft loyal and dutiful colony, ever pof- 
fefled by England. 

I hun\l)ly and refpeftfully intreat you, to confider, for a 
moment, from what hand you yourfelves, at your folemn 
anniverfary,* acknowledge your late calamities proceeded, 
and for what purpofe they were fent — the myriads of ver- 
min and the deftru£live blaft whicli laid wafte your fields 
a^d fruftrated the toil of the flave^ and the hopes of the 
planter ; your perpetual dread of invafion ; your diftrefs 
from an alarming fcarcity ; and, to fum up all in one 
tremendous word, your fufferings from the unutterably 
dreadful FIurricane W which feemed,, at the time, to 

'^ See Ifalah ch. Ivili* andilx» 



( 171 ) 

be no more than a prelude to the accumulated horrors 
oi pe/lilence znA famine.* ' Quaeque [omnia] ipfe mifer- 
' rimus vidi.' When you confider thefe unparalleled vi- 
fitations with the reference they too evidently have to the 
prefent fubjeft, I truft you will pardon the plainnefs of 
this addrefs, and acquit me of intemperate zeal and un- 
meaning enthufiafm (with which I will not be charged, 
by thofe who know me) if I conclude it in the mild and 
unadorned but fenfible language which George Fox ut- 
tered to your forefathers, in the year 1671, and which, 
was to this eiFe6t : ' Confider the condition of the blacks 
' who czmejirangers unto you, and were fold unto you 

* zs Jlaves. If you fhould be in the like flavifh condition, 

* what hard bondage and cruelty would you think it? 
' Confider ferioufly of this, I fay, and do unto them, as 
' you would they fhould do unto you, in the like condi- 

* tion. It is therefore my earneft defire, That you would 
' caufe your overfeers to deal mildly with your flaves, 

* and not to ufe cruelty towards them, as the manner of 
' fome is ; and, after a certain time of fervitude let them 

* go out free.' 

* Famine was to be apprehended from the total deftruftion of the 
provifionsj and epidemical difeafe from the putrefaction of animal bodies. 
Happily neither took place. Between 4000 and 5000 people perifhed, 
and cattle and ftock innumerable j and the fea coaft was Itre wed with 
dead fifli, — " Quis cladem illius Noctis, quisfunera fando" — Explicet ? 
Two fires happened in Bridgetown in 1766, by one of which about 400 
families were burnt out, and moft of the provifion ftorcs deftroyed. All 
thefe calamities took place in the fhort fpace of 14 years. Let thofe who 
are fond of attributing every event merely to Jtcond caufes, account for the 
quick fuceeffion of thofe calamities. 



To 



( 172 ) 

ro the FREE NEGROES aud MU- 
L AT TOES, tfW to the more enlight^ 
etied and regular SLAVES /)/ the IJland 
of Barbadoes. 



A 



S it is extremely probable that thefe fheets will fall 
into the hands of fome of you, I think it highly pro- 
per they fnould be accompanied, with fome cautions re- 
fpefting your conduit, which is now become peculiarly 
interefting to the caufe of humanity. 



I fhall not affe£t to make a fecret of what moft of 
you cannot but know. That the African flave-trade hath 
lately attracted the attention of all ranks of men in thefe 
kingdoms ; and that it is very foon to be fubjeited to a 
parliamentary inquiry. What the refult of that inquiry 
may be, it is impoffible to prediift : but it is forefeen that 
the Weft Indian planters, re(pe£lable from their property 
and numbers, joined by the flave-merchants in this coun- 
try, will oppofe, with all their power and influence, the 
abolition or the effectual regulation of a traffic which the 
majority of the nation deteft. 

Am.ong other plans which have been devifed to obflrucSt 
the wifhed for abolition, it hath been induftrioufly re- 
ported, That nothing lefs is aimed at, than the immediate 
abolition of flavery in the fugar iflands. But the friends 
of humanity never could entertain an idea of fo mifchie- 
vous a projeft. They very well know. That the poflef- 
fors of Weft Indian property, who are far lefs to blame, 
in this bufmefs, than the Englifti flave-mongers, would 
be ruined by the unqualified and fudden adoption of fuch 
a meafure. Befides, your friends are fully convinced that 
the field-negroes are not prepared to enjoy, all at once. 



( 173 ) 

the bleffings of liberty ; that liberty, inftead of being a 
bleffing, would be the greateft curfe that could befal men 
totally ignorant of Chriftianity ! and that fuch beings 
could and would make no other ufe of liberty than to run 
headlong into idlenefs and debauchery, and thus might in- 
volve themfelves, the whites and you in one common 
fcene of confufion, if not of deftruiStion. 

Another bug-bear which hath been conjured up to 
terrify the people of this kingdom, and to hinder the 
abolition of the flave-trade, is, That the bare mention- 
ing of it, in the Weft Indies, will raife the expedlations of 
the flaves fo high, that unlefs they are immediately freed 
forfooth, commotions will take place in the iflands. — 
You fee, I have taken upon me to alTure the public, that 
no fuch dreadful confequences are to be apprehended in 
Barbadoes : and I truft the event will prove that my 
prediction is founded on a competent knowledge of the 
general good difpofitions of the flaves in your ifland. I 
hope too that the diforders in the other iflands which 
have been foretold, will be found to exift only in the 
imaginations which invented them. 



*to 



The object at prefent in view is, Amply The abolition 
of the flave-trade, which will force the owners of flaves 
to treat them better, and to pay more attention to their 
natural increafe than too many of them have hitherto 
done. Mi^ny gentlemen, I believe, do not difTemble that 
they look forward to the abolition of flavery itfelf, as the 
ultimate objeCl: of their wiflies and views ; but this, they 
are fenfible, muft be a work of time, and muft be brought 
about by JIow degrees j and this for very good reafons — 
becaufe the privileges granted to flaves mnji keep pace with 
their improvement in Chrijltanity^ 2ixA\itZ2.\xk the property 
of their owners mufi not be injured. 

Beware then, of entertaining the flighteft expetSlation 
that immediate freedom is about to be granted to the 
flaves. Poor debafed men ! they muft be contented to 
bear the yoke of bondage, which, however, is compara- 
tively light and eafy in Barbadoes, till it infenfibly wear 
(pffj and till they be prepared for a higher rank in fociety, 

by 



( 174 ) 

by being converted to Chriftianity. That rank many 
of you now defervedly enjoy, and if you wifli to render 
your enflaved countrymen worthy to enjoy it, you muft 
be at fome pains, as opportunity may offer, to teach them 
their duty to God and their neighbours, but particularly 
to their owners, the moft humble fubmiflion to whom, 
in all cafes^ it is your duty ftrongly to inculcate on the 
flaves. Certainly you have no right to interfere between 
owner and flave : but if, at any time, you fhould be ob- 
liged to give your opinion^ which indeed is not likely, 
let me befeech you to lean to the owner rather than to 
the flave ; even if the former, which, I am forry to own 
is too often the cafe, fhould be in the wrong. In fo do- 
ing, I leave you to judge. Whether you will not conform 
to the precept of the apoftle : ' Servants be fubjeit to your 

* mafters, with all fear, not only to the good and gentle, 

* but alfo to the froward.'* If it be the duty oi fer- 
vants to obey even froward, wicked maflers^ with all fear^ 
which, indeed, is the cafe, even in this free country, you 
may conclude, that it is much more the duty oi Jlaves,\ 
If fubmiffion, in all cafes, to their owners, be the duty 
of flaves, a refpe£lful deference to the whites is no lefs 
the indifpenfable duty of free perfons of [your defcription, 
and in your fltuation. 

The wellbeing of every community depends, in a 
great meafure, on the diflinitions of rank. Hence it is. 
That the people of this country, the freeft upon earth, 
pay fo much refpe6t to their nobility and gentry. Not 
that the Great are better Men or better Chriftians than 
their Inferiors j but the good fenfe of Britons fees the 
propriety, if not the neceflity, of thofe diftinftions of 
rank, which wonderfully aflift the laws, in preferving 
peace and good order. Your good fenfe, which I have 
witneflTed, with pleafure, on many occafions, will, I truft, 
ftill prompt you to ufe the fame means for promoting the 
fame defirable end. Moft of you may be faid to hold a 
higher rank in fociety than the flaves. You jufl:ly confi- 
der yourfelves, and they confider youj as their fuperiors 5 

* St. Peter Epift. I. ch. i. v. 18. 

\ Hie, aegre, coaftus fum, alienam, gercre perfonam— wc^f Haymundi 
harrist Ex SocietaTE Iksu. 

but 



( 175 ) 

but beware of grounding that fuperiorlty on riches, or on 
drefs, or, in fliort, on any other foundation than the fu- 
perior improvement of your minds ; but even this by no 
means warrants felf-conceit. Let me intreat you to avail 
yourfelves of the refpect with which your inferiors look 
up to you, only as an inftrument to promote their in- 
ftruition and their happinefs. a duty which all men of 
fuperior rank, not excepting Monarchs themfelves, owe 
to the communities to which they belong — in a word, 
your complexion, your ftation, your leifure and the mea- 
fure of your knowledge peculiarly fit you for promoting, 
both by precept and by example^ the inftru^tion of the 
field Haves in ChriRianity on v/hich their future happinefs 
and advancement in fociety will intirely depend. 

* God, who made the worlds hath nio'h s/'one blood 
' all nations of 7nen.'^^ Such is the dofcrine of Chrifti- 
anity on the origin of mankind : and iiirely you cannot 
but revere a religion which teaches you that, in the eye 
of their Creator, the whole human race are on an equa- 
lity. Yet your enemies, though fome of them tell us 
they pay great regard to religion, have laboured, and 
vainly laboured, to prove that men of your complexion 
were created merely to adminifter to the avarice, the 
luxury, the pride and every vile paffion of a race of men 
pretended to be naturally fuperior. Let this bafe and 
degrading infinuation urge you to prefs forward to that 
point of improvement which me7i only can reach, and at 
which monkeys znd : rang outangsf never will arrive. Nor 
need you defpair of attaining to very hij;h degrees of 
knowledge, virtue and religion, Thofe diftinguiflied 
Africans Phillis Wheatley,, Francis Williams, Ignatius 
Sancho, and your own Joseph Rachell, would have 
looked down with juft contempt on fome late impotent 

* Afts, ch. 17. ver. 26. 

•f The orang outang is a better kind of ape, fuch as fome of you may 
have feen in Africa, Some 'vavellers tell itran^e ftories about this beaft, 
and certain men, who vviti lead any nonfenfical book rather than their 
bibles, ferioufly believe rhofe itories. In ftorc iv is part of their creed 
that this brute, which few if any of them ever fa'zu, is almofl- as good 
and clover as moft black men. When the) catch one of this kind of 
Jockoo's, they mean to give it an Univerfity education — You laugh : but 
you muft now prove your fuoerionty to orang outang philofophers and 
* fliew ^ourfelves men,' otherwifethan by merely laughing, 

and 



( 176 ) 

and pitiful attempts to bereave Africans of their human 
nature as they have already been bereft of their liberty. 
I may venture to fay, that no literary performance vi^ould 
be better received by the humane and liberal people of . 
England, than a vindication of African capacity by the 
pen of an African. 

But religion ought to be the grand objefi: of men in 
your fituation. To the chriftian religion, Europe, in 
general, and thefe happy kingdoms in particular, owe the 
fuperior advantages and privileges they enjoy. Chrifti- 
anity, whofe very fpirit and effence is peace and good 
will towards men, hath ' proclaimed liberty to the cap- 
' tives, and the opening of the prifon-doors to them who 
' were bound.'* To be chriftians is to be ' free indeed.' 
* Ye (hall know the truth, faid our Saviour, and the 
' TRUTH fhall make you FRiiE.'f No man who knows 
the fituation and circumftances of the Weft Indian Haves 
can hope for their becoming happy and free till they fhall 
be taught and fhall heartily embrace chriftianity. I know 
many of the white people, and in particular the clergy, 
would be happy to fee you attend public v/orfhip more 
frequently than too many of you do. Should your num- 
bers be inconvenient, which, were you all to go to 
church, might be the cafe, in Bridgetown efpecially, you 
may eafily procure a large room or rooms for divine fer- 
vice. Some lefs wealthy defcriptions of chriftians in 
Britain build places of worfhip, and maintain clergymen, 
by fubfcription. I fee nothing to hinder you from doing 
the like ; but, fhould you think of fending home young 
men, of your number, to be regularly educated for the 
church, in this country, it is to be feared that a miftaken 
generofity might induce you to allow them more money 
than is abfolutely necefTary for their fupport, and which, 
moft probably, would efFeitually fruftrate your end in 
fending them to England. In the mean time, the church 
minifters, I am fure, will not be backward in inftru6ting 
you ; and one of your moft fenfible and regular men might 
catechize your children, and even read prayers in the ab- 
fence of a clergyman. Your firft attempts of this kind 
jjiay polTibly be ridiculed i but, if you take no notice of 

* Ifaish ch. 6i. v. i. f St. John ch. 8. v. 32. 

fuch 



( 177 ) 

fuch indecent and profane behaviour, it will roori ceafe j 
efpecially as many of the white people will difcountenance 
it. Be aflured that no public reform was ever attempt- 
ed, which was not, at firft, more or lefs ridiculed and 
oppofed. — Were the field-negroes to attend divine fervice 
(even though it were not particularly explained to them) 
a confiderable change for the better would foon be 
wrought on them, by this means alone. Independent of 
other good efFe6ls, the decency they would be obliged 
to obferve, would greatly conduce to form their man- 
ners. It cannot be doubted, that if your Legijlaturc^, and 
the white people in general^ would, in good earneft pro- 
mote, or even heartily favour the converfion of the field- 
negroes to chriftianity, they would foon fee a change 
in their conduct: which would more than compenfate for 
their trouble. A general reform can be eficiied only by 
a general plan fteadily purfued, and to the fuccefs of any 
iiich plan, your example will very much contribute. 

Should any of the people called Quakers, from Phila - 
delphia, vifit you, as formerly, I need not tell you to be 
particularly refpedlful to them. By their difinterefted con- 
duct towards your countrymen, in Pennfylvania, they have 
given the world a proof of political wifdom and chriftian 
charity unequalled in the hiftory of mankind. The en- 
lightened and active zeal of their fociety, in promoting 
the caufe of humanity, throughout thefe kingdoms, de- 
ferve your warmeft acknowledgments. 

Above all, read your bibles^ with attention. There 
you will fee the wonderful procedure of the Almighty, 
with his own chofen people j whom he appointed to Terve 
the Egyptians for a long period. The fame adorable 
Being ^vho faid * I have feen — ^I have feen the affli6lion 
' of my people which is in Egypt, and I have heard their 
* groaning.'* Hs who ' doeth according to his will in 
' the armies of Heaven and among the inhabitants of the 
' earthj't feeth the affli6iion, and heareth the groaning cf 

* Exod. ch. 3. V. 7, and Afls ch, 7- v. 34. 
•f Dan; ch. 4. \i 35. 

M your 



C i7§ ) 

your countrymen ; and, doubtlefs will, in his owtt time 
and way, deliver them. The guilty nations of Europe 
ought to pray, that this deliverance may not be effeSted. 
by his ' mighty hand' and his * outftretched arm' but in 
the filent, unobferved courfe of his Providence ! — What a 
great and exalted objeft is this ! A whole nation led out 
of bondage, and reinftated in liberty by the Being who 
created them, and who ' made bare his holy arm/ for 
their redemption. — In your bibles, you will fee that the 
Ifraelites, in Egypt, Vt'^ere, like all other JJaveSj an ig- 
norant, ftubborn race, and fo very Jiup'id that they 
' hearkened not unto Mofes, for anguifli of fpirit and 
' for cruel bondage.'* Nay, like your countrymen, they 
were unable to make a right ufe of their freedom. They 
murmured and rebelled againft their leaders ; and, hence 
it was, that they wandered in the wildernefs, till that 
whole generation of debafed wretches had died. Of all 
that vaft body of people who were led out of Egypt, only 
two entered, becaufe they only were fit to enter, the pro- 
mifed land. Yet, in one refpe6l, the conduit of the If- 
raelites was highly worthy of your imitation : for, when 
Mofes and Aaron had convinced them of the divine au- 
thority of their miffion, the people did not exprefs their 
joy, in a tumultuous manner ; far lefs did they utter any 
unbecoming expreffions againft their opprefTors ; for 
' when they heard that the Lord had viftted the children of 
' Ifrael^ and that he had looked upon their affliSiion^ then 

' THEY BOWED THE HEAD AND WORSHIPPED. 'f They 

afterwards received this exprefs commandment, ' Thou 
' Jl:)alt not abhor an Egyptian, becaufe thou waji ajiran-^ 
* ger in his land J % 

' You will not wonder at the earneftnefs of this addrefs, 
when you confider, that, perfonally, I am much more in- 
terefted in your condu(3: than any individual of you can 
be. In your caufe, I have expofed myfelf to the fury, 
not of one tyrant, but of a legion of malicious, and pow- 
erful enemies, who, if they treat me in the unworthy 
manner in which they treated the refpe6lab]e perfon who 
firft dared to write in your behalf, will ftrive to effect 
my ruin. At my own hazard, I muft repeat it, I have 

* Exod. ch. 6. V. 9. -f Exod. ch. 4. v. 31. J Deut. ch. 23. v. 7; 

afTured 



C 179 ) 

affured the public that, the field-flaves, in Barbadoes, [at 
lea/i) by the comparatively mild treatment they are known 
to receive, are very fufficiently prepared for that improve- 
ment of their condition which will refult from the aboli- 
tion of the flave-trade. If you have in your nature a 
ipark of generoiity, or feeling for the poor field-negroes^ 
you will ftrenuoufly endeavour by precept and example, 
to render them as worthy of fome litle advancement from 
their prefcnt difgracefid and debafed condition, as many 
of you are of the fuperior happinefs you enjoy. But if, 
you give a loofe to that licentioufnefs which renders the 
want of police fo apparent in your towns, and which, 
while it difgraces the conduit of too many of the domef- 
tic flaves, does honour to the good nature and lenity of 
many of the whites, I fhall be under the difagreeable ne- 
ceffity of retracing the good opinion of the majority of 
the negroes in Barbadoes which I have hitherto enter- 
tained, and which I have publifhed, with a view to pro- 
mote their improvement and their happinefs. 



M 2 APPENDIX, 



( i8o ) 

APPENDIX. 

Containing Accounts of Negroes 
remarkable for their Virtues and 
Abilities. 



' Feb. 23. 1788/ 

* Xxtra^ted from the private Journal * of ■ 

See Introdu£tion. 

♦JOSEPH RACHELL.' 

« TTTHEN I refided in Barbadoes in the year 1769, I 

* » » was very much ftruck with the accounts given 
' me by my father and other inhabitants of the ifland 
' concerning one Jofeph Rachell, a negro. This J. R. 

* was a free negro. I know not by what means he ob- 

* tained his freedom. He was, however, a capital mer- 

* chant, and kept what is called a dry-good-fhop. He 
' was, by all accounts, an ingenious, induftrious, and up- 
' right tradefman. Whenever the young tradefmen were 
' at a lofs how to proceed in any matter of commerce, 
' they generally confulted J. R. and whenever any doubt 

* arofe about the value of the cargo of goods J. R. 
' was often the man by whofe opinion the price was 

* fixed. Whenever the captains of veflels arrived with 
' a cargo J. R. was one of the firft perfons waited upon, 
' and one of the firft to whom the cargo was oJfFered. 

* I have not heard that he traded much to England. 
' His connexions feem to have been chiefly confined to 

* the Leeward Iflands, Demarara, Eflequebo, &c. &c. 
' He had fome white perfons under him^\ fuch as his 

■* A private journal, to ufe the writer's own words, • never was and 
« never can be intended for tlie public eye j' and, it is hoped ' all proper 

* allowances will be made on that account.' 



\ See Page 73, 



book?. 



( i8i ; 

' book-keeper, his apprentices, Sec. Sec. and thefe always 

* fpoke of him in a very refpe6lful manner,* and parti- 

* cularly revered him for his humanity and tendernefs, 

* He was extremely kind in lending out money to poor, 

* induftrious men, in order to enable them to begin their 

* trade, or to retrieve them from difficulties which their 
' trade would unavoidably bring upon them. But there 

* was one peculiar trait in his chara6ler. It is well 

* known in our illand that a planter or merchant is 

* often obliged by fome cogent or fudden diftrefs to fell 
' his property inftantly for whatever he can procure, be 
' it ever fo fmalhf Now, fuch was the benevolence of 

* this excellent negro, that he would go to the vendue, 
' bid gravely for the property, give a fair market price 

* for it, and tender it to the owner again, upon the 

* very fame terms, at which he himfelf bought it ; and, 
' if the price of the eftate exceeded the value of the debt, 

* J. R. always took care to pay off the debt himfelf be- 
' fore the tender was made, and thus the planter might 

* re-enter upon his property, free from ail incumbrances, 

* excepting thofe owing to J. R. himfelf. By thefe hu- 

* mane and judicious means, he has extricated many 

* families from ruin. — J. R. was alfo very charitable. 

* He kept a gang of fifhing negroes, and, when his boats 
' returned home, he fet apart every day, a quantity of 

* fifh, for the ufe of the prlfoners in the town gaol. He 

* vifited the gaol regularly^ enquired into the circumftances 

* of the prlfoners^ and gave them reltef.^in ■proportion to their 
' diftrejfes and good behaviour. % Nay, he ufed to give 

* them good moral advice, and, for aught I know, reli- 
' gious advice. His example ftirred up a noble fpirit 

* of generofity in Bridge-town, infomuch that it was the 
' cuftom, for fome years before his death, for the better 

* fort of people to fend weekly, either money or pro- 

* vifions to the gaol.|| He fupported two or three old 

* I have heard poor white perfons talk of J. R. to this effeift, ' Mr. 

* Racbell was a bleffed man, for no poor thing ever went away hungry 
' from his houfe ; and fome, who had feen better days, were fhewn 
< into a back room, and had victuals fet before them.' W. D. 

■\ See p; 39. Thus it happens that ' a negro' to ufe a Barbadian 
phrafe ' is taken up and fold like a Mtt chicken'' (afixpenny chicken.) W.D. 

% This will point the readers refledtions to the illuftrious Howard. 
W. D. 

tl It is ftill cuftomary, in Bridgetown, to fend the cold meat left at 

* great entertainments to the prifoners in gaol. W. D. 

M 3 ' indigent 



( i82 ) 

* indigent whites, and left them fomething at his death. 
' It was remarkable too that he was extremely kind to 
' his negroes. I have heard my father lament much 
' that J. R's. generofity was much impofed upon, both 
' by whites and blacks. He frequented St. Michael's 
' church on the Sundays, and I have heard our worthy 

* minifter fay. That he believed him to be a very at- 

* tentive and devout hearer. — He died about 30 years 
' ago' (i. e. about I7:)8) ' poffeffed of a good deal of pro- 
' perty, and lies buried in the centre of the old church- 
' yard in Bridgetown. His funeral was attended by 

* thoufands of whites (fome of them very refpe£table 

* people) and by a prodigious concourfe of blacks, and I 
' believe that his lofs was very feniibly felt for many 
' years. There is a tomb-ftone over his grave, but no 

* infcription or memorial.* 

' ] O H N.' 

' My father, in the year 1760, had a very valuable 
' negro called " John." He was mafter of one of our 

* fifhing-boats, and had five or fix negroes under hirn. 
' He underftood his bufinefs thoroughly. He knew the 
' art of catching the fifh and felling them to advantage. 

* The people in the market had a very high opinion of 

* his honefty and his fkill, and he bore the chara61:er of 
' being a very fair dealer. My father placed unlimited 
' confidence in him. He believed that J. always brought 
' home every individual fifn which had been caught, and 

* every piftareen for which thofe fifh had been fold. My 
' father had fo high an opinion of his accuracy, that J. never 
' made up his accounts till Saturday night, and J. ufed 
' very often on Saturday night to bring home 7 or 8 
' moidores, being the joint produce of his own labour 

* The tomb which was /hewn to me, as that of J. R. is a handfome 
one of bluiih marble. He left a widow, who, I think, is called Betty 

Racbdl, of whom I heard nothing remarkable. The above account 

of J, R agrees very well with that a:iven by Mr. Ramfay at p. 254. of 
his elTay. To authorities fo refpeftable 1 can add nothing but that, in 
Barbadoes, I have rep';atedly heard fimilar accounts of that excellent 
negro. His innocent (h-atagem, in particular, to get rid of the tafling 
vifits of a certain avaricious colonel (whom I could name) 1 have more 
than once, heard related; with much glee. W. D. 

* and 



( i83 ) 

and of the labour of the five or fix negroes under him, 
in the courfe of the week. When my father came to 
England, in the year 1761^ J. was extremely ufeful to 
my mother in managing all my father's affairs ; and, 
fo far was he from taking advantage of my father's ab- 
fence, that my mother found in him even more fidelity 
and induftry than ever. My mother was extremely ill 
for a confiderable part of my father's abfence, and J. 
had the government of houfe, negroes,' &c. and my mo- 
ther thought herfelf very much obliged to him for his 
great care and attention. 

' J. was a tolerable fcholar. He could read very well, 
and, at his leifure hours, ufed to be vtry fond of reading 
the Bible. He read alfo other books ; but what they 
were I do not know. He was a conftant attendant at 
church on Sundays. I myfelf have frequently read the 
Bible to him, and he took a deal of pains in teaching 
me how to read it. He gave me in my infancy a great 
deal of good advice, and particularly juft before I was 
coming to England for education, in the year 1761. 
I have fat with him for whole hours by the fea-fide, 
while he was mending his nets, and ufed to afk him 
many queflions about England, about learning, &c. 
&e. He gave me a pretty good notion of the cuftoms 
and manners of England, and of the things which 
would be taught me at fchool, and ufed to exhort 
me very much to he. fubmijftve to my majlers aud fupe- 
riors. I feel to this day fome impreffion of the excellent 
advice which has been given me by J. and I have a 
very great refpedl for his memory. I believe he had a 
very great affeftion and efteem for me.' 

' He died of a confumption, in the year 1765. My 
mother has often told me, that, during his ilhicfs, mul- 
titudes of whites and blacks ufed to come frequently to 
our houfe and enquire anxioufly after him. Some of 
the whites were people of rank and character. About 
two month's before J's death, my father was offered 
a thoufand pounds (cur.) for him, but refufed it, not 
only from policy ; but, I believe, from gratitude and 
refpecSt alfo. It is fuppofed that he caught his death by 
flaying out whole nights at (ea, in his fiihing-boats. 

M 4 ACCOUNTS 



f 184 ) 

ACCOUNTS of a Negro Praait'ioner of Phyfic* and 
z felf-taught Negro Calculator^ by Benjamin Rush, 
M. D. Prof, of Che m. in the Univ. of Pennfylvania, 
Mem. of the American Phil. Soc— of the Med. Soc, 
of London — of the Liter, and Phil. Soc. of Manchef- 
ter — Hon. Mem. of the Roy. Med. Soc. of Edinburgh, 
^c. &c. 

DOCTOR JAMES DERHAM, 

' There is now in this city a black man, of the name 

* of James Derham, a pra£titioner of phyfic belonging 

* to the Spanifli fettlement of N. Orleans, on the Miffif-s 

* fippi. This man was born in a family in this city, in 

* which he was taught to read and write, and inftrufted 
' in the principles of chriftianity. When a boy, he was 

* transferred by his mafter to the late Do£l:or John Kearf- 
' ley, jun. of this city, who employed him occafionally 
' to compound medicines, and to perform fome of the 
^ more humble ails of attention to his patients, 

* Upon the death of Doftor Kearfley, he became (af- 
^ ter paffing through feveral hands) the property of Doc- 

* tor George Weft, furgeon to the fixteenth Britifti re- 

* giment, under whom, during the late war in America, 

* he performed many of the menial duties of our profef- 

* fion. At the clofe of the v/ar, he was fold by Doflor 
^ Weft to Do6tor Robert Dove of N. Orleans, who. 

* employed him as an afliftant, in his bufinefs, in which 
' capacity, he gained fo much of his confidence and friend- 

* (hip, that he confented to liberate him, after two or 

* three years, upon eafy terms, From Doctor Der- 
' ham's numerous opportunities of improving in medi- 
' cine, he became fo well acquainted with the healing 
' art, as to commence pra£litioner at N. Orleans, under 

* the patronage of his late mafter. He is now about 26, 

* years of age, has a wife, but no children, and does bu- 

* fmefs to the amount of three thoufand dollars a year. 

* I have converfed with him, upon moft of the acute 
^ and epidemic difeafes of the country where he lives, and 

* See p. 76, 

5 wa5 



( iB5 ) 

* was pleafed to find him perfe£lly acquainted with the 

* modern fimple mode of practice in thofe difeafes. I 
' expedled to have fuggefted fome new medicines to him ; 
' but he fuggefied many more to me. He is very modeft 

* and engaging in his manners. He fpeaks French flu- 

* ently, and has fome knowledge of the Spanifli language. 

* By fome accident, although born in a religious ^mily, 
' belonging to the church of England, he was not bap- 

* tized in his infancy, in confequence of which, he ap- 
' plied, a few days ago, to Bifliop White, to be received 

* by that ordinance, into the epifcopal church. The 

* Bifhop found him qualified, both by knowledge and 

* moral condu6l, to be admitted to baptifm, and, this 
' day, performed the ceremony, in one of the churches 

* in this city. 

< Philadelphia, Nov. BENJa. RUSH.' 

« 14. 1788.' 



THOMAS FULLER. 

* There is now living, about four miles from Alexan- 
^ dria, in the ftate of Virginia, a negro flave feventy 

* years of age, of the name of Thomas Fuller, the 
' property of Mrs. Elizabeth Cox. This man poflefl'es 

* a talent for arithmetical calculations, the hiftory of 

* which, I conceive, merits a place in the records of the 
' human mind. He is a native of Africa, and can nei- 
^ ther read or write. Two gentlemen, natives of Penn- 

* fylvania, viz. William Hartfhorn and Samuel Coates, 

* men of probity and refpedable chara6lers, having heard, 

* in travelling through the neighbourhood, in which this 
^ flave lived, of his extraordinary powers in arithmetic, 

* fent for him, and had their curiofity fufficiently grati- 

* fied, by the anfwers which he gave to the following 
' queftions : 

* Firft, upon being aflced how many feconds there are 
' in a year and a half? he anfwered, in about two mi- 
' nutes, 47,304,000. — Secondly, being afked how many 
^ feconds a man had lived who is feventy years, feventeen 
f days and twelve hours old ? he anfwered, in a minute 

' and 



C i86 ) 

'and a half, 2,210,500,800. One of the gentlemen 

* who employed himfelf, with his pen, in making thefe 
' calculations told him, That the fum was not fo great 
' as he had faid, upon which the old man haftily replied, 
' " 'Top MafTa, you forget de leap year." On adding 
' the feconds of the leap-years to the others, the amount 

* of the whole, in both their fums, agreed exactly. — — 
' Third, The following queftion was then propofed to 

* him. Suppofe a farmer has fix fows, and each fow has 
' fix female pigs, the firft year, and they all increafe in the 
' fame proportion to the end of eight years, how many fows 
' will the farmer then have, if he lofes none ? In ten mi- 

* nutes, he anfwered 34,588,806. The difference of 
' time between his anfwering this and the two former 
' queftions was occafioned by a trifling miftake he made 

* from a mifapprehenfion of the queftion. 

* In the prefence of Thomas Wiftar and Wm. B. 
, * Morris, two refpe6^able citizens of Philadelphia, he gave 
' the amount of nine figures multiplied by nine. He 
' informed the firft mentioned gentleman that he began 
' his application to figures by counting ten, and that, 
' when he was able to count a hundred, (to ufe his own 
' words) he thought himfelf a very clever fellow. His 
' firft attempt, after this, was to count the number of 

* hairs in a cow's tail, which he found to be 2872. He 
' next amufed himfelf by counting grain by grain, a bu- 
' fhel of wheat, and a bulhel of flax-feed. From this 

* he was led to calculate, with the moft perfedl accuracy, 

* how many fhlngles a houfe, of certain dimenfions, 

* would require to cover it ; and how many pofts and 
' rails were necelTary to inclofe, and how many grains of 
' corn were neceffary to fow, a certain quantity of ground. 

* From this application of his talents, his miftrefs often 

* derived confiderable benefit. 

' At the time he gave this account of himfelf, he faid, 
' his memory began to fail him. He was greyheaded^ 
' and exhibited feveral other marks of the weaknefs of 
« old age. He had worked hard, upon a farm, during 
' the wh()le of his life, but had never been intemperate 
' in the ufe of fpirituous liquors. He fpoke with great 

* refpedl of his miftrefs, and mentioned, in a particular 

' manner, 



( i87 ) 

* manner, his obligations to her for refufing to fell him, 
' which fhe had been tempted to, by offers of large fums 
' of money from feveral curious perfons. 

« One of the gentlemen, Mr. Coates, having remarked 
' in his prefence, That it was a pity he had not an edu- 
' cation, equal to his genius, he faid " No Maffa, it is 

* beft I got no learning, for many learned men be great 

* fools.*' 

* I do hereby certify that the above account of 
* Thomas Fuller is truly ftated, as the fa6ls were 
' communicated to me. 

< Philadelphia, BENJa. RUSH/ 

' Nov. 14. 1788.* 

* The reader may compare the above account with that given of the 
famous felf-taught calculator Jedidiah Buxton, p. 25T, of the Gent. 
Magazine for 1754. At p, 423, of the fame very ufeful colledlion, is a 
Memoir of M. Swedenborg, concerning the mathematical talents of 
Charles XII. of Sweden, who frequently folved moft difficult numeri- 

* cal problems, barely by thought and memory, in which operations 

* others are obliged to take great pains and tedious labour. — He fre- 

* quently ufed it as an adage, that *' He ivho is ignorant of numbers is 

* " Jcarce half a man.'"'''' "What would His Majefty have faid of Thomas 

Fuller? 1 have not room to add, as I intended, extraiSs from the 

poems of PHILLIS WHE ATLEY, \f hich are fo many proofs of Africaa 
capacity. They were printed in 1773, with an atteftation that they 
were written by her, figned by His Exc. T, Hutchinson, Gov. and 
The Hon. A, Oliver, Lieut. Gov. of N. England with nine other 
Gentlemen, and feven Clergymen. To thefe I might add a certain re- 
fpeftable gentleman in London, who tells me that he was acquainted 
with our poetefs, while in England, that he correfponded with her after 
her return to Bofton (where Ihe was married to a Mr. Peters, a perfon 
of her own colour, who kept a Ihop) that Ihe was uncommonly ingeni- 
ous, and that flie certainly wrote the poems afcribed to her. In an epif- 

tle To W. Earl of Dartmouth, &c. &c. flie gives this account of 
terfelf ; 

* Should you My Lord, while you perufe my fonj, 

* Wonder from whence my love of freedom fprun"-, 

* Whence flow thefe ivijhesfor the common good 

* By feeling hearts alone ice// underjiood. 

* I, young in life, by feeming cruel fate, 

' Was fnatch'd from Afric's fancy'd happy feat: 

* What pangs excruciating mufl molefi, 

* JVhat forroivs labour in my parentis breajl ? 

* SieePd tvas that foul and by no misery mo'v'd 

* That from a father Jeiz,'' d his babe belovd ; 

* Such — ^uch my cafe ; and can I then but pray 

* Others may never feel tyrannic fway ? 

&c. &c. 



INDEX. 



N D E X. 



A DDRESS to the whites 167 — to the the free ne- 
"^^ groes 172. 
African negroes, fimple and innocent 56 — their pat- 

riotifm 75. 
Agriculture^ as praitifed in Barbadoes, 22 et feq. 
Allowance of food, in Barbadoes, 13 — in Jamaica 116. 
Americans, their rapid increafe 157. N, 
Arguments, ridiculous ones, 80 et feq. 
Attachment to the foil would be favourable to flaves 154. 

Barbadoes, humanity of the inhabitants 18, 107, 113, 124. 
132 — their loyalty, Introd. — Magiftrates 17 — 
Clergy 58 — Militia 97— Cages and dungeons 137— 
Difpenfary 138 — General AlTembly 139. 

"Britons^ compared to W. \sx^\zxijlaves 50, I2i. 

Burning alive 20, 131. 

Cattle in Barbadoes 10 — in Jamaica 120 and 158, N. 

Charaibs (black) their increafe 157 A^. 

Children (negro) their treatment 12. 

Chriftianity, good efFeft of, 97. N. 

Complexion not connected with mind 61 — ^gradations of, 

63 — changes in, 65. 
Coroner's inquefts on negroes 127. 
Cowfliin defcribed 14. 
Crop, its effeds 7— duration of, 118, A^. 
Cruelties 29 et feq. — ' extreme cruelties and inhumanltf 

129. 

Decreafe (caufes of) of whites 40, iV. — of negroes 153. 
Domellic flaves, their treatment 6, 145 52« 
Drivers of negroes 42, 132. 



INDEX. i88 

Englishmen, their abhorrence of flavery 117, N", 
Evidence of negroes not valid againft whites 37, 142, 146. 

Freedom fhould be gradually conferred, 90. 

Gangs of flaves li. 
Gibbeting alive 19, 131, 
Grounds, negroe, 119. 

Hair, human and beftial, 71. 

Hay, made in Jamaica, g, N. 

Hebrew nation, an inftance of their charity 138 — their 

bondage in Egypt comparatively eafy, 139 — their i«- 

creafe under it 158, N'. 
Human nature, mark of, 68. 

Intereft, a fenfe of, protefts not flaves, 37, 55, 113. 
Infurreftion unreafonably dreaded 93 — caufes of, 130. 

Jamaica, workhoufes 137 — General Aflembly 141, 142. 

and Introd. vii. — Marons 157. iV". 
Jumper, his office i6. 

Ladies, Britifli, 18 — of Barbadoes 18, 38, 107. 

Laws (the colonial) harfli 77. 

— — of Barbadoes, 4, 16, 19, 37, 38, 56, 144. 

of Jamaica 114, 129, 132, 133, 140, 143. 

Lock'djaw 155. 

Managers 39, 43, 125. 
Men with tails 67. 
Militia of Barbadoes 97. 
Multiplication of men, &c. 157. 
Mutilation of flaves 136. 

Kegroes, their capacity and equality to the whites vindi- 
cated 59 et feq. — their mufic and dancing 77, 93. 
■ ■ (free) fober and induftrious 92. 

■ ■ of extraordinary virtue and talents 1 80. 
' ' (new) their treatment, Introd. 

Orang outang, the opinion of Linnaus concerning it 69, 

Plantation-bell 8. 



190 INDEX. 

Plough, * anfwers extremely well' in Jamaica 27, 11 ^.Nl 

Ploughman, letter of an Englifh one, 115. 

Population, great in the Weft Indies, 40, 88. 

Power, abfolute, generally abufed 55. 

Principles, general ones, 43. 

Provifions, ground, 13, 124. W^^^ abound in Jamaica 

158. — JV. putrid and rotten 114. 
Punifliments ordinary 15, 115. — capital 18, 131. 

Quakers, their humanity and difmtereftednefs 100, 177. 

Religion 58, 176. 

Robbery committed on the flaves 41. 

Runaways, their treatment, 16, 122. 

Scotland, refolutiori of the church of, loi. 

Scramble, defcriptions of, iii. 

Seamen, ficlc, left onfhore by Guinea captains 86. 

Servants, white, 42, 117 — Bond 43, 44. 

Slaves, their treatment, 6 et feq. 103, no, 115 — Worn 
out and difeafed, 34, 126, 140, 152 — majority of them 

• Creoles, 88, 159. N — increafe of, 8g — intrufted with 

arms, 94. — their loyalty, ib.' " overworked and 

"under-fed" 104 — ^^ branded," 122 — frequently" 
" billed, 129 — caufes aligned for their decreafe ex- 
amined 153- — aged 156 — their unparalleled decreafe^ 
159 — not prote(9ted 37, 147, 153, &c. 

Sunday, how fpent by the flaves, 11, 116. 

Tortures 19, 32, 131. 

Weft Indians not more cruel than Europeans 54. 

Whites, fketch of their charader 38 et feq. — work m 
the fields 41 — their prejudices 57 — not fuperior to 
negroes Ci — their loyalty 95, and introd. 

Women pregnant, their treatment 12. 

■'■ " indecently expofed and whipt 18, 

Yaws 153 and 154, N. 



ERRATA. 

Page 3. line '^c)^from the top^ for or read nor, 

4. 19. note, for ch read cl. 

9. 24. dele for that ufe, 

— — 33. II. after the word " explained" 'nfert by a 

jumper who either had put it, or had ken it put, 

in practice. 

— — 39. 25. for arguments powerful read powerful 

arguments. 

64. note, for Irradiation read irradiations. 

' 81. 22. read " the harmlefs dodrine that the 

Africans are true and b 07m fide men." 

' 88. — - 9. for affe6ts read eWeSts. 

— — 99. note, 1. 5. for bitie read pitie. 

— — 121. line 16. for fays read fay. 

■=- — 128. —2. for " many read iome.^' 

There are alfo feme errors in the fpelling and points 
ing, which the Reader is requefted to correft. 



A: 




( Vtrt 



