Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 
I in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/dangerofdelaysafOOgrea 



THE 



DANGER OF DELAY, 



SAFETY AND PRACTICABILITY 



OF 



I]N[n£DIATE EMANCIPATION, 



FROM THE EVIDENCE 



BEroUE 'iHt. 



PARLTAMENTAKY COMMITTEES 



©olonial Sblaberg. 



LONDON: 

PRINTED BY \V. JOHNSTON, 120, FENCHURCH STREET, 

FOn Till: AGENCY ANT[-.SLAVEUY COMMITTEE. 

1833. 



DANGER OF DELAY, &c. 



The following are a few Extracts from the Evidence given before the Slavery 
Committee of the Two Houses, in the last Parliament. ]\Iany more 'of a 
similar character might be added, but the object being to disseminate the 
Evidence on the Danger of Dela3-ing Emancipation in an abridged form, 
the Publishers have contented themselves with extracting soine of the most 
prominent passages. 



THE DUKE OF MANCHESTER. 

Q. When your Grace left the Island, was not a feeling of 
security generally prevailing throughout the Colony in the minds 
of the Whites, and of a confidence and attachment between the 
Slave and the Master ? 

A. There was certainly a degree of confidence individually ; 
you felt yourself perfectly safe in your own house. You were 
not afraid of any thing individually among the Negroes, but you 
were always aware, or suspecting that if an opportunity offered, 
they would, of course, naturally try to emancipate themselves ; 
but, in fact, perfectly secure yourself. You have never thought 
of shutting a door or window on account of any want of security. 
In the night time, of course, whenever an opportunity offered, 
we were perfectly aware they would rise. 
Q. Your Grace means personally safe ? 
A. Personally safe, certainly. 

Q. The object of the question was whether there was a general 
state of confidence in the Island at the time your Grace left it, 
with regard not only to individual security, but the security of 
property, or was there any feeling of an insurrectionary kind 
among the Slaves ? 

A. It was very strongly suspected almost all the last year I 
was in the Island ; something of the kind, and tlierc were two or 
three attempts, but still that did not alter the situation of private 
security. 

Q. Did any of the feelings your Grace has described of an 
unsettled state appear to arise out of tlie ill treatment of the 
Master to the Net^rocs ? 



A. No ; I should not say that they did. I should say that 
they arose from the natural tendency to better their situation, or 
free themselves from that situation. 

James Beckford Wildman, Esq., a West Indian Proprietor 
and Possessor of 640 Slaves in the Island of Jamaica. 

Q. Did you pay much personal attention to the management 
of your Estates ? 

A. I did. 

Q. Even when they (the Negroes) were without religious 
instruction, did you find them very inferior to the labouring 
classes of this country, in natural intellect ? 

A. By no means. 

Q. Did they appear competent to conduct the ordinary affairs 
of life in driving bargains with their fellow-men .'' 

A. They were particularly astute in driving a bargain. 

Q. Have they a competent knowledge of profit and loss ? 

A. Quite so. 

Q. Were they quite conversant with the current market price 
of commodities, whether a thing was cheap ; had they the power 
of selling dear and endeavouring to buy cheap ? 

A. Perfectly ; so that when . I wanted to make purchases, 
feeling myself perfectly incompetent to cope with the tradesmen 
of Kingston, I used to send up one of my Negroes to bargain 
for me. 

Q. With respect to offering rewards to your own Slaves, did 
you ever try to give them extra allowances for extra work } 

A. I did it in one or two instances ; I have endeavoured to 
get that system carried on by my own attorney, but I never could 
get them to enter into it with any willingness. 

Q. Which is the party that would not enter into it with any 
willingness ? 

A. The Overseer. 

Q. Did you find the Slaves reluctant to adopt it ? 

A. No ; by no means, I tried it in particular instances when 
1 wanted to get work done ; I ascertained from my Overseer 
what he thought was a good day's work, there were four able 
men, and I directed them to open a deep trench, and to throw 
up a mound to plant log- wood on, and I told them to finish that 
by Saturday night, and they should have a dollar a-piece, they 



worked till eleven o'clock on Saturday niglit ; there was a mis- 
understanding as to part, and it was not perfectly done. 

Q. Did they work hard ? 

A. Very hard, I would not have continued it. It would have 
destroyed my people. 

Q. Did you ascertain from this work that they were disposed 
to work for money ? 

A. I am perfectly convinced that if rewards were given them 
for labour, they would work readily in their present state. 

Q. The question resolves itself into a question of profit and 
loss, on the part of the proprietor; you mean to say, that persons 
may work for wages, if the wages were given ? 

A, I have no doubt the slaves would do it, but I am convinced 
they would not do it if perfectly free. 

Q, You think that it is only when in slavery they would work 
for money wages ? 

A. That is the firm conviction of my mind. 

Q. You stated a conversation you had with one of your ne- 
groes on the subject of emancipation, did you ever point to him, 
.that in case of emancipation, he would work for reasonable 
wages ? 

A. No, I did not. 

Q. You never pointed out to the negro the difference between 
a state of slavery and a state of freedom — that if free he would be 
enabled to live upon his property, and be paid for his labour ? 

A. No, I never entered into conversation with any but this 
man, I dare not trust myself to do it. 

Q. If they are so shrewd, as you have represented them, do 
you not conceive that they could be made to understand that one 
great benefit of freedom was, that they would have the benefit of 
their own labour.? 

A. They could be made to understand that. 

Q. Could they not be made to understand that by reasonable 
industry they could enjoy their houses, live in the same state of 
ease, and enjoy many of the blessings and comforts of life.'* 

A. I think they could. 

Q. Are you of opinion that the present state of things in Ja- 
maica can continue long ? 

A. I am satisfied it cannot, tliat is one reason why I endea- 
voured to have my people prepared for it. 



6 

Q, What would be the result supposing things to go on, as it 
has done the last live or six years in the island. 

A. Generally speaking, they would get worse and worse. 

Q. With respect to the state of the negroes^ do you think it 
likely they would remain quiet if things remain just as they have 
done the last six or seven years ? 

A. If the same system of management is practised to them, I do 
not think they will remain quiet now. 

Q. Do you conceive free labour is as cheap as slave labour ? 

A. Yes. 

Rkv. Wiltshire Stanton Austin. 
A clergyman of the Established Church, and a native of 
the West Indies, resided in and is acquainted with Deme- 
rara^ Surinam, Bahia and Barbadoes. 

Q. You are a clergyman of the Established Church ? 

A. I am. 

Q, Is your father a proprietor ? 

A. My father is a West Indian proprietor in the colony of Su- 
rinam. 

Q. Have you resided with him ? 

A. I havej I have managed his property for eighteen months^ 
when I was about eighteen years of age. 

Q. How many slaves were there upon that property ? 

A. About 250. 

Q. Therefore both by intercourse with them as a spiritual 
pastor, and before you undertook clerical duties as an overseer of 
their labour. You are conversant with their habits and their 
feelings ? 

A. I think I may venture to say I am. 

Q. Judging from your knowledge of their feelings and habits, 
and also the effects you saw produced by only the hope of free- 
dom, what do you think would be the effect of a sudden grant of 
freedom itself? 

A. I cannot conceive for a moment^ that the peace of the coun- 
try would in any degree be endangered thereby. 

Q. Supposing the value of all that is now given to each slave, 
by the master to be 6d. per day, are you of opinion that the slaves 
emancipated would work for him, for that 6d. paid in specie ? 



A. I have no doubt of It, I believe the negro would do twice as 
much work for himself or for hire, when he was to receive pay- 
ment for his work, as he would do now. He now knows thaKhe 
is to obtain nothing for diligence, whether he be idle, or whether 
he be active, he must receive the same support, and the same 
clothing ; but it would alter the case entirely, when the slave 
was working for himself, with a prospect of accumulating pro- 
perty^ and raising himself amongst his fellow men. 

Q. Have you seen in the slaves a considerable desire to possess 
extra comforts ? 

A. I have, I beg leave to mention particularly two settlements 
of emancipated slaves in the Colony of Surinam, they were eman- 
cipated I believe by violence, in the first instance they emanci- 
pated themselves. I was for several years, but especially more 
particularly and constantly for about a year and a half, in the 
habit of trafficking with them ; their employment was to bring 
down timber from the interior of the country, which they had 
hewn, and sometimes sawed into planks, and other things and 
bartering them for Rum, Sugar, and any thing else ; they also 
brought surplus provisions, sometimes rice and yams, and various 
other things, and they accumulated considerable property for per- 
sons in their situations ; — I had for instance, 10^. at a time of one 
man, in my own possession, keeping for him. A very intimate 
friend of mine, a physician and a planter, has told me that he had 
deposited with him to the amount of 300^., belonging to dilFerent 
individuals among these said Negroes, for articles disposed of to 
him and to others. 

Q. Have you no apprehension that the Slaves being eman- 
cipated, and possessing nothing which they could call their own, 
not even their houses, and aware of their own numerical supe- 
riority, would under those circumstances seek to exercise that nu- 
merical superiority for the purpose of possessing themselves of 
their land, and of their houses? 

A. I have less apprehension on that score, than I have of ap- 
prehension under the same circumstances now, because it is pre- 
cisely the present state of things ; their numerical superiority is 
the same now, and their wants are tlie same, and I should say 
that there would be less cause of apprehension then than now. 

Q. Is then not lliis great distinction, tliat now by law they are 
treated as unequal, and the moment they were emancijiatcd they 



8 

would be admitted to an equality of privileges^ but not an equality 
of enjoyments ? 

A. I think that an admission to equality of privileges would at 
once destroy the very feeling, which now gives rise to the insubor- 
dination ; and the frequent insurrections we hear of. There 
would be this difference ; the Slave would have constantly before 
him the prospect of bettering his condition, and of gradually and 
freely increasing his possessions. 

Q. Does that circumstance in your opinion constitute the 
ground work of the safety of the change.'' 

A, I think it is one of those circumstances^ that would tend 
very materially to insure the peace and security of the country, 

Q. Then are the Committee to understand that it is your 
opinion, viewing all these circumstances that there is more danger 
from withholding emancipation, than from granting it } 

A. I am decidedly of that opinion ; so much so, that if eman- 
cipation were granted, I should feel happy immediately to return 
to my native country, I am attached to it, and I should greatly 
prefer residing there on the score of Climate; if emancipation were 
granted, I would be glad immediately to return there with my 
family, but there is no consideration under the sun, that would 
tempt me to becom.e the inhabitant of a West India Colony at the 
present moment ; and if I were to return, I should be under the 
perpetual apprehension of personal danger from insurrection. 

Q. But if emancipation were granted, you would return with 
your wife and children, without any apprehension ? 

A. I should be very glad to do so ; I should think it a privi- 
lege and a happiness to do it. 

Q. In your former examination, you mentioned two settlements 
of free Negroes in Surinam, whose freedom you described as having 
been obtained in a great measure by some act of violence, at what 
period was your knowledge of these settlements ? 

A. From about the year 1809, to the year 1815. 

Q. Were those free settlements considered dangerous to the 
Colony in any way .'' 

A. They were the only protection that the Colony had, with 
the exception of a small body of British troops, and some Colonial 
black soldiers. 

Q. Did you ever hear of any Avant amongst those people ? 

A. There is no such thing. 



9 

Q. Are those freed Negroes generally drunken or sober in 
their habits ? 

A. Mine will be an extraordinary testimony in this respect, 
because notwithstanding my intimate acquaintance with them for 
several years, I can most positively assert, that (though I have 
heard of such a thing), I never saw one of them in the slightest 
degree disguised in liquor ; I consider them the most moral in 
most of their habits, of any order of Negroes I have ever met 
with. 

Q. What species of cultivation did they carry on ? 

A. Rice and provisions of various kinds, and they hew down a 
large quantity of hard timber, saw it into planks, and pieces of 
wood for other purposes, which they bring down to exchange with 
the Whites, for comforts and luxuries. 

William Taylor, Esq. thirteen years resident in the Island 

of Jamaica, seven years in a commercial capacity, and two 

years and a half under the management of Estates. 

Q. If a Slave works for his master so many days in the week, 
and then works for himself, first for his maintenance, and 
secondly for his comfort, do you think he would be incapable, 
when the whole of his time belonged to himself, of maintaining 
himself in comfort .'' 

A. Of course he would not be incapable. 

Q. Would he be unwilling ? 

A. I think not. 

Q. In his capacity to be influenced by the fear of want, and by 
the hope of advantage, do you think he is upon a level with other 
labourers in European countries? 

A. Certainly, considering the peculiarity of his present con- 
dition, it would be unfair to institute a comparison between the 
Slave Negro and the free Scotchman, but with reference to the 
peculiar circumstances of each, I think he would ; I used every 
opportunity I possibly could, that the peculiar state of Jamaica, 
and my own situation would allow me, of introducing voluntary 
labour ; and I would say generally, that I never yet failed when 
I could exhibit palpably to a Slave the immediate prospect of 
pecuniary advantage. 

Q. If the Negroes were emancipated, would they not have 
recourse either to labour for themselves, or to wages in the servite 
of those who would employ them ? 



10 

A. Certainly. 

Q. Will you look at that paper, and see whether it contains 
any oj)inion of yours upon the subject? 

A. Yes, this is mine ; this was procured from me by an 
individual, and an old acquaintance of mine, whom I had known 
in Jamaica, visited me in the country, and we got into conversa- 
tion upon the subject ; he wished to have my sentiments upon 
the subject, and I hastily took this sheet of paper, and wrote down 
what I called the heads of my opinions upon the subject, and this 
paper I know conveys the result of what I have thought and felt 
upon the subject. 

Q. Have the goodness to read it ? 

A. 1st. Let emancipation and strict police arrangements be 
contemporaneous, 2nd. Ample materials would be found for 
a police corps in the coloured class, where services could be had at 
a low rate of charge. 3rd. Avoid paying the emancipated Negroes 
by means of allotments of land ; these would detach them from 
regular daily labour ; pay them in money. 4th. At first there 
would be difficulties, but gradually, I think the equitable price of 
labour would be ascertained, and act as the producer of regular 
labour. 5th. A stipendiary magistracy would be reqipisite, not 
only because the peculiar prejudices of the present ipagistracy 
generally unfit them for the office, but because the whole time 
of individuals w^ould be required to discharge the then additional 
duties. 6th. The island would have to be divided into districts^ 
each possessing a certain portion of the constabulary force, with a 
stipendiary magistrate, and a hovise of correction, or other pene- 
tentiary. 7th. Were the island thus divided, and the police and 
magistracy properly organized, I firmly believe that emancipation 
might take place with perfect security. 8th. Of course there 
would be difficulties, obstacles, and disappointments in working 
out and carrying into effisct the detail of the system of emancipa- 
tion ; but if Government would address themselves manfully to 
the work, telling the planters on the one hand that such is their 
determination ; and the negroes on the other, that while they 
aim at instituting equal laws, and securing them their civil and 
religious liberty, they no means design that idleness should be at 
their option, I am convinced that the result would be as beneficial 
in a pecuniary way to the planter, as it w^ould be elevating and 
humanizing morally to the present degraded Slave. 9th. The 
present system is incurable ; ^it will not modify, it must be utterly 



11 

destroyed. My experience as a planter assures me, that to attempt 
to engraft religion and humanity upon Slavery, with the hope of 
profitable results, is a vain and fruitless endeavour. A religious 
man is a most unfit person to manage a Slave estate. The fact is, 
cruelty is the offspring of the present system ; so long as Slavery 
exists, and the whip is the compellor of labour, it is folly to talk 
of humanity. Legitimate motives are taken away, and coercion 
becomes the spring of industry, and in proportion to the applica- 
tion of this cause, that is coercion, is the effect on labour. 
10th, The Negro character has been much underrated, even, 
I think by the Negro's friends. When justice is done to him, 
even in his present degraded circumstances, he shows a sagacity, 
shrewdness, and a disposition to a regular social life, that empha- 
tically prove that he only requires freedom secured to him by law, 
to make him a useful, and, in his situation, an honourable mem- 
ber of the human family. 

Rev. p. Duncan, resided in Jamaica between eleven and 
twelve years as a Wesleijan Missionary. 

Q. What do you think would be the conduct of that part of the 
population, supposing they were emancipated, with regard to their 
obedience, and with regard to their being brought under the sub- 
jection of the authorities now existing in Jamaica ? 

A. I cannot conceive there would be any great alteration, they 
would be much the same, I presume, as they are at present. 

Q. Did it ever occur to you that emancipation might take 
place with perfect tranquillity, and without producing any 
discontent ? 

A. I have sometimes thought upon the subject, and now my 
mind is perfectly made up, that, even if the Negroes were to be 
emancipated at a stroke, I do not think there would be that dis- 
turbance or loss either to themselves or to their masters, that 
would in all likelihood be the result of the continuance of a state 
of slavery. 

Q. Supposing emancipation to take place, and the negroes, 
being free, were no longer obliged to come and work upon tlie 
estates, what would be the mode by vvhicli the master would 
be able to get any persons to do the requisite work upon his 
estate ? 

A. I do not believe lliat it would be a matter of half so nuicli 
(liiiiculty in practice us it aeems in llieory ; and for thiy reason. 



12 

that the negroes would be so conscious of their dependence, that 
they would still rely upon their master as the chief means of their 
support, the same in a state of freedom as they do in a state of 
slavery. 

Rev. J. Thorp, a Clergyman of the Established Church, 
residing in Jamaica twenty-seven years. 

Q. Judging from the experience you derived during your 
residence in Jamaica, coupled with what you have since heard, 
have you any fixed opinion with regard to the danger or safety of 
emancipating the slaves in the Island of Jamaica ? 

A. I never believed that there would be any danger attending 
it ; I believe that the danger would principally be from the con- 
tinuance of slavery ; and my reasons for stating this is, that as far 
as my own parish is concerned, there were a very considerable num- 
ber of negro slaves, respectable in character, who would themselves 
be the first to suppress any act of insubordination on the part of 
others, as they are a class of persons to whom the rest look up with 
a degree of respect. My reason for stating that I believe there 
would be danger from the continuance of slavery is, from the 
knowledge the slave has obtained of his rights, and of his being 
unjustly deprived of them, and his gaining such a degree of know- 
ledge as will render him dissatisfied with his condition. 

Rev. John Barry, a Wesley an Missionary , residing from 
1825 to 1832 in Jamaica, with the exception of about a 
year. 

Q. Do you believe that the Negroes, speaking of them as a body, 
would be willing to labour for the maintenance of themselves and 
their families if slavery was abolished ? 

A. That is my opinion, and that opinion is founded upon my 
observation of the industrious habits of the negroes. 

Q. Do you also think they would work for hire ? 

A. I believe they would, and for this reason, — I never met an 
instance in which they had annexed to the idea of freedom an 
exemption from labour. They know the value of money as well 
as any man, and will labour for a proper pecuniary remuneration. 
That some difficulties, in the event of freedom, may occur in the 
first instance, I think probable, but I am sure they will return to 
a labour for a proper remuneration. 



13 

Q. Do you believe upon the whole that there is a great and 
strong desire in the negro population to be emancipated ? 

A *I do. 

Q. Are you of opinion that if no hope of emancipation was to 
be held out to the slaves, that there would be any danger of their 
becoming discontented, and inclined to mutiny ? 

A. I believe that the feeling of freedom has got abroad so 
effectually among the slave population of Jamaica, that they will 
never be satisfied until that state shall have arrived ; and I found 
that opinion strongly, upon the following fact, that during the 
execution of those who were legally sentenced in the late insurrec- 
tion, Avith a very few exceptions indeed, they all died glorying in 
their death, and stating that had they ten or twenty lives they 
would sacrifice all sooner than return to slavery. 

Q. Do you think, that by any amelioration of the condition of 
the slave, this prospect of danger could be prevented slavery, con- 
tinuing ? 

A. I certainly do not believe that any amelioration of slavery 
will ever reconcile the slave to his present condition. 

Rev. Thomas QIorgan, residing for sixteen years in 
Slave Colonies. 

Q. Can you assign any reason why the slave who may here- 
after be emancipated, whether singly or in a body, if subject to a 
rigorous police, should be less industrious or less successful than 
the present class of the free coloured people ? 

A, I see no reason to believe any thing to the contrary. 

Q. Have you ever considered the probable effect that emanci- 
pation would have upon the system of the cultivation of the 
ground ? 

A. Yes; I consider that it would be favourable to cul- 
tivation. 

Q. You are of opinion that adequate labour could be obtained 
as well by fair regular wages as by compulsion ? 

A. Yes ; I believe that the Negi-ocs v/ould be quite willing to 
Avork for a fair remuneration. 

Q. You have delivered an opinion that emancipation would 
be beneficial in its effects on Colonial agriculture 5 on what do 
you ground that opinion ? 

A. On the industry of the Negro; I think he would work 
much more for bis employer in the same time. 



14 

Rev. William Kniee, a Baptist Missionary, seven years 
resident in Jamaica. 

Q. It has been stated by yourself, as well as by others, that 
S-eligion and Slavery cannot co-exist : but a little while ago you 
stated, in the course of this day's examination, you here stated that 
religion was spreading fast ? 

A. Yes, and my opinion is, that if nothing is done for the 
Slaves, in three years they will be all free, they will take their 
freedom by violence — it is spreading more in its enlightening, 
than in its sanctifying influence ; they begin to see ; they will 
learn to read, no one can stop it. 

Q. Intelligence keeps in advance of religious principle ? 

A. It does. 

Q. Though religious principles may restrain them, intel- 
ligence keeps them a-head of that. 

A. Yes, what I stated was this, that religion was an enlighten- 
ing influence. It has enlightened thousands in this country, 
to whom it has not done good beyond giving them a thirst for 
knowledge. 

Q. Are you aware whether the discussions respecting the 
Poles has been ever talked of in Jamaica, with reference to the 
state and condition of Slavery ? 

A. They were usually discussed in the Newspapers the Slaves 
had, and the impression on my mind was, that then it was ex- 
ceedingly unwise ; the Poles were eulogised for their endeavours 
to obtain freedom. 

Q. In your subsequent conversations with the Slaves who had 
been implicated in the rebellion, did they state to you that they 
had been aware of the discussions about the Poles ? 

A, They stated that they had read from the English News- 
papers that the British people did not like Slavery ; and that 
they expected from that that they would never fight against 
them, if they tried to regain their liberty, others informed me, 
that it was a common practice on the properties, as they could 
not read themselves, to have persons to read the papers that came 
from England, and the Jamaica Courant. 

Q. Do you think that there was an impression upon the minds 
of the Slaves, that it was a praise-worthy act to risk their lives 
for the sake of obtaining freedom. 

A. That was the impression of those men, at least, one of 
them stated that if he had twenty lives, he would risk them all 



15 

in the cause of freedom. There was one on Round Hill Estate 
(I think that is the name of the Estate,) who went up to the 
soldiers and said, " I will never work again as a Slave ; give me 
freedom and I will work, you may shoot me ;" he opened his 
breast, and they shot him immediately. 

Q. Have you had any opportunity of forming any opinion upon 
the subject of the Negroes supporting themselves by their own 
labour if they were emancipated ? 

A. Yes. 

Q. Is it your opinion that the Negroes if emancipated would 
labour for wages ? 

A. It is my opinion. 

Vice Admiral the Hon, Charles Fleming, ivho has known 
the West India Colonies for thirty-five years, and has been 
altogether for about five or six years in the West Indies. 

Q. Did you obserA^e upon the whole that they (the Slaves) 
were industrious in their habits, or otherwise ? 

A. The Slaves arc not industrious unless when they work for 
themselves, but when they work for themselves upon the Satur- 
days that they have, and the Sundays, they are very industrious 
in cultivating their own lands ; I have had Slaves who worked 
for hire afterwards most industriously. 

Q. When they work for the benefit of their masters under 
compulsion, they are not so industrious as when they work for 
their own benefit ? 

A. Certainly not ; it has always appeared to me that Slaves, 
worked in a gang with Overseers, did as little as they could avoid 
doing ; but by hire work, as much as they could do. 

Q. Do you apprehend from what you know of the state and 
condition of the Slave population, that, if all hope of emancipa- 
tion was to be extinguished, they would remain quiet in a state 
of hopeless Slavery ? 

A. No, not for a moment ; I think the only reason why they 
arc tranquil now is, that they do hope to be emancipated by the 
Government of this country, and I do not believe, that any Island 
that ever I have visited, would be tranquil for a moment, if tliat 
hope was cut ofi"; I certainly believe, that iiisurrccti{m will soon 
take place, if the Resolutions of the House of Coaunons are not 
carried into cfiect. 



IG 

Q. Will you state your reasons for forming that opinion ? 

A. The reason I have for forming that opinion is, their great 
anxiety on the arrival of any news from England, to know what 
is going on ; their constant conversation among themselves, and 
the interest they show whenever they have it in their power, to 
acquire a knowledge when the term of their emancipation will 
take place, and likewise their great desire to free their children. 

Q. Did the Free Blacks maintain themselves in ordinary 
comfort ? 

A. Around the place that I lived in, which was called Clare 
Mount, in the Port Royal IMountains, the whole district was 
almost peopled with Free Blacks, and they lived in very great 
comfort. 

William Alers Hankey, Esq, 

Q. Are you a West India proprietor, and possessing Slaves ? 

A. Possessing Slaves. 

Q. How many Slaves ? 

A. About three hundred is the number on our estates as near 
as may be. 

Q, When you consider the great share which the discussion 
of the question of Slavery, at the present moment, forms of the 
public discussion, both here and in Jamaica, are you not of opi- 
nion, that the Slaves possessing the faculty of reading, must 
necessarily read what is very stimulating ? 

A. Certainly, I have not a doubt about that ; it is inevitable, 
I think. 

Q. Recollecting the certainty that they will read publications 
of this sort, is it your opinion that Slavery can long continue, 
fche Slaves possessing this knowledge and being so stimulated. 

A. I think not. 



THE END. 



W. Johnston, Printer, 120, Fenchurch Street. 



