
C&ry"™^ *" J^i^^a^^ *t g^r^^.f&r*^,, Boston, June *, lb37. 

Dear Sir: 
'( If I could believe that my presence at the annual meeting 

of yoTtr State Anti-Slavery Society wo^ld be of essential impor- 
tance, I would hasten to Conco rd, —busily occupied as I am, at the 
present time, with pressing duties in the city: but, as you are to 
have with you cur distinguished coadjutor James G. Birney, and 
our invaluable friend William Goodell, ae well as other able advo- 
cates of our much persecuted, yet ve;ry thriving cause, this brief 
and hasty letter mast answer as a substitute for my personal atten- 
dan c e . 

Let me admonish you all, not to was'-e your time in dis- 
cussing points which are not of i nme di ate and vi-cal, impo r t an c e » 
I would humbly etaggest, that, to dwell upon the "self -evident 
truth, " that all men are created free and equa l-~to attempt to 
prove, by an elaborate train of metaphysical reasoning, that to 
transform a human being into a beast or an article of merchandize, 
is a sinful act — to linger about the simple and obvious proposi- 
tion, that to withhold the Bible, and all moral and intellectual 
culture, from "our fellow-countrymen in chains, " who are "slaves 
in a land of light and law, " is a dreadful outrage upon the mind 
and soul — or even to spend time in discussing the safety and prac- 
ticabili ty of immediate emancipation, or the absurdity and cruelty 
of, the colonization scheme— would be, at the present crisis , in 
your meeting, not clearly to discern the "signs of the times," but 



8 

to overlook matters of fa- more immediate importance. I do not 
know but I shall excite m ch surprise among you in declaring , that 
never lave I regarded the anti-slavery cause to be in such peril- 
never have I had so little hope of the peaceful overthrow of slav- 
ery in oar midst — never have I regarded the existence of this na- 
tion in so much jeopardy, as at the present time. There is every 
probability that we are speedily to be involved in a war with Mex- 
ico, ostensibly to redress injuries, bat really to extend slavery 
and the slave trade. As a nation, we have evinced the basest 
perfidy toward Mexico; we have openly violated the faith of treat- 
ies; we have encouraged oar citizens to invade and revolutionize 
a part of her territory; we have rashly and impudently recognized 
the independence of that territory; and we have been fertile in de- 
vising plots and expedients to provoie her to declare war against 
us. I need not portray to you what will be the horrors of such a 
way; nor in what manner, or to what extent, it will cripple all 
the benevolent and religious enterprises of the day — for when a 
nation is at war, the brotherhood of mankind is forgotten or de- 
nied, good will toward \ man is turned into malevolence, and false 
honor and the demon cf revenge make havoc of. all that is lovely 
and of good report. 

But the crowning calamity which threatens as, is the an- 
nexation of Texas to oar Union, at the session of Congress in Sep- 
tember next. Should this awful event happen, I do not see any 
hope for the slaves at the sou th-»» for the freemen of the North— 
or for our guilty, though still beloved country. I fear the time 



6. 
for repentance and Reformation will have passed fonever. And yet 
there cannot be the slightest dmbt, that the plot is already per- 
fected—and that the extra session alluded to, is to carry it into 
execution. Yo'i will pevceive, by the resolutions passed at the 
annual meeting of the Parent Society at New York, and by the New 
England Convention in this city, the deep and solemn interest 
which was felt in this tremendous question by the delegates as- 
sembled on those occasions. I hope those resolutions, in refer- 
ence to Texas, will be read at your meeting — that they will occupy 
your thoughts, and incite you to action — that you will adopt simi- 
lar ones, and lay your plans to rouse up the people of New Hamp- 
shire, without distinction of sect or party, to protest against the 
admission of Texas into the Union. In comparison with thi3 topic, 
all other* ere of trifling importance at this crisis. Bend all year 
energies and means to prevent so direful a catastrophe. 

My heart is overflowing on this subject — but I nu st stop, 
for I have neither time nor room to give it utterance. 

With high esteem and fraternal regard, I remain 
Your friend and coadjutor, 

Wm. Lloyd Garrison. 

John Farmer. 







^^t t A^ 



