Great Anti-Slavery Meeting in London. 

FORMATION OP THE BRITISH AND FOREIGN ANTI-SLAVERY 
SOC1ETV. 

The London Patriot, of April 22, enables us to present a 
detailed account of the proceedings of the most noble and 
important Anti-Slavery Meeting that was ever assembled 
It was a Convention of Anti-Slavery Delegates, called to 
devise and adopt measures for carrying out Joseph Sturge's 
simple but magnificent designs for the abolition of slavery 
and the slave trade throughout the world, by moral means. 
The glory of this prpject consists in the fundamental pro- 
position, that " Slavery and 'the Slave Trade are parts of 
the same atrocious System," and in the faith that the ex- 
tinction of this system " can be attained by the employ- 
ment of those means which are of a moral, religious and 
pacific character." On these simple principles has been 
founded the " British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Socie- 
ty," uniting in its management, the choicest philanthropists 
of Great Britain. Those who believe that abolition is about 
dying away, had better pause and take a new observation. 

So important is this movement, that we postpone some 
matters of much interest, for the purpose of giving an early 
"nsertion to the whole proceedings, together with the con- 
stitutional regulations of the Society. We ask particular 
attention to the magnanimous deference with which Joseph 
Sturge, a Friend, treats the principles, and even the 
prejudices, of those of other sects who differ from him on 
some points, — nobly disregarding sectarian considerations, 
for the sake of the slave. Let his example be imitated 
every where. 

From fb- - T --^>j~- * 



, , ..oar.) The fourth resolution was — 
■' That in the opinion of this meeting the extinction of slave- 
ry and the slave trade may best be sought, by the use of 
moral, religious, and other influence, no sanction being given 
to the employment of an armed force for the attainment of 
this end." That resolution appeared' to be the one which 
some of their friends felt the most difficulty in adopting ; but 
it would be perceived that it was so drawn up that it did not 
involve a pledge that the employment of an armed force in 
all cases was inconsistent with Christianity. There were 
two grounds upon which all might cordially and actively co- 
operate with the proposed Society. First, those who, like 
himself, thought that taking away the life even of a slave 
trader to rescue his victims, was forbidden by (he Gospel of 
Christ, would obviously concur in it; and, secondly, those 
who, without holding that opinion, thought the course the 
committee proposed was themost likely to be crowned with 
success, might also uBite with them. He thought that a ful 
examination of the subject would lead most of their friends 
who could not join the Society on the former ground, to do 
so on the latter. There was one view of the subject which 
might not have struck all who thought it right to encourage 
the employment of an armed force to compel the subjects of 
foreign nations to give up the slave trade. It was this — that 
unless they were prepared to embark in a national war with 
those countries which did not faithfully perform their treaties, 
and punish their subjects themselves, it seemed absurd to 
suppose that England could compel foreigners to give up a 
lucrative trade which their own Governments connived at or 
indirectly protected. (Hear, hear.) Yet he had found very 
few of the advocates of physical force prepared to go to war 
with Portugal, Spain, the Brazils, or the United States, 
though, upon their own principles, he submitted that they 
could not carry out their plan successfully unless they were 
jared for it. 



/t?^/9.9-iff. toz 



/%./£ % a. //, /#? 



(fiAAJuiZt 



^bv- c^~~^£*~~7 










i 







^-£ o, n^yi- '<*— 




//' 



iu 

\ 

N 

\ 
ft. 

°9 



