Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/addresstopeopleo1792foxw 



All A D D R E S S 



TO THE 



People of Great Britain, 



ON THE PROPRIETY OF ABSTAINING FROM 



Weft India Su?ar and Rum. cx£ 



Fore tl from home and all its pleaA 
Afric's coajtl I left forlorn ;\^{ures^\^ 
To incrcafe a f ranger^ s treafures 
.O'er the raging hillozos borne, [_ni€. 
Men from E ng land houg h t- a ndfcld 
Pa id my p rice in paltry gold ; ^fme, 
But though theirs they hive enroll' d 
Minds arenev&r to be fold. 
Still in thought as free as ever, 
Wliatare England's n'^A/'i', -/ afk.^ 
Me from my delights to fever , 
Me to torture^ me to tafli ? 
Fleecy locks and black complexion 
Cannot forfeit Nature's claim; 
Skins may differ^ hut nJfeBion 
Dwells in ZL-hite and black the fame* 
Why did all-creating Nature, 
Make the plant for zvhich we toil! 
Sighs mift fanit .tears muft zvater, 
Sweat op ours mvji drejs the foil. 
Think, ye Majicrs^ iron-heaited^ 
Tolhng at your jovialhoards.\ ed^ 

1 hink horvmavy backs Jiave jrnari- 
d or ilie ficeets juur cane a fords. 
Is there, as yejvmcetwies ttll us- — 
Js there one zvho reigJis on high ? 
Has he bid you buy and fell us, 
Speaking from his throne thefky .^ 
AJk hi7n, fyoiir knotted Jc our ges 

2 eUers, blood-eAtortiugfrezi's, 



Are the viearis zoldch duty urges. 
Agents of his will to ufe ?. 
Hcj-kJ heanfzvers.- Wild tornadoes', 
Strewingyonderf lores with wrecks. 
Wafting towns, plantations, vied' 

d^ws, 
Are the voice with which kef peaks» 
He forefeeing what vexation 
Afric's fons weuld undergo. 
Fi:>&-'d their tyrant's'' habitation 
Where his whirlwind anfwers—Nof 
By mir blood in Afric waftd- ' 
Ere our necks received the chain- — 
By the mis'ries zvhich we taped 
Crofjing in your harks the mava—- 
By our fujf rings fnceye brought u-s 
To the man-degrading mart, ^flB 

Allfuftain'd with patience tau^fif^^jk 
Only by a broktn heart — ■ j i:s ^ 

Deem our nations brutes no longer | 

Tillfovie reafon you fiall find \ 

Worthier oj regard, andftronger I 

'Than the colour oj our kind, | 

Slaves to gold, zi-hcfe fordid dealings "i 
Tarnifh all your boafted pow'rs, \ 

Prove that ye have human feelings | 
Ere ye proudly quefion curs. % 

Cow per' s Negro's Complaint » ^ 



llie Twenty-fourth Edition, 



London, Sold by M. Gurney, No. 128, Holborn-Hill. prJce;- 
a Halfpenny, 13 for 6d, ' . 50 for is gd. Of whom may be 
had, a Summary of the Evidence relating to the Slave Trade, 
by the fame Author, 3d edit, at 3s 6d per Hundred. Alfo, 
ipcedily w^ill be publiflied by the fame Author, Obfervations 
on the Conduct of the Committee inilituted in London for 
the Abolition of the Slave Trade. 

Perfons in the Country, ordering looo, may have an Edition 
worked olFjwith their Names and Reiideuce in the Title, 



^TOtwith^;a^dingtlJelate determination of tlicIIoufcofCom- 
M monson the bla\c-l"rcKle, we may kope the difcuirion 
it has received will not be ufelefs •, and tluu the public attention 
has not been excited in vain, to a ("yflem of cruelty which it is 
painful even to recite. It may be hoped that, claiming for our 
ielves the moil perfeft freedom, we fliall no longer impol'e upon 
others a Havery the moft opprefHvc : and that, enjoying a de- 
gree of felicity unequalled in any age or country, we fhall no 
longer range the world toincreaic the mifery of mankind. 

The luft of pQwer,and"i-ke pride of conquell, have doubtlefs pro- 
duced inftances far too numerous, of man cnfiaved by man. But 
we.inan enlightened age. have greatly furpalTed, in injufl;ice,the 
Tnori barbarous ages : and while we are pretending to the fiinell 
feelings of humanity, are exerciling unpreredentedcruelty.Wc 
have planted flavery in the rank foil of fordid avarice ; the pro- 
duce has been mifery in the extreme. We have afcertained, by a 
courfc of experiments in cruelty, the lead portion of nourifli- 
mcnfrequiiitcto enable man to lingera few years in mifery ; 
the-gfe^teft qiTantityof labour which, in fuch a htuation, the ex- 
treme of punilhment can extort ; and the utmoft degree of pain, 
labour, and hunger united, that the human frame can endure. 

In Vain have fuch fcencs been developed. The wealth derived 
from the ho'rridtrafhc, has createdan influence that fecures its 
continuance -.unlefs thepeople refufeto receive the produce of 
rofebery and murder. For the legiflature having relufed to in- 
terpofe.it devolves en thepeople, eitherto reprobate or approve 
the meafurc, Weft-India ilavery depends upon them for its ex- 
iftence, as it is in the power of every individual toincreafe or 
to diminim it.> extent. The lavv's of cur countrvmay indeed pi'O- 
hibitus the fugar-canc.unlelswe will receive it through the me- 
dium of ilavery. They m.avhold it to our lips.fteeped in the blood 
of our fellow -creatures: but they cannot compel us to accept 
the ioathfome potion. With us it rcfts.either to receive it and be 
partners in the crime, or to exoneiate ourl'elves from guilt, by 
ipurning from us the temptation. For the crime reffs not alone 
M'ith thofe who conduft the traffic, or the legiflature by which 
it is prote61ed. Ifwepurchafe the commodity, we participate in 
the crime. 1 he flave-dealer. the ilave-holder. and the flave-dri- 
ver. are virtually the agents of the confumer, and may be con- 
iidered asemployed and hired byhimtoprocure the commodity. 
For. by holding out the temptation, he is the firfl mover in the 
herrid prccefs; and every diftin6iion is done away by the m.oral 
maxim, That whate-ver we do by another, we do ourfclves. 

Norarewcby any means warranted to coniider our Ihare in pro- 
ducing thefe evils in a trivial point of view. The confumption 
of fugarin tea, wines, paliry, and punch, in tliis country, is fo 
c^nliderabie, tb.at by abli:aining,we ihall have an impcri^nt ef- 
feft on the Slave Tiade. the coLorxial {lav:;;y; ^nd on the other 
European mark ets,v^^hcre the confumption of fugar is but fmall, 
hecaufe theaboveai tides, which occahoii its confumption in 



this cauntrv, are on the continent very little ufed. [3 

X Dreadrai coniicicration, that our increaling prolnerity lias 
fpread dciolation over a country as large as all Europe ! Fox it is 
on Britiili luxury. dre African Slave Trade depends for iupport;fc 
they have increafcr^, and they would fall together. For though 
Jamaica fupplics more fugar than all ourWeil-lndia illands did 
at anv period prior to 1755, vet, unlil'the difturbances in the 
French illands, within thefe few years, lagars have ever fold 111 
Britifri Hiarhets 20 or 30. fometimes 50 ptr cent, dearc]- than iii 
other parts of the world. And it -is not to (uppori the old 
plantations, as is pretended, but ciiiefly to form new ones, for 
the fupply of this our increahng luxury, that the wretched ' 
A.fricans are torn from their native land. 

Let us tlien imagine our iniiiieuie Cvoniamotion wholly-or in 
great part to ceafe,andour f igarsto be thrown on the foreign 
markets ; would additional fiaves be wanted to fupply an over 
flowing market at a falling price? No i the African SlaveTrade, 
by whomfoever conducted, to fupply fugar colonies, by v^diat- 
ever nation poileJled, muu: totally ceafe. liorror and di-friciv 
would give pia.ce to peace and Givilization, thi-oiigii a coalt of 
above three thouCand miles extent, and above athoufand miles-., 
inland : for fo extendve a-r.c our depredations, and fo extenfiye' 
are the benehts which it is in our power to confer. Norw^puld 
the beneficial effects ceafe, even here. The Weil- India iiland'-,. 
niid.inglefs demand for iugar, muft appropria'e lefs grounrl to 
the fugar-cane. and leave moje for provifions ; the fiayc: v/0;jld 
b« lefs \^'-orkcd, better fed, and. in ii few \x.;irs coniift intireiy of 
native Creoles. Or if the planters appropriate the land to the 
other produffions of the ihands, the fame beneficial efFefts irraib 
enfue. For Mr. Cooke tells u?, " ihc cultivation of cotton, pivi^n- 
''■•to, andcojfce^ is e after than fug^ar ; tht jlarazs lookbattr^ andincrcafe 
^'fajter :" and inftead of requiring additional fiives, they v^'ouhi 
be able to incrcafe their plantations with thofe alreadv.in the 
illands. For Gqjv'ernor Parry fays, '• one acre offu-gar rejuiresas 
'' muck labour as three of cotton." Thus our refraining from the 
confumption, even foi- a few^'ears, v^ould deftroy.the Slave 
Trade, bring frefli land into culture, and increafe the Creoles. 
The diminution of the confumption would by linkiinT the price 
of the commodity ; take away the temptation to import addi- 
tional Haves. Now as a fall in the price would obftruff the Slave 
Trade, and meliorate the condition of the ilavcs ; fo a rife will 
produce cffetls the molt baneful. I'lie planter, tempted to get 
fugar and rum to market while that high price continues, will 
deprive his flaves of their provilion gro'unds, to plant witJi 
canes ; and force them to the mofl e:?itreme exertions. The mur- 
der, or, in the technical language of the WcR Indies, the/(;/y of 
his Haves, will be of little conhderation. The large crop, and 
the high price,\vill amplycompenfatc him. The quelf ion there- 
fore now is, not merely whether we fliall hold out to him an in- 
ducement topurchafe additional lUvej; but, -Alfo tempt iiim to 



4 jmurder thofe he already has?^ Weft India packets have (^oubt- 
Jels already borne the murderous dii patches, cxprefTcd in lan- 
guage too dreadfully explicit. '• The price of f agar and rvm JliU 
"" conimuf!', hioh. You mup.^ adopt every mode, to forward as large a 
*^ cargo aspcl^bk, A fortunate crifis now ofj-'zrs it ft If for extricating 
** my cfiatcfram thedifjicidiies in which it is involved. We viufi avail 
*^ ourJcLvcs qj li ; another may never occur. Confequences though difa- 
^■^ grccabk^muj} at the prefent moment be overlooked. The Jlave market is 
*'^ fill open for afitpply. Kezo-jangled humanity is no more.'' The day 
hardly dawns when liic whip relounds through thofe regiorisof 
horrcr; nor ccalcs, till darknei's clofesthe Iccnc, which day after 
day is renewed. The inifcrable viftims, dcftitute of every com- 
fort ; hnking under the three endemic difeafes of our iflands, 
hunger, torture, and exlrcrne labour; and urged to exertions 
they aie unable to i'uHain. expire beneath the laQi, which ia 
vain endeavours to ro\ire them to a renewal of their labour. 

If. fuch be the dreadful fituation of the Weft-India flaves, 
may it not Kcafked, On what principle we can receive that pro- 
duce which occalions it ? For as neither the flave-dealer, nor 
the planter, can have any m-orai right to the perl'on of him they 
flile their Have, to his labour, or the pioduce of it: fo they can 
convey no right in that produce to us. Whatever number of 
hands cither the (lave or the produce may pafs through, if the 
criminal circumftancesfee knowir at the time of the transfer. the 
poffeiFor can have only a criminal poffeflion: and the money 
paid, either for the Have, or for the produce of his labour, being 
paid to obtain that criminal poifeflion; can confer no moral 
right whatever. So, if the death of the perfon called a flave, be 
occahoned by tlie criminal poffeflion, the criminal poUeffor is 
guilty of murder: and we, who have eccanoned his being in 
that Situation, are acceifaries to the murder; as, by receiving 
the produce of his labour, we are acceflaries to the robbery. 

If we, as individuals concerned (either by procuringor hold- 
ing the ilaves, or receiving the produce) imagine that our fhare 
is fo minute that it cannot perceptibly increafe the injury: letus 
rCcoUett that, though numbers partaking in a crime may dimi- 
■nifh the fnam^c, they cannot diminilh its turpitude. Is it poffi- 
ble, that an enormous injury can take place, and the criminality 
be deflroyed m.erely by the criminals becoming numerous? 
Were an iiundred ailafiins to nlunge tlicii daggers intotlieirvic- 
tim, tliougli cachmigjit plead, that v/ithout his aihftance the 
~ crime would have beer, compleated, and that his-}5oinard nei- 
ther occalioned noi accelerated the murder, yet each would be 
guilty. For into how manv parts foevcr a criminal a6tion be 
•divided, the crime irfclf reds intire on every perpetrator. 

But even fuppoiir.j i^ora moment, that the evil had an exif- 

-tcncc from cauics tc'ia'h/ independent of us: yet arc we to bind 

iipno wounds but i ::o:^ v.-:2haveinilittcd.norrelieveanydiftrefs 

but what v/c]iave o. c; .>ned : if dreadful mifery exifts, which 

iz iiln qC" POwer.joLii: 1/ withothcrSjto remedy ; it is doubtlefs 



eur duty to contribute our ilvare ; and to a6l from confci-" [^ 
e4ice, as we fliould in iimilar cafes from feeling and inclination. 

For inftance : Let us fuppoCe the Algerines to eftablifli fugar 
plantations, and refort to the banks cf the Thames for flaves. 
Suppofe our wives, our huihands, our children, our parents, our 
brethren, iVept away, and the frui't of their labour, produced^ 
with agonizing hearts and trembling limbs, landed at the port of 
London. What would be our condu6l ? Should we fay, ''^ Sugar 
'•'isanca'If.iryoflife: I caiviot do without it. Be fides the quantity X 
" ufe is bntfniiill: and though it be very criminal in the Algerines to en- 
^' /lave oth'irs, lam not bound to look to the nature or confequcnce of the. 
^'"•tranfaclion. Faying for thefuga-r^ I have a right to confuim it, horn- 
'^'•ever it may h'lvebeen obtained." If fuch would be our language ia 
that cafe, bo it Toon theprefentoccafion. For let us recoiled that 
in both cafes the enilaved are our brethren. 

And let us only fuppofc an Englifhman were to receive inju- 
ries, that bore but the flighted reiemblance to thofe daily com- 
mitted in our iflands, the nation would be inflamed with refent- 
rnent, and clamorous to avenge the injury. And can our pride 
fuggefl, that the rights of men are limited to any nation, or to a- 
ny colour? VV^ereanyone to treat a fellow creature in this coun- 
trvas we do the unhappy Africans in tlKi Weft-Indies ; ftruck 
with horror, we mould be zealous to deliver the opprelled, and 
puniflithe oppreffor. Are then the officesof humanity and func- 
tionsof juflice to be circumfcribed by geographical boundarie* ? 
Can realbn, can conicience juftify this contraft in our conduct, 
between our promptitude, in the one cafe, and our torpor in the 
other? — i\'Ir. Addifon juilly obierves, that '■ humanity to be- 
come eftimable m.uft be combined with juftice." But we feem to 
aft as if we thought, that the relief of our fellow creatures, and 
protection from injuries, were works of fupererogation ; to be 
granted or with-held, as caprice, or inclination may fuggeft. 

After the important coniiderations adduced, it might be rec- 
koned a decrradation of the fubjeft to mention the national dig- 
nity ; or even that might induce us to countera£l a powerful Do- 
dv of men, who are Iramplin ; under foot, the dictates of huma- 
nity, and the intereft of the nation : men, who have received for 
fugar alone, above a mxillion perann, mOre than it would have 
coif at other n'larkcts. From Mr. Botliam's evidence it appears, 
.that in Batavia, vvhere labour is as high as in England, fugar c- 
fjual to the bell Well-India, is fold at id-f per pound. Thefe are 
the men who are callingonus to aid the operation of their v/hip's 
by tiic terrors of our bayonets ; and to mifapply the public trea- 
iuieto fupport individuals in violating every principle of law 
and jufticc, and to defend tliem in the moft dreadful tyranny 
over half amillion of pcrfons, born in illands, which, when it 
ferves their purpofe tlicy pretend to be ours ; but of which tlicy 
have virtuJilly ulurpcd tlie fovcreignty : and have the audacity 
to teli'theiiritirii legillature, "'J'hat they cannot abolilh the flave 
tirade; for tliat if England rcfufes to furnifli them with ilaves, 



6Jthey u ill obtain a fupplv through other channeIs,'^The^e no- 
minal colonies ha-ve.it lecms, been taught, that we have no ri.'^ht 
to control them ; that the afts of their Airemblies alone are obli- 
gatory, and that thole of Bntifli legiHators, are binding only 
on thofe whom they reprefcnt. ^ For the right of enllaving 
others, they contend, as the moft valuable of their privileges. 

Thus it appears, that the legifiature isnot only unwilling, but 
perhaps unable to grant redrefs; and therefore it is more peculi- 
arly incumbent upon us. To ahfiain from the ujk ofJii,^ar and raniy 
until our lVe.fi- India Plant&rs thtmf elves have prohibited thx impd^- 
iation of additional Jlaves, and commenced as fpeedy and efeEiual a 

Jitbvtrjion of jlavtry in their ijl and. <;, as the circumjtances and fitua- 
tivn oj thejlaves will admit : or till we cayi obtain the produce of the 

fugar cane in fome other mod,e, UNtroNNECTED with slavery, 

A-ND U iNPOLLUTED WITPl B LOOD. 

For, furely, it may be hoped that we (liall not limit ourviews 
merely to the abolition of the African flave trade, feeing the co- 
lonial llavery formed upon it, is in its principle equally unjuft* 
Can it be more iniquitous to force the Africans from their native 
land, than to retain them and their pofterity in perpetual bond- 
age. The African flave trade maybe the moftprominentfcature^ 
yet it is but a feature: and were it aboliHied, the Weft-India ila- 
very would ftiil exift. Butflrall we fufFerhalf a million of fcUov.' 
fubjefts, to be held in fiavery for ever? I iAv ^fellozufubjects . For 
Undoubtedly, every perfon born in the dominions of Great Bri^ 
tain is a fubjeft, boutsd to obey and entitled to the protetlion of 
the common law of England; and in oppofition to which, afts. 
of affemblies, derived from the crov^mjcan be of no authority. 

In demanding liberty then, for the perfons CdW^difiavcs in our 
iflands, we demand ric more than they are intitled to by the com- 
mon lav/ of the land» The moft eligible mode of putting them in 
pofTeffion of their legal and natural right, may be a quellion of 
difficulty; but it is one that ought to be confideredwith no view 
but to their happlnefs. The plan to be adopted, ought to be cer^ 
tain and fpeedy in its operation; tho' it fhould militate againft- 
the fuppofl-d, or even real intereft, of their opprelTors ; and let 
it be remembered, that it is in thepo\\-erof the peopleof England 
to effeft itjby refufnig to receive the produce. Norwould the le- 
giflature be then harraffed with prepofterous claims for com- 
penfation; which, however unfounded in judice or reaion, 
will be fupported by influence, and enforced v/ith clamour. 

The cafe now fully lies before ns; and wc have to make our 
choice, either to join ourfelves v/ith thefe manufa61iurers of hu- 
man woe, or to renounce the horrid affociation. If weadopt the- 
former, let us at leaft have the candour to avovv- our conduft in 
its real deformity. Let us no longer affetl to deplore the calami- 
ties attendant on the Slave Trade, of which we are the primary 
eaufe: nor execrate the condu6b of the flave-dealer, the flave- 
holder, or the llave-driver ; Vv^hen they are only our partners in 
guilt, Yoxii we now take oztrfb-are in the tranfa6t.ion,.we fhpuld,. 



m maemmi mss 



Hvere we ptaceStna'Tilttilarr Wtli^tfottH^^ witli as little[7 

compun6tioa take ihdrsj unlefs we can fuppofe that we fhould 
become virtuous, in proportion as the temptation to vice in- 
creafed. For we fliould not then, any more than now, be defli- 
tute of fubterfuges to deHroy the feelings of our Hiir«ids, and the 
conviftions of our confciences. 

No longer can ignorance and inattention be pleaded as our 
excufe. The fubjeft has been four years before the public. Its 
dreadful wickcdnefs has been fully proved. Every deception 
with which it has been difguifed, has been completely done a.- 
way ; it ftands before us in all its native horrors. No longer can 
it be pretended, that Africa is a barbarous, uncultivated land, 
inhabited h/ a race of lavages. Mr. How, who vv-'cnt up the 
country, depofes, That, inland, it is every where well cultiva- 
ted, abounding with rice; m.illet, potatoes, cotton and indigo 
"plantations ; that the inhabitants are quick in learning languag- 
es, remarkably induftrious, hofpitabic and obliging. That they 
pelTefs noble and heroic minds, difdaining flavery, and fre- 
-qucntly feeking refuge from> it in death. Nor fhall we again be 
told;, of the fuperiorhappinefs they enjoy under the benevolent 
care of the planters: Mr. Coor having depofed, that, " fetting 
flaves to work in a morning, is attended with loud peals oi 
*' whipping;-" — General Toitenliam, •• that there is no compa- 
" rifon between regimental Hogging, vvhich only cuts the Ikin, 
'• and the plantation, which cuts out the flefli ;" — Capt. Hah, 
*' that the puniOiments are very fhocking, much more lo than in 
*' men of war:" — Capt. Smith, " that at every flroke of the 
*' whip a piece of flefn is cutout."- — and Mr. Rofs. '^ that he 
*' coniidersa comparifon betAveen Weft-India flaves, and the 
*' Britiflr peaiantry, as an infultto common fenle." 

V/e are rrowcalled to redrefs evils, in com-parifon with which, 
all that exift in this nation fink beneath our notice : and the on- 
ly facrifice we are required to make, is the abandoning a luxury 
which habit only can have rendered im;portant — a luxury for 
which the induftrious bee labours to fupply an excellent fuc- 
cedaneum. If we refufe to hear the admonitions of eonlcience 
on thisoccafion, it may bejuftly infered, that our numerous dif- 
plays of humanity, have not their foundation in any virtuous 
or valuable principle : but that they owe their origin to cuftom 
and oftentation? If our execration of the flave trade be any 
more than hypocritical declamation againfh crimes we are not 
in a fituation to commit, we fhall, inftead of being felicitous to 
find defpicable difhindlions tojuitify our condu6t,abhorthe idea 
of contributing in the leafh degree, to fuch fcenes of mifery. 

Jf theic bededu6tions from the moR obvious principles of rea- 
fon. ofjuifice and of humanity ; whatmuilbe the relult if we 
extend our views to religious confideratlons? Vv'ill itbefaid we 
alfumeareligiousprofeflionto diminifh the extent ofour moral 
duties, or to weaken the force of our obligation toobfcrvethem. 
May wc not then afk, if we mean to ailuluhe God we,prc- 



8]tcnd to woifliipjbyfupplicatihg him to *' have mercy upon all 
*' prifoncrs and captives," and to "defend the fatherlels, vvi- 
*• dows, and children, and all that arc delolate and oppreOcd." 
And may we not expc6l that the Dillentcrs, will think it at leaft 
as rcquiliteto diilent from the national crn/zej. as the national re- 
ligion; unlefs they mean to prove they have confciences of fo pe- 
culiar a texture, as to take offence at the rdigion oftheii- coun- 
try, while tliey can conform without Icruple to its mode rz^/- 
n'al praclices. If indeed tliey are fatisfied, after an impartial ex- 
amination, that the traffic alluded to is fair and honeft, it will 
become them to encourage it ; they will reprobate this work as 
an attempt to flandcr honeft men, and to injure th'^ir property, 
by holding it out to the public, as the produce of^obbery and 
murder. But if the arguments be valid, furely they will not 
cxDutinue to treat the fubject with cool indilTcreHce. 

But there is one clafsof dificntcrs whojuilly ftand high in the 
public eftimation, for their fteady, manly. and uniform oppoliti- 
on to our colonial flavery. Can it then be fuppofcd that, after 
having awakened the p-'blic attention, they can refufe to con- 
tiibutcwhat is in their own power to remedy the evil? The 
plan propofed, is a plain and obvious deduction from their uni- 
formprincipleof haviiigno concern in what they difapprove. 
Tlius, viewing war as unlawful, they conhder goods obtained 
through that medium as criminally obtained ; and will notfulfer 
i.ay ot their members to purchafe prize-goods : and furely they 
will not pnetcnd thefcizingaman'spcrion, is a crime inferior 
to the fcizing of his goods. 

But however obvious a duty may be, yet the mind when har- 
dened by habit, admits with difficulty the convidion of guilt : 
and when fanCtioned by common practice, we frequently com- 
jnit the grollcft. crimes without remorie. It is therefore peculi- 
aily incumbent on us in fuch iituations, to examine ourcondutt 
with the utmoit. fufpicion, and to fortify our minds with moral 
piinciples and the lanRions of religion. In proportion as we 
.are under their influence, we fnall rejoice that it is in our power 
to diminifhthofe evils, recollecting that it refts not with the 
exertions of wealthjof rank,orof power: for even in the peace- 
ful hamlety and fequeftercd cot, we hnd the fource of Afric's 
wrongs, and to them we look for their redrcis. Surely then we 
may look with hope., that the ftandard of the opprelfed being 
raifed, the wife and the good will form a phalanx round it, that 
fnall make the abettors of oppreffion tremble. Let us therefore 
exert ourfcivcs to the utmoft in our refpeciive htuations, to rei- 
cue from oppreffion and mifery the injured Africans and their 
unhappy offspring in our illands-: coniidering that our exertions 
"are not to be judged of merely by their immediate effc6ls, for 
they may produce remote ones of which we can form no 
eftimate;' but, whatever they may be. after having done our du- 
ty, we may leave them with Him who governs all things aftatkt, 
'Cvuvfd of his own zoilU FINIS, 



