Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/discourseinfavouOOhugh 



DI SCOURSE 



IN FAVOUR OF THE 



ABOLITIONoF SLAVERY 



IN THE 



BRITISH WEST INDIES. 



Preached on fhe 1? irlt bunaay in Lent, in the Parifli 
Churchy of Ware, Herts. 



By the Rev. W. HUGHES, M. A. 



Publfjhed by the Dejire of the Audience. 



LONDON: 

PRINTED FOR T. C A D E I. f., IN T H E STRAND. 



.7iO 



D r S C O U R S E, &c. 



TsAiAH, Iviii. 6, 

Is not this the faji that I have chofen ? to loofc the hands of 
wickednefs^ to undo the heavy burthens, and to let the op-^^ 
prejfed go free f 

rTT^ HERE is harmony in all the works of God ; and 
-■- whether we confult the volume of nature or of 
revelation, we difcover it equally in each. Thouo-h in 
the gradual difplay of the divine will, that light only 
dawns forth in the law, which, in the gofpel, breaks out 
with brighter luftre ; yet the Old Teflament, as well as 
the New, affords Itrong internal proofs of its celeftial 
origin ; and the rcfemblance, which is difcoverable be- 

A 2 tween 



[ 4 ] 

tween the two difpenfations, in fome important in- 
{lances, may be confidered as an evidence of their 
having both proceeded from the fame author, the Fa-= 
ther of Mercies. In both revelations, mercy, juftice, 
and truth are confidered as the weightier matters of 
human duty; and the fame difregard of external rites 
and obfervances is expreffed in both, when they are 
not accompanied by thofe virtues, which they were 
intended to produce. " To what purpofe is the mul- 
titude of your facrifices unto me ?" faid the Almighty 
to the children of Ifrael. * ' Your hands are full of 
blood." — " I fad twice in the week, I give tythes of 
all that I poffefs," faid the proud Pharifee in the Gofpel. 
Alas! to what purpofe? Without, indeed, all was fair and 
beautiful as a whited fepulchre ; and, like that too, all 
within was foulnefs and corruption. In the words of 
the text alfo, works of mercy are emphatically pre- 
ferred to the inftrumental parts of religion : and no 
^vonder, fmce the former are to be confidered as the 
end, and the latter only as the means of becoming 

re* 



r 5 ] 

» 

religious : but if the means produce not the end, where 
is their ufe ? They can only ferve hypocrites to delude 
themfelves and others. They plainly had this bad 
effect on the Jews ; and the Prophet feverely repre- 
hends the inlincerity of their profeffions, pretending, 
as they did, to be religious, when they refufed to yield 
obedience to the benevolent injunctions of their law, 
which required them to give freedom to their Hebrew 
fervants every feventh year. Nor is this the only 
palfage in the Old Teftament, in which the comfort 
and happinefs of thofe is confulted, who, from the 
nature of theit fituation, mu|t have been peculiarly 
liable to hardfhip and ill ufage : the fcriptures abound 
with many others ; Though it pleafed the Divine Wif- 
dom, not wholly to abolifh involuntary fervitude at, 
that time, but to mitigate the evil, and render it tole- 
rable to thofe to whofe lot it fell. Much more deplo- 
rable was the condition of flaves among the Gentiles, 
protected, as they fometimes were> by no laws either 
divine or human. Who can read, without horror and 

in- 



[ 6 ] 

indignation, the accounts which are given of the 
treatment which they received under the Roman go- 
vernment? Nations the moft polite and civilized feem 
to have improved in the arts of cruelty, in proportion 
as they learned to excel in thofe arts that adorn human 
life: their greatefl enjoyments and moft exquifite 
pleafures have arifen from the contemplation of human 
mifery. Melancholy proof of the depravity of the 
heart of man ? A fhew of gladiators was the favourite 
amufement of a Roman affembly ; and the unhappy 
victims were required, by their unrelenting- tyrants^ fct 
refign themfelves to torture or to death, as either beft 
fuited the caprice of the moment*. Such were the 
horrid praftices which difgraced a moft wife and re- 
fined people amongft the ancient Heathens : till at length: 
the gofpel was publifhed to the world, the fun of 
righteoufnefs arofe,, and fuch cruelties and oppreflions. 



* Two thoufand gladiators, who were either flaves or prifoners, have 
been fecn at once on a Roman theatre, expiring or dead. 

as 



'[ 7 ] 
as had long been a reproach to human nature, with 
other works of darknefs, vanifhed from before it. And 
it might reafonably have been expected, that wherever 

Chriltianity is profefTed, the iniquitous cuftom of com- 
mitting their fellow-creatures to perpetual flavery, fo 

utterly inconfiftent with its fpirit of mercy and bene- 
volence, would never have revived: but alas! the 
evil not only prevails in fome of our foreign fettle - 
ments, but has alfo its abettors and defenders even in 
this land of liberty. And what practices are fo infa- 
mous as not to have found ^rlxmratee in thnfe who are 
interefled in the commilTion of them ? What crimes 
are too fhocking for men to commit, when impelled 
by the thirft of gain* ? There are advocates, not only 
for the continuation of flavery, but even for the le- 
gality of it, who aflert that flaves are as much the 
property of their poffeflbr as any thing elfe can be ; 

* Quid non mortalia pedora cogis 

Auri facra fames ? Virg. 

they 



C 8 1 

they are his by right of purchafe. Not to mention that 
this kind of traffick is contrary to natural law, and ta 
€very law under heaven, has any one a right to purchafe 
that of another which he is confcious is not the pro- 
perty of another? In fuch a cafe, the purchafer is to^ 
be confidered as an accomplice with the thief. This 
rule holds good in the prefent cafe. The wretched 
African, before he is expofed to fale, has either been 
llolen away from his parents and his native country, or 
at leafl has been unjuftly deprived of his liberty, by 
fraud or violence: To thofe who have lamented the 
barbarous treatment of the negro flaves, it has been 
anfwered, that it is contrary to the interefl of the 
planter to correal beyond meafure, or to fhorten the 
lives of his flaves by ill-ufage. Are not men daily 
incited, either by folly, caprice, or ill-humour^ to do 
thofe things that are contrary to their interell ? Let 
any one reflect on the condition of thofe animals that 
are moil ferviceable to man, when it is their misfortune 
to be the property of one who ^* regardeth not the 
2 ' ' life 



[ 9 ] 

life of his beaft, but whofe tender mercies are cruel." 
The cafe of the African fiave is exaftly fimilar ; his 
comfort or mifery depends entirely on the difpofition 
of the mailer whom he happens to ferve ; the will of 
the tyrant is, in the flriclefl fenfe of the words, the 
law of the flave. Is it poffible for human nature to be 
in a more abjed ftate ? And fhall we then, who make 
our boaft of the bleffing of liberty, become the bafe 
advocates of the vileft and moft intolerable flavery ? 
Shall any political or interefted motives induce us thus 
to trample on the facred law« of nature '^ Shall we, 
who call ourfelves Chriftians, thus dare to violate the 
precepts of our holy religion ? It has been alledged, 
that there are planters who treat their flaves with a de- 
gree of humanity, and even with tendernefs : the 
truth of this faft will be admitted with pleafure : but 
in the name of reafon and common fenfe, fhall flavery 
be continued, becaufein fome few, very few inftances, 
the mifery of the flave is not extreme P Artful and 
malicious infmuations have been thrown out, that the 

B natives 



[ 10 ] 

natives of Africa have a degree of underllanding little 
ftiperior to that of brutes, and ftill lefs feeling. The 
ingenuity of the writings of thofe who have accident- 
ally received feme fmall fhare of education amongft 
us, is a fufficient confutation of the firft part of the 
charge ; and their fenfibility is generally allowed to be 
quick and lively to a great degree ; as, indeed, fuf- 
ficiently appears from their expreffibns of grief and 
agony when in a ftate of captivity. It has been urged 
as an unanfwerable argument in behalf of flavery, that 
if it be an evil, it is. In the prefent cafe at leaft, a ne- 
ceifary evil ; fince without the continuance of it, and 
the conftrained labour of thefe miferable beings, cer- 
tain luxuries, now in general ufe, could not be pro- 
cured. Perifh every luxury that the earth produces, 
fooner than fo many of our fellow-creatures fhould be 
doomed to perpetual and irremediable mifery*. Shall 



* It has been computed that one hundred thoufand flaves are annually- 
exported from Africa to the Britifh Weft Indies, and to America, vaft 
numbers of whom perifh every year, through the cruelty of their tafk- 
mafteis, 

this; 



C " 3 

this man riot in all the excefles of voluptuoufnefs? 
Shall eveiy exotic delicacy be procured, and all nature 
be ranfacked for his delight ? And fhall another, who 
by his labour hath adminiflered to the pleafures of the 
former, tafle nothing but the cup of bitternefs ? Af« 
furedly there is a luxury far fuperior to that of grati- 
fying the palate ; and he who can enjoy the divine 
pleafure that arifes from the relief of mifery, from 
loofing the bands of wickednefs, and letting the 
oppreffed go free, will not much lament the lofs of 
other gratifications*. But the fa6l, that certain luxuries 

* Some have declared it as their opinion, that the fituation of the 
whites would be extremely dangerous, if the blacks were to be eman- 
cipated : whereas it feems reafonable to fuppofe that the reverfe would be 
the cafe. The immediate effe61: of fuch emancipation and abolition of 
the flave-trade would be, that the proportion of blacks would begin to 
decreafe, till the poor creatures were allowed to marry without reilraint, 
and to bring up their children i and their defire to injure the whites, it may 
be fuppofed, would no longer exift, when they found themfelves treated 
as men, and not as brutes. Our worthy countrymen, the planters, have 
an additional fecurity in the protection of a body of regular Britiili troops; 
and what more eafy than to forbid the blacks the ufe of fire-arms, at leaft 
for a time, even after they have been declared free ? There remains not 
the fhadow of an argument, nor can any one with any confiftency coun- 
tenance thefe blackcft deeds of hell, unlefs he openly acknowledges that 
his profeffion of Chriftianity is a mere farce, and that the only thing worthy 
of the confideration of a reafonable being, is, how he fhall be able to amafs 
the greatcfl poffible quantity of wealth. Whom then flrall we fcrve, God 
or Mammon ? for that is the only queftion. 

4 B 2 mull 



C 12 ] 

muft be relinquiflied, if flavery were to be aboliflied, 
inufl not be admitted, for it is not founded in truth. 
To endeavour to perfuade the world that it is fo, is 
one of the artifices of thofe fons of Mammon, who can 
only feel for themfelves, and for their own interefls. 
There can be no doubt that moderate wages and kind 
treatment would induce a fufficient number volun- 
tarily to continue thofe fervices which are at prefent 
compelled. To thofe who are the lincere friends of 
religion, the evil of this moil cruel of all flavery muft 
appear to be greatly ags**^vated by the conlideration 
of the impofTibility of converting men to the Chriftian 
faith under fuch circumftances : the very attempt i 
would be abfurdity and mockery. In what terms 
fhould fuch an audience be addreffed ? Will you tell 
them, that you wifh to fave their fouls, while you 

torment their bodies ? that it is your moft earneft de- 
li re to make them eternally happy hereafter ; and as a 
proof of your fincerity, render their exiftence mifera- 

ble here ? Will you tell them, that, as bound by the 

laws 



[ ^3 ] 

laws of your religion, you conlider and love all men 
as your brethren, and convince them of the warmth 
of your afFedion with whips and fcourges ? Is it thus 
the glad tidings of " peace upon earth, good-will to- 
wards men," which were firft ufhered into the world 
with the fongs of angels, are to be announced ? Are 
thefe the means by which Chrift's religion is to prevail 
and become univerfal throughout the world ? Having 
examined the principal arguments which have been 
made ufe of by the advocates of flavery, and Ihewn 
their futility ; let us now take a view uf the real con- 
dition of thofe who have been fo unfortunate as to be 
reduced to that ftate in our Weft India iflands. Con- 
fider them, in the firft place, torn by violence from 
their native country, and from all that endears human 
life, from their friends and relations (for they too have 
their connections, they too are men), and carried away 
captive to fome ftrange land, they know not whither : 
if they efcape the dangers of the fea, they are then 
publickly cxpofcd and fold, though guilty of no crime; 

thus 



thus condemned to the moft humiliating condition to 
which human nature can be reduced. To behold thefe 
haplefs creatures, toiling night and day that the earth 
may produce thofe fruits which they are doomed not to 
enjoy*; their bodies ilWefended from the inclemen- 
cies of the weather ; " hungry and thirlly, their fouls 
fainting within them,'' unmercifully beaten for trifling 
offences, nay, tormented by all the lludied arts of ma- 
lice, and often put to a cruel and lingering death ! To 
behold thefe calamities, and to refleft that they were 
brought upon the fufFerers by tliofc Wko Iboaa tlmt the 
image of God is imprelfed upon them ! Who^ is not 
afhamed of his nature ? Mercilefs tyrants ! how is it 
that your atrocious crimes have not brought down the 
vengeance of Heaven upon a nation that has fo long 
fuffered fuch inhuman pra6lices to prevail? But perhaps 



* Negroes are fo far from enjoying the choicer fruits of the earth, that 
they are not allowed a fufficiency even of neceffary food. " In Barbadoes," 
fays a refpedable writer, " and fome other of the iflands, fix pints of In- 
dian corn and three herrings are reckoned a full week's allowance for a. 
working fkve/* A. Benezet, 



they 



[ ^5 ] j 

they have done fo. Is it unreafonable to fuppofe that the 
evils which we at prefent lament and fufFer, the con- 
, fequences of a fatal and fuccefslefs war, may be in- 
flicted on us for our manifold tranfgreflions, and in 
particular for our unchriilian negleft of the cruel 
treatment of thefe our diflreffed brethren, " in that 
we faw the anguifh of their fouls,'' and did not attend 
to their complaint*. Nothing that has been now faid 
on the fubje6l of this cruel flavery, has been wilfully 
exaggerated or mifreprefented : fuffer me then, my 
brethren, to plead for the miferable. It is the caufe 
of humanity ; it is the caufe of heaven. But your li- 
berality, already proved on former occafions, fuffi- 
ciently urgent, though of lefs moment than the prefent, 
renders it almoft unneceffary now to fupplicate your 
benevolence. Your hearts are alive to the feelings of 



* To thofe who will allow that the Supreme Being may infliiSt national 
punifhments for national crimes, and who ferioufly confider what we have 
been guilty of, in countenancing the moft horrid and barbarous fcenes 
that the world ever beheld, the above paflage may not appear to be the 
very height of folly and fanaticifm . 

hu- 



i6 

humanity, and your hands are open to relieve the 
wretched. And lo ! a dawn of hope appears. The 
cry of the afflided is heard. May it obtain relief from 
diofe who are impoweredto grant it*; that the abjeft 
Have, the poor, infulted, afflifted, and deje(5]:ed Afri- 
can may be releafed from his bondage, and reftored to 
an equal enjoyment of the privileges of human na- 
ture. All good men, who take this matter into con- 
fideration, mufl concur in their mofl earneft wifhes for 
fo delirable an event. All Chriftians are bound to do 
fot ; and ihould their kind endeavours " in this labour 



* There is great reafon to hope for fuccefs ; fome of .the firft characters 
in the kingdom are known to favour the caufe ; in particular a moft worthy 
prelate of our church, the prefent Bifliop of London, has nobly dif- 
tinguifhedhimfelf as the friend of man. 

t A fociety of Chriftians, known by the appellation of Quakers, ever 
remarkable for the harmleffnefs of their manners, and the mild benevolence 
of their difpofitions, have deferved the higheft praife, have acquired the 
greateft glory, by their fteady perfeverance and unabating zeal, in a caufe 
which refledls fo much honour on the Chriftian name. It is earneftly to 
be wifhed that Chriftians of every denomination would follow their ex- 
ample of philanthropy, and, forgetting their animofities and difputes on 
fubjeCIs concerning which, men, as heretofore, ever will, in all probability, 
hold different opinions ; inftead of contending who fhall moft expofe to 
the world his own want of charity and ill-breeding, contend only who 
do moft good to mankind, 

of 



in] 

©f lave", be crowned with fuccefs: millions yet un- 
bom would blefs the generous and charitable eflforts of 
the Britifh nation ; and, in fome more aufpicious pe- 
riod, may be induced to embrace the Chriftian faith,, 
and to believe, that it is indeed a religion of love and 
mercy, when they perceive that fuch have been the 
fruits of it. O thou benevolent Creator of all things,. 
merciful Father of Nature, who firft madeft man that 
thou mighteft communicate to him a portion of thy 
happinefs ; look down with pity on the abjeft Hate of 
this part of the human fpecies,. thus degraded from 
the rank which thou haft appointed man to hold 
amongft the works of thy creation. Let it be thy will 
to give freedom to thofe who are in captivity. Melt 
the hearts of their oppreffors into tendernefs and com-t 
paftion. And, for the fake of him who gave his life a 
ranfom for fmners, grant that the whole human race 

C may 



I i8 ] , 
may be delivered, as from temporal, fo alfo from fpi- 
ritual bondage, " into the glorious liberty of the chiL 
dren of God." 



N- 



