Digitized by the Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/speechofrighthonOObrou 



SPEECH 

OF THE 

EIGHT HON. LORD BROUGHAM 

ON THE 

LIABILITIES OF BRITISH SUBJECTS, 

TO THE PENALTIES OF THE LAW, 

FOR 

HOLDING AND TEAFFICKING IN SLAVES, 
IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES; 

AND ON 

SLAVERY 

IN 

BRITISH INDIA. 

DELIVERED IN THE HOUSE OF LORDS, 5th OCTOBER, 1841. 

WITH ILLtrSTBATIVE NOTES. 



SeconU ®f)ottsantf. 



LONDON: 
THOMAS WARD AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW; 

AND TO BE HAD AT THE OFFICE OF THE BRITISH AND FOREIGN ANTI-SLAVERY 
SOCIETY, 27, NtW BROAD STREET. 

1841. 

(Price Five shillings per Hundred. J 



7^S(,^(?3l(I7 



NOTE. 

As it is believed that not a few British subjects have been 
led unwittingly to invest capital in certain speculations, 
which capital has been, to a very considerable extent, appro- 
priated to the purchase of slaves for working Plantations, 
and Mines in foreign countries, whereby the plainest dictates 
of humanity and religion, as well as the laws of the land 
have been grossly violated, and the slave-trade and slavery 
sustained and strengthened ; such persons are earnestly en- 
treated, not less to avoid the penalties of the law, than to 
purge themselves from the guilt of such transactions, to take 
steps to secure the immediate and complete emancipation of 
the slaves thus illegally procured, by their agents or repre- 
sentatives. 



SPEECH, &c. 



Lord Brougham. — I rise to call the attention of your lordships to a 
subject of very great importance, and upon which, as there happily exists 
no difference of opinion either in this or the other House of Parliament,-^ 
and as there prevails, indeed, a singular unanimity regarding it in every 
part of the country, — it will be the less necessary for me to trouble you at 
any considerable length. The subject to which I refer is the slave-trade and 
slavery. I believe that there exists in no part of either House of Parlia- 
ment, or of the community, any description of persons who feel any but 
the strongest desire to see this most execrable traffic universally and in- 
stantly destroyed ; and also to see the state of personal slavery itself as 
universally, and with all practicable expedition, extinguished. The ground 
upon which I deem it necessary to trouble your lordships, upon the present 
occasion, is, that great misapprehension has, apparently, gone forth, 
touching the state of the law with respect to the slave-trade as it at 
present stands. 1 presented a petition to your lordships, some ten or 
twelve days ago, which contained a variety of important allegations'upon this 
matter. I then distinctly stated that the responsibility for the truth of those 
allegations must, of course, rest with the respectable petitioners who brought 
the subject before the House; but that, if the facts which they stated turned 
out to be true, it would follow that, to a large amount, the capital of this 
country was embarked not only in continuing slavery in foreign countries, 
but actually in upholding, and even extending, the slave-trade itself. I 
thought it expedient, in going over the different statements which that peti- 
tion contained, to specify those dealings which I understood, from the 
best attention I could give the subject, to be not contrary to the existing 
law — those dealings which I conceived to be of a doubtful character — 
and those which are clearly and distinctly prohibited — some of the state- 
ments describing acts as having been done, and as still doing by British 
subjects, which acts, without any doubt whatever, are prohibited by the 
laws of this country. 

I shall begin with the last class of these dealings, namely, those alleged 
to have been entered into by British subjects, and which are clearly quite 
illegal. The law is, that any British subject, in any part of the world, 
whether in a country where the slave-trade is unlawful, or in a country 
where the slave-trade is lawful, or in a country where the slave-trade is 
not only allowed, but protected and even encouraged by the law, — if, 
except on some savage coast, there be such a country, — the slave-trade, 
if engaged in by a British subject, is, in that person, illegal — a felony 
and piracy, punishable with transportation for life, if committed on the 
high seas, or within the jurisdiction of the Admiralty ; punishable with 
transportation for fourteen years if committed in any place out of the 
Admiralty jurisdiction. For several years the offence of slave-trading, if 
committed within the Admiralty jurisdiction, was a capital felony ; but, 
by an act passed four years ago, it has been reduced to transportation for 
life ; though it is still piracy as well as felony. If committed elsewhere, by 
a British subject, though in a colony or a country wl>ere slave-trading is 
ever so much permitted, and even favoured by the law of the place, it is a 
felony in that British subject ; he is liable to be tried, if taken and brought 
to a settlement of the British crown, or if taken and brought into this 
country, he is liable to be tried for that act of slave-t!rading, as if it had 
been committed in the county of Middlesex ; and, on being convicted, he 
is liable to be transported as a felon for fourteen years. Having distinctly 



stated this, I trust I shall not again hear my opinion cited, to show that it 
depends on the law of the foreio^n country where a British subject resides 
and commits the act, whether he be guilty of felony or not •, whereas I 
have always expressly stated, that the law of the foreign country is utterly 
immaterial as regards British subjects ; and it is equally certain, no doubt, 
that if a foreigner within any of our dominions or settlements commits an 
act of slave-trading, he is also liable to be dealt with as a felon, and trans- 
ported for life or for fourteen years, according as he may have com- 
mitted the offence within or without the Admiralty jurisdiction. The only 
question that can ever arise is, whether any given act amounts to slave- 
trading or not. Now, several of the acts described in the petition do not, 
as it appears to me, amount to slave-trading ■ some of them appear of a 
doubtful character ; others appear quite clearly to be slave-trading, and to 
come within the provisions of the abolition law. If a person fits out a 
vessel to traffic with a slave factory, and if he sells goods to that slave 
factory, although these goods may be used in the slave-trade — although 
they may be of such a kind as can either be used for the slave-trade, or for 
the innocent commerce of Africa — if they are sold out and out for a price, 
I do not think that this amounts to slave-trading. Whether it be a com- 
mendable use of capital is an entirely different question — whether it be a 
kind of trade which one would wish to be engaged in, or could approve of 
in those who drive it, is another matter ; but, as regards the law of this 
country, it does not appear to me to be slave-trading within the meaning 
of the Abolition Acts. If the goods sent are of such a description that it 
is by no means doubtful whether they are to be used in slave-trading or 
not ; — if, for instance, a cargo of fetters and shackles be sent out to a 
slave factory, or any other article which can only be used in the slave- 
trade, this may be more questionable ; — but I am not prepared to say that 
even this is an act of slave trading which would make the exporter liable 
to a charge of felony : it appears to me to be, as the law now stands, of a 
doubtful description. But, if either one kind of goods or the other — either 
goods that may be used indiscriminately in the innocent and in the guilty 
commerce, or goods that must needs be intended to be used in the slave- 
trade by the slave factory to which they are exported — are bargained to be 
paid for in a price, to depend on the slave traffic, as the petition asserts 
they are, in many instances, — then I state my opinion, it is of little impor- 
tance, but, for myself, it is fit I should state it, that this is an act of slave- 
trading, being a partnership with the slave-trade, and that the person 
exporting such goods, upon such contract, is guilty of felony, within the 
meaning of the English abolition laws. 

Now, there is another and much more important description of dealing, 
because much more extensive in its application, to which I entreat the 
attention of your lordships and of her Majesty's government, that is, 
the act of holding property in a foreign settlement, which is to be culti- 
vated or worked — cultivated in the case of a plantation, or worked in the 
case of a mine — by slave labour, and, in consequence of holding such 
property, being concerned in the purchase or sale of slaves, with a view- 
to cultivate the plantation or to work the mine. Upon this kind of dealing, 
the question arises, do the abolition acts affect it or not ? — Is the 
ownership of such property, and the management of it by buying and 
selling slaves, within those acts or not ? My lords, this is a matter 
of very great importance ; because it appears, though I do not see how 
or whence the doubt has arisen, — but I should rather say how the con- 
fident opinion is entertained, that this is a dealing in slavery and slaves, 
to which the abolition law does not apply. That some such opinion is 
generally prevalent, seems clear, for it has been acted upon by a number 
of most respectable individuals, and acted upon to a great extent. It has 
led to their engaging in a variety of important transactions, — it has in- 
duced them to invest theii* capital to a large amount in foreign settlements,—^ 
it has encouraged some to purchase and work the slave concerns, others to 
lend their capital to those who work them. These respectable parties 
never would have thought of such transactions, had they not been well 



assured of their legality ; and yet, when your lordships come to consider 
the provisions of tlae law, and how it bears upon such dealings, 1 hardly 
think I have a right to express a doubt that you will be under the neces- 
sity of holding them to be illegal. The acting or dealing on which the 
question arises, is this. — we are not speaking of holding slave property; 
that of itself is nothing; for the emancipation act of 1833, did not prohibit 
British subjects from holding slaves in foreign settlements in the same way 
that the Abolition Act had prohibited British subjects from slave-trading ia 
foreign settlements ; the measures were, in this respect, differently framed, 
consequently, after the act of 1833, and even after the final period of emanci- 
pation, 1840, it was lawful for a British subject to have property in slaves in a 
foreign settlement. But the question is this : — Has it been lawful since the 
Abolition Law — meaning, of course, the law abolishing the slave-trade, — has 
it been lawful for a British subject to purchase slaves, voluntarily to make him- 
self the holder of slaves, to buy slaves or to sell slaves, in a foreign country? 
The question arises upon the legality of that act. I have been represented as 
Laving said — I must have been so represented, because I have received one 
or two letters probably from persons engaged in these transactions, or whose 
friends are so engaged, and who are desirous of knowing if it be true, that 
1 had no doubt, that such dealing was lawful, and was not struck at hy 
the abolition law. Now, in presenting the petition, I carefully abstained 
from saying any such thing — I most carefully abstained from giving any 
such opinion, I could not have given any such opinion ; because if called, 
on to say whether it was lawful or not, my opinion certainly was, that it is 
illegal. I do not say it is a matter free from all doubt ; but, certainly, 
though my opinion may be worth little, yet, as far as it goes, the abolition 
law strikes at those dealings ; and I will state the grounds of that opinion. 
As your lordships will remember, a change took place in the abolition law 
in ISSi. The act of 1811 (the 51st Geo. III. c. '23.), which I had the 
great satisfaction of introducing, and which obtained the unanimous con- 
currence of the House of Commons and of your lordships, in every stage 
of the Bill, made slave-trading punishable as a crime ; before that time, it 
had only been dealt with as an offence against the revenue laws — treated 
as smuggling, and visited with fine and forfeiture. But my Bill made it a 
felony. Then in 1824, a material alteration was made : slave trading was 
divided into two kinds, one being declared to be piracy, and liable to 
capital punishment, if committed within the Admiralty jurisdiction ; and 
the other, if out of that jurisdiction, declared to be a clergyable felony, and 
punished with fourteen years transportation. Now, in attaching the lesser 
punishment to the act of slave-trading committed out of the Admiralty 
jurisdiction, the statute 5 Geo. IV. c. 113. gives this description. I 
shall only read the part applicable to the transactions in question — the 
buying and selling slaves in foreign countries. The first section having 
declared all such proceedings to be unlawful, and having generally pro- 
hibited them, the tenth declares them to be felony, and punishable, as I 
have stated, with fourteen years transportation, in these terms : — 

" Except in such special cases as are hereinafter provided for, if any 
person shall deal, trade in, purchase, sell, barter, or transfer, or contract 
for the dealing, trading in, purchasing, selling, bartering, or transferring of 
any slave or slaves, or persons intended to be dealt with as slaves, he shall 
be deemed and taken to be a felon, and, being convicted thereof, shall be 
adjudged guilty of felony, and suffer fourteen years transportation." 

Then the thirteenth section provides for these special cases, contem- 
plated in the exception of the tenth section, following precisely the words 
of the enacting part of that section : — 

"Provided always, that nothing hereinbefore contained shall be deemed 
or taken to prevent any person from dealing, trading in, purchasing, sell- 
ing, bartering, or transferring, or contracting, to deal, trade in, purchase, 
sell, barier, or transfer any slave or slaves, lawfully being within any 
island, colony, dominion, fort, or factory, belonging to, or in the posses- 
sion of, his AJujesty, in case such dealing, &c., be with the true intent and 



meaning of employing such slave or slaves in such colony in which he ot 
they may be at the time of such employment." 

And then comes the fourteenth section, which gives power to remove, 
by land or by sea, any slaves from one part of any such colony, in the 
possession of his Majesty to another part of any such colony ; but if the 
other part of the colony happens to be another island, then that person 
shall only be allowed to transfer a slave from one island to another by- 
licence first had and obtained from the governor of the colony, upon satis- 
factory proof being made to such governor, that the slave is only intended 
to be removed from one estate, the property of the owner of the slave, to 
another estate, also the property of such owner of the slave. Then how can 
a person in Brazil or Cuba be authorized to buy a slave under the thirteenth 
section, or to remove a slave by land or by sea from one part to another of 
Cuba or Brazil under the proviso in the fourteenth section, when neither 
Cuba nor Brazil are places in the possession or under the dominion of the 
British crown ; the special cases in which, alone, it is provided by the 
thirteenth or fourteenth sections, that the felony is not committed, namely, 
the cases of buying, selling, or removing in the colonies' settlements or pos- 
sessions of the British crown? It is upon these grounds, I feel bound to state 
my inability to understand on what view of the law those respectable parties 
have been advised to proceed, who have embarked in these speculations — 
have become the owners of slaves by purchase, or, which is the same thing, 
have, by their agents, purchased and sold, or transferred and removed, 
slaves in Cuba or in Brazil. I am unable to perceive upon what view of the 
law they can have been advised that they may safely embark in such 
speculations. So, likewise, it is made felony by the tenth section, know- 
ingly to lend or advance money or goods to be employed in accomplishing 
any of the objects hereinbefore forbidden or declared to be unlawful, — 
those objects being the buying, selling, bartering, or in any manner dealing 
in slaves or persons intended to be dealt with as slaves. How any person 
can have been advised, with a due regard to the provisions of these Acts, 
either to send goods or to advance money for the purpose of working a 
concern which requires the buying and selling of slaves, surpasses my 
powers of comprehension. Nevertheless, that such advice must have 
been given, — that such a yiew of the law must have been taken, there can- 
not be a doubt ; because numbers of wealthy and respectable individuals 
are known to have embarked their capital in the cultivation of foreign 
plantations, and the working of foreign mines ; to say nothing of the ori- 
ginal act of becoming owners of the stock of slaves upon the property by 
the purchase. What then remains to be done? I trust that my Noble 
Friends opposite will turn their attention to this subject at the earliest 
possible period ; and if any doubts should, upon a full consideration of the 
statutes appear to exist, that they will, as soon as Parliament meets, come 
down with a declaratory Act to have those doubts removed ; but if there 
should be no doubt, — if it should be clear that the Acts in question are 
illegal, — then the most satisfactory course v?ould be to notify the law by 
Proclamation, warning all persons who have unwarily got into the predica- 
ment which I have described, that the sooner they remove themselves from 
that predicament the better and the safer will it be for them. Such a 
course is only fair towards the parties, more especially towards those who 
have unwarily purchased shares in joint-stock concerns, most of whommay 
be supposed ignorant of the dealing in slaves which their capital has been 
supporting. The proclamation will give them due notice of this, and put 
them upon withdrawing from the partnership. At all events, it will 
prevent the possibility of any persons hereafter embarking in the same 
speculations, by stating what the inevitable consequence must be of such 
transactions. 

My Lords, the course which the legislature formerly took with respect 
to the slave-trade, appears to me, in connexion with the present question, 
to be well deserving the attention both of the governro.eut and your lord- 
ships. In 180b, the first Bill prohibiting the traffic, was brought in by 
my late learned and excellent friend, Sir Arthur Pigott, then Attorney- 



General under Lord Grenville's Administration ; it passed with little 
opposition, and is the 46th Geo. III. It prohibited the foreign 
slave-trade ; that is, it forbade any British subject to engage in the 
slave-trade carried on by foreign countries or colonies ; and it forbade the 
lending of money, or sending goods, or in any way embarking capital in 
transactions connected with that foreign traffic. In 1807, Lord Grey (then 
Lord Howick) brought in the first general Abolition Act, the 47 th Geo. 
ITL, which made all slave-trading within the dominions of the British 
crown, and all slave-trading by British subjects everywhere, liable to pecu- 
niary penalties, including the forfeiture of the ship and cargo. Then came 
the 51st Geo. III., the Act which 1 had the honour of passing through 
parliament, and which declared slave-trading to be felony, in the way I 
have already described. And, lastly, the Act of 18^4, brought in by Mr. 
Canning, (the oth Geo. IV.) made the change in the law which I before 
stated, repealing or consolidating the former statutes ; but that Act, so far 
from diminishing the stringency of their provisions, extended them con- 
siderably, and made some dealings which before were not deemed slave- 
trading to be clearly slave-trading; and amongst others, made the transac- 
tions to which I have called the attention of your lordships punishable 
as felonies, with the differences to which I have adverted. 

It thus appears that the slave-trading of British subjects in foreign 
colonies was the first branch of the traffic which the law struck dowu, 
and that when all slave-trading was not only made illegal, but, in the end, 
felonious, the foreign branch was, as might be expected, included in the 
enactment. My lords, nothing but the late period of the session prevents 
me from taking the course, now, which I took in 1810, with respect to the 
African slave-trade, when it was found that the acts of 1806 and 1807 
were ineffectual ; namely, the moving a resolution and address, pledging 
the house, " at an early period in the next session, to take the subject into 
its serious consideration, with a view to prevent such daring violations of 
the law." That proposition was adopted unanimously by the JSouse of 
Commons ; and, in consequence of the address, the felony Bill was brought 
in the next year, and passed with equal unanimity. If your lordships 
see any objection to such an address now from the session being about to 
close, L should be unwilling to press it on your attention. At any rate, I 
shall be satisfied with the ^declaration of the noble earl, the president of 
the board of trade, that he will lose no time, upon the prorogation 
of parliament, in drawing the attention of the law-officers of the crown 
to the subject, and in dealing with it as the result of the inquiry may 
show to be most effectual for carrying into complete execution the existing 
laws. Legal proceedings may probably be required in some cases ; but the 
proclamation will also be advisable. With respect to the report of 
Dr. Madden, on the state of things upon the African coast, I understand 
my noble friend has some objection to its being laid before parliament. I 
have no doubt he will state the nature of that objection. As it contains 
some valuable details, I shall move for its production. But whether it be 
produced or not, I trust the government will not fail to act immediately 
upon the information which it conveys. 

Before concluding my statement, I wish to call the attention of my 
noble friend, the president of the board of control, to the state of 
slavery and the slave-trade, in that part of the world with which his 
duties are most immediately connected. Much doubt has been expressed 
as to the legal existence of slavery in Malacca. It certainly was the 
opinion of one Malacca government that there was no such thing counte- 
nanced by law, although another entertained, subsequently, a different 
opinion ; but all doubts should have been removed by the unanimous 
resolution which was adopted by the whole body of the proprietors, in 
November, 1829, to liberate all their slaves on the 31st December, 1841. 
I think this would be perfectly good ground for an order in council, 
putting down slavery in the colony ; and I have no doubt my noble friend 
will take that subject into his consideration, the rather that I believe he 
agrees with those who hold it to be unsanctioned by law. I will now 



8 

draw bis attention to the dreadful effects of slavery and slave-trading in 
that part of the world which is under his administration. By the kindness 
of one of the individuals engaged in the law commission in India, I have 
had access to a report made by Lord Auckland, and which I apprehend 
has been sent to my noble friend. 

Lord Ellenborougii. — It has been sent, and was printed and laid on the 
table of the House of Commons early in April. 

Lord Brougham. — I was not aware of that, having been abroad at the 
time. It contains a report made to the commissioners by Major Sleeman, 
who describes the practices resorted to by certain gangs of the natives for 
the purpose of supplying the slave-market, he says: — 

*• These gangs invariably take their families with them on their expedi- 
tions, and the female members of the gangs are employed as inveiglers to 
win the confidence of the emigrant families they fall in with on the road. 
'J'hey introduce these families to the gang, and they are prevailed upon to 
accompany them to some place suitable for their designs upon them, when 
tbe parents are murdered by the men, while the women take care of the 
children." 

He then gives the examination of a number of the wretches who belong 
to those gangs. One of them says, — " We call our trade megpunna, our 
trade being," he adds, " the murder of travellers for their children.'* 
Another of them, being examined, says, in answer to the question : — 

" Are you not afraid that the children will disclose the manner in which 
you got them, and thereby get you into trouble? — We invariably murder 
our victims at night, first taking the precaution to put the children to sleep, 
and in the morning we tell them that we have purchased them of their 
parents, who have gone off and left them." 

Again he is asked : — 

" You seem to have been in the habit of selling children in all parts of 
the country, how have you avoided being apprehended 1 — The children 
are seldom aware of the fate of their parents ; and, in general, we sell 
them to people very well acquainted with the nature of our proceedings." 

But it is not merely a general description which they give. The details 
of their commerce are presented to us. Another Jemadar, or leader of 
one of these gangs, says : — 

** After the capture of Bhurtpoor," (which, according to my recollection, 
was in the year 1826,) " Nanoo Sing, Brinjarah, and four other Brin- 
jarahs, residents of Kurnoul, came to me with four travellers and their 
four children, and invited me to participate in their murder, which I con- 
sented to, and with the assistance of my gang we strangled the whole of 
them, preserving the lives of the children, whom we sold at Jelpore for 
120 rupees," — (that is about £12.) " half of which was divided among 
the members of my gang. After this affair, I resolved on selecting 
for my victims the poorest class of travellers," — (which they do mani- 
festly because poor people are less likely to be inquired after), •' and 
murdering them for their children, for whom there was so great a 
demand in all the great cities. Since which I have committed the fol- 
lowing murders ." 

And then, I presume, he related the number of murders, though the 
report omits them. 

Another of these jemadars, when examined, is desired to give the parti- 
culars of the Husseeagunge affair, and he says, — 

" I left my home with a gang of forty Thugs, and proceeded to Hus- 
seeagunge, where Heera Dass and Rookmunee went to the city of Muttra 
for the purpose of buying some clothes, and succeeded in winning the 
confidence of four travellers, two men and two women, with their three 
children, whom they brought with them to our encampment ; after pass- 
ing two days with us, Teella Dass, Mudhoo Dass, Frinjarahs, and Dewa 
Hookma, Teelake, Guugarum, Brinjarahs, Balluck Dass, Chutter Dass, 



9 

Neput Dass, and Hunooman Dass, prevailed on this family to accompany 
them to the bants of the Jumma, and murdered the four elderly 
travellers in a garden near the village of Gokool ; after throwing theii 
bodies into the Jumma, they took their three children to the tanda, or en- 
campment, of Dewa Brinjarah, near the village of Kheir, and sold the two 
female children for forty rupees, and the male for five rupees." 

The murder, therefore, of these four persons was committed for be- 
tween £4 and £5, Another person, a woman, who was examined, 
said, — 

*' We now went off to Thuneiseir, where we encamped in a grove on 
the bank of a tank, and here several parties of traveilei's were inveigled 
by the wives of the leaders of our gangs to come and take up their lodg- 
ings with us : — 1. A Chumar, with three daughters, one thirty years of 
age, and the others young. 2. The widow of a carpenter, and her son, tea 
years of age. 3. A Brahmin and his wife, with one beautiful daughter, four- 
teen years old, another five, and a son. six years of age. 4. A Brahmin and 
his wife, with one daughter about fourteen, another twelve, and a son 
three years oi age. These travellers lodged for two or three days among 
the tents of the Naeks and Brinjarahs ; after which we all went one 
morning to a village in the territory of the Toorooee Rajah ; I forget his 
name. Here very heavy rain fell at night, and deluged the country, and 
we got no rest. The next morning we went to a village on- the bank of 
the canal, still in the same Rajah's country. The next da)- we went to a 
village on the bank of the Jumma ; and two hours after night Kaner Dass 
proposed that we should go down to the sacred stream of the Jumma, say 
our prayers, and remain there. They all went down accordingly, leaving 
me, Roopla and his second wife (Rookmunee) at the village. They mur- 
dered the seven men and women, and threw their bodies into the river ; 
but who killed them, or how they were killed, I know not. The Chu- 
mar and his eldest daughter, the two Brahmins and their wives, and the 
carpenter's widow, were all murdered. They brought the nine children 
back to us a watch and a half before daylight. They were all crying a 
good deal after their parents, and we quieted them the best way we could 
with sweetmeats and playthings. We came to Beebeepore, and en- 
camped in the grove. A daughter and son of the Brahmin's were ex- 
tremely beautiful, and these we left with Dhyan Sing for sale. We came 
on to a village, a coss distant from Beebeepore. Here a trooper came up 
to Beebeepore, saying that he had heard of several people being murdered, 
and suspected us of the crim^e. The head men of the village of Beebee- 
pore, and some of the Brinjarahs came to our camp with the trooper, and 
assured him that he must be mistaken, as they knew us all to be very 
honest, inoffensive people ; and, taking him back to Beebeepore, they 
treated him with great consideration, and he went away apparently satis- 
fied. But, fearing that our deeds bad become known, Pemla and Newla's 
wives and Pemla's mother took oif the seven other children to Dhyan 
Sing, and left them all in his charge. Pemla went to Kurnaul, and Goor- 
buksh and his gang went to Beebeepore, while my husband and his party 
remained where we were. A woman who keeps prostitutes came from 
Kurnaul, and purchased and took away all the children." 

Human language sinks under the vain attempt at giving utterance to the 
mingled feelings of pity and of horror which rise in the breast upon the 
recital of such atrocities as these, — the vain attempt, and as superfluous 
as vain, — for I defy any power of the imagination to paint a scene more 
hideous, more unbearable than the simple description of the deeds them- 
selves, in the plain words of the monsters who perpetrated them. Africa 
itself, steeped in blood for centuries by other branches of the infernal slave 
traffic, and still laid waste by the Spaniards and Portuguese, — with the 
connivance, I am grieved to say, of more humane nations, — Africa itself 
never presented a more appalling sight, — a more horrible example of that 
utter disregard for human life, — that proneness to take it away, — with 



10 

which the trafl5c in human heings appears to strike and blight the heart ill 
every region which it is permitted to curse. 

My Lords, while giving way to our natural feelings respecting these 
wretches, we ought to reserve a part of our indignation for the system ia 
which their execrable enormities have their origin. They are the natural and 
appointed fruits of slave trading ; but you may be well assured that, as long 
as it is lawful to hold human beings in slavery, the dealing in slaves cannot 
be put down ; and atrocities like these which 1 have deemed it my painful 
duty to detail, will, in one shape or another, never cease to be committed. 

My Lords, I have no doubt whatever, that the advice will now be adopted 
which was given by my noble friend , formerly the secretary for the colo- 
nies (Lord Glenelg), a few months before he left that department, when — 
well acquainted as he is with all Indian affiiirs, and anxious for the general 
emancipation of the slaves, — he strongly recommended the acceleration of 
that great event in Ceylon. Considering the great weight of his authority 
on this subject, I have no doubt that his very important despatch 
of the i24th of November, 1838, will be taken into early and attentive 
consideration by my noble friend at the head of the Indian department. 
It. applies, in principle, to India, as well as Ceylon, and it will,'! trust, lead 
to measures, accelerating, as much as possible, a general emancipation, — ^ 
the most effectual means of extinguishing the slave-trade, and preventing 
such atrocities as we have just been forced to contemplate. 



Petition of the Committee of the British and Foreign Anti-Slaveey 
Society, Referred to in Lord Brougham's Speech. 

To the Right Honourable the Lords Spiritual and Temporal of the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assembled. 

The humble petition of the Committee of the British and Foreign Anti- 
Slavery Society 

Sheweth, 

That, whilst your petitioners sincerely rejoice in the fact that the African 
slave-trade has been declared piracy by the legislature of this country, and 
that the law of the land denounces every British subject directly or indi- 
rectly engaged therein as a felon, and subjects him, on conviction, to the 
ignominious punishment of a felon ; they deeply lament that not a few of 
their opulent countrymen, occupying influential positions in society as 
manufacturers and merchants, as officers in her Majesty's army and navy, 
and as civil functionaries, are well known to have been guilty of this 
flagrant crime, either personally or by their agents, unawed by the fear of 
God or of man, and stdl persist in the same, unaffected by the cruel suffer- 
ings and degradation they inflict on humanity, and uninfluenced by the 
requirements and denunciations of law, whether human or divine. 

That your petitioners would call the attention of your right honourable 
house to the fact, that there have been formed, at different periods during 
the lastflfteen years, various mining companies in this country, with large 
capitals at their disposal, who carry on their operations in the empire of 
Brazil, or in the Spanish island of Cuba ; that their mines are worked 
principally by slaves purchased by the agents of those companies ; that 
the greater part, if not the whole, of these victims of oppression have 
been illicitly imported into these countries since the period when such 
importation was declared contraband, felonious, or piratical ; and that as 
your petitioners are informed and believe, these companies still continue 
to purchase newly imported Africans, to supply the wastes of mortality, 
or to meet the other exigencies of their establishments. 

That your petitioners lament to say that officers of her Majesty's army 
and nav3% as well as functionaries in the civil service, have accepted 
engagements in connexion with these companies ; and that they are 
informed and believe that such persons have been the agents employed in 
the purchase of slaves on account of the same. 



11 

That your petitioners call the attention of your right honourable house 
to the fact, that banking companies, with large funds at their disposal, 
have also been formed in this country ; and that they either have already 
formed, or are in process of forming branch establishments in countries 
where the slave-trade is carried on, or where slavery in all its horrors 
still exists. 

That your petitioners grieve to say that there are manufactured in this 
country, in enormous quantities, articles known by the name of coast goods, 
which are employed exclusively in the African slave-trade, in barter for 
human beings ; and that these form a considerable branch of the export 
trade of this country to Brazil and Cuba, and to the western coast of 
Africa. 

That the consignees of British merchants and manufacturers, or branch 
houses of their establishments in Brazil and Cuba, dispose of such goods 
to persons well known as tralfickers in human beings ; that they not 
unfrequently have, if not a direct, yet an indirect interest, by conditional 
arrangements, in the guilty traffic itself; and that in all cases they vend 
such goods, well knowing the disgraceful and inhuman object to which 
they are to be applied. 

That your petitioners are informed and fully believe, that fetters and 
shackles employed in the slave-trade, or in the punishment and torture of 
slaves, form part of the export trade of this country to Brazil and Cuba. 

That your petitioners have grounds for knowing that vessels have been 
built in this country specially for the slave-trade, and they have reason to 
fear, that many have been covertly prepared for that nefarious traffic in 
British harbours. 

That your petitioners deeply regret to add, that British subjects have 
become the purchasers of estates in Brazil and the Spanish colonies, which 
they work by slaves, and which they have stocked, either wholly or in 
part, with newly imported Africans, thus giving the benefit of their wealth, 
skill, and enterprise to the maintenance of these enormous evils. 

It will thus be seen by your right honourable house, that British sub- 
jects, instigated by the sordid love of gain, to the great dishonour of 
their country and in defiance of its laws, are, either directly or indi- 
rectly, among the chief props and supports of the African slave-trade ; 
that they supply capital or the means of carrying it on to a fearful 
extent, reckless of the miseries which they inflict on the human race, 
the insult they oflTer to the Most High ; and the evil example they set to 
others : that they obstruct the consummation of that great work to which 
the legislature, the government, and the people of this country have so 
nobly devoted themselves, and to secure which they have spent millions 
of the national treasure ; that they oflfer the chief impediment to a peace- 
ful, legitimate, and lucrative commerce with Africa ; that they prevent 
the civilization and religious improvement of its people ; and that they 
render the expensive armaments which are kept up on the coasts of 
Africa, Cuba, and Brazil, the means of increasing the horrors, without 
diminishing the extent of the slave-trade. 

Your petitioners, therefore, earnestly implore your right honourable 
house, either to extend the provisions of the act, 5th Geo. cap. 113, 
commonly called the Consolidated Slave-trade Abolition Act of 1824, so 
as effectually to prevent British subjects from holding and purchasing 
slaves in foreign countries, under any pretences whatsoever, and to bring 
to speedy and condign punishment those of them who have hitherto 
violated with impunity the existing laws ; or to appoint a committee of 
your right honourable house to inquire forthwith into the facts alleged by 
your petitioners, whose duty it shall be to report to your right honourable 
house such measures as may be deemed requisite to suppress effectually 
the guilty practices referred to. 
And your petitioners will ever pray, &c. 

John Woodwark, 

Chairman of the Commtitee. 



12 



British Subjects implicated in the Slave-trade and Slave-holding. 
The gold mines of Minas Geraes, in Brazil, are held by British Compa- 
nies, and are worked principally by slaves purchased contrary to the laws 
of this country, which declare such dealings in *' the persons of men," to 
be felonious and piratical, and punishable, on conviction, by transportation 
for fourteen years, or for life, according to circumstances. 

Men. 
The Gongo Soco Mine . . 176 
" Cata Branca ditto . . ^56 
" Concuicao ditto . . 30 
*' Macau bes and Cocaes ditto 328 
" St. Joao del Rey ditto . 234 



" Candonga ditto- 



1024 



kVomen. 


Children. 


Total. 


113 


129 


418 


86 


64 


406 


10 


10 


50 


136 


155 


619 


96 


30 


360 








441 


388 


1858 








240 



2093 
The Minas Geraes Company having abandoned their mine, sold the 
negroes to the Imperial Mine and the St. Joao del Rey. 

In Cuba, Mr. TurnbuU found that British subjects were part pro- 
prietors in the copiper mines of that colony. In one which he visited 
(^Cobre,) he states/ that " the labourers employed were nearly 900 in 
number," and that " more than one-half of them were slaves, some the 
property of the Alining Company, and others hired out, as is not un- 
customary, from their owners in the neighbourhood." 

British subjects are also extensive proprietors of plantations worked 
by slaves, both in Brazil and the Spanish colonies; and it is evident 
from the official reports of her Majesty's Commissioners, as well as from 
private authority of the highest character, that British capital, in one form 
or another, is exttasively employed in prosecuting the slave-trade, as 
well as sustaining the system of slavery in different parts of the world. 
It is well known also that the ' ' coast goods " used in the purchase of 
slaves in Africa, '.s well as the instruments of torture used for the con- 
finement and pun'.shment of slaves during " the middle passage," and on 
the plantations, ai^ manufactured for those purposes in this country. 

Slavery in British India. 

Although it L impossible to arrive with any accuracy at the exadt 
number of slaves in British India, an idea of its extent may be formed 
from the following, statement, drawn almost exclusively from parliamentarj 
papers, viz. : — 



Tipperah 

Sylhet 

Mymensingh 

Dacca 

Chittagong 

Rajesbaye 

Cuttack 

Rungpore 

Sarun 

Tirhoot 

Bebar and Patna 

Moorshedabad 

Bhaugulpore 

Purneah 



343,065 

361,240 

363,677 

275,190 

.175,200 

766,341 

600.000 

536,140 

180,509 

212,210 

131,280 

95,S66 

49,861 

24,560 



Shahabad 
Assam , 
Arcot 
Surat 



21,340 

27,000 

20,000 

3000 



District between the Kistna }^^ qqq 

and Toongbutra ^ ' 

Southern Mahratta country . 7500 
Malabar, Canara, Coorg, | 

Wynad, Cochin, and j> 401,000 

Travancore ) 

Tinnevelly . 32,4000 

Trinchinopoly ., . 10,600 

Ceylon, Malacca, and Pe- > 

nang, about S 



30,000 



In all 4,974,079! Large as this amount may appear, it forms but a part 
of the entire sl?.ve population of British India. What their condition is, 
may be gathered from a pamphlet, entitled, " Slavery and the Slave-trade in 
British' India," published by the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society, 
to which attention is earnestly directed. 



JoHNSToif AND Babbett, Printers, 13, Mark Lane. 



