THE 



HORRORS 



JVEGRO SIaJLVERY. 






Price One Shilling, 



CCS.75SS^i no, 



S. GoSNELL, Printer, Little Queen Street. 



THE 



HORRORS 



OF THE 



JVEGRO slavery 



EXISTING IN OUR 



[est fnDtan 3 slante, 

IRREFRAGABLY DEMONSTRATED 



FROM 



OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS 



RECENTLY PRESENTED TO 



THE HOUSE OF COMMONS- 



LONDON : 



PRINTED FOR J. HATCHARD, PICCADILLY; MESS. RICHARDSONS, 

CORNHILL; R. BICKERSTAFF, ESSEX STREET, STRAND; 

AND HAZARD, BATH. 

1805. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/horrorsofnegroslOOIond 



THE 



M O RRO RS 



XEGRO SLAVERY, 



Be. 



In the last Session of Parliament a variety of papers re- 
specting the Slave Trade was laid on the table of the 
House of Commons, and among them, the following 
extract of a letter from Lord Seafqrth, the Governor of 
Barbadoes, to Lord Hobart, dated at Barbadoes, the 
18th March 1802, viz. " Your Lordship will observe in 
the last days proceedings of the Assembly, that the ma- 
jority of the House had taken considerable offence at a 
message of mine, recommending an act to be passed to 
make the murder of a Slave felony . At present the fine 
for the crime is only fifteen pounds currency, or eleven 

FOUNDS FOUR SHILLINGS STERLING." 

It was difficult to conceive a stronger proof of the de- 
plorably unprotected condition of the Negro Slaves in 
Barbadoes, the oldest and most civilized of our slave 



colonies, than is furnished by the above official docu- 
ment. In a community where even the life of a Negro 
stav$ is estimated at the cheap rate of eleven pounds four 
shillings Ucriirtg, and where a proposition to raise its. 
legal value to-'gr'Mrice which may be less revolting to Eu- 
ropean feelings is. resented as an affront by a grave legisla- 
tive assembly ; it -^ould argue an utter ignorance of the 
nature of man, and of the principles by which his conduct 
is usually guided, to expect that the general treatment of 
Negro slaves should be humane and lenient. But we are 
not at present reduced to the necessity of inferring, by the 
aid of disputable analogies, the practical nature of the 
existing slavery, from the state of the laws respecting it. 
What might, last year, have been considered by some as 
matter of presumption merely, of presumption, however, 
sufficiently strong to remove all doubt from unprejudiced 
minds, is now matter of fact. We have now the prac- 
tice of slavery so graphically described, in some further 
documents of unquestionable authority, as to supersede the 
necessity of reasoning, and to silence the most deter- 
mined stickler for West Indian humanity. 

On the 25th of February 1805, a number of addi- 
tional papers respecting the Slave Trade was presented to 
the House of Commons by His Majesty. To these 
papers it is the purpose of this pamphlet to call the atten- 
tion of the public, as exhibiting a picture of Negro bond- 
age, with which every individual in the kingdom ought 
to be made fully --icquainted, who has a heart to hd for 
the miseries of his fellow-creatures, or a voice to raise 
against that detestable traffic which is the main prop of 
colonial despotism. 

The first thing which occurs in these papers particu- 
larly deserving of notice is a continuation of the corre- 



spondence between Lord Seaforth and the Secretary of 
Stale. The following is a transcript of it, with the 
addition of a few notes intended to illustrate the text : 

w Extract of a Letter f torn Lord Seaforth to the Earl 
Camden, dated Bar hadoes, i%th November 1804. 
<c I also enclose four papers, numbered from number 
I to 4, containing, from different quarters, reports 
on the horrid murders I mentioned in some former 
letters; they are selected from a great number, among 
which there is not one in contradiction of the horrible 
facts, though several of the letters are very concise and 
defective: the truth is, that nothing has given me more 
trouble to get to the bottom of than these businesses, 
so horridly absurd are the prejudices of the people * ; how- 
ever, a great part of my object is answered, by the alarm 
my interference has excited, and the attention it has 
called to the business ; bills are already proposed to make 
murder felony in both the Council and the Assembly; 
but I fear they loill be thrown out for the present in the 
Assembly ; the Council are unanimous on the side of 
humanity. 

" {President Ince's Statement.) 

"On the 10th day of April 1804, on my return to 
Enmore in the evening, I found Mr. Justice Walton and 
Mr. Harding, former manager of Prettejohn's estate, 
and now the manager of the Society's estate, attached to 

* Not of one or two, or of a few individuals, but of the 
People. 

B 2 



the support of Codrington College. Mr. Walton told me 
that Mr. Harding had brought before him a man of the 
name of Henry Halls, a private soldier in the St. Mi- 
chael's or Royal regiment, who had, in presence of Mr. 
Harding, in a most wanton, malicious manner, mur- 
dered a Negro woman, that he did not know personally, 
but had since heard she was the property of Mr. Clarke, 
the owner of the estate called Simmons's ; that she was a 
valuable slave, and hadjive or six children. Mr. Wal- 
ton said, that Halls seemed to be very indifferent about 
the crime, and that he had called upon me to know what 
was to be done with him, as Mr. Walton said^ in his 
situation as a Magistrate, the law of the island admitted 
him no jurisdiction or authority over him> and he did not 
consider he had a right to commit him to prison without 
my order*. Mr. Harding then gave the following testi- 
mony : That he was returning from town, and just above 
the Line of Pilgrim he overtook several market Negroes, 
and this man, Halls, on the road ; he did not know 
this man at the time, but he had his musket and bayonet 
fixed over his shoulder, and his regimentals, as returning 
from the alarm which had arisen that morning, and 
discharged at noon j that when he overtook this man it 
was not six o'clock in the evening; as he drew near him, 
he heard him muttering some words, and saw him run 
after some Negroes with his bayonet charged ; that the 
woman was on the other side of the road still going up ; 



* What can more expressively shew the dreadful state of so- 
ciety which prevails in this island, than that a Magistrate should 
find himself without the power even of commitment in the case of 
a man apprehended in the very act ofperpetratingamost foul and 
wanton murder? 



and as he came up, this man, Halls, stopped until the 
woman came by, and immediately crossed the road, as 
Halls made after the woman, and plunged the bayonet 
into her lody, when the poor creature dropped, and 
without a groan expired. He immediately went to him, 
and spoke harshly to him, and said, he ought to be 
hanged, for he never saw a more wicked, unprovoked 
murder, and that he would certainly carry him before a 
magistrate, and that he should be sent to gaol : and he 
said, c For what? killing a Negro*?' On which 
he got assistance, and brought him to Mr. Walton the 
Magistrate, and that he, Mr. Harding, had accompa- 
nied Mr. Walton to me, to relate the fact. I told Mr. 
Walton that I regretted, with real concern, the deficiency 
in our law 5 but that there was a penalty due to the 
King f in such cases ; and that, as Mr. Harding had suf- 
ficiently substantiated the fact, I would order him to be 
committed till he paid the forfeiture, or a suit should be 
commenced against him : accordingly he was sent to 
prison, where he now remains, and under arrest from 
Mr. Clarke's representatives, to be recovered according to 
law, and the King's fine, and will possibly be there for 
life, as I hear he is not worth a shilling, nor no expect- 
ancy ever to pay it. Perhaps, my Lord, it was a stretch 



* This short, but significant sentence is of more weight than a 
thousand arguments in favour of the mild treatment of Negro 
slaves, and furnishes an unanswerable proof, that they are regarded 
by their oppressors as a different order of beings from themselves; 
and that under the influence of this sentiment they are naturally 
enough denied the common rights of humanity, and excluded from 
the participation of that sympathy which the sense of a common 
mature and a common extraction is calculated to inspire. 

f Namely, the eleven pounds four shillings mentioned above. 



of power in me to order commitment before a recovery 
of the fine ; but the evidence of Mr. Harding, a man of 
unblemished character, the circumstances of the case so 
horrid, so wickedly deliberate and unprovoked, conspired 
to induce me to secure his person until the only remedy 
of some punishment could be applied*. Lamentable 
indeed is it, that our Assembly (for I cannot allow Legis- 
lature to form the word) should look upon such things 
with cold indifference, and not provide that just remedy 
which the law of God and man in every other civilized 
community but this, has in effect, and even upon larger 
extent of population and slavery; in Jamaica not the 
smallest inconvenience has ever arisen. Surely! surely t 
they will be more disposed to hear reason, and to establish 
justice ! \ 



* Mr. President Ince seems properly aware of the illegality of 
his proceeding : doubtless Halls also is aware of it; nor should 
I be surprised to hear that he has been able to rouse the popular 
feeling of the island in his favour, as a man unjustly and illegally 
oppressed. To have suffered so severe a punishment as that of 
imprisonment, for so paltry an offence as killing a Negro slave, 
particularly as his commitment was contrary to law, will be likely 
to excite no small degree of virtuous indignation among the Bar- 
badians : and the danger lest such an unauthorized lestriction of 
the freedom of individuals should grow into a precedent may 
possibly call forth the most vigorous resistance. This expecta- 
tion seems perfectly justified by what took place some years ago 
on a similar occasion in the neighbouring island of St. Kitt's, 
where the prosecution of a man of the name of Herbert, who 
had treated one of his slaves with the most wanton barbarity, wag 
not only not productive of any punishment to the offender, 
though the facts were clearly proved, but was likely to have been 
followed by very inconvenient effects to the prosecutor, in conse- 
quence of the popular clamour which was excited against him- 



" To the second query from your Lordship; I believe 
the fact relates to the case which was instituted by action 
in the Court of Exchequer, before your Excellency left 
the Government, as I signed the writ when Chief Baron, 
at the suit of Colbeck against Crone; and I understand 
judgment has been admitted without being given to Jury, 
against Crone in favour of Colbeck; but whether the 
King's fine is included in that recovery I really do not 
know, and your Excellency may be better informed from 
the present Chief Baron or the Attorney General. The 
circumstances of that case I do not know exactly ; from 
common report, they must have been richly deserving of 
the jus per co 11. 

(i To the third query. — I never heard any official ac- 
count of the case. I understand from inquiry, that the fact, 
as to the murder, is true; that the party's name is Thomas 
Novvell, a butcher by trade, in the parish of St. Andrew; 
and that being in the direct vicinity of the Reverend Mr. 
Payne, and the Honourable Colonel Jordan, your Excel- 
lency may obtain a more particular account of this infa- 
mous wretch, who, I am told, ought to have been re- 
moved from society long ago." 

"Advocate General's Letter to Lord Seaforth; dated 
October 25th, 1804. 
" My Lord, October 25th, 1804. 

" I have many apologies to make to your Lordship for 
not sending an earlier answer to the several questions re- 
specting the Negroes who have of late been most wan- 
tonly and inhumanly murdered. The delay has been 
owing to the difficulty I have met with in procuring any 
thing like satisfactory information as to the last of the 
cases; and therefore I shall hope for your Lordship's ex— 
cuse. 



" With respect to the first; a man of the name of 
Halls, belonging to the Royal regiment, was returning 
home from his exercising duty, on one of his militia 
days ; several Negroes were upon the road before him 
going on very quietly, and amongst them a woman big 
with child. Halls was in liquor, and was constantly 
bawling out to the Negroes and abusing them, and telling 
them if they did not get out of his way he would make 
them. On his beginning to run after them, they all got 
out of his reach, except this unfortunate woman ; Halls 
ran up to her, and, without the least provocation on her 
part, very coolly and deliberately stabled her several times 
in the breast ivith his bayonet. The woman, I believe^ 
was not killed upon the spot, but died soon afterwards, 
Mr. Harding, the overseer of the Society's plantation, was 
on his way home, and saw the whole transaction ; he im- 
mediately secured Halls, and had him taken to gaol, 
where he now is. 

" As to the second ; Mr. Colbeck, who lived overseer 
on Cabbage-tree plantation in St. Lucy's parish, had 
bought a new Negro boy out of the yard *, and carried 
him home; taking a liking to the boy, he brought him 
into the house, and made him wait at table. Mr. Crone 
(the overseer of Colonel Rowe's estate, and which is near 
to Cabbage-tree) visited Colbeck, had noticed the boy, 
and knew him well. A fire happening one night in the 
neighbourhood, Colbeck went to give assistance, and the 
boy followed him. On Colbeck's return home he missed 
the boy ; and as he did not make his appearance the next 
day, Colbeck sent round to the neighbours, and particu- 
larly to Crone, informing them that the boy was missing, 
and desiring them to send him home if they should meet 



* Meaning the Slave-yard, where Negroes are exposed to sale 
in the same manner as cattle and sheep in Smithfield-market, 



9 

With htm. Two or three days elapsed, and the poor crea- 
ture was first discovered in a gully, near to Colonel Rowe's 
estate; and a number of Negroes were soon assembled 
about the place. The boy, naturally terrified with the 
threats, the noise, and the appearance of so many people, 
hid himself under a rock in the gully. By this time Crone 
and some other white persons had come up, a fire was 
ordered to he put to tlie place where the hoy was, and he 
ivas actually 'burnt out. From this hole the boy ran to a 
piece of water, ivhich was near, and some of the Negroes 
ivent in after him. The boy, it is said, took up a stone 
and threw it at one of them. Crone, icho it seems had 
brought a gun with him, levelled it at the boy, and shot 
him ; and other guns, as I have understood, were also 
fired. The poor wretch was then dragged out of the 
water, and, without even sending to his master, a hole 
was immediately dug, and he was put into it by Crone's 
order. 1 have been told that the boy was not quite dead 
when he was buried. Colbeck, the owner, soon after- 
wards came up, and had the boy taken out of the ground; 
and there cannot be the least doubt that Crone must have 
known him to be Colbeck's new Negro who had been 
missing. A man of the name of Hollihgsworth, it was 
said, also fired at the boy, and Colbeck brought his action 
in the Exchequer, under the act of the island, against 
Crone and Rollings worth. The cause was ready to be 
tried, and the Court had met for the purpose, when 
Crone and Hollingsworth thought proper to pay double 
the value of the boy, and 25Z. for the use of the island, 
with all the cost?, rather than suffer the business to go on ; 
and this lam truly sorry to say was the only punishment 
which could be inflicted for so barbarous and atrocious a 
crime. The Attorney General and myself were retained 
as counsel for Colbeck, and received instructions to the 



10 

above purport. The case did not appear so strong against 
Hollingsworth ; but T verily believe that, as aganist 
Crone, it would have been substantiated by the fullest 
evidence. It is due to Colonel Iiowe to observe, that he 
was in England when the horrid transaction took place. 

" As to the third : A man of the name of Nowell, who 
lives in St. Andrew's parish, as I understand, had been in 
the habit of behaving most brutally towards his wife, and 
one day went so far as to lock her up in a room, and con- 
fine her in chains. A Negro woman belonging to this 
man, touched with compassion for her unfortunate mis- 
tress, undertook privately to release her; Nowell found 
it out, and, as I first heard the story, had the Negro's 
tongue immediately cut out nearly by the roots, of which 
she instantly died. I "have since been told, that Nowell 
had the poor creature's tongue put through a hole in a 
door, and cut a part of it off himself', hut that she is still 
alive. This case has been told different ways; and I 
have not, after many inquiries, been able to satisfy my- 
self as to the real truth *. Thus much I have no doubt 
is certain, that the wretch, Nowell, has most barbarously 
and cruelly used this Negro, merely because she acted 9, 
kind and compassionate part towards her mistress. 

4f Permit me now, my Lord, as a Barbadian, to return 
you my warmest thanks for the zeal you have shewn in 
this business ; and I trust the day is not far distant, when, 



* If any thing could add to the honor which the shocking bar- 
barity of Nowell must excite, it is tht doubt existing, "after many 
inquiries" — existing too in the minds of the Advocate and Attorney 
General — as to whether this poor creature was alive or dead. 
Were there no means of forcing Nowell to produce her? Could 
no inquest have been instituted i Dreadful state of things! 



11 

through your Lordship's exertions, I shall see that act in 
our statute-book repealed, which remains a disgrace to my 
country. 

" I have the honour to be, &c. 

" M. CoULTHURST. 

« The Right Honourable Lord Seaforth, 
&c. &c. fife." 



M Extract from the Reverend Mr. Filgrini's Letter to 
Lord Seaforth ; dated St. Jameses Parsonage, Sep- 
tember 2$th, 1804. 

" The man who killed the woman near Pilgrim, is, I 
apprehend, named Halls or Halts, one of Sir John Bur- 
ney's tenants, and belonging to Saint Michael's regiment 
of militia. 

" The manager who shot the man in the water is named 
Crone, living on Mr. H. Rowe's plantation in Saint 
Lucy's parish. The man was an African, a slave to a 
Mr. Colbeck, the manager to a neighbouring plantation, 
and had accidentally strayed from his master: Crone 
seeing him, pursued him with several Negroes ; the poor 
creature pelted his pursuers with stones, and at length 
took refuge in a pond, where he was inhumanly shot by 
the dastardly manager, and taken out of the pond ; I re- 
peat, my Lord, what I have heard, though I could hope, 
for the sake of humanity, my information has been false, 
and buried him while yet alive. 

" Nowell, a butcher, living in Saint Joseph's parish, is 
the wretch uho murdered the slave for letting his-wife 
out of confinement. The circumstances of this horrid 
barbarity arc almost too shocking to be related. On dis- 
covering the poor creature had been instrumental to his 

c 2 



12 

wife's escape, he obliged her to put her tongue through q 
hole in the board, to which he fastensd it on the opposite 
side with a fork, and leaving her in that situation for soma 
time, he afterwards drew out her tongue ly the roots. 

" This, my Lord, is what I have heard relative to the 
cases on which your Lordship desires information; and 
as I have heard the circumstances I have mentioned from 
different persons, told in nearly the same manner, I am 
led to suspect that the statement will be found fo be but 
too correct." Papers, &c. p. 7-10. 

iC Extract of a Letter from the Right Honourable Lord 
Seaforth to Earl Camden; dated Pilgrim, yth January 
1805. 

(! I enclose the Attorney General's letter to me on the 
subject of the Negroes so most wantonly murdered. I am 
sorry to say, several other instances of the same barbarity 
liave occurred with which I have not troubled your Lord- 
ship, as 1 only wished to make you acquainted ivith the 
subject in general " 

€i Copy of a Letter from Mr. Bee dies to Lord Seaforth ; 
dated igth November 1804. 

" Bay Plantation, 
(e My Lord, igth November 1804. 

il I have delayed to answer your Excellency's note of 
the 19th of September, enclosing queries as to some cases 
of cruel murders committed upon Slaves, with the hope 
of being able to establish the facts, so as to communicate 
them to your Excellency without any doubt of their au- 
thenticity ; but, notwithstanding every inquiry, I can 



13 

make no discovery of the murder which had leen currently 
reported io have been committed by one Nowell, of' the 
parish of St. Andrew *. The fact is by many supposed 
to be true, at the same time that it is denied by others ; 
and all that I can ascertain is, that Nowell is in general a 
cruel man to his Slaves. 

" The militia-man is Halls, of St. Michael's 

regiment. Returning from his duty upon an alarm, after 
stopping at a dram-shop, where he had drank so as to 
be rather intoxicated ; hearing some Negroes singing be- 
fore him, who were returning from their daily labour, he 
called out to them that he would kill them ; upon which 
a Mr. Harding, who was going the same way, told him to 
take care what he was about; he immediately pursued the 
Negroes, who not supposing that he really intended to do 
them any injury, but imagining that what he had said 
was in joke, did not endeavour to escape, but as he came 
up to them, they separated to make room for him to pass; 
the nearest to him being a woman far advanced in preg- 
nancy, he ran his bayonet into her, ivithout the smallest 
provocation, and killed her on the spot : Mr. Harding and 
another gentleman, who were eye-witnesses, seized him, 
and carried him before the President, who sent him to 
prison. 

" In the other case, which happened in the parish of 
St. Lucy, two white men were concerned, Crone and 
Hqllingsworth. A Mr. Colebeck, the manager of a plant- 
ation in the neighbourhood, had some months before 
purchased an African lad, who was much attached to his 
person, and slept in a passage contiguous to his chamber. 



* Had the Attorney General then no means of ascertaining 
whether the woman was alive or dead ? 



14 

On Sunday ni^ht there was an alarm of fire in the planta- 
tion, which induced Mr. Colebeck to go out hastily, and 
the next morning he missed the lad, who be supposed 
had intended to follow him in the night, and had mis- 
taken his way. He sent to his neighbours, and to Mr. 
Crone among the rest, to inform them that his African 
lad had accidentally strayed from him ; that he could not 
speak a word of English, and that possibly he might be 
found breaking canes, or taking something else for his 
support ; in which case he requested that they would not 
injure him, but return him, and he would pay any damage 
he might have committed. A day or two after Mr. Cole- 
beck was informed that Crone and Hollingsworth had 
killed a Negro in, a neighbouring gully, and buried him 
there. He went to Crone to inquire into the truth of the 
report, and intended to have the grave opened to see whe- 
ther it was his African lad. Crone told him a Negro had 
bety killed and buried there; but assured him it was not 
his, for he knew him very well, and he need not be at the 
trouble of opening the grave. Upon this, Colebeck went 
away satisfied', but receiving further information, which 
left no doubt upon his mind that it was his Negro, he re- 
turned and opened the grave, and found it to be so. I was 
Mr. Colebeck's leading counsel, and the facts stated in my 
brief were as follows : that Crone and Hollingsworth 
being informed that there was a Negro lurking in the 
gully, went armed with muskets, and took several Negro 
men with them. The poor African, seeing a parcel of 
men come to attack him, was frightened ; he took up a 
stone to defend himself, and retreated into a cleft rock, 
where they could not easily come at him ; they then went 
for some trash, put it into the crevice of the rock behind 
him, and set it on fire ; after it had burnt so as to scorch. 



15 

the poor fellow, he ran into a pool of water near by 5 they 
sent a Negro to bring him out, and he threw the stone at 
the Negro ; upon which the two white men fired several 
times at him with the guns loaded with shot, and the Ne- 
groes pelted him with stones. He was at length dragged 
out of the pool in a dying condition, for he had not only 
received several bruises from the stones, hut his breast was 
so pierced with the shot that it was like a cullender. The 
white Savages ordered the Negroes to dig a grave, and 
whilst they were digging it, the poor creature made signs 
of legging for water, which was not given to him', but as 
soon as the grave ivas dug, he was thrown into it, and 
covered over, and there seems to he some doubt whether he 
was then quite dead. Crone and Hollingsworth deny 
this 1 but Colebeck assured me, that he could prove it by 
more than one witness ; and I have reason to believe it to 
be true, because on the day of trial Crone and Rollings- 
worth did not suffer the cause to come to a hearing, but 
paid the penalties and the costs of suit, which it is not 
supposed they would have done had they been innocent. 
" i have the honour to be, 8cc. 

" John Beckles *, 
<c The Right Honourable Lord Seaforth, 
Wb. &c. &c." 

One circumstance of the above narrative may not strike 
the minds of some readers with its due force, although to 
us it appears to be the most affecting part of the whole 
case. They may have been led to conceive, that whatever 
atrocity there was in the proceedings of Crone and his 
companion, yet in Colbeck there was some approxi- 
mation to European feeling. But how stands the fact 
with respect to -Colbeck ? On being coolly told that a 

* Papers, Sec. page 43> 44- 



i6 * 

Negro had been killed and buried, — told so by the mur-* 
derer himself, his neighbour and frequent visitor; — is he 
shocked by the tale ? Does he express any horror or in- 
dignation on the occasion ? No ! he goes away satisfied 
with the assurance, that the murdered Negro is not his own. 
Let the reader give its due weight to this one circumstance, 
and he will be convinced that a state of society exists in the 
West Indies, of which an inhabitant of this happy island 
can form no adequate conception. Had it been his horse 
instead of his Negro Slave, Colbeck would have been af- 
fected in much the same way as he is said to have been. 

From this impressive circumstance may also be inferred 
the value of West Indian testimony, when given in fa- 
vour of West Indian humanity. Mr. Colbeck, for ex- 
ample, would naturally enough be spoken of as a man of 
humanity by his West Indian brethren, and they would 
probably be sincere in giving him that praise. But who 
is this man of humanity ? It is one who, hearing that a 
fellow-creature has been cruelly and wantonly murdered, 
goes away satisfied, because he himself has sustained 
no pecuniary loss by the murder ! In truth, the moral 
perceptions and feelings which prevail in that quarter of 
the globe, are wholly different from those which are found 
on this side of the Atlantic. An exception may, indeed, 
be made in favour of a few men of enlightened minds ; 
but the remark is just as applied to the bulk of the com- 
munity — the people, whose prejudices are stated by Lord 
Seaforth to be so horribly absurd, as to resist all mea- 
sures for remedying this dreadful state of societv. 

We shall doubtless hear it argued on the present as 
on former occasions, when similar barbarities have been 
incontestably proved, that " individual instances of cru- 
elty, like those which have now been produced, are no 



proofs of general inhumanity. Instances of, at least, 
equal atrocity, might be collected from the annals of the 
Old Bailey. But how very unjust would it be to regard 
these as exhibiting a fair view of the English character ?" 
There is, however, a remarkable defect in the analogy 
which is here attempted to be established ; a defect which 
seems fatal to the argument. In this happy country, 
when we hear that crimes have been perpetrated, we hear 
also that they have been punished : we have at least the 
satisfaction of knowing, that no practicable means are 
Jeft vrnattempted for securing the criminals, and bring- 
ing them to justice. But is this the case in Barbadoes? 
We hear of great crimes indeed; but we hear at the same 
time of their impunity. The criminals are not under the 
necessity of endeavouring to elude detection, or of screen- 
ing themselves from prosecution by concealment: they 
even talk of their crimes with a shocking indifference. 
The laws themselves conspire to defeat the ends of justice. 
We find, not the lawless part of the community, but the 
legislative assembly of the island, sanctioning the perpe- 
tration of the foulest murders, by their refusal to recog- 
nise murder as a felonious act. We find even officers 
of the Crown neglecting the obvious duty of instituting 
a legal inquest into these murders. To what is this neg- 
lect to be attributed ? To the contagious influence of 
those prejudices, and of that savage indifference to Negro 
life, which evidently pervade the people at large ? Or is it 
to be accounted for on the ground that the law has actu- 
ally deprived His Majesty's Attorney General, and His 
Majesty's Coroner, of the constitutional power of insti- 
tuting such an inquest? In either case our colonial 
system will stand justly chargeable, not only with out- 

p 



18 

raging every feeling of humanity, but with violating 
every acknowledged principle of justice. 

But the West Indians and their friends will probably 
have recourse to another argument. " Granting," they 
may say, " in its fullest extent, the truth of all that you 
have stated with respect to Barbadoes, it is yet very unfair 
to extend the charge of inhumanity, which is justly 
broughtagainst that island, to theWest Indies in general. 
The Legislatures of all the other islands have passed laws 
which make the murder of a Slave felony ; they have also 
provided such salutary regulations ' for the support,' and 
i for the encouragement, protection, and better govern- 
c ment of Slaves,' as serve to place them in a situation of 
even enviable security and comfort." 

It will be readily admitted, that the Legislatures of 
most, if not ail the islands, with the exception of Barba- 
does, have passed laws which make the murder of a Slave 
a felonious act. It must also be admitted, that many 
regulations have been framed and placed on the insular 
statute-books, which, if faithfully enforced according 
to their apparent intent, could not fail to produce bene- 
ficial results. But have the clauses which contain these 
regulations been carried into effect ? Are they any thing 
more than a~Blind, intended to conceal from the eyes of 
the British public the enormity of our West Indian 
system ? Was it ever even in the contemplation of the 
lawoivers themselves that these laws should be executed ? 
The papers to which so large a reference has already been 
made happily contain a distinct answer to these ques- 
tions : that answer it will now be proper to state. 

On the 4th of October 1804, it appears that Earl Cam- 
den addressed letters to the Governors of the different 
West Indian islands, requiring from them information on 



19 

a variety of points. A copy of the heads of information 
transmitted to one of the islands, Dominica, will furnish 
the reader with a sufficiently clear idea of the nature of 
these requirements. It is as follows : 

" An account of all the Negro Slaves imported every 
vear since 1788, and of the number re-exported in each 
year. 

** The most authentic and particular account which, 
can be obtained, of the number of Negro Slaves, dividing 
them into classes of male and female ; children from 1 to 
12; youths from 12 to 20, full-grown men and women 
from 20 to 60 ; and the aged; and staling, as accurately 
as possible, the number in each class respectively : also, 

(l An account of the total number of free Negroes and 
coloured people. 

" N. B. It is desirable that the manner in which the 
information is obtained, and the account made up, should 
be stated as distinctly as possible. 

"You are also desired to transmit at the same time, in 
original and duplicate, the following further information, 
viz. 

" A list and abstract, or general account of all returns, 
made upon oath by owners, overseers, or managers, in 
pursuance of the 7th and 8th clauses or sections of an 
act, passed in December 1788, intituled, s An Act for the 

* Encouragement, Protection, and better Management of 

* Slaves*.' . 

* The 7th clause enacts, that " in order to secure, as far as pos- 
sible, the good treatment of the Slaves, and to ascertain the cause of 
the decrease of the Slaves, every owner, overseer, &c. shall, in the 
month of January every year, deliver in on oath a certificate of the 
increase or decrease of the Slaves under his direction, how many 
have been born, or how many have died, within twelve months 
D 2 



20 

< c If it appears that no such accounts or returns have 
been duly made, or that they have been in any great mea- 
sure neglected, you are requested further to send, 

" An account or list of all convictions had, and fines 
or forfeitures recovered, and of all prosecutions com- 
menced against the defaulters, pursuant to the said act of 
Assembly. 

" If the said returns and accounts have been wholly or 
generally neglected, and no prosecutions have taken place 
for that cause, you are to send a certificate to that effect. 

" .You will also state whether the island had in 1788, 
or in 1799, when the act was made perpetual, or yet has^ 
any and what parochial or established clergy, by whom 
the regulations in sections 3 and 4, have been or can be 
carried into effect*." 

previous thereto, and the cause of the death of such Slaves; which 
certificate shall be lodged in Tfje Secretary's office of this island ; for 
the filing of which the Secretary shall be allowed a fee of nine- 
pence : and if any owner, iffc. shall fail to deliver in such certificate 
oh oath at the time appointed', he shall be fined in the sum of fifty 
pounds." The 8th clause enacts, that Slaves, convicted of murder, 
highway robbery, or burglary, shall suffer death. 

* These clauses run thus : " Whereas a knowledge of the doc- 
trines, and a due attention to 'the exercise of the duties of the Christian 
religion, would tend to improve the morals, and to advance the tem- 
poral and eternal happiness of the Slaves, it is enacted) that all- 
owners, overseers, &c. shall, on every Sunday on their several 
plantations, convene together the Slaves for the purpose of per- 
forming divine worship, and shall not fail to exhort all unbaptized 
Slaves to receive the holy sacrament of baptism ; and all the un- 
baptized children of Slaves shall receive the said sacrament : and 
en neglect of these duties the owners, &c. shall be fined in not less 
than jpA nor more than 2^1. And all owners, &c. shall encourage 
and exhort all Slaves, arrived at years of maturity, and desirous of 
entering into a connubial state, to receive the ceremony of Christian 
marriage, and in neglect of doing stt shall be subject to a fine t>f "5/." 



21 

To these inquiries no answer appears to have been re- 
turned by c Go/ernors, either of Jamaica or the Ba- 
hamas. From those of the. Leeward Islands, St. Vincent 
and Grenada, letters have been received, stating the dif- 
ficulty of immediately complying with the requisitions of 
Earl Camden, but promising to take measures, without 
delay, for procuring the desired information. Now here 
it may be proper to remark, that with respect to several 
important heads of inquiry, particularly those which re- 
late to the execution of the-laws enacted for the protection 
of Slaves, a very short delay must have been sufficient.- 
The Governors, by referring to the Secretary of the 
island, or to the clerks of the several courts of record, 
could have at once ascertained w nether the legal pro- 
visions mentioned by Earl Camden had or had not been 
carried into effect. If they had ; a copy of the record 
would have been all the answer which was requisite : if 
they had not ; it was only necessary to say so, and to state 
the reasons of the failure. 

This manly and becoming course has been pursued 
only in one instance, viz. in that of the Governor of Do- 
minica : and his answers, though defective in some im- 
portant particulars, yet contain a candid disclosure of 
facts, and are therefore calculated to throw considerable 
light, not only on the causes which may possibly have 
impeded the returns from the other islands, but on the 
general state of Negro slavery in the West Indies. 

Governor Prevost, in his letter to Earl Camden, repre- 
sents Dominica " as distinguished by the laws it has 
passed for the encouragement, protection, and govern- 
ment of Slaves;" but he goes on to remark, " lam 
sorry I cannot add that they are as religiously enforced as 
you could luish *." Now this is precisely what has been 

* Papers, &c. page 34. 



22 

asserted, with respect to the laws in question, by the ad- 
vocates of abolition, and as strenuously denied by West 
Indians. The laws may look well on paper, but they are 
inefficient : nay, they were never meant to be otherwise. 
jf any one is so extremely ignorant of West Indian 
affairs, as not to have been already apprized of this fact, 
let him read the following passage in an official letter 
of the Governor of Dominica : 

" The Act of the Legislature, intituled, c An Act for 
' the Encouragement, Protection, and better Government 
* of Slaves,' appears to have been considered, from the day 
it ivas passed until this hour, as a political measure to 
avert the interference of the mother -country in the ma- 
nagement of Slaves *. Having said this, your Lordship 
will not be surprised to learn the clause seventh of that 

* This representation, it may be presumed, is fairly applicable 
to all the West Indian Legislatures: indeed it would be unjust' 
to them to suppose, that they were less politic and provident 
than the Legislature of Dominica. The charge involved in it, 
however, is certainly far from being light or trivial, especially as 
it is made, by one who is a thorough master of the subject on 
which he writes, " having passed many years in the West Indies, 
and having been resident in most of the Colonies." P. 34. The 
charge amounts to this: that the individuals composing the legis-. 
lature's of the Islands, and who we may suppose to be the most 
honourable part of the community, have entered into a combi- 
nation to deceive the British Parliament and the British public ; 
that they have prostituted the solemn legislative functions with 
ivhich they were invested, to the promotion of this dishonourable 
purpose; and that, with the pretended view of promoting the pro- 
tection, security, and comfort of the Negroes, they have framed a 
set of laws, the real object of which is not to benefit the Negroes, 
but to prevent the mother-country from interfering to mitigate the 
cruel oppression under which they groan. The reader must form 
his own judgment of persons capable of such conduct. 



23 

Bill has been wholly neglected*. As to the eighth clause, 
it is too intimately connected with the public interest to 
be allowed to sleep. 

" I am apprehensive you will find the account of all 
convictions had, and fines or forfeitures recovered, and 
of all prosecutions commenced against the defaulters, 
pursuant to the said act, very unsatisfactory ; however, 
here, now and then, the act has shewn some signs of 
life." P. 36. 

After examining with the utmost attention the account 
to which Governor Prevost refers (and which is inserted 
at page 39), it does not appear that a single fine or for- 
feiture has leen recovered, nor a single prosecution com- 
menced against defaulters, during the seventeen years 
that the act has been, not to say in force, for that would 
be ridiculous, but in existence. Of convictions there is 
indeed a considerable number, but, with the exception of 
two, they are all convictions of Negroes. Of these two, 
one is for the murder of a Negro : but the record wh ch 
states the conviction, states also that the convict was par-- 

* If the reader will have the goodness to refer back to p. 19, he 
will see with what parade this very clause is introduced into the 
Act. It was framed expressly " to secure, as far as ■possible, the good 
treatment of the Slaves;" and yet it appears from the first to have 
been regarded in the island as an absolute nullity. "It has been 
Wholly neglected." Not one certificate has been filed in 
consequence of it, nor has one penalty been enforced for the neg- 
lect. How different this from the fate of the eighth clause, de- 
nouncing the. punishment of death on Negro Slaves guilty of cer- 
tain crimes ! This clause, we are told, has not been allowed to s L E E p ! 
Here we have a lively picture of the nature of West Indian legis- 
lation. When laws are directed against the Negro Slave, they 
operate with certainty and permanent effect. When enacted in 
his favour, they prove dormant from the moment of their birth. 



tJoned by Governor' Johnstone. The murderer was & 
soldier in the 68th regiment. The other case is that of a 
man who was fined thirty pounds currency for ill-treating 
a Slave, the property of Doctor Fellan. No other parti- 
culars are mentioned respecting this singular trial and 
conviction. The sig/is of life, therefore, which have beeii 
shewn by this act, as far as regards the protection of 
Negro Slaves, must be admitted to be very equivocal. 

Governor Prevost refers Earl Camden to a letter froni 
the Rev. John Audain, Rector of St- George's, as ex- 
plaining " why the clauses 3 and 4 are not carried 
into effect." Mr. Audain's letter, however, throws little 
light on the subject. He can furnish no returns of mar- 
riages,_because (he says) " a very few even of the free co- 
loured people marry, and not one Slave since I have been 
here. Why they do not, I readily conceive, particularly 
the Slaves. Their owners do not exhort them to it, and 
they shew no dispositions themselves to alter that mode 
of cohabitation which they have been accustomed to." 
P. 40. 

It appears then, that the 3rd and 4th clauses of this 
boasted act are as nugatory as the 7th : tf they are not," 
says Governor Prevost, ct carried into effect*." And 
yet if the reader will turn back to page 20, he will find that 
these clauses are introduced by a preamble of peculiar 
solemnity. They are enacted with the professed view of 
<c improving the morals and advancing the temporal and 
eternal happiness of the Slaves." What is this but im- 
pious mockery? Have they been executed? No. Has a 
single penalty ieen enforced for their non-execution ? 

* The act requires owners, &c. to exhort their Slaves to marry. 
Mr. Audain says, that their owners do not exhort them to it. 



«25 

No. Surely, after this discovery, it is impossible that such 
mere mummery of legislation should continue to impose 
on the good sense of the people of Great Britain. They 
will see that the difference between Barbadoes, and the 
other islands, is in fact merely nominal : and that the 
same lamentable deficiency of legal protection, the same 
system of unqualified oppression, characterizes Negro 
bondage throughout the whole extent of our West Indian 
possessions. 

Before the pamphlet closes, it will be proper to devote 
a few pages to the consideration of a long Report of the 
Assembly of Jamaica which forms a part of these papers. 

The picture given in that Report of the situation of the 
West Indian islands is in the highest degree discouraging; 
but it is represented by the reporters as less gloomy than 
the truth. " A faithful detail," it is said, p. 26, " would 
have the appearance of a frightful caricature ; and unless 
speedy and efficacious measures are adopted for giving 
permanent relief, by a radical change of measures, we 
must suppose that the West Indian islands are doomed to 
perish as useless appendages to the British empire." 
Credit is represented to be at an end ; the planters, gene= 
rally, to be labouring under the pressure of accumulating 
debt; and the greatest distress to pervade all classes of 
the community. Admitting the fidelity of this repre- 
sentation, a question will still arise respecting the causes 
which have produced so unfavourable a state of things. 
The Report affirms, that it has chiefly been produced by 
the enormous duties imposed On West Indian produce 5 
by the competition of East Indian sugars; and by the 
attempts made to abolish the Slave trade. 

The two first points would lead to very lengthened de- 
tails, and are foreign from the design of this pamphlet, 

E 



26 

It may be observed, however, in general, that notwith- 
standing the labour employed by the reporters to prove 
that the additional duties imposed on West Indian pro- 
duce fall not on the consumer, as in every other instance, 
but on the grower, no peculiarity appears to exist in the 
case under consideration, which exempts it from the ope- 
ration of the general rule ; a rule which is familiar to the 
merest sciolist in political economy. The protecting duties 
imposed on East India sugar appear also to be suffici- 
ently high to exclude them from competition with West 
Indian sugar in the British market. A part of the East 
Indian sugar, it is true, is consumed in this country; but 
it is a small part, the demand for it being confined to a 
few individuals, who are willing to pay a high price for 
sugar rather than wound their consciences, by using 
what is procured through the oppression of their brethren : 
the rest is exported. 

The attempts made to abolish the Slave trade operate, 
it is said, to the disadvantage of the island, by increasing 
the danger of insurrection among the Slaves*, and by dis- 
couraging the hope of a permanent supply of labourers. 
West Indian property, it is added, is thus so greatly di- 
minished in its value, that merchants will no longer ad- 
vance money upon it ; and without an advance of 
money, the plantations cannot be carried on with ad- 
vantage, 

* The Slaves* it is affumed, will confound abolition with- 
emancipation. But what proof is there of this ? Have they done 
so in Virginia ? The Slave trade has been abolished in that state 
for near thirty years. Has any such misconception, as is now an- 
ticipated, taken place among the Virginian Slaves ? Certainly 
not. Experience therefore is against the reasoning of the W«;at 
Indian body. 



27 

The Report, however, overlooks the effect produced on 
the value of property in the old islands by the extended 
cultivation of Trinidad and Dutch Guiana. But is not 
the great and growing rivalry of these colonics a far more 
formidable evil than that of the East Indies ? Why then 
have they so much insisted on the latter, while the 
former, though much more obvious and much more mis- 
chievous, is passed over in silence ? Is it that the re- 
porters have a sympathy with the owners of Slaves, which 
even self-interest cannot overcome; and that they dread 
the precedent of cultivating sugar by free men, as is done 
in Bengal ? They must also feel that it would have been 
greatly to the advantage of the old islands, had they con- 
sented to an abolition of the Slave trade fourteen years 
ago, before the fertile plains of Guiana had yet been 
brought into cultivation by the enormous amount of 
British capital, which has been transferred thither. 

The reporters labour to keep out of view the dangers 
which threaten Jamaica from the example and proxi- 
mity of St. Domingo, and from an increase of the Negro 
population in the island ; and they absurdly argue, that 
the more the Negro population is increased, the greater 
will be the security of the West Indies. As to the plea 
so strongly urged, of danger, even from discussing the 
question of abolition in the British Parliament, it is ren- 
dered almost ridiculous by the circumstance, that the 
debates which have taken place on that subject are regu- 
larly published, at great length, in the official newspapers 
of Jamaica; and that even the present Report, in which 
the question of abolition is largely discussed, has been 
inserted, by authority of the Assembly, in the Royal 
Gazette of that island. 

The reporters are greatly displeased that they should 

E 2, 



28 

be thought not to know their own interests, and what 
is most likely to promote them. This however is an 
imputation which they share in common with a great part 
of mankind,, and which particularly attaches to all who, 
like them, are engaged in gambling speculations. The 
West Indian party, it will be remembered, vehemently 
opposed the bills for regulating the Middle Passage, and 
yet they have since confessed, that those bills have been 
productive of great benefit to their concerns : and had 
they not been so infatuated as to oppose, fourteen years 
ago, unfortunately with more effect, the abolition of the 
Slave trade, they would have been saved the ruinous 
competition of Dutch Guiana 3 and they would have had 
at this moment the almost exclusive possession of the 
sugar-market of Europe. 

The reporters insist with much earnestness on their 
right to the continuance of the Slave trade, on the ground 
of its having been sanctioned by Acts of Parliament. But 
is it not absurd to suppose that any Acts of Parliament, 
which may have been framed to encourage the importa- 
tion of African labourers' into the West Indies, can have 
conveyed to West Indians the right of establishing such a 
frightful system of oppression as the preceding part of 
this pamphlet has proved to exist among them ? What 
act can be produced which binds the Imperial Parliament 
to uphold a system so outrageously opposed to every prin- 
ciple of British policy and of British law ; and not only 
to uphold it, but to enlarge its influence by the perpetual 
increase of its wretched victims ? Granting that West 
Indians have that claim to which they pretend on the 
justice and faith of Parliament, the claim attaches to this 
country, and not to Africa, which was no party in the 
contract. 



29 

The reporters are very indignant that any of the par- 
liamentary orators should have dared to express an opinion 
that the Slave trade is " contrary to the principles of 
justice and humanity ;" and they add, that " the parti- 
cular accusations of oppression, without the means of re- 
dress : of avaricious and unfeeling; rigour towards our 
Slaves, unrestrained by a sense of interest, or the dic-r 
tates of humanity ; heaped upon the inhabitants of the 
British West Indian colonies j have been repelled and re- 
futed by such irrefragable evidence, that they can now 
make little impression, except on the prejudiced and unin- 
formed" Page t2. 

How far a sense of interest or the dictates of humanity 
are capable of preventing unfeeling rigour from being ex- 
ercised towards Negro Slaves, 'let the correspondence of 
Lord Seaforth, already referred to, testify. If farther evi- 
dence were required on this point, that of Governor Pre- 
vost might be adduced. He expressly declares (p. 34), 
that " the interest of the master in his Slaves' well-being; 
is not always a sufficient check." But even supposing 
that a sense of interest should operate with the owners 
of Negro Slaves in restraining cruel treatment, yet what is 
likely to be the operation of this potent principle in cases 
where the management of the estates of absent proprie- 
tors is left to attornies, whose commissions are enlarged 
in proportion to the amount of the crops j and to over- 
seers, who hold their office during the pleasure of those 
attornies, and whose reputation as planters depends not 
on the increase of Slaves, but on the increase of the 
yearly produce of the estate ? It is the more necessary to 
make the inquiry, because by far the greater part of the 
sugar plantations of Jamaica are in this predicament. 
Allowing, therefore, that the principle of self-interest 



30 

possesses all the force which is attributed to it, yet in the 
present circumstances of Jamaica its operation on the 
whole is more likely to be injurious than beneficial to the 
Negro Slaves *. 

But what is this " irrefragable testimony" to 
which the Assembly of Jamaica refer, as disproving the 
allegations of abolitionists? It cannot have been the cor- 
respondence of Lord Seaforth with Earl Camden, for that 
had not yet been made public. They ought to have 
pointed to the chapter and page in which this invaluable 
testimony lies concealed. For my own part, anxious as I 
am that this great cause should have an impartial hearing, 
I still would be willing that it should be decided without 
referring to any other testimony than that which has 
already been produced by West Indians and their friends. 
Even on their own shewing, the charges of " inhumanity 
and injustice," at least to the moral perceptions of Eng- 
lishmen, are not only not disproved, but incontrovertibly 
established. West Indians cannot deny that the Negroes 
whom they purchase are procured in Africa by means the 
most revolting to humanity and justice. Bryan Edwards, 
their own historian and apologist, has said, that to deny 
this would be i( insult and mockery." They cannot 
deny that the Negroes are transported in fetters to the 
West Indies, and there sold like cattle in a fair. Neither 
can they deny that the Negroes, being sold, become 
the absolute property of their purchaser, who may sepa- 
rate parents from children and from each other, and sell 
them when and to whom he pleases : that, moreover, 



* Suppose a plantation under the management of such a man as 
Crone, the proprietor being in England; what a sum of misery 
might be crowded into a short space of time ! 



31 

West Indian Slaves have no civil rights whatever, which 
are not equally enjoyed by brutes, the parade of laws in 
their favour signifying nothing, as has already been 
proved, while their evidence is inadmissible in a court of 
justice, and while the men who administer those laws have 
an interest, real or supposed, in their violation : and that 
therefore no effectual limit can be put to the master's 
discretion, either as to the quantity of food to be given, 
of labour to be enforced, or of punishment to be inflicted. 
It is a fact equally undeniable, that the labour of Negro 
Slaves is extracted from them, as it is from a team of 
oxen, by the lash or the terror of the cart-whip*: that, 
in a climate congenial to their own, they nevertheless 
decrease so fast as to require constant importations to 
keep up their wasted numbers : and lastly, that they 
are regarded as an inferior order of beings f; from 
which it flows as a corollary that they can have no 
claim to a participation in those rights of humanity, 
or in that sympathy which men in general are willing to 
bestow on those whom they consider as fellow men. Now 
these are all points of general notoriety : they are either 
distinctly admitted by the West Indians, who have given 
evidence before the Privy Council and the House of Com- 
mons ; or they are established beyond dispute by written 

* This horrid feature of our colonial system prevails uniformly 
throughout the whole range of our West Jndian possessions. N© 
one can have visited them without knowing that the practice of 
driving Negroes at their work by means of the whip is universal i 
and yet such is the gross ignorance of the subject prevailing in 
this country, that the fact, though as notorious in the West Indies 
as that slavery exists there at all, has been sometimes disputed even 
in the House oFCommons. 

f See Long's History of Jamaica, and, in. addition to many 
other proofs which might be adduced, the preceding part of this 
pamphlet. 



32 

documents which the West Indian Legislatures and Go- 
vernors have officially furnished. That they are confirmed 
in some important particulars by the papers which have 
now been reviewed, will scarcely be controverted. If, 
however, the bare statement of the above facts, facts, let 
it be remembered, resting on West Indian testimony, 
should amount (as it will appear to do to all who have not 
been accustomed to breathe the moral atmosphere of our 
Slave colonies) to a charge of i( injustice and inhuma- 
nity," of <e oppression," and " unfeeling rigour," against 
the West Indian system, then surely the bold and unqua- 
lified assertion that such a charge has been " refuted by 
irrefragable testimony 3 " has no foundation on which to 
stand. 

The reporters have incidentally introduced into their 
Report a comparison between the state of the Negro 
Slaves and that of u the oppressed peasantry" of Bengal. 
After giving an exaggerated representation of the wretch- 
edness of the latter, they add, Ci such is the situation of 
twenty millions of free subjects of the British empire in 
India, whilst its legislature is hunting for imaginary 
misery* in the West Indian colonies, where the lot of 
the labourer is a thousand times more fortunate." P. 18. 

I would here ask the framers of this Report a few ques- 
tions, which may serve to throw light on the comparison 
which they have instituted. Do they not know that the 
Bengal peasant is not dragged from his own country by 



* Imaginary misery! Am I then wrong in having attributed to 
West Indians a different set of moral perceptions from those 
which prevail among the inhabitants of Great Britain ? If at the 
time when this Report was framed the reporters were ignorant of 
the horrors which have recently taken place in the West Indies, 
they' could not be ignorant that such horrors might be practised 
with impunity. 



33 

force or fraud, loaded with fetters, chained to the deck, 
or stifled in the hold of a Slave-ship; bartered as a mere 
implement of agriculture; separated at the pleasure of 
another from his wife and children ; worked under the 
lash without the liberty even of pausing in his toil, but at 
the bidding of the driver; and liable to be punished to 
any extent, and with any circumstances of cruelty, which 
the caprice of his master may direct ? Do they not know 
that the Bengal peasant is not punishable by any other 
sentence than that of the law, after a regular trial and 
conviction ; that his person and property are as fully se- 
cured to him as those of the Governor General of India ; 
and that he is the sole judge both of the labour and the 
food which suit him ? There is only one answer which 
can be returned to these questions ; and that answer will 
prove it to be no better than absolute mockery in the 
Assembly of Jamaica thus to compare the condition of 
the Bengal peasant with that of the Negro Slave. 

But this is not all. The reporters enter into tedious 
calculations to shew how much higher the wages of the 
Negro Slave are than those of the Bengal peasant ; but 
they omit to advert to one very material point of difference 
between them. The wages of the Bengal peasant are 
paid to himself: he labours for his own benefit solely. 
But it is to his master, and not to himself, that the wa^es 
of the Negro Slave are paid. From his thankless toil 
must be extracted, not only the means of his own sub- 
sistence, but the means of pampering the luxury, swelling 
the pomp, gratifying the avarice, or discharging the debts 
of his owner. And when the circumstances in which 
the planters are now placed have been considered, it can- 
not be expected that a very ample proportion of the Slave's 
earnings should be applied to his own sustentation, 

F 



34 

especially as that proportion, whatever it may be, depends 
entirely on the will of an insolvent, or nearly insolvent 
master. 

The reporters complain; that they were not permitted, 
in the session of 1804, to produce fresh evidence at the 
bar of the House of Commons in favour of their right to 
a continuance of the Slave trade. But would any evi- 
dence which they could produce contradict that state- 
ment of the, "nature of West Indian slavery which they 
themselves have already furnished, and by which its in- 
justice and inhumanity are clearly demonstrated? And 
supposing they had been hardy enough to do- this, would 
any credit have been due to such contradictory testi- 
mony ? Besides, what confidence can the British Par- 
liament or the British Public repose in the declarations of 
West Indians, even if they should sanction those decla- 
rations with all the solemnity of an oath j when it ap- 
pears from the acknowledgment of Governor Prevost, and 
from the concurring testimony of their own records, that 
the most honourable men among them could so far forget 
their high obligations as legislators, as to join in a com- 
bination to deceive the Government and the Legislature 
of this country, and to obtain credit to themselves for 
humanity, by passing laws which they meant at the time 
to be wholly inoperative ? 

I shall only detain the reader while I notice one more 
argument in favour of the Slave trade which is contained 
in this Report. The continuance of importations, it is 
affirmed,, will not increase the disproportion of Blacks 
and Whites so much as the abolition would. This is an 
argument not very level to common understandings; but 
the reasoning on which it is built is of this kind. If the 
Slave trade were abolished^ the number of adventurers 



35 

who repair to the West Indies in the hope of amassing a 
fortune would be diminished, and consequently the white 
population would decrease. But supposing the number of 
adventurers who go out with such large expectations were 
diminished, does it follow that an equal number, with 
more moderate views, might not be procured to supply 
their place ? While emigrations to America are so fre- 
quent and numerous, might not a part of them, with 
proper encouragement, be easily diverted to the filling- of 
vacancies in Jamaica ? The planters of that island, how- 
ever, are far from feeling, on this point, the solicitude 
which they express. Several proofs of this might be 
given. In the first place, do they not almost universally 
refuse to employ on their estates, in any capacity, white 
men who are married and have families ? If they really 
wished to increase the number of whites, would not men 
with families be the most desirable persons to employ ?- 
Another proof is, that although there is a law of the island* 
requiring the proprietors of estates to maintain a certain 
number of white servants in proportion to their slaves 
(about one white to thirty slaves), yet the tax, which is 
payable in case of a deficiency in that number, is so low, 
that it is in general a gain to the proprietor to pay the tax 
rather than to procure the individuals. Jn short, it is no- 
torious, notwithstanding the language employed in the 
Report, that no pains have been taken to remedy the dis- 
proportion of the black and white population. 

The true reason, however, of this argument is to be 
found, not in the increased danger which will result to the 
island from abolishing the Slave trade, but in the con- 
stitution of the Jamaica Assembly. That Assembly 
(though containing a small proportion of wealthy 
planters) is chiefly composed of such adventurers as are 



35 

alluded to in theReport, and for whose privileges so mucri- 
solicitude is manifested : viz. either merchants who are 
concerned in the sale of Slave cargoes, or agents employed 
to manage the estates of absent proprietors j to whom are 
added a few insolvent proprietors of sugar estates, largely 
indebted, perhaps, to those very merchants and agents. 
Now it is the voice of these adventurers which is heard on 
the, present occasion, and not that of the real proprietors 
of Jamaica. The real proprietors, if their voice could be 
heard, would probably speak a different language ; and 
we see that in some cases they do so. Many of them are 
sensible, that, added to the fatal rivalry of Guiana, the 
true cause of their embarrassment (as their historian Long 
has well shewn), and the grand source of their danger 
also, is the continuance of the Slave trade : and if they 
were not influenced by prejudice or party connexions, or 
deterred by the threats of creditors, or duped by the mis- 
representations of agents, they would follow the example 
which Mr. Barham has set them, and take that part 
which prudence and policy concur with justice and hu- 
manity in dictating ; 1 mean the part of forwarding a 
legislative abolition of the Slave trade, as the only safe 
and practicable, and at the same time effectual remedy, 
which can be applied to the dreadful evils of our colonial 
system. 

THE END. 



S. Gosnell, Printer, Little Queen Street. 



