SUBSTANCE. 



"-■ ^ 



AN ADDRESS 

TO TOE 

LADIES OF GLASGOW AND ITS VICINITY 

UPON 

THE PRESENT ASPECT OF THE GREAT QUESTION OF 

NEGRO EMANCIPATION, 

DELIVERED IN 

MR ANDERSON'S CHAPEL, JOHN-ST., GLASGOW, 

ON TUESDAY, MARCH 5th, 1833, 

BY GEORGE THOMPSON. 

ALSO, 

SOME ACCOUNT OF THE FORMATION 

OF THE 



" IT 13 NECESSARY TO ABOLISH SLAVERV FOR THE SAKE OF OliR JURISPRUDENCE, AND OUR 
CHARACTER AS CHRISTIANS." — ('. J. fox: 



GLASGOW: 
DAVID ROBERTSON. 

WILLIAM OLIPHANT, AND JOHN WARDLAW, EDINBURGH; 
AND J. H ADDON & CO., 27, IVY LANE, LONDON. 



MUCCCXXXllI. 



/^afe. 69 n^ 



GLASGOW : 

FULI.ARTOM & CO., PIIINTERS, VII.J.A FJ Rl.D. 



h 



THE PRESIDENT, VICE-PRESIDENTS, 

AND OTHER OFFICERS AND MEMBERS 

OF THE 

GLASGOW LADIES' ASSOCIATION, 

FOR PROMOTING THE OBJECTS 
OF THE 

LaNDON AGENCY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

Ladies, 

In obedience to your unanimous wish so flatteringly ex- 
pressed on Wednesday last, I have very hastily committed to 
paper the substance of the Address I had the honour to deliver 
the preceding day, before near two thousand of the fair inha- 
bitants of your City. 

I most cheerfully incur whatever responsibility may attach 
to me by the publication of the following pages, because they 
record the proceedings of a day, upon which I shall ever 
reflect with feelings of the deepest interest and delight. 

That Heaven may bless your institution, and " prosper the 
work of your hands " in this " labour of love," is the earnest 
wish, of 

Ladies, 

Your most humble 

and devoted Servant, 

G. Thompson. 



Canning Place, Glasgow^ 7 
March \l,l8i3. 5 



Digitized by the Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/substanceofaddreOOthom \ m 



ADDRESS, ETC. 



(FROM THE GLASGOW ARGUS.) 

" OiV Tuesday last, a most interesting meeting was held in the 
Rev. Mr Anderson's Church, John Street, consisting almost exclu- 
sively of ladies, when Mr Thompson delivered another lecture in 
favour of the immediate abolition of slavery in the West Indian 
colonies. The assembly was one of the most interesting we recol- 
lect to have seen. Not fewer than 1,800 females composing the 
elite of the beauty and fashion of Glasgow, were present, with only 
here and there a sprinkling of males, amounting to perhaps a dozen 
or two, with the exception of the gentlemen who accompanied the 
lecturer to the bench. The place of meeting originally fixed was 
the Trades' Hall ; but our fair friends came forward in such num- 
bers, that not one-half could be accommodated, and an adjournment 
accordingly took place to the Church. — Anthony Wigham, Esq. 
was called to the chair, and expressed the high satisfaction he felt 
at seeing so many of his female friends present — a circumstance 
which augured well for the success of the righteous cause in which 
they were all engaged ; and it might be predicted that such expres- 
sions of public opinion would soon sweep away slavery from every 
part of the British dominions. He would introduce Mr Thomp- 
son, who was not now a stranger to many of them — in fact, he was 
almost naturalised among us. (Applause.) We were sorry to see 
that Mr Thompson was labouring under indisposition. 

Mr Thompson then rose amid great applause." 

Mr Chairman — Ladies of Glasgow — Mr Anderson, tlie 
much respected minister of this chapel, in kind consideration 
of the state of my health, lias allowed me to occupy his pulpit 
on the present occasion : it being a situation requiring less 
physical exertion than any other. I regret that I shall not 



be able to command that energy of body, wliieli it is desirable 
to possess in the discharge of a duty like that which lies be- 
fore me, but if there be any circumstances calculated for a 
while to lift me above myself, and render me superior to bodily 
infirmities, they are those by which I am now surrounded. 
I have been introduced to you by your venerable Chairman 
as no longer a stranger, but naturalised amongst you ; and am 
therefore encouraged to believe, that in every individual be- 
fore me, I behold a kind, indulgent, and sympathising friend: 
brought hither, — not by the irresistible charm of nqvelty, but 
attachment to that cause, as the humble advocate of which, I 
have become so speedily and so widely known to you. How 
then can I gaze upon this vast congregation of the friends of 
the Negro and myself, and not be cheered, and thrilled, and 
animated ? Never did I feel myself more deeply affected by 
any spectacle than the present — never more assured that our 
holy undertaking must quickly and triumphantly accomplish 
its object; — these are signs of the times which cannot be 
misunderstood — " he who runs may read," that the reign of 
despotism is drawing to a close — the women of England and 
of Scotland are coming forth in the might of their majesty 
and mercy, and the fervour of their zeal must soon dissolve 
the fetters of the Slave. (Cheers.) Women of Glasgow! 
you have done well in coming from your homes this morning 
to testify your affection for the cause of liberty — you will not 
lose your reward — you will send through your land a kindred 
flame, and summon thousands of your sex to your help in the 
work of Emancipation. Grant me now your attention while 
I endeavour to strengthen your convictions of the justice of 
our cause, and increase your zeal in its behalf, by offering to 
your notice a few remarks, calculated, in my opinion, to effect 
these desirable ends. 



Tliere is one branch of tlie momentoiLS question of Negro 
Emancipation, npon which I beg to fix your A'ery serious con- 
sideration. 

1. Because it has been set up as a justification of Slavery, 
as it now exists in our dominions. 

2. Because the apology I refer to, appeals to the feelings 
of that portion of the community, which, above all others, I 
am desirous of seeing amongst the friends of Negro Emanci- 
pation. 

3. Because it involves the high consideration, whether un- 
to us belongs a discretionary power to act towards our fellow- 
men as we are now acting towards our Colonial bondsmen ; 
and, 

4. Because it affects the honour and equity of that Being 
who hath commanded us to " love our neiohbour as our- 
selves," and to do unto others as we would that they should 
do unto us. 

That part of the subject is this ; The abstract sinfulness of 
holding men in personal thraldom. In other words. Can any 
circumstances just fy men in holding their fellow-men in bond- 
age? 

In answer to this inquiry, I would unhesitatingly answer. 
Yes. There are circumstances during the continuance of 
which men may hold their fellow-creatures in slavery without 
incurring guilt by so doing : and the existence or non-exist- 
ence of such circumstances, creates the justification, or occa- 
sions the guilt, of the man-stealer or slave-holder. When 
these circumstances are present, he is justified; when they 
are absent, he is guilty. These circumstances I will present- 
ly specify. 

It has been recently asserted that Slavery in the abstract is 
not sinful, — that is to say, to steal a man and hold him in bond- 
age is not per se a crime. Tlie argument used to maintain this 



8 

position is, that Slavery has been permitted to exist under the 
sanction of God, — that God cannot sanction sin, — therefore. 
Slavery is not sinful. From tliis argument I hope to deduce 
a proof that British Colonial Slavery is a crime in the sight 
of God, and ought therefore to be immediately and for ever 
abolished. 

In the first place, allow me to draw your attention to the 
law given on Sinai for the moral government of mankind to 
the end of the world. One of the commandments in that law 
is, " Thoii shalt not steal."" This conmiand, which has refer- 
ence to all descriptions of robbery, must certainly include the 
stealing of men, which is universally allowed to be the worst 
description of theft that can be committed. 

Another clause in the same divine code is, " Thou shalt not 
covetr Now, I ask, what is there belonging to a man more 
precious than his own person, and his own liberty ; and if the 
desire to possess the house or the ox of our neighbour be sin- 
ful, can a man covet and possess that which is infinitely more 
valuable to every human being than any other description 
of property, viz. his life, his limbs, his wife, and his children, 
and yet be guiltless ? 

Again, in Exodus xxi. 16, it is written, " He that stealeth 
a man and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, he shall 
surely be put to death." Here, then, we have the law of 
God upon the subject. These commands are plain and un- 
equivocal, and admit but of one interpretation. They point 
out in what light the Almighty views the crime of theft in 
general, and that of man-stealing and slave-holding in par- 
ticular. 

Again, in Deut. xxiv. 7, " If a man be found stealing any 
of his brethren of the children of Israel, and maketli merchan- 
dise of him, or selleth him ; then that thief shall die : and 
thou shalt put away evil from among you." 



Maimonides, Jarchi, and tlie Mishnic doctors, interpret 
these laws in their strictest sense. With regard to the latter 
one, they say that in the term " brethren of the children of 
Israel," are included the old and the young, the male and the 
female, the Israelite, and the Jewish proselyte ; — and " mak- 
ing merchandise" as using a man against his wiU, as a servant 
lawfully purchased; yea, though he should use his services 
only to the value of a farthing, or use but his arm to lean up- 
on to support him, if he be forced so to act as a servant, the 
person so compelling him but once to do so, shall die as a 
thief, whether he has sold him or not. 

From these passages we learn what our duty is under all 
ordinary circumstances. We are not to steals — we are not to 
covet^ — we are not to make merchandise of men, or constrain 
them to serve us against their Avill; — all such offences being 
denounced in the plainest and most authoritative terms, and 
the persons guilty of an infraction of any of these laws being 
declared worthy of " death." 

We come now to the plea set up for Slavery, viz. That 
God has sanctioned it. The passage generally quoted is the 
25th chapter of Le\'iticus, from the 39th to the 46th verses, 
inclusive, — it is, however, upon the 45 th and 46 th verses 
principally that the argmnent is biult : " Moreover, of the 
children of the strangers that do sojourn among you, of them 
shall ye huy^ and of their families that are with you, which 
they begat in your land; and they shall be your possession : 
and ye shall take them as an inheritance for your children af- 
ter you, to inherit them for a possession ; they shall be your 
bondmen for ever; but over your brethren the children of Is- 
rael, ye shall not rule one over another with rigour." 

The words, " they shall be your bondmen for ever," in the 
passage I have just read, when taken in connection with an- 
otlicr ill tlio same cliaj)tor, appear to mo rather to establish 



10 

the right of the Hebrews to supply themselves with bond- 
servants from among the strangers romid about, durmg the 
continuance of their dispensation, than to prove that indivi- 
dual slaves were held in captivity for ever. The 10th verse 
seems to promise liberty to all, both Jews and Gentiles, at 
the year of jubilee : " And ye shall hallow the fiftieth year, 
and proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inha- 
hitants thereof; and ye shall return every man unto his pos- 
session, and every man unto his family." 

Without staying to inquire whether the words " for ever " 
are to be understood as having a particular or general appli- 
cation, or both, let us look at the persons thus permitted to 
be held in bondage, — at those to whom the permission was 
granted, — at the mode of treatment adopted towards these 
captives, — and at the peculiar circumstances of the case. 

1. Who were " the heathen round about," the "strangers 
who sojourned in the land?" They were the remnants of 
nations who had filled up the measure of their sins, and against 
whom the wrath of God was revealed even unto death. 

2. They were the inhabitants of a land which God had 
promised for many centuries to the descendants of Abraham, 
Isaac, and Jacob, — a land that was to be purged from the 
pollution of idolatry and the most abounding profligacy, and 
become the theatre of the most stupendous events. It was to 
become the possession of God's chosen people, who were to 
keep up a knowledge of His moral and providential govern- 
ment, until the predicted period should arrive, when the seed 
of the woman should bruise the serpent's head. Of this cho- 
sen people the Almighty was the Head, the Lawgiver, and the 
Governor. He gave them a code of laws — ceremonial and 
civil — which were not intended for other nations ; and invest- 
ed them with certain privileges which no other people can 
lay the least claim to, and which — for the most part at least — 



11 

were only to be continued to tliem during the covenant of 
works ; for, when the covenant of grace and mercy, through 
Christ, shoidd be established, other nations were to be equal 
participators ; the Gentiles were to share the glorious and sav- 
ing light, and Jews and Gentiles to be henceforth equal in 
rights and privileges (for " in Christ there is neither Jew nor 
Greek, bond nor free") and all men were to be on equal 
terms as brethren. 

3. The bond-service to which the heathen were subjected 
by the Jews, was in almost all respects perfectly dissimilar to 
the degrading Slavery which now prevails in the West Indies. 
In the great majority of instances being only the payment of 
tribute, leaving them at liberty to avail themselves of every 
just means of acquiring wealth, and only preventing them 
from becoming the possessors of that soil which God had given 
to his " pecidiar people." 

Purchased servants were to be treated with especial kind- 
ness, and seem in most cases to have been a superior order of 
dependents. Hired servants appear to have been among the 
meanest of those who bore the name of servants from among 
the heathen, and were generally employed as hewers of wood 
and drawers of water; in other words, as the bearers of bur- 
dens, — persons engaged in the lowest occupations. 

4. Their treatment, as servants, was to be invariably dis- 
tinguished by kifidness. Maltreatment entitled them to in- 
stant release. The Sabbath was theirs, — the court of the 
Gentiles was theirs, — the way of access to all the benefits, 
temporal and spiritual, of the Jewish religion, was theirs. As 
heathen slaves, they were to be treated with uniform justice 
and tenderness ; as proselytes and converts, in all respects as 
brethren. 

I might, if I had time, and it were necessary, fully to show 
you from the inspired volume, that so far from magnifying 



12 

tlie comforts and privileges of bond-servants under the Mosaic 
economy, ' I have much curtailed the list of their advantages. 
I might quote the laws which bound the Israelites, under the 
heaviest penalties, to observe a course of kindness to the 
slave. I might specify the arrangements made for their in- 
struction and conversion ; I might enumerate the threatenings 
and denunciations of God against their oppressors, when they 
had any, and show also the execution of them in a variety of 
awful and premonitory instances ; but I forbear, and earnestly 
recommend all present to peruse, with diligence and care, the 
first five books of the Old Testament, and mark what is there 
written respecting " strangers" " strangers within the gates^^ 
as contradistinguished from casual visitors, — " strangers that 
sojourn amongst you^' — " servants" and " bondsmen" — for 
under these five denominations are, I believe, included all the 
bond-servants taken from among the heathen. 

5. Having glanced at the source whence the Jews derived 
their slaves, and at the treatment they were enjoined to ob- 
serve towards them, let us regard for a moment the warrant 
they had for thus enslaving and detaining in bondage a por- 
tion of their fellow-creatures. Their warrant — their sole 
and only warrant — was the permission and sanction of their 
great Ruler, who was pleased to commute to Slavery a sen- 
tence of death, pronoimced upon the Canaanitish and Philis- 
tine nations, in consequence of their flagrant impiety and in- 
corrigible rebellion. Let this be well remembered. Slavery 
was a punishment for sin, and it was a punishment not inflict- 
ed according to the discretion of man, but ordered and regu- 
lated by God, the divine head of the .Jewish theocracy. He 
was the God, and Father, and Legislator of the people of Is- 
rael; he was the God also of the heathen round about, though 
they knew him not, nor feared his name. Remember, too, 
that he is a Being not subject to the same laws as man, but 



13 

the source and giver of law to man ; that revealed codes are 
for man and not for God ; and then I think you will appre- 
hend that which I am anxious to prove, viz. that Slavery might 
exist among the Jews, and yet neither furnish us with an 
example to be followed, nor establish any abstract right in us 
to be the holders of Slaves. 

The Divine sanction then is the circumstance which justifies 
slavery — let it be shown to be in any other case, as it was in 
the case of the Jews, to be by the appointment of God, and 
we will acknowledge it to be right, — but we hold that the 
moment the sanction of God is withdrawn, the authority of 
man is at an end, and he is left to regulate his moral conduct 
by the revealed law ; every violation of which, is an offence 
against his Creator. — It does not appear from any passage in 
Scripture, that to man was ever given a discretionary power 
to bring into bondage any portion of his fellow-men : on the 
contrary, the most fearful punishments are assigned to those 
who are guilty of any infraction of the law in this respect. 
Had such a discretionary power ever been given, in the day 
when it was so given, the moral law would have been in 
effect annulled. In all cases the Jews were but agents, in- 
struments, and ministers of vengeance in the hands of the 
Almighty, and were repeatedly chastised for assuming and 
exercising a power not delegated to them by their supreme 
Head. The Jews, however, were showing their obedience as 
much in the destruction of the Canaanites, as in the offering 
of appointed sacrifices : and in observing the arrangements 
regarding slavery, as in the performance of any religious 
service enjoined upon them. 

But what is the use made of the fact that God allowed the 
enslavement of the remnant of the Canaanitish nations ? It is 
this, that therefore Slavery in the abstract is not sinful — and 
therefore wc may liold men iji Slavery, and be guiltless. See 



14 

for a moment where tliis would lead us. It would lead us to 
the conclusion, that the judgments and punishments which 
God has at any time commanded or authorized his own special 
people, his avowed and accredited servants, to inflict upon 
nations or individuals, may in strict conformity with religion 
and morality be inflicted by men upon their fellows, at any 
time, and in any place, without a renewal of such authority 
or command. 

By a decree of the Most High a father was commanded to 
sacrifice his son : — Elijah was empowered to slay the false 
prophets, and the Israelites were enjoined to put to death 
some, and to enslave others of the idolatrous people whom 
they conquered in war, and therefore we have a moral and 
religious right to do any or all similar things, though we can 
show no corresponding warrant, sanction, or authority. Ex- 
cellent Logic ! Excellent Theology ! (Loud cheers.) 

Thus we see, to what mean and sinful shifts tyrants are 
driven, when they seek to justify the exercise of an arbitrary 
and pernicious authority — that they hesitate not to ascend 
even to the throne of the Eternal, to draw from thence a war- 
rant for their own despotic practices. I hesitate not to declare, 
that to contend for the continuance of British Colonial Slavery, 
from the circumstance of Slavery having been permitted by 
God in the case referred to, is unreasonable, unscriptural, im- 
pious, and blasphemous. 

Let the following questions be deeply and seriously pon- 
dered, ere such an argument is allowed to plead with you for 
the existence of so foul an institution. 

1. Are the tribes of Western Africa in circumstances simi- 
lar to those of the Philistines and Canaanitish nations brought 
into subjection to the ancient Hebrews ? 

2. Are we the chosen people of Jehovah, to whom Africa 
has been promised as a dwelling place and possession for ever ? 



15 

3. Have we been instructed and commanded to make war 
upon the inhabitants of those regions, and either to extermin- 
ate them, or reduce them and their children to a state of ab- 
ject vassalage ? 

4. Does our system of Colonial Slavery resemble the 
Slavery permitted mider the Hebrews, in the treatment of our 
slaves, in reference to food, clothing, and lodging, — their in- 
struction in the truths of religion, and their facilities for be- 
coming members of the church, and citizens of the state ? 

5. Has God in any way recorded his sanction, or expressed 
his approbation, of oiu- present system ? 

6. Can it be shown that to us has ever been committed a 
discretionary power to enslave our fellow creatures ? 

7. If British Colonial Slavery was wrong in its commence- 
ment, can it be showai at which event in the series connecting 
the first seizure -with the present possession, the change from 
wrong to right took place ? If it be admitted that Colonial 
Slavery has always been wrong and is still a bitter evil, and a 
crying sin, what becomes of the abstract view and the deduc- 
tions made from it ? 

8. If it be argued that it must be done gradually, where, 
I ask, is the Scripture proof justifying the adoption of such a 
com-se ? Did God ever keep men in Slavery to educate them 
for freedom ? Or did he ever teach that a state of captivity 
was a necessary school in which to learn the use of liberty ? 
Do not tlie oracles of God declare, " live peaceably with all 
men," — " Avenge not yourselves, but rather give place mito 
wrath : for it is written, vengeance is mine ; I will repay, saith 
the Lord ?" 

Shall we then presume to put ourselves upon a footing of 
equality with God? Shall we snatch the scales of justice 
from his hands, and hurl the thunderbolts of his vengeance ? 
Or sliall wf meekly submit ourselves to the government of liis 



16 

law, except when he himself shall set aside that law and em- 
ploy us, as in the case of the Jews, as agents for the execution 
of his will ? 

I deem it unnecessary on the present occasion to go into 
the views of Christianity upon the subject. You require no 
proof from me that the religion of Christ is a religion of love, 
and that it never has, it never can sanction for a moment so 
foul, so inhuman, so impious, so miu-derous a system as Bri- 
tish West India Slavery. 

My opponent has said, show me that West India Slavery 
is sinful, or encourages sinful practices, and though its aboli- 
tion should pluck the brightest jewel from the diadem of the mon- 
arch; and shake the foundation of the throne itself; and sever 
the colonies for ever from our empire, let it be annihilated. 
I am content that the question should be tried by the test of 
my opponent. 

Is it sinful to make men labour without the hope of reward ? 
If it be, let British Colonial Slavery cease for ever, for it ex- 
acts the labour of the negro without giving him the remuner- 
ation he deserves. 

Is it sinful to separate families ; to tear the child from the 
bosom of its parent, and the wife from the protection of the 
husband ? Then let British Colonial Slavery be annihilated, 
for it does at this hour sanction the separation of families, 
whenever such a course is necessary to meet the exigencies 
of the planter, or satisfy the rapacity of his creditor.* 

Is it sinful to withhold religious instruction from the negro, 
that by keeping him in darkness he may the more willingly 
submit to the unjust demands of his master? Then let British 
Colonial Slavery be brought at once to an end, for it has 
raised and perpetuated the most effectual barriers to the reli- 
gious advancement of the negro population. Slavery and 
* See Appendix, No. I. 



17. 

knowledge are incompatible. Knowledge of a purely religious 
kind inevitably makes tlie slave acquainted with the injustice 
of the treatment he receives. He learns that he is equal to 
his proud oppressor in the possession of a natural right to his 
person and his liberty. He has created in his mind a restless 
desire after freedom, and he asks, in the language of your 
own wild and beautiful bard, 

If I'm design'dj yon lorcUing's slave — 

By Nature's law design'd, 
WHiy was an independent wish 

E'er planted in my mind ? 
If not, why am I subject to 

His cruelty and scorn ? 
Or why has man the will and pow'r 

To make his fellow mourn? {Great applause.) 

I am aware of the efforts made to persuade the public into 
a belief that the planters are anxious for the instruction of 
their slaves. The law of Jamaica contained in the slave 
code of February, 1831, is appealed to as a triinuphant an- 
swer to all who express a doubt of the planters' sincerity. 
The clause is as follows : " And be it further enacted by the 
authority aforesaid, that all owners, proprietors, and possess- 
ors, or, in their absence, the managers or overseers of slaves, 
shall, as much as in them lies, endeavour the instruction of their 
daves in the principles of the Christian religion^ whereby to 
facilitate their conversion^ and shall do their utmost endeavours 
to fit them for baptism^ and, as soon as conveniently can be, 
cause to be baptized all such as they can make sensible of a 
duty to God and the Christian faith." I acknowledge that a 
glance at this enactment would be likely to inspire one unin- 
itiated in the arts of Colonial trickery, with an idea, that the 
legislators of Jamaica, and the planters generally, are favour- 
able, nay, solicitous, for the conversion of tiieir slaves; and 

C 



18 

such an one might be ready to say, " allow this law to take 
its course, let time be given and the slaves will be instructed, 
and Christian liberty as well as civil, will soon dawn upon the 
island of Jamaica." But let it be known, that time has been 
afforded for making a full experiment of this law. It was not 
passed for the first time in 1831. It was inserted in the 
slave code of 1829 ; nor was that its first appearance. It 
stood prominently forth in the code of 1816; nor was that 
the period of its first promulgation. In 1778 did this law 
stand upon the statute-book of that island ; nor was it then 
that, for the first time, it demonstrated the pious anxiety of 
the slave-holder; — it was in 1696, 137 years ago, that this 
law was enacted for the benefit of the slave. You perceive 
that every individual exercising control over a slave is bound, 
by this law, to provide for the instruction of such slave in the 
principles of the Christian religion. Now, let us see how far 
the present practice corresponds with this ancient obligation. 
I hold in my hand a faithful account of the number of slaves 
upon '24 estates in the parish of St Andrew, together with 
the degree and description of instruction imparted; from 
which I find, that out of 4,591 slaves, 140 only are taught to 
read, 1551 are orally instructed by book-keepers — a class of 
men as utterly unfit to take the religious oversight of slaves 
as can be found upon the face of the earth, — and 2,900 are 
allowed no instruction whatever; and it should be known, 
that 356 of them belong to an English nobleman, v/ho, in his 
place in the House of Commons, has again and again de- 
clared, that a religious education is necessary to prepare 
the negro for the enjoyment of civil liberty. Away, then, 
with such hypocritical professions ; it is time that such imposi- 
tions were brought to an end. Here is a law imposing a 
solemn obligation on every slave manager to impart Christian 
knowledge to the slave, and yet it has recently been asserted 



19 

by one of their representative agents in this country, that not 
one in a thousand of the negro population can, at this mo- 
ment, comprehend the nature of an oath. We are therefore 
compelled either to regard the negro as a being incapable of 
recei\dng religious instruction ; or his master as a wicked and 
hj-pocritical tyrant. 

Is it sinful to frame unequal laws; oppressing the poor 
and defending the rich ? If it be, then let British Colon- 
ial Slavery come to an end, for the laws it has originated 
are of the most unrighteous and partial description. " What 
is tolerable in the white man, is punished in the black ; 
what is a venial fault in the master, is highly criminal in the 
slave ; and criminality and punishment have a relation to the 
different offenders precisely the reverse of what they have in 
all other cases. In the laws of God, and in all human laws 
which are founded in justice, superior advantages render men 
more responsible, and, of course, give to their bad actions a 
higher degree of criminality : but in the Colonies the educated 
white is considered in the eye of the law as less guilty, and 
the poor ignorant black the greater delinquent. The law is 
fastidiously delicate in punisliing the master, but ruthless and 
vindictive when the slave is concerned. Till of late years the 
slave was liable to the pimishment of death for almost every 
thing ; he might, in some colonies, be mutilated for the act of 
running away from severe usage; for endeavouring, by force, 
to break his chains, he might be burnt alive by inches, or hung- 
up to perish in a cage." I should be compelled to detain you 
to an unwarrantable length if I attempted to travel through the 
Jaws of the Colonies, and point out all the perversions of law 
and justice which they exhibit. I will only notice the boasted 
slave code of .Jamaica, framed in the month of February, 1831, 
the ne plus ultra of legislative wisdom for the government and 
•protection of 330,000 slaves. 



20 

" Clause IV. provides that no slave shall marry without the 
consent of Ms or her owner. Clause V. authorizes the separa- 
tion of families, except when the marshall, under a writ of 
verditioni, shall seize a family entire — a case which very sel- 
dom happens. Clause VI. legalizes Sunday markets, till the 
hour of eleven in the forenoon. The XIV. clause, which 
purports to be a law for protecting the personal property of 
slaves, contains the proviso that all property above £25 in 
value, must be recovered in the courts of the island, but that 
no slave shall sue except in his owner' s name; aifording, in fact, 
no protection, should his master (which is most likely) be the 
man who commits the offence. The XXII. clause, which 
regulates the hours of labour, empowers the master to work 
his slaves between the hours of five in the morning and seven 
in the evening, out of c7'op ; but fixes no limit to the toil of the 
slave during the crop season, which frequently lasts six months. 
The XXIII. clause deprives the slave of one of his custom- 
ary holidays, without giving him any other day in lieu of 
it. Why this cruel subtraction was made does not appear. 
The XXXIII. clause, framed with the professed intent to 
" restrain arbitrary punishment,''' gives the power to every 
driver of inflicting 10 lashes with the cart-ivhip; and to every 
owner, attorney, guardian, overseer, &c., full authority to 
inflict on every slave, man, woman, or child in the island, 
'•^arbitrary punishment' to the extent of 39 lashes of the cart- 
whip at one time. 

Is it sinful to persecute the ministers of Christ, to desecrate 
the Sabbath, and hinder by legislative enactment the progress 
of religious instruction among the slaves ? Then let my op- 
ponent join with me in denouncing West India Slavery, 
which is, and ever has been, characterized by a spirit of the 
most bitter enmity to the Gospel and its ministers, and the 
progress of moral improvement. Amongst the more recent 



21 

outbreakings of this enmity, is the conduct of the Assembly 
of Jamaica in December last, with reference to two petitions 
praying for the interference of that house to prevent the 
awful desecration of the Sabbath by Sunday markets, and 
Sunday labour; and setting forth the great obstacles which 
are opposed to their usefulness as ministers, by the general 
practices of labouring and transacting business upon that hal- 
lowed day. One from the Scottish missionaries was presented 
and rejected. The other* from five clergymen of the Establish- 
ed Church gave rise to a discussion in the Assembly, which 
admirably displays the tone, and temper, and religious consti- 
tution of that honourable house. Let it be remembered that 
on this occasion there was nothing to excite their angry feel- 
ings beyond the circumstance of the petition being in favour 
of religion. No foreign interference. No sectarian zeal. No 
dictation; but a respectful petition presented by five clergy- 
men of the Church of England, ordained by their own bishop, 
and appointed by their own governor. 

Mr Panton presented the petition and remarked: — "The 
slave law expires at the end of 1834, and I think the parties 
from whom the petition under consideration emanates, would 
have acted moi'e wisely, and moj^e becomingly^ had they waited 
imtil the expiration of this short period, and not thus thrust a 
petition on such a subject upon the house." 

Mr Beaumont. — "I am not favourable to the prayer of 
the petition, because / think it a matter upon which ive are not 
required to legislate. I do not think it evil to labour upon the 
Sabbath, and I am persuaded we have no right to prevent the 
slave from occupying the day in any manner he thinks fit." (!! ) 

Mr Berry. — " I oppose the reception of tliis petition. The 
petitioners are utterly destitute of respectability. (Laughter.) 

* Sec Appciulix, No. 2. 



22 

They call tliemselves members of tlie Established Church, but 
they are no better than sectarians in disguise, tools of the base 
and venal anti-slavery faction. Their conduct is proverbially 
improper. (Laughter.) I repeat, sir, that the conduct of 
these individuals is wholly indefensible. (Renewed laughter.) 
I shall read their names : — Mr Stainsby, island curate of St 
John's ; Mr Dallas, island curate of St Catherine's ; Mr 
Griffiths, stipendiary curate of Portland ; Mr Panton, island 
curate of St Thomas in the East ; and Mr Hanna, island cu- 
rate of St George's. Sir, I hope this house will not, for a 
single moment, entertain a petition emanating from the 
obnoxious individuals I have thus marked out for public repro- 
bation." 

Mr Bernard said, " The petition ought to be received. 
The petitioners were five respectable individuals, clergymen of 
the Established Church, and did not deserve the injurious 
treatment they had received." 

Mr Gray. — " The petitioners call themselves evangeli- 
cals. They think themselves better than their neighbours. 
I hope, therefore, the petition will be rejected. 

Mr Frater. — " This petition is uncalled for. The negroes 
have already received from the legislature of the island ALih the 
indidgence and benefits that will be conferred upon them. I hope 
the petition will be rejected." 

Mr Brown. — " This is a macaroni petition, I say reject 
it, sir ; is'nt it abominable that the house is to be teazed year 
after year in this way by these petitions ? Sir, this petition 
ought to be rejected. 

Mr Walker opposed the reception of the petition. " He 
saw at the bar some of the fat, well fed, greasy gentlemen, 
who had attached their names to it. They were always de- 
vising measures to make the slaves discontented ; and their 
petition should be rejected." 



23 

Mr Grossett objected to the petition. " He considered 
the individuals from whom it emanated highly objectionable 
individuals. They called themselves evangelicals, which meant 
that they deemed themselves better than other people. Now, 
this was a plam proof that they were worse ! He hoped, 
therefore, their petition would meet with the fate it merited." 

" The house divided; — against receiving the petition, 24; 
for the petition, 8; majority against it, 16." 

Here then you have at once a fair specimen of the legisla- 
tive wisdom and profound piety of Jamaica senators, governing 
for the moral, temporal, political, spiritual, and eternal interests 
of 330,000 of your fellow subjects, displaying the most deadly 
and determined hostility to the spread of evangelical truth upon 
that large island. You are also qualified to judge with what 
truth and sincerity the advocates of slavery in this country 
declare, that the planters and legislators of the colonies are 
deeply anxious to promote the religious welfare of the black 
population. It is at the same time asserted, that the opposi- 
tion which at any time has been manifested to the ministers of 
religion, has only been exhibited towards sectarians ; but here 
you have them opposing the very men which, above all others, 
they profess to regard as the qualified and useful instructors 
of the slaves. Were other evidence necessary, I could lay 
before you the testimony of highly respectable planters on this 
subject. I will, however, only mention that Mr Wildman 
himself, a member of the Established Church of England, 
declared before the Committee of the House of Commons that 
Mr Trew, one of the most pious and devoted preachers of the 
Gospel on the island of Jamaica, " drew more malice and envy 
>ipon him than any person in the island." 

In further illustration of the same spirit of persecution, let 
me draw your attention to two newspapers. One, the most 
popular journ;il in the ishmd of .Jamaica, and the other, the 



24 

well-known pro-slavery broad sheet of your own city. In four 
numbers of the former, I find the following epithets bestowed 
upon the missionaries of the island: — "Anti-slavery and me- 
thodistical crew." " Lazy and worthless mechanics." " Vaga- 
bonds." "Canters." "Sectarian gang." "Infamous 
hypocrites." " Mad dogs." " Consecrated cobblers." " In- 
famous spies." " Thieves." " Villains." " Furious ani- 
mals." " Hoary-headed hypocrites." " Accursed sectarians." 
In four numbers of the last mentioned paper, I find the fol- 
lowing epithets heaped upon the head of a highly valuable 
missionary lately driven from the scene of his pious and 
praiseworthy labours to find an asylum from, persecution, and 
a different sphere of usefulness in this kingdom. " Macaroni 
Knibb." " A stale beer spouter." " A hireling libeller." 
" A mendacious and truculent fellow." "A reverend mounte- 
bank." "A consecrated cobbler." "A violent and vulgar 
fanatic." "A rancorous demagogue." " A hypocrite." "A 
wolf in sheep's clothing." "A raving incendiary." "An 
apostle of falsehood, cant, and hypocrisy." " A cold- 
blooded traducer, employing a hellish sort of casuistry. 
Connected with the anti-slavery gang," to whom are applied 
the words of our Saviour, " Woe unto you, scribes and 
pharisees, hypocrites, for ye compass sea and land to make 
one proselyte, and when he is made, ye make him twofold 
more the child of hell than yourselves." Such is the language 
employed by the Jamaica Courant and its amiable twin brother 
the Glasgow Courier. One other specimen taken from the 
Kingston Chronicle of December 15, 1832. In a long article 
on the desecration of the Sabbath, the following argument is 
used as a justification of the throwing out of the petition just 
before referred to. 

"The desecration of the Sabbath is a favourite theme 
with those aifected, and would appear, most pious Chris- 



25 

tians, wlio, out of envy? liati'ed, malice, and all luichar- 
itableness, delight in pecking at the mote that is in the eye 
of their neighbour, and cherishing the beam which clouds 
the ^-ision of their own. Did they really possess that enlight- 
ened judgment, were they actiiated by that holy spirit which 
can alone entitle them to be Christian pastors, they would long 
since have found that the gospel of Christ is decidedly opposed 
to that strict observance of the Sabbath for which they con- 
tend, and that the principal of the early disputes which 
arose betw-een Christ and the heads of the Jewish religion, 
was on account of the breaches which he (Christ) and his 
disciples made in that observance, all of which he not only 
excused but condemned the accusers. I would strongly re- 
commend the 12 th chapter of Matthew to the attentive perusal 
of the most pious and charitable Christian recorders, and the 
gentlemen who, being 'wiser in their own conceits' than either 
Christ or his Apostles, lately petitioned the House of Assem- 
bly on the subject, for there they will find that Christ was so 
determined a desecrator of the Sabbath, that immediately after 
gi\ang a lecture to the pharisees he went into the synagogue, 
and committed another breach of the Sabbath in their pre- 
sence." 

These facts speak for themselves, and will, I am per- 
suaded, dispose you to act with all possible energy and 
promptitude, that you may, if possible, rescue Christian 
ministers and benighted slaves from the hands of such ruth- 
less, impious, and cruel men as those whose proceedings I 
have now been referring to. 

Is murder sinful ? then let British Colonial Slavery be 
abolished, since it has been demonstrated by the most respect- 
able witnesses before both Houses of Parliament, that the 
system pursued in the West Indies, and especially that part of 
it connected with the cultivation of sugar, is fatal to the 



4. 



26 

increase of the slave population ; yea more, produces a fearful 
decrease, and threatens, in process of time, completely to de- 
populate our colonies. I am aware that this subject has been 
greatly mystified by the interested advocates of colonial 
slavery, but the following extract from the evidence of Mr 
Buxton will divest the subject of all ambiguity, and strikingly 
illustrate the tendency of the system. 

" Independently of the increase or decrease of the popula- 
tion, have you ever compared the actual mortality of a large 
body of the slaves, and the mortality in this country ?" 

« I have." 

" Was not the population in England and Wales, as surveyed 
in pursuance of the act of parliament passed for that purpose 
in the year 1802, found to be 9,343,578?" 

« Yes." 

" Were not the average annual deaths in England and 
Wales, during fifteen years terminating in 1810, 194,505?" 

"Yes." 

" Does not this afford, on a population of 1735, an annual 
average of deaths about thirty-six, omitting only the frac- 
tions ?" 

"Yes, thirty-six." 

" Have you ever made a similar calculation on a population 
of 1 735 slaves in Jamaica, founded upon the official returns ?" 

" I have." 

*'Does that calculation lead you to a result of about fifty-one 
as the annual mortality, omitting fractions, upon seventeen 
coffee estates?" 

"Yes." 

" Have you made a similar calculation upon seventeen sugar 
estates, and does not that lead to the result of sixty-one as the 
average annual mortality in 1735 slaves?" 

"Yes." 



27 

" Can you produce these calculations ?" 

" Yes." 

Hence it appears that sixty-one people die on Jamaica sugar 
estates for thirty-six that die in England : the climate being 
equally congenial to the respective inhabitants of either. 
Away then with all the nonsense about inequality in the 
numbers of the sexes and other matters which have been mixed 
up with this branch of the subject. Here is an infallible test, 
and one which clearly demonstrates the murderous nature of 
that institution which is so Adgorously defended in the present 
day. 

Let us not forget, in our consideration of the present ques- 
tion, our awful individual responsibility to heaven for the 
employment of every degree of influence in society which we 
possess. If we have the power of mitigating the horrors of 
this hateful system; if, further, we possess the ability to effect 
its total overthrow; then we are ourselves responsible for the 
continuance of the system with all its attendant horrors and 
enormities. We become, in a solemn and impressive sense, 
the possessors of these rational and immortal beings: and 
how shall we answer to Him who made them, if we neglect 
or refuse to exert ourselves in their behalf? Let us remem- 
ber that they are God's creatures, created by the same power, 
sustained by the same goodness, bought with the same price 
as ourselves ; that they have a capacity for suffering and en- 
joyment like our own, and that yet we, notwithstanding, suf- 
fer them to be bought, sold, fettered, flogged, tasked, toiled, 
insulted, inflamed, degraded, despised, betrayed, and but- 
chered. We allow this in despite of reason, revelation, truth, 
justice, humanity, and love. O think of these things, and 
weep for your country and for yourselves ! Think of these 
things, and let your zeal be enkindled and your pity excit- 
ed, that your exertions may henceforth be commensurate with 



28 

the miseries of these unhappy beings, and your own respon- 
sibility. Remember what they might have been, and what 
they are. They "might have been virtuous ; but they are 
deeply sunk in vice. They might have been enlightened; 
but they are enshrouded in thick darkness. They might, per- 
chance, have been Christians; but they are miserable hea- 
thens. They might have been soaring to heaven ; but they 
are eating and toiling with the beast. They might have been 
fulfilling the true purposes of life ; but they are debased to 
the condition of crawling slaves, who must be driven to their 
beastlike occupations by the most horrible scourge in the 
world. Remember that all this vice, and darkness, and hea- 
thenism, and prostration of soul, and degradation of body, and 
perversion of mind, are chargeable upon us, who have per- 
mitted them to be impiously seized, and held in thraldom to 
the present hour. 

See the demoralizing effects of the system, manifested in 
the conduct of its abettors at home. Direct your attention 
for a moment to a great meeting of West Indians, for the 
purpose of promoting what they call the welfare of the colo- 
nies. Such a meeting was held some time ago in London. 
British Peers, and Commoners, and Merchants, and Alder- 
men, and other high professional and mercantile gentlemen, 
were assembled, — many of them solemnly sworn to defend 
the liberties and rights of every unoffending subject of the 
realm. What did they do ? Did they show any pity for the 
slave ? No. — Did they exhibit any regard for the eternal 
principles of truth, justice, and equity ? No. — Any attach- 
ment to the cause of religion ? No. They fiercely denounced, 
what? — wrong? no; — cruelty? no; — oppression? no: — But 
the measures of the government then recently brought forward 
for the amelioration of the condition of the slave. They 
styled such interference unjust, monstrous, unheard of, and 



29 

iniquitous. They displayed an unbending attachment — to 
what? — mercy? no; — humanity? no; — to money I Each 
seemed to say, " Mammon, thou art my god, and I will wor- 
ship thee." Did they denoimce the Courant ? No. — Did they 
condemn the treatment the Missionaries had just experienced? 
No. — Did they propose a measm-e of emancipation of any 
kind ? They did not. There was a scrupulous avoidance of 
all the real facts and merits of the case. Many things were 
said about the worth of the Colonies; the export and import 
dues ; the amount of tonnage in the shippmg ; the number of 
seamen employed ; the past greatness and present distresses 
of the Colonies ; the necessity of instant relief for the Plant- 
er; — but not one word about the compromise of national 
honour; or the forfeiture of national independence; or the 
wants and claims, and natural and inalienable rights of the 
Slave ; or the sacred duties and obligations of religion. No- 
thing could exceed their acute sensibility on the subject of 
their own wrongs ; their honour, and character, and comfort, 
and wealth, and independence, were all matters of the highest 
possible importance, and were ably and eloquently expatiated 
upon. But not one word was said in vindication of the natu- 
ral rights of 700,000 unoiFending human beings, although 
their happiness and welfare were bomid up in the question 
they were met to discuss. O how disgusting to see men of 
rank, and wealth, and influence, and high profession, thus 
selfishly struggling for money, — for polluted blood-stained 
money ; and consenting to obtain it at the expense of the hap- 
piness and liberties of their fellow-men ! 

See the nature of Slavery further illustrated in the recent 
transactions and present aspect of Jamaica. The massacre of 
slaves; the persecution of Missionaries; the destruction of 
chapels ; the rejection of religion. A band of civilized bar- 
barians in the shape of white magistrates, officers of militiii, 



30 

planters, merchants, &c. cheered on by a preacher of the 
Gospel, to deeds of spoliation and blood ; and forming unions 
for the banishment of the shepherd and the destruction of the 
flock. A House of Assembly upholding cruelty, fostering 
despotism, desecrating religion, reviling the constitution, re- 
sisting the government, and threatening the overthrow of a 
part of the British empire. A degraded, enslaved, terrified, 
black population on the one side ; an infuriated, blood-thirsty, 
and infatuated confederacy of white slave-mongers on the other. 
A race of men dying under the hand of oppression : if quiet, 
toiling and expiring in unmitigated captivity ; if murmuring 
or resisting, visited with the whip, the dungeon, the rack, the 
gibbet, the bayonet, or the musket-ball. 

If for these things the judgment of God should come upon 
us, we cannot say we have not been warned. Rolling thun- 
ders, and sweeping hurricanes, and wild tornadoes, and deso- 
lating earthquakes, and raging fevers, and declining commerce, 
and a dying population, and weeping mercy, and insulted jus- 
tice, and reason, and religion, and God, have said again and 
again, " Let these people go." Their voices are still heard ; 
let us, though late, obey. Women of Scotland ! hear you not 
their voices to-day? will you not make this question pecu- 
liarly your own ? 

There are many of the evils of Slavery which you can 
more fully appreciate than ourselves. You can enter into the 
feelings of mothers torn from their children ; and wives severed 
from their husbands for ever. 

" E'en this last wretched boon their foes deny, 
To live together, or together die ; 
By felon hands, by one relentless stroke, 
See the fond link of feeling nature broke ; 
The fibres twisting roimd a parent's heart. 
Torn from their grasp, and bleeding as they part." 
You can estimate the situation of those wretched mothers who 



31 

are doomed to commit tlie nurture of their children to others; 
whose daughters are liable to the assaults of wicked and evil- 
disposed men ; who are prevented frequently from marrying-, 
by the dislike which the negroes have to see their wives inde- 
cently exposed and cruelly flogged at the command of a mer- 
ciless master. I may be accused of appealing to your feel- 
ings while I state facts like these. But is not the question 
we are discussing a question of feeling ? Does not the negro 
mother feel when she consigns her offspring to the care of 
another ? Does she not feel when she looks upon her child, 
and reads "slave" written upon its joyous brow, and re- 
members that those limbs may be some day loaded with 
manacles; that body lacerated with the whip; that brow 
overcEist with sullenness and despair; that frame exhausted 
by unrewarded toU ; and that life shortened by accumulated 
privations and sufferings! 

This is a question interesting to you who are of the softer 
sex, because to you is committed the training of our infant 
population. It is yours 

" To pour the fresh instruction o'er the mind. 
To breathe the enlivening spirit, and to fix 
The generous purpose in the glowing breast." 

Will you not infuse into that " glowing breast" the love 
of liberty? Will you not teach your infants to pity and 
relieve the captive ? Will you not inspire them with a hatred 
of despotism ? Will you not teach them in their youth to 
say, " the liberty we love we will bestow ?" Women of Scot- 
land! be encouraged. The wise, and the noble, and the 
good, are with you in this great cause. Colonial despotism 
already totters, — the hand-writing is already seen upon the 
wall. Soon will the knell of slavery be rung, and the shout 
of exidtation go up, " England is just, — her slaves are free." 



32 

Finally. I recommend this cause, — this good, this noble, 
this ennobling cause, — with its many deep and spirit-stirring 
interests, to your warmest zeal, your tenderest sympathies, 
your unceasing care, and Christian consideration. Be not 
surprised, still less discouraged, at the attempts made to re- 
tard its progress. It has been assailed, — it will be assailed- 
It has ever had its enemies, — it will ever have its enemies ' 
but it has advanced, and will advance, to a speedy, a happy, 
and a glorious consummation. It rests upon the basis of 
Eternal Justice. It has been upreared by the hands of hu- 
manity, and benevolence, and Christian piety; and it shall 
still increase, — and still extend, — and still rise higher in the 
estimation of the great and the good, and in the approbation 
and patronage of heaven ; and its friends, from its lofty sum- 
mit, may smile defiance on its foes, while every shaft which 
envy, or faction, or ignorance, or malice hurls, to wound or to 
destroy it, lies pointless and perishing at its base. Yes! it 
shall stand unhurt, unsullied, and immoveable, 

" Like some tall cliff that rears its awful form. 

Swells from the vale, and midway meets the stonii ; 
Though round its breast the gathering clouds are spread. 
Eternal sunshine settles on its head," 



APPENDIX. 



No. I. 

'* The distress and terror among a gang of negroes, when the 
marshal's deputy, with his dogs, and other assistants, comes to 
levy in a large way, cannot be conceived by those who, happily 
for themselves, have never been spectators of such scenes, and 
can scarcely be described by those who have witnessed them. I 
was once on a coffee mountain, (staying for a few days with a 
brother clergyman, who had permission to reside there,) on which 
were about seventy or eighty negi"oes ; the pi'oprietor was much 
in debt, and was aware that one or two of his largest creditors had 
for some time wished to make a levy on his slaves to pay them- 
selves ; but by keeping his gates locked, and the fences round the 
dwelling-house and negro-houses in good repair, he had hitherto 
baffled the argus-eyed deputy and his deputies. The night after 
I arrived on the property, however, I was awaked, about an hour 
before daylight, by a great noise, as of arms, with cries of women 
and children. I at first scarce knew what it was, but in a few 
minutes a private servant, who did not belong to the property, 
(and who was in the yard beyond the reach of the seizers,) came 
to my window and informed me, that it was the marshal's depu- 
ties making a levy on the negroes, and that the noise proceeded 
from the clashing of weapons ; for some of the slaves, he said, had 
stoutly resisted. I then alarmed my friend, being nearer to the 
scene of action than he was, and we deteimined to go out to see 
that no improper use was made of the tremendous power given to 
these cerberuses. By the time we arrived at the negro-houses 
the resistance had ceased, for the negi'oes being divided, had been 
overcome by the myrmidons of the law, they being eight or ten 
in number. One poor fellow, however, was being dragged along 
like a thief, by a fierce and horrid-looking Irishman, who had 
been one of McGregor's freebooters, and who, when we came 
near, grasped his victim more tightly, and brandished his broad- 



34 

sword over the poor creature with the grin and growl of a demon, 
as much as to say, you dog, I will annihilate you and them too, 
if you attempt to interfere; though, of course, we had not the 
least intention of interfering, we were only quiet spectators. 

" Many of the men escaped from the property, and some few 
others, with some women, secreted themselves among the coffee 
trees till the party had gone off with their prey. They secured, 
however, ten or twelve men, and most of the women and chil- 
dren, amounting in the whole to between thirty and forty, which 
were huddled together on the outside of the principal fence, and 
presented such a heart-rending scene as I never witnessed before, 
and should be very sorry ever to witness again. Some of the chil- 
dren had lost then- mothers, and some of the mothers had been 
torn away from a part of their children, for some of the little 
urchins also escaped. One woman in particular, a housewoman, 
had six or seven children ; two or three of them were seized, and 
the others escaped ; but the youngest, an infant, had been caught, 
and she wept aloud and very bitterly for it, saying that she must 
give herself up if the child was not got back, for she could not live 
separate from iV—BickelPs West Indies, page 19. 



No. II. 

To the Hon. Robert Allwood, Speaker, and the Members of 
the House of Assembly of Jamaica. 

" The humble Petition of the undersigned Clergymen of the 
Established Church, 

" Sheweth, 

" That yom' petitioners, being impressed with the very great 
importance, in every point of view, of the due religious observance 
of the Christian Sabbath, cannot but deeply lament the practice 
of desecrating that holy day, which obtains throughout this island, 
by Sunday marketing and Sunday labour, 

*' That your petitioners feel bound to declare, that the desecra- 
tion of the Sabbath, hinders, in a very material degree, the suc- 
cess of their labours, as ministers of the Gospel, and is the most 
effectual barrier to the religious and moral improvement of the 
slaves and of the free people. 

" That your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray your hon. 



35 

House to take this matter into your consideration, and in your 
wisdom, to pass such an enactment as shall substitute some other 
day in the week, in lieu of Sunday, for holding the markets in 
the several parishes, and prohibit, under penalty, the occupation 
of the Lord's day, by marketing and other common labour. 

" That your petitioners, in imploring your hon. House thus to re- 
move this crying evil and reproach from our country, are bound 
also to declare, that unless some other provision be made for them, 
the slaves will thereby, in a great measure, be deprived of their 
means of subsistence, which at present are derived from their oc- 
cupation of the Sabbath in labouring in their grounds, and in 
marketing. 

" Your petitioners, therefore, humbly submit that, in order to 
make the enactment they pray for effectual to the attainment of 
its object, such additional time should be given to the slaves in 
each week, as will enable them to provide for their necessities, 
without desecrating the Sabbath. 

'* That your petitioners, as ministers of the Established church, 
engaged in the religious instruction of the people, and supported 
by the country for the express purpose of preaching the Gospel to 
all classes, come forward to state to your hon. House, their firm 
conviction, that they shall never be able to execute their office, 
especially among the slaves, in an efficient manner, Avhile the 
crying evil, of which they complain, is permitted to exist. 
. " Your petitioners therefore humbly pray the aid of your 
honom'able house in removing the same, and as in duty bound, 
&c. 

" Signed by 

" Mr STAINSBY, island curate of St John's. 

" Mr DALLAS, island curate of St Catherine's. 

" Mr GRIFFITHS, stipendiary curate of Portland. 

" Mr PANTON, island curate of St Thomas in the East. 

" Mr HANNA, island curate of St George's." 



36 



No, III. 
COLONIAL SLAVERY. 

{From the Glasgow Chronicle of Friday, March 8th.) 

Formation of a Ladies' Association in Glasgow, fox' the Immediate 
and Total Extinction of Slavery throughout the British do- 
minions. 

In our last we noticed the lecture recently delivered by Mr 
Thompson, to near 2000 of the most respectable ladies of Glasgow 
and its vicinity, assembled within the walls of Mr Anderson's 
chapel, in John Street, to which building an adjournment took 
place, in consequence of the great number who were unable to 
gain admission into the Trades' Hall. We mentioned also the 
invitation given by Mr Thompson, to his brilliant auditory to meet 
him at one o'clock on the following day (Wednesday the 6th), to 
consider the propriety of forming a Ladies' Association. We are 
happy to be able to state some interesting additional particulars. 
On Wednesday, at the hour appointed, upwards of 500 ladies had 
assembled in the lower part of the chapel, all apparently most deeply 
interested in the object which had called them together. The 
audience embraced the female portions of many of the most re- 
spectable and influential families in this city. On the appearance 
of Mr Thompson he was warmly greeted by his numerous and 
highly interesting audience. 

Mr Thompson commenced by observing that the present was a 
day of anticipative ti'iumph, and his language therefore should be 
that of heartfelt congratulation. After the thrilling spectacle he 
had beheld the preceding day, and with such a demonstration of at- 
tachment to the sacred cause in which he was engaged, as he had 
then before him, he dare not doubt the issue -of the contest — he 
would give his fears to the winds, and encourage his heart with 
the assurance of a speedy and a glorious termination. It was 
indeed a day to be remembered. Where were the boastings of 



37 

their opponents now ? Hushed into the stillness of despair. 
Where were the friends of despotism now ? Low in the dust of 
degradation and disgrace. The Ladies of Glasgow had taken 
hold upon the standard of immediate emancipation, and had uplift- 
ed it upon the ruins of a hase and unholy cause. The banner of 
freedom was now proudly floating in the breeze, and around it had 
rallied the beauty and intelligence, and patriotism and piety of 
the fairest portion of the inhabitants of the city. Oh how short- 
sighted were the designs of their opponents ! Only one short 
month before, and they were exulting in an imaginary victory, and 
declaring that they had struck the death-blow to the cause of 
negro freedom, but how soon had they been forced to yield to truth 
and justice. The note of triumph was speedily changed into 
the signal of retreat ; and now, alas ! in the seclusions of their 
own selfishness, they were brooding over an inglorious defeat, and 
chewing the cud of bitter disappointment. (Cheers.) The tid- 
ings of the meeting on the preceding day, and of the one then 
holding, would increase their dismay, and complete their annihila- 
tion as a proud and injm'ious faction. He could assm'e the ladies 
present, that from his heart he desired his bitterest opponents 
no greater torment than they must feel when they witnessed the 
zeal, decision, activity, strength, and usefulness of the ladies of 
Glasgow in the cause of immediate and total emancipation. — 
(Cheers.) Mr Thompson then proceeded to call the attention of 
the ladies present, to the business of the meeting. He traced the 
history of the agency Anti-Slavery Society from its commence- 
ment to the present time — depicted in glowing colours the success 
of its operations in almost every part of England and Wales — 
demonstrated the disinterestedness of its patrons, by pointing to 
the large pecuniary sacrifices they had made for its support, and 
the exhausting labours they had endured in its service, and 
earnestly recommended it to the kind patronage and assistance of 
the ladies of Glasgow. They were in some degree qualified to 
judge of its utility, as they had recently heard frequent expositions 
of its principles, and had witnessed some of its operations. The 
first question to be determined was, should a Ladies' Association be 
formed ? If that was answered in the affirmative, the next would 
be — what particular objects it should confine its attention to ; and 
it would then remain to appoint the necessary officers, and im- 
mediately commence operations. After some further suggestions, 
Mr Thompson concluded l)y respectfully requesting the ladies to 



38 

proceed at once to decide the questions he had submitted. Mr 
Thompson finished his address amidst loud cheers. 

An Association was instantly formed, and denominated " The 
Glasgow Ladies' Association for promoting the objects of the Lon- 
don Agency Anti-Slavery Society." 

A president, six vice-presidents, treasurer, secretaries, and 
committee were severally named and appointed. 
. An unanimous wish was expressed that mr Thompson would 
allow the lecture of the previous day to be printed, and pub- 
lished under the patronage of the society then formed. with 
this wish Mr Thompson most readily complied. Thanks were 
voted to Mr Anderson, and the managers of the chapel, for their 
kindness in granting it on two occasions for the use of the 
ladies. 

The thanks of the meeting were given to Mr Thompson, for his 
great exertions in the good cause of the immediate abolition of 
Colonial Slavery. 

This motion was carried by acclamation amidst every demonstra- 
tion of enthusiasm. 

Mr Thompson, in acknowledging the honour conferred upon 
him, begged the ladies would allow him to choose his own mode of 
testifying his gratitude, which would be by devoting himself for 
the future with unabated, and, if possible, increased ardour to the 
great and glorious cause in which they were all engaged. (Cheers.) 
He wished them all possible success in their undertaking, and 
trusted that there would be an immediate proof given of their 
sincerity, by placing some funds in the hands of their much re- 
spected treasurer, Mrs A. Wigham. A collection was immediately 
commenced, and, in a very short time, upwards of £40 was col- 
lected. 

Never has been witnessed a more delightful meeting than the 
one to which we have now very imperfectly alluded. The great- 
est unanimity prevailed upon the subject of immediate abolition, 
and every heart seemed elated with the prospect of a speedy issue 
to the present noble struggle. 

Since writing the above we have been informed that in com- 
pliance with the unanimous wish of the meeting, Mr Thompson 
yesterday morning waited upon Miss Crawford of Langside, to 
request that lady to become the president of the association. Miss 
Crawford expressed herself much flattered by the nomination, and 
desired Mr Thompson to convey to the ladies of Glasgow her assur- 



39 

ance that she would with great pleasure allow her name to appear 
at the head of then* infant society. The amiable lady accompanied 
these sentiments with the very liberal donation of £50. The 
collections already amount to above £100. 



No. IV. 
DISCUSSION ON COLONIAL SLAVERY, IN GLASGOW, 

BETWEEN MESSRS THOMPSON & BORTHWICK. 

{From the Christian Journal for March, 1833.) 

Our readers will recollect that, in our last number, we inserted 
an account of an anti-slavery meeting in Glasgow, at which Mr 
Knibb took the most prominent part. The simple narrative of 
the persecutions to which he and his fellow missionaries in Ja- 
maica had been subjected, for preaching the doctrines of the 
gospel, and which ultimately compelled them to flee from that 
scene of unblushing licentiousness and misrule, and the impassioned 
eloquence with which he advocated the cause of the injured negro, 
left an impression on thousands which will not easily be effaced. 
Whatever difficulties might formerly press upon the minds of the 
religious part of the community were now and for ever obviated. 
The cry was loud and universal, — *' Our missionary chapels have 
been pulled down by the hand of ruthless violence; our faithful 
missionaries have been forcibly expelled from the colonies ; the 
planters, not content with keeping their slaves in corporeal bond- 
age, have exerted themselves to the utmost to prevent them from 
obtaining spiritual freedom ; and we insist upon the immediate 
abolition of this accursed merchandise in the souls and bodies of 
men." To counteract, if possible, this impression, a Mr Peter 
Borthwick made his appearance in Glasgow, and delivered some 
lectures on the justice, humanity, and propriety, of gradual aboli- 



40 

tion. This individual, it may be necessary to remark, for the 
information of some who may read this notice, is the paid and 
acknowledged organ of the West India interest. We attended his 
lectures in the Mechanics' Institution. He possesses a mind of 
that minute description which loves to dwell on the atoms of 
a part ; an eloquence, specious, and showy ; and an elocution 
somewhat theatrical. Ingenious in sophistry, skilful in keeping 
from view the real point at issue, and careful in his selection of 
letters, &c. from official individuals interested in the question, he 
managed, we have no doubt, to impose on some of that numerous class 
who are too lazy to think for themselves. An ardent admirer of 
freedom himself, according to his own statement, he was at great 
pains to prove that slavery was sanctioned in the Bible, — that the 
negroes were the happiest beings in existence, furnished with all 
the comforts and even luxuries of civilized life, — and that the 
planters are the most humane, gentle. Christian men, whom it 
has been the good fortune of this or any past age to behold. 
And yet he and the planters hated slavery from the very bottom 
of their souls, and were ardently desirous of its utter extinction. 
To oppose him, as well as to diffuse more extensive information on 
the subject of colonial slavery, Geoi-ge Thompson, Esq., one of the 
lecturers of the Anti-slavery Agency Committee, came from Lon- 
don with all possible speed. We attended his lectures also. The 
mind of Mr Thompson is large and comprehensive — his eloquence 
impetuous and commanding — his elocution easy and natural, and, 
in short, he possesses in no ordinary degree the qualifications of an 
eminent orator. It was agreed that the two opponents should 
meet face to face, and defend their respective opinions before a 
Glasgow audience. The discussion was to continue for three 
nights — Sir Daniel Sandford in the chair. So great was the 
interest excited, that, on the first of the appointed nights, thou- 
sands were assembled before Dr Wardlaw's chapel, an hour before 
the doors were opened. The church was filled to excess in six or 
seven minutes. As the two intellectual combatants made their 
appearance on the platform, we could not help minutely scanning 
the countenance and deportment of each, Mr Borthwick seemed ill 
at ease, and his countenance, instead of beaming with hope, was pale 
and pensive, as if already anticipating a defeat. On the contrary, 
Mr Thompson stood before the living mass with the manly, though 
respectful, bearing of one who was conscious of having truth on his 
side, and wlio could not therefore be afraid of the issue. It is not 



41 

our intention to give an account of the speeches. It would 
require sheets instead of pages to present the barest and most 
meagre analysis of ten hoiirs' speaking. Suffice it to say, that 
never was man more humbled than Mr Borthwick. His former 
eloquence entirely deserted him, — ^he could scarcely sometimes 
find words to give utterance to his thoughts, — instead of grappling 
fairly with the question in dispute, (the comparative advantages 
and disadvantages of gradual and immediate abolition,) he wan- 
dered from subject to subject, and not unfrequently he brought 
forward statements so easily disproved that nothing but the most 
idiotic folly or presumptuous confidence in the ignoi"ance of his 
opponent could warrant their introduction. As his sophistry and 
misstatements were attacked by the unanswerable arguments, the 
stirring eloquence, and the cutting sarcasm of his opponent, we 
felt emotions of pity stealing over our mind, and we sometimes 
wished that Mr Thompson would not *' thrice slay the slain." 
There was one feature in the character of the generality of the 
audience which it would be unjust to pass over in silence — the 
judicious good sense and the acute discrimination which they 
displayed in bafiling every attempt of Mr B. to enlist them on his 
side, by his affected commiseration for the labouring classes in our 
land, and appeals to their national feelings, and in the contemp- 
tuous sneer with which they received his many endeavours to 
impose upon the coolness of their judgments. On the third night 
of the debate, February 21st, Mr Thompson spoke last. He 
concluded his address in a strain of the most splendid and impres- 
sive eloquence. He appealed to every motive which has sway in 
the generous mind. He adjured them in the name of that God who 
has made of one blood all nations of men that dwell on the face of 
the earth, to set the Negro free, and make him as civilized, happy, 
intelligent, and religious as the Christian freemen who were now be- 
fore him. The sense of the meeting was now taken. The chairman 
called on the friends of gradual emancipation to hold up their 
hands. The number was comparatively small. Those who ad- 
vocated the immediate abolition were next called upon. No sooner 
had the words proceeded from the lips of the chaii'man than a forest 
of hands instantaneously made their appearance. We were in a 
very favourable position for beholding, and never shall we forget 
the exhilarating spectacle — the thousands of upstretched hands — 
the waving of handkerchiefs and hats — the joyous countenances — 
tlie loud rapturous huzzas drowning the serpent hissing of the 

F 



42 

infuriated and humbled West Indians. Truly it was a sight lovely 
to look on, and which, though short in its duration, gives the 
mind a generous impulse for years. We sincerely hope that other 
places will not be backward in following the noble example of 
Glasgow, and that petitions, strong but respectful, will soon be 
presented from every town and village in Britain, that the hands 
of ministers may be strengthened in their attempts to obliter- 
ate for ever the plague-spot of slavery from our national char- 
acter. 



FlILLARTON AN1> CO., PRINTERS, VII.LAFrEI.D. 



