IMMEDIATE, 



NOT 



GRADUAL ABOLITION 



OR, 



AN INQUIRY 

liito tVie shortest, safest, and most effectual meaT&s 
o£ getting rid of 



SLAVERY 



LONDON PUBT ZSHSD 1824. 

NEW-YORK : 

REPCBllSHED BY JAMES V. SEAMAN, NO. 221 BROADWAY, 
OPPOSITE THE PARK. 

1825. 
[ Price 6 pence Single— 50 cents per Doz.— ^3^00 per Hundred. ] 






TO THE READER. 



The following pages, (said to be the production of a 
female in England,) were recently received in this coun- 
try ; and being found to contain some of the most per- 
suasive appeals, and powerful arguments which we ever 
met with in relation to slavery, they were deemed de- 
serving of republication, in order that the deeply inte- 
resting subject might receive from our fellow citizens 
that attention and candid examination which its impor- 
tance so justly demands. Believing that the sober and 
reflecting reader, into whose ha!)ds this little work may 
fall, will become convinced of the force and truth of its 
positions, we therefore affectionately remind them that 
it is their indispensable obligation, as followers of Christ, 
to prove their sincerity by conforming to that impressive 
and unchangeable injunction : " \s ye would that others 
should do to you, do ye even so to them='' 



IMMEDIATB, 



NOT 



GRADUAL ABOLITION, 

&;c. &;c. &LC. 



IT is now seventeen years since the Slave Trade was abolished 
by the Government of this country — but Slavery is still perpe- 
tuated in our West India colonies, and the horrors of the Slave 
Trade are aggravated rather than mitigated. By making it 
felony for British subjects to be concerned in that inhuman 
traffic, England has only transferred her share of it to other 
countries. She has, indeed, by negociation and remonstrance, 
endeavoured to persuade them to follow her example. — But 
has she succeeded ? — How should she, whilst there is so little 
consistency in her conduct ? Who will listen to her pathetic 

declamations on the injustice and cruelty of the Slave Trade 

whilst she rivets the chains upon her own slaves, and subjects 
them to all the injustice and cruelty which she so eloquently 
deplores, when her own interest is no longer at stake ? Before 
we can have any rational hope of prevailing on our guilty 
neighbours to abandon this atrocious commerce — to relinquish 
the gain of oppression, — the wealth obtained by rapine and vio- 
lence, — by the deep groans, the bitter anguish of our unoffend- 
ing fellow creatures ; — we must purge ourselves from these pol- 
lutions ; — we must break the iron yoke from off the neck of our 
own slaves, — and let the wretched captives in our own islands 
go iree. Then, and not till then, we shall speak to the sur- 
rounding nations witli the all-commanding eloquence of sincerity 
and truth, — and our persuasions will be backed by the irre-- 
sistible argument of consistent example. But to iiivite others 
to be just and merciiul whilst we erasp in our own hands the 
rod of oppression, — to solicit others to relinquish the wages of 
iniquity whilst we are putting thein into our own pockets — what 
is it but cant and hypocrisy? Do such preachers of justice 
and mercy ever make converts ? On the contrary, do they not 
render themselves ridiculous and contemptible f 

But let us, individunlly, bring this great question closely home 
to our own bosoms. We that hear, and read, and approve, and 



applaud the powerful appeals, the irrefragable arguments 
against the Slave Trade, and against slavery, — are we ourselves 
sincere, or hypocritical ? Are we the true friends of justice, or 
do we only cant about it ? — To which party do we really be- 
long ? — to the friends of emancipation, or of perpetual slavery? 
Every individual belongs to one party or the other ; not specu- 
latively, or professionally merely, but practically. The perpe-' 
tuation of slavery in our West India colonies, is not an abstract 
question, to be settled between the Government and the 
Planters, — it is a question in which we are all implicated ; — wp 
are all guilty, — (with shame and compunction let us admit the 
opprobrious truth) of supporting and perpetuating slavery. The 
West Indian planter and the people of this country, stand in 
the same moral relation to each other, as the thief and the 
receiver of stolen goods. The planter refuses to set his 
wretched captive at liberty, — treats him as a beast of burden, — 
compels his reluctant unremunerated labour under the lash of 
the cart whip^ — why ? — because we furnish the stimulant to all 
this injustice, rapacity, and cruelty, — by purchasing its 
PRODUCE. Heretofore, it may have been thoughtlessly and 
unconsciously, — but now this palliative is removed ; — ^the veil 
of ignorance is rent aside : — the whole nation must now divide 
itself into the active supporters, and the active opposers of 
slavery ; — there is no longer any ground for a neutral party to 
stand upon. 

The state of slavery, in our West Indian islands, is now 
become notorious ; — -the secret is out; — the justice and hu- 
manity, the veracity also, of slave owners, — »is exactly ascer- 
tained ; — the credit due to their assertions, that their slaves 
are better fed, better clothed, — ^are more comfortable, more 
happy than our English peasantry, is now universally imder- 
stood. The tricks and impostures practised by the colonial 
assemblies, to hoodwink the people, — to humbug the Govern- 
ment, — and to bambooale the saints (as the friends of emanci- 
pation are scornfully termed) — have all been detected — and the 
cry of the nation has been raised, from one end to the other, 
against this complicated system of knavery and imposture, — 
of intolerable oppression, of relentless and savage barbarity. 

But is all this knowledge to end in exclamations, in petitions, 
and remonstrances ? — Is there nothing to be done, as well as 
said ? Are there no tests to prove our sincerity, — no sacrifices 
to be offered in confirmation of our zeal ? — Yes, there is one, — 
(but it is in itself so small and insignificant thai it seems almost 
burlesque to dignify it with the name of sacrifice)— it is absti- 
nence FROM THE use OF WEST INDIA^F PRODUCTIONS,- — SUgar, 

especially, in the cultivation of which slave labour is chiefly oc- 
cupied. Small, however, and insignificant as the sacrifice may 



appear, — it would, at once, give the death blow to West Indian 
slavery. When there was no longer a market for the produc- 
tions of slave labour^ then, and not till then, will the slaves be 
emancipated. 

Many had recourse to this expedient about thirty years ago, 
when the public attention was so generally roused to the enor- 
mities of the Slave Trade. But when the trade was abolished 
by the British legislature, it was too readily concluded that the 
al}olition of slavery, in the British dominions, would have been 
an inevitable consequence, this species of abstinence was there- 
fore unhappily discontinued. 

" But (it will be objected) if there be no market for West 
Indian produce, the West Indian proprietors will be ruined, and 
the slaves, instead of being benefited, will perish by famine." 
Not so, — the West Indian proprietors understand their own 
interest better. The market though shut to the productions of 
slave labour, would still be open to the productions of fre& 
labour, — and the planters are not such devoted worshippers of 
slavery as to make a voluntary sacrifice of their own interests 
upon her altar ; — they will not doom the soil to perpetual bar- 
renness rather than suffer it t be cultivated by free men. It 
has been abundantly proved that voluntary labour is more pro- 
ductive, — more advantageous to the employer than compulsory 
labour. The experiments of the venerable and philanthropic 
Joshua Steele have established the fact beyond all doubt : — But 
the planter shuts his eyes to such facts, though clear and evi- 
dent as the sun at noon day. None are so blind as those who 
will not see. The conviction then must be forced upon these 
infatuated men. Ii is often asserted that slavery is too deeply 
rooted an evil to be eradicated by the exertions of any principle 
less potent and active than self interest — if so, the resolution to 
abstain from West Indian produce, would bring this potent and 
active principle into the fullest operation, — would compel the 
planter to set his slaves at liberty.* 

But were such a measure to be ultimately injurious to the 
interest of the planter — th 't consideration ought not to weigh a 
feather in the scale against emancipation. The slave has a 
right to his liberty, a right which it is a crime to withhold — let 
the consequences to the planters be what they may. If I have 
been deprived of my rijjhtful inheritance, and the usurper, 
because he has long kept possession, asserts his right to the 
property of which he has defrauded me; are my just claims to 
it at all weakened by the boldness of his pretensions, or by the 
plea ihat restitution would impoverish and involve him in ruin '<; 

* It has been ascertained thai the absliiicncp of one tenth of the inhabitants oi 
♦hisconntry from West Indian sugar wouldUbolish West Indian slavery.* 



And to what inheritance, or birth-bright, can any niortai have 
pretensions so just, (until forfeited bj crime) as to liberty ? 
What injustice and rapacity can be compared to that which de- 
frauds a man of his best earthly inheritance, — tears him from 
his dearest connexions, and condemns him and his posterity to 
the degradation and misery of interminable slavery? 

In the great question of emancipation, the interests of two 
parties are said to be involved, — the -interest of the slave and 
thai of the planter But it cannot for amoraent be imagined 
that these two interests have an equal right to be consultedj 
without confounding all moral distinctions, all difference be- 
tween real and pretended, between substantial and assumed 
claims. With the interest of the planters, the question of 
emancipation has (prrjperiy speaking) nothing to do. The 
right of the slave, and the interest of the planter, are dis- 
tinct questions ; they belong to separate departments, to dif- 
ferent provinces of consideration If the liberty of the slave 
can be secured not only without injury but with advantage to 
the planter, so much the better, certainly ; — but still the libera- 
tion of the slave ought ever to be regarded as an independent 
object ; and if it be deferred till the planter is sufficiently alive 
to his own interest to co-operate in the measure, we may for 
ever despair of its accomplishment. The cause of emancipa- 
tion has been long and ably advocated. Reason and eloquence, 
persuasion and argument have been powerfully exerted ; expe- 
riments have been fairly made, — facts broadly stated in proof of 
the impolicy as well as iniquity of slavery, to little purpose; 
even the hope of its extinction, with the concurrence of the 
planter, or by any enactment of the colonial or British legisla- 
ture, is still seen in ver}' remote perspective,- — so remote, that 
the heart sickens at the cheerless prospect. All that zeal and 
talent could display in the way of argument, has been exerted 
in vain. All that an accumulated mass of indubitable evidence 
could effect it^ the way of conviction, has been brought to no 
effect. 

It is high time, then, to resort to other raeasureSj — to vva3's 
and means more summary and effectual. . Too much time has 
already been lost in declamation and argument, in petitions 
and remonstrances against British slavery. The cause of eman- 
cipation calls for something more decisive, more efficient than 
words. It calls upon the real friends of the poor, degraded and 
oppressed African to bind themselves by a solemn engagement, 
an irrevocable vow, to participate no longer in the crime of 
keeping him in bondage- It calls upon them to " wash their 
own hands in innocency ; — to abjure for ever the miserable 
hypocrisy of pretending to commiserate the slave, whilst, by 
purchasing the productions of his labour they hrihe his master 



to keep him in slavery. The great Apostle ot" the gentiles 
declared, that he would "eat no flesh whilst the world stood/ 
rather than make his brother to oflend ." Do you make a sjpi- 
lar resolution respecting West Indian produce. Let your r&o- 
lutiou be made conscientiously, and kept inviolably ; — letlno 
plausible arguments which may be urged against it from with- 
out, — no solicitations of appetite from within, move you from 
your purpose, — and in the course of a few months, slavery in 
the British dominions will be annihilated. 

" Yes, (it may be said) if all would unite in such a resolii- 
tion, — but what can the abstinence of a few individuals, or a 
few families do, towards the accomplishment of so vast an 
object ?" — It can do wonders. Great effects often result from 
small beginnings. Your resolution will influence that of >our 
friends and neighbours : — each of them will, in like manner, 

influence their friends and neighbours ; the example will 

spread from house to house,— from city to city, till, among those 
ivho have any claim to humanity, there will be but one heart, and 
one mind, — one resolution, — one uniform practice. Thus hy 
means the most simple and easy, would West Indian slavery be 
most safely and speedily abolished. 

" But, (it will be objected) it is not an immediate but a gra- 
dual emancipation, which the most enlightened and judicious 
friends of humanity call for, as a measure best calculated, in 
their judgment, to promote the real interests o{ i\\e slave, as well 
as his master ; the former, not being in a condition to make a 
right use of his freedom, were it suddenly restored to him.*' 
This, it must be admitted, appears not only the general but al- 
most universal sentiment of the abolitionists ; — to oppose it there- 
fore, may seem a most presumptuous, as well as hopeless-at- 
tempt. But truth and justice are stubborn and inflexible ; — 
they yield neither to numbers or authority. 

The history of emancipation in St. Domingo, and of the con- 
duct of the emancipated slaves for thirty years subsequent to 
that event (as detailed in Clarkson's admirable pamphlet, on the 
necessity of improving the condition of our West Indian slaves,) 
is a complete refutation of all the elaborate arguments which 
have been artfully advanced to discredit the design of imme- 
diate emancipation. No instance has been recorded in these 
important annals, of the emancipated slaves (not the gradually^ 
but the immediately emancipated slaves) having abused their 
freedom. On the contrary, it is frequently asserted in the 
course of the narrative, that the negroes continued to work upon 
all the plantations as quietly as before emancipation. Through 
the whole of Clarkson's diligent and candid investigations of 
the conduct of emancipated slaves, comprising a body of more 
than 500,000 persons, — under a great variety of circumstances. 



—a Considerable proportion of whom had been suddenly eman- 
cipated — with all the vicious habits of slavery upon them ; many 
of l|iem accustomed to the use of arms ; he has not, throughout 
this' vast mass of emancipated slaves, found zl single instance of 
haci behaviour, not even a refusal to work, or of diobedience to 
orders ; much less, had he heard of frightful massacres, or of 
revenge for past injuries, even when they had it amply in their 
power. Well might this benevolent and indefatigable aboli- 
tionist arrive at the conclusion, "that emancipation, (why did 
he not say immediate emancipation ?) was not only practicable, 
biit practicable without danger." Ail the frightful massacres 
and conflagrations which took place in Si. Domingo, in 1791 
and 1792, occurred during the days of slavery. They origi- 
nated too, not with the slaves, but with the white and coloured 
planters,— between the royalists, and the revolutionists, who, 
for purposes of mutual vengeance, called in the aid of the slaves. 
Colonel Malenfant, in his history of the emancipation, written 
{during his residence in Si. Domingo, ridicules the notion that 
the negroes would not work without compulsion, — and asserts, 
that in one plantation, more immediately under his own obser- 
vation, on which more than four hundred negroes were em- 
ployed, not one in the number refused to work after their eman- 
cipation. 

In the face of such a body of evidence, the detaining our 
West Indian slaves in bondage, is a continued acting of the 
same atrocious injustice vrhich first kidnapped and tore them 
from their kindred and native soil, and robbed them of that 
sacred, unalienable right which no considerations, how plausible 
soever, can justify the withholding. We have no right, on any 
pretext of expediency or pretended humanity, to say — " because 
you have been made a slave, and thereby degraded and de- 
based, — therefore, I will continue to hold you in bondage until 
you have acquired a capacity to make a right use of >our 
liberty." As well might you say to a poor wretch, gasping and 
languishing in a pest house, " here will I keep you, till I have 
given you a capacity for the enjoyment of pure air." 

You admit, that the vices of the slave, as well as his miseries,— 
his intellectual and moral, as well as corporeal degradation are 
consequent on his slavery ;— remove the cause then, and the 
effect will cease. Give the slave his liberty, — in the sacred 
name of justice, give it him at once. Whilst you hold him in 
bondage, he will profit little from your plans of amelioration. 
He has not, by all his complicated injuries and debasements, 
been disinherited of his sagacity ; — this will teach him to give 
no credit to your admonitory lessons- — your christian instruc- 
tions will he lost upon him, so long as he both knows and feels 
that his instructors are grossly violating their own lessons. 



The enemies of slavery have hitherto ruined tijeir cause by 
the seaseless cry of gradual emancipation. It is marvellous 
that the wise and the good should have suffered themselves to 
have been imposed upon by this wily artifice of the slave holder^ 
— for with him must the project of gradual emancipation have 
first originated. The slave liolder knew very well, that his 
prey would be secure, so long as the abolitionists could be ca- 
joled into a demand (or gradual instead of immediate abolition. 
He knew very well, that the contemplation of a gradual eman- 
cipation, would beget a graduul indifference to emancipation 
itself. He knew very well, that even the wise and the good, 
may, by habit and familiarity, be brought to endure and tole- 
rate almost any thing. He had caught the poet's idea, that — 

*' Vice is a monster of sach frightful mein, 
" As to be hated, need but to be seen ; 
" But, seen too oft, familiar with her face, 
" We first endure, then pili/, then embrace.'' 

He caught the idea and knew how to turn it to advantage. — ■ 
He knew very well, that the faithful delineation of the horrors 
of West Indian slavery, would produce such a general insur- 
rection of sympathetic and indignant feeling ; such abhorrence 
of the oppressor, such compassion for the oppressed, as must 
soon have been fatal to the whole system. He knew very well, 
that a strong moral fermentation had begun, which, had it gone 
forward-, must soon have purified the nation from this foulest 
of its corruptions ; — that the cries of the people for emancipa- 
tion, would have been loo unanimous, and too importunate for 
the Government to resist, and that slavery would, long ago, 
have been exterminated throughout the British dominions. Our 
example might have spread from kingdom to kingdom, — from 
continent to continent, — and the slave trade, and slavery, might 
by this time have been abolished — all the world over: — "A 
sacrifice of a sweet savour," might have ascended to the Great 
Parent of the Universe, — " His kingdom might have come, 
and his will (thus far) have been done on earth, as it is in 
Heaven." 

But this GRADUAL ABOLITION, has been the grand marplot 
of human virtue and happiness ; — the very master-piece of 
Satanic policy. By converting the cry for immediate, into 
gradual emancipation, the prince of slave holders, " trans- 
formed himself, with astonishing dexterity, info an angel of 
light," — and thereby — " deceived the very elect." — He saw very 
clearly, that if public justice and humanity, especially, if Chris- 
tian justice and humanity, could be brought to demand only a 
gradual extermination of the enorn)ities of the slave system ;— 
if they could be brought to acquiesce^ but for one year, or for 
one montl), in the slavery of our African brother,— in robbing 



10 

him of all the rights of humanity , — antl degrading hiin to a level 
with the brutes ; — that then, they could imperceptibly be 
brought to acquiespe in all this for an unlimited duration. He 
saw, very clearly, that the time for the extermination of slavery, 
was precisely that, when its horrid impiety and enormity were 
first ditinctly known and strongly felt. He knew, that every 
moment's unnecessary delay, between the discovery of an im- 
perious duty, and the setting earnestly about its accomplishment, 
was dangerous, if not fatal to success. He knew, that strong 
excitement, was necessary to strong effort ; — that intense feel- 
ing was necessary to stimulate intense exertion ; that, as 

strong excitement, and intense feeling are generally transient, 
in proportion to their strength and iuteasity, — the most effectual 
way of crushing a great and virtuous enterprize, — was to gain 
time, — to defer it to " a more convenient season," when the 
zeal and ardour of the first convictions of duty had subsided; — 
when our sympathies had beconie languid ;-^when considera- 
tions of the difficulties and hazards of the enterprize, the solicita- 
tions of ease and indulgence should have chilled the warm glow 
of humanity,— quenched the fervid heroism of virtue ; — when 
familiarity with relations of violence and outrage, crimes and 
miseries, should have abated the horror of their first impression, 
and, at length induced indifference. 

, The father of lies, the grand artificer of fraud and imposture, 
transformed himself therefore, on this occasion, pre-eminently, 
•* into an angel of light" — and deceived, not the unwary enly, 
the unsuspecting multitude, — but the wise and the good, by 
the plausibility, the apparent force, the justice, and above all, 
hy the humanity of the arguments propounded for gradual 
emancipation. He, is the subtilest of all reasoners, the most 
ingenious of all sophists, the most eloquent of all declaimers. — 
He, above all other advocates, " can make the worst appear 
the better argument ;" can, most effectually pervert the judg- 
ment and blind the understanding, — whilst they seem to be 
most enlightened and rectified. Thus, by a train of most ex- 
quisite reasoning, has he brought the abolitionists to the con- 
clusion, — that the interest of the poor, degraded, and oppressed 
slave, as well as that of his master, will be best secured by his 
remaining in slavery. It has indeed, been proposed to mitigate, 
in some degree, the miseries of his interminable bondage, but 
the blessings of emancipation, according to the propositions of 
the abolitionists in the last session of Parliament, were to be 
reserved for his posterity alone, — and every idea of immediate 
emancipation is still represented, not only as impolitic, enthu- 
siastic and visionary, but as highly injurious to the slave himself, 
— <ind a train of supposed apt illustrations is continually at 
hand, to expose the absurdity of such a project. " Who (it is 
asked) would place a sumptuous banquet before a half-famished 



ii 

wretch, whilst his powers of digestion were so feeble that it 
would be fatal to partake of it ? — Who would bring a bod}'' 
benumbed and half frozen with cold, into sudden contact with 
fervid heatf Who would take a poor captive from his dun- 
geon, where he had been immured whole years, in total dark- 
ness, and bring him at once into the dazzling light of a meridian 
sun? No one, in his senses, certainly. All these transitions 
from iamine to plenty, — from cold to heat, — from darkness to. 
light, must be gradual in order to be salutary." But must it 
therefore follow, by any inductions of common sense, that 
emancipation out of the gripe of a robber or an assassin, — out 
of the jaws of a shark or a tiger, must be gradual i* Must, it, 
therefore, follow, that the wretched victim of slavery must 
always remain in slavery ? — that emancipation must be so 
gradual, that the blessings of freedom shall never be tasted by 
him who has endured all the curses of slavery, but be reserved 
for his posterity alone .'' 

There is something unnatural, something revolting to the" 
common sense of justice, in reserving all the sweets of freedom 
for those who have never tasted the bitter cup of bondage,>r-- 
in dooming those who have once been compelled to drink it, to 
drain it to the very dregs. Common equity demands that 
relief should be administered first to those who have suffered 
most ; — that the healing balm of mercy should be imparted first 
to those who have smarted most under the rod of oppression : 
that those who have borne the galling yoke of slavery, should 
first experience the blessings of liberty. The cause of eman- 
cipation loses more than half its interest, when the public 
sympathy is diverted from its natural channel, — turned from 
the Ztvirig" victims of colonial bondage to their unborn progeny. 
It is utterly astonishing, with such an object as West Indian 
slavery before us, rendered palpable, in all its horrors, almost 
to our very senses, by a multitude of indubitable facts, collected 
from various sources of the highest authority, all uniting in the 
same appalling evidence ; — with the sight of onr fellow-creatures 
in bondage so rigorous, — in moral and physical degradation so 
abject ; — under a tyranny so arbitrary, wanton and barbarous- 
it is Milerly astonishing, that our compassion and sympatl^y 
shoidd be so timid and calculating, — so slow and cautious. 

Under the contemplation of individual suffering, compara- 
tively trifling, both in nature and duration, our compassion is 
prompt and qnick in its movements, — our exertions, spontaneoqs 
and instinctive : — we go the shortest way to work, in effecting the 
relief of the sufferer. But, in emancipating eight hundred thou- 
sand of our fellow creatures and fellow subjects from a worse 
than Egyptian bond.igc, we advance towards the object, by a 
route, the most indirect and circuitous ; we petition Parliament 
year after year, for gradv.l emancipation : — ^to what purpose f 



Are we gaining or losing ground by these delays ? Are we 
approaching nearer or receding farther from the attainment of 
our object ? The latter, it is too evident, is, and must be the 
ease. The evil principle is more subtle and active in its various 
operations, than the good principle. The advocates of slavery, 
are more alert and successful in insinuating into the public 
tnind, doubts and fears, coldness and apathy on the subject of 
emancipation, than the abolitionists are in counteracting such 
hostile influence ; — and the desertions from the anti-slavery 
standard in point of zeal and activity, if not in numbers, since 
the agitation of the question in Parliament last year, are doubt- 
less very considerable. 

Should the numerous petitions to Parliament be ultimately 
successful ; — should the prayer for gradual emancipation be 
granted ; still, how vague and indefinite would be the benefit 
resulting from sueh success. Should some specific time be ap- 
pointed by government, for the final extinction of colonial 
iSlavery ; — that period, we have been informed from high autho- 
rityj will not be an early one. And who can calculate the tears 
and groans, the anguish and despair ;— the tortures and outrages 
which may be added, during the term of that protracted inter- 
val, to the enormous mass of injuries already sustained by the 
victims of West India ' bondage ? Who can calculate the ag- 
gravated accumulation of guilt which may be incurred by its 
active agents, its interested abettors and supporters ? Why 
then, in the name of humanity, of common sense, and common 
honesty, do we petition Parliament, year after year, for a gra- 
dual abolition of this horrid system f — this complication of crime 
and misery f Why petition Parliament at all, to do that for 
us, which, were thej^ ever so well disposed, we can do more 
speedily and more effectually for ourselves ? 

It is no marvel that slave holders, should cry out against im- 
mediate emancipation, as they have done against all propositions 
for softening the rigors of colonial slavery. " Insurrection of 
all the blacks, — misssacre of all the whites,^'' — are the bug-bears 
which have been constantly conjured up, to deter the British 
Parliament from all interference between the master and his 
slave. The panic was the same, the outcry just as violent^ 
when an attempt was made about forty years ago, to abate the 
horrors of the middle passage, by admitting a little more air 
into the suffocating and pestilent holds of the slave ships ; and 
a noble duke, besought Parliament not to meddle with the alarm- 
ing question.* Confident predictions, from this quarter, of 
rebellion and bloodshed, have, almost uniformly followed every 
proposition to restrain the power of the oppressor and to miti- 
gate the sufferings of the oppressed. 

''= '^lee the Debate on this siibiect in 1 B.^o". 



It is therefore no wonder, that West Indian proprietors, and 
slave holders, should exclaim against immediate emancipation ; 
that they should tell us, the slaves are so depraved as well as 
degraded, as to be utterly incapacitated for the right use of 
freedom ; — that emancipation, instead of leading them into 
habits of sober, contented industry, would be inevitably followed 
by idleness, pillage, and all sorts of enormities; — in short, that 
they would rise in a mass, and massacre all the white inhabitants 
of the islands. 

That slave holders should say, and really believe all this, is 
perfectly natural ; — it is no wonder at all tiiat they should be 
full of the most groundless suspicions and terrors ; — for tyrants 
are the greatest of all cowards.- — " The wicked fleeth when no 
man pursueth ;" — he is terrified at shadov. s, — and shudders at 
th^ spectres of his own guilty imagination. 

But that the abolitionists should have caught the infection, — 
should be panic-struck; — that the friends of humanity, — the 
wise and the good — should be diverted from their purpose by 
such visionary apprehensions ; — that they should " fear where 
no fear is;" — should swallow the bait, so manifestly laid to 
draw them aside from their great object ; — that they should be 
so credulous, so easily imposed upon — -is marvellous. 

The simple inquiry, what is meant by emancipation ? might 
have dissipated at once all these terrible spectres of rapine and 
murder. Does emancipation from slavery imply emancipation 
from law .'' Does emancipation from lawless tyranny, — from 
compulsory unremunerated labour, under the lash of the cart 
whip, imply emancipation from all responsibility and moral re- 
straint .'* Were slavery in the British colonies extinguished, — 
the same laws which restrain and punish crime in the white 
population, would still restrain and punish crime in the black 
population. The danger arising from inequality of numbers 
would be more than counteracted by the wealth, influence, and 
the armed force, possessed by the former. But independent 
of such considerations, the oppressed and miserable, corrupt as 
is human nature, do not naturally become savage and revenge- 
ful when their oppressions and miseries are removed. As long 
as a human being is bought and sold, — regarded as goods and 
chatties, — compelled to labour without wages, — branded, chain- 
ed, and flogged at the caprice of his owner; he will, of neces- 
sity, as long as the feeling of pain, — the sense of degradation 
and injury remain, he will, unless he have the spirit of a Christian 
martyr, be vindictive and revengeful. " Oppression (it is said) 
will make (even) a wise man, mad." But will the liberated 
captive, when the iron yoke of slavery is broken ; — when his 
heavy biu'dens are unbound, — his bleeding wounds healed, his 
broken heart bound up ; will ho then scatter vengeance anfl 
destiMigtion around him ." 



14 

Should the wretched African find the inoment for breaking 
his own chains, — and asserting his own freedom, — he may well 
be expected to take terrible vengeance, — to push the law of re- 
taliation to its utmost extreme. But, when presented with his 
freedom, — when the sacred rights of humanity are restored to 
hira, would that be the moment for rage, for revenge and mur- 
der ? To polished and Chrirtianized Europeans, such abuses of 
liberty may appear natural and inevitable, since their own his- 
tory abounds with them. But the history of negro emancipa- 
tion abundantly proves that no such consequences are to be ap- 
prehended from the poor uncultivated a.nd despised Africam. 

" But, to demand immediate emancipation, however safe, 
however just and desirable in itself, would (we are told) be most 
impolitic, — -for it would never be granted ; by striving to ob- 
tain too much, 3'ou would lose all. You must go cautiously and 
gradually to work. A very powerful interest and a very power- 
ful influence are against you. You must try to conciliate in- 
stead of provoke the West Indian planters; — to convince them 
that their own interest is concerned in the better treatment and 
gradual emancipation of their slaves, or your object will never 
be accomplished." 

But you will strive and labour in vain ; — you v/ill reason, 
however eloquently, however forcibly, in the ears of the "deaf 
adder." The moral and rational perceptions of ihe slave holder, 
are still more perverted than those of the slave ; — oppression, 
is more debasing and injurious to the intellect of the oppressor, 
than that of the oppressed. The gains of unrighteousness, — ■ 
familiarity with injustice and cruelty, have rendered the slave 
holder, more obstinately, more incurably blind and inaccessible 
to reason, than the slave. And what justice or restitution would 
there be in the world, were unlawful possessions never to be 
reclaimed till there was a disposition in the possessor volun- 
tarily to relinquish them,- — till he was convinced that it was his 
interest to part with them ? 

The interests and the prejudices of the West Indian plant- 
ers, have occupied much too prominent a place in the discus- 
sion of this great question. The abolitionists liave shown a 
great deal too much politeness and accommodation towards 
these gentlemen. With reference to them, the question is saidy 
to be a very delicatt one. (Was ever the word delicacy so pre- 
posterously misapplied ?) — It is said, to be beset with difficulties 
and dangers. — Yes, the parties interested, — criminally inte- 
rested, protest that the difficulties are insurmountable, — the 
dangers tremendous. But those difficulties and dangers iiave 
been proved to be visionary and futile, the offspring of idle, or 
of hypocritical fears. A little temporary pecuniary loss, would 
be the mighty amount of all the calamities which emancipation 



15 

would entail upon its Tirulentand infuriated opposers.* And is 
that a consideration to stand in competition witli the liberation 
of eight hundred thousand of our fellow creatures from the 
heav y yoke of slavery ? Must hundreds of thousands of human 
beings continue to be disinherited of those isiherent rights of 
humanit)', without which, life becomes a curse, instead of a 
blessing ; must they continue to be roused and stimulated to 
uncompensated laboiu% night as vrell as day, during a great 
pai*t of the year, by the impulse of the cart whip, that a few 
noble lords and Jwnourahle gentlemen may experience no priva- 
tion of expensive luxury,— no contraction of profuse expendi- 
tui*e, — no curtailment of state and equipage ? Must the scale 
in which is placed the just claims, the sacred rights of eight 
hundred thousand British subjects, be made to kick the beam, 
when weighed in the balance against pretensions so compara- 
tively light and frivolous ? 

Among the West Indian proprietors, there are doubtless, in- 
dividuals of liigh character and respectability, whose education 
and circumstances may, nevertheless, disqualify them from tak- 
ing a sti'ictly impartial view of colonial slavery. Such, of course, 
must be exempt from the just odium, — the reprobation, wliich 
belongs to the general body, as far as they have rendered their 
own character notorious by theii* owii declarations, — by the 
speeches they have published, and the decrees they have issu- 
ed : — ^by the virulent abuse, the rage and calumny which they 
have lieaped upon the abolitionists; — by the alternations of 
fawning sei'vility and insolent threatening, with which they at 
one time ** pi'osti-ate themselves at the foot of the throne ;" — at 
anotlier, protest, in the tone of defiance, not to say rebellion, 
against British interference with colonial legislation. Towards 
these gentlemen, there has been extended a great deal too much 
delicacy and tenderness. They are culprits, in the strictest 
sense of the word, — and as such, they ought to be regarded, 
notwithstanding tlicir rank and consequence, by every lionest 
impartial moralist. Tliey have received too long, the gains of 
oppression ; — too long liave they fattened on the spoils of hu- 
manity. 

It matters not at all, how, or when, the planter acquired his 
pretended righttothc slave; — whether by violence or robbery, 
— by purcliase oi* by inheritance. His claim always was, and 
always will be, ill-founded, because it is opposed to nature, to 
reason, and to jvligioii. It is also illegal, as far as legality has 
any foundation of juslice, divine or human, torcstu]>on. His 
plea for protection against the designs of the abolitionists, on 
the ground lluit his jjroperty has been embarked in Ibis nefari- 

* The account of the Ijooilon Meeling;of the West Indian Planters, whichjtook 
place in February la^t, lerfectly justifies the apiilication of tlipse epithets. 



It; 

t>us speculation, on the faith of Parliament,' — in the confidence 
that no change would be effected in the laws which sanction 
the enormous injustice and wickedness of slavery, is childish 
and futile. Are not commercial speculations of every kind, 
subject to perpetual vicissitudes and revolutions ? Are not hu- 
man laws perpetually undergoing new modifications and changes 
in accommodation to ihe ever-varying circumstances of the times, 
— to increasing light and civilization ? It is absurd to imagine 
that the progress of humanity, of moi'al and political improve- 
ment, is to be arrested, because some individual perquisites, 
derived from institutions of brutal ignorance and barbarism, 
would be curtailed. A great deal more reasonably might the 
industrious artizan, whose daily subsistence depends on his 
daily labour, — ^wliose only property is his labour — and who, in 
many cases, has no means, like the West Indian capitalist, of 
transferring it from one channel to another^ — with a great deal 
more reason might he exclaim and cry out for protection against 
all mechanical improvements, which diminish labour, which de- 
prive thousands of the labouring classes of their wonted re- 
sources, and drive them to beggary. 

But if the West Indian gentlemen fail to obtain protection 
against the designs of the abolitionists, then, they demand com- 
pensation, in the event of the emancipation of their slaves, to 
the immense amount of sixty -fo^tr millions. And is compensation 
demanded in no other quarter ? — or, if not demanded, is it no 
where else due ? If compensation demanded as an act of 
justice to the slave holder, in the event of tlie liberation of his 
slaves; — let justice take her free, impartial coure;— let com- 
pensation be made in the first instance, where it is most due ;. 
— let compensation be first made to the slave, for his long years 
of uncompensated labour, degradation and suffering. It is in 
this quarter, that justice cries aloud for compensation, — and if 
our attention is turned, but for a moment, to these two substan- 
tial and well authenticated claims, — tlie demands of the slave 
holder ; (even liad they been couched in terms less arrogant and 
insulting,) will become not a little questionable. 

Experience has already sufficieiitly evinced the fallacy of the 
notion, of the superior policy of aiming at gradual, instead of 
immediate emancipation, on the ground of its meeting with less 
opposition; fortlie planters have shown themselves just as much 
eiu'aged at the ide^a of gradual, as of immediate emancipation. 
They appear indeed, either incapable of perceiving, or deter- 
mined to confound- ail distinction between them ; — for, in the. 
bitterness of their invectives, they accuse thegradnal abolition- 
ists of endeavouring to bi'ing upon their heads all the calami- 
ties and destruction whicli they formerly deprecated as the in- 
evitable consequence of immediate emancipation. 

Oil this great question, the spirit of accommodation and Con- 



17 

ciliatiou has been a spiiit of tlelusion. The abolitionists have 
lost, rather than gained ground by it ; — their cause has been 
weakened, instead of strengthened. The great interests of 
truth and justice are betrayed, I'ather than supported, by all 
softening qualifying concessions. Every iota which is yielded 
of their rightful claims, impairs the conviction of their recti- 
tude, and, consequently, weakens their success. Truth and 
justice, make their best way in the world, when they appeal* in 
bold and simple majesty ; — their demands are most willingly 
conceded, when they are most fearlessly "claimed. 

Were the immediate freedom of the slave demanded, because 
in the first instance, it was unlawfully and a iolently wrested 
from him ! — because, ever since, it has been most unjustly and 
cruelly withheld from him ; because it is his unalienable right, 
which lie holds by a divine charter, wliich no human claims can 
disannul : — were the immediate abolition of slavery, in the Bii- 
tlsh dominions, demanded, because slavery, is in direct oposi- 
tion to the spirit of the British constifutionf to the spirit and 
letter of the Christian religion, — to every principle of humanity 
and justice ; — because, as long as it is suffered to exist, it must 
remain the fruitful source of the most atrocious crimes, the most 
cruel sufferings ; because, as long a»s it is suffered to exist, its 
abettors and supporters, passive as well as active, {now that 
their eyes are wide open to its enormities) must lie under the 
divine malediction, and experience, sooner or later, the certain 
and awful visitations of retributive justice, — the fearful accom- 
plishment of that solemn declaration, — ** With what measure 
ye mete, it shall be measured to you again :" — Demands so 
evidently just, — such plain appeals to reason and conscience, — ■ 
to law and equity ; — such serious reference to Divine authori- 
ty, — to future retribution ; — would be moi'e successful, — would 
be better calculated to keep alive the public sympathy, — would 
lead to more unwearied exertions, — to greater sacrifies, — ^than 
the slow, cautious^ accommodating measures now proposed by 
the abolitionists ; — than any timorous suggestions of expedi- 
ency, — any attempts to conciliate the favour, or to disarm the 
opposition of West Indian slave holders. 

When an obvious and imperative duty is encumbered witli 
co)»siderations which do not properly belong to it ; its obliga- 
tions, instead of being enforced, are enfeebled ; its motives, in- 
stead of being concentrated, are divided and scattered : jind the 
duty, if not entii'ely neglected, will be but languidly and par- 
tially performed. We make slow progress in vii-tue, lose much 
time in labour, when, instead of going boldly forward in its 
straight and obvious path, we are continually inquiring how far 
we may proceed in it vviliiont dilUculty, and without opposition. 
Had the aboliti()niHls pr«\serveil a single eye to theii' great 
object; — ^liad they kept it distinct and separate from all extra- 
neous considerations ; — had they purswfl it by a coui-se more 



. 1^ 

dii'cct, tiifougli means more simple^- — liad they coutideil moi'ff 
in the goodness of their cause, and dreaded less the oppositioii 
of its adA ersarics ; — had they depended more upon divine, and 
less upon human support^ — their triumphs," instead of their de- 
feats, would, long since, have heen recorded. Surely their eycfr 
must at length be opened ; — ^they must perceive that they have 
not gone the right ^^ ay to work,^ — that the apprehension of 
loosing alk by asMng too muchj — has driven them into the danger 
of loosing all, by havijig asked too little; — that the spirit of com- 
promise and accommodation lias placed them neaily in the si- 
tuation of tlie unfortunate man in the fable, who, by trying to 
please every body, pleased nobody, and lost the object of his 
solicitude into the bargain. 

It had been well, for the poor ojjpressed African, had the- 
assertors of his rights entered the lists against his oppressors, 
with more of the spirit of Christian combatants, and less of 
worldly politicians ; — had they remembered, through the whole 
of the struggle, that it was a conflict of sacred duty, against 
sordid interests, — of right against might ; — that it was, in fact? 
an holy war,— an attack upon the strong holds, the deep in- 
trenchments of the very powers of darkness ; in which courage 
would be more availing than caution ; — in which success was to 
be expected, less from prudential or political expedients, tha» 
from that all-controling power, which alone gives efficacy to 
human exertions, — wMck often defeats the best concerted 
schemes of human sagacity and accomplishes his great purposes 
through the instrumentality of the simplest agency. Had the 
labours of the abolitionists been begun and continued on Divine, 
instead of human reliance, immediate emancipation would have 
appeared just as attainable as gradual emancipation. But, by 
substituting the latter object for the foi-mer, under the idea that 
its accomplishment was more probable, less exposed to objec- 
tion ; — and by endeavouring to carry it, through considerations 
of interest, rather than obligations of duty ; they have betrayed 
an unworthy diffidence in the cause in which they have em- 
barked ; — they have converted the great business of emancipa^ 
tion.into an object of political* calculation ; — ^they have with- 
drawn it fronj Divine, and placed it under human patronage ; 
— and disappointment and defeat, have been the inevitable con- 
sequence. 

If the deadly root of slavery be ever extirpated out of British 
soil, it will be by such exertions as are prompted by duty rather 
than interest. We cannot sufficiently admire the great wisdom 
and goodness of those providential arrangements which have, 
in the general course of events, so inseparably connected our 
duty with our interest; — but with regard to the broad and 
palpable distinctions between right and wrong, virtue and vice ; 
— the more simple and direct the reference to the will of our 
Divine Lawgiver, and that of his vicegerent, conscience,— the 



more deiei'mined will be our resolution, — the moi-e decisive oui' 
conduct. — '• How sliall I do this great wickedness and sin 
iigainst God'* — will be the most influejitiai of all considerations. 
And the solemn inquiry, pressed home to the conscicjice, how 
an enlightened and Christian government, — ]»ow an enlightened 
and Chs'istian community, can, in any v, ay, encourage or sanc- 
tion such a complicated system of iniiiuity as that of slavery, — 
** tiie greatest practical blunder, as well as the greatest cala- 
inity, that has ever disgraced and afflicted human nature," — 
w itliout sharing its guilt, and, if there be a righteous Governor 
of the universe, its punishment also ? will be followed up by 
propositions more consistent and energetic, than sffich as aim 
only at its gradual extermination. 

The very able mover of the question in Parliament last yeai*, 
proposed that our colonial slavery should be suffered — '• to ex- 
pire of itself, — ^to die a natural death." — But a natural death it 
never will die. — It must be crusiied at once, or not at all. 
While the abolitionists are endeavouring gradually to enfeeble 
and kill it by inches, it will gradually discover the means of 
reinforcing its strength, and will soon dety all the puny attacks 
of its assailants. 

In the mean time, let the abolitionists remember, — while they 
are reasoning and declaiming and petitioning Parliament for 
gradual emancipation, — let them remember, that the miseries 
they deplore remain unmitigated — the crimps they execrate are 
still perpetuated ; — still the tyrant frowns — and the slave trem- 
bles ; — the cart whip still plies at the will of the inhuman dri- 
ver — and the hopeless victim still writhes under its lash. The 
ameliorating measures recommended by Parliament, to the colo- 
nial legislators, are neglected and spurned. The bad passions 
of the slave holder are exasperated and infuriated by interfer- 
ence, and vengeance falls, with accumulated weight, on the 
slave. It had been better for him, had no eff<n*ts been made for 
his emancipation, than that they should ultimately fail, or be 
feebly exeiied — the interval of suspense, will be an interval of 
restless purtiirbation, — m aggravated tyranny in t!ic oppressor, 
— of aggravated suffering in the oppressed. Unsuccessful oppo- 
sition, to crimes of every description, invai'iahly increases their 
jmwer and malignily. 

An immediate emancipation then, is the object to be aimed at: 
— it is more wise and I'ationai, — more politic and safe, as well 
as more just and humai«', — tiian gradual emancipation. The 
interest, moral and political, tcmpoi-al and eternal, of all ])arties 
concei'ncd, will be best promoted by immediate cmaMcipati<m. 
The sooner tlte planter is obliged to abandon a system which 
torments him with per])ctiial alarjns of insurrection and mas- 
sacre, — which keeps him intlie !nost(h^Ijasing moral bondage, — 
Hubjects him to tyranny, of all others, the mosl injurious and 
destructive — that of soi-did and vindi4;tive ]>assions : thesoonw 



w 

lie is obliged to adopt a more humane and inoie lua'aiive poligy 
"in the cultivation of his plantations ; — the sooner the overla- 
boui-ed, crouching slave, is converted into a free labourer, — 
his compulsory, unremunerated toil, under the impulse of the 
cart whip, exchanged for cheerful, well recompensed industry, 
• — his bitter sufferings for peaceful enjoyment, — his deep exe- 
cration of his merciless tyrants, for respectful attachment to his 
humane and equitable masters ; — the sooner the Government 
and the people of this country purify themselves from the guilt 
of supporting or tolerating a system of such monstrous injus- 
tice, productive of such complicated enormities ; — the sooner 
all this m&ss of impolicy, crime and suffering is got rid of — 
the better. 

It behoves the advocates of this great cause then, to take the 
most direct, the most speedy and effectual means of accomplish- 
ing tbeir object. If any can be devised more direct, more 
speedy and effectual, or less exceptionable in its operation than 
that wliich has been suggested, — let it be immediately adopted 5 
but let us no longer compromise the requisitions of humnaity 
and justice, for those of an artful and sordid policy ,• — let there 
be no betraying of the cause by needless delay; — delay is 
always dangerous ; on this momentous question, (humanly 
speaking) it will be fatal, if much longer protracted. The 
public sympathy is already declining, people are becoming 
tired of the subject, tliey grow listless and impatient when it 
is introduced ', they tell you, "they wish to hear no more of 
it, their minds are made up, no advantage can be gained by 
farther discussion ; the subject must now be left to Parliament." 
Alas! and how has Parliament disposed of it? How has it 
realized the very modest hopes, indulged by the abolitionists, 
in consequence of its declarations in favoiii'of gradual abolition, 
a year ago ? By its recent decisions, the great work of eman- 
cipation appears to retrograde instead of advance. The bullying 
of the slave holders, is said to have proved completely triumph- 
ant. The royal proclamation just issued, is rightly denominated 
a hope extinguisher^ to the wretclied slave population. Well 
may the abolitionists express their disappointment, on finding 
the present measures of Government, fall so far short of the 
expectations, which the promises of last session had excited. 
Well may the right honourable secretary be charged with, 
" having done nothing, or worse than nothing; with being 
satisfied, at most, to see his pledge in favour of a whole archi- 
pelago, reduced to a single island ; while a law is still to prevail 
in every island of the West Indies, except Trinadad, which 
authorizes a female negro, to be stripped, in tlie presence of 
her father, husband or son, and flogged with a cart whip ! !" 

There were some, who anticipated these results ? cheerless 
and melancholy as they are, they are such as might reasonably 
bftve been expected from the proposition for gradual emanci- 



paiion, — ami if persisted in, it will assuredly end, iii no emaiL- 
dpation. The time is critical. The general interest, in this 
great subject, is evidently on the wane, — and it should be re- 
membered, that even the most humane and susceptible, — those 
who are most under the influence of true Christian principle, 
are not always bound up to such a pitch of disinterested and ar- 
dent zeal, as is requisite to cope with such a host of interested 
and powerful opponents, as are the West Indian proprietors and 
slave holders. Those, who are, ••' called to glory and virtue," 
— invited, to labour, in the Divine vineyard, — are admonished, 
to •'* work while it is day, — for the night cometh, in which no 
man can work ;" — whilst they have ligiit^ tiiey are admonished 
to '* walk in the light, lest darkness come upon them." Mental 
darkness, and spiritual night, steal fast upon those, who, when 
an imperious duty is pi'esented to them, — when sufficient ability 
is imparted for its accomplishment, — falter and procrastinate. 

If tlie great work of emancipation be not now accomplished, 
— humanly speaking, it may be despaired of, as far as our agen- 
cy is concerned. Theorising generation may furnish no such 
zealous, devoted advocates, as a Clarkson, a Wilberforce, and 
a Buxton. If the clear light, the full information, they have 
so generally diffused : — the deep interest and sympathy they 
have so generally excited, produce no other results than those 
at pi'csent contemplated by the abolitionists : — this country may 
fall under the curse of being judicially hardened and blinded, 
in consequence of having been softened and enlightened to so 
little purpose ; — and the emancipation of eight hundred thousand 
British slaves I may be effected through other means and other 
agency, which, when once roused into action, may realize all 
those terrific scenes of insurrection and carnage which the im.a- 
gination of the planter has so often contemplated. 



Since the preceding pages were writtp?i, the sentences passed 
upon the insurgents of Demei-ara and Kingston have readied 
us. Some, had been hung, others, had received corporeal 
punishment — to what extent — let those who have ears to hear, 
and hearts to feel, deeply ponder. Some liad received, otiiers, 
Avere yet to receive — one thousand lashes, — and aveke 

CONDEMNED TO BE WOKKED IN CHAINS DURING THE KESIDUK 

OF THEIR LivB«5 ! ! The liorrid work, has probably, by this 
time been completed, human intcr])()sition therefore, with res- 
pect to these individual victims of West Indian Justice will 
now be of no avail. 

Btit shall such sentences as- tliese, be suffered to pass the 
ordeal of public oj)inion ? Shall they be establisiied as prece- 
dents for futui'e judgnu'nts, on futur<'. insurgents? Forbiil it — 
every feeling of lunnanity — in erenj hosnni. Let evei'y principle 
of virtue which distinguishes the human from the brute creation, 
— titc pn)fessors of the benignant, compassionate religion of 



.'i2 

tJhrist, irom the savage and blood-thirsty woi'shippers of Mo- 
loch, — raise one united, determined and solemn protest against 
the repetition of these barbarities, which blaspheme the sacred 
name of justice, — and seem to imprecate Almighty vengeance. 

Will the inhabitants of this benevolent, this Christian coimtrj, 
now want a stimulant to rouse tlieir best exertions, — to nerve 
their resolutions against all participation with these human 
blood-hounds ? Will the British public now want a ** spirit 
stirring" incentive to prohibit, and to interdict, — henceforth, 
and for ever,^ — the merchandize of slavery ? Let the produce of 
slave labour, — lienceforth, and for ever, — be regarded as "i/ie 
accursed thing " and refused admission into our houses ', — or let 
us renounce our Christian profession, and disgrace it no longer, 
by a selfish, cold-hearted indifference which, under such cir- 
cumstances, would be reproachful to savages. 

What v»^as the offence which brought down this frightful ven- 
geauce on the heads of these devoted victims ? What horrible 
crime could liave instigated man to sentence his fellow man, to 
a punisliment so tremendous ? — ^to doom his brother to undergo 
the protracted torture of a thousand iashbs ? — ^to have his 
quivering flesh mangled and torn from his living body ? — and to 
labour through life under the galling and ignominious weight of 
chains ? It was insurrection. But in what cause did they be- 
come insurgents ? Was it not in tliat cause, which, of all others, 
can best excuse^ if it c&wnot justiftj insurrection ? Was it not in 
the cause of self-defence from tlie most degrading, intolerable 
oppression ? 

But what was the immediate occasion of this insurrection ? 
What goaded tiiese poor wretches on to brave the dreadful 
liazards of rebellion ? One of tliem, now hanging in chains at 
Demerara, Vvas sold and separated from his wife and family of 
ten children, after a marriage of eighteen years, — and therehj 
made a rebel. Another was a slave of no common intellect, 
whose wife, the object of his warmest affections was torn from 
his bosom, and forced to become the mistress of an overseer. 
His domestic happiness thus destroyed for evei', he became, 
(how should it have been otherwise ?) disaffected and desperate. 
Such provications, added to their common and every day wrongs, 
seem beyond human endurance, and might instigate *» the very 
stones to mutiny." 

How preposterously partial ami inconsistent ai'e we in the 
extension of our sympathy, our approbation and our assistance 
towards the oppressed and miserable ! W^e extol tlie resistance 
of the Greeks, — we deem it heroic and meritorious. We deem 
it an act of virtue, — of Christian charity, to supply them with 
arms and am7nunition, to enable them to persist in insiLrrection. 
Possibly, in the longest list of munificent subscribers to these 
Ch'eek insurgents, the names of some noble lords and honoura- 
ble gentlejnen may be found — ^who sanction and approve the 



visitation of \^est Indian si ve insurgents, witii tbe 
GIBBET, and the infliction of one thousand lashes ! I 

But let us, whose moral perceplu ns are unhlinded by interest 
or prejudice, — whose cliarity is unv, arped by partiality or hypo- 
crisy • — let us pursue a more rational and consistent course. 
Let us not overlook our own uigent duties in the pursuit of 
such as are less imperative. Let ns first — mind our own busi- 
fless, — "pluck the beam out of our own eye.** Let us ^rs^ 
extend the ijelping hand, to those who have the first claim to 
our assistance. Let us Jlrst libeiate our own slaves — which we 
may do, without furnishing them with arms or ammunition. 
TheUf we shall have clean hands, — and the Divine blessing may^ 
then be expected to crown our eaertions for the redemption of 
other captives. 

Should the w^eak objection, still haunt some inconsiderate 
reader, of the little good, which can reasonably be expected to 
result from individual abstinence from West Indian produce j 
let him reflect, that the most wonderful productions of human 
skill and industry ; the most astonishing effects of human power 
have been accomplished by combined exertions, which, when 
individually and separately considered, appear feeble and insig- 
nificant. Let him reflect, that the grandest objects of human 
observation consist of small agglomerated particles ; that the 
globe itself is composed of atoms too minute for discernment ; 
that extended ages consist of accumulated moments. Let him 
reflect, that greater victories have been achieved by the com- 
bined expression of individual opinion, than by fleets and 
armies ; that greater moral revolutions have been accomplished 
by the combined exertion of individual resolution, than were 
ever effected by acts of Parliament. 

The hydra-headed monster of slavery, will never be destroyed 
by other means, than the united expression of individual opinion, 
and the united exertion of individual resolution. Let no man 
restrain the expression of the one, or the exertion of the other, 
from the apprehension that his single efforts will be of no avail. 
The greatest and the best work must have a beginning, — often, 
it is a very sinall and obscure one. And though tlie example 
in question should not become universal, we may surely hope 
that it will become general. 

If it is too much, to expect that the matter will be taken up— 
(otherNvise, than to make a jest of it) by the thoughtless and 
the sclfisli : ANhat proportion these bear to the considerate and 
the compassionate, remains to be ascertained. By these, we may 
reasonably cxjject that it will be taken up, with rcvsolution antl 
consistency. By Cliristian societies of every denomination, — pre- 
eminently by that, which Itas hitherto stood foirmost in the great 
cause of abolitition. By the great body of the Catholics too, who 
attach so much m6rit to abstinence and self-denial ; — and by all 
the different Protestant professors, (,vho are at all sinceir in 
their professioon) of the oviereleigion of universal compassion :- 



£4 

M'iiicli I'equires us ** to love oiir neighbour as ourselves,''— -this 
testimony against slavery niW be expected to be borne with 
scrupulous and conscientious fidelity. 

Think, but for a moment, nt what a trifling sacrifice the re- 
demption of eight hundred thousand of our fellow creatures from 
the lowest condition of degradation and misery may he accomplish- 
ed. Abstinence from one sing\e article of luxury would annihi- 
late West Indian slavery ! ! But abstinence it cannot be called j 
— we only need substitute East India, for West India sugar,— - 
and the British atmosphere Would be purified at once, frora 
the poisonous infection of slav(^ry. The antidote of this deadly 
bane ; for Avhich we have beeji so many years in laborious but 
unsuccessful search, is most f^imple and obvious j — too simple 
and obvious, it ,shouid seenaj, to haA'^e been regarded. Like 
Naaman, of old, who expected to be cured of his leprosy, by 
some grand and astonishing evolution, and disdained to wash, 
as he was directed, in the ob(>cure v* aters of Damascus , — wc 
look for tlie abolition of British slavery, not to tlie simple and 
obvious means of its accompltshment, which lie within our own 
power, — but through the slow and solemn process of Parliamen- 
tary discussion, — through the *' pomp and circumstance" of 
legislative enactment ; — most absurdly remonstrating and peti- 
tioning against that system of cnormo'.is wickedness, ■« hich we 
voluntarily tax ourselves to the annual amount of two millions 
sterling, to support! J ^ 

That abstinence from West Indian sugar alone, would sign 
the death warrant of West Indian slavery, is morally certain. 
The gratuity of two millions annually, is acknowledged by the 
planters, to be insufficient to bolster up their-tottering system, — 
and they scruple not, to declare to Parliament, that they must 
be ruined, if the protecting duties, against East Indian compe- 
tition, be not augmented. 

One, concluding word, to such as may be convinced of the 
duty, but may still be incredulous as to the efficacy of this 
species of abstinence, from the apprehension that it will never 
become sufficiently general to accomplish its purpose. Should 
3 our example not be followed ; — should it be utterly unavailing 
towards the attainment of its object^ — still, it will have its own 
abundant reward : — still, it will be attended with the conscious- 
ness of sincerity and consistency, — of possessing " clean 
/ift??(fs,'*— of having " no fellowship vi ith the workers of iniquity f^ 
still, it will bo attended with the approbation of conscience, — 
and doubtless, with that of the Great Searcher of hearts, — who 
regarded with favourable eye, the mite cast by the poor widow, 
into the treasury, and declared, that a cup of cold water only, 
administered in Christian charity, *' shall in no wise lose its 
reward." 



* Every reader may not be nware, Ibat such is the amount of duty laid ois 

'S'M Iildb. i'o keep itp tlj? iinnatiira! price of JFest India sug-ar. 



