res. 5575*- 5A no. A 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/addressonslaveryOOmadd 



ADDRESS 



ov 



SLAVERY IN CUBA, 



i NTF.D TO THK 



GENERAL ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTIO 

BY 

R. R, MADDEN, Esq., M. D. 



Sin, — I am so fully aware that my habits do not qualify me for 
the task that has been assigned me, and my state of health renders 
me so unequal to it, that nothing but a strong sense of the im- 
portance of the question I have been requested to afford some 
information on, could surmount the reluctance I feel at presenting 
myself before a public meeting, and especially before such an 
assembly as this, where, if I felt a momentary satisfaction in being 
recognized as one who at least was known to be willing to serve 
this cause — who had walked after the hearse of slavery in Jamaica 
— assisted likewise in this country at the obsequies of the appren- 
ticeship system, and employed a practised eye for some years past 
in taking the measure of the grave of slavery in Cuba itself; — if 
in anything I have encountered of toil or peril in this cause, in 
whose service I have spent the last seven years, I may say not in 
the peaceful closets of philanthropy, but in the field of slavery 
itself, as a mercenary, if you will, but as a soldier at all events, if 
any such feeling of pride was excited, the foolishness of it would 
be surely rebuked by the presence and the bearing of those men 
who have so long toiled in the cause, but most especially of those 
men from America, who have come as one great cloud of witnesses 
across the Atlantic, and made you acquainted, not only with the 
wrongs of their black brethren, but likewise personally so with 
the heroic courage, and untiring energies which they have devoted 
to this question. 

B 



It has been my fortune to have visited America three times 
during the last six years, and to have been afforded an ample oppor- 
tunity of observing these truly noble men in the sphere of their 
own duties and dangers — for these are never separated in America; 
and if I had reason to rejoice for no other cause to have taken a 
part in these proceedings, than to have been permitted to bear my 
feeble testimony to the constancy of the courage of th,ese brave, 
bold men, the most virtuous and amiable withal I ever knew 
engaged in public strife, the most strongly actuated by high and 
generous motives, and the least influenced by anything [vain or 
selfish — I would rejoice to have this occasion of recording my 
humble opinion of their worth : and yet I have heard these men 
counselled here to be more moderate in their language, and more 
measured in their rebukes. Why this is the counsel that ever has 
been given to persecuted men ; they are told they should " let the 
sweat of agony flow more decorously down their foreheads — they 
should groan in melody," and murmur their complaints in softer 
whispers. Were these the accents which your own reformers spoke 
in, in former times ? Are these the accents, which great complaints, 
real or imaginary, have ever been proffered in, or in which those 
who uttered them have made them to be redressed ? 

We are told, that in the early ages of Christianity, slavery was 
known to exist, and slaves have been held by christians, even in 
the times of the apostles. It is some consolation to know, 
however, that although there were slaves in the early ages of 
Christianity, there have been martyrs in the latter ages of slavery ; 
and one of those noble soldiers of the cross, who sealed the cove- 
nant of truth with his blood in those early times, has declared, 
that there were two kinds of martyrdom — one that gained the 
crown by the exercise of a sudden act of christian fortitude, — 
the other, that was a perpetual martyrdom that lasted during life, 
and only ended with it. And this was the highest martyrdom 
of all. This is the kind of suffering and of sacrifice, our 
friends in America have undergone, and are daily undergoing 
there. 

As for the assertion, that there have been slaves in the early 
ages of Christianity, I for one admit that such was the case ; but 



3 

for what purpose are the smouldering ashes of Am H ens* 

tome and n iflered I in (ho 

of Christianity, to be raked up? Surely, if then nything 

more evident than another in tin- whole hi- - 
thisj thai what relation baa been made to i on bigh, 

the whole course of Qod'i teaching and communication fa 
of a progress! ve character ; and thai from the beginning of thai 
teaching to the period <>i the I rerelation of all, tin 

greseive character baa been Been in the course of the developing 
of the higher truths and more exalted doctrines thai w< . ht, 

and thai do violent disruption from what bad gone befbi . 
permitted; but in the words of Augostm, thai it. was apparently 
the inscrutable pleasure of Providence " that the synagog 
should be buried with honour." And with it was interred those 
customs which were tolerated, perhaps, on account of the hardness 
of heart, which had L, r iven a temporary sanction to other usages DO 
longer in existence. 

But the subject I have to speak to you on, is, of somewhat 
a -more practical kind, and such as befits a practical man to 
deal with — namely, the state of slavery in Cuba, .and on this 
subject I have encountered so much error, both at home and 
abroad, that I have felt it my duty to give very particular atten- 
tion to it. 

In the Report presented by Mons. A. de Tocqueville to the 
Chamber of Deputies, on the 23rd of July, 1839, in the name of 
the' Commission, charged with the examination of the proposition 
relative to the slaves of the French colonies, I find a very impor- 
tant error, and one not only prevalent in France, but in this country 
also, on the subject of the treatment of negro - held in bondage in 
the Spanish colonies, which if allowed to pass uncontradicted. 
might hereafter, expose that valuable Report to censure, and 1> 
to the adoption of measures for the nominal amelioration of 
slavery in the French colonies, which would prove abortive. 
At page 17, of the published Report, 1 rind it stated, that "it is 
of public notoriety in the New World that slavery has always had 
with the Spaniards a peculiar character of mildness ; one can con- 
vince himself of this in reading o^ttt the ordinances made by the 

\ 2 



kings of Spain, at an epoch when, amongst the other nations of 
Europe, the laws for the government of slaves were so strongly 
tinctured with barbarity. The Spaniards who showed themselves 
so cruel towards the Indians, have always ruled their slaves with 
a singular humanity. In their colonies, the distinction between 
blacks and whites was less than in all the others, and the authority 
of the owner resembled more that of a father of a family than 
of a master. The slave, better treated in these colonies, sighed 
less after liberty, which ought to be preceded by arduous ex- 
ertion ' y hence the legislator accorded him a right which he very 
seldom wished to avail himself of." 

Now, in the above statement, there are six distinct propositions, 
and five of them are entirely erroneous, namely, these : — 

1. That negro slavery has always had in the Spanish do- 
minions " a peculiar character of mildness." 

2. That any sufficient proof of such a character could be fairly 
drawn from the ordinances of the kings of Spain for the govern- 
ment of their distinct colonies. 

3. That the Spaniards, who had been such cruel masters to the 
Indians, " had always treated their slaves with singular humanity." 

4. That the authority of the master resembles that of a father of 
a family. 

5. That in consequence of good and humane treatment the 
slaves seldom desired to avail themselves of the privilege of 
claiming their freedom by purchase. 

And the only statement that is really correct in the whole 
passage, is contained in these words — ■" In these colonies the 
distinction between blacks and whites was less than in all the 
others," presuming the meaning of the observation to be that, 
amongst the Spaniards the prejudice against the stolen people of 
Africa, on account of their complexion, is less than amongst the 
colonists of other European States. Such unquestionably is the fact, 
and there is too much Moorish blood, in the veins of the descend- 
ants of the old " Conquisdadors" for the feeling to be otherwise. 

Tolerably well acquainted with some of the British West India 
islands, with one of them, both previously and subsequently to 
the act of emancipation, and having seen something of slavery in 
many eastern countries, I brought perhaps some little knowledge 



5 

of the condition of men held in Blavery to the subject which 
has been the object of anxious inquiry with me during a residence 
of upwards of three yean in a Spanish colony where slavery 
flourishes, and where upwarde of 400,000 human beings exist in 

that condition. Perhaps this extensive acquain I cry 

in various countries, during the lasi ten years, may have qualified 

me to form some opinion of the relative evils or advantages of 
slavery in a Spanish colony. 

The first proposition — " That slavery has always had with 
the Spaniards a peculiar character of mildness," is one that J 
have seen stated in books so often, and heard laid down so 
frequently by merchants who have resided in Cuba; by naval 
officers who have visited the shores and harbours of that island ; 
and by transient visitors who have made tours of pleasure or 
winter journey, in pursuit of health from one large town on the 
coast to another ; and seen the interior economy of one or two 
estates of opulent proprietors, what in our colonies would be called 
"crack plantations," that I really feel astonished at the amount of 
error that prevails ont his subject — error so great, and held by men 
entitled to credit, that I have sometimes felt absolutely doubtful of 
the evidence of my own senses, and when the irresistible conviction 
of the excessive rigour of slavery in Cuba has been forced on my 
mind, and when I have dwelt on the appalling scenes I have wit- 
nessed, it often seemed hopeless to me, and even imprudent for me, 
to attempt to disabuse the public mind, and to set my experience 
against the opinions of many people whose sentiments on any 
other subject I considered entitled to respect. But on a question 
of such vast importance, and where erroneous sentiments arc 
calculated to do so much injury to the objects of the solicitude of 
anti-slavery exertion, it would be an act of cowardice to suppress 
the truth, or at least one's strong persuasion of it, in deference to 
error, however generally diffused or honestly adhered to, it may 
be. These erroneous conclusions, that Spanish slavery is of a 
peculiarly mild character, are arrived at by four ways of viewing 
this question ; they may be briefly stated as follows :— 

1. It is concluded, that because the laws for the government of 
slaves in the Spanish colonies are mild, that these laws are 
executed; and the slaves are happy. 



6 

2. It is considered by some who visit the large sea-port towns, 
that the condition of the praedial slaves is similar to that of the 
domestic servants, and that because the latter are lazy, well fed, 
and decently clad, and lightly worked negroes, the poor field 
slaves are likewise idle and indulged, kindly treated, and contented 
slaves. 

3. The condition of slaves is judged of by men who have no 
immediate interest in slavery, but who have long resided in slave 
countries, or been on stations where opportunities of visiting these 
colonies have made them acquainted with the proprietors of estates, 
and in course of time, familiar with- their views, then favourable to 
their interests, and at length accustomed to the evils of slavery, 
and insensible to the sufferings of its victims. 

4. The treatment of slaves, in general, in Cuba and elsewhere, is 
inquired into by transient visitors and tourists at the tables of the 
planters, over the wine of the slave-Folders, — and where truth 
is drowned in hospitality, and the legitimate inquisitiveness of a 
stranger's curiosity is merged in a courteous acquiescence with the 
sentiment, or at least the statements of a liberal entertainer, and a 
gentlemanlike host. 

Now, sir, of these different ways of coming towards con- 
clusions, it is evident, that it is to the first the signal error of 
the French Report is to be attributed. In fact, you admit that 
your opinion of the mildness of Spanish slavery is derived from 
the royal ordinances and laws made for the regulation of it. 
I freely grant that the spirit of these laws and ordinances is 
humane, but the great question is, are such laws compatible with 
the interests of the slave-owners ? Are they put in execution ? 
Negro slavery, as it ever has existed in the West India colonies, 
has been a condition in which the profitableness to the master of 
unpaid labour, for the time being, has always rendered the happi- 
ness of the labourer, a question of comparative unimportance. 
What yo , sir, would call humanity to the negro, there is not a 
proprietor in Cuba, who would not deem injustice to the planter. 
You cannot legislate partially, humanely, and yet efficiently, for 
any slave-colony in a prosperous condition — you may pass 
measures of general effect for the total abolition of slavery, but 
you can carry none into execution for effectually modifying its 



nature, ;nul leaving unpaid labour to I"- innng out of its victims, 
while a ihow is made of Burrounding iti compulsion with bums 
arrangemi ate, dulj detail id bo the Royal Cedolafj and set forth in 
legal bookflj with all the solemn mockery q) 

This Eleport states, ai a curious anomaly in the hii 9 anise 

BlaveSj that while the Indians were treated by the Spaniard- with 
such terrible oruelty, the negroes, it is well known, hayealvn j 
been treated with peculiar mildness. I Deed hardly remind you, 
thai while the poor [ndians were writhing under tin lash of tin 
most unmitigated cruelty, the world v/p to that period nv; 

while the Spanish colonies were exterminating the whole n 
of their victims by the astounding rigour of their slavery, the 
kings of Spain were dictating' benevolent cedulas and hum 
ordinances for the treatment of the unfortunate -lave-, while 
the council of the Indies were continually framing Iaw> for 
the better regulation of the " repartimientos/' or distributions 
of the natives — while the heads of the Spanish church, — tht 
mitred politicians of iha day — half statesmen, half churchmen — 
were constantly sending out missions and commissions to co-ope- 
rate with the illustrious apostle of the Indies, the protector of the 
slaves — in fact, while all the machinery of the government that 
was four thousand miles off, was brought to bear on this question 
of the amelioration of slavery in the Spanish colonies, yet the 
Indians perished in the mines, they died under the lash, sunk 
under famine in caves, or sought in voluntary death a final refuge 
from Spanish cruelty. Yes, the whole race perished, while the 
kings of Spain and its ministers, were framing laws impracticable, 
because they were partial, measures of relief, for the preservation 
of their Indian subjects. 

Let ine tell you, sir, the same terrible system of cruelty is going 
on this day in the Spanish colonies — the same terrible evils are 
silently in operation. Change the term Indians for n< the 

word mines for plantations, and in every other respect the same 
bloody tragedy is acting over again — the same frightful work of 
extermination, the same cruel mockery of staying the evil bylaws 
without enforcement, cedulas without a hope being entertained of 
their being carried into effect, is now practising in New Spain, 



8 

and the awful waste of human life, that in the time of the Indians 
was for a limited period made up by the ravages of the man-rob- 
bers on the coasts of the New World, has now for three centuries 
been filled up in Cuba alone, by an annual importation that has 
now reached to the amount of 25,000 stolen men from the shores 
of Africa. 

If it be notorious, as this Beport states, that negro slaves 
have always been 'treated with peculiar mildness in the Spanish 
colonies, it follows that the slaves of the Island of Cuba, for 
example, are a contented race, that therefore, they are not over- 
worked, nor under-fed, nor ill-clad ; that the sexes are equalized, 
that the mortality is small, and the increase by births considera- 
ble 5 that the amount of produce obtained by the labour of a given 
number of slaves is less than it has been in former years in the 
British colonies ; that there is a considerable number of aged 
slaves on the estates ; that the pregnant women are allowed exemp- 
tion from hard field labour in the last six or eight weeks of their 
pregnancy, that the females are not usually flogged ; that the chil- 
dren are instructed in the elements of the christian faith ; that 
the negroes on the estates are married by the ministers of religion ; 
that they are suffered to attend a place of worship on the Sabbath- 
day ; that it is not lawful to hunt them down by dogs when they 
are fugitives from the estates ; that when they are scourged to 
death, or killed by violence, the white man who is their murderer 
may be brought to justice, and punished with the utmost rigour of 
the law — but not one of these measures of justice, or means of 
protection for the prasdial slaves are known to exist in] Cuba — not a 
single one of these I have pointed out is to be looked for to the 
law, and yet the law allows these things, and solemnly condemns 
every withdrawal of them. But the law was never framed with 
any reasonable prospect of its being enforced, it never has been 
enforced, and, what is more, it never can be enforced against the 
planters who are the transgressors of it ; because, in fact, these 
are the men who are entrusted with the execution of it. 

In the towns and cities, the case is indeed different with the 
domestic slaves— but what a small portion do these form of the 
number of slaves in Cuba ? These domestic slaves, especially 



those of the opulent proprietors, comparing their condition with 
that of the prsedial slaves, may be said to be fortunately circum- 
stanced. They have the power in the large towns and cities, of 
availing themselves of the privileges the law accords them. If 
they have a harsh owner, they may demand permission to seek 
another master, and it is compulsory on that master to sell them 
either for the sum he paid for them, at such a rate as the sindico, 
or the special protector of the slaves, and the judges may deter- 
mine, in consideration of any reasonable increase in their value, 
or in consequence of their having been taught a trade or calling. 

But how is the prsedial slave to avail himself of these legal 
privileges? The officers of justice in the country towns arc 
usually slave-holders themselves ; the estate may be ten, nay, 
twenty miles distant from a town, the sindicos, the alcades, the 
capitanes de partidos, all are planters. The idea of a prsedial 
slave going to the mayoral, or overseer, and telling him he wants 
" a paper" — a permission for two or three days to seek another 
master (buscar-amo), would be laughed at in Cuba; the unfortu- 
nate negro who would make so daring an attempt to obtain his 
rights, would, in all probability, be flogged on the spot; he dare 
not leave the estate to seek the sindico in any adjoining town ; 
and no matter what injustice may be done him, were he to pass 
his master's gate, he would be subjected to punishment, " boca 
abajo," without appeal as a fugitive, and if he still presumed to 
talk of the law, and to insist on being taken before a magistrate 
to claim the privileges which that law gave him, he would then 
be treated with a degree of rigour " beyond the law," as an 
insolent and rebellious slave. But granting that he succeeded in 
getting to the sindico, the alcade, or the capitane de partido, 
what chance of justice has an unfortunate slave in Cuba against 
the powerful influence of a rich, and perhaps a titled, owner ? 
The planter is the friend of the authorities of his district, they 
dare not disoblige him, and if they dared, they are at last to be 
gained over by a bribe, or got rid of by a remonstrance to the 
Governor, and a suitable present to the assessor of the Governor, 
who is one of the great law-officers of the Crown. How in the 
name of common sense is the law to be looked to in a Spanish 



10 

colony for the mitigation of the evils of slavery, or the protec- 
tion of the slave? 

The excellence of the Spanish civil law is admitted by every 
one, yet the iniquity- of Spanish tribunals, the corruption of 
Spanish judges, and the incomparable villany of Spanish lawyers, 
is proverbial in all the colonies of Spain. Justice is bought and 
sold in Cuba with as much scandalous publicity as the bozal 
slaves are bought and sold in the barraconca. 

Is there a man in Cuba who had suffered wrong in property or 
in person who would be mad enough to go for redress into a court 
of law, and expect to obtain it by trusting solely to the merits of 
his case? How then are we to expect from any code for the 
regulation of negro slavery, justice for the Creole who has not the 
means to buy the judge ? How are we to expect to restrain the 
cruelty, or to control the cupidity of men who have the means to 
bribe the bench of every tribunal in the land, to make " im- 
pregnes," as these solicitations are called, with the sons and 
servants, the cousins and the familiars of the judges in their 
cause ? Is it then to cedillas and laws, to parchment justice, or to 
statute-book benevolence we are to look for that peculiar character 
of mildness which your Report assures us is the characteristic of 
slavery in Spanish colonies ? Surely, what we know of slavery in 
every country, where it has existed, should be sufficient to satisfy 
every enlightened person that bondage is an evil that cannot be 
mitigated by any partial measures of reform, so as essentially to 
serve the slave, to improve the system, to humanize the master, 
and thus to benefit society at large. 

But in Cuba, it is not that I have heard or read of the atrocities 
of Spanish slavery, but I saw them with my own eyes. I lived 
for a whole year at the Havana before I could so far disembarrass 
myself of the merchant-planter influence of that place (that 
deadening influence of slavery which steals so imperceptibly 
over the feelings of strangers in the West Indies), as to form an 
opinion for myself, and to trust to my own senses alone for a 
knowledge of the condition of the prsedial slaves. It was only 
when I visited estates not as a guest of the proprietors, seeing 
through the eyes of my hospitable hosts, thinking as they thought, 



11 

and believing as they saw, fit to administer to my credulity the 
customary after-dinner dose of the felicity of slaves — it was only 
when I went alone, and unknown, and unexpected on their estates, 
that the terrible atrocities of Spanish slavery astounded my senses. 
I have already said, and I repeat the words, so terrible were 
these atrocities, so murderous the system of slavery, so transcen- 
dent the evils I witnessed, over all I had ever heard or seen of the 
rigour of slavery elsewhere, that at first I could hardly believe the 
evidence of my senses. Nay, I have known men of great intelli- 
gence, one in particular, whom it was of great consequence to 
have well-informed on this subject, and whom I myself accom- 
panied over several estates in various parts of the country ; and 
here in Cuba, so terrible were the admissions made by the mayorals 
or overseers, on the estates we visited, that he could not believe he 
heard correctly the accounts that were given to us, even by the 
managers themselves, of the frightful rigour of the treatment they 
described. Till this gentleman (who is known to this Convention) 
and myself, made partially known at the Havana the evils that 
had come to our knowledge, on the sugar estates especially, there 
were British and other foreign merchants in that city, who had 
resided there for years, who said they were utterly ignorant of 
these evils, but like the framers of this Report, having read certain 
laws for the protection of slaves, and seen certain cedulas for the 
nominal mitigation of the cruelties of slavery, they actually 
imagined that the laws were enforced, and the negroes happy and 
humanely treated. 

With respect to my own experience, it is not by particular 
instances of cruelty or oppression, the fact is to be established 
that slavery in Cuba is more destructive to human life, more 
pernicious to society, degrading to the slave, and debasing to 
the master, more fatal to health and happiness than in any other 
slave-holding country on the face of the habitable globe. Instances 
of cruelty enough, no doubt, have come to my knowledge of the 
murder of negroes, perpetrated with impunity — of men literally 
scourged to death — of women torn from their children, and sepa- 
rated from them — of estates where an aged negro is not to be seen 
—where the females do not form a third part of the slave popula- 



12 

tion ; nay, of estates where there is not a single female ; of labour 
in the time of crop on the sugar properties being twenty continued 
hours, frequently for upwards of six months in the year, se.U 
or never under five, and of the general impression prevailing on 
this subject, and generally acted on by the proprietors, that four 
hours sleep is sufficient for a slave. 

These cases, sir, were I to bring them before you without a 
shadow of colouring to heighten the effect of the naked outline, so 
frightful a detail, I am persuaded would cause you to marvel that 
such things could be in a christian land — could occur in the 
present age — could be done by men who moved in society, who 
are tolerated in it, and bear the name and wear the garb of 
gentlemen ; by a people, in short, professing the religion of 
Christ, and daring to couple the sanctity of that name with rapine, 
murder, and the living death of slavery itself, which are carried 
on even in its name ; for the purpose, forsooth, of making chris- 
tians of African unbelievers. 

To understand thoroughly the subject of the laws in the 
Spanish colonies for the protection of slaves, it is necessary to 
refer to a work not easily to be met with, being only to be found 
in the hands of the syndics, which is entitled " Exposicion sobre 
el origen, utilidad, prerogativas, derecho, y deberes de los sindicos 
procuradores generales de los jmeblos, por D. Jose Serapio 
Majorrietta abogado de la real audiencia." This book it is to be 
noted, is printed at Puerto Principe, in Cuba, by royal authority, 
by command, and at the expense of the Real Audiencia, the 
highest law tribunal in the island, and it is the legal guide of the 
syndics, or protectors of slaves, in the administration of justice 
between master and slave over the whole island, and by which 
they are bound to act. The work begins by stating that the 
Supreme Court, in the year 1766, created the office of syndic ; 
every town was placed under the legal protection of one of these 
officers ; its rights were to be defended by them ; and in the 
words of the cedulas, " When there was any grave or important 
matter, it should be treated by them joining themselves with some 
of the neighbours (juntandose con los vecinos) for the con- 
sideration of it. Now, here is a most important regulation for 



13 

the due administration of justice ; in fact, one giving to the 
accused the advantages, to a certain extent of a jury. 

And now let us see how the law authorities of Cuba, as repre- 
sented in this work, interpret these words. The treatise in 
question says — " These words are not to be understood in their 
literal sense ; this method is contrary to the nature of our govern- 
ment, and for this reason, so responsible is the post of a syndic, 
that he is appointed not by an open meeting (cabildo abierto) of the 
corporation ayuntamiento, but by the votes of the judicial body, 
or the regidores. Their duties in the rural districts are to watch 
over the order and maintenance of the public markets, the pre- 
vention of monopolies in corn, meat, &c, inspecting the accounts 
of overseers, agents, &c, protecting the interests of proprietors 
of estates before the tribunals of the district, by all the legal 
privileges accorded them, even to the point of demanding the 
suspension of the royal laws, or ordinances in which they may 
hurt or harm some private person," (hasta el punto de porder 
pedir la suspencion, de las cedillas y reales rescriptos, en qua se 
daiia a sigun particular.) 

Behold the value of all the royal laws for the protection of 
slaves. The syndic, their protector, is likewise the legal defender 
of his master ; and the suspension of every law that is distasteful 
to the latter, it is in the power of this officer to demand of the 
higher tribunals of the law. In fact, the whole secret of the 
conduct of the Cuban Government, with respect to the fulfilment 
of the treaties with England for the suppression of the slave- 
trade, and the laws which enforce them, is here left out, and the 
shameful duplicity of the Government of Spain, with respect to 
these royal orders, is disclosed, for at page 10 of the treatise in 
question, the opinion of the legal authorities of the island is laid 
down as to the proper mode of interpretation of the royal cedulas, 
when these are opposed to Creole interests, or supposed to be so, in 
these words — " It has been laid down by his Majesty, that his 
sovereign will is (with respect to these laws) that they be obeyed 
and not fulfilled j" and reference, is made to lib. 16, Nov. Recap, 
(come se tiene manifestado que su soberana voluntad, es que se 
obedezcan y nose cumplan.) This seems to me to be the very 



14 

acme, indeed, of public immorality; and there is no reason to 
doubt the duplicity of the conduct here ascribed to his Spanish 
Majesty, and the weakness of his sovereign will, and that he 
frames laws for the purposes of delusion, to throw dust in the 
eyes of foreign powers, or to deceive his own subjects at home, 
and which are to be obeyed and not executed. 

Now, with respect to the jurisdiction of the syndics in the 
case of slaves, and the mode of interpreting the laws for their 
defence, this treatise lays down very minute rules, and points 
out a course of proceeding which is universally acted on in Cuba, 
for it is to be remembered this treatise is published with 
the express sanction and approbation of the judges of the 
highest tribunal of the land, of the Real Audiencia. " It is 
to be observed," says the author, " either the rights which 
slaves complain of being infringed, are violated by their masters, 
or a third person. In the last case, their complaint is to be 
preferred by their masters — by the general rules of right, which 
subjects them entirely to those who exercise dominion over them ; 
but if the slaves attempt to complain (intentan presentarse) against 
their masters, then comes the authority of the syndics, because by 
no other mode can there be made a true decision, there being no 
legitimate litigation of parties, which consists in this, that the 
plaintiff and the criminal should be different persons. But sup- 
posing this distinction to be made in such a case (as perhaps some 
one might say it ought to be,) it appears the slave ought to have 
the right of naming an attorney or agent (jpersojiero,') and the law, 
that so much protects the natural defence of the slave, should 
leave in his power the exercise of this precious right. But how 
many inconveniences would not this measure cause ? In the 
first place, slaves have no proper person (Jos esclavos no tienen 
personal) they have no representation in society, they are consi- 
dered as things subject to the dominion of man, and ill could such 
beings name agents or attorneys, who cannot appear in their own 
character in our courts. And yet, if abating the rigour of fixed 
principles, we chose to leave to slaves the free election of which 
we treat — how many and how expensive would be the causes 
which would inundate our tribunals — and what would be the 



15 

insubordine ion alone of this class of domestics, when unfortu- 
nately interested men are not wanting to derive the advantage of 
lucre from such miserable discord. The syndics, however, as 
chosen by the corporation, should be adorned with all the fine 
qualities we have already stated, and in the degree that they may 
undertake to protect the rights of these unfortunates, they will 
take care to beware of encouraging unjust complaints, by main- 
taining the slaves under due submission and respect, which system 
is certainly the most happy that can be adopted to conciliate the 
private interest of the slaves with those of the owners of them." 

Now the next interpretation of the Royal law, or cedula of 
1789, which at page 3, ordains the regulation of the daily labour 
of slaves, " so that it should begin and conclude from sunrise till 
sunset ;" and moreover, should leave them two hours of the inter- 
mediate time for their own use and benefit, is given in these terms, 
terms indeed most worthy of your profound attention : — " But this 
is not observed, and neither the magistrates regulate the time of 
labour, nor do the slaves cease to serve their masters at all hours 
of the day;" (Esto no se dbservayni las justitias, ni los esclavos 
dejan de servir a sus duenos en to das las horas del dia.) Well 
may the expounder of the sentiments of the Royal Tribunal of the 
Audiencia of Cuba say, the laws are not observed, " the slaves 
cease not at all hours of the day to work for their masters." 

But this second Daniel, this Cuban commentator on Spanish 
law, rigidly indeed, as he sticks to the sense of the colonial judges, 
tells but half the truth, when he says that " the slaves cease not 
to work for their masters at all hours of the day ;" he should have 
said on the sugar estates during the time of the crop, for upwards 
of six months in the year, at all hours of the night, with the 
exception of four for sleep. It did not suit the purpose of the 
Royal Audiencia, to startle the ears or astonish the weak minds of 
the people in the towns, with the frightful announcement or the 
appalling statement that the wretched negroes, in spite of the 
express terms of the royal law for the regulation of slave-labour, 
were worked to death on these estates for twenty continuous hours, 
twelve in the field and eight in the boiling-house or at the mill ; 
and that even on the coffee estates, where the necessity for hard- 



16 

labour is so much less, that at certain times of theyear, it is a 
common practice during the bright moonlight nights, to work the 
slaves at field-work for four or five hours by the " Clara de la 
lima," as it is called. But what are the sentiments of the Royal 
Audiencia, on the subject of the great privilege on paper conferred 
by the laws on the slave, in the power nominally given him of 
purchasing his freedom, or portions of it, by the payment at once, 
or at different periods, of the price his master paid for him. It is 
to be observed, that the payment of a part of this sum to the 
master, gives the negro the legal right of having that sum 
deducted from his price whenever he happens to be sold, and 
entitles him, as it is most erroneously hut generally believed, to. an 
immediate reduction of labour in proportion to the sum paid. 

In the year 1825, this error is fallen into a very able statement, 
addressed to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, by one of 
the British Commissioners at the Havana, on the treatment of 
the Spanish slaves, and the mode of manumission in the Spanish 
colonies. And no doubt the origin of this error was the same as 
of that into which others have fallen, in common with all who 
estimate the value of Spanish laws by the wording, and not the exe- 
cution of them. The paying a sum of money to a master on the 
part of a slave towards the purchase of his liberty, renders the 
payer what is called u coartada," the meaning of which is, in part 
manumitted. The word is derived from coartar, to cut or separate 
and not from quartear, to divide into four parts, as is commonly 
supposed. — " Some syndics," says the law treatise in question, 
" have attempted to alleviate slavery, so as to pretend to concede 
a half of their time to slaves who are bound in service to their 
masters," (when they have paid half of their value to their owners;) 
"but this opinion is not in conformity with the law, and the syndics 
should respect the rights of the proprietary power, without allow- 
ing themselves to be led astray by a notion of equity badly under- 
stood. The coartacion (or part payment made to a master by a slave 
towards the attainment of freedom) was not established to reduce 
slavery into halves, but only to prevent any alteration in the price 
to the slaves. A slave who, being worth 500 dollars, gives to his 
master 400 by way of coartacion, remains as subject to servitude 



17 

as any slave who is so entirely. The master cannot be deprived 
of the proper rights of his authority, and the slave is under the 
obligation of devoting all his service to him ; for such reasons the 
syndics ought to avoid the wish to establish such demands." 
Then comes the interpretation of the law in Cuba, as laid down 
in this treatise, on that most important privilege of all to the 
negroes in Spanish colonies, the power nominally given by the law 
to the slave who is ill-treated, or discontented with good cause 
with his master, to seek another owner on payment of the price at 
which he might be valued by the judicial authorities. Now hear 
the mouth-piece of the Real Audiencia of Cuba on this subject. 

" The question may also be asked, if slaves (coartados) have the 
right to go out of the power of their masters whenever they desire, 
and the answer is not difficult, if we consider that the slaves 
(enteros) entirely so, are obliged to allege some great reason to 
compel their masters to sell them. And what difference can there 
be between one and the other, when we see that the yoke of 
slavery on all is the same? If the slaves (coartados) do not enjoy 
the rights of freemen, on what principle can they claim the right 
of changing masters at their pleasure?. Is it for some light cor- 
rection ? This is not sufficient to enable them to use this privilege. 
And then, could the masters exercise their authority with the due 
severity which is necessary ? By no means, and hence we have 
seen that the Real Audiencia has always repelled similar demands 
in all the suits that have been promoted on this point and brought 
for their superior decision. But some persons desire, notwith- 
standing, founding their opinion on the Royal Cedula of the 8th 
April 1779,* that slaves (coartados) should be left in possession 
of the privilege in question. In answer to this, let us refer to the 
terms of the cedula. We declare, it says, that the masters of 
slaves (not coartados) have the liberty to sell them for whatsoever 
price they agree on with the buyers according to their actual 
worth, that when masters for just reasons are obliged by the 
judicial authority to sell their slaves (those so entirely) it shall be 
for the price at which they shall be valued by those authorities, 

* In this cedula the precise duties of the syndic are laid down, 

c 



18 

but if the buyer wishes to take the slave without valuation, 
agreeing thereon with the master, they can arrange between 
them the price, and the authorities have no power to prevent 
it, although the master is compelled to sell, except that in order to 
diminish the amount of the alcabala duty (or tax on the sale of 
property) some collusion between the party be suspected; further, 
that slaves who are { coartado,' or have paid that portion remaining 
of it, the same obligation being binding on the buyer ; that in all 
cases the seller shall pay the alcabala tax according to the price 
paid ; further, that if the slave l coartado' by bad conduct give 
a reasonable motive for selling him, however slight his crime, the 
addition to it be made of the alcabala tax on his sale ; and finally, 
that no slaves of any kind, entire or coartados, who redeem them- 
selves by their lawful earnings, ought to pay this tax. The 
masters shall be obliged, conformable to the custom, to give them 
their liberty the moment they bring the due price for it." 

Now to any ordinary capacity, the plain meaning of the terms 
of this beneficent law of 1778, is, that slaves have the power of 
demanding to be sold to another master, if another master can be 
procured to pay the price fixed on by the judges to the actual 
owner. In fact, the slave by this means puts himself in the 
position of a coartado, one who has the right to demand his 
freedom whenever a price has been agreed on, or fixed by 
judicial valuation ; and having procured a person to advance the 
money, he is content to have his liberty sold again in considera- 
tion of the change of masters. But mark the chicanery by 
which every practical utility of this benevolent law is frittered 
away by the interpretation of the judicial authorities of Cuba. 
The slave who would change owners is first called on to produce 
a reasonable cause for his application. He alleges severe punish- 
ment or harsh treatment, who is to decide whether the slave has 
been maltreated or not. The syndic. Who is the syndic? A 
planter himself, and who is the master ? The neighbour of the 
syndic. But what says the Real Audiencia exposition of the law 
for the regulation of the practice of these syndics ? Why, that 
the due severity of the discipline of the proprietory power towards 
the slaves is not a sufficient cause for a slave's application to be 



19 

sold, and that the only sufficient causes are insufficient nourishment, 
scarcity of clothing, and dearth of instruction in the christian 
religion. Now what does the last obligation on the planters 
amount to in Cuba? — to the christening of the slave, and to the 
burial of him with the ordinary rights of the church. This is the 
whole amount in Cuba of religious instruction, save and except the 
teaching the newly-imported pagans to repeat, like parrots on 
certain feasts, the Lord's Prayer, the confiteor, and the decades of 
the rosary ; but as for having the slightest conception of the 
meaning of the words they repeat by rote it would be a folly to 
expect it, for they are never instructed in religion by priest or 
layman, except on the estate of (some rare phenomenon in Cuba) 
a pious planter, a scrupulous master, and a christian man. 

As to the complaint of insufficiency of food, the syndic of 
course acts on the general opinion, that it is the interest of 
an owner to feed his slaves well, and to clothe them also, for 
the sake of the preservation of their health and strength. This 
sounds well, and it passes for the truth with thousands of 
people, not only in Cuba but in England. This is an argument 
stated and re-stated hundreds of times, in answer to the ordinary 
charge of ill-treatment brought against slave-owners, namely, 
that it is the interest of a man to give good treatment to the beast 
(and " pari passu," to the slave) he keeps for use, or sale, or 
hire. No doubt it is his duty, but is it his interest, according to his 
ideas, to do this ? Is it the supposed interest of the owners of our 
own' miserable hacks, to treat the animal thus which he lets on hire 
or rides on daily, or rather, can you persuade the great body of 
horse-dealers it is their interest to do this? Unquestionably you 
cannot. They act on the principle that a quick return of the money 
outlaid on horse-flesh, no matter how great the wear and tear of 
the property that is worked or hired, is better than moderate work 
with small gain, and a longer use of the means from which that 
return is derived. Why, we might as well go to Connemara, or 
the shores of Leuce, and talk to Mr. Richard Martin's venerable 
ghost of the humanity of the treatment of the hackney-coach 
horse-owners in England, on the ground of their interests. That 

c 2 



20 

honest ghost, if ghosts in Ireland do speak, as they are said 
to do, would tell you that these persons deny it is their interest to 
spare their horses, and admit it is their interest to get the greatest 
possible quantity of work in the shortest space of time from their 
hacks, and when they are worked off their legs, to purchase new 
ones. In fact, it is on this very principle the fast mail coaches 
are horsed and run. 

But I have heard it said, however they may work them, it 
surely is their interest to feed them well. To this I answer, the 
universal feeling of the tribe is this, their true interest is to keep 
them cheaply. True it is, if they gave them treble the quantity 
of good hard provender, they Mould last, perhaps, double the 
length of time, and do half as much more work ; but you cannot 
persuade these men you understand their interests better than they 
do, you may, indeed, easily persuade the owner of a stud of race- 
horses of the soundness of your opinion, but the high-blooded racers 
that belong, in England, to gentlemen on the turf, in proportion to 
the hacks and stage horses, are about in the same ratio, as the slaves 
in Cuba, belonging to intelligent, considerate, humane proprietors 
are to the wretched negroes in the hands of unthinking, un- 
principled, and grasping owners. But what says the Creole 
expounder of the Spanish law on the subject of the most 
important privilege conferred on the slaves. " We believe," 
he says, "that a slave not having undergone bad treatment 
on the part of his owner, and having administered to him, food, 
clothing, and religious instruction, he cannot compel his master to 
sell him to another." So much for the benefit of the parchment 
privileges of the slaves of Cuba. 

And now for their moral condition, and the administration of the 
laws affecting it, on the high authority of the work, published with 
the sanction, and at the expense of the Real Audiencia of Cuba. 
"As amongst the Romans," says the author, " there could be no 
marriage solemnized except among citizens, the union of the 
slaves was accomplished by concubinage, and the children 
followed the condition of the mother ; our district lam has adopted 
the same system (nuestra ley de partida ha adoptado la misma 
disposition) and when recently coartacion was established, the 



21 

question was discussed ; if the infant of a slave coartado should 
enjoy the same privilege as the mother, but the doubt has 
ceased, since the publication of the Royal Cedula of the 10th of 
February, 1789, in which we find the point in question definitely 
settled." 

There can be no doubt of the express meaning of the royal law 
on this subject being what it is described, and there is unfortunately, 
no doubt that the slaves of Cuba have none of the rights of citizens, 
that they are not suffered to marry, and that a general system of 
concubinage is that which the christian law of the partida sanctions 
in Cuba, and to which it condemns nearly haif-a-million of human 
beings. Here I take leave of the Cuban exposition of the Spanish 
laws for the amelioration of slavery. No one can dispute the autho- 
rity of the treatise I have referred to, for the empress sanction of the 
Real Audiencia is prefixed to it. It was with no little difficulty 
I procured a copy of that work, for I have already stated it is not 
allowed to fall into the hands of strangers. 

I now proceed to show the extraordinary delusion which has 
been practised, not only on foreigners who have visited the Spanish 
colonies, but even sought to be practised on our government, and 
on the agents of it. It is no wonder, indeed, sir, if the world has 
been imposed on by the specious benevolence of the Spanish laws, 
that have never been carried into execution, or are capable of en- 
forcement in any country where slavery exists, and where the 
interests arising from it are prosperous. And if the only result of 
the years of turmoil and painful inquiry, I have passed through 
in the West Indies, were productive of no other advantage than 
the experience which enables me to address these observations to 
you, I would fain hope that I have made the best use of my time, 
and the opportunities afforded me by my position, that it was 
possible for me to make, in enabling me to disabuse the minds of 
men like you of an opinion so erroneously entertained, that slavery 
in the Spanish colonies is mild in its character, and that the fact of 
its lenity is to be established by the laws and ordinances of the 
Sovereigns of Spain. But on this subject I must briefly refer to 
another source of information. 

In the year 1824, Mr. Secretary Canning addressed a despatch 



22 

to the Chief Commissioner at the Havana, desiring to be furnished 
with information on the subject of the manumission of slaves in the 
Spanish colonies, and enclosing a memorandum which had been 
presented to our government, at that period when the question of 
gradual emancipation in our colonies was forcing itself on the 
attention of ministers. The document enclosed is in the follow- 
ing terms : — 

" That slaves (namely, those in the Spanish colonies) are 
generally appraised at four hundred dollars ; that a slave paying 
down the fourth part of his value, or one hundred dollars, imme- 
diately acquires a right to be coartado — that is, that he can work 
out, paying his master three reals de vellon or bits a-day, until he 
can make a further deposit ; or, if the master require his service, 
he can oblige the man to work for him, paying the slave one real ; 
thus a deposit of two hundred dollars gives the slave a right to 
two reals daily ; of three hundred, three reals, and thus till the 
completion of the payment of the whole sum in which he had been 
appraised. A dollar is worth eight reals or bits." — (Vide Slave' 
Trade Reports, 1824-25, Class A. page 63.) 

In the first place, the common error with respect to the mean- 
ing of the term of coartacion, which I have already referred to, is 
pointed out in the reference made to the question of paying down 
one-fourth part of the value of the slave. The next error is in 
the statement, that a slave coartado has the right to work out, or 
to leave his master's service, paying him wages in a certain pro- 
portion to the sum still due for his liberty, the law treatise I have 
so largely quoted explicitly denying that the slave has any such 
right against the consent of his master. The next error is, that 
there is any law which compels the master to pay wages in any 
proportion to whatever sum the slave may have paid in part liqui- 
dation of the price of freedom. 

The Chief Commissioner replied to Mr. Canning's inquiry, 
October 9, 1824, stating, that he had consulted the most able 
lawyers and government authorities on the subject of manumission, 
and encloses a memorandum — a most valuable paper — though by 
no means to be considered as practically applicable to the attain- 
able privileges of prsedial slaves, and that distinction is not suffi- 



23 

ciently drawn in the document, but only slightly, and very 
slightly, alluded to at the end of the memorandum. Neverthe- 
less, the extent and accuracy of information that it is so difficult 
to procure on this subject, is surprising to me ; and in referring 
to it I have only to entreat attention to this point, that the 
information has reference to what the laws decree, and not to 
the practical working of them ; and when it refers to the latter, 
the experience adduced is entirely of their execution in towns and 
cities, and especially at the seat of Government, the Havana. 

Mr. Kilbee, the Commissioner, informs Mr. Canning that he 
has been wrongly informed that slaves are valued at any fixed 
price for " coartacion;" that he has known one sell for 1000 
dollars, but that the tribunals discountenance excessive valuation ; 
that the average valuation of full-grown negroes on estates is 500 
dollars ; that house-slaves are valued at six, and mechanics at still 
higher prices ; that the statement is incorrect in asserting, u if the 
master require the service of his coartado slave, he can oblige the 
man to work, paying the slave a certain sum," the fact being, 
that in all cases the master is entitled to the service of his slave, 
whether coartado or not, without any remuneration whatever. 
That the wages of a common field labourer is about four reals 
a-day, (there being eight reals " de plata" and twenty reals " de 
vellon" to the dollar, the writer of the memorandum previously 
referred to, having confounded these) and, moreover, that the 
negro is fed and clothed, and that as mechanics earn from a dollar 
and a quarter to three dollars a-day, consequently, a coartado 
slave, who works out, is able to pay his master the daily quota 
proportioned to his price, and to lay by something towards the 
further attainment of his liberty. That the regulations for ame- 
liorating the condition of slaves are founded principally on custom 
which has acquired the force of law, many of which are confirmed 
by Royal Decrees. 

That when a slave applies to purchase his liberty, the master is 
not allowed to fix an arbitrary price, but if he and the slave can- 
not agree upon it, two appraisers are named, one by the master, 
and another by the syndic, on the part of the slave, and if they 
differ, the judge names an umpire, and in these cases, the slave is 



24 

exempt from the payment of the alcabala duty, which is six per 
cent, on the sale of slaves sold in venta real or by public auction. 
That a master will be compelled to sell a slave, if a purchaser is 
found to engage to emancipate the slave at the end of any reason- 
able time — that ill usage justifies an application for change of 
masters — that a slave once emancipated, cannot again be reduced 
to slavery — that the master having once given an " escritura de 
cortacion," binds himself never to demand more than a stipu- 
lated sum, though less than the actual value, has no relation to the 
actual price originally paid for him — that the coartado slave, 
when his master allows him to work out on hire, is only 
bound to pay his master one real a-day for every hundred dollars 
in which he is coartado, thus if his appraised price was four 
hundred dollars, and he had paid one hundred towards his 
liberty, he would only have to pay three reals a-day to his master 
— that a pregnant negress may emancipate her child even when 
in the womb, at the fixed price of twenty-five dollars, and from 
the time of its birth, till it be baptised, for fifty dollars — that the 
system respecting the manumission of slaves, although in the 
country parts where there arc few magistrates, there may be, and 
undoubtedly there are, many abuses — yet in the Havana, and 
other large towns, and in other populous districts, it is efficiently 
observed ; and lastly, on the authority of this able statement of 
Mr. Kilbee, the slave-population of the island of Cuba, in the 
year 1824, was 250,000 ; the free-people of colour 115,000; and 
the whites 290,000. 

I have attempted to show you that the system of manu- 
mission, and the regulations in force for ameliorating the con- 
dition of the slave in the Spanish colonies, honourable as these 
are to the apparent intentions of the Spanish government, are of 
little real benefit to the prasdial slaves, that is, to the great body 
of the slave-population in these colonies. There are exceptions, 
there are instances, where slavery has not rendered masters heedless 
of all laws human and divine, even where their pecuniary interests 
are concerned. But these are few on the estates. There are 
instances, where the owners are persons of high rank and w r ealth 
and standing in society — noblemen, like the Count Fernanclina, 



25 

and a few others of his order, where the rights and privileges of 
the slaves are in some degree respected. These men, however, 
live not on their properties, and it is only to their occasional visits, 
the slaves on their properties have to look for justice. It is, as I 
have said before, in the large towns alone, and for the non-prsedial 
slaves, that the privileges in question can be said to be available, 
and where manumission can be hoped for, the means acquired of 
obtaining it, and the opportunity given of applying for it, and for 
the partial redress of any wrong suffered by a slave. The murder 
of a slave by a white man, in no case whatever, is punished with 
death. During my residence in Cuba, some of the most atrocious 
murders that lever heard of, came to my own immediate knowledge, 
the murders of slaves by their masters or mayorals, and not in any 
one instance was the murderer punished, except by imprisonment, 
or the payment of costs of suit. 

During General Tacon's administration of the government in 
the latter part of the year 1837, in the village of Guauabacoa, a 
league from the Havana, where I was then residing, the murder 
of a slave was perpetrated by his master, a well-known lawyer of 
the Havana, whose name I consider it my duty to make known, 
and far as lies in my power to expose it to the infamy of a 
notoriety, which it is not in the power of the shackled press of 
Cuba to give to it, but which I have reason to believe, the press 
of Spain will give to these disclosures, so that the reprobation of 
his countrymen will reach this gentleman, whom the laws he out- 
raged were unable to reach or punish. The name of the murderer 
is Manchado, and he moves without reproach in the goodly circles 
of genteel society at Havana, in that society where the capitalist, 
who has acquired his riches in the abominable slave-trade, by the 
especial favour of his sovereign, bears the title of " Excellent 
tissimo" where the prosperous dealer in human flesh now retired 
from the trade, is a noble of the land — where the foreign merchant, 
who still pursues the profitable traffic on the coast, is the boon com- 
panion of the commercial magnates of the place — and where the 
agents of foreign governments themselves are hailed as the private 
protectors and avowed well-wishers of the interests of the trade. 
The murdered slave of the lawyer Manchado, was suspected of 



26 

stealing some plated ornaments belonging to the harness of his 
master ; the man denied the charge ; the customary process in 
such matters, to extort a confession from a suspected slave was 
had recourse to. He was put down and flogged in the presence 
of his master. The flogging, it appeared by the sworn testimony 
of the witnesses who were present, given before the Commandant 
of Guauabacoa, a colonel in the army, a gentleman of the highest 
character, commenced at three o'clock, it ceased at six, the man 
having literally died under the lash ; a little time before the man 
expired, he had strength enough left to cry out he would confess 
if they would flog no more. The master immediately sent for the 
Commissary of Police to receive his confession ; this officer came, 
and stooping down to speak to the man, he found him motionless ; 
he said, the man had fainted. The brutal master kicked the lifeless 
body, saying, " the dog was in no faint, he was shamming." The 
Commissary stooped down again, examined the body, and replied 
" the man is dead." The master hereupon called in two physi- 
cians of Guauabacoa, and rightly counting on the sympathies of 
his professional attendants, he obtained a medical certificate, 
solemnly declaring that the negro had laboured under hernia, and 
had died of that disease. In the meantime the atrocity had 
reached the ears of the captain-general Talcon, the alcadis of 
Guauabacoa were ordered to inquire into the matter; they did so, 
and the result of the inquiry was, of course, the exculpation of 
the murderer. General Tacon, dissatisfied with the decision, 
immediately ordered the military officer commanding at Guaua- 
bacoa to proceed to a solemn investigation, do novo, without 
reference to the decision of the civil authorities, and this gentle- 
man, with whom I was well acquainted, proceeded with all the 
energy and integrity belonging to him, to the inquiry. The result 
of this inquiry was an able report, wherein the Commandant 
declared that the testimony adduced, plainly proved that the negro 
had died under the lash in presence of his master, in consequence 
of the severity of the punishment he received during three hours. 
I have entered at large into this case, because I speak from actual 
knowledge of the judicial proceedings, and from the authority of 
the judge in the cause. Now what was the result in this case ; 



27 

why, in due time, the Captain-general communicates to the Com- 
mandant the law opinion of the assessor or legal adviser of his 
administration, to the effect, that the report was evidently erroneous, 
inasmuch as the Commandant had examined negro witnesses on 
the investigation when their masters were not present, which was 
illegal, and consequently all the proceedings were vitiated. In 
plain English, the murderer was acquitted, and the upright 
officer who declared him guilty was rebuked; nay more, he was 
ultimately removed from his post at Guauabacoa. The folly of 
talking about illegality in the proceedings is evident, when it is 
considered that the setting aside the civil authorities, and putting 
the cause in the hands of the military tribunal, was a course 
obviously illegal, but rendered necessary in the mind of the 
governor by the base corruption of the civil tribunal, and the 
iniquity of its decision. On inquiry into the amount of money 
paid by Manchado in the way of bribes to obtain the decision in 
his favour, and the cost of suit, I found that the expenses amounted 
to 4000 dollars. 

The next case I have to direct your attention to, has been given 
to the world in the recent admirable work of Mr. Turnbull on 
Cuba, a work which it required more honest, closer observation, 
and a higher spirit of humanity to produce than any work on 
the West Indies that has been given to the public. I happened 
to be with Mr. Turnbull on the journey of which he speaks in 
reference to this case, when a person who accompanied us on our 
return from a sugar estate in the vicinity of Guines, informed us 
that the estate in question was the terror of all the negroes in the 
vicinity. Of this fact, what we had ourselves witnessed of the 
management of the property, and what we had heard from the 
mayoral himself, left but little cause to doubt, but it was not with- 
outsurprise we learnt that this very overseer, who was still left in 
charge of the estate, had recently been brought before the autho- 
rities of Guines on the charge of flogging one of the slaves of 
the estate to death, and that the result of this investigation was 
similar to that of the case at Guauabacoa; the body of the mur- 
dered slave was examined by medical men, and the usual certi- 
ficate was given in all due form ; satisfactorily accounting for the 



28 

death of the negro, and in the eye of the law of Cuba, the slave 
that was murdered by a white man, and expired under the lash of 
legitimate authority, died a natural death. The wretch avIio com- 
mitted this act left the court, of course, without a blemish on his 
character, and the employer of this man, who had taken him back 
into his service, to the terror of every negro on his estate ; this 
respectable planter was living at ease fifty miles distant from the 
scene where the blood of his murdered negro was shed with 
impunity, enjoying the pleasures of the Havana, and, perhaps, by 
the urbanity of his manners, and the hospitality of his house, and 
the indulgent treatment of his domestic slaves, convincing the 
passing tourist, who was fortunate enough to be his guest, of 
" the peculiar mildness of slavery in the Spanish colonies." 

The next case — I know these horrors are painful to be listened 

to — but it is a sickly sensibility which refuses to hear details, 

however shocking to humanity, that must be told by those who 

have the misfortune to be acquainted with them, or the wrongs 

they treat of cannot be redressed. The next case of negro murder 

committed by a mayoral, of which 1 have to Bpeak, came to my 

knowledge in the autumn of 1839. I was travelling in the 

vicinity of Matanzas, accompanied by a gentleman who resided 

in that district. I was informed by my companion that he had 

just received very unpleasant intelligence of an acquaintance of 

his, a mayoral of an estate on the Pan of Matanzas, who had 

unfortunately flogged a worthless negro, and the worthless negro 

had unfortunately died, and the soldiers had just been sent down 

to arrest the mayoral, and they did not find him. The misfortune 

of the mayoral touched me indeed less than the murder of the 

slave ; but if my sympathies had been ever so strongly directed 

to the inconvenience the mayoral had been put to by his flight, 

I might have been comforted by the assurance that he had 

only to keep out of the way for some time, and the thing 

would pass over ; or, if he were taken, at the worst he had 

only to suffer in purse, and perhaps in person by imprisonment for 

some time, if he was a poor and friendless mayoral. This was 

only another vacancy in the negro gang to be filled up by the 

purchase of a new bozal — another life taken away under the lash 



29 

to be added to the list of Cuban crimes-** another item in the 
long account that slavery has to settle with a just God. I 
know it is painful to dwell on these topics, but the report I 
have alluded to has proved how necessary it is to enter on them 
most fully, and to show how greatly the people of France, — and 
I fear, I may add, of England, — have been deceived with respect 
to the subject of slavery in the Spanish colonies. 

The last case of murder perpetrated on a slave by a white person, 
to which I will refer, took place at the Havana in the last year. 
This crime was committed by an American woman on a poor negro 
girl, under such horrible circumstances of cold-blooded cruelty, that 
I doubt if there is any parallel to be found to it in the records of 
crime in Cuba. The girl that was murdered belonged to a 
Spaniard of the Havana, who was the paramour of the American. 
This woman was possessed of property to a considerable amount. 
She had been long resident in Havana, and was somewhat remark- 
able for her personal attractions: Her friend, the Spaniard, had 
sent to her house one of his slaves to assist her, and this girl be- 
came the victim of her jealousy, it is supposed — for no other 
adequate reason has been assigned for the cruelties practised on 
her. The cries of the unfortunate girl had been heard in the 
adjoining houses : at length the usual screams were heard 
no longer, but night after night the sounds of continued 
moaning were noticed by the neighbours, and at length they 
gave information of the matter to the police. The Commissary 
of Police proceeded to the house of the American lady. On 
searching the outhouses in the yard, in one of these offices 
converted into a dungeon, they found a dying negro girl 
chained by the middle to the wall, in a state that shocked 
the senses of all who were present, so loathsome and withal so 
pitiful an object as the persons who discovered this unfortunate 
girl never beheld. On releasing her from this dreadful dun- 
geon, where she had been she could not tell how long, it was 
found that the chain round her body had eaten into the flesh, and 
the ulcers in it were in a state of gangrene. She was taken to the 
hospital, and she died there in two or three days' time. If I have 
added one iota to the truth, or exaggerated a single point in the 



30 

statement I have given, I am content that every fact I have 
stated should be disbelieved ; but in truth, the horrors of the place, 
and the wretchedness of the condition in which she was found, are 
understated. In fact, they could not be described. The monster 
who committed this murder, when I left the Havana, in October 
last, was alive and well; in prison indeed, but in one of the halls 
of distinction, (salas de disinction,) where the prisoner who has 
money, no matter what his crime, may always obtain superior 
accommodation. She was visited frequently by persons of my 
acquaintance. She did not admit that she had committed any 
crime, and she had no fear for the result of the process that was 
going on, except on the score of its expense. She looked on 
her imprisonment as a conspiracy only of the Spanish lawyers 
to get money from, her, because they knew she was rich ; 
and in this she probably was not much mistaken. The 
Teniente Gobernaidor, one of the principal officers of state, was 
in the habit of visiting her in prison, and encouraging her 
with the assurance thai her suit would speedily be terminated, 
and that she had nothing worse than banishment to fear. A 
lawyer of the name of Garcia had defended her some short 
time before her committal on the present charge, in another case 
of cruelty practised by her on a Blare, and he publicly boasted 
that if she had come forward in the present case with a >uffieient 
sum, he would have brought her through her present difficulty 
without any more inconvenience than in the former instance. 
Such is the administration of justice in the island of Cuba, and 
the execution of those laws which are thought so mild in their 
character, and benevolent in their principles, that the slave who 
lives under them is protected from injustice, and in consequence 
of their excellence the negroes in Spanish colonies are compara- 
tively happy. 

It was said by the late Mr. Canning, that all laws for the 
partial amelioration of the condition of slaves were necessarily 
defective, because such laws had no executive principle, inasmuch 
as the persons who were expected to carry them into operation 
were interested in defeating them. My experience entirely bears 
out the assertion of Mr. Canning ; and both, I am sorry to say, 



31 

are at variance with that part of the report to which I have 
referred, and with the common opinion of the humanity of the 
system of Spanish slavery, entertained even by well informed 
persons in this country. 

And in concluding this subject, I would earnestly desire to 
impress these facts on the minds of all who are interested in the 
question of negro emancipation ; that the abolition of slavery in 
our colonies, has given great advantages to those colonies where 
slavery exists. And that it is in vain to expect a beneficial result 
from our efforts, while slavery flourishes in Cuba and the Brazils, 
and leans on the sympathy and support of countries like America 
and the colonies of France, whose interests are identified with 
theirs. 



THE END. 



JOHN9TON & BARRETT, PRINTERS, 18, MARK LANE, LONDON. 



