


SLAV 



A K 



ESSAY jN VERSE. 



B Y 



CAPTAIN MARJORIBANKS, 

OF A LATE INDEPENDENT COMPANY ; 
Formerly Lieutenant in His Majejiys i<jth Regiment of Fooi9,^ 



, HUMBLY INSCRIBED TO 

PLANTERS, MERCHANTS, 

And others concerned in the Management or 3ale of 
NEGRO SLAVES, 




E D I N B U R G H: 

?RINTED BY J. ROBERTSON, NO. 39, SOUTH BRIDGE-^STREET> 

MDCCXCIJh 



!S/75Sl¥ -f? ^^'^ 



LETTER, 

SENT WITH THE 

FOLLOWING ESSAY, 

FROM THE 

AUtHOR to Mr. HALIBUR'TON, 

SaCRETARY OF THE EDINBURGH SOCIETY FOR PROMOTING THE ABOHTIOW 
OF THE AFRICAN SLAVE TRADE. 



Sir, 

X HE inclofed Poem (if, unembellifhed hf 
fancy or fidlion, a plain unvarnifhed narration of 
mere melancholy matter of fact can be fo called), 
coincides fo exa6lly, in many particulars, with the 
evidence comprifed in the Abftrad lately publifhed 
by your Society ; that, had it been the produftion 
of a flranger, and the two, fucceffively Ihewn to me, 
I ihould, without hefitation, have pronounced the 
one to be little more than a verlificationof a great part 
of the other. I alTure you, however, upon my ho- 
nour, that thefe verfes were written in Jamaica, in 
O6tober 1786; a period, I imagine, when no fociety 
of the kind was in contemplation ; and when I was 
far from numbering any fuch inftitution among the 
probable events of the eighteenth century. I have 
not now made the addition of a lingle couplet to my 
original manufcript; from which alfo great part of 
the Notes are tranfcribed. 

A ij It % 



( 4 ) 

It may be alked why has this Eflay beefl (o 
long concealed ; or to what purpofe is it now pro- 
duced? I can only anfwer, That my opinion of 
the Slave-Trade, and my compaffion for the fuf- 
ferings of the Negroes in the Weft-Indies, of which 
I was for feveral years an indignant eye witnefs, 
have been long and invariably the fame ; which in 
private converfation, even in Jamaica, I have eve'r 
avowed. Indifpenlible avocations, however, put it 
out of my power at the proper period, and in a re- 
gular way, to ftep forward as a voluntary witnefs in 
the caufe of truth. Nor, while I faw with exulta- 
tion the brighteft talents, and moil diftinguifhed cha- 
raders in the kingdom, ranged on the fide of jullice 
and humanity ; did 1 prefume to think of obtruding 
upon the public, in any other mode, the fentiments 
of fo obfcure an individual as myfelfo 

It was vv^ithin thefe fev/ days only, on pcrufing the 
Abftrad, and comparing the /great mafs of evidence 
wiih what had fallen under my own knowledge, that 
my confcience, though the omiiTion was involuntary^ 
in fome meafure reproached me for having negledt-^ 
ed to contribute rny humble mite towards the raif- 
ing of this mighty Itrufture, 

It occurred to me, that by ftatirtg to you in writ- 
ing a few fads and obfervations, I might perhaps il- 
iuftrate or corroborate fome part of the evidence. 
The only kind of memorandum I had kept in Ja-* 
maica, either of incidents or refledions arifmg from 

them, 



C 5 ) 

them, confided of a number of little poetical pieced 
inferted in a fort of common place-book. As Sla- 
very was naturally the fubjed of feveral of them ; to 
this fource, on the prefent occalion, in order to re- 
frefh my memory I recurred. 

On a re-perufal of the compofition in queflion, fo 
long negledied, and almoll forgotten ; ftruck with 
the remarkable coincidence I have mentioned, I firfl 
conceived that thefe artiefs efFufions, meant only at 
the time to give vent to the painful feelings of mj 
heart, excited by the diftrefsful fcenes which fur^ 
rounded me ; written at the moment that the impref- 
lion was frefh upon my mind, would not only have 
more weight than any thing I could now compofe up- 
on the fubjecl; but might perhaps even carry with 
them ftronger conviftion than evidence drawn forth 
on diftant recolledion, through the force of inter^ 
rogation. 

Abitrad reafoning, however juft, or ingenious, 
could ^probably conduce but little to promote a 
caufe, which hinges entirely upon fad;s. This littl© 
production, whatever may be its other imperfe(flions,._ 
is not the offspring of hypothefis, the dream of theo- 
ry, but the fimple recital of what fell under the cog- 
nizance of my own fenfes ; and may be confidered 
as an additional link in the chain of evidence. The 
taftes of mankind, too, ^re various : though undoubt- 
edly the greater, and perhaps the more intelligent 
part of the world, would prefer good fenfe and plain 

profe ; 



( 6 ) 

profe ; yet there may be no inconfiderable number 
of others, of a more romantic tm"n, who could not 
eafily be prevailed upon to perufe a pamphlet, but 
would feize with avidity on any thing in the form of 
a poem. 

Thefe ideas induce me (confcious as I am of its 
total deficiency in point of poetical merit) to take 
the libery of requelting you, Sir, to lay this ElTay 
before your Committee ; to inform them that, if 
they confider it capable, in any Ihape, of promoting 
the caufe they have with fo much ardour and bene^ 
volence embraced, that it is entirely at their dif- 
pofal; and to aflure them, that it would give me in- 
finite pleafure to indulge the flighteft hope, that fo 
feeble a performance could, in the fmallelt degree, 
co-operate towards the attainment of objedls fo de- 
firable to every feeling heart and unbiafled mind. 

That the generous exertions of yours, and the o- 
ther Philanthropic Societies, inftituted for the fame 
praife-worthy purpofes, may be ultimately and fpeed- 
ily crowned with the fuccefs they fo richly merit, is 
the fincere wilh of, 

Sir, 

Your, and their, 

Moll obedient, 

' and very humble fervant, 

Edin. Teb. 14, 1791. 

J. MARJORIBANKS. 



S LAVE R Y: 



A N 



ESSAY IN VERSE. 



JDritannia's heroes for fair Freedom fought, 

And gain'd, at length, the prize they nobly fought« 

On our brave anceftors did Freedom fmile. 

And fix'd her empire in their happy ifle. 

^here ftill fhe flourilhes in all her charms. 

Each heart enlivens, and each bofom warms. 

Ungrateful men I to whom fuch boons fhe gave ! 
Who dare whole nations of mankind enflave ! 
From the rich ports, where Ihe triumphant reignSj 
Forth fly the fleets that carry freights of chains I 
From peaceful counting-houfes edidls pour, 
Afric's wide realms rapacioufly to fcour. 
By Freedom's fons o'er diltant oceans borne, 
Are helplefs wretches from their country torn ! 
In noifome cells, where fell Difl:emper glows, 
A favour'd part Death frees from future woes ! 
Or happy they, who in the friendly deep 
Fly from their tyrants to eternal fleep ! 

What 



( « ) 

What horrid fears muft haunt th' untutor'd mind 
(Too jufl, alas I) of torments yet behind ! 
On fliocking feafts muft favage fancy brood *, 
Where pale Europeans prey on human food ! 
His bloody limbs, yet quiv'ring on the board. 
Glut the keen ftomach of his ruthlefs lord ! 
Or on the fhrine of vengeful gods he lies ; 
And, in atonement for a Chriftian, dies ! 
Yes I every Have muft yield a mafter food, 
Who ilowly fattens on his vital blood I 
Bleft, if at once his cruel tortures ceas'd, 
And gave white cannibals a fliort liv'd feaft ! 
Yes ! Afric's fons muft ftain the bloody Ihrine \ 
But all thofe vi6lims, Avarice, are thine ! 
On Mercy's God thofe tyrants dare to call j 
But Av'rice only is their lord of all ! 
To him their rites inceflantly they pay ; 
And wafte for him the Negro's life away I 

" But hear I" fay you. Philofophy will hear ; 
Whoever argues, he will lend an ear. 
" On their own fliore thofe wretches Slaves we foundf, 
'* And only mov'd them to a fairer ground. 

Captives 

* The general idea of the new Negroes feems to be, that they 
3re to be devoured. 

f This, and every other argument I have put into their mouths, 
I have frequently heard the planters ufe. Futile as they are, \ 
' believe no better can be found. 



( 9 ) 

** Captives in war they met this wayward fate ; 
*' Or Birth had doom'd them to a fervile ftate. 
" Oft they are convidls, fentenc'd for their crimes 
^' To endlefs exile from their native climes. 
" With plants they knew not on thofe flerile lands, 
" Here are they nourilh'd by our friendly hands ; 
*' Of our own properties we give them fhare, 
*' And food or raiment never coft them care. 
" On them no debts, no difficulties prey, 
" Not Britain's peafants half fo blefl as they !'* 
Rold, impious men ! the odious theme forbear ! 
Nor with fuch treafon wound a Briton's ear I 
The Britifh peafant I healthy, bold, and/r^^ / 
Nor wealth, nor grandeur, half fo bleil as he I 
The ftate of life, for happinefs thefirji"^. 
Dare you compare with this the moji accurs'd 
Tou found tbemjlaves-r-rh\xt who that title gave ! 
The God of Nature never form'd a Have I 
Tho' Fraud, or Force acquire a matter's name, 
Nature and Juftice muft remain the fame ! 
He who from thieves their booty, confcious, buy.^, 
May ufe an' argument as found and wife : 
That he conceives no guilt attends his trade, 
Becaufe the booty is already made. 

B For 

* I would here be underftood to allude to the peafantry of Eng* 
land. 



( 10 ) 

For your own honour, name not Afric's wars I 
Ye, vvhofe cursed commerce rais'd thofe civil jars I 
Each petty -chief, wbofe tribes were drain'd for you,, 
For your vile t^'affic roams in quefl of new % 
For you in guiltlefs blood imbrues his hands, 
And carries havoc o'er his neighbour's lands ! 
They whom the feebler rage of wax may fpare^ 
A harder fate from you and Slavery fhare ! 
For you — -fole injligators to the wrang *, 
The brutal vi6lor hurries them along. 
From Afric's far interior regions driven. 
To y&u— and Anguifh are thofe wretches given I 

Nor yet are you, for any righteous caufe^ 
The executioners of Afric's laws ; 
Th' atrocious criminals I oft have viewM=, 
European JuHice has fo far purfu^d ; 
Emblems of Innocence they met my eyes^ 
In foft Simplicity and young furprife f I 

But I, alas 1 may fpare my idle Itrain^, 
Which ne'er can wreft them from European chains t 
For Int'reit fpeaks in language far too ftrong, 
Either to heed a fermon, or a fong I 

For 

* I muft here remind tke reader tliat the lines are addrefled ta 
<fi// concerned -'n the Slave-Trade j but the planters, for whofe 
nfe the negroes are ultimately intended, may be conlidered as the. 
original inlligators of the trafHc. 

+ Of the great number of new negroes I have feen, a very con- 
fiderable proportion appeared to me to be under 14 years of age* 



{ II ) 

Yet liappy I, and not in vain I write. 
If I could render but their chains more light ; 
Could I but wipe one tear from Slavery's eye, 
Or fave his heart one agonifing figh ! 

Grant then your plea : — " Neceffity demands 
■*' The toil of foreign fiaves' unwilling hands." 
Yet no neceffity could e'er €xcufe, 
The more than favage cruelty you ufe * ! 

" Thofe creatures are fo obftinate," you fay, 
'" That but from puniihment they will obey ; 
** No kindnefs foothes; no gratitude they know"— - 
Ah ! little gratitude, indeed, they owe I 
Ere you this virtue to their race denied, 
Th' efteds of kindnefs might have well been tried ! 

Come, now, refled; what tender modes you take 
To make thofe beings labour — -for your fake ! 
Firft, then, you are fo generous and good 
To give them time to rear a little food ; 
On the fame felfilli principle, of coiurfe, 
You feed ffar better though J your mule or horfe,. 
Small is the portion, poor the granted foil, 
Till'd by the Negroe's reftlefs Sabbath's toil I 
What loud applaufe a mailer muft deferve, 
Not to permit his property f to Jiarve! 

B ij But 

* While I fpeak of the cruelty praftifed by planters in general, 
I would not be underrtood to fay that there may not be exceptions* 

f So they term them ; but I deny that, in the iight of God, 
any human being can be the property of anotlier. 



( =^ ) 

But worn by toils he can no more renew. 
The helplefs wretch is turn'd adrift by you*! 
Ye, who deflroyed» refuling to fuftain 
The few unhappy days that yet remain ! 
To render mifery itfelf more hard, 
You term it Favour, Freedom, and Reward : 
Can we your generofity deny — 
Who grant your viftims — liberty to die I 



Soon 



* I have feen fcveral of tliefe unfortunates expire, literally of 
hunger who had been picked up on the road by foldicrs j but too 
late for their prefervation. I have known a good many otherSy 
who had been abandoned by their owners, fupported for years by 
the humanity of thofe poor fellowSo 

One old debilitated negro had refided for feveral years at 
Stoney-hill barracks j and I believe remained there at the time I 
left the Ifland. He was the property of the Honourable {ex officio} 
Paul Phipps, then Cuftos, or Chief Magiftrate of Kingfton, one 
of the reprefentatives for that town in the Houfe of ^'^ffembly. 
Colonel of the regiment of Saint Andrew's Militia, and one of 
the judges of the Common Pleas of that parifh. 

If fuch an aft of deliberate cruelty, as the abandoning this 
ihelplefs wretch, could be committed by a man who united in hi& 
own perfon the confpicuous charafters of a judge, a legiflator,. 
a militia Commander, and in thefe feveral capacities, as well as in 
his private profeffion as a merchant, uniformly maintained an un- 
blemilhed reputation j who was, I believe, free from pecuniary 
cmbararflmerits j and who being hirtifelf advanced in years, might 
have been expefted to have felt fome degree of fympathy for the 
infirmities of age. I think I fhould have been juftified from thiS; 
fingle inftance, (even if a variety of othei-s had. not fallen undef 
my obfervatiou) in inferring that this praftice of turning out old, 
or unferviceable flaves to pick, as they emphatically term it, muft 
be generally prevalent among perfons in more obfcure llations, o| 
iel* refpcitable charaders^ ojf in more indigent circuinftances. 



C '3 ) 

Soon as the trembling crew are landed here. 
Their quiv'ring flefli the burning pincers fear ^ 
Proudly imprinting your degrading brand 
On men, created by your Maker's hand I 
A dreadful fpecimen, we may fuppofe, 
This warm reception gives of future woes ! 

Ere the poor Savage yet can underftand 
The haughty language of a foreign land ; 
Ere he conceive your meaning, or your view. 
The whip direds him what he is to do. 
No fex, no age, you ever learn'd to fpare, 
But female limbs indecently lay bare j 
See the poor mother lay her babe alide *, 
And ftoop to punilhment Ihe mull abide ! 
Nor midft her pangs, her tears, her honid cries^ 
Bare the fad hulband turn his pitying eyes. 

Amongfl yoifr numbers, do we never meet 
Villains fo moil atrocioufly complete, 
Who, with curs'd accuracy, count the days. 
The hours of labour pregnancy delays ; 
Who Nature's wond'rous work attempt to fpoil 
JBy ftripes, by terrors, and excefs of toil f . 

Agualta's 
•'■/ 

* The negro women who have young children, carry theia, 
faflened on their backs, while they are at work, in the field. 

f To the villainous principle, that It is cheaper to purchafe 
Guinea negroes j than, by better ufage, and lighter labour, to en- 
courage population among thofe of this country,, may, in a great • 



( 14 ) 

Agualta's* ftream by rains become a flood, 
Once by its fide a fearful female flood ; 
Th' attempt to crofs it was a certain death— 
To tarry worfe, perhaps — her tyrant's wrath 1 
Some anxious hours, unwilling, did fhe flay ; 
Then thro' the lefT'ning torrent fought her way. 
Proftrate fhe lay before her defpot's feet, 
Imploring mercy fhe was not to meet I 
For ah I the ruffian's heart was hard as fteel ! 
No pity he had e'er been known to feel I 
While the lafh tore her tir'd and tortur'd frame. 
The pangs of labour prematurely came. 
She clafp'd her murder'd infant to her breafl ; 
Stretch'd her fore limbs, and funk in endlefs reflf ! 

Your ingenuity we mufl confefs, 
In finding various methods to diftrefs : 
See the wretch faften'd to an emmet*s nefl, 
Whofe ftings in myriads his whole frame molefl \ 
Or fmear'd with cowheage all his body o'er, 
His burning fkin intolerably fore ! 
Chains, hooks, and horns, of every fize and fhapc, 

Mark 

meafure, be afcribed the neceflity of fo vaft an annual importation 
from Africa. 

* Agualta, a rivulet which takes its rife in the Liguanea moun- 
tains. It is vulgarly known by the name of Wag-water. 

■f- This happened during my refidence here, within little more 
than a mile of the fpot where I now lit : viz. on Norbrook moun- 
tain J the property of Mr Long, compiler of the Hiftory of Ja- 
maica. Stoney-hill^ i6th. October. 1786. 



( IS ) 

Mark thofe who've once attempted an efcapc. 

A filler ille firfl us'd, but thh improves, 

That curs'd invention call'd Barbadoes Gloves*. 

For your own fakes, your malice and your whim 

But rarely facrifice a Negroe's limb. 

tJnlefs a Slave of fedentary trade, 

(A lucklefs Taylor well may be afraid) ; 

Where there's no great occafion for a pair, 

You may lop off the leg he has to fparef . 

Were there a furgeon— and there may be fuch J, 

Whofe heart compaffion had the power to touch ; 

Who dar'd the horrid office to decline, 

Your laws condemn him in a heavy fine||. 

If int'reft teaches you their limbs to fpare, 
Immediate § murders mull be Hill more rare. 
Tho' 'tis this felfifh fentiment alone 
That oft deters you to deltroy your own. 

But 

* Slips of wood are placed between every two fingers, and the 
whole fcrewed or wedged clofe together, fo as to give moft cx- 
quifite torture. I have known this infernal machine kept on houfc 
flaves for many days together. 

f The reafon afligned to a gentleman of my acquaintance, by 
his overfeer, for cutting off the leg of one of his negroes in his 
abfence 5 was, that the fellow having run off, he thought this the 
moft effeftual method of preventing his trying it a fecond time ; 
adding, that as he xvas a taylor, the property was not a bit lefs va» 
luable. 

X I mean, even in the Weft-Indies. 

II The penalty, I think, is 50I. currency. 

§ Immediate i in contradiftinftion to the flow murder of toil 
and torment. 



C 16 ) 

But fliould your paffions hurry you away 

Another performs property to flay, 

The guilt's confider'd in a venial hght, 

The proof is difficult ; the fentence flight*. 

Nay, Malice, fafe, may find a thoufand times 

When no white evidence can prove his crimes. 

Since, 'tis eftablifli'd by your partial laws, 

No flave bears witnefs in a white man's caufef . 

'Tis faid your equitable laws confine 

The Negroe's punifliment to thirty -nine %. 

A fpecious found I — which never gave redrefs, 

Since who the dev'l can prove when you tranfgrefs. 

Or curs'd pretences you can find, with eafe, 

For nine and thirties num'rous as you pleafe. 

A jealous miftrefs finds a ready fliara 

To give a handfome maid the fugar dram || ; 

Clofely 

* Generally payment of the price of the negro to his owner, 
it is then, it may be remarked, as expcnlive to kill another man's 
flave as your own. But this does not follow ; in the former cafe, 
the lofs is certain ; in the latter, the faft muft be proved (which 
is often impoflible) before the damages can be incurred. 

f Not only flaves, but free negroes, and people of colour, are 
excluded. They ar^, however, admitted as evidences againji 
each other. 

X As there is fcldom more than one white man in the field 
the futility of this law is clear. (Original note, 1786.) For the 
fame reafon it is obvious, that the late A61 of Affembly of Jania= 
ica, in favour of flaves, muft be ineffeftual. (Feb, 1792.) 

[j An equal mixture of rum and fait. 



( 17 ) 

With her fair hands prepares the naufeouS draught. 
And pours the fcalding mixture down her throat ; 
Clofely confm'd for mad'ning nights and days, 
Her burning thirlt no hquid drop allays. 
Nay, well I know a proud revengeful dame, 
Who gave a dofe too loathfome here to name'*. 
It mull be own'd you all do wond'rous well, 
Yet Hill in torturing the ^r excel. 
What llrange inventions ha& their genius found, 
(^Impeii'd by Jealoufy) to plague and wound ! 
And in ihofe modes we fhould the leail fupppfe 
Th£Lt female delicacy would have chofe. 

Bad is at befl: the Slave's moft eafy Itate ! 
Yet fome are deftin'd to a harder fate. 
Villains there are, who, doubly bent on gain^ 
Mofl nicely calculate the toil and pain ; 
Who fix the time (Qh 1 Heav'n ! why fleeps thy wrath r^ 
They may, with profit, work their gangs to death. 
" Whether fhall we," thofe precious fcoundrels fay, 
*' Grafp Fortune quickly, or make long delay? 
" A hundred flaves we have no fund to buy ; 
*' The ftrength c£ half that number let us try, 
" With moderate toil, from pradlice it appear-s 
" Thefe Haves might live, perhaps, a dozen years ; 

G "To 

* A ladj of my acquaintance caufed a flavCj in prefence of 
ber family and ftrangers, to fwallow a glafs of rum mi.jced with 
.human excrement. 



( IS ) 

" To us, you know, the matter will be even, 
" If we can make as much of them in feven*.'* 
The price of property they only weigh, 
Regardlefs, elfe, what lives they take away I 

In mild Britannia many of you dwell, 
Where tortur'd Slavery ne'er is heard to yell. 
You fly wherever Luxury invites, 
And Diffipation crowns your days and nights ; 
The dire refledion never meets your view, 
What pangs, what bloodfhed, buy thofe joys for you \ 
Your injur'd flaves, perhaps, you never faw\; 
And doubt the pidure Ifo truly draw. 
Such would not willingly, I hope, impofc 
The laft extremity of human woes. 
But, if from Freedom's land you never ftray'd, 
By falfe defcriptions you may be betray'd. 
Self-interelted men have met your ear ; 
I, without infreJlX, will be more lincere I 
Wretches by want expell'd from foreign climes || ; 
JEfcap'd from debts, or juftice due their crimes; 

I The 

* Tills diabolical practice is called driving a gang. I Lave re- 
, peatedly heard calculations made on this fubjeft, with all the 
coolnefi and accuracy of an innkeeper eftimating the probable 
expenditure of his poft-horfes. 

f Many proprietors of eitates in this country have never been 
in the ifland. 

J At leaft, no other than the intereft of humanity. 

11 The life of a book-keeper is, in general, fuch a complication 
of drudgery and difeafe, pride and poverty, defpotifm and fer- 



( 19 ) 

Xhe bafe, the ignorant, the ruffian fteer. 

And find a defperate afylum hef^e. 

Abjed and fervile tho' themfelves they be 

To thofe above them but in one degree ; 

O'er the fubordinate, fad, fable crew 

They have as abfohite controul as you. 

Men uninform'd, -uncultivated, rude, 

Whofe boift'rous paffions ne'er have been fubdu'd i 

Whofe tempers, never naturally mild^ 

Care and misfortune render flill more wild ; 

Their furious hearts a iliort relief procure, 

To wreak on others more than they endure ; 

By fuch caprice are Negroes doom'd to bleed, 

The Slaves of Slavery — They are low indeed ! 

He who has made an independence here., 
At home in fplendor hurries to appear; 
London, or Bath, with lying fame refounds, 
♦' A frelh Creole I — worth Fifty Thoufand Pounds I" 

C ij Tho' 

vility, that no man of birth, education, fpirit, or fenfibility 
would, if previoufly acquainted with its nature, ever engage in it. 
That there are, however, among this clafs of men fome unfortu- 
nate people of the above defcription, is certain 5 (though, as mat- 
ters are how condu6ted, they could not well be poflefled of lefs 
effential qualifications :) But a far greater proportion of them are 
low and illiterate, (for it is far from requifite that a book-keeper 
fliould be able to read) many of them are defperadoes, fraudulent 
bankrupts, jail-birds, deferters from the troops, run-away feamen, 
and other vagabonds of all countries and denominations. Seve- 
ral of them inlifted in the iptb regiment, and rejoiced greatly 
at their change of fituation. 



Tho' ten he knows the limit of his llore, 
-He muft keep up the figure firfl: he wore. 
Thoughtlefs, he riots in the gay career ; 
And finds himfelf half ruin'd in the year. 
Duns grow importunate— and friends but cool ; 
Back to Jamaica comes the bankrupt fool. 
Firft goes the Pen*; the Polinkf ; worfe and worfe^ 
At lail the Sugar- work is put to nurfe, 
Jle llrives with Jews and Marihalls long — in vain-^ 
Once thus involv'd, he ne'er gets clear again. 
Worfe ev'ry year his lituation grows, 
'Xill in a prifon he concludes his woes ; 
Unlefs, perhaps, a feat at Council-board 
A fure protedion fliould for life afford ; 
Or in the Lower Houfe enacting laws— 
The laws eluding failer than he draws. 
But w^hile he parries off from year to year, 
The Negroes' fuff 'rings are indeed fevere ! 
For their vain lord the mofl fupplies to raife, 
Til fed; hard work'd; they know no re fling daysf \ 

Perhaps 

^' The villa. 

f A mountain farm for raifing provifions and flock. 

X Indeed, none of them do j but the Sunday, which they ought 
to be allowed to work for themfelves, is generally ftyled a refting 
day. When the mafter is hard pufhed, I believe there may be 
found inflances of the negroes being cheated out of a great part 
even of this their own day. 



( « ) 

Perhaps to greedy jobbers lent on hire*, 
Who from excefs of toil their gain require ; 
Who have no int'refl in them to preferve ; 
And if they labour, care not how they liar ve. 
Or feiz'd by marflialls, and to market brought ; 
By various mailers families are bought. 
Amidit their unregarded lighs and tears, 
The wife and hulband fall to diff'rent Ihares ; 
Their clinging offspring from their arms are tore, 
And hurried from them, rie'cr to meet them more ! 

I knew a fixtus, in mere wanton play, 
Sold from the mother in whofe womb it lay. 
Unhappy mother! doom'd for months to bear 
The lucklefs burden, thou art not to rearf ! 

What 

* Bad as the utuation of flaves is in general, it will eafily be 
predited that thofe on bankrupt eftates (of which God knows, 
there is no fcarcity) are more peculiarly wretched. But the moil 
fuper-eminently miferable of the human race are, undoubtedly, the 
negroes belonging to jobbing gangs. Should the perfon who hires 
them, difpofe of a negro ; fhould he flioot him through the head, or 
flab him to the heart ; he would, I dare fay, be obliged to pay 
the price of him to his owner. But it does not appear that he 
is liable to replace thofe who may be loft by accidental, or natu- 
ral deaths — and no death, furely, is fo perfeBly natural — none, I 
will aver, fo frequent, in jobbing gangs^ as frgm the effefts of hun- 
ger, want of accommodation, violent blows, exceflive labour, 
fevere flogging, and every other poflible fpecies of cruelty and bad 
treatment. 

f The bargain was ftruck in hearing of the unfortunate mo- 
ther. 



C 22 ) 

What dreadful partings, for Revenge's fake, 
Bo furious females in a moment make I 
Theirfav'ritemaids, with whomfrom youth they grew J 
As fine their Ihape ; and fcarce lefs fair their hue* ; 
For fome flight error; fome unlucky chance; 
A tea-cup broken ; or a lover's glance; 
Feel all the fury of their quenchlefs flame ; 
And meet the punifliments of pain and fliame. 
The parent's, flfter's, ev'ry tender tie- 
All are difiblv'd — and round the ifle they fly I 

Accurfed ftate ! w^here Nature, and where Love, 
Rude violations mufl: for ever prove ! 
You, brutal ravifliers ! pretend in vain 
That Afric's children feel no jealous pain. 
Untaught Europeans, with iUib'ral pride, 
Look with contempt on all the world befide ; 
And vainly think no virtue ever grew. 
No paflion glow'd beneath a fable hue. 
Beings you deem them of inferior kindf ; 
Denied a human, or a thinking mind. 
Happy for Negroes were this dodrine true ! 
V^ert feelings kjl to them — or giv'n to you I 

But 

* The ladles are generally attended by ghls of colour, who, 
frequently, are their own near relations j in the third or fourth 
generation, many of them are almoft as fair as Europeans. 

f I have often heard planters, talking of their negroes, very 
gravely ftyle them their Cattle, 



C 33 ) 

But Love and Paffioii ne'er had more controul, 

Than o'er the African's hot, haughty foul. 

Oft, 'mongft your Haves, a once proud chief we findj 

Of dauntlefs courage, and exalted mind ; 

His body cover'd o'er with many a fear, 

Proofs of his prowefs in the field of war ; 

More keen his mental than corporeal pains, 

While his ^i^vce. fpirit feels your lafh and chains. 

In vain the noble pride, which glory gave, 

You would fubdue, and " break thejlubbornjlave'^ 

Refolv'd to perifh by a heroe's hand, 

He feeks in fuicide his native land*. 

Or, fhould he take a bolder, julier courfe. 
And try to vindicate his rights by force ; 
Thro' coward numbers you the hero take, 
And hell's own torments wait him at the flake. 

There are, of gentler race and low degree, 
Who were not ever nominally f res. 
But while they loiter'd on their native foil, 
Slight was the nature of th' exacted toil. 
Taught but, perhaps, the favage chafe to roufe ; 
Or guard the fcanty flocks, or goats to broufe. 

Perhaps, 

* This is more particularly the cafe with tks high fpirited, 
(or, as the planters call them, the fulky, contumacious) Coro- 
mantees. I never converfed with any African negro, who did 
not feem to conlider death as a certain pajjport to Guinea, 



' { 24 } 

Perhaps, the only talk thej ever knew, 

To fow the feeds that half fpontaneous grewi 

No complicated agriculture there ; 

No modes of luxury made toil fevere. 

No bloody fields their peaceful nature fought 5 

But am'rous combats all they ever fought. 

Thus, ilaves, perhaps, in nothing but the name^ 

They never felt it — till Europeans came-— 

In happy indolence life ilipp'd away^ 

And eafe and fun-lhine blefs'd them ever^ day *'c 

But when the Chridians came, in evil hour, 

They found the rigour of a tyrant's power ; 

Some dragg'd by force, and fome by fraud beguil'df ^ 

The defpot reigns— rich Monarch of a Wild ! 

In dumb defpair thefe helplefs wretches pine, 
Yet are their feelings exqtiijitely jine%! 
Think you the filent Have beholds, unmov'di 
The rape committed on his bell-belov'd ? 

With 

* The two blefnngs they feeni moft to relifhi — "Vojleep in the 
Ain, they confider as one of the higheft luxuries. This ftate of 
eafe and tranquillity appeared, from their artlefs accounts, to have 
been the original lot of moll of the Guinea negroes I have in- 
terrogated on the fubjeS:. 

f This alfo is from the information I have often received froni 
African flaves. 

J If I have not had proofs fufficient to warrant this affertioHj 
they have at leaf! been fuch as to carry to my owu raind the ful- 
kft conviflion of its trutk* 



( 25 ) 
With keeneft pangs his am'rous heart is wmrigj 
Rage fires his foul, tho' fear rellrains his tongue. 

Oh! friendlefs race I for whom I, only, figh* ; 
Who fcarce have ever met a pitying eye I 
Oh I had I power to melt, by tender ilrains^ 
Your lawlefs lords to mollify your pains ! 
Could I excite one fympathetic tear, 
To make long-loll Humanity appear 1 
Could I but teach them- — what they never knewi 
The facred rights which Nature gave to you I 
But had I mulic — magic in my ftrain, 
Mulic or magic had been giv'n in vain ! 

Here the rough planter looks profoundly wife ; 
*' A pretty fellow this, indeed !" he cries. 
" What would your conduct be, I'd gladly know, 
*' Should Chance onyoufome hundred Jlaves bejiow : 
'^ Pray would you fet the worthlefs rafcals/r^^.^ 
" Or would you keep th.Qvn—j2{/l the fame as we f .^" 

How he would ad, till tried, no man can fay, 
But may temptation ftill be kept away ! 

D I am 

* Thank Heaven ! this is no longer tlie cafe ! I have now the 
pleafure to fee thoufands of my fellow Britons efpovife the caufe 
of this injured race of men, who appeared td me, dt the time the 
above lines were written, to be for ever abandoned by the reft 
of the human fpecies. 

f I have frequently had thefe, and the like knock me duivn 
arguments dathed into my teeth. 



( 26 ) 

I am an erring man, as well as you, 

And might by Av'rice be corrupted too 5 - 

But, be my condudt whatfo'er it might. 

That ne'er could alter either Wrong or Right. 

Altho' no wealth fhould e'er be deftin'd mine • 

Nay, were I doom'd in poverty to pine, 

Still with contempt I'd inwardly behold 

The greedy tribe whofe guilt had purchas'd gold } 

Content that Fortune may be ftill denied, 

If by the pangs of Innocence fupplied I 

For me be never ftruggling victim tore 

From friends, from freedom, and his native fhore ! 

Give me no fields where fruits luxuriant wave, 

Whofe culture ever curs'd a lingle Have ! 

To me how bitter were the fweetefl: food, 

Whofe feed was nourifh'd by one wretch's blood I 

To me no beauties e'er could grace the foil, 

That ow'd its tillage to reludant toil ! 

Nor Flattry's voice, norMuiic's notes I'd hear, [ear I 

Still whips would wound , and flirieks would pierce mine 

And, tho' I own'd whate'er was rich or rare, 

I'd dream of chains, of exile, and defpair ! 

Then take, ye tyrants, all that gold can grant I 

Be jnine the heartfelt reditude you want* ! 

Do 

* This is not addreffed to planters in general (among whom 
there are undoubtedly many men of integrity) ; but the fpecula- 
tors in human blood on/y. 



( 27 ) 

Bo your fair fields with pipe or fong refound ? 
No I chains and fcourges echo all around I 
Thro' verdant meads yon Hmpid waters flow, 
But fcarce a freeman there is feen to go ! 
Not gay to me yon gaudy mountain's fide, 
There fickly Slavery " work'd and wept," and died I 
Can I behold yori manfion with a fmile ? 
Unwilling labour rear'd the fplendid pile ! 
Can all Lucinda's outward charms infpire 
A tender feeling, or ^ foft defire ? 
When ev'ry gem the cruel creature wears, 
Was bought by flreams of blood, and floods of tears. 

If (Heaven avert it I) flaves e'er work'd for me, 
Eafy, I think, their daily talks Ihould be. 
With lodging, raiment, and nutritious food, 
I'd make their lives as happy as I coiUd. 

Again, perhaps, another fage will fay, 
^' This is a traitor, niuho receives our pay l 
** He, tho' by duty bound to guard our laws, 
^' Dares to efpoufe the flave's rebellious caufe ! 
" Should factious Negroes rife againfl: their lord, 
" Durfl: he refufe to draw his venal fword ? 
" Is he not then at leafl; as bad as we, 
" Who helps to hind the men he wifhesyr^^/" 

The heavy charge I muft confefs too true ; 
I am accomplice in the guilt with you ! 

D ij But 



( 28 ) 

But diflant be the day my weapon draws 
Againft whoever fights in Freedom's caufe ! 
If Britain bid, obey her fervants mud ; 
Yet mull I ligh — if Britain be unjufl I 
If by our hands their harmlefs blood be fpilt^ 
With Britain's lawgivers remains the guilt I 

Statefmen and Patriots ! does it well agree 
With you — the guardians of the brave and free 
For the emolument of fordid trade, 
To give fuch villanies a legal aid * ? 
Be not your pity to one race confin'd ; 
But rife the benefactors of mankind ! 
Let Afric's children tread their native fhore ; 
And British Ruffians ravage them no more ! 
The galling chains of Servitude remove, 
And leave them all to Liberty and Lovef ! 



Barracks, "> 



Sto NEYHILL B ARRACKS, "^ 3 T A N Z A S 

LiNGUANEA, 



* Suppofing ('^hich yet remains to be proved) that the Afri- 
can Slave-Trade is aftually of commercial advantage to Great 
Britain. 

-f- If the reader imagine I here recommend the romantic, and 
as yet impr^dticable, fchenie of emancipating the Negroes iq thp 
Weft-Indies 5 he greatly mifunderftands me. My wifhes (how- 
ever obfcurely they may be expreffed), though when firft form- 
ed, no^; encouraged by the llighteft or moft diftant hopes of gra- 
tification j did then, as now, perfeftly coincide with what 1 conr 
ceive to be the laudable views of the focieties fince inftituted, for 
the abolition of the trade to Africa for flaves j the meliorating 
the condition of thofe already in the iflands j and, perhaps, in time, 
the gradual eftablifhment of their freedom. 



II III WU" 



STANZAS 



Execution of a NEGRO, at Spa?iiJh-tow?i, Jamaica^ 
Augiijl 1785*. 

W HEN Brutus ftruck the fatal Heel 

Through the Imperial Caefar's breaft, 
The glorious deed, the patriot's zeal, 

Stood thro' the fuhjedt world confefs'd. 
Nor yet has time deitroy'd the name, 

Impartial ages love to praife ; 
In ftory brightly fhines his fame, 

Immortal as the poet's lays. 
Yet Brutus fiabb'd a gen'rous heart, 

In whofe affections fall he grew ; 
To whom he ow'd a filial part, 

It was a parent Brutus flew. 
He never felt the galling chain, 

The lalh that lacerates the flave ; 
But favours (all conferr'd in vain) 

Were the fole fetters Csefar gave ! 

But 

* This unhappy man had run off the eftate to which he be- 
, longed. Having been feme time afterwards met by one of the 
book-keepers, who attempted to feize him, a ftruggle enfued, in 
vvhich the white man was killed. 



( 30 ) 

But fee r poor Azubal in torments dies I 

At which my foul in agonies recoils I 
See how he writhes I Ah hear his horrid cries \ 

Whihl with flow cruelty the furnace broils ! 
Say, what was Azubal's atrocious crime, 

Compar'd to Brutus' celebrated deed ? 
(Candour regards no colour and no clime ; 

And Freedom fmiles as oft as tyrant's bleed 1) 

No friendly bofom did he wound ; 

No a6ls of kindnefs had he known ; 
Compell'd to till a foreign ground, 

For ever exil'd from his own I 
Still agoniling mem'ry drew 

The fweets that blefs'd his Afric's Ihore i 
The days of flumb'ring eafe he knew ; 

The friends he mull behold no more ! 
Indignant Hill recalls the day 

European ruffians firft drew near ; 
When, vainly Itruggling, forc'd away^ 

From all that ever could be dear I 
Beneath reludant labour faint. 

Say what reward awaits his pains ? 
The whip's the folace of his plaint ; 

And reft is granted but in chains I 



Ideal 



( 31 ) 

ideal lofs of Liberty infpir'd 

The haughty Roman to deitroy his friend ; 
But keener injuries the Negro fir'd 

To end a tyrant, and to kill a fiends 
Brutus Hill feems a parricide to me, 

And Reafon gives reludlantly applaufe ; 
But to poor Azubal my praife is free, 

Who boldly perifh'd in a jufter caufe*. 

* The name of A%uhal is fiftitlous 5 I wifh I could add alfd 
that the circumftances are imaginary. But thefe verfes were ac- 
tually written a few days after the execution of a Negro, who 
was roajled to death at ajlowjire on the race-courfe near Spaniih- 
town, for the crime before mentioned. Of the many ftrong ar- 
guments which have been urged in favour of the abolition of the 
Slavc-Trade, one of the moft obvious and incontrovertible, is 
furely this : That the cpiillant importation of favage and untamed 
fpirits into the iflands, not only fubjefts the white inhabitants to 
frequent alarm, dangei", and fometimes death itfelf (to which they 
are feldom or never expofed from the Creole Negroes) j but alfo 
affords the plea of neceffity to punishments the moft fliocking to 
humanity, aad highly difgraceful to the colonies of a civilized 
nation. 



tHE ENIii 



ENTERED IN STATIONERS HALL. 



yusr PUBLISHED, 

fej James Robertson, N° 39, South Bridge-Streetj 

Price 6s. in Boards, or ys. Bound, 

(Illujlrated with an elegant Frontif piece.) 

A New Edition, carefully corre£ted and improved^ 



OF THE 



POEMS OF OSSIA'N, 



SON OF FINGAL. 

TRANSLATED 

By JAMES MACPHERSON, Es(Luire. 

Though the Works of this celebrated Bard, have 
long Unce been tranllated into perhaps every lan- 
guage in Europe, he has hitherto been, in fome de- 
gree, a ftranger in this country. The high price of the 
book placed it beyond the purchafe of the moil nu- 
merous clafs of readers. The prefent octavo edition, 
though at near half the former price, contains fome 
important articles omitted in the late edition, and is, 
in point of elegance, at leaft not inferior to any pub- 
Hfhed in London. The publifl:ier can now congratu- 
late his countrymen on having rendered univerfally 
acceffible, a Poet long diflinguiflied for clallical en- 
tertainment and philofophical inftrudion. 



