Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/immediateemancipOObrou 



IMMEDIATE EMANCIPATION. 



THE SPEECH 



LORD BROUGHAM 

IN THE HOUSE OF LOROS, 

ON TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20th, 1838, 

ON 

SLAVERY AND THE SLAVE-TRADE. 



LONDON : 

PRINTED FOR THE CENTRAL ExAIANCIPATION COMMITTEE ; 

AND 

SOLD BY J. HADDON, CASTLE STREET, FINSBURY ; AND ALL OTHER 
BOOKSELLERS. 



Price One Penny. 



75-gfe.6a 



^ 



ANTI-SLAVERY PUBLICATIONS. 



1. THE BRITISH EMANCIPATOR: a Paper published every 
alternate Wednesday, under the Sanction of the Central Negro Emancipation 
Committee. Price 3d. 

2. A NARRATIVE OF EVENTS, since the First of August 
1834. By James Williams, an Apprenticed Labourer in Jamaica. Price Id. 

3. The Same: with a Report of Evidence taken at Brow^n's, 
Town and St. Ann's Bay, under a Commission of Inquiry from His Excellency 
Sir Lionel Smith, directed to George Gordon, Esq., and John Daughtrey, Esq. 

4. A STATEMENT of FACTS, illustrating the Administration 
of the Abolition Law, and the Sufferings of the Negro Apprentices in the 
Island of Jamaica. Price 2d. 

Printed by John Haddon, Castle Street, Finsbury, and to be had of 
all Booksellers. 



LORD BROUGHAM'S SPEECH. 



I do not think, my lords, that on any other occasion but one, in 
the whole course of my parliamentary life, I have ever risen, in 
either house, with so much anxiety as that with which I now pre- 
sent myself to your lordships' notice. The occasion on which 
alone I ever experienced a similar feeling", was that on which I 
brought under the consideration of the House of Commons the 
conduct pursued in our West India Islands towards those of our 
unhappy brethren who were there in a state of slavery and suffer- 
ing. On that occasion, I felt that on the result of the great debate 
in which the House of Commons then engaged, depended, not 
only the interests of the unfortunate negro race then existing in 
the West Indies, but the ultimate fate of the whole of that race 
in future time. But I have something now to maintain my spi- 
rits, my lords, which I did not enjoy at the period to which I 
have just alluded. For, whereas then the sky was dark around 
me, whereas then there was scarcely a ray of hope to cheer me, 
whereas every thing combined to inspire fear and dismay, we are 
now happily arrived at such a point in the discussion of this most 
important affair as to throw a bright light over the path on which 
we are about to enter, and to warrant us in entertaining the expec- 
tation of an almost immediate and most satisfactory result of our 
labours. I attribute much of this to the debate to which I have 
just alluded. I must add, my lords, that I shall feel gratified 
beyond measure, if, through my means, the House of Lords should 
be recommended to the favourable feelings of the country by lead- 
ing the way to a safe, practical, but glorious settlement of a ques- 
tion in which the country feels so deep an interest. My lords, if 
your lordships already enjoy the favourable opinion of the country, 
depend upon it that that opinion wiU be maintained and increased 
by the adoption of this course ; and if, on the other hand, your 
lordships should unhappily, by any accidental differences of opin- 
ion, find yourselves in a situation in which you have any part of 
the favourable opinion of the country to recover, I know no surer, 
no more speedy mode by which that desirable object may be ac- 
complished. But, my lords, I do not rest my case and my appeal 
to your lordships on this ground. I claim your concurrence in my 
motion from your justice ; I claim it from your reason ; I claim it 
from your consciences ; I claim it from your duty to God and 
man ; I claim it from a due consideration to your own consistency. 
Follow up in 1838 the wise and Christian principles which you 
asserted in 1888 ; that is all that I require of you. My lords, I 
will rush at one into the midst of this argument. I will delay no 
longer on the outskirts of the ground. 1 will not waste another 
moment in prefatory matter. 

I will come at once to the subject of the Slave-Trade ; that is 



4 

the question winch I bring before you; that is the usage which I 
have alrcad}^ here and elsewhere denounced. On that subject 
there can be no difference of opinion. On that subject we have 
reason, argument, fact, experience, all on our side. I call upon 
your lordships to take the matter into your own hands. I call upon 
the Parliament of this country to legislate upon it. To use the words 
of Mr. Canning, I will tnist no master of slaves to give laws respect- 
ing slavery. Yet on the subject of the slave-trade I can set before 
your lordships the example of those masters, and I call on you to fol- 
low their example, and to put it down. My lords, I hold iiimyhand 
a document of great importance, which I thank Heaven I have lived 
to sec, proceeding from the Legislature of Jamaica itself. This 
document proceeds from masters of slaves. It proceeds from the 
representatives of all the slave-owners of the Island of Jamaica ; and 
on this occasion, feeling that they represented the slaves themselves, 
they have approached the Sovereign with a unanimous address, 
thankful, as they express themselves, tardily thankfid, that the slave 
traffic has been now put down by the Imperial Parliament for above 
thirty years, and beseeching the Sovereign, with the advice and as- 
sistance of Parhament, to consummate the great work, to prohibit 
for ever the traffic in human beings, and to join with all the other 
powers of Europe interested in the trade in the only effectual re- 
medy for the evil — namely, to declare that to be piracy and mur- 
der by the law of nations which is already piracy and murder by 
the law of God. My lords, the terms in w^hich the Legislature of 
Jamaica have expressed themselves are these: "Nor can vve 
forego the higher position, as a question of humanity : represent- 
ing all classes in the island, we consider ourselves entitled to offer 
to your Majesty the respectful remonstrance to the continuance of 
this condemned traffic in human beings. As a community com- 
posed of the descendants of Africa as well as of Britain, we are 
anxious to advance the character of the country, and we, therefore, 
entreat your Majesty to exert your interest with foreign powers to 
cause this trade at once to be declared piracy, as the only effectual 
]neans of putting it down, and thereby grace the commencement 
of your auspicious reign." 

My lords, I will not stop here to remind the lawgivers of Jamaica 
why' it is that the slave-trade is a crime of so deep a dye as that 
which they justly describe it to be. I will not stop here to remind 
them that" if slavery existed no more in the West Indies than it 
does in England, that if the West India negro had no lash applied 
to his back, that if there were no prisons, no handcuffs, no collars, 
no chains, no treadmills, no starvation, no means of extorting ex- 
cessive labour from slavery in the West Indies, the slave-trade 
would not be that which it is. That which they so happily de- 
nounce, that which they so well call a crime, not a trade, that 
which brings over unhappy Africans to the islands of the West, 
would no longer inflict the misery which they now call on their 
Sovereign to relieve. But, my lords, that you should ever unite 
your voices with theirs in maintaining the horrors to which I have 
alluded, is a consummation so httle to be dreaded that I will not 
delay you longer on that point. 



And, therefore, only recalling your lordships' attention to what 
I stated to you on a former occasion, recalling your lordships' at- 
tention to the facts J. then unfolded, the pernicious influence of 
head-money, and, above all, the uninterrupted trade in slaves car- 
ried on by Portugal and Spain, I now implore your lordships to 
join in .the only measure that can effectually prevent it. Since 
those statements were made, my lords, they have been promul- 
gated all over the kingdom. They have met with no contradic- 
tion, nor excited the least complaint in any quarter, except that 
many have said the case was understated ; and that in one place, 
and only in one, I have been charged with exaggeration. That 
exception is this — that in a daily newspaper, the principal one on 
the part of the Government, but certainly from no fault of its re- 
spectable conductor, I have read with astonishment, and I repel 
the insinuation with scorn, that I had acted the part of an advo- 
cate, and that my facts were misrepresented and exaggerated. 
How dares any man so to charge me ? How dares any man, with- 
out giving his name, to vent so false, so slanderous an imputation ? 
I come forward in my own proper person, I state my case, I drag* 
the criminal to justice, I defy the evil-doer, I defy his defender, 
and I challenge investigation. How dares any man who shrinks 
and skulks under a false name, charge me with having spoken 
like an advocate from a brief, and with having misrepresented the 
facts ? My lords, the absurdity of this charge outstrips its malice. 
I stated that negroes, in order to hghten the ship when chased, 
were throwm overboard by pairs, in fetters, to insure their being 
drowned before they could be captured by the cruizer to give evi- 
dence against their murderers. The answer to this is, that this 
man (if he be a man) has been on board slave ships, and has never 
seen such a practice ! I stated that the fetters of the slaves were 
not locked, but rivetted in the forge. The answer is, that he has 
been on board slave ships, and has seen fetters ; and that those 
fetters were locked, not rivetted in the forge. How dares any man 
deny a fact upon such a trumpery allegation ? As if it were any- 
thing like a proof that a crime had not been committed, that a cer- 
tain individual did not happen to be present at its commission ! 
According to this, ten, twenty, or a hundred persons might prove 
a murder which they saw with their own eyes ; and another might 
come forward and say, " The accusation is false, for I was not pre- 
sent when the crime was done ! " My lords, did I not state my 
authority ? Did I not avouch my author ? Did I not say that by 
Commodore Hayes, of her Majesty's navy, I was put in possession 
of the facts? And, so far from any exaggeration, T did not state 
scarcely half the atrocities which Commodore Hayes has since de- 
scribed in his despatch ! 

I will now tell you, my lords, what I withheld. I call upon my 
noble friend, the noble Marquis, the late Governor of Jamaica, 
himself a planter, himself a proprietor of slaves, to say whether he 
did not know a vessel with a space of only three feet and a half 
between the decks — 

Lord SLIGO— Two and a half. 
a2 



6 

Lord BROUGHAM — There, my lords, I am understating again 
— with a space of only two feet and a half between the decks, a 
hundred and fifty of these wretched beings had been crowded and 
jammed in a way in which no Christian would treat the lower 
animals ? I ask my noble friend whether he did not know of 
such a vessel, a vessel which had become to all the senses a nui- 
sance not fit to be described ? The ophthalmia had broken out in 
that vessel to a considerable extent ; and whenever a poor wretch 
was seized with it, instead of having medical assistance, instead of 
a surgeon being called in to relieve his sufferings, he was instantly, 
and in his chains, flung overboard to stop the infection. I will no 
longer, my lords, be charged with making under-statements. I 
formerly told your lordships that one ship had brought 700 slaves ; 
and I stopped there, for I thought it was enough to harrow up the 
feelings of all. But, my lords, there was another ship which 
brought a cargo of 980 of these poor miserable, unoffending beings ; 
and out of those 980, without accident, without any direct murder, 
without any of them having been thrown overboard in chase, how 
many do your lordships think perished on the voyage ? No fewer 
than 600 became the victims of the hardships and sufferings inse- 
parable from the traffic, and from the effects of the pestilential 
hold in which they were confined. Four other ships sailed from 
the same port with 2,400 negroes on board, of whom no fewer 
than 1,500 fell a sacrifice on the voyage. As long as the slave 
trade was only contraband, this foul calculation was constantly 
made : " If we escape three or four times, and are taken once, — 
nay, if we escape only one-half the times, and are captured the 
other half, the profits are so enormous — twenty, thirty, fifty thou- 
sand pounds on one voyage — that the risk is well worth running, 
and, therefore, run it we will." In the year 1809, I had the sin- 
gular felicity of laying the axe to the root of such traffic, and of 
stopping all such calculations, by making the slave trade felony, 
and punishing it as such. I knew that they who would run the 
risk when the thing could be reduced to a calculation of profit and 
loss would be slow to put their heads into that halter which, like 
all other felons, their crimes deserved. The bill was passed unani- 
mously through all its stages in the House of Commons ; and since 
that i^eriod, since it has been made felony, I will venture to say, 
that though English capital may be covertly employed through 
many channels in promoting the traffic, English subjects have 
ceased personally to engage in it. The like course must be taken 
if we would put an end to the same crimes in other countries. 
Piracy and murder must be called by their right names, and visited 
with their appropriate penalties. That the Spanish and Portuguese 
traders now make the same calculations which I have been de- 
scribing is a certain fact. I will name one. Captain Jura, of the 
ship Socorro, who on being captured, had the effrontery to boast 
that he had made fourteen slave voyages, and that this was the 
first time he had been taken. Well might he resolve to run so 
slight a risk for such vast gains ; but had the fate of a felon pirate 
awaited him, not all the gains which might tempt his sordid nature 
would have prevailed upon him to encounter that hazard. 



I formerly recouated instances of murder done by -wholesale in 
the course of the chase of our cruizers. I might have told a more 
piteous tale ; and I will no longer be accused of understating this 
part of the case either. Two vessels were pursued. One after 
another negroes were seen to be thrown overboard, to the number 
of a hundred and fifty, of all ages — the elder and stronger ones 
loaded with their fetters, to prevent them from swimming or 
floating — the weaker were left unchained to sink or expire ; and 
this horrible spectacle was presented to the eyes of our cruizers' 
men : they saw, unable to lend any help, the water covered with 
those hapless creatures, the men sinking in their chains ; the women, 
and — piteous sight ! — the infants and young children, struggling out 
their little strength in the water, till they too were swallowed up, 
and disappeared ! 

I now approach a subject, not indeed, more full of horrors, or 
of greater moment, but on which the attention of the people has 
for some time past been fixed with an almost universal anxiety, 
and for your decision upon which they are now looking with the 
most intense interest, let me add, with the liveliest hopes. I need 
not say, that I mean the great question of the condition into which 
the slaves of our Colonies were transferred, as preparatory to their 
liberation — a subject upon which your table has been loaded with 
so many petitions from millions of your fellow-countrymen. It is 
right that I should first remind your lordships of the anxious appre- 
hensions which were entertained in 1883, when the Act was passed, 
because a comparison of those fears with the results of the measure, 
will form a most important ingredient of the argument which 1 am 
about to urge for the immediate liberation of the apprentices. I 
well remember how uneasy all were in looking forward to the first 
of August, 1834, when the statt of slavery was to cease, and I 
myself shared in those feelings of alarm when I contemplated the 
possible event of the vast, but yet untried experiment. My fears 
proceeded first from the character of the masters. I knew the 
nature of man, fond of power, jealous of any interference with 
its exercise, uneasy at its being questioned, ofFended at its being 
regulated and constrained, averse above all to have it wrested from 
his hands, especially after it has been long enjoyed, and its posses- 
sion can hardly be severed from his nature. But I also was aware 
of another and a worse part of human nature. I knew that whoso 
has abused power, clings to it with a yet more convulsive grasp. 
I dreaded the nature of man, prone to hate whom he has injured — 
because I knew that law of human weakness which makes the 
oppressor hate his victim, makes him who has injured never for- 
give, fills the wrong-doer with vengeance against those whose 
right it is to vindicate those injuries on his own head. I knew 
that this abominable law of our evil nature is not confined to 
different races, contrasted hues, and strange features, but pre- 
vails also between white man and white — for I never yet knew 
any one hate me, but those whom I had served, or those who 
had done me some foul injustice. Why then should I expect 
other feelings to burn within the planter's bosom, and govern 
his conduct towards the unhappy beings who had suffered so 



B 

much and so long at his hand ? But on the part of the slaves 
I was not without some anxiety when I considered the corrupt- 
ing effects of that degrading- 'system imder which they had for 
ages groaned, and recognized the truth of the saying in the 
first and the earliest of profane poets, that " the day which makes 
a man a slave, robs him of half his value." I well might think 
that the West Indian slave offered no exception to this maxim ; 
that the habit of compulsory labour might have incapacitated 
him from voluntary exertion; that over-much toil might have 
made all work his aversion ; that never having been accustomed 
to provide for his own wants, while all his supplies were fur- 
nished by others, he might prove unwilling or unfit to work for 
himself, the ordinary inducements to industry never having ope- 
rated on his mind. In a word, it seemed not unlikely that long 
disuse of freedom might have rendered him too familiar with his 
chains to set a right value on liberty ; or that, if he panted to be 
free, the sudden transition from the one state to the other, the in- 
stantaneous enjoyment of the object of his desires might prove 
too strong for his uncultured understanding, might overset his 
principles, and render him dangerous to the public peace. Hence 
it^ was that I entertained some apprehensions of the event, and 
yielded reluctantly to the plan proposed of preparing the negroes 
for the enjoyment of perfect freedom by passing them through 
the intermediate state of indentured apprenticeship. Let us nov/ 
see the results of their sudden though partial liberation, and how 
far those fears w^ere realized ; for upon this must entirely depend 
the solution of the present question — whether or not it is safe 
now to complete the emancipation, which, if it only be safe, 
we have not the shadow of right any longer to withhold. — Well, 
then, let us see. 

The First of August arrived : that day so confidently and joy- 
ously anticipated by the poor slaves, and so sorely dreaded by 
their hard task-masters : and if ever there was a picture inte- 
resting to look upon — if ever there was a passage in the history 
of a people redounding to their eternal honour — if ever there was 
a complete refutation of all the scandalous calumnies which had 
been heaped upon them for ages, as if in justification of the 
wrongs which we had done them, that picture, and that passage 
are to be found in the uniform and unvarying history of that 
people throughout the whole of the West India Islands. Instead 
of the fires of rebelhen, lit by a feeling of lawless revenge and 
resistance to oppression, the whole of those islands were, like 
an Arabian scene, illuminated by the light of contentment, joy, 
peace, and good-will towards all men. No civilized people, after 
gaining an unexpected victory, could have shown more deli- 
cacy and forhearance than was exhibited by the slaves at the 
great moral consummation which they had attained. There 
was not a look or a gesture which could offend the eyes of 
their masters. Not a sound escaped from negro lips which 
could wound the ears of the most feverish planter in the islands. 
All was joy, mutual congratulation, and hope. The negroes felt 



9 

tliat tli-eir fetters had been loosed^, they looked forward whh ex- 
pectatioa-4;o the time when they should be struck ofF, and when 
even the degrading* marks which they had left should be wholly 
effaced. This peaceful joy, this delicacy towards the feehngs of 
others, was all that was to be seen, heard, or felt, on that occasion, 
over all the chain of the Antilles. Amusements there were none 
that day— not even those amusements by which the negroes liad 
been accustomed to beguile the hard lot of slaves, and which re- 
minded them of the country of their forefathers; no, for the 
negroes are eminently a pious race, and they kept as a sacred Sab- 
bath the day of then- liberation. They enjoy the advantages of 
much rehgious instruction, and partake in a large measure of spi- 
ritual consolation. These blessings they derive, not from the mi- 
nistrations of an estabhshed church (not that such mmistrations 
are withheld from them), but other instructors are found more con- 
versant with their feeUngs, and therefore more acceptable to them. 
They had the meek and humble pastor, who although, perhaps, in- 
ferior in secular accomplishments, was not the less calculated to 
guide them in the paths of religion. But tlie Missionary, not set 
above them by great learning — not too refined by any peculiarities 
so as to differ from them — passing the time among them during 
the week in the same way as he ministers to them on the Sabbath 
— ^lie is their friend in common matters, as well as their guide in 
religion. Nor can I pass over this part of the case, without offer- 
ing my humble tribute of heartfelt admiration of the labour and 
zeal of these pious and disinterested men. I know, my lords, that 
if I were to appeal on this subject to my noble friend (Lord Sligo), 
he would repeat the testimony he elsewhere bore to the same high 
merits, when he promulgated his honest opinion that, "^ for the 
origin of all religious feeling among the negroes, it is among the 
missionaries and not the clergy we must look." And therefore it 
was, that fourteen years ago I felt all the anxiety to which I have 
referred, when it was my lot to drag before the Commons of Eng- 
land the persecutors of one of the most devoted, most pious, and 
most unfortunate of that class of men, who, because of his self- 
devotion, had been hunted down, and made to die the death, for 
merely teaching the gospel of peace to the negroes in one of the 
West India Islands. And then it was, and I glory in the recollec- 
tion, that the first of those blows was struck of which we now 
happily live to witness the result — when the first step was taken 
towards rendering the negro in our colonies happy, free, and en- 
lightened. 

Weil, the first of August came, and so far from the day of Eman- 
cipation being one of riot and debauchery, the whole of the negro po- 
pulation kept it as a most sacred festival, and in this light I am 
convinced it will ever be viewed in the West Indies to the end of 
time. All the churches of the islands were crowded from early 
dawn with congregations of orderly, well-behaved, pious j^ersons 
— five or six times each church was filled, and as soon as emptied 
filled again — all pressing forward, not coldly to comply with a for- 
mal ceremonial, not to give mouth worship or eye worship, but to 

a3 



10 

render humble and hearty thanks to God for their freedom at 
length bestowed. In that island, where the bounty of nature 
seems to provoke the appetite to indulgence, and to scatter with a 
profuse hand all the means of excitement, I state the fact when I 
say, not one negro was, on that first day of August, found in a 
state of intoxication. Three hundred and forty thousand slaves in 
Jamaica were at once set free on that day ; and the peaceful fes- 
tivity of these simple men was disturbed only on a single estate, 
in one parish, by the irregular conduct of three or four persons, 
who were immediately kept in order, and tranquillity in one hour 
restored. 

But it was predicted the termination of slavery was to be the 
end of all labour ; that no man would work unless compelled — 
much less would any one work for hire. The cart-whip was to 
resound no more — and no more could exertion be obtained from 
the indolent African. I set the fact against these predictions. I 
never have been in the West Indies ; I was one of those whom 
under the name of reasoners and theorists, and visionaries, all 
planters pitied for incurable ignorance of Colonial affairs ; one of 
those who were forbidden to meddle with matters of which they 
only could judge who had the practical knowledge of experienced 
men on the spot obtained. Therefore, I now appeal to the fact ; 
and I also appeal to one who has been in the West Indies ; is him- 
self a planter, and was an eye-witness of the things upon which I 
call for his confirmatory testimony. It is to my noble friend 
(Lord Shgo) that I appeal. He knows, for he saw, that ever since 
slavery ceased there has been no want of inclination to work in 
any part of Jamaica, and that labour for hire is now to be had 
without the least difficulty by all who can afford to pay wages ; 
the apprentices cheerfully working for those who will pay them, 
during the hours not appropriated to their masters. My noble 
friend made an inquisition as to the state of this important matter 
in a large part of his government ; and I have his authority for 
stating, that in nine estates out of ten, labourers for hire were to 
be had without the least difficulty. Yet this was the people of 
whom we were told with a confidence that set all contradiction at 
defiance, with an insulting pity for the ignorance of us who had no 
local experience, that without the lash there would be no work 
done, and that when it ceased to vex him, the African would sink 
into sleep. The prediction is found to have been ridiculously 
false ; the negro peasantry is as industrious as our own ; and wages 
furnish a more effectual stimulus than the scourge. Oh, but, said 
the men of colonial experience — the true practical men — this may 
do for some kinds of produce. Cotton may be planted — coffee 
may be picked — indigo may be manufactured — all these kinds of 
work the negro may probably be got to do ; but at least the cane 
will cease to grow — the cane-piece can no more be hoed — nor the 
plant be hewn down — nor the juice boiled — and sugar will altoge- 
ther cease out of the land. Now let the man of experience stand 
forward, the practical man, the inhabitant of the Colonies — I re- 
quire that he now come forth with his prediction, and I meet him 



11 

with the fact. Let him but appear ; and I answer for it, we shall 
hear him prophesy no more. Put to silence by the fact, which 
even these confident men have not the courage to deny, they will 
at length abandon this untenable ground. Twice as much sugar 
by the hour was found in my noble friend's inquiry (Lord Shgo) 
to be made since the apprenticeship, as under the slave-system, 
and of a far better quality ; and one planter on a vast scale has 
said that, with twenty free-labourers he could do the work of a 
hundred slaves. But linger not on the islands where the gift of 
freedom has been but half bestowed — look to Antigua and Ber- 
muda, where the wisdom and the virtue has been nobly displayed, 
of at once giving complete emancipation. 

Antigua! — what has happened there? There, there 

has not been even the system of indentured apprentices. In 
Antigua and the Bermudas, nor would there have been at Mont- 
serrat, if the Upper House had not thrown out the bill which was 
prepared by the planters themselves [there has been no such 
preparatory step.] In Antigua and the Bermudas, since the first 
of August, 1834, not a slave or indentured apprentice was to be 
found. Well, had idleness reigned there — had indolence supplant- 
ed work — had there been any deficiency of crop? No. On the 
contrary, there had been an increase, and not a dimunition of crop. 
But then we were told by those whose experience was reckoned 
worth so much more than our reasoning, that even if by some 
miracle industry should be found compatible with liberty, of which, 
indeed, we in our profound ignorance of human nature had been 
wont to regard it as the legitimate offspring ; at all events, the 
existence of order and tranquilHty was altogether hopeless. After 
so long being inured to the abject state of slavery, its sudden ces- 
sation, the instant transition from bondage to freedom, must produce 
convoilsions all over the colonies, and the reign of rebellion and 
anarchy must begin. Not content with reasoning, the practical 
men condescend to tax their luxuriant imaginations for tropes to 
dazzle and delude whom their arguments might fail to convince. 
The child could not walk alone if his leading-strings were with- 
drawn — the full-grown tree could not be transplanted — the limbs 
cramped by the chain could not freely move — the maniac might 
not safely be freed from the keeper's control — and Mr. Windham 
used to bring the play of his own lively fancy upon the question^ 
and say that if it was a cruel thing to throw men out of the window, 
he saw no great kindness in making up for the injury you had 
done by throwing them back again into the house. Alas! for all 
those prophecies, and reasonings, and theories, and fine figures of 
speech ! The dawn of the First of August chased away the phan- 
toms, and instead of revolt and conspiracy, ushered in order and 
peace. But the fanciful men of experience, the real visionaries of 
the West Indies, though baffled, were not defeated. Only wait, 
they said, till Christmas — all who know the negro character then 
dread rebellion — all experience of negro habits shows that to be the 
true season of revolt. We did wait for this dreaded Christmas ; 
and what was the result ? I will go for it to Antigua, for it is tiie 



12 

strongest case, there belnsf there no indentured apprentices, no 
preparatory state, no transition, the chains being- at once knocked 
off, and the negroes made at once free. For the first time within 
the last thirty years, at the Christmas of the year 1884, martial law 
was not proclaimed in the island of Antigua. You call for facts; 
here is a fact — a fact that speaks vohimes. You appeal to experience, 
here it is, your o^vn experience. And with these facts, and this 
experience before us, I call on those soi disant men of experience 
— those men who scoffed at us — who laughed to scorn what they 
called our visionary, theoretical schemes — schemes that never could 
be carried into effect without rebellion and the loss of the colonies. 
I say, my lords, I call on these experienced men to come forward, 
and. if they can, deny one single iota of the statement I am now 
making. Let those who thought that with the use of those phrases^ 
'' a planter of Jamaica,'' "the West India interest," "residence in 
Jamaica and its experience," flung into the scale of oppression, 
could make that of mercy kick the beam — let them, I say, hear 
what I tell, for it is but the fact that when the chains were knock- 
ed off there was not a single breach of the peace committed either 
on the day itself, or on the Christmas festival which followed. 
Well, my lords, beaten from these two positions, where did the 
experienced men retreat to — under what flimsy pretext did they 
next undertake to disjiarage the poor negro race ? Had I not seen 
it in print, and been otherwise informed of the fact, I could not 
have believed it possible that from any reasonable man any such 
absurdity could issue. They actually held out this last fear, which, 
like the others, was fated to be dissipated by the fact. '' Wait 
only," said they, ^' till the anniversary of the 1st of August, and 
then you will see what the negro character is, and how little these 
indentured apprentices are fit to be intrusted with freedom." Was 
there ever such an absurdity uttered .^ as if, my lords, the man who 
could meet with firm tranquillity and peaceful thankfulness the 
event itself, was likely to be roused to rebellion and rioting by the 
recollection of it a year afterwards ! My lords, in considering this 
matter, I ask you not to take advantage of other men's experience, 
by making its fruits your own — ^to observe what they have done or 
have suffered, and, wdse by the example, to follow or to avoid. 
That indeed is the part of wisdom, and reflecting men pride them- 
selves upon pursuing such a course. But I ask nothing of the 
kind — my desires are more humble— my demand is more moderate 
far. I only ask you to be guided by the results of your own expe- 
rience, to make some gain by that for which you have paid so costly 
a price. Only do not reject the lesson which is said, in the Book 
you all revere, to teach even the most foohsh of our foolish kind, 
only show yourselves as ready to benefit by experience as the fool 
whom it proverbially is able to teach — and all I desire is gained. 

But now, my lords, my task is accomplished, my work is done. 
I have proved my case, and may now call for judgment, I have 
demonstrated every part of the proposition which alone it is ne- 
cessary that I should maintain, to prove the title of the apprentice 
to instant freedom from his task-masters, because I have demon- 



gtl'ated tliat the liberation of the slave has been_ absolutely. 
universally safe — attended with not even' inconvenience, nay, 
productive of ample benefits to his master. I have shown that the 
apprentice works without compulsion, and that the reward of wages 
is a better incentive than the punishment of the lash. I have 
proved that labour for hire may anywhere be obtained as it is 
wanted, and can be purchased — all the apprentices working extra 
hours for hire, and all the free negroes, wherever their emancipation 
has been complete, working hard'er by much for the employers who 
have wherewithal to pay them, than the slave or the apprentice can 
toil for his owner or his master. Whether we look to the noble- 
minded colonies which have at once freed their slaves, or to those 
wlio still retain them in a middle and half-free condition, I have 
shown that the industry of the negro is undeniable, and that it is 
constant and productive, in proportion as he is the director of its 
apphcation and the master of its recompence. But I have gone a 
great deal farther — I have demonstrated by a reference to the 
same experience, the same unquestioned facts, that a more quiet, 
peaceful, inoffensive, innocent race, is not to be found on the face 
of this earth than the Africans— not while dwelhng in their own 
happy country, and enjoying freedom in their natural state, under 
their own palm trees, and by their native streams — but after they 
have been torn away from it, enslaved, and their nature perverted 
in your Christian land — barbarized by the policy of civilized states 
— their whole character disfigured, if it were possible to disfigure 
it — all their feelings corrupted if you could have corrupted them. 
Every effort has been made to spoil the poor African — every re- 
source of wicked ingenuity exhausted to deprave his nature — all 
the inceDtives to misconduct placed around him by the fiend-like 
artifice of Christian civilized men — and his excellent nature has 
triumphed over all your arts — its unnatural culture has failed to 
make it bear the poisonous fruit that might well have been expect- 
ed from such abominable husbandry. Though enslaved and 
tormented, degraded and debased, as far as human industry could 
effect its purpose of making him blood-thu-sty and savage, his 
gentle spirit has prevailed, and preserved, in spite of all your pro- 
phecies, aye, and of all your efforts, unbroken tranquillity over the 
whole Caribbean sea ! Have I not then proved my case ? I show 
you that the whole grounds of the arrangement of Vc3o, the very 
pretext for withholding complete emancipation, alleged incapacity 
for labour, and risk of insurrection, utterly fail. I rely on 3'our own 
records ; I refer to that record which cannot be averred against ; I 
plead the record of your own statute. On what ground does this 
preamble rest the necessity of the intermediate or apprentice state; 
all admitting that nothing but necessity could justify it ? '' Whereas 
it LS expedient that provision should be made for promoting the 
industry, and securing the good conduct of the manumitted slaves." 
These are the avowed reasons for the measure — these its only de- 
fence. All men confessed that were it not for the apprehension of 
liberated slaves not working voluntarily, and not behaving peace- 
ably — of slavery being found to have unfitted them for industry, 



14 

and of a sudden transition to complete freedom being fraught with 
danger to the peace of society — you had no right to make them 
indentured apprentices, and must at once make them wholly free. 
But the fear prevailed which, by the event, I have now a right to 
call a delusion ; and the apprenticeship was reluctantly agreed to. 
The delusion went farther. The planter succeeded in persuading 
us that he would be a vast loser by the change, and we gave him 
twenty millions sterling merely to indemnify him for the supposed 
loss. The fear is found to be utterly baseless — the loss is a phantom 
of the brain — a shape conjured up by the interested parties- to 
frighten our weak minds ; and the only reality in this mockery is 
the payment of that enormous sum to the crafty and fortunate 
magician for his incantations. The spell is dissolved — the charm 
is over — the unsubstantial fabric of calculating alarm, reared by 
the Colonial body with our help, has been crushed to atoms, and 
its fragments scattered to the wind. And now, I ask, suppose 
it had been ascertained in 1883, when you made the Apprentice- 
ship law, that these alarms were absolutely groundless — the mere 
phantom of a sick brain, or contrivance of a sordid ingenuity — 
would a single voice have been raised in favour of the interme- 
diate state .f* Would the words Indentured Apprenticeship ever 
have been pronounced ? Would the man have been found endued 
with the courage to call for keeping the Negro in chains one 
hour after he had been acknowledged entitled to his freedom ? 

I freely admit that formerly, and before the event, when the 
measure was passed, the proof was upon us, who maintained that 
the experiment of emancipation was safe. We did not pretend 
to deny all risk; we allowed the possibility of a loss being sus- 
tained by the planters ; nay, we did more ; we took for granted 
there would be a loss, and a loss to the amount of twenty millions, 
and that vast sum we certainly paid to indemnify them. Then 
we had not the facts with us ; all experience was said to be the 
other way; and because we could only offer argument against 
the opinions of practical men of local knowledge, we were fain 
to let them take every thing their own way, and receive our 
money by way of securing them against the possibility of damage. 
But now the case is reversed ; the facts are all with us ; expe- 
rience has pronounced in our favour, and the burden of the proof 
is thrown on the planter, or whoever would maintain, contrary to 
the result of the trial already made, that there is any risk what- 
ever in absolute emancipation. The case lies in a narrow com- 
pass ; the sudden transition from absolute slavery to apprentice- 
ship — from the condition of chattels to that of men — has been 
made without the least danger whatever, though made without 
the least preparation. It is for them who, in spite of this un- 
doubted fact, maintain that the lesser step of substituting freedom 
for apprenticeship will be dangerous, though made after a pre- 
paration of three years. Therefore I am not bound to maintain 
the opposite proposition, by any one argument or a single fact. 
Nevertheless, I do prove the negative, against those upon whom 
it lies to prove the affirmative ; I gratuitously demonstrate, both 



15 

by argument and by fact, that the transition to freedom from 
apprenticeship ma}^ be safely made. I appeal to the slavery of 
Antigua and Bermuda, where the whole process took place at 
once — where both sterps were taken in one — and where yet there 
was more tranquillity than had ever before been enjoyed under 
the death-like silence of slavery. Nay, I prove even more than 
the safety of the step in question ; for in those colonies the tran- 
sition being so made at once, it follows, a fortiori j that the making 
the haK transition, which alone remains to be made in the rest, 
is doubly free from all possible risk of any kind, either as to 
voluntary labour or orderly demeanour. 

But this is not all — let us look at the subject from another point. 
The twenty millions have been paid in advance, on the supposition 
of a loss being incurred. No loss, but a great gain, has accrued 
to the planter. Then he has received our money for nothing; 
it is money paid under a mistake in fact, to propagate which he 
himself contributed. If such a transaction had happened between 
private parties, I know not that the payer of the money might not 
have claimed it back as paid under mistake ; or if deception had 
been practised, that he was not equitably entitled to recover it. 
But without going so far, of this I am certain, that all men of 
honourable minds would in such circumstances have felt it hard 
to keep the party to his bargain. Again, view the matter from a 
different point, for I am desirous to have it narrowly examined on 
all sides. Suppose it is still maintained that the second step we 
require to be taken will be attended with risk — how much is the 
loss likely to be ? Six years' apprenticeship and the emancipation 
were reckoned at twenty millions. No loss has as yet accrued, 
and four years have elapsed. Then what right have you to esti- 
mate the loss of the two years that remain at more than the 
whole sum? But unless it exceeds that sum, the planter bj^ 
giving up these two years, manifestl}^ loses nothing at all ; for 
he has got his compensation, even supposing the total loss to 
happen in two years, for which the money was given on the 
supposition of a six years' diminished income. But suppose I 
make a present of this concession likewise, and admit that there 
may be a loss in the next two years, as there has been a gain in 
the former four — have not I a right to set off thai gain against 
any loss, and then unless twice as much shall be lost yearly in 
future as has been gained in past years, the planter is on the whole 
a gainer, even without taking the twenty millions into the account ; 
and although there should be that double rate of loss, contrary 
to all probability, even without these twenty millions, he will on 
the whole have lost nothing. But I will not consent to leave 
that vast sum out of the account. It shall go in diminution of 
the loss, if any has been suffered. It shall be reckoned as re- 
ceived by the planters ; and unless they lose during the next two 
years, more than twenty millions over and above the gains they 
have made during the last four, I insist upon it that they be 
deemed to have suffered no loss at aU, even if, contrary to all 
experience and all reason, they now begin to lose by the change. 



16 

Wliat is the consequence of all this? That at the very least vvc 
liaVe a right to make the planters bring their twenty millions to 
account, and give us credit for that sum — so that until 
their losses shall exceed it, they shall have no right whatever to 
complain. 

I take now a new view of the subject, in order that we may 
have left no stone unturned, no part of the whole subject un- 
explored. Have we not at the very least a title to call upon the 
planters to consign the money into a third party's hands — to pay 
it, as it were, into Court — until it shall be ascertained whether 
they sustain any loss at all, and, if any, to what amount.? I defy 
all the quibblers in the world to show what right the planters 
can have, if they insist upon retaining our money, now given for 
nothing, to keep the negroes out of their liberty, that money 
having been paid to compensate a supposed loss, and experience 
having demonstrated that instead of loss, the present change has 
already been to them a gain. My proposal is this, and if the 
planter be of good faith, it must at once settle the question — at 
least, it must bring their sincerity to the test. They say they are 
afraid of a loss by the apprenticeship ceasing ; then let them 
•either pay the money into Court, or keep an account of their 
losses, and if they, at the end of the two years, after emanci- 
pating the apprentices, shall be found to have incurred any loss, 
let them be repaid out of the money ; I agree that they should 
be further compensated should their losses exceed the twenty 
millions, provided they will consent to repay all the money 
that exceeds the losses sustained. This is my proposal — and I 
am as certain of its being fair as I ij.m convinced it will be re- 
jected with universal horror by tlie planers. 

Once more I call upon your lordships to look at Antigua and 
Bermuda. There is no getting over that : no answering it ; no 
repelling the force with which our reason is assailed by the 
example of thirty thousand negroes liberated in one night — libe- 
rated without a single instance of disturbance ensuing, and with 
the immediate substitution of voluntary work for hire in the 
stead of compulsory labour under the whip. There is no getting 
over that — no answering it — no repelling the force with which it 
assails the ordinary reason of ordinary men. But it is said that 
those islands differ from Jamaica and Barbadoes, because they 
contain no tracts of waste or woody ground to which negroes 
may flee away from their masters, conceal themselves, and subsist 
in a Maroon sU\te. I meet the objection at once in front, and 
I pledge myself to annihilate it in one minute by the clock. 
Why should free negroes run awa}^ and seek refuge in the 
woods, if slaves, or half slaves like apprentices, never think of 
escaping? That tlie slave should run away, that the appren- 
tice should fly, is intelligible; but if they do not, why should 
a bettering of their condition increase their inclination to fly ? 
They who do not flee from bondage and the lash ; why should 
they from freedom, wages, independence, and comfort? But 
this' is not all. If you dread their escape and marooning now. 



17 

what the better will you be in 1840? Why are they to be less 
disposed then than now to fly from yen? Is there any thing" 
in the training of the present system to make two years more of 
it disarm all dislike of white severity, all inclmation for the 
state of the Maroon? The minute is not yet out, and I think 
I have disposed of the objection. Surely, surely, we are here 
upon ground often trodden before by the advocates of human 
improvement, the friends of extended rights. This is the kind 
of topic we have so often been fated to meet on other ques- 
tions of deep and exciting interest. The argument is like that 
against the repeal of the Penal Laws respecting Catholics ; if it 
proves any thing, it proves far too much; if there be any sub- 
stance in it, the conclusion is that we have gone too far already, 
and must retrace our steps ; either complete the emancipation of 
the Catholics, or re-enact the penal code. The enemies of free- 
dom, be it civil or religious ; be it political or personal ; are all 
of the same sect, and deal in the same kind of logic. If this 
argument drawn from the danger of negroes eloping in 1838, 
should we emancipate the apprentices, is worth any thing at all, 
it is a reason for not emancipating them in 1840, and consequently, 
for repealing altogether the law of 1833. But I shall not live to 
hear any one man in any one circle of any one part of the globe, 
neitlier in the Old hemisphere nor in the New, venture to 
breathe one whisper in favour of so mischievous a course. But 
I will not stop here. Lives there, my lords, a man so ignorant 
of West Indian society, so blind to all that is passing in those 
regions, as to suppose that the contin-uance of the apprenticeship 
can either better the negro's condition, or win him over to more 
love for his master ? I am prepared to grapple with this part 
also of the argument. I undertake to demonstrate that the state 
of the negro is in but a very few instances better, and in many, 
beyond all comparison, worse than ever it was in the time of 
slavery itself. 

I begin by freely admitting that an immense benefit has been 
conferred by the cart-whip being utterly abolished. Even if the 
lash were ever so harshly or unsparingly or indiscriminately 
applied in execution of sentences pronounced by the magistrate, 
still the difference between using it in obedience to judicial com- 
mand, and using it as the stimulus to labour is very great. The 
negro is no longer treated as a brute, because the motive to his 
exertions is no longer placed without himself in the driver's 
hand. This is, I adinit, a very considerable change for the better 
in his condition, and it is the only one upon which he has to 
congratulate himself since the Act of Emancipation was passed. 
In no one other respect whatever is his condition improved — in 
many it is very much worse. I shall run over a few of these 
particulars, because the view of them bears most materially upon 
this whole question, and I cannot better prove the absolute ne- 
cessity of putting an immediate end to the state of apprentice- 
ship than by showing what the victims of it are daily fated to 
endure. 



18 

First of all, as to the important article of food, to secure a 
supply of which in sufficient abundance, the slave-regulating 
acts of all the islands have always been so anxiously directed — 
I will compare the prison allowance of Jamaica, with the appren- 
tice allowance in Barbadoes, and other colonies, from which we 
have the returns, there being none in this particular from Jamaica 
itself. The allowance to prisoners is fourteen pints weekly of 
Indian corn, and different quantities of other grain ; but com- 
paring one will be sufficient for our purpose. I n Barbadoes the 
allowance to apprentices is only ten pints, while in the Leeward 
Islands and Dominica it is no more than eight pints ! for the 
Crown Colonies the slave allowance, before 1834, was twenty-one 
pints : in the same colonies the apprentice receives but ten, so 
that in the material article of food there is the very reverse of an 
improvement effected upon the negro's condition. Next, as to 
time— it is certain that he should have half a day in the week, the 
Friday, to work his own provision-ground, besides Saturday to 
attend the market, and the Sabbath for rest and religious instruc- 
tion. The_ Emancipation Act specifies forty-five hours as the 
number which he shall work weekly for his master. But these 
are now so distributed as to occupy the whole of Friday ; and 
even in some cases to intrench upon Saturday too. The planter, 
also, counts those hours invariably from the time when the negro, 
having arrived at the place of work, begins his labour. But as it 
constantly happens that some at least of the negroes on an estate 
have severa,! miles to walk from their cottages, all the time thus 
consumed in going and returning is wholly lost to the negro. 
Nay, it is lost to the master as well as the apprentice, and so long 
as he is not compelled to reckon it in the statutory allowance, it 
will continue a loss to both parties. For as no reason whatever 
can be assigned why the negro huts should be on the frontier of 
the plantation, only make the time, frequently as much at 
present as three or four hours a day, consumed in going and re- 
turning, count for part of the forty-five hours a week, and TU 
answer for it ^J/ (he negroes will be provided with cottages near 
the place of their toil. 

The ne:tt topic to which I shall advert, relates to the adminis- 
tration of justice ; and this large and important subject I cannot 
pass over without a word to remind your lordships how httle safe 
it is, how little deserving the name of justice, or anything like 
justi ce, that where you have two classes, you should separate them 
into conflicting parties, until they become so exasperated in their 
resentment, as scarcely to regard each other as brethren of the 
same species; and that you should place all the administration 
of justice in the hands of one dominant class, whose principles, 
whose passions, whose interests are likely to be preferred by 
the judges when they presume to sit where you have placed 
them on the judgment-seat. The chief and puisne judges are 
raised to their situations from amongst the class which includes 
the white men and planters. But worse than that, the jurors 
are taken from the same privileged body : jurors who are to assess 



19 

civil damages in actions for injuries done to the negroes — jurors 
who are to try bills of indictment against the whites for the mal- 
treatment of the blacks — jurors who are to convict or acquit on 
those bills — jurors who are to try the slaves themselves — nay, ma- 
gistrates, jailors, turnkeys, the whole apparatus of justice, both 
administrative and executive, exclusively in the hands of one race ! 
What is the consequence ? Why, it is proverbial that no bills are 
found for the blacks. Six bills of indictment were preferred 
by a humane individual at one assizes ; some for murder, and some 
for bad manslaughter, and every one of these six indictments were 
thrown out. Assizes after assizes the same thing happened, until 
at length wagers were held that no such bill would be found, and 
no one was found to accept them. Well was it for them that they 
declined, for every one of the bills preferred was ignored. Now, 
observe that in proceedings, as your lordships know, before grand 
jurors, not a tittle of evidence is heard for the prisoners ; every 
witness is in favour of the indictment, or finding of the bill ; but 
in all these instances the bills were flung out on the examination 
of evidence solely against the prisoner. Even in the worst cases 
of murder, as certainly and painfully committed as the sun shines 
at noon-day, monstrous to all, the bills were thrown out when half 
the witnesses for the prosecution remained to be examined. Some 
individuals swore against the prisoners, and though others tendered 
their evidence, the jury refused to hear them. Besides, the punish- 
ments inflicted are of monstrous severity. The law is wickedly 
harsh ; its execution is committed to hands that exasperate that 
cruelty. For the vague, undefined, undefinable offence of inso- 
lence, thirty-nine lashes ; the same number for carrying a knife in 
the pocket ; for cutting the shoot of a cane plant, fifty lashes, or 
three months' imprisonment in that most loathsome of all dungeons, 
a West Indian gaol. « 

There seems to have prevailed at all times amongst the gover- 
nors of our colonies a feeling, of which I grieve to say the gover- 
nors at home have ever and anon largely partaken, that there is 
something in the nature of a slave — something in the habits of the 
African negro — something in the disposition of the unfortunate 
hapless victims of our own crimes and cruelties, which requires a 
peculiar harshness of treatment from their rulers, and makes what 
in other men's cases we call justice and mercy, cruelty to society 
and injustice to the law in theirs — inducing us to visit with the ex- 
tremity of rigour in the African, what, if done by our own tribes, 
would be slightly visited or not at all, as though there were in 
the negro nature something so obdurate that no punishment with 
which they can be punished would be too severe. Prodigious, 
portentous injustice ! As if we had any one to blame but ourselves 
— as if we had any right to visit on him that character if it were 
obdurate, those habits if they were insubordinate, that dishonest 
disposition if it did corrupt his character (all of which I deny, 
and which experience proves to be contrary to fact and truth) 
even if these statements were all truth, instead of being foully 
slanderous and absolutely false, we of all men have ourselves to 



20 

blame, ourselves to tax, and ourselves to punish, at least for tlio 
self-abasement, for we have been the very causes of corrupting the 
negro character. If some capricious despot in his career of ordi- 
nary tyranny, were to tax his imagination to produce something 
more monstrous and unnatural than himself, and were to place a 
dove among vultures, or engraft a thorn on the olive tree, much as 
we should marvel at the caprice, we should be still more astounded 
at tlie expectation, which exceeds even a tyrant's proverbial un- 
reasonableness, that he should gather grapes from the thorn, or that 
the dove should be habituated to a tliirst for blood. Yet that is 
the caprice, that is the unreasonable, the foul, the gross, the mon- 
strous, the outrageous, incredible injustice of which we are hourly 
guilty towards the whole of the ill-fated African race ! 

My lords, we fill up the measure of injustice by severely exe- 
cuting laws badl}^ conceived, in a still more atrocious and cruel 
spirit. The whole punishments smell of blood. If the treadmill 
stop in consequence of the languid limbs and exhausted frames of 
the victims, within a minute the lash resounds through the mansion 
of Avoe — if the stone spread out to be broken, do not crumble fast 
enough beneath the arms already scarred, flayed, and wealed by the 
whip, again the scourge tears their half-healed flesh. I myself have 
heard withm the last three hours, from a person who was an eye- 
witness of the appalling and disgusting fact, that a leper was cut 
to pieces by stripes with the rest. And m passing, let me here note 
the universal but cruel joractice of placing the patients stricken 
with infectious diseases in hospitals, and in prisons among others, 
upon almost all private estates ; and the no less unjust and exclu- 
sively West Indian practice of cruelly and stingily compelling the 
prisoners to go out daily and find their own food, instead of the 
master supplying them in the gaol — a refinement of harshness and 
meanness not, I venture to assert, ever reached by the tyrant-mas- 
ter of the Siberian mines. But I was speaking of the public pri- 
son, and there as the leper had been scourged, so when a rciser.ible 
wretch whose legs were one mass of ulcerated flesh from former 
inflictions, gave some off'ence to his task-masters, he was on those 
limbs mangled anew by the merciless application of the lash. I 
liave told you how the bills for murdering negroes were systemati- 
cally thrown out by the Grand Juries. But you are not to imagine 
til at bills are never found against whites. A person of this caste 
had dared, under feelings of excited indignation, to complain to 
the regular constituted authorities. Did he obtain redress ? No, 
instead of receiving for his gallant conduct the thanks of the com- 
munity, he had a bill found against him, which presented him 
as a nuisance ! I have within the last two hours, amid the new 
mass of papers just laid before jouv lordships, culled a sample 
which, I believe, represents the whole odious mass. Eleven 
females have been flogged, starved, lashed, attached to the tread- 
mill, and compelled to work until nature could no longer endure 
their sufferings. At the moment when the wretched victims were 
about to fall ofF— when they could no longer bring down the 
meclianism and continue the movement, they were suspended by 



their arms, and at each revolution of the wheel, received new 
wounds on their members, until, in the language of that law so 
grossly outraged in their persons, they "languished and died." 
Ask you if a crime of this murderous nature went unvisited, and 
if no inquiry was made respecting its circumstances? The forms 
of justice were on this head peremptory, even in the West Indies 
— and those forms, the handmaids of Justice were present, though 
their sacred Mistress was far av/ay. The coroner duly attended, 
and his jury were regularly impannelled. Eleven inquisitions were 
held, eleven inquiries were made, eleven verdicts were returned. 
For Murder? Manslaughter? Misconduct? No; but that "they 
died by the visitation of God." A lie ! — a perjury ! — a blasphemy ! 
The visitation of God ! Yes, for it is among the most awful of 
those \nsitations by which the inscrutable purposes of his will 
are mysteriously accomplished, that he sometimes arms the wicked 
with power to oppress the guiltless : and if there be any visi- 
tation more dreadful than another — and which more tries the faith 
and vexes the reason of erring mortals, it is when Heaven showers 
down upon the earth the plague — not of scorpions — or pestilence 
— or famine — or war — ^but of Unjust Judges and perjured Jurors 
— wretches who pervert the law to wreak their personal ven- 
geance or compass their sordid ends, and forswear themselves 
on the Gospels of God, to the end that injustice may prevail, 
and the innocent be destroyed ! 

" Sed nos immensum Spatiis confecimus aequor, 
Et jam tempus equum fumantia solvere colla.'' 

Now, my lords, it is for the purpose of stopping such enormities 
as these, of correcting the administration of justice, of securing 
the comforts and restraining the torments to which the negroes are 
now subject, of amending the discipline of prisons, and of giving 
the necessary powers for enforcing the local acts — it is with these 
views that I propound to your lordships the first five resolutions, 
to have effect during, T trust, the very brief period which will elapse 
between this hour and the time when freedom is finally established. 
My lords, I entirely concur in what was formerly said by Mr. 
Burke, and afterwards repeated by Mr. Canning, that while the 
making of laws was confined to the owners of slaves, nothing they 
did was ever found real or effectual. And when, perchance, any- 
thing was accomplished, it had not, as Mr. Burke said, " an exe- 
cutive principle." But, when they find you determined to do your 
duty, it is proved, by the example which they have given in pass- 
ing the Apprenticeship Amendment Act, that they will even out- 
strip you, to prevent your interference with them. Therefore, if 
3'our resolutions demonstrate that you are in good earnest, depend 
upon it a corresponding disposition will be evinced on the other 
side of the Atlantic. I look forward, most undoubtedly, to great 
improvements being effected by the step which I propose here, 
and which will be followed up elsewhere. These improvements 
are, however, only to be regarded as temporary expedients, as 
mere palliatives of an enormous mischief; and in no sense substi- 



22 

tutes for that complete and final emancipation which I have de- 
monstrated to be safe, expedient, useful, and imperative. 

Let freedom then be once established, place the negroes on the 
same footing v^ith other men, give them the uncontrolled power 
over their time and labour, and it will become the interest of the 
planter, as well as the rest of the community, to treat the negro 
well, for their comfort and happiness depend on his industry and 
good behaviour. The African, placed on the same footing with 
other men, becomes in reality our fellow-citizen, — to our feelings, 
as well as in his own nature, our equal, our brother. No differ- 
ence of origin or of colour can now prevail to keep the two castes 
apart. The negro, master of his own labour, only induced to lend 
his assistance, if you make -it his interest to help you, yet that aid 
being absolutely necessary to preserve your existence, becomes an 
essential portion of the community, nay, the very portion upon 
which the whole must lean for support. This ensures him all his 
rights ; this makes it not only no longer possible to keep him in 
thraldom, but places him in a complete and intimate union with 
the whole mass of Colonial society. Where the driver and the 
gaoler once bore sway, the lash resounds no more ; nor does the 
clank of the chain any more fall upon the troubled ear ; the fetter 
has ceased to gall the vexed limb, and the very mark disappears, 
which for a while it had left. All races and colours run together 
the same glorious race of improvement. Peace unbroken, harmony 
uninterrupted, calm, unrufiled, reigns in mansion and in field — in 
the busy street, and the fertile valley, where nature, with the 
lavish hand she extends under the tropical sun, pours forth all her 
bounty profusely, because received in the lap of cheerful industry, 
not extorted by hands cramped with bonds. Delightful picture of 
general prosperity and social progress in all the arts of civility and 
refinement ! 

These forms are pleasing to contemplate even in the imagina- 
tion ; but another form is nigh. I do not deny that there is dan- 
ger, nor can I close my eyes to it. The planters, as usual, look to 
the wrong quarter. Their interest tells them that they are in jeo- 
pardy, but it is a false interest, and misleads them as to the nature 
of the risk they run. They, who alwaj's dreaded Emancipation — 
who were alarmed at the prospect of negro indolence, who stood 
aghast at the vision of negro rebellion should the chains cease to 
clink, or the lash to resound through the air, afirighting themselves, 
and scaring you with imaginary apprehensions from the transition 
to entire freedom out of the present intermediate state. But that 
intermediate state is the very source of all their real danger ; and 
I disguise not its magnitude from myself. If through any notion 
of firmness, you remain attached to the present system ; if " the 
hope deferred" — that hope which you have raised in their hearts 
— " make their hearts sick;" if by a frustration of all the expecta- 
tions which they are now cherishing, you shall goad them into the 
entertainment of feelings which, generally speaking, are found 
alien to their nature, but from which no portion of mankind with 
human passions and feelings could at such a conjuncture be totally 



23 

free, — if this infant liberty which you have given them, which j^ou 
have already taught them by high promises to value, and the par- 
tial enjoyment of which has, believe me, only whetted their thirst 
for enjoying the full draught — if, I say, you continue, madly ex- 
cited either by childish prejudices or influenced by devilish machi- 
nations, to swathe the limbs of the giant infant, then I would have 
you to recollect in what neighbourhood you are doing this — then 
I would have you remember that they are within sight of a great 
negro republic, where the chains of the slave were broken by vio- 
lence, and by violence caused by the negro, — then I would have 
you remember that the sparks of this wildfire of resistance which 
is raging to windward, may spread and kindle over all the islands 
of that sea, and that that whole race, from the fierce Coromantin 
to the peaceful Eboe, will be found up in arms, — then, I say, you 
will have to contemplate — 

" The other shape, 

If shape it might be called, that shape had none 

Distinguishable in member, joint, or limb ; 

Or substance might be called that shadow seemed, 

For each seemed either ; black it stood as night, 

Fierce as ten furies, terrible as hell." 

I turn away from the horrid vision, that my eye may rest once 
more upon the prospect of enduring empire, and peace founded upon 
freedom. I regard the freedom of the negro as accomplished and 
sure. Why ? ^Because it is right ; because he has shown himself 
fit for it ; because a pretext, or a shadow of a pretext can no longer 
be devised for withholding that right from its possessor. I know 
that all men at this day take a part in the question, and they will no 
longer bear to be imposed upon, now that they are well informed. 
My reliance is firm and unflinching upon the great change which 
I have witnessed ; the education of the people unfettered by party 
or by sect, witnessed from the beginning of its progress, I may say, 
from the hour of its birth. Yes ! it was not for a humble man like 
me to assist at royal births with the illustrious prince who conde- 
scended to grace the pageant of his opening session, or the Great 
Captain and statesmen in whose presence I am now proud to speak. 
But with that illustrious prince, and with the father of the queen, I 
assisted at that other birth, more auspicious still. With them, and 
with the head of the house of Russell, incomparably more illustrious 
in my eyes, I watched over its cradle ; I marked its growth ; I 
rejoiced in its strength ; I witnessed its maturity ; I have been 
spared to see it ascend the veryheight of supreme power; directing 
the councils of the state; accelerating every gTcat improvement; 
uniting itself with every good work ; propping all useful institu- 
tions ; extirpating abuses in all our systems ; passing the bounds of 
our European dominion, and in the New world, as in the Old, pro- 
claiming that freedom is the birth-right of man, that distinction of 
colour gives no title to oppression, that the chains now loosened 
must be struck ofi^, and even the marks they have left effaced ; pro- 
clahning this by the same eternal law of our nature which makes na- 
tions the master of their own destiny, and which in Europe has caused 



every tyrant's throne to quake ! But they need feel no alarm at the 
progress of light, who defend a limited monarchy and support popu- 
lar institutions ; who place their chiefest pride, not in ruling over 
slaves, be they white or be they black ; not in protecting the op- 
pressor, but in M'earing a constitutional crown, in holding the sword 
of justice with the hand of mercy, in being the first citizen of 
a country whose air is too pure for slavery to breathe, and on 
whose shores, if the captive's foot but touch, his fetters of them- 
selves fall off. To the resistless progress of this great principle 
I look with a confidence which nothing can shake ; it makes all 
improvement certain, it makes all change safe which it produces; 
for none can be brought about, unless prepared in a cautious and 
salutary spirit. So now the fulness of time is come for at length 
discharging our duty to the African captive. I have demonstrated 
to you that every thing is ordered ; every previous step taken ; all 
safe, bj^ experience shown to be safe, for the long-desired consum- 
mation. The time has come ; the trial has been made ; the hour 
is striking: you have no longer a pretext for hesitation, or faltering, 
or delay. The slave has shown, by four years' blameless behaviour, 
aiid devotion to the pursuits of peaceful industry, that he is as fit 
for his freedom as any English peasant, aye, and as any lord whom 
I now address. I demand his rights ; I demand his liberty without 
stint, in the name of justice and of law ; in the name of reason ; 
in the name of God, who has given you no right to work injustice ; 
I demand that your brother be no longer trampled upon as your 
slave ! I make ray appeal to the Commons, who represent the free 
people of England ; and I require at their hands the ^performance 
of that condition for which they paid so enormous a price ; that 
condition which all their constituents are in breathless anxiety to 
see fulfilled ! I appeal to this house ; Hereditary judges of the first 
tribunal in the w^orld, to you I appeal for justice ! Patrons of all the 
arts that humanize mankind ; under your protection I place 
humanity herself ! To the merciful sovereign of a free people, I call 
aloud for mercy; to the hundreds of thousands for whom half a 
million of her Christian sisters have cried aloud, I ask that their cry 
may not have risen in vain ! But first, I turn my eye to the throne of all 
justice, and devoutly humbling myself before Him who is of purer 
eyes than to behold such vast iniquities, I implore that the curse 
hovering over the head of the unjust and the opj)ressor, be averted 
from us ; that ,your hearts may be turned to mercy ; and^ that over 
all the earth His will may at length be done ! 



HADDON, PPdNTER, CASTLE STREET, FINSBURY. 



