Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/examinationofrev1788rams 



EXAMINATION 

O F 

The Rev. Mr. H A R R I S's 
SCRIPTURAL RESEARCHES 

O N 

The Licitnefs of the Slave-Trade, 



By the Rev. JAMES RAMSAY, 



LONDON; 

frin ted by James Phillips, George-Yard, Lombard' 
Street. 

M.DCC.LXXXVIII, 



">»,t Ci'.l !3(/ 



r. 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



THE following Examination was drawn up In 
the country, frooi a cafual perufal of Mr, 
Harris's Scriptural Refearches, with a view of put, 
ting them into the hands of any perfon, who rnight 
be employed in anfwering that very extraordinary 
work. But on coming up to town, and under- 
ftanding that Mr, Harris's reafoning had produ- 
ced efFedls on certain people, whohad not ftudied 
the fcriptures,^ or attended to that fpirit of free- 
dom, which runs throughout the Old and New 
Teflament,, and who hitherto had fufFered them-, 
felves ta be reludantly dragged along by the pre-- 
fent prevailing enthufiafm in favour of freedom,, 
but now eagerly feizedon a pretence for abandon- 
ing the caufe, "it has been judged proper to. give 
it at once to the publick. Mr. Harris affeas 
to proceed mathematically in the treatment of his 
fubjea,, and therefore eftablilhes cert^ain data. 1 
had thought it fufficient to contradid: their parti- 
cular application, in my examiaat.ion of the fub- 
jed ; but others thinking it neceffary to take 
more direft notice of them, I have fubjoined the 
following fhort obfervations. 

Dat. I, 2. " The fcriptures of the Old and 

New Teftament are of equal authority, and con-v 

uin the unerring decifions of the word of God/* 

A 2 Obfervation,, 



( 4 ) 

Obfervation. Certainly: but it will not be 
difputed, that there are niany things, not indeed 
^eferying the narrie of decifions, but that pafs 
without cenfure, and are feemingly allowed there, 
which we know to be forbidden to us, and which 
will not apply to the improved ftate of mankind. 
Laws muft be adapted, not only to the ftate of 
fociety, but to the prcfent ftate of the improve- 
ment of the human rnind, which we know has 
been gradually advancing from the earlieft ages. 

Dat. 3, 4. *^ It is criminal to refufe afTent 
to what the fcriptures decide to be intrinfically 
good or bad." 

Obfer. Suppofethis. Yet may we not inquire 
if a thing or pradtice be really fo declared, and 
if it concerns our falvation, to form a decided 
opinion on it ? Are we not liable to miftake prac- 
tices, arifing out of circumftances conneded with 
the firft formation of fociety, and therefore not 
pofitively cenfured, for fuch decifions of intrinfical 
goodnefs ? Thus the eating of fwines flefti was al- 
lov\;ed before the promulgation of the law of 
Mofes; that law ftridlly forbad it; the Chriftian 
law allows it again as at the beginning : or, the 
Jews were alone reftrained from the ufe of it; 
while they continued under a particular oeconomy, 
and their tranfgreffion of this law was only a crime, 
becaufe it was enjoined them ; not becaufe it was 
in itfelf a thing unlawful, as murder, adultery, 
and the like. 

Dat. 5, 6. f' Every fcriptural decifion, how- 
ever incomprehenfible, muft be aflented to as a 
declaration of the word of God." We muft con- 
fider the circumftances under which that decifion 
is made; how far it is agreeable to our benevo- 
lent religion^ and how far it is applicable to our 

cqndud. 



C 5 ) 

eoilduft, before we imitate it. The drunken id^ 
cell of Lot is not cenfured. It was the means of 
producing two mighty nations ; from which, ac- 
cording to the author's manner of reafoning, he 
ought to conclude it was approved of; yet I fup- 
pofe he will not recommend the imitation to any 
perfon in thefe days. 

Dat. 7. " The flave-trade muft be believed 
to be intrinfically juft and lawful, if the fcriptures 
give a fan6lion to it." Suppofe the flave-trade 
to have this fanftion (which yet is not true) unlefs 
the author can ihew how it can be carried on with- 
out infringing on our Saviour*s golden rule, of do- 
ing as we would be done by -, unlefs he can inftrudt 
us how we can go to the coaft of Africa, and by 
every fraudulent, violent, opprefTive method, robi 
murder, and enflave innocent people without a 
crime ; then are we to keep our pradlice, if not 
our opinion, fufpended. 

Dat, 8. *^ No abufe of a lawful purfuit, can 
make that purfuit criminal." It is lawful for 
a man to provide for his family ; but not to rob 
and murder on the highway under fuch a pretence^ 
Whenever a man's induftry is connefted with 
fuch practices, the a6lual exertion of it is a crime 
in him, though to provide for his family in an 
honeft way would be laudable. That there is an 
unlawful flavery noticed in the fcriptures, is clear, 
from the punifhment that Pharaoh brought on 
himfelf and iEgypt, for enflaving the Jews. The 
author fhould diftinguifh, and mark the difference 
between the flavery that (page 41) is almofb com- 
manded, and that which brings down divine judg- 
ments on the oppreflbr, and Ihew that his patrons 
of Leverpool praclife only the firil. 

A ^ Dat. 0, 



( 6 ) 

Dat. g. 'f No private or publick advant- 
age will ever juftify the flave-trade, till it be 
proved efTentiallyju ft and lawful in its nature." 
Here we are fincerely agreed ; and according to 
the diftin6tioo propofed for datum 8, he has only 
to fet heartily to work, and prove the Leverpool 
flave-trade to be that particular fort of flave- 
trade, " which God hath commanded as being 
eflentially juft and lawful in its nature." 

Dat. lo. *^ No argument drawn from abufe, 
can prove the intrinflc deformity of the flave- 
trade, unlefs it be proved eflentially unjufl:." 
Thefe are words without meaning. We are not 
combating an ideal flaveryj but flavery accom- 
panied with robbery, oppreflion, mifery, murder* 
Wherever we find flavery fo attended, it becomes 
a horrid crime, be it intrinfically never fo juft. 

Dat. II. "If abufes committed in the pro-- 
fecution of a lawful purfuit can be prevented, then 
the advantages arifing from it, ought to have a 
powerful influence againft the abolition." But if 
thefe abufes cannot poflibly be prevented (for are 
we to opprefs and murder according to law ?) then 
the greateft advantages attending any pradice 
muft be abandoned, till a method fliall be difco* 
vered, of feparating them from iniquity and blood* 
fhed. 

Dat. 12. '^ If the flave-trade is to be abo-* 
liftied, becaufe of the abufes committed in it, then 
every other branch of trade, in which abufes are 
committed, ought to fliare the fame fate." Moft 
certainly in turn, in proportion to the atrociouf- 
nefs of each. Let us once get this flaring mon- 
Her fubdued, and we will be obliged to the au- 
thor for pointing out any other iniquitous traffick 
that deferves to follow immediately in the train 

of 



C 7 ) 

of the Leverpool (lave-trade. The fallacioufnefs 
of this author's reafoning, is exceedingly well ex*' 
pofed, in the Critical Review of April, 1788, to 
which I refer the readen 

From this view of the author^s data> it will ap-* 
pcar> that he has totally confounded times and 
circumftances. The law of Mofes was ena6led in 
aid of natural religion, till the perfeft religion of 
Chrift Ihould be given to the world. The doc- 
trines of thislaft, enjoin us to confider and treat 
all men as our brethren ; and its effe6t was gra- 
dually to take away all burthenfome ceremonies, 
all opprefTive diftindtions. Why are we then 
fent back to lefs perfe6t inftitutions for the rule 
of our pradlice ? We are to go on to perfedion^ 
refine fentiment, and extend behevolence* What 
has raifed Europe above the reft of the world, but 
the abolition of domeftick flavery ? What degrees 
of opulence and profperity might it acquire^ if 
the abominable, contradled, branch of trade in the 
bodies of our fellow creatures of Africa, were 
changed to a fair, equitable intercourfe of produc- 
tions and manufadures I 

J. R. 



EXAMI- 



( 9 ) 
EXAMINATION, &c. 



THIS gentleman profelTes to treat the fub- 
je6t ferioufly, and to fubnnit his opinion to 
the decifions of revealed religion. No man has 
a right to difpute his fincerity, as far as his own 
way of thinking is concerned ; but few ferious 
people will perufe his extraordinary pofitions^ 
without having their reverence for their Creator 
Ihocked, and their benevolence to their brother 
aiFeded. The Scriptures, from which he draw's 
his conclufionsj we believe to teach, that all men 
are equally dear to their Creator, and that we 
owe love and good offices to each other. But if 
his dedu(5lions be fairly made, we muft no longer 
entertain this opinion ; for one part of mankind 
is to be kidnapped, evil intreated, opprefTed, 
murdered, to indulge the avarice of another; 
and, page 76, Corol. 3d. " He doth not believe 
the Scriptures, who is not perfuaded that this 
do(5lrine is taught there.** 

But the author ftumbles at the very threfhold. 
Our Saviour (John v. 39.) bids the Jews to fearch 
the fcriptures; *' for in them ye think ye have 
eternal life ; for they are they which teftify of 
me," the Saviour come to free men from the 
bondage of fin, into the glorious privilege of the 
fons of God. But it feems fomethino; elfe is 
meant. We are to fearch the fcriptures (fee title 
pagej for a commifTion to Leverpool captains for 

fitting 



fitting out fliipSj and loading them with powdei"^ 
lliot> and cutlafles, to fet the Africans on to 
aflault, kidnap, and enflave each other; to be 
transferred over to them ; to be murdered by bad 
air, third, and famine, in the pafTage to the Weft- 
Indies ; where the poor remains are to be fet to 
hard labour, without food> without cloathing, 
without reft, fufficient to fupport nature. 

it is true (preface, page 5.) he> with all the 
lother advocates for flavery, declares himfelf ^' an 
enemy to injuftice and oppreffidn." But the 
defign of his book is to ftiew, that the ill-treat- 
ment of flaves is not an objedt of divine animad- 
verfion ; for (p. 16.) Sarah was permitted with- 
out cenfurci '^ to ufe cruel oppreffive treatment 
to Hagar •," and (p. 26.) Jofeph is approved df 
by God for tht cruel manner in which he enflav- 
ed and exchanged the abodes of the Egyptians. 
Which of thefe is to be believed ; his general 
aflertion, or his particular application ? Or may 
we conclude, that he referves to himfelf the feel- 
ings of humanity, and fells tyranny and oppref- 
fion to his friends of Leverpool. 

In the fcriptures fervants are frequently men- 
tioned ; but, in this differtation, they are trans- 
formed into " flave trade/' The places, whefe 
traffick in flaves is related, are Jofeph's brethren 
(Gen, xxxvii.) felling him to the Ilhmaelites, 
who fell him to Potiphar ; the Tyrians (Ezek. 
xxvii. 13.) who had a market for the perfons of 
men s and Babylon, the mother of abominations, 
(Rev. xviii. 13.) who expofed to fale, flaves and 
fouls of men. I hope none of thefe inftances are 
propofed to the imitation of the " ancient and 
loyal town of Leverpool ;" for a black mark is 
fet on them to prevent them from being followed. 

Nov*r 



( " ) 

Nov/ there Is fome difference between dealing ill 
flaves as a branch of trade, and buying the fervice 
of a domeftic -, even as it is not every man who eats 
meat, that is or could ad the part of a butcher. In the 
cafe of the Jews there was fomething particular^ 
They were obliged to admit their flaves to all 
the national privileges, to circumcifion, the pafT- 
Gver, and other folemn feafts, and to inflrucl: 
them in the true religion (Gen. xvii. 13. Exod^ 
xii. 44, Deut. xvi. ii. and xxxi. 12. Jofh. viii. 
35.) In buying them from the Heathen around 
them, they recovered them from idolatry 5 they 
gav^e them a weekly fabbath. In their treatment 
they were commanded to remember, that they 
themfelves had been flaves in Egypt. When 
they are threatened for their fins, the ill treat- 
ment of their flaves makes a capital part of the 
charge againft them. But modern mafl:ers think 
that nothing of this fort concerns them. 

The Jews were intended to communicate to 
the world the knowledge of the true religion-. 
He who brings good out of evil made ufe of the 
fiavery, in pradice, to extend this knowledge t^ 
perfons, whom it could not at that time have 
otherwife reached. But nothing in the bible 
countenances a trade in flaves. Even the tranf-^ 
ferring them in ordinary cafes is checked as in 
that of wives and concubines, (Exod. xxi. ir.) 
Their ill treatment was guarded againfl:, by that 
law which gave them freedom if their mafter 
had fl:ruck out a Angle tooth. 

Indeed, among the Jews, the number of flaves 
muft have been fmall. They were numerous in 
a narrow territory, and were in general hufl^and- 
men, and ufed ploughs and other infl:ruments of 
agriculture, and wrought in the field with their 

fervants. 



( 12 ) 

fervants. Ziba, who appears to have been {tow- 
ard to the houfe of Saul, had only twenty fervants 
to aflift him and his fons in cultivating the lands 
belonging to the family. The Jews on their re- 
turn from captivity had only one fervant to fix 
perfons, or one in each family. The remnant of 
the Gibeonites, who ferved the temple, was then 
39 '2. It is not therefore fair to confider every 
accidental poffcfTion of a fervant, either as an in- 
ftance, or as a vindication of the Leverpool 
** (lave trader" of which no ancient nation could 
ever form an idea. We may rather conclude, 
that though the Jews were permitted to buy 
flaves from the Heathen, they did not traffick in 
them I and forcibly to enflave their brethren was 
death. (See Exod. xxi. i6. Deut xxiv. 7.) 

Of Mr. Harris's data as general propofitions, I 
fhall fay little more; the application alone is what 
the prefent fubjedt is concerned in. I fliall only 
fugged an additional datum, as necelTary to com- 
plete his principles of reafoning. 

Dat. 13. If the ilave trade, though " intrin- 
fically licit,'* cannot now be carried on, without 
breaking through every human and divine law, 
without cheating, violence, opprelTion, murder, 
then muft it be laid afide, till we fhall have dif- 
covered a way of carrying it on, agreeably to the 
doctrines of the gofpel, by which we are enjoined 
to confider all men as our brethren, and to deal by 
them as we wifh them to deal by us. 

Page 16. Speaking of Abraham's pofTefTing of 
fervants, he calls it, '' a pofitive approbation, a 
fandlion of divine authority in favour of the flave- 
trade." What a change is put on the Reader f 
Abraham poiTefTed fervants ; therefore the Lever- 
pool flave-trade has a divine fanction. For if this 

be 



( 13 ) 

be not meant, nothing is meant. His book is 
publifhed to vindicate this tradcj it is dedicated to 
the corporation;, who mufl fo underftand it. Now 
let a man only read Mr. Newton or Mr. Falcon- 
bridge's, or any other eye-witnefs's account of this 
trade, and what horrid impiety mull of necefTity 
be underftood ! Is there " a divine fandion" for 
all the iniquity accompanying this very diabolical 
bufinefs, the kidnapping, chaining, murdering^ 
fuffocating of millions of unhappy fellow crea- 
tures? Are fuch things not barely permitted, but 
(p. 42.) approved, encouraged, and feemingly 
.enjoined? 

Abraham was a rich, powerful, prince. As he 
travelled through various countries, numbers 
inuft have been defirous of attaching themfelves 
to his fortune, and have offered themfelves for his 
attendants. His humanity might have induced 
him to purchafe children from unnatural parents, 
or captives from robbers. But all in his family 
were in a fituation very different from that of 
Weft Indian (laves. We learn, that on the fup- 
pofition of his dying childlefs, he intended one 
of them for his heir; that he intruded a fervant 
tochufe a wife for his fon Ifaac ; that he put arms 
in his fervants hands, and led them out to battle. 
There is nothing of Vv^eft Indian flavery in all 
this. 

But a particular ftrefs is laid on the ftory of 
Hagar, and Sarah's ill treatment of her. Page 19. 
*' She obtained no favourable fentence from the 
Divine Tribunal for leaving her miftrefs, nor was 
Sarah cenfured for her feverity." Sarah was not 
prefent when the angel appeared unto Hagar, 
therefore fhe is neither praifed nor condemned. 
But that Hagar believed fhe had a favourable 



kn ce 



rnce, 



( H ) 

fentence, and that her condu6t was not eondemn- 
ed, when allured that the Lord had {ctn her af- 
fli'flion, which is the fcripture phrafe for deliver- 
ance ("Gen. xxix. 32. and xxxi. 42. Exod. iii. 7.), 
and that fhe Ihonld have a fon, and that her feed 
Ihould be multiplied, appears from her acknow- 
ledgment of the vifion, and returning to her mif- 
trefs. Nor can we imagine in what more flattisr- 
ing manner her afflidion could have been recom- 
penfed, or how fhe could have been affli6ted fa 
as to have deferved a recompence, and her mif- 
trefs not to have been in fault. It was neceffary 
for her to return to her miflrefs, that her fon might 
partake of the fign of the covenant, and be in- 
llruded in the true religion. 

Hagar^s cafe (p. 19.) is compared with an 
African female Oave in the Weft Indies. No- 
thing can be more oppofite. Jofephus fays, 
Pharaoh made Abraham a prefent of money ; and 
the fcriptures fay, that he intreated Abraham well 
for Sarah's fake, adding immediately, he had 
cattle, and men fervants, and maid fervants, as 
if Pharaoh had prefented them 5 among whom 
Hagar might have been one; or, as it appears 
fhe was a v/orfhipper of the true God, fhe might 
voluntarily have entered into Sarah's fervice. 
Certainly fhe had never been cooped up in a 
Guinea trader, nor fet to plant the fugar-cane^ 
nor was fhe ordered to return and fiibmit herfelf 
for her miftrefs's profit, but for her own and hcF 
fon's fake ; and when that purpofe was anfwered 
fhe was difmifled. 

There is therefore no foundation for the au- 
thor's dedudtion, p. 20. that " a divine voice de- 
clares her to be her matter's indifputable pro- 
perty, ^nd the original bargain to be juft and 

lawful 



( 15 ) 

lawful In its nature; and that the (Leverpool) 
flave-trade, even attended with circumftancea. 
not conformable to the feelings of humanity, ia 
elTentially confident with the rights of juflice^ 
and has the pofitive fandion of God for its fup.- 
port, however difpleafing thefe circumftances may- 
be to his fatherly providence.'' Let any man make 
fenfe of this who can, 1 underftand only the ex- 
treme boldnefs of the exprefTion. Here is a right 
to enflave and an approbation, and alfo a cenfure 
of the exercife of this right. Here our natural 
notions of benevolence are fet in oppofition to 
revelation, p. 42. Revelation commands us to 
enflave our brethren, even againft the fuggeftions 
of the feelings of humanity. Surely the writer 
Ihould Ihew the high purpofes anfwered by flavery, 
to gain which it is aa a6b of piety to violate our 
benevolent feelings. 

We come now to the flory of Jofeph, which, 
p. 23, ^^ afcertains the inherent lawfulnefs of the" 
(Leverpool) " flave-trade.'' The firll t;hing that 
ftrikes us in his account is, his illuftrating his doc^ 
trine by Jofeph's political arrangements of the 
kingdom of Egypt, rather than by Jofeph's own 
itory; which, except in the horrid circumftancea 
of the middle paiTage, agrees entirely with the 
Leverpool flave-trade. Jofeph is found at a dif- 
tance from protedion. His enemies kidnap him 
and fell him to flave-brokers, who carry him into 
Egypt, and difpofe of him as an article of com- 
merce to Potiphar. His kidnappers fa.w,, and 
like Guinea captains difregarded^ the anguifh of 
his foul. It is true, afterwards, when they be-, 
iieved themfelves in danger of being enflaved ia 
iurn, they upbraid each other with their unfeeling 
cruelty^ and charge their diilrefs to its account. 

But 



( i6 ) 

But this was only becaufe Scriptural Refearches 
had not then been publiHied : for they, p. 20, 
would have proved, that " though the adion was 
not altogether conformable to the feelings of 
hunnanity, and was even difpleafing to his Father- 
ly Providence ; and though doubtlefs God would 
fee, and of confequence recompenfe, Jofeph for 
Ms afflidion as he had Hagar^ yet this ftroke in 
the flave-trade is eflentially confiftent with the 
unalienable rights of juftice; has the pofitive 
fan6lion of God in its fupport, nay, his appro- 
bation, p. 165 and p. 42, even his connnnand." 

But Jet us examine Jofeph's management of 
the Egyptians^ not as this author, but as the 
fcriptures reprefent it. In the years of plenty 
Jofeph ftored the extraordinary produce of each 
diftrid in the neighbouring cities. One tenth 
part belonged of right to the king j the reft he pur- 
chafed at a low price with the king's treafures. In 
the years of famine he fold the corn out to the inha- 
bitants of the diftrids neareft to his refpedive ftore- 
houfes at an advanced price, and accumulated the 
money, cattle, and moveabl^es of the whole king- 
dom, and at laft made a bargain for their lands and 
perfons. It is not to be fuppofed that any property, 
except money, was taken out of the original pof- 
feffors hands; for this would have anfwered no 
purpofe, but to diftrefs the people and embarrafs 
government. Indeed, where could the whole cattle 
and moveables of the kingdom have been ftored.? 
When the feyen years of famine were ended, Pha- 
raoh was the fole proprietor. Jofeph then gives 
the inhabitants a charter, reftores them their 
lands and cattle, on condition of paying to Pha- 
raoh a fecond tenth of the produce of the land, 
which made their contributions to the revenue 

a fifth 



( 17 ) 



^ 



a fifth part of their crops. It appears no other 
badge or burden of fla\rery was impofed, except 
this rent, which was a tenth part more than they 
had formerly paid. 

The common rent of the bare land in England 
is eftimated at one-third of the produce, ana the 
farmer miifl fupply himfelf with flock, except 
perhaps buildings, and alfo contribute largely in 
a variety of ways to the publick revenues : but by 
Jofeph's regulation the Egyptian farmer paid on- 
ly a fifth part for the ufe of his flock and land, and 
for the fiipport of government. After having tranf- 
ferred themfelves and property to Pharaoh, they 
could not have been freed on eafier terms : and as 
we often fee, that he who hires a farm, grows rich 
on a pofTefTion on which the owner had been ruined, 
probably the Egyptians became as happy under 
their new tenure as they had been under their 
old. In the mofi unfavourable light, it may be 
compared with the change that took place at the 
conqucfl,when free tenures became feudal, charged 
with certain fervices. 

Our tranflation. Gen. xlvii. 20, 21. fays, '^ So 
the land became Pharaoh's-, and as for the people, 
he removed them to cities from one end of the 
borders of Egypt^ even to the other end thereof.'* 
In the Septuagint it is, " and the land became 
Pharaoh's, and he fubjeded the people to be fer- 
vants to him from one end of Egypt to the 
other." It is to the fame purport in the Samari- 
tan copy. This reads better, and is more pro- 
bable, than that Jofeph fhould have made the 
whole nation, as Mr. Harris affirms, change fettle- 
ments in fuch a manner as if the people of Kent 
were fent to the Orkneys, and thofe of the Ork- 
B neys 



( »8 ) 

neys were brought to Kent. This would be fuch 
a trifling with peoples lives and feelings, fuch a 
wafte of property, fuch a perverfion of alj ex- 
perience, and particular knowledge of the agri- 
culture proper in each diftrid, as is only appli- 
cable to the Leverpool Have- trade ; but cannot, 
on fuch flight grounds as this general expreffipn 
is, be imagined in a man of Jpfeph's charaaqr, 
with a pretended view to prevent rebellion. Or 
the expreflion in our tranQation may bear, that 
the people were diftributed lb as to b.^ n^ar 
the refpe6live i-lore-houfes^ on which their maia- 
tenance was afTigned. . 

Therefore " the change made, p. 25, 26, in the 
happy condition of the Egyptians, the tr^ufpor- 
tation of 7 or 8 millions of every age, fex, condi- 
tion, ranki infants, children, decrepit, infirpn, deli- 
cate, through the fcorching fands of a parched up 
country," is the mere lidtion of imagination, to 
palliate the ftill more Ihocking condud of the 
writer's patrons of Leverpool. The JEgyptiaps 
oflFered themfelves for fervants, to fave themfelves 
from flarving. His patrons force the Africans to 
be flaves, not as he fays, from " a ftate of abfo- 
lute indigence," but reduced from plenty and 
eafe to famine, nakednefs, and want, by ftripes, 
fetters, cruelty and oppreflion. 

Page 28. It is faid, " Jofeph, when able to 
relieve them, took advantage of the extreme in- 
digence of the ^Egyptians, to reduce them into 
the condition of flaves, and in this adled by the 
immediate diredion of God, who made this work 
to profper.'* Suppofing all this true, yet there is 
nothing common between this tranfadlion and the 
Leverpool African conamercei but the author's 

having 



C 19 ) 

having given them one common narhe, ^^ flavc- 
trade." The Egyptians, aftei^ a fair transfer of* 
themfelves and goods^ are left in full pofTcflion o( 
their lands and property, on paying fuch a rent as 
would adb as a fpur to induflry, while it checked 
that luxury which the author defcribes, p. 15^ as 
prevailing in Mgypt. The Leverpool flaves are 
reduced from freedom to a bafe, helplefs^ unprofit* 
able, wretched Itate. 

When this writer, p. ^7, coftfiders the four* 
fifths of the produce left with the Algyptian far- 
mer, as only equivalent to the keep of a Wefl-In- 
dian flave, he mull raife a blufh on the fugar 
planter*s cheek; who willingly woiild leave but one 
fifth, (the rum) both to fupport his plantation 
flock, and maintain his flaves. 

But let Jofeph's conduct be what the writer 
pleafes to defcribe it. He was not the legiflator 
of iEgypt, but the minifter of Pharaoh, and oblig- 
ed to govern himfelf by the prevailing cuflomiSof 
the kingdom. It appears, he extended only the 
king's revenues, and gave him fuch a command 
over the property of the people, as might enable 
him to arrange the management of it to the bell 
general advantage* This might be peculiarly 
proper in ^gypt, though not necefTary to be 
imitated here. Its fertility depended on the 
equal diftribution of the waters of the Nile. Ic 
was necefTary for the general benefit, that there 
fhould be an indifputed power todired thecourfe 
of the various canals, which communicated the 
water to each diflridl. While the king had an 
equal interefl in all, no particular part would be 
negleded. Jofeph gives four-fifths of the pro- 
duce, " for kcd of the field, and for your food, 
and for them of your houfiiolds, and for food for 

B 2 your 



( 20 ) 

your little ones." This confines the peoples fliare 
to their own maintenance, and thefupply of feed. 
We are left to conclude, that every expenfe at- 
tending the diftribution of the river, except perhaps 
manual labour, was paid out of the king's fifth 
part : and as in all good governments, the intereft 
of the king and the people is one, Jofeph, by 
his nominal purchafe of the people and their 
lands, might probably have in view fuch an ac- 
ceffion of power, as might enable him to diredt 
the whole to general advantage. After the char- 
ter was confirmed, no ill ufe could be made of the 
power, and an Englifh farmer would gladly pay 
one-fifth of his produce to him who fhould flock 
his farm, and pay his rent, and all his publick and 
parifh taxes. 

Page 38. " The Jews are not reftrained from 
purchafing their own brethren." The Jews were 
commanded to treat their brethren, when reduced 
to a fix years fervitude, with lenity, as hired or 
free fervants, and to fend them out in the fabbati- 
' cal year free, and not let them go away empty. 
The only cafes in which we can fuppofe Jews 
could be made to ferve, are their being fold for 
debt, or their preferring the fervice of a mafter to 
labour on their own account. In thefe cafes, the 
laws of Mofes take care of them, that they be not 
opprefTed, and, befides the original purchafe- 
money of their fervices, to have a recompence 
when the period is finiihed. 

It is in this cafe of an Hebrew fervant, that we 
are to look for the genuine Mofaic principles of 
flavery. Even here the law exprefies a jealoufy of 
the mailer's conduct, and guards againft the abufe 
of his authority, reflriding it to fix years, and pre- 
fcribing the manner of exercifing it. Therefore 

when 



( ^l ) 

when the Jews are allowed to make perpetual 
flaves of the Heathen, we are to confider it as a, 
particular difpenfation refpeding their fituation 
among idolaters, by which, in every nave, they 
made a profelyte to the true religion •, or like di- 
vorces, an indulgence to their hardnefs of heart, 
which was not then capable of the purity and be- 
nevolence of the gofpel, by which, marriage was 
made perpetual, and all men were to be treated as 
brethren. We can infer the dodlrine of perpetual 
flavery as little from its permifTion to the Jews, 
as we can the keeping of concubines from the 
pradlice of Abraham, or David. Divorces are 
permitted to the Jews in fimilar exprefTions with 
the permiffion to hold flaves ; yet our Saviour 
tells us, it v/as not fo from the beginning. Mofes 
(Deut. xvii. 14.) gives directions for the choice 
and duty of a king, yet Samuel tells the Jews, 
they had offended God in afking for a king. And 
though God condefcended to give them a king in 
a manner which more unequivocally fliewed his 
affent, than that approbation, fandlion and com- 
mand, which the author incautioufly afHrms to be 
given to the " flave-tradej" yet Samuel concludes 
them to be not the lefs guilty, for perfevering in 
the requefl. We fhould be more careful than this 
author fliews himfelf, how we apply our ignorant 
conje6tures to the divine condudtj as p. 16, 
^« Without allowing the licitnefs of the flave^ 
trade, it is impoffible to reconcile the juflice of 
God with his own fcriptural decifions concerning 
its nature;" that (p. 32) " God, without a glar- 
ing oppofition to the rights of his juflice, could 
not have approved the condudt of Jofeph in enflav- 
ing the ^Egyptians, and inflided a lafting punifli- 
pient on Reuben for his incefl, if his enflaving of 
B ^ the 



( 22 ) 

the JEgyptians had been a crime.'* Thefe ex^ 
preffions would be flioeking from an infidel j in 
what an horrid caufe doth a clergyman ufe them P 

The minds of the Jews had been broken and 
d^bafed by the Egyptian bondage i the law was 
given them as a fchool -mailer to train them up for 
the perfect religion of the gofpel. Their condu6t 
in the v/ildernefs, their frequent rebellions amidft 
miracles, and in the immediate prefence of their 
Divine Deliverer, can only be imagined by thofo 
who have had opportunities of feeing how man ia 
fhorn of his worth by flavery. Only two men of 
all who wero grown up when they came out of 
Egypt, were thought deferving to enter into Ca-? 
naan, That whole generation muft be worn out 
in the wildernefs -, and their children muft bo 
trained for 40 years before they are perrnitted to. 
t^ke poilefiiQn. Their laws therefore refpedled the 
hardnefs of their heartSj^ though founded on prin- 
ciples which led infenfibly to perfection. Thus 
while ^he perpetuity of the fervitude of the Hea-. 
thens condefcended to the hardnefs of their hearts, 
the eafy temporary fervic€ of their brethren loolie4 
forward to the gofpel tirnes, not differing, but in 
being for a fixed period^, from, niodern fervitude for 
Visages in fr^e ftates. 

Therefore ^hen this v^riter, p. 39. calls this 
latter fervice, ^^ A Slave Trade •," the meaning of 
the terms is perverted. Or let him reduce his Lever-. 
pool Aave trade to th^ circumftances of a Jew ferv- 
ing his brother for fix years, a,nd we {hall have few 
objedlions tQ bring againft it. What he calls there 
^« felling him agaiA,"^ was transferring his fervice 
to another brQther (not an Heathen) for the re- 
mainder of the term^, as an apprentice is turned 
l)Y?r to a iecond mafter. 

Page 



f 2j X 

page 4d. " If a Hebrew fervant had marf led 
2k wife with confent of his mafter, fhe and her 
child became her mailer's property for ever." 
This feems not to be* candidly exprefied. This' 
wife mil ft have been an Heathen Have, for He- 
bpew women had the privilege of the Sabbatical 
year-, but if he chofe to continue with his wife, 
he had only to renew his contra6b with his mafter. 
Indeed the regulation appears to have been-in-'- 
tended as a check to the connexion with flaves ia 
the poor reduced Hebrews. 

Page 41, 42. When he fpeaks of the (Levers- 
pool) '^ flave trade having the fandion of being 
encouraged, almoft commanded, and even en« 
joined, to be profecuted by the Supreme Legif* 
lator,'* he puts oppofition to filence. But when^ 
p. 43. he talks of '^ the Almighty's forgetting 
himfelf, when he encouraged the (lave trade, if it 
be a crime," I am happy for his fake to recolledt, 
that the author tells us, till he was 27 years old^ 
he knew not the value of an Englifh exprefiion. 

Page 43. The flavery of the Gibeonites.. 

The land of Canaan was allotted to the Jews', 
for an inheritance. The former inhabitants, for 
their fms, were to be extirpated, or expelled. The 
Gibeonites preferred flavery to this. Their fer- 
vices were allotted firft to the tabernacle, then tO: 
the temple. It appears from David's application'. 
to them, on account of the famine brought on the 
land for SauPs maftacre of them, that they were 
kept diftind as a people. We may iuppofe that 
they continued to occupy part of their ancient pofi- 
feffions (for we find in David's time that even 
Araunah a Jebufite was a proprietor of land) 
and that they were in their turn draughted off for 
the fervice of religion ; thofe who occupied the 
B 4. lands 



( 24 ) 

lands maintaining thofe who ferved. There is not 
one common circumftance between the manner of 
their becoming fervants, and the prefent Leverpool 
Have trade, and hardly any more in their treat- 
ment. 

Page 50. On the fuppofition of the iniquity 
of the (Leverpool) " (lave trade," he fpeaks of the 
Almighty difturbing the courfe of nature, when 
the fun flood ftill at Jofhua-s command, to make 
it fubfervient to injuflice and oppreflion, in vin- 
dication of ill-gotten property. Here he may be 
aflured the horror of the expreflion will fecure him 
from contradidlion. 

Page 54. 'J The flave trade," (ftill Leverpool 
flave trade) is in perfed harmony with the prin- 
ciples of the word of God refpedling juftice." 
P. 58. " The infpired writers of the New Tefta- 
ment did not confider it as an infra6lion of the 
principles of the gofpel.'' Nor did thefe declare 
^heir own perfecution for righteoufnefs fake, to be 
an infradtion of the principles of the gofpel. The 
keeping of flaves, which the author conftantly calls 
«' the flave trade/' was a cuftom then generally pre- 
valent over the world. Neither were mafters or flaves 
prepared for a general manumiflion. The fpirit of 
Chriftianity was fufFered gradually to undermine 
this mafs of oppreffion, and wherever the gofpel 
has prevailed, it has in fad abolifhed it. 

We have a fimilar inftance of this management, 
in the abolition of the ceremonial law of Mofes. 
The firft difciples, and even the apoftles, conformed 
to it, though they had declared it to be an unne- 
cefTary yoke, and they fuffercd it to wear out gra- 
dually. That (lavery was an evil, and therefore a 
fm in all thofe who inflided it on others, in fuch 
a degree as to become an evil, is plainly declared 



( 25 ) 

m the gofpeL Our Saviour tells the believing 
Jews, If ye continue in my word, ye lliall know 
the truth, and the truth Ihall make you free ; or 
fhall confer new privileges on you. If freedom be 
a privilege or an advantage, flavery is a degrada- 
tion and a difadvantage. But if a man be de- 
graded or injured for the caprice or profit of ano- 
ther, that other, under whorn he fufFers fuch 
injury, is guilty of a fin. 

Again, St. Paul, i Cor. viii. 21, fays, ^' Art 
thou called being a fervant, care not for it ; but 
if thou mayeft be made free, ufe it rather." Here 
is plainly a direction to the difciples to fubmit to 
their fituation, but to prefer freedom when fairly 
offered ; which in this cafe was its being purchafed 
for them by the Chriftian congregation. This is 
explained, ver. 23. " Ye are bought with a price, 
be not (Greek become not) ye the fervants of men.'* 
Avoid a fituation which muft debafe your rriind. 
In the Revelations, xviii. 13. flaves and fouls of 
men are faid to be articles of trafHck in Babylon, 
the Mother of Abominations. This fuppofeth no- 
thing very excellent in flavery, to make it be ap- 
proved of, and commanded to be profecuted by 
God. 

We may now account for the manner in which 
St. Paul applies to Philemon in behalf of his fer- 
vant Onefimus. He defires him to receive hini 
back into his family, not now as a fervant, but 
above a fervant ; a profitable inmate, a brother 
beloved. He would not take advantage of the 
privilege of an apoille, to withhold Onefimus from 
his fervice, or confider his converfion as a bar to 
k, and therefore endeavours to effect a reconcili- 
ation between them. But from the manner in 

which 



( 26 ) 

which the apoflle folic! ts this favour, it is ckar 
the lituation of Onefimus in the family was defir- 
able; for he reqiiefts it as a favour to Onefimus, 
and confiders not his interpofition, as the confer- 
ring of an obligation on Philemon. All this is 
very oppofite to that Weft-Indian flavery with 
which this of Onefimus, p. 6^, is compared; For 
the mafter only is confidered here-, neither the 
feelings nor profit of the (lave is taken into account. 

Page 72, 73. I Ihall not difpute his expofition 
of doing as we wifh to be done by, as far as it 
goes, of '^ a fiave^s ferving his mafter, as he if a 
mafter would wifh to be ferved." Bur I would 
carry it a ftep farther. As I, a free man, fettled 
with my family and friends about me in my native 
country, would not wifh to be kidnapped, or to 
have my family enflaved, feparated, and carried 
bound neck and heel, and ftifled in the foul air 
of a fhip*s hold, all to be fold in a diftant coun- 
try, to toil incelTantly for a man we never knew^ 
without food or raiment, except fuch fcraps as we 
may procure by breaking the fabbath; under the 
lafti of any unfeeling boy, who may be fet over us 
with a whip in his hand ; fo would not I be can- 
cerned in any fuch cruel opprefTive inhuman treat- 
ment of others. When this author publifhes his 
Second Part, it is to be hoped, this will be prefTed 
home on his Leverpool patrons. 

It is curious to remark, that in thefe refeaEches^ 
in which the wifdom and goodnefs of God is fo 
freely applied to the Leverpool flave trade, there 
is: not even a diftant hint given of the purpofe 
which is to be ferved by flavery, to fhew it to be 
worthy '' of this divine approbation, the aimofV 
drvine cominands/' When God commands us 

to 



( 27 ) 

to love our neighbaur, our heart goes along with 
the precept. But if, as this author incautioufly 
affirms, we be commanded to exercife the Have 
trade, bow down our brother's body in bondage, 
and treat him ill, as Sarah did Hagar wich impu- 
nity, we have no clue to trace out the agreement 
of the dodlrine with divine goodnefs. If com- 
manded or enjoined to ufe the flave trade as it is 
now carried on, we are commanded, (horrid even 
in the fuppoficion) to commit murder, to llarve, 
opprefs, fufFocate, and lead into exile, our bro^- 
ther, who never offended us» Suppofe flavery 
approved of in revelation, yet furely robbery, 
murder, and opprefTion, are not approved there: 
and yet no man is originally reduced into a 
ilate of flavery but by fuch methods: — at leaft, 
when the advocates for flavery plead for a divine 
fandHon to it, they fliould be able to lay down a 
method of making flaves of others, which fhall 
be innocent, and may deferve that fandion. 

The Jews, for their fins, were given up to 
captivity. Their cities were to be deftroyed, their 
princes murdered, and their people carried to 
Babylon. The prophets invited the furrounding 
nations to come to the flaughter, and to the fpoil. 
Jiere is a divine command in (Ironger terms than 
can be fhewn for the Leverpool flave trade, or any 
other flave trade or holding of flaves. Yet what 
follows. Thefe very nations thus invited, and 
even commanded to execute the divine judgments 
on the Jews, are deftined to deflrudion, are made 
to ceafe as nations, for having obeyed the call to 
vengeance. Edom was amongfl the firft in this 
field of blood, and flavery, and plunder. Hear 
^he prophet Obacliah addrqfs him : — " Thou 

ihouldeft 



( ^s ) 

fiiouldeft not have laid hands on their fubflancc 
in the day of their calamity : thou fhouldeft not 
have flood in the crofs-way to cut off thofe of his 
that did efcape : thou Ihouldeft not have delivered 
up thofe of his that did remain in the day of dif- 
trefs. For the day of the Lord is near on all the 
heathens — as thou haft done, it Ihall be done 
unto thee." 

The reafon is plain, though inftruments in 
God's hands to punifh a wicked people; yet in 
the execution of his juftice, they only fatiated 
their own hatred, cruelty, and avarice. Let there^- 
fore theLeverpool flave trade be not only approved 
of, but even, as he fays, commanded by God ; 
yet if the corporation, in profecuting the infernal 
bwfinefs, be aduated by avarice, or any other 
unworthy motive, and ufe cruelty, oppreffion, and 
inhumanity in the courfe of it, (and let thofe who 
ufe the trade lay their hands on their hearts, and 
let them, if they dare, deny the charge), then, 
fooner or later, divine vengeance will find them 
out, and plunge them into ruin with all thofe 
who encourage or abet them in it. 

Page 75. Corol. jft. " The Scriptures declare 
the flave trade to be intrinfically good and licit.'' 
Not in any other manner than Jewifh arbitrary 
divorces, plurality pf wives, or their original 
defire of a king; all of which we know to have 
been wrong from the beginning. 

Corol. 2d. " He is highly criminal who refufes 
afTent to the intrinfick licitnefs of the (lave trade, 
declared in the Scriptures." I hope not, if he 
cannot find it there, and refolves not. to meddle 
with it, till he has difcovered it. 

^orol^ 



( 29 I 

Corol. 3d. " He who acquiefces not in the 
licitnefs of the flave trade, difbelievcs the Scrip- 
tures." Anfwered in Corol. 2. 

Corol. 6th. " The abufes of the flave trade 
not an inducement to the Legiflature to abolifh 
it." If the flave trade be, as it certainly is, in- 
feparably connected with murder, oppreflion, and 
every iniquity that has from time to time drawn 
down divine vengeance on guilty nations; and if 
the Legiflature be inflruded in the nature of it, 
and be called on to put a ftop to this murder and 
oppreflion, and cannot poflibly do it but by the 
abolition of the flave trade, (were the flave trade 
even commanded in the clearefl: terms, which is 
not the cafe, but the contrary) then is the Legi- 
flature obliged, and called on by every motive of 
religion and prudence, to put an immediate fl:op 
to it, that it may not bring ruin on the fl:ate. 



FINIS. 



Books by y. Ram/ay* 

An ESSAY on the Treatment and Converfion 
of African Slaves in the Britifli Sugar Colonies* 
i|.s. Boards. 

A REPLY to the Perfonal Invedbives and Ob- 
je6tions contained in two Anfwers, publilhed by 
certain anonymous Perfons, to an EfTay on the 
Treatment and Converfion of African Slaves, in 
the Britifh Colonies. 2s. 

An INQUIRY into the Effedls of putting a 
Stop to the African Slave Trade, and of granting 
Liberty to the Slaves in the Britilli Sugar Colo- 
nies, 6d. 

A LETTER to James Tobin, Efq. late Mem- 
ber of His Majeily's Council in the liland of 
Nevis. 6d. 

A MANUAL for African Slaves, ad. 

OBJECTIONS to the Abolition of the Slave 
Trade, with Anfwers. Second Edi-t. enlarged. 9d, 



Alfo lately piibltjhed by the fame Author f 

A Volume of SEA SERMONS 5 fold by 
Rivingtons, St. Paul's Church-yard. 

Essay on a SEA OFFICER'S DUTYi fold 
by Robinfons, Paternofter-Row. 



TRACTS 

O N T H E 

S L A V E TRAD E, 

Publiihed by J. Phillips, George- Yard, 
Lombard-Street. 

An ESSAY on the Impolicy of the African 
Slave Trade, by T. Clarkfon. Jn Two Parts, 2%, 
6d. boards. 

An ESSAY on the Slavery and Commerce 
of the Human Species^ particularly the African, 
tranflated from a Latin DifTertation, which was 
honoured with the Firft Prize in the Univerlity of 
Cambridge, for the Year 1785. Second Addition, 
with Additions, by T. Clarkfon. 3s. boards. 

A DESCRIPTION of Guinea, its Situation, 
Produce, and the general Difpofition of its Inha- 
bitants; with an Inquiry into the Rife and Pro- 
grefs of the Slave Trade, &c. By Anthony Bene* 
zet. A new Edition. 2s. boards. 

An ACCOUNT of the Slave Trade on the 
Coaft of Africa, by Alexander Falconbridge, late 
Surgeon in the African Trad^. gd. 

OBSERVATIONS on a Guinea Voyage ; la 
a Series of Letters, addrefTed to the Rev. J. 
Clarkfon, by James Field Stanfield, late a Ma»^ 
riner in the African Slave Trade. 4d. 

A LETTER 



A LETTER to the Treafurer of the Society 
inftituted for the Purpofe of effefting the Aboli- 
tion of the Slave Trade. From the Rev. Robert 
Boucher Nickolls, Dean of Middleham, A new 
Edition enlarged. 4d. 

REMARKS on the Slave Trade, and the Sla- 
very of the Negroes, in a Series of Letters, by 
Africanus. 2S. 6d. 

WEST INDIAN ECLOGUES, dedicated to 
the late Lord Bifhop of Chefter, by a Perfon who 
refided feveral Years in the Weft-Indies. 2S. 

A SUMMARY VIEW of the Slave Trade, 
and of the probable Confequences of its Aboli- 
tion. 2d. 

A LETTER from Capt. J. S. Smith, to the 
Rev. Mr. Hill, on the State of the Negroe Slaves. 
To which are added an Introdudlion, and Re- 
marks on Free Negroes, By the Editor. 6d. 

A CAUTION to Great Britain and her 
Colonies, in a fhort Reprefentation of the cala» 
mitous State of the enflaved Negroes in the 
Britifh Dominions. By Anthony Benezet. 6d. 

THOUGHTS on the Slavery of the Ne- 
groes. 4d, 

A SERIOUS ADDRESS to the Rulers of 
America, on the Inconfiftency of their Conduct 
refpedting Slavery. 3d, 

The CASE of our Fellow-Creatures, the Op^ 
|)refred Africans, refpedfully recommended to the 
ierious Confideration of the Legiflature of Great* 
Britain, by the People called Quakers. 2d, 



