THE 

CONSTITUTION 

OF THE 

PENNSYLVANIA SOCIETY, 

FOR PROMOTING THE 

ABOLITION of SLAVERY, 

AND THE RELIEF OF 

FREE NEGROES, 

UNLAWFULLY HELD IN 

BONDAGE. 

BEGUN IN THE YEAR 1 774, AND ENLARGED ON THE 
TWENTY-THIRD OF APRIL, 1787. 

TO WHICH ARE ADDED, 

THE ACTS OF 

The General Affembly of Pennfylvania, 

FOR THE GRADUAL 

ABOLITION of SLAVERY. 



All Things <whatfoe<ver ye would that Men Jhould do to you , 
do ye even Jo to them ; for this is the Laiu and the Pro- 
phets." Matth. vii. 12. . 



PHILADELPHIA: 

Printed by FRANCIS BAILEY, for <« the Pennsylvania 
Society for promoting the abolition of sla- 
very, AND THE RELIEF OF FREE NEGROES 
UNLAWFULLY HELD IN BONDAGE." 

M>DCc,ixxxrin. 



'S^ft , <f¥ rt&. ft 



r 3 ] 

THE 

CONSTITUTION 

OP THE 

PENNSYLVANIA SOCIETY, 

FOR PROMOTING THE 

ABOLITION OF SLAVERY, 

AND THE RELIEF OF 

FREE NEGROES, 

UNLAWFULLY HELD IN 

BONDAGE; 

ENLARGED AT PHILADELPHIA, APRIL 23d, I787. 



IT having pleafed the Creator of the world, to make mtroduafon; 
of one flem all the children of men— it becomes 
them to confult and promote each other's happinefs, as 
members of the fame family, however diverfified they 
may be, by colour, fituation, religion, or different fiates 
of fociety. It is more efpecially the duty of thofe per- 
fons, who profefs to maintain for themfelves the rights 
of human nature, and who acknowledge the obligations 
of Chriftianity, to ufe fuch means as are in their power, 
to extend the bleffings of freedom to every part of the 
human race ; and in a more particular manner, to fuch 
of their fellow-creatures, as are entitled to freedom by 
the laws and conftitutions of any of the United States, 

and 



c i i 



and who, notwithflanding, are detained in bondage, by 
fraud or violence. — From a full conviction of the truth, 
and obligation of thefe principles — from a defire to dif- 
fufe them, wherever the miferies and vices of flavery ex- 
ift, and in humble confidence of the favour and fupport 
of the Father of Mankind, the fubfcribers have aflbciated 
themfelves, under the title of the " Pennfylvania Society 
for promoting the Abolition of Slavery, and the Relief 
of free Negroes unlawfully held in Bondage." 

For effecting thefe purpofes, they have adopted the 
following conftitution : , 

The officers J, The officers of the fociety mail confift of a pre- 

of the fociety J 

lident, two vice-prefidents, two fecretaries, a treafurer, 
four counfellors, an electing committee of twelve, and 
an acting committee of fix members; all of whom, except 
the laft named committee, mail be chofen annually by 
ballot, on the firft Second-day called Monday, in the 
month called January. 

Duty of the H. The prefident, and in his abfence one of the vice- 

prefident and, 

vice-pren- prefidents, mall prefide in all the meetings, and fubferibe 
all the public acts of the fociety. The prefident, or in 
his abfence, either of the vice-prefidents, mall moreover 
have the power of calling a fpecial meeting of the fociety 
whenever he mall judge proper. A fpecial meeting (hall 
likewife be called at any time, when fix members of the 
fociety mall concur in requefting it. 



ofthefecre- M» The Secretaries (hall keep fair records of the 
proceedings of the fociety, and fhall correfpond with fuch 

perfons 



fanes, 



■ t 5 ] 

perfons and Societies, as may be judged necefiary to pro- 
mote the views and objects of the inftitution. 

IV. The treafurer (hall keep all the monies and fecu- orAe «*«w 

furer. 

rities belonging to the fociety, and mail pay all orders 
/igned by the prefident or one of the vice-prefidents — 
which orders mall be his vouchers for his expenditures. 
He mail, before he enters upon his office, give a bond of 
not lefs than two hundred pounds, for the faithful dis- 
charge of the duties of it. 

V. The bufinefs of the counfellors mail be to explain of thc couQ< 
the laws and conftitutions of the ftates, which relate to fdlors ' 

the emancipation of (laves, and to urge their claims to 
freedom, when legal, before fuch perfons or courts as 
are authorifed to decide upon them. 

VI. The electing committee mail have the fole pow- of the deft- 
er of admitting new members. Two-thirds of them tee. 

mall be a quorum for this purpofe — and the concurrence 
of a majority of them by ballot, when met, mall be ne- 
cefTary for the adrniilion of a member. No member 
fhall be admitted, who has not been propofed at a gene- 
ral meeting of the fociety, nor mall an election for a 
member take place in lefs than one month after the time 
of his being propofed. Foreigners or perfons who do 
not refide in this ftate, may be elected correfponding 
members of the fociety, without being fubjecl: to an 
annual payment, and mail be admitted to the meetings 
of the fociety during their refidence in the ftate. 

VII. 



t 6 } 

Duty of the VII. The acting committee {hall tranfact fuch bufi- 

A&'.Ti° com- 

Bjittcc nefs as fhall occur in the recefs of the fociety, and re- 
port the fame at each quarterly meeting. -They fhall 

have a right, with the concurrence of the prefident or 
one of the vice-prefidents, to draw upon the treafurer 
for fuch fums of money as fhall be neceflary to carry on 
the bufinefs of their appointment. Four of them fhall 
be a quorum. After their firfr. election, two of their 
number fhall be relieved from duty at each quarterly 
meeting, and two members fhall be appointed to fucceed 
them. 

sum to be VIII. Every member upon his admiiTion, fhall fub- 
''fcribe the conftitution of the fociety, and contribute ten 
{hillings annually, in quarterly payments, towards de- 
fraying its contingent expences. If he neglects to pay 
the fame for more than two years > he fhall, upon due 
notice being given him of his delinquency, ceafe to be a 
member. 

Days of meet- IX. The fociety fhall meet on the firft. Second-day 
called Monday, in the months called January, April, 
July and October, at fuch place as fhall be agreed to 
by a majority of the fociety. 

no flave-hoid- X. No perfon holding a Have fhall be admitted a 

cr to be a - r , . r . 

member. member or this fociety. 

Manner of ai- XL No law or regulation fhall contradict any part of 
ftitoSon, and" the conftitution of the fociety, nor fhall any law or alte- 
Sd3 8 dS£ rat i° n in the conftitution be made, without being pro- 
ing queftiom. pofed at a previous meeting; All queflions fhall be 

decided, 



t 7 ] 

decided, where there is a diyifion, by a majority of votes. 
In thofe cafes wh^re the fociety is equally divided, the 
prefiding officer fhall have a cafting vote. 

The Prefent Officers of the Society. 

President, i 

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN. 

Vice-Presidents, 
JAMES PEMBERTON, 
JONATHAN PENROSE. 

Secretaries, 
BENJAMIN RUSH, 
TENCH COXE. 

Treasurer, 
JAMES STARR. 

Counsellors, 
WILLIAM LEWIS, 
JOHN D. COXE, 
MIERS FISHER, 
WILLIAM RAWLE. 

Electing Committee, ■ 
Thomas Harrison, Norris Jones, 
Nathan Boys, Samuel Richards, 

James Whiteall, Francis Bailey, 

James Reed, Andrew Carson, 

John Todd, John Warner, 

Thomas Armatt, Jacob Shoemaker, jun. 

Acting Committee, 
Thomas Shields, William Zane, 

Thomas Parker, John Warner, 

John Oldden 7 William M'Elhennet, 



An ACT for ' the gradual Abolition of 
Slavery. 

preamble. Section I. T ¥ fHEN we contemplate our abhor- 
V V rence of that condition, to which 
the arms and tyranny of Great Britain were exerted to 
reduce us— when we look back on the variety of dangers 
to which we have been expofed, and how miraculoufly 
our wants in many inftances have been fupplied, and our 
deliverances wrought, when even hope and human for- 
titude have become unequal to the conflict — we are un- 
avoidably led to a ferious and grateful fenfe of the mani- 
fold bleffings which we have undefervedly received from 
the hand of that Being, from whom every good and per- 
fect gift cometh. Impreffed with thefe ideas, we con- 
ceive that it is our duty, and we rejoice that it is in our 
power, to extend a portion of that freedom to others, 
which hath been extended to us ; and a releafe from that 
ftate of thraldom, to which we ourfelves were tyrannical- 
ly doomed, and from which we have now every profpecl: 
of being delivered. It is not for us to enquire why, in 
the creation of mankind, the inhabitants of the feveral 
parts of the earth were diftinguifhed by a difference in 
feature or complexion. It is fufncient to know that 
all are the work of an Almighty Hand. We find, in the 
. distribution of the human fpecies, that the moil fertile as 
well as the moll barren parts of the earth are inhabited 
by men of complexions different from ours, and from 
each other ; from whence we may reafonably, as well as 
religiouily, infer, that he who placed them in their vari- 
ous Situations, hath extended equally his care and protec- 
tion 



[ 9' J 

tion to all, and that it becometh not us to counteract: his 
mercies. Weefteem it a peculiar bleiiing granted to us, 
that we are enabled this day to aoM one more ftep to u- 
niverfal civilization, by removing, as much as poffible, 
the forrows of thofe who have lived in undeferved bon- 
dage, and from which, by the aflumed authority of the 
kings of Great-Britain, no effectual, legal relief could 
be obtained. Weaned by a long courfe of experience 
from thofe narrow prejudices and partialities we had im- 
bibed, we find our hearts enlarged with kindnefs and be- 
nevolence towards men of all conditions and nations ; 
and we conceive ourfelves at this particular period ex- 
traordinarily called upon, by the bleffings which we have 
received, to manifeft the fincerity of our profeiEon, and 
to give a fubftantial proof of our gratitude. 

Sect. II. AND WHEREAS the condition of thofe 
perfons who have heretofore been denominated Negro 
and Mulatto Haves, has been attended with circumftances 
which not only deprived them of the common bletfings 
that they were by nature entitled to, but has call them 
into the deepeft afflictions by an unnatural feparation and 
fale of hufband and wife from each other and from their 
children — an injury, the greatnefs of which can only be 
conceived by fuppofing that we were in the fame unhap- 
py cafe. Injuftice, therefore, to perfons fo unhappily 
circumftanced, and who, having no profpecl: before them 
whereon they may reft their forrows and their hopes, 
have no reafonable inducement to render their fervice to 
fociety, which otherwife they might ; and alfo in grate- 
ful commemoration of our own happy deliverance from 

B that 



[ «o I 

that ftate of unconditional fubmiffion to which we were 
doomed by the tyranny of Britain. 

fo diiid bom Sect. III. Be it enacted, and it is hereby enacted, by 

hereafter to be J 

a flave, th e reprefentatives of the freemen of the commonwealth 

of Pennfylvania, in general afTembly met, and by the au- 
thority of the fame, That all perfons, as well Negroes 
and Mulattoes and others, who mail be born within this 
Irate from and after the paffing of this act, fhall not be 
deemed and confidered as fervants for life, or flaves ; and 
that all fervitude for life, or flavery of children, in confe - 
quence of the flavery of their mothers, in the cafe of all 
children born within this itate, from and after the paffing 
of this acl: as aforefaid, (hall be, and hereby is utterly 
taken away, extinguifhed and forever abolimed. 

NegroandMu- Sect. IV. Provided always, and be it further enact- 
tobefervantJ ed, by the authority aforefaid, That every Negro and 
ag e> 28 ye " rs of Mulatto child born within this ftate after the palling of 
this acl: as aforefaid (who would, in cafe this acl: had not 
been made, have been born a fervant for years> or life, 
or a nave) fhall be deemed to be, and mail be, by virtue 
of this act, the fervant of fuch perfon, or his or her affigns, 
who would, in fuch cafe, have been entitled to the fer- 
vice of fuch child, until fuch child mail attain unto the 
age of twenty-eight years, in the manner and on the 
conditions whereon fervants bound by indenture for four 
years are or may be retained and holden ; and fhall be 
liable to like correction and punimment, and entitled to 
like relief in cafe he or fhe be evilly treated by his or her 
mailer or miftrefs, and to like freedom dues and other 

privileges 



[ " ] 

privileges as fervants bound by indenture for four years 
are or may be entitled, unlefs the perfon to whom the 
fervice of any fuch child mall belong mail abandon his 
or her claim to the fame ; in which cafe the overfeers of 
the poor of the city, townfhip or diftricl: reflectively, 
where fuch child mail be fo abandoned, fhall by indenture 
bind out every child, fo abandoned, as an apprentice for 
a time not exceeding the age herein before limited for 
the fervice of fuch children. 

Sect. V. And be it further enacted by the authority A n naves to be 
aforefaid, That every perfon, who is or mail be the own- Se the iit of 
er of any Negro or Mulatto flave or fervant for life, or till ^S. mher 
the age of thirty-one years, now within this ftate, or his 
lawful attorney, mall, on or before the faid flrflday of No- 
vember next, deliver or caufe to be delivered in writing 
to the clerk of the peace of the county, or to the clerk of 
the court of record of the city of Philadelphia, in which 
he or me mail refpe&ively inhabit, the name, and furname, 
and occupation or profeilion of fuch owner, and the name 
of the county and townfhip, diftricl: or ward wherein he 
or me refideth ; and alfo the name and names of any fuch 
flave and Haves, and fervant and fervants for life or till 
the age of thirty-one years, together with their ages and 
fexes feverally and refpectively fet forth and annexed, by 
fuch perfon owned or ftatedly employed, and their being 
within this flate, in order to afcertain and diflinguiin the 
flaves and fervants for life and till the age of thirty-one 
years, within this ftate, who mall be fuch, on the faid 
firft day of November next, from all other perfons ; which 
particulars fhall by faid clerk of the feifions and clerk of 

the 



[ 12 j 

the faid court be entered in books to be provided for that 
purpofe by the faid clerks ; and that no Negro and Mu- 
latto, now within this ftate, (hall from and after the faid 
firft dzy of November, be deemed a Dave or fervant for 
life, or till the age of thirty-one years, unlefs his or her 
name mall be entered as aforefaid on fuch record, except 
fuch Negro and Mulatto ilaves and fervants as are here- 
in after excepted ; the fame clerk to be entitled to a fee 
of two dollars for each Have or fervant fo entered as a- 
forefaid, from the treafurer of the county, to be allowed 
to him in his accounts. 

owner? of Sect. VI. Provided always, That any perfon in whom 

fl°VCS th~U£rTl 

not regifto-ed, the ownerfhip or right to the fervice of any Negro or 
their rugport, Mulatto fhall be veiled at the pafling of this acl:, other 
than fuch as are herein before excepted, his or her heirs, 
executors, administrators and affigns, and all and every 
of them feveraiiy fhall be liable to the overfeers of the 
poor of the city, townfhip or diftrict. to which any fuch 
Negro or Mulatto fnall become chargeable^ for fuch ne- 
ceflary expence, with coils of fuit thereon, as fuch over- 
feers may be put to, through the neglecl: of the owner, 
matter or rniftrefs of fuch Negro or Mulatto ; notwith- 
ftanding the name and other defcriptions of fuch Negro 
or Mulatto fhall not be entered and recorded as aforefaid ; 
unlefs his or her mailer or ov/ner mail, before fuch flave 
or fervant attain his or her twenty-eighth year, execute 
and record in the proper county, a deed or inftrument, 
fecuring to fuch Have or fervant, his or her freedom. 

Sect. 



[ i3 3 
Sect. VII, x4.nd be it further enacted by the autho- Negroes, & c . 

. to be tried 

rity aforefaid, That the offences and crimes of Negroes like other in- 
and Mulattoes, as well flaves and fervants as freemen 5 
{hall be enquired of, adjudged, corrected and punifjied in 
like manner as the offences and crimes of the other in- 
habitants of this flate are and mail be enquired of, ad- 
judged, corrected and punifhed, and not otherwife; 
except that a flave fhall not be admitted to bear witnefs 
againfl a freeman. 

Sect. VIII. And be it further enacted by the autho- J ,j1 t to val "« 

J in cafe of fen- 

rity aforefaid, That in all cafes, wherein fentence of tenceof death, 
death fhall be pronounced againfl a flave, the jury be- 
fore whom he or fhe fhall be tried, fhall appraife and 
declare the value of fuch flave ; and in cafe fuch fentence 
be executed, the court fhall make an order on the flate 
treafurer, payable to the owner for the fame and for the 
cofls of profecution; but in cafe of remiilion or mitiga- 
tion, for the cofls only. 

Sect. IX. And be it further enacted by the autho- Reward for 

taking up run- 

rity aforefaid, That the reward for taking up runaway sways, fame 

to l J as for white 

and abfconding Negro and Mulatto flaves and fervants, fervants. 
and the penalties for enticing away, dealing with, or 
harbouring, concealing or employing Negro and Mu- 
latto flaves and fervants, fhall be the fame, and fhall be 
recovered in like manner as in the cafe of fervants bound 
for four years. 

Sect. X. And be it further enacted by the authority None t0 be 

J deemed (laves, 

aforefaid, That no man or woman of any nation or co- but tnofe re- 
gistered. 

lour, except the Negroes or Mulattoes who fhall be 

regiflered 



regiftered as aforefaid,' fhall at any time hereafter be 
deemed, adjudged or holden within the territories of this 
commonwealth as flaves or fervants for life, but as free- 
men and free-women; except the domeftic flaves attend- 
ing upon delegates in Congrefs from the other American 
ftates, foreign minifters and confuls, and perfons pafling 
through or fojourning in this ftate and not becoming re- 
fident therein, and feamen employed in mips not belong- 
ing to any inhabitant of this ftate, nor employed in any 
fhip owned by any fuch inhabitant. Provided fuch do- 
meftic flaves be not aliened or fold to any inhabitant, nor 
(except in the cafe of members of Congrefs, foreign 
minifters and confuls) retained in this ftate longer than 
fix months. 

Except rmu- Sect. XI. Provided always, and be it further en- 
ways from &-«.«', 

ther ftates. acted by the authority aforefaid, That this act or any 
thing in it contained, fhall not give any relief or ftielter 
to any abfconding or runaway Negro or Mulatto flave 
or fervant, who has abfented himfelf, or fhall abfenthim- 
felf from his or her owner, mafter or miftrefs refiding in 
any other ftate or country, but fuch owner, mafter or 
miftrefs fhall have like right and aid to demand, claim 
and take away his flave or fervant, as he might have had 
slaves carried in cafe this act had not been made : And that all Negro 
ftomthisftate, and Mulatto flaves now owned and heretofore refident in 
brought back this ftate, who have abfented themfelves, or been clan- 
deftinely carried away, or who may be employed abroad 
as feamen and have not returned or been brought back 
to their owners, mafters or miftrefTes, before the pafling 
of this a£t, may within five years be regiftered as effec- 
tually 



C i5 ] 

tually as is ordered by this act concerning thofe who are 
now within the ftate, on producing fuch flave before any 
two juftices of the peace, and fatisfying the faid jufHces 
by due proof of the former refidence, abfconding, taking 
away, or abfence of fuch Haves as aforefaid ; who there- 
upon mail direct and order the faid flave to be entered on 
the record as aforefaid. 

Sect. XII. AND WHEREAS attempts may be Preamble, 
made to evade this act, by introducing into this ftate 
Negroes and Mulattoes bound by covenant, to ferve for 
long and unreafonable terms of years, if the fame be not 
prevented : 

Sect. XIII. Be it therefore enacted by the autho- NoNegroesor 
rity aforefaid. That no covenant of perfonal fervitude or t ^ T ^'£. 
apprenticefhip whatfoever, mall be valid or binding on a bounder 6 
Negro or Mulatto, for a longer time than feven years, [evcnyeaS 
unlefs fuch fervant or apprentice were, at the commence- 
ment of fuch fervitude or apprenticefhip, under the age 
of twenty-one years ; in which cafe fuch Negro or Mu- 
latto may be holden as a fervant or apprentice refpec- 
tively, according to the covenant, as the cafe mail be, 
until he or fhe mail attain the age of twenty-eight years, 
but no longer. 

Sect. XIV. And be it further enacted by the autho- Repeal of for- 
rity aforefaid, That an act of AiTembly of the province mer aas * 
of Pennfylvania, paiTed in the year one thoufand (even 
hundred and five, entitled, " An act for the trial of Ne- 
groes;" and another act of AiTembly of the faid pro- 
vince, palled in the year one thoufand feven hundred and 

twenty-live, 



twenty-five, entitled, <c An acl for th£ better regulating 
of Negroes in this province \ " and another acl: of AfTem- 
bly of the faid province, paffed in the year one thoufand 
feven hundred and nxty-one, entitled, " An acl for lay- 
ing a duty on Negro and Mulatto flaves imported into . 
this province ; " and alfo another acl: of Aflembly of the 
faid province, paiTed in the year one thoufand feven hun- 
dred and feventy- three, entitled, " An acl: for making 
perpetual an a£t for laying a duty on Negro and Mulatto 
flaves imported into this province, and for laying an ad- 
ditional duty on faid flaves," fhall be, and are hereby 
repealed, annulled and made void. 

JOHN BAYARD, Speaker. 



Enabled into a Law at Philadelphia^ on 
Wednefday, the firjl day of March, 
Anno Domini^ 1780. 



: ! 



Thomas Paine, Clerk of the General JJfemhly. 



An A C T to give "Relief to certain Per- 
fons taking Refuge in this Stale, with re- 
JpecJ to their Slaves. 

Section LXTTTHEREAS many virtuous citizens of 

V V America, and inhabitants of Hates 

that have been invaded, are obliged, by the power of the 

enemy 



I 17 J 

enemy, to take refuge in this ftate. AND WHERE- 
AS it is juft and neceiTary that the property of fuch 
perfons fliould be protected. 

Sect. II. Be it therefore enacted, and it is hereby Perlbnstak!n s 

J refuge, may 

enacted, by the Reprefentatives of the Freemen of the retain their 

} r ■ flaves, &c. 

commonwealth of Pennfylvania, in General AlTembly 
met, and by the authority of the fame, That all and 
every perfon and perfons, under the above defcription, 
now refiding in this ftate, or who hereafter may be in 
like circumftances, mall retain, pofiefs and hold their 
flaves -, any thing in the " Act for the gradual abolition 
of flavery," palled the firft day of March, one thoufand 
{even, hundred and eighty, to the contrary notwith- 
ftanding. 

Sect. III. Provided always, That the owner orJJ^^J^ 
owners of fuch flaves, his or their lawful attorney, mail, ^o^ s llx 
in fix months from the pafling of this act, or in fix 
months after their arrival in this ftate, as the cafe may 
be, regifter faid flaves, in manner and form directed 
in the fifth fection of the act above mentioned, for the 
gradual abolition of flavery. And be it further provid- And not fold 

m or retained in 

ed, That fuch flaves mall not be aliened or fold to any the ftate longer 
inhabitant, nor retained in this ftate as flaves, longer than after the war. 
fix months after the conclufion of the prefent war with 
Great Britain. 

Sect. IV. And be it alfo provided and declared, Provifo.; 
That nothing herein contained, (hall be deemed, con- 

C ftrued 



E 18 -3 

ilrued or taken to enflave any perfon or perfons, who 
have been emancipated or freed, under, or by virtue of 
the act aforefaid. 

Signed by order of the Houfej 

Frederick A. Muhlenberg, Speaker, 



Enabled Into a Law at Philadelphia^ 
on Monday ) the fir ft day of Oftober, 
Anno Domini^ 1 781. 



: i 



Samuel Sterrett, Clerk of the General ' Jfembly. 



An 



C 19 J 

An ACT to explain and amend an A6l 9 
entitled, " an Adl for the gradual Aboli^ 
tion of Slavery." 

TO WHICH IS PREFIXED, 

The Report of the Committee of the General Ailem- 
bly of Pennfylvania, on the Petitions of a confiderable 
number of the Inhabitants of the city and county of 
Philadelphia, the counties of Chefter and Bucks, and 
other parts of the State, of all religious denomina- 
tions, in favor of the oppreiTed Africans and their 
defcendants. 



« s WE hold thefe Truths to be /elf-evident; that all men are created equal, that 
they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among 
thefe are Life, Liberty, and the purfuit of Happinefs." 

Declaration of Independence. 

"WE efteem it a peculiar bleffing granted to us, that we are enabled this day to 
add one more ftep to uni-verfal civilization by removing, as much as poflible, 
the forrows of thofe who have lived in undeferved bondage." 

Preamble to tbefirjt aft of the General Ajembly of Pennfyl-vania, 

for the gradual Abolition of Slavery. 



IN 

ASSEMBLY of PENNSYLVANIA, 

March 8th, 1788. 
r i ^HE Committee, to ivhom was referred the petition of 
-*■ the people called Quakers, in favor of the diflrejfed 
Africans and their defendants, and alfo that from divers inha- 
bitants of the city and county of Philadelphia on the fame fubj eel — = 

Report ; 
THAT having paid all the attention to the fab) eel -matter 
of f aid Petit ion s y ivhich ifs importance feemed to require, it 

appears 



r ™ i 

appears to your Committee, that although the Acl entitled^ 
" An ASt for the gradual Abolition of Slavery" has been 
attended with very falutary effects, it is not Efficiently calcu- 
lated to anfwer all the benevolent purpofes which the Legifla- 
ture had in view, and which jujlice and humanity call for, 

Thefubjecl, important as it is, was in the fcience of legiflation 
in fome degree new and unexplored, and experience evinces that 
infuch cafes the utmofl fir etch of human wifdom is inadequate 
to the arduous ta/k of guarding againfl all the mifchiefs and 
fubtle evafions, which artful and unprincipled men are too apt 
to embrace : Hence it is, that perfons of this defcription, un- 
mindful of that rule which commands, that " Whatfoever we 
would that men Jhould do to us, we, Jhould do even fo to 
them" have, as your Committee are credibly informed, in a 
variety of inftances, and in contravention of the Refolution of 
Congrefs of the 20th Oclober, 1774, by which that augufl 
body did, for themjelves and their conflituents, firmly agree and 
cffociate, under the facred ties of virtue, honor, and love of 
their country, that they Jhould neither import, nor pur chafe any 
jlave imported, after the firjl day of December then next; but 
would wholly difcontinue the Slave Trade, and would neither be 
concerned in it the?nfelves, or hire their vejfels or fell their com- 
modities or manufactures to thofe who jhould be concerned in 
it — equipped and fitted out from the port of Philadelphia, vef- 
fels provided with handcuff's and military implements, in order 
tojiir up the princes of Africa to wage war againfl each other, 
for the encouragement andfupport of an unrighteous traffic in 
human flefh ; a traffic, by which, hufbands torn from their 
wives and wives from their hufbands, parents from their chil- 
dren and children fro?n their parents^ are fold as captive faves 
into a long and cruel bondage, 

That 



t « J 

That if the declaration contained in our Bill of Rights , thai 
cc All men are born equally free and independent" or that in 
the Act of Independence, that " All men are created equal—' 
that they are endowed 'by their Creator tvith certain unalien- 
able rights, among which are, life, liberty, and the pur f nit of 
happinefs," is founded in truth ; and, more efpecially, if the 
whole race of men are created by one God for the fame noble 
purpofes, and if he will, as we are taught to believe, avenge the 
injuries of his people, it appears to your Committee that the 
Petitioners fpeak but the divine Will in requefling that this 
evil be done away from the land. 

That to your Committee it alfo appears that the f aid Act is 
defective, and requires amend?nents in the following particulars: 

I ft. It does not prohibit the owners offaves from felling 
the?n from their wives or their hnjbands, their parents or 
their children into dijlant parts, and even into foreign countries. 

2d. // ordains no punijhment for thofe men-ftealers who 
by fraud or violence feize and hurry into dijlant countries, and 
perpetual bondage, free Negroes and Mulattoes. 

3d. It provides that Negroes or Mulattoes who fhould be 
born offaves after the pajfing of the fa id act Jho'uld be free on 
their attaining to the age of 28 years, but does not provide 
Ggainjl their being fent into neighbouring fates or foreign coun- 
tries, in order to deprive them of that liberty to which they 
would be entitled here, nor does it guard again/If aves who 
are pregnant, being fent out of the State till after their delivery^ 
Jo that their iffue may be held in f aver y during life. 

4th 



[ 22 ] 

4th. It provides that all Negro and Mulatto Jlaves whs 
Jhould be brought into this State, Jhould be free, with an excep- 
tion, among others, offuch as Jhould attend their owner when 
travelling through, or fojourning in it, without being detained 
here for fix months, but does not Jujficiently guard againfi the 
citizens of this State or others, fendi?ig their Jlaves out of the 
State Jhortly before the end of fix months, and then bringing 
them back, whereby the J aid Acl is in a great meafure evaded. 
-—To your Committee therefore it appears, that the frequency 
eftheje and other mifchiefs, contrary to ihefpiritofthefaid Acl 
and the principles on which it is founded, require feme further 
aid of the law to check what humanity is inadequate to per- 
form — They therefore beg leave to offer the following refolution, 
viz. 

Refolved, That a Committee be appointed to bring in a bill 
to explain and amend the Acl, entitled, " An Acl for the gra- 
dual abolition ofjlavery . ' ' 

Ordered, That Meffrs. Lewis, Wynkoop, Kennedy, Piper 
and Lollar, be a Committee to bring in a bill conformably to 
the foregoing refolution* 



An 



I 23 ] 

An A C T to explain and amend an Acl 9 
entitled, " an AB for the gradual Aboli- 
tion of Slavery ." 

FOR preventing many evils and abufes arifing from Preamble, 
ill difpoied perlbns availing themfelves of certain 
defects in the act for the gradual abolition of flavery, 
pafled on the firfl day of March in the year of our Lord 
one thoufand feven hundred and eighty. 

SectionI. Eeit enacted, and it is hereby enacted, by f^JjfSSf 
the Reprefentatives of the Freemen of the Commonwealth 5itionaa. ab0 " 
of Pennfylvania, in General AiTembly met, and by the 
authority of the fame, That the exception contained in 
the tenth fection of the aforefaid act, relative to domef- 
tic flaves, attending upon perfons pacing through or fo- 
journing in this State, and not becoming refident there- 
in, mail not be deemed or taken to extend to the flaves 
of fuch perfons as are inhabitants of, or refident in this 
State, or who fhall come here with an intention to fettle 
and refide, but that all and every flave and Haves, who 
fhall be brought into this State, by perfcns inhabiting or 
refiding therein, or intending to inhabit or refide there- 
in, mail be immediately confidered, deemed and taken to 
be free to all intents and purpofes. 

Sect. II. And be it further enacted by the authority Noflaveorfe*, 

J J rant to bere- 

aforefaid, That no Negro or Mulatto flave or fervant moved out of 

this ftate with- 

for term of years, (except as in the laft exception of the out thdr . con " 

J 3 v r fentonapnvate 

tenth fection of the faid act is excepted), fhall be remov- examinawoa, 
cd out of this State, with the defign and intention that 

the 



I 2+ ] 

the place of abode or refidence of fuch flave or fervant 
fhall be thereby altered or changed, or with the defign 
and intention that/uch flave or fervant, if a female and 
pregnant, fhall be detained and kept out of this State till 
her delivery of the child of which fhe is or fhall be preg^ 
nant, or with the defign and intention that fuch flave 
or fervant fhall be brought again into this State after the 
expiration of fix months from the time of fuch flave or 
fervant having been firft brought into this State, without 
his or her confent, if of full age, teftified upon a private 
examination before two Juftices of the Peace of the city 
and if a minor or county, in which he or fhe fhall refide ; or being under 
the confent of tne age of twenty-one years, without his or her confent 
t en- parents. te £L}£ ec | j n manner aforefaid, and alfo without the con- 
fent of his or her parents, if any fuch there be, to be tefti- 
fied in like manner aforefaid, whereof the faid Juftices or 
*uty. one °f them fhall make a record, and deliver to the faid 

flave or fervant a copy thereof, containing the name, 
age, condition, and then place of abode of fuch flave or 
fervant, the reafon of fuch removal, and the place to 
Penalty on of- which he or fhe is about to go. And if any perfon or 
ifowTo bere- P er f° ns whatever fhall fell or difpofe of any fuch Have or 
covered. fervant, to any perfon out of this State, or fhall fend or 
carry, or caufe to befent or carried any fuch flave or fer- 
vant out of this State for any of the purpofes aforefaid, 
whereby fuch flave or fervant would lofe thofe benefits 
and privileges, which by the laws of this State are fecured 
to him or her, and fhall not have obtained all fuch con- 
fent as by this act is required, teftified in the manner be- 
fore mentioned, every fuch perfon and perfons, his and 

their 



6 25 3 

their aiders and abettors, fhall feverally forfeit and pay 
for every fuch offence, the fum of feventy-five pounds:, to 
be recovered in any Court of Record by a£tion of debt, 
bill, plaint or information, at the fuit of any perfon who 
will fue for the fame, one moiety thereof when recovered, 
for the ufe of the plaintiff, the other moiety for the ufe 
of the poor of the city, townmip or place from which 
iuch nave or fervant fhall be taken and removed. 

Sect. III. And be it further enacted by the authority Children bon* 

of flaves fines 

aforefaid, That all perfons who now are, or hereafter mall the ift day of 

March, 1 7 so, to 

be poffeffed of any child or children, born after the firil be regutered, 
day of March one thoufand (even hundred and eighty, 
who would by the faid act. be liable to ferve 'till the age 
of twenty-eight years, mall, on or before the firft day of 
April one thoufand {even hundred and eighty-nine, or 
within fix months next after the birth of any fuch child, 
deliver, or caufe to be-delivered in writing, to the Clerk 
of the Peace of the county, or the Clerk of the Court of 
Record of the city of Philadelphia, in which they fhall 
reflectively inhabit, the name, firname and occupation 
or profefiion of fuch poffeffor, and of the county, town- 
ship, diftri£t or ward in which they refide, and aifo the 
age, (to the beft of his or her knowledge) name and fex 
of every fuch child or children, under the pain and pe- 
nalty of forfeiting and lofing all right and title to every 
fuch child and children, and of him, her or them imme- 
diately becoming free, which faid return or account in 
writing, fhall be verified by the oath or affirmation of 
the party, which the faid Clerks are hereby refpecliveiy 
authorifed and required to adminifter, and the faid Clerks 

D ihalL 



r *» 1 

fhall make and preferve Records thereof, copies and ex- 
copies and ex- traces of which fhall be good evidence in all courts of 
to be evidence juftice, when certified under their hands and feals of of- 
m any court. £ cg> _p or w hi cn oath or affirmation and entry or ex- 
tract, the faid Clerks fhall be refpectively entitled to one 
Chilling and fiX^pence, and no more, to be paid by him 
or her, who fhall fo as aforefaid make fuch entry or de- 
mand the extract aforefaid, 

preamble. Sect. IV. And whereas, it has been reprefented to 

this houfe, that veflels have been fitted out and equipped 
in this port, for the iniquitous purpofe of receiving and 
fcranfporting the natives of Africa to places where they 
are held in bondage, and it is juft and proper to difcour- 
age, as far as is practicable, fuch proceedings in future. 

forfeiture of Sect. V. Be it therefore enacted, and it is hereby en* 
:n'Xeflave ye acled, by the authority aforefaid, That if any perfon or 



trade. 



perfons fhall build, fit, equip, man or otherwife prepare 
any fhip or veffel, within any port of this frate, or fhall 
caufe any fhip or other vefFel to fail from any port of this 
ftate, for the purpofe of carrying on a trade or traffic in 
flaves, to, from or between Europe, Afia, Africa or Ame- 
rica, or any places or countries whatever, or of tranfport- 
ing Haves to or from one port or place to another, in any 
part or parts of the world ; fuch fhip or vefFel, her tackle, 
furniture, apparel and other appurtenances, fhall be for- 
feited to the Commonwealth, and fhall be liable to be 
eized and profecuted by any officer of the cuftoms, or 
other perfon, by information in rem in the Supreme Court, 
or the County Court of Common Pleas, for the county 

wherein 



I m 9 

wherein fuch feizure fhall be made, whereupon fuch pro- 
ceedings fhall be had, both unto and after judgment, as 
in and by the impoft laws of this Commonwealth in cafes 
offeizures is directed. And moreover, all and every Penalty on 

offenders. 

perfon and perfons fobuilding, fitting out, manning, equip- 
ping, or otherwife preparing or fending away, any fhip 
or veffel, knowing or intending that the fame (hall be 
employed in fuch trade or bufinefs, contrary to the true 
intent and meaning of this act, or anywife aiding or a- 
betting therein, fhall feverally forfeit and pay the fum of 
one thoufand pounds, one moiety thereof to the ufe of 
the Commonwealth, and the other moiety thereof to the 
ufe of him or her who will fue for the fame, by action of 
debt, bill, plaint or information. 

Sect. VI. And whereas, The practice of feparating, Preamble, 
which is too often exercifed by the matters and miftrefles 
of Negro and Mulatto Haves or fervants, for term of years, 
in feparating hufbands and wives, and parents and chil- 
dren, requires to be checked, fo far as the fame may be 
done without prejudice to fuch matters or miftrefles. 

Sect. VII. Be it enacted by the authority aforefaid, separating 

hulbands and 

That if any owner or pofleflbr of any Negro or Mulatto wives and their 
flave or flaves, or fervant or fervants, for term of years, 
fhall from and after the firft day of June next, feparate or 
remove, or caufe to be feparated or removed, a hufband from 
his wife, a wife from her hufband, a child from his or her 
parent, or a parent from a child, of any or either of the 
defcriptions aforefaid, to a greater diftance than ten. miles, 
with the defign and intention of changing the habitation 



L 28 ] 

or place of abode of fuch hufband or wife, parent or 
child, unlefs fuch child {hall be above the age of four 
years, or unlefs the confent of fuch Have or fervant for 
life or years, mall nave been obtained, and teltified in the 
manner herein before defcribed, fuch perfon or perfons 
penalty there- n^n f eV erally, forfeit and pay the fum of fifty pounds, 
with coils of fuit, for every fuch offence, to be recovered 
by action of debt, bill, plaint or information, in the Su- 
preme Court, or in any Court of Common Pleas, at the 
fuit of any perfon who will fue for the fame, one moiety 
thereof when recovered, for the ufe of the plaintiff, the o- 
ther moiety for the ufe of the Poor of the city, townfhip 
or place, from which fuch hufband or wife, parent or 
child fhall have been taken and removed. 

Sect. VIII. And be it further enacted by the authority 

Penalty on car- J J 

ryi Mu£Se S es afc re feid> That if any perfon or perfons fhall, from and 
out of tins a f ter t h e p a fft n g f this act, by force or violence, take and 
carry, or caufe to be taken and carried, or fhall, by fraud, 
feduce or caufe to be feduced, any Negro or Mulatto, from 
any part or parts of this flate, to any other place or places 
whatsoever, with a defign and intention of felling and dif- 
pofmg, or of caufmg to be fold, or of keeping and de- 
taining, or of caufing fo to be, as a Have or fervant for a 
term of years, every fuch perfon and perfons, their aiders 
and abettors, fhall, on conviction thereof, in any Court 
of Quarter Seflions, for any city or county within this 
Commonwealth, forfeit and pay the fum of one hundred 
pounds to the overfeers of the poor of the city or town- 
fhip, from v/hich fuch Negro or Mulatto fhall have been 
taken or feduced as aforefaid, and fhall alfo be' confined at 

hard 



[ 29 3 

hard labour for any time not lefs than fix months, nor 
more than twelve months, and until the cofts of profecu- 
tion fhall be paid. 

Sect. IX. And be it further enacted by the authority 
aforefaid, That the Juftices of the Courts of Common 
Pleas for the counties of this State, refpe£tively be and they 
are hereby required and enjoined to caufe this acl: to be 
publickly read, at leaft twice in each term, for the two 
terms next following the pafling of this a£t. 

Signed by order of the Houfe, 

THOMAS MIFFLIN, Speaker. 



Enabled into a Law at Philadelphia^ 
on Saturday^ the twenty-ninth day of 
March) in the year of our Lord^ 1788. 



! 



Peter Z. Lloyd, Clerk of the General Jffemhly, 




