Digitized by tine Internet Arcliive 

in 2010 witli funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://ww w.archive. org/details/addr esstopeopleo 92foxw 



A N 



ADDRESS 

TO THE 

PEOPLEOF 

GREAT BRITAIN, 

ON THE PROPRIETY OF ABSTAINING FROM 

Weft India Sugar and Rum. 



Why did all-creating Mature 

Make the, plant for which we toil? 
Sighs mufijan it. Tears rauji toater^ 

Sweat of ours muji drefs the Soil. 
Think ye M afters, iron-hearte.dy 

Lolling at your jovial Boards^ 
Think how many Backs havefinarted 

For the Sweets your Cane affords ! 

Cowper's Negro's Complaint, 



The Tenth Edition, with Additions, 

LONDON, PRINTED, PHILADELPHIA : 

RE-PRINTED BY DANIEL LAWRENCE. 

M.DCC.XCII. 



.710 



NOtwlthftanclIng the late determination of the 
Houfe of Commons on the Slave-Trade, we 
may hope that the difcuilioii it has received will not be 
ufelefs J and that the public attention has not been 
excited in vain, to a fyftem of cruelty which it is 
painful even to recite. It may be hope^ that, claim- 
ing for ourlelves the mod perfe^l freedom, we fi-iall 
no longer impofe upon others a flavery the moH: op- 
preffive J and that, enjoying a degree of felicity un- 
equalled in any age or country, v/e fhall no longer 
range the world to incrcafe the mifery of mankind. 

The luft of power, and the pride of conqueft, have 
doubtlefs produced inftances far too numerous, of man 
enflaved by man. But we, in an enlightened age, have 
greatly furpafled, in brutality and injuftice, the mofc 
ignorant and barbarous ages : and while we are pre- 
tending to the fineO: feelings of humanity, are exercif^ 
ing unprecedented cruelty. Y/"e have planted flavery 
in the rank foil of fordid avarice ; and the produce 
has beeb mifery in the extreme. We have afcertain- 
ed, by a courfe of experiments in cruelty, the leaft 
portion of nourifliment rcquifite to enable man to lin- 
ger A few years in mifery •, the greateft quantity of la- 
bor which, in fuch a fituation, the extreme of punilli- 
ment can extort ; and the utmoft degree of pain, 
labor, and hunger united, that the human frame can 
endure. 

In vain have fuch fcenes been developed. Tlie 
wealth derived from the horrid traffic, has created 
an influence that fccures its continuance, unlefs the 
people at large fhall refufe to receive the produce of 
robbery and murder. 

The Legiflature having refufed to interpofe, the 
people arenowneceiTarily called on, either to reprobate 
or approve the meafure 5 for Weft-India flavery muA^ 



■ ( 4 ) 

depend upon their fuppon for its exigence ; and it 
is in the power of evtry individual to incrcafe, or to 
diminifli its extent. The hiws of our country may 
indeed prohibit us the fugar-cane, unlefs we will re- 
ceive it througli the medium oF flavery. They may 
hold it to our lips, fteepcd in the blood of our fel- 
low creatures ; but they cannot compel us to accept 
the loathfonie potion. With us it refls, either to 
receive it and be partners in the crime, or to exone- 
rate ourfelves from guilt, by fpurning from us the 
temptation. For let us not think, that the crime 
reOs alone with thofe who conduct the traffic, or the 
LegiQature by which it is protected. If we purchafe 
the commodity, we participate in the crime. The 
flave-dealer, the flave-holder, and the flave-d river, 
are virtually the agents of the confumer, and may be 
confidered as employed and hired by him to procure 
the commodity. For, by holding out the temptati- 
on, he is the original caufe, the firft mover in the 
horrid procefs ; and every diftincSlion is done away 
by the moral maxim. That whatever we do by ano- 
ther, we do ourfelves. 

Nor are we by any means warranted to confider our 
individual fliare in producing thefe evils in a trivial 
point of view. The confumption of fugar in thi* 
country is fo immenfe, that the quantity commonly 
ufed by individuals will have an important efFe(St. A 
family that ufes only 51b. of iugar per week, with the 
proportion of rum, will, by abftaining from the con- 
fumption 21 months, prevent the flavery or murder 
of one fellow-creature J eight fuch families in Kji 
years, prevent the flavery or murder -of 100, and 
38,000 would totally prevent the Slave-Trade to fup- 
ply our iflands. Nay, fo necefilirlly connedled arc 
our confumption of the commodicv, and the mifery 



( s ) 

refultliig from it, that in every pound of fugar ufcd, 
(the produce of flaves imported from Africa) we 
may be confidered as confuining two ounces of hu- 
man fleih, belides deftroying an alarming number of 
Teamen by the Sli^ve-Trade, and fpreading incon- 
ceivable anguifh, terror and difmay, through an im- 
menfe continent, by the burning of their villages, 
tearing parents from their families, and children from 
their parents ; breaking every bond of fociety, and 
deftroying every fource of human happinefs. A French 
writer obferves, "That he cannot look on a piece of 
fugar, without conceiving it ftained with fpots of 
human blood :" and Dr. Franklin adds, that had he 
taken in all the confequenccs, ** he might have feca 
the fugar not merely fpotted, but thoroughly dyed 
fcarlet in grain." 

Dreadful confideration — that our increaling hap- 
pinefs and profperity has fpread delolation and mi- 
fery over a country as large as all Europe! For it 
is an indifputable fa6t, that it is Britifli luxury, the 
African Slave Trade depends on for fupport : th>£]r 
have increafed, and they would fall together. For 
our confumption of fugar is now fo immcnfe, that 
it nearly equals that of all Europe befides ; and Ja- 
maica now fupplies more than all our Weft-India 
Iflands did at any period prior to 1755. 

But amazingly extenlive as is the increafc of the 
culture, fo far is it from keeping pace with our lux- 
ury, that (before the difturbances in the French If- 
lands, within thefe two or three years) fugars have 
ever fold in the Britifti market 20 or 30, fometimes 
50 per cent, dearer than in any other part of the 
world. Nor is it to fupport the old plantations, as 
is pretended, but to form new ones, for the fup- 



( 6 ) 

ply of this our increafing ]iixi.iry> that the wretch- 
ed Africans arc torn from their native land. 

Let us then imagine our immenfe confumption 
wholly, or in great part to ceafe, and our fugars to 
be thrown on the foreign markets ; would additional 
flaves be wanted to fupply an overflowing market at a 
falling price ? No : the African Slave Trade, by 
whomfoever conducted, to fupply fugar colonies, by 
whatever nation pofTefled, muft totally ceafe. Hor- 
ror and difmay would give place to peace and civili- 
zation, through a coaft of above three thoufand miles 
extent, and above a thoufand miles inland : for fo 
cxtendvc are our. depredations, and fo extenfive are 
the benefits which it is in our power to confer. Nor 
would the beneficial effe<fls ceafe, even here. The 
Weft-India iflands, finding lefs demand for fugar, 
muft appropriate lefs ground to the fugar-cane, and 
leave more for provifions : the flaves would be lefs 
worked, better fed, and in a few years confift intirely 
of native Creoles. Or if the planters appropriate 
the land to the other produdtion? of the iflands, the 
fame beneficial effeds muft enfue. For M. Cooke 
tells us, " the cultivation of cotton, pimento, and 
•* coffee, is eafier than fngar: the flaves look better, 
and increafe fafter ;" and inftead of requiring additi- 
onal flaves, they would be able to increafe their plan- 
tations with thofe already in the iflands. For Go- 
vernor Parry fays, " one acre of fugar requires as 
*' much labour as three of cotten." Thus our re- 
fraining from the confumption of the fugar-cane, even 
for a few years, would deflroy ihe Slave Trade to the 
Weft-India Iflands, bring freih land into culture, aiid 
place the flaves in fuch a fituation, that they mu& 
rapidly increafe. 



( 7 ) 

The diminution of the confumptlon of Wefl India 
produce, would r.lfo have a powerful effe<St by fink- 
ing the price of the commodity ; and thereby take a- 
way the temptation to import additional ilaves. The 
effect a fmail variation in the fupply or demand has 
on the price, we have recently experienced. The di- 
ilurbances in the French fugar iflands, has fuddenly 
raifed fonie of the markets, which were 20 or 30 per 
cent, lower than the Eritilli, much alcove it ; and 
thereby occafioned an exportation from this country 
to fupply the deficiency: and our exportation, though 
only amounting to a loth of our importation, has 
raifed our fugars 50 per cent. And as a fall in the 
price would obfiTU<fl: the Slave Trade, and meliorate 
the condition of the Haves ; fo this rife will produce 
effetls the mofi: baneful. The planter, tempted by 
the high price to get fugar and rum to market while 
that high price continues, will deprive his flaves of 
their provifion grounds, to plant them with canes ; 
and by the energy of the whip, they Vv^ill be forced 
to the moft extreme exertions. The murder, or, in 
the technical language of the Weft-Indies, the lofs of 
his flaves, will be to him but a fecondary confidera- 
tion. The large crop, and the high price, will am- 
ply compenfate him: and the qusftion now is, not 
merely whether we fhall hold out to him an induce* 
ment to purchafe additional flaves; but whether we 
fiiall tempt him to murder thofe he already has. We 
can hardly doubt, but that Wefl India packets have 
already borne the murderous difpatches, exprefTed in 
language too dieadfuUy explicit, and to the follow- 
ing effe(51:. " The price of fugar and rum flill continues 
*' high. You mufl adopt every mode to forward as 
*' large a cargo as pofuble. A fortunate crifis now 
** offers itfelf for extricating my eflatefrom the difli- 



( « ) 

*' culcies in vvliich it is involved. We mufl: avail our- 
** felvcs of it: another may never occur. Confe- 
*' qiiences, though difagreeablc, nuifl at the prefent 
** moment be overlooked. The flave market is ftill 
** open for a funply. Nc'-.v-fangled humanity is no 
** nicre." The day hardly dawns when the Vv^hip re- 
founds throv.gh thofe regions of horror j nor ceafes, 
liil darknefs clofes the fcene, which day after day is 
renewed. The miferable vidlims, deOitute cf every 
foiirce of comfort to body or to mind, and linking 
under the thiee endemic difeafcs of our iflands, hun- 
ger, torture, and extren^e hibour; and urged to ex- 
ertions they are unable to fuftain, at length expire 
beneath the lafh, which in vain endeavours to roufe 
them to a renewal of their labour. 

As neither the flave-dealer, nor the planter, can 
have any moral right* to the perfon of him they 
flile their flave, to his labour, or to the produce of 
it ; fo they can convey no right in that produce to 
us: and whatever number of hands it may pafs thro* 
if the criminal circumftances appertaining to it be 
known to them at the time of the transfer, they can 
only have a criminal poiTeffion : and the money paid, 
cither for the flave, or for the produce of his labour, 
is paid to obtain that criminal poffeilion; and can con- 
fer no mora! right whatever, So, if the death of the 
perfon called a flave, be occafioned by the criminal 
pofTeffion, the criminal poiTeiTor is guilty of murder; 
and we, who have knowingly done any a61: which 
might occafion his being in that fituation, are accef- 
faries to the murder before the facl; as by receiving 
the produce of his labour, we are accelTaries to the 
robbery, after the fadt. 

If we, as individuals concerned In the Slave Trade 
(cither by procuring the flaves, compelling them to 



. { 9 ) 
labour, or receiving the produce) imagine that our 
fliarc in the tranfaftic?n is fo minute that it cannot 
Derceptibly increafe the injury; let us recollect that, 
though numbers partaking of a crime may diminifh 
the fhame, they cannot diminifh its turpitude. Can we 
fuppofc, that an injury of enormous magnitude caa 
take place, and the criminality be deftroyed merely 
by the criminals becoming fo numerous as to render 
their refpetStive fhares indiftinguifhable? Were an. 
hundred aflaffins to plunge their daggers into their 
vi^lim, though each might plead, that without his 
affiftance the crime would have been compleated, and 
that his poinard neither occalioned nor accelerated 
the murder, yet every one of them would be guilty 
of the intire crime. For into how many parts foever 
a criminal action maybe divided, the crime itfelf refts 
intire and compleat on every perpetrator. 

But waving this latter confideration, and even fup- 
pofing for a moment, that the evil has an exiftence 
from canfes totally independent of us, yet it exifts ; 
and as we have it in our power jointly wirh others, to 
remedy it, it is undoubtedly our duty to contribute 
our fhare, in hope that others will theirs ; and to act 
that part from confcience, which we fliould from in- 
clination in fimilar cafes that interefted our feelings. 

For inftance : Let us fuppofe the Algerines to eftab- 
lifh fugar plantations, and refort to the banks of the 
Thames for flaves, as the only place to be infulted with 
Impunity. Suppofe our wives, our hufbands, our 
children, our parents, our brethren, fwept away, and 
the fruit of their labour, produced with agonizing 
hearts and trembling limbs, landed at the port of 
London. What would be our conducSl? Should we 
fay, Sugar is a neceffary of life ? I cannot do without 
it, Befides, the quantity I ufe is but a fmall propor- 
D 



( lo ) 
tlon: and though it is very criminal of the Algerines 
to enflave others, yet I am not bound to look to the 
nature or conlequences of the tranfacflion j anci pay- 
ing for the Tugar, I have a right to con fume it, how- 
ever it may have been obtained. If fuch would be 
our language in that cafe, be it fo on the prefent oc- 
cafion. For let us recollecr, that the only difference 
is, that in one cafe our relation to the enilaved is ra- 
ther more remote, but that in both cafes they are our 
brethren. 

But it is hardly requifite to ftate fo ftrong a cafe as 
that fuppofed. For v/ere only one EiigliHiman to re- 
ceive injuries, that bore but the fLighteft refemblanec 
to thofe daily committed in our iilands, the nation 
would be inflamed with rcfentment, and clamorous 
to avenge the injury. And can our pride fuggefl to 
us, that the rights of men are limited to any nation, 
or to any colour? Or, were any one to treat a fellow 
creature in this country as we do the unhappy Afri- 
cans in the Wefi:-Indies; {truck with horror, wefliould 
be zealous to deliver the opprelTed, and punifli the 
joppreiTor. Are then the offices of humanity and 
functions of juflice to be circumfcribed by geographi- 
cal boundaries? Can reafon, can confciencc juftify 
this contraft in our condudV, between our prompti- 
tude, in the one cafe, and our torpor in the other? 
Mr. Addifon juftly obferves, that" humanity to be- 
come eftimable mufi: be combined with juftice!" But 
we feem to adl: as if we thought that the relief of our 
feilow-creatures ; prote£lIon from injuries, eommu- 
ni cation of benefits, were works of fupererogation, to 
be granted or with-held, as caprice, or cuftom, or 
inclination may fuggeft. 

After the important confiderations adduced, it 
might be reckoned a degi^adation of the fubjedt to 



( II ) 

mention the national dignity j or even that miglit in- 
duqe us to counteract a powerful body of men, who 
are trampling under foot the di«^ates of humanity » 
and the intereft of the nation: men, who have in 50 
years received for fugar alone, above 70 millions more 
than it would have coil at any other market. And 
from Mr. Botham's evidence it appears, that in Bata- 
via, where labour is as high as in England, fugar, 
equal to the bcO: Wefb-India, is fold at id halfpenny 
per pOuud, Thefe are the men, v^ho are eudt-a- 
rouring to overthrow a plan for fupplying us with 
fugars, by'^means of free labour; and have ihe auda« 
eity to tell the Britiili legiflature, " That they cannot 
aboliili the flavc trade ; for that if England refufe to 
furni.fh. them with flaves., they will obtain a fupply 
through other channels." And a governor of Barba- 
dos% admoniflies us, ** From policy, to leave the iflands 
to the quiet management of their own affairs." Thefe 
nominal colonies have, it feems, been taught, that, 
we have no right, to controul them y ihatnlie acT:s of 
their AiTembles alone ai'e obligatory; and that thoft; 
ot Britj(h legiflators, are binding only on thofe v>^honl 
they repcefent. The right of enilaving ethers, thev 
contend for, as the moil: valuable of their privilege-^. 
Thus it appears, that the legiflature is not only 
unwilling, but perhaps unable, to grant red refs ; aad 
therefore it is more peculiarly incumbent on us, To 
ahjiainfrom the v.fe of fugar and rum, until cur IVejt^ 
India Planters ther.ifelves have prohibited thd impcrta^ 
tion of additional flaves^ and commenced as fpeed.j and 
effeUual a fubverfion of fiavery in their ifands, as the 
circumflances and filiation of thefaves will admit : sr 
till we can obtain the produce of the fugar cane in fomc 
other mode, uncounedied luiih faver-jy and unpolluted 
vjith blonde 



( 12 ) 

For furely it may be hoped that we fliall not Limit 
our views merely to the abolition of the African flave 
u\ide, as the colonial flavery formed on it, is in its 
principle equally unjuft. For if it be iniquitous to 
torce the Africans from their native land j equally 
iniquitous muft it be, to retain them and their pofte* 
ricy in perpetual bondage. Though the African 
ilave trade be the moft Prominent feature in this 
v.'ickednefs, yet it is but a feature: and where it 
aboliOied, the Weft India flavery would ftill exift. 
Our planters would breed, inftead of importing flaves; 
and fhall we fuffer half a million of fellow fubjecls, 
•And their poRerity, to be held in flivery for ever ? I 
fay, fellow fubje^fts. For undoubtedly, every perfon 
born in the dominions of Great Britain is a fubjc(5l, 
bound to obey and entitled to the prote<n:ion of the 
common law of England ; and in o»pofition to which 
the a6ls of AfTemblies, exifting merely by grant from 
the crown, can be of no authority. 

In demanding liberty then for the perfons called 
{laves in our iflands, we demand no more tben they 
are entitled to by the common law of the land. The 
moft eligible mode of putting them in pofleflion of 
tlieir legal and natural right, may be a quefticn of 
difficulty ; but it is a queftion that ought to be con- 
sidered with no other view, but to their happincfs. 
The plan to be adopted, ought to be certain and 
fpeedy in its operation ; without any conflderation of 
the fuppofed, or even real intereft, of their oppref- 
fors : and let it be remembered, that it is in the pow- 
er of a fmall proportion of the people of England to 
efFe6l it, by refufing to receive the produce. For the 
planters themfelves would adopt the plan, were that 
the only condition on which we would confume the 
prpduce of their iflands: nor would the legiflature be 






( r3 )-• 
then liar raifed wiih prepofterous claims for compeir- 
fation-, which, hovv'ever unfounaed in juftice or rea- 
fon, willbe fivpportedby influence, and enforced with 

clamour. 

The cafe now fully lies- before us ; and we have 
to make our choice, either to join ourfelves with thefe 
manufa6i:urei-5 of liuman woe, or to renounce the 
horrid ailbciation. If we adopt the former, let us at 
leaft have the candour to avow our conduct in its real 
deformity. Let us no longer afFecl to deplore the ca- 
hmities attendant on. the Slave Trade, of which we 
are the primary caufe: nor let us pretend to execrate 
the condu6l of the flave-dealer, the flave-holder, or 
the flave-driver ; but apologize for them as our part- 
ners in iniquity : and be alTured, that if we now take 
our (hare- in the tranfaGlion, we fhoiild, v;-ere we plac- 
ed in a firailar lituation with them, with as little com- 
pun<n:ion take theirs^ unlefs we can fuppofe the or- 
der of nature Vv^ould be fo far inverted, as that we 
ihould become virtuous, in proportion as the temp- 
tation to vice increafed. Nor ihould v/e then, any 
more then now, be deftitute of fubterfuges to deftroy 
the feelings of our minds,, and the convidlions of our 
eonfciences. 

If ignorance and inattention maybe pleaded as our 
excufe hitherto, yet that can be the cafe no longer. 
The fubjedt has been four years before the public. Its 
dreadful wickednefs has been fully proved. Every 
falfhood, every deception with which it has been dif- 
guifed, has been eompleatly done away; and it ftands 
before us in all its native horrors. No longer can it 
be pretendedy.that Africa is a barbarous, uncultivated 
land, inhabited by a race of favagcs inferior to th» 
reft of the human fpecies. Mr. How, who was em- 
ployed by government to go up the ccuntry, depofe?, 
D ?. 



( M ) 

that in Iind it :s every where well cnhivatec?, abonncf- 
ing with rice, millet, potatoes, cotton and indigo 
plaotatidns j and that the inhabitants are quick in 
learning languages, and remarkably induftrious, hof- 
]Mtable and obliging. It appears that they poiTcfs no'- 
hie and heroic minds, difdaining fiavery, and frequent- 
ly fceking refuge from it in the arms of death. Nor 
fhall we be again told, of the fuptrior happinefs they 
enjoy under the benevolent care or the planters; Mr. 
Coor having depofed, that ** fetting fiavcs to work 
*^ in the morning, is attended with loud peals of 
*^ whipping',"— and General Tottenham, '* that there 
*' is no comparison between regimental flogging, which 
** only cuts the fkin, and the plantation, which cuts 
'' out the fieih f'--Capt. Hall, ** that the punifh- 
** ments are very fliocking, much more fo then ia 
** men of war j" Capt. Smith, '* that a"t every flroke 
** of the whip a piece of flelh is cut out,"- --and Mr, 
Ko^fs, ** that he conliders a comparifon between Y/"eft- - 
** India flaves, and the Britifli peafantry, as an infult 
** to common fenfe.'* 

■ We are now called on taredrefs evils, in compari- 
fon with which, all that exifl: in this nation fink be- 
neath our notice ; and the only facrifice we are re- 
quired to make in order to effect it, is the abandon- 
ing of a luxury, which habit alone can have rendered 
of importance. If we refufe, can we form the leaft 
pretence to a moral charafter ? May it not be juftly 
inferred, that thofe numerous difpiays of humanity, 
of which this kingdom boafts, have not their foun- 
dation in any virtuous or valuable principle ; but that 
to cuftom and odentation they owe their origin ? And 
if our execration of the fiave trade be anymore than 
mere declam.ulon ar-r-inft crimes w^e are not in a fitu- 
atlon to commit, wo fhall, inilead of being folicit- 



( »5 ) 
ons to find tlefpicable diflinclions to julllfy our con- 
duct, abhor "the idea of cx^ntributiivg, in the leak de^- 
gree, to fucli fcenes of mifeiy* 

If th^fe be the dedu6lioiis from the mofi: obvious 
principles of reafon, juilice, and humanityj what mvtfl 
be rh" vefult if we extend our views to religious con- 
iidera:ious^ It will hardly be faid, that we aiTume a 
religious px'ofefiion to diminilh the extent ot our mo- 
ral duties, or to weaken the force of our obligation 
to obferve them. 

We will therefore afk, if it be meant to infult the 
God we^pretend to worfi:iip, by fupplicating him to 
^^ have mercy upon all prifoners and captives," and to 
** defend and provide for the fatherlefs, widows, and 
^* children, and all that are defolate and opprefied/'' 
But, if the national religion be a mere matter of form, 
yet furely we may expect that the various den-omina- 
ti-ons of dilTenters, will think it at the leaft as requi- 
fjte %o diiient from the national crimes, as the nation- 
al religion ; unlefs they mean to exhibit confciences 
of fo peculiar a texture, as to take offence at the re- 
Kgioji of their country, while they can conform with- 
out ferupie, toils moft criminal pra(flices. If indeed 
they are fa tisfied, after an impartial examination, that 
the traffic alluded to is fair and honefl:, and that the 
produce ought to be confidered as the refult of lawful 
commerce, it will becon^e them to encourage it ; ic 
will become them to reprobate this work as an attempt 
to dander honeO; men, and to injure their property, 
hy holding it out to the public,, as the produce of rob- 
bery and murder. But, if the .arguments be valid* 
\vj\i they prefumeto treat the fubjeft with cool indif- 
ference, and continue a criminal pradlice? Miy v/e 
not alfo hope that the Methodifts, who. appear to feel 
forcibly their princjple,s, wijl fcrioufly coafider .it? 



( '6 ) 
They are Co numerous, as to be able of themfelves to 
deftroy that dret^clful traffic, which is the fvle obfta- 
cle to their minifters fpreadin^; the gofpel in the ex^^ 
tenfive continent of Africa; and. however others 
may afFcdl to degrade the Negroes, they are bound to 
confider ihoufatids of them as their brethren in Chrift, 

But there is one ciaf's of dlflTenicrs who jullly fland 
high in the public eftimation, for their rteady, manly 
and uniform oppofition to our colonial flavery. And 
can it be fuppofcd that, after having awakened the 
public attention,, they can rcfufe to contribute what 
is in their owa power to remedy the evil? Tlve plan 
propofed, is a plain and obvious deduction from their 
uniform principle, of having no concern ir^ what they 
disapprove. Thus, coniidering war as unla-wful, they 
confider goods obtained through that medium as cri- 
minally obtained ; and will nor fufFer any of their 
members to purchafe prize-goods: and furely they 
HiUft confider the feizure of a man's goods, as a 
crime far inferior to the feizing his perfon. 

However obvious the duty, yet the mind hardened- 
by habit, admits with diiiiculty the convi(Slion of 
guilt j and fandtioned by a common pra6tice, we may 
commitihe grofieli violations of duty without remorfe. 
It is therefore more peculiarly incumbent on us in = 
fuch iituations, to examine our conduct with the ut- 
moft fufpicion, and to fortify our minds with mora!' 
principles, or the fan^tions of religion. In propor- 
tion as we are under their influence, we fliall exert 
ourfelves to remedy thefe evils» knowing that our ex- 
ample, our admonitions, our influence, may produce 
i-emotc effe<Sls, of which we can form no eftimate; and 
which, after having done our duty, muft be left to 
Bim who governs all things after the counfd of his ewn 
-mil, F i HI S. 



POSTSCRIPT. 

Added to this American Edition. 



Containing E'xtraBs from, an ElTay, intitledf an impart 
tiiil Enquiry into the State and Utility of the Pra-^ 
vince of Georgia i printed in Londmi in 174 I. 

Jyf/'HEN^ Georgia vjas Jirfi fettled\ befides other ufe- 
ful regulations^ the inhabitants ivere not allowed- 
to have Negro Slaves, No doubt their abje&iuns to 
thenii ivere founded partly in civil policy^ and partly, 
from a fen fe of the injuftice and cruelty of that inhu^ 
man praElice^ which did not operate, with equal force y 
upon the minds of all the inhabitants ; fume of them Be^ 
ing defirous of having the benefit of their labour^ with" 
out looking inta cmifequencesj in a remote degree, either- 
as it refpeBed their own perfonal fafety, or had an in-- 
ffuence on the morals and happinefs of their immedi' 
ate of spring, and their pojierity : with views fo con^ 
tra&ed, fome foon grew difcontenied with this falutary 
reftrainty and petitioned the Governor fjjr liberty to 
have Jlaves. This produced counter petitions, which 
leaves a favourable opinion of the wifdom and virtue 
of fome of the firfi fettlers of that fiate\, parti" 
cularly of the Saltzhurghers who fettled at Ebenezer : 
thefB, to the number of 49 men, with their two mi- 
nijiers, John Martin Bolzius^ ajid Ifrael Chriftian Gro- 
nau, in a petition ** befeech the honourable truflees ( of 
that fettlementj not to allow that any Negroes might 
be brought to their place, or in their neighhourhoodP 
And with refpe^ to its being ** impoffihle and dan- 



POSTSCRIPT. 

gerous for ixihitg people to^ plant and manufaBtire rice" 
in t ha f climate, *' as^ be'wg a work only for Negroes, 
not for European people^'* they fay, ^^ having experience 
to th^ contrary^ ixje laugh at fuch talking, feeing_ thaf 
feveral of us have had a greater crop of rice lafl year,, 
than ive wanted for our own confumptlon?^ ^nd the 
inhabitants of Frederica, upon the fame occafion, pe~ 
titioned againfl having Negroes introduced amongfi 
them, ** but deftjied from fending it, upon an affurance 
that their apprehenficns of it lucre needlef.^' 

But the following petition of the PTighlanders from 
^£.Qtland^, who hadi fettled at New-Invernefs. in,GjCMK' 
^ia., is deferving of particular attention, as, if con-^ 
tains feniimcnts, congenial, with ihofe advanced in, the- 
^rft of theje tjFeatifas \ and does credit to the difcern^ 
Tiunt, probity and' humanity of the anceftors of thatfet- 
iicment* In: this petition they remonftrate. to their 
then. Gavern/)r Oglethorpe, that they ** were informed, 
*^- thaJ: their neighbours of Savannah had petitioned for 
*' the liberty of having flaves ,•" in confeqiience of which 
they fay, ** J'Ve hope, and earn ejily entreat, that be- 
^^ fore fuch propofals are hearkened unto, your Excel- 
'/ lency will confide r our ft nation ^ and of what dan-- 
'* gerous and had confeqiienxes fuch liberty would be of 
** to ns^ "'ihcn after reciting fame of thfe they pro^ 
^eed : 

" It is fbocking to human nature, that any race 
** of mankind, and their po/ierity, fhould be fen- 
** ienced to perpetual favery ; 7lor in juflice can tue 
*' think otherwife of it^ than that they are thrown 
** amongfi us to be our fcourge, one day or other ^ for 
** our fins : and as freedom muji be as dear to them 
'' as to us, what a fcene of horror muji it bring 
*^ about I And the longer it is unexecuted, the bloo- 
** dy fcene m.uji be the greater : (Ve therefore, for our 



POSTSCRIPT. 

*^ own fakes, our luives and childaen, and cur po/tg" 
*' rity, big your confideratiouy and hit r eat, that in^ 
** fiead of introducing flaves, you vo ill put vs in the 
*' way to get form of our own count rymen^ who with 
./* their labour in time of peace y and our vigijancey if 
** we are invaded (with the help of thefe ) vjill ren- 
^' dcr it a difficult thing to hurt us, or that pari cf 
*' the province we poffefs,"*^ 

Dated New-Invernefs^ January 3, 173S-9, and 
figned by 18 freeholders. 

As the fentiments contained in the above petitions are 
expreffed with a conjiderable degree of energy, and dra 
peculiarly favourable to the caufe of humanity, with an 
explicit and clear declaration of their difapprohation 
of holding Negroes in aflate ofjlavery on account of its 
impolicy and injufiice, as well as from other alarming 
confide rations ; and as they have proceeded from the 
anceftors ef a people, vjhofe reprefentative in a former 
Congrefsy was a difiinguiflzed advocate for continuing 
the fave trade, they are added; hoping, that the vene^ 
ration they may entertain, for chara&ers fo truly de- 
ferving as thefe Inv em efs petitioners and Salt zburghcrs 
of Ebenezer were, may induce a more candid reception 
of the foregoing pamphlets in that and other Southern 
Jlates. 



