res. 7572 <^ < v * 7 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/speechofjohnthom32brow 



THE SPEECH 



OF 



ff(D2Dtsr ^m®£aa>s®sr njiBCD^ra* 



IN THE 



House of Delegates of Virginia, 



ON THE 



ABOLITION OF SLAVERY, 



Delivered Wednesday, January 18, 1832. 



RICHMOND: 

Thomas W. White, Printer. 

18B2. 



f£^ ~?5?$ .% r\0. 7 



OCT" It is due to Mr. Brown to state that his speech on the 
abolition of slavery, is published, in this form, at the particu- 
lar request of a number of members of the legislature and 
other citizens. 



>, / 



HKSWQS ®ap iDi22ji2^ii^ia3 wt vwb&wlvi&z 



WEDNESDAY, January 11, 1832. 

Mr. Goode of Mecklenburg, rose to move the following 
resolution : 

Resolved, That the select committee raised on the subject 
of slaves, free negroes, and the melancholy occurrences 
growing out of the tragical massacre in Southampton, be 
discharged from the consideration of all petitions, memorials 
and resolutions, which have for their object, the manumission 
of persons held in servitude under the existing laws of this 
commonwealth, and that it is not expedient to legislate on 
the subject. 

Mr. Randolph moved the following substitute, to be in- 
serted after the word " Southampton :" 

" be instructed to inquire into the expediency of 

submitting to the vote of the qualified voters in the several 
towns, cities, boroughs, and counties of this commonwealth, 
the propriety of providing by law, that the children of all 
female slaves, who may be born in this state, on or after the 
4th day of July, 1840, shall become the property of the com- 
monwealth, the males at the age of twenty-one years, and 
females at the age of eighteen, if detained by their owners 
within the limits of Virginia, until they shall respectively ar- 
rive at the ages aforesaid, to be hired out until the nett sum 
arising therefrom, shall be sufficient to defray the expense of 
their removal, beyond the limits of the United States, and 
that said committee have leave to report by bill, or other- 
wise." 



MONDAY, January 16, 1832. 

Mr. Brodnax, from the committee on the coloured popu- 
lation, presented the following report: 

The select committee, to whom was referred certain memo- 
rials, praying the passage of some law providing for the 
gradual abolition of slavery in the commonwealth, have, 



according to order, had the same under consideration, and 
have come to the following resolution thereupon : 

Resolved as the opinion of this committee, That it is inex- 
pedient for the present legislature to make any legislative 
enactment for the abolition of slavery. 

Mr. Preston moved that the resolution reported from the 
committee, be amended, by striking out the word "inexpe- 
dient," and inserting the word "expedient." 



WEDNESDAY, January 18, 1832. 

On motion of Mr. BROWN of Petersburg, the report of 
the committee on slaves, free negroes and mulattoes, and 
the amendment of Mr. Preston, were taken up; when Mr. 
BROWN rose and addressed the house as follows : 

Mr. Speaker: — When the subject under consideration 
was first brought to the notice of this house, in the unosten- 
tatious form of a petition from Hanover, I felt but little 
apprehension about the result. I avowed, at that time, my 
firm conviction that no scheme of emancipation was practi- 
cable, and that none should be attempted. Yet, I was willing 
that the petition should be referred to a committee, and dis- 
posed of, with all becoming respect, in the ordinary manner. 
I believed the discussion of this question to be unavoidable, 
End was desirous of giving it such direction as would be best 
calculated to settle and to sink it for ever. I know that some 
intelligent gentlemen, who concurred with me in the object, 
were of the opinion that it would be better attained by a dif- 
ferent course, and that the petition ought to be rejected at 
once, as the most effectual means of arresting the inquiry. I 
doubt not those gentlemen are now convinced that the agita- 
tion of this question was inevitable. If suppressed in one 
form, it would have arisen in another. Even the effort made 
by the gentleman from Mecklenburg, to arrest its progress, 
has been seized by the advocates of emancipation, as a favor- 
able opportunity for the full expression of their sentiments. 
The very character of those sentiments, and the zeal with 
which they have been urged, must be sufficient to satisfy 
every one that they could not have been repressed. It is 
useless to talk of avoiding discussion. It will be fortunate if 
we can prevent action — immediate and decisive action — on 
the subject of emancipation. 

I have listened to this debate, with the most anxious and 



painful Interest. The evils of slavery have been again and 
again enumerated, and set in appalling array before our ima- 
ginations. Its impoverishing effects, its immoral tendencies, 
and the dangers to which it exposes our lives and property, 
have all been the theme of eloquent and exaggerated repre- 
sentation. We have been told that the body politic is lan- 
guishing under disease — that it is " a mass of corruption" — 
that there is hidden in its bosom, a pestilence more fatal than 
that which " wasteth at noonday." The sufferings of the 
unhappy patient have drawn forth successive expressions of 
pity, reproach, and scornful sarcasm. It might have been 
expected that, with so perfect a knowledge of the malady, 
the physician could have recommended an effectual remedy. 
None has yet been proposed that commands my confidence. 
I have examined the various schemes which have been sug- 
gested, with unwearied attention, and with an unaffected wish 
to find them worthy of adoption. I have analyzed them as 
far as my mind is capable of doing it, and have endeavored 
to trace through the mists of futurity, their probable opera- 
tion and consequences. It has resulted in the conviction, 
that they are alt visionary and impracticable. 

There are a few leading considerations, of paramount im- 
portance, which seem to me to constitute a standard to which 
we may refer every plan of emancipation, and by which we 
may test its merits. There are now in Virginia, about 470,000 
slaves — their aggregate value is about one hundred millions 
of dollars — the assessed value of all the lands, houses, and 
lots in the commonwealth, is two hundred and six millions of 
dollars. Other kinds of personal property, bear but a small 
proportion to these three principal items. Paper currency 
and credits add nothing to the actual resources of the com- 
munity ; and it is apparent, that slaves constitute nearly one- 
third of the whole wealth of the state. The value of lands, 
houses and lots, in Virginia, east of the blue ridge, is but 
little more than one hundred millions of dollars. The value 
of the slaves in the same district, is about eighty millions, or 
nearly one-half of its entire wealth. These slaves constitute 
the nett proceeds of the labour of our ancestors and ourselves, 
from the foundation of the colony at James Town, to the 
present moment. We found the soil where it is — it was no 
acquisition of ours — we cultivated it, and it has yielded us 
one hundred millions of dollars, which have been gradually 
invested in slaves. Many think it a bad investment — an un- 
profitable investment — an unrighteous investment. But whether 
it be for good or for evil, the investment is made. It now 
forms our capital stock. It is the sum total of the hard earn- 
ings of successive generations, during the long and toilsome 



lapse of more than two hundred years. We derive our sub- 
sistence from the labour of our slaves, precisely in the same 
manner that we would live on the interest of our money if the 
one hundred millions had been invested in bank stock. From 
the annual products of their labour, we obtain the necessaries 
of life, and have a surplus of more than four millions for 
exportation. Take from us these slaves without compensa- 
tion, and what have we left? Our land, 'tis true — but even 
that would be depreciated to a great and incalculable extent. 
By depriving us of labourers, and leaving us destitute of the 
means of procuring others, you throw out of cultivation a 
proportionate part of the soil — lessen the demand for it, and 
reduce its price. In short, sir, whether the emancipation and 
removal of our slaves be effected in one year, or in fifty years, 
whenever the work shall have been accomplished, you will 
have reduced us to beggary and want. A few instances of 
individual bankruptcy ma) 7 pass unnoticed, but it is a fearful 
thing to drag down a whole community from affluence and 
ease, to abject poverty. If the people of Virginia are pre- 
pared to make this sacrifice, be it so ; the question, in that 
event, is at an end. I presume, however, that they have not 
yet been made sensible of the expediency or necessity of sur- 
rendering one hundred millions worth of property, and volun- 
tarily embracing pauperism. Whenever, therefore, a scheme 
of emancipation is presented, my first inquiry is, whether it 
admits the right of the slave owner to an adequate compen- 
sation for his property ; and if so, whence is the one hundred 
millions, required for the purchase of our slaves, and the 
additional fifteen millions necessary for the transportation, to 
be procured? If, on the contrary, the scheme does not con- 
template a compensation for slaves to be emancipated, I am 
prepared, at once, to decide that it is impracticable and 
ruinous — because, the people of Virginia cannot afford to 
lose one hundred and fifteen millions of dollars. 

Keeping these cardinal considerations in view, let us ex- 
amine more closely, the proposition of the gentleman from 
Albemarle, (Mr. Randolph) which provides, in substance, 
that the children of slaves, which may be born after the year 
1840, shall be free at a certain period — the males at the age 
of 21, and the females at the age of 18 — be hired out by the 
commonwealth, for a number of years, and eventually trans- 
ported to Africa, or elsewhere. No compensation is contem- 
plated by this plan ; but some gentlemen, who are scrupulous 
about taking this property without paying for it, are, never- 
theless, reconciled to this scheme, because it is not to affect 
slaves now in existence, but onlv their future increase. It is 
true that it will not take from any man the slaves now in his 



possession, but it will lessen their value. Those slaves afford 
a certain annual income, and the capital which yields it is 
kept unimpaired, and is even augmented by the ordinary, 
natural increase of this population. When you determine 
that the owners shall not be entitled to this increase, you rob 
their property of one of those inherent qualities which con- 
stitutes the chief element of its value — the capacity to re- 
produce and perpetuate itself. At the end of some indefinite 
period, say eighty years, the whole of the slaves now in ex- 
istence, will have ceased to exist, and the only residuum in 
the hands of the owners will be the profits of their labour; 
accrued during the interval. On the other hand, allow their 
owners the benefit of their increase, and at the expiration of 
the eighty years they will not only have received an equal 
amount of profit, but the capital stock, which generates the 
profit, will be undiminished. And not only so, but at the 
usual ratio of increase, it will be doubled, and be actually 
worth two hundred millions of dollars. The present value 
of any kind of property, depends on the extent to which it 
can be augmented within a given period. Can there be a 
doubt as to which is worth most at this time — property which 
in the lapse of eighty years, is to perish and be extinct — or 
property which, during the same period, is to be increased 
two-fold — each, in the interval, yielding the same profit? 
Pass this law, and all will be anxious to sell out their interest 
in property which yields only an ordinary profit, while the 
capital is gradually sinking, in order to invest it in that which 
yields an equal profit, while the capital is secure. All will 
prefer hiring slaves — none will wish to own them. Their 
price, in the aggregate, will sink to a point at which it will be 
equal only to the value of an annuity calculated on the proba- 
ble duration of their lives, and the yearly profits of their la- 
bour. We have now an interest in our slaves, analogous to 
a fee-simple estate in lands ; but by the proposed law, this 
perpetuity will be converted into an usufructuary interest, for 
a term of about eighty years. I repeat it, sir, can it be doubted 
which is worth most at this time? 

Independent of the effect of this scheme on the value of 
slaves now in existence, the destiny of their increase, or the 
after-born children, involves prospectively, an interest amount- 
ing, in the course of eighty years, to two hundred millions of 
dollars. Is it not natural, and reasonable, that the slaveholder 
should feel the deepest solicitude about the disposal of so im- 
mense an interest ? 

But, sir, it was scarcely necessary to enter thus far into an 
examination of the mode in which this plan is to operate. 
It is enough to look at its ultimate consequences. It proposes 



8 

no compensation to the owner of slaves. It contemplates a 
period, at which, through the instrumentality of its provisions, 
the whole of our slaves will have been swept from our pos- 
session. No matter when this object may be attained, whether 
in eighty or a hundred years — no matter what particular as- 
pects the work may assume, in the course of its execution — 
whenever the consummation shall be effected, the whole of 
our available property will have vanished without an equiva- 
lent, leaving our country desolate and our people bankrupt. 

I have, thus far, confined my remarks to the financial 
character of this scheme. There are other considerations 
connected with it of a different nature and well deserving at- 
tention. It is said that our slaves are disaffected and rebel- 
lious — that our lives are in peril, and that some immediate 
precautions are necessary to insure the public safety. The 
clanger is represented as being imminent, and we are urged 
to act at once, even during the present session of the general 
assembly. And yet the favorite measure offered for our adop- 
tion, is not to have any visible effect for a quarter of a centu- 
ry. We are, by this act, to make a public confession of our 
fears — to acknowledge that the sense of security is gone — to 
announce to the slave, that the principles of natural justice 
entitle him to freedom — that reasons of expediency demand 
it, and he shall be free — but, yet in the face of these fatal ad- 
missions, not a solitary slave is to be liberated from bondage, 
or sent out of the commonwealth for nearly thirty years. Sir, 
the ingenuity of man, if exerted for the purpose, could not 
devise a more efficient mode of producing discontent among 
our slaves, and thus endangering the peace of the community. 

There is another feature of this plan which tends to 
similar consequences. There are born, annually, of this 
population, about twenty thousand children. Those which 
may be born before the year 1840, are to be slaves — 
those which may be born, after that period, are to be free at 
a certain age. These two classes will be reared together — 
they will labor together and commune together. It cannot 
escape the observation of him who is doomed to servitude, 
that although of the same color and born of the same parents, 
a far different destiny awaits his more fortunate brother. In 
reflecting on the causes of this distinction, he will find no satis- 
factory reason for it, in the circumstance of the one having 
come into being a (ew months before the other. As his 
thoughts again and again revert to the subject, he will begin 
to regard himself as the victim of injustice. His fancy will 
exaggerate the blessings of liberty and the miseries of his own 
lot. Cheerfulness and contentment will flee from his bosom, 
and the most harmless and happy creature that lives on earth, 



will be transformed into a dark, designing and desperate 
rebel. In ancient history, there is an apt illustration of this 
fearful tendency of the human passions. Cain and Abel, the 
children of our first parents, built their altars side by side, 
and worshipped their Creator together. Abel's offering burnt 
freely and brightly, and the fumes of his incense rose high 
towards heaven. Not so with Cain's. No flame or fragrance 
issued from his sacrifice in token of its acceptance. The de- 
mon at once took possession of his soul. Envy, hatred and 
despair, urged him to madness, and then was shed by a bro- 
ther's hand, the first blood that ever stained the earth. Let / 
us not expose his "children in misfortune," who bear, like 
him, on their persons, the mark of divine displeasure, to the 
same trial which overwhelmed with ruin, their guilty ances- 
tor. 

Such are some of the objections that would apply to the 
scheme of the gentleman from Albemarle, even if the owners 
of slaves were disposed to submit to the loss resulting from 
it, and to co-operate in its execution. But we have been told 
by gentlemen, whose opinions are worthy of entire confi- 
dence, that the slave holder will insist on his legal rights, 
and call upon the laws of the country, to protect him in the 
enjoyment of his property. By what authority shall it be 
taken from him, without compensation f Strange doctrines 
have been advanced on this subject. We have been gravely 
told that although the slaves now in existence belong to their 
owners, and cannot be taken from them, yet the unborn chil- 
dren of those slaves are not property, and may be emanci- 
pated or confiscated to the state, without injustice, because 
they are not now in being, and therefore cannot belong to any 
one. Is it necessary, sir, to enter into an argument before 
this intelligent body to show the utter fallacy of this position, 
and that an individual may acquire in any future, incorpo- 
real interest, to issue from property, already belonging to 
him, as valid a right as he has to the property itself? It 
would be just as useless as to attempt to prove that a man has 
a present and perfect right to the interest which is to accrue 
from his money during the ensuing year. These gentlemen 
contend that the right to the future children of slaves, can- 
not vest, until they shall have been born, and that in the 
meantime, the act for their emancipation intercepts the right, 
and prevents it from ever vesting. I presume it will be ad- 
mitted, that the act of emancipation cannot take effect until 
there is something for it to operate upon. If you cannot own 
a child until born, you cannot emancipate a child unborn. 
At the instant of birth, the right of property vests. The act 
divesting it, cannot be antecedent in its application. It must 
2 



/ 10 

be contemporaneous or subsequent, and in either case, is con- 
flicting and illegal in its operation. Let us extend this doc- 
trine a little farther, and see to what absurd consequences it 
leads. The wages of your la^or, or the produce of your 
lands, during the coming year, are not yet in your posses- 
sion, and therefore, you have not a valid right to them. The 
legislature passes a law directing that they shall be paid into 
the public treasury, as soon as they accrue. What cause have 
you to complain . ? According to the principles assumed here, 
these wages, and the fruits of your soil, are not yours. They 
cannot be yours, until they shall have actually come into your 
possession. But in the meantime, the law interposes, and 
places them to the credit of the commonwealth. You are not 
aggrieved, because no vested right is infringed! Sir, these 
subtle and refined distinctions, are beneath the dignity of the 
subject under discussion. I should not have noticed them, 
but for an absorbing desire to leave nothing untouched, that 
might obscure the truth, and 1 cannot dismiss them, with a 
more appropriate argument than a "reductio ad absurdum." 

And why should gentlemen waste their ingenuity and elo- 
quence in attempting to prove that the owners of slaves are 
not entitled to their increase, when they are prepared to assail 
the right to slaves themselves, whether born or unborn. The 
gentleman from Kenhawa, for the purpose of showing that 
slaves are not property, upon the general principles of law 
and justice, has referred to the celebrated decision in England, 
in the case of Somerset, where it was held, in the language 
of Curran, that "the moment a slave treads on British soil, 
his shackles fall off, and he stands regenerated and disen- 
thralled, by the redeeming spirit of universal emancipation." 
I shall say nothing of the merits of this proud boast, nor 
how far its consistency is preserved throughout the institutions 
of that country. But surely it is not seriously intended to 
quote as authority here, the decision of an English court, 
made under a law totally different from that which exists in 
Virginia. British opinions on this subject are, moreover, the 
last that should be arrayed against us. They sold us these 
slaves — they assumed a vender's responsibility, and it is not 
for them to question the validity of our title. 

The gentleman from Montgomery contends, as I under- 
stand him, that slaves are property by the statute alone — that 
this statute was passed by the ordinary legislature, and may 
be repealed by the same authority — that there is nothing in 
the constitution which secures the right of property in a slave. 
He admits that those clauses in the constitution which pro- 
vide that " property shall not be taken without due process 
of law," and " private property shall not be taken for public 



11 

uses without just condensation," do afford protection to some 
kinds of property, but not to slave property. The admission 
is fatal to his argument, for it is impossible to find any grounds 
of distinction. The constitution uses the general term " pro- 
perty," and whatever comes under that denomination, is 
equally protected. To ascertain what is "property," we 
must refer to the laws which define it. The statute declaring 
slaves to be " property," was in force at the adoption of the 
constitution, and is to be regarded as supplementary and ex- 
planatory of the provision in that instrument. It is not ne- 
cessary to show that the right of property in slaves, is founded 
in nature. No one, I presume, would contend for that. It 
is a right purely conventional, and derived from the assent 
and agreement of those who are united with us by compact, 
X in the same political famity. The right to our lands is not a 

natural one. The earth is the common property of all, and 
the privilege of appropriating a portion of its surface to our 
individual use, is derived from the social compact, and not 
from nature. Yet, the right to hold slaves and the right to 
appropriate lands, are recognised by our laws, and equally 
guaranteed by the constitution. The gentleman from Bruns- 
wick very properly referred to the constitution of the United 
States, which contains the same clause that is found in our 
state constitution, as affording an additional guard to slave 
property. To give effect to that instrument in any particular 
state, it is only necessary to ascertain what is property by the 
laws of that state. What is property in one state, may not 
be so in another. It is enough that in Virginia slaves are 
property. That being admitted, the constitution of the United 
States is to be considered as recognising and guaranteeing 
them as such. The gentleman from Berkeley, however, pro- 
tests against the introduction of the constitution of the United 
States. He says he is proud of belonging to a certain party, 
the name of which it is unnecessary to repeat. But it is a 
party which has always been ready to appeal to that consti- 
tution whenever it was thought expedient to increase the 
powers of the general government, or to strip the states of 
their rights. Now, however, when this constitution is invoked 
in defence of the right of property in slaves, the gentleman 
seems filled with a holy horror, and declares it is purely a 
state concern, and he would not, for the world, that the fede- 
ral constitution should be brought to bear on so delicate a 
question. 

The gentleman from Berkeley has boundless resources, 
and I dare say it is immaterial with him, whether by the law 
or the constitution, slaves are property, or not. Let them be 
what they may, he entertains another principle, which places 



12 

them all entirely at his mercy. He says they are dangerous 
to the public safety ; and may, therefore, be f f abated as a 
nuisance." The idea of destro3 7 ing some noxious object that 
engenders pestilence, and is obviously injurious to the life and 
property in its immediate vicinity, is familiar to us all. But 
did any one ever before conceive the thought of abating as 
a " nuisance" a whole population, constituting an organic 
part of the frame and character of the body politic ? The 
artillery of the law, I apprehend, sir, is too light for the pros- 
tration of so gigantic and so undefinable an object. There 
are now, he says, but few slaves among the people he repre- 
sents, but the evil is approaching them, and must be arrested. 
He is not satisfied with the erection of a barrier around his 
borders, but claims the right to come down into the infected 
district, and to eradicate the evil according to his own views 
of expediency, at the expense of the slave holder, in order to 
insure the welfare of a neighboring community. What prin- 
ciple is it, sir, that lies disguised under this fair exterior ? It 
is the doctrine of the holy alliance — the very basis on which 
they have consolidated their power, and through the opera- 
tion of which, the nations of Europe lie bleeding and de- 
fenceless at their feet. They too, claim the privilege of regu- 
lating the affairs of contiguous states, with a view to the wel- 
fare of their own subjects. Constituting themselves the judges 
of what is or is not an evil, as well as of the measure and 
mode of redress, they never need a pretext for interfering 
when their interests or their passions urge them onward: It 
is to maintain the independence of neighboring nations, that 
they parcel out their territories among themselves; and the 
better tospreserve perpetual peace, that they march their 
armies over the face of Europe. From a pretended solicitude 
for the repose of nations, they have denounced the revolution 
of France as a curse — they have crushed the mangled re- 
mains of Poland, and under the abused pretence of humanity 
and necessity, they plant their desolating feet on every soil 
that bears a germ of liberty. Sir, this is a dangerous rule 
of action, and will be fatal to our peace whenever it shall be 
attempted. Self-preservation is the law of nature, and pre- 
ventive measures are sometimes necessary. But the danger 
must not be anticipated — it must not be doubtful — it must be 
urgent, imminent, inevitable. 

The gentleman from Berkeley has warned us, emphatically, 
that the west is firm and united in favor of emancipation. Sir, 
I do not presume to speak the sentiments of that people. 
There is a small portion of them to whom I lately bore an 
intimate political relation, and to whom I shall ever be bound 
by the strongest ties of gratitude and affection. The liberal 



13 

opinions already expressed by one of their representatives on 
this floor, is in exact accordance with the feelings I should 
have ascribed to his constituents on such a subject. This is, 
to me, a cheering augury ; and I should not be surprised if 
the gentleman from Berkeley should, eventually, find himself 
unsupported in the ground he has assumed. I feel well assured 
that he will be alone as to the reasons which govern his course. 
The west may vote for emancipation, but not because the}' 
consider slaves as not property, or as property held at the 
pleasure of the legislature. The late convention, and the 
events that led to it, are fresh in the recollection of all. It 
is now a matter of history, that the strong argument urged 
by the east against that measure was, that it endangered the 
security of slave property. The west disclaimed again and 
again, on every fit occasion, all intention of disturbing that 
subject. In the humble part which it was my lot to act in 
those scenes, I disavowed on this floor, any such object, and 
with the concurrence of those who then acted with me, offered 
a specific guarantee for slave property, in order to quiet the 
apprehensions of the east. The object of the west was an 
equal representation on the basis of white population, which I 
thought then, and still think, the only true, republican princi- 
ple of representation. They never dreamed then, of molesting 
the slave holder in the enjoyment of his property. It is true, 
their main purposes were not accomplished by the convention, 
and they may justly complain of being denied an equal repre- 
sentation on the true basis. But will they do injustice to others, 
because they are wronged themselves? Can they retract the 
sentiments and feelings so often avowed on the subject of slaves? 
Sir, I have the utmost confidence in the course which will 
be pursued on this subject by western gentlemen. So far as 
they conceive the interests of their constituents to be con- 
cerned, they will, of course, pursue the dictates of their own 
judgment. But so far as they can persuade themselves that 
it is a matter, chiefly and peculiarly affecting eastern Virginia, 
they will be governed by a generous and magnanimous poli- 
cy. And sir, notwithstanding all that has been said to ex- 
cite their apprehensions, do not the people of the west, per- 
ceive, in the peculiarities of their situation, satisfactory rea- 
sons for believing that slavery never will exist to any objec- 
tionable extent amongst them ? The people of the east are 
planters. Slaves are the most suitable labourers for them. 
Any number of them may work to advantage together. 
Their labours are of a kind which white men are rarely found 
willing to engage in. The people of the west, on the other 
hand, are farmers and graziers. They need comparatively, 
but few labourers, and those only for certain periods of the 
year. White men can always be found for light and agreea- 



14 

ble employments. The husbandman would prefer hiring to 
owning a man — because, upon a calculation of interest, he 
would rather pay a labourer for his work and let him go his 
way, than be burdened with his support thrpughout the year; 
whether wanting or not — and from the cradle to the grave. 
A few slaves there may be, in the west, to fill the menial, do- 
mestic offices, but they will never become the labourers of 
that region. Look over the face of the union, and see the 
abundant evidence of this fact. Slavery has disappeared 
from the eastern and middle states, and is to be found only 
where planting is the characteristic occupation. This, sir, 
is merely because slaves ceased to be profitable there. It was 
from a principle of economy, and not from a sentiment of mo- 
rality or religion. That such were not the motives of our 
northern brethren, is proved by the fact, which I believe, is 
notorious, that they sent off many of their slaves to a south- 
ern market, in order to avoid the operation of their emanci- 
pation laws. A more exact parallel may be found in the 
Carolinas — the interior districts of which, bear some resem- 
blance to western Virginia. On the seaboard of those states, 
slaves bear a much greater proportion to the whites than here. 
In the mountainous districts, there are, comparatively, few. 
That dark wave which haunts the fancy of the gentleman from 
Kenhawa, has there been rolling for centuries, against moun- 
tains not so lofty as ours, and yet it has only cast a little spray 
beyond. Let that gentleman dismiss his apprehensions. The 
foot of the negro delights not in the dew of the mountain 
grass. He is the child of the sandy desert. The burning 
sun gives him life and vigour, and his step is most joyous on 
the arid plain. Let the people of the west, be well assured, 
that in the peculiarities of their climate, their habits, feelings 
and pursuits — in the fixed and unalterable laws of nature — 
they have a more effectual cordon sanitaire than any with 
which legislative art can environ them. 

But to return from this digression — for as such, I consider 
it — to the proposition of the gentleman from Albemarle. 
Some credit is claimed for it on the ground of its being the 
plan of Mr. Jefferson. Sir, no man holds in greater respect 
than I do, the character and services of Mr. Jefferson. His 
memory needs no eulogy from me. The author of the 
declaration of independence, and the acknowledged cham- 
pion of democracy — the patron of science — the founder of 
our laws, and identified with all the important measures which 
have elevated his country to the summit of greatness, his fame 
is beyond the reach of cavil or detraction ; and when impar- 
tial history shall have done her office, and the moss of ages 
shall have gathered on his grave, posterity will concur in the 



15 

suffrage which pronounces him the ablest statesman, of the 
purest republic upon earth. Admitting this to be the plan 
of this great man, and according to it all the respect it de- 
serves on that account, let me tell you, sir, that the most vain 
and unprofitable of all human efforts, is that of resuming the 
unfinished labours of the "mighty dead." The fragments of 
their thoughts are not only valueless but dangerous. The 
same genius which conceived them is necessary to fill up their 
details and to select the fit occasion for applying them. When 
Hercules died, there was no man left to lift his club. That 
Mr. Jefferson indulged the hope, that slavery might sooner 
or later cease to exist amongst us, it is impossible to doubt. 
He loved his country enthusiastically, and having assisted in 
bringing all her institutions to the utmost attainable point of 
excellence, he regretted that there should regain what the 
most fastidious might consider a blemish on the goodly edi- 
fice. It was the day dream of the patriot and the philanthro- 
pist. Who of us, has not, at times, been beguiled into the 
same lovely anticipation? And yet who can look around on 
things as they are, and not awake to the reality that it is " all 
but a dream?" Had Mr. Jefferson thought emancipation 
practicable, why did he never attempt its accomplishment? 
He spent a long and glorious life in the service of his coun- 
try, and much of it, in her legislative councils — at a time, too, 
when this "monster" was yet in its infancy. Look through 
your statute books and records an$ see them filled with the 
monuments of his genius and industry. When did he relax 
in his efforts to promote the welfare of his country? When 
did he grow weary in devising measures for her honour and 
happiness? And when, let me add — did his daring spirit 
shrink from the execution of what his judgment approved? 
Yet, Mr. Jefferson lived and died, without proposing eman- 
cipation. And is it for us to buckle his manly armour on 
our stripling limbs, and attempt a work which he would never 
venture to embark in? With just as much modesty and wis- 
dom, might we aspire to mount the chariot of the sun, and, 
with feeble hand and giddy head, to guide his horses along 
the heavens. But after all, this is not the plan of Mr. Jefferson. 
He always recognised the right of property in slaves, and 
admitted that they must be purchased from their owners. 
[See letter to Jared Sparks.] He evidently hoped that at 
some distant day, the increased resources of the country, aided 
by the proceeds of the public lands, might supply the means 
, of compensation. 

I have dwelt thus long on the proposition of the gentleman 
from Albemarle, because I am confident in the belief, that it 
is — and will continue to be — the favorite measure of the abo- 



16 

litionists. It is recommended to them by the fact, that it 
dispenses with the troublesome necessity of providing means 
for the purchase of slaves ; and it lias, moreover, gained curren- 
cy and popularity from its success in Pennsylvania, although 
the circumstances under which the experiment was made 
there, were totallv different from these which exist here. 
Slaves constituted but an inconsiderable share of the wealth 
of that state — a still smaller proportion of her population — 
and the loss was still further alleviated by the expedient of 
selling slaves to the southern states, before the act of eman- 
cipation took effect on them. 

Various schemes of emancipation, allowing a fair compen- 
sation to the slave holder, have been suggested in the course 
of this debate. The gentleman from Kenhawa proposes to 
raise the money for purchasing the slaves by taxation, and to 
apply it in the most economical and effectual manner, according 
to certain rules which he prescribes, to the removal, in the 
first instance, of slaves of certain ages and sexes. He avows 
it as his belief, that the people will pay the tax cheerfully. 
Sir, the people may pay this tax — they may pay it willingly — 
they may respond to the demand again and again — to the 
twentieth time— as long as they are able to pay. But at last, 
sir, they will be able to pay no longer. To purchase and 
remove the slaves now in existence, you must tax them ac- 
cording to previous estimates, to the amount of $ 1 1 5,000,000. 
How far will you have advanced towards this object, before 
their means will be exhausted and their pockets empty? But 
suppose your efforts are confined to the purchase and removal 
of the annual increase of the slave population ? That in- 
crease is about 4,800 slaves, which at $2Q0 each, are worth 
$ 960,000. The cost of their removal at $36 each, the esti- 
mate of the colonization society, is about $172,000 — amount- 
ing in all to $ 1,-132,000 per annum. Can the common- 
wealth bear even this burden, which must from its nature 
be perpetual, inasmuch as the necessity which calls for it 
will continue to exist? The present annual amount of taxes 
on lands, slaves and other property is less than $300,000. 
The whole annual expenses of the government are less than 
$450,000. What will be the consequences of an additional 
weight of more than a million a year? But, sir, whether the 
whole or a part are to be purchased and removed, does it es- 
cape the sagacity of the gentleman from Kenhawa, that those 
who are mainly to pay these taxes are the very persons whose 
slaves are to be purchased? The money is levied in the 
shape of taxation to-day, and the expenses of collection being 
deducted, the balance is to be returned to them to-morrow in 
payment for their slaves. It would be better to surrender 



17 

their property at once, and thus save the fees and commis- 
sions of the tax gatherer. 

We are told by other gentlemen, that the proceeds of the 
public lands will afford an ample fund, and that the general 
government will cheerfully dedicate them to the purpose. I 
shall not question the right of that government to make an 
absolute gift of those proceeds to the states. But, to distri- 
bute them upon condition that they be applied to a specified 
object is the same thing in effect as to make a direct appro- 
priation to that object, the authority for which may well be 
doubted. Admitting, however, that the general government 
has the power and the will to devote these funds to the pur- 
chase and removal of slaves, what will be accomplished by it? 
The annual proceeds of the sale of these lands, has not ave- 
raged two millions of dollars. I will assume, however, as the 
annual average, the maximum of three millions of dollars. 
Virginia's share of this sum, distributed according to the ratio 
of representation, is nearly one-eleventh, or about $270,000 
per annum. And will this fund supply $ 115,000,000 for the 
purchase and removal of all your slaves? or will it even fur- 
nish annually, $1,130,000 — the sum required to buy and 
carry away the annual increase of your slaves ? Let us not 
flatter ourselves with the belief that Virginia will receive more 
than her proportionate part of that fund. Justice, she may 
obtain at the hands of the general government, but beyond 
that, she has nothing to expect. No other rule of distribution 
will be adopted, unless, perhaps, it be to give up the lands or 
their proceeds, to the slave holding states exclusively. It 
cannot for a moment be supposed that Virginia is to be the 
sole object of national bounty. What then would be the as- 
pect of the case? There are in the United States, according 
to the last census, 2,010,000 slaves — to purchase and remove 
which, at the rates before assumed, would require rather more 
than $474,000,000. The annual increase in the United 
States, is about 47,000, the purchase and removal of which, 
alone, would require upwards of $ 11,000,000 annually. The 
fund at our disposal, applicable to this purpose, would be 
$3,000,000 per annum. And it is worthy of consideration, 
that this yearly produce of the public lands, will not be aug- 
mented. On the contrary, as you withdraw slave labor from 
the east, you create an opening for white men, which will 
check emigration to the west — lessen the demand for the 
public lands, and thus diminish the fund upon which the whole 
operation depends. 

We are assured, however, that although the public lands 
may be insufficient, the coffers of the general government will 
be thrown open to us — and, I presume, in like manner, to the 
3 



18 

other slave-holding states. I know that we are accustomed 
to consider the resources of that government as inexhaustible, 
and indeed they seem so, when compared to the diminutive 
resources of our own commonwealth. But will the com- 
mon treasury of this great confederacy, be able to furnish 
$ 474,000,000 for the extinction of slavery — or can it afford, 
even, $11,000,000 annually for keeping down the increase? 
Supposing the surplus revenue of the general government to 
be ample, it must be obtained through the medium of high 
duties on imports, and it is a well known fact, that the bur- 
den would rest chiefly on the southern states. It would be 
nothing more or less, than drawing from the pockets of the 
slave holders, by indirect taxation, the money with which their 
slaves were eventually to be purchased. It would be better 
economy to abandon them at once, without compensation, 
than to go through the troublesome and expensive ceremony 
of furnishing the means to have them bought. But whatever 
may be the resources of the federal government, or howso- 
ever obtained, are they at the command of the southern states? 
It is true, the legislatures of several states, in response to the 
resolutions of Rufus King, have declared their willingness to 
dedicate the public lands and other resources, to the extinc- 
tion of slavery. There is no security that they will fulfil this 
promise, and when Virginia shall appear at the bar of con- 
gress, supplicating assistance, as I presume she must, before 
she will receive it, is it entirely certain that she will not be re- 
fused ! Sir, I confess myself incredulous on that subject. The 
southern states have heretofore maintained that slavery within 
their respective limits, is their own peculiar domestic concern. 
They have promptly repelled every effort on the part of the 
federal government, or their sister states, to interfere with the 
subject. The firmness and consistency of their conduct, sus- 
tained by a constitutional guarantee that admits of no doubt- 
ful construction, has kept intrusion at a distance. Should 
Virginia now come down from this moral eminence — this im- 
pregnable stand ; (and let me tell you, that when she once 
abandons it, she can never regain it) — and invite the congress 
of the United States to take charge of her slaves, how will 
she be treated f Congress will doubtless, be willing to abolish 
slavery, if it were for no other purpose than to lessen the poli- 
tical weight of the south. The operation would take from 
Virginia more than five members, and from the slave holding 
states, in the aggregate, twenty-four members, or one-fourth 
part of their representation. But by what means, and upon 
what terms, will the work be conducted ? Sir, when the gene- 
ral government shall have obtained the control of this subject, 
and the slave holding states lie defenceless at her feet, you 



19 

will hear no more of the purchase and removal of slaves. 
You will then be told that they are persons and not things — 
that they are not property — or if property, that they are 
dangerous and the public safety requires their seizure and 
removal. The bill of rights will be quoted to prove that they 
are men and entitled to their freedom. They will be removed 
and slavery will be extinguished, but it will be without com- 
pensation, and at your expense. If the general government 
has a surplus treasure to bestow on the states — be it so — Vir-r 
ginia will know to what purposes to apply her portion. But 
if that gift is to be subject to a condition, which gives to the 
congress of the United States a virtual control over this deli- 
cate question, let the offer be promptly and unhesitatingly 
rejected, 

I have now examined all the schemes of emancipation which 
have been presented in the course of this debate; I have said 
nothing of the removal of people of color who are now free. 
That is a measure wholly independent of the one under con- 
sideralion. It cannot with propriety be blended with it. Its 
very object is adverse, being intended as a means of enabling 
the slave owner to retain his property in safety and tranquil- 
lity. Neither is it necessary to allude to voluntary manumis- 
sion. The owner of a slave has ample power to send him 
beyond the limits of the state and there to sell him or liberate 
him. No legislative authority is required for that purpose. 
Even if manumission within the state be permitted, and the 
government assume the responsibility of removal, it is still 
merely a provision respecting negroes already free. The true 
question wmich we are now considering is, whether the whole 
or a part of our slaves, shall, by the coercive operation of law, 
be removed beyond our limits, either with or without compen- 
sation to their owners. And on this question, it is my clear 
and settled conviction, founded on the reasons already ex- 
pressed, that there is no practicable mode of getting rid of 
our slaves or even of removing the annual increase. 

Yes, sir, there is one mode— and only one. It has been 
pointed out by the gentleman from Halifax, (Mr. Bruce). 
We can flee from the country and leave them in possession of 
our goods and habitations. We may abandon our homes — 
the land of our birth — the graves of our fathers, and wander 
with our families, wretched and destitute, through the wilds 
of the we§t, in pursuit of some spot to lay our weary bones 
upon. And, sir, if abolitionists and ill-judging philanthro- 
pists will persevere in agitating this question, the time is not 
distant when the harrassed slave holder may find it a relief to 
embrace even this alternative. 

Having arrived at the conclusion that emancipation is im- 



20 

practicable, it would seem superfluous to pursue the subject 
further. Our deliberations, I humbly conceive, ought never 
to have been carried beyond this point. Of what avail is it 
to demonstrate that slavery is an evil, unless it can be shown 
that it is possible to get rid of it? This discussion, however, 
has taken a much wider range. Gentlemen have congratu- 
lated themselves that the seal of secrecy is at last broken, that 
the prudent example set by our ancestors, of deliberating with 
closed doors, has been disregarded, and that they are at liberty, 
not only to express their opinions, but to send them forth 
to the world. They have availed themselves fully of the op- 
portunity. The subject has been considered in all its aspects 
and relations. The right of the master to his slave — the im- 
morality and injustice of slavery — the miseries it inflicts on 
the unhappy negro — its pernicious effects on the character, 
interests and safety of the white man, have all been descant- 
ed on, with unmeasured freedom and severity. I have been 
utterly astonished, sir, at the character this debate has as- 
sumed. The gentleman from Kenhawa, a few weeks since, 
in calling for the publication of a certain correspondence, in- 
formed us that he should not interfere in this matter. 

[Mr. Summers rose to explain — He had stated on the oc- 
casion alluded to, that he had no plan to propose — that he 
should wait for the propositions of others ; and that, mean- 
while, all the information that could be obtained, was desira- 
ble.] 

Mr. Brown resumed — I did not intend to impute to that 
gentleman any want of candour. I was under the impression 
(erroneously, however, as I am now satisfied,) that he had de- 
clared himself disinterested on this subject, and being under 
that impression, I was surprised, when he said, in his eloquent 
speech of yesterday, that he would glory in coming down to 
lead forth the oppressed from the land of bondage, even 
through the waves of the Red sea. His explanation is satis- 
factory to me, and doubtless so to the house. No matter 
then, by what means this discussion may have been produced, 
it is too late now to change its character. The charge has 
been made and the issue is joined. If any thing can be said 
in defence of slavery, the occasion certainly demands it. 

And is there, then, no apology for slavery ? Is it a sin of 
so deep a die that none dare vindicate it? For my own part 
sir, I am not the advocate of slavery in the abstract, and if 
the question were upon introducing it, I should be the very 
last to agree to it ; but 1 am yet to be convinced, that slavery 
as it exists in Virginia, is either criminal or immoral. It 
was cast upon us by the act of others. It was one of the at- 
tendant circumstances under which we were ushered into life. 



21 

It was a condition charged on the tenure of our existence. It 
is our lot, our destiny — and whether, in truth, it be right or 
wrong — whether it be a blessing or a curse, the moment has 
never yet been, when it was possible for us to free ourselves 
from it. This is enough to satisfy my conscience. The 
powers of man are limited — impossibilities are not expected 
of him, nor will he be required to sacrifice his happiness — the 
primary object of his existence — in the vain attempt to change 
the face of human affairs. '.'Who does the best that circum- 
stance allows, does well — acts nobly — angels could no more." 
We are told, that it was the fault of our ancestors, if not 
our own — that the golden bait glittered on our shores and 
attracted from afar the mercenary slave trader. Let us tread 
lightly, sir, on the ashes of the dead. Our forefathers were 
a race of noble and virtuous men. " Take them for all in all, 
we ne'er shall look upon their like again." Their memory 
is dear to us, and should not be tarnished, unjustly. They 
did not originate the slave trade. The venerable bishop of 
Chiapa, regarding the negroes as an inferior race — from mis- 
taken motives of philanthropy — recommended their introduc- 
tion into South America, for the purpose of relieving the 
Indians from the burden of working the mines. Some roving 
speculator, disappointed in a market elsewhere, brought his 
wretched cargo to our coast. The tempter came, uninvited, 
as he did into Eden, and human frailty yielded to his seduc- 
tions. Even then, it was INDIVIDUAL cupidity alone that 
generated the evil. The government, resting on the basis of 
PUBLIC OPINION, was always opposed to it. Twenty-three 
statutes were passed by the House of Burgesses, to prevent 
the introduction of slaves into Virginia, and all were nega- 
tived by the British King. It is to this inhuman use of his 
prerogative, that indignant allusion is made in the declara- 
tion of independence. As soon as the revolution began, Vir- 
ginia prohibited the slave trade, and it was one of the first 
acts of her independence, to make it punishable with death. 
When the federal constitution was presented to Virginia for 
adoption, it was objected to, on the ground that it did not pro- 
hibit the states, immediately, from allowing the further im- 
portation of slaves — a traffic which was indignantly and elo- 
quently denounced by the ablest members of the convention. 
When Virginia gave to the union, that princely domain, ihe 
northwestern territory, which now constitutes the states of 
Ohio, Indiana and Illinois, she annexed the condition, that 
slavery should never exist within its limits. The celebrated 
ordinance of 1786 contained the terms of the grant — the regu- 
lations for the future government of the territory, and the per- 
petual interdiction of slavery. It was drawn by Mr. Jeffer- 



22 

son, and passed by the vote of Virginia, Georgia and the two 
Carolinas, together with four other States, — any two of which, 
by voting in the negative, might have caused its rejection. 
This brief reference to the history of slavery, proves that it 
w 7 as forced upon us by a train of events that could not be con- 
trolled. Every effort was made to suppress it, and when 
that was no longer possible, effectual measures were taken to 
prevent its propagation elsewhere. What was brought upon 
us without our agency, and tolerated at first, from unavoida- 
ble necessity, has now become essential to our happiness, and 
is not inconsistent with that of the slave himself. In what 
code of ethics, human or divine, is it written that slavery is an 
offence of so odious a character that no. circumstances can 
palliate it — no necessity excuse it? Whence is derived the 
authority for saying that it is a sin, so very foul and mon- 
strous, that Virginia is bound to pluck it from her bosom, 
though her life's blood should gush after it f Sir, there are 
pure and holy men who have looked upon it without abhor- 
rence. Even that Apostle, from whose mind — as we are told 
by the gentleman from Rockbridge, — the last shadows of sin 
and error were chased away by light from heaven, did not 
condemn slavery. So far from it, St. Paul sent home to his 
master Philemon, (a minister of the gospel !) a runaway slave 
whom he met with at Rome, with a letter asking forgiveness 
for the fugitive, and apologizing for having temporarily taken 
him into his service. The Saviour of mankind did not con- 
demn it. He appeared in a province of the Roman Empire, 
which was filled with slaves. Their number was estima- 
ted at forty millions, and their condition abject and wretch- 
ed in the extreme. The master exercised, without restraint, 
the power of life and death over the slave, and exposed him, 
at pleasure, to the scourge, the crucifix and the sword of the 
gladiator. The slave was responsible with his own life for 
that of his master, and was put to death if the master were 
murdered, no matter by whom. Christ saw these slaves — 
their numbers and their wretchedness. Nothing escaped his 
all-pervading eye. He came into the world to reprove sin, 
and he did reprove it, in all the diversified forms in which it 
appeared before him. Yet he rebuked not slavery. On the 
contrary, he gave it his implied approbation by exhorting 
masters to be kind to their servants — and enjoining it on ser- 
vants to be faithful and obedient to their masters. Shall we, 
sir, affect a morality more pure and exalted than that of the 
primitive christians, or even the blessed author of our faith? 
Slavery prevails over all the world, — from the Ganges to the 
Nile — from Indus to the Pole. The principle exists- every 
where, and is virtually felt even among those who are called 



23 

frceV Where is the community in which there are not indivi- 
duals who, in dragging out a toilsome and wretched existence, 
exposed to " the rich man's scorn — the proud man's con- 
tumely," do not see and feel that this world was made for oth- 
ers ? And who can say that this partial evil, is not conducive 
to the universal good, or, in some manner, subservient to the 
beneficent purposes of an all-wise Providence ? Nations are 
stricken down under the rod of affliction, and bowed low, for 
centuries, at the footstool of oppression ; but let it "justify 
the ways of God to man," that in the endless vicissitudes of 
human affairs, the balance may, at last, be redressed, and re- 
tributive justice done to all. We, ourselves, are the slaves of 
circumstances, and if, in submitting to this universal order of 
social being, we do sin, let us repose with humble confidence 
in the hope, that, when arraigned at the bar of posterity — so 
much dreaded by the gentleman from Hanover — or at the 
throne of Heaven, the palliation we can plead — aided by that 
merciful intercession that will not be denied us, may secure 
our pardon and forgiveness. 

Again, sir; I contend that the happiness of the slave does 
not call for his emancipation. His condition is better than 
that of four-fifths of the human family. He enjoys far more 
of the comforts of life, than .the peasantry of many of the 
nations in Europe. The Russian or Polish serf, for instance, 
is a mere appendage to the soil — the victim of passion or 
arbitrary transfer, and kept in submission by being plunged 
in the darkest tide of ignorance and superstition. Lands 
are assigned him, and the proceeds of his labour are called 
his own, but the whole, beyond a miserable subsistence, are 
absorbed in the payment of rents and dues. He accumulates 
nothing; and if the seasons prove unpropitious, he is exposed 
to all the horrors of famine. When worn out with toil and 
bowed down with age, there is no one from whom he can 
demand a support. He is not called a slave; but in what re- 
spect is his lot more desirable? The slave also amasses 
nothing, but whatever, betides, he is sure of a subsistence. 
He is independent of accident or the elements. If his owner 
becomes too poor to feed and clothe him, he is sure to sell 
him to one who is able. His life is under the protection of 
the law. When disabled by age or disease, he is secure of a 
support. Public opinion, and the interests of his master, 
protect him from cruel and abusive treatment. He is not free, 
but that is a blessing only in name, to a large majority of the 
human race. Man must be civilized, his mind enlightened, 
and his feelings refined, before he is fitted for the enjoyment 
of liberty. The Hindoo and the Tartar are free ; but what 
avails the fruitless boon ? Even the states of South America, 



24 

the objects of so much sympathy and hope, have profitted but 
little by their independence. The fierce and exterminating 
conflicts that mark that sanguinary arena of ambition, and 
for the termination of which we have looked so long in vain, 
evince too plainly, that liberty came before they were pre- 
pared for it. The greater part of mankind must, in the 
nature of things, be poor and ignorant, toiling anxiously for 
their daily bread. All cannot be raised to the top of the 
scale; and the negro, of all others, is the least susceptible of 
elevation. You may declare him free— you may enact laws 
to make him free — but unless you can reverse his doom of 
inferiority — unless you can exempt him from poverty and 
toil, your utmost efforts will only change him from a slave 
into a serf. He would not thank you for the favour — for the 
only charm he could discover in liberty, would be the privn 
lege of not labouring. You may establish him on the coast 
of Africa, but it will neither promote his own happiness nor 
be the means of civilizing that continent. I know there are 
those who think otherwise. For their motives and opinions, 
I have much respect; and as long as they pursue the objects 
they have avowed, according to the rules they have announced, 
I wish them, with all my heart, success. It is far from my 
wishes to discourage so grand and munificent a design as that 
of the American Colonization Society. But when required to 
act on the faith of their experiment, I must confess my in- 
credulity. The fate of the colony at Sierra Leone, admonishes 
me of the hazards and difficulties of the enterprise. It is now 
more than forty years since an association was formed in 
England, for the purpose of restoring recaptured slaves to 
their country, and thus introducing Christianity into Africa. 
It was composed of the most intelligent and virtuous men in 
Great Britain, and its resources were at extensive as any that 
Virginia could command. Sierra Leone was selected as the 
theatre of operations, and the experiment has now been in 
progress for near half a century. During a considerable part 
of this time, the colony has been upheld and sustained by 
the strong arm of the British government — defended by her 
navy, and nourished liberally with her blood and treasure. 
It is estimated that more than sixteen millions of pounds ster- 
ling have been expended in the undertaking. And what is 
the result? A population of 16,000 souls — the slave trade 
prosecuted as vigorously as ever — the naked, degraded and 
idolatrous Krooman hovering still on the confines of the set- 
tlement — the thick gloom of heathen darkness not yet pene- 
trated by the holy light of Christianity — a feeble spark of 
civilization glimmering on the border of an immense conti- 



25 

tient. Sir, there never was a period at which the sun of civili- 
zation shone at once over the whole world. Barbarism passes 
like a cloud over the earth. It is now settled, in its deepest 
gloom, on Africa. It will be swept away when, in the accom- 
plishment of the inscrutable purposes of Providence, it be- 
comes fit that it should envelope some other land — perhaps 
our own. Let the ardour of our zeal be moderated by the 
reflection that our utmost efforts may hasten it on its round, . 
but cannot chase it awav from earth. 

Much of the odium with which slavery is viewed by those 
who are ignorant of its character in Virginia, is owing to their 
confounding it, in imagination, with all the atrocities of the 
slave trade. We have all \vept at the fate of the African — 
torn from his country, severed from his kindred, and doomed 
to pine, in hopeless bondage, far from the objects of all his 
affections. These were the enormities that prompted the 
splendid eloquence of Fox, that stimulated the efforts of 
Sharp, and Wilberforce, and Clarkson ; and which have 
aroused the sympathies of every generous bosom in Christen- 
dom. But is there any resemblance between such horrors 
and the circumstances that surround our slaves? This is their 
home — their birthplace — the only country they ever knew — 
the spot which habit, if not affection, has rendered dear to 
them. That they are happy, is evident from the rapid increase 
of their numbers. In the West Indies, owing, no doubt, to 
severity of usage, they are constantly diminishing. Let them 
remain here, then. They are happier than they would be in 
any other situation. They are happier than their fathers 
were, and might be happier still if incendiary fanatics would 
let them alone, and cease to persuade them that they are 
miserable. Their condition might then be greatly meliorated, 
and their mental instruction would no longer be incompati- 
ble with the peace of society : officious and fruitless inter- 
ference may do much harm, but cannot do good. The genu- 
ine philanthropist should cease to intermeddle, when it is 
obvious that he only injures the object he seeks to benefit. 

But, it is urged with vehemence, that our interests require 
the removal of slavery. I confess, sir, if there be any conside- 
ration which calls for it, this to my mind, carries with it the 
most weight. And yet it is certain, that whatever evils may 
flow from slavery, it would now be a far greater evil to abo- 
lish it. The sombre pictures which have been drawn of the 
deplorable condition of the commonwealth, are in a great 
measure, imaginary — and so far as they are true, the causes 
have been mistaken. We have been told that agriculture is 
languishing from the thriftless and unproductive character 
of slave labour. I cannot speak in detail of the operations 
4 



26 

of agriculture, but I can refer you to interesting results as exhi- 
bited by the tabular records of our exports. The population 
of the states north of Mason and Dixon's line, is 5,567,693 
souls. The population of the states south of that line, is 
7,288,714 souls. During the year 1829, the domestic ex- 
ports north of this line, amounted in value to $34,961,907, 
and the like exports south of it, amounted to $37,396,764. 
From which it appears that the products of the respective divi- 
sions were about in the ratio of their population. Again, the 
population of the United States is 12,856,154 souls. The popu- 
lation of Virginia, Georgia, Alabama, North and South Caro- 
lina — which are the chief slave holding states, is 3,356,910 
souls, or about one fourth of the whole. The domestic 
exports of the United States in 1827, amounted in value to 
$58,921,691. The domestic products exported from the five 
states above mentioned during the same period amounted to 
$18,874,953, or about one third of the exports of the union 
— with a population of one fourth, their products were equal 
to one third. Again, the population of Pennsylvania is 
1,347,673 souls— that of Virginia is 1,211,272 souls. The 
domestic products exported from the former in 1827, amounted 
to $3,391,296, while those from the latter amounted to 
$4,646,737. What do these results prove but that the produc- 
tion of the slave states is greater, in proportion to population, 
than that of the non-slave-holding states? And such is doubt- 
less the fact. The people of this state, white and black, labor 
as advantageously, and produce as much, as any equal num- 
ber of whites, elsewhere. Why then is Virginia poor, and in 
debt? Not, sir, because she has nothing for market, but be- 
cause she is defrauded in the sale of her produce and the pur- 
chase of her supplies from abroad. The course which com- 
merce has taken, from causes which it is unnecessary here to 
examine, is disastrous, in the extreme, to Virginia, as well as 
the other southern states. During the year 1829, the impor- 
tations to the north of Mason and Dixon's line amounted to 
$60,001,961, while those to the south of it were only 
$ 1 4,480,566 — and yet the products exported from the latter di- 
vision during the same period, as already stated, exceeded those 
from the former, by nearly three millions of dollars. Here lies 
the secret of all our misfortunes. The northern states import ' 
all the goods, and we of the south buy our supplies from them. 
They act both as merchants and carriers, and in that com- 
bined character, engross the whole commercial profit. It is 
this annual tribute to the north, superadded to enormous du- 
ties on imports, that keeps the south poor; and it is this same 
tribute which makes the north rich, and builds up those splen- 
did mansions and cities of which we have heard so much in 
this debate. 



27 

Again, it is said that slavery retards the increase of white 
population, and for proof of the position we are referred to 
the comparatively rapid growth of the western states, which 
is ascribed to the non-existence of slavery in them. But it 
must be manifest to the most casual observer, that this cir- 
cumstance is owing to totally different causes. The tide of 
emigration is flowing in one unbroken current to the west. 
The quantity of public lands thrown into market; the cheap- 
ness and fertility of the soil; the ease with which a subsis- 
tence may be there obtained, are objects which have attracted 
immense crowds from every direction. The drain has been 
chiefly supplied by the Atlantic states, and it is perfectly in- 
telligible that they should remain stationary while the west is 
rapidly doubling its numbers. If, therefore, the white popula- 
tion of Virginia during the last ten years has increased only 
fifteen per cent., while that of some of the western states has 
been nearly two hundred per cent., can it with truth be attri- 
buted to the influence of slavery ? The only fair criterion is a 
comparison between the slave holding and non-slave holding 
states, similarly situated, on the seaboard, and which may be 
presumed to have contributed alike to the peopling of the west. 
How will Virginia stand this test? The average increase of 
population in the United States; during the last ten years, is 
about thirty-two per cent. Of all the old thirteen stales, only 
two, (Georgia and New York,) are above the average. There 
is but a slight difference between the southern and the New 
England states. The ratio of increase of whites in Virginia, 
is fifteen per cent. ; in Delaware it is less than six per cent.; 
in New Jersey fifteen; in Massachusetts sixteen, and in the 
far-famed Connecticut, only eight per cent. ! Can there be a 
remaining suspicion, that slavery has caused emigration from 
Virginia, or in any manner checked her population f 

Even if it were desirable under any circumstances, to get 
rid of our slaves, this, of all others, is the least favorable pe- 
riod. It is admitted that every thing is hurrying to the west, 
so that it is scarcely possible to retain a poor man here in the 
east; and yet, at this very conjuncture, we are urged to com- 
mence the deportation of the whole laboring force of the coun- 
try. - Why, even if you would pay us amply for these slaves, 
and we could come into market, with a full purse, to hire 
white laborers, it would be utterly impossible to obtain them. 
No, sir, we must wait until this mighty volume of population 
shall have rolled on to the base of the rocky mountains, and 
filled up the whole intermediate valley. When its refluent 
surges begin to be felt again in the east, and population be- 
comes redundant, then, if ever, but not before, this work may 
commence. The greater density of population may, perhaps, 



28 

compel us to abandon planting, in order to raise the staff of 
life, and then from a mere calculation of interest, it may be 
deemed expedient to part with our slaves. 

Let us view the subject in what light we choose, there is no 
cause to complain of the internal economy and condition of 
Virginia. True, sir, we have had vivid sketches of the beau- 
ties of the north — their farms, their mansions, and their splen- 
did cities. We have had glowing descriptions too, of the 
magic change that has been wrought on the face of the wes- 
tern world : and then we have listened to the woful tale of 
Virginia's decayed and ruined fortunes. But, sir, the contrast 
awakens in my breast, neither despair, nor discontent. I ad- 
mire the thrifty genius of the north, and am proud of the rising 
greatness of the west* But I envy neither — nor do I love or 
respect my native state the less, because it is materially differ- 
ent from both. Her fields perhaps are not so green — nor her 
forests so stately — nor her form so smooth and neat. Her 
soil, too, may sometimes be clad with pines, and her hills 
marked deeply, with the track of the torrent. But still she 
has great and peculiar advantages. In the essential particu- 
lars of population and production, she is keeping pace with 
nearly all of the old thirteen states. Let us cease to complain 
that she does not outstrip them. Her power and resources are 
sufficiently ample to gratify all my national ambition. There 
is enough in her political character — in the honors of the 
past — in the genius and virtues of her living sons — to satisfy 
all my national vanity. 

But we are warned that however happy our condition may 
be, we can no longer enjoy it in safety. The slave popula- 
tion is gaining rapidly on the while. We are already in dan- 
ger, and are hourly becoming more so. In controverting this 
proposition, I must beg to be excused for offering a few more 
statistical views. I am by no means satisfied with those which 
have been exhibited. It is notorious that the free negroes in 
Virginia, increase with twice the rapidity of any other descrip- 
tion of persons. Great misapprehension has been caused by 
blending slaves with free negroes — calling them the "colored 
population" — ascertaining the ratio of their combined increase, 
(which is greater than that of slaves singly) and then using 
the result as an evidence that slaves are gaining on the whites. 
I discard the free negroes from my estimates. The only sub- 
ject of inquiry at present is, as to the ratio of increase of slaves. 
The number of whites in Virginia, in 1820, was 603,008, and 
the number of slaves 425,153. The increase of the former 
from 1820 to 1830, was 91,430, or fifteen per cent., while the 
increase of the latter, was 44,571, or only ten per cent. The 
present excess of whites over slaves, is 224,714. But there 



29 

are some who insist that the east derives no security from a 
population west of the mountains. What then, is the state of 
things east of the Blue Ridge? The number of whites, in 
1790, was 314,523, and the number of slaves 277,449. In 
1830, the number of whites, in the same district, was 375,935, 
and that of slaves 416,259 — exhibiting a gain of the latter 
on the former, during forty years, of 77,398. JBut when did 
this gain take place? Between 1800 and 1810, the rate of 
increase of whites, was only seven-tenths of one per cent., 
while that of slaves was eleven per cent. From 1810 to 1820, 
the ratio of increase of whites, was three per cent., and that of 
slaves, was six per cent. From 1820 to 1830, the ratio of 
increase of whites, was near eight per cent., and that of the 
slaves not quite nine per cent. It is evident, that the gain of 
77,398, was chiefly effected between 1800 and 1810, or ante- 
rior thereto. The important fact to which I wish to direct 
your attention, is, that although the number of slaves has 
gained on that of the whites since 1790, yet that the ratio of 
that gain has been rapidly diminishing for the last twenty 
years, and is now almost extinguished. At one time, it was 
as eleven to one — it is now as nine to eight. It is said, how- 
ever, that we have heretofore had an outlet for a considerable 
portion of our slaves in the southern states — that they are 
now about to close their doors, and of course that drain must 
cease. According to my estimate, founded on an inspection 
of tables of population and such other data as I could pro- 
cure, there are about 20,000 slaves born annually in this 
state ; there are 10,000 deaths — the census exhibits an increase 
of nearly 5,000, and consequently, about 5,000 must, annually, 
be carried to the south. Can any one doubt that there will 
always be a demand for that number? Those states, from a 
fear that vicious and disaffected slaves would be palmed upon 
them, have passed laws to prohibit their admission. They 
have passed such laws before, and repealed them. They will 
repeal them again. They will be evaded even whilst in force. 
They are planters, and must have a regular supply of labor- 
ers. The planting interest in the West Indies and elsewhere, 
opens a market, it is said for 100,000 Africans, annually. 

Another fallacious method has been adopted of deducing 
appalling results. It is assumed, that the present number of 
slaves in the state (469,724) will be doubled in a certain num- 
ber of years; and within a certain period thereafter, it will be 
doubled again — and so on ad infinitum; until at no distant 
period we are to have millions on millions. It is a well known 
fact in the economy of population, that after it attains a cer- 
tain bulk, the rate of increase gradually lessens and finally 
ceases. The present population of the whole earth is proba- 



30 

bly no greater than it was a thousand years ago. But this 
system of doubling is quite harmless if the whites be allowed 
to double also. Indeed, it presents a cheering aspect. The 
excess of the whites over the slaves, in 1790, was 149,490. 
It is now 224,714, and when the whites and slaves shall both 
have doubled again, the difference in favor of the former will 
be upwards of 448,000. Is there not safety in this difference? 
The number of slaves in South Carolina, and also in Loui-, 
siana, has, for a long time, greatly exceeded that of the whites. 
In many of the West India islands, the proportion has been 
more than five to one ; yet we have heard of no rebellions or 
insurrections except in the case of St. Domingo. That was 
owing to peculiar causes. It is now a matter of history, that 
it was occasioned by the discussions and doctrines of the na- 
tional assembly of France. Liberty and equality were de- 
creed to all nations, and even the West India slave had his 
post in the miserable pageant of Anacharsis Cloots. All this 
was communicated, by the free negroes, to the slaves, who 
were thus excited to the perpetration of that horrible mas- 
sacre. Let gentlemen remember the causes of this catas- 
trophe, and consider how far it is proper here to indulge in 
the discussion of abstract principles. 

The tragedy of Southampton, is held up to our view as an 
argument that admits of no refutation, and is sufficient to out- 
weigh any conclusions to which our minds might be brought 
by reason and reflection. It was indeed an appalling occur- 
rence — not from its importance or consequences — but from 
the deep-toned atrocity that characterized it. Yet, it has hap- 
pened only once, in the course of near sixty years, which 
have elapsed since we became an independent people. And is 
this solitary calamity — so brief and rare — to change the whole 
tenor of our lives and uplift the very foundations of society ? 
To allow a single disaster to outweigh the long security of 
years, would be as absurd as to deduce the principles of phi- 
losophy from the eccentricities of nature, instead of her cus- 
tomary habits. All that human wisdom can do is to calculate 
the chances of evil, and abide by that which is comparatively 
remote. Vesuvius labors, perhaps, once in a century, and 
cities are buried under its burning lava. Yet the peasant 
who dwells at its foot feels a comfortable sense of security, 
and plants his vines on the soil which has gathered over the 
ruins of Pompeii, with as fair a promise of their fruits as if 
he dwelt in the broadest plain in Italy. Whither shall we go 
to escape all dangers ? They beset our paths on every side ; 
and while we shun them in one form, they are sure to meet 
us in another. Throughout the world, there is not a spot 
where life is more secure than in Virginia ; and of all the busy 



31 

agents of death, not one has disturbed society so little as in- 
surrection. Yet, gentlemen will have it that we are surround- 
ed with perils, and have arrayed them before us in forms so 
terrible, that the gloomy genius of Salvator Rosa could have 
added nothing to the picture. They have talked to us of 
"passing the Rubicon" and "wading in blood;" and warned 
us that "the elements are in motion" and "a crisis is at 
hand." When these and other prophetic bodings fell upon 
my ear, in all the melancholy madness of eloquence, I could 
scarcely persuade myself that some great and impending ruin 
was not about to burst over our heads. 1 almost fancied that 
I heard the war-cry and the clash of arms; that the Gauls 
were mounting the Capitoline hill; that I stood, again, in the 
House of Burgesses, and heard that lofty old Roman, Patrick 
Henry, proclaiming to his astounded audience, that war was 
inevitable; that the enemy were already forging their chains, 
and an appeal to arms and the God of hosts was all that was 
left. But, sir, listen not to the deceptive voice of eloquence. 
It is the orator's art to raise the storm, to invoke the thunder, 
and impress its terrors on our bewildered senses. Trust him 
not; for there is no "crisis." When "the elements are in 
motion" — when Olympus does tremble and the bolt is hurled 
from the red-right arm of Jove, let us summon all the ener- 
gies of our nature to meet the occasion as it deserves. But, 
sir, there is no danger; there will be none, unless our own 
indiscretion produce it. I beseech you, sir, to pause and re- 
flect before you embark in this perilous enterprise. Without 
the steady and faithful support of public opinion, through a 
long series of years, no law you may pass, can be effectual. 
Have you any assurance of such support ? So far from it, I 
solemnly warn you that whatever act of emancipation you may 
pass will be received with general reprobation. And if you 
pass an act that violates the right of property in slaves, it will 
be met with the sharp, quick remedy of resistance; it will 
shake this ancient commonwealth to its centre; it will sever it 
in twain. Then, in truth, the Rubicon will have been passed, 
and we cannot pause until we fall at the base of Pompey's 
statue. Then, indeed, if the "genius of emancipation," be a 
fiend and delight in ruin, she well may smile that " the work 
goes bravely on." 

I will not detain you longer, sir. In expressing my opinions 
on this subject, I have endeavored to divest myself of every 
feeling that might disturb the exercise of my reason, and to 
address myself solely to the understanding, and not the pas- 
sions of this body. In doing so, I have gone, perhaps, too far 
into details, and am fearful of having fatigued your attention. 
But I shall not regret it, if I have succeeded in persuading a 



32 

single friend of abolition to pause and reflect before he ad- 
vances further. I took part in this discussion with no expec- 
tation of winning laurels. That is reserved for those who 
advocate emancipation. They claim already the merit of 
intrepidity ; and if they succeed in their object, they will be 
crowned, it is said, with immortal honors. I, on the contrary, 
and those who think with me, must submit to the charge of 
being too timid to keep pace with "the spirit of the age." 
There is only one event that can redound to our credit — and 
I trust in Heaven that may never happen. If our warning 
voice be disregarded, and the attempt be made and fail amidst 
the execrations of a ruined people, then, indeed we may pre- 
fer some claim to prudence and discernment. It may be too, 
that I have mistaken the wishes and interests of my constitu- 
ents. I was elected before this subject had attracted atten- 
tion, and they have had no opportunity of making their opi- 
nions known to me. I have obeyed the honest dictates of my 
judgment, and acted in conformity to my own clear convic- 
tion of the true interests of the people I represent, and of so- 
ciety generally. If the course I have taken involves any sa- 
crifice of a personal nature, I make it freely on the altar of 
my country. 



