I 



e 7«^ 



THE UTTER EXTINCTION OF SLAVERY AN OBJECT 
OF SCRIPTURE PROPHECY; 



LECTURE 

THE SUBSTANCE OF WHICH WAS DELIVERED AT THE ANNUAL MEETING. 

OF THE 

CHELMSFORD 
LADIES' ANTI-SLAVERY ASSOCIATION, 

IN THE FRIEND'S MEETING-HOUSE, 
On TUESDAY, the 17th of APRIL, 1832: 

WILLIAM KNIGHT, ESQ. TREASURER, IN THE CHAIR. 
With Elucidatory Notes. „^^^ :■. 

BY 

JOSEPH IVIMEY, 

A MEMBER OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE ANTI-SLAVBRY SOCIETY. 



DEDICATED TO WILLIAM WILBERFORCE, ESQ. 




" LIBERTY IS THE WORD WITH JflE ." — yiE sop . 
" ABOVi; ALL LIBERTY." — Seidell. 



LONDON: 

SOLD BY G. WIGHTMAN, PATERNOSTER ROW; MESSRS. HATCHARD, 
PICCADILLY; MESSRS. SEELEY, FLEET STREET; HOLDSWORTH AND 

BALL, ST, Paul's church yard; westley and co. stationers' 

COURT; MASON, CITY ROAD, AND PATERNOSTER ROW; DARTON AND 

HARVEY, GRACECHURCH STREET; J. W, CALDER, OXFORD STREET; 

AND AT THE BOOK ROOM, IN EXETER HALL, 

1832, ' ,,, 



IvONDOTJ : 
PRINTED BY J. MESSEDER, 201, HIGH HOLBORN. 



A 



TO 



WILLIAM WILBERFORCE, ESQ, 



Sir, 

After the uniform testimony of the 
world has been borne, for many years past, 
to your philanthrophy toward those unhappy 
beings, who are, in common parlance, desig- 
nated slaves ; in consequence of your having 
procured the abolition of the " trade in the 
persons of men," which had, for nearly three 
centuries, been the foul disgrace of the Bri- 
tish nation; it cannot be deemed flattery, 
that I have presumed to dedicate this Lecture 
to you: and which I do with feelings of the 
most profound respect and veneration. To 
you, Sir, belong the highest honour, and the 
most refined and exalted pleasure, which ever 
any man appropriated to himself: — ''And 
when the ear heard me,'' said the God-fearing, 
most upright, and deeply-afflicted Job, " then 
it blessed me; and when the eye saw me, it gave 
witness to me. Because I delivered the poor that 
cried, and the fatherless, and him that had none to 
help him. The blessing of him that was ready to 



IV 



perish catne upon me^ and I caused the widow's 
heart to sing for joy. I put on righteousness^ 
and it clothed me ; my judgment was as a robe 
and a diadem. I was eyes to the blind, and feet 
was I to the lame ; I was a father to the poor ; 
and the cause which I knew not, I searched out ; 
and I brake the jaws of the wicked, and plucked 
the spoil out of his teeth." * Nor can I imagine, 
after the proofs which I have experienced of 
your friendship, that the freedom which I 
have taken, will be deemed an offensive liber- 
ty, with your much-loved name, especially 
when pronounced in connection with the 
abolition of Slavery. -j- 

Notwithstanding so much has been said 
and published on the subject of Slavery, I 
have never known any observations to have 
been advanced, relating to its being clearly 
pointed out in the scriptures, as one of those 
evils which inspired predictions have devoted 
to utter extinction. 'This is one reason why 
I have considered it desirable to publish my 
thoughts, on the certainty of that event taking 
place ; and to state my opinion of the proba- 
bility, from existing circumstances, that its 
entire abolition is not far distant. 



* Job. xxix. 12 — 17- 

t See a most eloquent eulog-y pronounced on Mr. Wilber- 
force, by the late lamented patriot, Sir Samuel Romilly, in 
the Appendix, No. 1. 



Another reason is, a hope that the discus- 
sion of the subject at this most eventful pe- 
riod, will arrest the attention of, at least, the 
pious part of the community, and lead them 
to consider how necessary it is, in order to 
the prosperity and salvation of the nation, 
that this most crying sin should be repented 
of, and put away, that we may be " a saved, 
and not a destroyed people." 

The NATION has been lately fasting, and 
humbling itself before God, because of the 
divine visitation, by a most destructive dis- 
ease. It appears, at present, that the merci- 
ful Jehovah, who spared Ahab, and the king- 
dom of Israel, when " he humbled himself; 
and who spared Nineveh, when " the king- 
proclaimed a fast,'' and its inhabitants de- 
voutly observed it; that HE is turning away 
his chastising rod, by checking the awful pes- 
tilence, and saying to the destroying angel — 
" It is enough " Ought we not, then, to prove 
the sincerity of our repentance, by resolving 
that Slavery shall be immediately abolished 
in the British colonies? Let all classes of 
the PEOPLE shew the genuineness of their 
professed repentance, by petitioning against 
Slavery; and let our enlightened legisla- 
ture, our reforming ministers, and our 
beloved, patriotic and paternal monarch, 
prove their's, hj fixing a specific period, beyond 



VI 



which SLAVERY 111 the British colonies shall not 
exist. 

For the purpose of elucidating the manner 
in which the " trade in the persons of men " is 
at the present time, carried on by British 
proprietors, I give the copy of an advertise- 
ment, from the " Royal Gazette, Nassau/' dated 
April 23, 1831, which affords us a specimen 
of the assortment of a West Indian auction! 
" On Monday next, the 25th instant, at the Ven- 
due-hoiise, at ten o'clock, will be sold, — sugar, 
pork, and long leaf tobacco, candles, soap, ^-c. 
and a negro woman, a plain cook and house 
servant, with on e child! Terms — Cash at two 
months credit!" 

Is it possible to conceive of any transac- 
tion more abhorrent to our principles and 
feelings as men, as Britons, and especially as 
Christians, than a West Indian auction!! 
How delightful the thought, then, that the 
time is drawing nigh, when the voice of the 
British Senate will, it is hoped, prevent other 
events from proclaiming to the world, in re- 
gard to those who have traded in " slaves, 
and souls of men," that, " no man buyeth their 
merchandize any more." 

The crisis at which we have arrived is truly 
awful, and the signs of the times are tremen- 
dously alarming ; yet to the friends of human- 
ity and religion most cheering and animating: 



Vll 



the negroes in a state of dreadful discontent 
and disappointment; the slave-holders, the 
planters, and the colonial legislatures, in a 
state of rebellion against the government; 
His Majesty's ministers, doubtless most desi- 
rous, and yet afraid to adopt decisive measures 
to put an end to the existence of slavery; the 
nation roused to petition on behalf of their 
outraged and oppressed fellow-creatures and 
fellow-subjects, that their miseries may be 
speedily terminated ; the House of Commons 
about to be agitated by the motion of Mr. 
Buxton, on the 24th instant, that immediate 
emancipation might be granted. O that our 
Noahs, our Daniels, and our Jobs, men 
mighty in prayer; and some Moses, fervent 
in supplication, might be found stretching out 
his hands toward heaven, with some Aaron 
and HuR to stay his sinking arms; may unite 
in earnest supplication, that whilst the army 
of Israel is struggling with iVmalek in the 
plain, the God of heaven, who has always 
heard "the cry of the humble,'' and hath 
" never said to the seed of Jacob, Seek ye my 
face in vain! " might now arise out of his 
place, and give them a decided victory — a 
glorious triumph! Then we will erect an al- 
tar, and inscribe upon it, " jEHovAH-wzm: 
the Lord is our banner;'' — '^ His right hand, 
and his holy arm hath gotten him the vie- 



Vlll 



tory/' " Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, hut 
to thy name we give the glory, for thy mercy 
and for thy truth's sake," 

That you, Sir, may at the close of your 
most useful life, and in your retirement 
from the bustle of worldly business, enjoy all 
the rich consolations of the gospel of Christ, 
the influence of which you have, for so long a 
period, experimentally known and practically 
demonstrated, by your S3?^mpathetic and bene- 
volent exertions to ameliorate and terminate 
the sufferings of the enslaved African ; — ^and 
that you may be spared " a little longer, that 
you may recover your strength, before you go 
hence and be no more seen '' ; and thus be 
able to join in, and enjoy the complete tri- 
umph of your labours, in witnessing the 
emancipation of all the sons and daughters 
of Africa, in all the colonies of Britain, 
and of Europe, and of America! and of 
the WORLD, is the devout prayer, and ardent 
wish of. 

Sir, 
Your obliged friend, 

and obedient Servant, 

JOSEPH IVIMEY. 

51, Devonshire Street, Queen Square. 
May 7, 1832. 



A LECTURE 



8fc- Sfc 



Mr. Chairman, 

Being a member, Sir, of the Committee 
of ** the Anti-slavery Society," I have, at the 
request of "the Agency Committee," of which I 
am also a member, visited Chelmsford, for the 
purpose of delivering a Lecture on the evils of 
Colonial Slavery: Desirous of promoting, in 
every w^ay within my power, the objects of that 
philanthropic and useful Society, I have obeyed 
their call. 

I feel that I shall find a difficulty in speaking, 
because I entertain such deep feelings of com- 
passion and commiseration for those distressed 
creatures, the negroes, as will prevent me from 
giving full utterance to the dictates of my heart. 
It is not a matter of speculation respecting which 
I speak: there are a thousand subjects to which 
I might refer, which would not much interest the 
feelings; but while I am now speaking, I know 
that my fellow-creatures in the British colonies 
are perishing. 



In this engagement, I consider myself as acting 
in accordance with an inspired command: " Open 
thy mouth for- the dumb, in the cause of all such as 
are appointed for destruction. Open thy mouth, judge 
righteously, and plead the cause of the poor and 
72eedy.'"* The enslaved negroes cannot speak for 
themselves : I speak in their stead, and on their 
behalf; and who, that " judgeth righteously," but 
will admit that they are " poor and needy," and 
*' appointed for destruction" ; — not because either 
they, or their fathers, brought on themselves this 
destitution, by their indolence, or their extrava- 
gance ; or by their intemperate habits ; but they 
thus suffer, on account of their masters having 
unrighteously oppressed them ; and because the 
British Government has failed in putting forth its 
might, to protect and deliver them ! Was it not 
the admitted duty of the government of a fxe 
people to have done this, at the time when the 
criminality of the practice was fully acknow- 
ledged, by the abolition of the Slave Trade? And 
is it not the duty of our present government, in- 
stantly to abolish it? If all the measures oi ame- 
lior^ation, (and for which the friends of the slaves 
should be thankful) lately sent out, in the *' Orders 
of Council," to the Governors of the Ci^own Colo- 
nies in the West Indies, were to be carried into 
full effect, which it is not rational to expect will 
be the case, since those to whom the execution of 
them is committed, are too deeply involved, to 
* Prov. xxxi. 8, 9. 



3 

admit of equal justice towards the negroes, whom 
they consider as their property ! the inherent evils 
of Slavery will still exist; nor can the miseries 
entailed on the negro population be prevented, 
but by the extinctmi of the system itself: and this 
the British Legislature alone can effectually ac- 
complish! Was it not an act of wisdom, as 
regarded its own interests, in the lion, though 
the lord of the forest, not to stain its noble cha- 
racter, but to withdraw its heavy paw from the 
oppressed, complaining, and insignificant mouse 1 * 
And may not the period arrive, when even the 
British lion may need, for the safety of the na- 
tion, or, at least, for the safety of its colonies, the 
friendship and help of its most despised subjects: 
the now enslaved, and persecuted negroes? who 
will doubtless repay, by their gratitude, such an 
act of mercy. True Policy, as well as strict 
Justice, demand, that the injunction of God to 
Israel should be observed by our rulers, ** to loose 
the bands of wickedness, to undo the Jieavy burdens, 
and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break 
every yoke''\ Humanity also pleads, that this 
divine injunction be immediately regarded, as 
much for the safety of the white inhabitants, as for 
the effectual amelioration of the condition of the 
negroes themselves. 

The subject of Slavery, or of man being 
claimed as property by his fellow-man, has been 
* iEsop's Fables, No. 31. t Isaiah Iviii. 6. 

B 2 



discussed under a variety of considerations, and 
its injustice and cruelty most properly exposed, 
by many of our distinguished countrymen ; but by 
lione, in more expressive and suitable language, 
than our immortal poet, Milton. His heart, which 
always beat high on the subject of Liberty, was 
full of indignation against Slavery, when he penned 
the following graphic lines: — • 

" O, execrable son! so to aspire 
Above his brethren, he himself assuming- 
Authority usurped from God, not g-iven: 
He g-ave us only over beast, flesh, fowl. 
Dominion absolute ; that rig-ht vv^e hold 
By his donation ; but man over men 
He made not lord ; such title to himself 
Reserving, human left from human free." 

The view which I am about to give of this 
frightful subject, has never yet, so far as I am 
aware, been taken. It is, however, the only view 
of it which can afford us any pleasure, and that 
is, "The utteh extinction of Slavery an 
OBJECT OF Scripture Prophecy." The prophecy 
which I refer to, will be found in the book of the 
Revelation, the 18th chapter, the 11th and 13th 
verses: — "And the merchants of the earth 

SHALL weep and MOURN,. .FOR NO MAN BUYETH 

their merchandize any more:, .the merchan- 
dize OF.. beasts, and sheep, and horses, and 

SLAVES, AND SOULS OF MEN." 

I shall divide the Lecture into two parts : the 
first, As to the origin of Colonial Slavery, and the 



present condition of those wretched beings, who 
are called slaves, in the West India Islands : the 
second. As to the certainty of the utter extinc- 
tion of this horrid system, and the probable 
means by which that event will be effected. 

I. I commence the discussion, as to the oiigi/i 
of Colonial Slavery, by adopting the language of 
an apologist for it: Bryan Edwards, in his 
*' History of the West Indies," published in 1793, 
calls his work, in so far as it has reference to 
Slavery, " The contemplation of human nature, in 
its most debased and abject state; the sad prospect 
of 450,000 reasonable beings, in a state of bar- 
barity and slavery: of whom," he adds, " 1 will 
not say the major part, but great numbers as- 
suredly, have been torn from their native country, 
and dearest connections, by means which no good 
mind can reflect upon, but with sentiments of dis- 
gust, commiseration, and horror." * 

As I shall confine myself to our own colonies, 
and to the guilt which Britain has contracted, in 
this infamous merchandize, I give the history of 
its commencement, in the words of the same his- 
torian, because it is proper that the names of our 
wretched countrymen, who were its first perpe- 
trators, should be branded with all the public 
opprobrium to which they are entitled, and whom, 
had they been judged according to divine law. 
Exodus xxi. 16, it would have i)revented the 
* Edwards's History of the West Indies, vol. ii. 34. 



6 

flowing of oceans of human blood, " He that steal- 
eth a man, and selleth him, or if he be found in his 
hand, he shall surely be put to death.'' 

Edwards says, " Of the English, the first who 
is known to have been concerned in this com- 
merce, was the celebrated John Hawkins, who 
was afterwards knighted by Queen Elizabeth, and 
made treasurer of the navy. Having made several 
voyages to the Canary Islands, and there received 
information, (says Hackluyt, a contemporary his- 
torian), that negroes were very good merchan- 
dize in Hispaniola, and that store of negroes 
might be easily had on the coast of Guiney, he 
resolved to make trial thereof, and communicated 
that device, with his worshipful friends of London, 
Sir Lionel Ducket, Sir Thomas Lodge, Master 
GuNsoN, his father-in-law, Sir William Winter, 
Master Bloomfield, and others: all which per- 
sons liked so well his intention, that they became 
liberal contributors and adventurers in the action; 
for which purpose there were three good ships 
provided : the Salomon, of 120 tunnes, wherein 
Master Hawkins himself went, as general; the 
Swallow, of 100 tunnes; and the Jonas, a bark of 
20 tunnes; in which small fleet, Master Hawkins 
took with him a hundred men." 

*' Hawkins sailed from England for Sierra 
Leone, in the month of October, 1562, and," says 
Hackluyt, ** in a short time after his arrival upon 
the coast, got into his possession, by the sword, 
and partly by other means, three hundred ne- 



groes." In his second voyage, he landed at a 
small island, called Alcatrasa, with eighty men, 
supplied with arms and ammunition for effecting 
their demoniacal purpose ; but as the natives fled, 
on their approach, into the woods, they were dis- 
appointed of their intended prey. '* But," says 
Edwards, "a short time after, we find this righ- 
teous commander at one of the islands which are 
called Samhula. 'In this island,' writes one who 
sailed with him, ' we staid certain days, going 
every day on shore to take the inhabitants, with 
burning and spoiling their towns.' In regard to 
Hawkins himself," adds Edwards, " I admit he 
was a robber. His avowed purpose in sailing to 
Guiney, was to sieze by stratagem, or force, and 
carry away the unsuspecting natives, in the view 
of selling them as slaves to the people of Hispa- 
niola. In this pursuit, his object was present 
profit, and his employment and pastime, desola- 
tion and murder." 

Lest it should appear, from the circumstance 
of the queen having afterwards knighted this in- 
famous wretch, that she approved of his practices, 
it is proper to remark, that, according to Hill, 
the naval historian, she was deceived by Hawkins, 
thinking that the poor Africans were taken from 
their homes with their own consent, for the pur- 
pose of being employed, not as slaves, but Rsfree 
labourers in the Spanish colonies. Hill says, the 
queen '' expressed her concern lest any of the 
Africans should be carried off without their fi^ee 



8 

consent, in which case she declared it would be 
detestable, and call down the vengeance of heaven 
upon the undertakers." 

In the reigns of Charles L and Charles II., we 
find that British settlements were formed in the 
West Indies, and that, at home, joint-stock com- 
panies were chartered, to supply them with 
slaves. In 1662, a charter was obtained from 
Charles II. for the *' Royal African Company," in 
which many persons of high rank and distinction 
were incorporated, and at its head was the king's 
brother, the Duke of York, afterwards James II. 
This company undertook to supply the West India 
colonies with three hundred negroes annuallj^ (A.) 

According to this engagement, supposing it to 
have been fulfilled, more than 10,000 human 
beings must, before the end of this century, have 
been seized, and carried off from their native 
country ; besides those who must have perished 
in the wars raised, or encouraged, in order to their 
being procured; and those also who must have 
died in their passage from Africa to the West 
Indies. 

It appears that this abominable traffic was car- 
ried on with the characteristic energy of British 
merchants, in the next century: Edwards says, 
** I state it on sufficient evidence, having in my 
possession all the entries, that the number im- 
ported into Jamaica alone, from 1700 to 1786, was 
610,000! and the total import into all the British 
colonies, for the same period, may be put at 



2,130,000! In one year, 1771, there sailed from 
England to thecoast of Africa, 192 ships, provided 
for carrying 47,146 negroes! In the year 1789, 
there were in Jamaica," he says, "250,000 ne- 
groes, which, reckoned at £50. sterling each, 
were worth twelve millions and a half of money ; 
and that these were employed in cultivating seven 
hundred and ten sugar plantations " ! Add to this 
number, the thousands imported during the next 
twenty years before the period when the cele- 
brated bill was passed, (B.) for the abolition of 
this trade in "slaves, and souls of lyien;' and to 
these may be added, all the children who have 
been born of these wretched persons, during the 
twenty-six years which have since elapsed; and 
who can calculate, or even guess, the total 
amount — the aggregate number of human beings, 
who have been thus subjugated by British cupid- 
ity and injustice, to endure such enormous and 
multiplied wrongs. Ought we not, as a nation, 
to adopt the impassioned language of Jeremiah, 
*' when the prophet wept for Israel, and wished 
his eyes had infinite supplies," and say, in regard 
to our guilty native country: — ** O, that mine head 
were waters, and mine eyes fountains of tears, that I 
might weep day and night for the slain of the daugh- 
ter of my people.'' It is impossible to feel suffici- 
ently humble, for the guilt which our nation has 
contracted with regard to the crime of Colonial 
Slavery. 



10 

I proceed to give some account oUhe present state 
of Slavery in the British Colonies. And, let it be re- 
membered, that instead of there being 250,000 
negroes in Jamaica, as in 1789, there were, a short 
time since, 331,000, — a frightful increase in thirty- 
three years of 81,000. And in all our colonies, at 
the present time, there are 755,301 of our fellow 
men wearing the galling chains. This statement is 
according to the latest returns of the numbers in 
sixteen colonies, there having been a decrease in 
the sugar colonies, on an average of eleven years, 
of 55,205. (C.) O, who can calculate what priva- 
tions, what sighs, what miseries must have been 
endured, to produce such a diminution of human 
life in so short a time ! These are called by their 
hard-hearted masters, their slaves, and their ''legal 
property," (D) but I call them British subjects, and 
charge those, who hold them in bondage, with ty- 
ranny and oppression, in depriving them of the 
right which they have to their own bodies; of the 
right which they have to the protection of law for 
their persons and property, and to which they 
are entitled. It was a glorious decision of 
British judges, in Westminster Hall, in May, 
1772, that *' as soon as a slave sets his foot on 
English soil he becomes free." And, 1 doubt not, 
but the animating sentiment, " A slave cannot 
breathe in England," will, within a short period, 
be applied to ail the subjects of the British crown ! 
and it will be said, with increased delight, '* A 
slave cannot breathe in the British Colonies:'' so 



11 

that, perhaps, I may yet live long enough to wit- 
ness, that wherever the power of Britain is felt, 
there her mercy will be also enjoyed. 

It may, I know be said, in opposition to this 
statement, that human enactments have been 
made in support of holding men in bondage. 
Yes, 1 admit that the colonial legislatures in the 
West Indies have done so, — though I deny that 
the British Parliament have ever passed any law 
to make slavery constitutional : and, if it had, I 
should still contend, no human laws can make 
that to be lawful and right which is in itself es- 
sentially wrong; as every thing must necessarily 
be, which is in its nature opposed to the revealed 
will of God. Would a legislative act, for in- 
stance, declaring murder to be no crime, super- 
sede the divine command, " Thou shalt do no 
murder," — or lawfully exempt a murderer from 
the penalty attached to the crime, " Whoso shed- 
deth mans blood by man shall his blood be shed.'' 
Gen. ix. 6. 

I insist, then, that a man cannot be justly de- 
prived of his natural rights, which, according to 
Paley,* are, "a right to his life, limbs, and li- 
berty; his right to the produce of his own personal 
labour, and to the use, in common with others, 
of air, light, and water. If a thousand persons," 
says that enlightened writer, **from a thousand 
different parts of the world, were to be cast toge- 
ther upon a desart island, they would from the 
* Moral Philosophy. 



12 

first be every one entitled to those rights." And 
our great constitutional lawyer, Blackstone,* re- 
marks, **The absolute rights of man, considered 
as a free agent, endowed with discernment to 
know good from evil, and with power of choosing 
those measures which appear to him most desira- 
ble, are usually summed up in one general appel- 
lation, and denominated the natural liberty of 
mankind. This natural liberty consists, properly, 
in a power of acting as one thinks fit, without 
any constraint or control, unless by the law of 
nature, being a right inherent in us by birth, and 
one of the gifts of God to man at his creation, 
when he endued him with the faculty of free-will. 
But every man, when he enters into society, gives 
up a part of his natural liberty, as the price of so 
valuable a purchase; and in consideration of 
receiving the advantages of mutual commerce, 
obliges himself to conform to those laws which 
the community has thought proper to establish. 
Those rights which God and nature have esta- 
blished, and are, therefore, called natural rights, 
— such as life and liberty, — need not the aid of 
human laws to be more effectuallv invested in 
every man than they are ; neither do they receive 
any additional strength when declared by the 
municipal laws to be inviolable. On the con- 
trary, no human legislature has power to abridge 
or destroy them, unless the owner himself shall 
commit some act which shall amount to a forfei- 
t Commentaries. 



13 

ture. The first and primary end of all human 
laws, is, to maintain and regulate these absolute 
rights to all individuals." (E.) 

It seems necessary that we should lay down 
such principles as are incontrovertible, when we 
plead that every man has a natural right to free- 
dom, but surely I need not stop to shew that Sla- 
very violates all these natural rights : for no one 
will undertake to prove, that the colonial popu- 
lation have voluntarily consented to be deprived 
of the exercise of these rights, or that they have 
committed any crime which amounts to a for- 
feiture of them. Besides, the greater part of 
them were born in this degraded condition, and 
were, therefore, prospectively deprived of rights 
which they never could have forfeited ; this, too, 
applies to all their unborn children, so long as the 
parents are held in their present state of bond- 
age, 0, the cruel system of Colonial Slavery! 
Can it be justified on the principle that the negro 
has a skin of a different complexion to that of his 
tyrant lord ? Surely this is no crime! Is it on 
this account, ye white tyrants, (for so I should 
call them, if I were in the presence of these op- 
pressors of their fellow-men) that the produce 
of his labour is not his ov\rn ; that the property in 
his own body is not his own; that his wife and 
children do not belong to him but to his tyrant 
oppressor? O, the heartless wretch, who treats 
his fellow-man as he would his horse, or his dog, 
or with greater brutality! If he be '*a 7nan and 



14 

a brother,'' then every one of the 75,000 negroes in 
our colonies has a just right to his liberty, to his 
limbs, to the produce of his own labour, and to 
all the immunities of a British subject, of '* a 
man and a brother P' I rejoice that the trade in 
man^ as mere goods and chattels, has been, by 
British justice suppressed, so that no British ship 
can be employed in this infamous traffic, even in 
Africa ; and that to purchase a man is felony. 
And I ardently hope, the time is not far distant, 
when a similar law will be passed, with regard to 
the British colonies; that persons will no longer 
be able to buy and sell their fellow-men, as they 
now do by thousands. It is affecting to think, 
after all the benevolent labours of Clarkson and 
Wilberforce, and other great friends of humanity, 
for the abolition of the Slave Trade, that it should 
still be carried on, to as great, and perhaps to a 
greater, extent than ever — not by the British, but 
by the French, the Portuguese, and the Spaniards. 
It makes one's heart ache, to know that such 
miseries are perpetrated, and that in spite of all 
our exertions, and of the tears, the agonies, and 
the groans of the suffering thousands of our fellow- 
mortals, who are every year kidnapped, and sold 
into perpetual slavery. 

I was going to apologize for being so warm, 
but it is a subject, respecting which, if we do not 
feel, and strongly feel, we ought never to appear 
as the advocates of the Anti Slavery Cause. I 
think I shall never feel ashamed, when a person 



15 

says to me, ** You are very warm"; but I should 
be ashamed, if I were not so, when I talk about 
my fellow-creatures bemg murdered by their 
heartless tyrants. I have made use of some hard 
words, but I recollect a passage in Bishop Bur- 
nett's " History of his own Times," respecting a 
person who had spoken very strongly against 
popery; and when called to account for so doing, 
he replied, " I will tell you why I used those 
words — it was because I could find no stronger to 
use." And the reason why I make use of the 
word tyrant is, because I know not of a more ex- 
pressive word for the idea, or I would use it. 
Our excellent poet, Cowper, whose heart burned 
with honest indignation against the horrors of the 
slave trade, when speaking of the Bastile at Paris, 
says, (and I shall apply it to the slave-holder) — 

" The sig-hs and groans of miserable men, 
Are music such as suits your sov'reig-n ears: 
There's not an Eng-lish heart that would not leap 
To hear that ye were fallen at last \" 

But I take still another step, and chdiV go, slavery 
with being at direct variance with the principles 
OF THE British Constitution. By the consti- 
tution I mean those statutes which secure to every 
subject of the empire the enjoyment of his natural 
rights, in so far as is consistent with the welfare 
of the whole community. We speak with rap- 
ture of the rights of the people of England, be- 
cause in most other countries formerly, with the 
exception of America, and now of France, the 



16 

liberties of the }>eople are either debased or de- 
stroyed. ** And these rights'" says Blackstone^ 
*' may be reduced to three primary articles, the 
iHght of personal security ; the right of personal 
liberty; and the n^/z^ of private property." Was 
it not for the purpose of securing to us these 
rights that our noble ancestors struggled for, and 
obtained " Magna Charta," in Runnymede? 
Was it not to secure us these rights, that our yet 
more noble ancestors obtained the " Act of 
Settlement," and the *■ Bill of Rights," at the 
glorious Revolution in 1688 ? Thus guaranteeing 
to us and our posterity, our civil and religious 
liberties ! But of what use to our miserable 
brethren and fellow subjects in the Colonies are 
these enactments ? What do the legislators in 
the chartered Colonies care about the freedom 
secured by Magna Charta? Does not Slavery set 
all its regulations at defiance ? Were not a great 
proportion of the negro population born subjects 
of the British monarch? Are not thousands of 
them the descendants of British fathers ? And 
yet these sons and daughters of British freemen 
are suffered to endure the most grievous wrongs, 
deprived of all their inalienable rights, and that 
too in the name of the British nation, and by the 
sanction and connivance of the British govern- 
ment! But will it be said, that the West India 
legislatures have described the slave, and pre- 
scribed regulations for him, as one who has no 
natural f no constitutional rights 1 that he is not to 



17 

have " freedom, even by sufferance, and at will 
of a superior!" But from what part or parcel of 
the laws of the parent state did these colonial 
senators! derive power to make such oppressive 
enactments? It has been asked,* and I repeat 
the question, *' Was it not an express condition 
in all the charters which empov/ered the colonies 
to make laws for themselves, that the laws and 
statutes to be made under them are not to be 
repugnant to, but as near as may be agreeable to 
the laws and statutes of this our kingdom of Great 
Britain. "f But who will undertake to shew that 
the colonial laws respecting Slavery, are " as 
near as may be agreeable to the laws and statutes 
of England ?" Light and darkness are not more 
dissimilar; the iron bondage of the Israelites in 
Egypt, and their freedom under Joshua in Canaan 
were not more unlike each other! Is it not 
almost beyond credibility, that such enormous 
wrongs could have been inflicted by subjects of 
the British Crown 1 Is it not most surprising, 
that the power of endurance has been for so 
many ages manifested by those whom Colonial 
tyrants have branded with the name of Slave ? 
I said endurance: I fear it is the grovelling spirit 
which vassalage is suited to produce : thus Cow- 
per says : — 

" Who lives, and is not weary of a life. 
Exposed to manacles, deserves them well." 

* Godwin's Lectures on Slavery, pag"e 103. 
f Charter granted by Charles II. to Jamaica. 

C 



18 

What Briton is there whose heart does not 
respond to the sentiments of this high-minded 
Christian poet : — 

" I could endure 
Chains no where patiently ; and chains at home, 
Where I am free by birth-rig-ht, not at all." 

The chains worn by the negroes in colonies 
which belong to the British Crown, must be 
peculiarly galling! unless, indeed, they are re- 
duced, by their oppression, below the nature and 
dignity of men ! 

But may it not also be demonstrated, that the 
state of slavery in which our fellow-men and fel- 
low-subjects are held in the Colonies of the 
British Empire is in direct opposition to the re- 
vealed will of God in his sacred word? Was it not 
a positive enactment of the Mosaic code of laws 
and which, because of its moral nature, has never 
been abrogated, and therefore is still binding 
upon all the creatures of God : ''He that stealeth 
a man, and selleth him, or if he found in his hand, 
he shall surely be put to death" Impious attempt 
to place the African negro beyond the pale of 
divine law ! How shocking, that so many of our 
countrymen should, on the coast of Africa, have 
been *' men stealers,'' and that so many of them 
should act the part of those who are the pur- 
chasers of stolen property; but, as by human 
laws, '*The receiver is as bad as the thief," so 
the laws of heaven regards the kidnapping villain 



19 

who stole his brother man, and the mammon- 
worshipping devotee who holds him in bondage, 
in the same point of light ; both being the trans- 
gressors of His laws, and amenable to His righ- 
teous justice! 

Infamous men, who having superciliously de- 
cided, without the shadow of reason, that the 
negro, because of his sable hue, is inferior in the 
scale of being to yourselves, have therefore pro- 
ceeded to manacle and scourge him, and to exact 
his extremest labour without pay, or just remu- 
neration for his toils and sufferings? Did you 
never read, " Have we not all one Fat her 'i Hath 
not one God created us?" Did you never consider, 
that " God hath made of one blood all the nations of 
theearthV Do you not know that Jehovah has 
said, in reference to his creatures, whether white 
or black, '* All souls are mine ! " 

Isfor are the spirit and declarations of the gospel 
of Christ less ej^plicit, in condemning the practice of 
men holding property in the persons of men ! Did 
not our Saviour say, *' Therefore, all things what- 
soever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even 
so to them; for this is the law and the prophets."" * 
Was such a thing ever known, as a planter being 
willing to exchange conditions with his slave? 
Or would any slave-holder like to be treated 
exactly in the same way, and be subject to the 
inconveniences of a slave : even though found in 
the circumstances of Phcedrus? of whom it is 
* Matthew vii. 12. 

c 2 



20 

said, he ** had the good fortune to have the mild- 
est prince that ever W3.s, for his master." No, 
they know too well what it is to be a slave ; 
though they say it is a state of Paradise, they 
would never choose it for themselves. 

And does not the Saviour's representation, in 
the parable of the good Samaritan, of the com- 
passion due to a wretched fellow-creature, under 
the character of a " neighbour," because belong- 
ing to the human family, condemn the unfeeling 
brutality of those, who not only witness without 
sympathy, their miserable slaves ; but inflict 
those wounds, and cause that destitution, which 
almost break the hearts of others ! One should 
think that every slave-holder would instantly 
descry his own features in the characters of the 
priest and levite, and feel the blush of confusion 
when he hears the Saviour, in commendation of 
the benevolent Samaritan, say, "Go thou, and do 
likewise! " 

But, it is like attempting to prove that the sun 
shines, when *' he is going forth in his might J^ as 
fully to shew how alien slavery is to Christianity , 
or to attempt to set forth the glaring inconsis- 
tency of those, who, while holding property in the 
nerves and sinews of their fellow -creatures, yet 
call themselves after the sacred name of Christ ! 
To all such I would earnestly say, *' Either give 
up the profession of Christianity, or resolve in- 
stantly to emancipate your slaves. Because these 
are totally incompatible with each other, and never 



21 

set well upon the same person. "A christian 
slave-holder is a non-descript." 

Having proved the right o{ the negroes in the 
Colonies to the protection and privileges of British 
law, I shall now produce ^ome facts to show how 
these rights have been outraged by the cruel 
punishments inflicted upon some of them, by the 
stocks, the whip, the cat, the thumb-screw, the chains, 
and the carcan, from that invaluable work the Anti 
Slavery Reporter.* The first is an extract from the 
Christian Record, published in Jamaica, No. 3. 
** A female, apparently about twenty- two, was 
then laid down, with her face downwards ; her 
wrists were secured by cords run into nooses ; 
her ancles were brought together, and placed in 
another noose ; the cord composing this last one 
passed through a block connected with a post. 
The cord was tightened, and the young woman 
was thus stretched to her utmost length. The 
boatswain of the workhouse, a tall athletic man, 
flourished his whip four or five times round his 
head, and proceeded with the punishment. The 
instrument of punishment was a cat, formed of 
knotted cords. The blood sprang from the 
wounds it inflicted. The poor creature shrieked 
in agony, and exclaimed, ** I don't deserve this ! " 
She became hysterical, and continued so until the 
punishment was completed. Four other delin- 
quents were subsequently treated in the same 

* Vol. iv. 132—135. 



22 

way. One was a woman thirty-six years of age ; 
another a girl of fifteen ; another a boy of the 
same age ; and, lastly, an old woman of sixty, 
who really appeared scarcely to have strength to 
express her agonies by cries. The boy of fifteen, 
as our informant subsequently ascertained, was a 
son of the woman of thirty-six ! Painful and 
melancholy as is the above detail, we know it to 
be but too faithful a picture of what is transacted 
from week to week, by order of the magistrates, 
within those abodes of human misery and de- 
gradation, the workhouses of our island." 

" Look again at the case of Mr. Martin, the 
overseer in the Temple Hall, at St. Andrews, 
which has recently undergone investigation, and 
is reported in the [Jamaica] Courant, of the 27th 
of October, 1831. It was proved that the girl 
Jane had been most severely flogged by him, and 
confined in the stocks, although the number given 
was less than thirty-nine. Setting aside the cause 
which the girl alleged for this punishment, which 
was shocking enough, and taking the statement 
which Mr, Martin gave as to the offence she had 
committed, we find that it amounted to nothing 
more than a saucy answer given him." 

The next case relates to a negro man, who, 
though called a slave, is a respectable mechanic, 
and a deacon of the Baptist church at Savannah- 
le-Mar, in Jamaica, named Samuel Swiney. The 
crime with which he was charged was, his having, 
with his master's permission, engaged in evening 



23 

prayer at the house of his pastor, the Rev. Wm. 
Knibb, who was absent from home. For this 
crime, no other charge having been alleged, he 
was sentenced by the magistrate, (the Hon. David 
Finlayson, who was, at that time, Speaker of the 
Jamaica House of Assembly !) to be flogged in the 
workhouse, with the cart whip, and then worked 
in chains on the public roads, for a fortnight ; daily 
passing his own house, in the sight of the workmen 
employed by him. I will give the statement of this 
affair in the language of Mr. Knibb. " Early on 
the following morning I went to see the disgust- 
ing scene that was then enacted. What my 
feelings were I cannot now express, for I beheld 
a fellow-creature, a respectable tradesman of his 
class, stretched indecently on the earth, and 
lacerated with the cart whip, and immediately 
after chained to a convict, and sent to work on 
the road, to gratify the prejudices of those who 
hold that preaching and praying are the same, 
and equally infractions of the law of Jamaica. 
V^hether justice has been done in this case," says 
Mr. Knibb, " I leave others to determine. For 
my own part, I must consider that if the law 
sanctions such a conclusion, that law is an abo- 
mination and a disgrace to a Christian country." 
From this circumstance, might, probably, be seen 
what was the cause of Mr. Knibb, and the Baptist 
Missionaries, being so much disliked by the 
Jamaica magistrates : they had not been courteous 
enough, to bow down before these tyrants— those 



24 

Hamans "in the gate": they had been uncom- 
promising in regard to slavery ! I am happy to 
relieve this tale of injustice and persecution, by 
saying, that some benevolent persons at home, in 
consequence of hearing of the unjust punishment 
of this respectable person, soon after purchased 
his freedom, his master making an abatement in 
the price, from the respect which he bore to the 
person and character of this outraged Christian 
man. 

The next horrible statement, relates to the co- 
lony of the Mauritius, Isle of France, and is from 
the Protector of Slaves' Report, No. 91, p. 175. 
" On the 18th of December, 1829, Francois, be- 
longing to M. Marchal, presented himself at the 
Protector's OflSce, at three in the morning, with 
his hands fastened together behind him by means 
of thumb-screws, fixed so tight as to have pene- 
trated the flesh quite to the bone, and caused 
considerable swelling and inflammation of the 
hands and arms. He also stated that another 
slave, named Luff, had been punished precisely 
in the same way by his master, and was now 
confined in M. Marchal's premises. A surgeon 
being sent for, the thumb-screws upon Francois 
were filed off"." 

The following is from an abridged account of 
this case, by Lord Goderich, the Colonial Secre- 
tary: — "About twenty-four days ago, Francois 
neglected his work, and absented himself for a 
whole day. The next day he was arrested, and 



25 

carried to the }3olice, whence his master caused 
him to be conveyed home, and immediately iSxed 
thumb-screws on his thumbs, and placed both his 
feet in the stocks. At night he was taken out of 
the stocks, and with the thumb-screws still on, 
placed in a machine, called a Carcan, which 
consists of two pillars, with a cross plank affixed 
at a man's height from the ground, to which he 
was attached by means of an iron collar, three 
inches broad, fastened to the plank with staples 
and padlocks, where he remained standing all 
night, and in the morning was released, and placed 
again in the stocks for the day. He was thus 
treated alternately night and day for a fortnight, 
when M. Marchal sent him to his plantation at 
Petite Riviere, with the thumb-screws on, to be 
flogged ; but being unable to use his hands, he 
was sometimes fed by one of his comrades. Luff 
was treated in the same manner. The thumb- 
screws were screwed so tight as to cut the flesh 
almost to the bone, and cause great pain. About 
four days ago, Francois announced himself to be 
ill, and he was taken out of the stocks and placed 
in the hospital, whence last evening he had es- 
caped, leaving Luff with his thumb-screws on. 
M. Marchal himself put the thumb-screws on 
them, and conducted them night and morning 
from the carcan to the stocks."* Could any thing 
be more horrible than this ? And yet these persons., 
called slaves, are the subjects of Great Britain L 
* Anti-slavery Reporter, vol. iv- 401. 



26 

When I contemplate these horrid, and, except- 
ing in some of the British colonies, unequalled acts 
of cruelty, committed in the " Isle of France," I am 
shocked to find such a similarity of character be- 
tween the Britons in Jamaica, and the French in the 
Mauritius. What a brutalizing system is slavery, 
to transform the noble-minded Briton, and the 
polite and effeminate Frenchman, into tygers and 
leopards ! beasts which can never be satiated with 
human blood, and appear to enjoy that draught 
the most, which is extracted from the heart, and 
causes the most exquisite torture to their misera- 
ble victims. May I not, with propriety, adopt, 
in reference to such heartless cruelty as the above 
cases present, the language of dying Jacob, re- 
specting the brutal conduct of two of his sons: 
** Simeon and Levi are brethren: instruments of 
cruelty are in their habitations. O, my soul, come 
thou not into their secret ; unto their assembly, mine 
honour, be not thou united: for in their ayiger they 
slew a man, and in their self-will they digged down a 
wall. Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce ; and 
their wrath, for it was cruel." * 

The warm-hearted and devoted missionary, Mr. 
Knibb, felt and expressed himself strongly, in the 
following extract, on account of the cruelties prac- 
tised upon the negroes generally, and especially 
when perpetrated on the members of the church 
under his care. This it would be in vain to deny. 
But who that possesses the sensibilities of a man, 
* Genesis xlix. 5 — 7- 



27 

and the sympathies of a christian^ could see a fel- 
low-creature so '* shamefully entreated," and so 
barbarously mangled with " instruments of cru- 
elty," and yet have restrained himself from speak- 
ing ? A person of inordinate selfishness, might have 
looked on without emotion ; and have been con- 
gratulated by others, with having manifested the 
prudence of wisdom: so both the, priest and levite 
were diO\Jiht\Qs^ prudent men, '* wise in their gene- 
ration"; but they felt neither pity for the robbed 
and wounded man, nor any feelings of anger 
against his murderous enemies. The Samaritan, 
forgot himself, and his own interests, in his all- 
absorbing concern to ameliorate the condition of 
his neighbour, and to emancipate him from his 
perishing condition. Calmness, on such a subject, 
is brutal insensibility ; caution, a participation in 
the crime; and a fear of self-injury, pusillanimity 
and cowardice. If impetuosity of feeling has some- 
times produced rash expressions, insensibility and 
unconcern about every thing which is not imme- 
diately connected with self-interest, would not 
only leave human misery unrelieved, but would 
lead persons to employ all the little energy they 
possess, in preventing or censuring those who say, 
** I refuse not to die," if thereby I may save the 
lives of others. 

Having made these prefatory remarks, 1 intro- 
duce an extract from a letter, written by the Rev. 
Wm. Knibb, dated Falmouth, November 7, 1831. 
After having adverted to certain slanderous im- 



28 

putations cast on the negroes and their ministers, 
which had long been current in Jamaica, and cir- 
culated privately in Scotland, he says — "Amidst 
all this reproach, the cause of Jesus is triumph- 
ing; and whatever charges may be brought 
against your missionaries, to the last day they 
may safely appeal. Their witness is in heaven, 
and their record is on high. The negroes love 
you ardently, for your kindness in sending them 
the gospel ; and their prayers ascend for your wel- 
fare. The religion they have supports them when 
enduring the oft-repeated taunt, or when groaning 
under the instrument of torture ; it cheers them 
in the hour of death, and enables them to look to 
heaven as their eternal rest. I speak the feelings 
of my experience and my heart, when I say, that 
I do not believe there are a race of christians on 
earth, who rely more entirely on the atonement 
for salvation; or who, considering their circum- 
stances, more consistently adorn the profession 
they make. To them is given, also, to suffer for 
his sake. I have beheld them when suffering un- 
der the murderous cart whip; I have seen them 
when their backs have been a mass of blood ; I 
have beheld them loaded with a chain in the 
streets, a spectacle to devils, to angels, and to 
men ; and never have I heard one murmur — one 
reproach — against their guilty persecutors. Am I 
then to be told, that these people display all this 
christian heroism through the influence of apiece 
of paper, which they have obtained by stealing 



29 

* quantum sujjicit of their master" s 'provisions ? ' The 
man who can thus injure the distressed, 1 despise; 
nor would I waste a moment in answering such 
falsehoods, did I not know 1 was the servant of 
the society." 

Extracts similar to these might be multiplied 
to an almost indefinite amount, but I will not 
sicken you, by increasing these disgusting details 
of miseries, which exist in those *' dark places of 
the earth," iitly called, *'the habitations of cruelty !" 
the colonies of Great Britain ! Alas ! how totally 
disregarded is that divine precept, *' Do justly^ 
and love mercy " / and how correct is the following 
description of the wise man, " So I returned, and 
considered all the oppressions that ai^e done under the 
sun: and behold the tears of such as are oppressed, 
and they had no comforter : and on the side of their 
oppressors there was power ; but they had no comforter. 
Wherefore I praised the dead which are already dead, 
more than the living which are yet alive!'' That is, 
be considered death to be a privilege, compared 
with such a life of unpitied oppression, and unmi- 
tigated misery! Again he says, *' If thou seest 
the oppression of the poor, and violent preverting 
of judgment and justice in a province, marvel not at 
the matter: for he that is higher than the highest 
regardeth : and there be higher than they / " " Mer- 
ciful Father of the human race, thou sittest upon 
thy throne judging right: 'Thy way is in the 
sea, and thy footsteps are not known : clouds and 
darkness are round about thee; judgment and 



30 

justice are the habitation of thy throne.' Thou 
* makest the wrath of man to praise thee, and the 
remainder thereof thou wilt restrain.' We would 
adore the sovereignty of thy inscrutable conduct, 
in regard to the misery which thou hast righ- 
teously permitted to exist, not doubting but the 
Judge of the whole earth will do right ; and firmly 
believing that thou wilt make the most afflictive 
events subserve the accomplishment of thy merci- 
ful purposes, in the universal spread of thy gospel, 
and the ultimate salvation of the whole body of 
thine elect people. * Why withdrawest thou thy 
hand, even thy right hand? pluck it out of thy 
bosom.' ' Remember the covenant, for the dark 
places of the earth are full of the habitations of 
cruelty. O let not the oppressed return ashamed: 
let the poor and needy praise thy name. Arise, 
O Lord, plead thine own cause : remember how 
the foolish man reproacheth thee daily.' " Oh, that 
the Father of the universe, may, in compassion, 
arise, and set the enslaved negroes free. We 
sometimes sing a hymn, in which there is this 
expressive verse : — 

" Let the Indian — let the negro — 
Let the rude barbarian see 
That divine and g-lorious conquest 
Once obtained on Calvary : 

And redemption, 
Freely purchased, win the day." 

II. I now come to shew, that, according to the 
predictions of the sacred scriptures, Slavery will cer- 



31 

tainly be brought to an end; and then to mention 
some of the probable means by which that event will be 
accelerated and accomplished. 

That judicious commentator, the late Rev. 
Thomas Scott, remarks, when speaking of the 
divine inspiration of the Bible, "The prophecies 
contained in the sacred scriptures, and which are 
fulfilling to this day, fully demonstrate that they 
are divinely inspired. These form a species of 
perpetual miracles, which challenge the investiga- 
tion of men in every age; and which, though 
overlooked by the careless and prejudiced, cannot 
fail of producing conviction proportioned to the 
attention paid to them." * 

According to the predictions of the Holy Scrip- 
tures, Ni7iemh hath been desolated. It was in 
reference to the means which would be employed, 
in its destruction, that the prophet Nahum so 
sublimely represents the judgments of God upon 
that wicked city : — ** The Lord hath his way in 
the whirlwind, and in the storm, and the clouds are 
the dust of his feet.''-\ Babylon has been swept 
away, as with the besom of destruction. That 
description of her utter desolation by Isaiah, has 
been most literally accomplished : "And Babylon, 
the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldees ex- 
cellency, shall be as when God overthrew Sodom and 
Gomorrah: it shall never be inhabited, 7ieither shall 
it be dwelt in from generation to generation ; neither 
shall the Arabian pitch his tent there; neither shall 

* Preface to the New Testament. t Nahum i. 3. 



32 

the shepherds make their folds there. But wild beasts 
of the desert shall lie there, and their houses shall be 
full of doleful creatures; and owls shall dwell there, 
and satyrs shall dance there ; and the wild beasts of 
the islands shall cry in their desolate houses, and 
dragons in their pleasant palaces: and her time is 
near to come, and her days shall not be prolonged.'" * 

It was said, also, of Tyre,-\ " And they shall de- 
stroy the walls of Tyre, and break down her towers: 
I will also scrape her dust from her, and make her 
like the top of a rock. It shall be a place for the 
spreading of nets in the midst of the sea ; for I have 
spoken it, saith the Lord God, and it shall become a 
spoil among the nations.'"' Has not this descriptive 
prediction been most minutely fulfilled? It is 
worthy of observation, that one of the sins of this 
great maritime power was, that her merchants 
** traded in the persons of y/ze/?," J It was this 
crime that brought down the fury of God, accord- 
ing to the prediction which I have just read. O, 
England! England! thou modern Tyre, in wealth 
and crime, especially by thy merchants — the traf- 
fickers in the persons of men ! tremble, lest thou, 
having for so long a period — now almost three 
CENTURIES, — and to such an awful extent, been 
guilty of the sins of Tyre, shouldest be punished 
in a similar manner. England! repent! repent! 

Was it not predicted of Egypt, \" It shall be the 
basest of the kingdoms, neither shall it e.valt itself any 

* Isaiah xiii. 19 — 22. t Ezekiel xxvi. 4, 5. 

X Ezekiel xxvii. 13. § Ezekiel xxix. 14, 15, 



33 

'more among the nations , for I will diminish them, that 
they shall no more rule over the nations" Do not 
the past history, and the present condition of 
Egypt, prove its exact accomplishment ? Did not 
our Lord predict the total destruction of the city 
of Jerusalem, and the temple; and the dispersion of 
the Jews among all the nations of the earth ? The 
condition of Jerusalem from the time when it was 
destroyed by Titus Vespasian, and the existence 
of the Jews, as a people differing from all others 
upon the face of the earth, are standing monu- 
ments, on which is legibly inscribed, as in eternal 
brass '' I have spoken it, I will also bring it to pass; 
I have purposed it, I ivill also do it.'' * 

The argument which I found upon these histo- 
rical facts, which are the demonstrative proofs of 
the truth of scripture prophecy, is, — that as cer- 
tainly as those predictions have been most literally 
and with surprising minuteness accomplished, so 
other predictions, as yet unaccomplished, shall all 
be fulfilled in their season. Such are the prophe- 
cies of Daniel, Paul, and John, respecting Baby- 
lon, mystical Babylon! which doubtless refers to 
the anti-christian church of Rome ! Her dread- 
ful, sudden, and overwhelming destruction is 
marked with surprizing exactness in this eigh- 
teenth chapter of the Revelation : " And the mer- 
chants shall weep;'' for what? ^^ because no man 
buyeth their merchandize any more." What article 
of merchandize is no longer wanted in the Euro- 
* Isaiah xlvi. 11. 



34 

pean markets? '* The merchandize, .of slaves, 
mid the souls of men : " Then Slavery will be 
extinct. 

Before 1 expatiate on the particular prophecy, 
from which my conclusion is drawn, that Slavery 
will be utterly extinguished ; I shall briefly notice 
some general predictions, which bear upon that 
subject, and which corroborate and confirm that 
conclusion, such as the following: " Yea^ all kings 
shall fall down before him ; all nations shall serve 
him. For he shall deliver the needy when he crieth^ 
the poor also, and him that hath no helper. He shall 
spare the poor and needy, and shall save the souls of 
the needy. He shall redeem their soul from deceit 
and violence, and precious shall their blood be in his 
sight."* When the time shall arrive, for the ful- 
filment of these predictions respecting the univer-* 
sal dominion of the Redeemer, the bodies and souls 
of ** the poor and needy," who had cried to him 
for deliverance and salvation, shall be "redeemed 
from deceit and violence": and to whom does this 
description apply so forcibly as to the enslaved 
negroes? 

In the predictions of Isaiah, respecting ''the 
things to come concerning " the church, it is added, 
" Thus saith the Lord, The labour of Egypt, and 
merchandize of ^TiiiOFi A, a?2d of the Sabeans, men 
of stature, shall come over unto thee, and they shall 
be thine; they shall come after thee: in chains they 
* Psalm Ixxii. 11 — 14. 



35 

SHALL COME OVER UNTO THEE ; mid they shall fall 
down unto thee, they shall make supplication unto thee, 
saying. Surely God is in thee, and there is none else, 
there is no God. Verily thou art a God that hidest 
thyself, O God of Israel, the Saviour.'' ■\ To what 
class of Ethiopians and Sabeans, both descended 
from Ham, the son of Noah, and to these too as 
being in chains, can this possibly apply, but to the 
enslaved and fettered Africans in the West India 
colonies? It opens up to our view, the cheering 
prospect of their entire — their spiritual emancipa- 
tion, in their coming, through the knowledge 
of the gospel, over to the Saviour, even while 
literally burdened with chains, and figuratively 
with the chains of their sins, that they might 
be " delivered from the power of darkness, and 
be brought into the kingdom of God's dear Son." 
In the spiritual sense, this prophecy has, within 
the last few years, been most gloriously fulfilled 
among the West Indian Negroes: there is no 
doubt but it will also receive a literal, accom- 
plishment. 

Again — " And He shall Judge among many people, 
and rebuke strong nations afar off; and they shall 
beat their swords into plough-shares, and their s-pears 
into pruning-hooks : nation shall not lift up a sword 
against nation, neither shall tliey learn war any more. 
But they shall sit, every man under his vine and under 
his fig-tree, and none shall make them afraid : for 
the mouth of the Lord of hosts hath spoken it. In 

* Isaiah xlv. 14, 15, 

D 2 



36 

that claii, .saltli the Lord, will I assemble her that 
halteth, and I will gather her that is driven out, and 
her tliat I have afflicted. And I will make her that 
halted a rtmnant, and her that was cast off a strong 
nation : and the Lord shall reign over them in Mount 
Zion, from henceforth, even for ever.''* From this 
scripture it is most evident, that when the pre- 
ciicted period shall arrive, the poor "driven out" 
and " afflicted " sons and daughters of Africa shall 
possess property, and enjoy pleasures, of which 
they have hitherto been deprived, and to which 
they, and their progenitors, have, since being 
imported into the British colonies, been total 
strangers. These now oppressed negroes shall 
then experience, to them, the strange delight of 
" sitting every man under his [own] vine, and under 
his [own] Jig-tree,'" and sit in such security too, 
that no white manager, nor driver, with his cart 
whip and thumb-screws, shall ever again ** make 
them afraid." 

I now come to the particular prophecy, from 
which I assert that Slavery will be totally, and for 
ever extinguished. It is introduced by a scene of 
the greatest sublimity: — "■ I saw,"" says John, 
another Angel come down from heaven, having great 
power, and the earth was lightened with his glory ; 
and he cried mightily with a strong voice : Babylon 
the great is fallen, is fallen." And the destruction of 
the Roman hierarchy, which is doubtless intended 

* Micah V. 3 — 7- See also Isaiah ii. 3, 4 and ix. 7 — 9. 



37 

by these words, will be accompanied with the 
total cessation of the trade in '* slaves and souls of 
men,'" for no man will buy such merchandize " any 
more " ; and if there are no buyers, there can be 
no sellers, and then the enormous evil of Slavery 
will exist no longer; and this glorious event, 
will usher in the jubilee of the world. The 
ancient jubilee of the Jews, was called " the 
year of i^elease,''' when liberty was proclaimed 
throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants 
thereof. Then was liberty proclaimed to broken- 
hearted captives, and those who were bound, 
were set at liberty ! and so also, when the last 
jubilee shall arrive, there shall be no longer mer- 
chandize in " SLAVES and souls of men ! " (F.) The 
slave- merchants and slave-holders, " these mer- 
chants of the earth, " who have '' waxed rich " by 
their infamous traffick in the persons of their 
fellow men, will weep and lament, because of the 
utter extinction of their horrid trade, first invented 

by 

" Moloch, bloody king-, 
Besmeared with blood, and parent's tears," 

because no man will buy their slaves any more ! 
Hut that which will occasion the most doleful la- 
mentation among those who can no longer trade 
*' in SLAVES and souls of men," will cause the 
friends of the oppressed negro to shout for joy. 
And what will be their triumphant song, when 
God shall thus say to the oppressed, " Go free! " 
when all the whips, stocks, and carcans, which have 



38 

been employed by their tyrants to torment and 
afflict their slaves, shall be cast into one great bon- 
fire; and all the chains, fetters, and thumb-screws 
by which they used to confine, and manacle, and 
torment their slaves, shall be beaten into hoes 
and spades, to perform the cultivation of the 
sugar cane by free labour, their hire being no 
no longer kept back by fraud, so that the con- 
sumers of that pleasant article of West India 
produce shall use it without any apprehension of 
its having been saturated with negroes' blood! 
O, the delightful anticipation, when the horrors 
of procuring slaves in Africa shall be known '* no 
more at all ;" * when the miseries of the middle 
passage shall be endured " no more at all ;" when 
the exhibition of men, women, and children in the 
public market, shall take place " no more at 
all ;" when affectionate fathers, and mothers, and 
children shall be severed from each other " no 
more at all," for — 

^' Skins may differ, but q,ffectian 

Dwells in black and white the same-" 

When it shall '' no more at all" be said, at the birth 
of an innocent infant, " A slave is born into the 
world." When the birth of a son will, for the 
first time, cause the ?iegress so much joy as to 
forget the anguish which she felt in giving it life! 
Then shall connubial love take the place of licen- 
tious intercourse, and God's law, in regard to 
* See Revelation xviii. 22. 



39 

marriage, will be observed, "Those whom God 
hath joined together, let no man put asunder; " — 
then the slave-holder, who has neither ''feared 
God, nor regarded man," shall "no more at all" 
separate man and wife asunder, by selling them to 
different masters; — then the happy emancipated 
negro shall have his children about him, and, en- 
lightened by the gospel of Christ, shall train them 
up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord;— 
then shall he and his family attend the public wor- 
ship of God, apprehending " no more at all" the 
burning or razing of the temples of worship, nor 
that the servants of God, who have shewn him the 
way of salvation, will be torn from their flocks, 
immured in prisons, treated with cruelty, and 
exposed to a martyr's death ! (G.) 

But I asked, what will be the triumphant song 
of all the friends of God and man, in what may be 
truly called this " age of gold ? " It will be a simi- 
lar song to that which Israel sung when the sea 
had swallowed up their enemies, and when they 
found themselves emancipated and at liberty, — no 
longer Pharaoh's bondmen, but the Lord's free 
men, delivered from the furnace of iron, from the 
house of bondage, from the oppressor's lash, and the 
tyrant's gripe : " Who is like unto thee, O Lord, 
among the gods? who is like unto thee? Glorious 
in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders. Thou 
stretches t out thy right hand; thou in thy mercy 
hast led forth the people which thou hast redeemed,'' 
" Great and marvellous are thy works, Lord God 



40 

Almighty ; just and true are thy ways, thou King of 
saints. Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glo- 
rify thy name, for thou only art holy : for all nations 
shall come and worship before thee : for thy judg- 
ments are made manifest.'"* 

Then shall that animating prediction be appli- 
cable to the condition of the emancipated negro, 
and to his improved circumstances: ^' For ye 
shall go forth with joy, and be led forth with peace : 
the mountains and the hills shall break forth before 
you into singing, and all the trees of the field shall 
clap their hands. Instead of the thorn shall come 
up the fir tree, and instead of the briar shall come 
up the myrtle tree : and it shall be to the Lord for a 
name, for an everlasting sign, that shall not be 
cutoff/^-t 

" The groans of nature in this nether world, 
Which heaven has heard for ag-es, have an end. 
Foretold by prophets, and by poets sung-. 
Whose fire was kindled at the prophets' lamp, 
The time of rest, the promised Sabbath, comes." 

I shall now proceed to mention, some of the pro- 
bable means, by which the utter extinction of Slavery 
shall be consummated. 

When our Divine Lord foretold the destruction 
of Jerusalem, he intimated that certain infallible 
signs would precede the event, so that all wise 
observers might know that it was "nigh at hand, 

* Exodus XV. 11 — 13. Rev. xv. 3, 4. 
t Isaiah Iv. 12, 13. 



41 

even at the doors." * I am not about to fix any 
precise period when the abolition of Slavery will 
take place, as T consider such attempts unwar- 
ranted by the style of scripture prophecy, and a 
proof of pride or weakness. I am of opinion, 
with Prideaux, that providence is the only infallible 
expositor of prophecy: he says, "It being of the 
nature of such prophecies [which relate to the 
extirpation of anti-christ] not thoroughly to be 
understood, till they are thoroughly fulfilled." t 
This sentiment is supported by the following beau- 
tiful parable, uttered by our Lord, in reference to 
that approaching catastrophe: '^ Now behold, and 
learn a parable of the Jig tree : When its branch is 
yet tender, and shoots forth its leaves, ye see and 
know of yourselves that summer is near at hand. So 
likewise ye, when ye shall see all these things come to 
pass, know ye that the kingdotJi of God is nigh at 
hand, even at the door.'' " And there shall be signs 
in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars, and upon 
the eai'th, distress of nations, with perplemty, the sea, 
and the waves roaring; mens hearts failing them for 
fear, and for looking after those things which are 
coming upon the earth. ""X I ask whether this is not 
a correct picture of the signs of the present 
period ? Was there ever a time, in regard to 
politics, trade, commerce, and religion, when there 
was more "distress of nations," more " per- 

* Matthew xxiv. 33. 

t Prideaux's Connections, vol. II. book iii. pag-e 219- 

X Luke xxi. 26. 



42 

plexity;" when the hearts of men so failed them 
with fear ; or when such portentous expectations 
were indulged, as to the final results of various 
events which are now taking place at home— in 
the colonies of the empire — and, in fact, in every 
part of the world ? Are there not visible '* signs 
in the sun, and the moon, and the stars,'''' consider- 
ing these to be the symbols of distinguished 
rank, authority, and government. The nations are 
shaken to their bases, and political measures are 
taking place, which will affect the future welfare 
of millions, in all the succeeding generations of 
men. But I shall notice these only, in so far as 
they appear to bear upon the accomplishment of 
the prediction in relation to the extinction of that 
merchandize — the traffic in " slaves, and souls of 
men." At present, the heartless oppressors of 
these slaves are saying, in the pride and atheism 
of their hearts, " With our tongue will we prevail: 
our lips are our own : who is Lord over us ! " and 
is it not most evident, from " the signs of the times,'" 
that the answer to these infidel taunts is also ful- 
filling: ^^ For the oppression of the poor, for the 
sighing of the needy, now will I arise, saith the Lord; 
I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at 
him.'' "^ 

Some of the remarkable signs of the present 

times, are of a most awful nature^, and others of an 

animating kind. Of the former description I may 

mention the dreadful hurricane, which, a few 

* Psalm xii. 4, 5. 



43 

months since, occasioned the destruction of so 
much property, and the loss of so many lives, in 
the island of Barbadoes. Listen to the " Negro's 
Complaint": — 

" Is there, as ye sometimes tell us. 
Is there One who reig^ns on high? 
Has he bid you buy and sell us, 
Speaking" from his throne, the sky ? 
Ask him, if your knotted scourges, 
Matches, blood-extorting screws, 
Are the means which duty urges. 
Agents of his will to use? 

Hark! he answers — wild tornadoes. 
Strewing yonder sea with wrecks ; 
Wasting towns, plantations, meadows. 
Are the voice with which he speaks. 
He foreseeing what vexations 
Afric's sons should undergo, 
Fix'd their tyrant's habitations 
Where his whilwinds answer — No! " * 

Another of these tremendous signs is, the awful 
insurrection lately broken out in the island of 
Jamaica, which has already been attended with 
such immense loss to the planters, and with the 
destruction of so many of the discontented ne- 
groes. And who, that knows any thing of the 
awful cruelties which have been exercised upon 
the negroes in that island, for so many years past, 
and the almost indescribable wickedness and pro- 
faneness that prevail among its inhabitants, espe- 
* Cowper. 



44 

cially the whites, can be surprised that the hand 
of God is gone out against them? '"Because " 
says the prophet, ** thei/ have cast away the law of 
the Lord of hosts, and despised the word of the Holy 
One of Israel: therefore is the anger of the Lord 
kindled; and he hath stretched forth his hand against 
them, and hath smitten them : and the hills did trem- 
ble, and their carcases were torn in the midst of the 
streets. . For all this his anger is not turned away, 
but his hand is stretched out still.'''' 

If, to the above mentioned enormities, I add the 
implacable malice which they have lately discovered 
against the Baptist missionaries in Jamaica, evi- 
dently thirsting for their blood ; is it too much to 
expect that the divine hand will be upon them, in 
a similar manner as when it fell upon the Jewish 
nation, at the time of Jerusalem's destruction: — 
** Who both killed the Lord Jesus, and their own 
prophets, and have pehsecuted us : and they please 
not God, and are contrary to all men, forbidding 

us TO SPEAK TO THE GeNTILES, THAT THEY MIGHT 

BE SAVED, to fll up their sins alway : for the wrath 
is come upon them to the uttermost.'' * Their perse- 
cuting the ministers of Christ was the ** filling-up" 
sin! (H.) 

I consider another of the awful signs, and which 
is a certain prognostic of direful calamities in the 
colonies, at least for a season, the spirit of contu- 
macy and rebellion, on the part of the West India 
body, both in the colonies and in England, towards 
* 1 Thess ii. 15, 16. 



45 

His Majesty s government ; and this merely because 
some ameliorating measures have been adopted in 
regard to the negroes. That any class of subjects, 
and that too in the metropolis of the empire, 
should have pronounced an act of the king's coun- 
cil, *' unjust and oppressive," is sufficiently 
alarming; but that these mendacious epithets 
should be employed, merely because they were 
commanded to provide their " own property" 
with suitable protection, and sufficient food; and 
that their " cattle " should not be so over- 
worked, and under-fed, as to reduce their value 
in the market, shews the malignant feelings of 
their hearts, when any thing is attempted, in order 
that the captive might be delivered from their 
rapacious gripe. It is not difficult, however, 
to perceive how this resistance to the wise and 
humane provisions of the king and his ministers, 
may tend to the more speedy destruction of the 
system. There is a maxim, the truth of which 
the history of the world confirms, that " God 
infatuates whom he intends to destroy." 

I said there were some signs of the times, of 
the most animating kind: I allude to such as 
these: — 1. The recent emancipation of upwards of 
TWO THOUSAND slaves, which had been escheated to 
the king, and therefore called " crown slaves." 
This is to be regarded as a symptom of the de- 
sire, and probably of the intention, of His Majes- 
ty's present ministers, to put an end to the whole 
system of slavery. 2. The late *' Orders (I.) in Coun- 



46 

d/," which, instead of recommendations, as in all 
former instances, contain positive commands to 
the governors of the crown colonies, and expressive 
hints to the legislatures of the chartered colonies to 
ameliorate the condition of the negroes, from a day 
named in those orders. May not this be regarded 
as expressive of their determination, no longer to 
trust to the hollow professions of the planters, that 
they are themselves opposed to slavery in the ab- 
stract, a state of things which never has, nor can 
possibly exist, and that they will, as speedily as 
possible, ameliorate the circumstances of the 
negroes. 3. The avowed and fixed intention of the 
government, to relieve, by a ^'emission of part of the 
sugar duties, those colonies which will carry their 
*' Orders" into full effect, while they will grant 
no relief to those which resist them. 

To these cheering signs, may be added — 4. The 
general feeling of the British public, in regard to the 
crime of Slavery, and that its immediate and total 
abolition ought to be carried into effect ; as ex- 
pressed by their presenting, in the last session of 
parliament, to the legislature, almost 6,000 peti- 
tions. And, in the last place, that the public 
press, in several instances at least, begins to advo- 
cate the right of the negro to freedom. 

I add to these signs, that most animating fact, 
that so many thousands of the negroes have, of late 
years especially, been made the subjects of the 
renewing and saving grace of God. I am not ac- 
quainted with the state of this fact among other 



47 

societies, but in regard to the Baptist mis- 
sionaries, they have indeed, in a most remarkable 
manner, been made ** fishers of men." They have 
been directed, by their divine Lord, how to cast 
the net of the gospel on the right side of the ship, 
and they have drawn thousands — many thousands 
of converted negroes, from the vortex and whirl- 
pool of ignorance and vice, to the shores of 
spiritual knowledge and holiness of life. During 
the last ten years, there have been from 10 to 
12,000 negroes baptized, upon a credible profes- 
sion of "repentance towards God, and faith 
in our Lord Jesus Christ," and received as mem- 
bers of the churches in the island of Jamaica. 
There were connected with the Baptist Mission, 
before the late insurrection, about 30,000 persons, 
all (with the exception of a very few ivhites) free 
and enslaved negroes. Is not this a proof, that 
Jehovah has heard the voice of their groaning, and 
granted them emancipation of the highest kind : 
even the glorious liberty'- of the children of God? 
What an illustrious proof of divine sovereignty, that 
has thus called the oppressed negro to freedom, 
whilst their haughty tyrants have been left, by the 
righteous j udgment of God, to the dominion of their 
sins! "I thank thee, O Father,'" said the Lord 
Jesus Christ, " Lord of heaven and earth, that thou 
hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and 
revealed them unto babes. Even so. Father, for so it 
seemeth good in thy sight.'' Thus " He raiseth up 
the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up the beggar 



48 

from the dunghill, to set them among princes, and 
to md;ke them inherit the throne of glory : for the 
pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and he hath set 
the world upon them,"* ''For he hath looked 
down from the height of his sanctuary; from 
heaven did the Lord behold the earth; to hear the 
groaning of the prisoner, to loose those that are 
appointed to death." f " Who is like to the Lord 
our God, who dwelleth on high, who humbleth 
himself to behold the things that are in heaven 
and in the earth. He raiseth up the poor out of 
the dust, and lifteth the needy out of the dunghill, 
that he may set him with princes, even the princes 
of his people: Praise ye the Lord ! " J (K.) 

Again, it is a most remarkable and encouraging 
sign of the times, that we should have, at such a 
time as this, one of the most patriotic monarchs 
that ever sat even on the British throne. I can- 
not refrain from quoting an extract from the 
declaration made to the Council at the Court of 
St. James's, on the 26th June, 1830, by our noble 
King, William IV. (whom, with his royal consort 
the Queen, may the God of all grace bless and 
preserve, and make their reign long, prosperous, 
and happy) — ** I will," said His Majesty, *' un- 
der THE BLESSING OF DiVINE PrOVIDENCE, MAIN- 
TAIN THE Reformed Religion, established by 
law; protect the rights and liberties; and 
promote the prosperity and happiness of all 

* 1 Sam. ii. 10 f Psalm cii. 19, 20. 

X Psalm cxii. 5 — 9. 



49 

CLASSES OF MY PEOPLE."* O that HE, ** by 
whom kings reign, and princes decree justice," 
may now put the thing into the king's heart, to 
** promote the prosperity and happiness" of that 
unhappy class of his people, the oppressed negroes 
in the British colonies, by granting them instant 
emancipation. 

From all the considerations which I have men- 
tioned, I feel myself warranted in adopting- our 
Lord's language to his disciples, in application to 
the groaning and weeping descendants of the kid- 
napped, and robbed, and spoiled, and murdered 
sons and daughters of ilfriea, and to conclude 
in relation to the prediction concerning the total 
abolition of slavery, that ''this generation shall 
not pass away, till all these things be fulfilled.'^ 
Hear, then, for your comfort, ye sable brethren of 
the human race — ye most oppressed of the family 
of man — Hear the Saviour of the world saying 
unto you. He that hath *' all power, both in 
heaven and in earth;" and who sits as " King in 
ZioN,": — "Lift up your heads, for your 

REDEMPTION DRAWETH NIGH." J (L.) 

I shall conclude this Lecture, by noticing 
some of THE USES to which its principles are ap- 
plicable. 

1. The certainty that Slavery in the bodies of 
men will be utterly extinguished, should excite 

* Morning- Herald, June 28, 1830. 
t Matthew xxiv. 34. % Luke xxi. 28. 

E 



50 

us to the MOST ZEALOUS USE OF EVERY MEANS 

which is within our power, likely to contribute 
towards that extinction. " Until," says Toplady, 
" I have tried every means to accomplish any 
purpose, 1 know not which of them God has de- 
signed to bless." The foreknowledge of God has 
no influence upon man to destroy his free agency; 
and the predestinating counsel of Jehovah does not 
interfere with man's accountability. The most firm 
believer in the doctrine of a divine superintending 
providence over all events, will be the most active 
person in attending to all divine commands; 
knowing, from the scriptures, that God has joined 
the end and the means so firmly together, that 
they can never be separated ; " for the sluggard 
that will not plough by reason of the cold, shall 
beg in harvest, and have nothing." The apostle 
Paul had an absolute assurance from an angel of 
God, when he and his companions were exposed 
to the peril of shipwreck, that the life of no 
one on board should be lost; yet when he 
saw the sailors about to leave the wreck, by let- 
ting down the boat, he instantly said, " Except 
these [sailors] abide in the ship ye cannot be 
saved." That the crew would be all saved was 
certain, from the promise of God; but that their 
safety was essentially connected with the nautical 
skill of the sailors, was equally true. The judi- 
cious Dr. Doddridge calls this passage of scrip- 
ture, " a remarkable illustration of the obligations 
we are under to use the most propei^ means for 



51 

security and success, even while we are commit- 
ting- ourselves to the care of divine providence, 
and waiting for the accomplishment of God's own 
promises. For it would be most unreasonable to 
imagine, that he ever intended any promise to 
encourage rational creatures to act in a wild 
irrational manner: or to remain inactive, when he 
has given them natural capacities of doing some- 
thing, at least, for their own benefit. It is in 
exerting these, that we are to expect his power- 
ful aid ; and all the grace, beauty, and wisdom of 
the promise would be lost, if we were to take it 
in any other view : to abuse it in a contrary view, 
is, at best, vain and dangerous presumption, if all 
pretence of relying upon it be not profane hypo- 

35 ill 

crisy. * 

I hope I have proved, from the inspired scrip- 
tures, that the extinction of Slavery is absolutely 
certain, because God has decreed it, and his word 
hath declared it. So far, however, from this ex- 
pectation tending to unnerve our arm, or relax 
our exertions, let it stimulate us to a renewed use 
of all those moral and constitutional eflbrts which 
are likely to lead to so desirable a result. If it 
be by abstinence from the produce of the abused 
sugar-cane ; if it be by associating together for 
the purpose of diffusing correct information upon 
the evils of slavery ; if it be by using the public 
press yet more extensively ; if it be by more ur- 
gently, and more numerously petitioning the 
* Family Expositor. 

E 2 



legislature; or by adopting a measure as yet un- 
tried, that of presenting- a most earnest petition 
to our noble patriot king! Let us, I say, while 
certain that slavery will come to its end, and 
that none shall help it; come forth "to the help 
of the Lord, to the help of the Lord against the 
mighty."* Let us never cease supplicating the 
British government, to perform this act of justice 
and mercy towards more than 755,000 of our 
fellow-men and fellow-subjects, until they shall 
fix a day, beyond which no child shall be born 
in slavery ; and determine that no person, of either 
sex, at present in bondage, shall continue any 
longer in thraldom and misery. 

2. The certainty that slavery is doomed to total 
extinction should lead all pious persons to ''pray 
without ceasing,'''' that God would succeed the means 
employed to better the cond'it'ion of the negroes^ and to 
work their speedy ixlease. We have several scrip- 
ture examples of the prayers of the godly being 
encouraged by the certainty of the blessing sought 
being promised. David thus expresses himself: — 
** For thou, O Lord God of hosts, God of Israel, hast 
revealed to thy servant, saying, I will build thee an 
house : therefore, hath thy servant found in his heart 
to pray this prayer unto thee.''-\ So Daniel: — " /, 
Daniel, understood by hooks the number of the years, 
whereof the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah the 
prophet, that he would accomplish the seventy years in 
the destruction of Jerusalem. A?7d I set my face unto 

* Judg-es V. 23. t 1 Samuel vii- 27- 



53 

the Lord God, to seek by joraijer and supplications, 
with fasting, with sackcloth, and ivith ashes.""* To 
make the revealed purposes of Jehovah, the ground 
of iuiportunate prayer, is to act according to his 
will. " Yet for all these things will I be enquired of 
by the house of Israel, to do these things for them.'" t 
It has been well said, " Prayer moves the hand 
that moves the universe." " / said not,''' said 
Jehovah, *' unto the house of Jacob, seek ye my face 
in vain.'' 

There is every encouragement then for us "to 
seek by prayer and supplication," that our fellow 
men maybe speedily emancipated from their griev- 
ous thraldom of slavery. Nor should we forget 
especially to pray, that whether the present race 
of negroes live to enjoy this, or whether their pos- 
terity shall possess the blessing, that they should 
all know a liberty of an higher kind ; liberty from 
the bondage of sin and Satan: — '• For if the Son 
make you free,"" said the Lord Jesus, " ye shall be 
free indeed" : — 

" But there is yet a liberty, unsung- 
By poets, and by senators unpraised, 
Which monarchs cannot grant, nor all the powers 
Of earth and hell confederate take away. 
A liberty which persecution, fraud, 
Oppressions, prisons, have no power to bind ; 
Which whoso tastes can be enslaved no more. 
'Tis liberty of heart derived from heaven, 
Boug-ht with His blood, who g-ave it to mankind, 

* Daniel ix. 2, 3. t Ezekiel xxxvi. 37. 



5-4 

And sealed with the same token. It is heH 
By charter, and that charter sanctioned sure 
By the unimpeachable and awful oath 
And promise of a God. 

Grace makes the slave a freeman."* 

3. As the total extinction of slavery is certain, 
then those persons especially who call themselves 
Christians, andwho hold their fellow-men in bondage, 
should instantly declare their slaves to be free. ' ' And 
I heard/' SRjs John, "another voice from heaven, 
saying, Come out of her my people, and be not partakers 
of her plagues.'' \ This was addressed to persons 
who were traffickers in " beasts, and sheep, and 
horses, and slaves, and the souls of men" ; and, 
therefore, supposes that persons calling them- 
selves the followers of the Lamb, will be found, 
when the destruction of that awful merchandize 
shall take place, within the walls of that city, 
which, with all who remain in her, shall be burnt 
with fire. How seriously should this solemn call 
sound in the ears of christian slave-holders! 
Should not "the Society for propagating the 
Gospel" instantly emancipate those of their fellow 
subjects whom they have converted into slaves, 
and still hold in bondage ? And should not the 
Moravian Missionary Society, from a regard to 
religion, justice, and humanity, at once let the 
oppressed go free? (M.) And should not those 
rich Protestant Dissenting gentlemen, and others, 

* Cowper t Rev. xviii. 4. 



DO 



who hold slaves, or manage slave estates, forego 
every secular advantage, and disentangle them- 
selves from every engagement which prevents 
them from proclaiming liberty to the captives? 
In a letter written from Jamaica, in February, 
1831, one of the Baptist Missionaries says — " I 

wonder how such good men as Mr. and 

Mr. — can have any thing to do with such a 

horrid system." 

I shall mention an instance of an eminent minis- 
ter, who cleared himself from a participation in 
the crimes of the slave trade. This was the late 
Rev. John Newton, who, for some time after his 
conversion, was employed as the captain of a 
slave-ship. He says, *' However, I considered 
myself as a sort of gaoler or tu7mkey, and I was 
sometimes shocked with an emploj^nent that was 
perpetually consonant with chains, bolts, and 
shackles. In this view, I had often petitioned in 
my prayers, that the Lord in his own time would 
be pleased to fix me in a more humane calling. 
My prayers were now answered." 

The next instance is of that pious lady Mrs. 
Isabella Graham, who was left with a young 
family at Antigua, and of whom it is said in her 
memoir, that, after she became a widow,- — '^ On 
examining into the state of her husband's affairs 
she discovered there remained not quite two 
hundred pounds sterling in her agent's hands. 
The circumstances afforded an opportunity for the 
display of .^he purity of Mrs. G.'s principles; and 



56 

lier rigid adherence to the commandments of her 
God in every situation. It was proposed to her, 
and urged with great argument, to sell the two 
Indian girls, her late husband's property. No con- 
siderations of interest, or necessity, could prevail 
upon her to make merchandize of her fellow creatures, 
the works of her heavenlij father s hand; immortal 
beings! One of these girls accompanied her to 
Scotland, where she was married, the other died 
in Antigua, leaving an affectionate testimony to 
the kindness of her dear master and mistress." 

I am happy to add, that I have heard from our 
Missionaries, that several persons in Jamaica have, 
lately, from the power of the gospel upon their 
hearts, given up their slaves, who like Mrs. G. 
could not any longer " hold property in their 
fellow creatures — immortal beings." One of these 
is the persecuted Baptist Missionary, Mr. William 
Whitehorn, who, on his conversion, two or three 
years since, immediately liberated his domestic 
slaves. (N.) Worthy examples these for the imi- 
tation of all who profess themselves to be the 
disciples of Christ. Should not such persons in 
particular, who profess to owe to, and to expect 
every blessing from, the divine compassion, to 
remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he 
said: — '* Oughtest thou not to have had 

PITY on thy fellow-servant, EVEN AS I HAD- 

PITY ON thp:e ? " 



APPENDIX, 



No. 1. Pas'e iv 



b' 



As one proof of the correctness of this statement I quote 
an extract from a speech of the lamented patriot, the late Sir 
Samuel Romilly, delivered by him on the memorable nig-ht of 
the abolition of the Slave Trade, a speech v^^hich was received 
with Such disting-uished applause, that the delivery of one 
animated passag-e was followed by three distinct plaudits, 
an event which never perhaps occurred before in the House of 
Commons. Towards the conclusion he introduced the fol- 
lowing* brilliant apostrophe: — " When I look at the man 
[Napoleon Bonaparte] at the head of the French monarchy, 
surrounded as he is with all the pride of power, and all the 
pride of victory, distributing' king-doms to his family, and prin- 
cipalities to his followers ; seeming- as he sits upon his throne 
to have reached the summit of human ambition, and the 
pinnacle of earthly happiness ; — and when I follow him into 
his closet, or to his bed, and contemplate the ang-uish with 
which his solitude must be tortured by the recollection of the 
blood he has spilt, and the oppressions he has committed ; and 
when I compare with these pang-s of remorse the feeling-s 
which must accompany my honourable friend [^Mr Wilber- 
force] from this house to his home, after the vote of this 
nig-ht shall have accomplished the object of his humane 
and unceasing- labours ; when he shall retire into the bosom 
of his delig-hted and happy family ; when he lay himself down 
upon his bed, reflecting- on the innumerable voices that will be 
raised in every quarter of the world to bless his name ; how 
much more enviable his lot in the consciousness of having- 
preserved so many millions of his fellow creatures, than that 
of the man with whom 1 have compared him, on a throne to 
which he has waded throug-h slaughter and oppression ! Who 
will not be proud to concur with my honoured friend in pro- 



58 

moting- the greatest act of national benefit, and securing- to 
the Africans the g-reatest blessing which God has ever put it 
in the power of man to confer on his fellow creatures." — The 
Legal Observer, or Journal of Jurisprudence, for April, 
1832, p. 383. 

(A.) Page 8. 

That such a charter as that which constituted the " Royal 
African Company" should have been granted by such a licen- 
tious profligate monarch as Charles II., as one of the first acts 
of his reign, is not at all surprising- Nor is it wonderful that 
no remonstrance on the part of the then obsequious parliament 
should have been made ; nor, as far as appears, any protest left 
respecting it. A charter to enslave /reemew on the coast of 
Guinea was quite in keeping with the " Act of Uniformity," 
passed in the same year, by which more than 2,000 Ministers 
were ejected from their parishes; and the "Act for compelling 
Quakers to take an oath," which exposed them to great hard- 
ships ; and the " Conventicle Act." for tormenting Noncon- 
formists, and preventing their separate meetings, should 
have been also passed in the same year. I can easily conceive 
that Milton would have felt so indignant on account of the 
proceedings of this " Royal African Company," as to have 
produced the most emphatic lines introduced at the com- 
mencement of this Lecture, in page 4. 



(B.) Page 9. 

The bill for the abolition of the Slave Trade was passed on 
March 25, 1807. By this act it was enacted that no slave 
should be imported into our colonies after March 1, 1808. 



(C.) Page 10. 

It is said (page 10) that from 1780 to 1830 there had been an 
increase in the number of slaves in Jamaica of 81,000. Lest 
this should convey an erroneous idea, it should also be known 
that " there have been imported into that island alone, since 
its conquest by Britain, no less than 850,000 Africans ; and if 



59 



we add to this number 40,000 previously broug-ht by the 
Spaniards, we have a total of 890,000, exclusive of all the 
births which have taken place since that period, and yet two 
years ag-o, from the oppressive hardships under which the slave 
population have laboured, they were reduced to 33,000." — 
The Negro's Friend, No. 19, Page 5. 

A paper has been circulated, which will throw still further 
lig-ht upon this dreadful topic of the rapid diminution of 
human life in the colonies, entitled "A Statement of the 
Decrease of the Slave Population in the Sug-ar Colonies," 
sig-ned Thomas Fowell Buxton, and dated April 4, 1832, and 
said to be drawn up from official returns. The following- 
statement is the " Recapitulation": — 



Antig-ua 


Decrease 


in 1 1 years 


868 


Berbice 


ditto 


9 ditto 


1,844 


Demerara 


ditto 


12 ditto 


13,367 


Grenada 


ditto 


12 ditto 


2,597 


Jamaica 


ditto 


12 ditto 


19,163 


Montserrat . 


ditto 


1 1 ditto 


131 


Nevis 


ditto 


11 ditto 


192 


St. Christopher's 


ditto 


10 ditto 


69 


St. Lucia 


ditto 


13 ditto 


1,942 


St. Vincent's 


ditto 


10 ditto 


1,248 


Tobag-o 


ditto 


10 ditto 


2,803 


Tortola 


ditto 


10 ditto 


143 


Trinidad 


ditto 


13 ditto 


6,068 



Decrease in the above 13 Colonies, the aver- 

ag-e being- 11^^ years . . 50,435 

Mauritius . . Decrease in lOf years 10,767 



Deduct. Increase in the two following- 
Colonies, viz. — 
Dominica . in 9 years . 11 

Barbadoes . in 12 years . 5,986 



61,202 



5,997 



Total Decrease in the Slave Population in the 

Sug-ar Colonies, on an averag-e of 1 1 years 55,205 



60 



(D.) Page 10. 

At the Annual Meeting- at Exeter Hall, on the 23d of 
April, 1831, Mr. O'Connell said, — " But the speech of Mr. 
Burg-e, had filled him with such disg-ust and indig-nation that 
he could not then, [on the evening" when Mr. Buxton's mo- 
tion was before the house,] have spoken calmly. ' What," 
said Mr. Burg-e, ' would you come in between a man and his 
freehold !' I started," said Mr. O'Connell, " as if something- 
unholy had trampled on my father's g-rave, and I exclaimed 
with horror, — A freehold in a human being I" — Anti-slavery 
Reporter, vol. iv, -page 268. 



(E.) Page 13. 

The following- extracts from Blackstone's Commentaries 
the intellig-ent reader will perceive bear strong-ly upon the 
state of the question between the planter and the neg-ro, ad- 
mitting- the arg-ument to be settled, that whether considered 
as an alien, born out of the King-'s dominions, or as natural 
horn within the dominions of the king-dom of Eng-land, all 
the negroes in our colonies, under one or other of these de- 
sig-nations, are subjects of the British Crown. They are 
from the chapters entitled, " The Rig-hts of Persons," and 
the " Absolute Rig-hts of Individuals." — Book 1. 

" The first and most obvious division of the people is into 
aliens and natural-born subjects. Natural born within the 
dominions of the crown ofEng-land; that is, within the lig-e- 
ance, or as it is g'enerally called, the alleg-iance of the king-; 
and aliens, such as are born out of it. Alleg-iance is the tie or 
ligamen which binds the subject to the king-, in return for 
that protection which the king- affords the subject.'* 

" Next to personal security, the law of Eng-land, reg-ards, 
asserts, and preserves the personal liberty of individuals. 
This personal liberty consists in the power of loco-motion, of 
chang-ing- situation, or moving- one's person to whatever place 
our own inclination may direct ; without imprisonment or re- 
straint, unless by due course of law, concerning- which we 



Gl 



may make the same observations as upon the preceding- 
article, that it is a rig-ht strictly natural ; that the laws of Eng-- 
land have never abridg'ed it without sufficient cause." 

" A man's limbs are also the g-ifts of a merciful Creator, to 
enable him to protect himself from external injuries in a state 
of nature. To these, therefore, he has a natural inherent 
right, and they cannot be wantonly destroyed or disabled 
without a manifest breach of civil liberty." 

The nature of the government of Jamaica is thus described 
by Blackstone, in his chapter " Of the countries subject to the 
laws of Eng-land." " Charter g-overnments, are of the nature 
of civil corporations, with the power of making- bye-laws for 
their own immediate reg-ulation, not contrary to the laws of 
England: ; and with such rig-hts and authorities as are specially 
given them in their charters of incorporation." " It is particu- 
larly declared by statute 7 and 8 William III. c. 22, that all 
laws, bye-laws, usag-es, and customs, which shall be in prac- 
tice in any of the plantations, repug-nant to any law, made 
or to be made in this king-dom relative to the said plantations, 
shall be utterly void and without effect." 



(F.) Page 37. 

On this verse my late excellent friend, the Rev. Andrew 
Fuller, in his common-sense, " Expository Biscourses on the 
Apocalypse," remarks, " The kings are joined in their lamen- 
tations by the ' merchants/ and who seem to be those who 
have made a trade of relig-ion ; which, however it may include 
many among-st the laity, must refer more immediately to the 
mercenary part of the clerg-y. The most notable article in 
the list of her commodities is ' the souls of men.' There is 
doubtless an allusion to Ezek. xxvii. 13, but ' the persons 
of men,' can there mean only slaves, whereas the souls of 
men are here disting-uished from slaves. Tyre dealt only in 
men's bodies, but Rome in their souls, I know not what else 
to make of the sale of indulg-encies, and pardons ; of the buy- 
ing- and selling- church-living's; of confessions, prayers for the 
dead, and of every other means of extorting- money from the 
isnorant." 



62 



(G.) Page 39. 

As so much odium has been cast upon the Baptist Mission- 
aries, and especially upon the Rev. Mr. Burchell, and his col- 
leag-ues at Monteg-o-bay, it seems proper somewhat more than 
a mere allusion should be made to their characters and labours. 

In February 17, 1830, a Missionary, Mr. James Mann, 
died. He had been associated with Mr. Burchell. Let a 
most respectable g-entleman, on whose estates Mr. Mann 
laboured, be heard, in pronouncing* his eleg-y, which was ad- 
dressed to the Rev. J. Dyer, Secretary of the Baptist Mission- 
ary Society. 

"It g-ives me g-reat pleasure to have it in my power to afford 
you the following* satisfactory evidence of the conduct of your 
Missionaries in Jamaica, as extracted from a letter of my bro- 
ther to me, dated Aug-ust 28 ; and that the following- statement 
may and should carry the more weig-ht with it, I think it rig-ht 
to say, that he has been a resident in that island for upwards 
of two years, and that both he and I, having- a considerable 
interest at stake there, must necessarily feel much alive to 
every circumstance likely to disturb the peace and well-being: 
of that colony. He beg-ins by speaking- of your Missionary at 
Falmouth, Mr. Mann. 

" ' I cannot help expressing- my astonishment, that men 
placed in the situation of Mr. Mann, holding- strong-ly upon 
the affections of the people by the medium of relig-ion, should 
use their influence so wisely, because so moderately, that they 
scarcely seem to clash with the prejudices of the planter. 
Can there he a greater proof afforded, of the temperate ex- 
ercise of power over these uneducated people's minds, than 
that, though every eye is upon the alert to detect an abusive 
influence, and every imagination is at work to construe some 
disturbance amongst the negroes, as attributable to the 
Baptists, no proof has yet been given, founded upon any 
thing like liberality or fairness, that they have ever worked 
upon any other feeling than that of religion. Throug-h g-ood 
and throug-h evil report they travel on, availing themselves of 
the assistance of the proprietor, wherever the least encourag-e- 
ment is held out to them, and disconnecting- themselves from 
local as well as g-eneral politics-' He then g-oes on to say, 



63 



that, in compliance with my desire, he had made arrange- 
ments with your Missionary, Mr. Mann, to g"o once a week to 
my estates, distant from the place of his residence seven miles, 
in order to preach, and teach the neg-roes, for which purpose 
a part of Wednesday is appropriated. I need now merely 
add, from the great g"ood, moral and religious, which I antici- 
pate from this laboiu* of love amongst them, how much I 
should deplore any steps being' taken by the Leg-islature in 
Jamedca, and to be sanctioned by his Majesty's ministers at 
home, likely in the remotest degree to frustrate what I am 
convinced can alone tend to improve the condition of the 
slave, and raise him in the scale of our common humanity." 

The following- was printed in the Baptist Missionary Herald 
in June, 1831, which will shew the spirit of opposition which 
had begfun to manifest itself: — " At Monteg-o-bay, Mr. Bur- 
chell centinues to be subject to vexatious annoyance, from 
those ' who love darkness rather than lig-ht.' As if to shew 
how fully they answer to this inspired description, they have 
actually seized the lamps in the chapel, under the pretext of 
some new local impost laid on the building-, and which Mr. B. 
properly declined paying- till he could receive directions from 
home. Steps will of course be taken to ascertain how far the 
perpetrators of these dishonourable proceeding-s can act thus 
with impunity ; but, surely we may hope, the day approaches 
in which eifectual measures will be taken, both at home and 
abroad, to secure religious worship from insult, and those who 
maintain it from oppression." 

(H.) Page 44. 

The following- is copied from the " Despatches and Corres- 
pondence, respecting- the Slave Insurrection in the West India 
Colonies," ordered to be printed 29th March, 1832; and is 
an extract from No. 8, entitled " Copy of a Despatch from 
Viscount Goderich to the Earl of Belmore, dated Downing^ 
Street, 1st of March, 1832," and will afford hig-h g-ratifi ca- 
tion to all the friends of the Redeemer, and cause "abundant 
thanksg-iving-s to God," that the affairs of the Colonies, at 
this crisis, should be confided to so judicious and christian a 
nobleman as Lord Goderich. 



64 

Speaking" of the inalice ag-ainst the Baptist Missionaries, his 
Lordship says, " It is not, however, merely to a misconcep- 
tion of relig'ious truth, but to the direct instig-ation of some of 
the missionaries, that the recent insurrection is ascribed in 
some of the documents which your Lordship has transmitted. 
1 have observed, with g-reat satisfaction, the efforts which you 
so judiciously made, to g-uard the persons to whom it would 
belong" to sit in judg"nient on the missionaries, ag-ainst the 
influence of relig-ious prejudices; and I trust that the caution 
■which you have g"iven, w^ill effectually prevent the manifes- 
tation of any intemperate or hostile spirit towards them in any 
subsequent stag"e of the proceeding"s- I must distinctly avow 
my conviction that the improbability of the charge is so ex- 
treme, that nothing" short of the most irresistible evidence could 
induce a belief of it. The missionaries who eng"ag"e in the 
office of converting" the slaves in our colonies, cannot, with 
charity or justice, be supposed to be actuated by any views of 
secular ambition or personal advantag"e. They devote them- 
selves to an obscure, and arduous, and ill-requited service ; 
they are well apprized that distrust and jealousy will attend 
them, and that the path they have chosen, leads neither to 
wealth nor reputation. If in their case, as in that of other 
men, motives less exclusively sacred than those which are 
avowed may exercise some influence on their minds, it were 
irrational either to feel surprize, or to cherish suspicion on that 
account. The g-reat ruling" motive must in g"eneral be that 
which is professed, since in general there is no other advan- 
tag"e to be obtained, than the consciousness of having" contri- 
buted to the diffusion of Christianity throug"hout the world. 
To suppose men who act habitually on such a principle, either 
so insensible to the restraints of conscience, or so perverted in 
their estimate of rig-ht and wrong", as to foment insurrection 
and civil war, for the subversion of slavery ; or to believe them 
insensible to the extreme dang-er and suffering" in which, by 
€ng"ag'ing" in such an enterprize, they must involve those for 
whose benefit the contest was to be undertaken, would arg'ue 
rather an heated and prejudiced mind, than a discerning" judge- 
ment, and a correct acquaintance with human character. 
When, therefore, I consider that no motive can be rationally 
assig-ned, which should have induced the missionaries to em- 



65 



bark in so g-iulty and desperate an undertaking-, I cannot but 
earnestly trust, that the trial of any of their number, who may 
be charg-ed with a participation in this rebellion, may have 
been postponed until comparative tranquillity should have 
succeeded to the first panic ; and that such trials may have 
been conducted, not before a military tribunal, but with all 
the reg"ular forms of law. Should any such missionary have 
been convicted, and be awaiting the execution of his sentence 
on the arrival of this despatch, your Lordship will not permit 
that sentence to be carried into effect, till His Majesty's 
pleasure can be knoivn." 



(I.) Page 45. 

In the letter of Lord Goderich to the Colonies, dated 
Downing Street, December 10, 1831, his lordship says — "I 
am anxious to convey to them an adequate impression of the 
necessity which exists, for us to take at leng-th some effective 
steps towards the redemption of the pledges g-iven, with the 
concurrence of the West India body, in 1823, and of the soli- 
citude which we have felt to consult the interests of the 
planters, simultaneously with those of the slaves, and to 
accomplish, by such means as should be the least unacceptable 
to the owners of West India property, an object which it has 
become impossible to postpone, without compromising- the 
dig-nity and consistency of the imperial leg-islature, and occa- 
sioning- danger to all parties concerned/' 

" If His Majesty's present advisers have resolved to pursue 
no further this course of warning and entreaty, it is not that 
they are in any degree less anxious to conciliate the goodwill, 
whilst they consult the real interests of the colonists, but only 
because they feel that the language of admonition has been 
exhausted, and that any further attempt to produce an im- 
pression upon the leg-islature, by the same means alone, could 
add nothing of the respect of those bodies for the authority of 
the Crown, whilst it would be in vain to expect that it could 
contribute any thing to the accomplishment of the object in 
, view." 

F 



66 

" It cannot be too distinctly explained, that the measure ta 
he submitted to Parliament, will be so framed, that the indis- 
pensable condition of receiving* the consequent benefit, will be 
the fact of a statute having passed the colonial legislature, 
simply, and without qualification in terms, or limitation of 
time, declaring the order in council to possess the force of 
law in the colony." 



(K.) Page 48. 

The following- affords a specimen of the kind of instruction 
which have been g-iven by the Missionaries, and of the mental 
character of the persons admitted by them to baptism . — 

" The contributor of the following* brief article, was once 
a little sceptical about the great success of the Baptist West- 
India Missionaries, on account of the vast number of supposed 
conversions ; but, having- been permitted' to see their labours 
and the g-ood effected, he hegs leave to give as a sample a 
few of the many queries and answers which the missionary and 
the candidate for baptism respectively put and received, prior 
to that ordinance. 

" What is sin? « All that don't fitten." Another, "All 
the badness we do 'foretime."^ Who is Jesus Christ? " The 
Son of God/' And what has He done for our salvation? 
*' Him 'tand for we." Another, " Him g-et himself wound 
for we." Do you repent of sin? " Ebery ting- me do 'fore- 
time, me sorry for to me heart.'' How did you know your- 
self to be a sinner? " Me tink me a sinner ; for me hearee de 
Bible read." Do you love Jesus? " Me lub me Massa Jesus; 
me wish me always at Him feet." Why do you love the 
Saviour? " For Him come down and be crucified, and Hrm 
'till pray." Can you do g-ood of yourself? " By de power of 
Jesus." Why do you wish to be baptized? " Massa Jesus 
leave de word, and me wish to follow him track." But if 
any one should mock you afterwards, what would you do ?" 
*' Me take him hand, and me say, how you do?" What does 
the minister break the bread for, and pour out the wine? 
" To mind upon it, and 'member upon it, how Massa Jesus 



(37 



l>ody broke for we, how Him precious blood 'pflt for we." 
Why do you wish to partake of the Lord's Supper? " It 
bring" feeling- over me mind; for Him wounded for me sin." 
One of them having- been asked if she loved God, replied in 
the affirmative; and on being- further asked, whether she 
loved all the brethren and sisters, answered, " Hi Massa! 
me no lub me broder and me sisters, who me see ebery day, 
when me lub God who me neber see." — Missionary Herald, 
January, 1832. 



(L.) Page 4B. 

1 had a few months since an opportunity of speaking- to the 
Rev. Mr. Wray, who has been a Missionary more than twenty 
years in Demerara and Berbice. He was the intimate friend 
and brother of the faithful Smith, the murdered Missionary. 
I asked Mr. Wray, whether from the knowledg-e which he 
had of the neg-roes he thoug-ht their emancipation would be 
attended with any injurious consequences: he instantly re- 
plied, " Jf I had the power I would give them all emancipa- 
tion to-morrow," I was pleased with his frank and explicit 
reply ; but should have been better satisfied had he not said, 
'^ to-morrow," but " to-day" because I know that when, in 
cases of extreme importance, persons have said, like a Roman 
soldier, " serious thing-s to-mera-row ;" the events of " the day," 
on which it is said, may prevent, as in that instance, the pos- 
sibility of attending- to '^ serious thing-s to-morrow." This 
has always been the plea of the British Leg-islature respecting- 
slavery : " It oug-ht," it has said, " certainly to be abolished ; 
but not ' to-day,' — ' to-morrow!'" This is the spirit of the 
Government at the present mement. Let us, say they, first 
prepare the slaves by ameliorating measures for liberty; and 
then " to-morrow " we will g-rant them emancipation. Alas ! 
I fear that the " to-morrow" opportunity, for setting- the op- 
pressed negroes free by law may never arrive ; therefore, I 
earnestly and respectfully say, to all persons concerned, " Do 
it to-day." 



68 

(M.) Page 54. ' 

I am happy to have it in my power to introduce the senti- 
ments of the Rev. Joseph Fletcher, D.D, of Stepney, on the 
sin of Slavery, as deliA^ered in a Sermon preached at Spa-fields 
Chapel, on the 3rd instant, on behalf of the Moravian Mis- 
sions, which makes the remarks the more valuable, as the 
Rev. P. Latrobe, and his father, the Rev. C. J. Latrobe, both 
contend, in their recent correspondence with me, that the 
slaves belong-ing- to the Unitas Fratrum, are . their " leg-al 
property." Dr. F.'s text, was Rom. i. 14 — " / am debtor 
both to the Greeks and to the barbarians: both to the wise 
and the unwise." Applying- his observations to slavery, 
he said this debt of obligation to serve persons of all descrip- 
tions, by preaching" the gospel to them, was enforced by the 
command of Jesus Christ ; and after alluding- to the late Orders 
in Council, and the Instructions to the Governors of the Colo- 
nies by Lord Goderich, which he pronounced to be truly 
christian in their sentiments and spirit, and noble and elevated 
in their style and composition ! he said (as I am told by an 
intellig-ent g-entleman, who took down the words at the time) 
" This debt and oblig-ation are binding- upon those who hold 
persons in bondag-e, and whom they proudly and unjustly 
call their property, and as unjustly have made them slaves! 
It is the duty of their masters to impart unto them that 
knowledg-e of the g-ospel, which is able, throug-h faith in 
Christ Jesus, to make them the Lord's free-men." 



(N.) Page ^Q. 

The following- letter, sig-ned by six of the Baptist Missiona- 
ries, ag-ainst whom no proceeding-s had been taken, in vindi- 
cation of themselves, their brethren, and the Society, ag-ainst 
the malicious slanders propag-ated by the slave-holders, is 
copied from the " Jamaica Watchman," of the 25th of 
February, 1832. 

" To the Editor of the Watchman. 
" Sir — Considering- the present state of public opinion, as 
induced by heavy charg-es alleg-ed against the ' Sectarians,' 



69 

relative to the late rebellion ; it is probable that those by 
whom our characters are appreciated, and doctrines understood, 
mig-ht inquire why we have not earlier appeared in defence of 
the one, and explanation of the other? Our delay has not 
arisen from fear of investigation, or reluctance to defend the 
doctrines we inculcate : but long- accustomed to revilement and 
false accusation ; considering- the improbable and contradictory 
nature of the charg-es alleg-ed, tog-ether with the total ig-no- 
rance manifested by those who made them, both of our senti- 
ments and discipline ; and feeling- happy in a conscious reetitude 
of our motives and conduct, we were disposed to pass over in 
silence such unfounded alleg-ations. But having- exercised our 
patience, until the lawless rag-e of those, who are alike inimi- 
cal to the laws of God and man, has demolished ten or eleven 
of our chapels, and thus destroyed full £16,000. worth of pro- 
perty belong-ing- to the Baptist Mission in this island, we deem 
it hig-h time, on the part of ourselves, and our brethren with 
whom we are not able at present to confer, to oifer the 
following- remarks, with a view to vindicate our characters, 
and repress such disgraceful depredations. 

*' Our mis,sionaries here, and the society at home, have been 
reviled and calumniated by every species of abuse that 
ing-enuity could invent, or malice promulgate. Every epi- 
thet has been employed that could blacken the character, 
or misrepresent the motives, both of the society and their 
ag-ents. We have been charged with preaching doctrines 
of a seditious and dangerous character, and of propag-ating, 
among the slave population, principles and sentiments tend- 
ing to disobedience and insubordination. This charge we 
FLATLY DENY, and call on our accusers for proof. 
The doctrines we maintain, we are prepared, at any 
proper time, modestly but fearlessly to defend ! But, not 
thinking it necessary to trouble the public at present with an 
extended statement of our belief, nor considering a newspaper 
the most proper medium for a confession of faith, it may suf- 
fice to remark, that our religious doctrines, however misrepre- 
sented by our enemies, differ not from those contained in the 
authorized compositions of the Established Church; nor, as 
they regard the present question, from those of any other body 
of true christians. 



70 

" Our doctrines are not only charg-ed with destroying- the 
relative oblig-ations between master and servant, but of leading" 
to robbery, sedition, incendiarism, and murder ! How they 
«an tend to such evils, mone than the doctrines of the Estab- 
lished Church, we are at a loss to ascertain, since the funda- 
mental doctrines of our belief are to be found in her articles. 

" We are said to be sent hither as spies and incendiaries ; 
encourag"ed by our society to propagate sedition ; and, finally, 
to accomplish the destruction of the colony, Charg-es so ridi- 
culous, must carry with them, to every unprejudiced mind, 
their own refutation. With reference to our society, the follow- 
ing- quotations from the Instructions g-iven to every missionary, 
on leaving- Eag-land, will clearly evince that their object is not 
to spread anarchy and confusion, but, without any interference 
whatever with the political constitution of the colony, to seek 
4;he happiness of the slaves, by presenting- to them the blessings 
of Christianity, in the life that now is, as well as that which is 
to come ; and inculcating attention to all the social and rela- 
tive duties of life. 

" ' We enjoin it upon you ever to remember that the office 
you have voluntarily undertaken, is wholly of a spiritual na- 
ture. Leaving to others the acquisition of property, and the 
management of temporal affairs, you go forth in the service 
of Jesus Christ, and to seek the salvation of immortal souls. 

" ' It is matter of the first importance, that you carefully 
abstain from all interference whatever in political affairs, or 
with the civil business of the town and neighbourhood in 
which you reside. To the island of Jamaica this direction 
iipplies with peculiar force. Be careful, therefore, that your 
conduct, without any mixture of a worldly or temporizing 
spirit, be such as shall give no just occasion of offence, and 
that none may be able to bring any accusation against you, 
save in the matter of the Lord your God. As you are going 
amongst a people, many of whom are in a state of slavery, it 
will be incumbent upon you to use great caution, both as to 
your language and conduct, that there may not be the least 
ground for the charge of interfering with their civil relations. 
On all persons in the condition of slaves, you will diligently 
and plainly enforce the following apostolic precepts: Eph. vi. 
<5 — 8, Servants, be obedient to them that are your masters 



71 

according to thejlesh, with fear and trembling, in singleness 
of your heart, as unto Christ ; not with eye-service, as men- 
pleasers ; but as the servants of Christ, doing the will of 
God from the heart: With good will doing service, as to the 
Lord, and not unto men. Knowing that whatsoever good thing 
any man doeth, the same shall he receive of the Lord, whether 
he be bond or free. Col. iii. 22 — 25, Servants obey in all 
things your masters according to the flesh, not with eye- 
service as men-pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing 
God. And whatsoever ye do, do it heartily, as to the Lord, 
and not unto men ; knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive 
the reward of the inheritance ; for ye serve the Lord Christ. 
But he that doeth wrong shall receive for the wrong which 
he hath done, and there is no respect of persons.' 

" We mig-ht leave these instructions to speak for them- 
selves, simply requesting- the public to observe that no 
missionary could deviate from them, without incurring- the 
discountenance of his associates here, and separation from the 
society in England, But lest it should be alleged, that al- 
thoug"h vv^e have received such instructions, yet, the many 
cases in which Baptists are said to have been implicated in the 
late rebellion, prove that we have not acted accordingly, we 
beg" to suggest some considerations, which we think should 
induce the public to pause, before they draw this inference. 

" The number of slaves connected with our chapels, in the 
districts chiefly disturbed, is very large, much larger, we be- 
lieve, than the number connected with any other places of 
worship in that neighbourhood ; so that if only an equal pro- 
portion of Baptists were implicated, their number would 
necessarily exceed that of other denominations. 

" But as to the real number of persons calling themselves 
Baptists, actually engaged in the rebellion, we have as yet no 
authentic information. Their number, in fact, have not been 
ascertained ; nor are our brethren at present in a situation to 
discover it. The statements made in the Cornwall Chronicle, 
Courier, &c., on this point, have been so mixed up with others 
already proved false, that they are plainly unworthy of cre- 
dence. And even of those actually implicated, and who call 
themselves Baptists, many will, we are satisfied, be found, on 
impartial inquiry, to have no connection whatever with our 



72 

churches, nor even to attend at our chapels ; for it is a fact, 
well known to most relig-ious persons, that besides a great 
number of casual hearers, such as are found in all denomina- 
tions of christians, there exist a multitude of people in diife- 
rent parts of the island, who designate themselves Baptists, 
but yet have no connection whatever with the Baptist 
Mission. 

" But suppose that some of our members have really been 
involved, which we fear is the case, it deserves inquiry, what 
proportion of this number voluntarily eng-ag-ed in it ; because, 
it is notorious, that many neg-roes were driven to join the rebels 
by their threats, or induced by their relative connections with 
them. 

" Besides, let it be remarked, that the more intelligent and 
crafty of the rebel * chiefs, would be strongly induced to use 
the name of any Missionary, as an argument to prevail on 
others to join them. This remark applies especially to Mr. 
Burchell's name, because, being off the island at the time, he 
could not frustrate such an attempt ; so that the guilt of any 
Missionary cannot be inferred from that circumstance, since 
his name might have been thus used, without his consent or 
knowledge. 

* I could have wished our Missionaries had not called men 
"rebels," who were only struggling for the " right which every 
man," as Blackstone says, (see page 61) " has to his own limbs ! " 

" Oh !, most degrading of all ills that wait 
On man, a mourner in his best estate ! 
All other sorrows virtue may endure, 
And find submission more than half a cure ; 
Grief is itself a medicine, and bestowed 
To improve the fortitude that bears the load. 
To teach the wanderer, as his woes increase, 
The path of wisdom, all whose paths are peace ; 
But slavery ! — Virtue dreads it as her grave ; 
Patience itself is meanness in a slave ; 
Or if the will and sovereignty of God 
Bid suffer it awhile, and kiss the rod, 
Wait for the dawning of a brighter day. 
And snap the chain the moment when you may. 
Nature imprints upon whate'er we see 
That has a heart and life in it, — Be free." — Cowper. 



73 

*' Moreover, the fact oug-ht certainly to be borne in mind, 
that the evidence hitherto laid before the public, has, for the 
most part, been indirect, and second-hand. In nearly every 
case of crimination, the neg-roes are said to have stated, not 
that they themselves had heard either of the Missionaries say 
they were to be made free at Christmas, but that they had been 
' told ' that Mr. Burchell or Mr. Knibb, &c. had said so. 

" We cannot be expected, in this article, to answer to spe- 
cific charg-es alleg-ed ag-ainst our brethren, whom distance and 
other circumstances prevent us from consulting"; but, on the 
above g-rounds, we beg" the public, for the present, to suspend 
their judgment ; at the same time, expressing" our conviction 
that their suspense will be of short duration, as legal proceed- 
ing's will probably be soon commenced, on one side or the 
other, which may afford them an opportunity of forming a more 
correct opinion. 

" We only add, that there are thousands of respectable and 
intellig"ent persons, capable of perceiving" the real tendency of 
our preaching" and conduct, who are among' our regular leaders, 
and many of whom are slave-holders ! ! * Let such persons be 
enquired of by those who wish to obtain a just idea of our 
proceeding"s, and the objects they have in view. To them we 
fearlessly appeal, being* fully assured, that our innocence will 
be established, in proportion as the truth is told. 
" We are, Sir, your obedient Servants, 

Joshua Tinson Samuel Nichols 

Joseph Burton John Clarke 

Henry C. Taylor John R. Andrews." 



* This is the first time that I ever heard there were slave- 
holders among" the members and leaders of the Baptist 
churches in Jamaica ; nor have I any reason to think, that the 
secretary or any member of the committee of the Baptist 
Missionary Society was aware of the fact. A few years since? 
when a Missionary had purchased two slaves, thoug"h from a 
motive of humanity, he was directed to g"ive them their free- 
dom immediately ; and a motion was proposed and adopted — 
" That any missionary possessing slaves, should thereby 
dissolve his connection with the Society." 

G 



74 



I exceeding-ly regret that any of my brethren, of whom 
I have thoug-ht so hig-hly, should, in carrying' up the super- 
structure of a church of Christ, have used as materials, not 
only " gold, and silver, and precious stones," but also, 
wood, and ha ', and stubble." I consider that this circum- 
stance alone, involves in it so much g-uilt in those who 
encourag-ed it, knowing- as they do, " men stealers," are con- 
sidered by the law of God to be the " lawless and disobe- 
dient," whom, with sinners of the vilest description, are 
declared to be acting*, " contrary to sound doctrine " ; 
(1 Tim. i. 10, II) that it fully accounts for all the evils that 
have come upon us as a Society! I shall take the earliest 
opportunity to bring- this matter under the notice of the Com- 
mittee, as the Missionaries have, in this matter, acted in direct 
opposition to the instructions which they received from the 
Society, that they should " be careful their conduct should 
be without any admixture of a worldly or temporizing 
spirit." 



THE END. 



J. Messeder, Printer, 
201, High Holborn, 



Just published, price 2s, 



And may be had of Mr. Ivimey, 51, Devonshire Street, Qaeen Square ; or any 
of the Booksellers named in the Title of this Lecture. 



THE 

TRIUMPH OF THE BIBLE IN IRELAND 



EXTRACTS FROM THREE MONTHS' CORRESPONDENCE 
OF THE MINISTERS AND SCRIPTURE READERS 



PROVINCES OF CONNAUGHT AND MUNSTER, 

BELONGING TO THE 

BAPTIST IRISH SOCIETY, 

With an appropriate Frontispiece. 



