Digitized by tlie Internet Archive 

in 2010 witli funding from 

Associates of tlie Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/justicemercyrecoOOpeck 



yujlice and Mercy recommended^ parti- 
cularly with reference to the Slave 
Trade. 



SERMON 

PREACHED BEFORE THE 

UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE, 
By P. P E C K A R D, D.D. 

MASTER OF MAGDALEN COLLEGE. 



CAMBRIDGE, 

Printed by J. Archdeacon Printer to the UNIVERSITY; 

For J. & J. Merrill, in Cambridge ; T. Cadell, in the 
Strand; B. White & Son, in Fleet- ftreet ; T.Payne 
& Son, at the Mews Gate; T. Evans, in Paternofter- 
Row; and G. & T. Wilkie, in St. Paul's Church 
Yard, London. 

MDCCLXXXVIIL 



^S. 75*7*^ ''^'^ ^^'"^ 




TO THE RIGHT REVEREND 



B E I L B Y, 



LORD BISHOP OF LONDON. 

ITHOUT permiffion afked, 
my Lord, and even without 
your knowledge to take this liberty, 
may perhaps be thought a great de- 
gree of prefumption. Poffibly it 
may really be fo. Yet to whom can 
I with fo much propriety infcribe the 
following humble recommendation 
of Juftice and Mercy, as to him who 
hath nobly diftinguiihed himfelf in 
the fame caufe, and flood forth pub- 
lickly the Patron of Benevolence and 
Humanity. 

A 2 I look 



[ i^ ] 
I look back, my Lord, with fe- 
cret pleafure on paft times, and with 
great fatisfadion of mind recoiled: 
thofe happy hours of private inter- 
courfe which I have enjoyed with 
you in my fequeftered lituation. 
And I well remember that the fub- 
jed: which I have weakly touched in 
the enfuing difcourfe, was not un- 
frequently a Topic of our converfa- 
fation. Our fentiments then agreed : 
I am happy to find they do fo ftill, 
and wifh from my foul that not only 
your Lordfliip, but that all the world 
agreed with me in receiving with 
horror the very idea of Slavery and 
Inhumanity. 

1 live in great meafure out of the 
world, and hear on but very flight 
authority what is going forward in 
it. There feems to be reafon to 
hope that a moft refpedable afTocia- 
tion is now forming to efFed, if poffi- 

ble, 



[ V 3 

ble, the Abolition of the Slave Trade, 
that abominable violation of the Lav^s 
of God, and the common Rights of 
Man. 

No difficulty of any confequence 
can attend the carrying it into exe- 
cution, nor can any perfonal injury 
be pretended, if the total abolition 
be determined with refped: to fu- 
ture time, and a proper mode of 
gradual emancipation eftablifhed with 
refpedt to thofe poor creatures who 
at prefent fuffer this enormous in- 
juftice. I have feen a practicable 
fcheme drawn up by a very worthy 
member of your reverend bench, 
which would be effedual to this pur- 
pofe, and to which in my opinion 
there is not a rational objedion. The 
Spaniards have in fome of their fettle- 
ments, as I am informed, carried ,a 
fimilar plan into execution, and find 
great benefit refulting from it. J^ 
A 3 very 



[ vi ] 

very refpedable Sed of our difient-^ 
ing brethren (on many accounts very 
refpedable indeed, particularly in 
their reverence for the majefty and 
the name of God, in their difappro- 
bation of war, and their fixed ab- 
horrence of every fpecies of inhuma- 
nity) have in refped: of the Slave 
Trade fet us a very amiable examples 
May we have the virtue to follow it !' 

As to our movements at home upT 
on this fubjedl, I hear mentioned the 
honoured names of Wilberforce 
and Sharp, as Leaders in this glorious, 
undertaking. Their known and efta- 
blifhed virtues muft furely induce 
many to join in this great work of 
Juftice and Mercy: and may Heaven 
profper and reward their Labours ! 

Your great city, my Lord, the firft 
in eminence, ftands the foremoft in 
this truly Chriftian Charity. The 
towns of Manchefter and Birming- 
ham, 



ham, places of great importance, 
have already joined in following the 
good example, and giving their fup- 
port. Other places are named, and 
it is to be hoped there will not be 
many either places or perfons in 
whom the mercenary gripe of felf- 
intereft will totally eradicate the ge- 
nerous emotions of Philanthropy. 

We from this Univerfity fhew,, by 
our Addrefs to the Legiflature, 'and 
by the Contribution of our Mite, that 
the precepts of moral inftrudlion have 
not been thrown away upon us; and 
no doubt our more opulent Acade- 
mical Sifter will beftow her richer of- 
ferings, in order to bring forward 
with full effed the application to the 
Legiflature for the total aboli- 
tion OF THE SLAVE TRADE. 

With refped: to myfelf, my fphere 

of adion is very contradled indeed : 

and I now ftep forth, a volunteer, 

A 4 with 



[ viii ] 

with humility yet with refolution to 
offer rather my inclination than abi- 
lity to ferve. My efforts, probably, 
can reach little farther than to infufe 
into the minds of the young men 
committed to my care, principles of 
reverence for our unrivaled Conftitu- 
tion, of Loyalty to the King, the Pa- 
tron and Example of Juftice and 
Mercy ; of Obedience to Magiftrates, 
and of Univerfal Benevolence: and 
thus on the folid foundation of true 
Virtue eventually ferve the good 
Caufe, to which I moft devoutly wifli 
all poffible fuccefs. 

When I was firft called to this place, 
I had conceived fome thoughts to at- 
tempt fomething upon this fubjed:, 
which was always near my heart ; but 
beingdifSdentof myown ftrength, and 
recollediing the fate of the poor man 
(James ii. 2.) when One with a gold 
ring and goodly apparel came into 

the 



[ i^ ] 

the aflembly, I defifted from my ia- 
tentions. For thofe great perfon- 
ages are too apt, if the Poor man 
fpeak, to fay, What fellow is this ? 
and if he ftumble they will help to 
overthrow him. (Ecclus. xiii- 23.) 
• ;When I had the honour, about 
three years fince, to ferve the princi- 
pal office in this Univerfity, I gave 
the Indefenfiblenefs of Slavery as a 
fubjed for the Public Exercifes of the 
Batchelors ; and Mr. Clarkfon's per- 
formance which gained the Prize, has 
been laid before the world in more 
than one edition. Thus, through him, 
I look upon myfelf as in feme fmall 
degree a Promoter of the glorious at- 
tempt to fet the Slave at Liberty. 

A century of years hath now paffed 
fince Providence beftovved upon us, 
on the fure ground of Conflitutional 
Eftabliftimcnt, the ineftimable blef- 
fings of Liberty Civil and Religious. 

Let 



[ ^ ] 

Let this year then be a Jubilee of 
Gommemoration : not in noify riot 
and drunkennefs, not in diforder and 
tumult, but by extending the blef- 
fings we enjoy to thofe who are de- 
prived of them; by breaking every 
yoke, and fetting the poor Gaptive 

My motive, my Lord, for taking 

this liberty with you, muft be alfo my 

apology — an impulfe of Gonfcience 

to contribute my feeble endeavours, 

but principally an earneft defire to 

incite fome more able advocate-* — 

— fangar vice cotis, acutum 
Reddere quasferrum valet, exfors ipfefecandi. 

From every candid reader alfo I 

muft folicit his indulgence for the 

many inaccuracies — 

quas aut incuria fudit 

Aut humana parum cavit natura — 

' But why then trouble the Public 
with Inaccuracies that require this 

indul- 



[ ^i ] 

Indulgence ? I anfwer, There are in- 
deed many in this place infinitely bet- 
ter qualified than I am to do Juftice 
to the Subjed:, and with fincere plea- 
fure I fhould have feen any of them 
undertake this benevolent office. But 
none flood forth : it wa$ vi^ifhed that 
fome one would ; and therefore I 
made an offer of my weak efforts in 
the enfuing difcourfe; which was at 
firft intended only for the private 
Chapel of a fmall Society, but now 
by an unexpedied fate is humbly pre- 
fented to your Lordfhip's protedion. 

May you, my Lord, experience every 
earthly bleffing ! may you long enjoy 
in health and happinefs your honour- 
able and exalted Station ! and may 
your pious labours here be hereafter 
rewarded with never-ending felicity ! 

P. PECKARD. 

Magdalen College, 
Jan. 31, 1788. 



SERMON, &c. 



M I C A H vi. 8. 

HE HATH SHEWED THEE, O MAN, WHAT IS 
GOOD, AND WHAT DOTH THE LORD RE- 
QUIRE OF THEE BUT TO DO JUSTLY, TO 
LOVE MERCY, AND TO WALK HUMBLY 
WITH THY GOD. 

THAT God Is both able and willing 
to dire6l man to his proper happinefs, 
is evidently deducible from his acknow- 
ledged attributes of unlimited Power and 
Goodnefs. 

He who created us, and gave us all our fa- 
culties, is undoubtedly able to influence and 
dire6l thofe faculties in what manner and to 
what degree he himfelf fhall judge proper. 

He whofe mercy is over all his works, 
who knows whereof we are made, and that 

with 



[ 14 ] 

without his affiftmg hand we fliould be loft 
in ignorance and mifery, undoubtedly will 
not withhold that affiftance which is proper 
for our fituation. 

The known ft ate of the world in the dif- 
ferent periods and different circumftances 
of it's Exiilence, plainly prove that where 
the knowledge of a fuperintending Provi- 
dence is by any means loft, there ignorance, 
and mifery prevail, anii every bad paflion 
that can difgrace a rational being is predo- 
minant. On the contrary, where the fenfe 
of an overruling Providence hath been kept 
alive, and the duties naturally refulting 
from it properly attended to, there we find 
the feat of virtue and of happinefs. 

Thefe are known truths that bring peace 
and comfort with them : and on this ground 
we may make the following equitable con- 
clufion, That wherefoever men will keep 
God in their thoughts, and duly attend to 
the notices he is pleafed to beftow, he does 
at all times, and in all places fliew them 
what is for their Good. 

In what way it may pleafe the Almighty 
to communicate to us thefe notices condu- 
cive to our happinefs, perhaps, in our pre- 
fent ftate, it may be impofTible for us fully 

to 



[ 15 ] 

to conceive, and certainly would be a 
blameable curiofity to enquire. We ought 
to be thankful for the blefling, and not be 
over foUicitous to know the precife means 
by which we receive it. Yet in general we 
may fay, I hope without prefumption, 

Firft, That God hath fhewn us what is 
Good by the frame and conftituion of our 
nature, originally difpofed by him to receive 
in due time diftin6l impreflions of Good and 
Evil, of Right and Wrong, with a Natural 
Tendency to be. pleafed with the one, and 
to feel an abhorrence of the other. 

Secondly, That he hath at fundry times, 
and in diverfe manners, ftrengthened and 
affifted thefe original tendencies of our Na- 
ture by various communications of his re- 
vealed Will. 

Firft then, if I may be allowed to fpeak, 
and to judge of a Moral Senfe of Good and 
Evil by analogy from the other fenfes with 
which God hath blefied us, it is plain be- 
yond all doubt, that there are fome obje6ls 
that are naturally agreeable, others that are 
naturally difagreeable. All colours are not 
equally pleafant to the eye, all founds to 
the ear, all fcentsto the faculty of fraelling, 
nor all taftes to the palate. Some are ori- 
ginally 



[ .6 ] 

giiially offenfive in a high degree, while 
others are in an equal degree dehghtful. 
And although thefe may, from fubfequent 
caufes, be greatly changed, infomuch that 
thofe things which were originally pleafant 
or difgufting, Ihall at length have a con- 
trary effe6l ; yet this is not the work of Na- 
ture, but of Education, or other fubfequent 
and fecondary caufes. By degrees we are 
taught to diflike what was once agreeable, 
and to receive with pleafure what was ori- 
ginally ofFenfive. 

So may it be vnth refpe6l to what I mean 
by a Moral fenfe of Good and Evil. I have 
not the leaft doubt, but that when the human 
conftitution is fo far advanced that Reafon 
begins to acl, and judgments can be form- 
ed, and diftincl notions framed of Right 
and Wrong, the approbation of Good, and 
the diflike of Evil, will arife from the Ori- 
ginal Conftitution of human nature. 

I hope I fhall not be fo mifunderftood as 
to be thought to advance the do6lrine of 
Innate Ideas, or Innate Inftin6ls. I mean 
no fuch thing. I fuppofe only, that as 
foon as the Faculty of Perception exifts, 
there will be a difference of Perceptions. 
That with refped to Senfation from exjer- 



i 17 ] 

nal obje6is, if a child at it's birth be fevereiy 
fmitten with a rod, or lightly touched with 
a feather, be expofed to extremity of pierc- 
ing cold, or foftered by a genial warmth, 
the perceptions will be very different, and 
one will be attended with pleafure, the 
other with pain. 

In a manner fomething analogous to this, 
when the mental perceptions take place, I 
think that Impreflions of Virtue, Goodnefs, 
Generofity, Benevolence, fuppoling the ab- 
fence of Prejudice, will be infinitely more 
agreeable to the unbiaffed mind than Im- 
preflions of a contrary quahty. In this fenfe 
I firmly believe that fo far our kind Creator 
hath, by the very frame and conflitution of 
our nature, fhewn to man what is Good. 

By which I do not mean any fenfible im- 
pulfe, or irrefiftible influence, but only 
fuch a difpenfation of things, as in the ope- 
ration and efFe<5l, fhall appear nothing more ^ 
than a good difpofition guiding the conduct 
of man by motives of Difcretion, Virtue and 
Religion. 

From this view of the Human Conflitu- 
tion, it mud manifeflly appear, that at leaft 
there is not any natural repugnance againft 
imprefTions of Benevolence and Philantho- 
B py-. 



[ ^8 ] 

py : that the Social AfFe6lions of Compaf- 
fion and Love for our fellow creatures, are 
as much a part of our Nature, as thofe of 
a more felfifh fort, and much more fo than 
thofe which are mixed with malignity to- 
wards others. So that in all a6ls of Cruelty 
we feem to fm againfl Nature as much as 
againft the Commands of God. 

But Education hath it's EfFe6l much 
fooner than is generally thought. It is fei- 
dom what it ought to be, and is fometimes 
(a pernicious, that at length the whole order 
and original conftitution of nature is per- 
verted. And thus by degrees it comes to 
pafs that we fee men with deliberation of 
mind, approve what is abominably fivilj 
approve even of Cruelty, and the fight of 
Human Mifery: with coolnefs, with apa- 
thy and fraudful circumvention opprefs, 
enilave and torture their fellow Creatures. 
But this can never be till all the Social Af- 
fections are ef!¥ced, the work of God de- 
flroyed, and the Original Conftitution of 
Human Nature overturned. Nor can any 
argument be taken from thefe iniiances to 
lead us to conclude, that even to thefe per- 
fons, thus dreadfully depraved, God did not 
orig^inally fhew what is Good, 

Secondly, 



[ 59 ] 

Secondly, he hath adifted thefe Original 
Tendencies from our Conilitution by gra- 
cious Communications of his Revealed Will. 
Of thefe there are various forts and dijEerenc 
degrees recorded in the Scripture, which at 
fundry times and in diverfe manners were be- 
flowed according to the circumflances of 
times, and the exigencies of mankind. 

It is but very little that is recorded of the 
Providential directions given to our firfl pa- 
rents, but it plainly appears that there was 
both a Permiflion, and a Prohibition, in 
order to (hew Adam what was for his Good. 
" Of every Tree in the Garden thou mayeft 
freely eat, but of the Tree of the Knowledge 
of Good and Evil : Thou fhalt not eat of 
it : for in the day that thou eateft thereof, 
thou (halt furely die." Now although this 
be an obfcure pafTage, and learned men 
have differed greatly in the fenfes they have 
put upon it, yet fo far is very plain, that 
whatfoever the precife meaning of it may 
be, it undoubtedly proves a communication 
of the Divine Will to Adam for his Good. 
So alfo in the intercourfe with Cain it is 
faid. If thou doeft well (halt thou not be 
accepted ? and if thou doefl not well, Sin 
li^th at the door. This (hews us plain, 
B 2 almo(t 



I 20 ] 

almod as v/ords can make it, that forae in- 
formation had been given him for his 
Good, and that his obedience or tranfgref- 
Hon would meet with due punifhment or 
reward. Thus in the very infancy of the 
world did God condefcend to fhew man 
what is Good, in ilrengthening the original 
tendencies of Nature by Communications 
of the Divine Will. And throughout the 
fucceeding ages, during the times of the 
Patriarchs, by the Inftitution of the Jewifli 
Rehgion, and by the Infpiration of the Pro- 
phets, the fame methods of Providence 
were purfued, and God never ceafed to fhew 
to Man what is Good. Thefe communi- 
cations were varied indeed according to the 
circumftances of the times, but in general 
they gradually became more and more clear,, 
as they approached nearer to the difpenfa- 
tion of the Gofpel, that full, that perfecl, 
that final difplay of the Will of God for the 
Good of Man. 

Let us now reafon a little upon this flate 
of things, God is our Creator, our Father. 
It is agreeable to Truth, and the Fitnefs of 
things, as it is exprcffed, that a Father 
fhould Oiew an indulgent care of his chil- 
dren, that he fliould inftru6l their igno- 
rance, 



■ [ 21 ] 

ranee, that he fhould beftow on them the 
means of improvement, that he fliould lead 
them to their proper Good. This it ap- 
pears that God hath done for his children, 
both from the frame of their ConfLitution, 
and by direct as well as intermediate com- 
munications with them. What then is the 
refult of all this care and tendernefs ? Is it 
beflowed upon us without expe6lation 
of any return on our part ? doth not a 
fenfe of gratitude and duty inform us that 
this cannot be ? There is then fome requi- 
fition from us. God hath fhewn thee, O 
man, what is Good, and in return, what 
doth the Lord require of thee, but to do 
Juftly, to love Mercy, and to walk hum- 
bly with thy God. Juftice, Mercy, and 
Humility are then the great Requifites, and 
the Outlines of our Duty. 

That Juftice from Man to Man is an in- 
difpenfible obligation needs not any formal 
proof, becaufe it is felf-evident, that if men 
were permitted, according to their fuppof- 
ed neceilities, or their vicious inclinations, 
to be unjuft towards each other, nothing 
but univerfal difcord, confufion, and mife- 
ry muft be the immediate confequence. 
That this is an unqueftionable Truth, ap- - 
B 3 pears 



[ 22 ] 

pears too plainly from the miferable condi^ 
tion of thofe unhappy men opprefTed with 
the Yoke of Slavery, in whofe fevere fate, 
inattention to the maxims of common jal- 
tice produces' univerfally the moft infup- 
portable ilate of human vvretchednefs. But 
farther, he who is unjuft is a Thief and a 
Robber, becaufe, fo far as his injuftice ex-? 
tends, he takes by fraud or violence that 
which belongs to another, and deprives him 
of his proper right. Now Society confifts 
in the union of it's members and in every 
one's enjoying peaceably what is his own. 
But Injuftice breaks this Union, and all 
peaceable enjoyments of Perfonal Property, 
and tends to the difiblution of Human So- 
ciety. Jufcice therefore is enjoined us, in 
the firfl place as an abfolute and indifpen- 
fible duty, becaufe men were formed to live 
in Society, and becaufe Society cannot fub- 
iiil but by a reciprocal obfervation of Juf- 
tice. 

There is not, it may be obferved, any 
virtue in Juftice, nor the lead fhadow of 
reward due to the praclife of it : every 
one has a flri^l and abfolute right to it from 
every other perfon. And we might as well 
pretend to merit for not putting out the 

eyes 



[ ^3 ] 

eyes of our neighbour, or not depriving 
him of his life, as to any virtue in refrain- 
ing from Injuftice towards him. By the 
pra6lice of Juftice wq only avoid being cri- 
minal. We are not in any degree profita- 
ble fervants, wq fhall have barely done 
what it was our flri6l duty to do. When 
therefore we hear fuch mighty praifes on 
the chara6ler of the Honeft man, the word 
Honefly muft be taken in fome extended 
fignification, becaufe every one is under an 
indifpenfible obligation to Honefty and 
Juflice. Such praifes then are in truth 
little better than cenfure on the pra6lice of 
the world, if thefe commendations are given 
to the meer refraining from a Crime. 

But our duty doth not reft here. We are in 
the next place to love Mercy. There is a pe- 
cuhar energy in this form of exprefllon. We 
are to do Juftly, but we are to love Mercy. 
Let us then examine our real fituation with 
refpe6l to this moft amiable of all human 
virtues. And, firft, as it may be conne6l- 
ed with Juftice in the redrefs of Injuries, or 
the Punifliment of Offences. 

In the adminiftration of Juftice for the 

redrefs of Injuries we ought, no doubt, to 

fee that compenfation be made to the in- 

B 4 jured, 



[ 24 ] 

jured, but this (hould always be done with- 
out pafiion, without malevolence, without 
any unneceiTary rigour. And fo far every 
one has a right that Mercy jChould be mixed 
with Juftice in the redrefs of Injuries. 

In the adminiftration of Juftice for the 
Punilhment of Offences, Mercy feems to 
have a ftronger call upon us than in the re- 
drefs of Injuries. In many things we all 
offends we fhould therefore have a fellow- 
feeling for Offenders, and a confcioufnefs of 
human weaknefs fhould teach us this com- 
paffion as far as is confiftent with public 
welfare. Doubtlefs there are feme crimes 
of n nature fo atrocious as not to leave 
room for Mercy— where puniftiment muft 
be for Example and for Terror : but in ge- 
neral, it is to be wiflied that our Penal Laws 
were more equitably proportionate to of- 
fences, and. more than they are at prefent 
founds foftened by Mercy : more gentle in 
the Penal Sentence, and in Execution more 
determined. 

But there is yet a far more extend ve fidd 
open to us for the exertion of Mercy, than 
the redrefs of Injuries, or the Punifhment 
of Offences. Every creature that God hath 
made, and endued with life and fenfibiiity, 

is 



I 25 3 

is entitled to our Mercy. The moft per- 
fefl of human beings hath fome* imperfec- 
tions which may claim our pity ; nor is the 
humble worm which we tread under foot 
beneath out tender regard. And yet, if we 
take a difpafiionate view of our general con- 
-du6l, with what horrror muft we contem- 
plate our deviation from this godlike dire6tion 
to Love Mercy. Even the procurement of 
our food, nay oiir very amufements are too 
often founded in cruelty. What fhall we 
fay -to the general treatment of thofe Ani- 
malts, which, though for our benefit placed 
by Providence in a ftate of fubordination to 
ourfelves, are yet endued with noble powers 
and faculties both of Body and Mind ? who 
poffefs in high degree the fenfe of Pain and 
Pleafure— who are confcious, as we our- 
felves can be, of kind, and of cruel ufage 
« — who give evident proofs of Gratitude and 
AfFeftion. It fhould bev for ever kept in 
mind by us, That the righteous man is 
merciful to his Beaft — but in this refpe(5l 
we have neither righteoufnefs nor mercy. 
Yet they have all the fame common father 
with ourfelves, the fame God created them. 
" Who gave the horfe his flrength, and 
eloathed his neck with thunder ? who 

made 



[ 26 ] 

made the glory of his noflrils terrible ? who 
taught him to pavy in the valley, to mock 
at fear, and not to turn back from the 
fword?" and was he formed by an Almigh- 
ty hand with thefe difl:in6lions, and was it 
given him to pofTefs thefe fuperior qualities, 
and yet be doomed to the cruel fate which 
every where attends him ? But this is a crime 
which muft hereafter be accounted for— 
God, in his benedi6tion to Noah, hath de- 
clared, that for the blood, that is, for the 
cruel treatment of every inferior Animal he 
will require an account, " at the hand of 
every beaft will I require it." 

Happy for us would it be did our Cruelty 
ftop here ; happy, was it not extended to 
fuch a degree, and perpetrated with fuch 
horrid circumllances of favage ferocity, as 
feem to preclude all pofTibility of pardon. 
When thoufands and ten times tens of thou- 
fands of Innocent Men, through vile and 
mercenary motives are annually doomed to 
Slaughter, nay, to a ftate far worfe than 
than Slaughter, by premeditated contri- 
vance, and infernal deliberation of mind. 
I have not in view the ravages of war 5 
thefe are innocent pailimes compared with 
the fcenes of Cruelty to which I allude. I 

mean 



[ 27 ] 

mean our eftablifhed, and to our eternal 
Ciame be it faid, our Legal Traffick in Hu- 
man Blood. In this view the thought- is 
beyond meafure horrible : for while the 
Legiflature gives formal Sanftion to this 
Enormity, they make themfelves partakers* 
and fo involve the Nation in the dreadful 
guilt of the Individuals immediately con- 
cerned in thefe deeds of Oppreflion, Cruel- 
ty, Murther. 

We read of a Pharaoh, of a Nero, of 
fanguinary tyrants in the Eaft: we read of 
Kings nearer home, and nearer our own times 
whofe characleriftic appellations were the 
Cruel, the Bloody : yet we no where read of 
any Character that for total want of Hu- 
manity (lands equal to the Britifh Merchant 
in Men. In the former inflances the 
crimes indeed were great, but they were 
the crimes of Individuals, giving an uncon- 
trouled dominion to their yicious pafljons : 
in the latter, the Evil Js a Syflematic Infti- 
tution of hardnefs of heart,, and unexam- 
pled barbarity. A fpecies of merchandife 
it is, founded in principles that fland in 
dire6t oppofition and in open defiance to 
1;he peculiar and diRinguifhing commands 
o( our Saviour 3 and this too in the face of 

the 



[ 28 ] 

the world, patronized by the Legiflature of 
a Nation, profe fling itfelfChriftian. Afto-^ 
nifhing Contradidion ! I do not mean to 
infinuate, that the Chriflian Inftitution in 
exprefs- terms prohibits Slavery j it fuppofes 
fuch a Pra6lice to have fubfifledj yet the 
dire6lions given to perfons in a itate of Ser- 
vitude are not to be confidered as an appro-, 
bation of that pra6lice, but merely from it's 
fpirit of accommodation, and to preferve 
peace both in families and ftates, as a rule 
of obedient condu6l to thofe v^'ho were in 
that unhappy fituation. For the Spirit of 
Chriftianity abhors the very idea 5 teaches 
us that with God there is no fuch refpedl of 
Perfons, and that in his fight the poor 
flave, who patiently fufFers, is of greater 
merit than the Tyrant who inflicts his fuf- 
ferings. 

An Enormity this of fuch magnitude, 
that with the circumdances preceding the 
very acl, the a6l itfelf, and the certain 
known confequences attending it, the An- 
nals of the whole world cannot produce it's 
equal in perfidy, injuftice, and cruelty : be- 
ing radically, abfolutely, and effentially 
Evil, loaded with all pofTible malignity, 
and totally deilitute of any Real Good. It 

is 



[ 29 ] 

is therefore not juftlfiable by the Sanclion 
of any Human Inftitution. For not even 
Political NecelTity can be juftly pleaded iFor 
it, which, fome men feem to think, can 
chansfe the very Eflence of A6lions. 

A refpe6lable writer upon Morals, in the 
diftinclion between Things and Perfons, 
obferves, that Man being a Perfon cannot 
make himfelf a Thing, fo as to become the 
Property of another Man. This obferva- 
tion may be corroborated by refle6ling, that 
evei7 Man immediately upon his birth, and 
throughout the whole courfe of his life, is 
already a Property belonging to a fuperior 
Lord, and therefore cannot make himfelf 
the Property of an inferior. He is for ever 
the Property of God. *' It is God who 
hath made us, and not we ourfelves -, we 
are his people, and the Sheep of his paf- 
ture." Nor can we, without Guilt, ahe- 
nate this Property of God, or transfer it 
from him to Man. We have not any au- 
thority fo to do, for we belong to God. 
Hence we cannot difpofe of our own Life 
or commit Suicide without being Criminal. 
On the fame reafoning that We ourfelves, 
and all that is generally called Our Own, 
belongs flridly to God/ appears the pro- 
priety 



[ 30 ] 

pthty of a future day of Refponfibillty, 
when for all our Anions dons m the Body, 
and for the Ufe or Abufe of all our Talents 
and Faculties we mud render an Account 
to God. All which Talents and Faculties are 
therefore called by our Saviour, That which 
is Another s ^ as being not independently 
our Own Property, but only of that fort of 
Poffeffion vv'hich is in the Nature of a Tru{^, 
and over which Another, that is, God, hath 
the Superior and Sovereign claim. No 
man, therefore, can affign abfolutely over 
to another Himfelf, and all his Powers and 
Faculties, which is only a Poffeffion of 
Truft from God without robbing God of 
his Right. But every man who makes 
himfelf a Slave is guilty of this Robbery. 
And if no one has a right to do this him- 
felf, undoubtedly no other can do it fot 
him. This feems to imply that Slavery is 
originally, and fundamentally indefenfible, 
beins: eirentiallv Evil : but our Mode of 
tarrying on this bufinefs, the point I have 
particularly in view, is the deliberate per- 
petration of a Crime againfl God under all 
the moil horrid circumftances of cruel 

^ Ltfke xyi. 12. to a?v?k9Tgioi'» 

aggra> 



t 31 ] 

aggravation : it is therefore a tranfgreflioii 
of the command, To Love Mercy. 

Some idle pleas have been made for it 
from long cuftom, and the pradice of the 
world : but this way vve might juftify every 
vice of man. Some excufe has been offered 
from a pretended inferiority in the confti- 
tution of thefe unfortunate men : that they 
are untra6table, and muft be ruled with a 
rod of Iron. This is what every Tyrant 
Can fay in defence of his Tyranny. And . . 
were irj'true in this inftance, is it to be /^ 
wondered at, or is it to be condemned, if 
men are untra6lable, who, by fraud and 
violence, have not only been deprived of 
every endearment of Life, but are continu- 
ally torn by the flings and lafhes of their 
unfeeling tormentors. It has alfo been 
pretended that they are of lower intellectual 
abilities than the refl: of mankind. Suppofe 
it were fo, does this give us a right to enllave 
and torment them ? But this is abfolutely 
falfe : God made of one blood all the fons 
of men : and many inftances have appeared 
to prove, that with rerpe(5l to Mental Pow- 
ers, they want only equal information to 
equal the inhabitants of the more enlight- 
ened 



[ 32 1 

encd Nations of the Earth ^' In refpedl of 
Gratitude, inviolable AIFe6lion, and every 
amiable quality of mind, where they have 
been humanely treated, they iland in an 
tmrivaled Superiority. Some have attempt- 
ed, in a general way, to juftify Slavery 
from Captivity, from Infolvency, on ac- 
count of Crimes, or from the Defpotifm in 
the State, but whatfoever weight thefe rea- 
fons may have in cafes where they can be 
admitted, yet here they lofe all their force, 
and are totally inapplicable to this vile traf- 
fick of the Britifli Man-Merchant. For 
with refpe6l to this nefarious commerce 
they are not founded in truth, and if they 
were true they are not defenfible °. But all 

the 

'' See the Letters of Ignatius Sancho, and the Poems hy 
:Fhylli3. 

«^ Amongft various equally unjuft and cruel methods of fup- 
plying our Ships with Slaves, the Prince of the Country, if 
lie is not provided with fuihcient numbers, will fometimes 
furround a village full of innocent and peaceable inhabitants 
with his troops : and fetting fire to the place, the unfortu- 
nate creatures thus circumvented, mufl: either perifh in the 
ilames, or fall into his hands. The latter are fold to our 
Men-Merchants, who fell thofe they do not deftroy in the 
Toyage to the Planters : who in their cruelty are thus far 
kind, that it is exerted to fuch degree as to be intolerable by 
the human frame, and therefore but few of thefe unfortunate 
creatures live many years. In thefe inftances, neither Cap- 
tivity, properly fpeaking, nor Infolvency, nor Crimes can- 

poffibly 



[ 33 ] 

the fnallow arguments that have been pro- 
duced from thefe and fimilar Topics, as 
Palliations of Injuftice and Judifications of 
Cruelty, are founded in falfehood and de- 
ception ', and it appears, on fair examina- 
tion, that this commerce miHtates againft 
worldly profit as much as againft common 
Humanity. So that the purchafers of Men 
from the Men-ftealers, feem to be under a 
judicial infatuation, while they clearly a6l 
againft their own temporal, as well as their 
eternal intereft in the unparallelled barba- 
rities which they daily, and hourly, and 
every moment infli6l upon their poor tor- 
tured fellow creatures , fmce even their mer- 
cenary views would be better anfwered if 
they could pay the leaft attention to the 
calls, the duties of Humanity. For the 
intolerable harddiips to which thefe unhap- 
py men are generally fubjeCled, drive many 

to 



pofllbly be urged as a Juftificauon of the Piattlce, De- 
fpotifm indeed is feen in it's true Colours, and whoever has 
the efFrontciy to make ufe of fuch a plea, may he be feized 
in fome finiilir way, and meet v/iih fimilar treatment. For 
it is a precept both in heathen and in Chrillian Ethics, that 
as he would do to others he (hould be tione unto himfelf. 

It is calculated that by thefe inhuman pr:;dtifes a hundred 
thoufand people are annually murth'.rcd ; aud that fince the 
cornmenccmcnt of the Trafiick, nine millions of luiman 
creatures have been deftr^'ycJ. JS'inety hundred tboujand. 

Sec the Summary View. 

c 



[ 34 ] 

to Suicide from defpair, and many perifh 
from the confequences of a very juftifiable 
refiftance to the feverities of their unfeeling 
talk mailers. While on the contrary, in the 
few inftances where they are well treated, 
thev are found not to decreafe, but to mul- 
tiply ^ to retain their vigour, and perform 
their appointed labours with refignation to 
their hard Fate. From fuch Abfurdity of 
Conduct in their hard-hearted tyrants, one 
might imagine that fome mahgnant Demon 
firft infatuates them and then deflroys % 

That the Legiflature of a Nation illumi- 
nated to a high degree by Science, human 
and divine, proud of Liberty Civil, Politi- 
cal and Religious, well acquainted with the 
Rights of Humanity, and pretending to the 
Uriel obfervance, not lefs than the know- 
ledge of them, boafting every where of it's 
Charity and Benevolence, and encouraging 
Inftitutions for the relief of Human Mi- 
fery, that this Legiflature fhould yet give 

prote(5tion 



^ Seven plantations have wanted no fupplies for fome 
years. On thefe plantations the Negroes were treated with 
humanity. On one of them, where the treatment was fupe- 
rior to that of the reft, the numbers increafed fo much that 
the plantation was overftocked. 

Summary View of the Slave Trade, p. 14. 

"^ Quos vult perdere dementat prius. 



[ 35 1 

prote6lion to fuch wicked men in fach 
wicked pra6lices, is indeed an event which 
mufb excite our aftonifhment, for which we 
muft pour forth the deepefl lamentation, 
of which we cannot think without horror, 
cannot fpeak but with indignation j and in 
this inftance certainly we may be angry, 
and fin not, even though the fun fhould go 
down upon wrath. But fliall not God 
vifit for fuch things, and fhall not his foul 
be avenged on fuch a Nation as this ? Pof- 
fibly our Punifhment, if we repent not of 
thefe Evil doings, may not be far off : pof- 
fibly a flate of worldly profperity may be 
the prelude to it : for when Individuals or 
Nations are become completely wicked, 

—they are raifed aloft — 
To make their fall more dreadful — ^ 

Let us, however, hope that it is not yet too 
late to return to God. We are alRired that 
when the Wicked turneth away from his 
wickednefs, and doeth that which is right, 
he fhall fave his Soul alive. We have for- 
merly had Lav/s in this Country concerning 
Commutation for Murthcr, Laws concerning 

Witch- 

f tolluntur in altum — 

Ut lapfu graviore ruanc — Clau4. 

C 2 



t 36 ] 

Witchcraft, Laws condemning to a cruel 
death for a difference in religious opinion. 
Thefe Laws for their Injuftice have been 
repealed. We have now Laws fabfifting 
concerning the Traffick in Human Blood% 
Thefe Laws are equally unjuft, and may 
they Toon have an equal fate, and may the 
Britifh LegiQature in this inftance, be en- 
titled to honour for a due attention to the 
common rights of Humanity, the demands 
of Jufiice, the cries of Mercy. 

But it has been urged, that by virtue of 
thefe Laws, the public faith is pledged to 
thefe dealers in men for prote6lion in the 
prefent mode of carrying on their bufinefs. 
So much the worfe: for neither the Public 
protefting, nor the Individuals prote6led 
have any right to pledge, or expe6l Faith for 
the Commiffion of Moral Evil; /or God 

bath 

• 5 Geo. 3. And be it farther enadled by the authority 
aforefaid, That it fliall not be lawful for any of the Officers 
or Ser-vants employed by the Committee of the faid Compa- 
ny on the Coaft of Africa, to export Negroes from Africa 
upon /-6^/;'o-w;« Account — and if any fuch officer or fervant 
fliall be found, &c. he ihall be difmiffed, &c. 

This claufe is written with a pen dipped in the heart's 
blood of thefe devoted Viftims, thus delivered by the Le- 
giflature of Britain to be exported as Goods of common 
merchandife by this African Committee : for whofe greater 
Gain their fervants are prohibited from interference in this 
murtherous injuftice. This Bloody Statute is the Legiflativc 
Adtof Britilh Chrilliana! 



[ 37 ] 

hath not given any man Licence to Sin* Eccl. 

XV. 20. 

Farther, in defence of the Purchafers of 
Men from the Men-ftealers, it has alfo been 
faid. That we muft not do Evil that Good may 
come ; and therefore we muft not do an inju- 
ry to thefe perfons in order either to fet their 
Slaves at Liberty, or prevent a future pur- 
chafe. Let us join ifTue upon this argument. 
The pretended injury in this cafe is at the 
worft, merely an inconvenience which may 
foon and eafily be remedied : it has not any 
thing in it of the nature of Moral Evil, and 
will be in the highefl degree produ6live of 
Moral Good. Whatfoever it may be, it arifes 
originally from circumftances effentially and 
morally Evil : therefore even to occafion this 
inconvenience, is not doing, but removing 
Evil that Good may come. A fkilful Surgeon 
frequently occafions an inconvenience to 
produce a greater Good : he mufl: go to the 
bottom of the wound to promote a permanent 
cure. But this argument may be retorted. 
We muft not do Evil, it is faid, that Good 
may come. Certainly therefore we muft not 
be guilty of Perfidy, Cruelty, and Murther, 
the higheft inftances of moral Evil, merely 
that the Planter may with the greater eafe 
c 3 cultivate 



[ 38 ] 

cultivate his Plantation. And if this be true, 
which cannot be denied, there never would 
be any flaves to be tortured, or fet at Li- 
berty. 

But it is farther faid, that you cannot de- 
vife any mode of proceeding preferable to 
the prefent, fince it is the real Intereft of the 
Planter to fee that his flaves are treated with 
gentlenefs and humanity. Intereft is doubt- 
lefs a powerful motive : but alas 1 do we not 
every day fee many inftances in which men 
deliberately a(5l in dire6l contradidion to 
their true intereft? It is the true intereft of 
every one to be temperate, virtuous, prudent. 
Are there then none who are intemperate, vi- 
tious, imprudent ? How many are there born 
to affluence and independance, who never are 
at reft till they have made themfelves v/retch- 
ed, defpicable dependants ! Their real intereft 
has no weight with them when a fcandalous 
paflion is to be gratified, neither has it with 
the Dealer in Men. 

Far 

f On one plantation in Barbadoes, by the cruelty of the 
Planter, in tVo years the number of his flaves was reduced 
from 170 to 95 : and at his death it was found that his in- 
human feverity had not encreafed his Fortune. While on 
another plantation on the fame ifland, though in a lefs favour- 
able fituation, by the humane and gentle treatment of the 
Matter, who was as a father to his Negl-oes, they multiplied 
to a great degree. He purchafed a fecond eftate, and at his 
death, with the higheft charader for his tendernefs and hu- 
manity, he had more than doubled his original fortune. 



[ 39 ] 

Far be it from me to wifli the leaft detri- 
ment to thefe perfons : I moft devoutly wifh 
their Reformation, and their true happinefs; 
and mean only to infmuate that the argu- 
ment from word I y intereft hath not any con- 
clufive weight as operating efFe6lually upon 
the Planter's mind ; or if it had, that the end 
propofed would be better anfwered by the 
employment of Perfons in a {late of Civil 
Liberty. 

There are doubtlefs different ways of con- 
fidering this fubjeft, as Politicians, and as 
Chriftians. The Politician confiders things 
of this nature merely as fubje6ls of Political 
Cafuiftry without any regard to Moral Rec- 
titude : the Chriftian looks to a more impor- 
tant end, which is not attainable but by a 
condu61: that is Holy, Juft, and Good. The 
Evils which the Politician fears or pretends 
to fear, are Imaginary : the Evils which the 
Chriftian actually fees, are Real, are Horri- 
ble j are of a Maghgnity for which there can- 
not be any compenfation by any worldly ad- 
vantage whatfoever. 

Let us then treat this matter as true and 
tenderhearted Chriftians. Let us look with 
an eye of Pity upon thofe who are faft bound 
in mifery and iron: let us confider thofe who 
are thus bound as being bound with them : 
c 4 let 



[ 40 ] 

let us break their bonds afunder, and cad 
away their cords from us: let us give light 
and liberty to thofe who fit in darknefs, and 
the fhadow of Death, and from a ftate of 
mifery and torture, let us guide their feet 
into the Paths of Peace. 

Why the Almighty hath not iliewn the 
lighting down of his arm, and inftantaneoufly 
blafted the offenders by fome fevere ftroke 
of his indignation— why thefe enormities 
have hitherto been permitted, we cannot 
prefume to fay : we muft not too curioufly 
pry into the fecret difpenfations of Provi- 
dence — thefe are amongil: the things that re- 
quire us to walk humbly with our God. 

In truth, there are myfterious things in all 
the works and all the ways of God, that 
fhew the propriety of the concluding precept 
in the Text. But as we are certain that his 
difpenfations are all derived from infinite 
Goodnefs and Mercv, oar duty is Refiirnation 
to his Will, and a refoliuion to walk Hum- 
bly with our God; till that time fnall come 
when this mvfterious veil fliall be diawn 
afide, and every thing be made known unto 
tfs as clearly as we ourfelves are known to 
him who made us. 

In this refigned and humble ilate of mind, 

we 



[ 41 ] 

we may without murmuring contemplate 
thofe circumftances which elfe muft hurt 
every one endued with fenfibility and bene- 
volence, while they exhibit the great Theatre 
of Nature, whether in the Air, or on the 
Earth, or in the Waters under the Earthy as 
a Scene of Violence and Depredation. Far 
different this from that promifed Hate of 
things, when the Earth fhould be full of 
the Mercy of the Lord, and peace and hap- 
pinefs eftablifhed throughout his holy 
Mountain. 

In this ftate of mind, we may with lefs 
difcompofure contemplate even thofe horri- 
ble deeds already faintly fketched, and reft 
in hope that God in his good time will foften 
the flinty hearts of our Men- dealers, and 
Men-purchafers, and touch them with a 
fpark of Mercy. 

In this ftate of mind, we may with refig- 
nation contemplate that apparently unequal 
didribution of things in the worldly profpe- 
rity of wicked men, and in the dtpreffion 
and diftrefs of thofe who are of mo deft 
Merit and unafTuming Virtue. 

In this ftateof mind, we may with chear- 
ful fubmiffion contemplate our own origin 
from the Duft of the Earth, and our ap- 
proaching 



[ 42 ] 

preaching refolution into the fame ftate of 
Original Infenfibility, under the Firm be- 
lief and expedation, that God in his ap- 
pointed feafon, will a fecond time beftow 
upon us not only Senfibility, but Immortali- 
ty. A revolution this in the circumftances 
of Man's Exiftence which utterly confounds 
all Human Philofophy that doth not admit 
the Truth, and the Mediatorial Efficacy of 
the Chriftian Difpenfation, by which alone 
we gain a rational and authoritative afTurance 
of ^he RefurreBion and the Life. 

In this ftate of mind, we may without re- 
pining, contemplate the Origin and Progrefs 
of thofe Corruptions, which by fubftituting 
the traditions of men in place of the Com- 
mands of God, have in feveral inftances 
efpecially under the Papal Hierarchy made 
the word of God of none efFecl : under the 
fpecious term of Orthodoxy defacing the 
genuine (implicity of the Gofpel, and by the 
introdu6lion and intermixture of Opinions 
and Do6i:rines, from the Schools of Heathen 
Philofophy, laying foundation for the pe- 
culiar Errors of Popery. With equal refig- 
nation alfo, on the contrary, we may con- 
template thofe parts of the Divine Difpen- 
fations that flill remain really myilerious^ 

and 



t 43 ] 

and which, from imperfe6l views, have fome- 
times led hafty reafoners into Infidelity. 
While on one hand, feeing fome things ad- 
mitted into Syftems of Chriftianity that ap- 
pear to them evidently falfe, they precipitate- 
ly conclude that nothing there is truej or on 
the other, prefuming that the Human Un- 
derftanding is commenfurate to every obje6t 
of it's inveftigation, they reje6t every thing 
that to them has the leafl appearance of 
Myftery. But thefe are extremes that are 
very blameable. For though additions or 
corruptions may obfcure, they do not anni- 
hilate Truth; and though many things 
manifeftly appear, and are ealily known, 
yet there are ftill many things concealed, 
which in our prefent flate of imperfe6l and 
confined faculties, we (hall never know, and 
which for the prefent are proper obje61s of 
our Faith, and proper proofs of our Humi- 
lity. For now we fee but through a glafs 
darkly, but the time will foon come when 
we fhall fee face to face. 

When that awful period fhall arrive, 
our Humility fliall receive it's reward, and 
thefe myfterious parts of the Divine Difpen- 
fations be made clear and manifeft to us as 
the Sun when he goeth forth in his might. 

In 



[ 44 [ 

In the mean time let us, with abfolute re- 
fignation of Soul, and with the deepeft gra- 
titude receive what God hath hitherto 
fhewn us for our Good ; let us with unre- 
mitted perfeverance continue To do Juflly, 
to love Mercy, and to walk humbly with 
our God. 



I k <*> ji I 



London, 15th Jan. 1788. 

At a Committee of the Society, inflituted 
for the Purpofe of effecting the Aboli- 
tion of the Slave Trade. 

RESOLVED, That the following Report be 
circulated for the general Information of the 
Society. 

THIS Committee would gladly have availed them- 
felves of the fentiments and inftruftions of a Ge- 
neral Meeting of the Society, in ^profecuting the impor- 
tant objects of their appointment, but the remote fitua- 
tion of moft of the fubfcribers, creates a difficulty which 
cannot eailly be obviated. The Committee, however, 
beg leave to afTure them, that due attention will be paid 
to fuch communications as they may be favoured with 
from individual members, and which it feems imprafti- 
cable to obtain from the colle£live body. 

The information and arguments on this fubje£l, con- 
tained in various pubhcations, have fully evinced the 
injuftice and inhumanity of the Slave Trade. The 
Committee have expended a confiderable fum in print- 
ing and difperfmg fuch traits; but as they are fully per- 
fuaded, that no further arguments are necelTary on that 
head, they have more particularly directed their attention 
to the plea of political neceffity, v/hichis frequently urg- 
ed to juftify, or at leaft to palliate, this traffick. For 
though it can by no means be admitted, that the greateft 
commercial advantages ought to preponderate, when 
oppofed to the plaincft dictates of religion and morality, 
yet the Committee are not infeniible of the natural in- 
fluence which iiiicrcft has in biafiing the judgements of 

men 



[ 46 J ' 

men, and of how much importance it is to convince the 
publick, that the commerce of this kingdom, and even 
the intereft of the Slave-Holders themfelves, v^ill be ad- 
vanced by the fuccefs of our endeavours. 

With this viev/ the Committee have been, and ftill 
are, engaged, at no inconfiderable expence, in promot- 
ing inquiries into the nature and conduit of the Slave 
Trade. Thefe inquiries have not only produced frefli 
i-nftances of the cruelties perpetrated on the vi^retched 
natives of Africa, but have eftablifhed a fad, hitherto but 
little known, namely, the deft:ru6tion of our feamen ; for 
it appears that the lives of a very confiderable proportion 
of thofe engaged in this trade, are annually facrificed to 
the nature of the fervice, and the extreme feverity of 
their treatment. To the abilities and unremitting affi- 
duity of the Rev. Mr. Thomas Clarkfon, in thefe re- 
fearches, the Society are much indebted. 

It muft be acknowledged, that the amount ofBritifh 
manufactures exported to the coafts of Africa, for the 
purpofes of this commerce, is confiderable ; but there 
is room to apprehend, that the demand for thefe would 
be much greater, if, in the place of it, was fubftituted 
an amicable intercourfe, which, inftead of fpreading dif- 
trefs and devaftation amongft the unoffending inhabitants, 
would introduce the bleffings of peace and civilization. 
The Committee find, that feveral vefTels have, for fome 
time, been folely employed in the importation of many 
valuable productions of that country, of eflential advan- 
tage to the manufactures of this : and they are in poflef- 
fion of fundry fpecimens of its produce, which confirm 
their belief, that the confidence of the natives being 
once eftablifhed, a trade may be opened with them, 
which, without interfering with the principal ftaple com- 
modities of our Weft 'India Colonies, would fpeedily be- 
come of great national importance. 

The Committee have feveral well authenticated ac- 
counts of eftates in the Weft-Indies, on which the num- 
ber of negroes has been not only fupported, but increafed, 
without any foreign fupply for many years : a circum- 
ftance which affords the ftrongeft proof that the nature 
of the cafe will admit, that a proper attention to the prin- 
ciples 



[ 47 ] 

ciples of humanity in their treatment would preclude the 
neceffity of any further fupplies from the coafts of Africa. 

The Committee feel it their duty to difFufe the infor- 
mation they have obtained as generally as poflible, and 
more particularly to avail themfelves of every opportu- 
nity (in which they earneftly requeft the affiftance of 
every individual) of imprefling on the minds of our le- 
giflators, the neceflity of entering into a ferious invefti- 
gation of the fubjedt; and they have great fatisfadlion in 
reporting that many very refpedtable Members of both 
Houfes of Parliament have afTured them of their difpofl- 
tion to promote our defign. 

The applications of the Committee have generally met 
with a cordial reception, and indeed perfons of refpedl- 
able fituation in many parts of the kingdom have afford- 
ed unfolicited fupport. Several men of learning have ef- 
poufed the caufe in various publications. The Clergy 
of the eftablifhed Church, and the Miniflers amongftthe 
Diflenters, there is good reafon to believe are in general 
fmcere friends to the undertaking. Members of both 
Univerfities have expreffed themfelves in terms of ap- 
probation of the plan; and, together with thefe, the 
fpirited exertions of Manchefter, Birmingham, and other 
principal Manufacturing Towns, afford ground to hope 
that a fpecies of oppreffion, fo difgraceful to the nation, 
will at length be abolifhed by general confent. And they 
truft, that whatever difficulties may attend their progrefs, 
by a fteady perfeverance the Society will eventually be 
inftrumental to the fuccefs of a caufe, in which are in- 
volved the honour of this country, and the happinefs of 
millions of our fellow-creatures. 

During the attention of the Committee to the bufmefs, 
undoubted accounts have been received from North 
America, of the good conduiSt and capacity of many of 
the negroes refident there, with fpecimens of their im- 
provement in ufcful learning, at a fchool eftablifhed in 
Philadelphia for their education, which fatisfacStorily 
prove the abfurdity of the notion, that their underftand- 
ings are not equally fufceptible of cultivation with thofe 
of white people. 

The Committee have likewifc received information 

from 



[ 48 3 

from France, that there is a probability of a Society be- 
ing eftablifhed there on the fame principles as our own. 

The prefent amount of Subfcriptions received is 
j(^. 1367. 85, id.; and of our Payments already made, 
j^, 514. 17^. 10 d. Though it is forefeen that the fu- 
ture expences in this bufmefs will be confiderable, it is 
impoflible to afcertain the amount j but thejiberal con- 
tributions now reported, leave no room to doubt that 
fuch further affiftane«-will be cheerfully given as will be 
requifite to complete the purpofes of the inftitution. 
The Committee truft it is unneceflary to add, that to thefe 
purpofes only they fhall be faithfully applied. 



Sigiied, by order of the Committee, 

GRANVILLE SHARP, Chairman. 






