^ Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 
Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/vindicationofadd1791hill 



A 

VINDICATION 

O F T H K 

AD DRESS 

T O T H E 

f^EOPLE OF GREAT BRITAIN, 

ON THE USE OF 

WEST INDIA PRODUGE. ' 

WITH SO M E 

OBSERVATIONS AND FACTS RELATIVE TO THE 
SITUATION OF SLAVES. 

IN REPLY TO 

A FEMALE APOLOGIST FOR SLAVERY. 



By RICHARD HILLIER, 

FORMERLY A SAILOR IN THE WEST INDIA 'TRADE. 



From HaKdnefs of Heart and Bl'mdnefi of Mind, good Lord, deliver 



LONDON: 

•SOLD BY M. GURNEY, N« 128, HOLBORN, AND T. KNOTT 

N^ 47, LOMBARD-ST}A£iiT. 

179I. 



Price Twopence, 



.7(0 



L E T T E R, d-c. 



MADx^M, 



A 



FEW days ago, your pamphlet was 
'put into my hands. Having rejected tlie prod-uce of 
the Weil Indian fagar cane ever fince parliament; 
thought proper to turn a deaf ear to the fupplicadons' 
-of the nation, in behalf of the injured Africans, I re- 
joiced to find that the propriety of purchafmg commo- 
•tlities, obtained by a fyllematic courfe of legal oppref- 
•fion, was in a fair way of being in-ve ft i gated ; but I 
little thought that, in a "nation tenacious of its liberty, 
which had given birth to a Macauley, a Barbauld, cr a 
V/illiams, I ever iho aid have found a female apologill 
for flavery. Had not feme general idea of the deccit- 
fulnefs of the heart put me upon ray guard, fl.cauld 
not have imagined that the holy fcriptures would have 
'been quoted in fupport of villainy and faud. People 
-are fometimes the unwilling inftruments of accelerating 
general good : you may have the pkafure of reflecting 
hereafter, that the difcuilion you promoted w^as fatal 
to your caufe. In order to fecure the attainment of fo 
defirable an end, I fliall difcufs the doftrines you have 
laid down, as concifely as I am able. Should I, inthe 
A 2 courfe 



( 4 ) 

•courfe of argument, treat them, or their author, with 
too little refped:, my excufe will be, that when writing 
againil cruelty it is natural for me to forget, that J am 
writing to a woman. At your firil off- let, you take 
care to infbrm iis, ** That you are not (o devoid of the- 
feelings of humanity, or ChrilHan principles, as to wifn 
flavery and opprcflion to any individual of the human 
race." Jt was kind in you to tell the world of your 
humanity and your Chriftianity ; as, without fome fuch 
friendly hint, no exertion of human fagacity could have 
difcovered that you poUefled any thing like the hu- 
jnanity of the eighteenth century, or the Chriftlanity 
of the New Tellanient. But if you are reaify an enemy 
to flavery, why do you plead in its defence ? You are 
at fome pains to inform us of its great antiquity. You 
-tell us that it was regularly Carried on when Jacob's 
fons fold their brother. We believe it was before that 
time. We believe, 

'' Proud Nimrod firfl the bloody chace began : 
*' A mighty hunter, and his prey was man !** 

But if the antiquity of flavery ftamp it with dignity, 
how honourable is murder 1 for, in the dsiys of our 
f^rH parents, Cain rofe up againil Absl, his brother, 
and flew him. As to what was tolerated among the 
Jews, it is not of furticient importance to our prefent 
■quefcion to merit much attention ; as, if it proves any 
jthing, it proves, that as they were permitted to enflave 
all nations, the claim of us poor Englifhmen to liberty, 
is contrary to the revealed will of heaven. Your huf- 
band fliould alfo be informed that polygamy is very 
ancient, that it was univerfal at the time the law was 
given to IfraeU that it was in ufe among the Jews, and 
that, like flavery, it continues among that people in 
various parts of .the world to this day. Should the re- 
du<5l:on of your theory to practice, produce any family 
uneafinefs, yoa are not ignorant, that Mofes fuilered 
his difciples, to write bills of divorcement^ and to put 
away their wives. 

The 



( 5 ) 

The Romans, you Inform us, '* \vlrh all their boa'led 
Hbercy, pradlifed davery." And it is alfo certain, 
that, with all their boafted knovvl-idge,, they pra'flifed 
the moft ftupid idolatry. Thefe fafls only prove that 
ignorance of liberty, and ignorance of piety, go hand 
in hand. Having ellabliihed the antiquity of ilavery, 
you exultingly exclaim, '* A cuilom thus ancient, — 
thus univerfal, — is it not more a matter of furprife, that 
it Ihould fo long have fubiided in fo many parts of the 
world, than that it ftill continaes the fcourge of Africa i "' 
No : Rather let the heavens v/onder, and the earth 
be aftonilhed, that, while we are furrounded with fo 
fiiany indances where the name of Chrift has reached 
the ear, we find fo few where his religion has reached 
the heart; and that there fhould flill ex id m^n, who, 
while they pretend to iove their neighbour as them- 
felves, yet ilrain every nerve to detain him in perpetual 
bondage. This, ^lVS are required to helie-oe, is not your 
cafe ; you only reprobate the doftrine of the addrefs, 
as: '^ propofing means inadequate to its end. And 
recommending a real evil on the vague fuppofition that 
good may come." Whether the means propoR^d by 
the author of the addrefs, are adequate to their end 
or not, remains to be proved. And, with refpeifl to 
the evil he recommends, we ought to have been informed., 
whether it is a natural or moral evil. As it breathes 
nothing bat univerfal good-will to men, and contaMT? 
no avowed fentiment inimical to DHt/, if any evil [h 
prcpofed it mail be a natural evil : and we are juiUhcd 
in doing that, in order to fecure a greater good. ]f 
not, why did you marry,, and expofe yourfelf to the 
probability of dying in child-birth ? Or why do people 
in generalfubmit to the amputation of a difeafed limb? 
Are not the rilk of death and amputaticTi in themfelves 
evils? 

We are next told, that, '* The author's cakalat'on 
of the number of murders muft certainly be exaggeraied^ 
as by the late regulation of the number in proportion 
to the fhip's tonnage, and. the appointment of furgeons, 

mult 



( 6 ) 

• mull needs prevent a great deal of the evils he men- 
tions.'* Now would it not have been a. little more 
m.odell juft to have pointed out where a man's calcula- 
tions were wrong, than to affert, " They muil certainly 
1)2 exaggerated, merely hecaufe they muft ? And lliould 
r.ot you, who ft udder at the thought of paiTmg by a 
f agar- plum as a real evil, have given us an exadl ilate- 
ment of the ratio of murder v/e might commit, without 
trail fgr effing the limits of your curious humanity J 
Has your benevolent parliament regulated the quantity 
of bad weather the iliips are to meet with on the middle 
p.ifiiige ? Have the fapient fkulls of legiflators deviled 
ii mode by which they can prevent a fhip from finking, 
wl.en fiic ipnngs a leaitr Are your furgeons of Guinea- 
men fuch very clever feliov/s, above all the profeiTion, 
that they can cure grief, and' fear, and the effefts o£ 
foul atmofphere ? If you cannot anfwer thefe quellions in 
the afhrmati ve, tell us by what difpenfation from a God of 
jmercy, you conlign jult men arid innocent children to a 
floating heli; or elierelinquifli your impious claim to 
ChriiUanity. You inform us that, ** It can be no more 
the intereil of a planter to ftarve or murder his Have, than 
it is of a farmer to kill his horfe/' This ftale argument 
a priori muil be confidered by thofe who have been ia 
the Well-Indies, or who have read the evidence before 
parliament, as a piece of impertinence not vvoi'th an- 
fvvering. But, if you will come before the public 
a fecond time, and attempt to prove that farmers never 
abufe their horfcs, never entruil them to their fervants, 
never kill them when worn out.; and, moreover, that 
a horfe and an African are animals fo near alike, that 
we have as much right to enllave the one as to faddle 
the other,, then I will reafon with you upon your own 
grounds. 

There may pofiibly be a few perfons in London who 
die in confequeice of oppreffion, or who are murdered. 
But to fay, that the number of injured ghofts v/ho plane 
thorns on the piUovv^s of their oppreflbrs, ainounts to 

thre«- 



{ 7 ) 

three-fourths of the robuft young men who come from- 
the country for employ, is to talk madly. The bare 
afTertion of fuch nonfenfe, unfupported by evidence,, 
indicates a mind either defperately weak, or defperately 
wicked. 

You affirm that the pamphlet proves too much, con- 
feq,uently proves nothing ; and, in confirmation of 
your pofition, you alledge, " That the gofpel was 
propagated by the blood of its firft votaries, the pro- 
teftant religion by the fame means. Muft we, there- 
fore, defpife Chrillianity, renounce proteilantifm ?" 
In order to derive any advantage from this left-handed 
logic, it is neceiTary you fhould prove, that the pro- 
pagators of the gofpel themfelves violated the rights 
and liberties of one fet of men, in order to obtain an 
article called the gofpel, to fell for their own emolument 
to another. Tou ought farther to ftate that though this 
gofpel was higly grateful to the receiver,itwas what might 
be difpenfed with without injury ; and that, by a continual 
purchafe of this gofpel, you were continually creating 
frelh crimes, and continually rewarding the criminals. 
Had you ilated the matter thus clearly, to the way- 
faring man, though a fool, your gofpel would have ap- 
peared fo odious, that if his heart was not harder than 
adam-ant, I am perfuaded he would have rejeded it. 

V/ith refpeft to our confumption of other luxuries 
procured by flavery, we may perhaps be reprehenfible ; 
but furely our minds have not arrived to that perfection 
of depravity, v/hich emboldens men in the coma-iiiTioa 
of one crime, from a confcioufnefs that they daily com- 
mit half a dozen. By the bye, it is quite a rniftake 
that all the produce of the Eaft-Indles, and that ail ihe 
gold and filver we ufe, is the produ<5iion of ilaves.' 
And although it has been falhionabl^ to abufe the fer- 
vants of the Eaft- India Company, yetic will be recorded 
by hiftory, that there once exided a parliament which 
exhibited Articles of Impeachment again il an indi- 
vidual for peculation and cruelty, and yet made 
A 4 lavv^ 



f" 



( 8 ) 

laws for the continuation of kidniipping, and fet a price 
upon the heads of vidims yet unborn. You ilrive hard 
to confound free, with conipulfive labour ; and to be- 
tray the people of this country into an opinion, that 
Havery and toil are fynonymous terms. The reafon is 
obvious, the people of England are inured to labour, 
r.nd do not confider it *an hardlhip ; but they are ac- 
cailomed to receive the reward of that labour ; nor can 
they brook the idea of one man toiling at the difcretion, 
and for the advantage of another. When once the' 
people of England have feen the nakedncfs of flavery,. 
ihoje who now burn incenfe on her altars, will foon 
fing requiems to her foul. 

Britiih miners in particular, will not thank you for 
tailing them under-ground fiaves ; nor for drawing a 
comparifon beuveen them and Africans. But, as you 
{ay their fituation '^ feems unenviable even to a Well- 
India flave/' I can recommend an experiment which 
will fsirnifh you with the moll authentic intelligence en- 
that head. The ladies in the Weft-Indies have a hap- 
py dexterity in flippin-g off their Ihoes, and beating 
the heels of them about the heads of their negroes. 
Now, with a very little pradlice upon your bed-polV 
**^ cr drelTing table, you v/ill make a tolerable proficiency 
in the art. If ever afterwards you have an opportunity 
of vifiting Nevvcaflle or Kingfvvood, put your experi- 
ment in practice upon the head of the firft collier yoa 
meet, and depend upon it, you will foon arrive at an 
abfolute certainty about the comparative happinefs of a 
free miner and a Have. 

It is worthy of remark, that the mode you have 
adopted of fupporting your caufe, by mutilated portions 
of fcripture, is the very fame artifice which the devil 
made ufe of when he tempted Jefus Chrift to commit 
fuicide. Strange ! that the wifdcm of the ferpent 
Ifhould fuit your purpofe better than the innocence of 
the dove. But, there is nothing new under, the fun j. 

the 



( 9 ) 

the agency of iimllar caufes vAll always be exerted to 
produce fimilar effects. As long as error is fupported, 
Icripture mull be perverted. 

As it does not fignify what the conquering Ifraelites 
were allowed to do in the devoted land of Canaan, I 
fhall leave you, *' naturally to fappofe" what you pleafe, 
and to be as wife above what is wr!t!:eR as you pleafe, 
where our qneilion is not concerned, v/hile I proceed 
to examine that counfel vvhich you have darkened by 
words, or rather by ftripping it o^ thofe words with 
which it was connected. Our Lord, you fay, declared 
that nothing v/hich v/ent into a man could defile a 
man. And pray who ever faid it could ? Certainly, 
not the perfon to whofe addrefs you have written what 
you call an anfwer. He never faid that faccharlne mat- 
-ter of any kind, whether eaten with uiiwaihen hands or 
not, was capable of communicating that delilemeni: 
which the tradition of the elders making the comm.and- 
ment of God of none eiTef}:, had conjured up. He never 
entered upon the queftion to my knowledge. There- 
fore, hov/ any part of that controverfy can apply to his 
argument, is as much above my comprehenrion, as the 
curious pieceofintelligencevvith which you immediately 
follow it up, is too extenfive an article for my little 
faith, viz. ** That every thing which went into the body 
at that tim.ewas altogether prepared by flaves.'" A3 this 
isnotone of the things which you '^ naturally fuppofe,^ but^ 
v/hickyou roundly aflert, ought you not to give the world 
an opportunity of deriving their knowledge from the 
fame unfullied current of hiflory by which it is tranfmitted 
to you? Can you nof inform us who v/ere the ov/ners 
of Martha and her fifter Mary ? who were the ov/ners 
of the apofTolic nihermen ? and why they permitted 
them to wander about with fuch an unpopular character 
as Jefus Chrift, wiihout once fending the jumper after 
them, or fetting a price upon their heads, a? your 
friends in the Wefc- Indies often do ? When the \vorid 
is fatlsficd about thei'e particulars, perhaps the focietv 

" of 



( 10 ) 

of antiqua-ians may e!e6l you a member of their order, 
or the Creolean literati give you a name, and a place 
in the Mythology of tropical divinity. But fhould it 
appear that your information is only the ipfa dixit of 
a vain woman, you have no reafon to feel hurt, if your 
word fhould ceafe to be regarded, or be regarded only 
with fufpicion. 

The next portion of fcripture, which you wreft ta 
fuit your own porpofe, is of the fame nature with the 
firfl. Oar Lord, being at dinner with a Pharifee, his 
hoil ** marvelled'' that he did not perform the cuilomary 
ablution. On this occafion lie received the following 
iharp reproof: *' Now do ye Pharifees make clean the 
outfide of the cup and the platter ; but your inward part 
is full of ravering and wickednefs. Ye fools ! did not 
he that made thar which is without, make that which 
is Vv'ithin alfo ? .But rather giv^e alms of fuch things 
as ye have ; and, behold all things are clean unta 
you." Yoar making the precept general, without pre- 
fuppofing the thing polTefled equitably obtained, would 
make fociety unbearable. Men might make fortunes 
by rapine and flaaghter, then give alms of fuch things 
as thf^y had ; end, according to your expc/ttiony all 
would be clean unto them, for Jefus faid fo in direct 
and general terms. 

The apoftles, you fay, give fimilardireftions, "Only 
to let our mojderation be known, and that every thing 
is fandified by the word of God and prayer." Oh t 
the adroitn-efs v/ith which you manufaclure a text I 
You are as expert in fplicing the fagg ends of different 
epifties together, as in paring the re ugh edges from a 
portion of fcripture, which you tear from its connexion. 
The apoftle, indeed, recommends moderation in general 
terms ; but from the m,ere circumflance of his fo fpeak- 
ing, it is impoiTible he fhould have in view any par- 
ticular atfiion of life, the propriety of v/hich was 
doubted. With refpe<^ to the latter ciaufe of your 

(jueftionj, 



( II ) 

quefdon, it relates to thofe abiifes which would come 
to pafs in the latter days, through the influence of 
thofe who would depart from the faith, and forbid 
marriage, arid the ufe of meats, not becaufe they were 
diihoneltly obtained, but fnnply on their own account. 
Now, in this point of view, nothing is to be refafed ; 
but every thing is fariclified by the word of Gud and 
prayer. " Meat commendeth us not to God 1" Pray, 
who ever faid it did ? " Then/are''- — Not quite fo t^i 
with your " Therefore.*' The world muit be informed 
th^t you are ftriding over nearly three chapters, and 
that your friend, " Therefore^'' by whofe aid you fJi 
up the chafm, is a creature cf your own formation. 
The' text reads thus r " V/liatever is fold in the ili am- 
bles, that eat, afking noqueftions, for confcience-fake. 
For the earth is the Lord's, and the fulnefs thereof. 
If any of them that believe not, bid you to a feaft, and 
ye be difpofed to go, whatfoeveris fet before you, cat, 
afldng no queftion for confcience-fake. But if any ma.q 
fay unto you, this is offered in facrifice unto idols, eat 
not, for his fake that fhewed it, and for confcience- 
fake : for the earth is the Lord's, and the fulnefs 
thereof." Now, by attending to the fenfe of the au- 
thor, we fee that the difpute in queftion v/as about 
meat clTered to idols, and not about the propriety of 
purciiafing goods fraudulently or violently obtained. 
Your expofition aftefls the moral chara^^er both if 
Chrift and his apoftles ; as it reprefsnts them appoint- 
ing receptacles for flolen goods, and encouraging the 
difciples to gobble down any man's property, provided 
it was expofed for fale in the public market, even though 
they were aware that the perlbn with whom they dealt 
was an habitual thief, -and the property they purchafed 
mofl commonly (lolen. 

You. reft fatisfied in the idea, that you have difproved 
v/hat nobody attejaipted to eftablifh ; that " Abftinence 
from the fugar-cane is no part of a Chriilian's duty." 

The 



( 12 ) 

The author of the addrefs never faid It was. He 
only urges it as a duty, " To abdain from the ufe of 
the fugar-cane //// ^>ve can have it unconneded n.vith Jla-very , 
and unpolluted ^-with blood''' Our abftincnce, you fay, 
will do no good, *' The Iflands are to declare their in- 
dependence, and find a vent for their goods in fome 
other market." But to fliew the world that you have 
not undertaken to give ledlares upon a commerce of 
which you were entirely ignorant, be fo kind, next 
time you write, as to inform us, how the produce of 
cur iilands is to find a vent in foreign markets? "Al- 
ready we pay fo large a bounty to force it abroad, that 
v.'ere half the quantity of our imported fugar to be 
re-exported, nearly the whole of the revenue derived 
from that article would ceafe. And when we confider, 
that the bounty is not a new thing, and that even by 
its affidance our planters were not able to re-export any 
laige quantity of their imported goods, before the dif- 
turbances in the French iilands— -when we recoiled that 
America will foon {w^'^Xy herielfwith fugar from the maple 
tree, that the Eafi India Company will in a great rceafure 
fupply the German market; that Spain, Portugal, Hol- 
lanil, and Denmark, have fugar colonies of their own ; 
that the fugar of Sierra Leona will be driven abroad by 
an unnatural alien duty ; and when we call to mind, 
that England is almo-l the only country where rum is 
xsXf^^ we would fa.n know in what fequeilered corner of 
the globe the vVeil; Indian is to find a market for the 
fruits of his oppreffion, when the difturbances in the 
French iilands fnall ceafe, or when Parliament fliall 
ceafe lo reward his iniquity from the public treafury ? 
Is he io barter them for cat-fkins at Nootka Sound? 
or will the Greenlander receive them in exchange for 
bluLber ? 

"But fugar (you continue) is ilyled a luxury ; and 

She covetous m.an Vv^ill readily adopt the language, be- 

caufs, by denying his family an expenfive article, he 

€an make a fare faviFg." Such pakry llander is as 

innocent 



( '3 ) 

innocent as its author is contemptible. In the Tub- 
fequent fentence, indeed, you acquit us of the crime of 
avarice, by allowing, that although we refufe the Well 
India fugar, we purchafe that from the Eaft at an ex- 
orbitant price. But the tender mercies cf the wicked 
are cruel. We are refcued from the whip, to be chaf- 
tifed with fcorpions. We are accufed of ftraining a£ 
gnats, while we fwallow camels. What is the import 
of the accufatioti, I neither know myfelf, nor have I 
been able to find any one who could inform me. As 
there can be no crime in receiving the produce of free 
labour, fuch as Eaft India fugar, you muft certainly 
mean, that the people v/ho rejed the produce of rob- 
bery and murder, indulge themfelves in the commiffion 
of crimes of deeper dye without remorfe. If this is your 
meaning, either point out your man, and point out his, 
crimes, or elfe repent you of the fm of bearing falfe 
witnefs againil your neighbour. You inform us, that 
** No large commercial country, no grand monarchical 
form of government, ever v/as, or ever will be, fup- 
ported without luxuries.'' Whether they were or not, 
I Ihall not contend, as our queftionMs not, whether v/e 
ought to live luxurioufly or frugally ; but, whether we 
be j unified in tranfporting men in chains from one 
country, to be tortured for the gratification of our ap- 
petites in another ? Should this qnellion be anfwered 
- in the negative, I afk, why you tempt another to do 
what you would not do yourfelf? Why you join a 
croud, to do what you would not do alone ? Why you 
reward iniquity by purchafing an article procured by 
the perpetual acceflion of freih crimes.^ You anf'A'er, 
*' God has left us free — dcbaning ourfelves from the 
Well Indian cane is will-worfhip, and, like every other 
inflance of voluntary humility, has a tendency to defile 
the confcience, and darken the underftanding." If the 
voluntary humiiity, the woriliipping cf angels, and the 
apparent v/ifdorn in the vvill-worlhip of i'luman tradition, 
againft which the Coloffians were warned, have a ten- 
dency to defile the confcience, and darken the under- 

ftanding. 



( 14 ) 

ftanc^ing, farely the apparent folly and voluntary ar-- 
rogance with which you pervert the facred writings,' 
betray llrong lymptonis of a confclerce already defiled, 
an undcrfcanding ali-eady darkened. 

With refpecl to divlfions among Chriftians, they a^e 
certainly diCagreeable, when they occur : but they mud 
not be averted, by facrificing the repofe of confcience. 
However, you foretel, that he that eateth not, v/ill judge 
him that eateth, &c. It is ftrange, that all through 
the argument you cannot help talking about eati-ng ! 
Like the raifer's cook of Moliere, the only words in 
your mouth are, eat^ eaty eat, although your queftlon has 
no more reference to eating, than it has to riding on 
horfeback; but relates fimply to the propriety or im- 
propriety of recei'ving goods improperly obtained. If 
the fiaple commodity of the WeiT Indies had been ap- 
parel, inftead of food, what fcripture would you have 
perverted then ? As the cafe is, may we not hope for 
a text or two in vindication of the ufe of rum? Would 
iK>toar Lord's facram.ental invitation, " Drink ye all 
*' of it," and the apoftolic declaration, " the fpirit 
*^ giveth life," when properly tacked together, after your 
ir.ode, be admirably explicit I 

As to the ruin of trade, and the train of dreadful 
confequences, that is to follow our abftinence, that is 
nothing to us. If the produce of the labour of flaves 
is not equitable property, it is our duty to refufe it ; 
and our acceptance of it is criminal : or elfe, why are 
men puniaied for receiving ftolen goods ?■ 

Before you called your book An Anfwer to the Ad- 
drefs, you ihould have difproved the pofition. That, 
*' As the planter has 720 right to the per/on of the Jlave, he 
** can hu've no right to his labour, or to the produce of it.^"* 
Had you done that, the controverfy would have been 
nearly decided, unlefs we are to do " a real evil on the- 
** vague fuppofiucn that good may come." A.s tothe 

flats 



f^ate of freedom in which you urge God has left us^ if 
it is the liberty of doing adions which tend to the en- 
flaving of others, it looks more like the bondage of 
iniquity, than the glorious liberty of the children of 
God. 

In your libel on the army you affirm, that " a foldier 
is deprived of all the benefit of the laws of his country 
— that he is an abfolute Have, — that he is fold by the 
wretch who firll betrays him, — and that if ever he at- 
tempts to emancipate him.felf (that is, to defert), he is 
Ihot like a mad dog.'' In fhort^ you conclude your 
fublime climax by faying, that farcing an hundred young 
men into the army, '^ might be as bad as being the 
remote caufe of enflaving an hundred Africans." That 
the pay of the army is much too fmall, and its punifn- 
ments much too fevere, cannot be denied. But that a 
foldier is deprived of all the benefit of the laws cf his 
country, is one of the grofiell falfchoods that ever dif- 
graced the Prefs. The records of the Old Bailey la- 
mentably prove, that he is allowed trial by jury. And 
the records of Weilminiler-hall are not devoid of in- 
ftances, to Ihevv that a foldier may inititute a civil adioHa 
even againft his officer. 

As you tell us, foldiers " are abfolute flaves, and are 
often fold," can you not inform us where the fales are 
kept? I (hould imagine they muft be by ^ery private 
contradl, as I never heard of a lot of grenadiers being 
knocked down by Chriftie, or any other gentleman of 
the hammer. With refpedl to their being Ihot like 
mad dogs, for defertion, I think you would find it dif- 
ficalt to produce half a dozen inftances in point, for the 
laH twenty years. 

As this horrid piclure of the Britifh army is fhewn 
by way of extenuation of colonial tyranny, I'fhall draw 
fuch a comparifon between them as I am able to do 
from my own knowledge and obfervation. The foldier, 

before 



( i6 ) 

before he is fuch, hears where his regiment lies, and the 
name of his commander; knows the pay, and thinks 
he can live upon it. He is oitered a bounty, and ac- 
cepts it. He is allowed four days for refiedion; if he 
repents his cngcigement, he pays twenty (hillings, returns 
the money he has received, and is difchai-a^ed. But if 
he likes the fervice, he goes before a magiftrate, fwears- 
he was fairly enlifted, that he has received his bounty, 
that he is a proteliant, that he has heard the articles of 
war read, and that he will be a good foldier. If he is fent 
to the V/ed Indies (where we muft certainly fend him, 
for the fake of comparifon), he is iirft clothed, and 
provided with bedding; he has full liberty on board 
the ihip which tranfports him ; and when he arrives at 
his deitined ftation, he is lodged in dry and comfortable 
barracks ; he is v/ell fed, v/ell clad, and his pay con- 
tinued, not unfrequently with an addition to it from the 
i?1and. He has very little to do^, except the morning 
exercife ; and if he is employed as a mechanic, he re- 
ceives extra \v3.ges. He cannot be punilbed, but for a 
crime expreHed in the articles of war ; and when pu- 
^jjiihed;, by the fentence of a court-martial, a furgeon 
attends, who may remit fuchpart of the puniihment as 
he thinks him unable to bear v/ithout injury to his 
conftitution-. He may even bring his general to a 
court- martia.], and the evidence of his peers is admitted. 
When fuperanniiated or difabled, he receives 9. penfion, 
which, if infufficient for his fapport, he may refign to 
the officers of his pariih^ and they mull maintain him. 

Would God this were the cafe with the wretched 
African. A fad reverfe, alas! is fa6t. Before he was 
a flave, he tilled his little patch of ground, planted it 
with yams^ or fovved it with rice ; and felt a reward 
within his iiinple breaft, from a confcioufnefs that he 
was providing for his little family, who contributed their 
tiny pittance to the honey of the hive, by fearing the 
feathered plunderers from the ripening crop. A few 
hours daily labour fupplied his every want ; the re- 
mainder 



( 17 ) 

iTiainder was devoted to hofpitality, and merriment and- 
joy. He welcomed his friends with the eafy politenefs 
of nature, feated them on the turf, and was almoil in- 
ftantly at the fummit of the ftately palm-tree that waved 
its majeftic leaves contiguous to his hut. Thence quick 
defcending, laden with delicious wine, he filled the cal- 
labalh of each contented gueil,, whofe fupple limbs, 
obedient to his rude baijay*, began the athletic dance,, 
while the animated chorus of unaffected voices iTifpired 
a chearfulnefs of which the formal fons of European 
fellivity can form no adequate conception. But, ah ! 
fenators have no bowels of compaffion. The happlnefs 
of Africans mufl be facrificed at the fhrine of their 
avaricious policy. They have legalized murder. They 
have afcertained the quantum -of mifery it is expedient 
to iniiid. They have dared to fet a price upon the 
heads of innocents, who never did them an injury, who 
never fought a conne<5lion with them, who never even 
heard of their country, or their colour. Corrupted by 
their gold, and fanftioned by their authority, the fons- 
of violence are on their way. Their emiffaries are 
fitting in the lurking places of the villages, and lyings 
in wait fecretly to catch the poor. They catch our 
African, A yoke is put upon his neck, and he is 
goaded to the lliips. The price of his blood being 
agreed upon, he is fhackled to another victim of 
European cruelty, and thruft under deck. The recol- 
ledion of his country and his friends drives him to 
defpair. He cannot think why he is torn from them., 
why the wretches who have laden him with chains, are 
defirous that he Ihould eat ; he cannot account for their 
brutal kindnefs ; he concludes they mean to fatten him,. 
in order to feaft upon him at a convenient feau^n. He 
refolves to circumvent their defigns ; he refufes food : 
he is whipt to make him eat ; but the indignant firmnefs- 

* An Inftrument fomewhat like a guittar. Its ufe is prohibited 
In forne parts of the Weft Indies. Perhaps from an idea that itj,- 
is fuperfluous in tliofe lands oi fvperior felicity, 

Ot 



( i8 ) 

of his mind is not to be fubdued by the lafh. The 
fpeculu?n 6ns * is reforted to ; a broken tooth gives an op- 
portunity for its introduftion ; his mouth is forced open, 
rice is crammed dovvn his throat, and he is compelled 
to live. He arrives at the Well Indies, and is fold. 
He now depends upon the v/ill of an individual for his- 
all. He is now in a country where all nature confpires 
againfl him, where babes are taught tolifp, " that the 
woril white is better than the beil black.'* He has nov/ 
no legsl protedlion againft his mafter. He is even 
under the abfolute controul of an hireling, who has no 
interefl in his life. His mailer's name may be branded 
in his flefh with hot irons, and all the while he may be 
allowed the chara6ler of a good flave. But fhould he, 
bend relu6lantly to his fate, the horrid cart- whip would 
make long furrows in his flefh ; his lacerated body 
would be wafhed with brine or fea-water y he. might 
even be tortured with melted wax, or boiling fyrup ;, 
and any white man might kill him v/ith impunity, as 
the united tellimony of a thoufand of his peers would' 
not be confidered as evidence by a Well India court of 
iwjuftice. When fuperannuated, he may be deferted by 
the wretch who has wailed the vigour of his youth ; 
and when peri&ing with hunger, he may be infulted, 
by being told that he is free. 

After all your boalled chrifcianity, you at lad unmafk, 
and tell us, " Charity p?culd begin at home.*' 7'our 
charity, my good Lady, may begin at home, and end 
at home, and Jiay at home for ever. The world will 
be no lofer. But genuine charity prompts its poflellbr 
to embrace ten thoufand worlds, then mehs liim into, 
teais, becaufe he can grafp no more. 

Ycu ferioufly caution us again'l " afFe^fling too much 
pity for Hi-angerS;, and being too clamorous againil Welt 
India avarice, cruelty, and opprefiion," merely becaufe 



* An Inflrument with which they force open the mouths of 
Cu.ch Haves as refufe to eac. 

we 



( 19 ) 

we have abufes at Lome. That w^ have abufes at home, 
Eobody will deny. But, that either the author of the 
Addrefs, or any of his profelytes, " applaud or approve 
the enflaving of tens of thoufands of our brethren^ 
merely on the dodrine of neceifity," is an explofion of 
that arrogance which you palm upon the world inllead 
oi argument. 

That we fhall quietly go to fleep, till the lordly Creole 
himfelf Iball deign to proclaim " liberty to the captive," 
is one of thofe pleading reveries I cannot advife you to 
indulge. 

As Britons, we are jealous lefi the chains v/hich are 
forged for Africans, at the extremities of the empire^ 
ihould be rivetted on our necks at its centre. 

h^ men,, who feel the indignity offered to our fpecies, 
by the continuance of the Have trade in the very teeth of 
e-uidence, we ihould be aOiamed to a6l the part of chil- 
dren, and accept a pakry junket as a fuccedaneum for 
that juftice which we demand for the whole humaa 
race. 

As Chriilians, we conceive there is fuch a thing as 
moral principle, and that the Holy Scriptures, taken in 
their obvious, natural fenfe, are to be the rule of our 
condu6l. We find it an univerfal maxim of the New 
Tellament, that Chriilians ought to have " no feilow- 
Ihip with the unfruitful works of darknefs, but ratlier to 
reprove them." We conceive, that fuch anions as are 
contrary to the fpirit of the gofpel, are works of dark- 
nefs. We think that detaining juft m.en in flavery, is 
contrary to the fpirit of the gofpel. Therefore, we 
ought to reprove it : and this we do not to the utmoil 
of our power, unlefs we refrain from it ourfelves— re- 
primand it in others— avoid any aft which we think 
may induce another to purfue it — rej^fl the pleafures 
and profits which immediately accrue from it — and ufe 
every lawful means to prevent it. 

By 



(■ 20 ) 

By way oF extreme unftion to your expiring caufe, 
you fuggeft the idea, that our combination looks very 
much like pv^rfecutiori ; that the planters will think 
themfelves perlccuted. 

What Guinea pirates or Weil India planters may fay 
or think, can be of very little importance to honefi, 
difmtereiled men. '* They have had their good things ;'* 
and the poor viftims of their avarice, ^' their evil things." 
It is time thsy Ihould be comforted, even though their 
oppreiTors fhould be tormented. 

V/hen Mr. Palmer's plan for conveying the mail was 
fjrfl agitated, you did not call that doing evil, that good 
might come, (at leaft not from the prefs.) You did 
not then urge, that many children were employed in 
driving, rnd many mechanics in conllrudling the wretch- 
ed v/heelbarrows by v/hich letters were then conveyed. 
You did not even think of the poor innkeepers, coach- 
maflers, and others, who had employed large capitals in 
travelling accommodations. Much lefs did yoa think 
of calling that tradefman a perfecutor who refufed to 
negociate a bill, or to purchafe a caiket of diamonds, 
which had been ftolen from a public conveyance. You 
never fuggefted the argument, that, *' all the means and 
manner of carrying on buiinefs belonged to the man 
himfelf, and was what his cuHoniers had nothing to do 
with." V/hy, then, is our abftinence from the produce 
of flavery called perfecution ? Is it lefs a crime to rob 
a man of liberty than of property } or, are the gene- 
rality of perfons concerned in the Have-trade, more ho- 
nourable charadlers than the generality of highwaymen ? 

I fhall conclude this letter by confirming, as far as 
the influence of my word extends, the general tenor of 
the evidence laid before the Houfe of Commons on co- 
lonial uavery. I know one of the perfons, who is men- 
tioned to have committed fome a£ls of atrocity i and,, 
from her general charader, I fhould conceive them true. 

I. have 



( 21 ) 

I'have myfelf Teen a negro vvhipt, at the mandate of a 
drunken tyrant, till he could not fit down, ignorant of 
the crime of which he was accufed, and which, it after- 
wards turned out, he had not committed. 

I have feen a white woman fuperintend the punifhment 
of one of her own fex, provided with a horfe-whip, for 
the purpofe of beating the negro whipper when he did 
not ilrike hard enough. 

I have been waited upon, at the houfeofalady in 
Antigua, by a female flave in a ftate of nature. 

I have heard an overfeer declare, that the befl mode 
©f feafoning a negro, is to give him nine- and- thirty 
Jailies foon after he comes upon an eftate, to make him 
know where he is. 1 have heard the fatne wretch boaft, 
that once, he vexed his driver, by compelling him to flog 
the female with whom he cohabited. 

I have feen, in moil of our iflands, crouds rf negroes, 
half naked, and apparently half ftarved, generally dif- 
iigured by the cart-whip, and not unfrequently in chains, 

I have feen, with indignation, the little pittance of 
their Sunday's labour wrefted from .their hands by the 
indigent v/hites ; and only fuch a price paid for it as 
the purchafer thought proper to affix. 

1 have known many infiances of their being fent fromi 
one ifland to another, merely for the convenience of 
their mafters. I have, on thefe occafions, feen the 
deareft relatives realize the agonies of defpair, from a 
con/cioufnefs that they were to meet no more. 

I have feen them lingerinj^ in a dungeon for the in- 
folvency of their mailers. 

I have 



( 21 ) 

I have known a miferable, deferted Lazarus infulted 
by his owner, only for aiking for a morfel of bread. 

I do not mean to deny, that I have known negroes 
contented and happy. When their kind fate places 
them as domeftics under the roof of a humane mailer, 
it is often the cafe. Thefe folitary inftances are made 
the moft of by the advocates for flavery. But when I 
recolledl the feverity I have feen praftifed by men of 
the greatell: humanity, in paroxyfms of rage or intoxi- 
cation — when I refled, that, in cafe of infolvency, a 
flave may lie for weeks in a dungeon, and afterwards 
take his chance for a good mailer at a public audlion — 
I cannot conceive that a few exceptions prove any thing 
againll the general mifery of colonial flavery. 

For offences not cognizable by individuals, the code 
Tof laws for the punifhment of flaves proves more effec- 
tually than a thoufand arguments, that the Wefl Indians 
are a fanguinary, brutal, vindiftive race. For ftdking 
a white man, the hand of a flave is cut off. For in- 
surrection, alraoft all our iflands abound with inllancefi 
•of tlieir being gihhetedy and e^ven roajied ali<ve*. 

In Chriilmas, 1781, at Antigua, two flaves killed a 
fcoundrel who had deprived them of their holidays, and 
•otherwife ill treated them. The hand of the principal 
was chopped off, before he was put to death. 

If ever fuch favage inhumanity was neceiTary, it was 
inflifted with a very bad grace, in a country where 
white men had frequently been puniflied with impri- 
fonment arid a fmall fine, for the murder of negroes. 
In vain do we hope for individual reformation in the 
Wefl Indies. It is not to be expeded in a country 
where an exertion of law is an exertion of brutality. 
Nor fliould it excite our furprife, when we behold that 
ktent fpark of liberty which had been ftiiled, but not 

extin- 



( 23 ) 

cxtinguiflied, burft into a devouring flame, and prompt 
an injured race to break their chains promifcuoufly upon 
the beads of the innocent and the guilty. If we would 
radically cure thefe evils, let us teach governments hu- 
manity. Let us recover our dignity, and Africans will 
■recover their liberty. Let us lofe fight of the intereft 
-oi tyrants, and not continue to be cannibals from motives 
of compaffion. 

Let our united efforts befpeak the fmcerity of our 
ibuls, and let us hail the foft effulgence of that dawn of 
liberty, which in defpite of hell, fhall rife to meridian 
fplendour, and, with undiminilhed blaze, difpenfe its 
genial influence from pole to pole, till time fhall be 
:no more. 

I. amj 

Madam, 

Yours, &c, 

RICHARD HILLIER. 

Surry, 

rNovemher l^th, i79-i» 



F I N 1 S. 



