res-ttA-Zt, /»o.l 





7z 



^~s 



RESTORATION 



NATURAL RIGHTS. 



ABOLITION OF SLAVERY, 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/practicabilityofOOsedg 



I 



PRACTICABILITY 



ABOLITION OF SLAVERY 
A LECTURE, 



CKL1VERED AT THIS 



LYCEUM IN STOCKBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS, 



FEBRUARY, 1831. 



•THE CAUSE OP FREEDOM IS THE CAUSE OF MAN.' 



NEW-YORK : 

PRINTED BY J, SEYMOUR, NASSAU STREET,, CORNER OF ANN 

1831. 



re6.5"5"75--3fc *».l 



ADDRESS. 



The question which I have been requested to consider, is, 
perhaps, the most momentous that concerns the human race. 

My condition entitles me to assign defect of sight as an 
apology for the imperfection, and especially the ill arrange- 
ment of the argument which I shall present. 

Is it possible to abolish African Slavery in this country; or, 
in other words, is the perpetual subjugation of the African 
race the necessary result of the condition of human nature ? 

The question should be considered calmly and philosophi- 
cally. We should not be misled by our passions or our 
sympathies. In attempting to obtain justice for some, we 
should not do injustice to others. 

We in the North are reproached for our interference with 
this subject, even by remonstrance or advice. We are told, 
with more apparent than real justice, that freemen, who 
know not the state of slavery by personal residence, or long 
observation, are unable to estimate its true condition, or the 
capacity of slaves for emancipation. This opinion is natural, 

2 



. - ■ ', '■!" I 



6 

but, I think, not just. We might retort that custom dulls 
sensibility — that those who are immersed in error are least 
likely to perceive it — and those who habitually do wrong, 
are the last to ascertain that it is wrong. 

The principle of vanity in human nature — the disposition 
in making comparisons between ourselves and others ; be- 
tween our race and a race constrasted with it— leads to 
deeper errors than superficial observers are apt to suppose. 

There is no more ordinary disposition in human nature 
than that of ascribing intellectual superiority to the race, cast, 
color, or nation, to which we belong. The Spartan had no 
doubt of his superiority to the Helot — the Jew, in his own 
opinion, was better than the Gentile — the Roman claimed 
a higher grade than the Barbarian — the Turk considered 
himself superior to the infidels whom he vanquished, — and 
the feudal baron, of noble blood, felt himself far exalted 
above the peasant, the villain, and the serf. 

It is impossible for man, previously to observation, and 
to long continued observation, to estimate the degree of 
degradation of character which results from degradation of 
condition. In regard to the blacks, to whom the question 
applies, the observation has rarely been made fairly. 

The progress of black children, when compared with that 
of white children, at primary schools, would afford the fair- 
est test. Wherever it has been made, I believe that it has 
not shown any inferiority in the blacks. The few black 
children who have enjoyed this advantage of education, 
while they were too young to be conscious of the inferiority 
of their condition, and of their future destiny and rank in 
society, have, at this early age, maintained a fair equality 



with their little competitors, the white children. They are 
rarely continued at school beyond the age of ten years ; 
even before that time their emulation is repressed, and their 
efforts are discouraged by the intimation of the superiority 
of their companions, which is communicated in every look 
and gesture. 

As society now exists, even in the Northern States, there 
cannot, after the period of early childhood, be any fair com- 
petition between the two races. In the lottery of life, one 
set of adventurers is destined to draw all the prizes. Those 
who have the taint of the sable color are as unable to attain 
any elevated station in society as if precluded by law. 
The learned professions are closed to them. They are not 
merely debarred from rank, but most of the occupations in 
life, by which wealth is attained, are beyond their reach. 
With the exception of Hayti, the blacks have not enjoyed 
liberty in any part of America, except at the North ; and 
there the climate is less favorable to them than to the 
whites. 

None but those who have felt it can, even by approxima- 
tion, estimate either the sense of degradation, or the actual 
inferiority of character which is caused by the bare fact of 
belonging to a degraded cast. Man is brutified by slavery, 
and therefore declared incapable of freedom. Those who 
regard him in this humiliated station, refer his indolence, his 
ignorance, and his shiftlessness to the defect of original ca- 
pacity. He is deprived of the stimulants and excitements 
which prompt other men to exertion, and is considered inert 
by nature. He shrinks from the whip, justly conscious that 
superior force would be called in to overpower resistance — 



8 

and he is called a coward. He procures clothes by stealth, 
because he is naked, and food because he is hungry — and 
he is branded as a thief. His passions are excited by insult 
and abuse — and he is termed ferocious. 

All men are to be presumed to be equal, and to be equally 
entitled to the protection of the law in any particular coun- 
try, until the contrary shall be proved. 

The right to discriminate between the blacks and whites, 
if it exist, must be the same which gives to men authority 
over inferior animals. It must be proved, not presumed ; 
and the question can never be fairly decided, until by a long 
course of rivalry and competition, upon terms of perfect 
equality, it shall at last appear that one race is decidedly 
inferior to the other. 

Those who are but superficially acquainted with human* 
nature, will be at no loss to account for the opinion of slave 
holders, that their slaves are by nature inferior to themselves, 
and must, therefore, from the necessity of their nature, re- 
main in a station permanently degraded. External appear- 
ances are often the grounds of judgment. Few resist the 
effect of a mean garb in forming an opinion of the wearer. 
The colored skin of the African is regarded by his owner as 
a habit of degradation imposed upon him by nature. 

The supposed inferiority of the Africans is not, however, 
probably, so much inferred from their color as from their 
condition, which creates the character that is supposed to 
be original and inherent. If it were not for the established 
associations with the sable color, no more inference would 
be derived from it than from any of the varieties of the 
European complexion. It is as unphilosophical to decide 



upon the character of a man from the color of his skin, as it 
would be to decide upon the properties of a tree from the 
color of its bark, without further examination. 

When there is so much in the situation and condition of 
this unfortunate race to account for its depression, why ag- 
gravate the injustice by asserting an original inferiority 
which they have had but few and slight opportunities to 
disprove ; and which, when those opportunities have been 
offered, has been disproved ? 

Many who hear me will remember to have heard of the 
traits of heroism displayed by the negroes who were exe- 
cuted some years since for conspiracy at Charleston, South 
Carolina. If it were only for the devoted affection and the 
courageous fidelity which the slaves have so frequently ma- 
nifested in defence of their masters, it would be sufficiently 
apparent that they are as susceptible of kindly and benevo- 
lent affections, as ready to encounter dangers, and make 
sacrifices, as those of our race. 

The truth is, that human nature is the same in all man- 
kind. We are, for the most part, creatures of circumstan- 
ces — and character is formed by condition. The misfor- 
tune or the mistake, is, that it is also judged of by con- 
dition. Degradation is perceived. The capacities which, 
with proper aid, and in different conditions, would ele- 
vate the depressed cast, are s not perceived. This partial 
observation is one of the ordinary causes of mistake. The 
sphere of observation is limited — experience is very much 
limited — and the hasty conclusion, that the inhabitants of 
one portion of the globe are essentially different from the 
rest, is founded upon a degree of evidence and observation 



10 

that would scarcely be sufficient to ascertain the character 
of an individual. 

Those who believe that the African race is incapable of 
being raised by liberty to a state of equality with other 
races, have never seen it in that condition. All their ob- 
servations have been made upon an enslaved people, and 
under circumstances to cause an apparent contrast between 
the masters and slaves, greater than can readily be con- 
ceived where society is on a level. In slave countries, (as 
Burke has well remarked,) liberty is an elevated condition : 
it implies not merely exemption from bondage, but superior- 
ity and dominion. The slave is sunk below the level, and 
the master raised above it. With this influence operating 
upon their minds, the owners of slaves should not assume 
that they only can judge of the possibility or expediency of 
the emancipation of slaves. 

In communities where slavery has been abolished, or 
where there are but few remaining slaves, the opportunity 
to form a just estimate of the capabilities of the African cha- 
racter, is somewhat better. The blacks, however, have no- 
where in this country had any thing like a fair chance to 
manifest their equality with the whites. The dominant race 
enjoys, not merely all the honors and distinctions of society, 
receives all the emoluments derived from the more elevated 
occupations, stations, and professions ; but the mere fact of 
being included in its numbers, is of itself a distinction which 
the degraded cast cannot even hope to attain. The senti- 
ment, operating thus powerfully upon the whites, is, I be- 
lieve, not founded in nature, but factitious, the result of 
associations which have been long indulged. It has been 



11 

diminished by time and intercourse ; but yet operates with 
great power. This sentiment, the pride, self-complacency, 
and conscious superiority of the superior cast ; the constant 
assertion, or at least manifestation of that superiority in the 
limited intercourse between the whites and blacks, and their 
total exclusion from social circles, are quite sufficient to 
account for the depression of the blacks, even after having 
attained all the equality that the laws of the land can confer. 

To familiarize the mind with the cause of the inferiority 
of the African race — its inferiority of conditon — it would 
be well to notice the operation of this cause in the various 
modifications, forms and appearances, of the subordination 
of one race to another. All history, every part of the earth, 
abound with illustrations. Civilization, literature, science, 
and the arts, are supposed to have arisen in the East ; yet 
what European, who treads the banks of the Euphrates, the 
Ganges, or the Nile, and beholds the degradation of the 
descendants of those who illumined the world, is able wholly 
to resist the illusion that he is of a better mould than those 
whom he sees in squalid poverty — the slaves of his own 
countrymen, or, perhaps, of less lenient masters ? 

It would require much minute observation and informa- 
tion to give a mere sketch, — the slightest delineation of this 
characteristic of our race ; the inferiority of the subjected 
to the dominant race, caused by the fact of subjection, and 
ordinarily imputed to difference of original character. It is 
exhibited in very varied forms, and in very different degrees. 
We can best observe it in the different conditions of the 
Africans in our own country. Here, as elsewhere, sub- 
jection is modified by circumstances. The familiarity which 



12 

naturaiiy and necessarily grows up between those who live 
under the same roof, in a great degree prevents cruelty to- 
wards house-servants. 

The condition of the domestic slaves is alleviated in every 
mode, and the mind is proportionally freed from the pros- 
trating sense of abject subjection, which is felt by the field 
negroes, who are worked in the fields like cattle. Among 
the inmates of a family there is necessarily some degree of 
acquaintance, and some reciprocation of feeling. This fa- 
miliarity is inconsistent with that absolute prostration of 
mind felt by the gang, who receive brief orders from the 
overseer, and these sometimes accompanied with the lash. 
A gentleman is seldom disposed to flog his valet de chambre, 
and a lady cannot lash her nurse ; yet the same negroes, 
under the overseer, would be urged to their task by the 
whip. This difference of treatment causes a correspondent 
difference of spirit. If, therefore, different degrees of bodily 
subjection produce corresponding effects upon the mind, if 
the slave relieved from the thong and the lash, is thereby 
partially emancipated from his mental thraldom, it is surely 
not unreasonable to suppose, that complete emancipation 
of the body would cause correspondent emancipation and 
elevation of the mind ; if, with slavery, were also removed 
the other obstacles which now prevent the Africans from 
manifesting a character in all respects like our own. Equal- 
ity of legal rights ; all the emancipation that the law can 
give, does not include the emancipation of the mind from 
the sense of inferiority which results from difference of cast. 

It is just as reasonable to suppose that the Bramin and 
the Paria of Hindostan were made in different moulds, or 



13 

of different materials, because of the difference of their 
rank and mental attainments, as that the free or enslaved 
African is constitutionally inferior to the European. In 
the case of the Paria, the sense of inferiority may be ma- 
nifested by ceremonial observances, and in other very dif- 
ferent modes from those wherein an African is compelled 
to acknowledge his subjection ; but the feeling is of the 
same character. This consciousness of inferiority, resulting 
from a degraded condition, is nearly universal wherever 
the degradation exists. Those who rise superior to it are 
exceptions from the ordinary human character. This per- 
vading influence extends to the poor, and affects their whole 
character. The poor are usually subservient. The same 
influence, which, in a less degree, operates upon the desti- 
tute, and those in humble condition, operates in much 
greater degree upon the oppressed African. The supe- 
riority of the European races — of the English race, to 
which we belong — has been of slow growth. We have 
arrived, by imperceptible degrees, to a point of elevation 
from which we look down and around, with a sense of 
superiority, as if the height had been attained by our un- 
aided efforts, and without remembering or regarding the 
means whereby we ascended. We despise the abject 
African, because he does not at once leap up to the ascent 
upon which we have been placed by circumstances, which 
we could no more control than he could have controlled 
his destiny. 

We should look at the subject in a different aspect. We 
should make all allowances for the different condition of 
the Africans and ourselves ; give them credit for what they 

3 



14 

have done, and not reproach them for not doing whai they 
had no means of doing. They have the same principle of 
buoyancy with ourselves ; and the instant that the weight, 
which depresses their level in society, is taken off, they wiO 
rise and occupy the space that is left vacant for them. 

Such has been my acquaintance with individuals of this 
race, that I regard the pretence of original and natural su- 
periority in the whites, very much as I regard the tales of 
ancient fables, setting forth the superior bodily strength of 
heroes. But for the care of one of this calumniated race, 
I should not now, probably, be living to give this testimony, 

A very slight sketch of the history of the person to whom 
I refer may serve to illustrate this argument : Elizabeth 
Freeman (known afterwards by the name of Mum Bett,) 
was born a slave, and lived in that condition thirty or forty 
years. She first lived in Claverac, Columbia county, in the 
state of New- York, in the family of a Mr. Hogeboom. She 
was purchased at an early age by Col. Ashley, of Sheffield 
in the county of Berkshire, in the now commonwealth of 
Massachusetts. In both these states, and I believe every 
where in the Northern States, slavery existed in a very 
mitigated form. This is not so much to be ascribed to the 
superior humanity of the people, as to the circumstances of 
the case. The slaves were comparatively few. Society, 
except perhaps in the capitals, was in a state nearly primi- 
tive. The slaves were precluded from the table in but few 
families. Their masters and mistresses wrought with the 
slaves. A great degree of familiarity necessarily resulted 
from this mode of life. Slavery in New-York and New- 
England was so masked, that but a slight difference could 



15 

be perceived in the condition of slaves and hired servants. 
The character of the slaves was moulded accordingly. 
Sales were very rare. The same feeling which induces a 
father to retain a child in his family, or at least under 
his control, disinclined him from parting with his slave. 
There was little distinction of rank in the country. The 
younger slaves not only ate and drank, but played with 
the children. They thus became familiar companions with 
each other. The black women were cooks and nurses, and 
as such assisted by their mistresses. There was no great 
difference between the fare or clothing of blacks and white 
laborers. 

In this state of familiar intercourse, instances of cruelty 
were uncommon, and the minds of the slaves were not so 
much subdued but that they caused a degree of indignation 
not much less than if committed upon a freeman. 

Under this condition of society, while Mum Bett resided 
in the family of Col. Ashley, she received a severe wound 
in a generous attempt to shield her sister. Her mistress in 
a fit of passion resorted to a degree and mode of violence 
very uncommon in this country : she struck at the weak and 
timid girl with a heated kitchen shovel : Mum Bett inter- 
posed her arm, and received the blow ; and she bore the 
honorable scar it left to the day of her death. The spirit of 
Mum Bett had not been broken down by ill usage — she re- 
sented the insult and outrage as a white person would have 
done. She left the house, and neither commands nor en- 
treaties could induce her to return. Her master, Col. Ash- 
ley, resorted to the law to regain possession of his slave. 
This was shortly after the adoption of the constitution of 



16 

Massachusetts. The case was tried at Great Barrington. 
Mum Bett was declared free : it being, I believe, the first 
instance (or among the first instances) of the practical ap- 
plication of the declaration in the Massachusetts Bill of 
Rights, that " all men are born free and equal." 

The late Judge Sedgwick had the principal agency in her 
deliverance. She attached herself to his family as a serv- 
ant. In that station she remained for many years, and was 
never entirely disconnected from his family. 

She was married when young : her husband died soon 
after, in the continental service in the revolutionary war, 
leaving her with one child. During the residue of her life 
she remained a widow. She died in December, 1829, at a 
very advanced age. She supposed herself to be nearly a 
hundred years old. 

If there could be a practical refutation of the imagined 
natural superiority of our race to hers, the life and character 
of this woman would afford that refutation. She knew her 
station, and perfectly observed its decorum ; yet she had 
nothing of the submissive or subdued character, which suc- 
cumbs to superior force, and is the usual result of the state 
of slavery. On the contrary, without ever claiming supe- 
riority, she uniformly, I believe in every case, obtained an 
ascendency over all those with whom she was associated 
in service. Her spirit of fidelity to her employers was such 
as has never been surpassed. This was exemplified in her 
whole life. I can convey an idea of it only by the relation 
of a single incident. 

The house of Mr. Sedgwick, in this town, (Stockbridge) 
was attacked by a body of insurgents, during the Shay's war. 



17 

so well remembered in this vicinity. Mr. Sedgwick was then 
absent at Boston, and Mum Bett was the only guardian of 
the house. She assured the party that Mr. Sedgwick was 
absent, but suffered them to search the house to find him, 
which they did, by feeling under the beds and in other 
places of concealment, with the points of their bayonets. 
She did not attempt to resist by direct force, the rifling of 
property, which was one of the objects of the insurgents. 
She, however, assumed a degree of authority — told the 
plunderers that they " dare not strike a woman," — and at- 
tended them in their exploring the house, to prevent wanton 
destruction. She escorted them into the cellar with a large 
kitchen shovel in her hand, which she intimated that she 
would use as a weapon in case of necessity. One of the 
party broke off the neck of a bottle of porter. She told 
him that if he or his companions desired to drink porter, she 
would fetch a corkscrew, and draw the cork, and they might 
drink like gentlemen ; but that, if the neck of another bottle 
should be broken, she would lay the man, that broke it, flat 
with her shovel. Upon tasting the liquor, the party decided 
that " if gentlemen loved such cursed bitter stuff, they 
might keep it." 

Understanding, from the conversation of the party, that 
they intended to take with them in their retreat, a very fine 
gray mare that was in the stable, which she had been in the 
habit of riding, she left the house and went directly to the 
stable. Before the rioters were apprised of her intention, 
she led the animal to a gate that opened upon the street ; 
stripped off the halter, and, by a blow with it, incited the 



18 

mare to a degree of speed that soon put her out of danger 
from the pursuit of the marauders. 

Even in her humble station, she had, when occasion re- 
quired it, an air of command which conferred a degree of 
dignity, and gave her an ascendency over those of her rank, 
which is very unusual in person's of any rank or color. Her 
determined and resolute character, which enabled her to 
limit the ravages of a Shay's mob, was manifested in her 
deportment and conduct during her whole life. She claimed 
no distinction ; but it was yielded to her from her superior 
experience, energy, skill, and sagacity. In her sphere she 
had no superior, nor any equal. In the latter part of her 
life she was much employed as a nurse. Here she had 
no competitor. I believe she never lost a child, when she 
had the care of its mother, at its birth. When a child, 
wailing in the arms of its mother, heard her steps on the 
stairway, or approaching the door, it ceased to cry. 

This woman, by her extreme industry and economy, 
supported a large, family of grand-children and great- 
grand-children. She could neither read nor write ; yet her 
conversation was instructive, and her society was much 
sought. She received many visits at her own house, and 
very frequently received and accepted invitations to pass 
considerable intervals of time in the families of her friends, 
Her death, notwithstanding her great age, was deeply la= 
mented. 

Having known this woman as familiarly as I knew either 
of my parents, I cannot believe in the moral or physical 
inferiority of the race to which she belonged. The de- 
gradation of the African must have been otherwise caused 



19 

than by natural inferiority. Civilization has made slow 
progress in every portion of the earth : where it has made 
progress, it proceeds in an accelerated ratio. 

The wonder rather is, why Asia and Europe became 
civilized, than why Africa remains uncivilized. We know 
little of the interior of the vast continent of Africa. If it 
be uniformly, or for the greater part flat and accessible, so 
that there are few natural defences or fastnesses, but the 
inhabitants are every where, or nearly every where,*ex- 
posed to their enemies, so that a victory is equivalent to a 
conquest — this, alone, considering the warlike propensities 
of men, goes far to explain why Africa has not advanced 
in the arts and sciences, and why she has not been able 
to make provision for the enjoyment of the comforts of 
life. Perpetual war, or the perpetual hazard of' war, 
when the consequence of defeat is slavery, are inconsistent 
with the cultivation of the intellect, or the accumulation 
of wealth. 

Since the advice of Las Casas was adopted, soon after 
the discovery of South America, to substitute the vigorous 
African laborer for the feeble Indian ; since the slave trade 
has been carried on, and the inhabitants of every portion of 
Africa, where European or American intercourse has ex- 
tended, have been employed in making captives, or in 
avoiding captivity, there is little occasion for assigning any 
other cause why civilization and the arts have not flourished 
in Africa. If the inquiry be, why the slaves are degraded, 
the question implies its answer — because they are slaves. 
There is no greater inferiority of the blacks to the white 
race, no more comparative degradation than can well be 



20 

accounted for by the fact of slavery. Just as the condition 
is meliorated the spirit rises. Let these people be emanci- 
pated ; let them, for a long course of time, be placed in the 
same state of relationship to other societies and communities 
as the whites are ; let them enjoy the same advantages of 
education, of commercial interchange, and the humanizing 
intercourse of life, and the result will be to prove, that 
human nature is the same in man in all his different colors, 
forms and varieties ; that like causes produce like effects ; 
and the blacks would become as civilized, humane, and 
polite as the whites. 

We do not appreciate our own advantages. The present 
state of society and intercourse between civilized nations, 
limited as it still is by restrictive and barbarous policy, is 
yet wonderful ; and wonderful in its effects to civilize, re- 
fine, and exalt the human character. What man is more 
than a beast, results from association. The blacks have 
been without this great aid in the advancement of our spe- 
cies. They have had no means to advance, and therefore 
have not advanced. Let our people reflect upon what they 
owe to the English language, and to their intercourse with 
England alone, and they may gain some ideas of the causes 
of our comparative advance, and the comparative abase- 
ment of Africa. 

If we are ignorant why human nature was first developed 
in Asia; why it was and has been for ages retrograde 
there, so that the inhabitants of the two contiguous conti- 
nents, unless the decline of Asia be arrested, must be in a 
common condition of barbarism — we may well be ignorant 
whv Africa has been behind. the other continents in the 



21 

march of civilization. In Africa human intercourse has 
probably been as much restricted as upon the islands in- 
habited by barbarians. In the various quarters of the globe 
there are many tribes of barbarians on the islands and on 
the continent as barbarous as the Caffres or Hottentots. 

There is no proof that the human race, originating in 
Africa, is by natural constitution mentally inferior to the 
races originating in other parts of the globe. In physical 
strength, which affords a sure criterion of comparison, the 
Africans certainly are not inferior to other men. If then 
Africans are like other men, equally capable of self-govern- 
ment, and of obtaining their subsistence, there is no appar- 
ent reason why they should not be left to self-government, 
and be permitted to enjoy the same liberty with other men. 
Slavery is not a rightful condition. No man has a right to 
hold another in bondage, except for specified cause ascer- 
tained by law. The foundation of the claim to hold men 
as slaves is none the better because the claim is decorated 
by learned language. The "jus belli," or right of war, is 
merely the right of the strongest. It is the law of power, 
that forgets right. In ancient times the state of war gave 
right — if practice makes right — to confiscate and appropriate 
individual property. This species of barbarism has partially 
passed away ; but, with the inconsistency which character- 
izes violations of right, the claim of right to appropriate the 
private property of an enemy on land is now relinquished, 
while the practice is continued of making and retaining cap- 
tures on water. Time, and the progress of society, have 
produced many reforms which would have been deemed 
impossible by those who reasoned as some men reason now 

4 



22 

concerning the abolition of slavery. Much has been at- 
tempted, and something has been done, to prevent the prac- 
tice of privateering. The right of capturing and converting 
private property to the use of the captor as appertaining to 
the state of war, is upon the same principle as the right of 
capturing and enslaving the person. The last is the more 
barbarous custom — and it is to be anticipated, that the same 
progress of civilization which promises to abolish privateer- 
ing, will also abolish the slave trade and slavery. 

We are far too apt to suppose that what is, is necessary. 
In despotic countries, despotism appears as necessary a 
condition as slavery in a country where a portion of the 
inhabitants is free. Entire nations have been disenthralled. 
This surely would lead us to suppose, that what has been 
done for an entire community, may be done for a portion 
of a community. 

The reason — whatever coloring may be given — why 
men are held as slaves is, because they are profitable. 
Their services are worth more than their support. Many 
worn-out slaves are, no doubt, maintained from charity, 
or a sense of duty ; but the motive for the commencement 
of the practice, and the sole reason why it is continued, is 
the love of lucre. This is an unlawful motive in relation to 
this subject. If men's minds were not rendered callous by 
custom, all would admit that there can be no legitimate 
property in human flesh. Such property cannot be right- 
fully acquired, nor rightfully transferred. Conscience soon 
becomes familiarized to an ordinary mode of injustice. The 
consideration that value has been paid, seems to cause an 
erroneous supposition of rightful possession. A man who has 



23 

received a counterfeit bank note as genuine, especially if he 
has paid the full value, is not readily inclined to permit it to 
be cancelled, or to part with it without an equivalent. In 
like manner, those who become owners of slaves for value 
paid, or even by inheritance, without any unlawful act of 
their own, are apt to consider the slaves as property fairly 
belonging to them. They are, however, no more justly 
their property than stolen goods bought at the market price. 
In one case it is a simple violation of the right of the origi- 
nal owner to a chattel, the property wherein is transferable ; 
in the other, the violation of right relates to property not 
transferable. 

Anticipations have been founded upon the predictions 
of Revelation, that there will be a long season of " Peace on 
earth and good will to men." The fulfillment of these pre- 
dictions is inconsistent with the continued existence of 
slavery. There can be no permanent and assured peace 
where there is permanent injustice. The feelings of charity 
and benevolence cannot be universally diffused — there can- 
not be perfect good will between all men, when some of 
them are held in unlawful bondage to others. The elements 
of human nature must be the same during the millenium as 
before. Injustice and oppression must ever cause hatred 
and sorrow. A state of bondage is evidently inconsistent 
with the universal joy and harmony that have been pre- 
dicted — when swords were to be beaten into ploughshares, 
and spears into pruning hooks — when wars are to be no 
more — when the lion is to lie down with the lamb, and the 
child to play unharmed with the tongue of the serpent. In- 
justice and oppression cannot be submitted to while there 



24 

is a hope of obtaining redress. This would be prostration of 
mind, not resignation. Every advance of society leads to a 
further advance. No philanthropist will be satisfied with the 
condition of his race, while a large portion of it, distinguished 
only by its color, is mere property, sold like the beasts in 
the market places. 

If slaves can do more than support themselves, if they 
can earn so much as that a surplus remains for their mas- 
ters — and if this were not so, they would not be held in 
slavery — they can support themselves. Free labor is much 
more productive than slave labor. To suppose that those 
who now support themselves and their masters, while slaves, 
could not, with the stimulus of liberty, support themselves 
in Hayti, Liberia, or in Florida, or upon some of the unsold 
lands of the United States north of Florida, seems absurd, 

I am not disposed to tamper with the constitution ; but, 
if this evil cannot be removed, but at the expense and by 
the act of the government, then there is sufficient object for 
amending the constitution. Suppose the citizens of the 
United States to assent to this course, and the difficulty is 
removed. If necessary to make a gift of a portion of our 
immense territory in unsold land, the same spirit that excited 
the people to attend to the subject, would prevent any mur- 
murs at such a sacrifice ; which, from the facility with 
which these lands have been disposed of and resumed, 
would probably be thought nominal. 

The space permitted will not allow me to present a de- 
tailed project for abolishing slavery at the expense of the 
United States. I have made the suggestion chiefly to show 
that it had not escaped me. I shall now consider the sub= 



25 

ject as if it were hopeless to expect either a remuneration 
to the masters for the slaves, or a provision for the support 
of the emancipated negroes, by allotment of lands, or other- 
wise, from the general government. 

The present masters or employers of slaves would prob- 
ably continue to employ them after they were emancipated. 
Their loss would consist in the difference between the cost 
of support and wages. As they would labor more cheer- 
fully and efficiently as freemen than as slaves, the increased 
amount of production would operate as a compensation to 
their former masters. The increase in the amount of pro- 
duce from the earth, with the same laborers, is certainly a 
general benefit — and what benefits the entire community, 
will, probably, benefit each class in it. The landholders 
would in part be rewarded by the increased value of the 
lands. Slavery checks the increase of population, and it is 
always a dense population that creates and sustains high 
prices for lands. 

One reform would probably bring on another. The same 
spirit acting upon the community, which should induce slave 
holders to do justice, should also induce others to do them 
justice. The south probably loses more by injustice in one 
form than it gains by injustice in another — loses more by the 
tariff than it gains by slavery. 

The tariff in this, and in every country where taxes or 
duties are imposed with design to prevent free intercourse, 
and to restrict the right of purchase and sale, is a partial, 
qualified, disguised slavery. It has nevertheless been pro- 
posed, and is advocated, as the permanent policy of the 
government. Its perpetuity is considered essential to the 



26 

preservation of the country. When we hear such language 
and such arguments from grave men — educated men — men 
of high standing and influence in society — filling the elective 
offices, — attempting to support the doctrine that wealth and 
population are lessened by free trade — and that one set of 
men have a right to prescribe to another set of men what 
they shall purchase, and from whom the purchase shall be 
made ; — when we hear this minor species of folly and in- 
justice promulged from our governors' chairs, and received 
by the mass of their electors as the precepts of justice and 
wisdom — it should surely teach us charity towards those 
who apply the same principles in different forms, and to 
different objects. The politicians who at this moment seem 
to be predominant in the country, really suppose that the 
tariff must be perpetual, and that from the nature and con- 
dition of man — certainly as existing in the United States of 
America — cheap clothing and tropical productions must be 
at unnatural prices. 

I could not perhaps select better instances to show the 
shallowness of ordinary politicians, and to illustrate the all- 
pervading error whereby artificial institutions and unnatural 
conditions, founded in ignorance, injustice, and folly, are 
supposed to be forever imposed upon society by the laws of 
nature and the constitution of man, than the two paramount 
evils of this country — slavery and the tariff. 

Mr. Clay, the distinguished advocate of the tariff, and his 
followers, terming it the " American System," consider it so 
interwoven into the texture of society, so identified with its 
interests, that the community can never be emancipated 
therefrom. 



27 

The same gentleman — perhaps under the same unfortunate 
bias of mind— has pronounced a distinct opinion that slavery 
is so firmly established, and so thoroughly incorporated into 
our society, that it must participate in the immortality of 
the " American System." With peculiar felicity this creed 
of the candidate for the next presidency includes the two 
most hurtful heresies in the country — the legitimacy of 
slavery and the tariff — and professes a belief in the neces- 
sary perpetuity of both. Nature does not interdict the 
exchange of English broadcloths and American corn ; nor 
does it any more interdict the freedom of a black man, who 
has been transported to or born in the United States. Both 
of these artificial and unnatural institutions are totally un- 
necessary and foreign to the nature of man, and mere ex- 
crescences or fungusses in society. Men have been as much 
infatuated as to the necessary perpetuity of other grievances, 
as many now are in regard to the necessary perpetuity of 
slavery. The anticipation of any considerable improvement 
usually produces a panic among those who predict evil from 
reform. The slave-holders fear the destruction of the coun- 
try from the admission of liberty ; the tariff men fear the 
destruction of the country from the admission of foreign 
goods. 

When slavery and the tariff shall have passed away, it 
will be perceived that they were strange, unnatural states 
of society, which did not arise in the natural course of 
things, did not spring up of themselves ; but were artificial, 
superinduced, and formed no part of the healthy political 
constitution. Society will be lightened and relieved of 
burdens which now press upon it, although it does not 



28 

perceive their weight. The wonder will be, why such gross 
and apparent evils were so long endured ; and why there 
was so much unnecessary apprehension of the consequences 
of removing the causes of political disease. 

The nature of man is not such that society cannot exist 
without injustice. If the blacks are men with like senses 
and capacities with other men ; if they are ranked in the 
class of human beings, like other human beings, they are 
entitled to freedom. 

The argument technically termed " ab inconvenienti,"— 
that the rendering of justice would tend to inconvenience — ■ 
would not avail in a court of justice, and it should not avail 
when pleaded before the country. Necessity is in all cases 
an admissible plea, but it must be strictly proved. If the 
preservation of society, or the support of those who are 
now slaves, absolutely require the continuance of slave- 
ry, then it should be continued, otherwise it should be 
abolished. 

Let us inquire what would be the probable result of the 
emancipation of all the slaves in this country, at a future 
period, say on the first day of May, 1850. 

At that time the population of the United States will 
probably amount to twenty millions. Political economists 
have shown that as population increases, in countries where 
commerce and industry are free, the increase in the means 
of living is greater than the increase in the numbers of the 
people ; so that each individual obtains a subsistence more 
easily than before. A garden is more productive and more 
profitable than a farm. Labor is more effective, and mar- 
kets more regular where the population is dense. 



29 

If, in the interval, the country should not be visited by 
calamity, the national debt will long have ceased to exist. 
It is to be hoped that the national policy will be modeled 
accordingly. There will no longer be any apology for the 
present absurd legislation, whereby the necessaries and 
comforts of life are raised to artificial prices. With a popu- 
lation of twenty millions, a capitation tax of fifty cents per 
head would defray the necessary expenses of the govern- 
ment ; and if the tax were on property, it would scarcely 
be felt. 

The present system of disguised invisible taxation ope- 
rates with peculiar efficacy, in the language of its advocate, 
— and, in more appropriate language, — with peculiar se- 
verity, upon the necessaries and comforts of the slave popu- 
lation. I am not sufficiently well informed to enable me to 
estimate the proportion of the expense of the maintenance 
of a man for one year, which goes to purchase his clothing. 
It is, however, quite evident, that a reduction of one-half in 
the price of coarse woollen cloths would very materially 
better the condition of the laboring blacks. While the 
impediments to the easy obtaining of subsistence, caused by 
the ignorance and folly of man, will, it is hoped, be removed, 
at the same time, the resources of nature — in which I in- 
clude the faculties of man — will be further developed. 
Labor will be applied with more skill, and be much more 
productive. The labor-saving and economical contrivances, 
which in the last seventy or eighty years have astonished 
the world — each year being almost equivalent to a pre- 
ceding century — are not yet exhausted. 

These improvements are going on at an increasing rate 



30 

of advance. 1 could not enumerate any considerable pro 
portion of those now discovered, which have not yet been 
applied to practical benefit. I limit myself to two exem- 
plifications ; one relating to what may be saved, the other 
to what may be done. It is but a recent suggestion, which 
has not yet, that I am aware, been acted upon, that the soil 
and water which are now carried off in freshets, laying our 
lands bare of their manure, may be saved for the purpose of 
use. The recent improvements in the steam-engine are 
such, that it is computed there will be a saving of two-thirds 
of the fuel, and that one thousand acres of land may be 
ploughed in one day by its aid. The benefit of these and 
all other improvements must be diffused through society. 
Every new idea, every attainment, whereby labor may 
be facilitated and wealth increased, goes to facilitate the 
emancipation of the blacks. 

Where human life is coarsely supported, it is said thai 
one-half the expense required to support it consists in the 
procuring of food. Indian corn and rice are, I believe, the 
principal articles of food of the slaves in the southern states. 
The customary allowance to those who are fed upon indian 
corn is, or at least was, a^eck or eight quarts per week, 
with a little addition of salt. This allowance, somewhat 
increased by their labor on Sundays, and in other incon- 
siderable intervals of their stated labor, a log hut, a suit of 
clothes per year, with a few extras, constitute the mainte- 
nance of the slave. Who shall say that he would not be 
able to make this and a much more ample provision for 
himself ? If the slaves now support themselves and their 
masters, it surely requires not the power of divination to 



31 

enable us to predict, that in a very improved state of 
society, when relieved from the burden of supporting their 
masters, they would be competent to support themselves. 

I have already alluded to the speech of Mr. Clay — the 
candidate for the next presidency — at the Branch Coloniza- 
tion Society in the state of Kentucky, in December, 1829. 
That gentleman, in this able speech, evinces much hu- 
manity, and a very honorable zeal for the improvement of 
the free blacks. I much regret that he narrowed his mind 
to the contemplation of the condition of that portion of the 
unfortunate African race which needs the least commisera- 
tion. The condition of slavery he considers perpetual from 
the nature and necessity of the case ; and the relief which 
he proposes is to be solely afforded to those who have 
already been relieved from the greatest calamity of their 
race. The proposition of the gentleman is characteristic. 
I will not accuse him of devising means to render perpetual 
the particular mode of injustice to which he seems to be 
attached. I do not believe he was influenced by any such 
design. He has, notwithstanding, acted as if such were his 
object. 

He considers the tariff perpetual. Local improvements 
at the expense of the people, paid for through the medium 
of the tariff, seem to be the favorite object of this gentle- 
man — or at least to have superseded for the present his 
plan of colonization at the public expense, as would appear 
by his subsequent speech at Cincinnati. How much surplus 
revenue he anticipated to collect from the people to be ap- 
plied to internal improvements, before the appropriations 
should be made for the benefit of the free blacks, does not 



32 

appear. It does however appear, by the president's mes- 
sage, that, at the time of its delivery, the amount demanded 
for this purpose was ninety-six millions of dollars. Since 
that time, if we may judge from the journal of the pro- 
ceedings of Congress, new petitioners for similar objects 
swarm the lobbies of the capitol. Little reliance can there- 
fore be placed upon the surplus proceeds of the tariff, for 
alleviating the condition of the free or enslaved blacks in 
the United States. 

The proposition of Mr. Clay was, to appropriate a million 
of dollars per year, from the treasury, for the purpose of 
transporting free blacks to Liberia. Such a measure would 
tend to perpetuate one evil, while it could but slightly alle- 
viate another. The proposer should surely have stated his 
willingness to forego exactions from the public for the 
Maysville road and other local purposes, before he proposed 
exactions for a more generous and useful object. The evil — 
the degradation of the African race — is too great to be 
remedied by such trivial and inadequate means. The ap- 
plication of one million a year — even if there were any 
probability of its ever being made — would, with the partial 
use of the navy, be insufficient to remove to Liberia the 
annual increase of the black population in this country. 
The estimated expense of transporting a single passenger, 
to be left destitute on his arrival, is thirty dollars — and if 
the condition of the African be improved thereby, the fault 
lies in our institutions. 

The proposition was probably made by Mr. Clay from a 
conviction that the action of the Colonization Society upon 
the mass of the black population in this country had been 



33 

feeble — and that an association, formed in 1816, which at 
this time had created a colony with only two thousand 
inhabitants, could hardly be relied upon, without the aid of 
government, to make an impression upon the African popu- 
lation in the United States. 

Slaves are now raised under this barbarous system like 
cattle for the market. While human flesh is a marketable 
commodity, it will, like other commodities, be produced in 
proportion to the demand. Those who are now transported 
to Liberia are not slaves, but they supply the place in 
the community which in their absence would be filled by 
slaves. The stimulus or encouragement given to the bu- 
siness of raising slaves for sale, is very much the same, 
whether the export be of the enslaved or free blacks. The 
black population in the United States will rather be increas- 
ed than diminished by a partial emigration. The principle 
of population will operate among us as in Ireland, and as, I 
believe, it has in every country where the emigration has 
been of the surplus population. The Irish have scattered 
themselves over the civilized world, while their numbers 
have been very rapidly increasing at home. The same 
principle has been manifested in the eastern states in this 
country. The immense emigration to the west has not 
lessened our numbers — they have constantly increased. 

The partial object advocated by Mr. Clay, and many 
others, is beneficent and useful. It is, however, a palliative 
which recognises the legality of slavery, and tends to per- 
petuate its existence. 

If it were necessary — as I believe it is not necessary — to 
transport these unfortunate people to the land of their an- 



34 

cestors— a merely nominal home — it should be done at any 
sacrifice. As the national compact now is s it cannot be done 
at the expense of the country without altering or violating 
the constitution. If such alteration should be proposed, it 
should embrace the object of doing entire justice to this 
injured race, and of removing the principal stigma from our 
national character. 

In the progress of society, political and personal liberty 
have been attained by many people and nations as much, or 
nearly as much, degraded and oppressed as the Africans now 
are in this country. What has been done, may be done again. 

As the subject is one of great interest, I request permis- 
sion to recapitulate and restate the argument. 

The objections to the emancipation of the slaves in this 
country, so far as I know them, are these : 

1. The violation of the rights of property. 

2. The inability to cultivate the lands, upon which slaves 
are now employed, with free labor. 

3. The inability of those who are now slaves to support 
themselves as freemen. 

4. The danger of commotions. 

Let us consider these objections in their order. 

First : The violation of the rights of property. The im- 
putation of advocating jacobin principles is cast upon those 
who advocate the practical application of the doctrine of 
the equality of men, and the right of each individual of our 
race to personal liberty. Epithets do not vary principles. 
If a question be raised so important as that of the legal 



35 

right of one man to hold another man in bondage, it must 
be decided — and it should be decided upon the principles 
of justice. As the argument has been protracted, I will refer 
on this point to the opinion of the late Judge Sedgwick, in 
the case of Greenwood and Curtis, in the sixth volume of 
Massachusetts Reports, delivered in the year 1810. 

It seemed to him that the law of nature should be the 
law of the land ; that one man could not have a legitimate 
property in the person of another man ; and that therefore 
a contract made at Rio Pangos, on the coast of Africa, for 
a cargo of slaves, was, as the law terms it, malum in se, and 
void as against the law of God. He held accordingly that 
no action upon such a contract could be sustained at com- 
mon law in Massachusetts. His opinion was in conformity 
with that of Lord Mansfield in the leading case of Somerset 

This opinion was founded in the natural rights of man ; 
which are now recognised by most of the civilized nations, 
and must soon be recognised by all. The tenure of slavery, 
and the legality of the slave-trade, rest upon the same prin- 
ciple. The illegality of the slave trade is almost universally 
admitted. This is proved at least in part by the efforts made 
by the governments of Europe and that of the United States 
to abolish it. By parity of reason — if the traffic be illegal — ■ 
and illegal because it. deals in human flesh, no right can be 
acquired by it, and of course none can be transferred. 

In what I have read upon the subject, the question is ra- 
ther evaded than argued. The custom of nations, some- 
times called the Law of Nations, is cited as authority for 
the continuance of a practice which, upou principle, cannot 
be sustained. Injustice cannot be supported upon prece- 



36 

dent. Authority docs not make right ; nor is the violation 
of the right of any individual of our race to enjoy personal 
liberty, to be sanctioned, because the practice originated 
with our ancestors. 

Slavery is said to be a state which always existed. Of 
this there can be no evidence. Suppose it were so. Primi- 
tive times — so far as we know any thing of them — appear 
to have been times of fraud, violence, and murder. Power 
was the test of right. 



" The good old rule, 

" The simple plan," — 
" That he should take who has the power," 
"And he should keep who can," 



is not recognised in modern ethics. It was, however, sup» 
ported by the same authority, and the same reasons, which 
are now urged to support property in slaves. The maxim, 
that the " receiver is as bad as the thief," is of at least equal 
antiquity ; and though not morally, is legally applicable to 
the slave-holder. 

I do not intend to impeach the morality of those who con- 
tinue to hold property in slaves. From the nature of man, 
the sense of right is blunted by custom. Many — perhaps 
most of those who hold slaves — hold them in conformity to 
the dictates of their consciences. If they mistake herein, 
they fall into a common error, and are not to be charged 
with an intentional violation of right. 

Second : The inability to cultivate the land upon which 
the slaves are employed, otherwise than by slave-labor. 



37 

This objection, if it exist, must principally apply to the 
cultivation of rice, cotton, and the sugarcane. If the culti- 
vation of these products in this country be so excessively 
laborious, or so unhealthy, that it ought not to be carried on 
by freemen — then it should be abandoned. So far from its 
being true, that slavery is essential to cultivation of any sort, 
it must, from the constitution of our natures, be true, that if 
slavery produce any effect upon the animal spirits, it must 
depress them ; and if it affect the animal strength, it must 
enfeeble it. A negro can surely endure heat, or labor in 
water, as well after as before having obtained his liberty. 
The only question is, whether he will be willing to do so. 
The experience of the world has never shown that when 
there was a sufficient demand for labor, and a sufficient 
number of laborers, there was any difficulty in procuring 
ordinary labor to be done. Occupations more laborious, 
and more destructive to life than the labor of field negroes, 
are eagerly sought, and cheerfully undertaken. Wherever 
any cultivation is practicable, there is no danger that it will 
not be undertaken from the indisposition of poor people to 
work for hire. 

The personal attachment of slaves to their masters, in 
cases where it exists, would not be destroyed by emancipa- 
tion : on the contrary, if the emancipation were voluntary, 
it would be much increased by the sense of gratitude. The 
local attachments, which all feel more or less, would bind 
the emancipated slave to the place of his former residence, 
unless strong inducements were offered him to remove. 
From mutual convenience, the emancipated slaves would 
remain in the employment of their masters. Their connec- 

6 



38 

tions with each other, and the almost innumerable reasons 
which induce a continuance in a fixed abode, would prevent 
removals in all cases where special inducements were not 
offered. The slave is not, perhaps, quite so much domesti- 
cated as his master, but nearly so. It would be natural to 
continue occupations to which he bad become accustomed. 
It would be painful, as well as inconvenient, to quit the hut 
that had long afforded him shelter, and the little patch of 
ground which he had long cultivated. Unless some general 
provision were made by the United States, there is not much 
greater reason to anticipate a general emigration of the 
blacks in case of emancipation, than there is that any other 
portion of the population of the country will emigrate en 
masse. The natural course of things would be, for the pro- 
prietors of estates or their agents, to make contracts with 
the negroes who were already tenants upon their estates. 
The interests of both parties would suggest this obvious 
course, and there is no apparent reason why it should not 
be adopted, except in the few cases where the minds of the 
slaves had been exasperated by cruelty. 

Wages would be substituted for maintenance, and this 
would probably be for the benefit of both parties. The la- 
borers would work more cheerfully, and do more w r ork in 
the same time, and the produce would be greater. Unless 
there should be convulsions which derange the order of 
society and interrupt occupations, there seems no reason to 
believe, that the owners of plantations, in the supposed case 
of a general emancipation of the negroes, could not hire the 
laborers who had been their slaves, or other freed men, as 
their substitutes. 



39 

Third : The inability of those who have been slaves to 
support themselves. 

If, as I have supposed, they should be generally continued 
in the employment of their former masters, they would of 
course be supported. It is not to be supposed that the cul- 
tivation of lands now worked by slaves would be discon- 
tinued. There must, therefore, be a demand for the same 
species of labor by which the lands had been before 
wrought. This demand would be readily supplied by the 
labor at hand. Some of the slaves are mechanics, and 
capable of becoming good mechanics. These, and others who 
hoped to better their condition, might be disposed to emi- 
grate, and thus somewhat diminish the supply of labor. It 
is not impossible that the emancipation of the slaves might 
result in a manner quite different from what is anticipated — 
that, under the stimulus of freedom, they would become 
good laborers — that their services would be sought by their 
former masters ; and, in case of a considerable emigration, 
that there would be rather a deficiency of black laborers 
than an over supply. 

The question rather relates to field laborers than to house 
servants or domestics. These last are hardly to be dispensed 
with. Most of them are women, and as society is now ar- 
ranged, the wages of women amount to little more than a 
bare support. It would indeed be strange if, in this favored 
country of cheap and fertile lands, a laborer could not earn 
his subsistence. Even in England, Burke considered that 
the man who had a vigorous constitution, possessed a fortune. 
As I have before stated, the original reason of the intro- 
duction of the Africans into this continent, was, their supe- 



40 

riority to the natives, in bodily strength. It is well known that 
the aborigines of our country are generally inferior to the 
Europeans in bodily strength, and more especially in the 
power of enduring continued labor. Great efforts are made 
and great privations endured by the indians ; but a white 
man is usually an overmatch for an indian in a personal 
contest of mere strength. 

There is no such constitutional disparity between the 
whites and the blacks. The negroes are at least as much 
inclined to voluntary labor as the indians ; and, as I believe, 
are rather more able to endure it. The Cherokees and 
some of the other tribes of indians. who have adopted the 
habits of civilized life, profess their perfect ability to support 
themselves. 

It would be difficult to prove, that in the origin of any of 
the now flourishing nations of the earth, civilization, the arts, 
wealth, and whatever indicates improvement, ever made 
more rapid progress than they have made among the Che- 
rokees. The development of our country was not from the 
germ. Englishmen, as well educated as any Englishmen, 
with all the knowledge of the times, both speculative and 
practical, with an adequate amount of capital, emigrated in 
large numbers to this country. It was as much a transfer 
as a new establishment. It was not to have been expected 
that Hayti, under circumstances so dissimilar, should have 
made a progress which bears so favorable a comparison 
with the progress made by Virginia and Massachusetts, as 
appearances seem to indicate. 

It is not to be anticipated that uneducated slaves, disen- 
thralled from slavery, can immediately become like those 



41 

who have enjoyed every advantage of education that the 
times would afford ; but it is to be hoped and expected, that 
the domesticated negro would as easily and beneficially be 
brought into cultivated life, and attain its customary results, 
as the wild and wandering indian. The policy of our go- 
vernment supposes that the indians are capable of relin- 
quishing the hunter's state, and of subsisting by agriculture 
and the arts. The negroes are at least equally capable of 
living by agriculture and the arts. The change would be 
much less in the case of the negroes than in the case of the 
indians. 

Fourth : The last, and perhaps the principal objection to 
the emancipation of the slaves, is the apprehended danger 
of commotion. 

If the blacks shall be driven to insurrection to obtain their 
liberty, there will of course be commotion. Jn such case, 
tumult, strife and bloodshed seem to be the course of nature, 
and the order of Providence. All histoiy furnishes illustra- 
tion. Some of us have lived in the times of the American 
revolution, the French revolution, and the revolution at St, 
Domingo. 

If the liberty of the blacks be accorded to them, there 
seems to be no more danger of commotion or strife than 
would exist between the Georgians and the Cherokees, if 
each would respect the rights of the other. It is injustice, 

;itrage, cruelty, that excite the passions, and impel men 
tx> retaliation ; — not concession. 

Great alterations in the structure of society are usually, 
perhaps necessarily, accompanied by considerable derange- 



42 

ment, and much individual embarrassment and inconveni- 
ence. These are temporary ; the change is permanent and 
beneficial. In performing so signal an act of justice, as the 
emancipation of the slaves of the United States, sacrifices 
are to be expected ; yet I trust they would be less, and at- 
tended with more compensation than those concerned would 
probably anticipate. The consciousness of having done 
justice; of having converted misery, or at least comparative 
misery, to happiness, would, to generous minds, be no slight 
compensation. The lands would be better cultivated. Po- 
pulation would increase, and land consequently rise in value. 
Such is the principle of diffusion in society, that the increase 
of wealth and comforts, in innumerable unforeseen modes, 
benefits the entire mass of society. 

Nothing but absolute necessity should prevent the award 
of justice. Those who interpose the plea of necessity to 
debar men from the exercise of rights inherent in their 
nature, should be held to strict proof. 

Our country fought for justice, and should be ready to 
award the justice which it demanded. 

The present enlightened ministry of Great Britain — if an 
opinion can be formed from the intimation of one of its 
most illustrious members, and recent proceedings in parlia- 
ment — contemplates the abolition of slavery in the West 
Indies. What in this way can be effected in a more 
southern latitude, can certainly be effected in the United 
States. In our respect for the rights of man — in this strife 
of magnanimity — let us not be surpassed by the country 
from which we have separated. 






POSTSCRIPT 



Some remarks have been made in regard to the propriety 
of mingling the question of commercial restrictions with the 
main subject of the discourse — the abolition of slavery. 

The writer did this after reflection. Perhaps, however, 
there should be some more explanation of the reasons which 
induced him to connect the question of the abolition of 
slavery with that of the anti-commercial system. 

The vices, as the virtues, have between themselves a 
common bond of union. This, as applied to these two 
paramount vices, is not a mere philosophical proposition, but 
a plain, apparent, and most important truth. The market 
for slaves, and their price, in the southern states, are in a 
great degree made by and depend upon the cultivation of 
sugar in Louisiana. This cultivation is forced by the tariff, 
and is, for the most part, the creation of the tariff. The 
effect of the tariff' to increase the value of the capital held 
in slaves in the United States, is relied upon by some of its 
principal advocates in Louisiana, as one of the main reasons 
why it should be sustained. The tariff is upheld as increas- 
ing the value and price of slaves, and of course, as upholding 
slavery. 



44 

Besides removing the factitious support of slavery, the 
demand for and high price of slaves, the abolition of the 
tariff would otherwise tend to the abolition of slavery. 

Upon the ordinary principles of human nature, the slave 
owners of the south, enriched, or put in the way to become 
enriched, by the removal of the burthens to which they 
impute their poverty, would be more disposed to accord 
justice to others, when justice had been accorded to them. 
Opulence leads to acts of justice and liberality — poverty 
tends to grinding and oppression. 

Many emancipations may be expected from a change of 
feeling caused by a change of circumstances. This, how- 
ever, could not be relied upon as a ground of hope for the 
emancipation of slaves, with the same confidence as an- 
other cause more powerful, and more sure of operation. 
The abrogation of the tariff, by its necesssary effect to give 
greater value to the labor of a man, would enable the slave 
to purchase his own liberty. 

I shall attempt to present the case in such a mode, as at 
least to refute the constantly recurring fallacy, that the tariff 
does not operate precisely as a tax, upon those who con- 
sume the articles affected by it ; and of course, when the 
tax is not wanted for revenue, but is imposed as a part of 
the prohibitory system, it is a tax paid to support the mis- 
named protecting system. 

The complaints of the south in this respect are evidently 
just ; and the case is a very aggravated one, inasmuch as 
the government receives but a small portion of what is paid 
by the people in prices enhanced by the tariff. But I must 
not digress from the main subject, and therefore leave this 






45 

inequitable and injurious characteristic of the tariff — to wit, 
that it exacts from the people much more than the govern- 
ment receives — to be exposed in its proper place. 

Suppose then a slave to make a contract with his master 
to apply his surplus earnings to the payment of the price of 
his liberty, so as to pay an annual sum until the stipulated 
amount had been paid. This is a mode in which a slave is 
often permitted to buy his freedom. How much could this 
process be facilitated by the doing away of the tariff? 

Among his brethren at Hayti, Liberia, or elsewhere in the 
tropical or equatorial regions, he could soon pay for himself 
by sending his products to his master, if the unjust american 
system did not interfere to prevent him from attempting to 
obtain his freedom in that mode. 

If the slave who has made the supposed contract remain 
in this country, the operation of the tariff against him, al- 
though not quite so evident, would be nearly as oppressive 
as if he went abroad to earn his freedom, in the mode which 
I have supposed. The operation of the tariff to increase the 
cost of his maintenance, and to diminish the amount of the 
products of his labor, would perhaps be equivalent to the 
duty on his produce if sent from abroad into this country. 

A postscript does not afford space for amplification, and I 
must be content with merely presenting this imperfect view 
of the effect and operation of the tariff to prevent the abo- 
lition of slavery. 

In a short time, the reduction of the cost of production 
which is rapidly going on — and which purblind politicians 
impute to the tariff — the present duty on sugar will be one 
hundred per cent, ad valorem. This is one of the principal 

7 



46 

staples, the cultivation of which — but for this unnatural 
barrier — would aid these unfortunate slaves to purchase 
their liberty. 

The mere saving of duty, immense as it would be, would 
not be the only aid which the abolition of the tariff would 
afford to slaves to gain their liberty. Suppose them to be 
in a settlement where they would be free from duties on 
imports, or in other words, where there was no tariff — the 
skill and effect with which their labor would be applied 
would be greater than it is, or can be in this country, 
while this check — the tariff — shall continue to operate: and, 
in addition to this, all tools, implements, and machinery, that 
come in aid of industry of every description, would be 
cheaper and better, and enable them to do more work with 
the same amount of labor. If they remain in this country, 
the abolition of the tariff would operate as exemption from 
the burthens of a tariff in a new settlement. The efficiency 
of labor must be greater when the obtaining mechanical 
aids to labor is more easy and cheap. The communication 
of improvements would be sooner made, and the improve- 
ments sooner adopted, when intercourse was not fettered 
by a tariff. In the present state of the art of cultivation, a 
black colony might be commenced under kuspices as fa- 
vorable as many white colonies that have succeeded. 

The advantage of sending coffee, indigo, sugar, fruits, 
spices, and other productions of the colony, duty free into 
this country — although it would be a mere riddance of an 
absurd and unnecessary incumbrance — would, perhaps, 
counterbalance the disadvantage of the debt assumed by the 
negroes to their masters as the price of their liberty, If 



47 

in such cases security for payments were required before 
permission to leave the country were granted, philanthro- 
pists — or perhaps others, acting solely from motives of self- 
interest — might be found to give the required security, and 
it would probably be given with safety. 

If it were not for the settled, but absurd notions, con- 
nected with artificial institutions, it would be as apparent to 
all, that the abolition of the tariff would aid in the abolition 
of slavery, as that the casting off fetters gives liberty to him 
who has worn them ; and that a man can do more labor , 
earn more, and pay more, when he is unfettered, than 
when his hands and feet are bound. 

Slavery, and unnecessary restriction upon commercial 
exchanges, are both, but not equally, in violation of natural 
right. It would be a beautiful spectacle, interesting alike 
to the philanthropist and the economist, to observe how 
emancipation from the minor restriction — that imposed on 
commerce — would aid in the emancipation of the slaves 
from bodily thraldom. Hope and success stimulate effort. 
Without a tariff, every cultivated acre would yield more 
produce, and the same produce would give more money, 
and pay a greater amount of debt. With a tariff, the net 
proceeds of a consignment would, probably, leave nothing 
that the negro could spare as part payment for his liberty. 
What should go to discharge his debt, would be taken by 
the government, and if the government be in the hands of 
the tariff party, the exaction would virtually be made by 
that party. The strength of this party lies in the north, 
where a preference of profit over liberty and justice — which 
the support of the tariff implies — would not be willingly 
avowed, 






48 

This discussion pertains to political economy. The prin- 
ciples which are here baldly stated, may not produce the 
conviction that would be produced in fair minds by farther 
argument and elucidation, which the limits of this pamphlet 
deny. 

The argument may be summed up thus : The supposition 
of colonizing slaves abroad, fairly tests the effect of a tariff 
to diminish the amount which it is possible to accumulate 
from the savings of labor. The slaves, supposing them to 
be colonized abroad so as to be free from a tariff — which 
necessarily increases the expense of living, and also the 
cost of producing every article for sale — and supposing the 
whole of a remittance to be paid to their masters for free- 
dom, instead of taking the half of it, as in the case of the 
sugar tax, for the benefit of the protecting system, would, 
undeniably, be in a much better condition as to the means 
and possibility of purchasing their freedom, in consequence 
of the abolition of this artificial system. 

Those who restrict natural right, know little of the extent 
of the evil which they inflict. Tne politicians who counte- 
nance or sustain the present system, did ^not and do not, 
intend to become responsible for slavery or want ; and yet 
perhaps it will appear, that — unless ignorance be a de- 
fence — they are responsible for both slavery and want. 
The tariff tends to keep in bondage two millions of human 
beings, capable of being as good and useful citizens as those 
who now, unconsciously, co-operate to perpetuate, or at 
least, to prolong their thraldom, 



