Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library /The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/accountofslavetrOOfalc 



}u^ L 



AN 



ACCOUNT 



OF THE 



SLAVE TRADE 



OM THE 



Coast of Africa. 



BY 



ALEXANDER FAL C ON BR ID G E, 

Late Surgeon in the African Trade. 



LONDON: 

Printed by J. Phillips, Gkorge Yard, Lombard- 
street. 

M D c C L X A X V I I I . 



( i" ) 

R E F A C E. 



THE following fheets are intended to lay be- 
fore the public the prefent ftate of a branch 
of the Britifh commerce, which, ever lince its 
exiftence, has been held in deteflation by all good 
men, but at this time more particularly engages 
the attention of the nation, and is become the 
objefl of general reprobation. 

Leaving to abler pens to expatiate more at 
large on the injuftice and inhumanity of the Slave 
Trade, I lliall content myfelf with giving fome 
account of the hardfhips which the unhappy ob- 
je6ts of it undergo, and the cruelties they fuffer, 
from the period of their being reduced to a ftate 
of flavery, to their being difpofed of in the Weft 
India iflands ; where, I fear, their grievances find 
little alleviation. At the fame time, I iliall treat 
of a fubjedt, which appears not to have been at- 
tended to 'in the manner its importance requires j 
that is, the fufferings and lofs of the feamen em- 
ployed in this trade ; which, from the intempera- 
ture of the climate, the inconveniencies they la- 
bour under during the voyage, and the feverity 
of moft of the commanders, occafion the deftruc- 
tion of great numbers annually. 

And this I fhall endeavour to do by the recital 
of a number of fa6ls which have fallen under my 
own immediate obfervation, or the knowledge of 
which I have obtained from perfons on whofe 
veracity I can depend. 

And happy fhall I efteem myfelf, if an experi- 
ence obtained by a feries of inquiries and obferv- 
ations, made during feveral voyages to the coafb 

A 2 of 



of Africa, fhall enable me to render any fervice 
to a caufe, which is become the caufe of every 
perfon of humanity. 

Before I proceed to the methods of obtaining 
the flaves, and their fubfequent treatment, the 
treatment of the failors, and a concife account 
of the places on the coaft of Africa where flaves 
are obtained, (which I purpofe to annex,) it may 
not be unnecefiary to give a fhort fketch of the 
ufual proceedings of the fhips employed in the 
flave trade. 



( 5 ) 



A N 



ACCOUNT 



G F THE 



SLAVE TRADE, &c. 



Proceedings during the Voyage. 

ON the arrival of the fhlps at Bonny, and 
New Calabar, it is cullomary for them to 
unbend the fails, ftrike the yards and topmafts, and 
begin to build what they denominate a houfe. This 
is effefted in the following manner. The failors 
firit laih the booms and yards from mail to mafl:, 
in order to form a ridge-pole. About ten feet 
above the deck, feveral fpars, equal in length to 
the ridge pole, are next lafhed to the Handing 
rigging, and form a wall-plate. Acrofs the ridge- 
pole and wall-plate, feveral other fpars or rafters 
are afterwards laid and lafhed, at the diftance of 
about fix inches from each other. On thefe, other 
rafters or fpars are laid length-wife, equal in ex- 
tent to the ridge-pole, fo as to form a kind of 
A 3 lattice 



(6 ) 

lattice or net-work, with interflices of fix inches 
fquare. The roof is then covered with mats, 
made ofrufhes of very loofe texture, faflened to- 
gether with rope-yarn, and fo placed, as to lap 
over each other like tiles. The fpace between 
the deck and the wall-plate, is likewife enclofed 
with a kind of lattice, or net-work, formed of 
fticks, lafhed acrofs each other, and leaving vacan- 
cies of about four inches fquare. Near the main- 
maft, a partition is conftruftedof inch deal boards, 
which reaches athwart the Ihip. This divifion is 
called a barricado. It is about eight feet in height, 
and is made to prqjed: near two feet over the fides 
of the fhip. In this barricado there is a door, at 
which a centinel is placed during the time the 
negroes are permitted to come upon deck. It 
ferves to keep the different fexes apart; and as 
there are fmall holes in it, wherein blunderbufles 
are fixed, and fometimes a cannon, it is found very- 
convenient for quelling the infurreftions that now 
and then happen. Another door is made in the 
lattice or net-work at the ladder, by which you 
enter the Ihip. This door is guarded by a centi- 
nal during the day, and is locked at night. At 
the head of the fhip there is a third door, for the 
life of the failors, which isfecured in the fame man- 
ner as that at the gangway. There is alfo in the 
roof a large trap-door, through which the goods 
intended for barter, the water cailis, &c. are hoift- 
ed out or in. 

The defign of this houfe is to fecure thofe on 
board from the heat of the fun, which in this lati- 
tude is intenfe, and from the wind and rain, which 
at particular feafons, are likewife extremely vio- 
lent. It anfwers thefe purpofes however but very 
ineffedually. The iligljt texture of the m.ats ad- 
mits both the wind and the rain, whenever it hap- 
pens 



( 7 ) 

pens to be violent, though at the fame time, it in- 
creafes the heat of the fhip to a very pernicious de- 
gree, efpecially between decks. The increafed 
warmth occafioned by this means, together with 
the fmoke produced from the green mangrove, 
(the ufual firewood) which, for want of a current 
of air to carry it off, collefts itfelf in large quan- 
tities, and infefts every part of the fliip, render 
a vefTel during its ftay here very unhealthy. The 
fmoke alfo, by its acrimonious quality, often pro- 
duces inflammations in the eyes, which terminates 
fometimes in the lofs of fight. 

Another purpofe for which thefe temporary 
houfes are erected, is, in order to prevent the pur- 
chafed negroes from leaping overboard. This, 
the horrors of their fituation frequently impel them 
to attempt; and they now and then efFecl it, not- 
withftanding all the precautions that are taken, by 
forcing their way through the lattice work. 

Theflavefhips generally lie near a mile below 
the town, in Bonny River, in feven or eight fathom 
water. Sometimes fifteen fail, Englifh and French, 
but chiefly the former, meet here together. Soon 
after they cafl; anchor,, the captains go on {hore, 
to make known their arrival, and to inquire into 
the ftate of the trade. They likewife invite the 
kings of Bonny to come on board, to whom, pre- 
vious to breaking bulk, they ufually make pre- 
fents (in that country termed dajhes) which gene- 
rally confift of pieces of cloth, cotton, chintz, filk 
handkerchiefs, and other India goods, and fome- 
times of brandy, wine, or beer. 

When I was at Bonny a few years ago, it was 
the refidence of two kings, whofe names were 
Norfolk and Peppel. The houfes of thefe princes 
were not diftinguiflied from the cottages or huts 
of which the town confifts, in any other manner, 
A 4 than 



( 8 ) 

than by being of fonnewhat larger dimenfionSj and. 
lurroiinded with warehoufes containing European 
goods, defigned for the purchafe of flaves. Thefe 
flaves, which the kings procure in the fame man- 
ner as the black traders do theirs, are fold by them 
to the fhips. And for every negroe fold there by the 
traders, the kings receive a duty, vv'hich amounts 
to a confiderable fum in the courfe of a year. This 
duty is colle6led by officers, ftationed on board 
the fhips, who are termed officer hoys ; a denomina- 
tion v/hich it is thought they received from the 
Engliih. 

The kings of Bonny are abfolute, though elec- 
tive. They are affifted in the government by a 
fmall number of perfons of a certain rank, who 
llile themfelves 'parliament gentlemen •, an office 
which they generally hold for life. Every fhip, 
on its arrival, is expefted to fend a prefent to thefe 
gentlemen, of a fmall quantity of bread and beefj 
and likev/ife to treat them as often as they come 
on board. When they do this, their approach to 
the fliip is announced by blov^ing througii a hollow 
elephant's tooth, which produces a found refemb- 
ling that of a poil-horn. 

After the kings have been on board, and have 
received the ufual prefents, permiffion is granted 
by them, for trafficking with any of the black tra- 
ders. V/hen the royal guefts return from the 
fhips, they are faluted by the guns. 

From the time of the arrival of the fhips to their 
departure, which* is ufually near three months, 
fcarce a day palTes without fome negroes being 
purchafed, and carried on board; fometimes in 
fmall, and fometimes in larger numbers. The 
whole number taken on board, depends, in a great 
meafure, on circumftances. In a voyage I once 
made, our ilock of merchandize was exhaufced in 

the 



( 9 ) 

the purchafe of about 380 negroes, which was ex, 
pedled to have procured 500. The number of 
Englifh and French fl^kips then at Bonny, had fo 
far raifed the price of negroes, as to occafion this 
difference. 

The reverfe (and a happy reverfe I think I may- 
call it) was known during the late war. When I 
was laft at Bonny, I frequently made inquiries on 
this head, of one of the black traders, whofe intel- 
ligence I believe I can depend upon. He inform- 
ed me that only one fhip had been there for three 
years during that period ; and that was the Mqfeley- 
Hill, Captain Ewing, from Leverpool, who made 
an extraordinary purchafe, as he found negroes re- 
markably cheap from the dulnefs of trade. Upon 
further inquiring of my black acquaintance, what 
was the cohfequence of this decay of their trade, 
he (hrugged up his fhoulders, and anfwered, only 
making us traders poorer^ and obliging us to work 
for our maintenance. One of thefe black mer- 
chants being informed, that a particular ^tt of 
people, called Quakers, were for abolifhing the 
trade, he faid, // was a very bad thiiig^ as they 
(hould then be reduced to the fame ft ate they were in 
during the war^ when, through poverty, they were 
obliged to dig the ground and plant yams. 

I was once upon the coall of Angola alfo, when 
there had not been a flave fhip at the river Am- 
bris for five years previous to our arrival, although 
a place to which many ufually refort every year; 
and the failure of the trade for that perod, as far 
as we could learn, had not any "other cifecft, than' 
to reftore peace and confidence among the nativesi 
which, upon the arrival of any fliips, is imme- 
diately deftroyed, by the inducement then held 
forth in the purchafe of flaves. And during the 
fufpenfion of trade at Bonny, as above-mention- 
ed, none of the dreadful proceedings, which are 

' fo 



( 10 ) 

fo confidently alTerted to be the natural confe- 
quence of it, were known. The redudion of the 
price of negroes, and the poverty of the black 
traders, appear to have been the only bad efFe6ls of 
the difcontinuance of trade ; the good ones were, moji 
probably i the reftoration of peace and confidence a- 
mong the natives, and a fufpenfion of kidnapping. 

When the fliips have difpofed of all their mer- 
chandize in the purchafe of negroes, and have 
laid in their ftock of wood, water, and yams, they 
prepare for failing, by getting up the yards and 
topmafts, reeving the running rigging, bending 
the fails, and by taking down the temporary houfe. 
They then drop down the river, to wait for a 
favourable opportunity to pafs over the bar, 
which is formed by a number of fand-banks lying 
acrofs the mouth of the river, with navigable chan- 
nels between them. It is not uncommon forfhips 
to get upon the bar, and fometimes they are loft. 

The firft place the ilave Ihips touch at in their 
palTage to the Weft-Indies, is either the Illand of 
St. Thomas, or Princes Iftand, where they ufually 
carry their fick on ftiore, for the benefit of the air, 
and likewife replenifh their ftock of water. The 
former of thefe iflands is nearly circular, being one 
hundred and twenty miles round, and lies exadly 
under the equator, about forty- five leagues from 
■ the African continent. It abounds with wood and 
water, and produces Indian corn, rice, fruits, fu- 
gar, and fome cinnamon. The air is rather pre- 
judicial to an European conftitution, neverthelefs 
it is well peopled by the Portuguefe. Princes 
Ifland, which is much fmaller, lies in i deg. 30 
min. north latitude, and likewife produces In- 
dian corn, and a variety of fruits and roots, befides 
fugar canes. Black cattle, hogs, and goats are 
numerous there ; but it is infefted with a mif- 
chievous and dangerous fpecies of monkeys. 

During 



{ " ) 

During one of the voyages I made, I was land- 
ed upon the Ifland of St. Thomas, v/ith near one 
hundred fick negroes, who were placed in an old 
houfe, taken on purpofe for their reception. Lit- 
tle benefit however accrued from their going on 
fhore, as feveral of them died there, and the re- 
mainder continued nearly in the fame fituation as 
when they were landed, though our continuance 
was prolonged for about twelve days, and the 
ifland is deemed upon the whole healthy. 

Upon the arrival of the flave Ihips in the Weft- 
Indies, a day is foon fixed for the fale of their 
cargoes. And this is done by different modes, 
and often by one they term a JcramhUy of which 
fome account will be given, when the fale of the 
negroes is treated of. 

The whole of their cargoes being difpofed of, 
the fliips are immediately made ready to proceed 
to fea. It is very feldom, however, that they are 
not detained, for want of a fufHcient number of 
failors to navigate the ihip, as this trade may juft- 
ly be denominated the grave of feamen. Though 
the crews of the Ihips upon their leaving England, 
generally amount to between forty and fifty men, 
fcarcely three-fourths, and fometimes not one- 
third of the complement, ever return to the port 
from whence they failed, through mortality . and 
defertion j the caufes of which 1 fhall fpeak of un- 
der another head. 

The time during v/hich the Have (hips are ab- 
fent from England, varies according to the delHna- 
tion of the voyage, and the number of fliips they 
happen to mieet on the coafc. To Bonny, or Old 
and New Calabar, a voyage is ufually performed 
in about ten months. Thofe to the Windward 
and Gold Coafts, are rather more uncertain, but 
in general from fifteen to eighteen months. 

The 



( 12 ) 

The Manner in which the Slaves 
are procured. 



After pemilflion has been obtained for breaking 
irade, as it is termed, the captains go afhore, frona 
tinne to time, to examine the negroes that are ex- 
pofed to fale, and to make their purchafes. The 
unhappy wretches thus difpofed of, are bought by 
the black traders at fairs, which are held for that 
purpofe, at the diftance of upwards of two hun- 
dred miles from the fea coaft j and thefe fairs are 
faid to be fupplied from an interior part of 
the country. Many negroes, upon being quef- 
tioned relative to the places of their nativity have 
afferted, that they have travelled during the re- 
volution of feveral moons, (their ufual method of 
calculating time) before they have reached the 
places where they were purchafed by the black 
traders. At thefe fairs, which are held at uncer- 
tain periods, but generally every fix weeks, fe- 
veral thoufands are frequently expofed to fale, 
who had been collected from all parts of the 
country for a very coniiderable diftance round. 
While I was upon the coall, during one of the 
voyages I made, the black traders brought down, 
in different canoes, from twelve to fifteen hun- 
dred negroes, which had been purchafed at one 
fair. They confifted chiefly of men and boys, 
the women feldom exceeding a third of the whole 
number. From forty to two hundred negroes are 
generally purchafed at a time by the black trad- 
ers, according to the opulence of the buyer -, and 

confift 



( n ) 

confift of thofe of all ages, from a month, to fixty 
years and upwards. Scarce any age or fituation 
is deemed an exception, the price being propor- 
tionable. Women Ibmetimes form a part of them, 
who happen to be fo far advanced in their preg- 
nancy, as to be delivered during their journey 
from the fairs to the coall ; and I have frequently 
feen inftances of deliveries on board Ihip. The flaves 
purchafed at thefe fairs are only for the fupply of 
the markets at Bonny, and Old and New Calabar. 

There is great reafoii to believe, that moft of 
the negroes Ihipped off from the coaft of Africa, 
are kidnapped. But the extreme care taken by the 
black traders to prevent the Europeans from gain- 
ing any intelligence of their modes of proceed- 
ing; the great diftance inland from whence the 
negroes are brought ; and our ignorance of their 
language, (with which, very frequently, the black 
traders themfclves are equally unacquainted) pre- 
vent our obtaining fuch information on this head 
as we could wifh. I have, however, by means 
of occafional inquiries, made through interpre- 
ters, procured fome intelligence relative to the 
point, and fuch, as I think, puts the matter be- 
yond a doubt. 

From thefe I fhall fele6t the following ftriking 
inftances : — While 1 was in employ on board one 
of the ilave fhips, a negroe informed me, that 
beins; one evening invited to drink with fome of 
the black traders, upon his going away, they at- 
tempted to feize him. As he was very aflive, he 
evaded their defign, and got out of their hands. 
He was however prevented from effefting his ef- 
cape by a large dog, which laid hold of him, 
and compelled him to fubmit. Thefe creatures 
are kept by many of the traders for that purpofe ; 

and 



( H ) 

and being trained to the inhuman fport, they ap- 
pear to be much pleafed with it. 

I was likewife told by a negroe woman, that as 
fhe was on her return home, one evening, from 
fome neighbours, to whom fhe had been mak- 
ing a vifit by invitation, fhe was kidnapped; 
and, notwithftanding fhe was big with child, fold 
for a flave. This tranfaftion happened a confi- 
derable way up the country, and fhe had pafTed 
through the hands of feveral purchafers before fhe 
reached the fhip. A man and his fon, according 
to their own information, were feized by profefTed 
kidnappers, while they were planting yams, and 
fold for flaves. This likewife happened in the 
interior parts of the country, and after paffing 
through feveral hands, they were purchafed for 
the ihip to -which I belonged. 

It frequently happens, that thofe who kidnap 
others, are themfelves, in their turns,feized and fold, 
A negroe in the Well-Indies informed me, that af- 
ter having been employed in kidnapping others, 
he had experienced this reverfe. And he aflured 
mc, that it vv'as a common incident among his 
countrymen. 

Continual enmity is thus foflered among the 
negroes of Africa, and all focial intercourfe be- 
tween them deilroyed j v/hich moft alTurediy 
would not be the cafe, had they not thefe oppor- 
tunities of finding a ready fale for each other. 

During my flay on the coaft ofAfrica, I was 

an eye-witnefs of the following tranfaclion : 

A black trader invited a negroe, who refided a 
little way up the country, to com^e and fee him. 
After the entertainment was over, the trader pro- 
pofed to his gueil, to treat him with a fight of 
one of the rx:iips lying in the river. The unfuf- 
picious countryman readily confented, and ac- 
companied 



( 15 ) 

companied the trader in a canoe to the fide of 
the fhip, which he viewed with pleafure and afto- 
nilhment. While he was thus employed, fomc 
black traders on board, who appeared to be in 
the fecret, leaped into the canoe, feized the un- 
fortunate man, and dragging him into the lhip> 
immediately fold him. 

Previous to my being in this employ, I enter- 
tained a belief, as many others have done, that 
the kings and principal men breed negroes for 
fale, as we do cattle. During the different times 
I was in the country, I took no little pains to 
fatisfy myfelf in this particular ; but notwith- 
llanding 1 made many inquiries, I was not able 
to obtain the leaft intelligence of this being the 
cafe, which it is more than probable I fhould 
have done, had fuch a practice prevailed. All 
the information I could procure, confirms me in 
the belief, that to kidnappings and to crimes, (and 
many of thefe fabricated as a pretext) the Ilave 
trade owes its chief fupport. 

The following inftance tends to prove, that the 
laft mentioned artifice is often made ufe of. Several 
black traders, one of whom was a perfon of confe- 
quence, and exercifed an authority fomewhat fimilar 
to that of our magiftrates, being in want of fome 
particular kind of merchandize, and not having 
a Have to barter for it, they accufed a fifherman, 
at the river Ambris, with extortion in the fale of 
his fifh ; and as they were interefted in the deci- 
fion, they immediately adjudged the poor fellow 
guilty, and condemned him to be fold. He was 
accordingly purchafed by the Ihip to which I be- 
longed, and brought on board. 

As an additional proof that kidnapping is not 
only the general, but almoft the fole mode, by 
which fiaves are procured^ the black traders, ia 

purchafing 



( 16 ) 

purchafing them, chufe thofe which are the rough- 
eft and mod hardy ; alleging, that the fmooth 
negroes have been gentlemen. By this obfervation 
we may conclude they mean that nothing but 
fraud or force could have reduced thefe fmooth- 
fkinned gentlemen to a Hate of (lavery. 

It may not be here unv/orthy of remark, in or- 
der to prove that the wars among the Africans do 
not furniih the number of (laves they are fuppofed 
to do, that I never faw any negroes with recent 
wounds ', which muft have been the confequence, at 
leaft with fome of them, had they been taken in 
battle. And it being the particular province of 
the furgeon to examine the flaves when they are 
purchafed, fuch a circum.flance could not have 
efcaped my obfervation. As a farther corrobo- 
ration, it might be remarked, that on the Gold 
and Windward Coails, where fairs are not held, 
the number of flaves procured at a time are 
ufually very fmall. 

The preparations made at Bonny by the black 
traders, upon fetting out for the fairs which are 
held up the country, are very confiderable. From 
twenty to thirty canoes, capable of containing 
thirty or forty negroes each, are aifembled for this 
purpofe J and fuch goods put on board them as 
they expeft will be wanted for the purchafe of the 
number of flaves they intend to buy. When their 
loading is completed, they commence their voy- 
age, with colours flying and muflck playing; and 
in about ten or eleven days, they generally return 
to Bonny with full cargoes. As foon as the ca- 
noes arrive at the trader's landing-place, the pur- 
chafed negroes are cleaned, and oiled with palm 
oil J and on the following day they are expofed . 
for fale to the captains. 

The 



( i? ) 

The black traders do not always purchafe thelf 
flaves at the fame rate. The fpeed with which 
the information of the arrival of fhips upon the 
Coaft is conveyed to the fairs, confidering it iS 
the intereft of the traders to keep them ignorant, 
is really furprifing. In a very fhort time after 
any fhips arrive upon the coaft, efpecially if 
feveral make their appearance togetherj thofe who 
difpofe of the negroes at the fairs are frequently 
known to increafe the price of them. 

Thefe fairs are not the only means, though they 
are the chief, by which the black traders on the 
toaft are fupplied with negroes. Small parties of 
them, from five to ten, are frequently brought to 
the houfes of the traders, by thofe who make a 
pradice of kidnapping \ and who are conftantly* 
employed in procuring a fupply, while purchafers 
are to be found. 

When the negroes, whom the black traders 
have to difpofe of, are fhewn to the European 
purchafers, they firft examine them relative to their 
age. They then minutely infpedt their perfons^ 
and inquire into the ftate of their health i if they 
are afflided with any infirmity, or are aeformed, 
or have bad eyes or teeth ; if they are lame, or 
weak in the joints, or diftorted in the backj or 
of a flender make, or are narrow in the cheft ; in 
Ihort, if they have been, or are afflifted in any 
manner, fo as to render them incapable of much 
labour ; if any of the foregoing defeds are dif- 
covered in them, they are rejedted. But if ap- 
proved of, they are generally taken on board the 
Ihip the fame evening. The purchafer has li- 
berty to return on the following morning, but 
not afterwards, fuch as upon re-examination are 
found exceptionable. 

B The 



( i8 ) , 

The traders frequently beat thofe n-egroes wliiefc 
are objeded to by the captains, and ufe them 
with great feverity. It matters not whether they 
are refufed on account of age, ilhiefs, defor- 
mity, or for any other reafon. At New Calabar^ 
in particular, the traders have frequently been 
known to put them to d^ath. Inftances have hap- 
pened at that place, that the traders, when any of 
their negroes have been objedled to, have dropped 
their canoes under the flern of the veflel, and in- 
flantly beheaded them, in fight of the captain. 

Upon the Windward Coaft, another mode of 
procuring flaves is purfued ; which- is,, by what 
they term boating ; a mode that is very perni- 
cious and deftru6tive to the crews of the fhips.. 
The failorsj, who are employed upon this trade^,. 
go in boats up the rivers, feeking for negroes^, 
among the villages fituated on the banks of 
them. But this method is very floW;,. and not 
always efFedlual. For, after being abfent from 
the fhip during a fortnight or three weeks,, 
they fometimes return with only from eight to^ 
twelve negroes. Numbers of thefe are procured 
in confequence of alleged crimes, which, as be- 
fore obferved,, whenever any fhips are upon the 
coaft, are more produ6live than at any other pe- 
riod. Kidnapping, however, prevails herc 

I have good reafon. to believe, that of one- 
.hundred and twenty negroes, which were pur- 
chafed for the lliip to which I then belonged,, 
then lying at the river Ambris, by far the greater 
part, if not the whole^^ were kidnapped. This 
with various other inftances^. confirms me in the 
belief that kidnapping is thp fund which fupplies 
the thoufands of negroes annually fold off thefe 
extenfive Windward, and other Cbafts, where 
boating prevails. 

Treatment 



Ir 



( i9 ) 



Treatment of the Slaves. 

As foon as the wretched Africans, purchafed it 
the fairs, fall into the hands of the black traders, 
they experience an earned of thofe dreadful fuffer- 
ings which they are doomed in future to undergo* 
And there is not the leaft room to doubt, but 
that even before they can reach the fairSj great 
numbers perifh from cruel ufage, want of food^ 
travelling through inhofpitable deferts, &c. They 
are brought from the places where they are pur- 
chafed to Bonny, &c. in canoes j at the bottom of 
which they lie, having their hands tied with a 
kind of willow twigs, and a drift watch is kept 
over them. Their ufage in other refpefts, during 
the time of the pafTagc, which generally lafts fe- 
veral days, is equally crueL Their allowance of* 
food is fo fcanty, that it is barely fufficient to fup- 
port nature. They are, befides, much expofed 
to the violent rains which frequently fall here, be- 
ing covered only with mats that afford but a flight 
defence ; and as there is ufually water at the bot- 
tom of the canoes, from their leaking, they arc 
fcarcely ever dry. 

Nor do thefe unhappy beings, after they become 
the property of the Europeans (from whom, as a 
more civilized people, more humanity might na- 
turally be expeded) find their fituation in theleaft 
amended. Their treatment is no lefs rigorous. 
The men negroes, on being brought aboard 
the fhip, are immediately faftened together, two 
and two, by hand-cuffs on their wrifts, and by 
irons rivetted on their legs. They are then fenc 
down between the decks, and placed in an apart- 
ment partitioned off for that purpofe. The wo- 
B 2 men 



( 26 ) 

rnen likewife are placed in a feparate apartment: 
between decks, but without being ironed. And 
an adjoining room, on the fame deck, is befides 
appointed for the boys. Thus are they all placed 
in different apartments. 

But at the fame time, they are frequently (lowed 
fo clofe, as to admit of no other poflure than 
lying on their fides. Neither will the height be- 
tween decks, unlefs direftly under the grating, 
permit them the indulgence of an ere61: pofture j 
efpeci ally where there are platforms, which is ge- 
nerally the cafe. Thefe platforms are a kind of 
fhelf, about eight or nine feet in breadth, ex- 
tending from the fide of the fhip towards the 
centre. They are placed nearly midway between 
the decks, at the diflance of two or three fees 
from each deck. Upon thefe the negroes are 
ftowed in she fame manner as they are on the 
deck underneath. 

In each of the apartments are placed three or 
four large buckets, of a conical form, being near 
two feet in diameter at the bottom, and only one 
foot at the top, and in depth about twenty-eight 
inches j to which, when neccfiary, the negroes have 
recourfe. It often happens, that thofe who are 
placed at a diftance from the buckets, in endea- 
vouring to get to them, tumble over their compa- 
iiions, in confequence of their being fhackled. 
Thefe accidents, although unavoidable, are pro- 
du(51:ive of continual quarrels, in which fome of 
them are always bruifed. In this diftreffed fitua- 
tion, unable to proceed, and prevented from get- 
ting to the tubs, they defift from the attempt ; 
and, as the neceflities of nature are not to be 
repelled, eafe themfelves as they lie. This be- 
comes a frelh fource of broils and difturbances, 
and tends to render the con4ition of the poor cap- 
tive 



( " ) 

tive wretches ftill more uncomfortable. The nul-' 
fance arifing from thefe circumftances, is not un- 
freqiiently increafed by the tubs being much too 
fmall for the purpofe intended, and their being 
ufually emptied but once every day. The rule 
for doing this, however, varies in different fhips, 
according to the attention paid to the health and 
convenience of th^ flaves by the captain. 

About eight o'clock in the morning the negroes 
are generally brought upon deck. Their irons 
being examined, a long chain, which is locked to 
a ring-bolt, fixed in the deck, is run through the" 
rings of the fhackles of the men, and then locked 
to another ring-bolt, fixed alfo in the deck. By 
this means fifty or fixty, and fometimes more, are 
faftened to one chain, in order to prevent them 
from rifing, or endeavouring to cfcape. If the 
-weather proves favourable, they are permitted to 
remain in that fituation till four or five in the af- 
ternoon, when they are difengaged from the chain, 
and fentdown. 

The diet of the negroes, while on board, con- 
fifts chiefly of horfe-beans, boiled to the confift- 
ence of a pulp ^ of boiled yams and rice, and 
fometimes of a fmall quantity of beef or pork. 
The latter are frequently taken from the provi- 
fions laid in for the iailors. They fometimes 
make ufe of a fauce, compofed of palm-oil, mixed 
with flour, water, and pepper, which the failors 
C2l\\ Jtabber-fauce. Yams are the favourite food of 
the Eboe, or Bight negroes, and rice or corn, of 
thofe from the Gold and Windward Coafts 5 each 
preferring the produce of their native foil. 

In their own country, the negroes in general 
Jive on animal food and fifh, with roots, yams, and 
Indian corn. The horfe-beans and rice, with 

B 3 which 



C " ) 

which they are fed aboard fhip, are chiefly taken 
from Europe, The latter, indeed, is fometimes 
purchafed on the coaft, being far fuperior to any 
Other. 

The Gold Coaft negroes fcarcely ever refufe any 
food that is offered them, and they generally eat 
larger quantities of whatever is placed before them, 
than any other fpecies of negroes, whom they like- 
wife excel in ftrength of body and mind. Moft 
of the (laves have fuch an averfion to the horfe- 
beans, that unlefs they are narrowly watched, when 
fed upon deck, they will throw them overboard, 
or in each other's faces when they quarrel. 

They are commonly fed twice a day, about eight 
o'clock in the morning and four in the afternoon. 
In moft fhips they are only fed with their own 
food once a day. Their food is ferved up to 
them in tubs, about the fize of a fmall water buck- 
et. They are placed round thefe tubs in compa- 
nies of ten to each tub, out of which they feed 
themfelves with wooden fpoons. Thefe they foon 
lofe, and when they are not allowed others, they 
feed themfelves with their hands. In favourable 
weather they are fed upon deck, but in bad wea- 
ther their food is given them below. Number- 
lefs quarrels take place among them during their 
meals i more efpecially when they are put upon 
Ihort allowance, which frequently happens, if the 
paffage from the coaft of Guinea to the Weft-India 
jflands, proves of unufual length. In that cafe, 
the weak are obliged to be content with a v^ry 
fcanty portion. Their allowance of water is about 
half a pint each at every meal. It is handed 
^ound in a bucket, and given to each negroe in a. 
pannekin; a fmall utenfil with a ftrait handle^ fome- 
^hat fimilar to a fauce-boat, However, when th<; 

ft»ip§ 



( n ) 

.Ihips approach the iflands with a favourable breeze, 
they are no longer reflrifled. 

Upon the negroes refufing to take fuftenance, 
I have feen coals of fire, glowing hot, put on a 
ihovel, and placed fo near their lips, as to fcorch 
and burji them. And this has been accompanied 
.with threats, of forcing them to fwallow the coals, 
-if they any longer perfifted in refufing to eat. 
Thefe means have generally had the defired effett. 
I have alfo been credibly informed, that a certain 
captain in the flave trade, poured melted lead on 
fuch of th.e negroes as obiiinately refufed their 
food. 

Exercife being deemed neceffary for the prefer- 
vation of their health, they are fometimes obliged 
to dance, when the weather will permit their com- 
ing on deck. If they go about it reluftantly, or 
do not move with agility, they are flogged; a 
perfon fbanding by them all the time with acat-o'- 
nine-tails in his hand for that purpofe. Their 
inufick, upon thefe occafions, confifts of a drum, 
fometimes with only one head; and when that is 
worn out, they do not fcruple to make ufe of the 
bottom of one <Df the tubs before defcribed. The 
poor wretches are frequently compelled to fing 
alfo ; but when they do fo, their fongs are gene- 
rally, as may naturally be expefled, melancholy 
lamentations of their exile from their native 
country. 

The women are furnifhed with beads for the 
purpofe of affording them fome diverfion. But 
this end is generally defeated by the fquabbles 
which are occafioned, in confequence of their 
ftealing them from each other. 

On board fome Ihips, the common failors are 
allowed to have intercourfe with fuch of the black 
women whofe confent they can procure. And fome 

B 4 of 



( n ) 

of them have been known to take the inconftancy 
of their paramours fo much to heart, as to leap 
overboard and drown themfelves. The officers 
are permitted to indulge their pafBons among 
them at pleafure, and fometimes are guilty of fuch 
brutal exceffes, as difgrace human nature. 

The hardfhips and inconveniencies fufFered by 
the negroes during the paffage, are fcarcely to be 
enumerated or conceived. They are far more 
violently affefted by the fea-ficknefs, than the 
Europeans. It frequently terminates in death, 
cfpecially among the women. But the exclufion 
of the frefh air is among the moft intolerable. 
For the purpofe of admitting this needful refrefh- 
inent, moft of the (hips in the flave-trade are pro- 
vided, between the decks, with five or fix air-ports. 
on each fide of the (hip, of about fix inches in 
length, and four in breadth^ in addition to which, 
fome few fliips, but not one in twenty, have what 
they denominate wind-Jails. But whenever the 
fea is rough, and the rain heavy, it becomes necef- 
iary to ftiut thefe, and every other conveyance by 
which the air is admitted. The frelh air being 
thus excluded, the negroes rooms very foon grow 
intolerably hot. The confined air, rendered noxi- 
ous by the effluvia exhaled from their bodies, and 
by being repeatedly breathed, foon produces fe- 
vers and fluxes, which generally carries off great 
numbers of them. 

During the voyages I made, I was frequently a 
witnefs to the fatal efFedts of this exclufion of the 
frefli air. I will give one jnftance, as it ferves to 
convey fome idea, though a very faint one, of the 
fufferings of thofe unhappy beings whom we wan- 
tonly drag from their native country, and doom 
to perpetual labour and captivity. Some wet and 
blowing weather having occafioned the port-holes 

tq 



( 25 ) 

to be fhut, and the grating to be covered, fluxes 
and fevers among the negroes enfued. While 
they were in this fituation, my profeflion requiring 
it, I frequently went down among them, till at 
length their apart^nents became fo extremely 
hot, as to be only fufFerable for a very (hort 
tim.e. But the excelTive heat was not the only 
thing that rendered their fituation intolerable. 
The deck, that is, the floor of their rooms, was fo 
covered with the blood and mucus which had pro- 
ceeded from them in confequence of the flux, that 
it refembled a flaughter-houfe. It is not in the 
power of the human imagination, to picture to 
itfeif a fituation more dreadful or difgufliing. 
Numbers of the flaves having fainted, they were 
carried upon deck, where feveral of them died, 
and the reft were, with great difficulty, reftored. 
It had nearly proved fatal to me alfo. The cli- 
mate was too warm to admit the wearing of any 
clothing but a (hirr, and that I had pulled ofl^ be- 
fore I went down ; notwithftanding which, by 
only continuing among them for about a quarter of 
an hour, I was lb overcome with the heat, ftench, 
and foul air, that I had nearly fainted j and it was 
not without affiftance, that I could get upon deck. 
The confequence was, that I foon after fell flck of 
the fame diforder, from which I did not recover 
for feveral months. 

A circumftance of this kind, fometimes repeat- 
edly happens in the courfe of a voyage i and often 
to a greater degree than what hasjuft been de- 
fcribed ; particularly when the flaves are much 
crowded, which was not the cafe at that time, the 
fhip having more than a hundred fliort of the 
number flie was to have caktn in. 

This devaftation, great as it was, fome few years 
ago was greatly exceeded on board aLeverpoolfliip. 

1 fliall 



( 26 ) 

I feall particularize the circumftances af it, as a more 
glaring inllanceof an infatiable thirft for gain, or 
of lefs attention to the lives and happinefs even of 
that delpifed and opprefled race of mortals, the 
fable inhabitants of Africa, perhaps was never ex- 
ceeded ; though indeed feverai fimilar inftances 
have been known. 

This fiiip, though a much fmaller fhip than, 
that in which the event I have juft mentioned 
happened, took on board at Bonny, at leall fix 
hundred negroes ; but according to the informa- 
tion of the black traders, from whom I received 
the intelligence immediately after the ftiip failed, 
they amounted to near Jeven hundred. By pur- 
chafing fo gfeat a number, the flaves were fo 
crowded, that they were even obliged to lie 
one upon another. This occafioned fuch a mor- 
tality among them, that, without meeting with 
unufual bad weather, or having a longer voyage 
than common, nearly one half of them died be- 
fore the fhip arrived in the Weft-Indies. 

That the publick may be able to form fome 
idea of the almofl incredible fmall fpace into 
which fo large a number of negroes were cram- 
med, the following particulars of this fhip are 
given. According to Leverpool cuftom fhe mea- 
fured 235 tons. Her width acrofs the beam, 25 
{ttt. Length between the decks, 92 feet, which 
was divided into four rooms, thus : 



Store 



( 27 ) 

Store room, in which there were not any ^ 

negroes placed J ^5 ^^^^ 

Negroes rooms — mens room — • about 45 feet 

womens ditto about 10 feet 

boys ditto about 22 feet 



Total room for negroes 77 feet 



Exclufive of the platform before defcribed, from 
8 to 9 feet in breadth, and equal in length to 
that of the rooms. 

It may be worthy of remark, that the fhips in 
this trade, are ufually fitted out to receive only 
one third women negroes, or perhaps a fmaller 
number, which the dimenfions of the room al- 
lotted for them, above given, plainly fhew, but in 
a. greater difproportion. 

One would naturally fuppofe, that an attention 
to their own intereft, would prompt the owners of 
the Guinea fnips not to fuffer the captains to take 
on board a greater number of negroes than the 
Ihip would allow room fufficient for them to lie 
with eafe to themfelves, or, at lead:, without rub- 
bing againlt each other. However that may be, 
a more ftriking inftance than the above, of avarice, 
completely and defervedly difappointed, was furely 
never difplayed ; for there is little room to doubt, 
but that in confequence of the expected premium 
ufually allowed to the captains, of 61. per cent, 
ilerling on the produce of the negroes, this vef- 
fel was lb thronged as to occafion fuch a heavy 
lofs. 

The place allotted for the fick negroes is un- 
der the half deck, where they lie on the bare 

planks. 



C 48 ) 

planks. By this means, thofe who are emaciated, 
frequently have their fkin, and even their fielh, 
entirely rubbed off, by the motion of the fhip> 
from the prominent parts of the fhoulders, el* 
bows, and hips, fo as to render the bones in thofe 
parts quite bare. And fome of them, by con- 
ftantly lying in the blood and mucus, that had 
flowed from thofe afflided with the flux, and 
which, as before obferved, is generally fo violent 
as to prevent their being kept clean, have their 
flefh much fooner rubbed off, than thofe who 
have only to contend with the mere friftion of 
the fhip. The excruciating pain which the poor 
fufferers feel from being obliged to continue in fuch 
a dreadful fituation, frequently for feveral weeks, 
in cafe they happen to live fo long, is not to be con- 
ceived or defcribed. Few, indeed, are ever able to 
withdand the fatal effeds of it. The utmoft fkill of 
the furgeon is here ineffeftua]. If plaifters be 
applied, they are very foon difplaced by the fric- 
tion of the ftiip J and when bandages are ufed, 
the negroes very foon take them off, and appro- 
priate them to other purpofes. 

The furgeon, upon going between decks, in the 
morning, to examine the fituation of the (laves, fre- 
quently finds feveral dead j and among the men, 
fometimes a dead and living negroe faftened by 
their irons together. When this is the cafe, they 
are brought upon the deck, and being laid on 
the grating, the living negroe is difengaged, and 
the dead one thrown overboard. 

It may not be improper here to remark, that 
the furgeons employed in the Guinea trade, are 
generally driven to engage in fo difagreeable an 
employ by the confined (late of their finances. 
An exertion of the greatefl fkill and attention 
could afford the difeafed negroes little relief, fo 
long 4S the caufes of their difeafes, namely, the 

breathing 



( 29 } 

breathing of a putrid atmofphere, and wallowing 
in their own excrements, remain. When once 
the fever and dyfentery get to any height at fea, 
a cure is fcarcely ever efFedted. 

Almoft the only means by which the furgeon 
can render himfelfufeful to theflaves, is, by feeing 
that their food is properly cooked, anddiftributed 
among them. It is true, when they arrive near 
the markets for which they are deftined, care is 
taken to polifh them for fale, by an application 
of the lunar cauftic to fuch as are afflided with 
the yaws. This, however, affords but a temporary 
relief, as the difeafe moft aiTuredly breaks our, 
whenever the patient is put upon a vegetable 
diet. 

It has been aflerted, in favour of the captains 
in this trade, that the fick (laves are ufually fed 
from their tables. The great number generally 
ill at a time, proves the fallity of fuch an affer- 
tion. Were even a captain difpofed to do this, 
how could he feed half the (laves in the (hip from 
his own table ? for it is well known, that more 
than hcilf 2LVt often fick at a time. Two or three 
perhaps may be fed. 

The lofs of (laves, through mortality, arifing 
from the caufes juft m.entioned, are frequently 
very confiderable. In the voyage lately referred 
to (not the Leverpool ihip before-mentioned) 
one hundred and five, out of three hundred 
and eighty, died in the pafTage. A proportion 
feemingly very great, but by no means un- 
common. One half, fometimes two thirds, and 
even beyond that, have been known to pe- 
ri(h. Before we left Bonny River, no lefs than 
fifteen died of fevers and dyfenteries, occafioned 
by their confinement. On the Windward Coaft, 
where (laves are procured more (lowly, very few 
die, in proportion to the numbers which die at 

Bonny, 



• C 3S ) 

Bonny, and at Old and Nev/ Calabar, where they 
are obtained much fafter ; the latter being of si 
more delicate make and habi!. 

The havock made among the featrieii engaged 
in this deftruftive commerce, will be noticed in 
another part; and will be found to make no in- 
confiderable addition to the unneceffary v/afte of 
life juil reprefented. 

As very (tw of the negroes cart fo far brook the 
lofs of their liberty, and the hardfnips they en- 
dure, as to bear them with any degree of pa- 
tience, they are ever upon the watch to take 
advantage of the leaft negligence in their op-= 
preflbrs. Infurredions are frequently the con- 
fequence j which are feldom fupprelled without 
much bloodfhed. Sometimes thefe are fuccefs- 
ful, and the whole fbip's company is cut off. 
They are likewife always ready to feize every op- 
portunity for committing fome adt of defperation 
to free themfelves from their miferable ftatej 
and notwithilanding the reflraints under which 
they are laid, they often fucceed. 

While a fhip, to which I belonged, lay in 
Bonny River, one evening, a fliort time before 
our departure, a lot of negroes, confiiting of 
about ten, v^/as brought on board ; when one of 
them, in a favourable moment, forced his way 
through the net-work on the larboard fide of the 
veflel, jumped overboard, and was fuppofed to 
have been devoured by the fliarks. 

During the time we were there, fifteen negroes 
belonging to a veffel from Leverpool, found 
means to throw themfelves into the river ; very 
few were faved ; and the refidue fell a facrifice to 
the fharks. A fimilar inftance took place in a 
French {hip while we lay there. 

Circumitances of this kind are very frequent. 

:0a 



( Jl ) 

On the coafl: of Angola, at the River Ambrls> 

the following incident happened : During 

the time of our refiding on Ihore, we eredt- 
ed a tent to Ihelter ourfelves from the wea- 
ther. After having been there feveral weeks, and 
being unable to purchafe the number of flaves we 
v/anted, through the oppoficion of another Englilh 
flave velfel, we determined to leave the place. 
The night before our departure, the tent was 
flruck ; which was no fooner perceived by fome 
of the negroe women on board, than it was con- 
fidered as a prelude to our failing; and about 
eighteen of them, when they were fent between 
decks, threw themfelves into the fea through one 
of the gun ports; the fhip carrying guns between 
decks. They were all of them, however, ex- 
cepting one, foon picked up ; and that which was 
mifling, was, not long after^ taken about a mile 
from the fliore. 

I once knew a negroe woman, too fenfible of 
her woes, who pined for a eonliderable time, and 
was taken ill of a fever and dyfentery -, when de- 
claring it to be her determination to die, fhe re- 
fufed all food and medical aid, and, in about a 
fortnight after, expired. On being thrown over- 
board, her body v/as inftantly torn to pieces by 
the (harks. 

The following circumftance alfo came within my 
knowledge. A young female negroe, falling in- 
to a delponding way, it was judged neceffary, in 
order to attempt her recovery, to fend her on 
Ihore, to the hut of one of the black traders. 
Elevated with the profped of regaining her li- 
berty by this unexpedted flep, fhe foon recovered 
her ufual chearfulnefs ; but hearing, by accident, 
that it was intended to take her on board the fhip 
again, the poor young creature hung herfelf. 

It 



( 32 V 

It frequently happens that the negroes, on bg- 
ing purchafed by the Europeans, become raving 
mad •, and many of them die in that ftate ; parti- 
cularly the women. While I was one day alliore 
at Bonny, I faw a middle aged flout woman, who 
had been brought down from a fair the preceding 
day, chained to the poft of a black trader's 
door, in a ftate of furious infanity. On board a 
Ihip in Bonny River, I faw a young negroe wo- 
man chained to the deck, who had loft her fenfes, 
-foon after ihe was purchafed and taken on board* 
In a former voyage, on board a ftiip to which I 
belonged, we were obliged to confine a female 
negroe, of about twenty-three years of age, oil 
her becoming a lunatic. She was afterwards fold 
during one of her lucid intervals. 

One morning, upon examining the place allot- 
ted for the fick negroes, I perceived that one of 
them, who was fo emaciated as fcarcely to be able 
to walk, was miffing, and was convinced that he 
muft have gone overboard in the night, probably 
to put a more expeditious period to his fufferings. 
And, to conclude on this fubje6l, I could not help 
being fenfibly affeded, on a former voyage, at 
obferving with what apparent eagernefs a black 
woman feized Ibme dirt from off an African yam, 
and put it into her mouth •, feeming to rejoice at the 
opportunity of pofTcfTing fomeofher native earth. 

From thefe inftances I think it may be clearly 
deduced, that the unhappy Africans are not be- 
reft of the finer feelings, but have a ftrong at- 
tachment to their native country, together with a 
juft fenfe of the value of liberty. And the fitua- 
tion of the miierable beings above defcribed, more 
forcibly ur^e the neceffity of abolifhing a trade 
which is the fource of fuch evils, than the moft elo- 
quent harangue, or perfuafive arguments could do. 

Sale 



( 33 ) 



Sale of the Slaves* 



When the fhips arrive in the Weft- Indies, (the 
chief marc for this inhuman merchandize), the 
flaves are difpofed of, as I have before obferved> 
by different methods. Sometimes the mode of 
difpofal, is that of felling them by v^^hat is termed 
z/craml?k -, and a day is foon fixed for that pur-* 
pofe. But previous thereto, the fick, or refufe 
flaves, of which there are frequently many, are 
ufually conveyed on fhore,, and fold at a tavern 
by vendue, or public auftion. Thefe^ in gene- 
ral, are purchafed by the Jews and furgeons, but 
chiefly the former, upon fpeculation, at fo low a 
price as five or fix dollars a head. I was in- 
formed by a mulatto woman, that Ihe purchafed 
a fick flave at Grenada, upon fpeculation, for the 
fmall fum of one dollar, as the poor wretch was 
apparently dying of the flux. It feldom happens 
that any, who are carried afhore in the emaciated 
flate to v/hich they are generally teduced by that 
diforder, long furvive their landing. I once faw 
fixteen conveyed on fhore, and fold in the fore- 
going manner, the v/hole of whom died before 
I left the ifiand, Vv'hich was within a fliort time 
afcer. Sometimes the captains march their flaves 
through the tov/n at which they intend to difpofe 
of them ; and then place rhcm in rows where they 
are examined and purchafed. 

The mode of felling them by fcramble having 
fallen under my. obfervation the ofteneft, I flial 
be more particular in defcribing ic. Being fome 
years ago, at one of the iflands in the Weil-ln- 

C die^ 



( j4 ) 

dies, I was witnefs to a fale by fcramble, whcr€! 
about 250 negroes were fold. Upon this occafioii 
all the negroes fcrambled for bear an equal price ; 
which is agreed upon between the captains and 
the purchafers before the fale begins. 

On a day appointed, the negroes were landed, 
and placed altogether in a large yard, belonging 
to the merchants to whom the fhip was configned. 
As foon as the hour agreed on arrived, the doors 
of the yard were fuddenly thrown open, alnd in 
rufhed a confiderable number of purchafers, with 
all the ferocity of brutes. Some inftantly feized 
fuch of the negroes as they could conveniently lay 
hold of with their hands. Others, being prepared 
with feveral handkerchiefs tied together, encircled 
with thefe as many as they were able. While 
others, by means of a rope, effefted the fame pur- 
pofe. It is fcarcely poffible to defcribe the con- 
fufion of which this mode of felling is produdtive. 
It likewife caufes much animofity among the pur- 
chafers, who, not unfrequently upon thefe occa- 
fions, fall out and quarrel with each other. The 
poor aftonilhed negroes were fo much terrified by 
thefe proceediNgs, that feveral of them, through 
fear, climbed over the walls of the court yard, 
and ran wild about the town ; but were foon 
hunted down and retaken. 

While on a former voyage from Africa to 
Kingfton in Jamaica, I faw a fale there by fcram- 
ble, on board a fnow. The negroes were col- 
lected together upon the main and quarter 
decks, and the fhip was darkened by fails fuf- 
pended over them, in order to prevent the pur- 
chafers from being able to fee, fo as to pick or 
chufe. The fignal being given, the buyers ruflied 
in, as ufual, to feize their prey ; v/hen the ne- 
groes appeared to be extremely terrified, and near 

thirty 



( 35 ) 

thirty of them jumped into the fea. But they 
were all foon retaken, chiefly by boats from other 
fhips. 

On board a fhip, lying at Port Maria, in Ja- 
maica, I faw another fcramble ; in which, as 
ufual, the poor negroes were greatly terrified. 
The women, in particular, clang to each other 
in agonies fcarcely to be conceived, fhrieking 
through excefs of terror, at the favage manner in 
which their brutal purchafers rufhed upon, and 
feized them. Though humanity, one Ihould ima- 
gine, would dictate the captains to apprize the; 
poor negroes of the mode by which they were to 
be fold, and by that means to guard them, in 
fome degree, againft the furprize and terror which 
mufb attend it, I never knew that any notice of 
the fcramble was given to them. IN or have I 
any reafon to think that it is done ; or that this 
mode of fale is lefs frequent at this time, than 
formerly. 

Various are the deceptions made ufe of in the 
difpofal of the fick flaves ; and many of thefe, 
fuch as muft excite in every humane mind, the 
livelieft fenfations of horror. I have been well 
informed, that a Liverpool captain boafbed of his 
having cheated fome Jews by the following flra- 
tagem : A lot of (laves, afflifted with the flux, 
being about to be landed for fale, he direded the 
furgeon to flop the anus of each of them with 
oakum. Thus prepared, they were landed, and 
taken to the accuftomed place of fale-, where, be- 
ing unable to ftand but for a very fhort time, 
they are ufually permitted to fit. The Jews, 
when they examine them, oblige them to Hand 
up, in order to fee if there be any difcharge ; 
and when they do not perceive this appear- 
ance, they confider it as a fymptom of recovery. 
C 2 la 



( 36 ) 

In the prefent inftance, fuch an appearance being 
preventedj the bargain was ftruck, and they were 
accordingly fold. But it was not long before a 
difcovery enfued. The excruciating pain which 
the prevention of a difcharge of fuch an acrinao- 
nious nature occafioned, not being to be borne 
by the poor wretches, the temporary obilruftion 
was removedj and the deluded purchafers were 
Ipeedily convinced of the irnpofition. 

So grievoufly are the negroes fometinaes afflidt- 
ed with this troublefome and painful diforder, that 
I have feen large numbers of them, after being 
landed, obliged by the virulence of the com- 
plaint, to ftop almoft every minute, as they paf- 
fed on. 



ireatoient 



( 37 ) 



Treatment of the Sailors. 



The evils attendant on this Inhuman traffick, 
are not confined to the purchafed negroes. The 
fufFerings of the feamen employed in the flave- 
trade, from the unwholefomenefs of the climate, 
the inconveniences of the voyage, the brutal feve- 
rity of the commanders, and other caufes, fall very 
little fhort, nor prove in proportion to the num- 
bers, iefs deflrudive to the failors than negroes. 

The failors on board the Guinea fhips, are not 
allowed always an equal quantity of beef and pork 
with thofe belonging to other merchant lliips. 
In thefe articles they are frequently much dinted, 
particularly when the negroes are on board ; pare 
of the flock laid in for the failors, being, as before 
obferved, appropriated to their ufe. 

With regard to their drink, they are generally 
denied grog, and are feldom allowed any thing 
but water to quench their thirfl. This urges them, 
when opportunity offers, at Bonny and other 
places on the coaft, to barter their clothes with 
the natives, forEnglifh brandy, which the Africans 
obtain, among other articles, in exchange for 
flaves •, and they frequently leave themfeives near- 
ly naked, in order to indulge an excefs in fpiritous 
liquors. In-this ftate, they are often found lying on 
the deck, and in different parrs of the fhip, expofed 
to the heavy dews which in thofe climates fail dur- 
ing the night ; notwithflanding the deck is ufually 
wafned every evening. This frequently caufes 
pains in the head and limbs, accompanied with a 
C 3 fever, 



( 3S ) 

fever, which generally, in the courfe of a few days, 
occafions their death. 

,The temporary houfe confi:ru6led on the deck, 
affords but an indifferent fhelter from the wea- 
ther •, yet the failors are obliged to lodge under it, 
as all the parts between decks are occupied by, or 
kept for, the negroes. The cabin is frequently. 
full, and when this is the cafe, or the captain 
finds the heat and the flench intolerable, he quits 
his cot, which is ufually hung over the flaves, 
and fleeps in the round-houfe, if there be one, as 
there is in many fhips. 

The foul air that arifes from the negroes when 
they are much crowded, is very noxious to the 
crew ; and this is not a little increafed by the addi- 
tional heat which the covering over the fhip occa- 
fions, The mangrove fmoke is likewife, as before 
obferved, produftiveof diforders among them. 

Nor are they better accommodated after they 
leave the Coafl; of Africa. During the whole of the 
paffage to the Weft-Indies, which in general lafts 
feven weeks, or two months, they are obliged, for 
want of room betv/een decks, to keep upon deck. 
This expofure to the weather, is alfo found very 
prejudicial to the health of the failors, and fre- 
quently occafions fevers, which generally prove 
fatal. The only refemblance of a fhelter, is a tar- 
pawling thrown over the booms, which even before 
they leave the coaft, is generally fo full of holes, 
as to afford fcarce any defence againil the wind 
or the rain, of which a confiderabie quantity ufual- 
ly falls during this paffage. 

Many other caufes contribute to affe6l the health 
of the failors. The water at Bonny, which they 
are obliged to drink, is very unwholefome ; and, 

together 



( 39 ) 

together with their fcanty and bad diet, and the 
cruel ufage they receive from the officers, tends to 
impoverifh the blood, and render them extremely 
fufceptible of putrid fevers and dyfenteries. 

The feamen, whofe health happen to be im- 
paired, are difcharged, on the arrival of the fhips 
in the Weft-Indies, and as foon as they get alhore, 
they have recourfe to fpiritous liquors, to which 
they are the more prone, on account of having been 
denied grog, or even any liquor but water, during 
their being aboard ; the confequence of which is, 
a certain and fpeedy deftruftion. Numbers like- 
wife die in the Weft-India iflands, of the fcur- 
vy, brought on in confequence of poverty of diet, 
and expofure to all weathers. 

I am now come to a part of the fufterings of 
the failors who are employed in the flave-trade, 
of which, for the honour of human nature, I 
would willingly decline giving an account; that is, 
the treatment they receive from their officers, 
which makes no inconfiderable addition to the 
hardftiips and ailments juft mentioned, and con- 
tributes not a little to rob the nation annually, of a 
confiderable number of this valuable body of men. 
However, as truth demands, and the occafion re- 
quires it, I will relate fome of the circumftances 
of this kind, which fell under my own immediate 
obfervation, during the feveral voyages I made in 
that line. 

In one of thefe, I was witnefs to the following 
inftance of cruel ufage. Moil of the failors were 
treated with brutal feverityj but one in particular, 
a man advanced in years, experienced it in an un- 
common degree. Having made fome complaint 
relative to his allowance of water, and this being 
conftrued into an infult, one of the officers feized 

C 4 him. 



C 40 ) 

Kim, and with the blows he beftowed upon hirrij 
beat out feveral of his teeth. Not content with 
this, while the poor old man was yet bleeding, one 
of the iron pump-bolts was fixed in his mouth, 
and kept. there by a piece of rope-yarn tied round 
his head. Being unable to fpit out the blood 
which flowed from the wound, the man was al- 
moft choaked, and obliged to fwallow it. He 
was then tied to the rail of the quarter-deckj 
having declared, upon being gagged, that he 
would jump overboard and drown himfeif. About 
two hours after he was taken from the quarter- 
deck rail, and faflened to the grating companion 
of the fteerage, under the half deck, where he , 
remained all night with a centinel placed over 
him. 

A young man on board one of the fhips, was 
frequently beaten in a very fevere manner, for 
very trifling faults. This was done fometimes 
with what is termed a cat^ (an inftrument of cor- 
reftion, which confifts of a handle or ftem, made 
of a rope three inches and a half in circumference, 
and about eighteen inches in length, at one of 
which are faftened nine branches, or tails, compo- 
fed of lag line, with three or more knots upon 
e-ach branch), and fometimes he was beat with a ' 
bamboo. Being on? day cruelly beaten with the 
latter, the poor lad, unable to endure the fevere 
ufage, leaped out of one of the gun ports on 
the larboard fide of the cabin,, into the river. 
He, however, providentially efcaped being de- 
voured by the fharks, and was taken up by a canoe 
belonging to one of the black traders then lying 
along-fide the velTel. As foon as he was brought 
on board, he was dragged to the quarter-deck, 
and his head forced into a tub of water, which 

had 



( 41 ) 

had been left there for the negroe women to walh 
their hands in. In this fituation he was kept till 
he was nearly fuffocated ; the perfon who hel4 
him, exclaiming, with the malignity of a demon, 
^' If you want drowning, I will drown you myfelf." 
Upon my inquiring of the young man, if he knew 
the danger to which he expofed himfelf by jump<^ 
ing overboard, he replied, '^ that he expedred to 
*' be devoured by the fharks, but he preferred 
^' even that, to being treated daily with fo much 
" cruelty." 

Another feaman having been in fome degree 
negligent, had a long chain fixed round his neck, 
at the end of Vv'hich was fafteried a log of wood. 
In this fituation he performed his duty, (from 
which he was not in the leaft fpared) for feverai 
weeks, till at length he was nearly exhaufted by 
fatigue j and after his releafe from the log, he was 
frequently beaten for trivial faults. Once, in 
particular, when an accident happened, through 
the carelefsnefs of another feaman, he was tied up, 
although the fault was not in the leaft imputable 
to him, along with the other perfon, and they 
were both flogged till their backs were raw. Chian 
pepper was then mixed in a bucket, with fait 
water, and with this the harrowed parts of the back 
of the unoffending feaman were walhed, as an ad- 
dition to his torture. 

The fame feaman having at another time acci- 
dentally broken a plate, a fifh-gig was thrown at 
him with great violence. The filh-gig is an in- 
ftrument ufed for ftriking fifh, and confifts of feve- 
rai ftrong barbed points fixed on a pole, about fix 
feet long, loaded at the end with lead. The man 
efcaped the threatening danger, by ftooping his 
head, and the milTile weapon ftruck in the barri- 
cade. 



C 42 ) 

cado. Knives and forks were at other times thrown 
at him; and a large Newfoundland dog was fre- 
quently fetat him, which, thus encouraged, would 
not only tear his cloths, but wound him. At 
length, after feveral fevere floggings, and other 
iH treatment, the poor fellow appeared to be to- 
tally infenfible to beating, and carelefs of the 
event. 

I muft here add, that whenever any of the crew 
were beaten, the Newfoundland dog, juft men- 
tioned, from the encouragement he met with, 
would generally leap upon them, tear their cloths^, 
and bite them. He was particularly inveterate 
againft one of the feamen, who, from being often 
knocked down, and feverely beaten, appeared 
quite ftupid, and incapable of doing his duty. 
In this flate, he was taken on board another fhip, 
and returned to England. ' 

In one of my voyages, a feaman came on board 
the fhip I belonged to, while on the coaft, as a 
pafienger to the Weft-Indies. He was juft reco- 
vered from a fever, and notwithftanding this, he 
was very unmercifully beaten during the paffage, 
which, together with the feeble ftate he was in at 
the time, rendered him nearly incapable of walk- 
ing, and it was but by ftealth, that any medical 
affiftance could be given to him. 

A young man was like wife beaten and kicked 
almoil daily, for trifling, and even imaginary faults. 
The poor youth happening to have a very bad toe, 
through a hurt, he was placed as a centry over the 
fick flaves, a ftation which required much walking. 
Thisj in addition to the pain it occafioned, in- 
creafed a fever he alreadjr had. Soon after he was 
compelled, although fo ill, to fit on the gratings, 
and bein^ there overcome with illnefs aad fatigue, 

he, 



( 43 ) 

he chanced to fall afleep ; which being obferved 
from the quarter-deck, hewasfoon awakened, and 
with naany oaths, upbraided for negleft of duty. 
He was then kicked from the gratings, and fo 
cruelly beaten, that it was with great difficulty 
he crawled to one of the officers who was more 
humane, and complaining of the cruel treatment 
he had juft received, petitioned for a little barley- 
vvater(which was kept for the fick Oaves) to quench 
the intolerable thirfc he experienced. 

Another feaman was knocked down feveral 
times a day, for faults of no deep dye. It be- 
ing obferved at one time, that the hen coops 
had not been removed by the failors who were 
then wafhing the deck, nor wafhed under, which 
it was his duty to fee done, one of the officers im- 
mediately knocked him down, then feized and 
dragged him to the ftern of the veflel, where he 
threw him violently againft the deck. By this 
treatment, various parts of his body was much 
bruifed, his face fwelled, and he had a bad eye for 
a fortnight. He was afterwards feverely beaten 
for a very trifling fault, and kicked till he fell 
down. When he got on fhore in the Weft-Indies, 
he carried his lliirt. Trained with the blood which 
had flowed from his wounds, to one of the magi- 
ftrates of the ifland, and applied to him for redrefs ; 
but the fliip being conflgned to one of them, all 
the redrefs he could procure, was his difcharge. 

Many other inftances of fimilar feverity might 
be produced J but the foregoing will fuffice, to 
give fome idea of the treatment feamen are liable 
to, and generally experience, in this employ -, 
the confequence of which ufually is defertion or 
death. 

Of 



( 44 ) 

Of the former I will give one inftance. While 
a Ihip I belonged to lay at Bonny, early one 
morning near a dozen of the crew deferted in one 
of the long boats. They were driven to this 
defperate meafure, as one of them afterwards in- 
formed me, by the cruel treatment they had ex* 
perienced on board. Tv/o of them, in particular, 
had been feverely beaten and flogged the preced- 
ing day. One of thefe having neglefted to fee 
that the arms of the fhip were kept fit for ufe, 
was tied up to the mizen fhrouds, and after 
being ftripped, very feverely flogged on the back; 
his trowfers were then pulled down, and the flog- 
ing was repeated. The other feaman, who was 
efteemed a careful, cleanly, fober fellow, had been 
punifhed little lefs feverely, though it did not 
appear that he had been guilty at that time of 
any fault. 

It is cuftomary for mofl: of the captains of the 
flave fhips to go on Ihore every evening to do 
buflnefs with the black traders. Upon thefe oC- 
cafions many of them get intoxicated, and when 
they return on board, give proofs of their inebria- 
tion, by beating and ill ufing fome or other of the 
crew. This was the prefent cafes the feaman here 
fpoken of, was beaten, without any reafon being 
afllgned, with a knotted bamboo, for a confider- 
able time; by which he v/as very much bruifed, 
and being before in an ill fl:ate of health, fuflered 
conflderably. 

Irritated by the ill ufage which all of them, in 
their turn, had experienced, they refolved to at- 
tempt an efcape, and effeiled it early in the 
morning. The perfon on the watch difcovered, 
that the net-work on the main deck had been cur, 
and that one of the long-boats was gone j and, 

. upon 



( 45 3 

Upon farther examination it v/as found, that neaf 
a dozen of the feamen were nnifling. A few hours 
after, the captain went in the cutter in purfuit of 
the deferters, but without fuccefs. 

On my return to England, I received from one 
of them, the following account of their adven- 
tures during this undertaking. 

When they left the vefTel, they propofed going 
to Old Calabar, being determined to periih, rather 
than return to the Ihip. All the provifions they 
took with them was, a bag containing about half 
a hundred weight of bread, half a fmall cheefe, 
and a caik of water of about 38 gallons. They 
made a fail of a hammock, and ereded one of 
the boat's oars for a maft. Thus flenderly pro- 
vided, they dropped down the river of Bonny, 
and kept along the coaftj but miftaking one river 
for another, they were feized by the natives, who 
flripped them, and marched them acrofs the coun- 
try, for a confiderable diftance, to the place to 
which they themfelves intended going. During the 
march, feveral were taken ill, and fome of them 
died. Thofe who furvived, were fold to an En- 
glifh fhip which lay there. Every one of thefe de- 
ferters, except three, died on the coaft, or during - 
their paffage to the Weft-Indies j and one of the 
remaining three died foon after his arrival there. 
So that only two out of the whole number, lived 
to arrive in England, and thofe in a very infirm 
ftate of health. 

While I am upon the fubjedl of the defertions 
among the failors, I muft add, that the captains in 
this trade generally take out with them tobacco 
and Hops, which they fell at an exorbitant price 
to the failors. And in cafe of their defertion or 
dec^afe, they have it in their power to charge to 

the 



C 46 ) 

the fedmens accounts, whatever quantity ihcf 
pleafe, without contradidion. This proves an 
additional reafon for cruel ufage. In cafe of de- 
fertion, the failors forfeit their wages, by which 
the expences of the voyage are leffened, and 
confequently the merchants reap benefit from 
it. 

The relation jufl: given of the barbarities exer- 
cifed by the officers in the (lave trade, upon the 
Teamen Under their command, may appear to thofe 
who are unacquainted with the method in which 
this iniquitous branch of commerce is conduded, 
to be exaggerated. But I can alTure them, that 
everyinilance is confined within the ftriftefl bounds 
of truth. Many others may likewife be brought 
to prove, that thofe I have recited are by no means 
fmgular. Indeed, the reverfe of this condud 
would be efteemed a fingularity. For the com- 
mon pradice of the officers in the Guinea trade, 
I am forry to fay it, will, with a very few excep- 
tions, juftify the afTertion, that to harden the feel- 
ings, and to infpire a delight in giving torture to a 
fellow creature, is the natural tendency of this un- 
warrantable traffick. It is but juftice however, 
that I except from this general cenfure, one cap- 
tain with whom I failed. Upon all occafions I 
found him to be a humane and confiderate man, 
and ever ready to alleviate the evils attendant on 
the trade, as far as they were to be lelTened. 

The annual diminution of BritiOi feamen by 
all the foregoing caufes, is what next claims 
attention, and upon due inveftigation v/ill be 
found, I fear, to be much more confiderable 
than it is generally fuppofed to be. As this is a 
queftion of great national importance, and cannot 
fail to evince the neceffity of an abolition of the 

, ' flave 



C 47 ) 

flave trade ; in order to convey to the public fomC 
idea of the deilrudiive tendency of it, I will give 
an account of the ftatement of the lofs of a fhip, to 
which I belonged, during one of her voyages. 
And though this flatennent may not be confider- 
ed as an average of the lofs upon each voyage, 
which I have before eflimated, as I would not wilh 
to exceed the mark, at one fourth, and oftentimes 
one third. I have known inftances where it has 
been greatly exceeded, as I Ihall prefently ihew. 

The crew of the fhip I fpeak of, upon its de- 
parture from England, confifted of forty-fix per- 
fons, exclufive of the captain, chief mate, and 
myfelf. Out of this number, we loft on the coail 
eleven by defertion (of whom only two, and thofe 
in a very infirm ftate, ever arrived in England) 
and five by death. Three perifhed in the middle 
paflage, of whom one was a pafi^enger. In the 
Weft-Indies, two died, one of which was a paf- 
fenger from Bonny. Five were difcharged at their 
own requeft, having been cruelly treated, and five 
deferred, exclufive of two who Ihipped themfelves 
at Eonny ; of thefe ten, feveral were in a difeafed 
Hate ; and probably, like moft of the feamen who 
are difcharged or defert from the Guinea fhips in 
the iflands, never returned to their native coun- 
try. One died in our paflage from the Weft-In- 
dies to England ; and one, having been- rendered 
incapable of duty, was lent on board another 
Ihip whWt we lay at Bonny. 

Thus, out of the forty-fix perfons before-men- 
tioned, only fifteen returned home in the fhip. 
And feveial, out of this fmall number, fo ener- 
vated in their conftitution, as to be of little fer- 
vice in future j they were, on the contrary, re- 
duced to the mournful neccfllty of becoming 

burchenfome 



( 4« ) 

b'jrthenfome to themfelves and to others^ Of tii^ 
ten that deferted, 6r were difcharged in the Weft- 
Indies, little account can be taken 3 it being ex- 
tremely improbable that one half, perhaps not a 
third, ever returned to this country. 

From hence it appears, that there was a lofs in 
this voyage of thirty-one failors and upwards, ex- 
clufive of the two failors who were paffengers, 
and not included in the Iliip's crew. I fay a lofi 
of thirty-one^ for though the whole of this num- 
ber did not die, yet if it be confidered, that fe- 
veral of thofe who returned to England in the 
lliip,or who might have returned by other Ihips, are 
likely to become a burthen, inftead of being ufe- 
ful to the community, it will be readily acknow- 
ledged, I doubt not, that the foregoing llatemenE 
does not exceed reality. 

How worthy of ferious confideration is the di- 
minution here reprefented, of a body of people 
fo valuable in a commercial ftate! But how much 
more alarm/ing will this be, when it appears, as 
is really the cafe, that the lofs of feamen in the 
voyage I am fpeaking of, is not equal to what is 
experienced even by fome other Ihips trading to 
Bonny and Calabar •, and much lefs than by thofe 
employed in boating on the Windward Coaft % 
where frequently there happens fuch a mortality 
among the crew, as not to leave a fufficient num- 
ber of hands to navigate the fhips to the Weft-* 
Indies. In the year 1786, I faw a fhip, belong- 
ing, to Miles Barber, and Co. at Cape Monfe- 
rado, on the Windward Coaft, which had loft all 
the crew except three, from hoating% a pradicc 
that proves extremely deftru6tive to failors, by 
expofing them to the parching fun and heavy 
dews of Africa, for v/eeks together, while they 

are 



( 49 J 

are feeking for negroes up the rivers, as before 
defcribed. 

It might naturally be afl^ed, as fuch are the 
dangers to which the failors employed in the 
ilave trade are expofed from the intemperature b'f 
the climate, the inconveniencies of the voyage, 
and the treatment of the officers, how the captains 
are able to procure a fufficient number to man 
their fhips. I anfwer, that it is done by a feries 
of fineffe and impofition, aided not only by al*. 
lurements, but by threats. 

There are certain public-houfesj in which, for 
interefted purpofes, the failors are trufted, and 
encouraged to run in debt. To the landlords of 
thefe houfes the captains apply. And a certain 
number being fixed on, the landlord immediately 
infifts upon their entering on board fuch a fhip> 
threatening, in cafe of refufal, to arreft and throw 
them into prifon. At the fame time the captain 
holds out the allurements of a month's pay in ad- 
vance above the fhips in any other trade, and the 
promife of fatisfying their inexorable landlords. 
Thus terrified on the one hand by the apprehen* 
fions of a prifon, and allured on the other by the 
promifed advance, they enter. And by this means 
a very great proportion of the failors in the (lave 
trade are procured j only a very fmall number 
of landmen are employed. During the feveral 
voyages I have been in the trade, I have not known 
the number to exceed one for each voyage. The 
few fhips that go out in time of war, generally ' 
take with them, as other merchant Ihips do, a 
greater proportion of landmen. And with re- 
gard to apprentices, we had not any on board the 

D ihip3 



( 5© ) 

Ihips I failed in, neither to my knowledge have ! 
ever feen any. So far is this trade from proving 
a nurfery for feamen. 

By their articles, on entering on board fome 
Guinea fhips, the failors are reftrained, under for- 
feiture of their wages, from applying, in cafe of 
ill ufage, to any one for redrefs, except to fuch 
perfons as fliall be nominated by the owners or ths 
captain ; and by others, to commence an adion 
againft the captain for bad treatment, incurs a 
penalty of fifty pounds. Thefe reftriftions feem 
to be a tacit acknowledgment on the part of the 
owners and captains, that ill treatment is to be 
expe6led. 

Having ftated the foregoing fa6ts relative to the 
nature of this deftrudive and inhuman traffick, I 
Hiall leave thofe, whofe more immediate bufinefs 
it is, to deduce the necefiary conclulionsj and 
Ihall proceed to give a few curfory obfervations 
on thofe parts of the coaft of Africa already re- 
ferred to •, confining myfelf to fuch as tend to lar^ 
elucidation of the (lave trade, without entering 
minutely into the Hate of the country. 



A ihort 



( 51 ) 

A fliort Defcrlptlon of fuch Parts of 
the Coaft of Guinea, as are before 
referred to. 

Bonny, or Banny, is a large town fituate in the 
Bight of Benin, on the coait of Guinea, lying about 
twelve miles from the fea, on the eaft fide of a riveir 
of the fame name, oppofite to a town called Peter- 
forte-fide. It confifts of a confiderable number 
of very poor huts, built of upright poles, plaif- 
tered with a kind of red earth, and covered 
with mats. They are very low, being only one 
ftory. The floor is made of fand, which being 
conflructed on fvvampy ground, does not long re- 
tain its firmnefs, but requires frequent repair. 

The inhabitants fecure themfelves, in fome de- 
gree, againft the noxious vapours, which arife 
from the fwamps and woods that furround the 
town, by conflantly keeping large wood fires in 
their huts. They are extremely dirty and indolent ; 
which, together with what they call the y;;20^a, 
(a noxious vapour, arifing from the fwamps about 
the latter end of autumn) produces an epidemical 
fever, that carries off great numbers. 

The natives of Bonny believe in one Supreme 
Being ; but they reverence greatly a harmlefs ani- 
mal of the lizard kind, called a Guana, the body 
of which is about the fize of a man's leg, and 
tapering towards its tail, nearly to a point. Great 
numbers of them run about the town, being en- 
couraged and cheriflied by the inhabitants. 

D 2 The 



I S2 ) 

The river of Bonny abounds with lliarks of a 
very large fize, which are often feen in almoft 
incredible numbers about the (lave (hips, devour- 
ing with great difpatch the dead bodies of the 
negroes as they are thrown overboard. The bo- 
dies of the failors who die there, are buried on a 
fandy point, called Bonny Point, which lies about 
a quarter of a mile from the tov/n. It is covered 
at high water ; and, as the bodies are buried but 
a fmall depth below the furface of the fand, the 
ftench arifmg from them is fometimes very noxi- 
ous. 

The trade of this town confifts of flaves, and a 
fmall quantity of ivory and palm-oil, the latter of 
which the inhabitants ufe as we do butter ; but 
its chief dependence is on the flave trade, in 
which it exceeds any other place on the coail of 
Africa. The only water here is rain-water, which 
flagnating in a dirty pool, is very unwholefome. 
With this, as there is no better to be procured, 
the lliips are obliged to fupply themfelves, though, 
when drank by the failors, it frequently occafions 
. violent pains in the bowels, accompanied with a 
diarrhea. 

The Windward Coast of Africa has a very 
beautiful appearance from the fea, being covered 
with trees, which are green all the year. It pro- 
duces rice, cotton, and indigo of the iird quality^ 
and likewife a variety of roots, fuch as yams, 
cafava, fweet potatoes, &c. &c. The foil is very 
rich, and the rice which it produces, is fuperior 
to that of Carolina; the cotton alfo is very fine* 
It has a number of fine rivers, that are navigable 
for fmall (loops, a confiderable way up the coun- 
try. 

The 



( 53 ) 

The natives are a ftrong hardy race, efpecially'- 
about Setrecrou, where they are always employ^ 
ed in hunting and fifhing. They are extremely 
athletic and miifciilar, and are very expert in the 
water, and can fwim for many miles. They can 
like wife dive to almoft any depth. I have often 
thrown pieces of iron and tobacco pipes overboard, 
which they have never failed bringing up in their 
hand. 

Their canoes are very fmall, not weighing above 
twenty-eight pounds each, and feldom carrying 
above two or three people. It is furprizing to 
fee with what rapidity they paddle themfelves 
through the water, and to what a diflance they 
venture in them from the fhore. I have fecn them 
eight or nine miles diftant from it. In ftormy 
weather the fea frequently fills them, which the 
perfons in them feem to difregard. "When this 
happens, they leap into the fea, and taking hold 
of the ends of the canoe, turn her over feveral 
times, till they have emptied her of the chief part 
of the water -, they then get in again, with great 
agility, and throw out the remainder with a fmall 
fcoop, made for that purpofe. 

They fell fome ivory and Malegetta pepper. 

They are very cleanly in their houfes, as likewifc 
in cooking their viftuals. The ivory on this coaft 
is very fine, efpecially at Cape Lahoe. There arc 
on this coaft fmall cattle. 

The Gold Coast has not fo pleafing an ap- 
pearance from the fea, as the Windward coaft ; 
but the natives are full as hardy, if aot more fo. 
The reafon given for this is, that as their country 
is not fo fertile as the Windward Coaft, they are 
obliged to labour more in the cultivation of rice 
and corn, which is their chief food. They have 

herCj 



( 54 ) 

here, as on the Windward Coaft, hogs, goats^ 
fowls, and abundance of fine fifh, &c. They are 
very fond of brandy, and always get intoxicated 
■when it is in their power to do fo. They are like-, 
wife very bold and refolute, and infurredions hap- 
pen more frequently among them, when on Ihip- 
board, than amongfl the negroes of any other 
part of the coaft. 

The trade here is carried on by means of gold* 
duft, for which the Europeans give them goods, 
fuch as pieces of India chintz, bafts, romals, guns, 
powder, tobacco, brandy, pewter, iron, lead, cop' 
per, knives, &c. Sec. After the gold duft is pur- 
chafed, it is again difpofed of to the natives for 
negroes. Their mode of reckoning in this traffick, 
is by ounces ; thus they fay they will have fo many 
ounces for a Clave ; and according to the number 
of fhips on the coaft, the price of thefe differs. 

The Englilh have feveral forts on the Gold 
Coaft, the principle of which are. Cape Corfe, and- 
Anamaboe. The trade carried on at thefe forts, 
is bartering for negroes, which the governors fell 
again to the European Ihips, for the articles before*. 
mentioned. 

The natives, as juft obferved, are a bold, refolute 
people. During the laft voyage 1 was upon the 
coaft, I faw a number of negroes in Cape Corfe 
Caftie, fomeof whom were part of the cargo of a 
fliip from London, on whofe crew they had rifen, 
and, after killing the captain and moft of the 
failors, ran the lliip on fhore; but in endeavour- 
ing to make their efcape, moft of them were feized 
by the natives, and refold. Eighteen of thefe we 
purchafed from Governor Morgue. The Dutch 
have likewife a ftrong fort on this coaft, called 

■El mi n a. 



( ss ) 

Elmina, where they carry on a confiderable trade 
for flaves. 

The principal places of trade for negroes, are 
Bonny and Calabar. The town and trade of 
Bonny, I have already defcribed. That of Cala- 
bar is nearly fimilar. The natives of the latter 
are of a much more delicate frame than thofe of 
the Windward and Gold Coafts. 

The natives of Angola are the mildefl, and moft 
expert in mechanicks, of any of the Africans. 
Their country is the moft plentiful of any in thqfe 
parts, and produces different forts of grain, parti- 
cularly calavances, of which they feem, when on 
fhip-board, to be extremely fond. Here are like- 
wife hogs, Iheep, goats, fowls, &c. in great abun- 
dance, infomuch, that when I was at the River 
Ambris, we could buy a fine fat Hieep for a fmali 
keg of gunpowder, the value of which was about 
one {billing and fixpence flerling. They have alfo 
great plenty of fine filh. I have often {een turtle 
caught, while fifhing with a net for other filli. 
They have a fpecies of wild cinnamon, which has 
a very pungent tafte in the mouth. The foil 
feems extremely rich, and the vegetation luxuriant 
and quick. A perfon might walk for miles in the 
country amidft v/iidjelliimin trees. 

The Portuguefe have a large town on this coaft, 
named St. Paul's, the inhabitants of which, and cf 
the country for many miles round, profefs the 
Roman Catholick religion. They are in general 
ftriiftly honeft. The town of St. Paul's isftrongly 
fortified, and the Portuguefe do not fuffer any 
other nation to trade there. 



THE END. 



BOOKS lately PdbHfhed by James l^HiLLirs^ 
George-Yard, Lombard-Street, 

SSAY on the Treatment and Converfion 6C 

^ African Slaves in the Britifh Sugar Colonies. 

By the Rev. J. Ramsay, Vicar of Teiton in Kent, 
4s. Boards. 

An INQUIRY into the Effecfts of putting a Stop 
to the African Slave Trade, and of granting Li- 
berty to the Slaves in the Britifli Sugar Colonies. 
By J. Ramsay. 6d. 

A REPLY to the Perfonal Invedives and Ob- 
je6tions contained in Two Anfwers, publifbed by 
certain anonymous Perfons, to an EiTay on the 
Treatnient and Converfion of African Slaves, in 
the Britifh Colonies. By James Ramsay. 2s. 

A LETTER from Capt. J. S. Smith, to the 
Rev. Mr. Hill, on the State of the Negroe Slaves, 
To which are added an Introdudion, and Remarks 
on Free Negroes. By the Editor. 6d. 

A CAUTION to Great Britain and her Colonies, 
in a Ibort Reprefentation of the calamitous State 
of the endaved Negroes in the Britilh Dominions^ 
Bv Anthony Benezet. 6d. 

The CASE of our Fellow-Creatures, the Op- 
preffed Africans, refpedfully recommended to the 
ferious Coniideration of the Legiflature of Great 
Britain, by the People called Quakers. 2d. 

A Summary View of the SLAVE l^RADE, and 
of the probable Confequences of its Abolition. 2d»- 

A LETTER to the Treafurer of the Society 
i.nftituted for the Purpofe of efFe£ling the Abolition 
of the Slave Trade. From the Rev. Robert 
Boucher Nickolls, Dean of Middleham. 2d. 

A new and much enlarged Edition of CLARK» 
SON'S ESSAYS will loon be publifhed. 



