HOUSE No. 51 

REPORT 

ON THE 

TRIAL BY JURY, 

IN 

QUESTIONS OF PERSONAL FREEDOM. 



^A&^ST 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/reportontrialbyjOOmass 



titotmnontotaU!) ttf fflLauButfyumttu. 



House of Representatives, March 27, 1837. 

The Committee on the Judiciary, to whom was referred 
an order of January 20th, directing them to inquire into 
the expediency of " restoring the writ de homine re- 
plegiando, or of providing some other process by which 
one under personal restraint may try his right to lib- 
erty before a jury ;" and to whom was also referred 
the petition of Gilbert H. Durfee and others, citizens 
of Fall River, praying " the passage of such laws as 
will secure to those claimed as slaves in this Common- 
wealth a trial by jury," and other petitions in aid of 
the same object, beg leave respectfully to 

REPORT: 

A distinction must be taken in the outset between the 
order and the petitions. The order directs an inquiry 
into the expediency of restoring the trial by jury, on all 
questions of personal freedom, by the old writ de homine 
replegiando, or some similar process, which would be 
available for all persons held in unlawful restraint ; and 
which might or might not be applicable to the case of 
those claimed as " fugitives from labor," as other ques- 
tions of legal effect and constitutional authority should be 



4 TRIAL BY JURY. March 

decided. On the other hand, the petitioners directly 
raise these questions, which the order does not touch. 
They make the case of persons seized as fugitive slaves 
the whole ground of their complaint against the existing 
laws. They allege that the process of delivering up such 
fugitives, in use under the supposed authority of the U. 
States, is unlawful ; that from the looseness and infor- 
mality of the proceedings, with which it is connected, free 
citizens of this Commonwealth are liable to be, and are 
seized as slaves, and on ex-parte affidavits hurried away, 
to be sold in other States into hopeless bondage ; and 
they ask of this Legislature the enactment of laws, 
which shall secure to every person claimed as a slave, 
what they insist to be his constitutional right, a trial by 
Jurj- 
Aside from the interesting and delicate questions thus 
presented by the petitions, the Committee would not have 
hesitated in reporting a bill in conformity with the object 
of the order. They believe the furnishing of such a rem- 
edy as is made the subject of this inquiry, to be a meas- 
ure, without reference to its effect upon those claimed as 
fugitives from labor, if not of constitutional obligation, at 
least of the highest political wisdom, and necessary to the 
completeness and perfection of our system. It would be 
useless here to discuss the merits of the trial by jury. It 
is justly dear not only to the citizens of Massachusetts, 
but to the whole American people, who have always 
guarded it with a solicitude, which is the best evidence 
of their estimate of its worth. Our fathers brought it 
with them from England, as one of the free elements of 
her institutions — one, which had been the safeguard of all 
the rest, and the renewed security of which the people 
there ever first demanded in every one of those concessions 



1837. HOUSE— No. 51. 5 

to their rights, which in times of violence and danger were 
wrung from reluctant authority. The very first law " for 
the general good of the colony of New Plymouth," (1623) 
was " that all criminall facts, and also all matters of tres- 
passes and debts betweene man and man, should be tried 
by the verdict of twelve honest men, to be impannelled by 
authority in forme of a jury upon their oath;" and the same 
principle is to be found in the fundamental laws of all the 
colonies. Our fathers never lost sight of, or yielded this 
principle, for a moment. In the declaration of national 
rights, in 1774, they claimed the trial by jury as "their 
birthright and inheritance,'' and when our independence 
was secured, it was guarded by constitutional provisions in 
every State in the country. When the constitution of the 
United States was proposed for adoption, it was found 
that it recognized and established the right only in the 
trial of crimes. This produced great dissatisfaction among 
the people. They were unwilling that this "sacred" 
privilege, even in civil cases, should rest upon the vacil- 
lating policy of legislation, and demanded that it should 
be placed on " the high ground of constitutional right." 
The constitution was nevertheless adopted, with the gen- 
eral understanding that this deficiency would be supplied. 
And accordingly the first congress proposed an amend- 
ment, extending this mode of trial to all civil cases, where 
the amount in dispute should exceed twenty dollars. 
The Committee will have occasion to allude to these prin- 
ciples in the constitution of the United States hereafter. 
At present, they refer to some provisions of our own State 
constitution. Art. xii. of the first part contains the great 
principle of the " magna charta," which has received a 
settled construction, i. e. " that no subject shall be arrest- 
ed, imprisoned, despoiled or deprived of his property, im- 
munities or privileges, put out of the protection of the 



6 TRIAL BY JURY. March 

law, exiled, or deprived of his life, liberty or estate, 
but by the judgment of his peers, or the law of the 
land." Again, in the xvth article: "In all controver- 
sies concerning property, and in all suits between two 
and more persons, except in cases in which it has here- 
tofore been otherways used and practiced, the parties 
have a right to the trial by jury ; and this method of 
procedure shall be held sacred, unless in causes arising 
on the high seas, and such as relate to mariners' wages, 
the Legislature shall hereafter find it necessary to alter 
it." 

Before the Committee examine more particularly these 
provisions, they would take a short view of the history of 
the writ de homine replegiando, which furnished the only 
mode, ever known in this Commonwealth, by which the 
question of the right to personal freedom could be directly 
passed upon by a jury. 

This writ existed as a part of the common law; and, 
suited as it was to the wants, condition and institutions 
of our ancestors, it needed no formal enactment to give 
it force in the colonies. It remained thus, a part of 
the unwritten law of the land, till 1786, when its pro- 
visions, slightly modified, were incorporated in a statute, 
which was left untouched by subsequent legislation, till 
the recent revision of our whole statute law. The Com- 
missioners, to whom this great work was, in the first in- 
stance, entrusted, reported the writ with considerable 
alterations, and in a note especially recommended its re- 
adoption, though, for reasons entirely aside from the great 
principle which lies at its foundation. It passed through the 
legislative committee of revision, receiving from them the 
more popular and appropriate name of " the writ of per- 
sonal replevin." But in the Senate, all the provisions 
relating to this subject were stricken out, and the single 



1837. HOUSE— No. 51. 7 

section inserted instead, as if for the very purpose of pre- 
venting the revival of the writ at common law, — " The 
writ de homine replegiando is abolished." The amend- 
ment was concurred in by the House of Representatives 
without question, and thus, without one word of debate, 
was blotted from our laws the only remedy, by which one 
of the dearest rights of a citizen is secured to him, in its 
application to a subject of vital interest. It is to be pre- 
sumed that this was done in inadvertence, or, at any rate, 
without adequate consideration. Be this as it may, your 
Committee cannot hesitate in recommending that the 
provisions of this writ be immediately restored to our 
laws. 

If a minute verbal criticism or an attenuated logic could 
otherwise satisfy the obligations of the constitution, in its 
words, who can doubt that such a course is required 
by its intention and spirit ? — Who, that knows the ex- 
treme jealousy of freedom, which was the characteristic 
of the times, can believe that the founders of our consti- 
tution intended to hold the trial by jury "sacred" on 
every question of dollars and cents, however insignificant, 
and in relation to the slightest misdemeanors, and to deny 
it on the great question of personal liberty ? that they 
would yield it as a right to every man for the inves- 
tigation of his title to an ox or a horse, and withhold 
it on a trial which involved the ownership of his own 
limbs and faculties — in one word his ownership of him- 
self? And, aside from the question of obligation, ought 
not the principle which lies at the bottom of these provi- 
sions of our fundamental law, to be as dear to us as to 
our fathers ? And is it not clearly applicable to this sub- 
ject ? 

The committee, in reporting the accompanying bill, re- 



8 TRIAL BY JURY. March 

storing the writ thus unceremoniously abolished, sub- 
stantially in the form recommended by the commissioners, 
by no means suppose that it will supersede the writ of 
habeas corpus. This last named remedy has, in the inves- 
tigation of questions of mere law, or requiring immediate 
action, such obvious advantages, that it will never be 
thrown into disuse ; and, with our present judiciary, it 
will undoubtedly be wisely and purely administered. But 
it is unsuited in its forms to the trial of facts, and the de- 
cisions under it are always by the court, and generally by 
a single judge. It lacks the great principle, which the 
Committee have endeavored to illustrate, and which 
seems to require a concurrent remedy, giving to the party 
a trial by jury at his election. 

Thus far your Committee proceeded without hesitation. 
But the petitions present subjects of vastly greater diffi- 
culty. The mode of delivering up fugitive slaves is 
made, or at any rate is attempted to be made, a matter 
of national regulation. An act of Congress prescribes 
this mode, and that act, if " in pursuance of the constitu- 
tion," is paramount to all state authority. In order to 
understand the question, it is necessary to consider par- 
ticularly the provisions of the constitution, and the law of 
Congress upon this subject, in connexion. The last para- 
graph of Art. iv. ^ 2 of the constitution, is in these 
words : " No person held to labor and service in one 
Stale under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, 
in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be dis- 
charged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered 
up on claim of the party to whom such labor or service 
may be due." This provision was unanimously adopted 
in the convention, which formed the constitution, and is 
one of the many concessions which were made to the 



1837. HOUSE— No. 51. 9 

demands of the South, and although it imposed a duty 
upon Massachusetts in derogation of her common law 
and the spirit of her institutions, (which would otherwise 
have made every human being free who should have come 
within her borders,) she cannot shrink from performing, to 
the full, every part of the contract into which she volun- 
tarily entered. The second Congress of the U. States 
passed an act prescribing, among other things, the manner 
in which fugitives from labor in other States should be 
seized and delivered up. The act is of the 12th Febru- 
ary, 1793. The third section provides, that "when a 
person held to labor in any of the United States, or in 
either of the territories northwest or south of the river 
Ohio, under the laws thereof, shall escape into any other 
of the said states or territories, the person to whom such 
labor or service may be due, his agent or attorney, is 
hereby empowered to seize or arrest such fugitive from 
labor, and to take him or her before any judge of the cir- 
cuit or district courts of the United States, residing or 
being within the state, or before any magistrate of a 
county, city or town corporate, wherein such seizure or 
arrest shall be made, and upon proof, to the satisfaction 
of such judge or magistrate, either by oral testimony or 
affidavit, taken before and certified by a magistrate of 
any such state or territory, that the person so seized or 
arrested doth, under the laws of the state or territory 
from which he or she hath fled, owe service or labor to 
the person claiming him or her, it shall be the duty of 
such judge or magistrate to give a certificate thereof to 
such claimant, his agent or attorney, which shall be suf- 
ficient warrant for removing said fugitive from labor to 
the state and territory from which he or she fled." The 
2 



10 TRIAL BY JURY. March 

next section imposes a penalty of $500, upon any per- 
son, who shall hinder such arrest or rescue the fugitive. 

It was apparently the purpose of some of the petitioners, 
though not directly proposed by them, that the trial by 
jury should be secured to the persons claimed as fugitive 
slaves, not by any independent enactment, but by en- 
grafting a provision, effecting this object, upon the pro- 
ceedings under the law of the United States. Your 
Committee are of opinion that this cannot be done. If 
the law of Congress be unconstitutional, as they allege, 
such a provision would be useless ; and if it be otherwise, 
such a course would obviously be beyond the powers of 
State legislation. It is true indeed, on many subjects, 
within the legitimate power of Congress, that, in the ab- 
sence of any action by them, the States may legislate ; 
but this clearly cannot be, when Congress has exercised 
its power in the enactment of a law, evidently intended 
to cover the whole subject, and when, as in this case, the 
spirit and object of that law would be defeated by the 
proposed action of the State. 

There is another difficulty, which, perhaps may as well 
be noticed in this connexion. The Committee believe 
that such a measure would be unauthorized because it would 
attempt to regulate the proceedings of the judicial tribu- 
nals of the United States. It is true that, by the act 
before quoted, the trial (so far as any trial is provided for) 
of the right of the master, may as well be before a state 
magistrate as the judges of the Circuit and District 
Courts. But your Committee, after a full investigation 
of the question, believe that this part of the law is unau- 
thorized and void. It is a well settled principle, that 
Congress cannot confer any part of the judicial power of 
the United States on state magistrates or officers. In 



1837. HOUSE— No. 51. 11 

the language of the Supreme Court of the United States, 
(1 Wheaton, 304) " Congress cannot vest any portion of 
the judicial power of the United States, except in courts 
ordained and established by itself," and by a well settled 
construction, in order to give courts and magistrates this 
character, the persons filling the stations respectively, must 
be appointed and commissioned by the government of the 
United States, under a previous law of Congress. This 
doctrine was maintained in the celebrated case of Martin 
v. Hunters Lessees (1 Wheaton 304) and has not only 
been since recognized in the Supreme Court of the Unit- 
ed States, but by repeated decisions of the highest tribu- 
nals of various slates. It grows out of the express provi- 
sions of the Constitution. Art. iii. ^ 1 provides that 
"the judicial power of the United States shall be vested 
in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as 
Congress may, from time to time, ordain and establish,'' 1 &c. 
What then is the judicial power of the United States? 
The second section of the same article answers this ques- 
tion. " The judicial power shall extend to all cases in 
law and equity, arising under this Constitution, the laws 
of the United States, and treaties made'' &c. We have 
already stated the construction, which has been put upon 
these clauses by the Supreme Court of the United States, 
and although the principle which they deduced from 
them, was at first doubted, it is now supported by a great 
preponderance of authority. 

We refer to a few of the cases in the state courts ; and 
first, to Commonwealth vs. Feely,— Virginia cases, 321. 
This was an indictment for robbing the mail, under an 
act of Congress which gave, in express terms, jurisdiction 
to the state courts of the offence. But the court, of 
errors, in Virginia, decided that they could not, under 



12 TRIAL BY JURY. March 

the constitution, exercise it; and the whole court, (con- 
sisting of judges White, Stewart, Brockenborough, Sam- 
ple, Allen, Randolph, Dabney and Daniel,) entered the 
following judgment: "The court doth unanimously de- 
cide that, as the offence described in the indictment in 
this case is created by an act of Congress, the said supe- 
rior court, being a state court, hath not jurisdiction there- 
of." There is a case, similar in principle, in 6 Hall's L. 
J. 113, United States v. Campbell. (See also the opin- 
ion of Judge Cheves, of South-Carolina, 12 Niles' W. 
Reg. 266, in ex-parte Rhodes ; and the opinion of Judge 
Bland, of Penn. in the case of Joseph Almeida, ibid 259.) 

The same question came before the supreme court of 
New York, in United States v. Lathrop, 17 Johns'' 4. 
This was an action of debt, brought to recover a penalty 
of $150, under the act of Congress, passed Aug. 2, 1813, 
for selling by retail spirituous liquors contrary to the pro- 
visions of that act, which, in terms, authorized the state 
courts to take jurisdiction of offences prosecuted under it. 
The court decided, that Congress could not invest them 
with such a jurisdiction, and they dismissed the cause. 

The case of Ely v. Peck, 7 Conn. R. 239, was an ac- 
tion brought on a statute law of the United States, to 
recover damages, which the plaintiff, as owner of a 
schooner, had sustained by the desertion of the defend- 
ant. This act also, in terms, conferred jurisdiction of the 
subject upon the state courts ; but the supreme court of 
Connecticut declined to act under it, holding that " Con- 
gress cannot vest any portion of the judicial power of the 
United States except in a court ordained and established 
by itself," and that the " state courts are not ordained 
nor established by Congress, and are not amenable to that 
body." 



1837. HOUSE— No. 51. 13 

For a further discussion of these questions, the Com- 
mittee refer to Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheaton 35; 3 Sto- 
ry's Com. 622-625; Sargent's Const. Law, ch. 27-8; 
1 Kent's Com. 395-405 ; United States v. Bailey, 9 
Peters, 328. 

It is admitted, in the discussion of these questions, that 
there are large classes of cases where the courts of the 
United States and of the several States may rightfully 
exercise concurrent jurisdiction ; but this does not come 
within either of these classes. It is enough perhaps to 
say upon this point, that no such power can be communi- 
cated by Congress to a tribunal established by the State, 
which had not jurisdiction upon the subject matter pre- 
vious to the constitution, and which has not, in itself, an 
inherent power adequate to the performance of the duty 
enjoined upon it ; and in no instance can it be exercised 
in violation of state obligations. (See 3 Story's Com. and 
Kent's Com. ubi supra.) In relation to the power attempt- 
ed to be communicated to magistrates by the law of the U. 
States, upon the subject of fugitive slaves, it is to be 
remarked, that it wants for its exercise every one of these 
requisites. The subject matter is one exclusively grow- 
ing out of the constitution and laws of the United States. 
No state courts had any jurisdiction, in this form, of the 
subject previous to the constitution, nor have they any 
adequate inherent jurisdiction, but their whole power over 
the subject, if it exists at all, must be derived from the 
act of Congress ; and it might be added, if it were 
necessary, that the exercise of such a power would be 
against the state obligations of magistrates in Massa- 
chusetts, for the proceedings enjoined by Congress are 
not only in derogation of our common law, but their form 
is in violation of the express provisions of our constitution. 



14 TRIAL BY JURY. March 

The doctrine upon this subject, which the Committee 
have endeavored to establish, leads to the conclusion, 
that the law of Congress is void, only so far as it at- 
tempts to vest power in state magistrates, leaving the 
jurisdiction of the judges of the circuit and district courts 
of the United States unaffected by these considerations. 
But this view of the subject, while it removes one of the 
features of the law most obnoxious to the petitioners, 
entirely destroys the ground-work of the particular mode 
of relief, which some of them seem to desire, i. e. the 
engrafting a trial by jury on the proceedings prescribed 
by Congress. For no principle is better settled, or more 
reasonable in itself, than that no state legislature can in 
any manner control or interfere with the process of the 
courts of the United States, or prescribe their rules and 
forms of proceeding under the laws of Congress. (Way- 
man v. Southard, 10 Wheaton 1 ; Bank of U. S. v. Hal- 
sted, ibid 51 ; U. States v. Wilson, 8 Wheaton's R. 253 ; 
3 Story's Com. 624—5; 1 Kent's Com. 394; Bean & 
al. v. Haughton, 9 Peters' R. 329.) 

The Committee are therefore of opinion that it is not 
within the authority of the Legislature to modify, the 
proceedings under the act of Congress, (supposing, 
for the present, that it is valid for some purposes) so as 
to add to them specifically a trial by jury. But other 
questions arise. Can the Legislature provide for the 
grievance, which is alleged to exist, by an independent 
enactment ? Can the person, arrested as a fugitive slave, 
before or after the certificate prescribed by the law of 
Congress is given, try his right to liberty in this Com- 
monwealth by a collateral process, as the writ of habeas 
corpus, (or if the bill recommended by the Committee 
should pass,) by the writ of personal replevin ? Or, on the 



1837. HOUSE— No. 51. 15 

other hand, is the process under the act of Congress, ex- 
clusive in its character, and the certificate granted under 
it conclusive in its effect upon the rights of the parties ? 

These questions demand a farther consideration, both 
of the constitutionality and effect of the act. For, if 
it be unconstitutional, then clearly, any law of the Com- 
monwealth on this subject, not contrary to its other obli- 
gations, will be valid — and even if the act be constitu- 
tional, still it depends upon other questions, whether a 
party arrested under it shall or shall not be at liberty to 
try the question whether he be in truth a slave, by some 
collateral process. 

The first question, in this view of the subject, is wheth- 
er the act in question is within the powers delegated to 
Congress. And your Committee confess, after a full ex- 
amination of the question, that aside from the decisions 
upon the subject, their decided opinion would have 
been that no such authority, nor any authority on the sub- 
ject, was conferred upon Congress by the constitution. 
Certainly there is no such express power given, and we 
do not see how it can in any way be fairly inferred. It 
is to be recollected, that the United States government 
is one of limited powers, having no authority excepting 
such as was vested in it by the constitution, and that all 
the powers, not so surrendered, were retained by the 
States, and can be exercised by them respectively. This 
would have resulted as a necessary truth from the nature 
of the case, and the relative position of the different go- 
vernments ; but it is expressly declared in art. x, of the 
amendments, " The powers not delegated to the Uni- 
ted States by the constitution, nor prohibited by it to the 
States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the 
people." From what clause then in the constitution of 



16 TRIAL BY JURY. March 

the United States is to be derived, by words or implica- 
tion, any power in Congress upon the subject ? 

It must be, if at all, from the clause before quoted, 
(iv. art. § 2.) " No person held to service or labor in one 
State, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, 
in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be dis- 
charged from such service or labor, but shall be deliv- 
ered up on claim of the party to whom such service or 
labor may be due." This confers no authority upon Con- 
gress, in terms, or, as your Committee can see, by infer- 
ence. It merely prohibits the States from passing certain 
laws, and enjoins a duty upon their citizens. But 
neither involves or draws after it any further power in the 
national government whatever. The clause is perfect in 
itself, and works its own object. Those who contend 
against this construction must maintain, that wherever the 
constitution prohibits legislation to the States, it author- 
izes legislation, to secure the object, in the United States : 
or, that wherever it imposes duties upon the authorities or 
people of the States, Congress may, without an express 
grant of power, direct the mode in which such duties 
shall be performed. But neither of these propositions is 
supported by authority, or has any foundation, which your 
Committee can see, in reason. There is no case, in the 
knowledge of the Committee, that gives countenance to 
either supposition, or where the power has been even at- 
tempted to be exercised on such a foundation. The States 
are prohibited from entering into any treaty, alliance or 
confederation, coining money ; making any thing but gold 
and silver coin a tender ; passing any bill of attainder, ex- 
post facto law, or law impairing the obligation of con- 
tracts ; granting titles of nobility, &c, &c. ; but when 



1837. HOUSE— No. 51. 17 

was it ever maintained, that these prohibitions gave any 
authority to Congress, which it would not have had with- 
out them ? 

If the States disobey these injunctions, the remedy is 
not with Congress, but with the judiciary. The statutes 
passed in violation of these provisions are merely void, 
and so will be pronounced by the supreme court of the 
United States, whose appellate jurisdiction, in all ques- 
tions of law or equity, on all such subjects, is secured for 
the very purpose of making them the peculiar, as they 
have always been the vigilant, guardians against any con- 
stitutional infringements by the Slates. 

So it is, also, where certain duties are enjoined upon 
the authorities or people of the States. Thus art. iv. ^ 1 : 
" Full faith and credit shall be given in each State to the 
public acts, records and judicial proceedings of every 
other State." Does this provision, in itself, invest Con- 
gress with the authority to enact how it shall be carried 
out, and prescribe the manner in which these acts, records 
and proceedings shall be verified ? Certainly not, or else 
where was the necessity of giving this power by express 
grant, viz : "The Congress way, by general laws, pre- 
scribe the manner in which such acts, records and pro- 
ceedings shall be proved, and the effect thereof." It 
could only have been because Congress, without this ex- 
press grant, would have had no such power. So with 
other subjects, where authority is in words given to Con- 
gress, which in other parts of the instrument is denied to 
the States, or upon subjects, in relation to which duties 
are prescribed to the States. 

If the Committee have been right thus far, it follows, 
also, that no authority is given to Congress upon this sub- 
ject, by virtue of the concluding clause of art. i. ^ 9, 
3 



18 TRIAL BY JURY. March 

which provides that Congress may " make all laws 
which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into ef- 
fect the foregoing (express and enumerated) powers, and 
all other powers vested by this constitution in the govern- 
ment of the United States, or in any department or office 
thereof," because it is not among the enumerated subjects 
in the previous part of the section, and no power, in re- 
lation to the matter, is any where in the constitution 
vested " in the government of the United States, or in 
any department or officer thereof." No general authority 
upon the subject of slavery, or upon a subject which 
would draw this after it as an incident, is any where given 
to the general government. This clause, as has been 
shewn by the learned commentator upon the constitution, 
(Mr. Justice Story) is nothing more than declaratory of a 
truth, which would otherwise have resulted by necessary 
and unavoidable implication. " The plain import of the 
clause is. (3 Story's Commentaries, 113-14,) that Con- 
gress shall have all the incidental and instrumental pow- 
ers necessary and proper to carry into effect its express 
powers. It neither enlarges any power specifically granted, 
nor is it a grant of any new power to Congress. Whenever 
therefore, a question arises concerning the constitution- 
ality of a particular power, the first question is whether 
the power be expressed in the constitution. If it be the 
question is decided. If it be not expressed the next in- 
quiry must be whether it is properly an incident to an 
express power, and necessary to its execution. If it be, 
then it may be exercised by Congress. If it be not, 
Congress cannot exercise it." Both these questions in 
their application to the case under consideration, must be 
answered in the negative. No one will contend that the 



1837. HOUSE— No. 51. 19 

power is expressly granted : and what power is expressly 
granted of which this would be a necessary or proper in- 
strument? But it may be said that some means are 
necessary to enforce the duty enjoined in the constitu- 
tion, and that it is not to be supposed these means would 
be left to be provided by the States. But an inconven- 
ience, which may exist from the absence of powers in 
a given case, does not confer these powers, and the ar- 
gument from it as to the intention of the founders of the 
constitution is only to be resorted to in cases, which are 
very doubtful upon the words. 

But it seems to your Committee that, in this case, no 
such inconvenience would exist. The constitution, by its 
own force, worked its own purposes, and no farther legisla- 
tion, either state or national, was necessary to enforce its 
provisions. Before the constitution, the right of recap- 
tion of a slave wherever found, existed as the common or 
customary law of nearly every State in the Union; for all 
the States, excepting only Massachusetts, then recogniz- 
ed slavery, as a legal institution existing within their own 
borders, and the subjects of it as property. The 
owner might then follow and seize his slave and take him 
away — as he might seize and take his horse or any other 
article of personal property. Now the effect of this con- 
stitutional provision, and your Committee infer its object, 
was two-fold. It extended this right of recaption, which 
existed by the common law of most of the States, to all 
of them, and prohibited any from changing or modifying 
it by legislation. This was all that was necessary for the 
security of the slave-holder, and it needed no national 
legislation in its aid or enforcement. If the mas- 
ter found his slave here, he might reclaim him. He 
would act to be sure, under this provision, at his peril. 



20 TRIAL BY JURY. March 

If he took a person " on claim" who was not in truth 
his slave, he would be liable to relinquish his custody of 
such person on the process of habeas corpus or the writ 
de homine replegiando ; and on the other hand, if any in- 
dividual rescued from his custody or interfered in any 
way with the recaption of one actually his slave, such 
individual would be liable in damages to the amount of 
the injury done to the owner. Thus the slave would 
be placed on the same basis, and the owner have the 
same rights in relation to him, as he had in relation to 
every other species of personal property. 

But it is necessary, on this question of construction, to 
examine somewhat the history of the legislation of the 
National Government, and of the States; and the judicial 
decisions, which have been made under their enactments. 

The mere fact that this claim to the right of legisla- 
tion has been made by Congress, and made, too, so early 
after the adoption of the constitution, has been insisted 
upon as a strong ground of presumption in favor of the 
existence of the right. And, undoubtedly, it is entitled 
to considerable weight. But it is to be remembered, on 
the other hand, that this claim has not been unresisted. 
Several States have attempted to legislate upon the sub- 
ject, and, although some of them have passed laws sub- 
stantially the same with that of Congress, yet, in others, 
they have been in direct opposition to this law, and there 
is implied, in any legislation upon the subject, a claim of 
power in the States, if not a denial of that assumed by 
Congress. The position taken by New York is the most 
prominent. The provisions of her laws upon the subject, 
are to be found in the revised statutes of that State — 
(part iii. ch. 9, sections 6 to 20 inclusive.) These pro- 
visions assume, as a right in the State government, the 



1837. HOUSE— No. 51. 21 

power to regulate the whole process and proceedings, by 
which persons claimed as fugitive slaves shall be delivered 
up and the claim substantiated — and many of them are in 
direct contradiction of the power of Congress. They 
are, substantially, that such fugitives shall be arrested 
only upon habeas corpus, founded in the first instance 
upon proof; and upon the return, a trial is to be had be- 
fore the judge, who is, however, first to give reasonable 
time to both parties to produce their proofs. If, on the 
final hearing, the claim of the person on whose sugges- 
tion the writ was issued, and the slavery of the supposed 
fugitive are substantiated, then judgment of return is to 
be rendered — if otherwise, the claimant is to pay $100 
penalty, besides damages and costs. And the supposed 
fugitive has a right, if he prefers it, to have his writ de 
homine replegiando, and his trial by jury under it, not- 
withstanding the habeas corpus ; and all magistrates are 
forbidden to grant process or certificate, except as thus 
provided, under a penalty of $500. 

The Committee do not recite these provisions for the 
purpose of commending them, but merely to show the 
denial by this State of the exclusive power of Congress 
over the subject ; and the fact that these provisions were 
recommended by John Duer, Benj. F. Butler, (the attor- 
ney general of the United States,) and John C. Spencer, 
who were the committee of revision, certainly entitle 
them to some respect, even if they do not invest them 
with any thing like authority. 

The State of New Jersey, too, which had early at- 
tempted to regulate the subject, has recently passed a 
law, by a vote almost unanimous in both houses, giving 
to those claimed as fugitive slaves a trial by jury, substan- 
tially, it is believed, like that provided in New York. — 



22 TRIAL BY JURY. March 

On the other hand, the legislature of Pennsylvania has 
rejected an application for such a law. 

While there is this conflict of legislation, your Com- 
mittee are sorry to find that the judicial opinions upon the 
respective claims of the State and national governments, 
are few, conflicting, and in some respects unsatisfactory. 
The first case which they will notice is that of Wright 
alias Hall vs. Deacon, (5 Serg. and R. 62,) decided by 
the supreme court of Pennsylvania. 

This was a writ de homine replegiando against a jailer. 
The facts were, that the plaintiff was claimed as a fugi- 
tive slave by one Gale, of Maryland, who arrested him 
and carried him before a magistrate. The magistrate 
committed the plaintiff to prison, till evidence could be 
procured in behalf of the claimant. The plaintiff, while 
in this situation, sued out a writ of habeas corpus, return- 
able before Judge Armstrong, who heard the parties, and, 
adjudging the plaintiff to be a slave, remanded him into 
the custody of defendant, giving also a certificate ac- 
cording to the law of Congress. The plaintiff then sued 
out this writ, and the court decided that he could not 
maintain it. The question of the constitutionality of the 
law of Congress wj\s not even raised at this trial, but as 
the court undertake to give a construction of its meaning 
and effect, its validity must of course have been assumed. 
They say in their opinion, that, as the certificate of Judge 
Armstrong was conformable to the requisitions of the 
act of Congress, therefore the plaintiff was not entitled 
to the writ de homine replegiando. The Committee 
would remark upon this opinion, 

1. That it was entirely extra-judicial, not called for by 
the case. The plaintiff having voluntarily sued out a 
writ of habeas corpus against the same defendant, and 



1837. HOUSE— No. 51. 23 

the question of his right to liberty having been tried and 
decided against him under it, he could not, of course, try 
over again the same question by another and concurrent 
remedy. It was res judicata, a thing judicially and con- 
clusively settled between the parties, and on a process 
too, originating with the plaintiff himself, who chose his 
own mode of trial ; and he could not afterwards disturb 
the question. And this view derives no strength from the 
act of Congress, but, independently of it, the decision 
was clearly right upon the well known principles of law. 

2. The opinion as to the effect of the law is directly 
contradictory to that of the supreme court of Massachu- 
setts, hereafter cited : (2 Pick. R. infra ; see also Fanny 
v. Montgomery and others, 1 Breese Repts. 188;) al- 
though it seems to have the sanction of Mr. Sergeant : 
(Sergeant's Const. Law, pp. 398.) Other observations 
which apply to this case, with others, will be made here- 
after. 

A case, entitled to more consideration, was decided by 
our own supreme court, Commonwealth v. Griffith, 2 Pick. 
R. 11. This was an indictment for an assault and bat- 
tery by the defendant on a negro, named Randolph. The 
defence was, that Randolph was a slave, formerly the 
property of one McCarty of Virginia, deceased, and while 
such, fled into this State. The defendant was attorney 
of the administrator of McCarty, and, as such, after con- 
sulting the district judge, seized Randolph and held him 
in custody. The question was, whether these facts 
amounted to a justification of the seizure. The court 
held that they did, and in their opinion express the be- 
lief that the law of Congress upon this subject is consti- 
tutional and valid. 

In relation to this case it is to be remarked, in addition 



24 TRIAL BY JURY. March 

to the fact that this question was but one of many raised 
at the trial : 

1. That there were but three judges upon the bench, 
and one of them dissented from the opinion given. 

2. That the power of Congress to legislate at all upon 
the subject was not discussed, but the constitutionality of 
the law was impugned upon the ground, that this particu- 
lar act was void, as against other provisions of the con- 
stitution not yet noticed ; and the whole argument in the 
opinion is directed against this ground only, while the 
right in Congress to pass some law upon the subject seems 
to have been taken for granted. 

3. No opinion as to the validity or effect of the law, 
was called for by the case. Griffith's right to seize his 
slave existed under the constitution, independently of the 
law of Congress. If no such law had been made, his 
defence would have been perfect, for the master, under 
the constitution, would have had the right to take the 
slave as his property any where, and the State could not 
divest him of it. 

The case, however, of Jack vs. Martin, which was 
finally disposed of in the court of errors of New York, 
Dec. 1835, (14 Wendell* s Reps. 507,) is the one under 
which all the questions upon this subject have been the 
most fully and elaborately discussed. This was on a writ 
de homine replegiando, sued out by plaintiff, after a certifi- 
cate by the recorder of New York, substantially in com- 
pliance with the law of Congress, though the process up- 
on which it was granted was that of habeas corpus. The 
constitutionality of the law of Congress was not necessa- 
rily involved in the decision, for the same reason that it 
was not in the case in the 2d Pick. R. and the case was 
finally decided against Jack, solely on the ground that 



1837. HOUSE— No. 51. 25 

having by his pleas, admitted that he was the slave of the 
defendant, and had escaped from her service, the de- 
fendant was entitled to judgment, and this, whether 
the law of Congress was valid or invalid. But both 
courts before which it came, considered the question 
of its constitutionality. In the supreme court, Judge 
Nelson gave an opinion, (12 Wendell, 314,) that the act 
of Congress was authorized by the constitution, and that 
the statute of the State was unconstitutional and void. 
In the higher court, to which the case went on error, 
Chancellor Walworth delivered an opinion exactly oppo- 
site in its character, he holding, after a most thorough 
and learned discussion, that the act of Congress was un- 
authorized by the constitution, and consequently void — 
while he maintained the validity of the State laws. Mr. 
Senator Bishop read an opinion, dissenting from the views 
of the chancellor. 

Another case of somewhat similar character is that of 
Alexander alias Nathan Himsley vs. Haywood, recently 
decided by the court of New Jersey. There is yet no 
authorized report of the case, and your Committee de- 
pend upon the account of an intelligent lawyer, who was 
present at the trial, which they have been at the trouble 
to obtain. It seems that Nathan, who was claimed as a 
runaway slave, was carried before one Haywood, a jus- 
tice of the peace of the county of Burlington, who gave 
a certificate that he was a slave, &c, agreeably, as well 
to the act of Congress as the then statute of the State ; 
but instead of delivering him to the complainants, com- 
mitted him for the time to prison, though without legal 
warrant. The case ultimately turned upon this point, i. e. 
of the authority of the magistrate to commit to prison, 



4 



26 TRIAL BY JURY. March 

though it is said that in the course of the proceedings, 
the judges severally expressed strong doubts as to the 
validity of these laws. 

Such are all the cases, which have arisen in any of the 
courts of the United States so far as is known to your 
Committee, involving the constitutionality of the act of 
Congress, or in which this question has arisen, except 
those which are loosely reported in the newspapers, and 
which your Committee did not think sufficiently authen- 
ticated to demand their consideration. 

There are some other cases, (2 S. & R. 308 ; 4 S. & R. 
305 ; 9 Johns. R. 67 ; 1 Wash. C. C. R. 501 ; 4 Wash. 
C. C. R. 46, 306, 326 ; 3 Am. Jur. 406 ; 1 Breese R. ub 
sup; 2 Marsh. R. 301,) where the act came more or less 
directly before the court ; but, in neither, was the law 
attempted to be enforced by the court ; nor was the ques- 
tion of its constitutionality in any way raised or alluded 
to. And, in relation to the cases which were particularly 
reviewed, it will be remembered, that neither called for 
any decision of the point ; that, in but one, (that in Wen- 
dell,) was the question as to the power of Congress to 
pass any law upon the subject, discussed ; that the two 
opinions in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts, in the first 
of which the constitutionality of the act was assumed, as 
in the last it was declared, are in direct opposition in re- 
lation to its effect, as will be more particularly shown 
hereafter. Your Committee, then, could not say, aside 
from the peculiar relation we bear to the Supreme Judi- 
cial Court, of this Commonwealth, that the question ought 
to be considered so conclusively settled, by judicial inter- 
pretation, as to prevent, or render useless, a recurrence 
to the constitution itself, and to the general principles of 
construction, which tend to develope its true intent and 



1837. HOUSE— No. 51. 27 

meaning. Of the result of such an examination, your 
Committee have already expressed their opinion. They 
would, however, hesitate long before recommending any 
act of legislation, which would be in conflict with, or in 
disregard of, any opinion of our own supreme court, the 
intimations of which, as well from its place in our politi- 
cal system, as the character of the eminent men who have 
composed it, are certainly entitled to the highest consid- 
eration. And they are happy to find, that no such course, 
(as will appear hereafter,) is necessary for the purpose of 
carrying out the views before expressed by them. 

There are other objections to the act of Congress, 
which, in their character, admit the power of that body 
to pass laws upon the subject of reclaiming fugitive 
slaves, but which insist, that this power has not been ex- 
ercised, agreeably to the constitution, in the act in question. 

It is said that this act is in violation of the last clause 
of art. iii. | 2, and also of art. vii. in amendment of the 
constitution, which provide for a trial by jury in all cases 
of crimes, and all suits at common law, where the value 
in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars. It is insisted 
that these provisions were intended to, and upon a fair 
construction do, cover every case of the trial of rights of 
whatever character, without any other limitation than the 
expressed one as to the importance of the matter in dis- 
pute. In answer to this suggestion, it is said, in addition 
to the denial of the propriety of the construction, that 
the process and proceedings provided in the act, are not 
conclusive in their effect, but are merely preliminary ; 
and that in this respect they are entirely analogous to the 
primary examinations for suspected crimes before a mag- 
istrate, who never has the aid of a jury, because he does 
not decide definitely upon the guilt or innocence of the 



28 TRIAL BY JURY. March 

accused. And that the certificate under the act is pre- 
liminary, supposing, or at least admitting of, a future trial 
of the question of liberty is certainly a position which 
has great support in authority. (See the case before con- 
sidered, and 3 Story's Comm. on Const. 677-8.) 

It is again said in answer, that none of the provisions 
of the constitution have any reference to slaves, but es- 
tablish the rights of citizens, who alone can take advan- 
tage of them. But is not this begging the very question 
in dispute ? A person who is seized here is prima facie 
a freeman, and the very matter to be tried is, ivhether he 
is a slave ; and can that be assumed in the outset, in order 
to give jurisdiction to the magistrate, and validity to his 
judgment ? 

The Committee dismiss this part of the subject for the 
present, because these different positions will be brought 
in view, under the next succeeding head. 

The remaining objection to the act of Congress, is 
founded upon the fourth article of the amendment of the 
constitution, which secures the people " against all unrea- 
sonable searches and seizures," and provides that " no 
warrants shall issue but upon probable cause, supported by 
oath or affidavit," and upon a clause in the fifth article, 
that no person shall be " deprived of life, liberty, or pro- 
perty, without due process of law." 

This last clause is but an enlargement of the provision 
of the magna charta, — of which, the latter words, (per 
legem terrae,) have always been construed to mean, by 
due presentment or indictment of a grand jury. (2d Inst. 
50; 1 Tucker's Blk. App. 304; 2 Kent's Com. 10.) 
And Mr. Justice Story says, (3 Com. 661,) that the 
clause " in effect affirms, the right of trial according to 
the process and proceedings of the common law." 



1857. H z— : f 



if tiieT are ar all applicable to this 

r-.w.z -_ : : :.:-r ---_-• -. : T : 

: r:-5 :.' --7 



IT ' - - - _ ' — . — --. -_ _...."_ 

- : : : : - z - : - : " . - r : ■ : £ :" : : 

_r : - - — - - — ~ - ."- 

::;:zr:- =^lz=z - v w~ : - . 
~r \- w- '. . z : : r - : ^ : : : . : z : \- 

-'- - - - - '- ~ \ ' ' ~ ------ ■ - - ~ - ~ 

-:::::-: : ; : z . : : ::r= 7 

:zzrz: :: zze ::: -' :z :f:;:~zz "- : - : ; f z 
:er=c-i = ~-f :•::-"" :~\:r . t : : ■ r . Lz: ~v ::; 
: .v.z: zz ;azz k: 3:: LI zz~ :v : - : :.- 

rZ r ~ _ . *r ZiA.'r Z ^ _ _r_* - -: z . _: Zix . 

z :; :>:.-::■-:•:: " -. - .'/ w .--.-> 

: : z a : ~ - * * I \ . : ; ■.: 
ifaf « perwtm nay. w tfos swamwucr* wumn 
mm. It wuofbe" w r fetf k mmmJdhe 

: ;; :.'».£ 

:"::': .-.:_--:::__:- . . - 

. .": IZZZZZZ f '-.'- I SZZZ'Z'W : .w -z .i*-i :_z 

: : t t f :z~ i-z' : : . : : i ' t i 5 : : i_ :5 : : z : i; : -ii ^'z?; 
and pfeces the question, mmder Ike £rar. precisri j wlae 

Z:C::z:z: "z : z^ - : .z .: :': : ; : . - -.- 

-.:•■..: z-f .-.- .: Iwlfc tint :zz :-: :tt: :,f izr 

:: 5 z_ :;- zf :: :: -z: : :z _ :: : :_- : ~ ■--;- 

i~ . £~t5 Zf :- ; :z 5fz^: z:e z" if 

: _rfz.z a i : z : . : : w -• :j iz _- _z - :.■? __;:z:;z:: 



30 TRIAL BY JURY. March 

process. And this principle must extend to his situation 
either before or after certificate, for the jurisdiction of the 
magistrate, upon the same reasoning, must be special and 
limited, depending entirely for its foundation upon the 
fact whether the person so seized be a slave ; for, if he 
be not, the whole proceedings are void, as against the 
express provisions of the constitution. It makes, then, 
the claimant act at his peril throughout, and gives the 
person seized an opportunity to try, in another form, the 
applicability of the process to him ; and that, too, wher- 
ever he chooses. It is in this view, if he be a freeman, 
precisely like the case where A is arrested on a process 
against B, and where of course A can be delivered from 
his imprisonment by habeas corpus, or the writ de homine, 
or sue the officer in damages. (See, as to limited ju- 
risdiction, Wise v. Withers, 3 Cranch 331, and 19 Johns' 
R. 7.) 

The Committee know that this construction of the 
law, thus given by our supreme court, is not in accord- 
ance with the decision as to its effect in the case 
decided by the supreme court of Pennsylvania, — Hall 
alias Wright v. Deacon, before cited, — but it seems to be 
directly supported by the supreme court of Illinois. (Fan- 
ny v. Montgomery, Breese's Repts. 183.) It was there 
decided, that " when the defendant, in an action of as- 
sault and battery and false imprisonment, justifies, under 
a certificate granted by a justice of the peace, in pursu- 
ance of the act of Congress respecting fugitives from la- 
bor, the plea must show that all the facts existed at the 
time of granting certificate, contemplated by that act." 
That case was put distinctly on the jurisdiction of the 
justice. The Committee cannot see any other ground on 
which the validity of the act of Congress, under the 



1837. HOUSE— No. 51. 31 

clauses of the constitution last cited, can be maintained 
for a moment, but upon the construction of its effect given 
by our supreme court — which, while it protects the pro- 
cess from abuse, gives every reasonable security to the 
master. 

Your Committee are therefore of opinion, that whether 
the law be considered unconstitutional on the one hand, 
or valid on the other, upon the construction recognized 
by the supreme court of this Commonwealth, the same 
result, must be arrived at. In either case, a person seized 
under the act of Congress, before or after certificate giv- 
en, may have an independent process, under which he 
can try his right to the character of a freeman ; and in 
either view, any special legislation upon the particular 
subject, would be wholly unnecessary. 

And why should not a person so seized have these 
means of trial ? If he be a slave, he is to be given up 
to his master ; but may he not have the question, wheth- 
er he be in truth a slave, tried in a manner adequate to 
its importance to himself and his offspring? And why 
should it not be tried too where he is, before (on the 
certificate of any magistrate whom the claimant may se- 
lect, granted on a summary and ex-parte examination,) 
he is carried away, where, it may be, he can have no 
means of defence left to him ? The trial is to him of 
tremendous interest, involviug consequences, in some re- 
spects, even greater than those which await the judgment 
on the most abhorred crime known in the law. For our 
constitution provides that even this shall " not work 
corruption of the blood." But a judgment against one, 
condemning him as a fugitive slave, does work cor- 
ruption of blood, and forfeiture to himself, his children, 
and his children's children, to the latest generation. 



32 TRIAL BY JURY. March 

It may be said, that, in times of excitement, this process, 
with this construction, may not be effectual ; and that 
those, who are really slaves, will not be given up. But 
such an argument is an imputation upon our authorities 
and citizens ; and might as well be urged against all 
our laws, for all of them are useless, unless we can 
trust in the integrity of our tribunals for their proper 
administration. 

Your Committee, then, — while they would not propose 
to follow the examples of New York and New Jersey, in 
the enactment of any special provisions of law upon the 
subject, — and while they should have recommended the 
accompanying bill, independently of any regard to the 
condition of those, claimed as fugitives from labor, — can- 
not yet see any thing, in the fact, that the writ of per- 
sonal replevin may be used by them, in the investigation 
of their claim to freedom, which should afford the slightest 
reason against its adoption. On the contrary, they look 
to this use of the writ, as one of its just and legitimate 
offices. 

All which is respectfully submitted. 

For the Committee, 

JAMES C. ALVORD. 



eorotnontmaitSj of iHassadjuaettsL 



In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Thirty- 
Seven. 



AN ACT 

To restore the Trial by Jury, on questions of personal 

freedom. 

JBE it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa- 
tives, in General Court assembled, and by the authority of 
the same, as follows : 

1 Sec. 1. If any person is imprisoned, restrained of 

2 his liberty, or held in duress, unless it be in the cus- 

3 tody of some public officer of the law, by force of a 

4 lawful warrant or other process, civil or criminal, is- 

5 sued by a court of competent jurisdiction, he shall be 

6 entitled, as of right, to the writ of personal replevin, 

7 and to be thereby delivered in the manner hereinafter 

8 provided. 

1 Sec. 2. The writ shall be issued from and return- 

2 able to the court of common pleas, for the county in 

3 which the plaintiff is confined, and shall be issued 

4 fourteen days at least before the return day thereof. 

5 



34 TRIAL BY JURY. March 

1 Sec. 3. It shall be directed to the sheriff of the 

2 county, or to any of the coroners thereof, and shall 

3 be served by either, to whom it shall be delivered, 

4 without delay. 

1 Sec 4. The said writ shall be in the form fol- 

2 lowing, viz : 

3 Commonwealth of Massachusetts. 

4 ss. To the sheriff of our county of ■ 



5 (l. s.) (or either of the coroners thereof) Greeting. 

6 We command you that, justly and without delay, 

7 you cause to be replevied C. D. who (as it is said) is 

8 taken and detained at , within our said county, 

9 by the duress of G. H., that he the said C. D. may 

10 appear at our court of common pleas, next to be hold- 

11 en at , within our county aforesaid, then and 

12 there in our said court to demand right and justice 

13 against the said G. H. for the duress and imprison- 

14 ment aforesaid, and to prosecute his replevin as the 

15 law directs : 

16 Provided the said C. D. shall, before his deliver- 

17 ance, give bond to the said G. H. in such sum as you 

18 shall judge reasonable, and with two sureties at the 

19 least, having sufficient within your county, with con- 

20 dition to appear at our said court to prosecute his 

21 replevin against the said G. H., and to have his body 

22 there ready to be re-delivered, if thereto ordered by 

23 the court ; and to pay all such damages and costs as 

24 shall be then and there awarded against him. Then, 

25 and not otherwise, are you to deliver him. And if 

26 the said CD. be by you delivered at any day before 

27 the sitting of our said court, you are to summon the 



1837. HOUSE— No. 51. 35 

28 said G. H. by serving him with an attested copy of 

29 this writ, that he may appear at our said court to an- 

30 swer to the said C. D. 

31 Witness, L. S. Esq. at B. the day of -, in 

32 the year . A. B. clerk. 

1 Sec. 5. No person shall be delivered from his im- 

2 prisonment or restraint, by force of such writ, until he 

3 shall give bond in the manner expressed in the pre- 

4 ceding section ; and the bond shall be returned with 

5 the writ, in like manner as a bail bond is returned, 

6 and shall be left in the clerk's office, to be delivered 

7 to the defendant when he shall demand it. 

1 Sec. 6. The officer, who serves the writ, shall be 

2 answerable for the insufficiency of the sureties in such 

3 bond, in like manner as he is answerable for taking 

4 insufficient bail in a civil action. 

1 Sec. 7. If the plaintiff shall maintain his action, 

2 and shall make it appear that he was unlawfully im- 

3 prisoned or restrained, he shall be discharged, and 

4 shall recover his costs of suit against the defendant, 

5 as well as damages for the said imprisonment and 

6 detention. 

1 Sec. 8. If the plaintiff shall not maintain his ac- 

2 tion, the defendant shall have judgment for his costs 

3 of suit, and also for such damages, if any, as he shall 

4 have sustained by reason of the replevin. 

1 Sec 9. If it shall appear that the defendant is 

2 bail for the plaintiff, or is entitled to the custody of 

3 the plaintiff, as his child, ward, servant, apprentice 

4 or otherwise, he shall have judgment for a re-delivery 

5 of the body of the plaintiff, to be held and disposed of 

6 according to law. 



36 TRIAL BY JURY. March 

1 Sec. 10. If it shall appear, from the return of the 

2 writ of personal replevin, that the defendant has se- 

3 creted or conveyed away the plaintiff's body, so that 

4 the officer cannot deliver him, the court shall, on mo- 

5 tion, issue a capias to take the defendant's body, and 

6 him safely keep, so that he may be had at the then 

7 next term of the court, to traverse the return of the 

8 said writ of personal replevin ; but the defendant may 

9 give, and the officer serving the same shall receive, 

10 bail, as in civil cases, for his appearance as aforesaid, 

11 in such sum as the officer may judge reasonable. 

1 Sec. 11. At the term, at which the capias is re- 

2 turned, the defendant may deny, by plea, the return 

3 on the writ of replevin, and if it shall appear, on the 

4 trial thereof, that he is not guilty of secreting or con- 

5 veying away the plaintiff, as set forth in the return, 

6 he shall be discharged and recover his costs. 

1 Sec. 12. If the defendant shall not traverse the 

2 said return as aforesaid, or if, upon the said traverse, 

3 the issue, on trial, shall be found against him, then an 

4 alias writ of capias shall be issued against him, and 

5 he shall thereupon be committed to the common jail, 

6 there to remain in close custody until he shall produce 

7 the body of the plaintiff, or prove him to be dead ; 

8 and if the defendant shall suggest such death at any 

9 time after committal as aforesaid, then the court shall 

10 impannel a jury to try the fact, at the expense of the 

1 1 defendant ; and if the death be proved, the defendant 

12 shall be discharged. 

1 Sec. 13. If, at any time after such return of se- 

2 cretion and conveying away as aforesaid, the defendant 

3 shall produce the body of the plaintiff in the court to 

4 which the writ of personal replevin was returned, or 



1837. HOUSE— No. 51. 37 

5 in which the suit is pending, the court shall deliver 

6 the plaintiff from restraint, upon his giving bond agree- 

7 ably to the condition of the writ of personal replevin : 

8 and for want of such bond, the plaintiff shall be com- 

9 mitted to abide the judgment on the replevin, and, in 

10 either case, the suit shall be proceeded in, as if the 

11 plaintiff had been delivered on the writ of personal 

12 replevin. 

1 Sec. 14. Either party may appeal from any judg- 

2 ment upon either of the matters aforesaid to the Su- 

3 preme Judicial Court, as in common civil actions — 

4 and in case of an appeal from the judgments which 

5 may be rendered under the writs of capias aforesaid, 

6 the whole case shall be carried up to the Supreme 

7 Judicial Court, and be there disposed of, as it ought 

8 to have been in the Court of Common Pleas, if there 

9 had been no appeal. 

1 Sec. 15. The writ of personal replevin may be 

2 sued out by any person for and in behalf of the plain- 

3 tiff, and may be prosecuted to final judgment, without 

4 any express power, for that purpose : provided, that 

5 the person so appearing for the plaintiff, shall, at any 

6 time during the pendency of the suit, when required 

7 by the court, give security in such manner as the 

8 court shall direct, for the payment of all damages and 

9 costs that shall be awarded against the plaintiff. 

1 Sec. 16. If the name of the defendant, or the per- 

2 son to be delivered be unknown or uncertain, then in 

3 any writ, proceeding, or process under this act, they 

4 may respectively be described, and proceeded with, as 

5 is prescribed in the sixth and seventh sections of the 

6 one hundred and eleventh chapter of the Revised 

7 Statutes, in the writ of habeas corpus. 



38 TRIAL BY JURY. March, 1837. 

1 Sec. 17. The thirty-eighth section of the one hun- 

2 dred and eleventh chapter of the Revised Statutes, is 

3 hereby repealed. 



