a-Jf RESOLUTIONS EXTRACTED FROM THE MINUTES OF THE LAST ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN 

ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

Resolved That this Society recommend that all its auxiliaries, as far as convenient, hold public meetings on each 4th of July ; that 
meetings of the friends of the cause be held throughout our country on that day, and that we earnestly request that collections be then taken 
up in a?d of the funds of the American Anti-Slavery Society. . 

Resolved That the Secretary for Domestic Correspondence be directed to prepare a Circular and forward the same with a copy ot me 
above resolution to all the Auxiliary Societies, and such friends of the cause as may be deemed expedient. 

Resolved, That the great objects of this Society require funds during the current year to the amount of at least M),UUU. 




\ Anti-Slavery Office, 130 Nassau-street, 
' New- York, May 28, 1834. 



Dear Sib, 

We address you with confidence as a sincere friend of the oppressed and a firm and practical believer in the doctrine, that 
a man cannot have a right op property in the bones and sinews and soul of his brother man. 

We entreat you to bear in mind that there arc in the United States not less than 2,200,000 slaves— held as articles of property. Is it not 
plain, that if the facts of their condition and the immutable claims of justice and mercy in regard to them were brought to bear upon every 
conscience in the community, this pretended right of property would be relinquished'? The truth is the instrument by which the world 
is to be renovated. It is adequate to overthrow any system of iniquity. Were the cause of the slave taken hold of with the energy and power 
which its importance demands, a flood of light would be poured upon the public mind which would as surely and speedily break the yokes 
and sever the fetters, as the returning sun melts the snows and frosts of winter. We doubt not that a sum less than has been expended by 
many of our Societies in propagating the Gospel, at homo and abroad, would set every slave free, and thus remove from before the Saviour's 
chariot an obstacle which has most sadly checked its onward course. 

If there is any reason in this view of the subject, we doubt not that you will only wonder at the lowness of the Society's aims, in fixing 
upon $20,000 as necessary to meet the exigencies of the current year. The Executive Committee in apportioning this sum according to their 
best judgment have supposed that . would fall to the share of the State of 

We cheerfully leave it to your -conscience, Dear Sir, to decide how much responsibility in regard to this sum will rest upon you. Taking 
it for granted that you will discharge this responsibility as well by inducing others to give, as by giving yourself, we beg leave to suggest two 
favorable opportunities for raising money, besides that of an immediate personal application to friends within your influence, which we beg 
that you will by no means omit. 

1. The Fourth of July. That day has long enough been abused by the mockery of our false professions and hypocritical boasts. 
Shall not abolitionists assemble on the coming fourth of July and manifest their zeal by a liberal contribution 1 The Society has instructed 
the Committee earnestly to request that this be done, and that the proceeds bo remitted without delay to the Society's treasury. 

2. The last Monday of every month. Prayer without faith is empty noise— and "faith without works is dead." Why should not 
the groans of millions ascending night and day, call forth from the followers of the compassionate Redeemer at least a monthly concert of 
prayer which shall bo scaled with large contributions 1 

In malting this application for funds we do not, like many other Societies, expect small pittances merely, which can be spared without 
being felt. This cause now rests on a few,— and but a small portion of that few are wealthy. The Society is already under engagements 
for agents, printing, &c. to the amount of $10,000 for the current year. In the opinion of the most judicious, these engagements could at once 
be increased fourfold with the greatest advantage to the cause. We therefore beseech every friend of the oppressed to throw his whole ener- 
gies into this channel — to let other men take care of other objects, and to impart funds to this, under the conviction that a dollar now will 
do more good than two dollars next year. Let it bo understood that our sole object is to shed light upon American oppression and break 
the dreadful spell which has bound up the moral energies of the humane and benevolent, and thus to raise our down-trodden brethren from 
the dust. If the experience of the past is trustworthy, wo shall sow to reap an hundred fold. 



With the kindest regard, your brcthro^ in behalf ojUhc oppressed, 



Committee. 



Remittances to be addressed to the Treasurer, WILLIAM GREEN, Jr., No, 7 






^^^^ ZL^b - 









X^'—^^ /^~y>/~ y^^^- J^L^C- L^, 

<r~h> ^v— - 










o 





- ft-*- 



7^7 



