Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/essayonslaverycoOOclar 



A^c*d^ t^ct oL^^lr-^ lin^ fig, in^cSuZ- 1 f 

— uTcLi^ ttZy Ucc-y^ k^f-^^z^ ^lc^ o'^-cyi^^'i^ ^ '^^ZL c-K^ /c-.?-K»_ U~tr^_^ 



A N 



ESSAY 

ON THE 

SLAVERY AND COMMERCE 



OF THE 



HUMAN SPECIES, 



A N 

E S S A Y 



ON T H 



SLAVERY AND COMMERCE 



OF THE 



HUMAN SPECIES, 

PARTICULARLY- 

THE AFRICAN; 

TRANSLATED FROM A 

LATIN DISSERTATION, 

WHICH WAS HOKOURED WITH 

THE FIPvST PRIZE 

IN THE 

UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE, 

FOR THE YEAR I785. 

THE SECOND EDITION, 

Revised and considerably enlarged* 

Nei^ue premendo alium me extuTiJfe velim. — -Livy. 



LONDON 



printed and sold by J. PHILLIPS, GEORGE-YARD^ 
LOMBARD-STREET. 



MDCCLXXXVIIl, 



//, 7/<5,>^fSSL,«fi,2. 



The vice-chancellor. 
The heads of HOUSESi 

BUT P ARTieU t ARLY 

The Rev. Dr. PEGKARD, 
The FELLOWS of COLLEGES, 

AND 

The students, 

I N T HE 

tJNIVERSiTY OF CAMBRIDGiE. 



GeKtleme^i^ 

. HAVING received my education at the 
learned feminary, to which you have the honour 
to belongs having a regard for many of you 
perfonally, and confidering you all as (landing 
in the peculiar fituation of guardians of humanity 
and religion, you will hardly think it ftrange^ 
if I fliould addrefs you on this important occafion* 
There is a circumftance^ however, which ren- 
ders the ftep I am now taking particularly proper. 
The fubjed: of this work originated with vou. 
a 3 ' U 



( vi ) 

If therefore, it has been at all inftrumental la 
itfelf, or has led me to fuch exertions as may 
have been in any degree inRrumental, in pro- 
curing that general attention to the flave trade, 
"vi'hich prevails at prefent, and which I am con- 
fident in the courfe of time will be produ6live 
of its abolition, the merit of fo important an 
event will ultimately devolve upon you ; and 
you will be found to have exhibited to other 
feminaries an example, and to the world at large 
a proof, that, while you have been endeavouring 
to protnote the caufe of learning, you have not 
been inattentive to the unalienable rights of men. 

If there is any other circumftance, that will 
additionally m.ark the propriety of the prefent 
addrefs, it is the very confpicuous part, which 
you have fince taken, in promoting the fame 
caufe, not only by public and private fubfcrip- 
tions, but by an application to the legiflature of 
your country. 

To you then this fecond edition (the firft 
having difcharged a private obligation) reverts 
as to its own parents, and is infcribed with this 
publick teftimony of your condu6l, by 

Your obedient fervant, 

THOMAS CLARKSON. 



ADVER- 



( vli ) 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



It is with great pi eafure I Inform the reader, that after 
h. clofe attention for the fpace of fourteen months to the 
fubjedl of ilavery, and a refidence during the laft fummer 
at two of the flave ports in this kingdom, for the purpofe 
of collefting information, I have had many things to add 
to what I had written on this fubje6i:, and but few to alter 
or corre6l. If any pafTages were doubtful in the old, they 
have not been admitted in the new edition. In the 
Firft Part of the latter, two new chapters, viz. the 
ninth and tenth, containing an hiftory of the trade as it 
fubfifts at the prefent day, have been added. In the Third 
Part^ the fecond chapter, which was only a general nar- 
rative, has been thrown into three chapters, for the pur- 
pofes of giving clearer and more circumftantial informa- 
tion on the fame points. 

Having pbinted out fuch of the alterations or additions 
as are moft worthy of notice in the prefent work, I have 
only to add, that it v/ill foon be followed by another EfTay 
on the fame fubjedt, compiled from authentic papers col- 
leded in my late tour, in which I flatter myfelf I fhall be 
able to prove to the publick, that the flave trade is as im^ 
politick^ as it is inhum.an arid unjuft. 



^4 PREFACE, 



t H E 



R E F A 



AS the fubje(3: of the following work has fortunately 
become of late a topick of converfatlon, I cannot 
begin the Preface in a manner more fatisfa<Story to the 
feelings of the benevolent reader, than by giving an ac- 
count of thofe humane and worthy perfons^ who have 
endeavoured to draw upon it that fliare of the publick at- 
tention which it has obtained. 

Among the well difpofed individuals, of different na~ 
lions and ages, who have humanely exerted themfelves 
to fupprefs the abje(5l perfonal flavery, introduced in the 
original cultivation of the European colonies in the weft- 
ern world, Bartholometu de las Cafas^ the pious bifhop of 
Chiapa^ in the fifteenth century, feems to have teen the 
firfl:» This amiable man, during his refidence in Spanifb 
America^ was fo fenfibly affected at the treatment which 
the miferable Indians underwent, that he returned ta 
Spain^ to make a publick remonftrance before the cele- 
brated emperor Charles the fifth, declaring, that Heaven 
would one day call him to an account for thofe cruelties, 
which he then had it in his power to prevent. The fpeech, 
which he made on the occafion, is now extant, and is a 
moft perfedt pidure of benevolence and piety. 

But his intreaties, by the oppofition of avarice, were 
rendered ineffectual : and I do not find by any books 
which I have read upon the fubje(St, that any other perfon 
interfered till the laft century, when Morgan Gockvyn^ a 
Brltijh clergyman, diftinguifhed himfelf in the caufe. 

The prefent age has alfo produced fome zealous and 
able oppofers of the colo7iial flavery. For about the middle 
of the prefent century, John Woolman and Anthony Bene7.et^ 
two refpe£lable members of the religious fociety called 
Quakers, devoted much of their time to the fubjeit. The 
former travelled through moft parts of Ncrth Afn^rlca on 

foot. 



X PREFACE. 

foot, to hold converfations with the members of his owH 
fetSt, on the impiety of retaining thofe in a ftate of invo- 
luntary fervitude, who had never given them offencCo 
The latter kept a free fchool at Philadelphia^ for the edu- 
cation of black people. He took every opportunity of 
pleading in their behalf. He publifhed feveral treatifes 
a2;ainft flavery,* and gave an hearty proof of his attach- 
ment to the caufe, by leaving the whole of his fortune in 
fupport of that fchool) to which he had fo generoufly de- 
voted his time and attention when alive. 

Till this time it does not appearj tha?: anv bodies of 
men had coile6livelv interefted themfelves in endeavouring 
to remedy the evil. But in the year 1754, the religious 
fociety, called Qiiakers, publickly teftihed their fenti- 
ments upon the fubje£t, f declaring, that " to live in 
'^ eafe and plenty by the toil of thofe, v/hom fraud and 
" violence had put into their power, was neither confif- 
" tent with Chriftianity nor common juftice." 

Imprelled with thefe fentiments, many of this fociety 
immediately liberated their (laves ; and though fuch a mea- 
fure appeared to be attended \vith confiderable lofs to the 
benevolent individuals, who unconditionally prefented 
them with their freedom, yet they adopted it with plea- 
fure : nobly confidering, that to poffefs a little, in an ho- 
nourable wav, was better than to poffefs m.uch through 
the medium' of injuftice. Their example was gradually 
followed by the reft. A general em.ancipation of the 
ilaves in the poffeffion of Qiiakers, at length took place ; 
and fo effectually did they ferve the caufe which they had 
undertaken, that they denied the claim of memberfhip in 
their religious community;^ to ail fuch as fhould hereafter 
oppofe the fuggeftions of juftice in this particular, either 
by retaining flaves in their poffelfton, or by being in any 
manner concerned in the flave trade: and it is a fadt, 
that through the vaft tract of North Amicrica, there is 

* A Defcription of Guinea, with an Inquiry into the Rife and Pro- 

grefs of the Slave Trade, &c. A Caution to Great Britain and her 

Colonies, in a fliort Reprefentaticn of the calamitous State of the en- 
llaved Negroes in the Britifh Dominions. Behdes feveral fmaller pieces* 

•f They Jiad cenfured the African Trade in the year IJZ'J) but had 
taken no publick notice of the co/sfjial Hzv^rj till this time. 

at 



PREFACE. 



ti 



at this day fcarcely a flave in the pofleffion of an ac- 
knowledged Quaker. 

But though this meafure appeared, as has been obferved 
before, to be attended v/ith confiderable lofs to the bene- 
volent individuals who adopted it, yet, as virtue feldom 
fails of obtaining its reward, it became ultimately bene- 
iicial. Moft of the flaves, who were thus unconditionally 
freed, returned without any follcltation to their former 
mafters, to ferve them, at ftated wages, as free men. 
The work, which they now did, was found to be better 
done than before. It was found alfo, that a greater 
quantity was done in the fame tim.e. Hence lefs than the 
former number of labourers was fuiHcient, From thefe, 
and a variety of other circumftances, it appeared, that 
their plantations were conliderably more profitable, when 
worked by free men, than when worked, as before, by 
flaves ; and that they derived therefore, contrary to their 
expe6latIons, a confiderable advantage from their benevo- 
lence. 

Animated by the example of the Qiiakers, the mem.bers 
of other feils began to deliberate about adopting the fame 
meafure. Some of thofe of the church of England, of the 
Roman Catholicks, and of the Prefbyterlans and Inde- 
pendants, freed their fiaves ; and there happened but one 
inftance, where the matter was debated, where It was not 
immediately put in force. This was In Pennjylvama. It 
was agitated in the fynod of the Prefbyterlans there, to 
oblige their members to liberate their flaves. The quel- 
tlon was negatived by a majority of but one perfon ; and 
this oppofition feemed to arife rather from a did Ike to the 
attempt of forcing fuch a meafure upon the members of 
that community, than from any other confideration. I 
ha\T the pleafure of being credibly Informed, that the 
manumlffion of flaves, or the employment of free men in 
the plantations, is now dally gaining ground in North 
America. Should flavery be abolifhed there, (and it is 
an event, which, from thefe circumilances, we may rea- 
fonably expe(5l to be produced in time) let it be remem- 
bered, that the Quakers will have had the merit of its 
abolition. 

Nor 



>cii PREFACE. 

Nor have their brethren here been lefs afliduous in the 
caiife. As there are happily no flaves in this country, fd 
they have not had the fame opportunity of fliewing their 
benevolence by a general emancipation. They have nofe 
however omitted to fhew it as far as they have been able. 
At their religious meetings they have regularly inquired 
if any of their members are concerned in the iniquitous 
-AfricG7i trade. They have appointed a committee for 
obtaining every kind of information on the fubje6t, with 
a view to its fupprcilion, and, about three or four years 
ago, petitioned parliament on the occafion for their inter- 
ference and flipport. I am forry to add, that their bene- 
volent application was ineffectual, and that the reforma- 
tion of an evil, produ£live ol confequences equally im.- 
politick and immoral, and generally acknowledged to 
have long difgraced our national charafter, is yet left to 
the unfupported efforts of piety, morality and jufllce^ 
againft intereff, violence and oppreflion ; and thefe, I 
blufh to acknowledge, too ftrongly countenanced by the 
legidative authority of a country, the bafis of whofe go- 
vernment is liberty. 

Nothing can be more clearly fliev/n, than that an in- 
exhauftible mine of wealth is negle6ted ii\. Africa^ fof 
the profecution of this impious traffick ; that, if proper 
meafures were taken, the revenue of this country might 
be greatly improved, its naval ftrength increafed, its co- 
lonies in a more flourifhing fituation, the planters richer, 
and a trade, which is now a fcene of blood and defola- 
tion, converted into one, which might be profecuted with 
advantage and honour. 

Such have been the exertions of the Quakers in the 
caufe of humanity and virtue. They are ftill profecuting, 
as far as they are able, their benevolent defign ; and I 
fhould flop here and praife them for thus continuing their 
humane endeavours, but that I conceive it to be unnecef- 
fary. They are a6ting connffently with the principles of 
religion. They will find a reward in their own confci- 
ences ; and they will receive more real pleafure from a 
fmgle refle6i:ion on their conducr, than they can poffibly 
experience from the praifes of am hgll of v/riters. 

In 



PREFACE, 3cIU 

In giving this fhort account of thofe humane and wor- 
thy perfons, who have endeavoured to reftore to their fel- 
low creatures the rights of nature, of which they had been 
unjuftly deprived, I fhould feel myfelf unjuft, were I to 
omit two zealous oppofers of the colonial tyranny, confpi-, 
cuous at the prefent day. 

The firft is Mr. Granville Sharp, This Gentleman has 
particularly diftinguilhed himfelf in the caufe of freedom. 
It is a notorious fac^t, that, but a few years fince, many of 
the unfortunate black people, who had been brought from 
the colonies into this country, were fold in the metropolis 
to merchants and others, when their mafters had no farther 
occafion for their fervices ; though it v/as always under- 
flood that every perfon was free, as foon as he landed on 
the Britifh fliore. In confequence of this notion, thefe 
unfortunate black people, refufed to go to the new maflers, 
to whom they were configned. They were however feiz- 
ed, and forcibly conveyed, under cover of the night, to 
fhips then lying in the Thames^ to be re-tranfported to the 
colonies, and to be delivered again to the planters as mer- 
chantable goods. The humane Mr. Sharpe^ v/as the 
means of putting a flop to this iniquitous trafSck. When^ 
ever he gained information of people in fuch a fituation, he 
caufed them to be brought on fhore. At a confiderable 
expence he undertook their caufe, and was inftrumental in 
pbtaining the famous decree in the cafe of Soinerfeti^ that 
as foon as any perfon whatever fet his foot in this country, 
he came under the protection of the Britijh laws, and v/as 
confequently free. Nor did he interfere lefs honourably 
in that cruel and difgraceful cafe, in the fumm^er of the 
year 1781, when an hundred and thirty -two Africans, in 
their paffage to the colonies, were thrown into the fea 
alive, to defraud the underwriters ; but his pious endea- 
vours were by no means attended v/ith the fame fuccefs. 
To enumerate his many laudable endeavours in the extir- 
pation of tyranny and opprefTion, would be to fwel] the 
preface into a volume : fuffice it to fay, that he hai; written 
feveral book? on the fubjeCf, and one particularly, which 
he diftir.guifhes by the title of ^' A Limiiation of Sla^ 
i^ very,'^ 

The 



XIV 



P R E F A C E. 



The fecond Is the Rev. James Ratnfay. This gentle^ 
man refided for many years in the TV cji- Indies^ in the cle- 
rical office. He peruled all the colonial codes of law, 
with a view to find if there were any favourable claufes, by 
which the grievances of Haves could be redreflcd ; but he 
was feverely difappointed in his purfuits. He publifhed a 
treatife, fince his return to England, called An Effay on the 
Treatment and Converfion of African Slaves in the BrhiJJ) 
Sugar Colonies^ which I recommend to the perufal of the 
humane reader. This work refledls great praife upon the 
author, fince, in order to be of fervice to this fingularly 
opprefled part of the human fpecies, he compiled it at the 
expence of forfeiting that friendfhip, which he had con- 
tracted with many in thofe parts, during a feries of years, 
and at the hazard, as I am credibly informed, of fuffering 
much in his private property, as v^-ell as of fubjefting him- 
felf to the ill-will and perfecution of numerous individuals. 

This Eflay on the Treatment and Converfion of African 
Slaves^ contains fo many important truths on the colonial 
jQavery, and has come fo home to the planters, (being writ- 
ten by a perfon who has a thorough knowledge of the fub- 
ie6l) as to haveoccafioned a confiderable alarm. With- 
in the laft eight months, two publications have exprefsly 
appeared againft it. One of them is intitled " Curfcry 
f Remarks on Mr. Ramfafs Ef ay \' the other an "J/>(7-. 
" l^g)' fi^' Negroe Slavery,'' On each of thefe I am 
bound, as writing on the fubjecS, to make a few remarks. 

The Citrfory Re?narker infinuates, that Mr. Ramfay's ac- 
count of the treatment is greatly exaggerated, if not wholly 
falfe. To this I fhall make the following reply. I have 
the honour of knowing feveral difinterefted gentlemen, 
who have been acquainted with the Weft Indian iflands 
for years. I call them difinterefted, becaufe they have, 
neither had a concern in the African trade, nor in the 
colonial fiavery : and I have heard thefe unanimoully aftert, 
that Mr. Ramfaf% account is fo far from being exaggerat- 
ed, or taken from the moft dreary pictures that he could 
find, that it is abfolutely below the truth ; that he muft 
have omitted many inftances of cruelty^ which he had k^xv 
himfelf ; and that they only wondered, how he could have 
written with fo much moderation upon the fubjeil. They 

allow 



PREFACE, 



XV 



pillow the Ciirfory Remarks to be excellent as a compofi- 
tion, but declare that it is perfedly devoid of truth. 

But the Curfory Remarker does not depend To much ori 
the circumftances which he has advanced^ (nor can he, 
fince they have no other exiftence than in his own brain) 
as on the inftrument detradiion. This he has ufed with 
the utmoft virulence through the whole of his publica- 
tion, artfully fuppofing, that if be could bring Mr. Rant" 
fay\ reputation into difpute, his work would fall of courfe, 
as of no authenticity. I fiibmit this fimple quedion to 
the reader. When a writer, in attempting to filence a 
publication, attacks the character of its author, rather than 
the principles of the work itfelf, is it not a proof that the 
work itfelf is unqueftionable, and that this writer is at a 
lofs to find an argument againft it I 

But there is fomething fo very ungenerous in this mode 
of replication, as to require farther notice. For if this is 
the mode to be adopted in literary difputes, what writer 
can be fafe ? Or who is there, that will not be deterred 
from taking up his pen in the caufe of virtue ? There are 
circumftances in every perfon's life, which, if given to 
the publick in a malevolent manner, and without explana- 
tion, might efFentially injure him in the eyes of the world ; ■ 
though, were they explained, they would be even reput- 
able. The Curfory Remarker has adopted this method of 
difpute; but Mr. Ramfay\\z$ explained himfelf to the fa- 
tisfaclion of all parties, and has refuted him in every point. 
The name of this Curfory Remarker is Tobin : a name, 
■which I feel myfelf obliged to hand down with deteila^ 
tion, as far as I am able ; and with an hint to future wri- 
ters, that they will do themfelves more credit, and ferve 
more effedually the caufe which they undertake, if on fuch 
pccafions they attack the work, rather than the character 
of the writer, who affords them a fubje6l for their lucu- 
brations. 

Nor is this the only circumftance, which induces me to 
take fuch particular notice of the Curfory Remarks. I 
feel it incumbent upon me to refcue an injured perfon from 
the cruel afperfions that have been thrown upon him, as I 
have been repeatedly informed by thofe, who have the 

pleafurc 



^vi PREFACE. 

pleafurc of his acquaintance, that his chara<5ler is irre-. 
proachable. I am alfo interefted myfelf. For iffuch detrac-r- 
tion is paffed over in filence, my own reputation, and not 
fny work, may be attacked by an anonymous hireling m 
the cnufe of flavery. 

The Af^ologj for Negroe Slavery is almoft too dcfpicablcj 
a compofition to merk a reply. I have only therefore to 
obfcrve, (as is frequently the cafe in a bad caufe, oi where 
writers do not coi'ifine themfelves to truth) that the work 
refutes itfelf. This writer, fpeaking of the flave-trade, 
ailerts, that people are never kidnapped on the coaft of 
Jlfrica. In fpeaking of the treatment of flaves, he aflerts 
again, that it is of the very mildeft nature, and that they 
live in the moft comfortable and happy manner imaginable. 
To prove each of his aflertions, he nropofes the following 
regulations. That the flcaling of flaves from Africa fhould 
be felony. That \h^ premeditated murder of a flave by any 
perfon on board, ihould come under the fame denomina- 
tion. That when fiaves arrive in the colonies, lands 
iliould be allotted for their provifions, hi proportion to their 
number^ or commillioners fliould fee that 2ifujficient quan- 
tity o\' foimdzvholefojne provifions is purchafed. That they- 
lliould not v^rcrk on Sundays and other holy-days. That 
extra labour, or inght-work^ out of crop^ fliould be prohi- 
bited. That a limited number of ftripes fhould be inflidt- 
ed upon them. That they fhould have annually a fuit of 
clothes. That old infirm fiaves fhould be properly cared 

for. -Nov/ it can hardly be conceived, that if this 

author had tried to injure his caufe, or contradicSl himfelf, 
he could not have done it in a more efFedual manner, than 
by the propofal oi thefe falutary regulations. For to fay 
that fiaves are honourably obtained on the coaft ; to fay 
that their treatment is of the mildeft nature, and yet to pro- 
pofe the above-mentioned regulations as neceflary, is to 
refute himfelf more clearly, than I confefs myfelf to be 
able to do : and I have only to requeft, that the regula- 
tions propofed by this writer, in the defence of flavery, 
may be confidered as fo many proofs of the afTertions con-^ 
tained in my own work. 

I Tnall cl£)ie my account with an obfervation, which ts 
<?f gr-eat importance in the prefent cafe. Of all the pub- 

licatioP4 



PREFACE, 



XVll 



iications In favour of the flave- trade, or the fubfequent fla- 
very in the colonies, there is not one, which has not been 
written, either by a chaplain to the African faftories, or by 
a merchant, or by a planter, or by a perfon whofe intereft 
has been connecSled in the caufe which he has taken upon 
him to defend. Of this defeription are Mr. Tobin^ and the 
A-pologiJi for Negroe slavery. While on the other hand 
thofe, who have had as competent a knowledge of the fub- 
je6l, but not th^fame inter eft as themfelves, have unani- 
moufly condemned it ; and many of them have written 
their fentiments upon it, at the hazard of creating an in- 
numerable hoft of enemies, and of being fubje6led to the 
moft malignant oppofition. Now, which of thefe are we 
to believe on the occafion ? Are we to believe thofe, who 
are parties concerned, who are interefted in the pradtice ? — - 
But the queftion does not admit of a difpute. 

* With refpe6t to my own work, it will perhaps 
be afKed, from what authority I have colle6ted thofe 
fadts, which relate to the colonial llavery. I reply, 
that I have had the means of the very beft of inforrria- 
tion on the fubjeft ; having the pleafure of being ac- 
quainted with many, both in the naval and military de- 
partments, as well as with feveral others, who have been 
long acquainted with America and the Weft-Indtan iilands. 
The fa(5i:s therefore which I have related, are compiled 
from the difmterelted accounts of thefe gentlemen, all of 
whom, I have the happinefs to fay, have coincided, in the 
minuteft manner, in their defcriptions. It muft be remark- 
ed too, that they were compiled, not from what thefe gen- 
tlemen heard, while they were refident in thofe parts, but 
from what they a£luallyy^w. Nor has a fmgle inftance 
been taken from, any book whatever upon the lubjecSl, ex- 
cept that which is mentioned in the 156th page ; and this 
book was publifned in France ^ in the year 17773 by autho^ 
rity, 

i have now the pleafure to fay, that the accounts of thefe 
difmterefted gentlemen, whom I confulted on the occafion, 

* The Inftance of the Dutch colonifts at the Cape, in the firft part of 
the Eflay j tlie dclcription of an African battle, in the fecond 5 and the 
poetry of an African girl in the third, were net in the original Latin 
DilTertation, but have been added fince. 

b are 



xviii PREFACE, 

are confirmed by all the books which I have ever perufed 
upon ilavery, except thofe which have been written by ?ner' 
chants^ plmiters^^ &c. They are confirmed by Sir Hans 
Sloa7ie's Voyage to Barbadoes -, Griffith Hughes's Hiftory 
of the fame ifland, printed 1750 ; an Account of North 
America, by nomas Jefferies^ 1761 ; all Benezefs works, 
&c. &c. and particularly by Mr. Rainfafs Eflay on the 
Treatment and Converfion of the African Slaves in the 
Britifli Sugar Colonies, a work which is now firmly 
eftablifhed ; and, I may add, in a very extraordinary man- 
ner, in confequence of the controversy which this gentle- 
man has fuftained with the Curfary Rcmarker^ by which fe- 
veral hdis which were mentioned in the original copy of 
my own work, before the controverfy began, and which 
had never appeared in any work upon the fubje6l, have 
been brought to light. Nor has it received lefs fupport 
from a letter lately publiftied, from Captain J. S. Smith, 
of the Royal Navy, to the Rev. Mr. Hill ; on the former 
of whom too high encomiums cannot be bellowed, for 
ftanding forth in that noble and difmterefted manner, inbe» 
half of an injured charader. 

I have now only to folicit the reader that he will make 
a favourable allowance for the prefent work, not only 
from thofe circumftances which I have mentioned, but 
from the confideration, that only two months are allowed 
by the Univerfity for thefe their annual compofitions. 
Should he however be unpropitious to my requeft, I muft 
confole myfelf with the refle(5tion, (a refledion that will 
always aftbrd me pleafure, even amidfl: the cenfures of the 
great,) that by undertaking the caufe of the unfortunate 
Africans^ I have undertaken, as fax as my abilities would 
permit, the caufe of injured innocence. 

London, June 11% 178.6. 



QO'^. 



CONTENTS. 



PART I 



The Hiflory of Slavery. 

CHAP. 1. Introduaion.— Divifion of flavery into 
voluntary and involuntary. — The latter the fubje61: of the 
prefent work.— Chap. 11. The firft clafs of involuntary 
flaves among the ancients, from v^^ar. — Conjefture con- 
cerning their antiquity. — Chap. III. The fecond clafs 
from piracy. — Short hiftory of piracy.-— The dance car- 
paea. — Confiderations from hence on the former topick.— » 
Three orders of involuntary flaves among the ancients.— 
Chap. IV. Their perfonal treatment. — Exception in 
JEgypt. — Exception at Athens. — Exception in the cities 
of the Jews. — Chap. V. The caufes of fuch treatment 
among the ancients in general. — Additional caufes among 
the Greeks and Romans. — A refutation of their princi- 
ples. — Remarks on the writings of ^fop. — Chap. VL 
The ancient (lave trade, — ^Its antiquity. — ^gypt the firft 
Jiiarket recorded for this fpecies of traffick. — Cyprus the 
fecond. — The agreement of the writings of Mofes and 
Homer on the fubjed". — The univerfal prevalence of the 
trade. — Chap. VII. The decline of this commerce and 
flavery in Europe. — The caufes of their decline. — Chap. 
VIII. Their revival in Africa.— Short hiftory of their 
revival. — Chap. IX. Short account of the trade, as it 
fubfifts at the prefent day. — Four clalTes of African trad- 
ers. — Divifion of the articles of barter into three kinds.— 
The mode of colleding flaves up the river Senegal.-— Up 

b 2 the 



XX CONTENTS. 

the river Sierra Leon. — On the Windward Coaft.— rGoId 
coaft. — -At Bonny and Calabar. — The different media of 
exchange, as they prevail on different parts of the coalt.— • 
Chap. X. Number of flaves annually taken from Africa 
by the Europeans.— Mode of procuring flaves. — Slaves 
divided into feven clafTes. — The firfl confifls of kidnapped 
people. — Firft, as kidnapped by the Europeans. — -Dread- 
ful inftance at 0}d Calabar. — -Secondly, as kidnapped by 
their own countrymen.— Some pofitive inflances of this.— - 
The fecond confifts of thofe, whofe villages have been de- 
populated hy their own princes to obtain them. — Inflance 
of the king of Dahomy. — The third of convi6ts. — -Perfi- 
dious inftance on the Gold Coafl. — -The fourth of prifo- 
ners of war.— Cruel inflance of the king of Darnel. — The 
fifth of flaves by birth. — Their very wretched fituation.— » 
The fixth, of fuch as have facrificed their liberty to gam- 
ing. — The feventh, of fuch as are fold by their creditors 
for debt.— Two inflances of this. — -Cruel behaviour of 
the Dutch colonics at the Cape.— Conciufion. 



PART II. 

The African Commerce^ or Slave Trade. 

CHAP. I. The hiflory of mankind from their firfl 
fituation to a ilate of government.— Chap. II. An ac- 
count of the firfl government.— Chap. III. Liberty a na- 
tural right.— That of government adventitious. — -Govern- 
ment, its nature.— Its end, — Chap. IV. Mankind can- 
not be confidered as property. — -An obje6lion anfwered.— 
Chap. V. Divifion of the commerce into two parts, as it 
relates to thofe who fell, and thofe who purchafe the human 
fpecies into flavery. — The right of the fellers examined, 
with refpecl to the two orders of African flaves ; " of thofe 
" who are publickly feized by virtue of the authority of 
'/ their prince, and of thofe who are kidnapped by indi- 

* " viduals." 



CONTENTS. xxi 

«< viduaIs."--Chap. VI. Their right with refpe^t to 
convifls, — from the proportion of the punlfliment to the 
cffence5---from its objeA and end. — Chap. VII. Their 
right with refpe6t to prifoners of war. — -The jus captivita- 
tis, or right of capture explained. — Its injuftice.— Farther 
expHcation of the right of capture, in anfwer to fome fup- 
poied objections.— ^Chap. VIII. Their right with refpe6l to 
thofe who are flaves by birth.— rrThe jus nativitatis explain^ 
ed.— Its abfurdity.r— Chap. IX. The number of flaves 
which the two firft orders annually contain. — A defcription 
of an African battle. — Additional remarks on prifoners of 
war.-— On convi6ts. — Mode of trial, as it is pradifed with 
but little variation from Sierra Leon river, to the fartheft 
extremity of the Gold Coaft. — Chap. X. The right of 
the purchafers examined.-r-Conclufion. 



PART III. 

The Slavery of the Africans in the European 
Colonies, 



CHAP. I. Imaginary fcene In Africa. — Imagi- 
nary converfation with an African. — His ideas of Chrif^ 
tianity. — Defcription of a body of flaves going to the 
ihips. — Their embarkation. — Chap II. Their apartments 
in the fhip. — EfFe61:s of their fituation while lying upon 
the coaft. — Firft efFe61: confpicuous in fuicide. — Inftance 
of their great diflike to their fituation. — Second effect in 
madnefs. — Two Inftances of it. — Third in an attempt to 
deftroy their opprefibrs. — Inftance of this attempt. — 
Chap. III. The dimenfions of two flave veflels. — Melan- 
choly fituation of the flaves during the middle paflage. — In- 
ftance of barbarity praftifed upon one of them. — Inftance 
of an infurreftion.— Cruel fate of a cargo of flaves in 
confequence of a ftorm. — Horrid inftance of 132 being 
thrown into the fea for the purpofe of cheating the under- 
writers.— 



KKti 



CONTENTS. 



writers.— Chap. IV. Their debarkation in the colonies. — 
Different modes of fale. — Cruel inftance on fhore. — Un- 
faleable flaves thrown alive into the Tea. — Two inftanceS 
of it. — The number that perifh annually on the voyage. — ■ 
Chap. V. The feafoning in the colonies. — The number 
that annually die in the feafoning. — The employment of 
the furvivors. — The colonial difcipline. — Its tendency to 
produce cruelty. — Horrid inftance of this effed. — Immo- 
derate labour and its confequences.— Want of food and 
its confequences. — Severity and its confequences. — The 
forlorn fituation of flaves.— An appeal to the memory of 
Alfi'ed.*— Chap. VI. The contents of the two preceding 
chapters denied by the purchafers. — -Their firft argument 
refuted. — Their fecond refuted. — Their third refuted. — 
Chap. VII. Three arguments which they bring in vindi^ 
cation of their treatment, refuted. — Chap. VIII. The 
argument, that the Africans are an inferiour link of the 
chain of nature, as far as it relates to their genius, refut- 
ecl. — The caufes of this apparent inferiority.— Short dif- 
fertation on African genius.' — Poetry of an African Girl. — » 
The mechanical arts that are pra6tifed by the Africans on 
the coaft. — Their quicknefs at arithmetical computation.— 
Their knowledge of different languages. — Their ability 
to read and write them. — Chap. IX. The argument, 
that they are an inferiour link of the chain of nature, as 
far as it relates to colour, refuted. — Examination of the 
divine writings in this particular.— Wonderful comple- 
tion of a prophecy. — Differtation on the caufe of colour.— 
Chap. X. Other arguments of the purchafers examin- 
ed — Their comparifons unjuft. — Their affertions with 
refpectto the happy fituation of flaves in the colonies, with- 
out foundation. — Their happinefs examined with refpeft to 
manumiifion. — With refpeft to holy-days. — Dances.— 
An eftimate made at St. Domingo. — Chap. XI. The 
right of the purchafers over their flaves, refuted upon their 
own principles. — Chap. XII. Dreadful arguments againfl 
this commerce and flavery of the human fpecies. — How 
the Deity feems already to punifh us for this inhuman 
violation of his laws. — Conclufion, 



AN 



A N 

ESSAY 

O N T H E 

SLAVERY AND COMMERCE 

OF THE 

HUMAN SPECIES 

In three PARTS„ 



P A R T L 
The history of SLAVERY, 

CHAP. I. 

WHEN civilized, as well as barbarous nations, have 
been found through a long fuccefHon of ages uni- 
formly to concur in the fame cuRoms, there feems to arife 
a prefumption that fuch cuftoms are not only eminently 
ufeful, but are founded alfo on the principles of juftice. 
Such is the cafe v^^ith rerpe6l to Slavery : it has had the 
concurrence of all the nations, which hiftory has recorded, 
and the repeated pradice of ages from the remoteft anti- 
quity, in its favour. Here then is an argument, deduced 
from the general confent and agreement of mankind, in 
favour of the propofed fubjedt : but alas ! when we reflect 

A that 



2 On the Slavery and Commerce 

that the people, thus reduced to a ftate of fervltude, have 
had the fame feelings with ourfelves -, when we refleft that 
they have had the fame propenfities to pleafure, and the 
fame averfions from pain, another argument feems imme- 
diately to arife in oppofition to the former, deduced from 
our own feelings and that divine fympathy, which nature 
has implanted in our breafts, for the moft ufeful and ge- 
nerous of purpofes. To afcertain the truth therefore, 
where two fuch oppofite fources of argum.ent occur, where 
the force of cuftom pleads ftrongly on the one hand, and 
the feelings of humanity on the other, is a matter of much 
difficulty ; nor is it a matter of lefs importance, as the 
dignity of human nature is concerned, and the rights and 
liberties of mankind will be involved in its difcuffion. 

It will be iieceiTary, before this point can be determJned, 
to confult the Hiftory of Slavery, and to lay before the 
reader, in as concife a manner as poiTible, a general view 
of it frcmi its earlieft appearance to the prefent day. 

The firft, whom I fhall mention here to have been re- 
duced to a ftate of fervitude, m.ay be comprehended in 
that clafs, which is ufually denominated the Mercenary, 
It confifred of fi'ee-born citizens, who, from the various 
contingencies of fortune, had become fo poor, as to have 
recourfe for their fupport to the fervice of the rich. Of 
this kind were thofe, both among the Egyptians and 
the Jews, who are recorded in the * facred writings. 
-^ The Grecian Thetes alfo were of this defcription, as 
as well as thofe among the Romans, from whom the clafs 
receives its appellation, the :|: Mercenarii, 

* Gencfis, Ch. 47. Leviticus xxv. v. 39, 40. 

*[■ The T^e/fi appear very early in the Grecian Hlflory. 

yj T/f5? tiCtos 

K&fci ItovT iSci-Ay.s i^cLi^CiOi ; i) £o; tf J-ra 

^y\-vi5 ^3 A/V.a^;f TS j Od. Horn. A- 642. They were afterwards fo 
much in ufe, that " M-j^'m S'nr^ u'TiSiJ'oYlo iavlac, Mrs J^aAs^eif v-olx 
ffvyf^ctpW)^^ til! Solon fupprefled the cuftom in Athens. 

J "i he mention of thefe is frequent among the claffics; they v^rere 
called in general tuercejiaril^ from the circumftances of their hire-, as 
** quibus, non male praecipiunt, qui ita jubent uti, ut jrierceTiarils.) ope- 
*' ram exigendam, jufta pr^ebenda. Cicero de Off." But they are fome- 
times mentioned in the Uw books by the name of liberty from the circum- 
ftances of t\\t\r birth, to diftinguifh them from the alicmy or foreigners, as 
Juftinian. D. 7. 8, 4.— Id. 21. i. 25. &c. &c, &c. 

I may 



OF tHE Human Species. 3 

1 may obferve of the above-mentioned, that their fitiia- 
tion was in many inftances fimilar to that of our own fer- 
vants. There was an exprefs contract between the parties : 
they could, moft of them, demand their difcharge, if they 
were ill ufed by their refpective mafters ; and they were 
treated therefore with more humanity than thofe, whom 
we ufually diftinguifh in our language by the appellation of 
Slaves, 

As this clafs of fervants v/as compofed of meil, who 
had been reduced to fuch a iituation by the contingencies of 
fortune, and not by their own mifcondu£l; fo there was 
another among the ancients, compofed entirely of thofe, 
who had fufFered the lofs of liberty from their own im- 
prudence* To this clafs may be reduced the Grecian Pro^ 
d'lgals^ v/ho were detained in the fervice of their creditors, 
till the fruits of their labour were equivalent to their debts ^ 
the dd'vnquents^ who were fentenced to the oar ; and the 
German enthufiajU^ as mentioned by Tacitus, who were 
fo immoderately charmed with gaming, as, when every 
thing elfe was gone, to have ftaked their liberty and theii' 
very felves» " The lofer,'* fays he, " goes into a volun- 
^' tary fervitude^ and though younger and llronger than 
" the perfon with whom he played, patiently fuffers him- 
" felf to be bound and foldi Their perfeverance in fo bad 
" a cuftom is ililed honour. The flaves, thus obtained, 
*' are immediately exchanged away in commerce, that the 
*' winner may get rid of the fcandal of his vidtory/' 

To enumerate other inftances, would be unnecefTary : 
it will be fufficient to obferve, that the fervants of this 
clafs were in a fi^r more wretched fituaticn than thofe of 
the former; their drudgery v/as more intenfe; their treat- 
ment more fevere ; and there was no retreat at pleafure 
from the frov/ns and lafhes of their defpotick mafters. 

Having premifed this, 1 may now proceed to a general 
divifion of flavery, into voluntary and involuntary. The 
voimitary v/ill comprehend the two clafTes, wliich I have 
already mentioned; for, in the firft inilance, there was a 
eontra<5^^ founded on rc^z/^;?/; and, in the fecond, there was 
a choice, of engaging or not in thofe practices, the known 
confequences of which vv^ere fervitude. The involuntary^ 
f-i *-he other hand, will comprehend thofe, who were forced, 
A 2. without 



4 On the Slavery and Commerce- 

without any fuch condition or choice^ intoafituation, which^. 
as it tended to degrade a part of the human fpecies, and to 
clafs it with the brutal, muft have been, of all human fitu- 
ations, the moft wretched and infupportable. Thefe are 
they, whom I ifhall conlider folely in the prefent work. I 
fhall therefore take my leave of the former, as they were 
mentioned only, that I might ftate the * queftion with 
greater accuracy, and be the better enabled to reduce It tor 
its proper limits. 



CHAP. IL 

The firfl whom I fhall mention, of the involuntary^ 
were prifoners of wai\\ " It was a law, eftablifhed from 
*' time immemorial among the nations of antiquity, to 
'' oblige thofe to undergo the feverities of fervitude, whom 
*' vi61:ory had thrown into their hands." Conformably 
with this, we find all the Eaflern nations unanimous in 
the pra6lice. The fame cuflom prevailed among the peo- 
ple of the Wefl ; for as the Helots became the flaves of 
the Spartans, from the right of conquefl only, fo prifoners 
of war were reduced to the fame fituation by the refl of the 
inhabitants of Greece. By the fame principles, that actu- 
ated thefe, were the Romans alfo influenced. Their Hif- 
tory will confirm the fa61: : for how m.any cities are re- 
corded to have been taken ; how many armies to have 
been vanquifhed in the field, and the wretched furvivors, 
in both inflances, to have been doomed to fervitude ? It 
remains only now to obferve, in fhewing this cuftom to 
have been univerfal, that all thofe nations which affifled 
in overturning the Roman Empire, though many and 
various, adopted the fame meafures ; for we find it a ge- 
neral maxim in their polity, that whoever fhould fall into 
their hands as a prifoner of war, fliould immediately be 
reduced to the condition of a Have. 

* The words, given for the fubje£l of this Differtation, were ** Anne 
** Iriceat imjitos in fervitutem dare ?" 

+ '* Noj«®- h 'o-u.fiv ^AiQ^oBTTois d'iS'if^ i<riV) orav <j!rcX5/-/ai'7&)j' croX:^ 

Xenoph, Ki'PS riatJ". L. 7. fin. 

It 



OF THE Human Species. 5 

It may here, perhaps, be not unworthy of remark, that 
the involuntary were of greater antiquity than the volun- 
tary ilaves. The latter are firft mentioned in the time of 
Pharaoh : they could have arifen only in a ftate of fociety; 
v/hen property, after its divifion, had become fo unequal, 
as to multiply the wants of individuals ; and when govern- 
ment, after its eftablifhment, had given fecurity to the 
poilelTor by the punifhment of crimes. Whereas the for- 
mer feem to be dated with more propriety from the days 
of Ninirod ; who gave rife probably to that infeparable 
idea of viSlory and fervitude^ which we find among the 
nations of antiquity, and which has exifted uniformly 
iince, in one country or another, to the prefent day.* 

Add to this, that they might have arifen even in a flate 
of nature, and have been coeval with the quarrels of man- 
liind. 



CHAP. III. 

But It was not victory alone, or any pre-fuppofed right, 
founded in the damages of war, that afforded a pretence 
for invading the liberties of mankind : the honourable 
light, in which piracy was confidered in the uncivilized 
ages of the world, contributed not a little to the JIavery of 
the human fpecies. Piracy had a very early beginning. 
•^^ The Grecians," f fays Thucydides, " in their primi- 
*' tive {late, as well as the contemporary Barbarians, who 
" inhabited the fea coafts and iflands, gave themfelves 
^< wholly to it ; it was, in fhort, their only profeffion and 
*' fupport." The writings of Homer are fufficient of 
themfelves to eftablifh this account. They fhew it to 
have been a common practice at fo early a period as that 
of the Trojan war ; and abound with many lively defcrip- 
tions of it, which, had they been as groundlefs as they are 
beautiful, would have frequently fpared the figh of the 
reader of fenfibility and refledlion. 

* " Proud Nlmrod firft the bloody chace began, 
« A mighty hunter, and his prey was man." 

f Thucydidesj L. l. fub initio. 

A % The 



6 Ont the Slavery and Commerce 

The piracies, which were thus pra6tifed in the early 
ages, may be confidered as pnhlick or private. In the 
forrneij whole crews embarked for the * benefit of their 
refpeilive tribes. They made defcent? on the fea coafts, 
carried cfF cattle, furprized whole villages, put many of 
the inhabitants to the fword, and carried others into 
flavery. 

In the latter individuals only were concerned, and the 
emolument was their own. Thefe landed from their fhips, 
and, going up into the country, concealed themfelves in 
the woods and thickets ; where they waited every oppor- 
tunity of catching the unfortunate fhepherd or hufband- 
man alone. In this fituation they faliied out upon him, 
dragged him on board, conveyed him to a foreign market, 
and fold him for a flave. 

To this kind of piracy UlyfTes alludes, in oppofition to 
the former, which he had been jufl before mentioning, in 
his queftion to Eumoeus. 

-J- *' Did pirates wait, till all thy friends were gone, 
'• To catch thee ftanding by thy flocks alone ; 
<« Say, did they force thee from thy fleecy care, 
*y And from thy fields tranfport and fell thee here ?" 

But no pic^ture, perhaps, of this mode of depredation, 
is equal to that, with which [j* Xenophon prefents us in the 
fimple narrative of a dance. He informs us that the Gre- 
cian army had concluded a peace with the Paphlagonians, 
and that they entertained their ambafTadors in confequence 
with a banquet, and the exhibition of various feats of a6ti- 
vity. " When the Thracians," fays he, " had perform- 
^^ ed the parts allotted them in this entertainment, fome 
*' ^nianian and Magnetian foidiers rofe up, and, ac- 
" coutred in their proper arms, exhibited that dance, 
" which is called Karpa^a, The figure of it is thus — > 
*^ One of them, in the character of an hufbandman, is 
^^ feen to till his land, and is obferved, as he drives his 

* Idem. — ** the ftrongefl," fays he, ** engaging in thefe 

'* adventures, sii^J'tie rS af>iii§H citJTm'mv^ctKj^ot's uoiivrnTpofyiS'^^ 
•f Homer Odyfl" L. 15. 385^. 
J Xenoph. Ku^h A\aC. h, 6. fub initio. 

« plough^ 



OF THE Human Species, 7 

^^ plough, to look frequently behind him, as If apprehen- 
*' five of danger. Another immediately appears in fight, 
** in the chara6i:er of a robber. The hufbandman, hav- 
'^ ing feen him previouHy advancing, fnatches up his 
*^ arms. A battle enfues before the plough. The whole 
'' of this performance is kept in perfeS: time with the 
" mufick of the flute. At length the robber, having got 
*^ the better of the hufbandman, binds him, and drives 
*' him off with his team. Sometimes it happens that the 
*' hufbandman fubdues the robber : in this cafe the fcene 
*' is only reverfed, as the latter is then bound and driven 
" ofFby the form.er." 

It is fcarcely neceflary to obferve, that this dance was 
a reprefentation of the general manners of men, in the 
more uncivilized ages of the world ; (hewing that the 
hufbandman and fhepherd lived in continual alarm, and 
that there were people In thofe ages, who derived their 
pleafures and fortunes from kldnafpmg and enJJaving their 
fellow- creatures. 

I may now take notice of a circumflance In this narra- 
tion, which will lead us to a review of our firft affertion 
on this point, " that the honoui-able light, in which piracy 
^' was confidered in the times of barbarifm, contributed 
" not a little to the JIavery of the human fpecles." The 
robber is reprefented here as frequently defeated In his at- 
tempts, and as reduced to that deplorable fituatlon, to 
which he was endeavouring to bring another. This fhews 
the frequent difficulty and danger of his undertakings : 
people would not tam.ely refign their lives or liberties, 
without a flruggle. They were fometlmes prepared ; v/ere 
fuperlor often, in many points of view, to thefe Invaders 
of their liberty ; there were an hundred accidental clr- 
cumftances frequently in their favour. Thefe adventures 
therefore required all the TkIII, flrength, agility, valour, 
and every thing, in fnort, that may be fuppofed to con- 
ftitute herolfm, to condu£l: them with fuccefs. Upon this 
idea piratical expeditions firft came into repute, and their 
frequency afterwards, together with the danger and forti- 
tude, that were infeparably conne6led with them, brought 
them into fuch credit among the barbarous nations of an- 
A 4 tiquity. 



8 On the Slavery and Commerce 

tiqtilty, that of all human profeflions, piracy was the moft 
honourable,'^ 

The notions then, which were thus annexed to piratical 
expeditions, did not fail to produce thofe confequences, 
which I have mentioned before. They afforded an op-^ 
portunity to the views of avarice and ambition to conceal 
themfelves under the mafic of virtue. They excited a fpi- 
rit of enterprize, of all others the moft irreHftible, as it 
fubfifted on the ftrongeft principles of adion, emolument 
and honour. Thus could the vileft of palTions he grati- 
fied with impunity. People were robbed, ftolen, mur- 
dered, under the pretended idea that thefe were reputable 
adventures : every enormity in fhort was committed, and 
drefled up In the habilim.ents of honour. 

But as the notions of men in the lefs barbarous ages, 
which follov/ed, became more correfted and refined, the 
pradice of piracy began gradually to difappear. It had 
hitherto been fupported on the grand columns of emolument 
and honour. When the latter therefore was removed, it 
received a confiderable fhock 5 but, alas ! it had ftlU a 
pillar for Its fupport ! avarice^ which exifts in all ftates, 
and which is ready to turn every invention to its own ends, 
ftrained hard for its prefervation. It had been produced 
in the ages of barbarifm ; it had been pointed out in thofe 
ages as lucrative, and under this notion it was continued. 
People were ftill ftolen ; many were intercepted (fome, 
in their purfuits of pleafure, others, in the dlfcharge of 
their feveral occupations) by their own countrymen ; who 
previoufly laid in wait for them, and fold them afterwards 
for flaves ; while others feized by merchants, who traded 
on the different coafts, were torn from their friends and 
connections, and carried into flavery. The merchants of 
ThefTaly, if we can credit f Ariftophanes, who never 
fpared the vices of the times, were particularly infamous 
for the latter kind of depredation ; the Athenians were 
notorious for the former; for they had praclifed thefe rob- 

Xojr. Thucydides. L. i. lub initio. 

t i^ so-K'kiis T»TO ot KixiKss mpti^oV' Sextus EmpiricusJ 

«>c a'eTol'ov fitW' ev/ol'ov th-to. Schol. &c. &Cj 

•f Ariftoph. Fiut. A^ 2. Scene 5. 

beri&s. 



OF THE FIUMAN SpECIES. ^ 

berles to fuch an alarming degree of danger to individuals, 
that it was found neceffary to ena6l a * law, which pu- 
niflied kidnappers with death.— r-But this is fufficient for 
my prefent purpofe ; it will enable me to affert, that there 
were two clafles of involuntary (laves among the ancients, 
" of thofe who were taken publickly in a ftate of v/ar, 
^' and of thofe who were privately ftolen in a ftate of in- 
" nocence and peace." I may now add, that the chil- 
dren and defcendents of thefe compofed a third, 



CHAP. IV, 

It will be proper to fay fcmething here concerning the 
fituation of the unfortunate men, who were thus doomed 
to a life of fervitude. To enumerate their various em- 
ployments, and to defcribe the miferies which they en- 
dured in confequence, either from the feverity, or the long 
and conftant application of their labour, would exceed the 
bounds I have propofed to the prefent work. I lliall con- 
fine myfeif to their perfonal treatmenf^ as depending on the 
power of their mafters, and the protedion of the law. 
Their treatment, if confidered in this light, will equally 
excite our pity and abhorrence. They were beaten, 
ftarved, tortured, murdered at difcretion : they were dead 
in a civil fenfe ; they had neither name nor tribe ; were 
incapable of judicial procefs ; were in ihort v/ithout ap- 
peal. Poor unfortunate men ! to be deprived of all pof- 
fible protection ! to fufFer the bittereft of injuries without 
the poflibility of redrefs ! to be condemned unheard ! to 
be murdered with impunity ! to be confidered as dead in 
that flate, the very members of which they were fupporting 
by their labours ! 

Yet fuch was their general fituation : there were two 
places however, where their condition, if confidered In 
this point of view, was more tolerable. The ^^^gyptian 
flave, though perhaps of all others the greateft drudge, yet 
if he had time to reach the f temple of Hercules, found a 



* Xcnoph. At^vx»;<jMov, L. i, 
•j- Herodotus. L. 2, 113. 

certain 



10 On the Slavery and Commerce 

certain retreat from the perfecution of his mafter ; and he 
received additional comfort from the reflecSlion, that his 
life, whether he could reach it or not, could not be taken 
with impunity. Wife and falutary * law ! how often 
muft it have curbed the infolence of power, and ftopped 
thofe pafTions in their progrefs, which had otherwife been 
deftruclive to the flave ! 

But though the perfons of flaves were thus greatly fe- 
cured in JEgypty yet there was no place fo favourable to 
them as Athens. They were allowed a greater liberty of 
fpeech ; f they had their convivial meetings, their amours, 
their hours of relaxation, pleafantry, and mirth ; they 
were treated, in fhort, v/ith fo much humanity in general, 
as to occauon that obfervation of Demofthenes, in his 
fecond Philippick, " that the condition of a flave, at 
*' Athens, was preferable to that of a free citizen, in 
'' many other countries." But if any exception happen- 
ed (which v/as fometimes the cafe) from the general 
treatment defcribed ; if perfecution took the place of le- 
nity, and made the fangs of fervitude more pointed than 
before, % they had then their temple, like the ^Egyptian, 
for refuge ; where the legillature was fo attentive, as to 
examine their complaints, and to order them, if they were 
founded in juftice, to be fold to another mafter. Nor 
was this all : they had a privilege infinitely greater than 
the whole of thefe. They were allowed an opportunity 
of working for themfelves, and if their diligence had pro- 
cured them a fum equivalent with their ranfom, they could 
immediately, on paying it down, || demand their freedom 

* Diodorus Sic. L. i. 

■f " Atq; id ne vos miremini, Homines fervulos 

** Potare, amare, atqj ad ccenam condicere, 

*' Licet hoc Athenis. 

** Plautus. Sticho. 

*' (Aivt-iV ■''' Arilloph. Hoiae. 
*' YL'jly.u roictJ'i mraisyjisiv bcTz (crj«JiV 
A/TKfX.v. Eupolis. ts-oXeis. 
II To this privilege Plautus alludes in his Cajitta, where he Introduces 
a flave, fpeaking in the following manner. 

*' Qu_id tu me veio libertate territas ? 
** Quod fi tu nolis, fiiiufque etiam tuus 
** Vobis iii'vitis, atq; amborum wgraiiij, 
'* Utia llbeila liber pcjj'umjien, 

for- 



CF THE Human Species, 



II 



for ever. This law was, of all others, the mo-fl: import- 
ant; as the profpeit of liberty, which it aiForded, muft 
have been a continual fource of the moil: pleafmg reflec- 
tions, and have greatly fweetened the draught, even of the 
moft bitter flavery. 

Thus then, to the eternal honour of T^gypt and Athens, 
they were the only places, if I except the cities of the 
Jews, where flaves were confidered with any humanity at 
all. The reft of the world feemed to vie with each other, 
in the debafement and opprefTion of thefe unfortunate peo- 
ple. They ufed them with as much feverity as they chofe; 
they meafured their treatment Ox^ily by their own paiEon 
and caprice -, and, by leaving them on every occafion, 
without the poiiibility of an appeal, they rendered their 
fituation the moft melancholy and intolerable, that can 
poiiibly be conceived. 



As I have mentioned the barbarous and inhuman treats 
ment that generally fell to the lot of flaves, it may not be 
amifs to inquire into the various circumftances by which 
it was produced. 

The firft circumftance, from whence it originated, was 
the commerce : for if men could be confidered 2.% poffeffions y 
if, like caitl:^ they could be bought and Jold^ it will not 
be difficult to fuppofe, that thev could be held in the fame 
confideration, or treated in the iame manner. The corn- 
merce therefore, v/hich was begun in the primitive ages 
of the world, by claffing them with the brutal fpecies, and 
by habituating the mind to confider the terms of brute and 
fluve as fynonymous^ foon caufed them to be viewed in a 
low and defpicable light, and as greatly inferior to the 
human fpecies, Hence proceeded that treatment, which 
might not unreafonably be fuppofed to arife from fo low 
an eftimation. They were tamed, like beafts, by the 
ftings of hunger and the lafti, and their education was di- 
rected to the fame end, to make them commodious in- 
ilruments of labour for their poiTeflbrs. 

This 



12 On' TK2 Slavery and Commerce 

This Ireatment^ which thus proceeded in the ages of 
barbarifm, from the low eftimation, in which flaves were 
unfortunately held from the circumftances of the com- 
merce, did not fail of producing, in the fame inftant, its 
own effect. It deprefled their minds ; it numbed their 
faculties ; and, by preventing thofe fparks of genius from 
blazing forth, which had otherwife been confpicuous ; it 
gave them the appearance of being endued with inferior 
capacities to the reft of mankind. This effect of the 
treatment had made fo confiderable a progrefs, as to have 
been a matter of obfervation in the days of Homer. 

* For half Ins. fenfes Jove conveys away, 
Whom once he dooms to fee the Jer-vUe day. 

Thus then did the commerce^ by claiUng them originally 
with brutes^ and the confequent treatment^ by cramping 
their abilities^ and hindering them from becoming confpi- 
cuous^ give to thefe unfortunate people, at a very early 
period, the moft unfavourable appearance. The rifmg 
o-enerations, who received both the commerce and treat- 
ment from their anceftors, and who had always been ac- 
cuftomed to behold their cffei^s^ did not confider thefe 
effects as i?icldental : they judged only from what they faw ; 
they believed the appeararues to\>Q real; and hence arofe 
the combined principle, that flaves were an wferiour order 
of men, and perfeftly void of under/landing. Upon this 
principle it was, that the former treatment began to be 
fully confirmed and effabli&ed ; and as this principle was 
handed down and diffeminated, fo it became, in fucceed- 
ing ages, an excufe for any feverity that defpotifm might 
fuggeft. 

I may obferve here, that as all nations had this excufe 
in common, arifmg from the circumftances above-men- 
tioned, fo the Greeks firft, and the Romans afterwards, 
had an addhioyial excufe^ arifmg from their own vanity. 

The former having conquered Troy, and having united 
themfelves under one common name and intereft, began, 

* Homer. Odyf. P. 322. In the latefl: edition of Homer, the vi'ord, 
%'hich we have tranflated ^en^es, is AfJT«, or vlrtucy but the old and 
proper reading is Nw, as appears from Plato de LegibuSi ch. 6, where 
he quotes it on a firaiiar occafion* 

from 



OF THE Human Species. 13 

from that period, to dlftinguifh the reft of the world by 
the title of Barbarians \ inferring by fuch an appellation, 
*' * that they were men who were only noble in their own 
" country ; that they had no right, from their nature^ to 
■** authority or command ; that, on the contrary, fo low 
" were their capacities, they were deftined by nature to 
*' ohey^ and to live in a ftate of perpetual drudgery and 
*^ fubjugatlon." Conformable with this opinion was the 
treatment, which was accordingly prefcribed to a Barba- 
rian. The phllofopher Ariftotle himfelf, in the advice 
which he gave to his pupil Alexander, before he went 
upon his Afiatick expedition, f intreated him to " ufe 
'' the Greeks^ as it became a general^ but the Barbarians^ 
" as it became a mafter ; confider, fays he, the former as 
*^ friends and domefiids ; but the latter, as brutes and 
*' plants -.i" inferring that the Greeks, from the fuperio- 
rity of their capacities, had a yiatural right to dominion, 
and that the reft of the world, from the inferiority of their 
own, were to be confidered and treated as the irrational 
part of the creation. 

Now, If we confider that this was the treatment, which 
they judged to be abfolutely proper for people of this de- 
fcription, and that their (laves were uniformly thofe, whom 
they termed Barbarians^ we fhall immediately fee, with 
what an additional excufe their own vanity had furnifhed 
them for the failles of caprice and paffion. 

To refute thefe cruel fentim.ents of the ancients, and to 
{liev/ that their flaves were by no means an inferiour order 
of beings to themfelve?, may perhaps be confidered as an 
unneceflary ta(k \ particularly, as having fhewn, that the 
caufes of this inferiour appearance were incidental-^ arifing, 
on the one hand, from the combined effe6ts of the treat- 
ment and commerce^ and, on the other, from vanity and 
fride^ I feem to have refuted them already. But I truft 
that fome few obfervations, in vindication of thefe unfor- 
tunate people, will neither be unacceptable nor improper. 

How then fhall I begin the refutation ? Shall I fay with 

* Ariftotle. Polit. Ch. 2. et infeq. 

it: <^'iKrt}i }y tiWw 'iTrifAiKeiaSau, rcii; <f'e us ^c^ois « (pvloi's 'W^offpi^isScd' Plu- 
tarch, de Fortun. Alexand. Orat, i, 

Seneca; 



14 On rut Slavery and Commerce 

Seneca, who fa w many of the flaves in quef^Ion, " Wh^t 
'' is a ^nighty or a libertine^ or a Jlave? Are thev not 
" names, afllimed either from mjury or a??ihktQn f Or, 
fhall I fay with him on another occafion, " Let us con- 
" fider that he, whom we call our flave, is born in the 
" fame manner as ourfelves ; that he enjoys the fame fkv, 
" with all its heavenly luminaries ; that he breathes, that 
" he lives, in the fame manner as ourfelves, and, in the 
**^ fame m^anner, that he expires." Thefe confiderations^ 
I confefs, would furnifh me with a plentiful fource of ar- 
guments in the cafe before us ; but I decline their aflift- 
ance. How then fhall I begin ? Shall I enumerate the 
many inftances of fidelity, patience, or valour, that are 
recorded of the ferv'ik race ? Shall i enumerate the many 
important fervices, that they rendered both to the indi- 
viduals and the community, under whom they lived ? Here 
would be a fecond fource, from whence I could colle6l 
fuiHcient materials to fhew, that there is no inferiority in 
their nature. But I decline to ufe them. I fhall content 
myfeif with fome few inflances, that relate to the geji'im 
only : I fhall mention the names of thofe of a fervih con- 
dition, whofe writings, having efcaped the wreck of time, 
and having been handed down even to -the prefent age, 
are now to be feen, as fo many living monuments, that 
neither the Grecian, nor Roman genius, v/as fuperior to 
their own. 

The iirfl, whom I fhall mention here, is the famous 
^fop. He was a Phrygian by birth, and lived in the 
time of Croefus, king of Lydia, to whom he dedicated 
his fables. The writings of this great man, in whatever 
light we confider them, will be equally entitled to our ad- 
miration. But I am well aware, that the very mention 
of him as a writer of fables, may depreciate him in the 
eyes of fome. To fuch I fhall propofe a queftion, " Whe- 
*^ ther this fpecies of writing has not been more beneficial 
*' to mankind ; or whether it has not produced more im- 
" portant events than any other ?" 

With refpe6i: to the firft confideration, it is evident that 
thefe fables, as confifting of plain and fimple tranfaclions, 
are particularly eafy to be underilood ; as conveyed in 
images, that they pleafe and feduce the mind ; and, as 

containing 



OF THE Human Species. I5 

containing a rnoraJ^ eafily deduclble on the fide of virtue ; 
that they afford, at the fame time, the moft weighty pre- 
cepts of philofophy. Here then are the two grand points 
of compofition, " a manner of expreflion to be appre- 
" hended by the loweft capacities, and, * (what is con- 
*' fidered as a vi£lory In the art) an happy conjun6lion 
" of utility and pleafure." Hence Qulntilian recommends 
them, as fmgularly ufeful, and as admirably adapted, to 
the puerile age j as a juft gradation between the language 
of the nurfe and preceptor, and as furnifhing maxims of 
prudence and virtue, at a time when the fpeculative prin- 
ciples of philofophy are too difficult to be underftood. 
Hence alfo having been introduced by moft civilized na- 
tions into their fyftem of education, they have produced 
that general benefit, to which I at firft alluded. Nor have 
they been of lefs confequence in maturity ; but particu- 
larly to thofe of inferiour capacities, or little erudition, 
whom they have frequently ferved as a guide to conduct 
them in life, and as a medium, through which an expla- 
nation might be made, on many and Important occafions. 

With refpeii: to the latter confideration, which Is eafily 
deduclble from hence, I fhall onlv appeal to the wonderful 
efFe6l5 which the fable, pronounced by Demofthenes againft 
Philip of Macedon, produced among his hearers ; or to the 
fable, which v/as fpoken by Menenlus Agrippa to the 
Roman populace ; .by which an illiterate m.ultltude v/ere 
brought back to their duty as citizens, when no other 
fpecies of oratory could prevail. 

To thefe truly ingenious^ and philofophkal v/orks of 
^fop, I fhall add thofe of his Imitator Pheedrus^ v/hich 
in purity and elegance of ^y\^^ are inferiour to none. I 
fnall add alfo the Lyrick Poetry of Alcman, vvhich is no 
Jervile compofition ; the fublime yM^r^^/j of Epiftetus, and 
the incomparable comedies of Terence. 

Thus then does it appear, that the excufe which was 
uniformly ftarted in defence of the treatment of Haves, had 
no foundation v/hatever either in truth or juftlce. The 
inftances that I have mentioned above, are fufficient to 
fhew, that there was no inferiority, either in their nature^ 

* Ornae tulit punftum, qui mifcuit utile dulci. Hok.4,cs, 

or 



i6 On the Slavery and Commerce 

or their underftandings : and at the fame time that they 
refute the principles of the ancients, they afi-crd a valuable 
lefTon to thofe, vi^ho have been accuflomed to form too 
precipitate a judgment on the abilities of men : for, alas ! 
hov7 often has Jecret angtiijh deprefied the fpirits of thofe, 
whom they have frequently cenfured, from their gloomy 
and deje6l©d appearance ! and how often, on the other 
hand, has their judgment refulted from their own vanity 
and prides' 



CHAP. VI. 

I fhall proceed now to the confideration of the commerce i 
in confequence of which, people, endued v/ith the fame 
feelings and faculties as ourfelves, were made fubjedl to 
the laws and limitations oi pofjejjion. 

This commerce of the human fpecies was of a very 
early date. It was founded on the idea that men were 
property ; and, as this idea was coeval with the firft order 
of involuyitary Haves, it muft have arifen, (if the date, 
which I previoufly affixed to that order, be right) in the 
firjR; practices of barter. The Story of Jofeph, as re- 
corded in the facred v/ritings, whom his brethren fold 
from an envious fufpicion of his future greatnefs, is an 
ample teftimony of the truth of this conje6lure. It fhews 
that there v/ere men, even at that early period, who tra- 
velled up and down as merchants, colleding not only 
balm, myrrh, fpicery, and other wares, but the human 
fpecies alfo, for the purpofes of traffick. The inftant 
determinatioii of the brothers, on the firfl fight of the 
merchants, to fell him^ and the immediate acquiefcence of 
thofe, who purchafed him for a foreign market, prove that 
this com.merce had been then eflablifhed, not only in that 
part of the country where this tranfa6lion happened, but 
in that alfo, whither the merchants were then travelling 
v/ith their camels, namely, ^gypt : and they fhew far- 
ther, that, as all cufloms require time for their eftablifh- 
ment, fo it muft have exifted in the ages previous to that 
of Pharaoh ; that is, in thofe ages, in which we fixed the 
firil date of involuntary fervitude. This commerce then, 

as 



6f the Human Species. ij 

as appears by the prefent Inftance, exifled in the earlleft 
pradices of barter, and had defcended to the -Egyptians, 
through as long a period of time, as was fufficient to have 
made it, in the times alluded to, an eflablifhed cuflom^ 
Thus waSiEgypt, in thofe days, the place of the greateft 
refort ; the grand emporium of trade, to which people were 
driving their merchandize, as to a centre ; and thus did it 
afford, among other opportunities of traffick, thefrji mar" 
ket that is recorded, for the fale of the human fpecies. 

This market, which was thus fupplied by the con{!:ant: 
concourfe of merchants, who reforted to it from various 
parts, could not fail, by thefe means, to have been con- 
siderable. It received, afterwards, an additional fupply 
from thofe piracies, which v^e mentioned to have exifted 
in the uncivilized ages of the world, and which, in fa£l^ 
it greatly promoted and encouraged ; and it became, from 
thefe united circumflances, fo famous, as to have been 
known, within a hw centuries from the time of Pharaoh^ 
both to the Grecian colonies in Afia, and the Grecian 
iflands. Homer mentions Cyprus and ^Egypt as the com- 
mon markets for flaves, about the times of the Trojan 
war. Thus Antinous, offended with Ulyfics, threatens tc> 
fend him to * one of thefe places, if he does not infiantly 
depart from his table. The fame poet alfo, in his % hymu 
to Bacchus, mentions them again, but in a more unequi- 
vocal manner, as the common markets for flaves. He 
takes occafion, in that hymn, to defcribe the pirates me- 
thod of fcouring the coait, from the circumflance of their 
having kidnapped Bacchus, as a noble youih, for whom 
they expe6i:ed an immenfe ranfom. The captain of the 
veffel, having dragged him on board, is reprefented as ad« 
<irefrmg himfelf thus to the {leerfman : 

" Haul in the tackle, hbifl aloft the fail, 

" Then take your helm, and watch the doubtful gale \ 

*' To mind the captive prey, be cur's the care> 

*' While you to ^gypt or to Cyprus fleer 5 

" There fhall he go, unlefs his friends he'll tell, 

*f Whofe ranfom-gifts will pay us full as well.** 

* M« Tax* "J''*^/*!' J^'iyvTrjov }^ HCtt^v 'i^'nuio Hem. OdyfT. L, 17s 
448. 

■ B It 



t8 On the Slavery and Commerce 

It may not perhaps be confidered as a digrefTion, to 
mention, in few words, by itfelf, the wonderful concord^ 
ance of the writings of Mofes and Homer with the cafe 
before us : not that the former, from their divine autho- 
rity, want additional fupport, but becaufe it cannot be un- 
pleafant to fee them confirmed by a perfon, who, being 
one of the earlieft writers, and living in a very remote age, 
was the firft that could afford us any additional proof of 
the circumftances above-mentioned, JEgypt is reprefent- 
ed, in the firft book of the facred writings, as a market 
for flaves, and, in the * fecond, as famous for the feverity 
of its fervitude. % The fame line, which w^e have already 
cited from Homer, conveys to us the fame ideas. It points 
it out as a market for the human fpecies, and by the epithet 
of " bitter ^gypt," (f which epithet is peculiarly annexed 
to it on this occafion)" alludes in the flrrongefl: manner to 
that feverity and rigour, of which the facred hlftorian 
tranfmitted us the firft account. 

But, to return. Though ^gypt was the firfl market 
recorded for this fpecies of trafHck ; and though ^gypt, 
and Cyprus afterwards, were particularly diftlnguiilied for 
it, in the times of the Trojan war ; yet they were not the 
only places, even at that period, where men were bought 
and fold. The OdyfTey of Homer fhews, that it was then 
pradifed in many of the iflands of the ^gsan fea ; and 
the Iliad, that it had taken place among thofe Grecians on 
the continent of Europe, who had embarked from thence 
on the Trojan expedition. This appears particularly at 
the end of the feventh book. A fleet is defcribed there, 
as having juft arrived from Lemnos, with a fupply of wine 
for the Grecian camp. The merchants are defcribed 
alfo, as immediately expofmg it to fale, and as receiving in 
exchan2;e, among other articles of barter, " a number of 

* Exodus. Ch. i; 

J Vide note ift. page 17. 

■f This ftrikes us the more forcibly, as It is filled iu^ftiJuv and ^?otx.«X«' 
** Ma-, ivell ivatercd and beautiful^"' in all other pafiages where it is' men- 
tioaed, but this. 

To 



GF THE Human Species, 



19 



To thefe places I fhall add the names of Tyre and Sidon, 
which the * facred writings inform us were notorious for 
the profecution of this trade. 

It will now be fufHcient to obferve, that, as other ftates 
arofe, and as circumftances contributed to make them 
known, this cuftom is difcovered to have exifted among 
them; that it travelled over all Afia; that it fpread 
through the Grecian and Roman world ; was in ufe a- 
mong the barbarous nations, which overturned the Roman 
empire; and was pradifed therefore, at the fame period^ 
throughout all Europe. 



CHAP. VIL 

T'hii^ Jlavej'y and co^nmerce^ which had continued for fb 
long a time, and w^hich was thus pradHfed in Europe at fo 
late a period as that, which fucceeded the grand revoluti- 
ons in the wejftern world, began, as the northern nations 
were fettled in their conqueilrs, to decline, and, on their 
full eflabliihment, were abolifhed. A difference of opi- 
nion has arifen refpecbing the caufe of their abolition; 
fome having afferted, that they were the neceffary confe- 
quences oi X^a^ feudal fyjl em \ while others, fuperiour both 
in number and in argument, have maintained that they 
were the natural effects of Chrijhanity. The mode of ar- 
gument, which the former adopt on this occafion, is as 
follows. " The multitude of little ftates, which fprung 
" up from one great one at this iEra, occafioned infinite 
'' bickerings and matter for contention. There was not 
" a ftate or feigniory, which did not v/ant all the hands 
" they could mufter, either to defend their own right, or 
" to difpute that of their neighbours. Thus every man 
'' was taken into the fervice : whom they armed they muft 
'' truft: and there could be no truft but in free men. 
" Thus the barrier between the two natures was thrown 
'' down, 2ind /lavery was no more heard of in the tve/}.'^ 

That this was not the necejjary confequence of fuch a 
iituation, is apparent. The political ftate of Greece^ in 

* Joel, Ch. iii. Ver. 3. 4. 6, 

B 2 its 



%0 On the Slavery and Commercs 

its early hlflory, was the fame as that of Europe, v/hen di- 
vided, by the feudal fyftem, into an infinite number of 
fmall and independent kingdoms. There was the fame 
matter therefore for contention, and the fame call for all 
the hands that could be muftered : the Grecians, infliort, 
in the hcrokk^ were in the fame fituation in thefe refpects 
as the feudal barons- in the Goth ck times. Had this there- 
fore been a necefjary effedl, there had been a cefTation of 
fervitude in Greece in thofe ages, in which we have al- 
ready (hewn that it exifted. 

But with refpe6l to Chr:ftia7iit)\ many and great are the 
arguments, that it occafioned fo defirable an event. It 
taught, " that all men were originally equal ; that the 
'' Deity was no refpe6ler of perfons, and that, as all men 
*^ were to give an account of their actions hereafter, it 
" v/as necelTary that they (hould be free." Thefe doc- 
trines could not fail of having their proper influence on 
thofe, v/ho firft embraced ChriJJlanky^ from a conviSficn of 
its truth ; and on thofe of their defcendants afterwards, 
who, by engaging in the crufades^ and hazarding their lives 
and fortunes there, fhewed at leall: an attachmeyit to that 
religion. We find them accordingly a6tuated by thefe 
principles : V\^e have a pofitive proof, that ^q feudal fy ft em 
had no fhare in the honour of fupprcffing flavery, but that 
Chrftianity was the only caufe ; for the grea^teft part of 
the charters which were granted for the freedom of flaves 
in thofe times (many of which are ftill extant) were 
granted, " pVQ amore Dciy pro mercede anhn(Z^^ They 
were founded, in diort, on religious confiderations^ 
*' that they might procure the favour of the Deity, v/hich 
*' they conceived themfelves to have forfeited, by the fub- 
^' jugation of thofe, whom they found to be the objedls of 
^' the divine benevolence and attention equally with them- 
« felves." 

Thefe confideratlons, which had thus their firll orlgia 
in Chri/itanifyy began to produce their efreds, as the dif- 
ferent nations v/cre converted ; and procured that general- 
liberty at laft, which, at the clofe of the twelfth century^, 
was confpicuous in the v/eft of Europe. What a glorious 
and important change ! Thofe, who would have had 
otherwife no hopes, but that their miferies would be ter- 
minated; 



OF THE Human Species. Ji 

minated by death, were then freed from their fervile con- 
dition ; thofe, who, by the laws of war, would have had 
otherwife an immediate profpe61: of fervitude from the 
hands of their imperious conquerors, were then exchanged-^ 
a cuftom, which has happily defcended to the prefent day. 
Thus, " a numerous clais of men, who formerly had no 
■" political exiftence, and were employed merely as infi:ru- 
^' ments of labour, became ufeful citizens, and contribut- 
*' ed towards augmenting the force or riches of the focie- 
^' ty, which adopted them as members •" and thus did the 
greater part of the Europeans, by their conduct on this 
occafion, afTert not only liberty for themfeiveSj but for thsif 
fellow-creatures. 



CHAP. VIIL 

But if men therefore, at a time when under the iniiu- 
ence of religion they exercifed their ferious thoughts, abo- 
iiihed fiavery, how impious muit they appear, who revived 
it ; and what arguments will not p relent themfelves againft 
their condufl: ! * The Portuguefe, within two centu/ies 
after its fupprellion in Europe, in imitation of thofe ^/r<?- 
iCtes^ which I have fbewn to have exifted in the uncivlli%ed 
ages of the v/orld, made their defcents on Africa, and 
committing depredations on the coail, J fiijl carried the 
wretched inhabitants into flavery. 

* The following ihort hiftory o^ the Afilcan fervitude. Is taken from 
Aftley's Cclieclion of Voyages, and from the united teftimoiiies of Smyth, 
Adanfon, Bofman, Moore, and others, \\\\q were agents to the different 
faftories eftab)>fhed there: who reiided many years in the country j and 
publifhed their refpeftive hiftories at their return. Thefe writers, if they 
■are partial at all, may be confidered as favourable rather to their own 
countrymen, than the unfortunate Africans. 

\ I would not wifh to be underftood, that ilavery was unkno»vn In 
Africa before the ^iraric^/ expeditions of the Portuguefej as it appear? \iA?-m 
the Nubiani Geography, that both the flavery and commerce had been 
eftabliihed among the natives with one another. I mean only to aflert, 
that the Portugueje v/cre the firft of the Eurapearts, who made their /z><2fi- 
f^/ expeditions, and ihewed the way to that Jla'uery^ which now makes 
<b difgraceful a figure in the wefirern colonics of the Europeans. 

In the term " Europeans," wherever it fhall occur in the remaining 
part of this firft difTertation, I include the FortugucjC) and thoje nations onljf 
who folio wsd thdr example, 

B 3 This 



^z On the Slavery and Commerce 

This pradlce, however trifling and partial it might ap.; 
pear at iirft, foon became ferious and general. A melaii-* 
choly inftance of the depravity of human nature ; as it 
fhews, that neither the laws nor religion of any country, 
however excellent the forms of each, are fufficient to bind 
the confciences of lome ; but that there are alv/ays men, 
of every age, country, and perfuafion, who are ready to 
facrifice their deareft principles at the fhrine of gain. Our 
ovvm anceftors, together v/ith the Spaniards, 1^ rench, and 
moft of the maritime powers of Europe, foon followed the 
piratical exsLmple ', and thus did the Europeans, to their 
eternal infam.y, renew a cuftom, which their own anceftors 
had fo lately exploded, from a co?//cioiifnefs of its i?npiety. 

The unfortunate Africans, terrified at thefe repeated de- 
predations, fled in confufion from the coaft, and fought, in 
the interiour parts of the country, a retreat from the per- 
fecution of their invaders. But, alas ! they were mifera- 
hly difappointed ! There are few retreats, that can efcape 
the penetrating eye of avarice. The Europeans ftill pur-* 
fued them ; they entered their rivers ; failed up into the 
heart of the country ; furprized tiie unfortunate Africans 
again ; and carried them into flavery. 

Qwt this condudl:, though fuccefsful at firfl:, defeated af- 
terwards its own ends. It created a more genera] alarm, 
and pointed out, at the fame inilant, the beft method of 
fecurity from future depredations. The banks of the ri- 
vers v/ere accordingly deferted, as the coafts had been be- 
fore ; and thus were the Ckrijiian invaders left without a 
profpe6t of their prey. 

In this fituation hovv-ever, expedients v/ere not wanting. 
They now formed to themfelves the refolution of fettling 
in the country ; of fecuring themfelves by fortified poifs ; 
of changing their fyfcem of force into that of pretended 
liberality ; and of o^.ening, by every fpecies of bribery and 
corruption, a communication with the natives. Thefe 
plans were put into immediate execution. The Europeans 
ere£ted their * forts and factories \ landed their merchan- 

* The Portuguese erefled their firft fort at D'Elmina^ in the year T481, 
about forty years after Alonzo Gonzales had pointed the Southern Afri- 
cans out to his countrymen as articles of commerce, 

dize : 



OF THE Human Species. %2 

dize ; and' endeavoured, by a peaceable deportmsnt, by 
prefents, and by every appearance of munificence, to fe- 
duce the attachment and confidence of the Africans. Thefe 
fchemes had the defired elFecl. The gaudy trappings of 
European art, not only caught their attention, but excited 
their curiofity : they dazzled the eyes and bewitched the 
fenfes, not only of thofe, to whom they were given, but of 
thofe, to whom they were ihewn. Thus followed a fpeedy 
intercourfe with each other, and a confidence, highly fa- 
vourable to the views of avarice and ambition. 

It was now time for the Europeans to embrace the op- 
portunity, which this Intercourfe had thus afforded them, 
of carrying their fchemes into execution, and of fixing them 
on fuch a permanent foundation, as fliould fecure them fu- 
ture fuccefs. They had already difcovered, in the differ- 
ent interviews obtained, the chiefs of the African tribes. 
They paid their court therefore to thefe, and (o complete- 
ly intoxicated their fenfes with the luxuries which they 
brought from home, as to be able to feduce them ta their 
defigns. A treaty of peace and commerce was imme- 
diately concluded : it was agreed, that the kings, on their 
part, fhould, from this period, fentence prifoners of war and 
conv'iSis to European fervitude; and that the Europeans 
fhould fupply them. In return, with the luxuries of the 
north. This agreement immediately took place ; and 
thus begun that commerce^ which makes fo confiderable a 
iigure at the prefent day. 

But happy had the Africans been, if thofe only, who 
had been juitly convicted of crimes, or taken in a jufl war, 
had been fentenced to the feverities of fervltude ! How 
many of thofe miferies, which afterwards attended them, 
had been never known ? and how would their hlfforv have 
faved thofe fighs and emotions of pitv, which mull now 
ever accompany Its perufal ? The Europeans, on the 
eftablifnment of their weftern colonies, required a greater 
num.ber of flaves than a ftri6l adherence to the treaty could 
produce. The princes therefore had only the choice of 
relinquifhing the commerce, or of confenting to become 
unjuff . They had long experienced the emoluments of the 
trade ; they had acquired a tafte for the luxuries it afford- 
ed 3 and they now beheld an opportunity of gratifying it, 

B 4 but 



54. On the Slavery and Commerce 

\)Mt in a more extenfive manner. Avarice thereforcj which 
was too powerful {or juji ice on this occafion, immediately 
turned the fcale : not only thofe, who were fairly convi6t- 
ed of offences, were now fentenced to fervitude, but even 
thofe who were fujpeSied. New crimes were invented, 
that new punifhments might fucceed. Thus was every 
appearance foon conftrued into reality 5 every fhadow into 
a fubftance ; and often virtue into a crime. 

Such alfo was the cafe v/ith refpe61: to prifoners of war. 
Not only thofe v/ere now delivered into flavery, v/ho were 
taken in a ftate of publick enmity and injuftice, but thofe 
alfo, who, confcious of no injury whatever, were taken in 
the arbitrary fkirmifhes of thefe venal fovereigns. War 
was now made, not as formerly, from the motives of re- 
taliation and defence, but for the fake of obtaining prifo- 
ners alone, and the advantages refulting from their fale. 
If a fhip from Europe came but in fight, it was now con- 
fidered as a fufficient m.otive for a war, and as a lignal only 
for an inftantaneoas commencement of hofcilities. 

But if the African kings could be capable of fuch in- 
juftice, what vices are there, that their confciences would 
jeftrain, or what enormities, that we might not expe6i: to 
be committed? When men once confent to be unjuft, 
they lofe, at the fame inftant v/ith their virtue, a confider- 
able portion of that fenfe of fliame, v/hich, till then, had 
been found a fuccefsfui protector againfi the fall ies of vice. 
From that awful period, almoft every expe6lation is for- 
lorn : the heart is left unguarded : its great protestor is no 
more : the vices therefore, which fo long encompailed it in 
vain, obtain an eafy vidory : in crouds they pour into the 
defencelefs avenues, and take pofTeilion of the foul : there 
is nothing now too vile for them to meditate, too impious 
to perform. Such was the fituation of the defpotick fove- 
reigns of Africa. They had once ventured to pafs the 
bounds of virtue, and they foon proceeded to enormityo 
This was particularly confpicuous in that general conduA, 
which they uniformly cbferyed, after an unfuccefsful con- 
flicl:. Influenced only by the venal motives of European 
traflick, they fiffl: made war upon the neighbouring tribes, 
contrary to every principle of juftice ; and if, by the flight 
pf the enemy, or by other contingencies^ they were difap- 

pointed 



OF THE Human Species. 2^ 

polnteci of their prey, they made no hefitatlon of immedi- 
ately turning their arms againft their own fiibjecb. The 
firfl: villages they came to were always marked on this 
occafion, as the firft objects of their avarice. They v/ere 
immediately furrounded, were afterwards fet on fire, and 
the v/retched inhabitants feized, as they were efcaping frorn. 
the flames. Thefe, confifting of whole families, fathers^ 
brothers, hufoands, wives, and children, were inftantly 
driven in chains to the merchants, and conOgned to fla- 
very. ..; 

To thefe calamities^ which thus arofe from the tyranny-" 
pf the kings, w^e may now fubjoin thofe, which arofe from 
the avarice of private perfons. Many were kidnapped by 
their own countrymen, who, encouraged by the merchants 
of Europe, previoufly lay in wait for them, and fold them 
afterv^^ards for (laves ; vv^hile the feamen of the different 
ihips, by every poflible artifice, enticed others on board, 
and tranfported them to the regions of fervitude. 

Such was the fitualion of affairs in Africa, when the 
Europeans, on the difcovery and eftabliihment of their 
weftern colonies, wanted a greater number of Haves, than 
a ftri61: adherence to the treaty could produce. It would 
be taking up much time to no purpofe, to trace, as they 
role, the different artifices that were adopted for the pur- 
pofe of procuring flaves. I fliall therefore decline fuch an 
undertaking, and content myfelf with giving, in two fub- 
fequent chapters, a faithful hiilory of the tradej as it fub-- 
lifts J and is carried on at the prefent day. 



C H A R IX. 

The (laves, which are now tranfported from Africa, can 
only be colleded either by means of the Europeans imme- 
diately, or by the intervention of the people upon the 
coaft. 

When the former collecl them, they do it by fending 
their boats to the villages fituated up the creeks and rivers, 
qt upon the fea (hore ; by difpatching tenders to different 

parts 3 



%6 On the Slavery and Commerce 

parts : or by an application to the fadlories, either publick'^ 
Jy or* privately, eltablilhed there. 

When the latter collecl them, they do it by different 
methods ; to fliew which, I fhall divide the people fo em- 
ployed, into four diftin6l clafTes. 

The firft clafs may be faid to confift of fuch black tra- 
ders, as preferve a regular chain of traiRck, and a regular 
communication with each other, from the interiour parts of 
the country to the fea fhore. Thofe who live fartheft up 
the country, having coliedted a lot of ilaves, travel down 
with them to certain markets, which are eftablillied at a 
certain diftance from their reputed places of abode. At 
thefe markets other traders attend, who purchafe and re- 
ceive the flaves fo brought down, and convey them into 
other hands. In this manner the different black traders 
proceed, continuing to forward their flaves, till they are 
met by the brokers from the water-fide, who generally 
travel about three hundred miles into the inland country 
to receive them, and who convey them back, through that 
diftance, to the lliips. 

Many of the flaves, thus driven dov^n, are reported to 
have travelled at leafl twelve hundred miles from the place 
where they were firft purchafed. This diftance may 
eafily be conceived to have been ftated right, when 1 in- 
form the reader, that frequently neither any of the cargo, 
with whom it is their lot to be incorporated, nor any of 
the black interpreters on board, can underftand their lan- 
guage. It is probable that a flave of this defcription does 
not cofl his firft purchafer more than the value of an ordi- 
nary piilol or of a fv/ord. He pafTes, during his journey, 
through the territories of various kings and princes, to all 
of whom a certain gratuity is given, for fiifFering him to 
enter into their dominions, and to proceed fafe. From 
this, and many other caufes, his value is increafed to every 
fucceetiing purchafer, till he arrives at the vv^ater-fide, 
where he fetches the market price. 

* There is a new kind of fad>ory eftabllfhed by the Britlfh merchants, 
which I mufl not omit to mention here. It confifts of a large ihip, Ra- 
tioned upon the coaft, and is called a faftory Hiip. Slaves are brought 
down and put on board, where they remain as in the faftories upon land, 
till the ihips from Europe come along-fide, receive them, and carry 
them olt'. 

ThefQ 



OF THE Human Species. 27 

Thefe traders then, into whofe difFerent hands the ilaves 
now mentioned have been deicribed to fail, may be laid to 
compofe the lirft clafs of black traders, and confiil of luch, 
as keep up a regular chain of communication with each 
other, and whofe journey from the interiour parts of the 
country may be faid to be in a line of Qire6i:ion, perpendi- 
cular to the fhore. 

The fecond confifts of fuch as travel inland, but who 
have no fuch regular chain of commerce, or communica- 
tion with diftant parts. Having fold their ilaves on one 
part of the coafl:, they ftrike up into the country to a cer- 
tain diftance, when they change their direction, and form 
their route in a line parallel to the fhore. They call at all 
the fairs and villages, fituated upon this line, and drop down 
occafionally to the coafl, as they have procured flaves. 
Thefe fame people are feen trading on difFerent parts of 
the coafi:, having no regular ftation or place of abode. 
They appear to be continually travelling backwards and 
forwards, and preferving a Hne of direction, quite contrary 
to that of the former. 

The third confifts of iuch as travel by water up the 
great rivers, which are found in this quarter of the globe* 
They either embark themfelves, or employ others, to fu- 
perintend their canoes. Thefe canoes are of a great 
length, are always well armed, and carry from fifty to 
feventy hands. They proceed frequently to the diftance of 
a thoufand miles, and bring down from hxty to one hun- 
dred and tv/enty flaves at a time. 

The fourth confifts of fuch, as, living near the banks 
of the rivers, or the fea fhore, fcarcely travel at all, but 
having, by various means, come into the poffeiTion of flaves, 
either drive them, or fend them immediately to the fhips 
and fadlories. 

There is one diftinftion, which I muft not forget to 
make here. The greateft part of the traders mentioned, 
deal on their own account^ and with their own goods, that 
is, with fuch European goods as have become their ov/n \n. 
the courfe of trade. There are fome, however, of the 
poorer for*-, who travel for the fhips. Such traders receive 
a certain quantity of goods on credit, which they fubdi- 
vide among others, and go into difFerent parts of the coun- 
try, 



2S On the Slavery and Commerce 

try, for the purpofe of {laving thofe fhips, on whofe ac- 
count they travel. Thefe are in a particular predicament, 
being obliged to leave a pledge or fecurity for their return. 
This pledge confifts of their own relations, who are de- 
tained till they come back. 

I could mention here fuch an horrid inftance of cruelty, 
praciiied only laft year by an Engliili captain, on the body 
of an innocent pledge, whofe father had not returned in 
time, as v/ould fill the reader with horror : but thofe au- 
theniick depofitions, without which. I would not relate it, 
having not yet come into my hands, I am under the necef- 
fity of With-holding it from his perufal. 

Having now mentioned the different clailes of black 
traders, who fupply the Europeans with Haves, I fhali juft 
jlate the difterent forts of goods which thefe traders receive 
in return, and with v/hich they deal in the inland country. 
Thefe maybe divided into three forts, Eaft-Indian, home- 
made, or colonial, and Venetian. 

The nrft confifts of cowries, or fmall fhells, which pafs 
for money on fome parts of the coaft ; blue and white 
bafFs, romals, bandanoes, and other cloths and productions 
of the eaft. The fecond confifts of bar-iron, mufkets, 
powder, iVords, pans, and other hardv/are, cottons, linnen, 
fpirits in great abundance, with other articles of lefs note. 
The third confifts totally of beads. Almoft every fhip 
carries the three forts of articles now ftated, but more or 
kfs of one than of the other, according to the place of her 
deftination ; every different part of the coaft requiring a 
different allbrtment, and the Africans, like the Europeans, 
repeatedly changing their tafte. This is particularly the 
cafe with refpe6t to beads. The fame kind of beads which 
iinds a market one year in one part of the coaft, will pro- 
bably not be faleable there the next. At one time the 
green are preferred to the yellow, at another the opake to 
the tranfparent, and at another the oval to the round. 

I have hitherto only given an account of the different 
claiTes of black traders, and of the goods v/ith which they 
deal ; it may not perhaps be amifs to fay a few words con- 
cerning the different places of trade upon the coaft, and to 
accompany them v/ith fuch other information, as could not 
have been given with propriety in any other place. 



OF THE Human Species, 



29 



The Slave trade may be faid to begin at the great River 
Senegal, and to extend to the farther limits of Angokj a 
diftance of many thoufand miles. 

Up the rivers Senegal and Gambia, the trade is carried 
on in the follovi^ing manner. The Europeans proceed ia 
their fnips, till they come to a ilationary place. They 
then fend out their boats or tenders, which are always 
armed, to the different villages fituated either upon the 
banks, or in the neighbourhood of thefe rivers. In thefe 
tenders feveral of the natives, converfant in the pra^lice^ 
are incorporated with European feamen. When they 
come in fight of the different villages which are fcattered 
about, they fire a mufket, or beat a drum, to let the inha- 
bitants know that they are in v/ant of ilaves. In thefe 
veffels, having made their pur chafes, they convey them to 
the (hip. 

In the mean time the country people, in whofe neigh- 
bourhood the fhip lies, bring down with them thofe flaves, 
which they happen either to have had at that time in their 
poffeflion, or which they have procured in confequence of 
her appearance there. A fupply is alfo frequently obtain- 
ed from another quarter, viz. from the large armed canoes, 
which I mentioned to belong to the third clafs of African 
traders, and which are frequently coming down thefe ri- 
vers loaded with flaves. 

On the river Sierra Leon, there are feveral private fac- 
tories belonging to the m^erchants of Europe, in which 
their agents, confifting of v/hite people, refide. Thefe 
agents keep a number of boats, which they fend up the 
river for flaves, while the people in the neighbourhood, 
confifting of the fourth clafs of African traders, who have 
any to fell, bring them down. By thefe means the agents 
to the factories have conftantly a number ready for (iich. 
ihips in their ov/n line of connexion, as touch there* 
Thofe, on the other hand, who arrive in this river, and 
have no fuch convenience as has been now defcribed, ob- 
tain their flaves in the fame manner as thofe, who go up 
the Gambia and Senegal. 

On the Windward coaff, which reaches from Capa 
Mount to Cape Palmas, the natives, when they have any 
fiaves to fell, generally fignify it by fires. The fliips 

which 



2^ 



On 'tut Slavery and Commerce 



which areftationed there, are obliged to be conftantly Ioolc«* 
ing out, and fending their boats to that part ot the coaft 
where the Imoke is fecn. They generally receive about 
three or four Haves at a time, and carry them to the fhips. 
It fomctiines happens, however, that ilaves are brought to 
them by the natives. Ships have been frequently known 
to be fourteen months on this part of the coaft, before their 
cargoes could be compleated. 

On the Gold coaft, when a veflel is fent to Have there, 
fhe generally proceeds and anchors at Annamaboe. Her 
boats are repeatedly fent out for the fake of purchasing 
gold. When a fufficient quantity is procured, ftie begins 
to trade. On other parts of the coaft, the goods which 
are brought from Europe, will always be received in ex- 
change for flaves. It is remarkable that on this the na- 
tives will not fell a (lave, unlefs a certain quantity of gold 
is included in the articles defigned for purchafmg him. So 
that gold is taken from one part of this coaft, only to re- 
turn it to another. 

The {laves here are ufually brought down to the (hips. 
They confiftoffuch as come from the nei2;hbouring parts. 
They are brought down in droves by the black traders, 
who, in order to fecure them, frequently place the right 
hand of each of them on a log of wood. A ftaple of a 
femiclrcular form is then fitted to the wrifts, and the ftiarp 
ends of it driven down into the wood. Within this ftaple 
the wrift is included. In this manner being fecured, they 
march along, at one time fupporting the wood to which 
their wrift is faftened, upon their head, at another, reft- 
ing it in their left hand, as their eafe requires. In this 
fituation they are either fold to the natives on the fliore, or 
to the people in the fort, who fell them again to the fhips. 

I have now mentioned thofe places upon the coaft, 
where the Europeans are under the neceffity of making ufe 
of boats or fhallops, and without which the trade could not 
be carried on. In the reft, viz. at Whidah, Bonny, Cala- 
bar, Benin, and Angola, no fuch difficulties occur. Gold 
being not demanded in exchange, and boats being unnecef- 
fary, except for reaching theftiore, wooding and watering, 
and for fervices of a fimilar kind. This is particularly 
the cafe at Calabar and Bonnyj which are the greateft 

markets 



cr THE Human Species. 31 

markets for flaves. The traders there, who confift of 
thofe of the firfl: clafs, and who have a regular communica- 
tion with the inland parts, get their canoes ready when any 
VefTels arrive. They go in a large fleet up their refpecSlive 
rivers, into the inland country, to attend the fairs which 
are held there. They are moftly abfent about nine days. 
They return frequently V7\i\\ fifteen hundred or two thoufand 
flaves at a time, who are thrown into the bottom of the 
canoes, their hands and feet being confined by mats, and 
other ligaments of the country. A fhip, which is ftation- 
ed there, will receive an hundred and twenty of them at a 
time. The flaves, which are thus brought down, are very 
inferiour to thofe which are obtained from the places be- 
fore-mentioned. The regularity hov/ever of the trade, and 
the fmall fpace of time in which a cargo may be compleat- 
ed, are confiderations, Vv^hich have made thefe places more 
reforted to than any other upon the coaft. 

It cannot nov/ be amifs to ftate the difFerent mediums of 
exchange which prevail on the difFerent parts of the coafl 
now mentioned. The Africans, unacquainted with the 
money of the Europeans, could not rate the price which 
they would pay for the goods of the latter, or which they 
would take for their own flaves, by that fcandard. The 
Europeans, on the other hand, equally ignorant of the 
money of the Africans, could not reckon by theirs. Nor 
was it eafy to fay, nor could it well have been fixed, among 
fuch a variety of articles, as an European cargo confifts 
of, what part or parts of thefe fhouid be given for any 
flave. This being the cafe, a medium of exchange has 
been devifed, to which the commodities of each bear a, 
determinate and fixed value. On the V/indward Coail-, 
and at Bonny, this medium is called, both by the Afri- 
cans and the Europeans, a * bar ; on the Gold Coaft 
and at Whidah, it is called an ounce ; at Calabar, a copper -^ 
at Benin, dipaun-, and at Angola, ?i piece. So that they 
are faid to reckon by bars, ounces, coppers, pauns, and 
pieces, according to the different places of trade. This 

* Probably fo called from an article, long accuftomed to be fent to the 
coaft, and a principal article in the trade, viz. a bar of Iron, towliich it is 
equal in value. A bar in trade being eftimateJ at about four fiiilliags. 



32 On th£ Slavery and Ccm:.!lf.ce 

res-ulation having been effected, and e^-ery piece of Euro- 
pean goods having been rated accordingly, an agreemen 
is now eafily madej and a cargo purchafed. 



CHAP. X. 

Having mentioned, in the preceding chapter, the dif- 
ferent black traders, with the articles of merchandizej the 
principal places of trade, and the medium of exchange, 
which prevails on different parts of the coafl of Africa, I 
fhall now confine mxyfelf to the unhappy objects of this 
traifick, and the manner in which they are reduced to fla- 
verv at the prefent day. 

The number that has been annually tranfpcrted, has 
not been regularly the fame. It fiudiuates according as 
the Europeans are at war with each other ; for war gene- 
rally hinders the equipm^ent of the ufiial number of vefTels 
fent by the belligerent ftates. Nor is this the only caufc 
cf its fluctuation; as it depends much upon the quantity 
of new land which the Europeans put into cultivation in 
their colonies. In the year 1768, o'ne hundred and four 
ihcvjand of the natives of Africa were taken from their 
own continent* This number continued to be taken, 
more or lefs, for the five next years. It was diminifhed 
however during the Am.erican war, but has now gained its 
form^er meafure. The number therefore, taken from the 
African continent, in the year 1786, may be ftated at one 
hundred thoujand,^ and the fhips that conveyed them to the 
colonies, at three hundred and fifty. This number, 
though immenfe, may be called the annual average num- 
ber, when the Europeans are in a ftate of peace. 

The trade is at prefent confined to the Englilh, Dutch, 
Danes, Pcrtuguefe, and French. 1 he former, in the 
year 17S6, ernployed one hundred and thirty fhips, and 
carried off about fort)'-tw^o thoufand flaves. Thefe were 
£tted out from the ports of London, Briflol, and Lever- 
pocl, the latter of v/hich fent out ninety vefTels alone. 
Two ports in England, from which fhips v/ere formerly 
fitted out for Africa, have relinqui&ed the trade 3 and to 

ths 



OF THE Human Species. 



33 



the honour of Ireland and Scotland, their ports are at pre- 
tent unftained with human blood. 

The unhappy Haves, who are thus annually taken from 
their native land, may be divided into {qvqii clafTes. 

The moft confiderable, and that which contains at leaft 
Jpalf of the whole number tranfported, confifts of kidnap- 
ped people. Many of the Africans, who have been inticed 
by the Europeans, and have come on board their velTels in 
confidence, have been detained and carried oiF. Others 
have been invited to a conference on the fhore. A pun- 
cheon of fpirits has been opened to entertain them, and as 
foon as they have drank to intoxication, they have been 
feized, and forced, in that helplefs and unguarded fituation, 
to the fhips. 

I cannot perhaps fhew the treachery of the Europeans 
who embark in this trade, in a ftronger light, than by fpe- 
cifically mentioning an occurrence, which happened but a 
few years back ; an occurrence, difgraceful to any civi- 
lized people, but particularly to the Englifh. 

In the year 1767, the ihips Indian Qiieen, Duke of 
York, Nancy, and Concord, of Briftol, the Edgar, of Le- 
verpool, and the Canterbury, of London, lay in Old Cala- 
bar River, 

It happened at this time that a quarrel fubfifted between 
the principal inhabitants of Old Town, and thofe of New 
Town, Old Calabar, which had originated in a jealouiy 
refpefting Haves. The captains of the veiTels now men- 
tioned, united in fending feveral letters to the inhabitants 
of Old Town, but particularly to Ephraim Robin John, 
who was at that time a grandee, and a principal inhabi- 
tant of the place. The univerfai tenor of thefe letters was, 
that they w^ere forry that any jealoufy or quarrel fhould 
fubfift between the two parties ; that, if the inhabitants of 
Old Town would come on board, they would afford them 
fecurity and protection, adding, at the fame time, that their 
intention in inviting them was, that they might become 
mediators, and heal their difputes, 

^ The inhabitants of Old Town, happy to find that their 
differences were likely to be reconciled, joyfully accepted 
the invitation. The three brothers of the grandee juft 
meiitignedj the eldefl of whom was Amboe Robin John, 

G firlt 



34 On the Slavery and Commerce 

firft entered their canoe attended by twenty-feven other^^ 
and being followed by nine canoes, dire6ted their courfe 
fo the Indian Queen. They were difpatched from thence 
the next morning to the Edgar, and afterwards to the 
Duke of York, on board of which they went, leaving their 
canoe and attendants by the fide of the fame veflel. In 
the mean time the people on board the other canoes, were 
either diftributed on board, or lying clofe to, the other 
fhips. 

This beins; the fituation of the three brothers, and of 
the principal inhabitants of the place, the treachery now 
began to appear. The crew of the Duke of York, aided 
by the captain and mates, and armed with piftols and cut- 
iafles, ruihed into the cabin with an intent to feize the 
perfuns of their three innocent and unfufpicious guefts. 
The unhappy men, alarmed at this flagrant violation of 
the rights of hofpitality, and ftruck with aftonifhment at 
the behaviour of their fuppofed friends, attempted to 
efcape through the cabin windows, but being wounded, 
were obliged to defifl:, and to fubmit to be put in irons. 

In the fame moment, in which this atrocious attempt 
fiad been made, an order had been given to fire upon the 
canoe, that was then lying by the fide of the Duke of 
York. The canoe foon filled and funk, and the wretched 
attendants were either feized, killed, or drowned. Moft 
of the other fhips immediately followed the example. 
Great numbers were additionally killed and drowned on 
the occafion, and others were fwimming to the ftiore. 

At this juncture, the inhabitants of New Town, who 
had concealed themfelves in the bufhes by the water-fide, 
and between whom and the commanders of the vefTels the 
plan had been previously concerted, came out from their 
hiding-places, and, embarking in their canoes, made for 
fuch as were fwimming from the fire of the fhips. The 
fhips* boats alfo were inftantly manned, and joined in the 
purfuit. They butchered the greatefl: part of thofe whom 
they caught. Many dead bodie§_ were foon feen upon the 
fands, and others were floating during the whole of the 
day upon the water ; and including thofe that were fcizcd 
and carried off, and thofe that were drowned and killed ; 
either by the firing of the fhips cr the people of NevLV 

Town^ 



OF THE Human Species, 



35 



Town, three hundred were lofl to the inhabitants of Old 
Town on that day. 

The carnage, v/hich I have been now defcribing, was 
fcarcely over, when a canoe, full of the principal people 
of New Town, who had been the promoters of the 
fcheme, dropped alongfide of the Duke of York. They 
demanded the perfon of Amboe Robin John, the brother 
of the Grandee of Old Town, and the eldefl of the three 
on board. The unfortunate man put the palms of his 
hands together, and befeeched the commander of the vef- 
k\^ that he would not violate the rights of hofpltality, nor 
give up an unoiFending Pcranger to his enemies. No in- 
treaties could avail with the hardened Chriuian. He re- 
ceived from them a flave, of the name of Econg, in his 
ftead, and then forced him into the canoe, where his head 
was immediately {truck off in the fight of the crev/, and 
of his afHidled and difconfolate brothers. As for them, 
they efcaped his fate, but they were carried off with their 
attendants to the European colonies, and fold for flaves. 

This is a fpecifick inftance, and an inffance neither to 
be denied, controverted, nor palliated, of the behaviour 
of the Europeans to the innocent and unguarded natives 
of Africa. I am. aware it will be faid, that it is a fmgle 
inffance, and of a late date. But I can produce many 
and recent ; and, if I miffake not, there is a port in this 
kingdom, where veffels were fitted out in the African 
trade only three years back, and from v/hich no veiiel in 
that line has been fent fnice. This fudden change fhall 
immediately be accounted for. The captain of one of 
them had fraudulently carried off fuch a number of the 
natives, and the fa61: was fo notorious upon the coaft, that 
no veflel could have traded v/ith them in ilUety from that 
port. 

I forefee it will be objected, that, if thefe pra6l:ces were 
in force, a retaliation would take place, and the next veffel 
would be cut off, I grant it j and as no year paffes 
but fome one veffel or another meets with fuch a fate, the 
objedion only evinces the truth of the pontion in a clearer 
light. At the fame time I muff confefs, that the carry- 
ing off of whole cargoes is not fo frequent as formerly, 
nor could it be done with impunity. But hundreds ofy^- 

C 2 Ihary 



36 On the Slavery and Commerce 

Jttary beings are firaudulently taken ofF, as opportunity 
offers, who have neither witnefles to the fa6^, nor aven-' 
gers of their lofs. 

But the number of Africans, that are annually kidnap- 
ped by the Europeans, bears no fort of comparifon with 
the number of thofe, that are kidnapped by their owri 
countrymen* 

Tlie great tafte, which the Africans have acquired for 
European commodities, particularly ypzVzVj,* and the ready 
fale, which is found for the human fpecies through the 
whole of their extenfive continent, have tempted the 
ftrong to feize upon the weak, the cunning to lay fnares 
for the unwary, and the rich to circumvent the poor. 
Some of them conceal themfelves in the forefts, and near 
the roads, watching for the unguarded traveller as an 
huntfman for his game. Others lie in wait in the rice- 
fields, to carry off all fuch, as may be ftationed there for 
the purpofe of driving the birds from the grain. Others 
conceal themfelves at the fprings of v/ater, to which the 
natives refort to quench their thirft, or in thickets by the 
fide of creeks, to fall upon thofe folitary beings, who fifh 
there either for amufement or for food. But their prin- 
cipal ftation is in the long grafs, by the fide of particular 
path-ways, which are cut from one village to another ; 
from v/hich they fpring out upon their prey and fecure it : 
and fo frequent and fo fuccefsful have thefe pradtices been, 
that many of the natives, whofe huts or houfes are at no 
great diftance from each other, are afraid of vifiting in 
the night. 

The unfortunate people, who fall into the hands of the 
flave-hunters now mentioned, are difpofed of in the fol- 
lowing manner. If the place, in which they were kid- 
napped, is near the banks of the rivers, or the fea-fhore, 
they are fold to the fhips' boats, which are continually 
Ideating about, or conveyed to the (hips themfelves, or, if 
any faSories are in the neighbourhood, they are fold there. 
Thofe, on the other hand, who are kidnapped in the in- 
terior parts of the country, remote either from the rivers 
pr the fhore, are carried to the different markets in ths 

* 184.816 Gallons of Britiib fplrits were fent to the coaft In the year 
S^8§ frojp Liverpool alone* 

vicinity 



OF THE Human Species. 37 

vicinity of the place, where a price is paid for them, and 
from whence they are forwarded by the different travelling 
merchants, through a regular and eftablifhed route, for 
the fliips. 

But to return. While the robberies, which I have been 
defcribing, are carried on by the natives fettled in the in- 
teriour parts of the country, thofe, who go up the rivers, 
and occupy the large armed canoes mentioned in the pre- 
ceding chapter, are not behind them in depredation. Thefe 
carry on in places which are much frequented a fair trade. 
But when they come to a diftant and lonely inland town, 
where no danger is apprehended, it is cuftomary to intice 
the natives to a conference, to open a puncheon of fpirits 
for their entertainment, and to encourage intoxication* 
When matters are fufficiently ripe for their defign, the 
different parties of the canoe, who have been previoufly 
placed in ambuih, rufh fuddenly upon the intoxicated 
guefts, feize indifcriminately all they can, and force theni 
on board. This practice prevails, as opportunity offers. 
Nor are they backward, if, during their long route, they 
fhould meet with any folitary people either on the river or 
en the banks, in making them the vi6i:ims of their avarice. 
Now, if we confider the prodigious length of way which 
many of thefe canoes go, and the opportunities that are 
afforded them ; if we confider that regular markets are efta- 
blifhed through the interiour parts of the country to the 
diftance of twelve hundred miles from the water-fide ; that 
the fame tafte for European commodities prevails, and the 
fame inducements are held out to kidnap the unwary, 
throughout the whole of this extenfive fpace as upon the 
fea-fhore, we may very eafily conceive how great a pro- 
portion the kidnapped people muft make of the number 
annually tranfported into flavery. 

But I ftiall not reft the matter upon conje6l:ure as to 
the proportion, which I have ftated them to make, A. 
gentleman, who refided for fome time upon the coaft, 
who commanded alfo fhips in the trade, and whofe know- 
ledge of African cuftoms is fuperiour to that of moft, in- 
formed me that he fpoke two of the African languages : 
that he was therefore enabled to converfe with many of 
thofe who were put oti board his own fhip j and that he 
C3 had 



38 On the Slavery and Commerce 

had often the curlofity to Inquire of them, how they came 
into the fituation of ilaves. He aflured me that their al- 
moil unlverfal reply was, that they had been kidnapped, 
either at the fprings of water, or as they were travelKng 
upon the roads, or as they were cultivating their little 
plantations alone, and that he could take upon him to 
fay, (as far as his own inquiries went) that more than one 
half of the African flaves, that are annually fhipped to the 
European colonies, confill of kidnapped people. 

Another, v/ho had made five voyages to the coafl, and 
a man of equal veracity, gave me a fimilar account. I 
defired him to recoiled:, if he could, and to furnifh me 
with, the hiftory of any of thofe {laves on board his own 
Ihip, with which he might have become acquainted. 

The firft flave, he faid, that attrad:ed his notice, was 
a man of clever appearance, and who fpoke broken Eng- 
lifii. He v/as curious to know the circumltances that had 
reduced him to a ilave. Upon putting the queftion, the 
flave informed him that he had been invited to the houfe 
of a black trader to regale himfelf ; that others were pre- 
fent at the feall ; that, on a fudden, the guefls rofe up to 
feize him ; that he had agility fufficient to extricate him- 
felf from their hands, and that he fhould have certainly 
made his way to the woods, had not a large dog, v/hich 
was immediately fet upon him, prevented his efcape : 
feized and incumbered m this manner, he was caught and 
conduced to the (hip. 

The next perfon that caught his attention was a preg- 
nant woman. He wiihed to be made acquainted with 
the hiftory of her fituation ^ but, not knov/ing any lan^ 
guage which flie could underftand, he apphed to a black 
interpreter, of the name of Afou, who was then on board. 
By means of this m^an he was informed, that file had vi- 
fited a friend in a neighbouring village, but that, return- 
ing in the night, ihe was feized by a party of ruffians, 
who fold her to a black trader the next day. That this 
trader fold her to another ; and that, being pafTed through 
various hands, ftie came at length to the v/ater-fide, v/here 
(he v/as fold to the ihip. 

The third perfon, v/ith whofe hiflory he became ac- 
quainted, was kidnapped in his own fight. A black 

. trader 



05* T^E Human Sp^cies^ ^9 

trader had invited a countryman to come and fee him^ 
and, when the repaft was over, to fee a (hip, The coun- 
tryman confented. He ftepped into the trader's canoe, 
and was conduded to the fide of the veffel. He was look- 
ing up to her with wonder and furprize, when tv/o or three 
other traders, who were then on board, and in the fecret, 
jumped inftantly into the canoe, feized him, brought him 
up, and fold him. He bore his captivity with great forti- 
tude and refignation. 

To enumerate the many inftances, that could be traced 
only in one ihip, would be an endlefs tafk. I fliall there- 
fore look upon the ftatem.ent as incontrovertible. Should 
it be difputed, I have other inftances to produce. But I 
muft recolleft, that I may have probably been too prolific 
already, and that there are other claffes of fiaves, of which 
the reader will expert me to take fome notice. 

The fecond order of Haves, and by no means inconfider- 
able, confifts of thofe, whofe villages have been depopu- 
lated to obtain them. This pra6lice prevails much in the 
inland country, and is praftifed in different ways, accord- 
ing as the princes are more or lefs defpotick. 

The latter, apprehenfive of fome refiftance on the part 
of their fubjefts, are obliged to be more cautious. They 
ufually affemble their guards, and vifit the villages, which 
are to become the obje6ls of their avarice, in the nights 
Having furrounded them, and fet them on fire, they feizg 
fuch of the inhabitants as are endeavouring to efcape from 
the flames, and either fend them to a neighbouring market 
to be fold, or fell them to the different black traders that 
are conftantly travelling through their dominions. 

The latter, who have acquired an unlimited power over 
the lives and properties of their fubje6ls, have no neceffity 
either to devife fchemes, or to praftife them in the night. 
Among thefe is to be reckoned the prefent King of Daho- 
my. This prince, as if he imitated fome of the Roman 
Emperors, gives largeffes to his people on certain days* 
Thefe largeffes confift of cowries^ an article of European 
merchandize, which, as I ffated before, paffes for money 
in fome parts of the country. He is often fo prodigal oii 
thefe occafions, as to feel himfelf in want. Whenever 
this is the cafe, he feizes without any hefitation, one of 
C 4 hk 



40 On the Slavery and Commerce 

his own villages, and configns the innocent inhabitants to 
flavery, to fupply the lofs which his prodigality has occa- 
fioned. Some of his villagers, for particular reafons, have 
had an tndemnity from fervitude. But even thefe, in a 
fit of pafTion, have been feized, and fold contrary to the 
roj/al word : and, upon any remonftrance being made, the 
only anfwer has been, '* that they mujl oheyJ^ 

The third clafs confifts of fuch, as have been faid to be 
convicted of crimes. The Africans, before they were 
vifited by the Europeans, punlflied their delinquents much 
In the fame manner as other people in the fame fcage of 
fociety J but, fmce the introdu6i:ion of the flave-trade, all 
crimes have been punifhed with flavery. 

But this change, though it greatly increafed the num- 
ber of flaves, was found infufiicient either to anfwer the 
demands of the Europeans, or the avarice of the African 
princes. They were reduced therefore to the difficulty of 
inventing new crimes, that a greater number of criminals 
might be made and fold. Nor did the princes ftop here. 
New d\flin£lwns began to be made- in crimes,, that a ftill 
greater number of punifhments might fucceed. The of- 
fender, in the firft ftage or degree of his ofFence, now for- 
feits his own freedom ; in the fecond, that of the male 
part of his family together with his own ; in the third,^ 
the whole family fufFer ; and, in the fourth, the relations 
of the offender as far as they can be traced. 

Thefe refinements in judiciary proceedings and in 
crimes, are fuch as the rnoft civilized nations have not yet 
attained to, (though in fuch nations there muft always be 
a greater diversity of crimes than in thofe which are lefs 
improved) and fuch only as avarice and the commerce of 
the human fpecies could have infpired. One would have 
thought, unlefs acquainted with the hiftory of the ilave- 
trade, either that the natives of Africa had been a more 
malignant and vicious fociety of men than others, that 
fuch laws fhould have been neceflary ; or that their princes 
had been more pure and untainted ; and that, anxious to 
prevent vice in every poflible fhape, they had proceeded ta 
fuch feverities. But neither of thefe furmifes would have 
been true. The Africans are not fingular for their vices 5 
and their princes are fo far from being more pure,, that 

they 



OF THE Human Species. 41 

they are more corrupted than other foverelgns. To the 
avarice of thefe alone is to be attributed the nice diilinc- 
tions before mentioned, and fuch as even philofophers 
have not yet pretended to make, in crimes. 

In all good governments the happinefs of the fovereign 
is moft intimately connedted vv^ith the virtue of his fubjects ; 
but in Africa the cafe is othervi^ife. The prince is happy 
in proportion to their vices, and is fo far from wifliing 
them to be unfpotted with a crime, as often to intice themi 
to commit it. This is particularly the cafe upon the 
Gold Coafl". The adulterer there, as in other parts, for- 
feits his own freedom. This being an eilablifiied law, 
the princes place their riches and happinefs in the number 
of their mlflirefres or their wives. Thefe wives are ftn(9:ly 
comm.anded to go out, and to attem.pt to feduce the young 
and the unwary. Every perfon fo feduced and found out 
(and it is the bufmefs of the feducirefs to betray) forfeits 
his liberty, and becomes the property of the prince. 

The fourth clafs confifts of prifoners of war. 

Thefe are of two forts. The firft comprehends fuch, 
as are the efFeds of wars, that have originated in common 
caufes. The great princes of Africa, like the princes of 
Europe, are ambitious, jealous, fond of increafmg their 
revenue, their territory, or their power. Thefe, there- 
fore, engage in war from the fame motives as other fove- 
reigns, and fell their prifoners. 

The fecond comprehends fuch, as are the efFe6ls of 
wars, that have been made fojely for the purpofe of ob- 
taining them. Thefe, in point of number, greatly exceed 
the former. The princes, v/ho engage in fuch fkirmifhes, 
are generally the chieftains of fmall tribes. As foon as 
the fails of a velTel appear, they prepare for the attack. 
The inhabitants of the windward coaft, who live in fmall 
communities, perfedly unconneded with, and detached 
from, each other, are particularly to be included in this 
defcription. 

But this is not the only part of the coaft, where thefe 
pradiices are in force. Other tribes can be mentioned 
both up the Senegal and Gambia, who have no fooner 
feen a veiTel, than they have gone to war. Nor is the 
king of Darnel to be forgotten here, v/hofe conducl:, on a 

certain 



42 On the Slavery and Commerce 

certain occafion, I {hall now take an opportunity of ftating 
to the reader. 

Some vefTels had arrived at Goree to get flaves. The 
king had fent fome of his people into the inland country 
for the fake of procuring them. From fome accident or 
other, his hunters (if I may be allowed the expreflion) 
were detained, or at leaft fo detained, as not to return at 
the appointed time. He was enraged at their delay, and, 
though at that time in profound peace with the v/hole 
country round, he did not hefitate to lead out his forces, 
and attack a neighbouring tribe. The battle was fought 
with obftinacy on both fides. At length vi6tory declared 
in his favour. He obtained about one hundred and eighty 
prifoners, many of whom being feverely wounded foon 
died. About two hundred lay lifelefs in the field of battle^ 
ctid the greatcjl part of their chldren zvere murdered. 

This affords us one, among the many fpecimens that 
may be produced, of the happy effe6ls of an African bat- 
tle, and of the connection of the natives of Africa with 
the Europeans. Wherever the latter have had accefs to 
them, the rights of friendfhip, alliance, and confangui- 
nitv, have been caufed to be violated ; the ties of fo- 
ciety to be broken, and their fields to be deluged with 
blood. 

I (hall only obferve here, that this order of flaves is very 
inconfiderable, when compared with either of the former. 
For though the Africans are fupplied by the Europeans 
with arms and ammunition ; though wars are repeatedly 
made for the purpofe of procuring flaves, and their whole 
continent may be fiid to be continually in a blaze, yet the 
battles fought on thefe occafions are fo obftinate, and fo 
many are killed on both fides, that the furviving captives 
are few ; a circumfl:ance, which will be confirmed by an- 
other inftance in the fecond part of the prefent work. 

The fifth clafs comprehends thofe, who are flaves by 
birth. 

There are fome traders upon the coafl:, who have flaves 
in their pofleflion, and who make a practice of breeding 
from thefe, as a grazier from his Hock, for the purpofe of 
felling them to others. They are brought up to a certain 
sffe, when they are reckoned fakable. 

The 



OF THE Human Species. 41 

I'he fituatlon of thefe Haves is always truly diftreffing, 
as the ties of blood are conftantly broken, and f ithers, 
mothers, and children, feparated at the call of the Euro- 
pean trader. It frequently happens, that a woman is fe- 
leded for fale, v/ho has a child. The black trader never 
parts v/ith the latter, but referves it for a few years, till 
its age will ihfure him a certain price. This being an 
eftablifhed rule, the unhappy mother is obliged to leave it 
behind. I'he parting is truly melancholy and afFe61ing. 
No pen can pretend to defcribe it faithfully. Thus fepa- 
rated from her child, and fold into flavery, there are two 
calamities infl:antly to tear and afflict her mind ; and if I 
may add a third, it muft be in the thought that fhe has 
been obliged to bring into the world, and give fuck to a 
being, that lives only for the ufe of another, and who in a 
little time is to partake her fate. 

As to the child, it has certainly a refpite for fome years. 
But for what is it referved ? Food is given to it, as to the 
young of an horfe, to qualify it to become an inftrument 
of labour. Melancholy confideration ! to be obliged to 
eat and drink to fupport life, to be put only at lafl: into a 
iituation in which it is pain to live — to become the fiave 
of an European. 

There is fomething fo horrid in meditating upon the 
fituation of this clafs of fiaves, that I am at a lofs to de- 
fcribe it. 1 fhall therefore leave it to the reader, who 
may create a fubjedt, that will employ his reflection, and 
try his feelings. 

The fixth clafs confifts of fuch, as have facrinced their 
liberty to gaining. 

Some of thefe have been fo immoderately charmed, as 
when they have lofl: every thing elfe, to have flaked the 
liberty of their wives and children, and ultimately of 
themfelves. The family having thus, by another unfuc- 
cefsful turn, become the property of the winner, have 
been confignsd to flavery. 

That beings, endued with the faculties of men, fliould 
proceed to fuch extremities, is really unaccountable : nor 
would inflances of this fort find credit with any but the 
philofopher, who is intimately acquainted with the failings- 

of 



44 On the Slavery and Commerce 

of human nature and the folh'es of mankind, or with the 
hiftorian, who has fimilar fadls to produce. They are ne-» 
verthelefs true ; and the Africans are no more to be cen* 
fured for their weaknefs in this refpe6l, than others in the 
fame ftage of fociety. The Germans, having loft every 
thing elfe, ftaked, as I obferved in the flrft chapter, their 
perfonal liberty. Some of the Huns went ftill farther, 
and, having loft their military arms, which tliey efteem- 
ed beyond all their other poffeiHons, at laft ftaked their 
lives. 

The feventh and laft clafs confifts of fuch, as, having 
run into debt, are feized according to the laws of the 
country, and fold by their creditors. This clafs, like the 
former, is fo very inconfiderable, as fcarcely to deferve 
mention. I was unwilling, hov/ever, to omit them, hav- 
ing come to a knowledge of their exiftence. Perhaps an 
inftance or tv/o of this fort would not be unacceptable to 
the reader. 

An African, of the Mundingoe nation, had in the courfe 
of play loft all his poflefHons (which were confiderable) 
except three of his domeftick (laves. Thefe aifo he ftaked 
and loft. One of them, the bearer of his lance, thinking 
himfelf not obliged to fall a facrifice to his mafter's impru- 
dence, fecured himfelf by flight. The two that remained 
were immediately given up to the v/inner. But the maf- 
ter, having now nothing left, was feized to make up, by 
the fale of his own perfon, that debt which now accrued 
to the winner by the defertion of the third. Having thus, 
come into the power of a perfon, who was now his credi- 
tor, he was fold to a trader to pay the debt, and was im- 
mediately pafTed to the fbips. 

Another African, of the fame nation, and a man in 
years, had contra6i:ed a debt. The creditor infifted upon 
fecurity for the payment of it on a certain day, or he muft 
immediately be fold. The old man prevailed upon his 
grandfon to deliver himfelf up as a pledge, convincing him 
that he fnould be able to liberate him at the ftated time. 
In a fev/ hours after the payment became due, he arrived 
with articles fuificient to difcharge the debt, but to his 
great mortification found that his unfoitunate grandfon 

was 



THE Human Species. 45 

tvas then upon the point of fale. He inftantly fell at the 
feet of the creditor, intreated him to have pity upon his 
age, and to fuffer him to redeem his relation. But his 
intreaties were ineffeitual. His innocent graridfon was 
fold, forwarded to the fhips, and tranfported to the regions 
of {la very. 

It has been aflerted by fome that there is an eighth or- 
der of African flaves, confiftlng of fuch as are fold by 
their own parents. But this idea, upon a minute invefti- 
gation, has no foundation in truth. The Africans have 
as great an afiecStion for their children as any nation what- 
ever. When an African carries his flave to market, he 
fays he has brought his fo72. Hence arifes the miftake ; 
for the words fan and Jlave are * fynonymous with him. 
The European, however, has availed himfelf of the ex- 
preilion, for the purpofe of palliating the trade : falfely 
inferring, that if the Africans k\\ their own children (to 
which as parents he prefumes them to have a right) he has 
certainly a right to purchafe them. 

I have now mentioned the different clafTes of flaves, 
that are to be found on the African continent. It re- 
mains only to obferve, that in the fale and purchafe of 
thefe the African commerce or flave trade confifts ; that 
they are delivered to the captains of the European (hips in 
exchange for the various commodities mentioned in the 
preceding chapter 5 that thefe tranfport them to their re- 
fpeftive colonies in the weft, where their flavery takes 
place ; and that, having thus conveyed them to their la/i 
homes^ they return to Europe, there to fettle their ac- 
counts v/ith their employers, and to prepare their vefTels 
for another voyage. 

Having thus explained as much of the hlflory of mo- 
dern fervitude, as is fufficient for the profecution of my 
defign, I fhould have clofed my account here, but that a 
work, juft publifhed, has furnifhed me with a fmgular 
anecdote of the colonifls of a neighbouring nation, which 

* This Is by no means wonderful, as the fame word, which fignifies a 
fon or boy in the Latin, Greek^ and Hebrew languages, figniiies alio a 

I can* 



46 On the Slavery and Commerce 

I cannot but relate. The learned f author, having dc^ 
fcribed the method which the Dutch colonifts at the Cape 
make ufe of to take the Hottentots and enflave them, 
takes occafion, in many fubfequent parts of the work, to 
mention the dreadful effe6ls of the practice of flavery ; 
which, as hejuftly remarks, leads to all manner of mif- 
dcmeanours and wickednefs. " Pregnant women" fays 
he, *' and children in their tendereft years, were not at 
*' this time, neither indeed are they ever, exempt from 
'^ the efFe6ts of the hatred and fpirit of vengeance con- 
" ftantly harboured by the colonifts, with refpe6t to the 
" * Bofhies-man nation ; excepting fuch indeed as are 
*' marked out to he carried aivay into bondage. ^^ 

'' Does a colonift at any time get fight of a Bofliies- 
*' man, he takes fire immediately, and fpirits up his horfe 
•^^ and dogs, in order to hunt him with more ardour and 
'' fury than he would a wolf, or any other wild beaft ? 
" On an open plain, a few colonifts on horfeback are al- 
'^ ways fure to get the better of the greateft number of 
*' Bofhies-men that can be brought together ^ a? the for- 
*' mer alvv^ays keep at the diftance of about an hundred 
'' or an hundred and fifty paces (juft as they find it conve- 
" nient) and charging their heavy fire-arms with a very 
" large kind of fhot, jump off" their horfes, and reft their 
'' pieces in their ufual manner on their ramrods, in order 
'' that they may {hoot with the greater certaiqty ; fo that 
" the balls difcharged by them v/ill fometimes, as I have 
'^ been aftured, go through the bodies of fix, feven, or 
" eight of the enemy at a time, efpecially as thefe latter 
*^ know no better than to keep clofe together in a 
« body." 

*' And not only is the capture of the Hottentots confi- 
" dered by them merely as a party of pleafure, but in cold 
" blood they deftroy the bands which nature has knit be- 
*' tween their hufDands, and their wives and children, 
« 5cc." 

+ Andrew Span-nan, M. D. Profeflbr of Phyfick at Stockholm, Fel- 
low of the Royal Academy of Sciences in Sweden, and Infpedlor of it? 
Cabinet of Natural Hiftory, whofe voyage was tranflated into Englifhj 
and publilhed in 1785. 

* Bcihies-man, or 'Wild Hottentot, 

Ysmx 



OF THE Human Species. 47 

With what horrour do thefe paflages flrike us ! What 
indignation do they raife in our breafts, when we reFie(St, 
that a part of the human fpecies are confidered as game^ 
and that parties of pleafure are made for their dejlru^lon / 
The lion does not imbrue his claws in blood, unlefs called 
upbn by hunger, or provoked by interruption; whereas 
the mercilefs Dutch, more favage than the brutes them- 
felves, not only murder their fellow creatures without any 
provocation or neceflity, but even make a diverfion of their 
ilifferings, and enjoy their pain. 



jEiKjofth^FirftParto 



PART 



( 49 ) 



PART II. 



THE 



African Commerce^ 



O R 



SLAVE T Pv A D E. 



C H A Pe L 

TTAving explained the Hiftory of Slavery in the firft: part 
-"--^ of this Effay, as far as it was neceffary for my defign, 
I fhall now lake the quePcion into confideration, which I 
propofed at firft as the fubjecSt of my inquiry, viz. hov/ far 
the commerce and flavery of the human fpecies, as re- 
vived by fome of the nations of Europe in the perfons of 
the unfortunate Africans, and as revived, in a great msa- 
fure, on the principles of antiquity, are confiitent with 
the laws of nature, or the common notions of equity, as 
eftablifned among men. 

This queftion refolves itfeif into two feparate parts for dif- 
cuflion, into the African commerce (as explained in the hijtory 
ofjlavery) and the fubfeqiient Jlavery in the colonies^ asfoun-^ 
ded on the equity of the commerce. The former, of courfe 
will be firft examined. For this purpofe I ihall inquire 
firfl into the rife, nature, and defign of government. 

^ ' ' Such 



50 On the Slavery and Commerce 

Such an inquiry will be particularly ufeful in the preieiit 

place ; it will afford us that general knowledge of fubordina- 
tion and liberty, which is necefTary in the cafe before us, 
and will be found, as it were, a fource, to which we may 
frequently refer for many and valuable arguments. 

It appears that mankind were originally free, and that 
they polTefled an equal right to the foil and produce of the 
earth. For proof of this, w^e need only appeal to the dt-^ 
vine writings ; to the golden age of the poets, w^hich, like 
other fables of the times, had its origin in truth ; and to 
the inftitution of the Saturnalia^ and of other fmiilar fefti- 
vals ; all of which are fo many monuments of this origi- 
nal equality of men. Hence then there was no rank, 
no difl:in6tion, no fuperiour. Every man wandered where 
he chofe, changing his refidence, as a fpct attracted his 
fancy, or fuited his. convenience, uncontrouled by his 
neighbour, unconnedled with any but his family. Hence 
alfo (as every thing was common) he colle(Sled what he 
chofe U'ithout injury, and enjoyed without injury what he 
had colledted. Such was the firft fituation of mankind;*" 
a ilate of dijjociation and independence. 

In this diflbciated flate it is impoflible that men could 
have long continued. The dangers to which they muft 
have frequently been expofed, by the attacks of fierce 
and rapacious beafls, by the prcedatory attempts of their 
own fpecies, and by the difputes of contiguous and inde- 
pendent families ; thefe, together with their iaiability ta 
defend themfelves on many inch occafions, muft have in- 
cited them to unite. Hence then was fociety formed on 
the grand principles of prefervation and defence : and as 
thefe principles began to operate, in the different parts of 
the earth, where the different families had roamed, a great 
number of thefe focieties began to be formed and efta- 
blilhed ; which, taking to themfelves particular names 
from particular occurrences, began to be perfedly diftin(^ 
from one another. 

As the individuals, of whom thefe focieties were com- 
pofed, had aflbciated only for their defence, fo they expe- 

* Tiris conelufion concerning the diffoclated ftate of mankind, is con- 
firmed by all the early writers, with whole defcriptioxis of primitive 
times no other conclufion is reconcileable. 

rienced^ 



OF THE Human Species* ^i 

nenced, at firft, no change in their condition. They 
were ftill independent and free; they were ftill without 
difcipline or laws ; they had every thing ftill in common ; 
they purfued the fame manner of life ; wandering only, in 
herds^ as the earth gave them or refufed them fuftenance ; 
and doings as TipubUck hocl)\ what they had been accuflom- 
ed to do as individuals before. This was the exa6l fitua-= 
tion of the *Getae and Scythians^ of the f Lybians and 
Gcetulians, of the [f: Italian Aborigines, and of the || Huns 
and Alans. They had left their original ftate oi d'ljfocia-^ 
thn^ and had ftepped into that, which has been juft de- 
fcribed. Thus was the fecond fituation of men a ftate of 
independent fociety. 

Having thus joined themfelves together, and having 
formed themfelves into feveral large and diftinii bodies^, 
they could not fail of fubmitting foon to a more confider- 
able change. Their numbers mufl have rapidly in- 
creafed, and their focieties, in procefs of time, have be- 
come fo populous, as frequently to have experienced the 
want of fubliftence, and many of the commotions and tu- 
mults ofinteftine Itrife. For thefe inconveniencies how- 
ever there were remedies to be found. Agriculture would 
furnifh them with that fubfillence and fupport, which the 
earth, from the rapid increafe of its inhabitants, had be- 
come unable fpontaneoufly to produce. An ajftgnat'ion of 
property v/ould not only enforce an application, but excite 
an emulation, to labour ; and government would at once 
afford a fecurity to the acquifitions of the indulirious, and 
heal the inteiline diforders of the community, by the intro- 
dudtion of laws. 

Such then were the remedies, that were gradually ap- 
plied. ^\\Q focieties^ which had hitherto k^n their mem- 
bers undiftinguifhed either by authority or rank, admit- 
ted now of magiftratical pre-eminence. They were di- 
vided into tribes ; to every tribe was allotted a particular 
diftri6l for its fupport, and to every individual according 
D 2 to 

* Juftin. L. 2. C. a. 

fSalluft. Bell. Jug. 

X Salluft. Bell. Catil. 

H Ammianus Marcellinus. L> 31. C. 2* et infe^j. 



52 On the Slavery and Commerce 

to his dignity his particular fpot. * The Germans, who 
confifted of many and various nations, were exactly in 
this fituation. They had advanced aftep beyond the Scy- 
thians, GcetuHans, and thofe whom I defcribed before ; 
and thus was the third fituation of mankind a ftate of fub- 
ordinate focicty. 



CHAP. II. 

As I have thus traced the fituation of man from un- 
bounded Hberty to fubordination, it will be proper to carry 
my inquiries farther, and to confider, who firft obtained 
the pre-eminence in the(c primcevaifocietiesy and by vi^hat 
particular methods it was obtained. 

There were only two ways, by which fuch an event 
could have been produced, by compuI/io?i or confent. When 
mankind iirfl: faw the neceflity of government, it is pro- 
bable that many had conceived the defire of ruling. To 
be placed in a nev/ fituation, to be taken from the com- 
mon herd, to be the firil:, diftinguifhed among men, v/ere 
thoughts that muft have had their charms. Let us fup- 
pofe then, that thefe thoughts had worked fo unufually 
on the painons of any particular individual, as to have 
driven him to the extravagant defign of obtaining the pre- 
eminence by force. Hov/ could this defign have been ac- 
complifhed f How could he forcibly have ufarped the ju- 
rifdiclion at a time, when, all equally free, there was not 
a fingle perfon, whofe affiftance he could command ? Add 
to this, that, in a ftate of univerfal liberty, force had been 
repaid by force, and the attempt had been fatal to the 
ufurper. 

As empire then could never have been gained at firft by 
compulfion^ fo it could only have been obtained by confent j 
and as men were then going to make an important facri- 
fice, for the fake of tneir mutual happineft, fo he alone 
could have obtained it, (not whofe amhrtion had greatly 

* Agri pro Numero Cultorum ab unlverils per vlcos occupantur, quos 
mox inter fe fecundum dignationem partiuntur. Tacitus. C. 26, de 
Mor. Gerna. 

diftinguifhed 



OF THE Human Species. 



53 



diftlnguifhed him from the reft) but in whofe wifdom^ juf-- 
ttcBy prudence^ and virtue^ the whole community could con- 
fide. 

To confirm this reafoning, I fhall appeal, as before, to 
fafts J and {hall confult therefore the hiftory of thofe na- 
tions, which having juft left their former frate oi indepen- 
dent foci eiy^ were the very people th:xt ei^MUhed Jubordina- 
tion and government. 

The commentaries of Casfar afford us the following ac- 
counts of the ancient Gauls. When ariy of their kings, 
either by death, or depofition, made a vacancy in the re- 
gal office, the whole nation v/as immediately convened for 
the appointment of a fucceflbr. In thefe national conven- 
tions were the regal offices conferred. Every individual 
had a voice on the occafion, and every individual was free. 
The perfon upon whom the general approbation appeared 
to fail, v/as immediately advanced to pre-eminence in the 
ftate. He was uniformly one, whofe a6lions had made 
him eminent ; whofe condudl had gained him previous 
applaufe ; whofe valour the very ailembly, that defied 
him, had themfelves v/itneiied in the field ; whofe pru- 
dence, wifdom and juftice, having rendered him fignally 
ferviceable, had endeared him to his tribe. For this rea- 
fon, their kingdoms v/ere not hereditary ; the fon did not 
always inherit the virtues of the fire ; and they were de- 
termined that he alone fhould poiTefs authority, in whofe 
virtues they could confide. Nor was this all. So fenfible 
v/ere they of the important facrifice they had made ; fo ex~ 
tremely jealous even of the nameoffuperiorlty and power, 
that they limited, by a variety of laws, the authority of the 
very perfon whom they had jufl: elected from a confidence 
of his integrity ; Ambiorix himfelf confefiing, '^ that his 
" people had as much power over him, as he could poffibly 
" have over his people." 

The fame cuftom, as appears from Tacitus, prevailed 
alfo among the Germans. They had their national coun- 
cils, like the Gauls j in which the regal and ducal offices 
were confirmed according to the majority of voices. They 
elected alfo, on thefe occafions, thofe only, whom their 
virtue, by repeated trial, had unequivocally diftinguiihed 
from th? reft 3 and they limited their authority fo far, ^s 
D ? neither 



54 On the Slavery and Commerce 

neither to leave them the power of inflicling impriroiir 
merit or ftripcs, nor of exercifing any penal jurifdi^tion. 
But as punifhment was ncceflary in aftate of civil fociety, 
" it v/as permitted to the priefts alone, that it m.ight ap- 
*' pear to have heen infiifted by the order of the gods, 
^' and not by 2i\-\y fuper'iour authority in 7nan.^' 

The accounts which I have thus given of the ancient 
Germans and Gauls, will be found alfo to be equally true 
of thofe people, which had arrived at the fame flate of 
fubordinate fociety. I might appeal, for a teftimony of 
this, to the hiffiory of the Goths ; to the hiftory of the 
Franks and Saxons ; to the hifrory, in fhort, of all thole 
nations, from which the different governments, nov»7 con- 
fpicuous in Europe, have undeniably fprung. And I 
might appeal, as a farther proof, to the Americans, who 
are reprefented by many of the moderns, from their own 
ocular teftimony, as obferving the fame cuftoms at the 
prefent day. 

It remains only to obferve, that as thefe cuftoms pre- 
vailed among the different nations defcribed in their early 
ftate of fubordinate fociety, and as they were moreover the 
cuftoms of their refpe£l:ive anceftors, it appears that they 
muft have been handed down, both by tradition and ufe, 
from the firft introdudtipn of government. 



CHAP. Ill, 

I may now deduce thofe general maxims concerning 
fuhordinatioriy and liberty^ which I mentioned to have been 
"eflentialiy conne6led v/ith the fubjeft, and which fome, 
from fpeculation only, and without any allufion to fa£ts, 
have been hold enough to deny. 

It appears firft, that liberty is a natural^ and gsvermnent 
an adventitious right, becaufe all men were originally 
free. 

It appears fecondly, that government is a conira6l ; be- 
caufe, in thefe primoeval fubordinate focieties, we have 
feen it voluntarily conferred on the one hand, and accept- 
ed on the other. We have {tzxi it fubjeifl: to various re- 
flriclions. We have {^zn its articles, which could then 

only 



OF THE Human Species. 55 

only be written by tradition and ufe, as perfe6iand binding 
as thofe, which are now committed to letters. We have 
feen it, in ihort, partaking of the y^^^r.^/ nature, as much 
as it could in a ftate, which wanted the means of record- 
ing Its tranfatStions. 

It appears, thirdly, that the grand objeit of the contra^^ 
is the happinefs of the people ; becaufe they gave the fu- 
premacy to him alone, who had been confpicuous for the 
fplendour of his abilities, or the integrity of his life : that 
the pov/er of the multitude being directed by the wifdom 
zndjujike of the prince, they might experience the moll 
eiFe&ual protedion from injury, the higheft advantages of 
fociety, the greateft poflible happinefs. 



CHAP. IV. 

Having now colle6^ed the materials that are neceflary 
for the profecution of my defign, I fhall immediately enter 
upon the difcuffion. 

If any man bad originally been endued with power, as 
with other faculties, fo that the reft of mankind had difco- 
vered in themfelves an innate necejjity of obeying this par- 
ticular perfon ; it is evident that he and his defcendants, 
from the fuperiority of their Viature, vi^ould have had a claim 
upon men for obedience, and a natural right to command : 
but as the right to empire is adventitious ; as all were ori- 
ginally free ; as nature made every man's body and mind 
his own ; it is evident that no juft man can be juftly con- 
figned to Jlavery^ without his own confent. 

Neither can men, by the fame principles, be confidered 
as lands, goods, or houfes, 2iVnong pojjejjions . It is necef- 
fary that all property fhould be inferiour to its po(pj[[or. 
But how does the JIave differ from his mojler^ but by 
chance ? For though the mark, with which the latter is 
pleafed to brand him, (hews, at the firft fight, the diiFer- 
ence of t\\Q.h' fortune j what mark can be found in his na- 
ture^ that can warrant a diftinft ion ? 

To this confideration I fliall add the follov^rlng ; that if 
men can juftly become the property of each other, their 
children, like the oftspring of cattle, muft- inherit their pa^ 

D 4 ternal 



55 On the Slavery and Commerce 

tenia! lot. Now, as the adions of the father and the 
child muft be thus at the fole difpofal of their common 
mafter, it is evident, that the authority of the one, as a 
parent^ and the duty of the other, as a child^ muft be in- 
itantly annihilated ; rights and obligations, which, as they 
are founded in nature, are implanted in our feelings, and 
are eftablifhed by the voice of God, muft contain in their 
annihilation a foiid argument to prove, that there cannot be 
znj property whatever in the hu?nanfpecies. 

I may confider alfo, as a farther confirmation, that it is 
impoliible, in the nature of things, that liberty can be 
hought or pAd! It is neither faleahle^ nor purchafable. For 
if any one man can have an abfolute property in the liber- 
ty of another, or, in other words, if he, who is called a 
rnqfter^ can have a juji right to command the actions of 
him, who is called 2ijlave^ it is evident that the latter can-t 
not be accountable for thofe crimes, which the former may 
order him to commit. Now as every reafonable being is 
accountable for his actions, it is evident, that fuch a right 
cannot ju/Uy exift, and that human liberty, of courfe, is 
beyond the poffibility either oi fale ov purchaje. Add to 
this, that, whenever you fell the liberty of a man, you have 
the power only of alluding to the body: the ;;2/W cannot 
be confined or bound : it will be free, though its manfion 
be befet with chains. But if, in every fale of the human 
/peciesj you are under the neceflity of confidering your 
ilave in this abftradled light ; of alluding only to the 
body, and of making no allufion to the mind ; you are un- 
der the neceirity alfo of treating him, in the fame moment, 
as a brtite^ and of abufing therefore that nature, which can- 
not otherwife be confidered, than in the double capacity 
of foul and body. 

But fome perfon, perhaps, will make an objc6lion to one 
of the former arguments. '' If men, from the fuperiority 
'' of their nature, cannot be confidered, like lands, goods, 
" or houfes, among pofteffions, fo neither can cattle : for 
^' being endued vv'ith life, motion, and fenfibility, they are 
*' evid^mlyfuperiour to thefe." But this objection will 
receive its aiif/^^er from thofe obfervations which have been 
already made ; and will difcover the true reafon, why cat- 
tle are juftJy to be efdmated as property. For firft, the 

right 



OF THE Human Species, 



57 



nght to empire over brutes, is natural^ and not adventiti- 
^?^j, like the right to empire over men. There are, fe- 
condly, many and evident figns of the inferiority of their 
nature ; and thirdly, their liberty can be bought and fold, 
becaufe, being void of reafon, they cannot be accountable 
for their adions. 

I might flop here for a confiderable time, and deduce 
many valuable leffons from the remarks that have been 
made, but that fuch a circumftance might be coniidered as 
a digreffion. There is one, hovi^ever, Vv^hich, as it is fo 
intimately conne£led v/ith the fubjed, I cannot but de- 
duce. We are taught to treat men in a different manner 
from brutes, becaufe they are fo manifeffly fuperiour in 
their nature; we are taught to treat brutes in a different 
manner from ffones, for the fame reafon ; and thus, by- 
giving to every created thing its due refped, to anfv/er the 
views of Providence, which did not create a variety of na- 
tures without a purpofe or dellgn. 

But if thefe things are fo, hov/ evidently againll reafon, 
nature, and every thing human and divine, m.ufl they a6^, 
who not only force men mtoJJaveryy againfl their own coji^ 
fent^ but treat them altogether as brutes^ and make the 
natural liberty of man an article of publick commerce I 
and by what arguments can they poffibly defend that com- 
merce, which cannot be carried on, inanyfmgle inilance, 
without a flagrant violation of the laws of nature and of 
Cod? 



CHAP. V. 

That I may the more accurately examine the arguments 
that are advanced on this occafion, it will be proper to di- 
vide the commerce into two parts ; firft, as it relates to 
thofe who fell^ and fecondly, as it relates to thofe who 
purchafe^ the himian /pedes into fiavery. To the former 
part of which, having given every previous and necefTary 
information in the hiftory of fiavery, I fhall immediately 
proceed. 

I fhall inquire firfl, by what particular right the liberties 
of the harmlefs people are invaded bv the prince- " By 

" the 



58 On the Slavery and Commerce 

*' the right of empire^'' it will be anfwered ; " becaufehe 
'' pofleiles dominion and power by their own approbation 
^' and confent." But fubje6ls, though under the domi- 
nion, are not the property of the prince. They cannot 
be confidered as his pojfcjjions. Their natures are both 
the fame ; they are both born in the fame manner ; are 
fubje6l to the fame diforders ; muft apply to the fame re- 
medies for a cure ; are equally partakers of the grave : 
an incldenial ^i^mcXion accompanies them through life, and 
this- is all. 

I may add to this, that though the prince poflefTes domi- 
nion and power, by the confent and approbation of his 
fubje61:s, he pofTelles it only for the moll falutary ends. 
He may tyrannize, if he can : he may alter the form of his 
government : he cannot, however, alter its nature and 
£nd, Thefe will be immutably the fame, though the 
whole fvftem of its adminiftration fiiould be changed ; and 
he will be ftill bound to defend the lives and properties of 
his fubjecls, and to make them happy. 

Does he defend thofe therefore, whom he invades at 
difcretion with the fword ? Does he prote61: the property of 
thofe, whofe houfes and effects he configns at difcretion to 
the flames ? Does he make thofe happy, whom he feizes, 
as they are trying to efcape the general devaftation, and 
compels with their wives and families to a wretched /^rW- 
iude ? He a^ls furely, as if the ufe of empire confifted in 
violence and oppreffion ; as if he, that was moft exalted, 
ought, of neceffity, to be moft unjuft. Here then the 
voice oi nature 2.ndjufice is againft him. He breaks that 
law oi nature^ which ordains, '^ that no juft man fhall be 
^-^ given into llavery, againft his own confent :" he violates 
the firft law oi jiflice^ as eftablifhed among men, " that 
^' no perfon fliail do harm to another without a previous 
*' and {u?tiQ.\ei\t provocation 'y' and he violates alfo the fa- 
cred condition of empire^ made with his anceftors, and ne- 
ceflai-ily underftood in every fpecies of government, " that, 
*' the power of the multitude being given up to the wif- 
*' dom and juftice of the prince, they may experience, in 
" return, the moft efre6lual protection from injury, the 
^' hi2;heft advantages of focietv, the greateft poffible hap^ 

But 



OF THE Human Species, ^^ 

But If kings then, to whom their own people have grant-- 
ed dominion and power, are unable to invade the liberties 
of their harmlefs fubjet^tis, without the higheft injufiice ; 
how can thofe private perfons be juftilied, who treacher- 
oufly lie in v/ait for their fellow-creatures, and fell therti 
into flavery ? What arguments can they poffibly bring in 
their defence ? What treaty of empire can they produce, 
by v/hich their innocent victims ever refigned to them the 
leafc portion of their liberty? In vain will they plead the 
mtiqidty of the cuftom : in vain will the honourable light, 
in which piracy was confidered in the ages of barbarifm, 
afford them an excufe. Impious and abandoned men ! 
ye invade the liberties of thofe, v/ho, (vWth refpetS: to your 
impious felves) are in a ftate oi nature^ in a ftate of origi- 
nal dijjoaation^ perfectly independent^ perfectly free. 

It appears then, that the two orders of llaves, which 
have been mentioned in the hiftory of the African fervi- 
tude, " of thofe who are publickly feized by virtue of the 
'' authority of their prince ; and of thofe, who are pri- 
" vately kidnapped by individuals," are colle£led by means 
of violence and oppreffion ; by means, repugnant to na^ 
ture^ the principles of government^ and the common no- 
tions of equity^ as eftablifhed among men. 



CHAP. VI. 

I Gome now to the third order of* involuntary flaves, 
'^ to convids." The only argument that the fellers ad- 
vance here, is this, " that they have been found guilty of 
" offences, and that the punifhment is jull." But before 
the equity of the fentence can be allowed, two queflions 
muft be decided, whether the punifhment is proportioned 
to the offence, and what is its particular ohje5i and end? 

* In the ancient fervitude, I reckoned conv]<lls among the voluntary 
flaves, becaufe they had it in their power, by a virtuous conduft, to have 
avoided fo melancholy a fituation. In the African, I include them in the 
in-volunta'y, becaufe as virtues are frequently conftrued into crimes for tlie 
venal motives of the traffick, no perfon whatever pofleffes fuch zpoiver or 
choke. 

To 



6o On the Slavery and Commerce 

To decide the firft, I may previoufly obferve, that the- 
African fervitude comprehend; hantjhment^ a deprivation 
of liberty^ and many corporal {\iihs'n:\os. 

On banijhmentj the following obiervations will fuffice. 
Mankind have their local ai:tad.,nents. Tbey have a par- 
ticular regard for the fpot, in which they were born and 
nurtured. Here it was, that they firfl drev/ their infant- 
breath : here, that they were cherifhed and fjpported : here, 
that they pafTed thofe fcenes of childhood, v/hich, free from 
care and anxiety, are the happieft in the life of man ; fcenes, 
which accompany them through life ; which throw them- 
felves frequently into their thoughts, and produce the moft 
agreeable fenfations. Thefe then are weighty confidera- 
tions, and how great this regard is, may be evidenced from 
our own feelings ; from the teftimony of fome, who, when 
remote from their country, and in the hour of danger and 
diftrefs, have found their thoughts unufually dire6ted, by 
ibme impulfe or other, to their native fpot ; and from the 
exam^ple of others, who, having braved the ftorms and ad- 
verfities of life, either repair to it for the remainder of their 
days, or defire even to be conveyed to it, v/hen exiftence is 
jio more. 

But feparately from thcfe their local^ they have alfo their 
perfonal attachments; their regard for particular men. 
There are ties of blood ; there are ties of friendfliip. In 
the former cafe, they muft of neceflity be attached : the 
conilitutlon of their nature demands it. In the latter, it 
is impoffibk to be otherwife ; fmce friendfhip is founded on 
an harmony of temper, on a concordance of fentiments 
and manners, on habits of confidence, and a mutual ex- 
change of favours. 

I may now mention, as perfe6i:ly diftin6l both from their 
heal a,\\(i perfonal^ the national attachments of mankind, 
their regard for the whole body of the people, among 
whom they were born and educated. This regard is par- 
ticularly confpicuous in thecondu6l offuch, as, being thus 
natiofially connected, refide in foreign parts. How anxi- 
oufly they meet together ! how much they enjoy the fight 
of others of their countrymen, vv^hom fortune places in 
their way ! what an eagernefs they fhew to ferve them^ 
though not born on the fame particular fpot, though not 

connedled 



OF THE Human Species. 6i 

conne^led by confanguinity or friendfhip, though unknown 
to them before ! Neither is this affection wonderful, fmce 
they are creatures of the fame education ; of the fame 
principles; of the fame manners and habits; call, as it 
were, in the fame mould, and marked with the fame im- 
preilion. 

If men therefore are thus feparately attached to the feve- 
ral objedb defcribed, it is evident ihat a feparate excluliori- 
from either mufl: alFord them confiderable pain. What 
then muft be their fufterings, to be forced for ever from 
their country, which includes them all ? Which contains 
the/pot^ in which they v/ere born and nurtured ; which 
contains their relations snd friends; which contains the 
whole body of the people^ among whom they were bred and 
educated. In thefe fiifferings, which arife to men, both 
in bidding, and in having bid adieu, to all that they efteem 
as dear and valuable, hamfDment confifrs in part ; and we 
may agree therefore with the ancients, v/ithout adding other 
melancholy circumftances to the account, that it is no in- 
confiderable punifhment of itfelf. 

With refpe6l to the lofs of libert)\ which is the fecond 
conlideration in the puni(hm.ent, it is evident that men 
bear nothing worie ; that there is nothing, that they lay 
more at heart ; and that they have ihewn, by many and 
mem.orable inftances, that even death is to be preferred. 
How m.any could be named here, who, having fufFered th^ 
lofs of liberty^ have put a period to their exigence ! How 
many, that have willingly undergone the hazard of their 
lives t^; deftroy a tyrant i How many, that have even glo- 
ried to perifh in the attempt ! How many bloody and pub- 
lick v/ars have been undertaken (not to mention the nume- 
rousferviie infurrediions, with which hiftory is flained) for 
the caufe o^ freedom I 

But if nothing is dearer than /V^^riiy tomen, with v/hich, 
the barren rock is able to afford its joys, and without 
which, the glorious fun fhines upon them but in vain, and 
all the fweets and delicacies of life are taftejefs and unen- 
joyed ; what punifhment can be more fevere than the Ids 
of fo great a bjefiing ? But if to this deprivation of liberty^ 
we add the agonizing pangs of banifiment ; and if to the 
complicated flings of both, we add the incelTanty?;7^^j-j 

wounds^ 



62 On the Slavery and Commerce 

wounds^ and mifcries^ which are undergone by thofe, wh(y 
are fold into this horrid fervitude ; what crime can we 
poflibly imagine to be fo enormous, as to be worthy of fo 
great a punifliment ? 

How contrary then to reafon, juftice, and nature, muft 
thofe a6l, who apply this, the fevercfl: of human punifh- 
ments, to the moft infignificant oiFence ! yet fuch is the 
cuflom with the Africans : for, from the time, in which 
the Europeans firft intoxicated the African princes with 
their foreign draughts, no crime has been committed, no 
fliadow of a crime devifed, that has not immediately been 
punifhed w'xth fervitude . 

But for what purpofe is the punifliment applied ? Is it 
applied to amend the manners of the criminal, and thus 
render him a better fubje6l ? No, for if you banifli him, he 
can no longer be a fubjeit, and you can no longer therefore 
be felicitous for his morals. Add to this, that if you ba- 
nifli him to a place, where he is to experience the hardfhips 
of want and hunger (fo powerfully does hunger compel 
men to the perpetration of crimes) you force him rather 
to corrupt, than amend his manners, and to be wicked, 
when he might otherwife be juft. 

Is it applied then, that others may be deterred from the 
fame proceedings, and that crimes may become lefs fre- 
quent ? No, but that avarice may be gratified ; that the 
prince may experience the emoluments of the fale : for, 
horrid and melancholy thought ! the more crimes his fub- 
je6ls commit, the richer is he made ; the more abandoned 
the fubjedt, the * happier is the prince ! 

Neither can I allow that the punifbment thus applied, 
tends in any degree to anfwer the puhhck happinefs , for if 
men can be fentenced to flavery, right or wrong ; if fha- 
dows can be turned into fubft ances, and virtues into crimes j. 
it is evident that none can be happy, becaufe none can be 
fecure. 

But if the punifliment is Infinitely greater than the of- 
fence, (which has beenfliewn before) and if it is inflicted, 
neither to amend the criminal, nor to deter others from the 

* The reader probably recollefts the condu£l of the princes upon the 
Gold Coaft, mentioned in the firfl part of this EfTay, and in the loth 
chapter. 

fame 



OF THE Human Species. 63 

fame proceedings, nor to advance, in any degree, the hap- 
pinefs of the publick, it is fcarce neceiTary to obfervCj 
that it is totally unjuft, fince it is repugnant to reafon^ the 
dictates of nature^ and the very principles of govern-^ 
ment% 



CHAP. VIL 

I come now to the fourth order of ilaves, to pnfoners if 
war. As xh^ fellers lay a particular ilrefs on this order of 
men, and infer much, from its antiqvity^ in fupport of the 
juftice of their caufe, I ihall examine the principle, on v/hick 
it fubfnled among the ancients. But as this principle was 
the fame among all nations, and as a citation from many 
of their hiftories Vv^ould not be lefs tedious than unnecef- 
far).^, I fhall fele6i: the example of the Romans for the con- 
fideration of the cafe. 

The law, by which prifoners of war were faid to be 
fentenced to fervitude, was the* law of nations. It was 
fo called from the univerfal concurrence of nations in the 
cuftom. It had two points in view, the perfo?is of th« 
captured^ and their effeSh ; both of which it immediately 
fentenced, without any of the ufual forms of h.\\\ to be the 
property of the captors. 

The principle, on which the law was efLablilhed, was- 
the right of capture. Vv^hen any of the contending par« 
ties had overcome their opponents, and were about to de- 
ilroy them, the right was confidered to commence ; a 
right, which the vi6t:ors conceived themfelves to have, to 
recall their fwords, and, from the confideration of having 
faved the lives of the vanquifhed, when they could have 
taken them by the laws of v/ar, to commute blood for fer- 
vice. Hence the Roman lawyer, Pomponius, deduces the 
etymologv olfla^ue in the Roman language. % " They were 
" called 7^r<z;;, fays he, from the following circumftance- 
^' It is ufual with our commanders, when they take pri- 

* Jure Gentium fervi noftri funt, qui ab Fioftlbus capiuntur. 

juftinian, L. I. 5. 5. I. 
\ Servorum appellatio ex eo fluxit, quod imperatores noftri captivo* 
vendere, ac ^zx hoz fervarci nee occidsre folent* 

^* foner?^ 



64 On the Slavery and Commerce 

" Toners, to fell them : now this circumftance implies^ 
" that thefe prifoners muft have been />r<^rz;^i people, and 
*' hence the name." Such then was the right of capture^ 
It was a right, which the circumftance of taking the van- 
quifhed, that is, of preferving them alive, gave the con- 
querors to their perfons. By this right, as always includ- 
ing the idea of a previous prefervation from death, || the 
vanquifhed were faid to he Jlaves ; and, " as all flaves," 
fays Juftinian, " are themfelves in the power of others, 
" and of courfe can have nothing of their own, fo their 
" effects followed the condition of their perfons, and be- 
" came the property of the captors." 

To examine this right, by which the vanquifhed are faid 
to be flaves, I fhall ufe the words of a celebrated Roman 
author, and apply them to the prefent cafe, f " If it is 
" lawful," fays he, " to deprive a man of his life, it is 
" certainly not inconfiftent with nature to rob him ;" to 
rob him of his liberty. I admit the conclufion to be juft, 
if the fuppofition be the fame : I allow, if men have a 
right to commit that, which is confidered as a greater 
crime, that they have a right, at the fam.e inftant, to com- 
mit that, which is confidered as a lefs. But what (hall I 
fay to the hypothefis ? I deny it to be true. The voice of 
nature is againft it. It is not lav/ful to kill, but on necef- 
Jiiy, Had there been a necefHty, where had the Vv^retched 
"captive furvived to be broken with chains and fervitude ? 
The very a6l of faving his life is an argument to prove, 
that no fuch neceffity exifted. The conclufion is therefore 
falfe. The captors had no right to the lives of the cap- 
tured, and of courfe none to their liberty : they had no 
right to their bloody and of courfe none to their ferv ice. 
Their right therefore had no foundation in juftice. It 
was founded on a principle, contrary to the law of nature, 
and of courfe contrary to that law, which people, under 
different governments, are bound to obferve to one ano* 
ther. 



11 Nam five vidorlbus Ji/rs capthhath ferviffent, &c. Juftin, L: 4. 3< 
et paflim apud fcj-lptores antiquos. 

It 



+ Neque eft contra naturam fpoliare eum, fi polTis, quem honeftum 
eH: necare, Cicero ds officiis. L, 3. 6. 



OF THE Human Species. 65 

It is fcarce necefTary to obferve, as a farther teftlmony 
bf the injuftlce of the rneafure,- that the Europeans, after the 
introdu(3:ion of ChrifHanity, exploded this principle of the 
ancients, as frivolous and falfe ; that they fpared the lives 
of the vanquifhed, not from the fordid motives of avarice^ 
but from a confcioufnefs that homicide could only be juf- 
tified by necejjity ; that they introduced an exchange of pri^ 
foners, and, by many and wife regulations, deprived war 
of many of its former horrours. 

But the advocates for flavery, unable to defend them- 
felves againft thefe arguments, have fled to other refour- 
ces, and, ignorant of hiftory, have denied that the right of 
capture was the true principle, on which flavery fubfifted 
among the ancients. They reafon thus. " The learned 
Grotius, and others, have confidered flavery as the juffc 
confequence of a private war, (fuppofmg the war to be 
juft, and the opponents in a ftate of nature), upon the 
principles of reparation and pimijhment. Now as the law 
of nature, which is the rule of conduft to individuals in 
fuch a fituation, is applicable to members of a different 
community, there is reafon to prefume, that thefe princi- 
ples were applied by the ancients to their prifonersofwar ; 
that their effeSis were confifcated by the right of repara- 
tion^ and their perfons by the right of punt/b/nent." 

But fuch a prefumption is falfe. The right of capture 
was the only argument that the ancients adduced in their 
defence. Hence Polybius ; " What mufl they, (the Man- 
*' tinenfes) fuffer, to receive the punifhment they deferve ? 
*' Perhaps it will be faid, that they mu/i befold^ when they 
*' are taken^ with their wives and chddren into JJavery : 
" But this is not to be confidered as a punilliment, fmce 
'' even thofe fuffer it, by the laws of war, who have done 
*' nothing that is bafe." The truth is, that both the of- 
fending and the oj^W^i parties, whenever they werevldo- 
rious, inflicted flavery alike. But if the offending party in- 
flicted flavery on the perfons of the vanquifhed, by what 
right did they inflict it ? It mufl: be anfwered from the 
prefumption before-mentioned, " by the right of repara- 
*' tion^ or of punifhment ; an anfwer plainly abfurd and 
contradidory, as it fuppofes the aggreffor to have a rights 
which the injured only could poffefs. 

E Neither 



66 OxN' THE Slavery and Commerce 

Neither is the argument lefs fallacious than the pre- 
fumption, in applying thefe principles, which in a publici 
war could belong to the piihlick only, to the perfons of the 
individuals that were taken. This calls me again to the 
hiftory of the ancients, and, as the rights of reparation 
and punifhment could extend to thofe only, who had been 
injured, to fele6t a particular inftance for the confideratioii 
of the cafe. 

As the Romans had been injured without a previous 
provocation by the conduct of Hannibal at Saguntum, I 
fhall take the treaty into confideration, which they made 
with the Carthaginians, when the latter, defeated at Za- 
ma, fued for peace. It confifted of three articles. *By 
the firft, the Carthaginians were to be free, and to enjoy 
their own conftitution and laws. By the fecond, they 
were to pay a confidcrable fum of money, as a reparation 
for the damages and expence of war : and, by the third, 
they were to deliver up their elephants and fliips of war, 
and to be fubjccfc to various reftriclions, as a punifhment. 
With thefe terms they complied, and the war was finiftied . 

Thus then did the Romans make that diftin6lion be- 
tween /^r/y^?/^ and publick war, which was necefiary to be 
made, and which the argument is fallacious in not fup- 
pofmg. The treafury of the vanquifhed was marked as 
the means of reparation ; and as this treafury was fup- 
plied, in a great meafure, by the impofition of taxes, and 
was, v/holiy, the property of the publick^ fo the publick 
made the reparation that was due. The elephants alfo, 
and Jhips of war^ which were marked as the means of 
piinijhment^ were publick property \ and as they were con- 
fiderable inftruments of fecurity and defence to their pof- 
fellbrs, and of annoyance to an enemy, fo their lofs, ad- 
ded to toe reftnclions of the treaty, operated as a great 
and publick puniihment. But with refpecl to the Cartha- 
ginian prifoners, who had been taken in the war^ they 

* i..Ut liberi fuis leglbus viverent. Livy, L. 30. 37. 

a. Decern millia talentum argenti defcripta penfionibus sequis In annas 
q^ulnquaginta folverent. Ibid. 

3. Et naves roftratas, prseter decern triremes, traderent, elephantof- 
que, quos haberent domitos ; neque domarent alios ; Bellum neve in 
Africa, neve extra Africam, injufiu P, R. gererent,. &c. Ibid, 

were 



OF THE Human SpEciESi 67 

were retained in fervitude : not upon the principles o^ re- 
paration and punijh'ment^ becaufe the Romans had already 
received, by their own confeffion in the treaty, a fufficient 
iatisfadion : not upon thefe principles, becaufe they were 
inapplicable to indroiduah : the legionary foldier in the 
fervice of the injured, who took his prifoner, was not the 
perfon, to wnom the tniu7y had been done^ any more than 
th^ foldier in the fervice of the aggrefTors, who was taken, 
was the perfon, who had committed the offence : but they 
were retained in fervitude by the 7'ight of capture -, becaufe, 
when both parties had fent their military into the field to 
determine the difpute, it vi^as at the private choice of the 
legionary foldier before-mentioned, v/hether he would 
fpare the life of his conquered opponent, when he was 
thought to be entitled to take it, if he had chofen, by the 
laws of war. 

To produce more inllances, as an illuftration of the 
fubjecl, or to go farther into the argument, would be to 
trefpafs upon the patience, as well as the underftanding of 
the reader. In ajiate of nature^wh^vo, a man is fuppofed to 
commit an injury, and to be unconne6i:ed with the reft of 
the world, the act is private^ and the right, v/hich the in- 
jured acquires, can extend only to himfelf: but in a Jlate 
of fociety^ where any member or members of a particular 
community give offence to thofe of another, and they are 
patronized by the ftate to which they belong, the cafe is 
altered j the act becomes immediately puhlick^ and the 
puhlick alone are to experience the confequences of their 
injuftice. For as no particular member of the commu- 
nity, if confidered as an individual, is guilty, except the 
perfon, by whom the injury was done, it would be con- 
trary to reafon and juftice, to apply the principles of repa- 
ration and piinijhment^ which belong to the people as a 
collective body, to any individual of the community, who 
fhould happen to be taken. Now, as the principles of 
reparation and punifiment are thus inapplicable to the pri- 
foners, taken in a puhlick war, and as the right of capture-^ 
as I have fhcwn before, is infulficient to intitle the vi6tors 
to th^ fervice of the vanquifhed, it is evident that this or^ 
der of Jlavery cannot juftly exift, fince there are no other 

E 2 maximsj 



68 On the Slavery and Commerce 

maxims, on which it can be founded, even in the moft 
equitable wars. 

But if thefe things are fo ; if flavery cannot be defended 
even in the mod equitable wars, what arguments will not 
be f( und againft that fervitude, which arifes from thofe 
that are unjuji ? Which arife from many of thofe African 
wars, that relate to the prefent fubjedl ? The petty princes 
of Africa, corrupted by the merchants of Europe, feek 
every opportunity of quarrelling with one another. Every 
fpark is blown into a fiame ; and war is undertaken from 
no other confideration, than that of procuring jlaves : while 
the Europeans, on the other hand, happy in the quarrels 
which they have thus excited, fupply them w^ith arms and 
ammunition for the accomplifiiment of their horrid pur- 
pofe. Thus has Africa, for the fpace of two hundred 
years, been the fcene of the moft iniquitous and bloody 
wars ; and thus have many thoufandsof men, in the moi^ 
iniquitous manner, been fent into fervitude. 



C HAP. VIII. 

The fifth clafs, confifting of fuch as the African traders 
breed for the purpofe of felling to the Europeans, comes 
next to be canvafTed. 

I fhall confider it of no confequence to the argument, 
how a proprietor of any of thefe came into the polTeffion of 
^€\x parents^ though this is otherwife a material confider- 
ation. I will abfolve him therefore from any iniquity in 
procuring them, and v/ill allow him to have obtained the 
authority of a mailer by purchafe. The queftion then is, 
"VV' hether the children of thefe, from whom he breeds to 
accommodate the Europeans, juflly become flaves from 
the circumftances of their hirth? 

As fome ftrefs is laid upon this order of men, as well 
as upon ihe former, on account of its antiquity, I fhall 
firft glance at the principle upon which the ancients de- 
fended flavery by birth. 

Authors have been at great pains to inquire, why in 
the ancient fervitude the child has uniformly followed the 
condition of the mother. But I conceive that they would 

have 



OF THE Human Species. 69 

have iaved themfelves much trouble, and have done them- 
felves more credit, if, inftead of endeavouring to recon- 
cile the cuftom vv^ith heathen notions, or their own la- 
boured conjedlures, they had Va^wn. its inconfiftency with 
reafon and nature, and its repugnancy to common juftice. 
Suffice it to fay, that the whole theory of the ancients, 
with refpeft to the defcendants of (laves, may be reduced 
to this principle, " that as the parents, by becoming />r<7- 
'* perty^ were wholly confidered as cattle ; their children, 
*' like xhQ progeny of cattle^ inherited their parental lot." 

Such only can be the excufe of the proprietors before- 
mentioned. They muft allege that they have purchafed 
the parents, that they can fell and difpofe of them as they 
pleafe, that they poflefs them under the fame laws and li- 
mitations as their cattle, and that their children, like the 
property of thefe, become their property by birth. 

But the abfurdity of the argument will immediately ap- 
pear. It depends wholly on the fuppofition, that their 
parents are brutes. If they are brutes^ I fhall inftantly 
ceafe to contend : if they are men (which I think it not 
difficult to prove) the argument muR- immediately fall, as 
I have already fhewn, that there cannot juftly be any pro^ 
perty whatever in the human fpecies. 

It has appeared alfo, that as nature made every man's 
body and mind his ozun^ fo no juft perfon can be reduced 
to flavery agalnji his own conjent. Do the unfortunate off- 
fpring ever confent to be flaves ? — They are flavcs from 
their birth. — Are they guilty of crifnes^ that they lofe their 
freedom ? — They are (laves when they cannot fpeak — Are 
their parents abandoned ? — The crimes of the parents 
cannot juftly extend to the children. y 

Thus then muft thefe * proprietors, who prefume to 
fentence the children of their flaves to fervitude, (if they 
mean to difpute upon the juftice of their caufe) either al- 
[ow them to have been brutes from their birth, or to have 
been guilty of crimes at a time, when they were incapable 
of offending the very King of Kings. 

The fixth and feventh clafTes of flaves, confifting of 

■^ Thefe arguments extend alfo to the proprietors of fuch flaves in the 
colonies as are flaves by birth. 

E -i thofc 



7P On the Slavery and Commerce 

thofe who have been reduced to a ftate of flavery in confe^ 
quence of gaming and of debt, do not come within the 
limits of this Eflay, being voluntary flaves. Add to this, 
that they are fo very few, when compared with thofe of 
the fmalleti: of the preceding orders, that it wou]d be ab- 
furd to enter into any argument on their account, or to 
fay any thing more of them^ than that they exift, 



CHAP. IX. 

I fhall beg leave, before I proceed to the arguments of 
the purchafers^ to add the following obfervations to the 
fubftance of three of the precedmg chapters. 

As the tv/o orders of iiaves, of thofe who are privately 
kidnapped by individuals, and of thofe who are publickly 
leized by virtue of the" authority of their prince, compofe 
together about eight tenths of the African flaves j they 
cannot contain, upon a moderate computation, lefs than 
eighty thoufand people annually tranfported : an immenfe 
number, but eafily to be credited, when we refle6l that 
thoufands are employed for the purpofe of ftealing the un-f 
wary, and that thefe diabolical pradlices are in force, fo 
far has European injujTice been fpread, at the diftance of 
twelve hundred miles from the factories on the coaff. 

Now, will any man affert, in oppofition to the argu- 
ments before advanced, that out of this immenfe body of 
men, thus annually collecfed and tranfported, there is 
even one^ over whom the original or fubfequent feller cari 
have any power or right ? Whoever aflerts this in the firfl 
inllance, mufl contradl6l his own feelings, and mufi: con- 
fid er i'iw/^^ as a juft obje6l of prey, whenever any daring 
invader ihall think it proper to attack him. And, in the 
fecond inftance, the very idea which the African princes 
asntertain of their villages, -2,% parks ox rejervohs. ftocked 
only for their own convenience, and of their fubje6ls, as 
wild beajls^ whom they may purfue and take at pleafure^ 
is fo fhocking, that it need only be mentioned, to be in- 
ftantly reprobated by the reader. 

The order of flaves, which is next to the former in re- 
fped: to the number of people whom it contains, is that of 

prifpners 



OF THE Human Species. 71 

prlfoners of war. This order, if the former ftatement be 
true, is more inconfiderable than is generally imao^hied ; 
but whoever reflects on the prodigious (laughter that is 
conftantly made in every African flcirmifb, cannot be 
otherwife than of this opinion : he will find, that where 
ten are taken, he has every reafon to prefume that an hun- 
dred perifh. In fome of thefe fkirmifhes^ though they 
have been begun for the exprefs purpofe of procuring 
Jlaves^ the conquerors have fufFered but few of the van- 
quifhed to efcape the fury of the fword j and there have 
not been wanting inftances, where they have been fo in- 
cenfed at the refinance they have found, that their fpirit 
of vengeance has intirely got the better of their avarice, 
and they have murdered, in cool blood, every individual, 
without difcrimination, either of age or lex. 

* The following is an account of one of thefe fkir- 
mifhes, as defcribed by a psrfon, who was witnefs to the 
fcene. " I v/as fent, with fever al others, in a fmall Hoop 
*^ up the river Niger, to purchafe flaves : we had fome 
^' free negroes with us in the praftice \ and as the veflels 
*' are liable to frequent attacks from the negroes on one 
" fide of the river, or the Moors on the other, they are all 
'' armed. As we rode at anchor a long way up the river, 
*' we obferyed a large number of negroes in huts by the 
*^ river's fide, and for our own fafety kept a v/ary eye on 
*' them. Early next morning we faw from our maft-head 
*' a numerous body approaching, with apparently but 
'^ little order, but in cloie array. They approached very 
*' fail, and fell furioufly on the inhabitants of the town, 
*' v/ho feemed to be quite furprizedy but neverthelefs, as 
*' foon as they could get together, fought ftoutly. They 

* The writer of the letter, of which this is a faithful extrail, and 
V/ho was known to the author of the prefent Eflay, was a long time on 
the African coaft. He had once the misfortune to be fhipwrecked there, 
and to be taken by the natives, who conveyed him and his companions 
a confiderable way up into the country. The haidfhips which he under- 
went in the march, his treatment during his captivity, the fcenes to 
which he was witnefs, while he refided among the inland Africans, as 
"well as while in the African trade, gave occafion to a feries of very inte- 
refling letters. Thefe letters were fent to the author of the prefent Ef- 
fay, with liberty to make what ufe of them he chofe, by the gentleman 
to whom they were written. 

:£ 4 « haci 



72 On the Slavery and Commerce 

*' had fome fire-arms, but made very little ufe of them, as 
*' they came direcrly to dole fighting with their fpearSj 
*' lances, and fabres. Many of the invaders were mounted 
*' on fmall horfes ; and bodi parties fought for about half 
" an hour with the fiercell animofity, exerting much more 
*' courage and perfeverance than I had ever before been 
*■'- witnefs to amongft them. The women and children of 
*' the town cluftered together to the water's edge, running 
*' fhrieking un and dov/n with terrour, waiting the event 
" of the combat, till their party gave way and took to the 
*' water, to endeavour to fwim over to the Barbary fide. 
" They v/ere clofely purfued even into the river by the 
f vi6tors, who, though they came for the purpofe of^-^^- 
*' tingjiaves, gave no quarter, their cruelty even prevail- 
*' ijig over their avarice. They made no prifoners, but 
'' put all to the fword . without mercy. Horrible indeed 
*' was the carnage of the vanquifhed on this occafion, 
" and as v/e were within two or three hundred yards of 
*' them, their cries and ihrieks afreded us extremely. We 
*5 had got up our anchor at the beginning of the fray, and 
*' now ftood clofe in to the fpot, where the vicSlors having 
f' followed the vanquifhed into the water, were continually 
" dragging out and murdering thofe, whom by reafon of 
*' their wounds they eafdy overtook. The very children, 
*' whom they took in great numbers, did not efcape the 
*' maffacre. Enraged at their barbarity, we fired our 
'* guns loaden with grape fhot, and a volley of fmall arms 
*' among them, which effectually checked their ardour, 
*' and obliged them to retire to a diflance from the fhore^ 
*^ fiom whence a few round cannon (hot focn removed 
*' them into the woods. The whole river was black over 
*' with the heads of the fugitives, who were fv/imming 
'^ for their lives. Thefe poor wretches, fearing us as 
^^ much as their conquerors, dived when we fired, and 
''• cried moll: lamentably for mercy. Having now efFe6iu- 
" ally favoured their retreat, we flood backwards and for- 
*^ wards, and took up feveral that were wounded and tired. 
*^ All whofe wounds had difabled them from fwiniming, 
^^ were either butchered or drowned, before we got up to 
" them. With a juftice and generofity, never I believe 
^^ before heard of among Jlavers-^ we gave thofe their liberty 
' \ ' ■ " whom 



OF THE Human Species. ^3 

'^-* whoni we had taken up, fettlng them on fhore on the 
^' Barbary fide, among the poor refidue of then- compani- 
-^' ons, who had furvived the flaughter of the morning." 

Ifhall make but two remarks on this horrid inftance of A- 
frican cruelty. It adds, firft, a confiderable weight to the 
ilatements that have been made ; clearly fhewing that this 
order of flaves h more inconfiderable in point of number 
than has ufually been held out. The advocates for flavery^ 
with a view, as they fuppbfed, of palliating the trade, have 
afTerted that the greateji pari of the African flaves are pri- 
foners of war. But how ridiculous the pofition ! I will 
fuppofe, for the fake of fhewing their abfurdity, that only 
half the number annually exported, that is, fifty thoufand, 
are people of this defcription. Nov/, upon the fuppofi- 
tion that for every one that is taken, ten^ includino- the 
lofs both of the vidors and of the vanquifhed, may be faid 
to perifh;, (which is not too high a calculation for the ef- 
fe£^s of an African fkirmiih) it will appear that half a mil- 
lion mufl have been annuaUy flaughtered to have obtained 
them. If fo, there had not been left one human being on 
the extenfive continent of Africa. 

It confirms, fecondly, the conclufions that were drawn 
in a preceding chapter. For if we even allow the right 
of capture to be jufl, and the principles of reparation and 
punilhment to be applicable to the individuals of a com- 
munity, yet would the former be unjufl, and the latter in- 
applicable, in the prefent cafe. AlmoU every African war 
is a robbery ; and I m^ay add, to my former expreffion, 
when I faid, " that thus have many thoufands of men, in 
" the mofl iniquitous manner, been fent into fervitude,^' 
that I believe there are few of this order, who are not as 
much the examples of injuflice, as the people that have 
been kidnapped ; and who do not additionally conve)% 
when we confider them as prifoners of war, an idea of the 
moft complicated fcene of murder. 

The order of convic^s^ as it exifls almofl folely among 
thofe princes, whofe dominions are contiguous to the Eu- 
ropean faftories, or upon the fhore, is from this circum- 
flance inconfiderable : nor fhould I have mentioned it 
again, but that I was unwilling to omit any additional 
argument that occurred againfl it. 

It 



74 Om the Slavery and Commerce 

It has been fhewn already, that the punifhment of fla-^ 
very is inflidled from no other motive, than that of grati- 
fying the avarice of the prince, a confideration fo detefta- 
ble, as to be fufncient of itfelf to prove it to be unjuft ; 
and that it is fo difproportionate, from its Jiaiiire^ to the 
offence, as to afford an additional proof of its injuftice. I 
fhall add now, as a fecond argument, its difproportion 
from its continuance : and I fliall derive a third from the 
confideration, that, in civil foci etj^, every violation of the 
laws of the community is an offence againll the fiat e,'^ 

Let us fuppofe then an African prince, difdaining for 
once the idea of emolument : let us fuppofe him for once 
inflamed with the love of his country, and refolving to 
punifh from this principle alone, " that by exhibiting an 
" example of terrour, he may preferve that happinefs of the 
^^ piihlick^ v/hich he is bound to fecure and defend by the 
*' very nature of his contrail \ or, in other words, that 
"he may anfwer the end of government." Ifaduated 
then by this principle, he fhould adjudge flavery to an of- 
fender, as a juff punifliment for his offence, for whofe be- 
nefit mufl: the convict labour ? If it be anfv/ered, " for the 
" benefit of the flate," I allow that the punifhment, in 
v/hatever light it is confidered, will be found to be equi- 
table : but if it be anfwered, " for the benefit of any IndU 
" viclual who?n he fleafes to appoint^^^ I deny it to be juff. 
The t ffate alone is confidered to have been injured, and 
as tnjur'ies cannot pofjibly be transferrer'^ the ftate alone can 
juftly receive the advantages of his labour. But if the Afri- 
can prince, when he thus condemns him to labour for the 
benefit of an imoffended huUvidiial^ fhould at the fame time 
ientence him to become his property ; that is, if he fhould 
make the perfon and life of the convi6t at the abfolute dif-- 
pofal of him, for whom he has fentenced him to labour 5 
it is evident that, in addition to his former injuflice, he is 

* Were this not the cafe, the government of a country could have no 
right to take cognizance of crimes, and puniih them 5 but every indivi- 
dual, if injured, would have a right to puniih the aggreflbr with his own 
hand, which is contrary to the notions of all civilized men, either a- 
raong the ancients or the moderns. 

-|- This fame notion is entertained even by the African princes, who do 
TiOt permit the perfon injured to revenge his injury, or to receive the con- 
v\ti as his flave. But if the very perfon who has been injured, does not 
poliefs him, much lefs ought any other perfon whatfcever. 

uiiirping 



OF THE Hb'MAN SPECIES. 75 

ufurping a power, which no ruler or rulers of a ftate can 
poiTefs, and which the great Creator of the univerfe never 
yet gave to any order whatever of created beings. 

That this reafoning is true, and that civilized nations 
have confidered it as fuch, will be bed teftified by their 
pra6lice. I may appeal here to ^^^xfiavery^ v/hich is now 
adjudged to delinquents, as a punifhment, among m.any 
of the dates of Europe. Thefe delinquents are fentenced 
to labour at the car-^ to work in ?mnes^ and on fortrnca" 
tions^ to cut and clear rruers^ to make and repair rcads^ 
and to perform ether fervices of national utility. They 
are employed, in Ihort, in the public k work ; becaufe, as 
the crimes they have committed are confidered to have 
been crimes againft the publick, no individuals can juftly 
receive the emoluments of their labour ; and they are nei- 
ther foUi^ nor made capable of being transferre:.^ becaufe 
no governm^ent whatfoever is invefted with fuch a power. 

Thus then may that flavery, in v/hich only the idea of 
lahoiir is included, be perfe6lly equitable, and the deHn- 
quent will ahvays receive his puniihment as a 7/7^;?; where- 
as in that, which additionally includes the idea o'i ::ro:erty^ 
and to undergo which the delinquent muft previoufly 
change his nature and become a bi'ide^ there is an in- 
gonfiftency, which no arguments can reconcile, and a 
contradidion to every principle of nature, which a m.an 
need only to appeal to his ov/n feelings immediately to 
evince. And I will venture to affert, from the united ob- 
fervations that have been m.ade upon the fubje(SI:, in oppo- 
fition to any arguments that may be advanced, that there 
is fcarcely one of thofe, who are called African convicts, 
on whom the prince has a right to infli6t a puniihment at 
all ; and that there is no one v/hatever, whom he has a 
power of fentencing to labour for the benefit of an unof- 
fended individual, and muchlefs whom he has a right to fell. 

I cannot clofe my remarks on the African convi6l:s, 
without giving the reader an account of the mode of trial, 
in confequence of which many of the unfortunate people, 
whofe cafe I have been confidering, are adjudged to flavery. 

When a perfonhas been accufed of a crime, he is put into 
confinement. He is made to fail about twenty-four hours 
before the trial comes on. When the hour arrives, he is 
placed upon a rice-mortar reverfed, and a large wand is 
* put 



76 On the Slavery and Commerce 

put Into his harids by the priefts. In this fituation they 
admlnifter to him the red v:aier^ fo called from its co- 
lour. This is made from the bark of the adoom tree 
ileeped in water, and has a polfonous quality. If the 
perfon, to whom it has been admlnifered, fhews no fymp- 
toms of being likely to be poifoned, he is declared inno- 
cent. If, on the other hand, any fuch fymptoms are ap- 
parent, he is declared guilty. In this cafe palm-oil is 
immediately given to him, which counteracts the polfon- 
ous efFeds of the red water, and he is fold. The fame 
oil alfo, if adminlftered to the accufed perfon previous to 
the trial, is an antidote agalnft it, and prevents the fymp- 
toms, which are the criterion of guilt. 

The reader will fee from hence, how eafy it is either to 
acquit or convidl a perfon, who comes under this ordeal. 
It is to the intereft both of the princes and of the priefts, 
to give this antidote to many 5 otherwife, if all who drank 
it were invariably afFe6ted in the fame manner, it would 
give the populace but a poor opinion of it as a true umpire 
between innocence and guilt ; and they would never adopt 
it with that implicit faith, which they now yield to it on 
all occaficns. 

Now, if we conflder that this kind of ordeal prevails 
with but little variation from the river Sierra Leon to the 
farthefc extremities of the Gold Coaft, we fhall find that 
nearly half of the African convlcls are fuch as have fallen 
under its decifion ; and when we confider again, that the 
offence for which many of them have fuffered, has been 
tliat of witchcraft, v/e fhall fee an additional argument 
againft the African fervitude, when awarded as a pimijh^ 
ment for crimes. 

Having nov/ fully examined the arguments of the feL 
hrsj and having made fuch additional remarks as were 
neceffary, I have only to add, that I cannot fufficiently 
expreis my deteftation at their conduft. Were the reader 
coolly to refle^L upon the cafe of but one of the unfortunate 
men, who are annually the vidims of avarice^ and confi- 
der his fituation in life, as a father, an hufband, or a friend, 
WQ are fiire, that even on fuch a partial refleClIon, he muft 
experience confiderable pain. What then muft be his 
ieelings, v/Iien he is told; that, fince the flave trade be- 



OF THE Human Species, y^ 

gan, * nme mtlUons of men have been torn from their 
deareft conne6lionS5 and fold into flavery. If at this re- 
cital his indignation fhould arife, let him conlider it as the 
genuine produ6iion of nature ; that fhe recoiled at the 
horrid thought, and that (he applied inilantly a torch to 
his breaft to kindle his refentment ; and if, during his 
indignation, fhe fhould awaken a figh of fympathy, or fe- 
duce the tear of commiferation from his eye, let him con- 
fider each as an additional argument againft the iniquity 
o\ the fellers. 



CHAP. X. 

It remains only now to examine by v/hat arguments 
thofe, who receive or purchaje their fellow -creatures into 
flavery, defend the cQ??vnerce, Their firfl plea is, " that 
" they receive thofe with propriety, who are convicted of 
" crimes, becaufe they are delivered into their hands by 
" their own magiftrates.^^ But what is this to you re- 
ceivers f Have the unfortunate conviSfs been guilty of in- 
jury to you ? Have they broken your treaties ? Have they 
plundered your fhips ? Have they carried your wives and 
children into flavery, that you fhould thus retaliate ? Have 
they offended you even by word or gefl'ure ? 

But if the African convifts are innocent with refpe6l to 
you ; if you have not even the fhadow of a claim upon 
their perfons ; by what right do you receive them ? '' By 
'' the laws of the Africans," you will fay ; by which it is 
'' pofitively allowed." — But can laws alter the nature of 
vice ? They may give it a fanftion perhaps : it will ftiil 
be immutably the fame, and, thou2;h dreifed in the out- 
ward habiliments of honour^ will flifl be intrinfically bafe. 

But alas ! you do not only attempt to defend yourfeh^es 
by thefe arguments, but even dare to give your aci:ions 
the appearance of lenity, and afilime 7nerh from your hafe- 
7it'Js I and how firft ought you particularly to blufh, when 
you aflert, " that prifoners of war are only purchafed 
*' from the hands of their conquerors, to deliver them from 

* Abbe Raynal, Hlfl. Phil. vol. 4. p. 154, 

^^deaihr 



^8 On the Slavery and Coivimerce 

*' death f Ridiculous defence ! can the moft credulous 
believe it ? You entice the Africans to war : you foment 
their quarrels ; you fupply them with arms and ammuni- 
tion, and all — from the moiivcs of benevolence. Does a 
man fet fire to an houfe, for the purpofe of refcuirig the 
inhabitants from the flames ? But if they are only pur- 
chafed, to deliver them from death ; why, when they are 
delivered into your hands, as proted rs^ do you torture 
them with hunger ? Why do you kill them with fatigue ? 
Why does the whip deform their bodies, or the knife their 
limbs ? Why do you fentence them to death ? to a death, 
infinitely more excruciating than that from which you 
fo kindly faved them ? What anfv/er do you make to this ? 
for if you had not hum^anely preferved them from the 
hands of their conquerors, a quick death perhaps, and 
that in the fpace of a moment, had freed them from their 
pain : but, on account of your fruour and benevolerice^ it 
is known, that they have lingered years in pain and ago- 
ny, and have been fentenced, at laft, to a dreadful death 
for the moft infignificant offence. 

Neither can we allow the other argument to be true, 
on which you found your merit ; " that you take them 
*' from their country for their own convenience ; becaufe 
*' Africa, fcorched with inceffant heat, and fubjeft to the 
*' moft violent rains and tempeft'S, is unwhollbme, and 
" unfit to be inhabited." Prepofterous men ! do you 
thus judge from your own feelings ? Do you thus judge 
from your own conftitution and frame ? But if you fup- 
pofe that the Africans are incapable of enduring their 
own climate, becaufe you cannot endure it yourfelves ; 
why do you receive them into fiavery ? Why do you not 
meafure them here by the fame ftandard ? For if you are 
unable to bear hunger and thirft, chains and imprifon- 
ment, wounds and torture, why do you not fuppofe them 
incapable of enduring the fame treatment ? Thus then is 
your argument turned againft yourfelves. But confider 
the anfwer which the Scythians gave the Egyptians, when 
they contended about the antiquity of their original, 
* ^^ That nature, when fhe firft diftinguifhed countries 

*Juilin, L. 2. C i» 

^« by 



OF THE Human Species. 79' 

^^ by different degrees of heat and cold, tempered the bo- 
" dies of animals, at the fame inftant, to endure the dif- 
« ferent fituations : that as the climate of Scythia was 
" feverer than that of Egypt, fo were the bodies of the 
" Scythians harder, and as capable of enduring the feve- 
« rity of their atmofphere, as the Egyptians the tempe- 
^* ratenefs of their own." 

But you may fay perhaps, that, though they are capa- 
ble of enduring their own climate, yet their fituation is 
frequently uncomfortable, and even wretched : that Africa 
is infefted with locufts, and infedls of various kinds ; 
that they fettle in fwarms upon the trees, deftroy the ver- 
dure, confume the fruit, and deprive the inhabitants of 
their food. But the fame anfwer may be applied as be- 
fore ; '' that the fame kind Providence, who tempered 
" the body of the animal, tempered alfo the body of the 
" tree ; that he gave it. a quality to recover the bite of 
*' the locuft, v/hich he fent ; and to realTumxe, in an in- 
** credibly fhort interval of time, its former glory." And 
that fuch is the cafe experience has fhewn : for the very 
trees that have been infefted, and ftripped of their bloom 
and verdure, fo furprizingly quick is vegetation, appear 
in a few days, as if an infect had been utterly unknown. 

I may add to thefe obfervations. from the teftimony of 
thofe who have written the hiftory of Africa from their 
own infpe6lion, that no country is more luxurious in 
profpefts, none more fruitful, none more rich in herds 
and flocks, and none, where the comforts of life can be 
gained with fo little trouble. 

But you fay again, as a confirmation of thefe your for- 
mer arguments, (by which you would have it underftood, 
that the Africans themfelvfes are fenfible of the goodnefs 
of your intentions) " that they do not appear to go v/ith 
'' you againft their will." Impudent and bafe afiertion ! 
Why then do you load them v/ith chains ? V\^hy keep 
you your daily and nightly watches ? But alas, as a far- 
ther, though a more melancholy proof, of the faifehood 
of your aiTertions, how many, when on board your fliips, 
have put a period to their exiftence ? How many hare 
leaped into the fea ? How many have pined to death, that, 

even 



2o On the Slavery and Commerce 

even at the expence of their lives, they might fly from 
your benevolence ? 

Do you call them obftinate then, becaufe they refufe 
your favours ? Do you call them ungrateful, becaufe they 
make you this return ? How much rather ought you re^ 
ceivers to blufh ! How much rather ought you receivers 
to be confidered as abandoned and execrable ; who, when 
you ufurp the dominion over thofe, who are as free and 
independent as yourfelves, break the firil: law of juftice, 
which ordains, " that no perfon fhall do harm to another, 
*' without a previous provocation ;" who offend a--ainft 
the dictates of nature, which commands, '' that no juft 
" man fhall be given or received into flavery againft his 
*' own confent ;" and who violate the very laws of the 
empire that you afTume, by configning your fubjeds to 
mifery. 

Now, as a famous heathen philofopher obferves, from 
whofe mouth you fhall be convi6l:ed, * " there is a confi-* 
'' derable difreience, whether an injury is done, during 
" any* perturbation of mind, which is generally fhort and 
'' momentary ; or whether it is done with any previous 
*' meditation and defign ; for, thofe crimes, which pro- 
*' ceed from any fudden commotion of the mind, are lefs 
*' than thofe, which are fludied and prepared," how great 
and enormous are your crimes to be confidered, who plan 
your African voyages at a time, when your reafon is 
found, and your fenfes are awake ; who coolly and deli- 
berately equip your vefTels ; and who fpend years, and 
even lives, in the traffick of human liberty. 

But if the arguments of thofe, who fell or deliver men 
into flavery, (as I have fhev/n before) and of thofe, who 
receive or pur chafe them., (as I have now fhewn) are wholly 
falfe ; it is evident that this commerce^ is not only beyond 
the pofTibility of defence, but is juftiy to be accounted 
wicked, and jufliy impious, fmce it is contrary to the 
principles of law and government^ the di6lateS of reafon^ 
the common maxims of eq^uityy the laws of nature.^ the 
admonitions of confcienc-e^ and, in fhort, the v/hole doc- 
trine of natural religiDn, 

* Cicero de Officlis. L. I. C. 8. 

PART 



( 8i ) 



PART III. 



THE 



Slavery of the African 



IN THE 



EUROPEAN COLONIES 



G H A R L 

TT A V I N G confined my felf wholly, in the fecond part 
'■-•'■ of this EiTay, to the confideration of the commerce^ I 
ihall now proceed to the confideration of the flavery that 
is founded upon it. 

As this flavery will be confpicuous in the treatment 
which the unfortunate Africans uniformly undergo, when 
they are put into the hands of the receivers^ I fhall de- 
fcribe the manner in which they are accuftomed to be ufed 
from this period. 

To place this in the cleareft, and moll confpicuous 
point of view, I fhall throw fome of ray information on 
this head into the form of a narrative : I fliall fuppofe my- 
felf on a particular part of the continent of Africa, and re- 
late a fcene, which, from its agreement with unqueftioa- 
able facts, might not unreafonably be prefumed to have 
been prefented to my view, had I been adually there. 

And firft, I will turn my eyes to the cloud of duft that 

is before me. It feems to advance rapidly, and, accom- 

F ' panied 



22 On the Slavery and Commerce 

panied with difmal fhrieks and yelllngs, to make the very 
ai.r, that is above it, tremble as it rolls along. What can 
poliibly be the caufe ? I will inquire of that melancholy 
African, who is walking dejected upon the fhore ; whofe 
eyes arc ftedfaftly fixed on the approaching obje6^, and 
whofe heart, if 1 can judge from the appearance of his 
countenance, muil be greatly agitated. 

" Alas !" iays the unhappy African, " the cloud that you 
*' fee approaching, rifes from a train of wretched flayes. 
" They are going to the fhips behind you. They are deftined 
*' for the Englifh colonies, and, if you will ftay here but for 
" a little time, you will fee them pafs. They arrived here 
" about two days ago from the inland country. I faw 
^' the fleet come in, which had gone to fetch them, and, 
" upon looking into the different canoes, found them ly- 
'* ing at the bottom,, their hands and feet being tied toge- 
*' ther. As foon as they were landed, they were con- 
" veyed to the houfes of the black traders, which you fee 
*' at a little diftance, where they were immediately oiled, 
*' and fed, and made up for fale. As 1 have fome ac- 
*' qualntance with thefe traders, (though, thanks to the 
*' Great Spirit, I never dealt in the liberty of my fellow- 
*' creatures) I was admitted among them. I learned the 
*' hiflory of fome of the unfortunate people, whom I faw 
*' confined, and will explain to you, if my eye fhould 
*' catch them as they pafs, the real caufes of their fervi- 
^' tude." 

Scarcely were thefe words fpoken, when they were 
clofe upon us. They appeared to advance in feparate 
lots, as we fuppofed the different captains had made their 
purchafes the preceding day. They appeared alfo to be 
under an efcort of the natives, and of feveral Englilli fea- 
men, and their hands, as before defcribed, to be tied or 
chained together. 

V/hile we were making thefe remarks, the intelligent 
African thus refumed his difcourfe : " The firfl three 
'' whom you obferve on the right, are prifoners of war, 
" As foon as the fhips that are behind you arrived, the 
" news was difpatched into the inland country ; when 
*' one of the petty kings immediately afTembled his fub- 
^'jeds, and attacked a neighbouring tribe. The wret- 

" ched 



OF THE Human Species. o^ 

^^ ched people, though they were furprlzed, made a for- 
*' midable refiftance ; as they refolved, almofl all of them, 
*' rather to lofe their lives than furvive their liberty. The 
*' perfon whom you fee in the middle, is the father of the 
*' two young men, who v/aik on each fide of him. His 
** wife and two of his children were killed in the attack, 
^^ and his father being wounded, and, on account of his 
*' age, incapable offervltude^ was left bleeding on the fpot 
^^ where this traniadion happened*" 

" With refpe<5i: to thofe who are now palling us, and" 
*' immediately behind the former, I can give you no other 
*' intelligence, than that fome of them, to about the num- 
^' ber of thirty, were taken in the fame fldrmidi.. Their 
*' tribe was faid to have been numerous before the attack ; 
^^ thefe, however, are all that are left alive. But with 
^' refped: to the unhappy man who is now oppofite to us^ 
^' and whom you may diftinguifh, as he is now looking 
*' back and wrmging his hands in defpair, I can inform 
^' you with more precifion. He is an unfortunate con- 
*' vid:. He lived only about live days journey from, 
*' hence. He went oat v/ith his king to hunt, and was 
^' one of his train ; but, through too great an anxiety to 
" afford his royal mailer diverfion, he roufed the game 
^' from the covert fooner than v/as expedled. The king, 
*' exafperated at this circumftance, immediately k'H'- 
*' tenced him to flavery. His v/ife and children, fearing 
^' leaft the tyrant fhould extend the punifhment to them- 
*' felves, which is not unujual^ fled direcStly to the v»^oods, 
*' wiere they were all devoured." 

" The people, whom you fee clofe behind the unhappy 
^' convid, are of a different defcription. They fpeak a Ian- 
*' guage v/hich no perfon in this part of Africa can under- 
*' Itand, and their features, as you perceive, are fo differ- 
*' ent from thofe of the reft, that theyalmoft appeara difcincSl: 
" race of men. From this circumflance I recoiie£i; them. 
" They are the fubjeds of a very diftant prince, who 
" agreed with tho-Jlave merchants^ for a quantity offpiritu- 
'' ous liquors^ to turnifh them with a ftipulated number of 
*^ flaves. He accordingly furrounded, and fet fire to one 
" of his own villages in the night, and feized thefe people, 
'* V/ho v/cie unfortunately the inhabitants, as they were 
F .2 " efcaping 



84 On the Slavery and Commerce 

*' efcaping from the flames. They travelled to the placCj 
'' from whence the canoes fetched them, by land. Dur- 
'' ing their march they were tied together at the neck 
'' with leather thongs, which permitted them to walk at 
'' the diftance of about a 3^rd from one another. Many of 
'^ them were loaden with elephants teeth, which had beea 
'^ purchafed at the fame time. All of them had bags, 
'' made of fkin, upon their fhoulders j for as they were 
^' to travel, in their way from the great mountains, 
'' through barren fands and inhofpitable woods for many 
'' days together, they were obliged to carry water and 
*' provifions with them. Notwithftanding this, many of 
^' them perifhed, feme by hunger, but the greateft num- 
" ber by fatigue, as the place from whence they came, is 
*^' at fuch an amazing diftance from this, and the obftacles, 
^' from the nature of the country, fo great, that the jour- 
^'^ ney could fcarcely be com.pleted in feven moons." 

When this relation was finiihed, and we had been look- 
ing ftedfaftly for fome time on the croud that was going 
by, w^e loft fight of that peculiarity of feature, which we 
had before remarked. We then difcovered that the inha- 
bitants of the depopulated village had all of them pafTed 
us, and that the part of the train, to which we w^re now 
oppofite, was a body of kidnapped people. Here we in- 
dulged our imagination. We thought we beheld in one 
of them-a father, in another an hufband, and in another a 
fon, each of whom was forced from his various and tendef 
connexions, and without even the opportunity of bidding 
them adieu. While we wefe engaged in thefe and other 
melancholy reflections, the whole body of flaves had in- 
tirely paft*ed us. We turned almoft infenfibly to look at 
them again, when we difcovered an unhappy man at the 
end of the train, who couW fcarcely keep pace with the 
reft. His feet feemed to have fuffered much, either frora 
the fetters, which had confined them in the canoe, or from 
long and conftant travelling, for he v/as limping painfully 
along. 

" This man^ refumes the Afi'ican, has travelled a con- 
*' fiderable w^y. He lived at a great diftance from hence, 
^^ and had a large famJly^ for v/nom he was daily to pro- 
^^ vide. As he v/ent out one night to a neighbouring 

^° fpring^ 



OF THE Human Species. 85 

^^ Tprirlg, to procure water for his thirfL)=^ children, he was 
*' kidnapped by two JJave-hunterSy who fold him in the 
*' morning to fome country merchants for a bar of iron. 
*' Thefe drove him with other flaves, procured almofl in 
*•' the fame manner, to the neareft market, where fom.e of 
'* the travelling traders purchafed him for a piJIoL Thefe 
'' handed him down to the fair, from whence the canoes 
*' fetched him. His wife and children have been long 
" waiting for his return. But he is gone for ever from 
*^ their fight : and they muft be rK)W difconfolate, being 
'' certain by his delay, that he muft have fallen into the 
'' hands of the Cbri/rians. 

*' And now, as I have mentioned the name of Chrif- 
** tians, a name, by which the Europeans diftinguiih 
*' themfelves from us, I could wifh to be informed of the 
*' meaning which fuch an appellation may convey. They 
*' confider themfelves as men^ but us unfortunate Afri- 
*' cans, whom they term Heathens^ as the beafts that ferve 
*' us. But ah ! how different is the fact I ¥/hat is Chrif- 
'' tlanity^ but a fyftem of murder and opprejjioii ? The 
" cries and yells of the unfortunate people, who are now 
" foon to embark for the regions of Servitude, have alrea- 
'' dy pierced my heart. Have you not heard me figh 
*' while v/e have been talking ? Do you not fee the tears 
*' that nov/ trickle down my cheeks ? and yet thefe hardened 
'^ Chrijiians are unable to be moved at all ; nay, they will 
" fcourge them amidft their groans, and even fmile, while 
" they are torturing them to death. Happy, happy Hea- 
" thenifm ! which can deteft the vices of Chriflianity, and 
'* feel for the diftrefles of mankind," 

" But" I reply, " You are totally miftaking : Chrifli- 
*' anity is the moft perfect and lovely of moral fyftems. It 
" blefles even the hand of perfecution irfdf, and returns 
" good for evil. But the people againft whom you fo 
"juftly declaim, are not Chrijiians. They are infideh-i 
'' They are rnonfiers. They are out of the common courfe 
'' of nature. Their countrymen at home are generous 
'* and brave. They fupport the fick, the lame, and the 
*' blind. They fly to the fuccour of the diftreffed. They 
" have noble and ftately buildings for the fole purpofe oi 
F 3 '* benevolence. 



S6 On the Slavery and Coi\Amerce 

" benevolence. They are in fhort, of all nations, the 
^« moft remarkable for humanity and juftlce." 

" But why then," replies the honeft African, " do they 
" fuffer this ? Why is Africa a fcene of blood and defola- 
" tion ? Why are her children v^^refted from her, to ad- 
*' minifter to the luxuries and greatnefs of thofe v^^horri 
<« they never ofFended ? And why are thefe difmal cries in 
"vain?" 

'^ Alas!" I reply again, "can the cries and groans, with 
" which the air now trembles, be heard acrofs this exten- 
" five continent? Can the fouthern winds convey them to 
^' the ear of Britain? If they could reach the generous 
<' Engliftiman at home, they would pierce his heart, as 
'• they have already pierced your own. He would fym- 
" pathize with you in your diftrefs. He would be enraged 
«' at the condu61: of his countrymen, and refift their ty- 
*'ranny." — 

But here a (hriek unufually loud, accompanied with a 
dreadful rattling of chains, interrupted the difcourfe. The 
boats were ready. The wretched Africans had reached 
the fhore, and were juft about to embark : they had 
turned their face to their country, as if to take a laft adieu, 
and, with arms uplifted to the fky, were making the very 
atmofphere refound with their prayers and imprecations. 



CHAP. n. 

The foregoing fcene, though it may be fald to be ima- 
ginary, is ftri6tly confiftent with fa61: ; as no circumftance 
whatever has been Inferted in it, for which the fuUeft and 
moft undeniable evidence cannot be produced. I (halt 
proceed now to defcribe the treatment, which the wretched 
Africans undergo, from the time of their embarkation to 
their departure from their native land. 

Being thus conveyed to the fhore, they are put Into the 
boats that are waiting for them there, and conveyed t» 
the different {hips, whofe captains have made the pur- 
chafes. The men are immediately confined two and two 
together, either by the neck, leg, or arm, by fetters of 
fohd iron. When this operation is over, they are all put 

intQ 



OF THE Human Species, 2'j 

Into their apartments ; the men occupying the fore part, 
the women the after part, and the boys the middle of the 
veflel, three bulk-heads or partitions having been previ- 
oufly made for their reception. In thefe apartments, the 
tops of which are grated for the admiffion of light and air, 
they are ft owed as any other lumber, each occupying his 
particular place, and quantity of room, as it has been cal- 
culated for him. 

This is perhaps the firft fupply which the fhips have re- 
ceived. In this cafe they are under the neceilitv of wait- 
ing till more are procured from the inland country. As 
many melancholy fcenes occur in the interim, I ihali 
take notice of them here. 

The unfortunate people, that have been put on board, 
feparated from their families and friends, on the verge of 
bidding adieu to their native country, which they yet be- 
hold with ftreaming eyes, and about to depart into a fervi- 
tude of which the moft horrid notions are entertained, 
cannot but be fuppofed to be in a forlorn and melancholy 
ftate. 

When people are heavily anlicled and opprelTed, they 
difcover it in different ways, according to the ftrength of 
their mind?, their education and habits, and the conftitu- 
tion of their frame. The Africans, poflefling equal fen- 
fibility and the like paHions with the reft of the human 
race, are a£ted upon in the fame manner. 

An effect of their fituation, difcoverable in fome of 
them, is fuicide, which is efreited in various ways. 

Many of them, on the firft opportunity that prefents it- 
felf, leap overboard with a determination to put a period 
to their lives. Thefe attempts are fo frequent, and fo 
much expeded, that mofl: of the veffels have netting or 
lattice-work of Tricks fi'om their decks up to their leading 
blocks. Nbtwith (landing this, many have accomplifned 
their ends, and have found an afylum either in the mouths 
of fharks, or in the beds of their native rivers. 

Others, v/ho find no hopes of efcaping in this way, re- 
fufe fuftenance. This is termed by the receivers obfli- 
nacy, and they are puniihed accordingly for it. But nei- 
ther threats, nor the infliction of the la(h have been able, 
in fome inflances, to deter them from their refolution. 

F 4. In, 



SS On the Slavery and Commbrce 

In others, an inftrument, called a fpeculum orls^ haS 
been ufed, their mouths have been wrenched open, and 
liquids injected down their throats. Live coals alfo have 
been prelcnted to their lips for the fame purpofe. But all 
the eiForts of the receivers have been ineffedtual, and they 
have at laft met with that death, which they had fo ar- 
dently fought, and to find which they had previoufly fub- 
mitted to the pain of ftarving. 

As an inftance of their diHike to their fituation, when in 
the hands of the receivers^ and of their attachment to that 
which they have left, I fhall fubjoin the following exam- 
ple : 

On board a certain fhip, which was lying in Bonny 
River, was a beautiful African girl, who had reached her 
fixteenth year. She was fo hurt at her new fituation, as 
pofitively to refufe to fupport her life. In a fnort fpace of 
time £he became emaciated, and began fo vifibly to de- 
cline, that in fpite of all the exertions of the receivers, 
fhe would foon have been no more. She was accordingly 
fent on fhore, to be nurfed at the houfe of a black trader, 
while the fliip ftaid. It is remarkable that in a little 
time after fhe had been reilored to her native foil, fhe be- 
gan to recover, and to forget her former fufFerings. But, 
upon being informed that fhe would foon be fit to be put on 
board again, fhe availed herfelf of the firffc opportunity 
that ofFered, and put a period to her life. Her corpfe was 
afterwards difcovered hanging, and fhe was thrown into 
Bonny River. 

Poor unfortunate girl ! What availed the care taken m 
her infancy to fupport her ! The anxiety of the mother I 
A long fuilenance perhaps with difficulty acquired ! and 
all to fit her to become her ov/n executioner at laft, or 
the fiave of an European ! 

Another efFe6t of their fituation, difcoverable in fome 
of them,, is madnefs. 

In the fame fhip, but in a former voyage, had been 
purchafed an African girl, of the fame age. She was 
obferved to be conftantly crying. She avoided all kind 
of converfat).on with the reft, and in procefs of time be- 
came delirious. In confequence of this, fhe was chained 
by the neck to the main-mail of the vefTel between the 

deckb^ 



OF THE Human Species, H9 

«I&cks. In this fituation flie continued for feveral days, 
fometimes receiving her food, at others rejeding it witi^ 
difdain. She was at laft placid and compofed ; but he? 
tranquility of mind was but of ihort duration. Her fits 
returned, and ihe broke out into difmal fongs for the lofe 
of her friends and country. Every aiTiflance, that medi- 
cine could afford in fuch cafes, was applied, but in vain« 
The diforder had begun at the river Ambris, where fhe 
was firft purchafed, and continued, with but little inter- 
miflion, till flie arrived at Port Mariaj where happening 
to have a lucid interval, advantage was taken of it, and 
diQ was fold. 

It is highly probable that this unhappy woman had not 
been long in the hands of her purchaser, before flie be- 
came delirious again, and was flogged for her ohftlnaU 
behaviour. 

On board another fhip, that was lying upon the coall: 
at the fame time, was an inftance of a fiinilar kind. An 
nnhappy woman, who had been brought on board, was 
fo hurt at the thought of being torn from her friends and 
connexions, as to refufe all manner of fuftenance, think- 
ing that death was preferable to life vv'ithout the enjoyment 
of thofe, who had a foare m her ePceem. The thouglu 
of iliis feparation had alfo an additional effect upon her, 
and fo continually preyed upon her mind, that at length 
fhe became mad. In this fituation ihe was chained to the 
deck of the fhip, and in this chain fhe expired. 

Another effect of their fituation is fuch a fenfe of the in- 
jury done them, as to occafion them to com.e to the refo- 
lution of punifhing their oppreffors at the hazard of their 
own lives. 

In the firfl; lot of flaves, which had been purchafed and 
brought on board a veffel then lying in Bonny River, was a 
middle aged man, of a ftout and warlike appearance. Hq 
was one day brought upon deck v/ith his fel low- prifoner^ 
to whofe leg his own had been chained, to receive air. 
On looking round him, he faw a knife which was lying 
by the fide of a feaman then at dinner. He inftantly 
darted forward, incumbered as he was, and feized it. He 
plunged it into the body of the feaman, and, forcing his 
companion after him, v/ounded three others., who had not 

time 



90 On the Slavery and Commerce 

time to make their efcape. Finding, however, that the 
partner of his chains was unv/illing to fecond him in his 
attempts, he ftabbed him to the heart, indicating in the 
Itrongeft manner, both by his geftures and the expreffion 
of his face, that he confidered him as unfit to live, who 
had not the courage to expofe himfelf in the caufe of free- 
dom. 

By this time the whole crew were alarmed, and a? he 
was proceeding to the cabin-door, dragging his dead com- 
panion after him, to revenge himfelf upon the captain and 
the fuppofed author of his Vv^rongs, he was brought down 
by a mufKet ball on one fide of him, and a cutlafs on the 
other. 

It is impoiiible for me to fay, what was the fituation of 
this gallant man previous to his fervile capacity, or hov\^ 
he came into the fituation of a Have ; but probable it is, 
that he looked upon the people of the fhip as robbers, as 
defpoiiers of families, and himfelf as a deeply injured man, 
or he had never attempted, unfupported and alone, an ac- 
tion, which he muft have been fenfible would have coil 
him his life. 

'^I'hefe are inftances of the different efFe^ls, which the 
fituation of the Africans, while on board the ftiips of the 
receivers^ and in fight of their native fhore, has upon them. 
To enumerate the many, that might be yet adduced of the 
fame kind, would be to no purpofe, as they v/ould not con- 
vince the reader, more than he mufl already be convinced, 
of their miferable ftate. It will be only neceffary to obferve, 
that thefe are common inftances ; that there is fcarcely a 
fhip, that does not experience one or more of them ; and 
that there are many in which all of them happen, but with 
additional circumflances of horrour, while the receivers 
are waiting upon the coafl ; the wretched Africans either 
feeking death in the ways defcribed, or failing into a ftate 
of defpondency, or attempting to revenge their injuries ^ 
on the heads of their Chrijlian oppreffors. 



\P. 



OF THE Human Species* 91 



CHAP. III. 

The receivers^ while thefe and other events are taking 
place upon the coaft, obtain the number of flaves, for 
which they are faid to go. When this is accompHfhed, 
they weigh anchor, and begin what is termed the middle 
paiTage, to carry them to their refpedlive colonies. 

Through the whole then of this middle pafiage, it Is my 
intention next to follow them, and to defcribe their fitua- 
tion, till their arrival there. 

The velTels, in which they are tranfported, are of diiter- 
ent dimenfions, from eleven to eight hundred tons, and 
carry firom thirty to * fifteen hundred of them at a time. 

As much has been faid by the advocates for this trade, 
of the accommodation which fiaves experience during ths 
middle paffage, I (hall fay a few v/ords on that head. 

The height of their apartments varies of courfe ac- 
cording to the fize of the vefTel, but may be ftated to be 
from fix feet to lefs than three ; fo that it is impoffible for 
them to Hand ereft in moft of the velTels that transport them, 
and in fome fcarcely to fit down in the fame pofture. 

In cafes of this kind it is better to be explicit, and to 
mention particular fails. I fhall therefore give the reader 
the dimenfions of two vefiels that failed about fix months 
ago, from a Britifh port to the Coaft of Africa, for fiaves. 
I do not mean as tenders to other {hips, but to colled: 
them on their own account, and to cai'ry them to the 
colonies. 

One of them was a veflel of tiveniy-five tons. The 
length of the upper part of the hold, or roof of the rooms 
where the fiaves were to be confined, was thirty-one feet. 
The greateft breadth of the bottom or floor, was ten feet 
four inches, and the leaft five. The depth or height, was 
rather lefs than four. This veflel was calculated, and fail- 
ed [or /eventy fiaves. 

It is clear that none of the unfortunate people, perhaps 
at this moment on board, can ftand upright, but that they 

* The largeft vefTtl which the Englifli employ in this trade, carries 

1200 flaves. 

n. 



^z On the Slavery and Commerce 

mud fit cioWxH, and contrail their limbs within the limits 
of little more than three fquare feet, during the whole of 
the middle pafTage. I cannot compare the fcene on board 
this vefielj to any other than that of a pen of fheep ; with 
this difference only, that the one have the advantages of a 
wholefome air, while that, which the others breathe, is 
putrid. 

The other vefTcI meafured eleven tons. The length of 
the apartment for the {laves was twenty-two feet. The 
greateft breadth of the floor eight, and the leaft four. The 
depth was two feet eight inches. This veflel was calcu- 
lated and failed for thirty (laves. 

Any perfon of a moderate height, {landing upon dry 
ground, by the fide of this vefTel, might overlook every- 
thing upon the deck ; as her height from the keel to the 
beam was but five feet eight inches, three of which were 
engro{red by ballafl, cargo, and provifions, and the reft was 
left for 'Jlaves, 

The only idea, that will perhaps flrlke the reader, m 
examining thefe dimenfions, will be, that the apartment 
muft be in fliape and fize, as well as in heat, fimilar to an 
sven, I know of no other object of juil comparifon ; and 
to fliew how prepo{lerou{ly the advocates for flavery talk^ 
when they declaim upon the accommodations for flaves ; 
this very boat was built for the pleafure and convenience of 
about y^A' free people upon the Severn. 

If it fhould be faid that the larger ve{rels have better 
accommodations, I reply, that it can only be in the height 
of the room, the flaves being flowed equally clofe. I aflert 
farther, that in fome of thefe they have not had fo much 
room upon the floor by one fquare foot, as in thofe, which 
have been juil fpecified ; for I have known the number of 
flaves, which many of them have carried, and have had 
their apartments meafured. 

Being ftowed then in the manner thus defcribed, they 
foon begin to experience the efFe£ls, v/hich might natu- 
rally be prefumed to arife from their fituation. In confe- 
quence of the peililential breath of fo many confined in fo 
fmall a fpace, they become fickly, and from the viciflitude 
of heat and cold, of heat .when confined below, arid of cold 
when fuddenly brought up for air, a flux is generated. 

When« 



OF THE Human Species. ^j 

Whenever this diforder attacks them, no pen can be ade- 
quate to the taflc of defcribing their fituation, 

Imagine only for a moment the gratings to be opened, 
but particularly after a rain, which has occaiioned them to 
be covered for fome time. 

The iirfl: fcene that prefents itfelf, is a duller of unhap- 
py people, who, overcome by exceilive heat and flench^ 
have fainted away. 

The next that occurs, is that ofoneof them endeavour- 
ing to prefs forward to the light, to catch a mouthful of 
wholefome air, but hindered by the partner of his chains^ 
who is lying dead at his feet, and v/hom he has not fuf- 
ncient ftreno;th to drao- after him. 

The third is confpicuous in the iniiance of thofe, who 
are juft on the point of fainting, and who are wallowing 
in the blood and mucus of the inteilines, with which the 
floor is covered. 

Such are the fcenes, that univerfally prefent themfelves 
in the cafe fuppofed ; and hov/ agonizing and infufferable 
their fituation muft have been during this period of their 
confinement, none, I believe, can poiiibly conceive, unlefs 
they had been the partners of their chains. 

The gratings then being opened as before defcribed, the 
receivers, who fee their fituation, bring them inllantly up- 
on deck. They give them fuch medical afSltance as their 
cafe requires. Thofe, that are moll aiTe^led, are picked 
out, and are put into an hofpital or fick birth (which is 
prepared againft cafes of this kind) as objeds of more im- 
mediate attention. The refl:, having experienced a IktlQ 
refpite, are returned to the fame dungeon of wretchedneis 
and woe, that had been the occafion of their fufferings. 

As to thofe, who are removed into their new apart- 
ments, fome of them live only for a few hours. Others 
become daily more emaciated and weak : and to fuch a 
degree of emaciation have many of them arrived, that in 
confequence of this, and additionally the circumllances of 
]ying upon the bare boards, and the fridion arillng from 
the motion of the vefTel, the prominent parts of fome of 
their bones have worked their way through the mufcles and 
the fkin. In this fituation they have lingered for fome 
time, both objecls of comm iteration and horror, when 

death 



94 On the Slavery and Commerce 

death has been kind enough to pity their fufferings, and to 
put a period to their pain. 

The reader will not wonder, from the defcription hither- 
to given, if the unfortunate Africans fhould 2.6k the fame 
part on the middle pafTage, as I have defcribed them to have 
done upon the coaft ; if they Ihould feek to deftroy them- 
felves as opportunity offers, or if, exafperated by their 
wrongs, they fhould attempt to revenge them on their op- 
prefTors. 

In fa£f, the fame tragedy is repeated, though it is vari- 
oufly adfed according to the different places, from whence 
the unhappy vidtims come. The people of Africa have 
different traits in their charafter, as well as the inhabitants 
of other nations. Thofe of the leeward coaft are in gene- 
ral pufillanimous, and in cafes of this kind are content to 
revenge their injuries upon themfelves, by feeking thdr 
own deaths. Thofe, on the other hand, of the Windward 
Coaft, confifting of a nation of hunters, and trained to 
war, are bold and intrepid, and on all occafions attempt to 
punifh their enflavers at the hazard of their own lives. 

To enumerate the many inftances offuicide^ as difplayed 
in the a6t of leaping into the fea, which happen in fuch 
Ihips as contain people of the former defcription, would be 
to have recourfe to the annals of the whole flota from thofe 
parts. Of the attempts of the latter perhaps one inftance 
will faffice. 

A certain vefiel had procured a hundred and ninety 
{laves from the Windward Coaft, and had put to fea. It 
was foon difcovered that they intended to rife. In confe- 
quence of this, one of them vv^as immediately brought upon 
deck, and accufed of exciting his companions to rebel. 
Without any farther ceremony, his feet Vv^ere put into 
irons, and confined to one of the ring-bolts upon the deck. 
At the fame time the burton-tackle was made faft to his 
handcuffs, and he was fo ftretched in a perpendicular pof- 
ture, that almoft every joint v/as diflocated. In this fitua- 
tlon every licentioufRefs, that wanton barbarity could fug- 
geft, was permitted to be practifed upon him. When the 
operation was over, he was taken down, and thrown into 
the fea. 

One 



OF THE Human Species, 



95 



One would have thought that an inftance of fo dlaboli-j 
cal a nature, would have made an impreflion on the minds 
of his furviving companions, and have deterred them from 
all farther thoughts of an infurreclion. But it had not 
this efFe6l : and the crew were fo alarmed on account of 
their fubfequent behaviour, as to keep them fliJl in their 
irons, and, whenever they mefled upon deck, to fland with 
their arms pointed through the barricadoe of the vefTeL 

Notwithftanding the exam.ple before made, and the pre- 
caution now taken, two of the flaves, who were remark- 
ably ftout men, broke their irons, and advanced to re- 
venge their injuries. They were inftandy fired upon by 
the feamen, who had been ftationed for that purpofe. But, 
having now their arms at liberty, they were not to be In- 
timidated by their enflavers, though in a wounded Hate, 
They advanced gallantly on, followed by the fhackled 
crowd, broke open the barricadoe dcoi*, forced the cutlafe 
from the centinel, and, after a brave confli(5l on the quar* 
ter-deck, obliged the feamen to retreat to the tops, 

— They were now mailers of the vefiel.— ^ 

There was one folitary perfon however, who was ftill 
left upon the deck, and whom they had not yet feen. Hs 
had been fitting abaft on one of the Hern hen coops, mend- 
ing his cloaths, and had fcarcely been apprized of the in- 
furre6tion, before he faw his retreat cut off. He knew not 
what to do. To advance was certain death, to retreat 
was impoilible. In this fituation he looked trembhng 
over the ftern of the veflel, to fee if there was any rope, 
v/hich would fufpend him out of their fight. In confe- 
quence of this he found that the cabin-windov/s were open, 
and inftantly made his retreat that way. 

His firft precaution was to remove the ladder that led 
from the cabin to the deck. Having thus cut off the road 
of communication between himfejf and the flaves, he went 
to the captain, and a feaman who were fick below, and ac- 
quainted them with the circumftance, that the flaves had 
driven the reft of the people aloft, and were in poffefiion of 
the veflel. 

This news alarmed them exceedingly. They ftarted 
up, and, immediately fupplying themfelves with arms and 
ammunition, waited for the infurgents to come. 

It 



^6 On the Slavery and Commerce 

It was not long befoip they furrounded the companion. 
They inftantly caught each others eyes. The former, 
having fupplied themfelves with billets of wood from the 
hold, threw them 'down as opportunity ofFered. The lat- 
ter, fired at them as they approached. Under thefe difad- 
vantages, many of the flaves foon lay dead about the com- 
panion. Such as were chained to them, unable to get 
away, fhared their fate 5 while, on the other hand thofe, 
belov/ efcaped unhurt. 

The confli6t lafted thus for fome time, when the flaves, 
deprived of their gallant leaders, and unable to continue 
their exertions, as well on account of their wounds, and 
the incumbrance of their irons, as that their ammunition 
was expended, retreated for a little refpite from the quar- 
ter-deck. Advantage was immediately taken of this cir- 
cumftance, by the feamen both above and below. The 
former came down inftantly from the tops, and the latter 
mounted up at the fame time. They joined, and all of 
them being foon armed alike, they fired a volley together, 
into the thickeit of the croud of flaves. 

This (hock was too fevere for them to ftand, and they 
retreated accordingly where they could. It was not long 
hov/ever before they were taken from their places of fhel-. 
ter, and all of them brought in a body upon the deck. 

But here the tragedy remained to be completed. Moft 
f)f tile flaves, on examination, were found to be in a 
^v^oundedftate, and fome of them fo mangled, that fcarcely 
any other profpecl remained, than that they would either 
die, or become a burthen upon their hands. All thefe 
were immediately ordered to leap into the fea. Some of 
them, who had no connections on board, waited not a mo- 
ment, but received and obeyed the fummons with joy„ 
The reft ftaid only to embrace their relations and friends, 
and then, without any hefitation, and with marks of chear- 
fulnefs in their face, but mixt with difdain v/hen they caft 
their eyes on the receivers^ they leapt into the fea, and 
terminated their exiftence there. 

The confequence of this infurre61:ion v/as, that out of 
^ hundred and ninety flaves, originally put on board, only 
nifietj lived to be carried into Barbadces. 

Thefe 



OF THE Human Species. ^» 

Thefe then are fome of the tragical fcenes that happen 
in the middle paflage, and are occafioned by the fituation 
and difpofition of the flaves. There are others however 
of an equally difmal nature^ which owe their origin either 
-to unforfeen accident, or to the conduct of the receivers • 

The following is an inftance of the firft. 

A certain fliip on the middle paflage, having more than 
three hundred Haves on boards met with a violent gale at 
fouth, which obliged her to come to her bare poles. About 
ten at night fhe fprang a leak, and the pump»-well unfor* 
tunately breaking down^ the fand, with which {he had been 
ballafted, fell into it. This choaked the pumps, and, not- 
withftanding every exertion on the part of the crew, kytn 
feet of water were difcovered in the hold on the approach 
of day. 

The difcovery had been fcarcely made, when the ballafi-, 
fhifting to one fide, laid her almoft down. The crew at- 
tempted to wear her, but in vain. Her mizen-rnaft went 
overboard. The fhrowds of the main-maft were then cut, 
which alfo went away a little below the deck, and carried 
the fore-maft with it. As foon as this operation was per- 
formed, the lee guns were thrown overboard, and fhe be- 
gan to^'right. 

This was the fecond day, during the whole of which 
the crew were employed in pumping and baling, though 
to their great mortification, it was difcovered, that every 
cafk of water, and all their provifions, had been ftaven to 
pieces, and that only a few bifcuits, a little flour, and 
fome fplrits, had been faved for their fupport. 

On the third day they were employed as before, but on 
this the mofl hideous cries and lamentable yellings were 
heard from the unfortunate flaves, who were confined be- 
low, and who had received no kind of fuftenance fmce the 
iiccident had happened. Several of the women were dif- 
covered to be dead, and one had drowned herfelf in the 
hold. 

On the fourth day a part of the crew, for fome of them 
had fallen down at the pumps, continued their exertions as 
before defcribed. The fhrieks of the flaves had continued 
alfo, and had become, if poffible, more hideous and pier- 
cing than before. The men, grown defperate by the 

G pangs 



98 On the Slavery and Commerce 

pangs of hunger, had, by an uncommon exertion or 
ftrength, forced themfelves out of their irons, and were 
attempting, with the moft irrefiftible fury, to force up the 
gratings that confined them below. The crew, excefiively 
alarmed at this, and ftruck with horror and difmay at the 
difmal ycllings that refounded from all quarters ofthefhip, 
knew not what to do. They came at laft to the refolu- 
tion to murder thofe that were the moil defperate. The 
plan was put into executionj and more than fifty were 
deftroyed. 

On the approach of the evening of the fifth day, a vef- 
fel appeared in fight. She faw their diftrefs. It was juft 
dark when fhe came to their affiflance, and received the 
fainting crew. As to the unfortunate flaves, they were 
left confined below to the pangs of hunger and the mercy 
of the waves. 

The two inftances now mentioned, and others of a 
limilar kind, exhibit an additional argument againft this 
trade : for if the receivers are ever (o tender and humane 5 
if they really tranfport the Africans under a convi6lion, 
that they fhall improve their flate ; they muft often be put 
into a fituation, in which their hands muft be imbrued in 
blood, and themfelves be chargeable with murder. 

With refpe6^ to the conduci: of the 7rceiveys, I fhall 
mention an inftance, which happened in September of th» 
jear 178 1. 

The captain of a fhip, then on the middle pafTage-, had 
loft a confiderable number of his flaves by death. The 
mortality was ftili fprcading, and fo rapidly, that it was 
impoflibie to fay either where, or when it would end. 
Thus circumftanced, and uneafy at the thought of the lofs 
which was hkely to accrue to^ his owners, he began to rack 
his ingenuity to repair it. He came at length to the dia- 
bolical refolution of felecSfing thofe that were the moft 
fickly, and of throwing them into the fea : conceiving, 
that if he could plead a neceffity for the deed, the lofs 
-Would devolve from the owners to the underwriters of the 
vefTel. 

The plea, which he propofed to fet up, was a want of 
water, though neither the feamen nor the Haves had been 
put upon fhort allowance* 

Thus 



OF THE HUMA!J SPECIES. 9^ 

Thus armed, as he Imagined, with an invincible excufe, 
he began to execute his defign. He feledled accordingly 
one hundred 2.n6i thirty-two of the moft fickly of the flaves. 
Fifty-four of thefe were Immediately thrown Into the fea, 
znd forty -izvo were made to be partakers of their fate on 
the fucceeding day. 

But here, as if Providence exprefsly dlfapproved of the 
defign, and had determined to cut ofFhis excufe forfacri- 
iiclng the reft, and exhibit a proof againft him, a fhower of 
rain immediately fucceeded the tranfa6lion, and lafted for 
three days. 

Notwithftanding this, the remaining twenty-fix were 
brought upon deck to complete the number of vI6lims, 
which avarice had at firft determined to facrifice to her 
fhrlne. The firft fixteen fubmitted to be thrown Into the 
fea ; but the reft, v/Ith a noble refolutlon, would not fufter 
the contamiinated receivers to touch them, but leapt after 
Sheir companions, and fhared their fate. 

Thus v/as perpetrated a deed, unparalleled In the me- 
mory of man, or in the hiftory of former times, and of fo 
olack and complicated a nature, that were it to be perpe- 
tuated to future generations, and to reft on the teftimony 
of an individual. It could not poilibly be believed. 

I have now afforded a fpecim.en, though In a manner 
inadequate to convey a juft idea, of the difFerent tragical 
icenes, that happen during the middle palTage, and before 
the arrival of the vefiels at their deftined ports. To men- 
tion others, would be only to increafe a painful, and to 
perform an unnecefTary talk. I fhall therefore clofe my 
defcrlption here, forry that, though I have ftudled to be 
eoncife, I fbould have felt myfelf obliged to lay open to the 
feehngs of the reader, fuch a fource of uneafmefs and 
pain. 



CHAP. IV. 

The fhlps of the receivers^ having now completed the 
middle paflage, anchor in their deftined ports. The un- 
fortunate Africans on board, are immediately prepared for 
iale. When the preparation is over, and they are thought 

G 2 to 



100 On the StAVERY AND CoMMERlCE 

to appear In the moft advantageous ftate, an attempt r:^ 
made to difpofe of them, and (as different circumftances 
intervene) in the three following ways. 

The firft is by agency » In this cafe they are configned 
to brokers, who, knowing the ftate of the different planta- 
tions, and having applications for flaves from all quarters^ 
undertake to fell them for the fhips. For this purpofe they 
are fubmitted to the infpeftion of thofe, who are in want of 
labourers for their farms, who do not fail to- examine and 
treat them with an inhumanity, at which even- avarice 
ought to blufli. 

To this mortifying clrcumftancej^ to which the wretch- 
ed Africans are obliged to fubmit, is added another,^ that 
they are picked out, as the purchafer pleafes, without any' 
confideration, whether friends or relations are parted. In 
a lot of flaves, which was thus expofed to fale, were an 
hufband, wife, and child, in all probability a part of the 
haplefs remnant of a village which had been depopulated 
to obtain them. It did not fuit the purchafer to buy them 
all. Cruel tafk ! t€^ feparate them for ever ! In vain did 
they remonftrate, by every fign and gefture that could ba 
made. They embraced each other. They would not 
part. But the lafti fevered them from their embraces. 
The unhappy man, on looking round him the next day^ 
faw an opportunity of putting a period to his life. He em- 
braced it, and, in a few minutes, was no more. 

Thi5 is one, among the many inftances that may be 
mentioned, of the unfeeling condu6t of the receivers.^ either 
during or after the time of fale, and of the injuries whicb 
the unfortunate Africans are obliged to bear. If any other 
Ihould be required, the reader may take the following. 

An officer of a flave fhip, who had the care of a number 
of new flaves, and was returning from tht fale -yard to the 
veffel, with fuch as remained unfold, obferved a flout fel- 
low among them, rather flow in his motions, which he in- 
ftantly quickened with his rattan. The flave foon after- 
wards fell down, and was ralfed by the fame application » 
Moving forwards a few yards, he fell down again ; and 
this being taken as a proof of his fullen perverfe fplrit, the 
enraged oflEc^r furioufly repeated his blows, till he expired 
at his feet. The brute coolly ordered fome oi the furviv- 



OF THE Human Species, loi 

ing {laves to carry the dead body to the water's-fide, where, 
without any ceremony or delay, being thrown into the fea, 
the tragedy was fuppofed to have been immediately finifh- 
ed by the not more inhuman iharks, with which the har- 
bour then abounded. Thefe voracious hfh were fuppofed 
to have followed the veilels from the coaft of Africa, in 
which ten thoufand flaves were imported in that one feafon, 
being allured by the ftench^ and daily fed by the dead car- 
cafles thrown overboard on the voyage. 

The fecond attempt, which is often made to difpofe of 
ithem, is by vendue.. In this cafe they are carried to a ta- 
vern^ or other public!: place, where they are put up to fale, 
and are to become the property of the highefl bidder. 
The^ are generally fuchg as are in a fick and emaciated 
ilate, knd of whofe recovery but little hopes are to be en- 
tertained. They are generally fold for a few dollars, and 
are bought principally by the Jev/s M^on /peculation^ who 
fend them home to be nurfed and fatted, and to be made 
up, if they live, for a future fale. 

The third is by thtfcramble. In this cafe, the difpofal 
£)f them is in the following manner. The main and quar- 
ter-decks of the fhip are darkened by fails, which are hung 
over them at a convenient height. The flaves are thea 
i)rought out of the hold, and are made to Itand in the dark- 
ened area. The purchafers, who are furnifhed with long 
ropes, rufh, as foon as the fignal is given, within the awn- 
ing, and endeavour to encircle as many of thern as they 
can. 

Thefe fcrambles however, are by no means confined to 
the fhips. They are made frequently on the fho/e. 
When the latter happens to be the cafe, the unhappy ob- 
je6ts of them are {hut up in an apartment,, or court-yard^ 
the doors of which jseing thrown open, the purchafers rufla 
in, with their ropes in their hands, as before defcribed. 

Nothing can exceed the terror^ which the wretched Af- 
ricans exhibit on the:fe occafions. An univerfal fhriek is 
immediately heard,, All is confternation and difmay. 
The men tremble. The vi^taea cling together in each 
;Other's arms. Some of them faint away, and others have 
^been known to expire. If any thing can exceed the hor- 
ror of fuch a fcene, it muft be the iniquity of valuing a 

G 3 part 



103 On the Slavery and Commerce 

part of the rational creation in fo debafed a light, and of 
icrambling for human fiejh and blood. 

Thefe are the three methods which the receivers take 
(as different circumftances intervene) for the difpofal of 
their flaves. Notwithftanding thefe, they are not always 
able to complete their fales. Some of the wretched Afri- 
cans are in fo debilitated and hopelefs a Urate, that no pur- 
chafer can be found. Others approach fo near to thefe on 
the fcale of ficknefs, that but little is offered for them : in 
fuch a cafe, it is not the intereft of the officers to fell 
them, as they would much diminifh the value of their own 
privileges, and in one of the Britifti iflands, a duty being 
demanded on fale more than a Have in fuch a fituation 
can poffibly be worth, (I fpeak as a planter) all farther 
mercantile intercourfe on this head is at an end. 

From thefe confiderations, they are left on hand, and 
become a burthen to the veffels when they are about to 
depart. "What becomes of them, the reader muff be left 
to imagine. It is certain that they are not fold in the 
colonies, and it is equally certain that they are not taken 
home. 

On board a fhip, which had been attempting to fell her 
flaves laft year, were left a man and a woman, for whom, 
on account of their fickly ftate, no purchafer was to be 
found. In a httle tim.e the man died. He was accord- 
ingly lowered down into the boat, to be taken out of the 
harbour, and to be buried at fea. The tyrant of the fhip, 
to rid himfelfof the burthen, ordered the woman to be 
taken alfo, and to be thrown overboard, though alive, at 
the fame time. One of the feamen (for there were two 
appointed to perform the deed) having executed his orders 
upon the firft, took the woman into his arms to complete 
them. In this fituation ihe opened her eyes, fhewing, in 
the moft expreffive manner, that fhe was yet alive. He 
hefitated for a moment, but fearful of the barbarian on 
board, he plunged her into the fea. She im.mediately rofe 
up, and endeavoured to catch hold of the blade of the oar, 
which he had then taken in his hand. Upon this, he 
ilruck her feveral times on the head, with a view to difen- 
tangleher from the boat, and to relieve her from her pain ; 
and both of them pulling away at the fame inftant, fhe was 

left 



OF THE 'Human Speciets. 



103 



'^^eft to that fate, for which {he had been fo induftriouny 
.'^efigned. 

In another fhip, belonging to the fame port, and in the 
fame year, there remained, after the reil of the cargo had 
heen fold, a fickly African boy. Weak and emaciated as 
he was, a price had been offered for him. This however 
was fo fmall,,as to induce the omcers not to fell him, chu- 
fmg rather to put him out of the way,* than to fuffer the 
value of their * priviiege to be diminifhed by Ijis fale. 
This being the cafe, the furgeon was applied to to thrpw 
J^Jrn overboard, which he pofitively refufed, the boy being 
yet alive. They then came to the horrid refoiutlon of 
flarving him to death. For this purpofe, he was confin- 
ed, without any fuftenance whatever, in the ihip, no per- 
fon having accefs to him. but the chief mate, who was con- 
tinually going backwards and forv/ards to fee if he was 
yet dead. In this dreadful fituation he lingered eight 
days, and on the ninth^ he expired to the joy of the impiGus 
receivers. 

If thefe inftances wiii enable the reader to judge. In 
what manner thofe unhappy fmves-are difpofed of^ vv^ko'by 
reafon of ficknefs are cur off from the profpect of a fale ; 
or if they will throw any light upon a pracSlice, which has 
been often infifted upon in general terms, I Hiall be hap- 
py to think, that, in having- traced them beyond thepoffibi- 
Jity of a doubt, I.ha"ve not laboured in vain. 

I ihali only add, that the receivers^ having now cleared 
their fhips, and received an equivalent for their flaves, 
haften home, and that they are guilty of the charge of 
having been acceflbry to the deftruAion of no lefs than 
Hventy-five thoufand of their fellow-creatures 5 this f num- 

G 4 bar 

° The ofEcers have among them the privilege of a certain number of 
flaves. When the whole cargo is difpol'ed of, the amount of the fales is 
divided by the number fold. This give? the average price of each- If 
therefore an officer is faid to have the privilege of two .flaves, he is paid 
the average price for two. Of courfe every one that is. fold at a low crate, 
muft hurt this privilege of the officers. The boy. alluded to, would have 
.brought it down to about fix fhillings lefs than it really was ; and for this 
fum his death was refolved upon, of fo little confcc|uence is the life of an 
African in the eyes of the receivers. 

f In the firft edition of this work, J-itated the lofs on the middle paf- 
^|e, at one fifth of the number put on board, but on incjuiring more mi- 
nutely 



XC4 On the Slavery and Commerce 

ber being annually loft from the time, when they firft put 
them on board upon the coaft, to the time of their taking 
leave of the colonies. 



CHAP. V. 

The wretched Africans, thus left by the firft, and thus 
delivered over to the fecond receivers^ are conveyed to the 
plantations, and are put to their refpedive work. Having 
led, in their own country, a life of indolence and eafe, 
where the earth brings forth fpontaneoufly the comforts of 
life, and fpares frequently the toil and trouble of cultiva- 
tion, they can hardly be expected to endure the drudgeries 
of fervitude. Calculations are accordingly made upou 
their lives. It is conjedlured, that if three in four furvive 
what is called the feafoning, the bargain is highly favour- 
able. This feafoning is faid to expire, when the two firft 
years of their fervitude are completed : it is the time 
v^ich an African muft take to be fo accuftomed to the 
colony, as to be able to endure the common labour of a 
plantation, and to be put into the gang. At the end of 
this period the calculations become verified, * twenty 
ihoufand of tho^Cy who are annually imported, dying be- 
fore the feafoning is over. This is furely an horrid and 
awful confideration : and thus does it appear, (and let it 

fiuteiy into the fubje£!:, and on being furniflied with an account of the 
voyages of feveral fhips, I find it to be much under the truth, and that 
one fourth is a much more accurate proportion. 

* One third of the whole number imported, is often computed to be loft 
In the feafoning, which, in round numbers, will be 25,000* The lofs in 
the feafoning depends, in a great meafure, on two circumftances, viz. 
on the number of what are called refufe flaves that are imported, and on 
the quantity of new land in the colony. In the French windward iflands 
of Martinico, and Guadaloupe, which are cleared and highly cultivated, 
and in our old fmall iflands, one fourth, including refufe flaves, is con- 
fidered as a general proportion. But in St. Domingo, where there is a 
great deal of new land annually taken into culture, and in other colonies 
in the fame fituation, the general proportion, including refufe flaves, is 
found to be one third. Taking in therefore the two proportions, ac- 
cording to the circumftances now mentioned, it may be flated, that 
when an hundred thoufand are fhipped from the coafl, 20,000 will be 
found to die in the feafoning, (i. e.) between a third and a fourth of the 
»«n^bey imported Into the colonies, 

be 



OF THE Human Species. 



^■^5 



be remembered, that it Is the loweft calculation that has 
been ev^er made upon the fubje6l) that out oFevsry annual 
fupply that is (hipped from the coall of Africa, ^ forty-five 
thoufand lives are regularly expended, even before it can 
be (aid, that there is really any additional ftock for the 
colonies. 

When the feafonlng is over, and the fjrvivors are thus 
enabled to endure the ufual tailc of flaves, they are confi- 
dered as real and fubftantial fupplies. * From this period 
therefore I fhall defcribe their fituation. 

They are fummoned at five in the morning to begin 
their work. This work may be divided into two kinds, 
the culture of the fields, and the colle(5t:cn of grafs for 
cattle. The laft is the moft laborious and intolerable em- 
ployment ; as the grafs can only be colledled blade by 
blade, and is to be fetched frequently twice a day at a 
confiderabie diftance from the plantation. In thefe two 
occupations they are jointly taken up, with no other In- 
termiiiion than that of taking their fubfiilience twice, till 
nine at night. They then feparate for their refpe'fbive 
huts, when they gather fticks, prepare their fupper, and 
attend their families. This employs them till midnight, 
when they go to reft. Such is their daily way of life for 
rather more than half the year. They are fixteen hours, 
including two intervals at meals, in the fervice of their 
mafters : they are employed three afterv/ards in their own 
receiTary concerns ; five only remain for deep, and their 
day is finifhed. 

During the remaining portion of the year, or the time 

"^- Including the number that perifh on the voyage, and in the feafon- 
jng. It Is generally thought that not half the number purchafed can be 
confidered as an additional ftock, and of courfe that 50,000 are confam- 
ed within the firft two years from their embarkation. 

* That part of the account, that has been hicherto given, extends to 
all the Europeans and their colonifts, who are concerned in this horrid 
piadtice. But 1 am forry that i muft now make a diftinftion, and con- 
fine the remaining part of it to the colonifts of the Britifh Well India 
iflands, and to thofe of the fouthern provinces of North America. As 
the employment of flaves is different in the two parts of the world lait 
jncntionedj I fhall content myfelf with defcribing it, as it exifts in one 
of them, and 1 fhall afterwards annex fuch treatment and fuch conie- 
quences as are applicable to both. I have only to add, that the reader 
Rjufl not confider my account as unlvcrjallyf but only generally^ true. 

of 



rc6 Ok the Slavery and Commerce 

of crop, the nature, as well as the time of their employ- 
ment, is confiderably changed. The whole gang is gene- 
rally divided into two or three bodies. One of thefc, be- 
fides the ordinary labour of the day, is kept in turn at. the 
mills, that are conftantly going, during the whole of the 
night. This is a dreadful encroachment upon their time 
of reft, which v/as before too fhort to permit them per- 
fedly to refrefli their wearied limbs, and aftualiy reduces 
their fleep, as long as this feafon lafts, to about three hours 
nnd an half a night, upon a moderate * computation. 
Thofe who can keep their eyes open during their nightly 
labour, and are willing to refift the drowfinefs that is 
<:ontinua]ly coming upon them, are prefently worn out ; 
while fome of thofe, who are overcome, and who feed the 
mill between aileep and awake, fuffer, for thus obeying 
ithe calls of nature, by the f lofs of a limb. In this man- 
ner they go OHj with little or no refpite from their work, 
till the crop feafon is over, when the year (from the time 
of my iiril defcription) is completed. 

J To fupport a life of fuch unparalleled drudgery, we 
fhould at leaft expeft to find, that they were comfortably 
clothed, and plentifully fed. But fad reverfe ! they have 
fcarcely a covering to defend themfelves againft the incle- 
mency of the night. Their provifions are frequently bad, 
and are always dealt out to them with fuch a fparing hand, 
that the means of a bare livelihood are not placed within 
the reach of four out of five of thefe unhappy people. It 
is .a fad:, that many of the diforders of Haves are contra£l:ed 
from eating the vegetables, which their little fpots produce, 
before they are fuiiiciently ripe^ a clear indication, that 
the calls of hunger are frequently fo preffing, as not to 
fiifFer them to wait, till they can really enjoy them. 

This fituation, of a want of the common neceffarles of 
life, added to that of hard continual labour, muft be fuffi- 

* This computation is made on a fuppofitlon, that the gang is divided 
into three bodies 5 I call it therefore moderate, becaufe the gang is fre- 
quently divided into two bodies, which muft therefore fit up alternately 
in'^ry other night. 

-f An hand or arm being frequently ground off. 

I The reader will fcarcely believe it, but it is a fa<S, that a Have's an- 
nual allov^ance from his malter, for provifions, clothing, medicines when 
£ck, &c, is limited, upon an average, to thirty fl^illings, 

cientl}? 



OF THE Human Species. 107 

ciently painful of itfelf. How then muft the pain be fharp- 
ened, if it be accompanied with feverity ! if an unfortu- 
nate flave does not come into the field exa6lly at the ap~ 
pointed time, if, drooping with ficknefs or fatigue, hei 
appears to work unwillingly, or if the bundle of grais 
that he has been collecting, appears too fmali in the eye 
of the overfeer, he is equally fure of experiencing the 
whip. This inftrument erafes the fkin, and cuts out 
fmall portions of the fleili at almoft every ftroke ; and is 
fo frequently applied, that the fmack of it is all day lon'J- 
in the ears of thofe, who are in the vicinity of the plan- 
tations. This feveritv of mailers, or managers, to their 
flaves, v>/hich is confidered only as common difcipline, is 
attended with bad efteds. It enables them to behold in- 
fiances of cruelty without commiferation, and to be guilty 
of them without remorfe. Hence thofe many acts of de- 
liberate mutilation, that have taken place on the fli2:hteii: 
occafions : hence thofe many adts of inferiour, thouoh 
fhocking, barbarity, that have taken place without any 
occafion at all : * the very flitting of ears has been confi- 
dered as an operation, fo perfeftly devoid of pain, as to 
have been performed for no other reafon than that for 
which a brand is fet upon cattle, as a mark of property. 

But this is not the only effe61:, which this feverity pro- 
duces : for while it hardens their hearts, and makes thera 
infenfible of the milery of their fellow-creatures, it begets 
a turn for wanton cruelty. As a proof of this, I iliall 
mention one, among the many inftances that occur, where 
ingenuity has been exerted in contriving modes 01 torture. 
An iron coinn, with holes in it, v/as kept by a certain 
colonilfj as an auxiliary to the lafh. In this the poor vic- 
tim of the niafler's refentment was Inclofed, and placed 

* '' A boy having received fix flaves as a prefent from his father, Im- 
<' mediately flit their ears, and for the following reafon, That as his fa- 
*< ther was a whimfical man, he might claim them again, unlefs they 
*^ were marked." 1 do not mention this inftance as a confirmation of 
the pafTagc to which it is annexed, but only to fhew, how cautious we 
ought to be in giving credit to what may be advanced in any work writ- 
ten in defence ot flavery, by any native of the cobjnies j for being trained 
up to fcenes of cruelty from his cradle, he may, confiflently with his 
own feelings, reprefent that treatment as mild, at wliich we^ who have 
never bacn uf:d to ice them, iliould abfolutely fliudder. 

fufRciently 



io8 On the Slavery and Commerce 

fufficiently near a fire, to occafion extreme pain, and con- 
lequently Ihrieks and groans, until the revenge of the 
mafter was latiated, without any other inconvenience on 
his part, than a temporary fufpenfion of the flave's labour. 
Had he been flogged to death, or his limbs mutilated, the 
intereft of the brutal tyrant would have differed a more 
irreparable lofs* 

In mentioning this inftance, 1 do not mean to infinuate, 
that it is common. I know that it was reprobated by 
many. All that I would infer from it is, that where men 
are habituated to a fyftem of feverity, they become wan^ 
ionly cruel^ and that the mere toleration of fuch an inftru- 
ment of torture, in any country, is a clear indication, that 
this wretched dafs of men do not there enjoy the proteSfion of 
any laws^ that niay be pretended to have been enabled in their 
favour. 

Such then is the general fituation of the unfortunate 
Africans. They are beaten and tortured at difcretion. 
They are badly cloathed. They are miferably fed. Their 
drudgery is intenfe and inceflant, and their reft fhort. For 
fcarcely are their heads reclined, fcarcely have their bodies 
a refpite from the labour of the day, or the cruel hand of 
the overfeer, but they are fummoned to renew their for* 
rows. In this manner they go on from year to year, in a 
ftate of the loweft degradation, without a fmgle law to 
protect them, without the pofTibility of redrefs, without a 
hope that their fituation will be changed, unlefs death 
fhould terminate the fcene. 

Having defcribed the general fituation of thefe unfortu- 
nate people, I (hall now take notice of the common con- 
fequences that are found to attend it, and relate them fepa- 
rately, as they relult either from long and painful labour^ 
a want of the common neceffaries of life, or continual 
feverity, 

Oppreffed by a daily tafk of fuch immoderate labour as 
human nature is utterly unable to perform, many of them 
ran away from their mafters. They fly to the receflTes of 
the mountains, where they choofe rather to live upon any 
thing that the foil affords them, nay, the very foil itfelf, 
than return to that happy fituation^ which is reprefented 
by the receivns^ as the condition of a ilave^ 

It 



OF TH6 HtTMAN SpECIES. icg 

It fometimes happens, that the manager of a mountain 
plantation falls in with one of thefe ; he immediately feizes 
him, and threatens to carry him to his former mafter, un- 
lefs he will confent to live on the mountain, and cultivate 
his ground* When his plantation is put in order, he 
carries the delinquent home, abandons him to all the 
fuggeftions of defpotick rage, and accepts a reward for 
his honejiy. The unhappy wretch is chained, fcourged, 
tortured ; and all this, becaufe he obeyed the diredtions of 
nature, and wanted to be free. And who is there, that 
would not have done the fame thing, in the fame fitua- 
tion ? Who is there, that has once known the charms of 
liberty, that would not fly from defpotifm ? And yet, by 
the impious laws of the receivers^ the * abfence of fix 
months from the lafh of tyranny is death. 

But this law is even mild, when compared with another 
againft the fame offence, which v/as in force fome time 
ago, and which I fear is even now in force, in fome of 
thofe colonies which this account of the treatment com- 
prehends. Advertifements have frequently appeared there, 
offering a reward for the apprehending of fugitive flaves 
either alive or dead. The following inftance was given 
me by a perfon of unqueftionable veracity, under whofe 
own obfervation it fell. As he was travelling in one of 
the colonies alluded to, he obferved fome people in pur- 
fuit of a poor wretch, who was feeking in the wildernefs 
an afylum from his labours. He heard the difcharge of a 
gun, and foon afterwards flopping at an houfe for refrefh- 
ment, the head of the fugitive, ftill reeking with blood, 
was brought in and laid upon a table with exultation. 
The production of fuch a trophy v/as the proof required 
by law to entitle the heroes to their reward. Now reader 
determine if you can, who were the moft execrable ; the 
rulers of the ftate in authorizing murder, or the people in 
being bribed to commit it. 

* In this cafe, he is confidered as a criminal againft the ftate. The 
marjhaly an officer anfwering to our fheriff, fuperintends his execution? 
and the mafter receives the value of the fl.we from the public trealury. 
I may obferve here, that in all cafes where the delinquent is a criminal 
of the ftate, he is executed, and his value is received in the fame man- 
ner. He is tried and condemned by two or thxee juftices of the peace, 
and without any i/xtervention of ajwry. 

This 



no On the Slavery and Commerce 

This is one of the common confequences of that Immo- 
derate fhare of labour, which is impofed upon them ; nor 
is that, which is the refult of a fcanty allowance of food, 
lefs to be lamented. The wretched African is often fo 
deeply pierced by the excruciating fangs of hunger, as al- 
moft to be driven to defpair. What is he to do in fuch a 
trying fituation ? Let him apply to the reaivers. ' Alas ! 
the majefty of receiver/hip is too facred for the appeal, and 
the intrufion would be fatal. Thus attacked on the one 
hand, and fliut out from every pofTibility of relief on the 
other, he has only the choice of being Ifarved, or of re- 
lieving his neceflities by taking a fmall portion of the fruits 
of his own labour. Horrid crime ! to be found eating the 
cane, which probably his own hands have planted, and to 
be eating it, becaufe his neceffities were preffing ! This 
crime, however, is of fuch a magnitude, as always to be 
accompanied with the whip ; and fo unmercifully has it 
been applied on fuch an occafion, as to have been the 
caufe, in wet weather, of the delinquent's death. But 
the fmart of the whip has not been the only pain which 
the wretched Africans have experienced. Any thing that 
paflion could feize, and convert into an inftrument of pu- 
nifhment, has been ufed ; and, horrid to relate ! the very 
knife has not been overlooked in the fit of phrenzy. Ears 
have been ilit, eyes have been beaten out, and bones have 
been broken ; and fo frequently has this been the cafe, 
that it has been a matter of confcant lamentation with dif- 
interefted people, who out of curiofity have attended the 
* markets to which thefe unhappy people weekly refort, 
that they have not been able to turn their eyes on any 
group of them whatever, but they have beheld thefe inhu- 
man marks ofpafTion, defpotifm, and caprice. 

But thefe inftances of barbarity have not been able to 
deter them from fimilar proceedings. And indeed, how 
can it be expelled that they ihould ? They have dill the 
fame appetite to be fatisfied as before, and to drive them 
to defperation. They creep out clandeftinely by night, 
and go in fearch of food into their mailer's, or fome other 
neighbouring plantation. But here they are almoft equally 

^ Particularly in Jamaica. Thefe obfervatlons were made by difinte- 
selled people, who were there for three or four years during the late war. 

fure 



OF THE Human Species, iix 

fure of fufFering. The watchman, who will be punifhed 
himfelfi if he negle6ls his duty, frequently feizes them in 
the fa6l. No excufe or intreaty will avail ; he muft pu- 
nifh them for an example, and he muft punifh them, not 
with a (tick, nor with a whip, but with a cutlafs. Thus 
k happens, that thefe unhappy flaves, if they are takens, 
are either fent away mangled in a barbarous manner, or 
are killed upon the fpot. 

I may now mention the confequences of the feverity. 
The wretched Africans, daily fubjefted to the lafh, and 
unmercifully whipt and beaten on every trifling occafion, 
have been found to refift their oppofers. Unpardonable 
crime ! that they fhould have the feelings of nature ! that 
their breafts fhould glow with refentment on an injury ! 
that they fhould be fo far overcome, as tro refift thofe, 
whom they are under m obligations to ohey^ and whofe only 
title to their fervices confifts in a violation of the rights of 
7nen I What has been the confequence ?— But here let me 
iJDare the feelings of the reader, (I wifli I could fpare my 
own) and let me only fay, without a recital of the cruel- 
ty, that they have hem murdered at the difcretion of their 
mafters. For let the reader obferve, that the life of an 
African is only valued at a price, that would fcarcely pur- 
chafe an horfe ; that the mafter has a power of murdering 
his flave, if he pays but a trifling fine ; and that the mur- 
der muft be attended v/ith uncommon circumftances of 
horrour, if it even produces an inquiry. 

Immortal Alfred ! father of our invaluable conftitution ! 
parent of the civil bleflings we enjoy ! how ought thy 
laws to excite our love and veneration, who haft forbidden 
■us, thy pofterity, to tremble at the frown of tyrants ! How 
ought they to perpetuate thy name, as venerable, to the 
remoteft ages, who has fecured, even to the meaneft fer- 
vant, a fair and impartial trial ! How much does nature 
approve thy laws, as confiftent with her own feelings, 
while fhe abfolutely turns pale, trembles, and recoils, at 
the inftitutions of thefe receivers ! Execrable micn ! you 
do not murder the horfe, on which you only ride ; 3^qu do 
not mutilate the cow, which only aftbrds you her milk ; 
you do not torture the dog, which is but a partial fervant 
pf your pleafures ; but thefe unfortunate men, from whom 

you 



4 



ti2 On the Slavery and Commerce 

you derive your very pleafures and your fortunes, yoti 
torture, mutilate, murder at difcretion ! Sleep then you 
receivers, if you can, while you fcarcely allow thefe un- 
fortunate people to reft at all ! Fcaft if you can, and in- 
dulge your genius, while you daily apply to thefe unfor- 
tunate people the flings of feverity and hunger ! Exult in 
riches, at which even avarice ought to fhudder, and which 
humanity muft deteft ! 



CHAP. VI. 

Some people may fuppofe, from the melancholy ac- 
count that has been given in the preceding chapter, that 
I have been abfolutely dealing in romance : that the fcene 
exhibited is rather a dreary pi6^ure of the im.agination, 
than a reprefentation of fa6t. Would to heaven, for the 
honour of human nature, that this were really the cafe ! 
I wifh I could fay, that I had no teftimony to produce for 
any of my aflertions, and that my defcription of the gene- 
ral treatment of flaves has been greatly exaggerated. 

But the receivers, notwithftanding the ample and difln- 
terefted evidence, that can be brought on the occafion, 
do not admit the defcription to be true. They fay firft, 
" That if the flavery were fuch as has been now repre- 
" fented, no human being could poffibly fupport it long.'* 
Melancholy truth ! the v/retched Africans generally pe- 
rifti in their prime. They neither do, nor can, fupport 
it long. Let the receivers but refletS; upon the prodigious 
fupplies that are annually required, (all of which would be 
unneceflary were they treated well) and their argument 
will be nothing lefs than ^ confeflion, that the flavery has 
been juftly depicted. 

They appeal next to every man's own reafon, and de- 
fire him to think ferioufly, whether '' felf-intereft will not 
*' always reflrain the matter from ads of cruelty to the 
*' fla.ve, and whether fuch accounts therefore, as the fore- 
" going, do not contain v/ithin themfelves, their own refu- 
" tation." lanfwer, "No." For if this reftraining prin- 
ciple be as powerful as it is imagined, why does not the 
general conduct of men afford us a better pi6lure ? What 

is 



OF THE Human Species. ii^ 



.> 



b imprudence, or what is vice, but a departure from every 
man's own intereft, and yet thefe are the charadlerifticks of 
more than half the world ?- — — 

— But, to come more clofely to the prefent cafe, felf- 
Intereft will be found but a weak barrier againft the fallies 
oi pajfton : particularly where it has been daily indulged in 
its greateft latitude, and there are no laws to reftrain its 
calamitous effe6^s. If the obfervation be true, that paflion 
is a fliort madnefs, then it is evident that felf-intereft, and 
every other confideration, muft be loft, fo long as it con- 
tinues. We cannot have a ftronger inftance of this, than 
in a circumftance related in the fecond part of this elB^y, 
'' that though the Africans have gone to v/ar for the ex- 
prefs purpofe of procuring flaves, yet fo great has been their 
refentment at the refiftance they have frequently found, 
that their pajfton has entirely gotten the better of their in- 
tereji^ and they haVe murdered all without any difcrimina- 
tion, either of age or fex." Such may be prefumed to be 
the cafe with the no lefs favage receivers, ImprefTed with 
the moft haughty and tyrannical notions, eafily provoked, 
accuftomed to indulge their anger, and, above all, habitu- 
ated to fcenes of cruelty, and unawed by the fear of laws, 
they will hardly be found to be exempt from the common 
failings of human nature, and to fpare an unlucky Have, 
at a time when men of cooler temper, and better regulated 
paflions, are fo frequently blind to their ov/n intereft. 

But i^ pajfton may beiuppofed to be generally m.oretban 
a balance for interej}^ how muft the fcaie be turned in fa- 
vour of the melancholy pi6lure exhibited, when we reflect 
thzt felfprefervation additionally fteps in, and demands the 
moft rigorous fever ity ? For when we confider that where 
there is one mafter, there are ffty fiaves ; that the latter 
have been all forcibly torn from their country, and are re- 
tained in their prefent fituation by violence ; that they are 
perpetually at war in their hearts with their opprefiors, and 
are continually cherifhing the feeds of revenge; it is evi- 
dent that even avarice herfelf, however cool and deliberate, 
however free from paflion and caprice, muft facrifice her 
own fordid feelings, and adopt a fyftem of tyranny and op- 
preliion, which it muft be ruincus to purfue. 

H Thus 



114 On the Slavery and Commerce 

Thus then, if no pi6ture had been drawn of the litira:- 
tibn of flaves, and it had been left folely to every man's 
fober judgment to determine what it might probably be, 
he would conclude, that if the fituation were juftly defcrib- 
ed, the page muft be frequently ftained with a£is of un- 
com.mon cruelty. 

It remains only to make a reply to an obje6Lion, that 
is ufually advanced againft particular inftances of cruelty 
to flaves, as recorded by various writers. It is faid that 
" fom^e of thefe are fo inconceivably, and beyond all ex- 
" ample inhuman, that their very excefs above the com- 
'' mon meafure of cruelty fhews them at once exaggerat- 
'' ed and incredible." But their credibility fhall be efti.- 
mated by a (uppofition. I will fuppofe that the following 
inftance had been recorded by a v/riter of the Z?/^/;^ repu- 
tation, " that the mafiier of a fhip, bound to the wefliern 
" colonies with flaves, on a prefumption that many of 
*' them v»70uld die, felecSled an hundred and thirty -two of 
" the moil fickly, and ordered them to be thrown into the 
*' fea, to recover their value from the infurers, and, above 
" all, that the fatal order was put into execution." What 
would the reader have thought on the occafion ? Would 
he have believed the fail ? It would have furely ftaggered 
his faith ; becaufe he could never have heard that any one 
man ever was, and could never have fuppofed that any 
one man ever could be, guilty of the murder o^ fuch a num- 
ber of his fellow creatures. But when he is informed that 
fuch a fa6l as this came before * a court of juftice in this 
very country ; that it is incontrovertibly true 5 that it hap- 
pened within the laft five years ; that hundreds can come 
and fay, that they heard the melancholy evidence with 
tears ; what bounds is he to place to his belief? The great 
God, who looks down upon all his creatures with the fame 
impartial eye, feems to have infatuated the parties con- 
cerned, that they might bring the horrid circumftance to 
light, that it might be recorded in the annals of a publicic 
court, as an authentick fpecimen of the treatment which 
the unfortunate Africans undergo, and at the fame time^ 

* The adlion was brought by the owners againft the underwriters, t® 
recover the value of the murdered flaves. It v/as tried at Guildhall, 

as 



o? THE Human Species* tt^ 

as an argument to fhew, that there is no fpecies of cruelty, 
that is recorded to have been exercifedupon thefe wretch- 
ed people, fo enormous that it may not readily be believed. 



CHAP. VII. 

If the treatment then, as before defcribed, is confif med 
by reafon, and the great credit that is due to difmterefted 
writers on the fubjet?!: ; if the unfortunate Africans are 
ufed, as if their fleih were Hone, and their vitals brafs ; by 
what arguments do you receivers defend your condu£l ? 

You fay that a great part of your favage treatment con- 
flfls in punifhment for real offences, and frequently for 
fuch offences, as all civilized nations have concurred in 
punifhing. The firft charge that you exhibit agalnft them 
is fpecifick, it is that of theft. But how much rather 
ought you receivers to \i\\i{^i\ who reduce them to fuch a 
fituation ! who reduce them to the dreadful alternative, 
that they muft either Jfeal or perifi> ! How much rather 
ought you receivers to be confidered as robbers yourfelveSj 
who caufe thefe unfortunate people to hQjiolen I And how 
much greater is your crime, who are robbers of human 
liberty ! 

The next charge, which you exhibit againff them, is 
general, it is that of rebellion ; a crime of fuch a latitude^ 
that you can impofe it upon almoff every action, and of 
fuch a nature, that you always annex to it the moft ex- 
cruciating pain* But what a contradicSlion is this to com- 
mon fenle ! Have the wretched Africans formally refigned 
their freedom ? Have you any other claim upon their obe- 
dience, than that of force ? If then they are your fubjeiiis, 
you violate the laws of government, by making them un- 
happy. But if they are not your fubje6ts, then, even 
though they fhould refill: your proceedings, they are not 
rebellious. 

But what do you fay to that long catalogue of offences, 
which you punifh, and of which no people but yourfelves 
take cognizance at all ? You fay that the wifdora of legi- 
llation has inferted it in the colonial laws, and that you 
punifii by authority. But do you allude to that execrable 

H 2 code, 



ii6 On the Slavery and Commerce 

code, t\\2it authorifes murder? that tempts an unofFended 
perfon to kill the flave, that abhors and flies your fervice ? 
that delegates a power, which no hoft of men, which not 
all the world, can poPiefs ? 

Or, — What do you fay to that daily unmerited feverity, 
which you confider only as common difcipline ? Here you 
fay that the Africans are vicious, that they are all of them 
ill-difpofed, that you muft of neceffity be fevere. But can 
they be weil-difpofed to their oppreffors ? In their own 
country they were juft, generous, hofpitable : qualities, 
which all the African hiilorians allow them eminently to 
polTefs. If then they are vicious, they muft have contra61:- 
ed many of their vices from yourfelves ; and as to their 
own native vices, if any have been imported with them, 
are they not amiable, when com.pared with yours ? 

Thus then do the excufes, which have been hitherto 
made by the receivers^ force a relation of fuch circum- 
ftances, as makes their condu6t totally inexcufable, and, 
inftead of diminifhing at all, highly aggravates their 
guilt. 



CHAP. VIII. 

I come nov/ to that other fyftem of reafoning, which is 
always applied, when the former is confuted ; " that the 
" Africans are an inferiour link of the chain of nature, 
'' and are made for llavery." 

This aflertion is proved by two arguments ; the firft of 
which was advanced alfo by the ancients, and is drav/n 
from the inferiority of their capacities. 

Let us allow then for a moment, that they appear to 
have no parts, that they appear to be void of underftand- 
ing. And is this wonderful, when you receivers deprefs 
their fenfes by hunger ? Is this wonderful, when by incef- 
fant labour, the continual application of the lafh, and the 
moft inhuman treatment that imagination can devife, you 
overwhelm their genius, and hinder it from breaking 
forth ? — No, — You confound their abilities by the feverity 
of their fervitude : for as a fpark of lire, if cruibed by too 
great a weight of incumbent fuel, cannot be biov/n into a 

flamcj 



OF THE Human Species. 117 

flame, but fuddenly expires, (o the human mind, if deprefT- 
ed by rigorous fervitude, cannot be excited to a difplay of 
thofe faculties, which might otherwife have (hone with the 
brighteft luftre. 

Neither is it wonderful in another point of view. For 
what is it that awakens the abilities of men, and diftin- 
guifhes them from^ the common herd ? Is it not often the 
amiable hope of becoming ferviceable to individuals, or 
the ftate ? Is it not often the hope of riches, or of power ? 
Is it not frequently the hope of temporary honours, or a 
lafiring fame ? Thefe principles have all a wonderful effect 
upon the mind. They call upon it to exert its faculties, 
and bring thofe talents to the publick view, which had 
otherwife been concealed. But the unfortunate Africans 
have no fuch incitements as thefe, that they fhould (hew 
their genius. They have no hope of riches, power, ho- 
nours, fame. They have no hope but this, that their 
miferies will be foon terminated by death. 

And here may be cenfured and expofed, the murmur- 
ings of the unthinking and the gay ; who, going on in a 
continual round of pleafure and profperity, repine at the 
will of Providence, as exhibited in the fliortnefs of human 
duration. But let a weak and infirm old age overtake 
them; let them experience calamities; let them feel but 
half the miferies which the wretched Africans undergo; and 
they v/ill praife thegoodnefs of Providence, v/hohath made 
them mortal, who hath prefcribed certain ordinary bounds 
to the life of man, and v/ho, by fuch a limitation, hath 
given all men this comfortable hope, that however perfe- 
cted in life, a time will come in the common courfe of 
nature, v/hen their fufFerings will have an end. 

Such then is the nature of this fcj-vitude, that we can 
hardly expect to find in thofe, who undergo it, even the 
glimpfe of genius. For if their minds are in a continual 
Rate of depreilion, and if they have no expectations in life 
to av/aken their abilities and make them eminent, we can- 
not be furprized if a fulien gloomy flupidity ihould be the 
leading mark in their character; or if they fhould appear 
inferiour to thofe, who do not only enjoy the invaluable 
bleflings of freedom, but have every profpe6t before their 
eyes, that can allure them to exert their faculties. Nov/, 

H 3 '*■ 



1x8 On the Slavery and Commerce 

if to thefe confiderations we add, that many of the v/retch- 
ed Atrlcans are torn from their country in a ftate of nature, 
and that in general, as long as their flavery continues, every 
obftacle is placed in the way of their improvement, we 
fhall have a fuiiicieiit anfwer to any argument that may be 
drawn from the inferiority of their capacities. 

It appears then, from the circumfcances that have been 
mentioned, that to form a true judgment of the abilities of 
thefe unfortunate people, we mull either take a general 
view of them before their flavery conimences, or confine 
our attention to fuch, as, after it has commenced, have had 
any opportunity given them of fhewing their genius either 
in arts or letters. If, upon fuch a fair and impartial 
view, there (liould be any reafon to fuppofe, that they are at 
all infciiour to others in the fame fituation, the argument 
will then gain fome of that v/eight and im.portancej which 
it v/ants at prefent. 

In their own country, where we are to fee them firfl, 
we muil expeci: that the profpe61; will be unfavourable. 
They are m^oftly in a favage fliate. Their powers of mind 
are limited to few objedh. Their ideas are confequently 
few. It appears, however, that they follow the fame mode 
of life, and exercife the fam.e arts, as the ancellors of thofe 
very Europeans, who boaft of their great fuperiority, are 
defcribed to have done in the fame uncultivated iiate. 
'I'his appears from the Nubian's Geography, the writings 
of Leo the Moor, and all the fubfequent hidories, which 
thofe, who have vifited the African continent, have v/ritten 
from their own inipecfion. Hence three conclufions ; 
that their abilities are fufKcient for their fituation; — that 
they are as great, as thofe of other people have been, in the 
fame ifate of fociety ;— and that they are as great as thofe 
of any civilized people v/hatever, when the degree of the 
barbarifm of the one is drawn into a comparifon with that 
of the civilization of the other. 

Let us now follow them to the colonies. They are car- 
ried over in the unfavourable fituation defcribed. It is ob- 
ferved here, that though their abilities cannot be effi mated 
high from a v/ant of cultivation, they are yet various, and 
that they vary in proportion as the nacion, from which they 
have been brought, has advanced more or lefs in the fcale 

of 



OF THE HuPvIAN SPECIES. ng 

©f fociai life. This obfervation, which is fo frequently 
made, is of great importance : for if their abilities expand 
in proportion to the improvement of the ftate, it is a clear 
iiidic^tion, that if they were equally improved, they would 
be equally ingenious. 

But here, before I confider any opportunities that may 
be afforded them, let it be remembered that even their moil 
polifhed fituation may be called barbarous, and that this 
circumilance, fhould' they appear lefs docile than others, 
may be'confidered as a fuuicient anfwer to any objeci:ion^ 
that may be made to their capacities. Notvvithitanding 
this, when they are put to the mechanical arts, they do not 
difcover a want of ingenuity. They attain them in as 
fhort a time as the Europeans, and arrive at a degree of ex- 
cellence equal to that of their teachers. This is a fadl 
almoftuniverfally known, and affords us this proof, that 
having learned with facility fuch of the mechanical arts as 
they have been taught, they are capable of attaining any 
other, at leafl:, of the fame clals, if they Oiould receive but 
the fame inftruftion. 

With refped- to the liberal arts, their pronciency is cer- 
tainly lefs ; but not lefs in proportion to their time and op- 
portunity of fludy ; not lefs, becaufe they are lefs capable 
of attaining them, but becaufe they have feldom or ever 
an opportunity of learning them at all. It is yet extraor- 
dinary that their talents appear, even in fome of thefe fci- 
ences, in which they are totally uninilru6!;ed. Their abi- 
lities in mufick are fuch, as to have been generally noticed. 
They play frequently upon a variety of inftruments, with- 
out any other ailiftance than their own ingenuity. They 
have alfo tunes of their own compofition. Some of thefe 
have been imported among us, are now in uie, and are 
admired for their fprlghtlinefs and eafe, though the unge- 
nerous and prejudiced importer has concealed their ori- 
ginal. 

Neither are their talents In poetry lefs confpicuous. 
Every occurrence, if their fpirits are not too greatly de- 
preifed, is turned into a fong, Thefe fongs are faid to be 
incoherent and nonfenficai. But this proceeds principally 
from two caufes, an improper conjunclion of words, arifing 
from an ignorance of the language in which they compofe ; 

H 4. and 



120 On the Slavery and Commerce 

and a wildnefs of thought, arifing from the different man- 
ner, in which the organs of rude and civilized people will 
be ilruck by the fame obje6t. And as to their want of 
harmony and rhyme, which is the lafl: objedion, the differ- 
ence of pronounciation is the caufe. Upon the whole, as 
they are perfeftly confiftent with their own ideas, and are 
f!:ri6i:]y mufical as pronounced by themfelves, they afford 
us as high a proof of their poetical powers, as the works of 
the moft acknovv^ledged poets. 

But where thefe impediments have been removed, where 
they have received an education, and have known and 
pronounced the language with propriety, thefe defe6ls have 
vanifhed, and their productions have been lefs objection- 
able. For a proof of this, I appeal to the writings of an* 
African girl, v/ho made no contemptible appearance in 
this fpecies of compofition. She was kidnapped when only 
eight years old, and, in the year 1 761, was tranfported to 
America, where fhe was fold with other flaves. She had 
no fchooi education there, but receiving fome little in- 
ftru6lion from the family, with whom (he was fo fortunate 
as to live, (he obtained fuch a knowledge of the Englifh 
language within fixteen months from the time of her arri- 
val, as to be able to fpeak it and read it to the aftonifhment 
ofthofe who heard her. She foon afterwards learned to 
write, and, having a great inclination to learn the Latin 
tongue, file was indulged by her mafter, and made a pro- 
grefs. Pier poetical v/orks were publifhed with his per- 
million, in the year 1773. They contain thirty-eight pieces 
on different fubjeCls. I ihall beg leave to make a fhort ex- 
tYa.B. from two or three of them, for the obfervation of the 
reader. 

* Phillis Wheadey, negroe flave to Mr. John Wheatley, of BoftoDj iQ 

New-England. 



From 



THE Human Species. 121 



^ From an Hymn to the Evening. 

« Fiird with the pralfe of him who gives the light, 

*' And draws the fable curtains of the night, 

*' Let placid ilumbers footh each weary mind, 

*' At morn to wake more heav'nly and refin'd ; 

"So fhall the labours of the day begin, 

*' More pure and guarded from the fnares of fm. 



From an Hymn to the Morning. 

" Aurora hail ! and all the thoufand dyes, 

'^ That deck thy progrefs through the vaulted Ikies ? 

" The morn awakes, and wide extends her rays, 

" On ev'ry leaf the gentle zephyr plays. 

" Harmonious lays the feather'd race refume, 

" Dart the bright eye, and fhake the painted plume. 

-. — &c. &c. 



* Left It fhould be doubted whether thefe Poems are genuine, we fhall 
tranfcribe the names of thofe, who figned a certificate of their authen- 
ticity. 

His Excellency Thomas Hutchlnfon, Governor* 

The Honourable Andrew Oliver, Lieutenant Governor. 



The Hon. Thomas Hubbard 
The Hon. John Erving 
The Hon. James Pitts 
The Hon. Harrifon Giay 
The Hon. James Bowdoin 
John Hancock, Efq. 
Jofeph Green, Efq. 
Richard Carey, Efq. 



The Rev. Cha. Chauncy, D.D* 
The Rev. Mather Byles, D.D. 
The Rev. Ed. Pemberton, D. D. 
The Rev. Andrew Elliot, D. D. 
The Rev. Sam. Cooper, D. D. 
The Rev. Samuel Mather 
The Rev. John Moorhead 
Mr. John Wheatley, her Mailer 



From 



122 On the Slavery and Commerce 



From Thoughts on Imagination, 

*' Now here, now there, the rov'mg fancy flies, 
*' Till fome lov'd obje6t ftrikes her wand'ring Qyts^ 
" Whofe filken fetters all the fenfes bind, 
'' And foft captivity involves the mind. 

** Imagination ! who can fing thy force, 

*' Or who defcribe the fwiftnefs of thy courfe ? 

*' Soaring through air to find the bright abode, 

" Th' empyreal palace of the thund'ring God^ 

*• We on thy pinions can furpafs the wind, 

*' And leave the rolling univerfe behind : 

*' From ftar to ftar the mental opticks rove, 

*' Meafure the fkies, and range the realms above. 

*' There in one view we grafp the mighty whole,, 

*' Or with new worlds amaze th' unbounded foul, 

«- — — ' ■ ' ^ ' &c. he. 



Such is the poetry which I produce as a proof of my af- 
fertions. How far it has fucceeded, the reader may by 
this time have determined in his own mind. I fhall there- 
fore only beg leave to accompany it with this obfervation, 
that if the authorefs was defignedfor Jlavery^ (as the argu- 
ip^ent muft confefs) the greater part of the inhabitants o£ 
Britain mufi: lofe their claim to freedom. 

To this poetry I ihaii add, as a farther proof of their abili- 
ties, the Profe compciitions of Ignatius Sancho, who receiv- 
ed fome little education. His letters are too well known, to 
make any extraft, or indeed any farther mention of him, 
necellary. If other examples of African genius fhould be 
required, fufFice it to fay, that they can be produced in 
abundance ; and that if I were ailov/ed to enumerate in- 
fiances of African gratitude, patience, fidelity, honour, as 
^o many inftances of good fenfe, and a found underftand- 
ing, I fear that thoufands of the enlightened Europeans 
would have occafion to blufn. 

But 



OF THE Human Species. 



123 



But an obje<Slion will be made here, that the two per- 
fons whom I have particularized by name, are prodigies, 
and that if we were to live for many years, we fhould 
fcarcely meet with two other Africans of the fame defcrlp- 
tion. But I reply, that confidering their fituation as be- 
fore defcribed, two perfons, above mediocrity in the lite- 
rary way, are as many as can be expected within a certain 
period of years 5 and farther, that if thefe are prodigies^ 
they are only fuch prodigies as every day would produce, 
if they had the fame opportunities of acquiring knowledge 
as other people, and the fame expe6lations in life to excite 
their genius. This has been conflrantly and folemnly af- 
ferted by the pious Benezet,* whom I have mentioned be- 
fore, as having devoted a confiderable part of his time to 
their inilru6lion. This great m.an, for I cannot but men- 
tion him with veneration, had a better opportunity of 
knowing them than any perfon v/hatever, and he always 
uniformly declared," that he could never find a difference 
between their capacities and thofe of other people; that 
they were as capable of reafoning as any individual Euro- 
ropeans ; that they were as capable of the higheft intel- 
ledual attainments ; in fliort, that their abilities were e- 
qual, and that they only wanted to be equally cultivated, 
to afford fpecimens of as fine productions. 

I have hitherto been confining myfelf to the colonial 
Africans, having taken a view of them in their two dilFer- 
ent fituations, that is, both before and after their flavery 
had commenced. I mull now remark, that the great 
bulk of thofe, that are annually {hipped to the colonies, 
confifts of fuch as come from the inland parts, and who 
are in a lej's improved ftate than thofe that are fettled upon 
the coaft. It is but juft therefore, that I fhould confider 
t^n^ latter, whofe fituation is more refpeftable* 

It appears that many of the arts are carried by thefe to 
great perfection. On feveral parts of the coaft they are 
good mechanicks, working trinkets of various forts in 
gold, and executing their work with great ingenuity and 
tafte. 

*ln the Preface; 

They 



124 ^^ '^^^ Slavery and Commerce 

They work upon iron with equal, if not with greater 
dexterity. Their bar-iron is purchafed of the Europeans. 
Of this they make cutlafTes, the heads of fpears and lan- 
ces, and ornament them with fcollops and figures, ill a 
neat and fymmetrical manner ; going beyond the work- 
men in our own villages, and equalling thofe in fuch of 
our towns, as are not deemed manufaituring. 

They weave alfo with great dexterity and exadtnefs both 
grafs and cotton. The blades of the former, which grow 
to a great length, are firft dyed, fome of them of a black, 
ethers of a red, and others of a yellow colour. They are 
then fo difpofed, as to make an agreeable variety in their 
appearance. This being done, they are worked up into 
matts and aprons of a yard fquare, and refemble the 
Scotch plaid. 

There is alfo a filk grafs, which they manufacture with 
great neatnefs and tafte, and which always commands the 
attention of thofe, to whom any fpecimen of it is fbewn. 

But their cotton cloths are particularly to be admired, 
Thefe are made on ail parts of the coaft, and are of their 
native white, or dyed. The colours confpicuous in the 
latter, are either yellov/, green, blue, or pink ; and they 
are always laid on in ftripes, the Africans not having yet 
arrived at the art of expreiling figures upon cloth. The 
looms (if I may fo call them), upon which thefe cloths are 
manufactured, are about fix inches broad, fo that to make 
a piece of a yard wide, fix of thefe breadths mufl: be fewn 
together. Many of the cloths, made at Whydah and Be- 
nin, are worked in fuch a mafterly manner, as not to be 
exceeded by the fineft artifts in Europe. 

To enumerate the different mechanical arts, which are 
pra6iifed by the natives of Africa on their own continent, 
v/ould be now unnecelTary, fince to exercife thofe, which 
have been mentioned, fome abilities are required. It will, 
therefore, be fufficient to add on this head, that they never 
learned them of the Europeans ; that they are fuch as 
their own native ingenuity fuggeRed ; but that the Euro- 
peans, on the other hand, have confidered their cloths as 
lb beautiful, as to have adopted them for patterns. 

Though I have mentioned fuch of their native attain- 
ments, as have eftabliHied their capacities beyond a doubt, 

yet 



OF THE Human Species. 125 

yet it would be unpardonable to omit fome others, which^ 
being of a more intellecSlual nature, muft fhev/ them in a 
yet more favourable light. 

It is aftonifhing with what facility the African brokers 
reckon up the exchange of European goods for flaves. 
One of thefe brokers has perhaps ten flaves to (ellj and 
for each of thefe he demands ten different articles. He 
reduces them immediately by the head into bars, coppers, 
ounces, according to the medium of exchange that pre- 
vails in the part of the country in which he refides, and 
immediately ftrikes the balance. 

The European, on the other hand, takes his pen, and 
with great deliberation, and with all the advantages of 
arithmetick and letters, begins to eflimate alfo. He is fo 
unfortunate often, as to make a miftake ; but he no fooner 
errs, than he is detected by this man of inferiour capacity, 
whom he can neither deceive in the name or quality of his 
goods, nor in the balance of his account. Inftances of 
this kind are very frequent : and it is now the general 
complaint of the captains fent upon the coaft, that the 
African brokers are fo nice in their calculations, that they 
can fcarcely com.e off with a decent bargain. 

I prefume that initances of this kind will be received as 
proofs of the exiftence of their underftandings, all arith- 
metical calculations being operations of the mind. There 
are others however of equal, if not of greater weight, to 
the point in queftion. 

On thofe parts of the coafi:, v/hich are the greatell: mar- 
kets for flaves, many Africans refide, who a6l as inter- 
preters to the fhips. Thefe, by great induftry and perfe- 
verance, have made themfelves maflers of two or three of 
the languages of the country, and of the language of thofe 
Europeans, with whom they are moft conne£led in trade. 
This capacity of learning, and of converfmg in other lan- 
guages, is clearly a proof of the exiflence of reflexion, of 
a nice difcrimination, and of fuch other qualities and pow- 
ers as are afcribeable to human beino-s alone. 

o 

I muft not forget here, that feverai of the African trad- 
ers, or great men, are not unacquainted with letters. Thj$ 
is particularly the cafe at Bonny and Calabar, where they 
not only fpeak the Englifli language with fluency, but 

write 



il6 On the Slavery and Commerce 

tvrke It. Thefe traders fend letters repeatedly to the 
merchants here, ftating the fituation of the markets, the 
goods which they would wifli to be fent out to them the 
next voyage, the number of flaves which they expe6i: to 
receive by that time, and fuch other particulars, as might 
be expe6fed from one merchant to another. Thefe letters 
are always legible, void of ambiguity, and eafy to be un- 
derftood. They contain of courfe, fufficlent arguments 
to fhew, that they are as capable of conducting trade, and 
poffefs as good an underftanding as thofe to whom they 
write, I will not fay that they exhibit marks of an equal 
erudition. 

Thus then does it appear from the inftances that have 
been produced, and the obfervations that have been made 
on the occafion, that if the minds of the Africans were 
unbroken by flavery, if they had the fame expectations in 
life as other people, and the fame opportunities of im- 
provement, either in the colonies or upon the coaft, they 
would be equal, in all the various branches of fcience, to the 
Europeans, and that the argument that ftates them " to 
*' be an inferiour link of the chain of nature, and defigned 
" for fervitude," as far as it depends on the inferiority of 
their co^ac'ities^ is wholly malevolent and falfe.* 



CHAP. IX. 

The fecond argument, by which it is attempted to be 
proved, " that the Africans are an inferiour link of the 
*' chain of nature, and are defigned for flavery," is drawn 
from colour^ and from thofe other marks, which diilln- 
guifh them from the inhabitants of Europe. 

To prove this with the greater facility, the receivers di- 
vide in opinion. Some of them contend that the Africans 
from thefe circumitances are the defcendants of f Cain ; 

* As to Mr. Hume's afTertions with refpeil to African capacity, I 
have paiTcd them over in filence, as they have been fo admirably refuted 
by the learned Dr. Beattie, in his EfTay on Truth, to which I refer the 
reader. The whole of this admirable refutation extends from p. 458, ro 
464. 

\ Genefis, ch. iv. iji 

Qthers, 



OF THE Human Species. 127 

others, that they are the poflerity of Ham ; and that as it 
was declared by divine inrpiration, that thefe fhould be 
fervants to the reft of the world, fo they are defigned for 
llavery ; and that tfie reducing of them to fuch a fituation 
is only the accomplifhment of the wilt of heaven : while 
the refl:, confidering them from the fame circumftances as 
a totally diftinct fpecies of men, conclude them to be an 
inferiour link of the chain of nature, and deduce the infe- 
rence defcribed. 

To anfwer thefe arguments in the clearest: and fullefl 
manner, I am under the neceflity of making two fuppofi- 
tions, iirll, that the fcriptures are true ; fecondly, that 
they are falie. 

If then the fcriptures are true, it is evident that the po- 
llerity of Cain were extinguifhed in the flood. Thus one 
of the arguments is no more. 

With refpeil to the curfe of Flam, it appears alfo that 
it was limited^ that it did not extend to the poflerity of 
all his fons, but only to the * defcendants of him who 
was called Canaan : by which it was foretold that the 
Canaanites, a part of the poilerity of Ham, fhould ferve 
the pofterity of Shem and Japhet. 

Now how does it appear that thefe wretched Africans 
are the defcendants of Canaan ? — By thofe marks, it will 
be faid, which diffringuifti them from the reft of the world* 
— ^But where are thefe marks to be found in the divine 
writings ? In what page is it faid, that the Canaanites 
were to be known by their colour^ their features.^ their 
form^ or the very hair of their heads-, which is brought 
into the account ? — But alas ! fo far are the divine writ- 
ings from giving any fuch account, that they fhew the 
allertion to be faife. They fhew that the f defcendants of 
Cufh were of the colour, to Vvdiich the advocates for Ha- 
very allude ; and of courfe, that there was no fuch lioii- 
tation of colour to the pofterity of Canaan, or the inheri- 
tors of the curfe. 

* Genefis, ch. ix, 25, 26, 27. 

•\ Jeremiah fays, ch. xili. 23, *' Can the iBthlopian change his co* 
<* lour, or the leopard his fpots <"' Now the word, which is here tran- 
llated Mthiopian^ is in the original Hebrew " the dcfccru^ant cf Ct.Jhy''' 
which ihews that this colour was not confined to thu defccndanis of 
Ganaanf as the advocates for flavery aflert, 

Suppofe 



128 On the Slavery and Commerce 

Suppofe I fliould now (hew, upon the moft undeniable 
evidence, * that thofe of the wretched Africans, who are 
fingjed out as inheriting the curfe, are defcendants of Cufh 
or Phut ; and that I fhould fhew farther, that but a iingle 
remnant of Canaan, v/hich was afterwards ruined, was 
ever in Africa at all. — Here all is confcernation.— < 

But unfortunately again for the argument, though won- 
derfully for the confirmation that the fcriptures are of di- 
vine original, the whole prophecy has been completed. 
A part of the defcendants of Canaan were hewers of wood 
and drawers of water, and became tributary and fubjeit 
to the Ifraelites, or the defcendants of Shem. The Greeks 
afterwards, as well as the Romans, who were both the 
defcendants of Japhet, not only fubdued thofe who were 
fettled in Syria and Paleftine, but purfued and conquered 
all iuch as were then remaining. Thefe were the Tyrians 
and Carthaginians : the former of whom were ruined by 

Alex- 

* It Is very extraordinary that the advocates for flavery fhould confider 
thofe Africans, whom they call negroes, as the defcendants of Canaatif 
■when few hiftorlcal fa£ls can be fo well afcertained, as that out of the 
defcendants of the four fons of Ham, the defcendants of Canaan were 
the only people, (if I except the Carthaginians, who were a colony of 
Canaan, and were afterwards ruined) vi'ho did not fettle in that quarter 
of the globe, Africa was incontrovertibly peopled by the pofterlty of the 
three other fons. I cannot fhew this in a clearer manner, than in the 
•words of the learned Mr. Bryant, in his letter to Mr. Granville Sharp 
on this fubje<fl. 

*« We learn from fcripture, that Ham had four fons, Chvs, Mixraimt 
*' Phutf and Canaan, Gen. x 5, 6. Canaan occupied Palejllnet and the 
«^ country called by his name : Mizraim, Egypt : but Phut pafled deep 
into Africa, and, I believe, moll: of the nations in that part of the world 
are descended from him; at ieail more than from any other perfon." ^0- 
fephus fays, " that Phut -was the founder of the nations in Libya, and the peo- 
«< pk IV ere from him called aa.oi Fhuti."' Antiq. L. i. c. 7. *' By Lybia 
*< he underftands, as the G;-£'^^j did, Africa in general; for the particu- 
*' lar country called Lybia Proper, was peopled by the LuhirA or hehahim, 
*' one of the branches from Mix.raim, AuCai/J. «| tf AiCvi;. Chron. Paf- 
** chale, p. 29. 

*' The fons of Phut fettled In Mauritania, where was a country called 
** Phutia, and a river of the like denomination. Mauritaniae Fluvius 
*^ ufque ad prsefens Tempos Phut dicitur, omnifq; ciica eum Regio 
" Pkutenfu. Hieron. Tradit. Hebrces.— Amnem, quem vocant FutJ''' 
** Pliny, Lib. 5. c. i. Some of this family fettled above -^Egypt, near 
<' iEthiopia, and v/ere ftyled Troglodytae. i^sS' i% tf rj)a>yKoSvlcit» 
<« Syncelliis, p. 47. " Many of them pafTed inland, and peopled the 
<f Mediterranean country." 

« la 



OF THE ituMAN SpECIES* I^^ 

Alexander and the Greeks, the latter by Scipio and the 
Romans. 

There was fomething fo remarkable, and fo expreflive 
of the interpofitlon of the Deity to accomplifh the words 
of his ov/n mouth, in the cafe of the defcendants of Ja- 
phet, that I cannot pafs it over in filence. 

When Alexander went on his eaflern expedition, he 
had no thoughts of vlfiting the city of Tyre, but his atten- 
tion v/as wonderfully called to it by the following ocrur- 
rence. 

The Tyrlans having heard of his fame^ and knowing 
that he was then on his march to perform new conquefts, 
were apprehenfive that, among other places, he might 
vifit Tyre. They therefore fent ambafiadors to him to 
iprefent him with a crown of gold, and to congratulate 
him on the fuccefs of his arms, hoping by thefe means to 
conciliate his favour, and to prevent his arrival in their 
city. 

Alexander Was much pleafed with the prefent. He 
received the ambafTadors accordingly, but told them that 
as the Tyrians had done him fo much honour, he could 
not do lefs than pay his vows to Hercules, and his re- 
fpe£ls to the citizens, in Tyre. 

This anfwer was of all others the moft diflrellingk 
They little thought that their poiitenefs would have met 
with fo handfome a return. They therefore replied im- 

*' In jsro-cefs of time the fons of thus alfo, (after their expulfion from 
*' Egypt) made fettlements upon the fea coaft of Africa, and came into 
** Mauritania. Hence we find traces of them alfo in the names of pla- 
•* ces, fuch as Cburis, CkufareSf upon the coaft : and a river Chufay and 
** a city Cotta^ together with a promontory, Com, in Mauritania, all de- 
** nominated from Chusj who at different times, and by different peo* 
*' pie, Was called Chus, Ciub, Cojhf and Cotis, The river Cufa is inenw 
** tioned by Pliny, Lib. 5. c. i. and by Ptolemy. 

** Many ages after thefe Cettlements, there was another eruption of 
*' the Ciipitei into thefe parts, under the name of Saracens and Moorsy 
<' who over-ran Africa, to the very extremity of Mount Atlas. They 
*< paPfed over and conquered Sfain to the north, and they extended 
*' themfelves fouthward, as I faid in my treatifc, to the rivers Sentgat 
*' and Gambia, and as low as the Gold Coaji. I mentioned this, bccaufe 
*' I do not think that they proceeded much farther j moft of the nations 
** to the jouth being, as I imagine, of the race of Phut, The very 
** country upon the river Gambia on one fide, is at this day called Pbutd, 
<* of which ^Juet, in his h'lQiory of Juba Ben Solomony gives an account.'* 

I mediately. 



130 



On the Slavery a^?d Commerci? 



mediately, that if he intended to pay his vows to Hercu- 
les, he would do it with more propriety at old Tyre^ 
where there was a much more ancient temple of Hercu- 
lesj than that in their own city. 

Alexander now feeing the matter in its true light, that 
their congratulations had proceeded from felfifh views^ 
and that they had only been endeavouring to prevent him 
from vifiting the place, was exceedingly irritated, and 
threatened to deilroy it immediately. 

To this little and unaccountable circumftance, which 
no human being could have ever forefeen to have been, 
attended with fuch an event, is to be attributed the 
completion of the prophecy. For he never forgot his 
promife, but almoft inftantly put his army in motion, and 
advanced to the very walls. He befieged it for {^wtn 
„ months, when he took it by florm, and configned the 
greatefl part of the inhabitants to death, and the reft to 
JIavery, 

But though the fate of the Tyrians was fuch, yet the 
defcendants of Canaan had not ail of them undergone the 
curfe. A body of Tyrians, prior to this event, had found 
their way into Africa, and had built Carthage y fo that 
thofe, with whom the prophecy had not yet been com- 
pleted, were fettled there. The divine vengeance how- 
ever purfued them to their new place of abode. Within 
tv/o centuries after the deftruction of Tyre, it was debated 
m the Roman fenate, whether Carthage fhould not utterly 
be deftroyed. The queition was carried in the affirma- 
tive, and Carthage fell. 

That a heathen fenate fhould debate the queftion, and 
fhould at laft determine in fuch a manner as to complete a 
prophecy, is certainly a wonderful occurrence ; and to be 
attributed to a fuperintending power, who can turn the 
hearts and thoughts of men to the accomplifhment of his 
own v/ord. 

It appears then that the fecond argument is wholly in- 
applicable and falfe : that it is falfe in its application^ be- 
caufe, thofe who were the obje6i:s of the curfe, were a to- 
tally diftinft people : that it is falfe in its proofs becaufe no 
fuch diflinguifhing marks, as have been fpecified, are to 
be found in the divine writings : and that, if the proof 

could 



OF THE Human Specie?* t^t 

could be made out, it would be now mapplicah/e, as tb© 
cuife has been long completed. 

With rerpe6l to the third argument, I mufl now fup- 
poie that the fcriptures are falfe j that mankind did not 
all fpring from the fame original ; that there are different 
fpecies of men. Now what muft we juilly conclude from 
fuch a fuppofition ? Mufl: we conclude that one fpecies is 
inferiour to another, and that the inferiority depends upon 
tlieir colour.^ or their features^ or their forvi ? — No — -We 
mufl novv^ confult the analogy of nature, and the conclu- 
iion will be this : " that as ihe tempered the bodies of the 
different fpecies of men in a different degree, to enable 
them to endure the refpe61:ivc climates of their habitation, 
fo file gave them a variety of colour and appearance with a 
like benevolent defign." 

To fum up the whole. If the fcriptures are true, it is 
evident that the pofterity of Cain are no more ; that the 
curfe of Ham has been accomplifhed ; and that, as all 
men v/ere derived from the fame flock, fo this variety ofv 
appearance in men muft either have proceeded from fome 
interpofition of the Deity, or from a co-operation of cer- 
tain caufes, which have an effect upon the human frame^ 
and have the power of changing it more or lefs from its 
primitive appearance, as they happen to be more or lefs 
numerous or powerful than thofe, which a6ted upon the 
frame of man in the iirft feat of his habitation. If from 
the interpofition of the Deity, then v/e m.uft conclude thaf 
he, who bringeth good out of evil, produced it for their, 
convenience. If, from the co-operation of the caufes be- 
fore related, v/hat argument may not be found againft any 
fociety of men, who (liould happen to differ, in the points 
alluded to, from ourfelves ? 

If, on the other hand, the fcriptures are falfe, then it 
is evident, there was never fuch a perfon as Ca'in^ nor 
Ham^ nor Canaan ; and that nature bellowed fuch co- 
lour*, features, and form, upon the different fpecies of men, 
as Vv^ere befl adapted to their fituation. 

Thus, on which ever fuppofition it is founded, the 

whole argument muft fall. And indeed it is impofTible 

that it can {land, even in the eye of common fenfe. For 

if you adm.lt th^form of men as a juflification of Haveryj 

1 2 you. 



132 On the Slavery and Commhrce 

you may fubjugate your own brother ; \^ features^ them 
you mull: quarrel with all the world : if colour^ where are- 
you to Hop ? It is evident, that if you travel from the 
equator to the northern pole, you will find a regular * gra -■ 
dation of colour from black to white. Now if you can juftly' 
take him for your flave, who is of the deepeft die, what hind- 
ers you from taking him 2}x{q^ who only difrers from the 
former but by a fhade. Thus you may proceed, taking each 
in regular fucceflion to the poles. But who arey^z/, that 
thus take into flavery fo many people ? Where do you live 
yozirfelfF Do you live mSpain^ or in France^ or mBritai7if' 
If in either of thefe countries, take care left the whitei" 
natives of the north fhould have a claim upon yourfelf. — 
But the argument is too ridiculous to be farther no- 
ticed. 

Having now filenced the whole argument, I might im- 
mediately proceed to the difcuffion of other points, with- 
out even declaring my opinion as to which of the fuppofi- 
tions might be right, on which it has been refuted ; but I 
do not think miyfelf at liberty to do this. Many of the 
prefent age would rejoice to hnd that the fcriptures had no- 
foundation, and would anxioufly eateh at the writings of 
him, who fhould mention them in a- doubtful manner, t 
fhall therefore declare my fentiments, by afTerting that they- 
are true, and that all mankind, however various their ap» 
pearance, are derived from the fame ftock. 

To prove this, I fhall not produce thofe innumerable 
arguments, by which the fcriptures have flood the teft of 
ages, but advert to a fingle fa£l,. It is an univerfai lav/^ 
obfervable throughout the whole creation, that iftiuo ani- 
mals of a different fpecies propagate^ ihei)^ offspri?2g is un- 
able to continue its own fpecies. By this admirable law, the 
different fpecies are preferved diftindl ;- every poflibility 
of confufion is prevented, and the world is forbidden to* 
be over-run by a race ofmonfters. Now,, if we apply 
this law to thofe of the humian kind, who are faid to be a 
diflin6t fpecies from each other, it immediately fails. The 
mulattoe is as capable of continuing^ his own fpecies as his 

* \, e. In thofe Inhabitants, who have been 1-ong fettled In their refpeft- 
ive places of abode* 

father I. 



t)F THE Human Species. 



53J 



father ; a clear and irrefragable proof, that the f fcrip- 
ture account of the creation is true, and that " God, who 
^' hath made the world, hath made of * one blood all 
^' the nations of men that dwell on all the face of the 
^' earth." 

But if this be the cafe, it will be fald that mankind 
were originally of one colour ; and it will be afked at the 
fame time, what it is probable that the colour was, and 
how they came to affume fo various an appearance ? To 
each of thefe I ihall make that reply, which I conceive to 
|)e the moft rational. 

As mankind were origina:lly of the fame ftock, fo it is evi- 
dent that they were originally of the fame colour. But how 
ftiall we attempt to afcer4:aln it ? Shall we Englijhmen fay, 
that it was the fame as that which we find to be peculiar 
to ourfelves ? — No — This would be a vain and partial 
confideratlon, and would betray our judgment to have ari- 
fen from that falfe fondnefs, which habituates us to fup- 
pofe, that every thing belonging to ourfelves is the perfe6left 
and the beft. Add to this, that we fhould always be li- 
able to a jufi: reproof from every inhabitant of the globe, 
v/hofe colour was different from our own ; becaufe he would 
juftly fay, that he had as good a right to imagine that his 
own was the primitive colour, as that of any other peo- 
ple. 

How then fhall we attempt to afcortain it ? Shall we 
look into the various climates of the earth, fee the colour 
that generally prevails in the inhabitants of each, and ap- 
ply the rule? This will be certainly free from partiality, 

I 3 and 

•\ When Aimerica was firfl: difcovered, it was thought by fome, that the 
fcripture account of the creation was falfe, and that there were different 
species of men, becaufe they could never funpofe that people, in fo rude 
a ftate as the Americans, could have tranfported themfelves to that con- 
tinent from any parts of the known world. This opinion however was 
refuted by the celebrated Captain Cooke, who fhewed that the traje<St 
between the continents of Afja and America., was as fhort as fome, which 
people in as rude a ftate have been adlually known to pafs. This affords 
an excellent caution againfl an ill-judged and hafty cenfure of the divine 
•writings, becaufe every difiiculty which may be ftarted, cannot be in- 
ftantly cleared up, 

* The divine writings, which affert that all men were derived from the 
famejiock, ihew alfo, in the fame inftance of C'/zyv^, p, iSo, that feme of 
them had changed their original complexionc 



134 On the Slavery and Commerce 

and will afford us a better profpe6t of fuccefs : for as 
every particular diftrift has its particular colour, fo it is 
evident that the complexion of Noah and his fons, from 
M^hom the reft of the world were defcended, was the fame 
as that, v/hich is peculiar to the country which was the 
feat of their habitation. This, by fiich a mode of decifion, 
will be found a dark olive ; a beautiful colour, and a juft 
medium between white and black, that this was the pri- 
mitive colour, is highly probable from the obfervations that 
have been made ; and, if admitted, will afford a valuable 
leflbn to the Europeans, to be cautious how they deride 
thofe of the oppofite complexion, as there is great reafon 
to prefume, that the pureji * white is as far removed from 
the primitive colour as the deepeft black, 

I come now to the grand queftion, which is, that 
if mankind were originally of this or any other colour, how 
came it to pafs, that they fhould wear fo various an ap- 
pearance ? I reply, as I have had ocean on to fay before, 
either by the intcrpofitioTi of the Deity \ or by a en- operation 
cf certain caufes^ vjhich have ayi effe£i upon the human 
frarne^ and have the power of changing it more or lefs from 
its primitive appearance^ as they are more or lefs numerous or 
powerful than thofe^ which atledupon the frame of man in 
the firfl feat of his habitation^ 

With refpe6l to the Divine interpofition, two epochs 
have been afligned, when this difference of colour has 
been imagined to have been fo produced. The fir ft is 
that, which has been related, when the curfe was pro^ 
nounced on a branch of the pofterity of Ham, But this 
argument has been already refuted ; for if the particular 
colour alluded to were affigned at this period, it was af- 
figned to the defcendants of Canaan^ to diftinguifh them 
from thofe of his other brothers, and was therefore limited 



* The following are the grand colours difcernlble in mankind^ between 
Vi'hich there are many /hades. 



White f -J Copper 

3 —Olive-- C 
Brown t J Black 



to 



OF THE Human Species. 135 

to the former. But the defcenclants of * Cujh^ as I have 
fhev/n before, partook of the fame colour ; a clear proof, 
that it was neither affigned to them on this occafion, nor 
at this period. 

The fecond epoch is that, when mankind were difperf- 
ed on the building of BabeL It has been thought, that 
both national features and colour might probably have been 
given them at this time, becaufe thefe would have affilled 
the confufion of language, by caufmg them to difperfe 
into tribes, and would have united more firmly the indi- 
viduals of each, after the difperfion had taken place. But 
this is improbable : firft, becaufe there is great reafon to 
prefiime that Mofes, who has mentioned the confufion of 
language, would have mentioned thefe circumflances alfo, 
if they had aftually contributed to bring about fo fingular 
an event : fecondly, becaufe the confufion of language 
was fufficient of itfelf to have accompliihed this ; and we 
cannot fuppofe that the Deity could have done any thing 
in vain : and thirdly, becaufe, if mankind had been dif- 
perfed, each tribe in its peculiar hue, it is impoffible to 
conceive, that they could have wandered and fettled in 
fuch a manner, as to exhibit that regular gradation of co- 
lour from the equator to the poles, fo confpicuous at the 
prefent day. 

Thefe are the only periods, which there has been even 
the fhadow of a probabiUty for affigning ; and we may 
therefore conclude that the preceding obfervations, toge- 
ther with fuch circumftances as will appear in the prefent 
chapter, will amount to a demonftration, that the dif- 
ference of colour was never caufed by any interpofition of 
the Deity, and that it mufi: have proceeded therefore from 
that incidental co-operation of caufcs^ which has been be-» 
fore related. 

What thefe caufes are, it is out of the power of human 
wifdom pofitively to alTert : there are facts, however, 
which, if prcper]y weighed and put together, will throw 
confiderable light upon the fubjeft. Thefe I iliail fubmit 
to the perufal of the reader, and fliall deduce from them 

* See note, p. i8o. To this I may add, that the reft of thedcfcend'» 
ants of Hamt as far as they can be traced, are now alfo Iplack, a^ well 
as many of the defcendants ofShem, 

I 4. fuch 



136 On the Slavery and Commerce 

fuch inferences only, as almoft every perfon would hav© 
made in his own mind, on their recital. 

The firft point, that occurs to be afcertained, is, 
" What part of the fkin is the feat of colour ?'* The old 
anatomifts ufjally divided the fkin into two parts, or lami- 
na ; the exteriour and thinneft, called by the Greeks Epi- 
dermis^ by the Romans Cuticulay and hence by us Cuticle ; 
^nd the interiour, called by the former Derrnay and by the 
latter Ciiiis^ or true Jkin, Hence they muft necelfarily 
have fuppofed, that, as the true flan was in every refpedt 
the fame in all human fubjefts, however various their ex- 
ternal hue, fo the feat of colour muft have exifted in the 
Cuticle^ or upper furface. 

Malphigi, an eminent Italian phyfician of the laft 
century, was the firft perfon who difcovered that the 
fkin was divided into three lamina, or parts ; the Cuticle^ 
the true flztn^ and a certain coagulated fubftance fituated 
between both, which he diftinguifhed by the title of Mu^ 
£ofum Corpus ; a title retained by anatomifts to the prefent 
day : which coagulated fubftance adhered fo firmly to the 
Cuticle^ as, in all former anatomical preparations, to have 
come off with it, and, from this circumftance, to have 
led the antient anatomifts to believe, that there were but 
two lamina, or divifible portions in the human fkin. 

This difcovery was fufficient to afcertain the point in 
queftion : for it appeared afterwards that the Cuticle^ 
when divided according to this difcovery from the other 
lamina, was femi-tranfparent ; that the cuticle of the 
blackeft negroe was of the fame tranfparency and co- 
lour^ as that of the pureft white ; and hence, the true 
jkins of both being invariably the fame, that the mu" 
cofum corpus was the feat of colour. 

This has been farther confirmed by all fubfequent 
anatomical experiments, by which it appears, that, what- 
ever is the colour of this intermediate coagulated fub- 
ftance, nearly the fame is the apparent colour of the 
upper furface of the fkin. Neither cai;i it be otherwifejj, 
for the Cuticle^ from its tranfparency, muft necefTarily 
tranfmit the colour of the fubftance beneath it, in the 
fame manner, though not in the fame degree, as the 
(orn^a tranfmits the colour of the iris of the eye. This 

tranfparency 



OF THE Human Species. jo^ 

tranfparency is a matter of ocular demonflratlon in 
white people. It is confpicuous in every bludi ; for 
no one can imagine, tiiat the cuticle becomes red, as 
often as this happens ; nor is it lefs difcoverable in the 
veins, which are fo eafy to be difcerned ; for no one can 
fuppofe, that the blue ftreaks, which are conflantly feenin 
the fairefi- complexions, are painted, as it were, on the ^ 
furface of the upper £kin. From thefe, and a variety of other 
*obfervations,- no maxim is more true in phyfiology, 
than that on the mucojum corpus depends the colour of the 
human body ; or in other words, that the 77iitcofum corpus 
being of a different colour ifi different inhabitants of the 
globe, and appearing through the cuticle or upper fur- 
face of the fkin, gives them that various appearance, 
which ffrikes us fo forcibly in contemplating the human 
race. 

As this can be incontrovertibly afcertained, it is evi- 
dent, that whatever caufes co-operate in producinp- this 
different appearance, they produce it by acting upon the 
mucofum corpus^ which from the almoff incredible manner 
in which the \ cuticle is perforated, is as acceilible as the 
cuticle itfelf. Thefe caufes are probably thofe various 
qualities of things, which combined with the influence of 
the fun, contribute to form what we call climate. For 
when any perfon confiders, that all the mucous fubftance, 
before- mentioned, is found to vary in its colour, as the 
climates vary from the equator to the poles, his mind muft 
be inftantiy ftruck with the hypothefis, and he muft adopt 
it without any hefitation, as the genuine caufe of the 
phsenomenon. 

* Difeafes have a great effeiH: upon the mucojum corpus., but particularly 
the jaundice, which turns it yellow. Hence, being tranfmitced through 
the cuticle, the yellow appearance of the whole body. But this, even as 
a matter of ocular demonftration, is not confined folely to white people- 
negroes themfelves, while affetled with thefe or other diforders, chanoino- 
their black colour for that which the difeafe has conveyed to the mucous 
fubftance. 

f The cutaneous pores are fo exceffively fmall, that one grain of fand, 
(according to Pr. Lewenhoeck's calculations) would cover many hund- 
reds of them. 

This 



138 On the Slavery and Commerce 

This facSl, * of the variatioji of the mucous fuh fiance aC' 
cording to the fituation of the place^ has been clearly afcer- 
tained in the numerous anatomical experiments that have 
been made ; in which, fubje6ls of all nations have come 
under confideration. The natives of many of the king- 
doms and illes of Jfia^ are found to have their corpus mw 
cofiun black. Thofe of Africa^ fituated near the line, of 
the fame colour. Thofe of the maritime parts of the fame 
continent, of a dufky brown, nearly approaching to it ; 
and the colour becomes lighter or darker in proportion 
as the diftance from the equator is either greater or lefs. 
The Europeans are the faireft inhabitants of the world. 
Thofe fituated in the moft fouthern regions of Europe^ 
have in their corpus ?nucofu?n a tinge of the dark hue of their 
African neighbours ; hence the epidemic complexion, pre- 
valent among them, is nearly of the colour of the pickled 
Spanlfti olive; v/hile in this country, and thofe fituated 
nearer the north pole, it appears to be almoft, if not abfo- 
lutely, white. 

Thefe are fa6l:s which anatomy has eftablifhed ; and I 
acknov/ledge them to be fuch, that I cannot diveft myfelf 
of the idea^ that climate has a confiderable fhare in pro- 
ducing a difference of colour. Others, I know, have in- 
vented other hypothefes, but all of them have been in- 
ftantly refuted, as unable to explain the difficulties for 
which they were advanced, and as abfolutely contrary to 
fact : and the inventors themfelves have been obliged, al- 
moft as foon as they have propofed them, to acknowledge 
them deficient. 

The only obje6i:ion of any confequence, that has ever 
been made to the hypothefis of climate^ is this, that the 
people under the fame parallels are not exactly of the fame co- 
lour. But this is no objeilion in fa6t : for it does not fol^ 
lov/ that thofe countries, which are at an equal diftance 
from the equator, fhould have their climates the fame. 
Indeed nothing is m.ore contrary to experience than this. 
Climate depends upon a variety of accidents. High 

* I do not mean to infinuate that the fame people have their cort>i{.$ 
Ptuccfu77t fenfibly varied, as of:en as they go into another latitude, but tliat 
the fa£t is true only of diiTerent people, who have been long eftabiiihed in 
«ii3:erent latitudes. 

mountainSs 



OF THE Human Species, 139 

mountains, in the neighbourhood of a place, make it 
cooler, by chilling the air that is carried over them by 
the winds. Large fpreading fucculent plants, if among 
the productions of the foil, have the fame effed : they af- 
ford agreeable cooling; fnades, and a moift atmofphere from 
their continual exhalations, by v^hich the ardour of the 
fun is confiderable abated. While the foil, on the other 
hand, if of a fandy nature, retains the heat in an uncom- 
mon degree, and makes the fummers confiderably hotter 
than thofe v^hich are found to exift in the fame latitude, 
where the foil is different. To this proximity of what 
may be termed burning; fands^ and to the fulphurous and 
metallick particles which are continually exhaling from 
the bowels of the earth, is afcribed the different degree 
of blacknefs, by which fome African nations are diftin- 
guifhable from each other, though under the fame paral- 
lels. To thefe obfervations I may add, that though the 
inhabitants of the fame parallel are not exa<5lly of the fame 
hue, yet they differ only by ihades of the fame colour ; 
or, to fpeak with more precifion, that there are no two 
people, in fuch a fituation, one of whom is white, and the 

other black. To fum up the whole Suppofe we 

were to take a common globe ; to begin at the equator ; 
to paint every country along the meridian line in fucceflion 
from thence to the poles ; and to paint them with the fame 
colour which prevails in the refpedive inhabitants of each, 
we fhould fee the black, with which we had been obliged 
to begin, infenfibly changing to an olive, and the olive, 
through as many intermediate colours, to a white : and 
if, on the other hand, we fhould complete any one of the 
parallels according to the fame plan, we fhould fee a differ- 
ence perhaps in the appearance of fome of the countries 
through which it ran, though the difference would con- 
fift wholly in fhades of the fame colour. 

The argument therefore, which is brought againft the 
bypothefis, is fo far from being an objection, that I fnall 
confider it as one of the firft arguments in its favour : for 
if climate has really an influence on the inucous fuhfiance 
of the body, it is evident that Vi^e mufl not only expeft to 
fee a gradation of colour in the inhabitants from the 

equator 



140 On the Slavery and Commerce 

equator to the poles, but alfo * different fhades of the 
fame colour in the inhabitants of the fame parallel. 

To this argument, I fhall add one that is incontrover- 
tible, vi^hich is, that when the black inhabitants of Africa 
are tranfplanted to colder^ or the white inhabitants of 
Europe to hotter climates, their children, born there^ are 
of a different colour from themfelves-y that is lighter in the 
iirft, and darker in the fecond inftance. 

As a proof of the firft, I fhall give the words of the 
Abbe Raynal, in his admired publication, f " The 
^' children," fays he, " Vv^hich they, (the Africans') pro- 
*< create in America^ are not fo black as their parents were, 
'' After each generation the difference becomes more pal- 
*' pable. It is poffible, that after a numerous fucceffion 
*' of generations, the men come from Africa would not 
*' be diftinguiflied from thofe of the country, into which 
" they may have been tranfplanted." 

This circumflance I have had the pleafure of hearing 
confirmed by a variety of perfons, who have been wit-^ 
neffes of the fact ; but particularly by many 1| intelligent 
Africans, who have been parents themfelves in America^ 
and who have declared that the difference is fo palpable in 
the northern provinces^ that not only they themfelves have 
conftantly obferved it, but that they have heard it obferved 
by others. 

Neither is this variation In the children from the colour 
of their parents improbable. The children of the blackeji 

* Suppofe we were to fee two nations, contiguous to each other, of" 
Hack and white inhabitants in the fame parallel, even this would be no 
objeftion, far many circumftances are to be confidered. A black people 
may have v/andered into a white, and a white people into a black latitude, 
and they may not have been fettled there a fufficient length of time for 
fuch a change to have been accomplifhed in their complexion, as that 
thev fhould'be like the old eftabliihed inhabitants of the parallel, into 
which they have lately come. 

f Juftamond's Abbe Raynal, v. 5. p. 193. 

11 The author of this Eflay made it his bufmefs to inquire of the moft 
intelligent of thofe, whom he could meet with in London, as to the 
authenticity of the fail. All thofe from America afTuted him that it was 
ftriftly true ; thofe from the Weft Indies, that they had never obferved 
it there 5 but that they had found a fenfible difference in themfelves fince 
tkey came to England. 

Afrlcani 



OF THE Human Species. jAt 

Africans are * born of a cream colour^ or of a tvhhe. In 
this (late they continue for about a month, when they 
change to a pale yellow. In procefs of time they become 
brown. Their fkin ftill continues to increafe in darknefs 
with their age, till It becomes of a dirty, fallow black, 
and at length, after a certain period of years, glofTy and 
fhining Now, if climate has any influence on the mucous 
fuhjiance of the body, this variation in the children from 
the colour of their parents is an event, which muft be 
reafonably expe6ted : for being born white, and not hav- 
ing equally powerful caufes to a6l upon them in colder, as 
their parehts had in the hotter climates which they left, it 
muft neceflarily follow, that the fame effetSl cannot pofli- 
bly be produced. 

Hence alfo, if the hypothecs be admitted, raav be 
deduced the reafon, why even thofe children, who have 
been brought from their country at an early age into 
colder regions, have been obferved to be of a lighter 
colour than thofe who have remained at home till the)r 
arrived at a ftate of manhood. For having undergone 
fome of the changes which we mentioned to have attend- 
ed their countrymen from infancy to a certain age, and 
having been taken away before the reft could be com- 
pleted, thefe farther changes, which would have taken 
place had they remained at home, feem either to have 
been checked in their progrefs, or weakened in their de- 
gree, by a colder climate. 

I come now to the fecond and oppofite cafe ; for 
a proof of which I fhall appeal to the words of Dr. 
Mitchell, in the Philofophical Tranfaaions.f " The 
^' Spaniards^ who have inhabited America under the torrid 
^' zone for any time, are become as dark coloured as our 
*' native Indians oi Virginia^ of which, I myfelf have been 
'' a witnefs ; and were they not to intermarry with the 
" Europeans^ but lead the fame rude and barbarous lives 

* This circumftance, v/hich always happens, fhews that thsy are de- 
fended from the fame parents as ourfelves j for had they been a diftin<5l 
fpecies of men, and the blacknefs entirely ingrafted in their conftirution 
and frame, there is great reafon to prefume, that their children would 
iave been born black, 

t Phiiof. Tianf, No. 476. U€t, 4; 

'^ with 



J4^ On the Slavery and Commerce 

^' with the Indians^ it is very probable that, in a fuc* 
*' ceilion of many generations, they would become as- 
*' dark in complexion." 

To this inftance I fhall add one^ which is mentioned 
"hj 2L * late writer, who defcribing the Jfrican coaft, and 
the European fettlements there, has the following palTage, 
" There are, feveral .other {m2M Foriugueje fettlements, 
*' and one of fome note at Mitomba^ a river in Sierra 
" Leon, The people here called Portuguefe^ are princi-^ 
*' pally perfons bred from a mixture of the firft Portuguefe 
*' difcoverers with the natives, and nov/ become, in their 
" complexion and woolly quality of their hair, perfeSi . ne- 
^^g roes J retainin-g, however a fmattering of the Portuguefe 
" language." 

Thefe fa^Sywith refpedt to the calonifts of the Euro-' 
peans^ are of the higheft importance in the prefent cafe^ 
and deferve a ferious attention. For when we know to a 
certainty from whom they are defcended ; when we know 
that they were, at the time of their tranfplantation, of 
the fame colour as thofe from whom they feverally fprung ; 
and when, on the other hand, we are credibly informed, 
that they have changed it for the native colour of the 
place which they now inhabit; the evidence in fupport of 
thefe facis is as great, as if a perfon, on the removal of 
two or three families into another climate, had determin- 
ed to afcertain the circumftance ; as if he had gone with 
them and watched their children; as- if he had commu- 
nicated his obfervations at his death to a fuccefTor ; as if 
his fucceflbr had profecuted the plan, and, thus an unin- 
terrupted chain of evidence had been kept up from 
their firft removal to any determined period of fucceeding 
time. 

But though thefe fa6ls feem fuiiicient ^of themfelves to 
confirm my opinion, they are not the only facts which can 
be adduced in its fupport. It can be . {hewn, that the 
members of the very fame family^ when divided from each 
other, and removed into diiFerent countries, have not 
only changed their family complexion, but that they have 

* Treatlfe upon the Trade from Great Britain to, Africa, by an African 

zr.srchaut, 

changed 



OF THE Human Species. 143 

dianged it to as many different colours as they have gone 
into different regions of the world. We cannot^ have, 
perhaps, a more ftrikmg inftance of this, than in the 
Jews, Thefe people are fcattered over the face of the 
whole earth. They have preferved themfelves diftinct 
from the reft of the world by their religion ; and, as they 
never intermarry with any but thofe of their own {^8z^ io 
they have no mixture of blood in their veins, that fliouid 
differ from each other : and yet nothing is more truCj 
than that the * Englijh Jew is white, the Portttgusfe fwar- 
thy, the Armenian olive, and the Arabian copper ; in 
ihort, that there appear to be as many different fpecies of 
Jews^ as there are countries in which they refide. 

To thefe fafts I Ihall add the following obfervatlon^ 
that if we can give credit to the ancient hiiforians in ge- 
neral, a change from the darkeft black to the pureft white 
muft have actually been accomplifhed. _ One inftance, 
perhaps, may be thought fufficient. f Herodotus relates, 
that the Colchi were blacky and that they had crifped hairs 
Thefe people were a detachment of the Ethiopian army 
under Sefojlris^ who followed him in his expedition, and 
fettled in that part of the world, where Colchis is ufualiy 
reprefented to have been fituated. Had not the fame 
author informed us of this circumftance, we ihould^ have 
thought it II ftrange, that a people of this defcription 
ftioufd have been found in fuch a latitude. Now, as they 
were undoubtedly fettled there, and as they were neither 
fo totally deftroyed, nor made any fuch rapid conquefts, 
as that hiftory fhould notice the event, there is great rea- 
fon to prefume, that their defcendants continued in the 
fame, or fettled in the adjacent country ; from whence it 
will follow that they muft have changed their complexion 
to that, which is obfsrvable in the inhabitants of this 
particular region at the prefent day ; or, in other words, 

* I mean fuch only as are natives of the countries which we mention, 
and whofe anceftors have been fettled there for a certain period of time. 

f Herodotus. Euterpe, p. 80. Editio Stephani, printed 1570. 

II This circumftance confirms what I faid in a former note, p. 140, 
that even if two nations were to be found in the fame parallel, one of 
whom was black, and the other white, it would form no objeaion againli 
the hypothefjs of climate, as one of them might have been new fcttlers 
from a diftant country, 

that 



144 ^^ "^^^ Slavery and ComuiRct 

that the black inhabitant of Colchis mufl have been changed 
into the ^ far Circaljian, 

As I have nov7 fhewn it t6 be highly probable, from 
the facSls which have been advanced, that climate is the 
caufe of the difference of colour v/hich prevails in the 
different inhabitants of the globe , wq Ihall now fhew its 
probability from fo fimilar an effe6l produced on the 
mucous fubjlance before mentioned by fo fnnilar a caufe, 
that though the fa6l does not abfolutely prove our con- 
jecture to be right, yet it will give us a very lively con- 
ception of the manner, in which the phaenomenon may 
be caufed. 

This probability may be fliewn in tlie cafe oi freckles^ 
which are to be {^^n in the face of children, but of fuch 
only, as have the thinneff and mod: tranfparent fkins, and 
are occafioned by the rays of the fun, llriking forcibly 
on the ?}iucous fubjlance of the face, and drying the accu- 
mulating fluid. This accumulating fluid, or perfpirable 
matter, is at firff colourlefs ; but being expofed to violent 
heat, or dried, becomes brown. Hence, the mucofum 
corpus being tinged in various parts by this brown coagu- 
lated fluid, and the parts fo tinged appearing through the 
cuticle^ or upper furface of the fkin, arifes that fpotted ap* 
pearance, obfervable in the cafe recited. 

Now, if we were to conceive a black fkin to be an 
miiverfal freckle^ or the rays of the fun to a6^c fo univerfally 
on the mucous fub fiance of a perfon's face, as to produce 
thefe fpots fo contiguous to each other that they ihould 
unite, we fhould then fee, in imagination, a face fimilar 
to thofe, which are daily to be feen among black people : 
and if we were to conceive his body to be expofed or 
a£led upon in the fame manner, we fhould then fee his 
body affuming a fimilar appearance ; and thus we fhould 
fee the whole man of a perfe(3: black, or refembling one 
of the naked inhabitants of the torrid zone. Now as the 

* Suppofe, without the knowledge of any hlftorlan, they had made 
fuch confiderable conquefts, as to have fettled themfelves at the diftance 
of looo miles in any one direftion from Colchis, ftill they muft have 
changed their colour. For had they gone in an Eaftern or Weftern direc- 
tion, they muft have been of the fame colour as the CircaJJiavsy if to the 
north, whiter j if to the fouth, of a copper. Th?re are no people within 
%Jjiat diilance of CohbiSf who are black. 

feat 



OF THE Human Species. t^§ 

feat of freckles and of blacknefs is the fame ; as their ap- 
pearance is fimilar ; and as the caufe of the firft is the 
ardour of the fun, it is therefore probable that the caufe 
of the fecond is the fame : hence, if we fubflitute for the 
word " fzm^^' what is analogous to it, the word climate^ 
the fame effe6L may be fuppofed to be produced, and the 
conje6lures to receive a fan6i:ion. 

Nor is it unlikely that the hypothelis, which conliders 
the caufe of freckles and of blacknefs as the fame, may be 
right. For if blacknefs is occafioned by the rays of the 
fun ilriking forcibly and univerfally on the mucous fuhflance 
of the body, and drying the accumulating fluid, we can 
account for the different degrees of it to be found in the 
different inhabitants of the globe. For as the quantity of 
perfpirable fluid, and the force of the folar rays is faccef- 
fively increafed, as the climates are fucceffively warmer, 
from any given parallel to the line, it follows that the 
fluid, with v/hich the mucous fuhjiance will be llained, 
will be fucceffively thicker and deeper coloured ; and 
hencC) as it appears through the cuticle, the complexion 
fucceliively darker ; or, what amounts to the fame thing, 
there will be a difference of colour in the inhabitants of 
every fucceHive parallel. 

From thefe, and tlie whole of the preceding obferva- 
tions on the fubje61:, I may conclude, that as all the inha- 
bitants of the earth cannot be otherwife than the children 
of the fame parents, and as the difference of their appear- 
ance muff have of courfe proceeded from incidental 
caufes, thefe caufes are a combination of thofe qualities, 
which we call climate ; that the blacknefs of the Africans 
is fo far ingrafted in their conftitution, in the courfe of 
many generations, that their children wholly inherit it, xi 
brought up in the fame fpot, but it is not fo abfolutely 
interwoven in their nature, that it cannot be removed, if 
they are born and fettled in another ; that Noah and his 
fons were probably of an olive complexion ; that thofe of 
their defcendants, who went farther to the fouth, became 
of a deeper olive or copper j v/hile thofe, who went flill 
farther, became of a deeper copper or black \ that thofe, 
on the other hand, who travelled farther to the north, 
became lefs olive or hroivn*^ while thofe who went ftiU 
K fariher 



146 On the Slavery and Commrce 

farther than the former, became lefs brown or ivhite ; and 
that if any man were to point out any one of the colours 
which prevail? in the human complexion, as likely to fur- 
nifli an argument, that the people of fuch a complexion 
were of a diixereRt fpecies from the reft, it is probable 
that his own defcendants, if removed to the climate to 
which this complexion is peculiar, would, in the courfe 
of a fev/ generations, degenerate into the fame colour. 

Having now replied to the argument, " that the Africans 
" are an inferiour link of the chain of nature," as far as 
it depended on their capacity and colour^ I fhall now only 
take notice of an exprefiion, which the receivers before- 
mentioned are pleafed to make ufe of, " that they are 
" made for Havery." 

Had the Africans been tnade for Jlavery^ or to become 
the property of any fociety of men, it is clear, from the 
obfervations that have been made in the fecond part of 
this EfTay, that they muft have been created devoid of 
reafon : but this is contrary to fa'£t. It is clear alfo, that 
there muft have been many and evident ftgns of the 
inferiority of their nature^ and that this fociety of men 
muft have had a natural right to their dominion : but this 
is equally falfe. No fuch figns of inferiority are to be 
found in the one, and the right to dominion in the other 
is incidental:^ for in what volume of nature or religion is 
it written, that one fociety of men iliould breed fJaves for 
the benefit of another ? Nor is it lefs evident that they 
v/ould have wanted many of thofe qualities which they 
have, and which brutes have not : they would have 
wanted thztfpirit of liberty^ that "^ fenfe of ignominy and 
foarnc^ v/hich fo frequently drives them to the horrid ex- 
tremity of finifhing their ovv^n exiftence. Ncr would they 
have been endowed vv^ith a contemplativ: povjtr ; for fuch 
a power would have been unnecefTary to people in fuch a 
fituation ; or rather, its only ufe could have been to in- 
creafe their pain. We cannot fuppofe therefore that God 
has made an order of beings," with fuch mental qualities 



* There are a particular people among thofe tranfported from Africa 
to the colonies, who immediately on receiving punifliment, deflroy them- 
felves. This is a fadt which the receivers are unable to contraai<S. 

and 



OF THE Human Species. 147 

and powers, for the Sole purpofe of being ufed as heaJIs^ or 
injiruments of labour. And here, what a dreadful argu- 
ment prefents itfelf againll you receivers ? For if they have 
no underftandings, as you confefs, then is your condu6t 
impious, becaufe, as they cannot perceive the intention of 
your punifliment, your feverities cannot make them better. 
But if, on the other hand, they have underftandings, 
(which has evidently appeared) then is your conduit 
equally impious, who, by deftroying their faculties in 
confequence of the feverity of your difcipline, have re- 
duced men, who had once the power of reafon, to an 
equality with the brute creation. 



CHAP. X. 

The reader may perhaps think, that the receivers have 
by this time expended all their arguments, but their ftore 
is not fo eafily exhaufted. They are well aware that 
juftice, nature, and religion, v/ill continue, as they have 
ever uniformly done, to oppofe their conduft. This has 
driven them to exert their ingenuity, and has occafioned 
that multiplicity of arguments to be found in the prefent 
queftion. 

Thefe arguments are of a different complexion from 
the former. They conilft in comparing the ftate o^JIaves 
with that of fome of the clafTes of free men, and in cer- 
tain fcenes of felicity, v^^hich the former are faid to enjoy. 

It is afiirmed that the punifhments, which the Africans 
undergo, are lefs fevere than the military ; that their life 
is happier than that of the Engliih peafant ; that they have 
the advantages of manumiilion ; that they have their little 
fpots of ground, their holy-days, their dances ; in fhort, 
that their life is a fcene of feftivity and mirth, and that 
they are much happier in the colonies than in their own 
country. 

Thefe reprefentations, which have been made out with 
much ingenuity and art, may have had their weight vi^ith 
the unwary; but they will never pafs with men of con- 
fideration and fenfe, v/ho are accuftomed to eftimate the 
probability of thing?, before they admit them to be true. 
K 2 Indeed 



148 On the Slavery and Commerce 

Indeed the bare afiertion, that their fituation Is even cortT-* 
fortable, contains its own refutation, or at leaft leads U9 
to fufpecSl that the perfon, v^^ho afTerted it, has omitted 
fome important confiderations in the account. Such I 
fhall fliew to have been adtuaily the cafe, and that the 
reprefentations of the receivers^ when ftripped of their 
gloilv ornaments, are but empty declamation. 

It is faid, firft, of military punifiments^ that they are 
more fevere than thofe which the Africans undergo. But 
this is a bare aflertion without proof. It is not ihewn 
even by thofe, who affert it, how the fa6i: can be made 
out. I am left therefore to draw the comparifon m.yfelf, 
and to fill up thofe important confiderations, which I 
have juft faid that the -^-eceivers had omitted. 

That military punifhments are fevere I confefs, but I 
deny that they are feverer than thofe with which they 
are compared. Where is the military man, whofe ears 
have been flit, whofe limibs have been mutilated, or whofe 
eyes have been beaten cut ? But to avoid argument I will 
even allow, that their punifhm.ents are equal in the degree 
of their fe verity : ftill they muft lofe by comparifon. The 
foldier is never punifhed but after a fair and equitable trial, 
and the decifion of a military court; the unhappy African 
at the difcretion of his lord. The one * knows what 
particular conduft will conftitute an ofience ; the other 
has no fuch information, as he is wholly at the difpofal of 
pailion and caprice, which may im.pofe upon any a6i:ionj 
however laudable, the appellation of a crime. The for- 
mer has it of courfe in his power to avoid a puniihm.ent ; 
the latter is never fafe. - The former is punifhed for a 
real, the latter, often, for an imaginary fault. 

Now will any perfon alTert, on comparing the whole of 
thofe circumftances together, which relate to their refpec- 
tive punifhments, that there can be any doubt, which of 
the two are in the worft ntuation as to their penal 
fyflems ? 

With refpecSl: to the declaration, that the life of an Afri- 
can in the colonies is happier than that of the Englljh 

* The articles of war are regularly read at the head of every regiment 
In the fervice, ftating thofe particular adlions which are to be confidered 
as crimes. 

peafantj 



OF THE Human Species, i^i^ 

peafant, it is equally falfe. Indeed I can fcarcely with- 
hold my indignation, when I confider, how fhamefully 
the lituation of this latter clafs of men has been mifrepre- 
fented, to elevate the former to a flate of fictitious hap- 
pinefs. If the reprefentations of the receivers be true, it 
is evident that thofe of the moft approved writers, who 
have placed a confiderable fhare of happinefs in the 
cottage^ have been miftaken in their opinion ; and that 
thofe of the rich, who have been heard to figh, and envy 
the felicity of the peajant^ have been treacherous to their 
own fenfations. 

But which are we to believe on the occafion ? Thofe, 
who endeavour to drefs vice in the habit of virti'e^ or 
thofe, who derive their opinion from their own feelings ? 
The latter are furely to be believed ; and we may con- 
clude therefore, that the horrid picture, which is given of 
the life of the peafant^ has not fo jufl a foundation as the 
receivers would lead us to fuppofe. For has he no plea- 
fure in the thought, that he lives in his oivn country^ and 
among his relations and friends ? That he is a£^uallyyr.^^, 
and that his children will be the fame ? That he can never 
hQ fold as a beafl ? That he can fpeak his mind ivithout 
the fear of the laflo ? That he cannot even be ftruck with 
Impunity ? And that he partakes, equally with his fupe- 
riours, of the protedion cf the law ? — Now, there is no 
one of thefe advantages which the African poiTelTes, and 
no one, which the defenders of Havery take into their 
account. 

Of the other comparifons that are ufually made, I may 
obferve in general, that, as they confifl in comparing the 
iniquitous practice of flavery v/ith other iniquitous prac- 
tices in force among other nations, they can neither raife 
it to the appearance of virtue, nor extenuate its guilt. 
The things compared are in thefe inflances both of them 
evils alike. They call equally for redrefs, and are equally 
difgraceful to the * governments which fufFer them, if not 

K 3 encourage 

* I cannot omit here to mention one of the cuftoms, which has been 
®ften brought as a palliation of flavery, and which prevailed hut: a little 
fime ago, and I am doubtful whether it does not prevail now, in the 
meiropolis of this country, of kidnapping men for the fcrvice of the 

Ealt 



ISO 



Qn the Slavery and Commrce 



encourage them, to exift. To attempt therefore to juftify 
one fpecies of iniquity, by comparing it with another, is 
no juftification at all ; and is fo far from anfwering the 
purpofe, for which the comparifon is intended, as to give 
us reafon to furpe6l, that the comparer has but little notion 
either of equity or honour. 

I come nov/ to thofe fcenes of felicity, which flaves are 
faid to enjoy. The firfl: advantage which they are faid to 
experience, is that of manu?mJJton» But here the advocates 
for flavery conceal an important circumftance. They 
expatiate indeed on the charms of freedom, and contend 
that it muft be a bleiiing in the eyes of thofe, upon whom 
it is conferred. I perfe6tly agree with them in this par- 
ticular. But they do not tell us that thefe advantages 
are confined; that they are confined to forae favourite do- 
me flick ; that not one in an hundred enjoy them ; and that 
they are never extended to thofe who are employed in the 
cultivation of the fi.elcl^ as long as they can work. Thefe 
are they, who are moft to be pitied ; who are defliined to 
perpetual drudgery; and of whom 720 one whatever has a 
chance of being freed from his fituation, till death either 
releafes him at once, or age renders him incapable of con- 
tinuing his former labour. And here let it be remarked, 
to the difgrace of the receivers^ that he is then made free, 
not — as a reward for his paft fervices^ but as his labour is 
then of little or no value, — to fave the * tax. 

With the fame artifice is mention alfo made of the little 
fpots, or gardens^ as they are called, which flaves are faid 
to poiTefs from the liberality of the receivers. But people 
muft not be led away by agreeable and pleafant founds. 
They muft not fuppofe that thefe gardens are made for 
flowers ; or that they are places of a.-nufement^ in which 

Eaft India Company. Every fabjed, as long as he behaves well, has a 
right to the protedion of governnnent ; and the tacit permiffion of fuch 
a fcene of iniquity, when it becomes known, is as much a breach of duty 
in government, as the condudl of thofe fubjeftsj who, on other occalions, 
would be termed, and punifhed as, rebellious. 

* The expenfes of every parish are defrayed by a poll-tax on negroes, 
to fave which they pretend to liberate thofe who are paft labour, but 
they flill keep them employed in repiiring fences, or in doing fome 
trifling work on a fcanty allowance. For to free ?. field negroe, io long 
as he can work, is a maxim which, notyv-jthftandsng the numerous 
boalled manumiliions, no mafter e-ver thinks of adcfting in the colonies. 

they 



OF THE Human Species. 151 

they can fpend their time in botanical refearches and de- 
lights. Alas, they do not furniih them with a theme for 
fuch pleafmg purfuits and fpeculations ! They muft be 
cultivated in thofe hours, which ought to be appropriated 
to II reft; and they muft be cultivated, not for an amufe- 
ment, but to make up, if it be pojfwle^ the great deliciency 
in their v/eekly allowance of provifions. Hence it ap- 
pears, that the receivers have no merit whatever in fuch 
an appropriation of land to their unfortunate ilaves : for 
they are either under the neceOity of doing this, or of 
lojing them by the jaws of famine. And it is a notorious 
fa6l, that, with their weekly allowance, and the produce of 
their fpots together, it is often with the greateft difficulty 
that they preferve a wretched exiftence. 

The third advantage which they are faid to experience, 
is that of holy-days^ or days of refpite from their ufual dif- 
cipline and fatigue. This is certainly a great indulgence, 
and ought to be recorded to the immortal honour of the 
receivers. I wiih I could exprefs their liberality in thofe 
handfome terms, in which it deferves to be reprefented, or 
applaud them fufficiently for deviating for once from the 
rigours of fervile difcipline. But I confefs, that I am un- 
equal to the tafk, and muft therefore content myfelf with 
obferving, that while the horfe has one day in [even to re- 
freili his limbs, the happy African has but one in ^ fifty-two^ 
as a relaxation from his labours. 

V/ith refpecl to their dances^ on which fuch a particular 
ftrefs has been generally laid, I fear that people may have 
been as fhamefully deceived, as in the former inft-ances. 
For from the manner in which thefe are generally men- 

II They muft be cultivated always on a Sundciy^ and frequently in thofe 
hours which Ihould be appropriated to jUei>, or the wretched poiTefTors 
muft be ino-y'itahXy Jiarved, 

* They are allowed in general three holy-days at Chriftmas, but in 
Jamaica they have two alfo at Eafter, and two at Whitfuntide ; fo that 
on the largeft fcale, they have only fevcn days in the year, or one day in 
fifty-two. But this is on a fuppofition, that the receivers do not break in 
upon the afternoops, which they are frequently too apt to do. If it fliould 
be faid that Sunday is an holy-day, it is not true; it is fo far an holy- 
day, that they do not work for their mafters ; but fuch an holy-day, 
that if they do not employ it in the cultivation of their little fpots, they 
muft htjlawidt 

K 4 tionedj 



J52 On the Slavery and Commerce 

tioned, we (hould almoft be led to imagine, that they hadf 
certain hours allowed them for the purpofe of joining in the 
dance, and that they had every comfort and convenience, 
that people are generally fuppofed to enjoy on fuch convi- 
vial occafions. But this is far from the cafe. Reafon in- 
forms us, that it can never be. If they wlfti for fuch in- 
nocent recreations, they muft enjoy them in the time that 
is allotted them for fleep ; and fo far are thefe dances from 
proceeding from any uncommon degree of happinefs, which 
excites them to convivial fociety, that they proceed rather 
from an uncommon depreffion of fpirits, which makes 
them even facrifice their :|: reft, for the fake of experien- 
cing for a moment a more joyful oblivion of their cares. 
For fuppofe any one of the receivers^ in the middle of a 
dance, were toaddrefs hisflaves in the following manner: 
^' Africans! I begin at laft to feel for your fituation ; and' 
*' my confcience is feverely hurt, whenever I relied that I 
^' have been reducing thofe to a ftate of mifery and pain, 
'' who have never given me offence. You feem to be 
^' fond of thefe exercifes, but yet you are obliged to take 
*' them at fuch unfeafonable hours, that they impair your 
*' health, which is fufHciently broken by the intolerable 
*' fhare of labour which I have hitherto impofed upon you. 
*' I will therefore make you a propofal. Will you be 
*' content to live in the colonies, and you fnall have the 
** half of every week entirely to yourfelves ? or will you. 
^' choofe to return to yourmiferabie, v/retched country ?" 
^— But what is that which ftrikes their ears ? Which 
makes them motionlefs in an inftant ? "Which interrupts 
the feftive fcene ? — their country ?— tranfporting found ! — ? 
Behold ! they are now flying from the dance : you may 
fee them running to the fhore, and, frantick as it were with 
joy, demanding with open arms an inftantaneous paflage 
to their beloved native plains. 

Such are the colonial delightSy by the reprefentation of 
which the receivers would perfuade us, that the Africans 
are taken from their country to a region of conviviality 

t Thefe dances are ufually in the middle of the night : and (o deflrous 
are thefe unfortunate people of obtaining but a joyful hour, th^t they not 
only ofcen give up their fleep, but add to the labours cf the day, by going 
feverai miles to obtain it, 

and 



OF THE Human Species. 



^S3 



Slid mirth ; and that like thofe, who leave their ufual places 
cf refidence for a fummer's amufement, they are conveyed 
to the colonies — to bathe^ — to dance^ — to keep holy-day^ — to 
he jovial.' — But there is fomething (o truly ridiculous in the 
attempt to impoie thefe fcenes of felicity on the publick, 
as fcenes vi^hich fall to the lot of flaves, that the receivers 
muft have been driven to great extremities, to hazard them 
to the eye of cenfure. 

The laft point that remains to be confidered is the 
fliameful affertion, that the Africans are much happier in the 
colonies^ than in their ozun country. But In v^rhat does this 
fuperiour happinefs confifl: ? In thofe real fcenes, it muft 
be replied, which have been juft mentioned ; for thefe, by 
the confeilion of the receivers, conftitute the happinefs 
they enjoy. — But it has been fhev/n that thefe have been 
unfair] y reprefented ; and, were they realized in the molt 
extenfive latitude, they would not confirm the fa6t. For 
if, upon a recapitulation, it confills in the pleadire of ma~ 
rnimijjion, they furely muil have pafTed their lives in a much 
more comfortable manner, Vv^ho, like the Africans at home^ 
have had no occafion for fuch a benefit at all. But the 
receivers^ I prefume, reafon upon this principle, that v/e 
never knov/ the value of a blefling but by its lofs. This 
is generally true : but would any one of them make him- 
{e\i2.fiave for year?, that he might run the chance of the 
pleafures of ?natiumiffion ? Or that he might tafte the 
charms of liberty with a greater relijh? Nor is the a/Ter- 
tion lefs falfe in every other confideration. For if their 
happinefs confifls in the few holy-days^ which in the colonies 
they are permitted to enjoy, what muft be their fituation 
in their ozvn country , where the whole year is but one con- 
tinued holy-day, or ceiTation from difcipline and fatigue ? — ■ 
If in the poflefiion of a mean and contrasted fpoty what muft 
be their fituation, where a whole region is their own, pro- 
ducing almoft fpontaneouily the comforts of life, and re- 
quiring for its cultivation none of thofe hours, which 
fhould be appropriated to feep ? — If in the pleafures of the 
colonial dance^ what mult it be in their own country^ where 
they may dance for ever ; where there is no ftated hour to 
interrupt their felicity, no intolerable labour immediately 
to fucceed their recreations, and no overfeer to receive 

them 



154 On the Slavery and Commerce 

them under the difcipline of the lafh ? — If thefe therefore 
are the only circumftances, by which the afTertion can be 
proved, I may venture to fay, without fear of oppofition, 
that it can never be proved at all. 

But thefe are not the only circumftances. It is faidthat 
they are barbarous at home. — But do you receivers civi- 
lize them ? — Your unwillingnefs to convert them to Chrif- 
tianity, becaufe you fuppofe you mufi: ufe them more 
kindly when converted, is but a bad argument in favour 
of the fa6t. 

It is affirmed again, that their manner of life, and their 
fituation is fuch in their own country, that to fay they are 
happy is a jeft. "*But who are you, who pretend to 
'' judge of another man's happinefs ? That ftate which 
*' each man, under the guidance of his maker, forms for 
" himfelf, and not one man for another ? To know what 
*' conftitutes mine or your happinefs, is the fole preroga- 
*' tive of him who created us, and caft us in fo various 
" and dilFerent moulds. Did your flaves ever complain 
" to you of their unhappinefs amidPc their native woods 
*' and defarts ? Or, rather, let me afk, did they ever ceafe 
*' complaining of their condition under you their lordly 
*' mafters ? Where they fee, indeed, the accommodations 
*' of civil life, but fee them all pafs to others, themfelves 
" unbenefitedby them. Be fo gracious then, ye petty ty- 
*' rants over human freedom, to let your flaves judge for 
** themfelves, what it is which makes their own happinefs, 
'' and then fee whether they do not place it in the return to 
'' their own country^ rather than in the contemplation of 
" your grandeur, of which their mifery makes fo large a 
« part.'; 

But fince you fpeak with fo much confidence on the 
fubje6t, let me afk you receivers again, if you have ever 
been informed by your unfortunate flaves, that they had no 
connexions in the country from which they have forcibly 
been torn away : or, if you will take upon you to aflert, 
that they never figh, when they are alone ; or that they 
never relate to each other their tales of mifery and woe. 

* Bifhop of Glocefter's fermon, preached before the foclety for the 
propagation of the gofpel, at the anniverfary meeting, on the 21ft of Fe- 
feruarv, 1766. 

But 



OT THE Human Species, 



^5S 



But you judge of them, perhaps. In an happy moment, 
when you are dealing out to them their provifions for the 
week; and are but little aware, that, though the counte- 
nance may be cheered with a momentary imile, the heart 
may be exquifitely tortured. Were you to (hew us, in- 
ileed, that there are laws, fubje6i: to no evafion, by which 
you are obliged to clothe and feed them in a comfortable 
manner ; were you to fhew us that they are f prote6i:ed 
at all ; or that even on^ in a thoufand of thofe mafters have 
* fuifered death, who have been guilty of prennditated 
murder to their flaves, you would have a better claim to 
our belief: but you can neither produce the inftances nor 
the laws. The people, of whom you fpeak, are Jlaves^ 
are your own property^ are wholly at your own difpofal-^ and 
this idea Is fufficient to overturn your afTertions of their 
happinefs. 

But I fhall now mention a circumilance, which. In the 
prefent cafe, will have more v/eight than all the arguments 
which have hitherto been advanced. It is an opinion, 
which the Africans univerfally entertain, that, as foon as 
death fhall releafe them from the hands of their oppreilbrs, 
they fhall immediately be wafted back to their native 
plains, there to exifl again, to enjoy the fight of their be- 
loved countrymen, and to fpend the whole of their new 
exiftence in fcenes of tranquillity and delight : and fo 
powerfully does this notion operate upon them, as to drive 
them frequently to the horrid extremity of putting a period 
to their lives. Now If thefe fuicides are frequent, (which 
no perfon can deny) what are they but a proof, that the 
fituation of thofe who deftroy themfelves muft have been 
infupportably wretched : and if the thought of returning to 
their country after death, ivhen they have experienced the 

-f There is a law, (but let the reader remark, that it prevails but lu 
tfwe of the colonies), againft mutilation. It took its rife from the fre- 
quency of the inhuman pradlice. But though a maftcr cannot there chop 
off the limb of a Have with an axe, he may yet work, ftarve, and beat 
him to death with impunity. 

* Two inftances are recorded by the recerjerSf out of about fifty-thou- 
Jand, where a white man has fuffered death for the murder of a negroe ; 
but the receivers do not tell us, that thefe fuffered more becaufe they 
were the pefts of fociety, than becaufe the murder cf Jla-ves ivas a 
crime, 

colonial 



156 On tke Slavery and Commerce 

colonial joys y conftltutes their fupreme felicity, what are 
they but a proof, that they think there is as much difFer* 
ence between the two fituations, as there is between mi- 
fery and delight ? 

Nor is the aflertion of the receivers lefs liable to a refu- 
tation in the inftance of thofe, who terminate their own 
exiftence, than of thofe, whom nature releafes from their 
perfecutions. They die with a fmile upon their face, and 
their funerals are attended by a vaft concourfe of their 
countrymen, with every poilible f demonftration of joy. 
But why this unufual mirth, if their departed brother has 
left an happy place ? Or if he has been taken from the 
care of an indulgent mafter, who confulted his pleafures, 
and admlniilered to his wants ? But alas, it arifes from 
hence, that he is gone to his happy country : a circumflance, 
fuiiicient of itfe If, to filence a myriad of thofe fpecious 
arguments, which the imagination has been racked, and 
will always be racked to produce, in favour of a fyftem of 
tyranny and oppreilion. 

It remains only, that I fiiould now conclude the chapter 
with a fa(3:, which will fbew that the account, which I 
have given of the fituation of flaves, is ftriitly true, and 
will refute at the fame time all the arguments which have 
hitherto been, and may yet be brought by the receivers^ 
to prove that their treatment is humane. In one of the 
weftern colonies of the Europeans, *fix hundred and fifty 
thoufand flaves were imported within an hundred years 5 
at the expiration of which time, their whole poUerity were 
found to amount to one hundred and fortv thoufand. This 
h£t will afcertain the treatment of itfelf. For hov/ fliame- 
fully muft thefe unfortunate people have been oppreiled ! 
What a dreadful havock m.uft famine, fatigue, and crueU 
ty, have made among them, when Vv^e confider, that the 

■f- A negroe-funeral is confidered as a curious fight, and is attended 
witii linging, dancing, miifick. and every circumftance that can fhew 
the attendants to be happy on rhe occafion, 

* In 96 years, ending in 1774, 800,000 flaves had been imported in- 
to the French part oi-' St. Domingo, of which there remained oniy 
290,000 in 1774. Of this laft number only 140,000 were Creoles, or 
natives of the ifland, i.e. of 650,000 flaves, the whole pofterity were 
140,000. ConfMratkm jv.r !a Cdonle de Si. Dcmngice, pubiilhed by autho- 
rity in 1777. 

• defcendants 



OF THE FIUMAN SpECIES. 15^ 

defcendants oifix hundred and fifty thoufand people In the 
prime of life, gradually imported within a century, are lefs 
numerous than thofe, which only f ten thoufand would 
have produced in the fame period, under common advan- 
tages, and in a country congenial to their conftitu- 
tions ! 

But the receivers have probably great merit on the oc- 
cafion. Let us therefore fet it down to their humanity. 
Let us fupoofe for once, that this incredible wafte of 
the human fpecies proceeds from a benevolent defign ; that, 
fenfible of the miferies of a fervile ftate, they refolve to 
wear out, as faft as they poiTibly can, their unfortunate 
flaves, that their miferies may the fooner end, and that a 
wretched pofterity may be prevented from iliaring their pa- 
rental condition. Now, whether this is the plan oi rea- 
foning which the receivers adopt, I cannot take upon me 
to decide ; but true it is, that the eiFecSI: produced is exact- 
ly the fame, as if they had reafoned wholly on this beneva^ 
lent principle. 



CHAP. XL 

I have now taken a furvey of the treatment which the 
unfortunate /Africans undergo, when they arc pat into the 
hd^nds, o'i t\iQ receivers. This treatment, by the four fir ft 
chapters of the prefent part of this ElTay, appears to be 
v/holly infupportable, and to be fuch as no human being 
can apply to another, without the imputation of fuch 
crimes, as fhould make him, tremble. But as many argu- 
ments are ufually advanced by thofe who have any intereft 
in the practice, by which they would either exculpate tiie 
treatment, or diminifh its feverity, I allotted the remaining 

■\ Ten thoufand people under fair advantages, and in a foil congenial 
to their conftitutions, and where the means of fubfiftence are eafy, fhould 
produce in a century 160,000. This is the proportion in which the 
Americans increafed; and the Africans in their own country increafe in 
the fame, if not in a greater proportion. Nov/ Jis the climate of the 
colonies is as f;ivourable to their health as that of their own country, the 
caufes of the prodigious decreafe in the one, and increafe in the other, 
will be mors conspicuous. 

chapters 



15^ On the Slavery and Commerce 

chapters for their difcullion. In thefe I confidered the 
probability of fuch a treatment againft the motives of in- 
tereft ; the credit that u^as to be given to thofe difmterefted 
writers on the fubje6l, who have recorded particular in- 
ftances of barbarity 5 the inferiority of the Africans to the 
human fpecies ; the. comparifons that are generally made 
with refpe6l to their fituation ; the pofitive fcenes of feli- 
city which they are faid to enjoy, and every other argu- 
ment, in fhort, that I have found to have ever been ad- 
vanced in the defence of llavery. Thefe have been all 
confidered, and I may venture to pronounce, that, inftead 
of anfwering the purpofe for which they were intended, 
they ferve only to bring fuch circumftances to light, as 
clearly fhew, that if ingenuity were racked to invent a 
fituation, that would be the moft diftreffing and infupport- 
able to the human race, it could never invent one, that 

would fuit the defcripticn better, than the colonial jla^ 

very. 

If this then be the cafe, and if Haves, notwithftanding 
all the arguments to the contrary, are exquifitely mifer- 
able, I afk you receivers., by what right you reduce them to 
fo wretched a fituation ? 

You reply, that you huy them ; that your money confti- 
tutes your rights and that, like all other things which you 
purchafe, they are wholly at your own difpofal. 

Upon this principle alone it was, that I profelled to 
view your treatment, or examine your right, when I faid, 
that '' \ the queftion refolved itfelf into two feparate parts 
" for difcuffion ; into the African commerce, as explained 
*-' in the hipLory of flavery, and the fubfequent flavery in 
" the colonies, " as founded, on the equity of the commerce*^ 
Now, fmce it appears that this commerce, upon the full eft 
inveftigation, is contrary to " * the principles of law and 
" government., the dilates of re af on., the common maxims of 
" equity., the lavjs of nature^ the adjnonitions of confcience^ 
*' and^ in Jhort^ the vjhole do£frine of natural religion^"* it 
is evident that the rights which is founded upon it, muft 
be the fame ; and that if thofe things only are lawful in the 
fight of God, which are either virtuous in themfelves, or 

\ Page 49, * Page 80. 

proceed . 



CF THE FJUMAN SPECIES. I59 

proceed from virtuous principles, you have no right over 
them at all. 

You yourfelves alfo confefs this. For when I alk you, 
whether any human being has a right to fell you^ you im- 
mediately anfwer, No -, as if nature revolted at the thought, 
and as if it was fo contradictory to your own feelings, as 
not to require confideration. But who are you, that have 
this exclufive charter of trading in the liberties of man- 
kind ? When did nature, or rather the Author of nature, 
make fo partial a diftindion between you and them ? 
When did He fay, that you fhould have the privilege of 
felling others, and that others ihould not have the privilege 
of felling you ? 

Now fmce you confefs, that no perfon v/hatever has a 
right to difpofe of you in this manner, you mull confefs 
alfo, that tliofe things are unlav/ful to be done to you, which 
would be done in confequence of the fale. Let us fup- 
pofe then, that in confequence of the commerce you were 
forced into a fliip ; that you were conveyed to another 
country ; that you were Ibid there ; that you were con- 
fined to incefTant labour ; that you were pinched by con- 
tinual hunger and thirit ; and fubje6l to be whipped, cut, 
and mangled at difcretion ; and all this at the hands of thofe, 
whom you had never offended ; v/ould you not think that 
you had a right to refift their treatment ? Would you not 
refrft it with a fafe confcience ? And would you not be 
furprized, if your refiftance fhould be termed rehellmi ?- — 
By the former premifes you muft anfwer, yes. — Such then 
is the cafe with the wretched Africans. 1 hey have a right 
to refift your proceedings. They can refift them, and yet 
they cannot juftly be confidered as rebellious. For though 
we fuppofe them to have been guilty of crimes to one ano- 
ther ; though we fuppofe them to have been the moft aban- 
doned and execrable of men, yet are they perfectly inno- 
cent with refpeCt to you receivers. You have no right to 
touch even the hair of their heads without their own con- 
fent. It is not your money, that can inveft you v/ith a 
right. Human liberty can neither be bought nor fold. 
Every lafh that you give them is unjuft. It is a lafh againft 
nature and religion, and will furely ftand recorded agaiiift 
you, fince they are all, with refpe6t to your impious felvcs, 

in 



i6o On the Slavery and Commerce 

in a ftate of nature 5 in a flate of original diflbciationi 
perfectly free. 



CHAP. XII. 

Having now confidered both the commerce and Jlavery^ \t 
remains only to colle6l fuch arguments as are fcattered 
in different parts of the work, and to make fuch ad- 
ditional remarks, as prefent themfelves on the fubject. 

And firll, let us afk you, who have iludied the law 
of nature, and you, w^ho are learned in the law of the 
land, if all property muft not be inferiour in its nature 
to its polTeiTor, or, in other words, (for it is a cafe, 
which every perfon muft bring home to his own breaft) if 
you fuppofe that any human being can have a -property In 
yourfehes f Let us afk you appraifers, who fcientifically know 
the value of things, if any human creature is equivalent 
only to any of the trinkets that you wear, or at moft, to 
any of the horfes that you ride : or in other words, if you 
have ever confidered the moft coftly things that you have 
valued, as equivalent to joiirf elves P Let me afk you ration- 
alifts, if man, as a reafonable being, is not accountable for 
his a6Lions : and \Qt m.e put the fame queftion to you, who 
have ftudied the divine writings ? Let me afk you parents, 
if ever you thought you pofteffed an authority as fuch, or if 
ever you expe(5led a duty from your fons 5 and let me afk 
you fons, if ever you felt an im.pulfe in your own breafts to 
obey your parents. Now, if you Inould all anfwer as I could 
wifh, if you ihould all anfwer confiftently v/ith reafon, na-^ 
ture, and the revealed voice of God, what a dreadful ar- 
gument will prefent itfeif againft the commerce and flavery 
of the human fpecies, when we rex^ie6t, that no man v/hat- 
ever can be brought or reduced to the fituation of a 
flave, but he muji uiflantly become a brute ; he muji injiantly 
he reduced to the value of ihoje things^ which were made for 
his own ufe and convenience ; he mufl injiantly ceafe to he ac-- 
countable for his a£iions^ and his authority as a parent^ and 
his duty as a fon^ mufi be injiantly no more* 

Neither does it efcape my notice, v/hen I am fpeaking 
of the fatal v/ound which every focial duty muft receive, 

how 



OF THE Human SpfectES. t6t 

^i^V^^^i/fiderably Chriftlanity fuiFers by the condu6t of you receive 
ers. For by profecuting this impious commerce, you keep 
the Africans in a ftate of perpetual ferocity and barbarifm ; 
and by profecuting it in fuch a manner, as muft reprefent 
your religion as a fyftem of robbery and oppreffion, you not 
only oppofe the propagation of the gofpel, as far as you are 
able yourfelves, but throw the moft certain impediments in 
the way of others, who might attempt the glorious and im- 
portant taik. 

Such alfo is the effe6i:, which the fubfequent flavery in 
the colonies muft produce. For by your inhuman treat* 
ment of the unfortunate Africans there, you create the fame 
infuperable impedimxcnts to a converfion. For how muft 
they deteft the very name of Chr'ijlians^ when you Chrijii- 
am are deformed by fo many and dreadful vices ? How 
muft they deteft that fyftem of religion, which appears to 
refift the natural rights of men, and to give a fan6tion to 
brutality and murder ? 

But, as I am now mentioning Chriftianity, I muft paufe 
for a little time, to make a few remarks on the arguments 
which are ufually deduced from thence by the receivers^ in 
defence of their fyftem of oppreilion. For the reader may 
readily fuppofe, that if they did not hefitate to bring the 
Old Teftament in fupport of their barbarities, they would 
hardly let the New efcape them* 

8t. Pauley having converted Oneftmus to the Chriftlan 
faith, who was a fugitive flave of Philemon^ fent him 
back to his mafter. This circumftance has furnifhed the 
receivers with a plea, that Chriftianity encourages flavery. 
But they have not only ftrained the paftages which they 
produce in fupport of their aflertions, but are ignorant of 
hiftorical facts. The benevolent apoftle, in the letter 
which he v/rote to Philemon^ the mafter of Onefimus^ ad- 
drefTes him to the following effect : " I fend him back to 
*' you, but not in his former capacity, * not now as afer^ 
*' vanty hit above a fervant^ a brcther beloved. In this 
" manner I befeech you to receive him, for though I 
*' could enjoin you to do it, yet I had rather it ihould be a 
^« matter of your own wiil^ than of necejfty'\ 

* Epilh to Philemon. 



i62 On the Slavery and Commerce 

It appears that the fame Oncjimusy when he was fent baclr,- 
was no longer a flave^ that he v/as a minifter of the gofpel^ 
that he was joined with T}'^/:)/^:/^ in an ecclefiaftical com- 
miflion to the church of the Colofflans^ and was afterwards 
biftiop of Ephefus, If language therefore has any mean- 
ing, and if hiftory has recorded a fa6t which may be be- 
lieved, there is no cafe more oppofite to the do;Arine of 
the receivers^ than this which they produce in its fup- 
port. 

It is faid again,- that ChrlftianitVy among the many im- 
porta.nt precepts which it contains, does not furnifli us 
with one for the abolition^ of flavery. But the reafon is ob- 
vious. Slavery at the time of the introduction of the gof- 
pel was univerially prevalent, and if Chriftianity had ab- 
ruptly declared, that the millions of Haves fhould have 
been made free, who were then in the world, it would 
have been univerfally reje£i:ed, as containing dodtrines 
that were dangerous, if not deftruClive, to fociety. In 
order therefore that it might be univerfally received, it 
never meddled, by any pofitive precept, with the civil in- 
ftitutlons of the times : but though it does not exprefsly 
fay, that " you fhall neither buy, nor fell, nor pofTefs a 
^' flave," it is evident that, in its general tenour, it fuf- 
ficiently militates agaiiift the cufVom. 

The firft doftrine which it inculcates, is that of brother- 
ly love. It commands good will towards m^en. It en- 
joins us to love our neighbours as ourfelves, and to do 
unto all men, as we would that they fliould do unto us. 
And how can any man fulfil this fcbjeme of univerfal bene- 
volence, who reduces an unfortunate perfon aga'injl his willy 
to the ?noJl infupportahle of all human conditions ; whocon- 
fiders him as his private -pr op erty^ and treats him, not as a 
brother, nor as one of the fame parentage with himfelf, 
but as an animal of the brute creation ? 

But the moft important doftrine is that, by which we 
are allured that mankind are to exifi: in a future ftate, and 
to give an account of thofe adions, which they have fe- 
verally done in the flelh. This ftrikes at the very root of 
flavery. For how can any man be juftly called to an ac= 
count for his aiStionSj whofe adlions are not at his own dif- 

pofalt 



OF THE Human Species. 163 

-^i^fal f This is the cafe with the ^proper flave. His liberty 
as abfolutely bought and <?/)/)r(j/>rz.7?^<i ; and if the purchale 
isjiift and equitable^ he is under the tiecejftty of perpetrating 
any crime, which the purchafer may order him to commit, 
-or, in other words, of ceafmg to be accountable for his 
anions* ^ 

Thefe doclirines therefore ar^ fufficient to fhew, that fla- 
very is incompatible with the Ghriftian fyftera. The Eu^ 
ropeans confidered them as fuch, when, at the clofe of the 
twelfth century, .they refilled ttheir hereditary prejudices, 
and occafioned its abolition. Kence one^ among many 
other proofs, that Chriftianity was the produdtion of infi- 
nite wifdom ; that though it did not take fuch exprefs cog- 
nizance of the wicked national inftitutions of the times, as 
Ihould hinder its reception, itlhould yet contain fuch doc- 
trines, as, when it fhould be fully eftablifhed, would be 
fufEcientfor the abolition of them all. 

Thus then is the argument of you receivers inefFe61:ua], 
and your condudl impious* For, by the profecution of 
.this wicked flavery and commerce, you not only ' oppofe 
the propagation of that gofpel which was ordered to be 
preached unto, every creature, and bring it into contempt, 
but you oppofe its tenets alfo : firft, becaufe you violate 
that law of un'roerfal benevolence^ which was to take away 
'.'thofe hateful diftin6liQns <of Jew and Gentile^ Greek and 
Barbarian^ bond.zn^free^ which prevailed when the gofpel 
was introduced ; .and fecondly, becaufe, as every man is 
to give an account of his actions hereafter, it is necef- 
fary that he fhould h^fiee. 

Another argument yet remains, which, though nature 
will abfolutely turn pale at the recital, cannot poffibly be 
omitted. In thofe wars, which are made for the fake of 
procuring flaves, it is evident that the conteil: muft be 
generally obftinate, and that great numbers muft be flain 
on both fides, before the event can be determined. This 

*The African flave is of this defcflption j and I could wifli, In all my ar- 
guments on the prefent fubjedt, to be underftood as having fpoken only of 
proper jla'ues. The (lave who is condemned to the oar, to the fortificat!~ 
ons, and other public works, is in a different predicament. His liberty is 
not approprlatedy and therefore none of thofe confequences can be juftly 
..4rav/n, which have been deduced in the prefent cafe, 

L 2 we 



364 ^^ THE SlAVI^Y and COMMERCE 

we may reafonably apprehend to be the cafe : and I have 
*fhewn, that there have not been wanting inftances^ 
where the conquerors have been fo incenfed at the refift- 
ance they have found, that the fpirit of vengeance has 
entirely got the better of their avarice, and they have 
murdered every individual, without difcrimination ei- 
ther of age or fex. From thefe and other circum- 
ftances, I thought I had fufficient reafon to conclude, 
that, where ten were fuppofed to be taken, an hun^ 
dredy including the viftors and vanquiilied, might be fup- 
pofed to perifh. Now, as the annual exportation from 
Africa connfts of an hundred thoufand people, and as the 
two orders, namely, of thofe who are privately kidnapped 
by individuals, and of thofe, who are publickly feized by 
virtue of the authority of their prince, compofe together, 
at leaft, eight- tenths of the African flaves, it follows, that 
about twenty thoufand confilt of thofe of the remaining 
five clafTes mentioned in the firft part of the work. Let 
us fuppofe then, that the moft confiderable of thefe, which 
confifts of prifoners of war, amounts to fix thoufand an- 
nually, and it will immediately appear that no lefs 
than ftxty thoufand people annually perifh in thofe wars, 
which are made only for the purpofe of procuring flaves. 
But that this number, which 1 believe to be by no means 
exaggerated, may be free from all objection, I will in- 
clude thofe in the eftimate, who die as they are travelling 
to the {hips. Many of thefe unfortunate people have a 
journey of one thoufand miles to perform on foot, and are 
driven like fheep through inhofpitable woods and deferts, 
where they frequently die in great numbers from fatigue 
and want. Now if to thofe, who thus perifh on the Jfri^ 
can continent, by war and travelling, I fubjoin f thofe, 
who afterwards perifh on the voyage, and in the feafoning 
together, it will appear that an hundred thoufand muft an- 
nually periih, in order that the European plantations may 
receive an eiFeftual fupply. 

Gracious God ! how wicked, how beyond all example 
impious, mult be that fervitude, which cannot be carried 



* See the defcrlptjon of an African battle, Part 2, ch. 9. 
•J" The loweft computation is 40,000, fee p. 105, 



OH 



OF THE Human Species. 165 

on without the continual murder of fo many and innocent 
perfons ! What punishment is not to be expeded for fuch 
monftrous and unparalleled barbarities ! For if the blood 
of one man, unjuftly fhed, cries with fo loud a voice for 
the divine vengeance, how fliall the cries and groans of 
an hundred thoufand men, annually murdered^ afcend the 
celeftial manfions, and bring down that punifhment 
v;hich fuch enormities deferve ! But do 1 mention punifh- 
ment ? Do I allude to that punifhment, which fhall be in- 
fli6i:ed on men as individuals, in a future life ? Do I al- 
lude to that awful day, which fhall furely come, when the 
mafirer fliall behold his murdered AjYican face to face ? 
When a train of mutilated flaves (hall be brought againfl 
him ? Vv^hen he (hall ftand confounded and abafhed ? Or, 
do I allude to that punifhraent, which may be inflided 
on them here, as members of a wicked community ? For 
as a body politick, if its members are ever fo numerous, 
may be confidered as an whole, acSting of itfelf, and by 
itfelf^ in all affairs in which it is concerned, fo it is ac- 
countable, as fuch, for its condu6l ; and as thefe kinds 
of polities have only their exiftence here, fo it is only in 
this v/orld, that, as fuch, they can be punifhed. 

" Now, v/hether we confider the crime, vv'ith refpe£t 
^'* to the individuals imm^ediately concerned in this moft 
" barbarous and cruel traffick, or whether we confider it 
^' as * patronized and encouraged by the laws of the land, 
'' it prefents to our view an equal degree of enormity. A 
" crime, founded on a dreadful pre-eminence in wicked- 
*' nefs, — a crime, v/hich being both of individuals and the 
** nation, muft fometime draw down upon us the heavieft 
** judgment of Almighty God, who made of one blood 
*' all the fons of men, and who gave to all equally a natu- 
*' ral right to liberty ; and who, ruling all the kingdoms 
*' of the earth with equal providential juflice, cannot 
" fufFer fuch deliberate, fuch monflrous iniquity, to pafs 
*' long unpunifhed.f 

'^ The leglflature has fquandered away more money in the profecutlon 
of the flaye trade, within twenty years, than in any other trade whatfo- 
€ver, having granted from the year 175c, to the year 1770, the fum of 
300,000 pounds. 

t Sermon preached before the Univerfity of Cambridge, by the Rev. 
Peter Peckard. 

But 



1.S6 On the Bl AVERY antj Commerce 

But alas ! he fecms already to have interfered on the 
©ccafion ! The * violent and fupernatural agitations of 
all the elements, which, for a leries of years, have pre- 
vailed in thofe European fettlements, where the unfortu- 
nate y^r/Vc7;zj- are retained in a ftate of flavery, and which 
have brought unfpeakable calamities on the inhabitants, 
and publicic iofles on the ftates to which they feverally be- 
long, are fo many awful vifitations of God for this inhu- 
man violation of his laws. And it is not perhaps unwor- 
thy of remark, that as the fubje£ls of Great-Britain have 
nearl/ half cf this impious commerce in their ov/n hands, 
lb they have fufFered in the fame proportion, or f more 
feverely than the reft. 

How far thefe misfortunes may appear to be a6ts of 
providence, and to create an alarm to thofe who have 
been accuftomed to refer every efFe£l to its apparent caufe, 
who have been habituated to flop there, and to overlook 
the finger of God, becaufe it is llightly covered under the 
veil of fecondary laws, I v/ill not pretend to determine ! 
but this I v/ill aflert v/ith confidence, that the Europeans 
liave richly deferved them all ; that the tear of fympathy, 
which can hardly b'e retrained on other melancholy occa- 
lions, feems to forget to flow at the relation of thefe ; and 
that we can never, with any Oiadow of juftice, wifli pro- 
fperity to the undertakings of thofe, whofe fuccefs muft 
be at the expenfe of the happinefs of millions of their fel- 
low- crei:.tures. 

But this is fijflicient. For if liberty is only an adven- 
titious right ; if men are by no means fuperiour to brutes ; 
if every fecial duty is a curfe ; if cruelty is highly to be 
efieemedj'if murder is ftridWy honourable, and Chrifti- 
anity is a lyt ; then it is evident, that the African flavery 

* The firft noted eartliquake at Jamaica, happened June the 7th, 
3692, when Port Royal was totally funk. This was fucceeded by one 
in the ysar 1697, and by ^^nother in the year 1722, from which time 
to the prefent, thefe reg'ons of the globe feem to have been feverely vi- 
fited, but particularly during the laft i\^ or i&^tn years. See a general 
account of the calamities, occafioned by the late tremendous hurricanes 
a-nd earthquakes in the Weft-Indian iflands, by Mr. Fowler. 

■\ The many fhip3 of war belonging to the Britiih navy, which were 
Isit with all their crews in thefe dreadful hurricanes, will fufficiently 
prove the fad» 

may 



OF THE Human Species. iC;r 

may be purfued, without either the remorfe of confcience, 
or the imputation of a crime. But if the contrary of this 
is true, which reafon muft immediately evince, it is evi- 
dent that no cuftom eftablifhed among men was ever 
more impious ; fmce it is contrary to reafon^ jujiice^ na-- 
iure^ the principles of law and government^ the whole doc-- 
tr'ine^ in fiortj of natural religion^ and the revealed voice sf 
GOD. 



The en D, 



In the PRESS, 

An ESS AY on the Impolicy of the African Slave 
Trade. By T, Clarkfon. 



TRACTS on SLAVERY Printed for J. Phillips. 

AN ESSAY on the Treatment and Converfion of 
African Slaves in the Britifli Sugar Colonies. By 
the Rev. J. Ramfay, Vicar cf Teflon in Kent. 4s. 
Boards. 

An INQUIRY into the EiFecSts of putting a Stop to 
the African Slave Trade, and of granting Liberty to the 
Slaves in the Britifh Sugar Colonies. By J. Ramfay. 6d. 

A REPLY to the Perfonal Invectives and Obje6i:ions 
contained in Two Anfvi^ers, publi&ed by certain anony- 
mous Perfons, to an ElTay on the Treatment and Con- 
verfion of African Slaves in the Britiih Colonies. By 
James Ramfay. 2S. 

A LETTER to James Tobin, Efq. late Member of 
his Majefly's Council in the Ifland of Nevis. By James 
Ramiay. 6d. 

A LETTER from Capt. J. Smith to the Rev. Mr. 
Hill, on the State of the Negroe Slaves. To which are 
added an Litroduclionj and Remarks on Free Negroes. 
By the Editor. 6d. 

A CAUTION to Great Britain and her Colonies, in 
a fhort Reprefentation of the calamitous State of the en- 
flaved Negroes in the Britiih Dominions. By Anthony 
Benezet. 6d. 

THOUGHTS on the Slavery of the Negroes, ^d. 

A Serious ADDRESS to the Rulers of America, on 
the Inconfiftency of their Condu6t refpecling Slavery. 3d. 

The CASE of our Fellovz-Creatures, the Oppreffed 
Africans, refpedtfully recommended to the ferious Con- 
fideration of the Legiflature of Great Britain, by the 
People called Quakers. 2d. 

A Summary VIEW of the Slave Trade, and of the 
probable Confequences of its Abolition. 2d. 

A LETTER to the Treafurer of the Society Infli- 
tuted for the Purpofe of effecting the Abolition of the 
Slave Trade. From the Rev. Robert Boucher Nickolls, 
Dean of Middleham. A new Edition enlarged. 4d. 

An ACCOUNT of the Slave Trade on the Coaft of 
Africa. By Alexander Falconbridge, late Surgeon in 
the African Trade, gd. 

WEST INDIAN ECLOGUES, dedicated to the 
late Lord Biihop of Chefter, by a Perfon who refided 
feveral Years in the Weft-Indies. 2S. 

REMARKS on the Slave Trade, and the Slavery of 
the NegroeSj in a Series of Letters, By Africanus. 2S. 6d, 



