I 



THE ABOLITIONIST. 



VOL. I.] 



DECEMBER, 183 3. 



[NO. XII. 



AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

A convention for the formation of a Nation- 
al Anti-Slavery Society was held at Phila- 
delphia on the 4th of December. 

BERIAH GREEN, of New- York, was cho- 
sen President, and Lewis Tappan, of New- 
York, and John G. Whittier, of Massachu- 
setts, Secretaries. 

More than sixty persons, from ten States, 
were present at the Convention. 

The Convention continued for three days. 

The following persons were chosen officers 
of the Society. 

PRESIDENT. 

* ARTHUR TAPPAN, Neiv- York city. 

TREASURER. 

WILLIAM GREEN, Jr. .Yew-York city. 

SECRETARY OF DOMESTIC CORRESPONDENCE. 

ELIZUR WRIGHT, Jr. New- York city. 

SECRETARY OF FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE. 

WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Boston, Mass. 

RECORDING SECRETARY. 

ABRAHAM L. COX, New-York city. 
VICE-PRESIDENTS. 



Rhode-Island. 
Moses Brown. 
Maine. 
Samuel Fessenden, 
Joseph Southwick, 
Ebenezer Dole, 
Samuel F. Hussey. 
Mew- Hampshire. 
Nathan Lord, 
Calvin Cutler. 

Vermont. 
Matthew W. Birchard, 

Massachusetts. 
Asa Rand, 
E. M. P. Wells, 
E. L. Capron. 

Connecticut. 
Eleazer T. Fiteh, 



Samuel J. May, 
Gustavus F. Davis. 

New York. 
Beriah Green, 
D. C. Lansing, 
John Rankin. 
Ohio. 
Elizur Wright, 
Samuel Crothers. 
Pennsylvania. 
Robert Bruce, 
Jonas Preston, 
Edwin A. Atlee, 
Evan Lewis, 
William Jackson. 

Delaware. 
Benjamin Ferris. 

Detroit, Mich. Ter. 
Erastus P. Hastings. 



Eli Ives, 

MANAGERS. 

Isaac Whitman, Portland, Maine. 

Calvin Newton, Waterville College. " 



George Shepard, 
Daniel Thurston, 
Richard H. Vose, 
Patrick H. Greenleaf, 



Amos A. Phelps, 
Ellis Gray Loring, 
David L. Child, 
Samuel E. Sewall, 
James G. Barbadoes, 
Isaac Knapp, 
Moses Thacher, 
John G. Whittier, 
Jacob Ide, 

Daniel S. Southmayd, 
John M. S. Perry, 
Le Roy Sunderland, 
Philemon R. Russell, 
David T. Kimball, 



* It is proper to remark, in this place, that a vote 
was passed during the session of the Convention, to 
omit all titles of honor from the names of officers. 



George W. Ward, 
James Wilson, 
Amos Cambell, 
Nathan Lord, 
William Arthur, 
Elisha Bascom, 
Augustine Clark, 
J. Butler, 
Ray Potter, 
Josiah Cady, 
Henry dishing, 
George W. Benson, 
John Prentice, 
Thomas Williams, 
George Benson, 
Simeon S. Jocelyn, 
Alpheus Kingsley, 
James T. Dickinson, 
S.P. Dole, 
William Allen, 
Stephen P. Hines, 
Samuel N. Sweet, 
Jonathan Parkburst, 
James White, 
Joshua Leavitt, 
William Goodell, 
Lewis Tappan, 
George Bourne, 
Charles W. Denison, 
Isaac M. Diamond, 
Peter Williams, 
Arnold Buffum, 
Edwin P. Atlee, 
Robert Purvis, 
23 



Hallowell, Maine. 

Winihrop, " 

Augusta, " 

Portland, « 

Bowdoin College, " 
Boston, Massachusetts. 



North Wrentham, " 
Haverhill, " 

Medway, Mass. 

Loivell, " 

Mendon, " 

Andover, " 

West Boylston, " 
Ipswich, u 

Amherst, " 

Plymouth, N. H 
Keene, u 

Ackivorth, 

Hanover^ * 

Hineshxwgh, Vermont. 
Shoreham, ** 

Danville, u 

Waterbury, u 

Pawtucket, R. Island. 
Providence, 



Brooklyn, Connecticut. 
JVeiu- Haven, " 

Nonvich, " 



Middletown, 
Buffalo, New 
Sandy Hill, 
Adams, 

■ , Neio 



York. 



Jersey. 



New York City. 



Philadelphia, Pa. 



$S?2S 



178 



American Anti-Slavery Society, 



Philadelphia., Pa. 



Thomas Shipley, 

Benjamin Lundy, 

James McCrummell, 

Samuel Williams, Pittsburgh, 

John B. Vashon, " " 

Bartholomew Fussell, Rsnnett, " 

Job F. Halsey, Alleghany To-imi " 

Enoch Mack, Wilkesbarre, " 

Thomas Whitson., Chester County, " 

Abraham D. Shad'd, " 

Lindley Coates, Lancaster Co-. " 

Theodore D. Weld, Cincinnati, Ohio. 

James Warren, " 

O. K. Hawley, Austinburgh,. u 

Henry Cowles, " " 

John M. Sterling,, Cleaveland, " 

H. C Howells, ' Zanesville? u 

Woolsey Wells, Akron, 

John R$, Monteitb, Elyria,. " 

A Declaration was- adopted by the Conven- 
tion, and signed by the members of the Con- 
vention. We publish this important paper 
at length. It manifests great power and deep 
feeling, and that manly reso-lu.ti.on- and confi- 
dence which ought to animate men devoting 
themselves to a holy, but unpopular cause* 

DECLARATION 

OF THE 

NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION. 

The Convention, assembled in the City of 
Philadelphia to organize- a National Anti-Sla- 
very Society, promptly seize the opportunity 
to promulgate the following Declaration of 
Sentiments, as cherished by them in relation 
to the enslavement of one-sixth portion of the 
American people. 

More than fifty-seven years have elapsed 
since a band of patriots convened in this place, 
to devise measures for the deliverance of this 
country from a foreign yoke. The corner- 
stone upon which they founded the Tempee 
of Freedom was broadly this — 'that all men 
are created equal ; that they are endowed by 
their Creator with certain inalienable rights ; 
that among these are life, LIBERTY, and 
the pursuit of happiness.' At the sound of 
their trumpet-call, three millions of people 
rose up as from the sleep of death, and rushed 
to the strife of blood ; deeming it more glo- 
rious to die instantly as freemen, than desir- 
able to live one hour as slaves. They were 
few in number — poor in resources; but the 
honest conviction that Truth, Jdsticf. and 
Right were on their side, made them invin- 
cible. 

We have met together for the achievement 
of an enterprise, without which, that of our 
fathers is incomplete, and which, for its mag- 
nitude, solemnity, and probable results upon 
the destiny of the world, as far transcends 
theirs, as moral truth does physical force. 



In purity of motive, in earnestness of zeaL, 
in decision of purpose, in intrepidity of action, 
in steadfastness of faith, in sincerity of spirit, 
we would not be inferior to them. 

Their principles' led: them to wage war 
against their oppressors, and to spill human 
blood like watei\ in order to be free. Ours 
forbid the doing of evil that good may come, 
and lead us to reject, and to entreat the op- 
pressed to reject, the use of all carnal wea- 
pons for deliverance from bondage — relying 
solely upon those which are spiritual, and 
mighty through God to the pulling down of 
strong holds. 

Their measures were physical resistance— - 
the marshalling in arms — the hostile array— 
the mortal encounter. Ours shall be such 
only as the opposition of moral purity to moral 
corruption — the destruction of error by the 
potency of truth— the overthrow of prejudice 
by the power of love — and the abolition of 
slavery by the spirit of repentance. 

Their grievances, great as they were, were 
trifling in comparison with the wrongs and 
sufferings of those for whom we plead. Our 
fathers were never slaves — never bought and 
sold like cattle — -never shut out from the light 
of knowledge and religion— never subjected 
to the lash of brutal taskmasters. 

But those, for whose emancipation we are 
striving,— constituting at the present time at 
least, one-sixth part of our countrymen, — are 
recognized by the laws, and treated by their 
fellow beings, as marketable commodities — as 
good and chattels — as brute beasts ;• — are plun- 
dered daily of the fruits of their toil without 
redress; — really enjoy no constitutional, noir 
legal protection from licentious and murder- 
ous outrages npon their persons ; — are ruth- 
lessly torn asunder — the tender babe from the 
arms of its frantic mother — the heart-broken 
wife from her weeping husband — at the ca- 
price or pleasure of irresponsible tyrants ; — 
and, for the crime of having a dark complex- 
ion, suffer the pangs of hunger, the infliction 
of stripes, and the ignominy of brutal servi- 
tude. They are kept in heathenish darkness 
by laws expressly enacted to make their in- 
struction a criminal offence. 

These are the prominent circumstances in 
the condition of more than TWO MILLIONS 
of our people, the proof of which may be found 
in thousands of indisputable facts, and in the 
laws of the slaveholding States. 
Hence we maintain — 

That in view of the civil and religious priv- 
ileges of this nation, the guilt of its oppression 
is unequalled by any other on the face of the 
earth ; — and, therefore, 

That it is bound to repent instantly, to undo 
the heavy burden, to break every yoke, and 
to let the oppressed go free. 
We further maintain — 

That no man has a right to enslave or im- 
brute his brother — to hold or acknowledge. 



American Jlnli-Slavery Society. 



17U 



aim, for one moment, as a piece of merchan- 
dise — to keep back his hire by fraud-'— or to 
brutalize his mind by denying - bini the means 
of intellectual, social and mural improvement. 
The right to enjoy liberty is inalienable. 
To invade it, is to usurp the prerogative of 
Jehovah. Every man has a right to his own 
body— to the products of his own labor — to 
the protection of law — and to the common ad- 
vantages of society. It is piracy to buy or 
steal a native African, and subject him to ser- 
vitude. Surely the sin is as great to enslave 
an American as an African. 

Therefore we believe and affirm- 
That there is no difference, in principle, 
between the African slave trade and American 
slavery 5 

That every American citizen, who retains 
a human being in involuntary bondage, as 
his property, is [according to Scripture] a 

MAN-STEALER. 

That the slaves ought instantly to be set 
free, and brought under the protection of law ; 

That if they had lived from the time of 
Pharaoh down to the present period, and had 
been entailed through successive generations, 
their right to be free could never have been 
alienated, but their claims would have con- 
stantly risen in solemnity ; 

That all those laws which arc now in force, 
admitting the right of slavery, are therefore 
before God utterly null and void ; being an 
audacious usurpation of the Divine preroga- 
tive, a daring in fringe ment on the law of na- 
ture, a base overthrow of the very foundations 
of the social compact, a complete extinction of 
all the relations, endearments and obligations 
of mankind, and a presumptuous transgression I 
of all the holy commandments — and that there- 
fore they ought to be instantly abrogated. 
We further believe and affirm — 

That all persons of color who possess the 
qualifications which are demanded of others, 
ought to be admitted forthwith to the enjoy- 
ment of the same privileges, and the exercise 
•of the same prerogatives, as others ; and that 
the paths of preferment, of wealth, and of in- 
telligence, should be opened as widely to them 
as to persons of a white complexion. 

We maintain that no compensation should 
be given to the planters emancipating their 
slaves — 

Because it would be a surrender ofthe great 
fundamental principle, that man cannot hold 
property in man ; 

Because Slavert is a crime, akd there- 
fore IT IS NOT AN ARTICLE TO BE SOLD J 

Because the holders of slaves are not the 
just proprietors of what they claim ; — freeing 
-the slaves is not depriving them of property, 
but restoring it to the right owner; — it is not 
wronging the master, but righting the slave — 
restoring him to himself ; 

Because immediate and general emancipa- 
tion would only destroy nominal, not real 



property : it would not amputate a limb or 
break a bone of the slaves, but by infusin" - 
motives into their breasts, would make them 
doubly valuable to the masters as free labor- 
ers ; and 

Because if compensation is to be given at 
all, it should be given to the outraged and 
guiltless slaves, and not to those who have 
plundered and abused them. 

We regard, as delusive, cruel and danger- 
ous, any scheme of expatriation which pre- 
tends to aid, either directly or indirectly, in 
the emancipation ofthe slaves, or to be a sub- 
stitute for the immediate and total abolition of 
slavery. 

We fully and unanimously recognise the 
sovereignty of each State, to legislate exclu- 
sively on the subject of the slavery which is 
tolerated within its limits. We concede that 
Congress, undtr the present national compact, 
has no right to interfere with any ofthe slave 
States, in relation to this momentous subject. 

But we maintain that Congress has a right, 
and is solemnly bound, to suppress the domes- 
tic slave trade between the several States, 
and to abolish slavery in those portions of our 
territory which the Constitution has placed 
under its exclusive jurisdiction. 

We also maintain that there are, at the 
present time, the highest obligations resting 
upon the people of the free States to remove 
slavery by moral and political action, as pre- 
scribed in the Constitution of the United 
States. They are now living under a pledge 
of their tremendous physical force to fasten 
the galling fetters of tyranny upon the limbs 
of millions in the southern States; — they are 
liable to be called at any moment to suppress 
a general insurrection ofthe slaves; — they 
authorise the slave owner to vote for three- 
fifths of his slaves as property, and thus enable 
him to perpetuate his oppression ; — they sup- 
port a standing army at the south for its pro- 
tection ; — and they seize the slave who has 
escaped into their territories, and send him 
back to be tortured by an enraged master or 
a brutal driver. 

This relation to slavery is criminal and full 
of danger: it must be broken up. 

These are our views and principles — these, 
our designs and measures. With entire con- 
fidence in the overruling justice of God, we 
plant ourselves upon the Declaration of our 
Independence, ;ind upon the truths of Divine 
Revelation, as upon the everlasting rock. 

We shall organize Anti-Slavery Societies, 
if possible, in every city, town and village in 
our land. 

We shall send forth Agents to lift up the 
voice of remonstrance, of warning, of entreaty 
and rebuke. 

We shall circulate, unsparingly and exten- 
sively, anti-slavery tracts and periodicals. 

We shall enlist the pulpit and the press 
in the cause ofthe suffering and the dumb,- 



180 



American Anti-Slavery Society. 



We shall aim at a purification of the church- 
es from all participation in the guilt of slavery. 

We shall encourage the labor of freemen 
over that of the slaves, by giving a preference 
to their productions; — and 

We shall spare no exertions nor means to 
bring the whole nation to speedy repentance. 

Our trust for victory is solely in GOD. We 
may be personally defeated, but our principles 
never. Truth, Justice, Reason, Human- 
it?, must and will gloriously triumph. Al- 
ready a host is coming up to the help of the 
Lord against the mighty, and the prospect be- 
fore us is full of encouragement. 

Submitting this DECLARATION to the 
candid examination of the people of this coun- 
try, and of the friends of liberty all over the 
world, we hereby affix our signatures to it; — 
pledging ourselves that, under the guidance 
and by the help of Almighty God, we will do 
all that in us lies, consistently with this De- 
claration of our principles, to overthrow the 
most execrable system of slavery that has 
ever been witnessed upon earth — to deliver 
our land from its deadliest curse — to wipe 
out the foulest stain which rests upon our na- 
tional escutcheon — and to secure to the color- 
ed population of the United States, all the 
rights and privileges which belong to them as 
men and as Americans — come what may to 
our persons, our interests, or our reputations 
—whether we live to witness the triumph of 
Justice, Liberty and Humanity, or perish 
untimely as martyrs in this great, benevolent 
and holy cause. 



Maine. 
David Thurston, 
Nathan Winslow, 
Joseph Southwick, 
James F. Otis, 
Isaac Winslow. 

Pennsylvania. 
Evan Lewis, 
Edwin A. Atlee, 
Robert Purvis, 
James McCrummell, 
Thomas Shipley, 
Bartholomew Fussell, 
Enoch Mack, 
John McCiillough, 
James M. McKim, 
Aaron Vickers, 
James Loughhead, 
John R. Sleeper, 
Thomas Whitson, 
Edwin P. Atlee, 
John Sharp, Jun. 
David Jones, 
Lucas Gillingham, 
James Mott, 
Sumner Stebbins. 

N ew- York, 
Beriah Green, 
Lewis Tappan, 
John Rankin, 



William Green, Jun. 
Abraham L. Cox, 
William Goodell, 
Elizur Wright, Jun. 
Charles W. Denison, 
John Frost. 

JVe w- Hampshire. 
David Cambell. 

Massachusetts. 
Daniel S. Southmayd, 
Effingham L. Capron, 
Joshua Coffin, 
Amos A. Phelps, 
John G. Whittier, 
Horace P. Wakefield, 
James G. Barbadoes, 
David T. Kimball, Jr. 
Daniel E. Jewett, 
John Reid Cambell, 
Nathaniel Southard, 
Arnold Buffum, 
Wm. Lloyd Garrison. 

Rhode-Island. 
John Prentice, 
George W. Benson, 
Ray Potter. 

Connecticut. 
Samuel Joseph May, 
Alpheus Kingsley, 
Edwin A. Stillman, 



Simeon S. Jocelyn, 
Robert Bernard Hall. 

Ohio. 
John M. Sterling, 
Milton Sutliff, 
Levi Sutliff, 



Vermont. 
Orson S. Murray, 
New-Jersey. 
Jonathan Parkhurst, 
Chalkley Gillingham, 
James White. 



Among other resolutions, the following were 
adopted : 

On motion of Charles W. Denison, seconded by 
John G. Whittier, it was 

Resolved, That measures be taken to ascertaiu 
how many preachers in the United States are slave- 
holders. 

On motion of John Rankin, seconded by Abraham 
L. Cos, it was 

Resolved, That in the opinion of this Convention, 
those Editors who have embarked in the cause of im- 
mediate emancipation, and plead for the rights of the 
colored race, are deserving of our hearty thanks; and 
that we will use our individual and collective influ- 
ence to sustain and aid them in this good work, by 
extending the circulation and increasing the subscrip- 
tions of their respective papers, and by snch other 
means as may be proper. 

On this resolution, the Convention resolved itself 
into a committee of the whole — James McCrummell, 
of Philadelphia, in the chair. Several members ad- 
vocated its passage. 

President Green said, that the press is one of the 
most powerful engines we can bring to bear on pub- 
lic sentiment. Yet the press, and the pulpit too, have 
to a great extent lost sight of the great design for 
which they were established. They have been over- 
awed and corrupted by an erroneous and dangerous 
public sentiment. And now, forsooth, the pulpit and 
the press are both teaiting for public sentiment to re- 
form. They seem to suppose that thev must fall into 
the current, and float along with the mass, or be over- 
whelmed. They do not bring their immense moral 
force to bear on a given point, and that point in dia- 
metrical opposition to the vices and follies of the times. 
The custom of succumbing to the powers that be, he* 
cause there are such powers, is as prevalent as it is 
dangerous. 

What is public sentiment ? What is its origin ? 
It is the combined views and feelings of the mass of 
community. There are currents of feeling running 
through communities, like our rivers as they run to 
the ocean. Suppose they flow in a wrong direction. 
How are they to be corrected 1 Can we look to the 
bottom, and see the springs which move there ? Are 
the obscure channels to influence the mighty river ? 
Are we to depend on those who do not reach the pub- 
lic eye, to correct public sentiment 1 No, Mr President. 
We are to depend on the men who tower above the 
surface, and who have looked abroad over the whole 
scope of the waters of life. And are such men to 
wait until the whole deep is in motion ? No, Sir. 
They are they who must mark out the channels, and 
lead the tide. 

The influence of the press and pulpit on this wise 
has been strangely forgotten. But a few individuals 
there are who dare step forward to direct the current, 
when there is so much and imminent danger of being 
borne away by the wild surges of wicked passion 



American Anti-Slavery Convention. 



181 



But a few indeed who dare face public odium, in any 
or all its forms — have dared to stand erect, like rocks 
amid the seething waters, and beat back the billows 
which would overwhelm them. 

How few there are who dare expose their naked 
hearts to the eye of this nation ! How few who are 
ready to receive in their bare bosoms the shafts 
which calumny may throw ! Yet the men, contem- 
plated in the resolution before us, have thus stood 
erect, and have been thus exposed. The}' have pleaded 
the cause of equal rights, in its best and broadest sig- 
nification. They have stood out, amid falling missiles, 
and jarring notes of apposition ; and like trumpets, 
lifted up their voices for the poor and needy, the ' suf- 
fering and the dumb.' Look at their situation. Those 
who have been wont to sympathise with them in other 
great causes of moral reform, forsake them now. 
They are men. They feel the neglect of those whom 
they love, and whose opinions they have been accus- 
tomed to prize. They feel as if they had stood alone, 
abiding ' the peltings of the pitiless storm/ and are 
drenched through their exposure. They need the re- 
viving and refreshing influences of our sympathy. 
The}' have a claim on our gratitude, which cannot 
and must not be set aside. 

When we look around even among the professed 
followers of the immaculate Pattern of Reformers, 
how few do we find who are ready to pledge them- 
selves to sustain the public advocates of justice and 
equal rights ! What then is our duty 1 Each one of 
us is hound, even at the expense of other objects, to 
make special efforts on this wise, because there are so 
few whe will stand firm in the work. A mere tacit 
avowal of the extent and value of the labors of those 
alluded to in this resolution, will not suffice. Pledges 
must be entered into, and sacrifices must be made. — 
I cannot but lament the existence of the feelings which 
I often see exhibited toward the conductois of the 
abolition press, by those who profess to be friendly 
to the cause. ' We are heartily hostile to slavery,' 
say they, ' but, after all, William Lloyd Garrison, and 
his coadjutors, have taken too high ground ! He is 
so imprudent ; and says so many things calculated to 
weaken his attacks oa the system of bondage.' 

For my part, I am heartily disgusted with this halt- 
ing and temporizing. The devoted men who are thus 
repressed in their career, should receive our warmest, 
our most cordial God speed. For one, I am ready to 
present my bare bosom to the foe, and receive the 
shafts intended for them who have perilled so much 
for the object which has called us together in Conven- 
tion this day. I take this occasion to present the 
>varm gratitude of nny whole heart to those men who 
have pledged themselves and their presses to advance 
this blessed cause. 

Dr. A. L. Cox, of New- York, made a few remarks 
in favor of the resolution. 

Lewis Tappan rose, and asked permission to intro- 
duce the name of William Lloyd Garrison, and pro- 
ceeded to say : 

Some men, Mr. President, are frightened at a name. 
There is good evidence to believe that man} 7 profess- 
ed friends of abolition would have been here, had they 
not been afraid that the name of William Lloyd 
Garrison would be inserted prominently in our pro- 



ceedings. Sir, I am ashamed of such friends. Wc 
ought to place that honored name in the forefront of 
our ranks. The cause is under obligations to him r 
which such an evidence of respect will but poorly 
repay. 

The first time I ever heard of him was when he 
was in jail in Baltimore, where he was incarcerated 
like a felon, for pleading the cause of the oppressed, 
and rebuking iniquity. When I saw him, appearing 
so mild and meek as he does, shortly after he was lib- 
erated by a gentleman in New-York, I was astonished. 
Is this the renegade Garrison ? thought I, as I grasp- 
ed his open hand. Is this the enemy of our country 1 
I shall never forget the impression which his noble 
countenance made on me at that time, as long as I 
live. 

An anecdote is related of a gentleman— a Coloni- 
zationist — which is worth repeating in this Convention. 
That gentleman had purchased, without knowing vho 
it represented, a portrait of Mr. Garrison, and after 
having it encased in a splendid gilt frame, suspended 
it in his parlor. A friend calling in observed it, and 
asked the purchaser if he knew who 'he had honored 
so much ? He was answered ' No — but it is one of 
the most godlike looking countenances lever beheld.' 
' That, sir,' resumed the visiter, ' is a portrait of the 
fanatic, the incendiary William Lloyd Garrison !' 
' Indeed !' concluded the gentleman, evidently much 
disconcerted. ' But, sir, it shall remain in its place. 
I will never lake it down.' 

Who that is familiar with the history of Mr. Garri- 
son does not remember the determination expressed 
in the first number of his paper — the Liberator — to 
sustain it as long- as could live on bread and icater ? 
And, sir, I am informed that he has really practised 
what he so nobly resolved on the beginning. 

Look at his course during his recent mission to Eng- 
land. He has been accused of slandering his country. 
Sir, he has vindicated the American name. He has 
not slandered it. He has told the whole truth, and 
put hypocrites and dough faces to open shame. He 
has won the confidence of the people of England, 
They saw him attached to his country by the dearest 
ties; but loathing her follies and abhorring her crimes. 
He has put the Anti-Slavery movement forward a 
quarter of a century. 

A fellow passenger with Mr. Garrison from Europe 
— a clergyman of much intelligence — on arriving in 
this country heard that he was called a fanatic and a 
madman. ' What,' said he, ' do you call such a man 
a fanatic 1 Do you deem such a man insane ? For 
six weeks have I been with him, and a more discreet, 
humble and faithful christian I never saw.' 

Sir, we should throw the shield of our protection and 
esteem around Mr. Garrison. His life is exposed at 
this moment. At the door of this saloon, a young man 
from the South said to-day that if he had opportunity, 
he would dip his hands in his heart's blood. And, sir, 
there must be martyrs in this cause. We ought to 
feel this moment that we are liable to be sacrificed. 
But when I say this, I know that we are not bellige- 
rants. We would die in such a cause, only as martyrs 
to the truth. In this, our blessed Saviour has set the 
example. 



183 



Anlerican Anti-Slavery Convention. 



I did nol contemplate delivering a eulogy on Mr. 
Garrison, when I rose lo speak to this resolution. I 
wish simply to express my heartfelt sympathy wilh an 
injured and persecuted man. Be it the honoralile ob- 
ject of the members of this Convention to show to our 
countrymen that they have misunderstood the charac- 
ter, and misconceived the plans, of William Lloyd 
Garrison. He is said to be imprudent. What is pru- 
dence ? Is it succumbing lo a majority of our frail 
fellow mortals ? Is it holding back a faithful expres- 
sion of the whole truth, until the people are ready to 
say amen? Was that the prudence of the Apostle 
Paul, when he stood before the Roman Governor? 
Was that the prudence of William Penn, when he 
poured contempt on the regalia of Kings, by wear- 
ing before the king of England his broad beav- 
er ? Imprudence is moral timidity. That man is 
imprudent who is afraid to speak as God commands 
him to speak, when the hour of danger is near. If this 
reasoning be correct, Mr. Garrison is one of the most 
prudent men in the nation ! 

He is not perfect. He is frail, like the rest of human 
flesh. But if God had not endowed him as He has, and 
smiled propitiously on his imprudencies,we should not 
now be engaged in the deliberation of this most inter- 
esting' and important Convention. God has raised up 
just such a man as William Lloyd Garrison, to be a 
pioneer in this cause. Let each member present feel 
solemnly bound to vindicate the character of Mr. Gar- 
rison. Let us not be afraid to go forward with him 
even into the ' imminent breach,' although there ma} : 
be professed friends who stand back because of him. 

I coincide with the views of another gentleman, and 
hope that the name of Benjamin Lundy will not be 
forgotten. It is a name dear to every one engaged in 
this cause. 

In a recent conversation which I had with a distin- 
guished civilian of New-York — he informed me that 
he was a subscriber to Lundy's paper, the ' Genius of 
Universal Emancipation,' and that he had the highest 
opinion of his talents and devotedness lo the cause of 
the slave. He said that he had been roused by Lun- 
dy's appeals, and induced to examine the bearing the 
Constitution had on Slavery. The result is a convic- 
tion that a slave should not be given up who has fled 
from the South to the North, and dared to assert his 
claim to his own body. He now contends that the 
Constitution does not recognize slavery: that the fra- 
mers of that Instrument had in view the final destruc- 
tion of our greatest national sin. And he argues that 
the laws which grow out of the construction of the 
Constitution to uphold slavery, are contrary to the 
highest of all laws, and the genius of our republican 
government. Benjamin Lundy, sir, is the man, under 
God, who has thus affected the heart of that celebrat- 
ed individual. 

Posterity should know, that their fathers held such 
men as are contemplated in the resolution now before 
this body, as men to be highly esteemed. Although 
they are held accursed by those who know them not, 
and who seek to impeach their motives and to destroy 
their lives, yet the coming generation shall hallow 
their memories, and rise up to call them blessed. 

Amos A. Phelps, of Massachusetts, said he wished 
to give his testimony to the general subject now be- 



fore this Convention. He felt it to be one of the great- 
est importance—one closely identified with the pro- 
gress of our cause. Names had been mentioned. He 
would allude to one worthy of remembrance, although 
not specially mentioned in this resolution. It was that 
of Chari.es B. Storrs, late President of the West- 
ern Reserve College. He presumed it was known to 
all present, that President Storrs died at Braintree, 
Mass. A short time before he died, he said he wish- 
ed to sign his name lo a paper containing a declara- 
tion of principles, about to be issued in Boston. 
While lying on his bed, he requested to have a pen 
placed in his hand, and the paper in question laid be- 
fore him. It was done. He commenced tracing his 
name, and had written the first word ' Charles ' — 
when he discovered that two of the letters had been 
transposed. Letting the pen fall, and turning to his 
brother standing by, he exclaimed with the energy pe- 
culiar to him: — ' I can write no more. Brother, do 
you finish my name. Those principles are eternal 
truths. They cannot be shaken. I wish to give to them 
my dying testimony.' 

It is supposed that his departure from this world lo 
a better was hastened by his exertions in delivering 
an Address of great energy in behalf of the poor 
slave, more than two hours long. We have been 
talking, sir, about the prospect of our being martyrs 
in this cause. One has already fallen. And here I 
cannot forbear alluding to a remark made at his fu- 
neral. The individual who preached on that occasion, 
I am informed, said that he ( had fallen a martyr to 
an error ! ' Sir, the assertion is without foundation. 
President Storrs has fallen a martyr, not to error, but 
lo truth — in his own words, to ' eternal truths.' He 
looked over this whole subject with a keen and im- 
partial glance. His whole soul was enwrapt in its in- 
vestigation. All the powers of his giant mind were 
brought to bear in anaigning and deciding on the tes- 
timony of the case. Yet an individual who did not 
appreciate his righteous abhorrence of this nation's 
guilt and hypocrisy before God, dared to say, in the 
very temple of the Holy One, that he had fallen a 
martyr to error ! Sir, I almost wonder that the coffin 
beneath him did not burst its covering at that moment ! 
I should think that the preacher would have been 
afraid of a reproof from the voiceless dead ! 

To the conductors of the press, contemplated in this 
resolution, we are, as has been said, under great obli- 
gations. The press is indeed a mighty engine to con- 
trol and remodel public opinion. Just so certain as 
the pulpit and the press temporize and waive, in the 
work of reform, the pulpit and the press have gone 
over to the service of Satan. They have become time 
servants of a corrupt and wicked public sentiment. 
Jfsuchastate of things continues much longer, our 
Institutions will have perished forever ! We shall be 
as dead men. The pulpit must be brought to bear on 
the pulpit. The press must be brought to bear on the 
press. The power and application of what are term- 
ed 'abstract' principles must be seen and felt. Sir, 
the government of God is what some people call ab- 
stract. They say that there are certain things in that 
government, which will do in the abstract, but which 
cannot, and must not, be carried into practice. Yet 
God declares unequiyocallj' that His moral govern* 



I 



American Anti-Slavery Convention. 



183 



ment is founded on the principles of the plainest 
equit3', as well as strictest justice. It is a kingdom 
that rulelh over all. Let any government adopt a 
course of procedure opposed to (lie despised abstract 
principles for which we contend, and they oppose the 
government of the mighty God. All the collisions in 
our nation grow out of the neglected fact that the 
power-loving, money -getting government of man, is 
contrary to the government of God. And such collis- 
ions will increase more and more. It would sec'm as 
if we were bent on destruction. Perad venture God 
has determined to crush us, and erect a new govern- 
ment in our stead. He has said that he will over- 
turn, and overturn, until he has introduced the king- 
dom of universal justice, purity and peace. 

Let us then rally around those presses which are 
builded on the abstract principles which God has es- 
tablished. They should be well sustained. If we 
suffer them to expire for want of our support, all is 
lost. Posterity will write on our tomb-stones, as they 
look back on our past history, ' Perished by their own 
vices.' 

Robert Purvis,* of Pennsylvania, said he was 
grateful to God for the day. He felt to pour out the 
speaking gratitude of his soul to the Convention, for 
the spirit the}' had manifested during the session, and 
especial!}' during the pending of this resolution. He 
most heartily concurred in such a vote, and had no 
doubt but that it would pass unanimous!}'. The name 
of William Lloyd Garrison sounded sweet to his car. 
It produced a vibration of feeling in his bosom, which 
words could but too feebly sound forth. It was a feel- 
ing of love and hearty confidence, which none but a 
conscientious abolitionist could know. 

Three years ago, he had watched the progress of 
Mr. Garrison with extreme solicitude. The nation 
was then sound asleep on this subject. The coloniza- 
tion scheme — that scheme of darkness and delusion — 
was then making its wide havoc among the persecut- 
ed people of color. It was the cholera to our ranks. 
But Garrison arose. His voice went up with a trum- 
pet tone. The walls of Baltimore prison could not 
confine its thunders. The dampness of his cell did 
not repress the energy' of his spirit. Free and urifel- 
tered"as the air, his denunciations of tyranny rolled 
over t'he land. The Liberator speedily followed. Its 
pages flashed light and truth far and wide. Darkness 
and gloom fled before it. The deep, unbroken, tomb- 
like silence of the church gave way. The tocsin of 
righteous alarm was sounded. The voice of God-like 
liberty was heard above the clamor of the oppressors. 
The effect of these efforts is seen and felt this mo- 
ment, in this interesting Convention. It is, indeed, a 
good thing to be here. My heart, Mr. President, is 
too full for my tongue. But whether I speak to them 
my feelings as they exist in my inmost soul or not, the 
friends of the colored American will be remembered. 
Yes, Sir, their exertions and memories will be cherish- 
ed, when pyramids and monuments shall crumble. 

* A colored gentleman of Philadephia.. whose tal- 
ents and gentlemanly deportment^have won the esteem 
of all who know him. We wish that many who wc 
know have unwittingly circulated colonization slan- 
ders, against the free people of color, could become 
acquainted with Mr. P. 



The flood of time, which is rapidly sweeping to de« 

Struction that refuge of lies, the American Coloniza- 
tion Society, is bearing on the advocates of our cause 
to a glorious and blessed immortality. 

The following resolutions also were among 
those passed by the Convention : 

On motion of Charles W. Denison, seconded by R. 
B. Hall, it was 

Resolved, That this Convention recommend the 
youth of our countrv, male and female, to form auxil- 
iary Anti-Slavery Societies, as they may deem proper. 

On motion, the following Resolution passed by an 
unanimous vote : 

Whereas, the self denying and untiring exertions of 
William Lloyd Garrison, in the holy cause of aboli- 
tion, justly entitle him to the grateful respect and affec- 
tionate esteem of all the friends of immediate and 
unconditional emancipation, and particularly of this 
Convention— therefore 

Resolved, That Messrs. Hall, Denison and May be 
a committee to present to William Lloyd Garrison the 
respect and esteem of the members of this Convention 
for his devotedness to the cause of immediate and un- 
conditional emancipation of the slaves in this country. 

On motion of William Gooclell, seconded by Tho- 
mas Shipley, it was 

Resolved, That in the opinion of this Convention, 
the early, disinterested and persevering labors of 
Benjamin Lundy, in the cause of emancipation, de- 
serve the lively gratitude of this Convention, and of 
the friends of human rights throughout the world. 

On motion of R. B. Hall, seconded by S. S. Joce- 

lyn, it was 

Resolved, That this Convention, acting under a 
sense of dependence on Almighty God, for the ac- 
complishment of the object they have assembled to 
promote, do affectionately recommend to the Chris- 
tian Church throughout the land, to observe the LAST 
MONDAY EVENING OF EACH MONTH in a 
religious manner, to seek and implore the Divine aid 
in behalf of the enslaved, and the free people of 
color. 

On motion of Samuel J. May, seconded by Amos 
A. Phelps, it was 

Resolved, That the members exert themselves to 
procure from the several denominations to which they 
belong, solemn and earnest addresses to the members 
of their several denominations in the slaveholding 
states, to awaken them to a sense of their duty, in 
view of the sufferings and degradation of our coloied 
brethren. 

On motion of Charles W. Denison, seconded by 
William) Lloyd Garrison, it was 

Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed 
to prepare a synopsis of Wesley's •' Thoughts on Sla- 
very,' and of the anti-slavery items in a note formerly 
existing in the Catechism of the Presbyterian Churehv 
in the United Stales, and of such other like testimony 
as they can obtain, to be addressed to Methodists, 
Presbyterians and all professed Christians in this coun- 
try, and published under the sanction of this Conven- 
tion. 

On motion of Wm. Lloyd Garrison, seconded by 
Abraham L. Cox, it was 

Resolved, That the cause of Abolition eminently de- 
serves the countenance and support of American wo- 
men, inasmuch as one million of their colored sisters 
are pining in abject servitude, — as their example aire? 
influence operate measurably as laws to society — and 
as the exertions of the females of Great Britain haw? 



184 



American Anti-Slavei-y Convention. 



been signally instrumental in liberating' eight hundred 
thousand slaves in the Colonies. 

On motion of William Goodell, seconded by Charles 
W. Dcnison. it was 

Resolved, That this Convention recommend to the 
Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery 
Societ3', the adoption of suitable measures to collect 
information from all parts of the commercial world, 
respecting the best means of obtaining supplies for the 
consumption of our citizens of the products of free, 
labor in substitution for those of slaves. 

On motion of Abraham L. Cox, seconded by Arnold 
Buffum, it was 

Resolved, That every citizen, and especially the 
benevolent and affluent of our land, be called upon to 
contribute of their means, as God has given them abili- 
ty, to the Treasury of our Society; and that it be ear- 
nestly recommended to the members of this Conven- 
tion, and to all others with whom they may have influ- 
ence, to devote a certain portion of their income every 
month, to the purpose of meliorating the condition of 
the colored race. 

On motion of Samuel J. May, seconded by Simeon 
S. Jocelyn, it was 

Resolved, That the members of this Convention ex- 
ert themselves to urge forward, without delay, the pe- 
tition of Congress for the abolition of Slavery in the 
District of Columbia ; and that the petition be com- 
mitted to the hands of Hon. William Ellsworth of 
Connecticut, and Hon. William Wilkins, of Pennsyl- 
vania, to be presented by them to Congress, during 
its present session. And that the President of this 
Convention be requested to address a letter to the gen- 
tlemen just named, and to such other members of Con- 
gress as he may deem expedient, beseeching them not 
only to present, but fearless!}- to advocate its passage. 

On motion of Nathaniel Southard, seconded by 
Horace P. Wakefield, it was 

Resolved, Thar we hail the establishment of Ladies' 
Anti-Slavery Societies as the harbinger of a brighter 
day, and that we feel great confidence in the efficiency 
of their exertions, and that those ladies who have 
promptly come forward in this great work are deserv- 
ing the thanks of those wdio are ready to perish. 

On motion of Simeon S. Jocelyn, seconded by Amos 
A. Phelps, it was 

Resolved, That the fountains of knowledge, like 
those of salvation, should be open to every creature, 
and that we regard those laws and prejudices which 
prevent or restrict the education of the people of color, 
bond or free, as pre-eminently cruel and impious, and 
disgraceful to a christian state or nation ; and that we 
will seek their abolishment, both in the free and slave 
States, if possible more earnestly than corporeal slave- 
ry itself, inasmuch as ignorance enslaves the mind, 
and tends to the ruin of the immortal soul. 

On motion of John Prentice, seconded by William 
■Goodell, it was 

Resolved, That this Convention highly approve of 
"the philanthropic efforts of Miss Prudence Crandall,of 
'Canterbury, Conn, in her labors to instruct our colored 
sisters ; and while we deeply sympathize with her in 
"view of the persecutions she has endured in the prose- 
cution of her pious purposes, we pledge ourselves to 
afford her our continued countenance and assistance. 

On motion of Amos A. Phelps, seconded by David 
Thurston, of Maine, it was 

Resolved, That in the opinion of this convention, 
those teachers of religion who fail to lift a warning 
voice against the oppressions that are done in this 
land, in the enslaving of one-sixth part of its popula- 
tion, do not declare the whole counsel of God, and fail 
in one important branch of their appropriate duties. 



On motion of William Goodell, seconded by Eliztlf 
Wright, Jr., it was 

Resolved, That the laws and customs which with- 
hold the bible from a large portion of the native popu- 
lation of this country, are inconsistent with the first 
principles of religious liberty; and that any plan of re- 
ligious instruction for the slaves, which pretends to be 
adequate while it withholds Ike bible, is undeserving the 
confidence and patronage of the christian public, and 
furnishes a dangerous precedent, tending to render in- 
secure the religious liberties of the American people. 

On motion of William Lloyd Garrison, seconded by 
James Loughhead, it was 

Resolved, That we view with approbation the reso- 
lution of the Pittsburg Anti-Slavery Society, to estab- 
lish a Manual Labor Institute for the education of 
colored and white youth, and that we commend this 
project to the friends of the colored population in this 
country. 

On motion of John G. Whiltier, seconded by Joshua 
Coffin, it was 

Resolved, That those literary institutions which 
have offered their privileges and benefits to our color- 
ed brethren, deserve the thanks and the patronage of 
the friends of abolition throughout the country. 

On motion of Amos A. Phelps, seconded by several 
members, it was 

Resolved, That this body regard the annual Con- 
ventions of the free people of color in the U. States 
with decided approbation, as eminently calculated to 
advance their interests, and render them respected in 
the eyes of all their intelligent fellow citizens. 

On motion of Simeon S. Jocelyn, seconded by sev- 
eral members, it w'as 

Resolved, That the ' Phoenix Associations ' of the 
city of New- York — the various literary associations, 
both male and female, in the cities of" Philadelphia, 
New-York, Boston, and many other places, and the 
numerous Temperance and other societies among the 
colored people, for their improvement, — are highly 
creditable to them, and deserving of our warmest ap- 
probation.* 

We congratulate our friends, we congratu- 
late our country, and philanthropists through- 
out the world, upon the formation of the 
AMERICAN A NTI SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
The meeting of this Convention will, we 
doubt not, in coming years, be regarded as a 
glorious era in American history. The mem- 
bers of the Convention, and their associates 
throughout the country, are now pledged to 
the cause of abolition. They will never cease 
from their labors till their cause is triumphant. 
However strong the power and interest which 
are enlisted against them, they have a migh- 
tier power on their side, against which all hu- 
man force is impotent. The God of Truth 
and Justice is with them. As surely as there 
is a God above us and among us, so surely 
will the Truth and Justice which he supports 
finally prevail. 



* We ought to mention that we«re indebted to the 
Emancipator for the foregoing account of the pro- 
ceedings of the Convention. 



The late James Slephtn, Esq, 



185 



THE LATE JAMES STEPHEN, ESQ. 

We have for a long time been intending to 
give our readers some notices of the life ol 
Mr. Stephen. He was for many years one ot 
the most active and useful leaders in the anti- 
slavery cause, in England, and, as many ol 
our readers probably know, the author of an 
able and unanswerable work on West Indian 
Slavery. 

The following biographical notice is taken 
from the London Law Magazine. 

i The late James Stephen, Esq. Master in 
Chancery, was descended from a respectable 
family in the North of Scotland. His father 
(who was the third of seven sons) had no pat- 
rimony except a liberal education, and left Lis 
native country in early youth in pursuit of for- 
tune. He engaged in commerce (but not, as 
has been erroneously stated, in the West India 
trade,) and married Miss Milner, a lady of 
good family in the West of England, distin- 
guished for her talents and virtues. 

Being early encumbered with a large fami- 
ly, and engaged too deeply in mercantile and 
other speculations, he fell into pecuniary diffi- 
culties, in which he continued to be involved 
till his death. 

The late Master in Chancery was the sec- 
ond son of this marriage. Being left at the 
death of his father utterly without provision at 
a very early period of life, he was obliged 
j( though then in the progress of his studies for 
the bar) to seek the means of maintenance as 
a reporter of Parliamentary debates — an em- 
ployment always requiring considerable talent 
and information, and at that time possibly re- 
quiring even more than it now does, no notes 
being allowed to be taken. Having completed 
his legal education, and being called to the 
4>ar, he made his appearance on the Home 
Circuit, but almost immediately afterwards 
went out to St. Kitt's, where his prospects 
were rather more inviting than at home, owing 
to the circumstance of some members of his 
father's family being already settled there. 
Previously to his departure from this country, 
he married a lady of the name of Stent, who 
shortly afterwards followed him to St. Kitt's, 
.and by her he had a numerous family. 

His professional career at St. Kitt's was 
successful and brilliant to a degree unprece- 
dented (it is believed) at any colonial bar; he 
was called the Erskine of the West Indies, 
and generally recognised as a man of first rate 
talent, fitted by nature for a higher sphere of 
action than fortune had then assigned to him. 
His health having been shattered by succes- 
sive illnesses, the effect of severe exertion in 
an unfavorable climate, he returned to Eng- 
land to settle permanently there in the year 
1794. During the whole of his residence in 
the West Indies, he had never been the.own- 

VOL. I. 



er of a single slave. He had early determin- 
ed never to connect himself with such prop- 
erty, owing to the abhorrence he entertained 
for the system of slavery there established — 
a sentiment he always publicly avowed, with- 
out losing the esteem or good will of the com- 
munity. Soon after his arrival in England, he 
began to obtain a share of business in prize 
appeals at the Cockpit (a field of practice that 
hud till then belonged almost exclusively to 
the civilians,) and at length attained to such 
eminence there as to be sure of a retainer in 
every cause. His reputation gradually ex- 
tended to the Courts of Westminster Hall. 
In the latter courts, however, his opportunities 
of appearing were not very numerous, but he 
distinguished himself in the King's Bench on 
several occasions, more particularly in the 
well-known case of General Picton, for whom 
he was engaged as counsel.* 

Not long after his return to this country, he 
was introduced to Mr. Wilberforce, with whom 
he gradually formed an intimate friendship, 
cemented by their sympathy on the subject of 
the slave trade and West India slavery ; and 
about four years after the death of Mrs. Ste- 
phen (which occurred in 1796,) he married his 
second wife, the sister of this gentleman. Of 
this marriage there was no issue. 

In 1805, he published his pamphlet called 
' War in Disguise ; ' the object of which was 
to point out the insidious invasion of our mari- 
time rights by the neutral powers, in carrying 
on the colonial trade of the enemy under shel- 
ter of their flags. This pamphlet obtained an 
almost unprecedented celebrity, and is said 
to have attracted the notice and abuse of 
Bonaparte. Mr. Stephen's talents having 
attracted the attention of Mr. Perceval, that 
gentleman offered him in 1808 a seat in Par- 
liament. He sat in the House of Commons, 
first for Tralee, afterwards for East Grin* 
stead, for a period of about seven years in the 
whole. After the death of Mr. Perceval, he 
continued to support the administration Avhich 
succeeded him ; but, in consequence of their 
refusing to promote a measure which he had 
anxiously pressed npon them, for the general 
registration of slaves in the West Indies, he 



* A singular story, illustrative of the stength of Pie* 
ton's nerves, is currently (old in connection with this 
trial, on the authority of the highly respectable solicitor 
who conducted the defence. A consultation between 
the professional gentlemen engaged, was one night 
prolonged to a very late hour, and the result was, that 
the General would certainly be found guiky if he 
waited to take his trial. The solicitor was ,commis>- 
sioned to make known the result of their deliberations, 
and finding, on his arrival at the General's, that the 
General was in bed, required to be shown to his room, 
and began explaining the object of his visit with as 
little abruptness as he could. ' I suppose you mean,' 
said Picton, breaking through the ambiguous circum- 
locution of the solicitor, ' that I am sure to be hanged. 
Very well. I suppose they won't hang me to-night : ' 
and with that he turned round on his piliow, and was 
asleep sgain in half a minute. 

24 



186 



The late James Stephen, Esq. 



felt it inconsistent with his duty to the cause 
of abolition to maintain any longer his politi- 
cal connection with them, and he resigned his 
seat. 

The following anecdote places his parlia- 
mentary character in a very favorable light. 
It was related to us some time since by a 
friend pretty nearly as follows : — 

' I remember one evening alter dinner, at 
Mr. Wilberforce's, his talking tome about the 

present C L G , and his qualifications 

as a debater and as a man of business. In the 
course of the conversation he mentioned are- 
mark made by Canning while C G 

was delivering one of his ornate fiek!-day 
speeches. 'I wish,' said Canning, slapping 
his thigh, ' I wish that young man would j-isk 
himself.' As he was telling me this anecdote, 
Master Stephen left the room. ' Now that,'' 
continued Mr. W., 'was precisely what our 
excellent good friend, who has just left us, 
always did while he was in the House, — even 
to a fault, but with a noble disregard of self, 
he was ready to go out in all weathers wheth- 
er prepared or not.' '* 

In 1811 he was appointed a Master in Chan- 
cery, a situation that he held for a period of 
twenty years, dun ?>g which he not only dis- 
charged with exemplary diligence his official 
duties, but was the means of introducing into 
the course of business in the Master's offices 
in genera], some reforms of a very salutary 
and important description.-! Amongst other 
specimens of extraordinary disinterestedness, 
he forbad his clerk to take the ordinary gra- 
tuities, and compensated him out of his own 
pocket for the loss, to the amount, we have 
heard, of nearly £800 a year. Though he 
occasionally took great interest in subjects of 
general policy, such as that discussed in ' War 
ill Disguise,' it was to the extermination of 
the slave trade and West India slavery, that 
his energies, as a public man, were always 
mainly devoted. His literary productions in 
this cause were numerous, his correspondence 
(more particularly with persons in high or in- 
fluential stations) most assiduous and unre- 
mitting, — his conversation in general society, 
copious and impressive. Of what he wrote, 
and said, and did in this matter, much is known 
to the public, but very much more was of a 
private description, for which he gained no 
applause, and courted none. Those best ac- 
quainted with the case, consider him as of all 
the abolitionists (Mr. Wilberforce, perhaps, 
excepted) the greatest benefactor of the Af- 

* The same remark used to he made on Flood ; and 
Scott said something very like it of Byron in poetry: 
' Bymn let his fame take care of itself, his foot was 
always in the arena, his shield hung- always in the 
lists.' 

fin the Chancery Report, p. 522, or Mr. Spence's 
pamphlet on the Evils of the Court of Chancery, p. 
48, ample evidence of the enlargement of his views on 
the subject of Chancery Reform may be seen. 



rican race, though there may be others wh» 
have borne a more conspicuous part in that 
generous labor. His chief and last publica- 
tion in this cause was the ' Slavery of the 
British West India Colonies delineated.' 

In April lb31, he resigned his mastership, 
beginning about that period to be sensible of 
the fatigues of office, though his constitution 
was still apparently unbroken. Alter a year 
of retirement, his health began to fail rapidly, 
and he expired on the 10th of October, 1832, 
in the ?5th year of his age. 

It is quite unnecessary to finish a sketch 
like this with a character; for almost every 
incident portrays the goodness and greatness 
by which that of the late Master Stephen was 
marked. We will merely add that he united 
great acuteness and comprehensiveness with 
considerable powers of imagination, which 
both in writing and speaking gave a peculiar 
force and richness to his style. He possessed 
an extraordinary ardor of temperament, in- 
tensely directed towards useful and benevo- 
lent objects. He was in a very singular de- 
gree exempt from all mean and selfish alloys, 
and his virtues shone still more brightly in the 
domestic circle than abroad. 

He left four sons, — The Rev. W. Stephen, 
Vicar of Bedlow, Bucks ; Mr. Serjt. Stephen ; 
James Stephen, Esq.. Council to the Colonial 
Office and Board of Trade; and George Ste- 
phen, Esq., Solicitor: and two daughters, one 
of whom is married to W. A. Garratt, Esq. of 
flie Chancery Bar, and the other to T. E. 
Dicey, Esq. of Claybrook Hall, Leicestershire.' 

In his prefaces to the two volumes on West 
Indian slavery, Mr. Stephen has given some 
very interesting biographical notices of him- 
self. Our copy of the work being lent, we 
extract the passages to which we refer from 
the Christian Examiner, of September, 1831, 
with some of the accompanying remarks in 
the article. 

' All who have attended to the controversy 
which has been going on for many years, re- 
specting colonial slavery, have heard of the 
name of James Stephen. But the nature and 
extent of his long-continued, conscientious,, 
and devoted exertions for the benefit of the 
African race,are probably not generally known 
in this country. 

In his Preface to the Second Volume, he 
narrates the circumstances that prevented 
him from experiencing the corrupting effects 
which familiarity with slavery is too apt to 
produce. In the year 1783, he sailed from 
England to St. Christopher, in a vessel which 
touched on the voyag-e at Barbadoes. At 
this latter place he attended the trial of four 
plantation slaves for the murder of a physi- 
cian. We give the story in his own words. 

'The court, consisting of a bench of justi- 
ces of the peace, five I think in number, with- 
out a jury, was no sooner constitutedj than 



The late James Stephen, Esq, 



187 



the four black prisoners were placed at the 
bar; and, as tliey were the first common field 
negroes I had seen, their filthy and scanty 
garbs would have moved my pity^ it' it had not 
been more strongly excited by the pain they 
were visible suffering from tight ligatures of 
cord round their crossed wrists, which suppli- 
ed the place of hand-cuffs. I noticed it to 
my companion, and said, "Surely they will be 
put at bodily ease during their trial ;" but he 
replied it was not customary. As there was 
lio indictment, or other express charge, and 
consequently no arraignment, they had not to 
hold up their hands ; and remained bound in 
the same painful way while I remained a 
spectator. : 

'But the first proceeding of the bench 
■changed the sensation of pity in my breast into 
honest indignation. It was the production 
and reading by the chairman of a letter re- 
ceived by him from a gentleman, who was 
'owner of two of the prisoners, and who had 
-been written to with an inquiry, whether he 
would choose to employ a lawyer in the de- 
fence of his slaves; and the answer was, that 
he declined to do so, adding as his reason — 
<l God forbid that he should luish in such a case 
to screen the guilty from punishment'" To the 
best of my recollection, these were the very 
words : I am sure such was the exact import 
of the letter. 

M turned with a look of astonishment to 
my conductor; but before I could whisper my 1 
feelings, they were diverted from the master 
to the bench ; for to my astonishment the 
chairman applauded the letter, as honorable 
to the writer ; and the other magistrates con- j 
curred in his eulogy. 

'Strangely misplaced though I felt it to be, 
and shocked though I was at such a cruei 
prejudication of the unfortunate prisoners by 
their natural protector, I supposed that the 
commendation rested on his disinterestedness, 
in being willing to sacrifice his property in 
their bodies, without opposition to the de- 
mands of public justice; for I did not then 
know of the laws noticed in my first volume, 
pp. 322 to 328, which entitle a master, on the 
conviction and execution of his slave, to be 
paid for his loss of property out of the public 
purse. The lawyers' fees in consequence 
would have been a profitless expense. 

'Not only was there no written charge, but 
no opening of the case, on the part of the pro- 
secution. The prisoners had to learn it, as I 
did, only from the evidence adduced ; the un- 
controverted part of which was briefly as 
follows. 

'The deceased had been visiting a certain 
estate in his usual routine as its medical at- 
tendant; and after seeing- the patients, mount- 
ed his liorse to return to his residence in town. 
A negro of the estate the same morning 
brought in the horse with the saddle and bri- 
dle on, saying that he had found it grazing in 



one of the cane pieces ; and the manager 
thereupon ordered it to be put into the stable ; 
but did not send till the next day to give in- 
formation of the occurrence at the doctor's 
house ; supposing, as he alleged, that the horse 
by some accident had got away from him, and 
would be sent for. The deceased, however, 
never returned to his home ; and, an alarm 
naturally arising, he was inquired for at the 
estates he had visited; and after consequent 
searches, the body was found in a cane piece 
not far from the house he had last visited, 
with contusions on the head, such as a fall 
from his horse could not have occasioned, and 
which were the apparent cause of his death. 

'So far there was nothing to affect either 
of the prisoners; except that one of them, a 
very old negro, was the man who brought in 
the liorse ; and though this was regarded as a 
leading circumstance of suspicion against him, 
it seemed to me of a directly opposite ten- 
dency. 

'But a negro girl, or wench, as she was cal- 
led in the ordinary style of the slave colonies, 
a deformed creature, apparently about fifteen 
years old, was next called, as the only wit- 
ness who could bring the offence home, by 
positive testimony, to the prisoners. 

'Before she was examined., she was ad- 
dressed by the chairman in a way that carried 
my surprise and indignation to the utmost 
pitch. She was admonished, in the most 
alarming terms, to beware not to conceal any 
thing that made against the prisoners; and 
told that if she did, she would involve herself 
in their crime, and its punishment. No cau- 
tion whatever was given as to any sin or dan- 
ger on the opposite side. Every word impli- 
ed a premature conviction in the mind of the 
court, that the prisoners were certainly guilty, 
and that she would be probably disbelieved 
and punished if sbe said any thing tending to 
acquit them. Terror was strongly depicted 
in her countenance during this address ; and 
I fe T 'at the moment that had I been a jury- 
man to try the prisoners on her evidence, af- 
ter such an exhortation, nothing she might 
testify against them would weigh a feather in 
my verdict. 

' As the negro dialect was new to me, I 
should not have been able clearly to under- 
stand her testimony in many parts of it, with- 
out the assistance of my companion, who 
kindly whispered the interpretations that I 
asked for; but her story in substance was, 
that the deceased rode up to the negro hous- 
es of a plantation she belonged to, for shelter 
against a shower of rain ; that he alighted, and 
gave his horse to one of the prisoners to hold ; 
and that, thereupon, he and the other three, 
the only persons present except herself, fell 
upon him with sticks, knocked him down, and 
beat him to death; and afterwards carried his 
body to the cane piece in which it was found. 

' No provocation, or other motive, waa as- 



183 



IVie late James Stephen, Esq. 



Bigned by her, and her evidence, indepen- 
dently of the terror that had been impressed 
upon her, would have appeared to me, from 
its matter, and the manner in which it was 
given, wholly unworthy of credit. The coun- 
tenances and gesticulations of all the unfor- 
tunate men during her examination, impres- 
ed me with a strong persuasion of their inno- 
cence. Never were the workings of nature 
more clearly imitated by the most expert ac- 
tor on any stage, if her whole narrative did 
not fill them with astonishment; and excite 
in them all the indignation that belongs to in- 
jured innocence. I expressed that feeling 
strongly to my conductor ; and he dissented 
only by observing that negroes in general 
were masters of dissimulation; or something 
to that effect. * * * * *.-.'.' 

'Here I must cease to narrate the case 
from my own direct knowledge. But the se- 
qual was well supplied to me by evidence be- 
yond suspicion. The same day I heard of 
what further passed on the trial, from persons 
who had staid in court to the end of it. No 
further evidence had fortified that of the negro 
wench in material point. On the strength of 
her testimony alone, the magistrates had con- 
victed all the prisoners of murder..' — Pre/ace, 
vol. ii. pp. 19—24. 

'I left Barba does immediately after the trial, 
but heard soon after the sequel of the trag- 
edy,from several gentlemen who came from that 
island to St. Christopher. The court applied 
to the Governor,a planter of the Island, and one 
who afterwards gave a very favorable account 
of the general humanity of his brethren, be- 
fore the privy council, for an exemplary death; 
and he ordered that the four convicts should 
be burnt alive. 

1 But what perhaps will be thought the most 
singular part of the cases, remains to be told. 

'The owner of two of the slaves, the same 
I believe who so laudably refused to employ a 
lawyer for thern, on hearing of the evidence 
on which they had been convicted, in respect 
of time and place, was able to establish a 
clear alibi in their favor, to the satisfaction of 
the magistrates who had tried them ; in con- 
sequence of which they were pardoned. But 
however incredible it may appear, the two 
other unfortunate men, convicted on the very 
same evidence, nevertheless underwent the 
cruel fate to which they were sentenced. 
They were literally burnt alive at Bridge- 
town.'— pp. 25, 26. 

'Such was the case which gave me my first 
right views of negro slavery in the su- 
gar colonies, almost as soon as I reached 
their shores.' — p. 27. 

'The case I have mentioned was every 
way calculated to rescue me at the outset 
from delusion. As a lawyer, I could not but 
be deeply impressed with the shocking con- 
trast it presented to the impartial and humane 
administration, of British justice,and its revers- 



al of every principle that I had been taught 
to reverence, by writers on general jurispru- 
dence. And how much were my indignant 
feelings augmented, when I learned 1'rom an 
inqinry which it suggested, that white men in, 
the same island were not only exempt from 
all such barbarous departures from the laws 
of England, but for the wilful murder of a 
slave, were liable only to a fine of fifteen 
pounds.' — p. 28. 

In consequence of the impression produced 
by this trial, Mr. Stephen formed a resolution 
never to own a slave ; and during a residence 
of eleven years at St. Christopher, he, with 
some inconvenience to himself, strictly adher- 
ed to this resolution. During his continuance 
there, he practised law. In answer to a 
charge which had been brought against him, 
by the advocates of slavery, of having been 
himself the owner of slaves, he says: 

'I will be obliged to any reader, ignorant 
of my history and character, who will take the 
trouble to inquire of some of the respectable 
merchants or proprietors now in England, con- 
nected with the Leeward Islands, whether I 
ever held such property; and whether I was not, 
on the contrary, remarkable for the singularity 
of carrying my dislike to slavery so far as to 
have no domestics but hired servants,during the 
whole of my long residence in St. Christo- 
pher. Such was the well known fact. Dur- 
ing the chief part of the time I had a family 
there, which required a pretty numerous do- 
mestic establishment, and it was a great 
breach of economy not to buy my servants; 
but I was served only by free persons of color, 
or, when I could not find such of a suitable 
character, by slaves let out to hire by their 
owners. 

' Nor did I expose the latter to the disad- 
vantages mentioned in this work as belonging 
to their situation in general. From the first it 
was my resolution, that such of them as serv- 
ed me long and faithfully, should not remain 
in slavery; and I acted up to that purpose. 
I obtained their manumissions, either by pay- 
ing the whole value, or adding to what they 
had themselves saved for the purpose, or vin- 
dicating by law a right to freedom, which had,, 
in one instance, been unjustly withheld. Not 
one of them who had served me for any con- 
siderable time without misbehaviour was left 
in slavery ; except in one instance, which 
may serve to show the hardships of that state 
in general. I repeatedly offered to purchase 
his freedom at his full value ; but the owner 
would not consent. At length he came from 
a distant island, at which he resided, to take 
the man away. To save the poor fellow, not. 
only from slavery, but exile. I entreated the 
owner to accept' his value, to be ascertained 
by any person of his own nomination, and 
when this was refused, to name his own 
price ; but he was inexorable ; and for no 
juster reason, but that he knew the man's in-. 



I 



Mr. Child's Speech. 



ISO 



tegrity, and other valuable qualities, and 
therefore wanted him for his own domestic 
use. The slave's merits, therefore, and his 
fitness to make a right use of his freedom, 
formed, as loo frequently happens, the bar to 
his attainment of it; and his reward was a 
perpetual exile from the connexions and the 
island which long settlement in it had endear- 
ed to him. In a Spanish or Portuguese colo- 
ny, he might have compelled the master to 
enfranchise him by a judicial appraisement.' 
• — Preface, vol. i. p. liv, lv. 

After his return to England, it appears that 
his zeal for the abolition first of the slave- 
trade, and afterwards of slavery, was in some 
degree prejudicial to his private interest. 

'Let me not be understood, however, as 
disclaiming all obligations to my West Indian 
clients and friends. To such of them as are 
living, and to many more, alas ! whom I shall 
see no more till all human contentions are 
ended, I owe what is better than wealth, — 
great personal kindness, and long continued 
attachment. Their obliging preference fol- 
lowed me into practice here ; and gave me, 
as a chamber counsel, and a practitioner at 
the Cockpit, advantages which, in my then 
circumstances, were of great importance, and 
were rapidly increasing, till, by taking a pub- 
lic part in the abolition controversy, I willing- 
ly renounced them. The greatest of the sa- 
crifices that I have made to the cause I still 
feebly support, though they have been neither 
few nor small, was to encounter their dis- 
pleasure; or rather, as I do many of them the 
justice to believe, an estrangement from me, 
which the irresistible impulse of an esprit de- 
corps compelled them to, against their real 
feelings. They knew my sincerity ; and could 
not in their hearts condemn me for maintain- 
ing in England, views and principles which I 
had always avowed and acted upon, often at 
no small personal risk, while resident among 
them.' — Preface, vol. i. pp. lvi, lvii. 

In 1802, he published a work, which we 
have never seen, .entitled the 'Crisis of the 
Sugar Colonies,' intended to promote the abo- 
lition of the slave-trade. Since that time, he 
has always been forward and active in all the 
efforts which have been made by the oppo- 
nents of the slave-trade and of slavery. In 
1807, he published the 'Dangers of the Coun- 
try,' and in 1815, 'Reasons for establishing - a 
Registry of Slaves,' in relation to a measure 
which was then proposed. His speeches de- 
livered at two general meetings of the Afri- 
can Institution, on the 26th of March, 1817, 
and 16th of May, 1823, have also been pub- 
lished. The publications to which we have 
referred are all mentioned in the work before 
us. He has, we believe, also written and 
published other pieces in behalf of the slaves, 
which are not particularly referred to, and of 
,which we have no means of preparing a list, 



He was for some time a member of Parlia^ 
ment, aud in that situation faithfully persever- 
ed in his efforts in the cause to which he has 
devoted himself. In J824, he published the 
First Volume of his work on 'The Slavery of 
the British West India Colonies,' in which 
he gives an accurate and methodical account 
of the law upon the subject, with much infor- 
mation in regard to the practical operation of 
the system. The author was engaged upon the 
work for many years, having begun it, as he in* 
forms us, before the abolition of the slave- 
trade. As this volume has already been spo- 
ken of in a former number our Journal,* as 
well as in other periodical publications, with 
well-merited commendation, it is not our in- 
tention to take any further notice of it at this 
time.' 



MR. CHILD'S SPEECH. 

Abolitionist'' s Library, No. /. The Despotism 
of Freedom, a speech delivered at the first 
anniversary of the New-England Anti-Sla- 
very Society. By David Lee Child. Boston: 
published by the Young .Men's Anti-Slavery 
Association Jor the Diffusion of Truth. 12 
mo. pp. 72. 

We think the Young Men's Anti-Slavery 
Association have shown sound judgment in 
making this speech the first publication of 
their series. 

The speech of Mr. Child was delivered be- 
fore the New England Anti-Slavery Society, 
in support of the following resolution which 
he had introduced. 

' Resolved, That the free People of Color 
and Slaves, in this land of Liberty and Law, 
have less liberty, and are less protected by 
law, than in any other part of the world.' 

The speech fully demonstrates the atrocious 
cruelty of the laws of the Southern States and 
the still more atrocious cruelty and depravity 
of slaveholders. It exhibits deep study and 
research, is rich in facts and illustrations, and 
is animated with fire and eloquence. It seems 
scarcely possible, for any one, not benumbed 
with prejudice, to read it, without feeling' 
thrilled with the resolution to exert himself to 
abolish the abominable system which it expo- 
ses — we had almost said, to devote his life to 
the accomplishment of this object. This pro- 
duction of Mr. Child is worthy, and this we 
think is great praise, of a place by the side of 
the Appeal of his accomplished wife. 

We are afraid that our praises will seem 
too enthusiastic. We therefore wish to say 
that Ave are far from intimating that this speech, 



See Christian Examiner, Vol. iv. No. 3. 



190 



New Anti- Slavery Societies. 



highly as we value it, has no faults* But we 
have no time to point them out. 

We extract a few remarks in regard to the 
domestic slave trade. 

'The internal slave trade of the United 
States has all the characteristics of the foreign, 
except alone 'the middle passage.' But lam 
yet to learn that a voyage from the Chesapeake 
Bay to Georgia, Louisiana, Arkansas, Missou- 
ri, or the Texas, is likely to be much more 
pleasant, while it lasts, than any other slave 
voyage. I am informed by credible persons, 
that the slave traders take just so much care 
of their merchandize, in its passage from mar- 
ket to market, as is necessary for its preserva- 
tion, and no more. Whatever they can econ- 
omize in this respect, is clear gain, added to 
the difference of value in different markets. 
If African slave traders afford for daily allow- 
ance a decayed yam, and a pint of water, it 
is highly probable to my mind that American 
slave traders will not do much better. No 
law with us proportions the number they shall 
carry, to the reasonable and comfortable ca- 
pacity of the vessel, as the English laws did, 
in respect to the African slave trade, long be- 
fore it was abolished. No law obliges the 
American captain or owner to provide a suffi- 
cient stock of wholesome provisions 'for each 
and every passenger,' during the voyage. 
Congress have found it necessary to tie up, 
by strong 1 statutes, the avarice of captains, who 
bring white emigrants into our ports, or cany 
white passengers from them. They have been 
obliged, by known instances of cruelty to Irish 
and other passengers, to prescribe the ship 
room and the provisions, which each passen- 
ger shall be entitled to have, and they have 
jaid captains and owners under no less a pen- 
alty than the forfeiture of the vessel, if they 
fail to comply with the law. This we do for 
those who have some power to assert their 
own rights, and are not cut off by inhuman 
■custom and prejudice from the common offices 
of humanity. But as to'poor slaves, who have 
-no protection but what legislators may deign 
to throw around them, they are magnanimous- 
ly abandoned to the tender mercies of the 
slave trader, (a character held infamous even 
among slavites,) and to the voluntary kindness 
of those captains and owners of vessels, who 
have cupidity enough to engage in this cruel 
business. 

In the year of 1827, the internal slave trade 
in the empire of Great Britain ceased for ever. 
Now, it is de.ath to carry on a domestic, as much 
as to carry on the foreign slave trade. Yet, 
do we still permit the wicked traffic to go on 
in this country. It is the most brisk of all 
under the very droppings of the republican 
sanctuary. The District of Columbia is the 
grand mart for the sale of men. Kofle after 
kofle are collected in that wretched space, and 
driven, under the flourish of whips and the 



foldings of the flag, by the very doors of Con- 
gress. The clank of their chains m.ikes fine 
harmony with the voices of pretty orators, who 
are up, praising liberty.'' 



NEW ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETIES. 

It is most gratifying to find these societies 
rapidly increasing. It is a sure proof that the 
community is becoming alive to the great evil 
which oppresses our country. Besides the 
American Anti-Slavery Society, of which we 
have already spoken, several other societies 
of kindred principles, have been formed, of 
which we have received intelligence, since 
our last publication. The names of these so- 
cieties and their officers, as far as they have 
fallen under our notice, follow below. 

Hallowell Anti- Slavery Society, 

This Society was formed on Nov. 26. 

EBENEZER DOLE, President. 
PAUL STICKNEY, Vice President. 
ROBERT GARDINER, Treasurer. 
GEORGE SHEPARD, Cor. Secretary. 
RICHARD D. RICE, Rec. Secretary. 

Anti-Slavery Society of Oneida Institute. 

HIRAM FOOTE, President. 

AMOS M. STONE, Vice President. 

ISAAC B. HEADLY, Cor. Secretary. 

AMMON GASTON, Rec. Secretary. 

BENJ. WEBER, Treasurer. 
Chauncey T. Gastoiv, "^ 
Philander Barbour, 
Wm. Smith, }■ Directors. 

Henry H. Loomis, 
Amos D. Hollister, J 

Rochester Anti-Slavery Society. 

Dr. J. W. SMITH, President. 

BENJ. FISH, Is* Vice President. 

ABRAM INGERSOLL,2fZ V. President 

BILL COLBY, Treasurer. 

Dr. W. W. REID, Cor. Secretary, 

EDWIN SCRANTOM, Rec. Secretary. 
Dr. J. W. Smith, ^| 
Wm. C. Bloss, 

Peter Cherry,v J> Managers. 
Dr. W. W. Reid, I 
Jno. A. Sprague, J 

Amesbury Anti-Slavery Society. 

JONATHAN A. SARGEANT, President; 
ROBERT STORY, Vice-President; 
ROBERT SCOTT, Treasurer; 
BENJAMIN BRIERLY, Secretary. 

James Taylor, ~) 

John McGarvey, > Prudential Committee. 

Samuel Fielder, S 



Manual Labor School. — Wesley's Opinions on Slavery. 



191 



MANUAL LABOR SCHOOL. 

We publish below an extract from a letter 
of that devoted and noble minded philanthro- 
pist, Charles Stuart to Mr. Garrison. 
Our readers will be gratified to learn that Mr. 
Garrison's mission to England, which did so 
much to put down the Colonization Society, 
is also likely to do much toward establishing 
the Manual Labor School for Colored Youth. 
'My dear Garrison — 

'You will have been surprised at my delay. 
The reason is, that after leaving London in 
order to proceed according to my purpose, to 
the United States, I was so strenuously ad- 
vised to remain for the winter in England, 
that I was prevailed upon ; and you will not 
regret it, when I tell you, that it is for the 
purpose of forwarding the chief object of your 
journey, in the collection of aid for the edu- 
cation of the colored people of the United 
States on the manual labor system, and for 
their moral and religious elevation in their 
native country. 

' About five hundred dollars have been al- 
ready subscribed. The following is an ex- 
tract from a note accompanying one of the 
subscriptions. "I shall feel much obliged by 
thy receiving the enclosed for the American 
fund thou wast speaking of last evening. Soon 
after E. Cresson's arrival in this country, I ig- 
norantly contributed three pound to the Libe- 
rian scheme, and am therefore glad to have an 
opportunity of giving a similar sum to a So- 
ciety more decided in its objects. My dear 
children have had much pleasure in subscrib- 
ing £1. The remaining £1 I shall be glad to 
continue as an annual subscription, if desir- 
able." 

'You may expect I think at least one thou- 
sand dollars through me, for the above dear 
and sacred purposes. 

' My purpose is to leave this place late in 
March or early in April, that I may be pres- 
ent, if possible, at the formation of your Na- 
tional A nti-Slavery Society. But if the period 
of its formation, should be thrown back, I 
should then probably, prefer leaving this coun- 
try, a month or two later. But let me have 
as express information on this subject as may 
be in your power to give. 

' Many letters, &c. &c. have come for you. 
I have opened them all and are making use of 
them. The writers are Buffum, Phelps, Cox, 
Forten, &c. &c Give my love to them all, 



especially to those dear brethren amongst 
them, who have so kindly written to myself. 

'Many hearts are beating here for the glo- 
rious Prudence Crandall. Some of my young 
friends are working little parcels of presents, 
for me to take to her dear pupils in the Spring. 

'God is with thee brother — and with the 
noble host which is rising and growing around 
thee. Yet be not highminded, but fear — His 
peace and His energy, combined with His 
spirit, and His loving kindness, be thine, 
through the Holy Ghost. Watch and pray — 
go on and conquer — and then — oh then, when 
the tear or the sigh of a slave, shall no longer 
pollute your at length really free and glorious 
country; and when the demon-day of preju- 
dice shall have been swept away tor ever. Oh 
how joyously, whether in the body or out of 
the body, shall we sing the praises of Him 
who condescended to use even us in His most 
sweet and gracious service. 

'Farewell a little. If you meet with my 
Theodore Weld, tell him my heart is doubly 
his — and believe me, 

Your faithful and affectionate, 

C. STUART. 

Liverpool, 16th Oct. 1833.' 



[From Zion's Herald.] 
WESLEY'S OPINIONS ON SLAVERY. 

Mr. Editor, — The existence of Slavery in 
a country whose institutions are professedly 
based on the principles of universal liberty, is 
an inconsistency which has attracted the re- 
prehension of all writers on our country, from s 
Jefferson to Mrs. Trollope. But it is an in- 
consistency even more reprehensible and 
deeply to be deplored, that Christians in pro- 
fession can so far violate the first principles 
of Christianity, as to hold their fellows in 
bondage ; and that others who would not, 

' For all the wealth 

That sinews bought and sold have ever earned/" 

be guilty of following their example, can yet' 
be found to plead excuses for their sin. That, 
such was not the practice of the venerated-, 
man whose name stands at the head of this • 
article, the following extracts' from his works - 
will show. It may be found, with more on 
the subject, in the sixth volume of the edition • 
recently published by the Book Agents, p. 292. . 
Yours, in willing bonds, - 

A FREEMAN. 

' This equally concerns all slaveholders, of 
whatever rank and degree ; seeing men buy^ - 
ers are exactly on a level with men stealers.. 
'Indeed,' you say, 'I pay honestly for my 
goods ; and I am not concerned to know how 



192 



Wesley's Opinions on Slavery. — Donations. 



they are come by.' Nay, but you are ; you 
are deeply concerned to know they are hon- 
estly come by. Otherwise you are a parta- 
ker with a thief, and are not a jot honester 
than him. But you know they are not hon- 
estly come hy ; you know they are procured 
. by means nothing near so innocent as picking 
of pockets, house breaking - , or robbery upon 
the highway. You know they are procured 
by a deliberate series of more complicated 
villany, (of fraud, robbery, and murder,) than 
was ever practised either by Mohammedans 
or Pagans ; in particular by murders, of all 
kinds ; by the blood of the innocent poured 
upon the ground like water. Now, it is your 
money that pays the merchant, and through 
him the captain and the African butchers. 
You therefore are guilty, yea, principally guil- 
ty, of all these frauds, robberies, and murders. 
You are the spring that puts all the rest in 
?notion ; they would not stir a step without 
you ; therefore, the blood of all these wretch- 
es who die before their time, whether in their 
country or elsewhere, lies upon your head. 
'The blood of thy brother,' (for, whether thou 
wilt believe it or no, such he is in the sight 
of Him that made him,) 'crieth against thee 
from the earth,' from the ship, and from the 
waters. Oh, whatever it costs, put a stop to 
its cry before it be too late : instantly, at any 
price, were it the half of your goods, deliver 
thyself from blood guiltiness ! Thy hands, 
thy bed, thy furniture, thy house, thy lands, 
are at present stained with blood. Surely it 
is enough; accumulate no more guilt; spill 
no more blood of innocence! Do not hire 
another to shed blood ; do not pay him for 
doing it ! Whether you are a Christian or no, 
show yourself a man! Be not more savage 
than a lion or a bear. 

' Perhaps you will say, '7 do not buy any 
negroes ; I only use those left me by my father.'' 
So far is well ; but is it enough to satisfy your 
own conscience ? Had your father, have you, 
has any man living, a right to nse another 
as a slave ? It cannot be, even setting Reve- 
lation aside. It cannot be, that either war, or 
-contract, can give any man such a property in 
another as he has in his sheep and oxen. 
Much less is it possible that any child of man 
shoidd ever be bom a slave. Liberty is the 
right of every human creature, as soon as he 
^breathes the vital air; and no human law can 
deprive him of that right which he derives 
from the law of nature.* 

'If, therefore, you have any regard to jus- 
tice, (to say nothing of mercy, nor the reveal- 
ed will of God,) render unto all their due. 
Give liberty to whom liberty is due, that is, to 

*' Many may be struck with the coincidence between 
this sentence and the celebrated Declaration, — ' We 
hold these truths to be self-evident — that all men are 
created free and equal, endowed by their Creator with 
certain unalienable rights,' &c. It may therefore be 
proper to remark, that this was published in 1774. 



every child of man, to every partaker of human 

nature. Let none serve you but by his own 
act and deed, by his own voluntary choice. 

Away with all whips, all chains, all compul- 
sion ! Be gentle toward all men ; and see 
that you invariably do unto every one as you 
would he should do unto you.' 

NEW-ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

The Treasurer of the New-Eng-land Anti-Slavery 
Society acknowledges the receipt of the following do- 
nations in November and December: 

John Taylor, Bath, Me. 17 00 

J. D. Yates 2 00 

Dr. Ingalls Kiltridge, Beverly, 15 00 

J. T. Hilton 2 00 

James Carpenter l 00 

H. K. Stockton j 00 

Friend in Amesbury, by H. Kimball, 3 00 

Geo. W. Ward, Plymouth, N. H. 2 00 . 

P. A. Bell, for sale of publications, 15 00 
Garrison (Colored) Society, to constitute Messrs 

Garrison and Knapp life members, 30 00 

Daniel E. Jewitt 2 00 

Thomas Cole 2 00 

Samuel E. Sewall 20 00 

James C. Odiorne 10 00 

Ellis Gray Loring 15 00 

Member of the Society 5 00 

J. Cutis Smith 5 00 

Robert Cogswell, Salem, 2 00 

A. G. Cornelius do. 2 00 

Andrew Harraden do. 2 00 

John B. Pero 2 00 

E. F. B. Mundrucu 2 00 

John Remond, Salem, 15 00 

Ab'm. Williams do. 2 00 

J. L. Shearman do. 2 00 

Peter Johnson do. 2 00 

S. Lawrence do. 1 00 

Wm. Coleman do. 3 00 

Ward Litchfield 1 00 

Nath. Budd 1 00 

Friends 19 00 

Nancy Tucker 25 

Samuel F. Hussey, Portland, Me. 5 00 

John Winslow do. 2 00 

H. Manning do. 1 00 

Maine Anti-Slavery Society 100 00 

P. F. Varnum 1 00 

William Slickney, Hallowell, Me. 5 00 

Rob't Gardner do. 5 00 

R. G. Lincoln do. 5 00 

Rev. Geo. Sheppard do. 5 00 

Ebenezer Dole do. 5 00 

James Gaw do. 1 00 

Mark Means do. 2 00 

Benjamin G. Childs 2 00 

Henry Safford 2 00 

John Rogers 2 00 

John B. Cutler 2 00 

John E. Scarlett 2 00 



James C. Odiorne, Treasurer. 



Total #350 25 



Vi 



\ 



