• Digitized by tlie Internet Arcliive 

in 2010 witli funding from 

Associates of tlie Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/shortsketchofevi1792craf 



SHORT SKETCH 

O F 

THE EVIDENCE 

FOR THE 

ABOLITION 

OF THE 

SLAVE TRADE, 

Delivered before a Committee of the Houfe of Commsns. 

TO WHICH IS ADDED, A 

Recommendation of the Subje£l: 

* T O T H E 

SERIOUS ATTENTION 

OF 

PEOPLE IN GENERAL, 

*' ALL THINGS WHATSOEVER YE WOULD THAT 
MEN SHOULD DO TO YOU, DO YE EVEN SO TO 

THEM." Matt. chap. vii. ver. 12. 

LONDON, PRINTED, PHILADELPHIA : 

RE-PRINTED BY DANIEL LAWRENCE* 

M.DCC.Xgil. 



XH 
.7!D 

.C84sS'c 



ADVERTISEMENT 



The Defign of the following SHORT 
SKETCH is not to Juperjede, in 
any Degree^ more important Pub- 
lications, hut, on the Contrary, to 
extend their Circulation, and promote 
their Influence. 



SHORT SKETCH, £^c. 



VIRTUE, fay moralifts, is fo tranfcendently beau- 
tiful, that the need but be/^^/2, to be univer- 
hWy admired : and is not vice fo hateful, that the 
more its features are viewed^ the more it will be a- 
vcided ? The trafBc in the human fpecies, particu- 
larly as carried on by the Europeans on the coaft 
of Africa, has fo horrible an afpe<fl, that nothing, 
one fhould think, but the Mask, under which it 
has been concealed, could have prevented all the ci- 
vilized nations in the world uniting to drive the de- 
tefted Monfkr from the face of the earth. This 
Mask is, hov/ever, at length taken away, and the 
traffic ftands expofed in all its real, unalterable de- 
formity. The PEOPLE are now called upon to be- 
hold, to feel^ and judge for themfelves. The re- 
prefentations of former writers on this fubjecl were 
roundly denied j the fa<5ls they ftated were not only 
contradicted, but deemed im^offible, and the authors 
themfelves were accufed of flander. Now we have 
a body of evidence to v/hich to appeal ; of evi- 
dence, poiTeiling every effential of credibility. The 
witnefles have declared before the Selecb Committee 
of the Houfe of Commons, what they themfelves 
faw : they had the befi; opportunities of obfervation, 
and they are diUnterefted. And now it appears, thnt 
one half of the tale of human mifcry hath not been 
told i and that every principle, that can bind a man 



( 4 ) 
of honour and confciecce,* loudly calls for the pro- 
hibition of the iniquitous traffic. Hard indeed muH: 
thofe hearts be, and inacccffible thofe itnderftund- 
ingSjf which fuch evidence cannot reach ! 

The Evidence delivered before the Seka Commit- 
tee of the Houle of Commons is very voluminous, 
occupying tv.'o thoufand pages in folio. But a judi- 
cious Abftradt and Arrangement of the Evidence, 
on the Part of the Petitioners for the Abolition of 
the Slave Trade,:}: has been publiftied, and in a (Kort 
cornpafa, contains the evidence of well informed per- 
Ibns on that fubjecl. 

In the Preface to this important volume of evir 
dence we read of rewards offered for taking ru^-away 
negroes alive or dead— -of laws being required to be 
made to prevent the practice of cvttln^ off cars , nor 
feSf and t^77gues-r-oi breaking lunbs an,d piitting out 
eyes — to prevent d'lfle-inpered^ maimtd^ and vjorn out 
negroes from infeiiing towns-— to prevent aged and 
infirm negroes being driven from the plantations to 
ftarve. We meet al.fo with fuch kind of pream- 
bles to a£ls as the following, viz. 

* Whereas the extreme cruelty and inhumanity of 
the manngers, overfeers, and book-keepers of cftates, 
have frec|uently driven (laves into the woods, and oc- 
caiioned rebellions, internal infurreilions, hz. And 
whereas alfo it frequently happens, that flaves come 
to their deaths by hafly and fevere blows and other 
in) proper treatment of overfeers and boohrkeepers, 
in the heat of paiiioaj and when fuch accidents do-' 
happen, the vi£lims are entered in the plantation- 

* Speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the tlie Houfe of 
Cofiimons. 

f Fox's ditto. 
% Printed by J. Phillips, George-Yard, Lombard vStrett, 



( 5 ) 
books, as having died of convulfions, fits, or other 
caufes not to be accounted for j and to conceal the 
real truth of the caufe of the death of fuch flave or 
flaves, he or they is or are immediately put undpr 
ground, &c. Other preambles of a fimilar complex- 
ion, refpecling the lodging, food, and clothes of ne- 
groes, arc here to be met with. We alfo find that 
run-away negroes, when advertifed, are delcribed by 
the various brands upon their flioulders, breafts, 
cheeks, and foreheads. A woman is defcribed wilH 
a wooden leg ; a man as having both his ears cropt, 
and another by his nofe and ears being cut ofir. 
Cornv^'all Chronicle, Nov. 7, 17S9. Other inflant 
ces occur within the year 1791- 

The FIRST CHAPTER contains an account of the 
Enormities committed by the Natives of Africa on 
the perfons of one another, to procure {laves for the 
Europeans, proved by the teftimony of fuch as have 
vifired that continent — and confirmed by accounts 
from the flaves themfelves, after their arrival in the 
"^Veft-Indies. 

Under this headj we learn that Kidnapping, or as 
the natives call it, Panyaring, is very common, that 
war is made on purpofe to procure flaves. The 
king's foldlers fet fi.re to villages in the night, and 
feize the wretched inhabitants as they attempt to 
efcape from the flames, and many periili, either by the 
fire or fword, in the execution of this horrid pur- 
pofe. A Boy, who was carried away in the night 
from his father's houfe, fays, he believes both his 
parents were killed, he is fure that one was, and that 
many others were killed and fome taken. Various 
inftances are mentioned of confummate treachery em- 
ployed in making captives. Kidnapping is profefiion- 
ally followed j large parties go up the country three 
A 2 



( 6 ) 

hundred miles to drive down captives they go a 

wood-ranging, and pick up every one they meet, and 
ftrip them naked. The purchafers generally fjiy, 
they do not care how the felle-rs come by thii'r 
Haves. Many are fold for crimes falfely impntetl ; 
the Judges participate the profits of the iaie, andare 
therefore ftrongiy induced to condemn the innocer.t. 
Crimes are invented and multiplied for the ourpofe 
of traffic. The great men drefs up and employ wo- 
men, to entice young men to be connected with them, 
that they may be convicled of adultery and fold. The 
fiaves are feparated without the leafr regard to tics of 
confanguinity, or the pathetic expoflulations and re- 
monfbrances of nature. "Wlien fiave-fliips are on the 
Coaft the natives go armed, but are no where fafe. 
The roan, invited to drink with his neighbour, on ri- 
fing to go, is feized by two of them and a large dog : 
and this mode of feizure is common. 

By the Second Chapter it appears that tlie Euro- 
peans, by means of the trade in fiaves, are the occafi- 
on of the before-mentioned enormities ; that they 
fometimes ufe additional means to excite the natives 
to pra^^kife them, often attempt themfclves to ileal 
the natives, and fucceed, force trade as they pleafe, 
and are guilty of injuftice in their dealings. In proof 
of this charge, we learn from the evidence, that Afri- 
cans receive European goods in exchange for fiaves — 
that they declare when Ihips ceafe to come (as in 
times of war) flaves ceafe to be taken » African 
dealers make the Princes drunk, in order to overcome 
their averlion to unprovoked war: they furnifh the 
natives with arms and ammunition and excite them 
to pillage. 

The term war, in Africa, is ufcd in general to 
fignify pillage 5 and when many towns are feen bU- 



Th 


e Traders aclv 


an 


them 


to i^-za ihi:h' 


f^ 


Facte: 


■\on let two v\ 




priion 


■CVS fro.-' b(jiU 


1- 


make 


I he ni\t ;.-;;: : r_ 




rai R 


oqke K-; : . ■■;:■: 


ir 


^giU 


'h captair.:, oi" ii 




h u n d 1 


■ed. and iinj u 


iCi 


Dame: 


rsf\ibjecl5, wl 


iO 


quenc 


s of the frien 


dl^ 


Dame 


1 : He rcimr:d 


ai 


propofition. They : 


13,1 



( 7 ) 
zing in the nighfj the naiives fay war is carrying on. 

goods to C'licfs to indues 
Tbj:£:r or neighbours. Capt. 
!gfs at variance, and brought 
idcs- It is not yncoir.mon lo 
t^ and then buy them. Gerie- 
: vi':^s propoied to hioi by three 
ps, to kidnsp a hundred, or a 
o, i^Qoicn. and children, king ' 

had come to Gorec in confe- 
y Intercourfe between him and -. 
nd v.'TiS much iliocked by the 
id fuch things had been done 
by a former governor. Two Qicn, bhick traders, 
were invited on board, intoxicated, and captured 
when afleep. The GregfoD's people, in running down 
the coaRj kidnapped thirty-two of the natives. The 
Dobfon's boat of Liverpool had ftolen a man and wo- 
man •, the captain on the renionftrance of Capt, 
Briggs, who told him, there would be no more trade 
if he did not deliver up his two captives, reflored 
them *, upon which the natives loaded a boat with 
yams, goat?, fowls, honey, and palm wine, and would 
take nothing for them,— a flriking inftance of fcr- 
givenefs of injuries, and of unm.errted kindncfs ! 

We then meet v^ith as oppofite an exhibition of 
character as can poUibly be conceived : three or four 
hundred Africans cruelly maflacreed or carried off, 
by m'e^ns of the treacherous contrivance of fix En- 
giidi captains in Old Calabar River. But let us ** turn 
our eyes for relief to fome ordinary wickednefs"* : 
Some confider frauds as a necelTitry part of the traf- 
iic ; they put falfe heads into powder cafiis, cut off 
two or three yards from the middle of a piece of 
*• Wilberiorcc's Speech in the Houfc of Commons 



( 8 ) 

r.loth, adtiiJerate fpiritSj and fieal- back articlesgivcn. 
Befides tliefo, there are others who pay in bottles, 
which hold but half the contents of the famoles 
ihe\7n *, ufe faife fieel-yards and weights, and fell 
fuch guns as bind: on firing*, fo that many of the 
natives of the windward coafl, are without their fin- 
gers and thunibs on this account, and it has become 
a f^.ying that ihefe guns kill more out of the bivit 
than the muzzle. 

The Third Chapter contains an account of the 
tranfdCiioDS of the enflaved Africans, and of the me- 
thod of confining, airing, feeding, and exercifing 
them ; incidents on the paffage, and the manner of 
felling tliemwben arrived at their deftined ports ; the 
deplorable iituation of the refufe or fickly flaves ; fe- 
paraiion of relations and friends ; mortality on the 
pafTage, and frequently after fale •, and the caufcs of 
this mortality. 

On being brought on board, fays Dr. Trptter, 
they ihew figns of extreme diflrefs and defpair, from 
a feeling of their fituation, and regret at being torn 
from their friends and connexions. They fometimes 
"^dream of being in their own country, and when they 
awake fhew their defpair by howling and A%rieking in 
a mofb dreadful inanner. The women go into fits. 
In the courfe of the voyage, the flaves are chained to 
the deck every day from eight in the motning to four 
o'clock in the afternoon. They are fed twice a day 
■with rice, yams, and horfe-beans, and now and then 
a little beef and bread : after each of thefe two meals 
they are allowed half a pint of water; and are forced 
to jump in their irons, which, by the flave dealers, 
is called making them dance. This exercife frequent- 
ly oGcafions the fetters to excoriate their limbs; and* 
when it is very paiaful to move at all, they, are com- 



{ 9 ) 

pelled to dance by a cat-of-nine-tails. The captcilns 
order them to lingj and they iing fongs of foriovv, 
the fubje<Sl of which are their wretched fituation, and 
the idea of never returning home : the witnefs re- 
members the very words upon thefe occafions. 

The ilaves are fo crouded below, that it is impoffi- 
ble io walk among them without treading vipon theni. 
Dr. Trotter has feen the flaves drawing their breath 
with all thofe laborious and anxious efforts for life, 
which are obferved in expiring animals, fubje^ed by 
experiment to foul air, or in the exhaufted receiver 
of an air pump : they cry out—* we are dying,' and 
many are irrecoverably loft by fuffocation, having had 
no previous llgns of indifpolition. They are ciofely 
wedged together, and have not fo much room as a 
man in his coffin, either in length or breadih. They 
fometimes go dov/n well at night, and are found dea(i 
in the morning. Alexander Falconbridge was never 
among them for ten minutes together below, but his 
fhirt was as wet as if dipped in water. Someiimes 
the dead and living are found {hackled together. 
They lie on the bare blanks, and the prominent parts 
of their bones, about the (lioulder-blade and knees, 
have frequently been feen bare. No fituation can be 
conceived fo dreadful and difguillng as that of ilaves 
when ill of the iiux. In the Alexander (A. Fa icon- 
bridge fays) the deck was covered with blood and mu- 
cus, and refembled a flaughter-houfe j the liench and 
foul air were intolerable. The ilaves, fhackled toge- 
ther, frequently quarrel, and make a great dlfturb- 
ance. Some refufe food and medicine, and declare 
they want to die. In fuch cafes compullion is ufed. 
The fliips are ^o fitted up as to prevent, by net-work, 
the fiaves jumping overboard ; notwithftanding which 
they often attempt it, and fometimes fucceed, flievv- 



( >o ) 

jng flgns of exultation in the very jaws of death. 
Some ein[>ioy other means to deriroy theinfelves, and 
others go mad. Soinc refolve to llarve, and means 
are ineffectually ufed to v/rench open their teeth: they 
periiiT: in their refoiution, and effccl their purpofe, 
in fpite of the utmoH: pains to prevent it. V/hen 
feverely chaflifed for not taking their food, they have 
looked up with a fmile and faid, ** prefently v/e fhail 
be no more." The thumbfcrew is an iiiih urnent of 
torture, the application of it fomctimes occafions 
mortifications, of which the negroes die. An in- 
ftance occurs of the cruelty of a captain to an infant 
only nine months old, which oue would fuppofe too 
(hocking to be true, were it not corroborated by other 
fpccimens of as great cruelty in various parts of the 
evidence. After a feries of tortures the infant ex- 
pired, and its favage murderer, not yet fatiated, would 
fuffer none of the people oh deck to throw the body 
overboard, but called the Mother, the wretched Mo- 
ther, to perform this laft fad office to her murdered 
child. Unwilling as it might naturally be fuppofed 
{he was, to comply, ** he beat her," regardlefs of the 
indignant murmurs of her fettered countrymen, whom 
in the barbarous plenitude of fecure tyranny, he per- 
mitted to be fpe^Ptaiors of this horrible fcene — ** he 
beat I>er, until he made her take up the child and car- 
ry it to the llde of the vclTel, Tind then fhe dropped it 
into the Tea, turning her head another way, that (he 
might not fee it !"* Another inftance occurs in this 
chapter, not perhaps of more cruelty, though of 
greater magnitude. 

A fhip from Africa, with about four hundred 
flaves on board, fl:ruck upon fome /hoals, called the 
Morant Keys, dillant eleven leagues, S. S. E. off the 

* Speech by W. Sirath iu the Houfe of Commcns. 



( ir ) - 

eaft end of Jamaica. The oiiicers and feamen of the 
i^ip landed in their boats, carrying witii them arms 
and provifions. The flaves were left on board in their 
irons and fhackles. This happened in the night 
time. When morning came, it was difcovered that 
the negroes had got out of their irons, and were bu- 
{j making rafts, upon which they placed the women 
and children ; rhe men, who were capable of fvvim- 
ing, attended upon the rafts, whil ft they drifted be- 
fore the wind towards the ifland where the feamen 
had landed. From an apprehenfion that the negroes 
would confume the water and provifions which the 
feamen had landed, they came to the refolution of 
deftroying them, by mean's of their £re-arms and other 
weapons. As the poor wretches approached tJie 
fhore they atflualiy deftroyed between three and four 
hundred of them. Out of the whole cargo only thir- 
ty three or thirty four were faved and brought to 
Kingflon, where they v»^ere fold at public vendue. 
When the fliips arrive at their deftined ports, the 
cargo of Haves is fold, either by fcramble or ven- 
due. The file by fcramble is defcribed : — '^ A great 
number of people come on board with tallies in their 
liands (the iiiip being firft: darkened v/ith fails and co- 
vered round ; the men flaves placed on the main 
deck, and the wom.en on the quarter deck) and rufii 
through the barricado door with the ferocity of 
brutes. Some have three or four handkerchiefs tied 
together, to encircle as miany ss they think fit for 
their purpofe. This is a very general mode of falcj 
and fo terrifies the poor negroes, that forty or fifty at 
a time have leaped into the fea ; thefe, however, the 
witnefs believes, have been taken up again : the v/o- 
men have got away, and run about the tov^rn as if they 
were mad. The Haves fold by public au<^ion or ven- 



( 12 ) 

due, are generally the refiifc, or (ickly flaves. Tliefc * 
are in fuch a ftate of health, that they fell greatly un- 
der price. They have been known to be fold for five 
dollars, a giiinea, a^d even a fingle dollar each. Sorre 
that are deemed not worth buying are left to expire 
in the place of fale, for nobody gives them any thing 
to eat or drink, and fome of them live three days in 
that fituation ! In the fale no care is taken to prevent 
the reparation of relations •, they are feparated (fays 
the evidence) like flieep and lambs by the butcher. 
Making the flaves walk the plank, is a term ufed for 
throwing them overboard when provifions are fcarce. 
Sometimes the (hips lofe more than halt their cargoes 
by the fmall-pox ; at others they bury a quarter or 
one-third on the paflage, owing to various other cau- 
fes of mortality : and it is confefled by the planters,* 
that half the flaves die in the feafoning, after arrival 
in the Weft-Indies, Surgeon Wilfon fays, that of the 
death of two-thirds of ihofe who died in his fhip, the 
primary caufe was nielancho'y* The diforders which 
carry off the flaves in fuch numbers, are afcribed by 
Falconbridge to a difeafed mind, fudden tranlitions 
from heat to cold, a putrid atmofphere, wallowing 
in their own excrements, and being fliackled together. 
The captains, furgeons, &c. v/ho have quitted the 
African flavc-trade, uniformly declare the reafon to 
have been, that they could not confcientioufly con- 
tinue in it : they fay, that it is an unnatural, ini- 
quitous, and villainous trade, founded on injuftice 
and treachery ; manifeftly carried on by oppreffion 
and cruelty, and not unfrequently terminating ia 
iTiurder. Capt. Hall f\iys, he quitted it (in oppofi- 
tion to lucrative offers) from a convi£lioii that it 
was perfectly illegal, and founded in blood, 
f Se^ Stanley's Speech in the Houw o£ G<rsnrr.o2s. 



- ( n ) 

The Fourth Chapter gives an account of the ge- 
neral efiiination and trcataient of the flaves in the 
Wcft-Iucitcs, Dr. Jickfon fays, that the negroes 
are generaljy eitceiricd a fpecie.^ of inferior beings, 
whom the right of purchafe gives the owner a power 
of iifing at his will. T. Woolrich fays, he never 
knew the beft mafter in the Weft-Indies ufe his flavcs 
fo \^cl]j as the worft mafter Ins fervants in England : 
that tlicir ftate is inconceivable— that a fight of a 
gD.r\il would convince more than all words. 

SUvcs areeitherFieMSlaveSjOrinor outDoorSiax^cs. 
TJie field-flaves begin th.eir work at bre^ali of day. 
Tt-fv work in rows, without exception under ^ : 
whip of drivers, and the weak are made to keep up 
with the ftrong. They continue their labour (with 
two inteciniiiions, half an Jiour during the morning, 
and two hours at noon) till fun fct. In the intervrils 
tliey are made to pick grafs for the cattle. Cook has 
known pregnant women worked and flogged a few 
days before their delivery. Some, however, are a lit- 
tle iiidulged when in thatftate After the month tliej 
vjork with tlie children en their backs. In the crop- 
feafon the labour is of inu,ch longer duration*. The 
flaves fometimes work fo long that tlij^y cannot IiqIo 
keeping, and then it not unfiequently happens^ that 
their arms are ciught in the mill and torn off. They 
are f.iid to be allowed one day in feven for reft', but 
this time is necelTarily employed in railing food for 
the other days, and gathering grafs for their mailers 
cattle. The beft allowance of food is at Barbadoes, 
which is a pint of grain for twenty four hours, and 
half a rotten herring when to be had. When the 

* In fome efVates it is ufual to dig a hole in the grounrl, which they 
put the bellies of pregnant women, while they whip them, that ihcT 
may not qxcufe puniihment, nor yet endiiijgcr the life of the Woman o" 
fhiJd. 

B 



( M ) 
herrings are unfit for the whites, they are bought up 
by planters for the flavcs. Some allow nine pints of 
corn a week, and about one pound of fait iifh, which 
is the greateft allowance mentioned in the whole courfe 
of the evidence. Some have no provifion but what 
they raife themfelves, and they are frequently fo fa- 
tigued by the labour of the reft of the week, as 
fcarcely to be able to work for their own fupport oh 
the Sunday. And the land allotted them for this' 
purpofe is often at the diftance of three miles from 
their houfes ; it would, however, be quite ample for 
their fupport, were they allowed time fufficient for 
its cultivation. Sometimes when they have been at 
the pains of clearing their land, their mafters take it 
for canes, and give them wood land inftead of it. 
This hardfliip fome have fo taken to heart as to die. 
Putrid carcafes are burnt ; if they were buried, the 
flaves would dig them up and eat them, which would 
breed distempers among them. They are fometimes 
driven by extreme hunger to fteal at the hazard of 
their lives. They are badly clothed ; one half of 
them go almoft naked. The flaves in general have 
no bed or bedding at all. Their houfes are built with 
four poles and thatched. They have little or no pro- 
perty. All the evidence (to whom the queftion has 
been propofed) agree in anfwering, that they never 
knew or heard of a field-flave dver amaffing fuch a 
fum, as enabled him to purchafe his own freedom. 
The artificers, fuch as houfe carpenters, coopers, ma- 
fons, the drivers and head flaves, are better off. The 
owners of women let them out for proflitution, and 
ilog them, if they do not bring home full wages. 

The negroes, when whipped, are fufpended by the 
arms, with weights at their feet. They arc firfl 
whipped with a whip made of cow-fkin (which cuts 



out the flefii, whereas the military whips cut only 
the Ikin,) and afterwards with ebony budies (which 
are more prickly than thorn bufhcs in this country,) 
in order to let out the congealed blood. Dr, Har- 
rifon thinks the whipping too fevere to be infliaed 
on any human being : he could lay two or three fin- 
gers into the wounds of a man whipped for not com- 
ing when he was called. Many receive from one 
hundred snd iifty to two hundred lafhes at a time ; 
and in two or three days this is repeated : they walh^ 
the raw parts with pickle ; this appears from the con^ 
vulfions it occafions, more cruel than whipping ; but.^ '^ 
it is done to prevent mortification. After fevere 
whipping, they are worked all day without food, ex- 
cept what their friends may give them out of their 
own poor pittance. They are returned to the flocks 
at night, and worked next day as before. This 
cruel treatment has made many commit fuicide. Cook 
has known fourteen flaves, who, in confequence 
thereof, ran into tlie woods and cut tlieir throats. 
together. Thefe fevere puniihments are frequent. 
The fears made by whipping laft to old age. T. Wool- 
rich has feen their backs one undiftinguilhed mais of 
lumps, holes, and furrows. They fometimes die of 
mortification of the wounds. A planter flogged 
his driver to death, and boaded, of having fo done. 
Under the head of Extraordinary I*anifhments (for 
thofe already named are reckoned only ordinary, )men- 
tion is made of iron collars with hooks*, heavy cat- 

* General Tottenham faw a youth, about nineteen, wall^Ing in the 
ftreets, in a moft deplorable fituation, entirely naked, and with an iron 
collar about his neck, with five long projeAig; fpikes. His body, before 
and behind, his breech, belly and thighs, we're almoft cut to pieces, and 
with running fores all over them, and you might put your finger in Ibme 
■ of the wheals. He could not fit down, owing to his breech being in a 
ftate of mortification, and it was impoliible for'him to lie down, from the 
projedion of the prongs. The boy came to the general to afk relief. 
He was fhocked at his appearance, and afked him what he had done to 



( 16 ) 

tie cIi?Jn.s and a half hundred weight fa{}eoec! to 
them, which the negroes are forced to drag aftei: 
them, when working in the field, fufpending by the 
hands *til! ti*e lingers mortify ;■ flogging with ebony 
builies 'till they are forced to go on all fours, unable 
to get up, being tied up to the branch of a tree, with 
a heavy v.-eight round the neck, expofed to t]ie noon- 
day fun— thumb-fcrews ; .•:i man v/as put on the pick- 
et, fo long as to occafion a mortificaiion of his foot 
and hand, on fufpicion of robbing his m a (I'er," a pub- 
lic officer, of a iiim of money, which it afterwards 
appeared, the mafter had taken Inmfelf. Yet tiie 
niafler was privy to the punifhment, anc^ the flave had 
ro compenfation. He v/as punillied by order of the 
mafter, who did not then chufe to make it known that 
he himfelf had made ufe of the money. A girl's ears 
were nailed to a poft, afterv/ards torn away, and dipt 
off clofe to her head, with a pair of large fciffars; 
beddes this, flis v/as unmercifully flogged, and all 

for BREAKING A PLATE, OR SPILLING A CUP 

OF TEA I A negro, impelled by hunger, Iiad ftoien 
part of a turkey, his mafler caufed him to beheld down; . 
and, v/ith his own hands, took a hamniar and punch 
and knocked out four of his teeth. The hand is cut 
ofl-' if lifted up againfl: a white man, and the leg for 
running away. A planter fent for a furgeon to cut 
ofl' the leg of a negro who had run away. On tlic 
f'jrgeon's refuflng to do it, the planter took an iron 
bar, and broke the leg in pieces, and then the furge- 
on took it oflV This planter did many fuch ads of 
cruelty, and all v/ith impunity. The practice of drop- 
ping hot lead upon the negroes, is here mentioned. 
H. Rofs fiw a young female fufpended by her wriflis 

fuiTcr fuch a purirnmenr, and who Infliifted it. He fajd it was his mafter, 
v.'ho lived about tNvo uiiles from town, and that ashe could not work, he 
would ghc hijii nothing to eat. 



( 17 ) 

to a tree, fwinging to and fro, while her mafter applU 
€d a lighted torch to the different parts of her writh- 
ing body. It was notorious that Rufhie tortured fo 
many of his negroes to death, that he was obliged to 
fell his eftate. Another planter, in the fame lfland§, 
deftroyed forty flaves out of fixty (in three years) by 
feverity. The reft of the condu^: of this infamous 
wretch was cancelled by the Committee of the Houfe 
of Commons, as containing circumftances too hor- 
rible to be given to the world. We, however, go oa 
to read of knockingon the head andftabbing, of a hot 
h'on forced between the teeth, of a flave thrown into 
the boiling juice, and killed, of a negro fliot anc His 
head cut off. And it appears, that the women, deem- 
ed of refpefVability and rank, not only order and 
faperintend, but fometimes adlually infli<Sl with their 
own hands fevere punifhments on their flaves. 

The offences for which the before-mentioned pu- 
nifhments are inflicted are, not coming into the field 
in time, not picking a fufficient quantity of grafs, 
not appearing v/iiling to work, when in fa£l: fick and 
not able ; for ftaying too long on an errand, for not 
coming immediately when called, for not bringing 
home (the women) the full weekly fam enjoined by 
their owners ; for running away, and for theft, to 
which they are often driven by hunger. 

Under the head of " Extraordinary Punifhments,*' 
fome appear to have fuffered for running away, or 
for lifting up a hand againfta white man, or for break- 
ing a plate, or fpilHng a cup of tea, or to extort con- 
feffion. Others again, in the moments of fudden re- 
fentment, and one on a diabolical pretext, which the 
mafler held out to the world to conceal his own vil- 
lany, and which he knew to be falfe* 

§ Jamaica. 
B 2 



( I8 ) 

The flavcs have litjle ov no redrefs ag.iinfl Ili-uCigc 
of any fort ; the l.iws to reftria pmiifhmeni arc a 
mere farce, and univerfally difregarded, or when pre- 
tended to be obferved they are in divers ways ef- 
fe(^ually evaded : befides, the evidence of a Black is 
in no cafe whatever admitted againit a White Man ; 
which circumllfince alone is enough to deprive the 
negroes of all legal prote£lion whatever, were the 
laws, in other rcfpects, ever fo jaif and falutary. 
Lieutenant Davjdfon was fo hurt at the fevere and 
frequent whippings of one of the women, that he com- 
pV.ii-jJ to a nnagiftrate, who faid, ** he had nothing 
tr> i]iyt with it." 

Tiie particular inOances mentioned in the evi- 
dence, of ilaves dying in confequeiKe of fevere and 
cruel treatnrierit from their mailers, were not punifh- 
ed, though generally known j nor do the perpe- 
trcUors of thefe barbaraties appear to have fufl'ered any 
difgrace ! 

If you fpeak to a negro of future puniiiiments, he 

fays, *' Why fliould a poor negro be punifhed ? 

he does no wrong ? fiery cauldrons, and fuch things, 
nre referved for white people, as punifhments for the 
oppreffion of ilaves." 

In the Fifth Chapter, it is proved, by fuch as have 
feen them in their own country, that the natives ot 
Africa are equal to the Europeans in their natural ca- 
pacities, feelings, afie;<Stions, and moral characfler. 
They manufa(5ture gold and iron, in fome refpe(fi:s, 
ecual to the European Artifts-— alfo clothand leather 
with uncommon neatnefs ; the former they die blue, 
yellow, brown and orange. They are drilled in making 
indigo and foap, and pottery wares, and prepare fait 
for their own ufe from the fea water. They alfo 
make ropss with aloes. With vchcd, to their moral 





( -9 ) 

char-a£^er, they are very I'^oncft and hofnitaHTe : grate- 
ful and -.iiTe6lionatc, hanrjkfs and innocent 
al in their dealings, and as capable of vj 

Whi 



; piinftu^ 

tue as tlie 

Thev are fulce-tible of all ihe fecial virtues^:: 



generoiiiy^, iiacliiy, 



' :;• :>titii r'c^, are allowed them 
by Dr. Srn <rt. Tbef? virtues Dr. Jackibn enume- 
rates, and add^ chariry to all in diltrefs, and a ftrong 
attachment on the part of parents to their children. 
T. Vfoohdch fays, he never knew of ari African, who 
could exprefs himfelf, that did not believe in the ex- 
igence of a fupreme Being. 

In the Sixth and Seventh Chapters it appears th.i^ 
the natives poiTefs induftry and a fpirit of conr^fnicrc 
fufncient for carrying on a new trade; that their coun- 
try abounds with, and might eafily be made ftill rncre 
produfSlive of, many and various articles of commerce; 
but that the traffic in ilaves is an infupcrable impedi- 
ment to opening a new trade. 

In the Eighth Chapter it is inquiredj •'^'hether the 
flave trade be not a. grave (inftead of a nurfery) of 
the feamen employed in it 

It appears by the mufter-roUs of Liverpool and 
Briftol, that in 350 veiTels, 12, 263 mcB were em- 
ployed, out of whom 2643 were loft, that is to fay, 
more than a fifth of the v/hole number employed, or 
more than (even in every fingle voyiige, befldes near- 
ly one half of thofe who go out with the Ihips are con- 
llantly left behind. 

Capt. Hall (of the merchant's fervice) fays that 
the crew? of the African fhips, when they arrive in 
the Weft Indies, are the mo ft miferabie objc'Sts he ever 
met with in any countiy in his life ; he dotinot knew 
a fingle inftance to the contrary. He has frequently 
Ccen them with their toes rotted off, their k gs fwelled 
to theilze of tlieii' thighs, apd in an ulcerated ilate ail 



( 20 ) 

ovef, ^c. Sec. This account is confirmed by Capf 
Hall of the navy. Sir W. Young is of opinion, that 
a trade to Africa in the natural produdlions of the 
country, would not be attended with more inconveni- 
ence to the heahh of the feamen employed in it, thaa 
the prefent Weft-India Trade. 

In the Ninth Chapter we find that the feamen em- 
ployed in the flave trade are in general barbaroufly 
ufed. They are worfe fed both in quantity and qua- 
lity of food than the feamen in other trades. They 
have, little or no flielter night or day from the incle- 
mency of the weather during the whole of the niiddle 
pafflige. They are inhumanly treated when ill, and 
fubjedled to the fury of the impafiioned officers for 
very trifles. A boy, to avoid the cruel treatment of 
his officer, juinp'd overboard, and was drowned. A 
man was killed with a hand fpike for being very ill 
and unable to work. Six men were chained together 
by their necks, legs, and hands, for making their 
efcape from the vefTel ', they were allowed only a plan- 
tain a day ; they all died in their chains 5 one of 
them (Thomas Jones a very good feaman) raving 
mad ! The evidence proves that inftances of wanton 
cruelty, and inhuman treatment in general, are nu- 
merous, various and frequent. One man, with both 
his legs in irons iind his neck in an iron collar, was 
chained to the boat for three months, and very often 
nioft inhumanly beaten for complaining of his fitua- 
tion, both by the captain and other officers. His al- 
lowance of pcoviflons was fo frnall that (after his re- 
leafe fron>, the boat, on account of extreme wcaknels) 
he begged fomething to eat, faying that if it were not 
given him he fhould die :-— the captain reproached 
him, beat him, and bid him die and be damned. The 
man died ia the night. This was in the Ship Sally, 



. ( 21 ) 

on board of which ill-treatment vvas coaimon. Ano^ 
ther niRn was ddibsrately, by a ferics of (hocking bar- 
barities, murdered. 

Sir Geo. Young remarks that a fliip of ti'>e line 
niight be prefenily manned by the failors who wi!h 
to efcape from the miferies of African. ilaips. One 
poor young man, wlien dying in confequcnce of the 
ill treatment he had received from the captain, fiid 
(which were the lail wor^ls A. Falcoobridge heard 
him fpeak) ** I cannot puniili him (meaning the cap- 
tain) but God will," The failors when Tick are beat- 
eii for being lazy, till they die under the blows ! 

** If th's be the real iituation of things, how hap- 
pens it (the reader may perhaps aik) that the objeas 
of fuch tyranny and opprcfiion fliould not obtain re- 
di'cfi, and that our courts of law fhould not have to 
decide upon more cafes of this kind, than they have 
a.t prefent ?" It h anfwered, *' thefe objeds are gene- 
rally without friends and money, without v/hich the 
injured will feek for juftice but in vain j and becauie 
the peculiarity of their {ituation is an impediment to 
their endeavours for redrefs." Whoever wifhes for 
a more particular anfwer to this queflion, may meet 
■with it in ** Clarkfon's EiT^y on the Impolicy of the 
African Slave-Trade," (page 52) from which the 
queflion and the above general reply are c-acred. 

If it ihould ftill be afked, *' how it lujppe,;s that 
fcaoien enter for ilave veflels, when fuch general ill 
ufage on board of them can hardly fail of being 
known ?'' the reply muff be taken from the evidence, 
*•* that whereas fome of thera enter volunraj ily, the 
greater part of th.em are trep>^r.ned ; for that it is the 
bulintfs of certain landlords to make them intoxicat- 
ed, and get them into debt, afcer which t/jeir crJy al-^ 
lUrn ative is a Cuincavian or a, Goal. 



V 22 ), 

In the Tenth Chapter it is proved not to be true, 
what fome fay, that the natives of Africa are happier 
fn the European colonies than in their own country.* 
They love their own country, but deftroy them- 
felves in the colonies, &c. &c. But any comparifgn 
between the two fituations is as (H. Rofs fays, tho' on 
another occaHon) *' an infult to common fenfe,'' 

The Eleventh, Twelfth, and Thirteenth Chapters 
are on the fubjea of negro population in the colonies, 
and plainly fhew that the importation of frefh Afri- 
cans m^ight immediately be fuperceded, by the intro- 
duiSlion of general good treatment, and of ecertain fa- 
lutary regulations therein fuggcfted. 

The Fourteenth Chapter is employed to demon- 
ftrate, from the evidence before the committee, that 
the colonifts would be able to carry on the neceflary 
cultivation of their lands, without a frefh importation 
of flaves while the generation immediately fucceeding 
the regulations propofed, were growing up to fupply 
the vacancies occafioned by the natural deaths of the 
flaves of all ages, now in their poiTeffion. 

The Fifteenth Chapter inquires, whether there be 
not a prevailing opinion in the colonies, that it is 
cheaper to buy or import flaves than thus to increafe 
them by population. And whether the very reverfe 
of this opinion be not true : namely, that it is more 
profitable to breed than to import.. The refult of 
this inquiry is clearly in favour of the immediate Abo- 
lition of the African Slave Trade. The fam.e may 
be faid of the ilxteenth and Lift chapter, in which it 
is confidered. Whether it be more political to ex- 
tend the cultivation of the colonies by the continu- 
ance of the flave-trade, or wait till the riling genera- 
tion fhall be capable of performing it. 

Hating thus taken a general view of the moft 



( 23 ) 

Arlking features of the evidence for the abolition of 
the traffic in the human fpecies, as carried on by the 
Englifh on the coaft of Africa, it might not be im- 
proper to clofe it with the declaration of a virtuous 
and wife Senator, whofe indefatigable labours on be- 
half of the opprefled Africans, cannot fail to infure 
him the unfeigned refpe<St of every lover of freedom 
and humanity : 

" The abolition of the slave trade 
(fays he) is indispensibl Y required of us, 
not only by religion and morality, but 

BY every principle OF SOUND POLICY*." 

The noble exordium of another able advocate of 
the fame righteous caufe, niuft not however be omit- 
ted in this place : The Houfe of Commons being now 
apprized of the nature of this trade, having received 
evidence, having had the fadls undeniably eflablifhed, 
knowing, in ihort, ivhat the Slave-Trade wasy he de- 
clared, that if they did not, by the vote of that night, 
mark to all mankind their abhorrence of a practice fo 
enormous, fo favage, fo repugnant to all laws, human 
and divine, it would be more fcandalous, and more de- 
faming, in the eyes of the country, and of the world, 
than any vote which any Houfe of Commons had 
ever given. He delired thfm ierioufly to refle<Sl, be- 
fore they gave their votes, what they were about to 
do that evening. If they voted that the Slave Trade 
fhould not be abolifhed, they would, by their vote that 
night, give a Parliamentary fan Bion to Rapine, Rob- 
bery and Murder ; for a fyftem of Tapine, robbe- 
ry, and murder, the Slave Trade had now mcft clear-' 
ly been proved to bef . 

* speech of W. Wilberforce in the Houfe of Commons. 

t Speech ^ C. J, Fox in the Houfe of Commons. Reported hj 
Woodfall. 



( 24 ) 
It remains now to recoiriment!, as earneflly and as 
ftrongly as poflible, to the inhabitants of tlus Land of 
' Frc-edoii individiK^lIy,' a particular and ferious atten- 
tion to THE >\B SOLUTE ^^ECESSJTY, ON EVERY 
CONSIDERAl-ION OF MORALITY AND JUSTICE, OF 
PU TTINCx ANESD TO A PRACTICE SO PREGNANT 
WITH CIRCUMSTANCES OF 1 ERROR AND ALARM 
TO THJ S COUN TR y. 

Much has been lately done, by ihe united friends of 
equitable freedom, in circiil.uing throughout the king- 
dorii important information on this interelling fiibjc^ft : 
but much rcm.ains yet to be done. The nunds of 
many have been informed, and their indignation juft- 
ly kindled by the liiftory of a commerce " lurlfUn 
throughout in- chara6lers cfblood^'.^'' But the under- 
fliandings it is ' to be feard, of a great' majority of rhe 
people of England, are ftill unenlightened. ShouM 
the foregoing Short Sketch of the Evidence, awaken 
the feelings, or quicken tiie attention, of- any, in fa- 
vour of their greatly injured fellow-creatures, the op- 
prcfied Africans, it is much »o be widied, that they 
will not hai'tily diftnifs the fubje^t from their recol- 
leclion, or futfer its- painful i mpr eiij or/ iS; to be made 
in vain : but feek a further aciquaincance with the 
evidence, \thich the rriorc they examine, t]>e flronger 
v/ill be .their inducements to exert every power and 
faculty they pofTefs, for the. purpofe of ,})rocuriug the 
Abolition of the Slave-Trade. Let no one fay, '* m.y 
firuation of privacy and obfcurity, precludes all poi?i- 
bility of ferving the caufe"— -for the grcatefl; numbers 
CO Dii It of units, and - the mofl: mighty eserljons of 
ftates and empires are but aggregates of individual 
ability. Next to Members of Parliament, all who have 
any jufl: influence in the eieiTlion oftiiem, are parti- 
* Speech of W. Wilbtnorce Efq. in the Koufe of Commons. 



( 25 ) 

cularlv concerned to confidcr, how far the attainment 
of the great end we have in view may depend upon 
their condufl. We may certainly conckide, that who- 
ever is not a friend to the liberty of the meaneil: fub- 
jecl, is not fit to be entrufted with that of the ftate : 
aiid even thofe who have no vote, are neverthelef^ 
comprehended in our idea of the public mind,— -nor 
is any man of fenfe and virtue, let his fituation in a 
free country be what it may, to be deemed of no ac^ 
count. Upon his judgment, his voice (if not his 
vote, : his example, much may depend. The difcove- 
ry of truth, the communication of ufeful knowledge, 
and the exemplary recommendation of virtuous con- 
duct, may dignify a plebeian, as well as add luftre to 
a crown. Even a negro (lave, amidft the horrors o£ 
a middle paiTage, and debafed by every external cir- 
cumftance of degradation and mifery that the imagina- 
tion can conceive, fliall divide his meagre morfel ij: 
with the inhuman monfter in diftrefs, who ftole him 
from his native country, and his neareft connexions, 
thereby returning all the good in his power, for all 
the EVIL his n^erciiefs enemy could inflict, and giving 
an example of true benevolence of heart and real 
greataefs of mind, unfurpafTed in the hiftory of crvil- 
izcd nations, and worthy ok the beft and pureft of 
all religions :— *' if thine enemy hunger^ feed him ; if 
he thirfy give him drink ||." Let no one, therefore, 
think too meanly of himfelf when called upon to af- 
lift in a good caufe, feeing, that from the moft abje^; 
ilate of human wretchednefs a lefTon may fometimes 
be learnt, and an influence imparted which the proud- 
eft philofophy need not blufh to own. The abolition 

t In one of the fliips we find the flaves privately and voluntarily feed- 
ing the hungry failors with a part of their own fcanty allow iince. ' 

II Rom, xii. chap, ao. vcr. 
C 



( 26 ) 

of the {lave trade is an objedl of fuclihigh Importance, 
and Co nearly concerns every one uho has a mind to 
comprehend, and a hewrt to feel, that no communi- 
cation or affiftance is too /ma.!!, nor any xoo great, to 
be exerted upon this oecaiion. 

Some people feem inclined to lend an ear to tales 
of human woe, and feel a certain gratification in be- 
holding the exhibitions of tragedy, or in the perufal 
of pathetic poetry, and the like. Even the cafe of 
the opprefled Africans, when reprefented by their fa- 
vourite bards, or appearing in the form of the ** Dy- 
ing Slave,^ or the ** Negro's Cemplainty^ feem to pof- 
fels, if not charms to pleafe, at Icaft pov/ers forcibly 
to attract their willing attention, and to win their 
fympathetic regard. Yet the evidence delivered be- 
fore the Houfe of Commons, containing a true and 
faithful accoiint of the miferies and wickednefs at- 
tendant upon the traffic in their fellow-creatures, un- 
embeliiflied by Sourifhes of rhetoric, undecorated with 
the fplendid habiliments of poetry, is almoft in vain 
recommended to their notice. Should they be pre- 
vailed upon to caift their eye over a few pages of the 
Shocking hiflcry, they prefently fliut up the book- 
it makes them fhudder — they have read enough— 
fuch horrid barbarities, fuch complicated fufFerings, 
are not to be endured even in imagination ! But 1-et 
fuch remember — ** that humanity confiiis not in a 
fqueamifh ear— it conlifts not in a ftarting or flirink- 
ing at fuch tales as thefe, but in a difpoiition of heart 
to relieve raifery, and to prevent the repetition of cru- 
elty : — Humanity appertains rather to the mind thn^ 
to the nerves, and prompts men to real, dl/interefted 
endeavours to give happinefs to their fellow-crea- 
tures§.'* It is^therefore to be wifhed that no affedlion 

-" S Fox's Speech in the Houfe of Commons. 



of extreme fenfibility, or real efHaiinacy of manners, 
may difindine, or difqualify, for the fervice of huma- 
nity. Tliat extreme delicacy which deprives ns, 
if not of the difpofition, yet of the ability to encoun- 
ter fufFering for the fake of, and in order to help our 
brethren in afHiclion, and under the fcvereft oppeili- 
on, is detrimental to its poiTeiTor, and injurious to 
the community ; it renders compafiion a painful^ 
ufelefs thing, and makes beneficence fruitlefs. 

To the bufy and the gay *' a great book is a great 
evil^^ Two THOUSAND PAGES IN FOLIO, Written 
(like Ezekiel's roll) within and^without, — lamentati- 
ons, mourning and woe, ftand but little chance of ob- 
taining their notice— even the Abstract of the 
Evidence, would detain fome of them too long 
from their eager purfuits of biilinefs, or their favour- 
ite fchemcs of pteafure. This hasty sketch vHU 
not, however, it may be prefumed, encroach too 
much upon their time j and well rewarded will the 
compiler of it be, if it flvould prove a (limulus to 
further invefligation of the Evidence. No one knows 
what opportunities he may have, or how far his in- 
fluence may extend, to afiift the endeavours now uf- 
ing for the abolition of a trade, t.hs coDiinued carry- 
ing on of which, after being {o fully apprized of its 
drea<lful enormity, may be cxps(5l2d i without the fmal- 
left tincture of fuperftious feat) to expofe this nation 
to the jail punifhment of Provi dence. 

Three nations, Juvan, Tubal, and Mefliech, are 
mentioned in Scripture i| as having their principal 
crade at Tyre in xh.z ft'lling of men. This circum- 
fiance has been appealed to in vindication of ttie 
African Slave-Trade :— but mark the fequel. In the 
following chapter, verfe i8, the Prophet add reffcs 



( 2S ) 
the Prince of Tyre thus :— " Thou haQ defiled xhj 
fan<fluarics by the multitude of thine iniquities, by the 
iniquity of thy traffic : therefore will 1 bring forth a 
iire from the midfl: of thee, it lliall devour thee, and 
I will bring thee to a(hes upon the earth." A prophe- 
cy which has been remarkably fulfilled. 

The great leader in the Debates of the Houfe of 
Commons on this momentous fubjecSl has declared — 
** That interefted as he may be fuppc^fcd to be in the 
linal event of the queftion, he v/as comparatively in- 
different as to the then decifion of the Houfe. What- 
ever they might do, the people of Great Britain, he 
was confident, would abolifli the flave-trade, when, 
as would now foon happen, its injuftice and cruelty 
fliould be fairly laid before them. It was (faid he) a 
jiell: of ferpents, which would never have endured fo 
long, but for the darknefs in which they lay hid. The 
light of day would now be let in upon them, and they 
would vanifh from the fight." 



