


9 • 



FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS, 



A SPEECH LATELY DELIVERED 



THE SENATE OP THE UNITED STATES 



MEIVBY CI4AY, OF ftENTUCK\ r , 



ON THE SUBJECT OP 



THE ABOLITION OF NORTH AMERICAN SLAVERY. 



"Is not thiethe fast that I have chosen? to looae the bauds of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to 
let the oppressed go free ; and that ye break every yoke ? " — Isaiah, lviii. 6. 



NEW-YORK: 
:ahlon day & co., no. 374 pearl-street. 

1839. 



.v ,V, 



FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS, 



A SPEECH LATELY DELIVERED 



THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES, 



HENRY CLAY, OF KENTUCKY, 



ON THE SUBJECT OP 



THE ABOLITION OF NORTH AMERICAN SLAVERY. 



'.Is not this the fast that I have chosen? to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to 
let the oppressed go free ; and that ye break every yoke ? '.' — Isaiah, lviii. 6. 



NEW-YORK: 

MAHLON DAY & CO., NO. 374 PEARL-STREB' 

183 9, 



feV 75"*^ 7^ w>. I3L 



JAMES EGBERT, PRINTER, 

No. 374 Pearl-street. 



FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS, &c. 



It is to me a matter of regret and astonishment that so enlightened 
a statesman as Henry Clay, of Kentucky, can treat as a "visionary 
dogma," and "speculative abstraction," the simple, yet sacred pro- 
position, that man cannot hold a property in his fellow man. 

Familiar as this gentleman must be with the distinction between 
de facto and de jure, he must surely have been aware that when 
tried by the former test — that of actual practice — such a proposition 
is no philosophical refinement, but a mere falsehood. Every one 
knows, that in point of fact, man is, to an enormous extent, held as 
the property of his fellow man ; for example, in Russia, in connection 
with despotism, and in many of the United States, in connection with 
democracy. In both these instances, man — immortal, rational man 
— is reduced to the condition of a chattel — may be bought, sold, 
mortgaged, bequeathed by will, given over as security for debts, &c, 
&c. Farther than this, it must be freely acknowledged, that so far 
as human laws are concerned, the de facto, \n reference to this porten- 
tous subject, is supported by the de jure ; since the property of man 
in his fellow man, is amply recognised — sanctioned, though not as 
this statesman would have it, "sanctified" — by the laws of the Em- 
pire and of the States, to which I have now alluded. 

But when we treat the subject with a sole reference to the de 
jure, and take the de jure in its highest sense, as relating to the 
principles of justice, the immutable law of God, then the proposition 
that man cannot hold a property in his fellow man, is neither a specu- 
lative abstraction, nor a falsehood ; but an unquestionable and irre- 
fragable truth. 

We may safely appeal to the voice of Almighty God heard in every 
rational bosom, when we assert that every man has a property in his 
own person, by the best of all possible tides, — the immediate gift of 
God ; and farther, that this property is unalienable, and cannot be 
contravened by the claims of any other man, who holds his brother 
as a chattel, by virtue of arbitrary power, or merely human law. 



4 FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 

When a slave makes his escape from bondage, no one can, with any 
show of reason, pretend that he thereby robs his master. For, al- 
though the master* has a property in the slave under the sanction of 
human law, the slave's property in himself rests on the unquestion- 
ably superior ground of the law of nature — that is, the law of God. 
The individual who restores a runaway slave to his master, contrary 
to the will of the slave, sacrifices the greater to the lesser right. The 
individual who refuses so to restore him, may be prompted by feelings 
of benevolence, but the only stable basis of such a line of conduct, is 
a preference of the claims of eternal rectitude, to those of merely hu- 
man law. 

Henry Clay divides the friends of abolition into three classes. His 
first class consists of persons who, "from sentiments of philanthropy 
and humanity are conscientiously opposed to slavery, but who are no 
less opposed, at the same time, to any disturbance of the peace and 
tranquillity of the Union." In this class he includes the Society of 
Friends, " one of whose established maxims is, an abhorrence of war 
in all its forms, and the cultivation of peace and good will amongst 
mankind." To this class I belong. I am utterly opposed to war in 
all its forms. I heartily desire to cultivate peace and good will amongst 
all mankind ; and though I am not an American citizen, I admire the 
federal union of this great country, and cordially desire its unbroken 
permanence, and continued and increased prosperity. Nevertheless, I 
wish it to be understood that my conscientious objection to slavery is 
primarily grounded, not on sentiments of philanthropy and humanity, 
but on a conviction that slavery is opposed to the eternal rule of right. 
The question in my view, is first one of justice and truth, and se- 
condly one of mercy and kindness. 

No religious society can insist on philanthropy and beneficence in 
its members, for these are voluntary virtues, which individuals must 
exercise in such a manner, and in such a measure, as they may deem 
light for themselves. But every religious society has an undoubted 
claim on its members for an adherence to immutable justice ; and 
this is the ground, as I conceive, of the well known provision 
which has been so long enforced by the Society of Fiiends, that 
no person who holds slaves may retain his right of membership in 
the body. Thus, for a long period of years, that Society has cleared 
itself of a participation in the sin of slavery. Would that the 
same harmless and unexceptionable testimony against this enor- 
mous wrong, were borne by every denomination of Christians in this 
country ! 



FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 5 

When I speak of the eternal rule of right, I have reference to the 
law of God as it is universally made known to mankind, by a measure 
of the light of the Holy Spirit, — a law which, as Cicero has well ob- 
served, is the same in all places, and at all times — incapable of 
being changed or abrogated — permanent and omnipresent, like the 
God from whom it comes.* 

I do not, however, forget that this divine law is plainly written in 
the pages of Scripture, and that its holy principles are unfolded, in all 
the maturity of their strength and beauty, under the gospel dispensa- 
tion, and in the volume of the New Testament. The code of Chris- 
tianity is a code of purity and love. It proclaims the necessity of de- 
parting from every infraction either of justice or benevolence. With- 
out making any precise mention either of war or slavery, it destroys 
them both at the root. It teaches us that all men every where — 
men of every character, country, and color — are our neighbors, and 
under this most comprehensive interpretation of the word " neigh- 
bor," it republishes the ancient precept, " Thou shalt love thy neigh- 
bor as thyself." It institutes the golden rule, " Whatsoever ye would 
that men should do unto you, do ye even so to them." Here is the 
true seed, here is the germinating principle, of the abolition of slavery ! 
But how greatly is the strength of this principle increased, when we 
call to mind the grand fundamental truths of the gospel — that the 
Son of God became incarnate, and died on the cross, a propitiatory 
sacrifice for the sins of all mankind — that life and salvation 
are equally offered to all of every name who believe in Him — that 
all such, are our brethren and sisters in Christ the Saviour ! Let 
Christianity spread her genial influence over the face of society, with- 
out hindrance and without compromise, and slavery must cease. The 
religion of Jesus in its unfettered operation, and an institution under 
which man is treated as the property or chattel of his brother, cannot 
coexist. 

I am aware that my knowledge of the constitution and laws of the 
federal government of the U. Slates, when compared with that of the 
Senator of Kentucky, is as nothing ; but I own I was greatly startled by 
that gentleman's assertion, as reported in the newspapers, that not only 
under all the State constitutions and governments, but under the 
federal government itself " negro slaves have been deliberately and 
solemnly recognised as the legitimate subjects of property." One 
would hope that this noble federal government — the nation as a na- 
tion — has not so committed herself. If such a committal has taken 

* De Repcb. — Quoted by Lactantius, 



6 FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 

place, in any of the laws of the United States, it is surely at va- 
riance with that care to avoid it, which evidently marked the forma- 
tion of the Constitution, and the early legislation of Congress. This 
care is, to my apprehension, remarkably evinced by the provision of 
the Constitution respecting runaway slaves ; "No person held to ser- 
vice or labor in one state, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, 
shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged 
from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up on claim of the 
party to whom such service or labor is due." — Art. iv. 3. 

It is obvious that in this provision, there is a pointed avoidance of 
any reference to the notion of a property of man in man. The whole 
affair is thrown upon "service or labor ;" and the same care is observ- 
able in the Act of Congress dated February 12th, 1793, " respecting 
fugitives from justice, and persons escaping from the service of their 
masters." In point of fact, the grand principle, that the property of 
man in man cannot exist de jure, had been previously settled by a 
master stroke of justice, sublime in its own simplicity, in the Declara- 
tion of Independence; — "We hold these truths to be self- 
evident, THAT ALL MEN ARE CREATED EQ.UAL ; THAT THEY 
ARE ENDOWED BY THEIR CREATOR WITH CERTAIN INALIEN- 
ABLE rights; THAT AMONG THESE are life, liberty, and 

THE PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS." 

If God has created all men equal, and every man has an inalien- 
able right to his own life and liberty, and if these are self-evident 
truths, it certainly follows that the holding of our fellow men as our 
property, to be disposed of according to our own will and pleasure, is 
a frightful anomaly, radically opposed to the laws of nature and of 
God. I am aware that the framers of the federal government of this 
country were, some of them, involved in slaveholding, and that they 
left the question of slavery to be adjusted by the several states, accord- 
ing to the decision of their respective legislatures. It is matter of deep 
regret that they were so far induced to connive at slavery ; for the first 
establishment of the Union, on the express ground of the equal rights 
of all men, would seem to have afforded a golden opportunity for the 
entire extinction of this evil. It is nevertheless abundantly evident 
that, in the view of these enlightened persons, the proposition that 
man cannot lawfully hold a property in man, was no " visionary 
dogma" or " speculative abstraction," but a sacred truth — a truth 
which, in the formation of the constitution, they openly embraced 
as absolutely fundamental. 

A departure from the eternal rule of right — whether it be by indi- 
viduals or by bodies politic — can never fail to be productive of evil 



FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. / 

results. Notwithstanding the praises which some persons, in the pre- 
sent day, lavish on slavery,* no impartial person can deny that this re- 
mark applies, with full force, to that unchristian institution. 

"When I recollect the liabilities to personal cruelty, of which such a 
system can never be divested — the tyranny which is, at least, the occa- 
sional companion of a perfectly arbitrary power of man over man — 
the sales of human beings at auction — the stowage of them in negro 
jails — the frequent and violent separation of families — the systematic 
exclusion of the slaves from all literary education, and from the oppor- 
tunity of reading the Bible for themselves — the ruin of immense 
tracts of once fertile land, under the baneful influence of slave labor 
— and the demoralization, both of the black and white population, 
which is so notorious an accompaniment of the system, I cannot pos- 
sibly conceal from myself — I am sure that Henry Clay cannot con- 
ceal from himself — that slavery, and slavery as it exists in the 
United States, is a tremendous evil, productive of most dangerous 
and baneful results. And how awful does the view of the subject 
become — how portentous does the dark cloud appear, which impends 
over the prosperity of this great country — when we are informed, on 
so unquestionable an authority as that of Henry Clay, that the slave 
population of the United States now amounts to three millions ! 
Three millions of beings endued, like ourselves, with intellectual 
powers, and candidates for immortality, yet liable to be bought and 
sold, like sheep, pigs, and oxen ! 

Among the evils now described, there is one which claims a peculiar 
emphasis. Slavery condemns one-sixth part of the population of this 
country to the total absence of mental culture. Every one knows 
that "the mind makes the man." To cultivate and enlarge its 
faculties, and to store it with useful knowledge, according to ability 
afforded, is a duty to which all men are called, by an universally 
understood command of the Highest Intelligence. But the slavery 
of the United States, reverses the high behest of a benevolent Provi- 
dence. It decrees that three millions of human beings and their 
descendants for ever, should be trained to the disuse of their under- 
standings, and continue in hopeless ignorance. This flagrant contra- 
vention of the known order of God's government, must surely con- 
vince every reflecting person, that the root from which it springs is 
corrupt and sinful. 

* I lately observed a paragraph in one of the newspapers published in Rich- 
mond, Va., in which slavery is declared to be a peculiar blessing, calculated to 
afford to the blacks the greatest degree of happiness of which they are capable, 
and equally adapted to the development of the best faculties of the whites. Is 
it possible that such a sentiment can be seriously entertained by any of the citi- 
zens of free and enlightened North America ? 



8 FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 

Taking it for granted therefore, that there exists within the bosom 
of this great country, (so blessed by Providence, so capable of almost 
interminable improvement,) one evil of vast amount and aggravated 
character, it would seem that the views of every sound statesman in 
the land, ought to be steadily fixed on the removal of it. The cause 
of justice and mercy, and the reputation of the nation, unite in calling 
for such a course. What, then, can be more surprising, than to 
find America's enlightened patriot directing the whole force of his 
mind and elocution, not against the evil itself, but against every effort 
to extinguish it ; guarding, with the most jealous care, every avenue, 
not to the progress of the disease, but to the application of the remedy 1 

Such an anomaly may be compared to the case of a sick man, af- 
flicted with some vast internal abscess, who forgets his greatest danger, 
hugs the death within, and occupies himself with the single considera- 
tion of how he may best escape out of the hands of his physicians. 
The doctors may indeed be unskilful ; their proposed remedies may be 
of too bold a character ; but one would think that in all such cases, the 
truer and more legitimate object of fear, must be the disease itself. 
Ought not the attention of all good and wise men, Southerners and 
Northerners, Whigs and Democrats, to be directed to the timely and 
judicious removal of the abscess, before it bursts ? 

If this is a correct view of the subject, (and it is the view of a calm 
bystander, who earnestly craves the welfare of all the parties con- 
cerned,) the question immediately arises, What is the first step which 
the federal government of the United States may best adopt, in order 
to this grand end ? To me it appears that the first step ought to be 
the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia. I am aware 
that the Senate has already passed a resolution against this measure, 
and that the very petitions of the people in furtherance of it, are ex- 
cluded, by a provision which Henry Clay himself allows to be uncon- 
stitutional, from the consideration of the legislature. I lament that 
Congress has thus, for the present, debarred itself from that free discus- 
sion of the subject, which would lead to a development of the merits 
of the case. But I venture to believe that the more the point is con- 
sidered by individual enquirers, the more general will the conviction 
become, first, that this measure is fair ; and secondly, that it is de- 
sirable and even necessary. 

On a reference to Sec. viii. Art. 17, of the Constitution of the United 
States, I find it stated that " Congress shall have the power to exercise 
exclusive legislation, in all cases whatsoever, over such district, (not 
exceeding ten miles square,) as may, by cession of particular states, 



PREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. » 

and the acceptance of Congress, become the seat of the government 
of the United States." 

The words of this provision are obviously strong and comprehen- 
sive. I think it probable that the peculiar subject, either of the aboli- 
tion or non-abolition of slavery, may not. have been contemplated, 
when the article was formed ; but if either of these things was in 
view with the framers of the article, one must conclude from the words 
" in all cases whatsoever" that there was a design to include, rather 
than exclude, the abolition of slavery. Had there been entertained 
any secret reserve on this particular point, it is scarcely to be believed 
that expressions would have been adopted, so full, so explicit, so com- 
pletely applicable to this, as to any other change, which Congress might 
deem advisable, in the internal regulation of the District to be ceded. 
I perfectly agree, however, with Henry Clay, in the opinion, that the 
true and simple intent of this article was, to give to Congress full 
power to effect any regulations in the District, which would render it 
suitable as the seat of government of the people of the United 
States — that great, free, and happy nation, which I trust is yet destined 
to afford the world an example of the blessed union of public prospe- 
rity with public virtue. 

No sooner was the District of Columbia placed under the sole le- 
gislative control of the federal union, than Congress, and through 
Congress, the nation at large, became morally responsible for the con- 
sistency of the laws and customs of that District, with the prin- 
ciples of justice and mercy. It is astonishing that the enlightened 
statesman with whom I am venturing to argue, should confine his 
view of this subject, to the mere question of the convenience of Con- 
gress, and the personal accommodation of its members. Higher and 
larger interests are here at stake. In the circumstance that in the 
District which surrounds the Capitol, six thousand persons are pursu- 
ing their daily labors in the character of slaves, there is indeed nothing 
which affects the personal ease of the debaters within the House. 
Nay, there is nothing to interrupt their discussions, or even to mar the 
pleasures of their social intercourse, in the notorious facts, that a prison 
strictly belonging to the government, is sometimes used as a jail for the 
stowage of negroes for sale — that human beings are publicly sold by 
auction, in the streets of Washington — and that companies of our 
colored brethren, chained together by the neck, are marched, through 
that city, to the Southern States, without let or hindrance. 

But these are facts which, taking place at the seat of government 
and under the sole control and responsibility of Congress, involve the 
American people, as a nation, in the guilt of slavery ; they degrade 

2 



10 FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 

her character in the view of the nations of the earth, by affording a 
palpable contradiction to the principles on which her constitution 
was founded ; and, worst of all, they have a direct tendency to sepa- 
rate her from the favor of that perfectly righteous Being, on whom the 
welfare of nations depends. On the simple ground therefore, of the 
true meaning of this article in the constitution, (viz. that the legisla- 
tive control of Congress over the District should be fully and freely 
exercised, in all cases which apply to its suitability as a seat of gov- 
ernment for the confederate nation,) it seems unquestionably to fol- 
low that the abolition of slavery, within these limits, is matter of fair- 
ness to the states by which the District was ceded, as well as of justice 
to the nation herself. And, further, the very same considerations which 
evince such a measure to be fair, afford abundant evidence that it is 
desirable and necessary — necessary to the comfort, the reputation, 
and the true prosperity, of the Union. 

Henry Clay has treated the abolition of slavery in the District, as a 
mere introduction to ulterior measures, and as of small importance 
in itself; but the train of reasoning which has now been adopted, may 
serve to show that this object is, in itself worthy of the most ardent 
and persevering endeavors. The District of Columbia is the very 
point at which slavery, and all the guilt attached to it, comes into 
awful interference with the character of the Union. The nation 
owes the abolition of it, there, to the cause of her own honor and 
integrity, in the sight of God and man. 

tn Art. iv. Sec. 3, of the Constitution, power is given to Congress 
"to make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory, or 
other property belonging to the United States." In one of the terri- 
tories thus placed under the direct regulation of Congress, — Florida — 
slavery exists. This, therefore, is a case analogous in its nature to 
that of the District of Columbia. In permitting the continuance of 
slavery in Florida, Congiess, and the federal Union which it represents, 
are involved in the guilt of slavery. It is not indeed an instance com- 
parable in point of aggravation, or in its bearing on the character of 
the nation, to that of the District of Columbia. It is more like the 
involvement under which the British nation labored, while slavery 
continued in her West Indian colonies — a circumstance widely differ- 
ing from the open allowance of the system in London, — or in Wash- 
ington, — at the seat of government itself, at the very heart of the 
nation's acting. Still, there is an unquestionable involvement even 
as it relates to Florida ; one which loudly calls on Congress for the 
extinction of slavery in that territory, not merely for the sake of the 
oppressed, but for the welfare and benefit of the nation at large. 



FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 11 

If I am correct in my understanding of Henry Clay's remarks on 
the subject, Florida was not included within the geographical limits of 
a certain compromise made between the free and slave states, after 
that deplorable event, the admission of Missouri, as a slave state, into 
the American Union. The mere fact of her southerly location, there- 
fore, must surely be regarded as presenting no adequate obstacle to 
the progress of the cause of justice and mercy within her borders. 
The eternal rule of right varies not with the direction of the com- 
pass. 

We are now come to two points of the subject, which require some 
consideration without further delay. The first is immediate abolition, 
the second is compensation. 

In holding out the abolition of slavery, in the District of Columbia 
and Florida, as the first steps which ought to be taken in the progress 
of the great cause of universal liberty, I do not hesitate to declare that 
I mean immediate abolition. While I entertain much respect for 
sincere friends of the freedom of the slave, who consider that it is not 
expedient for the slave himself to be entrusted with his freedom, until 
lie is prepared for it by a process of amelioration, — while I am aware 
that this was the prevailing sentiment many years since, with the ad- 
vocates for freedom in Great Britain itself, — I think it must be allow- 
ed, that both principle and experience are on the side of immediate, 
rather than gradual, abolition. The principle of the question appears 
to me to be embraced in the good old Scripture precept, li Cease to do 
evil." God makes no compromise with sin. When we are convinced 
that any practice, in which we are involved, is sinful in his sight, we 
must cease from it at once, and without reserve, and leave the result in 
the hands of Him who judgeth in the earth. Whether we act as in- 
dividuals, or in our corporate capacity as states and nations, duty is 
ours, and the consequences may be safely committed to the care of a 
righteous and benevolent Providence. This I apprehend to be the 
dictate, not only of faith, but of common sense and reason. Let us 
clear ourselves of the sin. Let us get rid of the plague. As it is the 
shortest and easiest, so I believe it will be found the safest, road to a 
final settlement of the matter. As it is always right, so it is always 
safe, to depart from evil and sin not. There is no expediency com- 
parable to that of unreserved submission to the revealed will of God. 

But this is a subject on which a triumphant appeal may now be made 
to experience. When the British emancipation act had passed the le- 
gislature in 1.8*34, while the generality of the West Indian colonies of 
Great Britain availed themselves of the preparatory system of appren- 
ticeship, — evidently taking the unrequited labor of six years, as part 



12 FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 

of the price of their negroes, — one of the principal of these coIonies 7 
Antigua, wisely determined to bestow on her slave population, the 
precious boon of immediate and unrestricted liberty. It is now nearly 
five years since this grand experiment was tried, and abundant oppor- 
tunity has been afforded of ascertaining the results. There are, in 
Antigua, about thirty thousand negroes engaged in the cultivation of 
the soil, — and chiefly on sugar plantations. The results are — not 
tumult, contention for superiority over the whites, rebellion, and mas- 
sacre, (those frightful dreams of the future, which Henry Clay has 
permitted to haunt his imagination,) — but peace, order, and tran- 
quillity ; not confusion and misery, arising from the forced juxtapo- 
sition or mixture of two opposite races, but a quiet possession of equal 
rights, and pursuit of equal duties, without reference to the color of the 
skin ; not a descent into a farther depth of vice and barbarism, but a 
decided improvement, in mental and moral cultivation ; not the dimi- 
nution of trade, and the depreciation of property, but an increase of 
commercial prosperity, and a vast improvement in the value of real 
estate ; not a distraction of sentiment on the subject which divides 
so many in this land, but a universal concurrence of opinion, among 
whites and blacks, planters and laborers, that slavery had been their 
curse, and that the abolition of it is now their blessing* 

* Probably it will be allowed that no test of the propriety of immediate aboli- 
tion, can be stronger than that arising from the comparative value of real pro- 
perty, before and after the act of justice. The information on this subject, with 
regard to Antigua, contained in the following paragraphs, is of a most conclusive 
character. 

" Eighteenth proposition. — Real estate has risen in value since emanci- 
pation ; mercantile and mechanical occupations have received a fresh impulse ; 
and the general condition of the colony is decidedly more nourishing than at 
any former period. 

' The credit of the island has decidedly improved. The internal prosperity 
of the island is advancing in an increased ratio. More buildings have been 
erected since emancipation, than for twenty years before. Stores and shops 
have multiplied astonishingly ; I can safely say that their number has more than 
quintupled since the abolition of slavery.' — Dr. Ferguson. 

1 Emancipation has very greatly increased the value of, and consequently the 
demand for, real estate. That which three years ago was a drug altogether 
unsaleable by private bargain, has now many inquirers after it, and ready pur- 
chasers at good prices. The importation of British manufactured goods has 
been considerably augmented — probably one-fourth. 

' The credit of the planters who have been chiefly affected by the change, has 
been much improved. And the great reduction of expense in managing the 
estates, has made them men of more real wealth, and consequently raised their 
credit, both with the English merchants and our own.' — J. Scotland, Sen., Esq. 

' The effect of emancipation upon the commerce of the island must needs 
have been beneficial, as the laborers indulge in more wheaten flour, rice, mack- 
erel, dry fish, and salt-pork, than formerly. More lumber is used in the superior 
cottages now built for their habitations. More dry goods — manufactures of wool, 
cotton, linen, silk, leather, &c, are also used, now that the laborers can better 
afford to indulge their propensity for gay clothing.' — Statement of a merchant 
and agent for estates. 



FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 



13 



The system of apprenticeship was a most unfortunate attempt, 
partly to prepare the slave for his freedom, and partly to reconcile the 
planter to approaching emancipation. It is now universally under- 
stood, that the true effect of these intermediate measures has been 
that of irritating all parties against each other, and of subjecting the 
West Indian Colonies which adopted it, to so much difficulty and dis- 
tress, that, with astonishing unanimity, they all arrived at the deter- 
mination of bringing this anomalous system to a conclusion, two years 
before the time fixed upon by Parliament. Thus the great mass, of 
the once slave population of the British West Indies, became free, 
without restriction, on the first of the Eighth Month, (August,) of 
the last year. If, in some of these colonies, and especially Jamaica, 
some difficulties have since arisen between the planters and the labor- 
ers, those difficulties ought surely to be ascribed, not to the abolition of 
slavery, but to those four years of wretched altercation — not to say 
persecution and cruelty — by which all parties were, disturbed, and, in 
some degree, unfitted for any new relations to each other. But, in the 
mean time, the cause of fair work for fair wages, has been making 
gradual and certain progress. The cessation from a state of slavery, 
has been followed by no anarchy, no rebellion, no bloodshed, but by 
a decrease of crime, and by a marked improvement in substantial 
prosperity.* 

' Real estate lias risen in value, and mercantile business has greatly improved.' 
— H. Armstrong, Esq. 

"A merchant of St.John's informed us, that real estate had increased in value 
at least fifty per cent. He mentioned the fact, that an estate which, previous 
to emancipation, could not be sold for £600 current, lately brought £2000 cur- 
rent." — Thome and Kimball's Six Months' Tour in Antigua, Barbadoes, and 
Jamaica. 

The information contained in this work, on the subject of Antigua, will be 
found fully to substantiate the account I have given, of the effects produced in 
that island by immediate emancipation. 

* The following statements respecting Barbadoes present, on the present point, 
a most cheering and animating picture. — The first has reference to the decrease 
of crime. 

From the Barbadian of Dec. 1. 

Barbadoes. — Comparative Table, exhibiting the number of complaints prefer- 
red against the Apprentice population of this Colony, in the months of Au- 
gust, September, and to the 15th of October, 1837 ; together with the com- 
plaints charged against Free Laborers of the same Colony, during the months 
of August, September, and to the 15th of October, 1838. The former com- 
piled from the Monthly Journals of the Special Justice of the Peace, and the 
latter from the Returns of the Local Magistracy, transmitted to his excellency 
the Governor. 

" Apprenticeship. 
Total of complaints vs. Apprentices, from the 1st to 31st 

August, 1837, 1708 

Ditto, from the 1st to 30th September, 1464 

Ditto, from the 1st to 15th October, 574 



Grand Total, 3746 



14 FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 

Henry Clay, for reasons best known to himself, looks forward to 
' : disastrous" consequences, from West Indian emancipation. But, 
there can be little doubt, that, in sober truth, the abolition of slavery in 
the West Indies — although in so great a majority of instances unfor- 
tunately managed — is gradually proving itself to be a blessing to all 
classes concerned. May the day be hastened, when the same blessing 
shall crown the prosperity of the United States ! That nothing dis- 

Total number of Apprentices punished from the 1st to 31st 

August, 1608 

Ditto, from 1st to 31st September, 1321 

Ditto, from the 1st to 15th October, 561 

Grand Total, 3490 
Total compromised, admonished and dismissed, from 1st to 

31st August, 105 

Ditto, from the 1st to 30th September, 113 

Ditto, from 1st to 15th October, 38 

Total, 256 
Deficiency in compromised cases in 1837, comparatively 

with those of 1838, 158 

Grand Total, 414 
" Freedom. 
Total of complaints vs. Laborers, from the 1st to the 31st 

August, 1838, 582 

Ditto, from the 1st to the 30th September, 386 

Ditto, from the 1st to the 15th October, 103 



Total, 1071 

Comparative surplus of complaints in 1837, 2675 

Grand Total, 3746 
Total of Laborers punished from the 1st to the 31st August, 

1838, 334 

Ditto, from the 1st to 30th September, 270 

Ditto, from the 1st to 15th October, 53 



Total, 657 
Comparative surplus of punishment in 1837, 2833 



Grand Total, 3490 
Total compromised, admonished and dismissed from the 1st 

to the 31st August, 248 

Ditto, from the 1st to 30th September, 116 

Ditto, from the 1st to 15th October, 50 



Grand Total, 414 

" Note. — It may be proper to remark that the accompanying General Abstract 
for August, September, and to the 15th October, 1837, does not include com- 
plaints preferred and heard before the Local Magistrates during those months, 
for such offences — viz. for misdemeanors, petty debts, assaults and petty thefts 
— as were not cognizable by the Special Justices ; so that estimating these of- 
fences — the number of which does not appear in the Abstract for 1837 — at a 
similar number as that enumerated in the Abstract for 1838, the actual relative 
difference of punishments between the two and a half months in 1837, and those 
in 1838, would thus appear : — 



FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 15 

astrous is now to be anticipated from this great event, may be safely 
concluded From the following cheering sentence in the speech of Queen 
Victoria, at the late. opening of Parliament, six months after the date 
of entire freedom. — u It is with great satisfaction that I am enabled 
to inform you that, throughout the whole of my West Indian posses- 
sions, the period fixed bylaw, for the final and complete emancipation 
of the negroes, has been anticipated by acts of the colonial legislatures ; 

" Surplus of Apprentices punished in 1837, as above, 2833 

" Offences in August, September, and to the 15th October, 1837, 
heard before the General Justices of the Peace, and esti- 
mated as follows: — 

Petty thefts, 75 

Assaults, 143 

Misdemeanors, 98 

Petty debts, 19 

335 



Actual surplus of punishment in 1837, 3168 

The second gives an account of the general prosperity of the colony. 
From the Mercury. 
Letter from W. R. Hayes, Esq., Barbadoes, W. I., to H. G. Ludlow, of New 

Haven. 

" Barbadoes, Dec. 26th, 1838. 

I gave you, in my last, some account of the manner in which the first day of 
emancipation came and went in this island. We very soon afterwards received 
similar accounts from all the neighboring islands. In all of them, the day was 
celebrated as an occasion " of devout thanksgiving and praise to God, for the 
happy termination of slavery." In all of them, the change took place in a man- 
ner highly creditable to the emancipated, and intensely gratifying to the friends 
of liberty. The quiet, good order, and solemnity of the day, were every where 
remarkable. Indeed, is it not a fact worth remembering, that whereas, in for- 
mer years, a single day's relaxation from labor was met by the slaves with shout- 
ing, and revelry, and merry-making, yet now, when the last link of slavery was 
broken, for ever, sobriety and decorum were especially the order of the day ? 
The perfect order and subordination to the laws, which marked the first day of 
August, are yet unbroken. We have now nearly five months' experience of 
entire emancipation ; and I venture to say, that a period of more profound 
peace never existed in the West Indies. There have been disputes about wages, 
as in New England and in other free countries ; but no concert, no combination 
even, here ; and the only attempt at a combination was among the planters, to 
keep down wages — and that but for a short time only. I will not enter partic- 
ularly into the questions, whether or not the people will continue to work for 
wages, whether they will remain quiet, or, on the other hand, whether the island 
will be suffered to become desolate, and the freed slaves relapse into barbarism, 
&c. These things have been speculated about, and gloomy predictions have 
had their day ; the time has now come for the proof. People do not buy land 
and houses, and rent properties for long terms of years, in countries where life 
is insecure, or where labor cannot be had, and the tendency of things is to ruin 
and decay. In short, men, in their senses, do not embark on board a sinking 
ship. Confidence is the very soul of prosperity ; of the existence of this confi- 
dence in this island, the immense operations in real estate since the first of 
August, are abundant proof. There are multitudes of instances, in which es- 
tates have sold for $20,000 more than was asked for them six months ago ; and 
yet at that time they were considered very hi^h. A proprietor who was per- 
suaded, a few weeks since, to part with his estate, for a very large sum of money, 



16 FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 

and, that the transition, from the temporary system of apprenticeship 
to entire freedom, has taken place without any disturbance of public 
order and tranquillity." Under the peculiar circumstances of the case, 
could any man reasonably ask for more? 

I now come to the subject of compensation, — a subject which is 
often supposed to involve the question of abolition in greater practical 

went and bought it back again, at an advance of $9,600. A great many long 
leases of property have been entered into. An estate called ' Edgecumbe,' 
mentioned by Thome and Kimball, has been rented for twenty-one years, at 
$7,500 per annum. Another, called the ' Hope,' has been rented for ten years, 
at £2000 sterling, equal to $9,600, per annum. Another, after being rented at 
a high price, was re-let by the lessee, who became entirely absolved from the 
contract, and took $16,000 for his bargain. If required, I could give you a host 
of similar cases, with the names of the parties. But it seems unnecessary. 
The mere impulse given to the value of property, in this island, by emancipation, 
is a thing as notorious here, as the fact of emancipation. 

But are not crimes more frequent than before ] I have now before me a Bar- 
badoes newspaper, printed two weeks since, in which the fact is stated, that in 
all the country prisons, among a population of eighty thousand, only two pri- 
soners were confined for any cause whatever ! 

' But,' says a believer in the necessity of colonization, 'how will you get rid 
of the neoroes V I answer by adverting to the spectacle which is now witnessed 
in all the islands, of the former proprietors of slaves, now employers of free 
laborers, using every endeavor to prevent emigration. Trinidad, Demerara, 
and Berbice, want laborers. The former has passed a law to pay the passage 
money of any laborer who comes to the island, leaving him free to choose his 
employment. Demerara and Berbice have sent emigration agents to this and 
other islands, to induce the laborers to join those colonies, offering high wages, 
good treatment, &c. On the other hand, Barbadoes, Grenada, St. Vincent, and 
all the old and populous islands, individually and collectively, by legislative re- 
solves, legal enactments, &c, loudly protest that they have not a man to spare ! 
What is still better, the old island proprietors are, on every hand, building new 
houses for the peasantry, and, with great forethought, adding to their comfort ; 
knowing that they will thereby secure their contentment on their native soil. 
As a pleasing instance of the good understanding which now exists between 
proprietors and laborers, I will mention, that great numbers of the former were 
in town on the 24th, buying up pork, hams, rice, &c, as presents for their peo- 
ple on the ensuing Christmas ; a day which has this year passed by, amid scenes 
of quiet, Sabbath devotions, — a striking contrast to the tumult and drunkenness 
of former times. I cannot close this subject, without bearing my testimony to 
the correctness of the statements made by our countrymen, Thome and Kim- 
ball. They were highly esteemed here by all classes, and had free access to 
every source of valuable information. If they have not done justice to the sub- 
ject of their book, it is because the manifold blessings of a deliverance from 
slavery are beyond the powers of language to represent. When I attempt, as 
I have done in this letter, to enumerate a few of them, I know not where to 
begin, or where to end. One must see, in order to know and feel how unspeak- 
able a boon these islands have received, — a boon which is by no means confined 
to the emancipated slaves ; but, like the dews and rains of heaven, it fell upon 
all the inhabitants of the land, bond and free, rich and poor together. 

It is here a common thing — when you hear one speak of the benefits of eman- 
cipation — the remark, that it ought to have taken place long ago. Some say 
fifty years ago, some twenty, and some, that, at any rate, it ought to have taken 
place all at once, without any apprenticeship. The noon-day sun is not clearer 
than the fact, that no preparation was required on the part of the slaves. It 
was the dictate of an accusing conscience, that foretold of bloodshed, and burn- 
ing, and devastation. Can it be supposed to be an accidental circumstance, that 



FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 17 

difficulty, than any other point. If, indeed, it is true, as Henry Clay 
alleged, that twelve hundred, if not fifteen hundred, millions of dollars 
must be raised, and pass into the coffers of the slaveholders, before 
slavery can be rightly abolished, then the great object in view does 
indeed appear to recede, of necessity, into the distance. But I can 
scarcely believe that the orator was serious, when he made this asser- 
tion. In the first place, as it regards the abolition of slavery, so far 
as it can be effected by Congress, ninety-nine hundredths of this en- 
ormous amount, are immediately to be deducted. When the happy 
era arrives, at which the independent slave states shall abolish their 
own slavery, they will, of course, severally settle the question of com- 
pensation, as may best suit their views and circumstances. In point 
of fact, Virginia, North and South Carolina, and Kentucky, for exam- 
ple, are no more likely, at that period, to grant compensation for the 
slaves, than were Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New- York, Sic, when 
they enacted the abolition of slavery. Undoubtedly, it will be found, 
in the slave states themselves^ as it was in the states now cleared of 
slavery, that the throwing off of that burden and curse, is a public 
benefit, in which no parties will have more ample reason to rejoice, 
than the slaveholders themselves. 

But, as it relates to the only acts of abolition which can be effected 
by Congress — of the slaves in the District and in Florida — the diffi- 
culty, if there is one, is reduced to a most manageable compass. I 
would simply remark on the subject, that no compensation to the 
slaveholders would be required, as far as I can perceive, on the pure 
principle of justice. Here is a government, having under its imme- 
diate control and protection, two classes of persons ; — first, a certain 
number of American citizens, who hold what they deem to be a pro- 
perty in their fellow men ; secondly, a multitude of individuals, who, 

peace and good will have, uniformly, in all the colonies, followed the steps of 
emancipation 1 Is it not rather the broad seal of attestation to that heaven-born 
principle, ' It is safe to do right V Dear brother, if you or any other friend to 
downtrodden humanity, have any lingering fear that the blaze of light which is 
now going forth from the islands will ever be quenched, even for a moment, 
dismiss that fear. The light, instead of growing dim, will continue to brighten. 
Your prayers for the safe and happy introduction of freedom, upon a soil long 
trodden by the foot of slavery, may be turned into praises, for the event has 
come to pass. When shall we be able to rejoice in such a consummation in our 
beloved America? How I long to see a deputation of slaveholders making the 
tour of these islands. It vould only be necessary for them to use their eyes 
and ears. Argument would be quite out of place. Even an appeal to principle 
— to compassion — to the fear of God — would not be needed. Self interest alone 
would decide them in favor of immediate emancipation. 

Ever yours, 

W. R. Hayes." 
3 



18 FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 

although strangers in the land, have a claim on the same property, by 
an infinitely superior title — a title declared by the constitution of the 
North American Union, to be absolutely inalienable. Is it possible to 
doubt that the controling and protecting government, in such a case, 
is bound, by the most sacred obligation?, to restore this property to its 
rightful owners ; and that those who hold it wrongfully, must take the 
consequences 1 

But let me not be misunderstood, when I use the word wrongfully. 
I am not accusing the slaveholders of the District and of Florida, of 
wrongful intentions. I am aware that long habit and custom have 
cast a thick veil over the wrong which they are doing. I have no 
doubt whatever that many of them, as in others of the American slave 
states, treat their colored people with great kindness ; I feel nothing but 
Christian love and good will towards the parties in question. Still the 
property which they claim never was, and never can be, their own. 
No human laws can give it to them. No custom can effect for them 
a prescriptive right in it. No length of tenure can secure it for them, 
de jure. They are bound by the principles of justice to resign it to 
its rightful possessors ; and to restore to their slaves that use of their 
own persons, for their own benefit, which belongs to them in virtue of 
the eternal law of nature and of God. 

I have only to add, that, with this full understanding of the princi- 
ples of the case, and under the further assurance that the slaveholders 
would themselves be gainers by the change, I should hope that Con- 
gress, with the vast resources of the Union at its disposal, would treat 
these persons with a liberality becoming the nation, and accompany 
the act of abolition with such a gratuity, as would render it easy and 
popular to all the parlies concerned. The sacrifice would, in compari- 
son, be nothing. All the states would be equally interested in making 
it because it would be intended to facilitate an affair of national 
justice and honor. Let the glorious act be so performed, as not to call 
forth a single complaint. Let no voice be heard but that of satisfaction 
and gratitude ! 

A few millions of dollars would be a small price to pay for the deli- 
verance of the Union from the stain and dishonor of slavery. 

I am perfectly aware that, according to the present constitution of 
the United States, the general government has no power over the in- 
ternal constitutions of its component republics, in their individual and 
separate capacity. Should Congress, however, be induced to pay its 
debt, of justice to the slave population of the District and of Florida 
it may be hoped that considerable effect would be produced on the 



FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 19 

legislatures of the slave states, by the force of example. An example 
of public virtue, in which the slave states themselves, as part of the 
Union, would have their share, could scarcely fail to operate on the 
more enlightened and reflecting part of their own citizens. 

For my own part, I entertain a firm belief that this example would 
be rendered efficacious, not only by the perfect harmlessness of the 
measure of immediate abolition, but by its beneficial results. Florida 
might present a useful pattern to (he states in which the colored popu- 
lation is large in proportion to the white inhabitants ; and the District 
would, as I believe, afford a proof to Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, 
North Carolina, Tennessee, and Kentucky, that they might abolish 
their slavery with propriety and safety. Kentucky would then 
no longer be afraid to make those changes in her constitution, with a 
view to emancipation, which her distinguished Senator, (in contradic- 
tion to his good old character of a friend to universal freedom.) de- 
clares himself to have been lately engaged in preventing. 

But there is one step for the benefit of the slaves throughout the 
Union, which Congress appears to have a constitutional right to take, 
iind which would operate with more than the force of mere example. 
While the internal institutions of the states, in their individual and 
separate capacity, are out of its reach, it has the power " to regulate 
commerce with foreign nations, and among the several states, 
and with the Indian Tribes." — Constitution, Sec. viii., Art. 3. Not- 
withstanding Henry Clay's objections, it appears to me, on calm and 
deliberate reflection, that Congress has therefore power to put an end 
to free America's chief disgrace — namely, her internal traffic in 
slaves. 

The plea which he urges against this inference from the ar- 
ticle on commerce, is double ; — first, that this alleged traffic is not 
commerce at all, but is only to be regarded as the " removal" of slaves 
from one state to another; and, secondly, that if it were commerce, 
the power of the federal government would extend only to the regu- 
lation of it. It is a power to regulate, not to annihilate ; and he has 
declared his judgment, that it would be no more competent to Congress 
to prevent Maryland and Virginia from supplying the South with 
slaves, than to prevent Ohio from supplying the East with live stock. 

This comparison affords an affecting instance of the facility with 
which, under the prevailing influence of slavery, t even enlightened 
men are induced to forget the impassable distinctions between human 
beings of a color different from their own, and the beasts which perish. 
But it is, nevertheless, an apt comparison, as evincing the true nature 
and character of that which is called, by this statesman, the removal 



20 FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 

of slaves. The fact of the case undoubtedly is, that this removal is 
as strictly and properly a traffic — a branch of the commerce among 
the states of this Union — as is the " removal" of live stock from 
Ohio to Pennsylvania or Maryland. In both cases, the living crea- 
tures, which form the article of traffic, are first raised, or bred, by the 
land-owner or farmer ; secondly, sold to the merchant or jobber ; 
thirdly, driven under his orders to their place of destination, and 
fourthly, resold to the user or consumer. It is impossible to conceive 
of anything more regularly a traffic, than is this " removal" of oxen 
from Ohio, and of " slaves" from Maryland. It is a trade in the 
animal productions of the earth, precisely analogous, in its several 
stages, to a trade in cotton. The planter raises the cotton ; he sells 
it to the merchant ; the merchant ships it to its place of destination ; 
and there it is resold to the consumer. 

Every humane and generous mind must revolt at the notion of 
breeding human beings for sale ; and the term itself is scarcely toler- 
able to polite ears. But that they are actually bred for sale, in some 
of the slave states of North America, is a fact which, I fear, cannot 
be denied. Most heartily do I compassionate the slaveholder of Vir- 
ginia, who, seated in his old and gentlemanlike mansion, surveys the 
wide demesnes which have descended to him from his ancestors. His 
lands long since exhausted by slave labor, present to his eye a brown 
and dreary aspect, except where they have become overgrown by a 
miserable forest of pines. His black people have multiplied around 
him, and he scarcely knows how to feed them. His family necessities 
are perpetually calling for money. The slave jobber is prowling about 
the neighborhood, with his tempting offers of five hundred dollars for 
a lad or girl, or one thousand dollars for an adult person. The tempt- 
ation soon becomes irresistible, and slave after slave supplies the 
southern market. By degrees he discovers that by far the most 
profitable article which his estate produces, is the slave ; and, instead 
of the old fashioned cultivator of the soil, he becomes, by slow degrees 
and almost insensibly to himself, a slave-breeder. But, whether this 
be, or be not, the true trade and profession of the slaveholder, it is all 
one to the slave. He is sold to the merchant, torn from his wife and 
family, lodged in some negro jail, at Baltimore, Winchester, or Wash- 
ington, and finally driven, as one of a handcuffed gang, to Alabama 
or Louisiana, — there to be sold, with an enormous profit for the job- 
ber, to the planter of cotton, coffee, or sugar. 

All this is no exaggeration, as the Senator of Kentucky must be fully 
aware, of the character of this nefarious traffic; nor can it be questioned 
that it is a traffic carried on to an enormous extent. I learn, on good 



FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 21 

authority, that two-thirds of the funds of a principal state bank, were last 
year invested in loans to slave merchants ; and, there cannot be the 
least question of the fact, that the yearly commerce of Virginia and 
North Carolina, in human beings, amounts to many millions of dol- 
lars. Would it not be safe to say that it is the largest article of com- 
merce known in those states'? That it is also an extensive branch of 
trade in Maryland, and some other parts of the Union, is beyond all 
doubt. 

But, allowing that this is the truth of the case, Henry Clay would 
persuade his hearers that Congress cannot touch the question, because 
its power over the commerce between the states, is a power to regulate 
only, not to destroy. It is matter of surprise that the very olwious 
fallacy of this plea, should not have been perceived by the experienced 
statesman who urged it. Who can fail to remark that in the article 
of the constitution, which applies to the subject, the word " commerce" is 
used in a wide and general sense? And who does not know that in 
the due regulation of commerce, in this comprehensive meaning, the 
prohibition of a trade in "particular articles, is frequently involved ? 
The celebrated tariff of North America was, I presume, intended at 
least to impede the introduction of certain articles of British manu- 
facture, into this country ; and every one knows that duties are some- 
times laid on importation, so heavy as to amount to an absolute 
prohibition. Thus, in the "regulation" of the commerce of the 
United States with foreign nations, a traffic in particular articles 
may be legitimately annihilated, for the purpose of serving some 
larger or higher interest, for the national benefit. The same prin- 
ciple obviously applies to the commerce amongst the states. If a free 
traffic in some particular article, among some of the states, is injurious 
to the nation at large, — if it is at variance with great principles, on 
which the national prosperity depends, — if it is illegitimate in its 
very nature, — the prohibition of such an unhealthy branch of trade, 
must surely form a just and proper part of that "regulation!'' of com- 
merce among the several states, which is committed to the care and 
authority of Congress. 

The subject now before me I feel to be one of most affecting and 
serious import. In the character of an ardent friend to every class of 
society in this country, and a hearty lover of her noble constitution, I 
am constrained to speak in plain terms upon this vital topic. With 
diffidence, yet with firmness, I must venture to express my own con- 
viction, that the internal slave trade of this country, though differing 
in circumstances from the African slave trade, is the same with it in 
principle ; that it is utterly unlawful and spurious, and opposed to the 



22 FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 

very nature of a healthy commerce; that it is a blot on the escutcheon 
of this free and mighty nation, in the sight of all the nations of the 
earth ; that so far from promoting the prosperity of the states which 
practice it, it is to them, like closes of brandy to a man sick of a fever — 
a mere diversion from that sound application of their resources, under 
the banner of freedom, which can alone restore the prosperity of which 
slavery has deprived them ; and, finally, that for all these reasons, it is 
the high, yet simple, duty of Congress, as the authorised regulator 
of commerce, to extinguish, without delay, this nefarious traffic. 

Whenever the happy day arrives when the federal government 
shall be induced to pay this debt to the cause of justice and huma- 
nity, such a proceeding can scarcely fail to be quickly followed by the 
abolition of slavery, in all those states of the Union, in which the 
slaves are becoming comparatively useless. The old outlet for them 
will be stopped ; and, to issue the final decree, that they shall be free, 
and at Hberiy, therefore, to provide for themselves, as may best suit 
them, will be found to be the only practicable remedy for the incon- 
veniences and miseries of the present state of things. The notion of 
expatriation must surely be regarded as absurd. Here is a population, 
for example, of a million of persons, seven hundred thousand whites, 
and three hundred thousand blacks, mingled together in one great 
society. It may, possibly, be an unfortunate circumstance, as Henry 
Clay regards it, that two bodies of men, differing so decidedly in 
the color of their skin, and the texture of their hair, should be thrown 
into juxtaposition. But such is the fact, and it is a fact which ap- 
pears to admit of no material or extensive change ; for as the po- 
pulation of both classes of these inhabitants increases, the relative 
proportion will, of course, continue nearly the same. 

Here I beg leave to offer a few words on the subject of the coloni- 
zation of Africa, by the sending out of free colored people from North 
America. As a friend to the African race, I am very far from being 
opposed to such a measure, so long as it is perfectly voluntary on the 
part of those who go out as colonists. I believe that every well 
ordered scheme of colonization ought to be encouraged, for the sake 
of Africa. I am persuaded that colonization and legitimate com- 
merce, connected with plans for civil and Christian improvement, are 
likely to prove the most efficacious means of undermining that most 
tremendous scourge, the African slave trade ; and there is reason to 
believe, that the colony of Liberia has been valuable to Africa in this, 
as well as in other respects. 

But to hold up such a scheme as a means of the gradual extinction 
of slavery in the United States, and still more, as a method of expa- 



FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 23 

triating from America the whole of the African race, has always 
appeared to me to be a chimera of a very mischievous tendency. It 
diverts the attention of the public from the two grand objects, of the 
abolition of slavery by law, and of the civil and moral improvement 
of the mass of the colored population, in that which is iis present, and 
can scarcely fail to be its permanent, location. 

Taking it for granted, then, that in such a society as I have depicted, 
(of which, under varied proportions, we have so many examples in the 
United States,) the juxtaposition of white and colored people is perfectly 
inevitable, we may fairly aslc the question, Under what circumstances 
this mixture is likely to be the most disadvantageous ; and what is the 
course of policy which is best calculated to render \\. perfectly harmless! 
So long as one part of the population is composed of slaveholders, and the 
other of slaves, innumerable evils cannot fail to arise from the mixture in 
question. Extensive cruelty and oppression, the exhaustion of the 
legitimate resources of the country, and abounding immorality, — 
amalgamation in its worst form and on a most extensive scale 
— will ever be found the consequence of so anomalous a state of 
society. The results to which we are brought by arguing from prin- 
ciples, are, in this matter, most amply confirmed by fact and experi- 
ence. 

Now, if we set the colored population free — restore them to their 
inalienable natural rights — leave them at liberty to provide for them- 
selves — and suffer the questions of wages and employment to find 
their own level — these evils will soon meet with a remedy. Every 
one must allow that the mixture of white and colored persons, in one 
vast population, is much less injurious, in Philadelphia or New- York, 
for example, than in Richmond or Charleston. The evils arising 
from the juxtaposition of whites and blacks is, in the former places, 
comparatively trifling. Freedom, by its own genial operation, has 
already wrought a vast cure. 

Still, it must be allowed, that the condition of the colored popula- 
tion, even in the free states of this Union, is far from being all that 
the philanthropist and Christian would desire. It appears to me that, 
in various respects, their moral and civil condition is a low one. I 
know that this part of the population contains a large proportion 
of highly respectable persons. I rejoice in their crowded meeting 
houses, and in their increased attention to the improvement of mind, 
and the formation of character. But I long to witness their further 
elevation, in the scale of virtue, sobriety, industry, and knowledge. 
As matters now stand, I can acknowledge that some inconveniences 
do appear to arise from that mixture of whites and blacks in one 



24 FREE AND FRIENDLY REMARKS. 

society, which Henry Clay so strongly deprecates as one of the most 
desperate of political evils. 

And what is the true reason of these inconveniences 1 As I believe, 
it is simply this — that our colored brethren are regarded, in this coun- 
try, even in the free states, as an inferior and degraded race of men. 
If we wish to elevate the character, and increase the usefulness, of 
any class of persons, the worst proceeding which we can possibly 
adopt is, to cultivate a low opinion of them, and to lead them to en- 
tertain that low opinion of themselves. Let us rather lay hold of 
the hopeful side of the question ; let us call to mind that " God has 
made of one blood all the children of men, to dwell on all the face 
of the earth ;" let us for ever bury and forget " the aristocracy of the 
skin ;" let us do every thing in our power, to promote the literary and 
religious instruction of the colored population ; let them be invested 
with the full rights of citizenship, on the same terms as other persons ; 
let every civil prize, every useful employment, every honorable station, 
be thrown open to their exertions. Let us encourage, and never de- 
press, their natural desire to rise. If such should be the course 
happily pursued, I fully believe that the mixture of colors, in the same 
population, would soon be found perfectly harmless. Every man, 
white or black, would rest on his own responsibility ; character, like 
other things, would find its natural level ; light and truth would 
spread without obstruction ; and the North American Union would 
afford to an admiring world, a splendid and unsullied evidence of the 
truth of that mighty principle, on which her constitution is founded, 
" All men are created equal, and are endowed by the Creator with 
certain inalienable rights — life, liberty, and the pursuit 
of happiness." 



