yerbatiiii copy of a letter written by Mr. Garrison to Sarah M. Doaglass, Secre- 
tary of the Female Literary Association of Philadelphia. 

Boston, March 5,1832. 

Miss Douglass: 

I hasten to answer your epistle of the S9th. A copy of the 
Constitution of the FsiEale Literary Association, which was forwarded to me 
sQEie time since, was duly received; but I accidentally mislaid it, and was thus 
prevented giving it an iniriiediate insertion. It was published, however, m the 
Liberator of December 3. ( No. 49 ),with some coiLmendatory reoiarks from the 
West Chester Register. I regret that 1 have not this nunibfr of the paper to 
send you; and the more so, inasmuch as one bundle of the Liberator for subscrib- 
ers m Phi ladelphia, sent by the steam-boat, was lost, containing, I believe, this 
identical number. You may assure the diembers of the Society that the Consti- 
tution has been given to the public through the inedium of the Liberator. If 
I can procure a copy of the paper containing it, I will send it on immediately. 
The formation of this Society is a source of unspeakable satisfac- 
tion to my mind- 1st. It is a proof of the appreciation of knowledge by your 
sex. gndly. It is a concentration of mutual affection, of friendship and love, 
of moral influence, of intellectual strength, which, like a seven-fold cord, can- 
not easily be broken; and which is capable of changing the entire aspect of 
society. sdly. Its effects upon the members of the association must tend to 
stir up in each breast ...not a vain ambition but a laudable spirit of emulation, 
and to perpetuate and enlarge the desire for improvement. 4thly. It cannot 
fail to attract the attention and induce the imitation of your sex in other 
places. athly. It puts a new ?«eapon into my hands to use against southern 



/is.A.l.i y.i p.ii. 



oppressGTtf. Most fervently do I bid you, as a Society, "God speed." Ap- 
proach in your conduct as near to trie angels of heaven as possible,— or rath- 
er, be ye perfect even as your heavenly Father is perfect. My hopes for the 
elevation of your race are mainly centered upon you and others of your sex. 
To you are coffiffiitted,if not the destinies of the present, certainly those of 
the rising generation. You cannot be ignorant of the victorious influence 
which you possess over the imnds of men. You cannot, if you would, be passive; 
you must either pull down or build up, either corrupt or preserve the rnorals 
of the age. There is not a glance of your eye, not a tone of your voice,— 
however seemingly the look of remonstrance or entreaty be disregarded, or the 
word of adfiiOnltion or advice be slighted,— but has a direct connexion with 
the results of masculine actions and pursuits. Were I not sorely oppressed 
with business,! would pour out the fulness of my heart before you; but a few 
brief hints must now suffice. ist. Do not anticipate great and dispropor- 
tionate and hasty success. Let your aids be high, but oe prepared for dis- 
couragements. Do not separate exertion frosri hope; otherwise hope will grow. 
chifrierical and exorbitant, mount so high as to discourage poor exertion, — 
and thus all will end in dreaffiing. Hope is the tiiother of enterprise:— if 
she gently nurse it, and lead it by the hand, and consult its capacity, it i?/ill 
soon ripen frotii infancy into irianhood,and do wonders; but if she grow ^eary 
of tne charge, and leave it a foundling at the door of chance, and run away witn 
fancy, it ffiay pins in neglect or perish. Our expectations should never be 
extravagant; but our endeavors may be always strenuous. sndly. Neither let 
any among you circumscribe her usefulness by deeming herself irresponsible 
or insignificant. I would not encourage vanity, but self respect; nor ex- 
cite complacency, but action. To do good, to destroy prejudice, to lift up the 
helpless, to restore the wandering, in one word to fulfil the design of her ere- 



\ 



/1^,A,i.i v.i p.U 



ation, this, this must aniiriate her at all times. None of you know what you 
can accomplish, but you are sure of this, — your influence cannot possibly die, 
— [ must ?] necessarily, to a great or less degree, pervade the cominunity, — 
though silently perchance, and yet as sensibly as the atmosphere, it rnay fall 
gently upon the white hairs of age, and invigorate his feeble pulse, — upon 
manhood, and confirm his strength, — upon youth, and cool his feverish brow, — - 
upon infancy, and give it tne breatn of life; and so, pervading all ranks and 
ages, it rnay go down from generation to generation fertilizing the earth, and 
nursing fruits and flowers, like a stream trow, its fountain, till it be lost 
in the great ocean of eternity. 

3dly. Let each of you cherish a deep sense of your accountability 
to God and of your obligations to your fellow creatures. Shun no labor; re- 
joice in self-denial; feed your minds with knowledge as regularly as you do 
your bodies with food. Yes, you have iiiinds capable of wondrous enlargement, 
made never to expire, fearfully responsible, majestically great. 

But I must pause. Sarah, you will excuse my freedom in offering 
these hasty, undigested hints, and attribute it to the excessive interest which 
I feel in the welfare of your Society. You write that many are the prayers 
which are daily offered for the preservation of myself and partner. We are 
deeply affected in view of our unworthiness.and of the interest which is ma- 
ifested in our welfare. The Lord has sustained us through many peri is, and 
been our ftock of Defence. Long since we expected to have been cut off by the 
hand of violence; but, by the help of God, we continue unto this day. '/le are 
not afraid nor cast down nor troubled, but courageous^ and animated and Joyful. 
'^^1 I hear nothing from my friend Robert; but 1 trust he continues to 

-^ ; progress m his art,mieeting with increased notice ana encouragement. I send 
my most affectionate remembrances to your parents, and to all inquiring friends. 



^s./l.i.i^,i ^AC 



I hope to S38 you m June, when the annual Convention meets. The colored 
ladies of this city have founded an association on a plan somewhat similar 
to yours. 

No, Sarah, ingratitude is not a characteristic trait of your people. 
Their thoughtfulness flov^js in upon us without measure. 

My partner heartily subscribes to all that I have written. In 
desire and purpose we are one. 

Remember that we have now a Ladies' Department for the Liberator. 
Pray occupy it as often as possible with your productions, and get others of 
your Society to do tne same. 

I am ashamed to send this wretched scrawl, especially when I con- 
trast it with your beautiful penmaaship; but I cannot find time to copy it. 

With singular respect for your iBind and character, 1 remain ever 

Your friend and well wisher, 
Will Lloyd Garrison. 



/"U'A.iA v.i p. 12 



