Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/comeouterismdutyOOgood 



COME-OUTERISM. 



THE 



DUTY OF SECESSION 



FROM A 



CORRUPT CHURCH. 



BY WILLIAM GOODELL. 



NEW YORK 



AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, 

142 NASSAU STREET. 

1845. 



fes. 757^?./ 7 „o,a 



James G. Birney has proved that the " American Church is 
the Bulwark of American Slavery," and Stephen S. Foster, 
that " the American church and clergy are a Brotherhood of 
Thieves." Having thus shown the American church to be 
corrupt, we present our friends with another link in the chain 
of argument, from the hand of William Goodell of Utica, being 
his well-known Essay on the " Duty of Secession from a Cor- 
rupt Church." 

The American Anti-Slavery Society is frequently charged 
with being opposed to all church organizations. The charge 
has been again and again both denied and refuted. Those who 
care to know our views in regard to the churches of the coun- 
try and the course we urge our members to adopt, will find 
them clearly defined in the following pages. Though we 
dift'er on other points, on this Mr. Goodell and ourselves are 
entirely agreed. 

The very head and front of our offending 

Hath this extent — no more. 

W. P. 



DUTY OF SECESSION 

/ 

FROM 

A CORRUPT CHURCH. 



' Come out of her, my people, that ye partake not of her sins, and 
that ye receive not of her plagues.'— Rev. xviii. 4. ^ 

Our Protestant commentators tell us that by the 'Baby- 
lon' of the Apocalypse, we are to understand a corrupt 
CHURCH, and that the proclamation which John heard in 
heaven — ' Come out of her, my people,'' is to be regarded as a 
divine admonition to all faithful Christians, warning them to 
secede from such a church, as from the Anti-Christ, doom- 
ed to perdition, at the brightness of the Savior's appearing. 

It is true they suppose, that the corrupt church, particu- 
larly intended, is the church of Rome ; but it is nevertheless 
equally true that their construction of the passage involves 
and is founded upon the principle, that whenever and loher- 
ever a church, (however distinguished, once, by the divine 
presence and favor) becomes corrupt and apostate, it is the 
duty of all true Christians connected with it, to secede from 
it, because it has thus apostatized, and is become corrupt. It 
has never been doubted that the church of Rome was once 
a true church, and the reason always given for coming out of 
her is her apostacy and corruption. 

Nor is it pretended that the Romish church is the only 
corrupt, apostate, anti-Christian church that the world has 
yet seen, and that is now to be found. The Greek church 
has commonly been considered by Protestants to be essen- 
tially on tlie same foundation with the Romish. And both in 
Old England and New England, the founders of our present 
churches and denominational arrangements have repeatedly 
gone through the process of 'gathering churches out of 



churches,'* on the same principle. The Puritans derived 
their name from their efforts to secure, in this way, a pure 
church. And 'C it be true, as it doubtless is, that secessions 
have often been made on lighter grounds than the alleged 
apostacy, and anti-Christian ciiaracter of the church seceded 
from, tiiat fact only places in a still stronger light the univer- 
sal recognition, by Protestants, of the duty of seceding from 
an anti-Christian church. Indeed, to deny that duty w^ould 
be equivalent to renouncing the Protestant faith, and would 
require our return to the Romish communion. 

Our commentators, moreover, do not commonly construe, 
the Babylon of the Revelations to mean exclusively the Rom- 
ish church, nor do they confine the application of the com- 
mand, in the text, to the Protestant reformers, nor to the du- 
ty of seceding from the Romish communion. Thomas Scott 
says, expressly : 

' This summons concerns all persons in every age ; they who believe 
in Christ, and worship God in the spirit, should separate from so cor- 
rupt a Church, AND FROM ALL OTHKRS THAT ( OPY HLR EX- 
AMPLE of idolatry, persecution, CRUELTY and TYRANNY, and 
avoid being partakers of her sins, even if they have renounced her com- 
munion, or else they may expect to be involved in her plagues.' 

In describing, still further, the anti-Christian practices, on 
account of which the Romish church, 'and all others that 
copy her example,' should be renounced, and separated from 
as corrujit and anti-Christian, the same writer adds : 

' Not only slaves, but the ' souls of men/ are mentioned as articles o^ 
commerce, which is the most infamous of all traffics that the demon o^ 
avarice over devised, but by no means the most uncommon. The sale 
of indu'u>'nces, dispensations, absolutions, masses and bulls, hath great- 
ly enriched the clergy and their dependants, to the deceiving and des- 
troying the souls of millions, and thus by feigned words they made mer- 
chandize of them ; nor has the management of (Church preferments and 
many other thinL^s.been any better than trafficldng in human souls ; and 
it would he gratifying if we could say that this merchandize has been pe- 
culiar to the ROMISH anti- Christ.' 

Again, in his 'Practical Observations' on the chapter, the 
same commentator says: 

'Too often INJUSTICE, OPPRESSION, fraud, avarice or excessive 
indulgence are connected with extensive commerce, and to number the 
^persons of men' with beasts, sheep and horses, as the stock of a farm, 
or with 'jriles of goods, as the cargo of a ship, is. no doubt, a most de- 
testable and wncftmfian practice, fit only for Babylon the (Jreat.' 

And nfter alluding again to those who 'traded in the souls 
of mei',' in the way of ecclesiastical traffic in cures and ben- 
efices, lie adds : 

* Cotton Mathers' prediction concerning the churches in Nev/ Eng- 
land. 



* How fervently should we then pray that God would raise up reform- 
ers, who may contend as firmly, as perseveringly, and as successfully, 
against this vile merchandize, aS some honorable and philanthropical 
persons have against the accursed slave trade. For, when Christ shall 
come again, to drive the buyers and sellers out of the temple, he will 
have much to do with other places besides Rome ' 

Again: 

* But the vengeance of Heaven is coming upon Rome, not for ges- 
tures, garbs and ceremonies, though multiplied, ridiculous, and of bad 
consequence in themselves, but for idolatry, ambition, OPPRESSION, 
CRUELTY to the people of God, imposture, AVARICE, LICEN- 
TIOUSNESS and spiritual TYRANNY. These are the sins, which 
have reached to the heavens, the iniquities which God remembers, and 
the evils FOR WHICH we must STAND ALOOF from her commun- 
ion, and that of ALL OTHERS THAT RESEJVIBLE HER, or we shall 
be involved in their destruction.' 

Thus we have Sci)tt's authority for identifying the abom- 
inations of a pro-slavery Protestant church with those of the 
church of Rome — for applying the warning voice of the 
text to the former as well as to the latter — for insisting that 
cruelty^ tyranny., injustice., oppression, the trafficking in the 
* souls of men,' the numbering of the persons of men with 
beasts, sheep and horses — with bales of goods — are pre- 
eminently among the iniquities, a participation in which 
makes a church (however once favored and spiritual) an anti- 
Christian church — 'the evils for which we must stand aloof 
from her communion, and that of all others that resemble 
her, or we shall be involved in their destruction.' 

It was a flagrant outrage upon self-evident and fundamen- 
tal morality, on the part of the Romish church, that arrested 
the attention of Luther, and convinced him that such a 
church could not be the true church of Christ. That sale of 
indulgences to commit crime was nothing different, in char- 
acter, from the tacit consent of the American churches in 
general, and with few exceptions, that those to whom they 
extend religious fellowship, and with whom they voluntarily 
sustain ecclesiastical relations, may continue to practice 
abominations equal to any conceived or provided for by the 
customers of John Tetzel : and this is true, whether commer- 
cial, political, ecclesiastical or social advantages constitute 
the purchase money pocketed by the churches. The com- 
mon complaint, that the agitation of the subject disturbs and 
endangers the churches, and hazards their peace, sufficiently 
attests this. 

But are our commentators right in teaching the duty of 
secession from a corrupt and anti-Christian church — a 
1* 



church guilty of cruelty, tyranny, oppression, avarice, injus* 
tice — a church that trafficks in.slaves, in bodies and soula 
of men — a church that consents to, or tolerates, or licences 
such abominations among its allies and supporters ? And 
were the Protestant Reformers right, in acting upon tkis 
same principle of secession from such a corrupt church ? 

In maintaining the affirmative of this question, we shall 
endeavor, first to explain, and then prove and illustrate, the 
duty of secession from an apostate church. 



1. FALLACIOUS CREDENTIALS. 

The discussion before us requires a clear understanding 
of what is meant by a corrupt, or apostate, or anti-Christian 
church. In order to this, it may be well to notice a few 
things, very commonly relied upon as evidences or creden- 
tials of a sound Christian church, which, on reflection, will 
be found to be no evidences at all ; being common to true 
churches and to many of those that have apostatized. 

1. HISTORICAL DOCUMENTS. 

Many persons seem to take it for granted, that their church 
must be a true church, because it was founded by the au- 
thority of God, and by wise and good men, or because it 
consisted of good men, at the time of its organization or at 
some past period of its history — because it was founded on 
the true model, was enriched with divine influences, was 
abundantly favored with effusions of the Holy Spirit, and 
was remarkably instrumental in the conversion of sinners, 
and the spread of the true religion. 

Blany of the descendants or successors of the Puritans 
seem to reason in this way. So do many of the followers of 
John Wesley. At least, they evidently feel thus, if they 
would not adventure to frame an argument upon the assump- 
tion. On the same principle, other sects boast the apostoli- 
cal succession of their ministers and bishops. The Roman- 
ists, by the same rule, prove their church to be the true 
church, and all seceders from it to be schismatics. And the 
Pharisees could defend themselves in the same way, against 
the scathing denunciations of the Messiah, who reproved 
them for their oppressions, by boasting, ' We have Abraham 
for our father ! ' 

This method of proving a church to be a true church of 



Ood, will never become plausible until it is made to appear 
that men, whose forefathers or predecessors were righteous, 
are always righteous themselves, or that God will accept men 
for the righteousness of their progenitors or precedessors, 
whatever their own characters may be. But it is a method 
which will probably continue in use, so long as any thing 
else besides the exhibition of present good fruits and of 
sound Christian character shall be made a test either of 
church membership, or of the character of an assembly or 
church. 

2. RITUALS OBSERVANCES. 

Either with or without a reference to the historical doc- 
uments of their sect, many persons seem to claim a Christian 
character for their respective churches, on account of their 
present adherence to a scriptural church polity — regular or- 
ganization — regular ordained pastors — exact and scrupulous 
observance of positive institutions— rites — ceremonies — or- 
dinances — baptisms — sacrifices — fasts — feasts — sabbaths — 
meetings — prayers — worship. 

One sect is founded and supported on the simple ground 
of its supposed scriptural accuracy in respect to water bap- 
tism — another on the ground of its supposed observance of 
the precise day originally designated as the Sabbath — an- 
other on the ground of its rejecting outward rites and obser- 
vances altogether. Partizans of these and other religions 
sects not unfrequently manifest their reliance on these cir- 
cumstances, in estimating the Christian character of their 
church or sect. Tell them wherein their church or sect has 
openly violated the fundamental principles of a sound Chris- 
tian morality — trampled upon the crushed poor, or neglected 
to plead faithfully in their behalf— alas ! they know it all — 
they confess it all— they lament it all. They are even loud, 
perhaps, in their complaints of these delinquencies ; they 
have been so, for many years, and they see no prospect of a 
change for the better. But they cannot think of seceding 
from their sect or church. Oh ! no I That would be the sin 
of ' schism.' Why so ? Because they think their church is, 
after all, a true Christian church, and they thus judge, be- 
cause their definition of a church of Christ obliges them to 
give the Christian name to all the churches that they regard 
as having been scripturally constituted and regularly organ- 
ized and governed, and who maintain in their purity and 
integrity the scriptural observances and rituals of religion. 

If this sort of credentials can prove a church to be a true 
church, then the Pharisees, in Christ's time, and their fathers 



8 

in the days of Isaiah andJeremiah, could have readily proved 
themselves to constitute the true church of God. The first 
and fifty-eight cfiapters of [saiah, and the seventh of Jeremiah, 
will show in what estimation God regards credentials of this 
sort, when separated from a practical regard for the oppress- 
ed and the crushed. 

3. AN ORTHODOX CREED. 

But when, in addition to their historical and ritual creden- 
tials, the members of a church can point to their correct 
orthodox creed, they often seem to think that the evidence 
is complete, and that no dereliction of duty towards the op- 
pressed can prove that such a church is not a true church of 
Christ. 

A profession of correct Christian principles is a very good 
thing, but it is only a profession, after all, and professions 
without practice will avail nothing to prove Christian char- 
acter, either in an individual or in a church. The creed of 
a chiu'ch is hs profession — and if it be a correct creed, it is a 
profession of sound principles — nothing more. These prin- 
ciples or 'doctrines' are 'according to godliness.' — They 
furnish the grounds, the reasons, the motives for a correct 
Christian practice. If truely loved and obeyed, a correct 
Christian practice and a sound Christian character will be 
the result. An intelligent profession of these principles 
amounts to an intelligent promise to perform all the duties of 
religion; and therefore a church covenant is appended to the 
church creed. But what if the promise is habituaHy and 
constantly broken, at vital points, instead of being performed ? 
Will the promise avail instead of the performance ? If so (but 
not otherwise) a correct orthodox creed may prove the 
Christian character of a church that neglects and refuses to 
plead for the Lord's poor ! Till then, it will be true that the 
orthodox creed of such a delinquent church will be its con- 
demnation, instead of its security. It will be the sure evidence 
of its guilt. It will testify that (unless the creed were stupid- 
ly adopted, without a consideration even of its meaning) the 
church has sinned and is sinning against its known and re- 
cognized principles of duty, and must therefore be doubly 
condemned. The orthodox Pharisees, on this account, were 
more pointedly condemned by the Savior than the heretical 
Sadducees, who made lower professions. The grossly here- 
tical churches of our ov/n day, that do not plead for the op- 
pressed, have sinned against less light, and probably contrac- 
ted less guilt, and become less intolerably odious and offensive 
In God's sight, than many of the churches that rely on tlieir 



evangelical creeds to screen them from censure on account 
of their practical derelictions. They do less dishonor to 
God, tc Ciristjto Christian principles — to the very principles 
in the ■ i hictive profession of which they glory; and on the 
loving reception of which human salvation depends. When 
God rises to judgment, the churches that 'hold the truth in 
unrighteouf-ness' must drink a double portion, and drain the 
cup of in mbling to the last dregs. Far be thy feet. Chris- 
tian readtr, from the threshold of smc^ chtu-ches then! In 
that day h vill be seen that the positive institutions of Chris- 
tianity fifl the revelations of asouml Christian faith, in their 
hitegriiy RT d purity, were tahtiis put into the hands of the 
churches, to be improved; and that if buried and disregarded, 
they wiil prove swift witnesses against them. 

4. MISSIONARY ZEAL EFFORTS TO CONVERT SOULS — RELI- 
GIOUS EXCITEMENTS. 

These are often regarded as the sure signs that a church 
is, of course, a true christian church, and no exhibitions of its 
inhuman CRUELTY and its CONTEMPT of fundamental 
MORALITY will reverse the decision! All this betrays an 
utter ignorance or forgetfulness of true religion itself— of the 
things u herein it essentially consists. 'This is the love of 
God, tJiat we keep his commandments, and his command- 
ments are not grievous.' The 'pure religion' of James — of 
the 'golden rule' — of the two great commandments on which 
'hang all tlie law and the prophets,' seems to have no place 
even in the conceptions of those who rely on such tests. 

Equally regardless are such men of the facts of the world's 
history and of its present spiritual condition. The Pharisees 
could compass sea and land to make one proselyte. In their 
devotions, they were sufficiently vociferous and earnest, 
breaking ovit, as by irrepressible impulse, at the very corners 
of the streets. They were by no means the cold- hearted, 
stiff, dull, phlegmatic forinalists that some men picture them 
to be. Paul regarded himself as having been exceedingly 
mad, alisohitely insane, with the prevalent enthusiasm of the 
sect, before his conversion. The same sj*irit composed the 
atmosfiliere of the Romish church, at the very period when 
its spiriinal despotism and its manifold corruptions were- 
engender«-<l and ripened into giant maturity. The present 
mummeries and superstitions of that church are but the 
skeletons, the shells, the monuments of its ancient enthu- 
siasm, ihnatlcism, mysticism and rhapsody.* To galvanize 

*See 'Spiritual Despotism,' by the author of 'Natural History of 
Enthusiasm' — a work in which the rise of the Papal power is traced 



10 

this skeleton into its former life and activity, to revive again 
and to restore the departed spirit of its now unmeaning 
rituals — tlie spirit of the most soul-stirring and wide-spread- 
ing enthusiasm the world ever saw — appears to be the object 
of Dr. Pusey, and the writers of the 'Oxford tracts.' And 
not a few of the most zealous among the English clergy, of 
the 'evangelical' stamp, the patrons of 'revivals,' have been 
captivated by them, and drawn away to ' wander after the 
beast, whose deadly wound' is likely to be 'healed' by the 
process. If modern travellers may be credited, something of 
the spirit invoked by the Puseyists has been conjured up, in 
Popish countries, not infrequently, within the last century. 
At Naples, in Sicily, in various parts of Italy, in Portugal, 
and in South America, there have been repeated religious 
excitements, among the Romanists, in our own day, the 
description of which casts into the shade — so far as excite- 
ment and intense emotion are concerned — the religious 
excitements of our own country. Whole cities have spon- 
taneously thrown aside their secular avocations, for a suc- 
cession of days, and in some cases for weeks, it is said. The 
population, en masse, have eagerly thronged the streets in 
procession, moved by alternate terrors and transports — some- 
times wringing their hands in agony, dashing themselves 
headlong upon the pavements or into the mire, and implor- 
ing the intercession of the 'Blessed Virgin' for the forgive- 
ness of their sins. Then receiving absolution from their 
priests with frantic gestures and clamorous exultations. But 
did these Romish ' revivals ' bring forth the fruits of righteovs- 
ness'? Ah ! that is the question by which Protestant as well as 
Romish revivals should be tested. What should be thought 
of revivals conducted by itinerating evangelists, who carry 
on, likewise, a traffic in men, women and children, during 
their revivals? Such things have been witnessed, and a 
prominent minister lately preached, in Baltimoi^e, with a pair 
of handcuffs in his pocket, which, immediately after the 
sermon, he put upon a female slave, on ship board, to be 
transported to the South. And we have, all over the country, 
'revivals' conducted by preachers who will not plead for 
the enslaved — nor listen to such a plea — nor suffer their 
church doors to be opened for one — by preachers in close 
fellowship and brotherly intercourse with the slave-buying 

with a grnphic pencil, and shown to have grown up, along with its ab- 
surd and blasphemous pretensions and dogmas, out of the rank soil of a 
apurious religious excitement, in which reason and common sense were 
outraged, and the practical duties of life set aside; as unworthy the at- 
tention of the spiritualty minded and devout. 



11 

preachers of the South,* and making up a common purse 
with them, to send the gospel to the heathen I What shall we 
think of such efforts to convert sinners and to evangelize the 
world ? Can such missionary exertions and revival efforts, 
with the excitements growing out of them, prove that a 
church, though devoid of humanity, and trampling decent 
morality and common honesty under foot, is a true Christian 
church ? If so, why may we not join with the clergy of Rio 
Janeiro and of Naples, in promoting revivals, and with the 
Jesuits in carrying the gospel to China? No revivalists have 
got up greater excitements. No missionaries have been 
more enterprising, or have numbered a greater company of 
converts. There is a philosophy that counts it a sign of a 
sickly state of religion to make nice metaphysical distinctions 
between true religion and false. The healthiest state of re- 
ligion, it teaches, is that in which men are religious, without 
knowing why or wherefore — without understanding or in- 
quiring wherein true religion consists. If this be sound 
philosophy, and if ignorance be, therefore, the mother of de- 
votion, all we need is zeal and excitement, and we may 
venture to harmonize with all who exhibit quantum siifficitof 
those, qualities, without stopping to dissect, to analyze, to 
scrutinize either their character or their fruits. But if relig- 
ion be a 'reasonable service' — if God invites us to 'consider 
our ways' — to ' know what manner of spirit we are of — to 
'examine' ourselves — to 'try the spirits whether they be of 
<jfod ' — to ' beware of false prophets' — to 'take heed and be- 
ware of men' ; — then the philosophy of unconscious, unknow- 
ing, undiscriminating, impulsive, mystic, unexplainable re- 
ligious excitement should be tossed to the breeze or into the 
moonbeam_s; and manly reflection, and logical scrutiny, and 
homely common sense should be welcomed into the field of 
experimental religion, as well as of every day business and 
demonstrative science. The missionary and revival claims 
of churches in league with oppressors will be understood 
and adjusted then. 

Are we censorious, severe, profane or hostile towards 
revivals of pure religion, because we thus speak? Turn over 
the voluminous writings of our own distinguished American 
theologians, on this very subject. Examine what Edwards, 
and Bellamy, and Smalley, and Hopkins, and Emmons have 

*Tbe editors of oisir northern religious newspapers, for the most part, 
are just as ready to record, in tones of gratulation, the revivals in the 
slave States, as any other; though they cannot be ignorant that the 
preachers are commonly slaveholders, and that the mass of the converts 
■continue to be either slaveholders or slaves ! 



12 

written concerning religious revivals and conversions, and 
upon the necessity of discriminating between the false and 
the true. You shall there see, in substance, all we have 
here written, and much more, that we have not ioom to 
write. You sh.ill learn from those unimpeachable witnesses, 
the abundant occasion there has been, in this country, to 
enter into discussions and discriminations of this sorr. You 
shall be instructed that religious excitements are, (of them- 
selves, and aside from the good fruits they pro(!nce,) no 
evidences in favor of either an individual or a chu; c;:, being 
common to all the religions of the known world, tl; : ihlse as 
well as the true, the Romish as well as the ProteKi jit, the 
Pagan as well as the Christian — that they are as cofnmon on 
the banks of the Ganges as on the Connecticut or the Hudson 
— that nothing short, of practical good fruits and Jo!, living 
can furnish any evidences of truly gracious affeer ;. s, and 
that where love to God and man, and a filial dischari> c of the 
relative duties of life, are not exhibited, all religious ( ajotions, 
and excitements, and transports, are worthless aid vain.* 
An almost incredible amount of labor, (and by the ablest 
and most honored ministers of the country,) has been ex- 
pended to expose the wortlilessness of ''revivaW th;;t do not 
bring forth the fruits of righteousness. And yet, after all, the 
well substantiated and u a rebutted charge against a large 
portion of the 'American churches,' that they are fhe very 
'bulwarks of American slavery,' with all its aboiidnations 
and its blood, is gravely met, forsooth, with the plea that 
these churches must not be charged with apostacy. because 
they are blessed with 'revivals,'! 

5. CONVERSIONS PIOUS MEMBERS AND MINISTERS. 

It will be pleaded, nevertheless, that there are, to some ex- 
tent, true revivals of religion in the churches that stand aloof 
from the caiise of the enslaved — at any rate, that sohje in- 
stances of true conversion take place in their midst, and that 
among their n>embers and ministers they enrol many persons 
of undisputed piety, including a large portion of the active 
friends of the enslaved. How, then, it will be asked, can we 
come to the conclusion that they are not to be rega> ilecj as 
true churches of Christ ? And how can we be called upon to 

* To this very point, the closing part— the climax of Edwards on the 
Affections^ is devoted, and the absurdity of the too prevalent fiction to 
the contrary is shown up with the cool, latent, solemn, weiguty irony 
for which the eigantic author is so remarkable. ' Edwards on the lievival ' 
contains much to the same purpose. 



13 

abandon the churches which Christ has not abandoned, and 
whom he still visits with the converting and reviving infill- 
ences of his Spirit? 

Answer. — Zecharias and Elizabeth, and many others of 
their day, were pious persons, and were converted, of course, 
in the bosom of the Jewish church. But the Jewish church, 
at that titne, was, nevertheless, apostate, and as such, wa? 
doomed to he cast off speedily, and overthrown. And th*- 
multitude of converts, afterwards, under the preaching of 
John the Baptist, of Jesus Christ, and of their disciples, and 
even on the day of Pentecost, did not prove the Jewish 
church to be in a sound state, nor avert the catastrophe that 
followed. The great majority, including the leading and gov- 
erning injluences and officials, were corrupt, and, instead of re- 
penting, filled up the measure of their iniquities, in tlse midst 
of these conversions and revivals. And so the Jeivish churchy 
as such, was broken off for its unbelief. 

The Romish church, in her worst state, could boast her 
truly pious members and ministers. True conversions, of 
course, took place in her bosom. Who doubts tlie piety of 
Thomas a Kempis, and Fenelon,and MassilIon,and Bourda- 
loue — men whose writings are still read for edification and 
instruction by the best Protestant Christians? Luther and 
the reformers were converted while membersof the Romish 
church. Was that circumstance a good reason why they 
should not repudiate and abandon her,as anti-christian ? By 
this rule, the Protestant Reformation could never have taken 
place. For none would abandon the Romish church for her 
anti-christian character, hefore they were themselves con- 
verted, but as soon as they ivere converted, the rule we have 
under consideration would require them to regard the 
church wherein they were converted a true church, because 
of their conversion, and therefore it would be schismatic to 
secede. 

It is commonly held that the triie church was comprised 
for the most part within the Romish communion, until the 
time of the Reformation, when it ^came out^ in accordance 
with the admonition of our text. Had they listened to the 
objection under review, they would, nevertheless, have re- 
mained. And when the Protestant secession took place, it 
was not on the principle that no true Christians were left be- 
hind, or that conversions there had utterly ceased to take 
place; but it was on the principle that the church, as such, 
the church as a body, the church a? governed, was anti- 
christian and corrupt. 
2 



34 

The truth is, the converting grace and power of the Holy 
Spirit are not limited wholly to the churches and the com- 
munities that Jesus Christ regards as truly (Christian — nor to 
the instrumentalities that true churches embody and wield 
in his service. God converted Abraham amidst the idola- 
trous worshippers in Ur of the Chaldees ; but that did not 
prove the idolaters true worshippers, nor nullify the call to 
Abraham to come out from aujong them, and be separate. 
He converted Cornelius, and ' in every nation, he that fears 
God, and works righteousness, is accepted of him.' Mahom- 
edans and Hindoos, when converted at all, are converted be- 
fore they secede from their anti-christian, ecclesiastical con- 
nections, but this does not prove that those connections are 
sacred, and divinely appointed. In short, the objection as- 
sumes a principle which would prove that the wide world 
itself is the Christian church, for it cannot be doubted that 
conversions sometimes take place in the world, and without 
the employment of any direct instrumentalities by an organ- 
ized church. 

We conclude, then, that neither historical credentials, nor 
ritual observances, nor orthodox creeds, nor missionary zeal, 
nor religious excitements, nor real conversions, nor a minor- 
ity of tridy pious members and ministers, nor all of these 
combined, can prove u church, as a ivliole^ to be utrue Chris- 
tian church. 

n. DEFINITION OF A CORRUPT CHURCH. 

What then do we mean by a corrupt church 7 
A church is not to he renounced as corrupt and anti-chris- 
tian, merely because its members are not absolutely fault- 
less — nor merely because it may contain some corrupt and 
wicked members, whose hypocrisy is undetected by their 
associates — nor because its faith and practice may be, in 
some measure, and in minor particulars, defective and faulty. 

But a church becomes manifestly corrupt and anti-chris- 
tian, whenever a majority of its njembers, or its leading and 
governing members, and officers, and influences, become so, 
A Christian church is an assembly or congregation of ^faith- 
ful men.'' An anti-christian church is an assembly or con- 
gregation of unfaithful men. The character of an assembly 
or church is nothing distinct from the character of the mem- 
bers of which it is composed, and the influence which, as a 
body, it exerts. 

A professed Temperance Society ceases to be really such, 
when its members, or a majority of them, cease to be tern- 



15 

perance men, and to exert, individually, and as a body, an in- 
iiueiice in favor of true temperance. And so a professed 
Christian church ceases to be truly Christian, when its mem- 
bers, or a majority of them, cease to be so, and when, at vi- 
tal points, they fail, either individually or collectively, to ex- 
ert an influence in favor of righteousness, humanity and 
truth. 

A church may prove itself corrupt and anti-chrislian, by 
its course, in either of the following particulars, viz : 

By its renunciation of any of the fundamental truths of 
the Christian religion : 

By trampling on humanity, or disregarding its essential 
claims : 

By habitually violating the precepts of a sound Christian 
morality : 

By becoming carnally minded, and covetous, instead of 
spiritually minded and benevolent: 

By an absence of the spirit of Christ — or by ceasing to 
do his work — the work for which Christian churches were 
founded : 

By despotic usurpations — and lording it over God's her- 
itage : 

By wilfully retaining ungodly and wicked men in their 
communion ond fellowship: for 'a little leaven leaveneth 
the whole ;i:riip.' (1 Cor. v. 6 — 13.) The church becomes 
responsible for, and is infected with the iniquity which it 
sanctions by its fellowship with the transgressor. 

Ifl. SECESSION A REASONABLE AND INDISPEN- 
SABLE DUTY. 

What good reason can any one give for retaining a con- 
nection with a corrupt church — an anti-christian church — 
such a church as has been described ? For what purpose 
should you remain ? What obligation do you thus discharge ? 
What divine precept do you thus obey? What heaven-ap- 
pointed relation do you honor? It cannot be the relation be- 
tween Christians and the church of Christ, for an anti-chris- 
tian church is not his. 

What is there to cling to, in remaining with such a 
churcli ? Do you thereby fasten yourselves to the throne of 
the Eternal — to the great principles that form the pillars of 
the universe? Do you thereby cling to God, to Christ, to the 
Holy Comforter, the Reprover of Sin, the Revealer of Right- 
eousness and Judgment to come? On the other hand, do 
you not weaken, if not sever, the cords that bind you to 



16 

t!<ese, to tlie kingdom of heaven, by cherisliing connections 
of so opposite and hostile a charactei'? Ponder, carefiilly, a 
few of the reasons why yon shoidd secede from snch an 
a[)ostale church. 

IT IS A SHAM CHURCH A DECEPTION. 

Its credentials are falhicions, its claims are not valid. It 
reiies on its historical docninents, its parch»nents, its rituals, 
its creeds, its i)rofessions, its partizan zeal, its proselyting ac- 
tivity, its periodical or occasional excitements. It claims to 
be true, because there are true men wlio have not yet deser- 
ted it! It claims to be Christ's ciinrch, because its iniquities 
have not }et wholly intercepted and quenched the overflowing 
streams of divine mercy, and diiven away the Divine Spirit 
from all of its members, and from the entire human race! 
This is the full inventory of its fair claims. Here its ap- 
peal rests. Farther than this, it cannot honestly go. As for 
performing its abundant promises, as for preaching deliver- 
ance to the ca})tives, executing judgment for the oppress- 
ed, pleading the cause of the poor, delivering the spoiled out 
of the hand of the oppressor, remembering them that are 
in boufls as bound with them, showing the })eopIe their 
transgression, and the house of Jacob their sin, coming up to 
the hel[) of the Lord against the giant crimes of the age, 
cleansing her own garments from the clotted i.;ore of hu- 
man victims — tJds, this is a work that she caniiot pretend to 
have performed, to have commenced, to have desired, to have 
contemplated, at all ! How worthless, then, are her claims ! 

Such a church professes to be what it is not. It is a coun- 
terfeit, an imposition, a deceit, a sham. What right can any 
man have to cling to a deception, to say by his connection 
with it that he considers it a veritable reality, a thing of 
worth, and deserving veneration and confidence? Render! 
If you believe such a cFmrch to be Christ's church, you are 
deceived, and do dishonor the Savior, and the institutions 
lie has founded. If you believe no such thing, and yet main- 
tain a connection with it, you certify to an untruth, for your 
connection with it says to every body that you consider it a 
true church. 

CONNECTION WITH SUCH A CHURCH MUST BE SINFUIi. 

You cannot maintain a connection with a corrupt church 
without becoming partaker of her sins, an<l receiving of her 
plagues. So says the voice from heaven, which John heard, 
in Palaios, And conscience, and reason, and common sens© 



17 

testify to the same thing. In all human affairs, the princi- 
ple now insisted upon is practically recognized. 

GiriLT OF ACCESSORIES. 

All communities hold persons responsible for the crimes 
to which they are accessory, by giving countenance and sup- 
port to the principals, or actual offenders. If a person mere- 
ly looks on and sees the commission of a crime, but does 
nothing to prevent it, if he conceals it, or still associates 
with the wrong doers, thereby giving them the currency and 
support of his influence in society, and thus enabling them 
to continue and extend their injuries in the community, all 
men will hold such an individual responsible for the crimes 
of his associates ; and, in most cases, the civil law itself will 
deal with him as severely as with the principal transgressors 
themselves. 

If an organized society or association of any description 
commits a criminal act — if, for example, it authorizes the 
murder of one of its own njembers, or of any other person, 
whom it may deem an enemy or offender — if the murder 
be accordingly committed by the officers or committees of 
the society, or by volunteer executors of its will — an intel- 
ligent and right-minded community will hold each and eve- 
ry member of that society responsible for the crime, if thej 
knew of it either before or after its commission, and did not 
do all in their power to prevent it, or to bring the criminals 
to justice. And, in case the society, as such, or its leading 
members, seek to shelter the criminals, or justify or apolo- 
gize for the crime, or refuse to repent of its commission, the 
persons who still continue to remain members of such a so- 
ciety, will always be held more or less culpable or guilty, 
whatever protestations of their own personal innocency they 
may make. This weight of responsibility will rest on them, 
so long as they live, unless they withdraw their fellowship 
and support from the society or association that committed 
the crime, or sheltered the criminals. God has so framed 
the human mind, that men must, and will, of necessity, 
throw the blame of a society's criminal acts upon the indi- 
vidual that continues to give the society his support. And 
God himself has abundantly revealed (as in the text) his own 
fixed and settled determination to do the same thing. On 
the same principle, the punishment of national sins falls up- 
on the individuals, however humble their station, of whom 
the guilty nation is composed. 

Suppose now, that, instead of the crime of murder, a so- 
ciety commits the crime of enslaving or imbruting their fel- 
2* 



18 

low-men, or of countenancing its members, or others, in that 

[)ractice, what reason can be given why the same principl« 
should not be applied? And su[)[)ose that society should call 
itself a rhuich, a Christian church — a Presbyterian church 
— a Methodist church — a Baptist church — a Congrega- 
tional church — can any body tell why the same rule should 
not apply to the associated body, and to the members of 
whom it is composed ? Will the sacredness of church insti- 
tutions release them from the operation of those great mor- 
al laws by which God governs the imiverse ? Such a thought 
would savor of blaspliemy ! It would contradict the express 
declarations of God. It is specially and emphatically in res- 
pect to a corrupt church that God says, ' Come out of her, 
my people, that ye partake not of her sins, and receive not 
of her plagues.' Of all the societies that ever existed among 
men, a professed Christian church is the association to whom 
the universal principle of holding the members responsible 
for the acts of the body^ should be most faithfully applied. — 
For the nature of the organization, and of the objects it was 
designed to promote, gives prominence to individual accoun- 
tability, and repudiates the doctrine of subjecting the con- 
science of tiie individual, or of the few, to the control of the 
many. The very husiness of this organized societ}', is to 
teach and exemplify human didy, and when it becomes itself 
a transgressor, ancl betrays its high trust, a ten-fold weight 
of obligation rests on the individual member to withdraw the 
support of his connection with the apostate body. 

A church, like every other associated body, is nothing dis- 
tinct from the individuals of whom it is composed. And 
their individuality is not to be destroyed or merged in the 
'corporation.' To deny the duty of secession from a cor- 
rupt body, is to deny and reverse these self-evident axioms. 
It is to make the man the crealiu'e of the association. It is to 
rmlli/y the comnjand, 'Thou shalt not follow a multitude to 
do evil.' It is, moreover, to deny, in effect, that accountabil- 
ity or guilt can pertain to associated action, for if these do 
not pertain to the individuals of whom the body is composed, 
ihey can exist no where, at all. 

SECESSION IS REQUIRED BY COMMON HONESTY. 

It cannot be consistent with honesty to remain connected 
with a corrupt and anti-christian church, especially with a 
church that will not protest against the dishonest robberies 
and thefts of slavery — a chin-ch that maintains fraternal fel- 
lowship with the robbers, which is 'a companion of thieves, 
and a partaker with adulterers.' If there be any dishonesty 



19 

in slavery, there is dishonestv in the churches that sustain it, 
and there is dishonesty in thf»&e individuals by whom sucti 
dishonest churches are knowingly sustained. To deny this, 
is to deny that men can he ' partakers in other men's sins.' 

And it must he doubly dishonest to remain connected with 
such a church, when convinced that the church is anti-chris- 
lian, ai)ostate, corrjipt. For such a church, as already noti- 
ced, is itself a deception, a counterfeit, a sham. And he that 
knowingly gives his countenance and endorsement to a de- 
ception, a sham, becomes himself a deceiver. He leads oth- 
ers, so far as his influence extends, to rely upon that which 
he is persuaded, in his own mind, is unworthy of confi- 
dence — to rely upon that upon which he is unwilling him- 
self to rely — a plain breach of the comtnand, 'Thou shall 
love thy neighbor as thyself.' 

Suppose you sliould join with some of your neighbors in 
establishing a bank, the business of which, you suppose, is 
to supply the community with a sound circulating medium, 
a truly trust-worthy currency, that may be depended on, a 
currency of intrinsic value, and, in reality, what it professes 
or purports to be. But, after a while, you discover that the 
main business carried on by the company or the directors, is 
to manufacture and put in circidation a spurious or counter- 
feit currency, of no real value, but which the people around 
you, relying on the reputation and standing of the company 
and its members, (including such men as yourself,) are ready 
enough to receive, and render an equivalent for, and pass 
from one to another. Some of them part with all they have 
to obtain it ; they hoard it, and think themselves independ- 
ent for life, while you know or suspect that they will find 
themselves bankrupt, whenever a scrutinizing eye, that of a 
creditor, perhayjs, comes to be fastened upon it. 

What would people think of you, if, with a full persuasion 
of all this, you shoidd continue your connection with such a 
company ? And what would you think of yourself ? Would 
you ever suspect yourself of being an honest man ? Or 
could you satisfy your own conscience, or vindicate your 
course to your neighbors, by merely declaiming against 
counterfeit money, and scolding, perhaps, at the directors, 
for making and passing it ? Or could you satisfy yourself or 
your neighbors, by pleading that the company was regularly 
organized — that its ofiicers were duly elected and commis- 
sioned — that the forms and etiquette suitable, or authorita- 
tively prescribed for such companies, had been scrupulous- 
ly observed — that they had been very active, zealous, inde- 
fatigable, in prosecuting their business, and in multiplying 



20 

to the greatest possible extent, the specimens of their work- 
manshij}, and in ijliing every nook and corner of ihe land or 
of the world with tiieni ? Would you niaintain that, after 
all its delinquencies, it was, nevertheless, a true and trust- 
worthy banking company, on the whole, because of these 
things, or because, in addition to them all, it had for a long 
time, in years past, very faithfully circulated a sound cur- 
rency, and because, even now, a certain proportion of 
genuine and good money was to be found among its issues? 

Would your remonstrance against the spurious emissions 
satisr'y yotn* own conscience, or your injured neighbors, so 
long as you continued your connection with the company, 
supported its cashier and clerks by your payments, met with 
the company at its festivals, enjoyed its warm fires and its 
sumptuous fare, pocketed yom* portion of the dividends, and 
discountenanced, by your example, the efforts of those who 
would have the charter of the company taken away, for its 
malpractices, and the community warned against its de- 
ce})tions? 

The cases, to be sure, are not parallel, in all things, for 
'parables,' (as the old divines tell us,) 'do not run upon all 
foin's'' — they do not, and cannot agree in all the minor traits 
of the picture. The finite cannot fully ex[)lain the infinite, 
nor things temporal shadow forth, perfectly, the things un- 
seen and eternal. The loss of an estate, by counterfeit 
money, is a small matter, compared with the loss of the soul, 
by receiving, as trustworthy, a counterfeit and worthless 
religion. The man that makes and passes counterfeit money 
commits a small crime, and inflicts a light injury, in the 
comparison with him who gives currency to a spurious 
religion. A sham church is as much more mischievous and 
abominable than a sham bank, as the bankruptcy of the soul, 
for eternity, is worse than pecuniary insolvency for life. 

The difference between time and eternity, between gold 
and heaven, between dollars and holiness, is the measure 
of the different degrees of criminality between the adherent 
and supporter of a sham bank, and the adherent and sup- 
porter of a sham church. No wonder, then, that God says, 
'Come out of her, my people, that ye partake not of her 
sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues.' 

COMMON HUMANITY REQUIRES IT. 

If the keepers of a light-house, on the sea-coast, instead of 
maintaining a true light, should hold out a false light, 
calculated to deceive the mariner, and make him think hin>- 
self on a remote and safe point of the coast, when, in fact, 



21 

he was about running on a reef of rocks, all mankind would 
cry out against the inhumanity of the person who should 
continue to lend the keepers of that light-house his supp'ort, 
while he knew perfectly well the nsischiefs they were doing. 

But the chiH-ch is set to be the light-house of the world, 
and a false church is a false light-house, and lures men to 
destruction. The man that knowingly supports such a 
church, is equally guilty with those whose character and 
teachings m(Ae it a false church. Nay, he is, oftentimes, 
more guilty than they, because he sins against more light. 

The pro-slavery members and ministers of a pro-slavery 
church may really think it to be a true Christian church. 
But abolitionists belonging to such churches know better, 
or ought to know better, and cannot well plead ignorance in 
extenuation of their conduct, in suf)porting such false and 
mischievous moral lights. If the light that is in them be 
darkness, how great is that darkness ! 

DUTY TO THE UNREGENERATE. 

Men who know not, experimentally, the truth and reality 
of religion, have a claim on us for truthfulness and fidelity 
in all our exhibitions of the religion we profess. Those 
exhibitions are most impressive that are made by our ex- 
ample. When they see us maintain a visible connection 
with a church, they have a right to infer that we regard it a 
true Christian church, and that the example there exhibited 
is, in our view, and in the main, and notwithstanding our 
complaints of some defects, a fair Christian example, a 
specimen of Christian conduct, an exemplification of the 
religion of Jesus Christ. But if the church is radically 
corrupt and apostate, then we hold up to them a false speci- 
men of the Christian religion. If they rely on our truthful- 
ness and fidelity, they will be led into fatal mistakes in 
respect to the nature of that religion. If they are disgusted 
with it, on account of its injustice and despotism, their 
rejection of it will be likely to involve their rejection of 
Christianity altogether, believing (as they must needs do, if 
they credit our testimony,) that injustice, pride and despotism 
are not inconsistent with the Cliristian religion. But if injus- 
tice, pride and despotism, be their besetting sins, and if they 
are intent on finding a religion that will allow them in the 
practice of these vices, then our testimony will embolden 
them to trust in the religion of a pro-slavery chinch, (and 
the JTiore especially if we profess to be the earnest friends 
of the enslaved,) — but such a religion being a false religion, 



and not the religion of Jesus Christ, will do ihem no good, 
but bind them more firmly in the delusions of the grand 
deceiver of souls. 

DUTY TO OUR FAMILIES. 

Some abolitionists cannot bear to think of disconnecting 
themselves with the pro-slavery churches to which they 
belong, because, as they say, they want to take their families 
to some religious meeting on the Sabbath, and they know of 
no other place of public worship where they could attend. 

But the first question to settle is, whether slavery be a 
self-evident and aggravated sin, utterly inconsistent with the 
Christian religion, and whether an earnest advocacy of the 
claims of the oppressed be essential to the character of a true 
Christian, IF THIS BE THE TRUTH, THEN AN IN- 
CORRIGIBLE PRO-SLAVERY OR NEUTRAL CHURCH 
IS AN ANTI-CHRISTIAN CHURCH. And to educate 
your family in such a church, is to educate them in a false 
religion, which they must renounce before they can be 
saved ; and the renunciation of which, as already observed, 
will be likely, under such circumstances, to be connected 
with the renunciation of the Bible itself! If you would do 
ail in your power to shut up your children to the horrible 
alternative of eitlier embracing a false religion, or else re- 
jecting religion altogether, the most effectual way of securing 
the result will be, while you profess to abhor and loathe 
slaverj^, to educate them in a pro-slavery church to which 
you lend the sanction of your own membership and support. 

Would you educate your children in the Romish church, or 
teach them to worship in a Mahomedan mosque, because 
you could get access to no other place of public worship? 

You know you would not. And there are professed 
Protestant Christian churches in this country, whose errors 
are such, in youv view, that yon probably would not educate 
your families in their places of worship. But can they be 
more odious in God's sight, or more dangerous to your chil- 
dren, than those professedly evangelical and orthodox 
churches, where the Lord .lesus Christ himself,(in the persons 
of his crushed poor. ' the least of his brethren,') is scornfully 
thrust into a corner, or out of doors, and where not a lisp 
must be uttered in his behalf? 

DUTY TO THE CHURCHES — TO CHURCH MEMBERS. 

We are bound to deal truthfully and honestly with the 
members of the churches with which we have connected 



23 

ourselves. If we think them true Christians, and the churches 
true churches, then we ought to walk lovingly with them, and 
not pester them incessantly with 'doubtful disputations' con- 
cerning minor points in which we do not happen to be precise- 
ly agreed. Let them go their own way, and we will go ours, 
in respect to such things. But if the points on which we dif- 
fer are manifestly vital points, in which the very pith and es- 
sence of true religion are, in our view, plainly involved, and if 
their course be exactly opposite to ours, it follows clearly that 
either they or we are fundamentally wrong, and that, on one 
side or the other, there must be a radical change, or else there 
can be no foundation left, upon which we can truthfully and 
honestly walk together, in the mutual recognition of each oth- 
er as Christians. A solemn re-examination of their ground, 
must then become the duty of both parties. If, after such a 
review on our part, we still find ourselves unable either to 
change our opinions, or to conceive that the point at issue is 
otherwise than fundamental to true religion, then we are bound 
in common honesty and common humanity to acquaint our as- 
sociates with the convictions to which we have arrived. And 
if they cannot be persuaded to review and to change their po- 
sition, we are bound, as faithful men, to shape our conduct in 
accordance with the principles we profess, and separate our- 
selves from them. 

COVENANT OBLIGATIONS. 

Nothing short of this is demanded by the covenant obliga- 
tions into which we enter, on joining ourselves to a church. — 
We then solemnly promise to watch over and admonish each 
other in love. If we see the members of the church astray, 
and that too on points essential in our view to human salva- 
tion, and do not warn them of their danger, their blood and our 
own broken vows will settle, together, upon our guilty heads. 
And no mere lip-service will suffice to the discharge of this 
duty, if our actions do not agree with our words; which they 
cannot, if we continue to sustain church relations with those 
whom we regard as having proved themselves by their practice 
to be deficient in the vital elements of sound Christian charac- 
ter, and whom we cannot reclaim. 

OUR SINCERITY INTEGRITY — AND USEFULNESS. 

How can we secure the respect and the confidence of our 
neighbors, (whether church members or others) unless our faith- 
fulness be exhibited, when the proper occasion presents itself, 
in the manner that has been described ? We profess to believe, 
for example, that human rights are inalienable and self-evident 



24 

— that chattel slavery is the most palpable and deadly violation 
of those rights — that its victims have a claim upon the prayers 
and exhortations of all men, especially of all Christians — that 
Christian character is, in fact, defined and moulded by the ad- 
vocacy of their claims. Yet we continue by our churcii rela- 
tions to certify, to endorse, as it were, the Christian character 
of those who notoriously neglect, and even contemn and de- 
precate the performance of that heaven-imposed duty! Here 
our acts are in direct contradiction to our words. And which 
will our neighbors believe? If our remonstrances and argu- 
ments and scripture quotations were beginning to make church 
-members tremble and inquire, our fraternal recognition of them 
as Christians, at the communion table, and in other associated 
religious action, takes back again all Ave had said. Their con- 
sciences are relieved. They conclude we are insincere or 
mistaken, for they know we are inconsistent, and they are more 
and more disgusted with our apparent pertinacity and stub- 
bornness in pressing upon them sentiments by which we our- 
selves will not practically abide, and which our actions show 
that we do not regard vital to Christianity, after all ! Is it 
strange that, under such circumstances, a number of abolition- 
ists, retaining church connections year after year with churches 
wh-'m their professed principles should lead them to discard as 
anti-christian ; have been dealt with by those same churches, 
and suspended and excluded, [not for their abolitionism- — 
Oh! no! this is always disclaimed,) but for their disturbing 
the peace of the church, and annoying the members perpetu- 
ally with their notions which they evidently hold as notions, 
merely, and not as principles, upon which their own lives are to 
be squared, and their ecclesiastical relations determined ? 

Abolitionists are evidently losing the public confidence, on 
account of their inconsistency in this respect, and especially are 
they losing their influence with the members of the churches 
to which they belong. Just as their reputation and influence 
were destroyed at one time by their adhesion to the political 
parties* that sustain slavery, so do they now suffer, in the same 
way, from their support of the churches that are equally sub- 
servient to the same wicked system. 

Abolitionists who have seceded from their old political par- 

* All political parties in this country must sustain slavery j since all 
voters and office-holders, either by implied or express oath, agree to 
sustain the United States Constitution j and that is a pro-slavery instru- 
ment. Abolitionists, therefore, should have nothing to do with any po- 
litical party. — Note by the Editor. 



25 

lies on account of their pro-slavery character, and yet cling to 
churches and ecclesiastical bodies of the same character, bring 
their sincerity, even in their political efforts, into suspicioDj 
and diminish their strength, even in that favorite department of 
their activity. , 

DUTY TO THE SLAVE. 

We cannot discharge our duty to the slave, while connected 
with a pro-slavery church, any more Llian we can while con- 
nected with a pro-slavery party in politics. The churches can 
'no more be neutral than the political parties. And the churches 
not enlisted on the behalf of the enslaved, are as truly the 
props of the slave power, as any political party in the land. 
Indeed, such churches furnish, to a great extent, the moral at- 
mosphere in which the political vices of the country vegetate.* 
And the morals of the State can hardly be expected to be in 
advance of the Church. To support a pro-slavery church is to 
place our feet upon the necks of the crushed poor — and upoE 
their mighty Avenger and our own Judge, who has declared 
that he will constitute them his representatives at the last day, 
and treat us according to our treatment of them. Of course, 
we must abandon such churches, if we would not 'partake of 
their sins, and receive of their plagues.' 

THE HONOR OF GOD — OF CHRIST OF RELIGION — OF 

THE CHURCH. 

All these require that Christians should secede from a cor- 
rupt church. Such a church professes to be a true Christian 
church — to exemplify true religion — to follow Jesus Christ 
— to do the will of our great Father in heaven. But all these 
professions are hollow and vain. IVlost manifestly is this the 
case with those churches that sympathize with oppressors, that 
will not plead for the oppressed — nor testify against a system 
of man-stealing, of theft, of forced concubinage, of impurity, 
of cruelty, of compulsory heathenism, of tyranny, and of 
blood. To endorse the pretensions of such churches, as true 
churches of Christ, is to dishonor, wrongfully, the institution of 
the Christian Church — is to belie the nature of true and un- 
defiled religion — it is virtually to blaspheme Christ — it is to 
insult the God of purity, the Avenger of the oppressed. To 

*The leprislature of the State of New York excused themselves from 
recomjnending the constitutional extension of the elective franchise to 
the colored people, because, as they alleged, the Christian churches did 
not give them an equal place in their houses of worship, and seminaries 
of religious learning ! 



26 

say that these churches are his churches — that their religion 
is his religion — that their character is his character — is to say 
the very Avorst thing of him that can possibly be said. But to 
retain membership in these churches is to say that we do regard 
them as his churches. And to say that they are.his churches, 
is virtually to say that they bear in a good measure his moral 
image, and that the character they habitually exhibit is recog- 
nized by us as a reflection of his own ! 

Many who would deem it a sin and a disgrace to support a 
pro-slavery party in politics, or to vote for any pro-slavery man 
as a candidate for civil office, will nevertheless support a pro- 
slavery church, a pro-slavery religious sect, and pro-slavery 
teachers of religion: thus plainly declaring, by their acts, that 
they consider a political party a more sacred and holy thing- 
than a church — that while they cannot endure the spirit of 
slavery in the former, they can very Avell tolerate it in the 
latter — that a man whose moral character does not qualify him 
to be a constable or a path-master, may nevertheless be a mem- 
ber, or even minister of a Christian church ! What a practical in- 
sult to Christian institutions— to cliurch and ministry — have we 
here! Can it be that such persons honor the church and min- 
istry of Jesus Christ ? One is almost tempted to suspect that 
they sympathize with those who would bring those divine in- 
stitutions into contempt. Certain it is, that this is the natural 
tendency of their course. Nor will it remove the difficulty to 
plead that men may be entitled to a place in the Christian 
Church, yet nevertheless lack the information and clearness of 
vision requisite to the proper discharge of a civil office. Our 
teachers of religion, at least, should know as much, on great 
ethical questions, as our legislators, and magistrates, and con- 
stables. And besides, the question of supporting the old po- 
litical parties and their candidates, is a moral question, and not 
a question of intellectual qualification, at all. The friends of 
freedom require of them no test but that which the nation itself 
has, long ago, declared to be self-evident, and made the foun- 
dation of the government. From President down to path-master, 
the candidates all acknowledge the 'self-evident truth.' Not 
a man of them is so stupid as not to know the difference 
between a man and a brute. And all the friends of freedom 
ask of them is to ACT in conformity with this knowledge. 
Let them only do this— let them but 'remember them that 
are in bonds as bound with them,' and the ' independent nom- 
inations ' of abolitionists would be instantly abandoned. It is 
a xMORAL disqualification, and NOTHING ELSE, that de- 
prives them of anti-slavery vot^s. And yet this same moral 
disqualification is made no obstacle to the introduction of these 



27 

same men into the Christian ministry and the Christian church ! 
Very evidently, no community that permanently insists on a 
higher MORAL TEST in political life than in ecclesiastical hie, 
will long- retain any aiFectionale reverence for the latter. The 
moral test must rise as high, at least, in religion, as in politics, 
in the Church, as in the political party. Otherwise, the moral 
test in political life cannot be maintained, and will be aban- 
doned in despair. There can be no possible alternative, unless 
it be the utter DISGRACE and ABANDONMENT of church 
institutions, altogether. The problem whether an embodied 
political moraliUi could long survive an embodied religion, is 
one which v^e need not now stop to discuss. Those who think 
il could, must already have arrived at the conclusion that 
churches are of little or no value — a conclusion that it will be 
impossible for those to avoid, who think to secure liberty by 
political action without their aid. Our 'liberty party' men 
may very honestly and very properly disclaim the anti-church 
doctrines that another class of abolitionists propagate.* But 
they ought to know that no such disclaimers, however earnest 
and sincere, can do away the anti-church tendencies of an at- 
tempt (should it be made) to save a corrupt and sinking State 
without the aid of a purified and true church — a tendency from 
which their own minds could not long escape, though they 
may be insensible of it, now. 

CHRISTIAN USEFULNESS 

Requires that Christians should secede from corrupt 
churches. In such churches they are fettered and crippled, 
and prevented from doing the good they might do, as indivi- 
duals, if connected with no church at all. But Christian 
churches were designed to enable Christians to do more good, 
by a connection with them, than they could do while standing 
alone. So long as true Christians remain connected with 
corrupt churches, they not only diminish their power, and 
curtail their opportunities of doing good, but all the good they 
do accomplish, and all the good fruits they exhibit, are made 

*This is intended by the writer as a reflection on those who are com- 
monly known as ''Garrison Abolitionists." But he overshoots the 
mark. That body have never maintained, «s abolitionists, any '^ anti- 
church doctrines,'' other or different from those set forth by the v/riter 
himself in this tract; which they now and here republish as one of the 
best expositions of their views. If individuals have taught any other 
doctrines, the " class" he refers to, is not responsible^ since it has never 
endorsed them. — Note by the Editor. 



28 

subservient to the honor and credit of a corrupt church, and 
are used up, so to speak^ in their service, instead of going- to 
the support of a true church; just as Romanism has been 
strengthened by the adhesion of pious members, and as the 
Colonization Society, for a long time, deceived and sponged up, 
and turned into its own impure channel, all the anti-slavery 
feeling of the free States. In the same way, there are now 
scores and hundreds of pro-slavery churches, with pastors and 
officers of the same stamp, sitting like an incubus upon the 
poor slaves, and upon the cause of Christian freedom, that 
derive their main strength, or much, at least, of it, from the 
support of the professed friends of the enslaved. In multiplied 
instances, churches of that stamp (leaving pecuniary support 
out of the account) keep up a creditable appearance of being 
Christian churches, merely because there are abolitionists 
enough connected with them to carry on their prayer-meetings, 
conferences, Sabbath schools, Bible classes, and monthly 
concerts for them, while the majorit}'', or ihe officials, content 
themselves, chiefly, with an attendance on the Sabbath day 
exercises ; and with a magisterial supervision that shuts out the 
claims of the enslaved, erects the negro pew, forbids the use 
of the house for an anti-slavery meeting, refuses to read a 
notice, and snarls, perhaps, at the mention of the oppressed in 
a prayer. 

TEMPTATIONS — APOSTACY 

'Evil communications corrupt good manners' in a meeting- 
house, and in a church, as well as every where else. 'Lead 
us not into temptation,' is a prayer that requires of the petitioner 
that he runs not wantonly into temptation, nor remain there, 
without necessity and without warrant. How shall a Chris- 
tian and a friend of freedom secure himself from the seductions 
that must beset him in a corrupt church — in a pro-slavery 
church ? What necessity is laid on him to encounter this 
temptation? Or where is his warrant for so doing ? What 
right has he to expect the divine protection while disre- 
garding the injunction — ' Come out of her, my people ?' In what 
way can such a person be preserved from temptation and from 
apostacy, but by being induced to comply with this command .^ 

If he continues to protest against slavery as a heinous sin, 
and against the support of it by the church, as inconsistent 
with her Cliristian character — and if (the church still retaining 
its position) he nevertheless continues his connection with it, 
and thus endorses its Christian character, then his acts contra- 
dict his professions, aud he makes shipwreck of his fidelity in 
this way. The only alternative left him (short of secession) is 



Ihs more common one of relaxing-, modifying' or suspending- his 
testimony against slavery, defending- his continued connection 
with the church by seeking oiU apologies for the church itself, 
and thus bringing his principles down to the low standard of his 
practice. Scores of prominent ministers, and thousands of active 
church members, once zealous in the cause of Christian free- 
dom, have in this way, and for the sake of peace and quiet 
with their reli^-ious associates, and of maintaining a reputable 
standing auiong them, (and under the delusion of making 
themselves useful by this means,) relaxed their exertions in the 
cause of the oppressed, till their voices are no longer heard in 
their behalf, and they cease to indentify themselves with their 
former feliow-iaborers in the cause. This w^ell known power 
of pro-slavery churches and ministers to neutralize first, and 
then silence, their anti-slavery members, constitutes altogether 
the most formidable obstacles with which the anti-slavery 
cause has ever had to contend, and the prolific parent of 
apostacy, in its varied forms. The recreancy of professed 
abolitionists in their political relations, may be chiefly charged 
to the delinquencies of the churches and ministry by whom 
their political ethics have been shaped ; and little must that 
man know of human nature, or of human history, who should 
expect the purification of the State, without the purification of 
the Church. 

As this power of a pro-slavery church and ministry is most 
effectual against freedom, so we know it is the power most re- 
lied upon by the conservators of oppression, both at the North 
and at the South. Such churches and ministers calculate, with 
certainty, upon the ultimate dereliction of the abolitionists whom 
they can retain in their connection. Hence their confident 
boasts and predictions, that Uhe excitement' will speedily sub- 
side. And hence, too, their sensitive outcry against any at- 
tempts at secession, on the part of those whom they stigmatize 
as ' fanatics,' incendiaries,' and ' disorganizers,' and whom they 
ought to have excommunicated as such, long ago, if they were 
sincere, and probably would have done, but for their encour- 
aging prospects of success and progress in curing them of their 
sympathy for the enslaved. 

The Christian church was designed as an asylum into which 
men of integrity might run, in order to secure themselves from 
the evil communications and temptations that almost overwhelm 
them elsewhere. But when churches become the most effect- 
ive tempters to transgression, it is high time for the people of 
God to ' come out of them, lest they partake of their sins, and 
receive of their plagues.' 



30 



PERVERSION AND MISCHIEFS. 



And this suggests the general remark, that Christians aiM 
bound to secede from corrupt and apostate churches, because^f 
instead of answering the original ends of their institution and 
organization, they become, by their perverted use, the most 
effective of all possible or conceivable instrumentalities for 
destroying the cause of righteousness they were designed to 
promote, and for promoting the cause of unrighteousness they 
were intended to destroy. Universal church history rnay be 
cited as presenting one extended commentary on this remark. 
And those who shall come after us will read and perceive, in 
the records of our own age and nation, one of the most striking 
illustrations of the same truth. Common sense teaches us the 
absurdity of sustaining arrangements and wielding instruments 
that produce results directly opposite to those which they were 
intended to subserve, and which their supporters design to pro- 
mote. To this, likewise, the sacred Scriptures agree. The 
salt that has lost its savor is to be cast out and trodden under 
foot of men. The well-arranged and highly cultivated vine- 
yard, that instead of producing grapes, brought forth wild 
grapes, was to be trampled down and laid waste. (Isa. ch. v.) 
Of churches, as well as of individuals, it may be demanded — ^ 
' If the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that dark- 
ness?' And the candlestick that cannot be made to diffuse 
useful light, is to be removed out of its place. To cling to a 
corrupt and perverted church organization is to sacrifice the 
end to the means. It is to idolize the instrument, instead of 
using it, nay, after it has become an instrument of evil instead 
of good. This is the essence of superstition, and the very way 
in which the worst superstitions are engendered, introduced 
and perpetiiatedo 

CHURCH DISCIPLINE. 

The duty of secession from a corrupt church is the same 
thing, in essence, as the duty of maintaining gospel doctrine 
in a true church. In both cases, the pith of the matter is the 
separation of the good from the evil, and the evil from the 
good — that the faithful may be preserved from corruption, and 
that the apostates may be rebuked, and, if possible, reclaimed.. 
In both cases, the duty devolves on each and every member of 
the church, and is not confined to majorities or to those in of- 
ficial stations. IT WAS AS COMPETENT IN LUTHER 
TO EXCOMMUNICATE THE POPE AND THE RO- 
MISH CHURCH, AS IT WAS IN THE POPE AND THE 
ROMISH CHURCH TO EXCOMMUNICATE LUTHER. 



i. 

81 

fiEFiNITtON Kht> OBJECT OF A CHRISTIAN CHtRCS. 

Secession from an anti-christian church is demanded by the 
Very deflniiWn, as well as by the object of a true church. ' A 
church of Christ is an assembly of believers' — ' a congrega- 
tion of faithful men,^ All, therefore, who honor and prize the 
Christian church, are bound to secede from a congregation of 
practical unbelievers — of unfaithful men. To do otherwise is 
lo sin against the organization itself. It is disorganization of 
the worst kind. It mixes good men with bad men in the church 
just as they are mixed in the world, and thus it practically de* 
nies the distinction bBtiveenthe church and the world. Equally- 
clear is it that no Christian can have a right to support a church, 
or remain connected with it, if the church does not promote the 
object for which Christian churches were originally founded. 
Christian churches were organized to separate God's people 
from a wicked world — to embody their Christian example — 
to secure their mutual watch-care over each other — to ma-n- 
tain wholesome discipline — to act as a reformatory body — 
to instruct the ignorant — to rebuke and reclaim the trans- 
gressor. To support churches that fail to do these things, and 
that do the very reverse of them all — (churches that knowingly 
admit and retain the wicked within their enclosures, that ex- 
hibit an ungodly example, that strengthen the hands of the 
Tvicked*, that oppose reformatory efforts, that stifle instructive 
discussion, that apologize for flagrant transgression) — to sup- 
port such churches, we affirm, is to oppose the high and holy 
objects for which Jesus Christ instituted a church on earth. 

CHtJRCH OR NO CHtJRCH. 

In a word, the reasons for seceding from a corrupt and un- 
godly church are the same with the reasons for joining and 
supporting a true Christian church. For the one is the oppo- 
site of the other. No man can belong to, and support a true 
church and ministry, while he belongs to and supports an anti- 
chrii^tian church and ministry. All the time he retains a mem- 
bership in a corrupt church, he neglects, of course^ the duty of 
joining himself to, and supporting, and being supported by, a 
true Christian church. He does that which, if every other 
Christian should do, there would be no Christian church (as an 
organized visible body) on the earth, and there would be no 
organized churches, except corrupt, anti-christian churches, 
to be used for the conversion of the world. Whether the final 
triumphs of Christianity are to be achieved under such auspices, 
let those judge who have learned that 'out of Zion shall go 
forth the laWj and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.' 



32 

IV. HOW THE DUTY SHOULD BE DIgCHARGEU. 

The duty of secession from a corrupt church implies, of 
course, that all proper and scriptural measures for its refor- 
mation ha^e been kindly and faithfully, but unsuccessfully em-' 
ployed. Such a work as secession is not to be undertaken 
without counting the cost, nor without seeking counsel of God, 
in humble reliance upon the divine aid. No selfish or 
partizan feelings should be admitted or indulged. The 
too common practice of breaking up church relations in a 
pet, in a spirit of personal contention, with angry altercation 
and expressions of resentment, cannot be too pointedly con- 
demned. Whenever churches are divided in this Avay, ihe 
seceders, though they may have the right on their side, (and 
though the deserted church may be never so corrupt,) can ac^ 
complish little or nothing in favor of t!ie objects they would 
promote. Their bad temper and wrong conduct will be ob- 
served and perhaps magnified, and the moral effect of their tes-^ 
timony will be neutralized, if not destroyed. And when the 
excitement shall have subsided, they will discover, perhaps^ 
themselves, that they have acted passionately and rashly, and 
not in the spirit of Christ. Intelligent Christian principle, and 
a deliberate, conscientious, holy, disinterested regard to God's 
glorv and the good of mankind, having had little, comparatively, 
to do with their movements, do not now come to their aid, to 
sustain them in their new and trying position. They are thus 
exposed to the dangers of seduction and corapromife; and, un- 
der given circumstances, will be likely to recede from their 
ground, and join affinity, either in church relations, or by asso- 
ciated religious effort, with the same corrupt churches from 
whorn they have come out, or with some others of a similar de- 
scription. Thus the cause of church reformation will be re-= 
tarded, on the whole, instead of promoted, by their secession. 
On this subject, we cannot now treat as fully as its importance 
demands, but we may be certain that the true spirit of Chris- 
tian reformation is evermore the spirit of holy love, of conse- 
cration, of humility, of prayer, and of a sound mind. 

As a matter of form, it should be added that, whatever efforts 
may have been previously made to enlighten and reform a re- 
lapsed church, the final measure of secession should not ordi- 
narily, if ever, be taken, without distinctly stating fo ^Ae church, 
in some formal way, by letter or otherwise, the grievances of 
which the parties complain, and stating also that unless those 
grievances are redressed, by a return of the ciiurch to the path 
of Christian duty, a division or secession must, of necessity, 
take place. If this communication produces no salutary effect, 



33 

the way will then be open for going forward in the work of 
secession, and of organizing a new church. This measure 
will cut off occasion for saying- that the secession was irregu- 
larly made, and that it was a breach of the covenant obligations 
into which Christian? enter, when uniting themselves to a 
church. 

V. OBJECTIONS AND ANSWERS. 

1. 'Schism! schism! ! schism!!!' What! 'Schism' to 

come out of Babylon ? If it be schismatic to be separated from 
the churches of Jesus Christ, then it is 'schismatic' to remain 
in an anti-christian church — not schismatic to come out from 
it 

2. ' But we are too few and too feeble/ In whom then, is 
your strength, your life ? Is it in yourselves, or is it hid with 
Christ, in God ? You had better not enter into or hold any 
church relations, until you learn that the strength of the church 
is in Jesus Christ — not in herself, nor in the number and re- 
putable standing of her members. ' Where two or three are 
met too-ether, in my name,' says the Savior, ' there am I in 
the midst of them.' And he says this with special reference to 
church organization and church action. [See Matthew xviii.] 
If the real Christians belonging to a church are ' too few and 
too feeble ' to constitute a church by themselves, how much 
more strength do they gain, in addition, by their connection 
with those who are not the people of God, and who oppose, in- 
stead of cherishing their aims ? You would not, (would you ?) 
maintain ecclesiastical connections with Belial, on account of 
the pecuniary strength he might afford you ? 

3. ' But what if I cannot find "two or three " to come out of 
Babylon with me? Must I come alone?' Yes, certainly, if 
you would not ' partake of her sins and receive of her plagues.' 
At Constantinople, at Rome, at Mecca, you would not ask 
whether you ought to stand alone, or stand with the enemies of 
the cross of Christ, ffoiddyou^ Why, then, ask the same 
question in the State of New York, or in New England, or 
in Ohio ? 

4. ' But we are conscious of a low tone of spirituality among 
ourselves, and do not feel competent to the task of organizing 
a new church.' No wonder your spirituality is at a low ebb, 
and that you are chilled, almost to death, by the icebergs that 
embrace you. How are you to get warmth in such company ? 
The slaves, it is sometimes said, are not yet prepared for free- 
dom. But is slavery the school in which to prepare them ? 



34 

Got! commands yon ' to come out from among them, and be 
separate,' and he ' will receive you.' This plain command you 
disobey, and excuse your disobedience by pleadinsf that you 
have little spiritual life. Disobedience is not the way to gain 
spirituil vifT-or. The way to orain more spiritual strength is to 
exercise whit you have. Then shall ye know, if ye follow on, 
to knnv the Lord. Ye are not straitened in him. Ye are 
straitened in 3^our own selves. To obey is better than sacrifice. 
Let not obedience be deferred, because the fire on the altar 
burns dimly. 

5. ' But by separatin«^ from the church with which we are 
connected, we shall lose our influence with the members, and 
can then do them no good.' How much good are you doing 
them, now ? What progress have they (nade under your in- 
fluence, during the past year? for the last five years .^ Is it 
you that are exerting an influence upon them, or is it they 
that are exerting an influence upon you'? 

The probability is, that you have lost your influence upon 
them, already, by your inconsistency, in maintaining a con- 
nection with a church that your professed principles require 
you to regard as anti-christian ; and that no measure, except 
secession, on your part can give you any hold upon their con- 
sciences, or make them believe that you are sincere, and in 
earnest. The case must be so, if you have continued your 
connection with them for many months after the righteous 
cause they contemn had been fairly presented, or oflTored to be 
presented before them, and they had turned a deaf ear, or 
rejected the claim. If your duty in this respect has not yet 
been discharged, you should lose no time in discharging 
it, and not make the neglect o? one duty your excuse for ne- 
glecting another. The claims of the slave have been dis- 
tinctly before the nation for ten years. And the justice of 
the claim was declared 'self-evident'' by the same nation, 
nearly sixty-seven years ago. It is the simple question 
whether a man should be made a chattel — a hrute — and such 
a question need not perplex a Christian church, many 
weeks. 

6. 'Our secession would weaken and discourage those who, 
in the main, hold our views, but who cannot, at present, be 
persuaded to abandon their church.' Answer. — They ought to 
be weakened and discouraged in a course of wroncr-doing. 
Your eximple of obedience may encourage them to the dia- 
char?Te of the same duly. What if Luther had remained in a 
corrupt church, until he could have persuaded all whom he 
considered true Christians, to come out with him ? and until 



35 

he could thus persuade them, without setting himself the exam- 
ple."' 

7. 'But secession, as a means of reformation, is without pre- 
cedent. Even Luther did not secede, till he was first thrust 
out of the church.' Perhaps ihe church of England, the Puri- 
tans and other Dissenters, mipht furnish us with a precedent 
for secession, not to claim higher authorities, which cur ob- 
jector might be inclined to dispute.f But if the practice were 
without precedent, it would not be without command, The 
text is explicit — 'Come out of her, my people, that ye partake 
not of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues.' Sup- 
pose nobody had ever furnished us with a 'precedent,' by com- 
plying with the divine injunction, would that blot it out, or ex- 
cuse our neglect of it? 

8. 'But we must Avait till we are excommunicated for our 
faithful discharge of duty, before we secede.' Who says so.? 
Does God say it, in the text, or any where else? And wjiat is 
the philosophy of the maxim? How can we faithfully dis- 
charge our duty, while our actions contradict our professions, 
and while we give our support to an anti-christian church? 
And suppose Satan should adopt the more cunning policy of 
not casting us out of his Babylon, at all? Must we remain 
there, and give it our sanction, until the mighty Angel from 
heaven takes it into his hand, and plunges it like a mill-stone 
into the sea, to be found no m.ore at all ? Shall we not be in 
danger of sinking with it, and of remaining in it, whether 
Satan ever gets ready to thrust us out of it, or no? What 
says the text? And what warrant have we for deferring to 
obey the divine mandate, until Satan chooses to give the sig- 
nal for us to obey ? Or will it be said that a church does not 
give evidence of being anti-christian until it excludes all pious 

* Will any suggest that the principles of Christian iir.ion are violated 
by leaviiig a conupt church! Those principles, certainly, cannot re- 
quire us to cling lo svch churches, nor to the corrupt portion of them. 
Snch a union would be an/i-christian union. And as to the sound por- 
tion of Fuch chniches, we cannot be bound to hold on/i-christian con- 
nections, in ordtrto remain with the r*. Jfseceders from such churches 
will establish new ones on the principle of receiving all Christians, they 
will bo 2uilty of no schism, and it will be no lault of theirs, if some of 
their l)rethren consent to a separation from, rather than quit a corrupt 
church, to go with them. 

t What was it but secession, when the Apostles organized new 
churches among the Hebrews and the Gentiles ? Whenever the mem- 
bers of an old church organize a new one. are they not accounted sece- 
ders ? But the Jewish church was a national church, from which the 
ancient prophets could not secede, as they might have done under the 
New Testament economy. 



36 

persons from its communion ? What occasion or what mean- 
ing" could there be in the command to 'come out^ from a corrupt 
church, if we were to remain till we are thrust out? 

9. 'But if the persons whom you call upon to secede from a 
corrupt church, be admitted to be godly and righteous persons, 
noiv, notwithstanding their present connections, (and to such 
only is the exhortation addressed,) how can it be made to ap- 
pear that their quitting the church is necessary to their 
escaping the divine judgments ? If they are Christians already, 
is not that sufficient? Will secession change their character? 
Will it make them more than Christians ? Or will the Judge 
of all the earth destroy the righteous with the wicked?' 

Imagine to yourself the righteous Lot, addressing this same 
plea to the angel that was urging his speedy flight from 
Sodom ? What would you say to such an argument? Would 
it not occur to you that ' the righteous are scarcely saved r 
That persevering obedience to the divine commands is the 
only condition of their salvation ? That in such obedience, 
the salvation of the Bible essentially consists'? 

But be it so, that good men may live and die in the bosom of 
a corrupt church, and escape final perdition, at last — what then ? 
They may possibly do thus, because they are not aware of the 
corruption of the church, or because their duty to come out of 
it, has not been distinctly presented to them. If their ignor- 
ance be their excuse, can you make the same plea? Or are 
you content to do wrong, to support a counterfeit church, and 
thus destroy souls, so long as you can be persuaded that you 
are safe, yourseli? Is this the religion that can preserve you 
amid the seductions of a corrupt church? Beware! It is a 
hazardous experiment, at best, and remember that severe chas- 
tisements and lamentable privations, short of final banishment, 
may punish your derelictions of duty. 

10. ' But we make a wide distinction between Christian fel- 
lowship and church connection. We do not extend Christian 
fellowship to corrupt churches, or to the corrupt portion of 
them. Our connection with these is merely nominal — it is a 
nonentity.' 

But the church of the living God, to which you ought to be- 
long, is no 'nonentity' — -no counterfeit — no sham. And a vital 
connection with such a church and its members is not ' merely 
nominal.' What right, or what good reason can you have for 
maintaining a nominal connection vvith a nonentity'— a sham? 
A ' nonentity,' too, that claims to be a true church of Jesus 
Christ? That is recognized, and honored, and confided in, as 
such, because, perhaps, of your 'nominal' connection Avith it? 



37 

Of all shams, church shams are the worst, and from their sure 
doom, how shall their supporters be divorced ?' 

To say that you maintain a connection ' nominally^ is to say 
that you maintain that connection '63/ name, or in name only.^* 
It is to say that yon profess to maintain a connection which you 
do not maintain really! What right have you to make such a 
hollow profession ? After all, are you quite certain that a con- 
nection is ' merely nominal ? ' When Paul urged the Corin- 
thian church to put away from themselves that wicked person, 
(1 Cor» V.) he demanded, ' Know ye not that a little leaven 
leaveneth the whole lump ?' V/hat if the Corinthians had ar- 
gued that the connection was a merely nominal one ? 

11. ' But is not the kingdom of heaven likened unto leaven 
hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened? 
Yes, truly. And this parable was designed to illustrate the 
power of truth on the heart, or the power and progress of the 
gospel, or of a true church (remaining such) in converting the 
world. And mark ! the leaven must be wholesome leaven, not 
saturated with poison ! The figure is never used in the Bible 
to show that Christians must remain in a corrupt, anti-christian 
church, in order to restore it, nor has church history yet re- 
corded the successful experiment. The ' old leaven ' of in- 
iquity is always to be ^purged ouV of the church (J Cor. v. 7.) 
— tlie very doctrine for which we contend. 

12. ' But the tares and the wheat must be permitted to grow 
together jintil the harvest.' Where f In the church ? Or in 
the w^orld ? Christ's own exposition of the parable (Mat. xiil. 
38.) informs us explicitly that , thejield^^ in which the tares and 
the wheat are allowed to ' grow together' is ' the loorld.'' Noth- 
ing of the kind is said about the church. And those who ap- 
ply to the church what Christ says of the world, very evidently 
take it for granted that there should be no distinction made 
between the church and the world ; and no more church dis- 
cipline maintained in the one than in the other! 'Disorgani- 
zation ' follows, of course. 

13. ' But we cannot see into men^s hearts' — ' Judge not, that 
ye be not judged.' ( Mat. vii. 1.) This text, as Scott justly ob- 
serves, cannot forbid the exclusion from the church of such 
members as disgrace their profession — nor forbid Christians to 
withdraw from every brother that walks disorderly. In the 
same chapter, Christ bids us, 'Beware of false prophets,' and 
because we cannot see directly into men's hearts, bids us know 
' the tree by its fruits.' Censorious and rash judgments alone 

*' Nominally, By name, or in name only.' — Webster's Dictionary. 



are condemned. Some judgment of men's character, Tve can- 
not but form and express. 

14. ' Does it not savor of Phariseeism to secede from 
churches, and call them corrupt?' No. Not if the evidence 
of their corruption is plain and palpable — no more than it does 
to refuse the admission of openly wicked men into the church, 
in the first place — no more than it does to gather churches out 
of the world, in any case; (unless all are permitted to join the 
church, who desire it.) 

GENERAL REMARK. 

Of each and every one of these objections, and of many 
more, like them, it may be observed that, if valid, at all, they 
are equally so against secessions from all corrupt churches (the 
Romish, for example,) as well as from corrupt Protestant 
churches, in America. They likewise forbid all excommuni- 
cations of unworthy members. They equally forbid all tests 
of church membership, particularly those predicated on evi- 
dences of Christian character. They involve principles which, 
if carried out, would disband all the church organizations in 
the world, except those (such as national churches, for example,) 
that claim or welcome the entire community, good and bad in- 
discriminately, as their members. Above all, they are objec- 
tions against the discharge of a plainly revealed Christian duty. 

It will be understood that we advocate secession from anti- 
christian churches, with the view of organizing Christian 
churches in their stead. Of this work, we intend to treat in 
our next number.* 

* With regard to the formation of new churches, abolitionists, as such 
have nothing to do. Their duty is performed, and their responsibility 
ends, when they have persuaded a man to disconnect himself from a 
pro-slavery body. His conduct after that, in relation to church organi- 
zations, must be left to himself and his own convictions. —-Note bt 
THE Editor. 



