Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/negroapprenticesOOIond 



NEGRO 



APPRENTICESHIP 



BRITISH COLONIES. 



LONDON : 

PUBLISHED AT THE OFFICE OF THE ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, NO. 18, 
ALDERMANBURY ; AND SOLD ALSO BY DATCHARD AND SON, 187, 
PICCADILLY ; DARTON, HARVEY AND DARTON, 55, GRACE- 
CHURCH STREET; AND WILLIAJI BALL, ALDINE 
CHAMBERS, PATERNOSTER ROW. 



1837. 



'^2^. 15KJ9 no.% 



NEGRO APPRENTICESHIP 



IN THE 



BRITISH COLONIES. 



A VERY considerable want of information appearing still to 
exist, as to the real nature of the evidence elicited by the inquiry 
into the apprenticeship system in the Colonies, the Committee of 
the London Anti-Slavery Society have thought it desirable to 
publish the following statement. 

The Committee having at the passing of the Imperial Act of 
Abolition, protested against the apprenticeship system as a " needless 
postponement" of the acknowledged rights of the negroes, and 
a means of extortion and oppression detrimental to the true interests 
of all parties ; and having subsequently pledged themselves " to 
spare no prudent exertions, and to leave no constitutional means 
untried, until the last vestiges of slavery shall have merged in 
perfect and unconditional freedom,"* conceived themselves bound by 
their protest and pledge, not only to watch closely the progress of 
that pernicious system, but likewise to facilitate public inquiry into 
the manner in which the intentions of the Imperial Act had been 
carried into effect by Colonial Legislatures, Authorities, and Planters, 
and likewise by the Home Government. 

In pursuing that course, they were led to hope, that the exposure 
of much fraud in the concoction, and of great oppression in the 
execution of the Colonial laws on the one hand, and of meritorious 
and unexampled endurance on the other, iniglit at length rcniovo 
all scruples from the minds of those, who hesitated on the score of 
justice to the planter, to do substantial justice to the negroes. 
However unsatisfactory the practical result of tliis inquiry has been, 
uj) to the present time, the Anti-Slavery Committee can not attril)uto 
• Vide Memorial to Lord Glcnelg, August 14lli, 1835. 
11 



this unfortunate circumstance to any defect in the evidence already 
adduced. Consisting as that evidence does, in a great degree of the 
Colonial laws themselves, and of official facts and admissions, they 
conceive it to be not only above future cavils, but abundantly suffi- 
cient to establish their case; and they will now proceed to state 
the substance of it, as concisely and accurately as they are able. 
They would merely premise the impossibility of doing more than 
collect into one view the principal divisions of their subject, while 
they request especial attention to the laws and practice of Jamaica, 
the importance of which Colony in this question, will be inferred 
from the fact, that it contains more than a third part of the entire 
negro population of the West Indies. 

This evidence will be considered under the following heads, viz. : 
1st. The law respecting the amount of labour that can be exacted 
from apprentices. 2ndly. The law respecting food and other main- 
tenance and allowances provided for them. 3rdly. The law re- 
specting punishments that may be inflicted, respectively, on appren- 
tices and on masters for breach of duty. 4thly. The law imposing 
unnecessary restraints on apprentices, and allowing imprisonment 
for safe custody on estates. 5thly. The special disadvantages of 
females, of children, and of aged persons, under the apprenticeship 
law. 6thly. The law of compulsory manumission, and the con- 
stitution of courts of appraisement. 7thly. The law relating to 
powers and protection bestowed on special magistrates. 

Under each of these heads of inquiry, such statements of the actual 
condition of the apprentices will be introduced, as can be corroborated 
by official and authentic documents.* Before the evidence collected- 
on the foregoing points is considered, they would, however, particu- 
larly advert to the condition of those negroes who have been illicitly 
introduced into the Colonies, or are not duly registered, in conformity 
with the terms of the Imperial Act of Abolition ; and, likewise to 
those preliminary laws of classification enjoined by the Imperial 
Act, to be enacted by the Colonial Legislatures, for the purpose of 
securing to each class of apprentices the rights which respectively 
belong to them. On the subject of illicit importation and defective 
registration, the Anti-Slavery Committee have reason to complain of 

* In order to avoid minuteness of annotation, a general reference is here given 
to the " Parliamentary Papers relative to the Abolition of Slavery," and to the 
" Report of the Committee on Negro Apprenticeship." 



3 

the grossest violations of the Imperial Law. In Mauritius certainly, 
and in other Colonies also, multitudes of negroes, clandestinely 
imported or not duly registered, have been subjected to all the 
hardships of apprenticeship, although they were entitled, by the 
Imperial Law, to the possession of unqualified freedom from the 
first moment of its coming into operation. The Anti-Slavery Com- 
mittee express their firm conviction, that the decision of the Privy 
Council in the case of the IMauritius slaves, so iUegally imported 
and unduly registered, however it might exempt the owners from 
the penalties of fonuer laws, cannot at all afifect the right of these 
unfortunate individuals to present freedom. And in this opinion, 
they are confirmed by the sentiments of Lord Gienelg, conveyed 
in a Despatch, dated 5th August, 1835, to the Governor of that 
Colony.'"' In that Despatch, after commenting on the want of due 
registration, his Lordship directs that immediate measures should be 
taken for declaring such persons absolutely free. The Anti-Slavery 
Committee have since learned, however, with astonishment, that this 
imperative act of justice has not yet been performed. 

On the subject of classification, the Anti -Slavery Committee find, 
likewise, just ground to complain, not only of the delay which 
has occurred in this necessary part of Colonial Legislation, but of 
the positive defects and violations of the Imperial Act, which have 
been generally introduced into it. Among these defects may be 
particularly remarked, want of due notice to apprentices, and in- 
sufficient opportunities of appeal. In Jamaica, no provision was 
made for ascertaining the rights of non-prsedial apprentices, who 
are entitled to their liberty on the 1st of August, 1838, until the 
4th of March, in the present year, (a period of three years and a half 
from the passing of the Imperial Act,) when a measure most repug- 
nant to that act was passed by the Legislature of that island, 
which, the Committee have recently learned with pleasure, has been 
disallowed. In British Guiana again,t and there is reason to believe 
in many other Colonies, a great proportion of negroes entitled to 
be classed as non-praxlial apprentices, have been classed as prredlals ; 
and by this means, not only are they made liable to an unaccus- 
tomed mode of labour for two whole years beyond the period 

* Parliamentary Papers, part ii. p. 214. See Appendix. 

tVide ProclHmittioii of 2n(l IMuv, 1834, Piirliampntary Papers, part." (9.) p 
100—105. 

b2 



prescribed by law, but by the increased value of their term of service, 
additional difficulties have been thrown in the way of their com- 
pulsory manumission. The Anti -Slavery Committee deem the 
consideration of the case of all such improperly classed, and illegally 
imported, or not duly registered negroes,, to be of instant importance 
to the welfare of the Colonies, and to demand additional and per- 
severing applications to Government on their behalf. 

They now proceed to an examination of the apprenticeship system, 
and, in order to exhibit its repugnancies and defects more clearly, 
they will first introduce the substance of the Imperial enactments, 
together with Lord Stanley's celebrated comments, on bringing in 
the great measure of Abolition, as the organ of Government. 

On that momentous occasion. Lord Stanley (then Mr. Stanley) 
observed, as follows : " I propose then, that every slave, on the 
passing of this Act, shall forthwith have the power of claiming 
to be put in a situation, in which he shall enjoy all the privileges 
of a free man — in which he shall feel no taint of his servile 
condition — in which he shall be freed from the atrocious system of 
irresponsible corporal punishment — ^in which he shall have the 
full enjoyment of his domestic ties — in which he shall not be 
compelled to see those that are nearest and dearest to him insulted 
by punishment or liable to degradation — in which his evidence shall 
not be disputable in a Court of Justice — in which his right to pro- 
perty of every description shall be as undisi:)uted as every other class 
of the King's subjects — in which he shall enjoy every right and 
every privilege of a free man, subject to this restriction, and this 
restriction only, that he shall, for a certain time, remain under con- 
tract to labour industriously in the service of his present owner, but 
his then employer."* 

By the 12th section of the Imperial Act, it is accordingly enacted, 
that subject ordy to the obligations of a temporary apprenticeship, 
British slaves, from the period of its coming into operation, should 
" become, and be to all intents and purposes, free, and discharged of 
and from all manner of slavery," and should be " absolutely and for 
ever manumitted ;" and, that from the same period, slavery should 
" be for ever abolished and declared unlawful" throughout the British 
dominions. On the subject of apprenticeship, it is in the 16th clause 
* Vide Mirror of Parliament, Speech delivered 14th May, 1833. 



likewise enacted, that permission shall be given to the variocts 
Colonial Leoislatures to frame such " necessary" rules and regulations, 
for giving effect to the Imperial Act, as should not be " in anywise 
repugnant or contradictory" to the Imperial Act, " or any part 
hereof," or otherwise the same are declared to be absolutely null 
and void. 

From these clauses and official comments talcen together, it is 
necessarily inferred, that every Colonial rule and regulation, which 
is incompatible with the substantial freedom of the neg^o, amounts 
to a violation of the Spirit and intention of the British Legislature. 
And, the Imperial Act being essentially a remedial measure, intended 
to bestow an immediate benefit upon the negroes — to lessen the 
amount of their toil — to secure and increase their personal com- 
forts and enjoyments — and, generally, to ameliorate their present 
condition, it is upon the known principles of law to be construed 
favourably to them, so as to promote these beneficial objects ; nor 
can any interpretation of it be sound which would deprive them of 
these advantages, or reduce them in any respect to a worse situation 
than they occupied under a system of avowed slavery. 

The Committee will now consider how far the rules and regula- 
tions, which have been framed by the Colonial Legislatures, in 
ostensible comphance with the Imperial Act, correspond with its 
real spirit and object, as explained by the then Secretary of State 
for the Colonial Department. 

And, First, the Law respecting the amount of labour to be exacted 
from the apprentices. 

On this subject, the Imperial Act provides,* that no prtedial 
apprenticed labourer shall be liable, as such, to perform any labour in 
the ser\'ice of his employer for more than forty-five hours, in the whole, 
in any one week ; and this period of weekly service is subject to 
a deduction, as will be afterwards more particularly stated, in cases 
where the apprentice is supported by the produce of his own 
provision ground. The establishment of such rules and regulations 
as might be necessary for giving effect to this enactment was 
entrusted to the Colonial Legislatures. It is obvious here, that the 
Imperial Act, in thus fixing the maximum of pracdial labour, did 
not intend to enforce its performance upon ^ all; and, that in 
antliori/iiig tlic Colonists to insure to themselves the pimctual 
• Imperial Act, s. 5. 



discharge of this amount of service where it coxikl be hiwfuny 
demanded, it hkewise designed to secure to the apprentice the full 
benefit of all legal exemptions previously enjoyed, and such an 
apportionment, moreover, of the hours of labour as should neither 
interfere with necessary repose, nor obstruct the quiet enjoyment 
of that time, which either for the purpose of subsistence or of 
recreation, it had declared to be emphatically his own. Yet, although 
the maximum of labour thus allowed by the Imperial Statute has 
been carefully appropriated by the Colonists to themselves, they 
have neglected to make adequate regulations for securing the rights 
of the apprentice, whose personal health and comfort, and even 
his means of subsistence, when derived, as it frequently is, from 
provision grounds, have, in most of the Colonies, been left in a 
great degree at the mercy of the employer. In Jamaica, by far 
the most important of the Colonies, it appears,* that except in the 
case of " Field" labour, which does not include a variety of prsedial 
employments, no specific limitation has been put upon continuous 
exertion in the service of the employer ; and, consistently therefore, 
with the letter of the apprenticeship law, the whole of the forty-five 
hours per week, in any other species of labour, might be exacted in 
succession, at the risk only of a penalty of £5. currency, (£3. 6s. 8d. 
sterling) on a conviction for cruelty ; while no part of even this 
trivial sum, can be appropriated to the compensation of the aggrieved 
apprentice, but it must go entirely into the public treasury.t 

It will be found, on reference to the laws of the other Colonies, 
that, with scarcely an exception, similar defects are chargeable upon 
them, tending to oppressive exactions of labour both by night and 
by day. 

From this state of the law,' as it regards labour, tlie actual con- 
dition of the apprentices, in that respect, may be easily inferred. 
For, as no uniform scale of labour, or sufficiently definite appor- 
tionment of time, appears to have been generally fixed by law, 
these very important particulars are in practice left, for the most 
part, to the discretion of the employer, subject, only in cases of 
dispute, to the decision of the special magistrate, who can rarely be 
acquainted with the details of tropical culture. 

It need scarcely be observed, that the absence of a more just and 
equitable criterion of labour has led to great abuse. In Jamaica, 
* Jamaica Abolition Act, p. 5. t Ibid, p. 49, 68. 



for instance, a mode of labour denominated', the eight-hour system, 
which consists in working eight liours a day for four days in the 
week, and eight and a half on the fifth, has been generally intro- 
duced. It is pregnant with suffering to the negro, and has proved 
the source of innumerable punishments. It seems, indeed, from a 
Despatch of Lord SUgo,* to have been persisted in by the planters, 
chiefly for the purpose of annoyance. Under this harassing system, 
the negroes are practically deprived of the use of their half-Fridays, 
' — in other words, of much of the benefit of the four hours and a 
half per week (a very inadequate amount, at the best,) which the 
Jamaica law allows them out of their master's time to raise pro- 
visions for their own subsistence, but, upon this subject further 
remarks will be made hereafter. In Barbadoes,t and in British 
Guiana ij: respectively, a scale of labour, drawn up by planters, has 
certainly been introduced ; but there is no reason to believe, that, 
in either of these Colonies, the interests or comfort of the apprentices 
have been fairly considered. In the latter Colony, indeed, the 
enforcement of this scale, has been a frequent and just source of 
excitement to the apprentices, and was, in one instance, the cause 
of inflicting upon them the severest penalties of riot and insurrection. 
On this subject, it is expressly admitted, by the Governor of British 
Guiana, that " wherever complaints have been made against the 
labourer, it has appeared, on investigation, that (in nine cases out 
of ten) it has been the quantum of work attempted to be exacted 
fi'om them, and not to labour itself, that the labourers have objected."§: 
And in every other Colony, where, as in Jamaica, the apportion- 
ment of labour has been left open, the convenience or the caprice 
of the planter, it is to be feared, has been too generally preferred to 
the necessities and the welfare of the apprentice. 

In the moan time it must be recollected, that the entire non- 
praedial class of apprentices — comprising a numerous body of 
labourers and artizans, besides domestic servants — are still left, 
without restriction, to the customary labours of slavery, protected 
only by the discretion (jf the special magistrates in cases of cruelty ; 
and, although the ordinary privileges and exemptions of slaves ought, 
in such instances at least, to be fully accorded, yet these often- 
disputed advantages have been scarcely in a single Colony specifically 

• Parliamentary Papers, part iii. p. 72. % Parliamentary Paper.«, part ii. p. 135!. 
t Ibid, part iii, (ii.) p. 20. § Ibid, part ii. p. 173. 



secured to them by apprenticeship Law. In the Bahamas, on the 
contrary, all slave laws and usages heretofore established for the 
protection of able-bodied negroes, have been expressly repealed.'"' 

It will be unnecessary to allude more particularly to the extreme 
hardship to the apprentice in every case, but especially where his 
subsistence depends on the cultivation of provision grounds, of 
having no definite time which he can call his own, — to the easy 
frauds that may be practised upon him by an irregular apportion- 
ment of the hours of labour — and to the means of oppression inci- 
dent to the power of enforcing unmeasured and unbroken labour, 
during a period, which, in some cases, might extend to forty- five 
hours, — in order to prove, that regulations so defective, and so in- 
evitably leading to mischief — are utterly at variance with the spirit 
of the Imperial Act, and require to be instantly amended. 

Secondly, the Law resj)ecting food and other maintenance and 
allowances. 

On this vital topic, the Imperial Act requires, that, during 
the term of apprenticeship, the same food, clothing, lodging, 
medicine, medical attendance, and such other maintenance and 
allowances, as by any law in force in any Colony, the negro, when a 
slave, was entitled to, should be hereafter supplied ; and likewise, 
that, in case of his being maintained by provision ground, an allot- 
ment, both in quantity and quality, and at a reasonable distance, 
together with an adequate portion of time for cultivating the same, 
should be provided ; and, likewise, that regulations should be framed, 
by the Colonial Legislatures, for securing punctuality and method 
in the supply of food and other allowances, and for fixing the 
amount and quality of the same, where either no regulation then 
existed, or no adequate regulation for that purpose; and for 
preventing and punishing frauds, or omissions and neglects in 
quantity, quality, or time of delivery ; and also, for fixing the extent 
of provision grounds, their distance from home, and the time to be 
allowed by the master for their necessary cultivation.'"' 

In this enactment, it deserves particular notice, that the Imperial 
Act contemplates the possibility of the existing Colonial regulations 
proving inadequate. And in that case, it specially enjoins, that new 
and adequate regulations shall be made. It will be proper to 
recur to several particulars of this important enactment, for the 
* See Bahamas Abolition Act, s, !. t Imperial Act, s. IQ, 



9 

purpose of shewing tlie defective character of the Colonial regulations 
framed in pretended compliance with it. 

On the subject of "■' allowances," the Anti-Slavery Committee 
deeply regret to find, that the Jamaica Legislature availing itself 
of an ambiguity in the Imperial Act, instead of construing it 
(as it ought to be construed) favourably to the apprentices, has 
enacted a law,'"' under colour of which, the planter is enabled in 
that Colony to withdraw a variety of " customary allowances" of 
the utmost importance to their welfare. Some of these, such as 
salt and salted food, are deemed absolutely necessary to health in 
a tropical climate ; and others, such as water, and cooking for 
gangs of apprentices, labouring in the field at a distance from home, 
are absolutely demanded by common humanity. With respect to 
all those " customary allowances," which experience has shewn to 
be necessary, it is needless to inquire into technical language, since 
they are certainly included in the general terms of the Imperial Act, 
which requires, that " adequate" provision shall be made ; and, if a 
former regulation did not practically comprise them, it was and 
still is, the immediate duty of the Jamaica Legislature to make such 
new regulations as shall secure them for the future. 

Following the example of Jamaica, many of the other Colonies, 
there is reason to fear, have to a great extent practically withdrawn 
the customary allowances of slavery. 

As it regards provision grounds, — a very general method of 
maintaining the apprentices in Jamaica, — the law of that Colony 
leaves this means of subsistence open to most of tlie practical 
abuses which it was the intention of the Imperial Legislature to 
prevent. For instance, it fixes neither their quantity, their quality, 
nor their distance from home, all of which particulars are referred 
to the discretion of the cmployer.t And the law which purports to 
pro\ide for the adequate cultivation of these grounds, not only limits 
tlie time for that purpose, to the very inadequate period of twenty- 
six days per annum, but allows the employer to apportion this time 
in such a manner, that, either by dividing it into minute fractions, 
for his own accommodation, or by allotting it only at seasons un- 
favourable to cultivation, he rhay reduce the apprentice and his 
family to a condition bordering on starvation. | The extreme mis- 
chief of this arbitrary discretion, will be more particularly seen from 
» Jamaica Abolition Act, s. lU. t Ibid, s. 45,46. | Ibid, s. 47. 



10 

its connexion with the eight-hour system of labour, which (as Lord 
Shgo himself remarks, "') deprives the negro of all power of applying 
himself to the cultivation of his grounds, during the time specially 
given him for that purpose. The Jamaica law, moreover, makes no 
adequate provision for the punctual delivery of food and clothing ; 
it omits all specific notice of lodging (notwithstanding the severe 
regulations which confine apprentices to the estates), and the medical 
aid* it affords to sick apprentices, better deserves the name of 
prison discipline, than that of relief in the estate hospital.t The 
Jamaica regulations have been longer dwelt upon, both on account 
of their extreme importance, and the great extent of this Colony. 

The Anti- Slavery Committee now proceed to the regulations of 
other Colonies ; and, first, of the Crown Colonies : — British Guiana, 
Trinidad, St. Lucia, Mauritius, and the Cape of Good Hope. 

On examining the various ordinances, and orders in Council, 
relative to these Colonies, j it has been matter of great surprise to find, 
that the amount of food and clothing therein provided for apprentices, 
falls considerably short — (to the extent of more than one half in 
respect of farinaceous food) — of that to which, as slaves, they were 
entitled imder the Order in Council of November 2nd, 183L This 
will distinctly appear from the Tabular Statement introduced into 
the Appendix. It is true, indeed, as it regards British Guiana, that 
a subsequent Order in Council, § may be pleaded as an apology for 
this diminution ; but, on reference to the latter order, and to the tariff 
published under its authority, no doubt can be entertained of the 
invalidity of that tariff, nor of the rights of the apprenticed negro to 
the full benefit of the original order. The indefinite language of 
the Cape of Good Hope Ordinance, renders it impossible to express 
an opinion on the specific allowances of that Colony ;|| but it may 
be observed generally, that the proprietors of apprentices in that 
Colony, taking advantage of the permission accorded to them of 
classing the entire slave population as non-pra3dials ; and thus 
of appropriating the whole of their time, and reducing them to a 
bare individual allowance, have continued to secure likewise the 

* Parliamentary Papers, part. 3. (1) s. 72. 
t Jamaica Abolition Act, No. 2, s. 8. 
Vide Parliamentary Papers, part. 2, continued in respect to each of these 
Colonies. 

§ 6th November, 1832, || Parliamentary Papers, part. 2, continued, s. 522. 



11 

services of a great proportion of the free children, who, in order to 
prevent starvation, have been also apprenticed until they attain the 
aoe of twenty-one years. It is improbable, however, that a hard 
servitude enforced by such dishonourable means will be permitted 
to remain beyond the period of the parent's apprenticeship. In 
the mean time, a serious responsibility rests upon those persons, 
w-ho advised the Crown to sanction regulations, reducing the 
allowances of the negroes in the Crown Colonies, below the slave 
standard, in direct contravention of the letter and spirit of the 
Imperial Act, With respect to the remaining Chartered Colonies, 
the Committee are not prepared to aver, that the regulations made 
in them respectively, do not generally correspond with the provisions 
of a former slave law ; but they rely confidently on the terms of 
the Imperial Act, which requires, that however imperfect former 
regulations may have been, they shall in future be made adequate to 
the real necessities of the apprentice. On this subject, therefore, 
they wdl appeal to the provisions of the general order in Council, 
of 1831, above alluded to, and likewise to those of the Jamaica 
Slave Law.* These documents will be seen in the Appendix ; and 
from them, as compared with existing regulations in many Colonies, 
it will appear, that in respect of farinaceous food, — one of the chief 
articles of a negro's subsistence, — the present ration for a labouring 
apprentice, is less than one half of that which was formerly allowed 
to an imprisoned slave. It is true, indeed, that this comparison is 
made between the regulations of different Colonies ; but no humane 
person can admit, that a few handfuls, per day, of unground com or 
of beans can, in any Colony, be a sufl&cient allowance for an adult 
human being; nor that emancipated negroes, labouring beneath a 
tropical sun, are suitably provided for, by one half of the sustenance 
of an incarcerated felon slave. 

It will be unnecessary to expatiate on the actual condition of ap- 
prentices, fed, clothed, and provided for, by regulations so utterly 
inadequate as these ; and who are abandoned in so many respects 
of vital importance to their well being, to the humanity and dis- 
cretion of the employers. A more specific summary, however, of the 
food and other necessaries alloVC-ed in different Colonies introduced 
into the appendix, will prove that the condition of the negroes in 
many of tiiem, even supposing that tlie articles therein enumerated 
• Slavery Law, s, 52. 



.12 

are scrupulously supplied, is but little removed from destitution. In 
the mean time it will be proper to remark, that in addition to the 
scantiness of these supplies, a dangerous power is reserved in different 
Colonies of varying the mode of feeding at short intervals, and like- 
wise of commuting food, for additional time, provision ground, or 
money ; and that punctual rules of delivery appear to be generally 
neglected. The employer's power of arbitrarily interfering with the 
time allowed for the cultivation of provision grounds (to say nothing 
of mulcts of time by way of punishment) adds unspeakably to 
the hardship of the apprentice ; and the withdrawment, in a vast 
number of instances, of " customary" allowances deemed necessary, 
even in a condition of slavery, completes the measure of those 
grievances to which he is exposed, under this most essential, but at 
the same time, most defective branch of apprenticeship regulations. 

The third head of inquiry, comprises the law respecting punish- 
ments that may be inflicted respectively on apprentices and on 
employers. It was obvious, that a system of apiDrenticeship, which 
should withdraw from the labourer the ordinary stimulants to exer- 
tion, would require peculiar rules of coercion on the one hand, and 
of protection on the other ; but it might have been expected, in 
such a case, that the punitive and protective enactments would have 
been put upon an equal footing, and that every expedient which 
the law could apply to mitigate the hardsliips of the apprentice 
would have been brought into requisition ; the most cursory exami- 
nation of the Colonial regulations on this subject will shew, however, 
that this has not been done. In the first place, the Anti-Slavery 
Committee discover a pervading and a flagrant want of reciprocity in 
respect to the nature, the amount, or the application of the penalties 
respectively inflicted on apprentices and on employers ; a manifest 
inadequacy when inflicted on the former, and a strangely contrasted 
appropriation, in many instances, as to both. Slight fines imposed 
on the employer are frequently applied (in Jamaica universally)* 
to the use of the public, and consequently afford no compensation 
whatever to the injured apprentice ; while heavy punishments in- 
flicted on the apprentice are applied, or applicable generally to the 
use of the master, and a vagueness of classification exists both 
as to apprenticeship offences and punishments, which offers tempta- 
tions to the greatest abuse of magisterial authority, and renders the 
* Jamaica Abolition Act, s, 68, 



13 

wliole of the punitive provisions of the Colonies disgraceful to penal 
legislation. 

The Anti-Slavery Committee most emphatically object to the 
principle of appropriating penal labour to the use of the employer, 
as being vicious in the extreme, since by removing all check upon 
vindictive feelings, and giving to the employer a direct interest in 
the real or imputed delinquency of the apprentice, it tends incal- 
culably to augment the aggregate of punishment. 

In examining this class of laws in Jamaica, it appears, that the 
authority of the special magistrate over the apprentice for breach of 
duty, extends to six month's imprisonment,* to fifty stripes,t to 
the power of depriving him of fifteen hours labour in any week, 
during the whole period of the apprenticeship, and even of inde- 
finitely prolonging his services beyond its ordinary termination ; 
Avhereas his authority over the employer, extends only to a jDenalty 
of £5. currency, or five days' imprisonment ;| which, moreover, he 
is not required but only empowered to inflict. 

Cases of omission or neglect of duty on the part of the employer, 
by far the most likely to occur, and, therefore, particularly noticed 
in the Imperial Act, are not specifically punished nor adverted to by 
the Jamaica law. On the other hand, ofi"ences of this class com- 
mitted by the apprentice, maybe visited wath the most unjustifi- 
able punishments. For instance, the offences of indolence, or neglect, 
or improper performance of work, are punishable by a single magis- 
trate with fifty lashes, or three months imprisonment to hard labour, 
and in addition to such flogging or hard labour, the forfeiture of any 
such number of hours or days of the apprentices' own time for the 
benefit of the employer, as the justice of the case may seem to 
require ;§ and, again, for the shortest possible unexplained absence 
(even for five minutes) from the employer's service, one whole day 
may be taken from the time appropriated to the apprentice's own 
subsistence, 1 1 only one half day per week, as before observed, being 
allowed him f(;r that purpose. In Jamaica, again, the ambiguous 
offence of insolence (however provoked) is puniyhable with a fort- 
night's imprisonment to hard labour, or with thirty-nine lashes ;% 
simple carelessness, merely endangering property, is punishable witli 

• Act, No. 2, s. 20. § Vide Suppression Act, p. 22, 26. 

t Act, No. 2, p. 18, IQ. tl Ibid, s. 30. 

X Vide Suppression Act, s. 5. f Ibid, s. 44. 



14 

three months imprisonment to hard labour, or with fifty lashes;"'- 
and drunkenness, (even though not in the employer's time,) is 
punishable with the forfeiture of four days labour to the employer, 
or with twenty lashes, and for a second offence within one month, 
with double punishment ;t while by a subsequent sweeping clause, 
all other inferior misdemeanors than those specified in the act, 
whether committed by apprentices against each other, or against 
their employer, or against any other person, are punishable by a 
single magistrate wdth fifty lashes ; or by imprisonment to hard 
labour for three months; or by soHtary confinement for twenty 
days.J An amending act, which has received the sanction of the 
Home-Government, enables any special magistrate to substitute any 
given number of hours of work on the tread-mill in any house of 
correction, or otherwise for any of the punishments imposed by any 
act on apprenticed labourers, as he in his discretion shall consider 
necessary and f roper. % And as a suitable climax to this species 
of legislation while the strongest temptation is held out to the 
employer by the appropriation of penal labour to his own use, to 
prefer charges against the apprentices, and no punishment is in- 
flicted upon him even for charges which prove to be perfectly ground- 
less, yet the apprentice, in a similar case, if he bring a charge, how- 
ever true, which is deemed " frivolous," is punishable by double the 
loss of time to his employer, or by twenty lashes; and where mutually 
frivolous charges are brought against each other, by employer and 
apprentice, the apprentice might be punished doubly, first, as the 
frivolous complainant himself, and next, as the defendant on a 
frivolous charge being brought against him, while the employer 
escapes punishment in both instances. || 

The law of Barbadoes exhibits most of the glaring defects already 
pointed out in the Jamaica law, and punishments there, as in the 
latter Colony, are multiphed without necessity, and stretched beyond 
their due limits. Absence from labour a second time, for a single 
hour, in Barbadoes, is punishable by one month's imprisonment to 
hard labour, or by one week of solitary confinement, or by twenty 
lashes ;% and the offender must likewise make good to the employer 
the time so spent in prison ; thus, for the loss of a single hour to 

* Jamaica Abolition Act, s. 44. § No. 2, s. 22. 

t Ibid, s. 29. II Ibid, s.40. 

% Ibid, s. 28. If Barbadoes Abolition Act, p..58, 58. 



15 

his employer, an apprentice may be deprived of a longer period thart 
is by law allowed him for working bis own provision ground 
during two whole years, — in addition to the hardships of imprison- 
ment and penal labour during his confinement ; while the employer 
himself who wrongfully takes an hour of the apprentice's time, 
is subjected by the same law to the tri^aal penalty of one shiUing. 
In Barbadoes, again, the offence of drunkenness, of quarrelling, using 
obscene language, cockfighting, or gaming, though not committed 
in the employer's time, are punishable by one month's hard labour, 
or fourteen days solitary confinement, or by twenty lashes, or by the 
whole of these punishments taken together, and the loss of time 
incurred by the apprentices' imprisonment m-ast afterwards be made 
up to the master.""' These punishments are quoted, as specimens 
of the enactments of two Colonies. Whether they be ever inflicted 
or not to their full extent, they manifestly invest the magistrate vrith 
an authority liable to the greatest abuse and are utterly repugnant 
to the spirit of the Imperial Act. 

To enumerate the various enactments of a similar character in the 
remaining Colonies is impracticable in this pubhcation ; but it may 
be observed generally, (and without excepting the Crown Colonies 
from much similar censure) that in a greater or less degree, they 
all exhibit a like unwarrantable severity and disproportion, both as 
regards the nature of the offences themselves, and the punishments 
inflicted on masters for corresponding wrongs. It must likewise be 
added, that in a variety of particulars, most important to the welfare 
of the apprentices, and further noticed in the appendix, the penalties 
inflicted on employers under the Apprenticeship Laws, fall far short 
of those by which similar instances of misconduct were punished 
under the slave system.t 

In considering the actual condition of the apprenticed labourer 
under this division of law, the fearful amount of punishment 
which can still be inflicted upon him, must strike every reflecting 
mind, as one of tlie most revolting features of the apprenticeship 
system. In transferring the power of punishment from the planter 
to the special justice, it was anticipated that the suftcrings of 
the negroes, in this respect sti least, would have been g^eatly 
diminished; but, it is matter of equal surprise and concern, to 

• Barbadoes Abolition Act, s. 07. t Vide Appendix 



16 

find that the negroes have been benefitted so little by the change. 
Though transferred to other hands, and employed in a somewhat 
different manner, the old accompaniments of slavery, the whip, the 
stocks, the chain, the iron collar and penal gangs, together with the 
more dreadful torture of the tread-mill, and the secret discipline of 
Colonial Prisons, are in active operation ; while to these must be 
added, the yet more frequent mulcts of the apprentices omti time, 
which, under the systematic appropriation of penal labour above 
alluded to, are continually inflicted upon the unhappy offenders, and 
contribute lamentably to increase the sum total of pimishments. 

In a tabular view of the punishments inflicted on apprenticed 
labourers in Jamaica, Barbadoes, British Guiana, Grenada, and St. 
Lucia; the Anti-Slavery Committee find, that during the first 
twenty-two months of the apprenticeship, there was a total of 
99,440 punishments, videlicet 17,050 by flogging, amounting to 
353,601 lashes, — and 82,390 by imprisonment, with hard labour, 
— by penal gangs, and working in chains, — by extra labour on 
estates, — ^by the tread-miU, — ^by the stocks, — by the dark cells, — ^by 
solitary confinement, — ^by fines, and other punishments. 

In St. Kitts, Nevis, St. Vincent, Mauritius, Monteserrat, Trinidad, 
Honduras, Tortola, Dominica, Tobago, Bahamas, and the Cape of 
Good Hope, for periods averaging from nine to twenty-one months, 
according to the returns made to parliament, there were not less 
than 33,373 punishments, viz. 11,487 hy flogging, amounting to 
209,510 lashes ; and 22,286 otherwise than by the lash ; thus it 
appears, that in a very limited time after the commencement of 
the apprenticeship, 133,213 punishments 'were inflicted, viz. 28,537 
by flogging, amounting to 563,111 lashes with the cat, and 104,676 
by mulcts of time, the tread-mill, the penal gang, and other 
punishments '"' 

It may be even doubted whether this enumeration is complete . 
but, adopting it as correct, and admitting it to be necessary, what 
shall be said of a system of labour which can be perpetuated only at 
so dreadful an expense of human suffering ? 

Before this subject is dismissed, it would have been more satis- 
factory to have been able to present the aggregate of punishments 
inflicted upon employers, for wrongs committed by them upon 

* Vide various returns in tlie Parliamentary Papers. 



17 

apprentices ; but the tables published by Parliament are insufficient 
for that purpose. Periodical returns from Jamaica, have, indeed, 
been transmitted to this country, portions of which, will be intro- 
duced into the appendix, not only for the purpose of exhibiting a 
want of reciprocity in punishments already noticed, but likewise 
as e^■idence of a great practical evil arising out of the loss of compen- 
sation to aggrieved apprentices — a consequence, which appears to 
have escaped the attention of the Parliamentary Committee, when 
making their report on this part of the subject. But even were this 
eA'idence wanting, still the deep sense of injustice which a great dis- 
proportion in punishments must necessarily occasion, would be a 
practical evil in itself, not unworthy of legislative notice. These 
observations apply more particularly to Jamaica, where the trivial 
fines inflicted on the employer are forfeited to the public treasury, 
and where a pro^dso reserving to the aggrieved apprentices the right 
of seeking compensation before the ordinary tribunals, must for the 
present, be considered, in most cases, as a mere nuEity. 

The fourth head of inquiry, is the law imposing unnecessary 
restraints upon apprentices, and allowing imprisonment for safe 
custody on estates. On reference to the Imperial Act, it will appear 
to have been its obvious design to exempt apprentices from every 
species of unnecessary and irresponsible restraints and punishment, 
and to give him at once, in all but his apprenticeship capacity, 
the rights and protection of a free man. These objects have been 
frustrated by various Colonial enactments. In Jamaica, for instance, 
a summary power is given to estate constables, acting under the 
direction of the employers, of imprisoning any apprentice belonging 
to the estate, or found loitering thereon, for twenty-four hours, on 
suspicion of any offence ; and this imprisonment may be indefinitely 
prolonged at a slight risk of a trivial * fine for any flagrant abuse. 
It is easy to discover in this regulation, not only a means of 
vexatious interference with the apprentices own time, but also a 
virtual restoration to the employer of the power of punishing for 
minor offences. In the same Colony, an apprentice is prohibited, 
except in certain specified cases, from going beyond tlio bounds of the 
" plantation" without a written pass from tlie employer, under pain 
of punishment as a vagabond.! The Anti-Slavery Committee feel more 

• Jamaica Abolition Act, s. '.V.f, t IbiJ. a- 27 

C 



18 

strongly on this point, because it is not only repugnant to tlie spirit 
of the Imperial Act, but at variance likewise with the draft order 
in council, sent out as a model to the Colonies. As the law now 
stands, it operates as a virtual imprisonment on the plantation, both 
by day and night, and is not only calculated to produce the most 
injurious effect on w^ages for extra labour, in the apprentices own 
time, but likewise to interfere seriotisly Vi^ith the undoubted right 
of communication between husband and wife, parent and child, and 
other near relations, often residing on different plantations. In 
Barbadoes, an apprentice going beyond the " district" in the leisure 
hours of any working day, for the express purpose of lodging a 
complaint against his employer, without the employer's pass, or his 
refusal to grant one, is in like manner punishable as a vagabond.* 
In St. Christopher's, the case, as to safe custody, is still worse, for 
there not only is the employer authorized to nominate any of his 
apprentices as estate constables, but also, without summons or 
warrant, to apprehend any apprentice, on any charge, and to keep 
him in custody, until he can be brought to justice ; and any appren- 
ticed constable who shall not promptly execute the orders and 
directions of the master, may, on conviction of neglect or reluctance^ 
be punished with any one or more of the enormous punishments 
specified in an act of the same Colony, for breach of any apprentice- 
ship duty. Thus may the humanity of a special constable towards 
his fellow-apprentices be deemed a crime, and subject him to very 
severe punishment. Similar objections exist to the virtually irre- 
sponsible power of restraint and punishment bestowed on employers 
by the laws of the Colony of Nevis,t Dominica, J St. Vincent,§ and 
most of the chartered Colonies ; and, even in the Crown Colonies, 
the Committee perceive that various restraints have been put upon 
apprentices, tending to diminish their personal comfort, and to in- 
terfere with the profitable employment of their leisure time. 

The actual condition of apprentices under this law, is too apparent 
to require further illustration. It cannot, however, escape remark, 
that it ill accords with the spirit of the Imperial Act, and with the 
comment which guarantees to the apprentice the enjoyment of 
" every right and every privilege of a free man, subject to this 

* Barbadoes Abolition Act, s. 89, 95. § Abolition Act, s. 28, 29. 

t Constabular3r Act, 31st July, 1834, % Ibid,s. 31 , 39. 



19 

restriction, and this restriction only, ,that lie should be under a 
contract to labour industriously for his employer." And it must be 
apparent, that if under any circumstances it be safe to entrust the 
employer with the power of arresting and detaining his apprentice, 
an authority so dangerous ought, at least, to be strictly confined to 
cases in Avhieli free men would be equally liable. 

It is with deep concern, that the Anti-Slavery Committee now advert 
to the fifth head of Colonial Law, namely, the special disadvantages 
of females, of children, and of aged persons, under the apprenticeship 
system. To elucidate this subject, it will be necessary, in the first 
place, to refer to the Imperial Act, in order to shew how that 
remedial measure has been made the means of greater sufiering to 
those helpless indi\'iduals. It has been already stated, that the Imperial 
Act awarded a general maximum of forty-five hours of labour to 
the employer, leaving the legal or customary exemptions from this 
amount of duty to be settled by Colonial regulations.* In examining 
the laws of the various Colonies, there will be found no specific 
mention or adequate provision made, for the cases comprised under 
this head ; so that even pregnant women, infirm old men, and chil- 
dren, appear to be now liable under the general terms of apprentice- 
ship law, to perform the same description and period of labour, as 
their more athletic companions, protected only by the general dis- 
cretion bestowed on special magistrates, and by a trivial penalty 
whicli may be inflicted by them, on convictions, for cruelty.t It 
is impossible not to perceive in this legislative omission, a practical 
resumption of the privileges enjoyed in slavery by a class of negroes 
who have the strongest claims on our sympathy. 

In the Crown Colonies, it appears that under the order in council 
of November 2nd, 1831, no female known to be pregnant, and no slave 
below the age of fourteen, or above the age of sixty, could be com- 
pelled to perform more than six hours per day of any agricultural 
work or labour, and of this labour none whatever could be enforced 
in the night. The utmost amount of agricultural labour, therefore, 
to which these prtedial slaves were liable, was thirty-six hours per 
week ; whereas, under the apprenticeship law, the same description 
of persons are now compellable, unless a special magistrate shall think 

• St. Kitts Apprenticoship Policp Act, p. 7, 3. 
t Parliainf'iitary Papers, part iii. (2^ [ip, 194, lO.'V. 

f2 



20 

fit to mitigate their labour, to perform forty-five hours per week, 
and even the repose of the night is not secured to them. 

In Jamaica, under the slave lavv^, mothers of a certain number of 
children, and aged and infirm persons, w^ere exempted from hard 
labour ;* and in addition to other humane provisions, peculiar indul- 
gences, together with nurses, were customarily allowed to mothers 
of infant children labouring in the field. The extent to which 
these humane customs of slavery were adopted, in the other char- 
tered Colonies, does not distinctly appear ; but it is matter of just 
censure, that they have not been specially introduced into appren- 
ticeship law ; and of deep regret, that instances are but too common, 
in which, they have been practically withdrawn. It must be ad- 
mitted, however, that this inexcusable defect has, to a certain limited 
extent, been counteracted in Jamaica, by a special instruction to 
magistrates to use their discretion in such cases. The condition of 
this description of apprentices, in various respects, even in that 
Colony, must still be considered, however, as being much worse 
than it was before. As it regards females, indeed, the charge 
against Jamaica, is not confined to the withdrawal of the privileges 
they enjoyed in a state of slavery: it extends to the infraction of 
one of the most stringent provisions of the Imperial law, namely, 
the prohibition to flog females. In defiance of this positive injunc- 
tion, a legal quibble has been invented, by means of which, under 
colour of prison discipline, females have frequently been, and may 
still be flogged for the commission of apprenticeship oflences.t If 
any thing were wanting to prove the determined hostility of the 
Jamaica Legislature to the wise and beneficent intentions of the 
Imperial Act, it would be the indisposition they have shewn to 
provide an adequate security against this crying abuse. It will 
be needless, assuredly, to dilate upon the actual condition of this 
sufifering class of apprentices, whose peculiar hardships will be 
adequately understood from a simple statement of their legal liabili- 
ties ; but it is impossible to abstain from commiserating more espe- 
cially, the lot of those unhappy persons, whose age or infirmities 
preclude the hope of their surviving to enjoy a compensation for 
the additional hardships which they now endure. 

The sixth topic of consideration, is, the law of compulsory manu- 

* Jamaica Slave Law, s.l7. t Parliamentary Report, p. 36. Appen. thereto p. 26. 



21 

mission, and the constitution of courts of appraisement. On this 
subject, the regulations of the Colonies differ considerably from each 
other, but in certain respects, they appear to be universally defective. 
In Jamaica, the power of appraisement is virtually entrusted to two 
Colonial magistrates, associated with one special, — ^the apprentice not 
being permitted even to select the special magistrate who is to act for 
him ; so that, in truth, the apprentice is to be appraised by persons 
having a direct interest in enliancing his price.* The method of 
adjudication in the Cro^^^l Colonies, is more equitable; and, in the 
remaining Chartered Colonies, regulations compounded of the two 
methods, but more nearly resembling that of Jamaica, have been 
introduced. The Jamaica method is grossly inequitable, and ought 
not to be longer tolerated. But, besides these defects of method, 
there exists a strong objection to the principle of valuation 
throughout the Colonies, namely, that no fixed basis of calculation, 
derived from the average value of the negro when a slave, has been 
adopted ; and the apprentice, therefore, is now assessed at an im- 
proved value, consequent upon the act of abolition ! 

The actual result of this defective legislation, is admitted on 
official authority, to be that undue and excessive valuations have, in 
many instances, occurred, and obstacles are frequently thrown in 
the way of compulsory manumission.t 

The Anti-Slavery Committee will now consider the last division 
of Colonial law ; namely, that which relates to the powers and pro- 
tection of special magistrates. The vast importance of this subject 
is apparent from the nature of the duties and responsibilities devolv- 
ing upon a body of individuals who are entrusted with the general 
administration of the new system, — upon whose efficiency and im- 
partiahty its practicability mainly depends, — and who are assailed, 
at the same time, by temptations from various quarters, to abuse 
their functions. It is plain that persons so peculiarly situated, 
require, at the same time, peculiar protection and peculiar control ; 
yet here, as in the case of the apprentices themselves, there is great 
reason to complain of one-sided legislation. The extravagant power 
of these functionaries over the apprentices, and their limited authority 
over the employers, together with the practical mischiefs arising out 

* Jamaica Aboliti(ji) Act, p. !), 1:5. 

t Parliamentary l'ai)eis, iiait iii. 1 1' I'- '^l*') ''"^ vitic De3iiatcht.'i! fioiii oihcr 
Colonies. 



22 

of this inequality, as already noticed, seem to be completely at 
variance with the express design of their appointment, which was 
the special protection of the negro. On the other hand, experience 
has shewn that no adequate means have yet been provided for the 
protection and support of special magistrates in the upright discharge 
of their onerous and invidious duties. The chief object of their 
appointment — an object difficult, if not impossible, under any cir- 
cumstances, to accomplish, — has been rendered unattainable, by a 
parsimony which places these officers even in the performance 
of their functions, under necessary obligations to Colonial hospi- 
tality ; and by the absence of an impartial tribunal, which can 
alone afford them a sufficient security against the ruinous effects of 
Colonial prejudice and persecution. It does not, indeed, appear a 
superfluous apprehension, that the authority of special magistrates 
exposed alternately to corruption and intimidation, may become, in 
many instances, a cloak for oppression, and thus render the sufferings 
of the apprentices more intolerable by giving them a legal sanction. 

In considering the practical results of this defective branch of 
law, it will be merely necessary, to allude to repeated instances of 
humane magistrates, who have been compelled to relinquish their 
situations in alarm and disgust ;* and to others, of an opposite cha- 
racter, who have received the caresses of the Colonial community, 
and been encouraged by valuable presents ;t and further to remark, 
that the general sentiment of West Indian Society appears to be 
accurately expressed, in the report of the Jamaica Commissioners 
appointed to investigate the conduct of a special magistrate, who 
upon that report was afterwards suspended by the Governor, viz. 
that to administer the apprenticeship law in the spirit of the English 
AboUtion Act, is incompatible with the peace and prosperity of the 
Colonies.^ 

In concluding these comments on the Apprenticeship Laws and 
practice, the Anti-Slavery Committee desire to state, that in arranging 
their evidence under general heads of objection, it is not their intention 
to affirm, that every individual objection applies with equal force to 
every Colony; nor that there were absolutely no exceptions to 
general charges ; but they express their deep conviction, that in 

* Dr. Madden, Dr. Palmer, Captain Oldsey, and others. 

t Report on tlie Apprenticesliip, p. 379. 

t Report of Commons on Dr. Palmer, 22iid Oct., 1836. 



23 

every Colony into which the Apprenticeship Law has been intro- 
duced, classes of objections have been proved, of sufficient magnitude 
to justify a general charge of extreme repugnancy to the Imperial Act 
of Abolition, and gross violation of both its letter and spirit. The 
law of Honduras, indeed, is so utterly anomalous and repugnant, 
that it requires an especial notice. In that Colony, the apprentice- 
ship regulations are reduced to a simple law for the coercion of 
labour, while all that relates to the food, clothing, lodging, labour, 
and protection of apprentices, is left to a mere " understanding" on 
the subject with the employers ; who virtually possess, likewise, the 
power of fixing the value of the apprentice, in cases of compulsory 
manumission. The Anti-Slavery Committee would further observe, 
as a fact in evidence which decides the animus of the Colonial 
Legislatures, whose deliberate measures afford the best criterion of 
the faith of the Colonies, that evasive, and repugnant as tliese 
laws stiU appear to be, they are, in truth, much improved editions 
of the laws originally prepared by them ; many of the amendments 
now introduced, having been obtained with no little trouble, and 
after various significant intimations from the Colonial Office, And 
in reference to the practical efiects, generally, of such laws, they 
would reiterate a sentiment expressed in a former publication, that 
even if such positive proofs as have been already given, had not 
been at hand, still the principles of human nature operate in a 
manner much too uniform to leave the least doubt* of enoraaous 
practical evils arising from so defective a system of legislation; 
and could a more lenient administration be even imagined, than 
experience has shown to exist, it must be recollected, that the 
generosity of the nation was not taxed in order to purchase the 
forbearance of the planters, but the substantial freedom of the 
negroes, and to place them hereafter witliin the safeguards of the 
constitution.t It is not the intention of the Anti-Slavery Committee, 
in this publication to enter at large into evidence which does not 
peculiarly relate to the apprenticeship system ; but they cannot 
proceed to another division of their subject witliout remarking, that 

* Report on the Apprenticesliip, Appendix, p. 101, and see the opinion of Lord 
Goderich, in the Appendix to tliis publication. 

t For additional facts illustrative of the whole case, reference is again made 
generally to the Parliamentary ]'apers, to the Parliamentary Report on Negro 
Apprenticeship, and to the Appendix to this Report, which will sliortly aj)pear. 



24 

additional evidence, was given before the Parliamentary Connnittee 
to shew the general neglect of education by the Colonial authorities, 
and the defective nature of the marriage laws; and likewise to 
prove the existence of a class of vagrancy — police, — and other lawsj 
recently introduced into the Colonies; which, under the mask of 
preserving the public peace, and promoting industry and good con- 
duct, are really preparing, at the tennination of the apprenticeship, 
to reduce the nominal free men, once more to the condition of serfs. 
Nor can they sufficiently express their alarm at the appearance of 
these insidious laws, nor their sense of the immediate necessity of 
adopting measures to counteract their pernicious operation. 

Having thus briefly examined the Colonial Laws purporting to 
give effect to the Imperial Act of Abolition, and glanced at the 
actual condition of the apprentices under those laws. The Anti- 
Slavery Committee deeply regret that regulations and practices so 
obviously inadequate and oppressive, should by any constitutional 
authority have been deemed a fulfilment of the intentions of the 
Imperial Legislature. They will not inquire by what extraordinary 
means the hasty sanction of the Crown to such a system was ob- 
tained, but they do not hesitate to declare, that a sanction so ill- 
bestowed, ought not to be, and cannot be considered as final. The 
disparity which appears between the benevolent design of the 
British Parliament, and the objectionable means adopted by the 
Colonies to give effect to it, -will be plainly perceived on the most 
cursory perusal of the previous statement. The Anti-Slavery 
Committee refer to tlie Imperial Act, and they find that its grand 
object was the utter extinction of slavery throughout the British 
dominions, to which the apprenticeship system was but ancillary, 
and could not be intended to be repugnant. They observe, that the 
Imperial Act bestows the boon of immediate and unconditional 
freedom, upon a certain description of slaves therein specified, and 
that in postponing the unqualified freedom of the remainder, it 
expressly guarantees to them a state of transition, in which they shall 
feel no taint of their servile condition — in which they shall be freed 
from the atrocious system of irresponsible corporal punishment — in 
which they shall have the fuU enjoyment of their domestic ties — 
in which they shall not be compelled to see those who are nearest 
and dearest to them insulted by punishment, or liable to degra- 
dation — in which they shall enjoy every right and every privilege 



25 

of free men, subject to this restriction, and this restriction only, 
that they shall for a certain time remain tinder contract to labour 
industriously in the service of their former owners. 

The Committee turn from this not unpleasing picture, to the 
painful reaUty, and ask, whether promise ever more completely 
disappointed expectation? Tliey find those slaves for whom im- 
mediate and unqualified freedom was intended, stiU suffering aU 
the hardships of apprenticeship, and the remaining part of the 
negro population, whose substantial freedom had been guaranteed 
under the name of apprenticeship, enduring most of the practical 
evils of slavery. In the fourth year of this apprenticeship, it has 
been fully ascertained, that no adequate measures have been taken 
to secure the freedom of thousands of slaves in the Mauritius and 
elsewhere, whose liberty, the Imperial Act had pronounced, from 
the moment of its coming into operation. No adequate laws have 
yet been passed to secure a true and impartial classification of ap- 
prenticed labourers throughout the Colonies, and multitudes, there- 
fore, may be defrauded of their liberty, and made to endure all the 
pains of compulsory servitude for two whole years beyond the period 
prescribed by law. No adequate provisions have been made to 
prevent apprenticed labours from being over-worked — from being- 
deprived of sufficient consecutive repose — from being defrauded of 
their own time, or having it frittered away at the caprice of 
their employers. No adequate laws have been promulgated to secure 
to apprenticed labourers a sufficient and punctual supply of food, 
while the customary and even necessary allowances of slavery are 
to a great extent wdthdrawn. In the Crown Colonies farinaceous 
food is reduced to less than one-half of the slave allowance of 1831, 
and clothing is reduced in various particulars below the same 
standard. In many of the Chartered Colonies, a few handfuls of 
\mground com or beans, is the daily stint of an adult labourer ; whilst 
free children are thrown upon their parents' pittance for support, 
and if declared to be destitute may be apprenticed in like manner. 
When apprentices arc fed by allotments of land, and time to culti- 
vate it, — the land is often allotted at remote distances, — and the time 
may be apportioned in ininutc fractions, or at unfavourable seasons 
to suit the convenience of the employer. No adequate provision 
has been made in many Colonies, to secure tolerable lodgings for tlie 
apprentices, who after the toil of tlie day are often huddled together 



26 

in wretched habitations to the great deteiioxation of their health and 
morals, and in comparative destitution of culinary and domestic ac- 
commodations. No adequate regulations exist for securing to appren- 
tices requisite medical aid, and in point of fact, estate hospitals are 
too frequently converted into prisons, and sickness treated as a crime. 
No adequate measures have been adopted to secure justice to the 
apprentices, nor to protect them from injustice and cruelty. 

Apprenticeship offences are punishable with dreadful severity, 
while those of the master are easily expiated. The punishment of 
the apprentice is usually appropriated to the benefit of the employer, 
that of the employer is more rarely applied as a compensation to the 
apprentice. Furthermore, no adequate laws have been adopted ta 
protect the apprentices from being imprisoned by their employers in 
loathsome dungeons, and for indefinite periods, under pretexts of safe 
custody; from unreasonable restraints on locomotion, whereby the 
opportunity of seeking extra employment, of attending on public reli- 
gious duties, and even of maintaining a proper communication between 
husband and wife, and nearest and dearest relations, often residing 
upon different properties, may be materially obstructed. The hard- 
ships of females, aged persons, and children, in most of the Colonies, 
but especially in the Crown Colonies, have been greatly increased, not 
only by the general reduction of food and clothing, secured to them 
by the order in council of 1831, but likewise by the imposition of 
additional labour, to the extent of one-fourth beyond the amount 
required in a state of slavery. In Jamaica, wives, daughters, 
mothers, and sisters, have been flogged, and may still be flogged for 
apprenticeship offences in reality, though under colour of prison 
discipline; and, both in that and in other Colonies, they are still 
subjected to needless degradation. No adequate measures have 
been taken, in most of the Colonies, to secure a fair valuation 
of the services of the apprentice, and facilitate his right to manu- 
mission ; the consequence of which is, that excessive valuations fre- 
quently occur, and the liberty of the apprentice is wrongfully with- 
held from him. And, finally, the only hope of a due administration 
of the laws, which was to be obtained through the agency of im- 
partial magistrates, has been greatly frustrated, if not wholly defeated, 
by the absence of laws adequate to their protection and control — ■ 
and by Colonial prejudices, which would probably have rendered the 
best of laws practically useless—- while baits have been offered to 



27 

partial and unfeeling magistrates ; — and the best among them have 
been obliged, in the execution of their duties, to avail themselves of 
the hospitahty of planters, whose conduct they might, at the same 
time, have been called upon to arraign. Wliat can be expected from 
such a system as this, but magisterial despotism under pretext of 
law ? What other practical result could ensue, than the wholesale 
sacrifice of the rights of the negro, under circumstances in which 
the planter and the magistrate may so easily combine — in which 
the latter is exposed, alternately, to the temptations of liope and of 
fear — in which he is possessed of an almost unlimited discretion over 
an ignorant and helpless peasantry — and has daily duties to perform, 
the violation of which, from their very nature, it would be hard to 
detect, even by the utmost vigilance, while the wholesome control of 
a special superintending officer, armed with the powers of the ancient 
protector, has been most unfortunately withdrawn. The number and 
severity of the punishments actually inflicted upon a population, 
admitted to be generally docile and industrious, is the best criterion 
of the character of the special magistracy as a whole. In the limited 
period of twenty-two months, nearly one in four, of the whole 
labouring population of the West Indies, have been punished ; and, 
although mulcts of labour, appropriated to the benefit of the em- 
ployer, have more generally been substituted of late for corporal 
punishment, this circumstance alone, though it may shock the 
feelings less, yet in reality exhibits no growth of more generous 
sentiments in the mind of the employer. And even a bona fide 
diminution in the aggregate of punishments of every kind, could 
afford no certain evidence of improvement, while monstrous laws 
exist to stifle complaint, and constrain to abject submission and 
hopeless endurance. 

The Anti-Slavery Committee now proceed to make a few additional 
observations. It can never be forgotten, that the only pica for a 
temporary postponement of the acknowledged rights of the negro to 
unqualified freedom, which the West Indians themselves ventured to 
urge upon the nation, when about to commute a simple loan of 
fifteen millions for the enormous grant of twenty millions sterling, 
as the price of the utter extinction of slavery, was founded upon a 
supposed uncertainty, as to whetlicr the negroes, without some 
intermediate period oi education and time for conciliation, would 
receive the boon of freedom with becoining sobriety, or be induced 



28 

to labour efficiently for tlieir former owners on a system of adequate 
wages. On this supposed imcertainty, and on this alone, did the 
British Parliament proceed, when it authorized an apprenticeship 
for a limited period, and expressly for the purpose of " promoting 
the industry and securing the good conduct" of the negroes. 
The real benefit of the negroes was, therefore, the object proposed by 
the apprenticeship system ; and, for the accomplishment of this object, 
and from a supposed necessity, the nation (though under protest of 
the Anti-Slavery Societies) submitted to that imposition.* 

The apprenticeship system was accordingly established, and 
after the lapse of a period sufficiently long to develope its genuine 
character and effects, a Committee of the House of Commons was 
appointed to make inquiry into the subject, and report accordingly. 
This Committee, after having minutely examined the Colonial Laws 
and regulations above briefly alluded to, together with much practical 
evidence, especially relating to Jamaica, made a special report on 
that important Colony, in which, after particularly adverting to 
many legislative defects and flagrant abuses, and specifically recom- 
mending their removal, (though, unhappily, with but little, if any 
effect,) — and at the same time, admitting the existence of evils 
scarcely separable from a state of society, confessedly anomalous and 
defective, which they, nevertheless, consider defensible as a state of 
transition and preparation — they make the most distinct acknow- 
ledgment and adjudication of the absence of all those supposed 
circumstances, the existence of which, could alone justify its con- 
tinuance, in the following words : " In the evidence which they 
have received, they find abundant proof of the general good conduct 
of the apprentices, and of their willingness to work for wages when- 
ever they are fairly and considerately treated by their employers. 
It is, indeed, fully proved, that the labour thus voluntarily performed 
by the negro, is more effective than that which was obtained from 
him while in a state of slavery, or which is now given to his 
employer during the time for which he is compeUed to work as an 
apprentice." 

The difficulty of reconciling the defence of an anomalous and 
intrinsically defective system beyond the period of its necessity, must 

* See debates in the House of Commons, on the introduction of the Imperial 
Act of Abolition, and the preamble of that Act. 



29 

be left to those who are willing to undertake it ; but, that difficulty 
will not be diminished by the fact, that the Parliamentary Com- 
mittee had distinctly before them the satisfactory examples of 
Antigua and Bermuda, to prove how safely and how advantage- 
ously to both parties the boon of unqualified freedom might have 
been universally bestowed. In the mean time, the most important 
facts relative to the negro race, and to the Colonies, have been 
finally established ; and it now stands clear from contradiction, not 
only that the negroes will work well for wages, but that they 
cannot be made to work so well without them ; not only that 
the negroes are industrious and obedient under a hard and unjust 
system, but (if proof were not really superfluous) that they 
will be much more so whenever they are fairly treated. In a 
word, that the apprenticeship system no longer admits of justi- 
fication as a necessary measure of caution; while the productive 
industry of the negro, and, consequently, the prosperity of the 
Colonies, is incalculably obstructed and impaired by its further 
continuance. Considered either as a preparatory condition for the 
enjoyment of perfect liberty — or as a season of conciliation between 
offended parties — or, as a means of improving the social and moral 
condition of the negroes, it has certainly proved a complete and 
manifest failure. 

The almost total disregard of the civil and religious education 
of the apprentices by the Colonial authorities, and the general 
injustice of the apprenticeship laws, as exhibited in the previous 
statement, must, until things are found to work by contraries, 
be regarded as demonstrative of the mischief rather than of the 
advantage of perpetuating it for such purposes. So far, indeed, 
from its being a state of either preparation or improvement, it is 
plainly one of needless deterioration and abuse — abuse at all times 
inseparable from a system of unremunerated labour, but especially 
in Colonies but just emerging from avowed slavery. If, therefore, 
so oppressive a condition must yet be endured, it is but just that its 
real nature and object should in future be known ; it ought, at least, 
to be generally understood to be, not a necessary pause in tlie negro's 
ascending progress towards freedom, but as it is, in truth, a dilatory 
measure, which will be tolerated in future for the sole purpose of 
prolonging tlic unjust gains of the planter. Meanwliile, the public at 
largo and her Majesty's Government, have been fully apprised of the 



30 

deep sensation excited throughout the country, by the more general 
circulation of the Parliamentary Report on negro apprenticeship, the 
language of which, seems to have thrown a degree of doubt over 
the future intentions of Parliament, with respect to the redress of 
such great and admitted grievances. 

The Anti-Slavery Committee, however, are not disposed hastily to 
adopt those unfavourable auguries. They have yet to be convinced, 
that when the case of the negroes is fairly considered as a whole, 
and not regarded merely in the light of individual sufferings demand- 
ing individual redress, justice will not be dealt out to the sufferers 
in a large and liberal manner. Of the indefeasible right of the 
negro, indeed, to immediate and unqualified freedom, and of the 
expediency of fully recognizing that right at the present moment, 
they entertain the firmest conviction. They maintain that such a 
step woirld be an act of national justice. They assert, that in con- 
ferring immediate freedom, — for which the most ample compensation 
has been already awarded, — the Imperial Parliament, so far from 
retracing any part of its original plan, would be merely completing 
it ; — ^it would be moving directly and consistently onward, from an 
unsuccessful experiment, to a safe and satisfactory conclusion. 

Neither can they admit that any deficiency of evidence exists to 
justify the postponement of such a procedure. The object sought 
to be obtained, is not a biU of penalties against individual 
offenders, but a redress of the multifomi evils of a confessedly 
defective and injurious system. In this case, as in all others, the 
means must be commensurate with the end; and here the evils 
complained of are the essence of the system, and inseparable from 
its existence ; and if substantial justice, which can only avail within 
a limited period, be the end to be secured, then they affirm that 
the general proof which has been already furnished, ought to be 
considered satisfactory. The law of Great Britain does not require 
impossibilities, nor impose conditions that would nullify the object 
sought to be obtained. In proceeding to put down an oppressive 
system, it demands only sufficient evidence to prove general abuse, 
and a prevailing animus and tendency to mischief. The Anti- 
Slavery Society confidently believe that this amount of proof has 
been given. Nor do they yet despair of parliamentary means being 
devised for surmounting those formidable obstacles, which have so 
long and so dishonourably obstructed the course of justice. 



31 

Meanwhile, they have a duty to perform to the country, and to 
themselves, (too long, perhaps, delayed,) of presenting the substance of 
their case to the puhhc ; and of expressing their decided opinion, that 
the union of the entire Anti-Slavery body is, at the present moment, 
peculiarly desirable, for the purpose of enabling the Government, in 
the exercise of augmented powers, to vindicate the honour of the 
nation, and to carry into fuU effect the intentions of the Imperial 
Legislature. These intentions can never, in the opinion of the Anti- 
Slavery Committee, be effectually accomplished, except by the ter- 
mination of the apprenticeship system. Nevertheless, they feel 
bound to declare, that even with this most auspicious event, there 
will still be need of stringent legislation, in order to give per- 
manence and security to freedom. "While therefore, they earnestly 
seek the entire and immediate extinction of the apprenticeship 
system, they feel, that it will be ahke due to the negroes who have 
been professedly emancipated, — to the character of the present ad- 
ministration, whose reputation is staked upon the faithful perfonn- 
ance of their pledge, — and to the nation, which has generously 
purchased the unconditional liberty of the negroes at the price of 
£20,000,000 sterhng, — that whenever the apprenticeship system 
shall terminate, freedom, in its largest and fullest sense, the con- 
stitutional rights and privileges of British subjects, without restric- 
tion or diminution, — shall be accorded and secured to the whole 
negro population of the British Colonies. The Anti-Slavery Com- 
mittee urge tills topic with greater earnestness, from their knowledge 
of the actual existence of many Colonial laws, and the project of 
many more, which, under colourable pretexts, are intended to deprive 
the emancipated negroes of their future liberty. In anticipation of 
this peril, they would now protest against the sanction of all 
such fraudident schemes ; and they respectfully but unhesitatingly 
declare their opinion, that any Administration, which shall, through 
inadvertence or otherwise, permit or suffer, at the termination of 
the apprenticeship, any infringement whatever, of that full, perfect, 
unqualified, and unconditional freedom, to which the negroes are 
unquestionably entitled, — will forfeit justly and for ever, the con- 
fidence of the British public. 

The Committee conclude with an earnest hope, that the exemplary 
patience by which the negroes have been always distinguished, and 
which now pleads so strongly in their behalf may continue to 



32 

mark their conduct to the end of this prolonged and painful trial, 
and fuUy warrant their friends in making increased exertions for the 
attainment and security of that liberty which they have so richly 
merited. 

Office of the London Anti-Slavery Society, '\ 
18, Aldermanhury , V 

2nd of January, 1838. | 



N.B. — An Appendix in support of the facts, and illustrative of 
the arguments contained in the preceding pages is in the Press, and 
will be shortly published. 



