Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/shortsketchofevi92craf 



SHORT SKETCH 

O F 

THE EVIDENCE 

FOR THE 

ABOLITION 

O F T H E 

SLAVE TRADE, 

Delivered be fore a Committee of the Honfe of Commons, 

TO WHICH IS ADDED, A 

Recommendation of the Subject 

TO THE 

SERIOUS ATTENTION 

OF 

PEOPLE IN GENERAL. 

* ILL THINGS WHATSOEVER YE WOULD THAT 
MEN SHOULD DO TO YOU, DO YE EVEN SO TQ 

them." Matt. chap. vli. ver. 12. 

LONDON, PRINTED, PHILADELPHIA: 
RE-PRINTED BY DANIEL UV/R^KE. 

M.Dec. ::cn. 



ADVERTISEMENT 






The Defign of the following SHORT 
SKETCH is not to Juperjede, in 
any Degree, more important Pub- 
lications, but, on the Contrary, to 
extend their Circulation, and promote 
their Influence. 



( II ) 

eaft end of Jamaica. The officers and feamen of the 
fhip landed in their boats, carrying with them arms 
and provifions. The flaves were left on board in their 
irons and fhackles. This happened in the night 
time. When morning came, it was discovered that 
the negroes had got out of their irons, and were bu- 
fy making rafts, upon which they placed the women 
and children ; the men, who were capable of fwim- 
ing, attended upon the rafts, whilft they drifted be- 
fore the wind towards the ifland where the feamen 
had landed. From an apprehenfion that the negroes 
would confume the water and provifions which the 
feamen had landed, they came to the refolution of 
deftroying them, by means of their fire-arms and other 
weapons. As the poor wretches approached the 
fliore they actually deftroyed between three and four 
hundred of them. Out of the whole cargo only thir- 
ty three or thirty four were faved and brought to 
Kingfton, where they were fold at public vendue. 
When the fliips arrive at their deftined ports, the 
cargo of flaves is fold, either by fcramble or ven- 
due. The fale by fcramble is defcribed : — <c A givat 
number of people^come on board with tallies in their 
hands (the fhip being firft darkened with f iils and co- 
vered round •, the men flaves placed on the main 
deck, and the women on the quarter deck; and ruih 
through the barricado door with the ferocity of 
brutes. Some have three or four handkerchiefs tied 
together, to encircle as many as they think fit for 
their purpofe. This is a very general mode of fale, 
and fo terrifies the poor negroes, that forty or fifty at 
a time have leaped into the fea ; thefe, however, the 
witnefs believes, have been taken up again : the wo- 
men have got away, and run about the town as if they 
were mad. The flaves fold by public auction or ven- 



I P* ) 

due, are generally the refyfe, or nckty {laves. Thd" c 
are in fuch a ftate of health, that they fell greatly un- 
der price. They have been known to be fold for five 
dollars, a guinea, and even a (ingle dollar each. Some 
that are deemed not worth buying are left to expire 
in the place of fale, for -nobody gives them any thing 
to eat or drink, arid fome of them live three days in 
that fituation ! In the fale no care is taken to prevent 
the feparation of relations ; they are feparated (lays 
the evidence) like fheep and lambs by the butcher. 
Making the flaves walk the plank, is a term ufed for 
throwing them overboard when provifions are fcarce. 
Sometimes the (hips lofe more than half their cargoes 
by the f 'mall -pox > at others they bury a quarter or 
one-third on the paiTage, owing to various other cau- 
fes or mortality : and it is confefTed by the planters,* 
that half the flaves die in the feafoning, after arrival 
in the Weft-Indies. Surgeon Wiifon fays, that of the 
death of two-thirds of thofe who died in his fhip, the 
primary caufe was melancho'y. The diforders which 
carry off the flaves 'io fuch numbers, are afcribed by 
Falconbridge to a difeafed mind, fudden transitions 
from heat to cold, a putrid atmofphere, wallowing 
in their own excrements, and being fhackled together. 
The captains, furgeons, &c. who have quitted the 
African flave-trade, uniformly declare the reafon to 
have been, that they could not confeientioufly con- 
tinue in it : they fay, that It is an unnatural, ini- 
quitous, and villainous trade, founded on injuftice 
and treachery ; manifefdy carried on by oppreilicn 
and cruelty, and not un frequently terminating in 
murder. Capt. Hall fays, he quitted it (in opposi- 
tion to lucrative offers) from a conviction that it 
was perfectly illegal, and founded in blood. 
* See Stanley'* Speech in the Houfe of Commons. 



( 13 ) 
The Fourth Chapter gives an account of* the ge? 
neral eftimation and treatment of the flaves in the 
Weft-Indies. Dr. Jackfon fays, that the negroes 
are generally efteemed a fpecies of inferior beings, 
whom the right of purchafe gives the owner a power 
of ufing at his will. T, Woolrich fays, he never 
knew the belt mafter in the Weft-Indies ufe his flaves 
fo well, as the worft mafter his fervants m England : 
that their irate is inconceivable— that a light of a 
gang would convince more than all words. 

Slaves are either Field Slaves,or in or outDoor Slaves, 
The field -flaves begin their work at break of day. 
They work in rows, without exception under the 
whip of drivers, and the weak are made to keep up 
with the ftrong. They continue their labour (with. 
two intermiflions, half an hour during the morning, 
and two hours at noon) till fun fet. In the intervals 
they are made to pick grafs for the cattle. Cook has 
known pregnant women worked and flogged a few 
days before their delivery. Some, however, are a lit- 
tle indulged when in that ftate. After the month they 
work with the children on their backs. In the crop- 
feafon the labour is of much longer duration*. The 
flaves fometimes work fo long that they cannot help 
fleecing, and then it not unfrequently happens, that 
their arms are caught in the mill and torn off. They 
are faid to be allowed one day in feven for reft, but 
this time is neceiTarily employed in railing food for 
the other days, and gathering grafs for their mailers 
cattle. The beft allowance of food is at Barbadoes, 
which is a pint of grain for twenty four hours, and 
half a rotten herring. when to be had. When the 

* In fome eftates it is ufual to dig a hole in the ground, which they 
put the bellies of pregnant women, while they whip them, that they 
may not excufe punifnment, nor yet endanger the life of the woman or 
child. . 

B 



( M ) 

herrings are unfit for the whites, they are bought up 
by planters for the Haves. Some allow nine pints of" 
corn a week, and about one pound offalt ttfh, which 
is_the greateft allowance mentioned in the whole courts 
of the evidence. Some have no provision but what 
they raife themfelves, and they are frequently fo fa- 
tigued by the labour of the reft of the week, as 
fcarcely to be able to work for their own fupport on 
the Sunday. And the land allotted them for this 
purpofc is often at the diftance of three miles from 
their houfes ; it would, however, be quire ample for 
their fupport, were they allowed time fufficient for 
its cultivation. Sometimes when they have been at 
the pains of clearing their land, their matters take it 
for canes, and give them wood land inftead of it. 
This hartllhip fome have fo taken to heart as to die. 
Putrid carcafes are burnt ; if they were buried, the 
Haves would dig them up and eat them, which would 
breed dittempers among them. They are fometimes 
driven by extreme hunger to fteal at the hazard, of 
their lives. They are badly clothed j one half of 
them go almoft naked. The flaves in general have 
no bed or bedding at all. Their houfes are built with 
four poles and thatched. They have little or no pro- 
perty. All the evidence (to whom the queftion has 
been propofed) agree in anfwering, that they never 
knew or heard of a field-flave ever amaffing fuch a 
fum, as enabled him to .purchafe his own freedom. 
The artificers, fueli as houfe carpenters, coopers, ma- 
fons, the drivers and head flaves, are better off. The 
owners of women let them out for p-rottitution, and 
flog them, if* they do not bring heme full wages. 

The negroes, when whipped, are fufpended by the 
arms, with weights at their feet. They arc ttrtt 
whipped with a whip made of cow-fkin (which cuts 



( M ) 

out the flefh, whereas the military whips cut only 
the ikin,) and afterwards with ebony buihes (which 
arc more prickly than thorn bufhes in this country,) 
in order to let out the congealed blood. Dr, Har- 
rifon thinks the whipping too fevere to be inflicted 
on any human being : he could lay two or three fin- 
gers into the wounds of a man whipped for not com- 
ing when he was called. Many receive from one 
hundred and fifty to two hundred ladies at a time ; 
and in two or three days this is repeated : they wafh 
the raw parts with pickle ; this appears from the con- 
vulfions it occafions, more cruel than whipping ; but 
it is done to prevent mortification. After fevere 
whipping, they are worked all day without focd, ex- 
cept what their friends may give them out of their 
own poor pittance. They are returned to the (rocks 
at night, and worked next day as before. This 
cruel treatment has made many commit filicide. Cook 
has known fourteen (laves, who, in confequcnce 
thereof, ran into the woods and cut their throats 
together. Thefe fevere punifhments are frequent. 
The fears made by whipping lafc to old age. T. Wool- 
rich has feen their backs one undiftinguifhed mafs of 
lumps, holes, and furrows. They fbmetimes die of 
mortification of the wounds. A planter flogged 
his driver to death, and boafled of having fo done. 
Under the head of Extraordinary Punifhments (for 
thofe already named are reckoned only ordinary, /men- 
tion is made of iron collars with hooks*, heavy cat- 

* General Tottenham faw a youth, about nineteen, walking in the 
Itreetp, in a mod deplorable fituation, entirely naked, and with an iron 
codar about his neck, with five long proje&ig fpikes. His body, before 
and behind, his breech, belly and thighs, were aimoft cut to pieces, and 
with running fores all over them, and you might put your finger in feme 
of the wheals. He could not fit down, owing to his breech beinp- in a 
Rate or mortification, and it wa, imporiible for him to lie down, from t»i- 
projertiorrof the prongs. The boy came to the general to aik relief. 
He- was •ihocked at his appearance, and afked him what he had done to 



( 16 ) 
tie chains, and a half hundred weight fattened to 
them, which the negroes are forced to drag after 
them, when working in the field, fufpending by the 
hands 'till the fingers mortify ; flogging with ebony 
buflies 'till they are forced to go on all fours, unable 
to get up, being tied up to the branch of a tree, with 
a heavy weight round the neck, expottd to the noon- 
day fun— thumb-fcrews ; ; a man was put on the pick- 
et, fcUpng as to^occafion a mortification of his foot 
and hand, on fufpicion of robbing his matter, a pub- 
lic officer, of a furn of money, which it afterwards 
appeared, the matter had taken himfelf. Yet the 
matter was privy to the punifhment, and the flave had 
no compenfation. He was puniilied by order of the 
matter, who did not then chuie to make it known that 
he himfelf had made life of the money. A girl's ears 
were nailed to a pott, afterwards torn away, and dipt 
offclofe to her head, with a pair of large fchTars; 
befides this, flie was unmercifully flogged, and all 

for— BREAKING A PLATE, OR SPILLING A CUP 

of tea ! A negro, impelled by hunger, had ttolen 
part ofa turkey,his matter caufed him to beheld down, 
and, with his own hands, took a hammar and punch 
and knocked out four of his teeth. The hand is cut 
off if lifted up againft a white man, and the leg for 
running away,. A planter fent for a furgeon to cut 
off the leg of a negro who had run away. On the 
furgeon's refuiing to do it, the planter took an iron 
bar, and broke the leg in pieces, and then the furge- 
on took it off. This planter did many fuch acts of 
cruelty, and all with impunity. The practice of drop- 
ping hot lead upon the negroes, is here mentioned. 
H- Ptofs faw a young female fufpended by her wrifts 

fuffer fuch a punifhment, and who infli&ed it. He faid it was his mailer, 
who lived ahout two miles from town, and that as he could not work, he 
•would give him nothing to eat. 



( i7 ) 
to^a tree, Twinging to and fro, while her matter appli- 
ed a lighted torch to the different parts of her writh- 
ing body. It was notorious that Rufhie tortured io 
many of his negroes to death, that he was obliged to 
fell his eftate. Another planter, in the fame lfland§, 
deftroyed forty Haves out of fixty (in three years) by 
feverity. The reft of the conduct of this infamous 
wretch was cancelled by the Committee of the Houfe 
of Commons, as containing circumftances too hor- 
rible to be given to the world. We, however, go on 
to read of knockingon the head and (tabbing, of a hot 
iron forced between the teeth, of a flave thrown into 
the boiling juice, and killed, of a negro fhot and his 
head cut off. And it appears, that the women, deem- 
ed of refpecTability and rank, not only order and 
fuperintend, but fometimes a&iialiy inflict with their 
own hands feyere punifhments on their (laves. 

The offences for which the before-mentioned pu- 
nifhments are inflicted are, not coming into the field 
in time, not picking a fufficient quantity of grafs, 
not appearing willing to work, when in fact lick and 
not able ; for flaying too long on an errand, for not 
coming immediately when called, for. not bringing 
home .the women) the full weekly fum enjoined by 
their owners } for running away, and for thefr, to 
which they are often driven by hunger. 

Under the head of " Extraordinary Punifhments,"' 
fome appear to have fuffered for running away, or 
For lifting up a hand againfta white man, or for break- 
ing a j late, or fpilling a cup of tea, or to extort con- 
feflion. Others again, in the moments of fudden re- 
fentment, and' one on a diabolical pretext, which the 
matter held out to the world to conceal his own vil- 
lany, and which he knew to be falfe* 

§ Jamaica. 
B 2 



( I» ) 

The flaves have little or no redrefs againft ill-ufa°e 
of any fort; the laws to reftrict pnnifhment are a 
mere farce, and univerfally difregarded, or when pre- 
tended to be obferved they are in divers ways ef- 
fectually evaded : beiides, the evidence of a Black is 
in no cafe whatever admitted againfr a White Man ; 
which circumftance alone is enough to deprive the 
negroes of all legal protection whatever, were the 
laws, in other refpects, ever fo juft and falutary. 
Lieutenant Davidfon was fo hurt at the fevere and 
frequent whippings of one of the women, that he com- 
plained to a magiftrate, who faid, " he had nothing 
to do with it." 

The particular inftances mentioned in the evi- 
dence, of Haves dying in confequence of fevere and 
cruel treatment from their mafters, were not punifh- 
ed, though generally known ; nor do the perpe- 
trators of thefe barbaraties appear to have fuffered any 
difgrace ! 

If you fpeak to a negro of future punimments, he 

fays, '* Why fhould a poor negro be punifhed ? 

he does no wrong ? fiery cauldrons, and ruth things, 
arefeferved for white people, as punimments for the 
oppreffion of ilaves." 

In the Fifth Chapter, it is proved, by fuch as have 
feen them in their own country, that the natives of 
Africa are equal to the Europeans in their natural ca- 
pacities, feelings, affections, and moral character. 
They manufacture gold and iron, in forrie refpects, 
e-qual to the European Artifts— alfo cloth and leather 
•with uncommon neatnefs *, the former they die blue, 
yellow, brown and orange. They are fkilled^n making 
indigo and foap, and pottery wares, and prepare fait 
for their own,ufe from the fea water. They alfo 
make ropes with aloes. With refpect to their moral 



( V ) 

chara&er, they are very hontft and hofpitable : grate- 
ful and affectionate, harmlefs and innocent ; punctuj- 
al in their dealings, and as capable of virtue as the 
Whites. They are fufceptible of all the focial virtues : 
gene'rcfity, fidelity, and gratitude, are allowed them 
by Dr. Stuart. Thefe virtues Dr. Jackfon enume- 
rates, and adds charity to all in diftrefs, and a ftrong 
attachment on the part of parents to their children. 
T. Woolrich fays, he never knew of an African, who 
could exprefs himfelf, that did not believe in the ex- 
igence of a fupreme Being. 

In the Sixth and Seventh Chapters it appears that 
the natives pofTefs induftry and a fpirit of commerce, 
fufticient for carrying on a new trade; that their coun- 
try abounds with, and might ea'iily be made ftill more 
productive of, many and various articles of commerce*, 
but that the traffic in flaves is an infuperable impedi- 
ment to opening a new trade. 

In the Eighth Chapter it is inquired, whether the 
flave trade be not a grave (inftead of a nurfery) of 
the feamen employed in it 

It appears by the mufker-rolls of Liverpool and 
Briftol, that in 350 veiTels, 12, 263 men were em- 
ployed, out of whom 2643 were loft, that is to *V 
more than a fifth of the wtiofe number empktyed, or 
more, than feven in every fin^e voya e"s near- 

ly one half of thofe who go out with tnc mips are con- 
ftantly left behind. 

Capt. Hall (of the merchant's fervice) flays that 
the cjews of the African (hips, 'when they arrive in 
the Weft Indies, are the moft miferable objects he ever 
met with in any country in his life : he does not know 
a fingle inftance to the contrary. He has frequently 
feen them with their toes rotted off, their legs fwe! led 
to thefize of their thighs, and in an- ulcerated ftate all 



( 20 > 
pvcr 5 &c. &e. This account is confirmed by Cape 
Hall of the navy. Sir W. Young is of opinion, that 
a trade to Africa in the natural productions of the 
country,- would not be attended with more inconveni- 
ence to the health of the Teamen employed in it, than 
the prefent Weft India Trade. 

In the Ninth Chapter we find that the Teamen em- 
ployed in the Have trade are in general barbaroufly 
ufed. They are worfe fed both in quantity and qua- 
lity of food thin the Teamen in other trades. They 
have little or no (helter night or day from the incle- 
mency of the weather during the whole of the middle 
paiTage, They are inhumanly treated when ill, and 
fuhje£bs4 to the fury of the impafHoned officers Tor 
very trifles. A bey, to avoid the cruel treatment of 
his officer, jinnp'd overboard, and was drowned. A 
man was killed with a hand Tpike for being very ill 
and unable to work. Six men were chained together 
by their necks, legs, and hands, for making their 
efcape ire , the veiTel ; they were allowed only a plan- 
tain a day ; they all died in their chains ; one of 
them (Thomas Jones a very good Teaman) raving 
mad 1 The evidence proves that inftances of wanton 
cruelty, and inhuman treatment in general, are nu- 
merous, various and frequent. One man, with both 
his legs' in irons and bis neck in an iron collar, was 
chained to the boat rqr three months, and very often 
moil inhumanly beaten for compluning of his fitua- 
tio i, both by the captain and other officers. His al- 
lowance nftcms ."is To Tnall that (after his re- 
k •/][, iio account of extreme weakness) 
fee 1 to ~rti, faying that if it were not 
p ouir <jte : — the captain reproached 
L | . and' I him die and be damped. The.. 
iiH died nig .. This was in the Ship Sally, 



C 21 ) 

on board of which ill-treatment was common. Ano- 
ther man was deliberately, by a fertes of fhocking bar- 
barities, murdered. 

Sir Geo. Young remarks that a fhip of the line 
might be preicntly manned by the failors who wifh 
to efcape from the miferies of African fhips. One 
poor young man, when dying in confequenee of the 
ill treatment he had received from the captain, faid 
(which were the laft words A. Falconbridge heard 
him fpeak) '.* I cannot ptulifh him (meaning the cap- 
tain) but God willv* The failors when fick are beat- 
en for being lazy, till they die under the blows ! 

" If this be the real fkuation of things, how hap- 
pens it (the reader may perhaps afk) that the objects 
of fuch tyranny and oppreflion fhould not obtain re» 
drefs, and that ou$ courts of law fhould not have to 
decide upon more cafes of this kind, than they have 
at prefent ?"■ It is anfwered, " thefe objects are gene- 
rally without friends and money, without which the 
injured will feek for jufHce but in vain ; and becaufe 
the peculiarity of their utuation is an impediment to 
their endeavours for redrefs," Whoever wifhes for 
a more particular anfwer to this queftion, may meet 
with it in " Clarkfon's Efiay on the Impolicy of the 
African Slave-Trade, " (page 52) from which the 
queftion and the above general reply are quoted. 

If it fhould ftill be afked, " how it happens that 
feamen enter for fiave vefTels, when fuch general ill 
ufage on board of them can hardly fail of being 
known . ?> ' the reply muft be taken from the evidence, 
" that whereas fome of them enter voluntarily, the 
greater part of them are trepanned ; for that it is the 
bufinefe of certain landlords to make them intoxicat- 
ed, and get them into debt, after which their only al~ 
ternative is a Ciiineaman or a Coal. 



{ 22 ) 

In the Tenth Chapter it is proved not to he trire, 
what fome fay, that the natives of Africa are happier 
in the European colonies than in their own country. 
They love their own country, but deftroy them- 
felves in the colonies, &c Sec. But any companion 
between the two filiations is as (H. Rofs fays, tho J on 
another occafion) " an infult to common ferje" 

The EJeventh, Twelfth, and Thirteenth Chapters 
are on the fubjecl of negro popi.ilation.~in the colonies, ' r 
and phtiniy fiiew that the importation of frefh Afri- 
cans might immediately be fuperceded, by the intro- 
duction of general good treatment, and of ecertain fa- 
lutary regulations therein fuggefted.. 

The Fourteenth Chapter is employed to demon- 
flrate, from the evidence before the committee, that 
the colonics would be able to carry on the necefiary 
cultivation of their lands, without a frefh importation 
of flaves while the generation immediately fucceeding 
the regulations propofed, were growing up to fupply 
the vacancies occafloned by the natural deaths of the 
flaves of all ages, now in their pofTcluon. 

The Fifteenth Chapter inquires, whether there be 
not a prevailing opinion in the colonies, that it is 
cheaper to buy or import flaves than thus to increafe 
them by population. And whether the very reverie 
of this opinion be not true: namely, that it is more 
profitable to breed than to import. The refult of 
this inquiry is clearly in favour of the Immediate Abo- 
lition of the African Slave Trade. The fame may 
be faid of the fixteenth and Lift chapter, in which it 
is confiJered. Whether it be more political to ex- 
tend the cultivation of the colonies by the continu- 
ance of the flave-trade, or wait till the riling genera- 
tion fhall be capable of performing it. 

Having thus taken a general view of the moft 



( 23 ) 

ftriking features of the evidence for the abolition of 
the traffic in the human fpecies, as carried on by the 
Englifh on the coaft of Africa, it might not be im- 
proper to ciofe it with the declaration of a virtuous 
pnd wife Senator, whofe indefatigable labours on be- 
half of the opprefTed- Africans, cannot fail to infure 
him the unfeigned refpect of every lover of freedom 
• and humanity : 

" The abolition of the slave trade 
(fays he) is indispensiely reqjjired of us, 

NOT ONLY. BY RELIGION AND MORALITY, EUT 
BY EVERY PRINCIPLE OF SOUND POLICY*." 

The noble exordium of another able advocate of 
the fame righteous caufe, mult not however be omii- 
-ted in this place : The Koufe of Commons being now- 
apprized of the nature of this trade, having received 
evidence, having had the facts undeniably eflabliihed, 
knowing, in fhort, ivhat the Slave-Trade iuas> he de- 
clared, that if they did not, by the vote of that night, 
mark to all mankind their abhorrence of a practice fo 
enormous, fo favage, fo repugnant to all laws, human 
and divine, it would be more fcandalous, and more de- 
faming, in the eyes of the country, and of the world, 
than any vote which any Houfe of Commons had 
ever given. He defired them ierioufly to reflect, be- 
fore they gave their votes, what they were about to 
do that evening. If they voted that the Slave Trade 
ihould not be aboliflbed, (hey would, by their vote that 
night, give a Parliament ary-fan'ffiwi to Rapine, Rob- 
bery and Murder ; for a fyftern of rapine, robbe- 
ry, and murder, the Slave Trade had now raoft chari- 
ly been proved to bef. 

* Speech of W. Wilberforce in the Houfe of Commons. 

f Speech of C. J. Fox in the Houfe of Commons, Reported by 
Wocdfall. 



( 24 ) 

It remains n'ow to recommend, as earneftly and as 
ftrongly as poffible, to the inhabitants of this Land or 
Freedom individually, a particular and ferious atten- 
tion tO THE ABSOLUTE NECESSITY, ON EVERY 
CONSIDERATION OF MORALITY AND JUSTICE, OF 
PUTTING AN END TO A PRACTICE SO PREGNANT 
WITH CIRCUMSTANCES OF TERROR AND ALARM 
TO TH 1 S COUNTRY. 

Much has been lately done, by the united friends of 
equitable freedom* in circulating throughout the king- 
dom important information on this intereiting fubject : 
but much remains yet to be done. The minds of 
many have been informed, and their indignation juft- 
ly kindled by the hiflory of a commerce " written 
throughout in chara&ers of blood*." But the under- 
flandings it is to be feard, of a great majority of the 
people of England, are frill unenlightened. Should 
the foregoing Short Sketch of the Evidence, awaken 
the feelings, or quicken the attention, of any, in fa- 
vour of their greatly injured fellow-creatures, the op- 
prefTed Africans, it is much to be wiQied, that they 
will not haftily difmifs the fubject from their recol- 
lection, or fuffer its painful impreffions to be made 
in vain : but feek a further acquaintance with the 
evidence, which the more they examine, the ftronger 
will be their inducements to exert every power and 
faculty they pofTefs, for the purpofe of procuring the 
Abolition of the Slave-Trade. Let no one fay, (( my 
fituation of privacy and obfcurity, precludes all poffi- 
bility of ferving the caufe" — for the greateit numbers 
confift of units, and the moil mighty exertions of 
flates and empires are but aggregates of individual 
ability. Next to Members of Parliament, all who have 
any juu: influence in the election of them, are parti- 
* Speech o.i W. Wilberforce Efq. in the Houfe of Commons. 



( *5 ) 
culai'ly concerned to coniider, how far the attainment 
of the great end we have in view may depend upon 
their conduct. We may certainly conclude, that who- 
ever is not a friend to the liberty of the meaneft fub- 
ject, is not fit to be entrufted with that of the ftate : 
and even thofe who have no vote, are neverthelefs 
comprehended in our idea of the public mind,— nor 
is any man of fenfe and virtue, let his fituation in a 
free country be what it may, to be deemed of no ac- 
count. Upon his judgment, his voice (if not his 
vote,) his example, much may depend. The difco ve- 
ry of truth, the communication of ufeful- knowledge, 
and the exemplary recommendation of virtuous con- 
duct, may dignify a plebeian, as well as add luftre to 
a crown. Even a negro Have, amidft the horrors of 
a. middle paflage, and debafed by every external cir- 
cumftance of degradation and mifery that the imagina- 
tion can conceive, {hall divide his meagre m oriel i 
with the inhuman monftcr in diftrefs, who ftole him 
from his native country, and his neareft connexions, 
thereby returning all the good in his power, for all 
the evil his mercilefs enemy could inflict, and giving 
an example of true benevolence of heart and real 
greatnefs of mind, unfurpaffed in the hiftory of civil- 
ized nations, and worthy of the bed and pureft of 
all religions: — " if thine enemy hunger^ feed- him ,• if 
he thirfi y give him drink \\" Let no one, therefore, 
think too meanly of himfelf when called upon to ai- 
fift in. a good caufe, feeing, that from the molt abject 
itate of human wretchednefs a leilbn may fometimes 
be learnt, and an influence imparted which the proud- 
eft philoibphy need not blufh to own. The abolition 

+ In one of the {hips we find the Haves privately and voluntarilv feed- 
ing the- hungry failors with a part of their own fcanty allowance. ' 

ft Rom. xii. chap. 20. ver, 

c 



( 2« ) 

of the {lave trade is an objecl of fuchhigh importance, 
and fo nearly concerns every one who has a mind to 
comprehend, and a heart to feel, that no communi- 
cation or afliftance is too fm all % nor any too great, to 
be exerted upon this occaiioii. 

Some people feem inclined to lend an ear to tales 
of human woe, and feel a certain gratification in be- 
holding the exhibitions of tragedy, or in the perufal 
of pathetic poetry, and the like. Even the cafe of 
the oppreffed Africans, when reprefented by their fa- 
vourite bards, or appearing in the form of the *'./}?- 
trig .Slave" or the u Negro's Complaint >" feem to poi- 
fcis, if not charms to pleafe, at leaft powers forcibly 
to attradt their willing attention, and to win their, 
jympathetic regard. Yet the evidence delivered be- 
fore the Houfe of Commons, containing a true and 
faithful account of the miferies and wicked nefs at- 
tendant upon the traffic in their fellow-creatures, un- 
cmbehifhed by fiouriflies of rhetoric, undecorated with 
the fplendid habiliments of poetry, is ahnoii in vain 
recommended to their notice. Should they be pre- 
vailed upon to caft their eye over a few pages of the 
Shocking hiftory, they prefently fhut up the book — 
it makes them fhudder— 'they have read enough— 
-fuch. horrid barbarities, fuch complicated fufferings, 
are not to be endured even in imagination ! But kt 
fuch remember — " that humanity confifts not in a 
fqueamifh ear-— it coniifts not in a starting or fhrink- 
ing at fuch tales as thefe, but in a difpoiiiion of heart 
to relieve mifery, and to prevent the repetition of cru- 
elty : — Humanity appertains rather to the mind than 
to the nerves, and prompts men to real, di Jin terefted 
endeavours to give happinefs to their fellow-crea- 
tures§." It is therefore to be wifhed that no affection 
§ Fax's Speech in the Houfe of Commons. 



( 2 7 ) 

of extreme fen Ability, or real effiminacy of manners, 
may disincline, or difqualify, for the fervice of huma- 
nity., That extreme delicacy which deprives us, 
if not of the difpofition, yet of the ability to encoun- 
ter filtering for the Pake of, and in order to help our 
brethren in affliction, and under the fevered opneiTi- 
011, is detrimental to its poiTeiTbr, and injurious to 
the community; it renders companion a painful, 
u/elefs thing, and makes beneficence fru kiefs. 

To the bufy and the gay " a great book is a great 
evil." Two 'thousand pages in folio, written 
(like Ezekiei's roll) within and without,— lamentati- 
ons, mourning and woe, (land but little chance of ob- 
taining their notice— even the Abstract of the 
Evidence, would detain fome of them too long 
from their eager pur fuits of bufinefs, or their favour- 
ite fc hemes of pleafure. This hasty sketch will 
not, however, it may be prefumed, encroach too 
much upon their time; and well rewarded will the 
compiler of it be, if it ihould prove a ttimulus to 
further inveftigation of the Evidence. No one knows 
what opportunities he may have, or how far his in- 
fluence may extend, to affift the endeavours now uf- 
ing for the abolition of a trade, the continued carry- 
ing on of which, after being fo fully apprized ot its 
dreadful enormity, may be expected (without the fmal- 
left tincture of fuperftious fear) to expofe this nation 
to the juft punilhment or Providence. 

Three nations, Juvan, Tubal, and Mefhech, are 
mentioned in Scripture || as having their principal 
trade at Tyre in the felling of men. This circum- 
ftince has been appealed to in vindication of -thg 
African Slave-Trade :— but mark the fequel. In the 
following chapter, vevfc i8, the Prophet addrdfes 

t| Ezek. xxr'n. 13. 



( a8 ) 
the Prince of Tyre thus :— " Thou hall defiled thy 
fancluaries by the multitude of thine iniquities, by the 
iniquity of thy traffic ; therefore will I bring forth a 
fire from the midfl of thee, it (hall devour thee, and 
I will bring thee to afhes upon the earth." A prophe- 
cy which has been remarkably fulfilled. 

The great leader in Lhe Debates of the Houfe of 
Commons on this momentous fubjecl has declared— 
** That interefted as he may be fuppofed to be in the 
final event of the quefiion, he was comparatively in- 
different as to the then decision of the Houfe. What- 
ever they might do, the people of Great Britain, he 
was confident, would abolifh the ilave-trade, wh-en^ 
as would now foon happen, its injuftice and cruelty 
ihould be fairly laid before them. It was (faid he) a 
jiefl: of ferpents, which would never have endured fo 
long, but for the darknefs in which they lay hid. The 
light of day would now be let in upon them, and they 
would vanilh from the fight." 

W. B. C. 



