iiiffi? 




Accessions 




r - 



GITEX BY 







% „- 



* .f 



r* r* 



REPORT 



CASE OF EDWARD PRIGG 



AGAINST 



THE COMMONWEALTH OE PENNSYLVANIA. 



ARGUED AND ADJUDGED 



<&)t Supreme (tart of tl)e &nitetr States, 



JANUARY TERM, 1843. 



IN WHICH IT WAS DECIDED 



THAT ALL THE LAWS OF THE SEVERAL STATES RELATIVE TO 
FUGITIVE SLAVES ARE UNCONSTITUTIONAL AND VOID; 



THAT CONGRESS HAVE THE EXCLUSIVE POWER OF LEGISLATION ON THE 
SUBJECT OF FUGITIVE SLAVES ESCAPING INTO OTHER STATES. 



BY RICHARD PETERS, 

REPORTER OF THE DECISIONS OF THE SUPREME COURT OF 
THE UNITED STATES. 



$httafoelpiifar. 

STEREOTYPED BY L. JOHNSON. 
1S42. 



^ft .yet C . r 



J f H > 





it?Z. 



Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1812, by 

Richard Peters, 

in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, of the Eastern District 

of Pennsylvania. 



PREFACE. 



The general and deep interest of all the citizens of the United 
States in the case now published, has induced the Reporter to 
present it to the public in its present form, before the regular 
reports of the cases decided at the late term of the Supreme Court 
of the United States can be completed. 

The principles of constitutional law, which have been applied 
in this case to the legislation of the several states relative to fugi- 
tive slaves, have established the invalidity of all state laws on 
this subject. Hereafter, under the Constitution of the United. 
States, Congress will have, exclusively, the protection and main- 
tenance of the rights of the master over his absconded slave, and 
can alone supply the means of executing the Constitution of the 
United States for the arrest of such fugitives, and for their being 
carried back to the state from which they may have escaped. 
No state judicial officer, under the authority of state laws, can 
act in the matter ; no such officer is bound to act ; and Congress 
have no right to call upon such officers to carry into effect the 
laws enacted by the government of the United States. 

In delivering the opinion of the Court, Mr. Justice Story says : 
" Few questions which have ever come before this Court involve 
more delicate and important considerations ; and few upon which 
the public at large may be presumed to feel a more profound and 
pervading interest." 

Among the principles settled in this case, is one which has a 

general national importance ; and which it is understood is now 

in discussion between the government of the United States and 

that of Great Britain. 

3 
April, 1842. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/reportofcaseofedOOprig 



Edward Prigg, Plaintiff in Error, v. The Commonwealth 
of Pennsylvania, Defendant in Error. 

A writ of error to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, brought under the twenty- 
fifth section of the judiciary act of 1789, to revise the judgment of that Court, 
on a case involving the construction of the Constitution and laws of the United States. 

Edward Prigg, a citizen of the state of Maryland, was indicted, for kidnapping, in the 
Court of Oyer and Terminer of York county, Pennsylvania, for having forcibly 
taken and carried away, from that county, to the state of Maryland, a negro woman, 
named Margaret Morgan, with the design and intention of her being held, sold, and 
disposed of as a slave for life, contrary to a statute of Pennsylvania, passed on the 
twenty-sixth day of March, 1826. Edward Prigg pleaded not guilty, and the jury 
found a special verdict, on which judgment was rendered for the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania. The case was removed to the Supreme Court of the state, and 
the judgment of the Court of Oyer and Terminer was, pro forma, affirmed : and 
the case was carried to the Supreme Court of the United States; the constitutionality 
of the law, under which the indictment was found, being denied by the counsel of 
the state of Maryland ; which state had undertaken the defence for Edward Prigg, 
and prosecuted the writ of error. The cause was brought to the Supreme Court, with 
the sanction of both the states of Maryland and Pennsylvania, with a view to have 
the questions in the case settled. Margaret Morgan was the slave for life, under the 
laws of Maryland, of Margaret Ashmore, a citizen of that state. In 1832 she 
escaped and fled from the state, into Pennsylvania. Edward Prigg, having been 
duly appointed the agent and attorney of Margaret Ashmore, and having obtained a 
warrant from a justice of the peace of York county, caused Margaret Morgan to be 
taken, as a fugitive from labour, by a constable of the state of Pennsylvania, before 
the magistrate, who refused to take cognisance of the case : and thereupon Edward 
Prigg carried her and her children into Maryland, and delivered them to Margaret 
Ashmore. The children were born in Pennsylvania ; one of them, more than a year 
after Margaret Morgan had fled and escaped from Maryland. 

By the first section of the act of Assembly of Pennsylvania of 25th March, 1826, it is 
provided, that if any person shall by force and violence take and carry away, or shall 
by fraud or false pretence attempt to take, carry away, or seduce any negro or mu- 
latto from any part of the commonwealth, with a design or intention of selling and 
disposing of, or keeping or detaining such negro or mulatto as a slave or servant for 
life, or for any other term whatsoever, such person, and all persons aiding and abetting 
him, shall, on conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a felony, and shall forfeit 
and pay a sum not less than five hundred nor more than three thousand dollars, 
and shall be sentenced to undergo a servitude for any term or terms of years, 
not less than seven years, nor exceeding twenty-one years; and shall be con- 
fined and kept at hard labour, &c. Other provisions are contained in the act; 
and it was passed in 1826, as declared in its title, to aid in carrying into effect the 
Constitution and laws of the United States, relating to fugitives from labour ; and 
on the application to the legislature, by commissioners from the state of Maryland, 

A2 5 



6 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

with a view to meet the supposed wishes of the state of Maryland on the subject of 
fugitive slaves ; but it had failed to produce the good effects intended. 

By the Court : 

It will, probably, be found, when we look to the character of the Constitution of the 
United States itself, the objects which it seeks to attain, the powers which it confers, 
the duties which it enjoins, and the rights which it secures ; as well as to the known 
historical fact that many of its provisions were matters of compromise of opposing 
interests and opinions ; that no uniform rule of interpretation can be applied, which 
may not allow, even if it does not positively demand, many modifications in its actual 
application to particular clauses. Perhaps the safest rule of interpretation, after all, will 
be found to be to look to the nature and objects of the particular powers, duties, and 
rights, with all the light and aids of contemporary history ; and to give to the words 
of each just such operation and force, consistent with their legitimate meaning, as 
may fairly secure and attain the ends proposed. 

It is historically well known, that the object of the clause in the Constitution of the 
United States, relating to persons owing service and labour in one state escaping 
into other states, was to secure to the citizens of the slaveholding states the com- 
plete right and title of ownership in their slaves, as property, in every state in the 
Union, into which they might escape from the state where they were held in servi- 
tude. The full recognition of this right and title, was indispensable to the security 
of this species of property in all the slaveholding states ; and indeed was so vital to 
the preservation of their domestic interests and institutions, that it cannot be doubted 
that it constituted a fundamental article, without the adoption of which the Union 
could not have been formed. Its true design was to guard against the doctrines and 
principles prevailing in the non-slaveholding states, by preventing them from inter- 
meddling with or obstructing or abolishing the rights of the owners of slaves. 

By the general law of nations, no nation is bound to recognise the state of slavery as 
to foreign slaves within its territorial dominions, when it is opposed to its own policy 
and institutions, in favour of the subjects of other nations where slavery is recognised. If 
it does it, it is as a matter of comity, and not as a matter of international right. The 
state of slavery is deemed to be a mere municipal regulation; founded upon, and 
limited to the range of the territorial laws. 

The clause in the Constitution of the United States, relating to fugitives from labour, 
manifestly contemplates the existence of a positive, unqualified right, on the part of 
the owner of the slave, which no state law or regulation can in any way qualify, 
regulate, control, or restrain. Any state law or regulation, which interrupts, limits, 
delays, or postpones the rights of the owner to the immediate command of his service 
or labour, operates, pro tanto, a discharge of the slave therefrom. The question can 
never be, how much he is discharged from , but whether he is discharged from any, 
by the natural or necessary operation of the state laws, or state regulations. The 
question is not one of quantity or degree, but of withholding or controlling the inci- 
dents of a positive right. 

The owner of a fugitive slave has the same right to seize and take him in a state to 
which he has escaped or fled, that he had in the state from which he escaped : and 
it is well known that this right to seizure or recapture is universally acknowledged 
in all the slaveholding states. The Court have not the slightest hesitation in hold- 
ing, that under and in virtue of the Constitution, the owner of the slave is clothed with 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 7 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

the authority in every state of the Union, to seize and recapture bis slave ; wherever 
he can do it without any breach of the peace, or illegal violence. In this sense, and 
to this extent, this clause in the Constitution may properly be said to execute itself, 
and to require no aid from legislation, state or national. 

The Constitution does not stop at a mere annunciation of the rights of the owner to 
seize his absconding or fugitive slave, in the state to which he may have fled. If it 
had done so, it would have left the owner of the slave, in many cases, utterly with- 
out any adequate redress. 

The Constitution declares that the fugitive slave shall be delivered up on claim of the 
party to whom service or labour may be due. It is exceedingly difficult, if not im- 
practicable, to read this language, and not to feel that it contemplated some further 
remedial redress than that which might be administered at the hand of the owner 
himself. "A claim" is to be made. 

"A claim," in a just juridical sense, is a demand of some matter as of right, made by one 
person upon another to do or to forbear to do some act or thing, as a matter of duty. 

It cannot well be doubted, that the Constitution requires the delivery of the fugitive on 
the claim of the master : and the natural inference certainly is, that the national 
government is clothed with the appropriate authority and functions to enforce it. 
The fundamental principle applicable to all cases of this sort would seem to be, that 
where the end is required, the means are given ; and where the duty is enjoined, the 
ability to perform it is contemplated to exist on the part of the functionaries to whom 
it is intrusted. 

The clause relating to fugitive slaves is found in the national Constitution, and not in 
that of any state. It might well be deemed an unconstitutional exercise of the power 
of interpretation, to insist that the states are bound to provide means to carry into 
effect the duties of the national government; nowhere delegated or intrusted to them 
by the Constitution. On the contrary, the natural, if not the necessary conclusion 
is, that the national government, in the absence of all positive provisions to the con- 
trary, is bound, through its own proper departments, legislative, executive, or judi- 
ciary, as the case may require, to carry into effect all the right and duties imposed 
upon it by the Constitution. 

A claim to a fugitive slave is a controversy in a case " arising under the Constitution 
of the United States," under the express delegation of judicial power given by that 
instrument. Congress, then, may call that power into activity, for the very purpose 
of giving effect to the right; and if so, then it may prescribe the mode and extent 
to which it shall be applied ; and how and under what circumstances the proceedings 
shall afford a complete protection and guaranty of the right. 

The provisions of the sections of the act of Congress of 12th February, 1793, on the 
subject of fugitive slaves, as well as relative to fugitives from justice, cover both 
the subjects; not because they exhaust the remedies, which may be applied by Con- 
gress to enforce the rights, if the provisions shall be found, in practice, not to attain 
the objects of the Constitution : but because they point out all the modes of attaining 
those objects which Congress have as yet deemed expedient and proper. If this is 
so, it would seem upon just principles of construction, that the legislation of Con- 
gress, if constitutional, must supersede all state legislation upon the same subject ; 
and by necessary implication prohibit it. For if Congress have a constitutional power 
to regulate a particular subject, and they do actually regulate it in a given manner, 



8 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

and in a certain form ; it cannot be that the state legislatures have a right to interfere. 
This doctrine was fully recognised in the case of Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. Rep. 
1, 21, 22. Where Congress have exclusive power over a subject, it is not competent 
for state legislation to add to the provisions of Congress on that subject. 

Congress have, on various occasions, exercised powers which were necessary and proper, 
as means to carry into effect rights expressly given, and duties expressly enjoined by 
the Constitution. The end being required, it has been deemed a just and necessary 
implication, that the means to accomplish it are given also ; or, in other words, that 
the power flows as a necessary means to accomplish the ends. 

The constitutionality of the act of Congress relating to fugitives from labour, has been 
affirmed by the adjudications of the state tribunals, and by those of the Courts of the 
United States. If the question of the constitutionality of the law were one of doubt- 
ful construction, such long acquiescence in it, such contemporaneous expositions of it ; 
and such extensive and uniform recognitions, would, in the judgment of the Court, 
entitle the question to be considered at rest. Congress, the executive, and the judiciary, 
have, upon various occasions, acted upon this as a sound and reasonable doctrine. 
Cited, Stuart v. Laird, 1 Cranch, 299; Martin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 304; Cohens v. 
The Commonwealth of Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264. 

The provisions of the act of 12th February, 1793, relative to fugitive slaves, is clearly 
constitutional in all its leading provisions ; and, indeed, with the exception of that 
part which confers authority on state magistrates, is free from reasonable doubt or 
difficulty. As to the authority so conferred on state magistrates, while a difference 
of opinion exists, and may exist on this point in different states, whether state magis- 
trates are bound to act under it, none is entertained by the Court, that state magis- 
trates, may, if they choose, exercise the authority, unless prohibited by state legisla- 
tion. 

The power of legislation in relation to fugitives from labour, is exclusive in the national 
legislature. Cited, Sturgis v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122, 193. 

The right to seize and retake fugitive slaves, and the duty to deliver them up, in what- 
ever state of the Union they may be found, is under the Constitution recognised as an 
absolute positive right and duty, pervading the whole Union with an equal and su- 
preme force, uncontrolled and uncontrollable by state sovereignty, or state legislation. 

The right and duty are coextensive and uniform in remedy and operation throughout 
the whole Union. The owner has the same security, and the same remedial justice, 
and the same exemption from state regulations and control, through however many 
states he may pass with the fugitive slave in his possession, in transitu, to his domi- 
cile. 

The Court are by no means to be understood, in any manner whatever, to doubt or to 
interfere with the police power belonging to the states, in virtue of their general sove- 
reignty. That police power extends over all subjects within the territorial limits of the 
states, and has never been conceded to the United States. It is wholly distinguish- 
able from the right and duty secured by the provision of the Constitution relating to 
fugitive slaves; which is exclusively derived from the Constitution, and obtains its 
whole efficiency therefrom. 

The Court entertain no doubt whatsoever, that the states, in virtue of their general police 
power, possess full jurisdiction to arrest and restrain run-away slaves, and to remove 
them from their borders, and otherwise to secure themselves against their depredations, 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 9 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

and evil example, as they certainly may do in cases of idlers, vagabonds, and paupers. 
The rights of the owners of fugitive slaves, are in no just sense interfered with or 
regulated by such a course ; and in many cases they may be promoted by the exercise 
of the police power. Such regulations can never be permitted to interfere with or 
obstruct the just rights of the owner to reclaim his slave derived from the Constitu- 
tion of the United States, or with the remedies prescribed by Congress to aid and 
enforce the same. 
The act of the legislature of Pennsylvania upon which the indictment against Edward 
Prigg is founded, is unconstitutional and void. It purports to punish as a public 
offence against the state, the very act of seizing and removing a slave by his master, 
which the Constitution of the United States was designed to justify and uphold. 

IN error to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. 

The defendant in error, Edward Prigg, with Nathan S. Bemis, 
Jacob Forward, and Stephen Lewis, Jr., were indicted by the Grand 
Jury of York county, Pennsylvania, for that, on the first day 
of April, 1837, upon a certain negro woman named Margaret 
Morgan, with force and violence they made an assault, and with 
force and violence feloniously did take and carry her away from 
the county of York, within the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 
to the state of Maryland, with a design and intention there to 
sell and dispose of the said Margaret Morgan, as and for a slave 
and servant for life. 

Edward Prigg, one of the defendants, having been arraigned, 
pleaded not guilty. 

The cause was tried before the Court of Quarter Sessions of 
York county, on the 22d day of May, 1839 ; and the jury found 
the following special verdict : 

" That at a session of the General Assembly of the Common- 
wealth of Pennsylvania, hold en at the city of Philadelphia, on 
the first day of March, 17S0, the following law was passed and 
enacted, to wit : " An act for the gradual abolition of slavery : 

1. Sec. III. All persons as well negroes and mulattoes as others, 
who shall be born within this state, shall not be deemed and con- 
sidered as servants for life, or slaves ; and all servitude for life, or 
slavery of children in consequence of the slavery of their mothers, 
in the case of all children born within this state from and after 
the passing of this act as aforesaid, shall be and hereby is, utterly 
taken away, extinguished, and forever abolished. 

2. Sec IV. Provided always, that every negro and mulatto 

2 



10 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. 

child born within this state after the passing of this act as afore- 
said, (who would, in case this act had not been made, have been 
born a servant for years, or life, or a slave,) shall be deemed to be, 
and shall be, by virtue of this act, the servant of such persons, or 
her or his assigns, who would in such case have been entitled to 
like relief in case he or she shall be evilly treated by his or her 
master or mistress, and to like freedom dues, and other privileges, 
as servants bound by indenture for four years are or may be 
entitled ; unless the person to whom the service of any such 
child shall belong, shall abandon his or her claim to the same ; in 
which case the overseers of the poor of the city, township, or 
district respectively, where such child shall be so abandoned, shall 
by indenture bind out every child so abandoned, as an apprentice, 
for a time not exceeding the age herein before limited for the 
service of such children. 

3. Sec. V. Every person who is or shall be the owner of any 
negro or mulatto slave or servants for life, or till the age of thirty- 
one years, now within this state,>or his lawful attorney, shall, on 
or before the first day of November next, deliver or cause to be 
delivered in writing to the clerk of the peace of the county, or to 
the clerk of the Court of Sessions of the city of Philadelphia, in 
which he or she shall respectively inhabit, the name and sur- 
name and occupation or profession of such owner, and the name 
of the county and township, district or ward wherein he or she 
resideth ; and also the name and names of any such slave and 
slaves, and servant and servants for life, or till the age of thirty- 
one years, within this state, who shall be such on the said first 
day of November next, from all other persons ; which particu- 
lars shall by said clerk of the sessions and clerk of the said city 
court, be entered in books to be provided for that purpose by the 
said clerks ; and no negro or mulatto now within this state shall 
from and after the said first day of November, be deemed a slave 
or servant for life, or till the age of thirty-one years, unless his or 
her name shall be entered as aforesaid on such records, except 
such negro or mulatto slaves and servants as are hereinafter 
excepted ; the said clerk to be entitled to a fee of two dollars for 
each slave or servant so entered as aforesaid, from the treasury 
of the county, to be allowed to him in his accounts. 

4. Sec. VI. Provided always, that any person in whom the 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 11 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

ownership or right to the service of any negro or mulatto shall 
be vested at the passing of this act, other than such as are here- 
inbefore excepted, his or her heirs, executors, administrators, and 
assigns, and all and every of them, severally shall be liable to the 
overseers of the poor of the city, township, or district to which 
any such negro or mulatto shall become chargeable, for such 
necessary expense, with costs of suit thereon, as such overseers 
may be put to, through the neglect of the owner, master, or mis- 
tress of such negro or mulatto, notwithstanding the name and 
other descriptions of such negro or mulatto shall not be entered 
and recorded as aforesaid, unless his or her master or owner shall, 
before such slave or servant obtain his or her twenty-eighth year, 
execute and record in the proper county, a deed or instrument 
securing to such slave or servant his or her freedom. 

6. Sec. VIII. In all cases wherein sentence of death shall be 
pronounced against a slave, the jury before whom he or she shall 
be tried, shall appraise and declare the value of such slave ; and 
in case such sentence be executed, the court shall make an order 
on the state treasurer, payable to the owner for the same, and for 
the costs of prosecution ; but in case of remission or mitigation, 
for the costs only. 

7. Sec. IX. The reward for taking up runaway and abscond- 
ing negro and mulatto slaves and servants, and the penalties for 
enticing away, dealing with, or harbouring, concealing or employ- 
ing negro and mulatto slaves and servants, shall be the same, and 
shall be recovered in like manner, as in case of servants bound 
for four years. 

8. Sec. X. No man or woman, of any nation or colour, except 
the negroes and mulattoes who shall be registered as aforesaid, 
shall at any time hereafter be deemed adjudged or holden, within 
the territories of this Commonwealth, as slaves or servants for 
life, but as free-men and free-women : except the domestic slaves 
attending upon delegates in Congress from the other American 
states, foreign ministers and consuls, and persons passing through 
or sojourning in this state, and not becoming resident therein, and 
seamen employed in ships not belonging to any inhabitant of this 
state, nor employed in any ship owned by any such inhabitant ; 
provided, such domestic slaves shall not be alienated or sold to 
any inhabitant, nor (except in the case of members of Congress, 



12 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

foreign ministers and consuls) retained in this state longer than 
six months. 

9. Sec. XI. (Repealed 25th March, 1826.) 

Sec. XII. And whereas attempts may be made to evade this 
act, by introducing into this state negroes and mulattoes bound 
by covenant to serve for long and unreasonable terms of years, 
if the same be not prevented : Therefore, 

10. Sec. XIII. No covenant of personal servitude or appren- 
ticeship whatsoever, shall be valid or binding on a negro or mu- 
latto for a longer time than seven years, unless such servant 
apprentice were, at the commencement of such servitude or 
apprenticeship, under the age of twenty-one years; in which 
case such negro or mulatto may be holden as a servant or ap- 
prentice, respectively, according to the covenant, as the case shall 
be, until he or she shall attain the age of twenty-eight years, but 
no longer. 

Sec. XIV. That this act or any thing herein contained shall not 
give any relief or shelter to any absconding or runaway negro or 
mulatto slave or servant, who has absconded himself or shall 
abscond himself from his or her owner, master or mistress, 
residing in any other state or country ; but such owner, master 
or mistress shall have like right and aid to demand, claim, and 
take away his slave or servant, as he might have had in case this 
act had not been made ; and that all negro and mulatto slaves 
now owned and heretofore resident in other states, who have 
absconded themselves or been clandestinely carried away, or who 
may be employed abroad as seamen, and have not absconded or 
been brought back to their owners, masters, or mistresses before 
the passing of this act, may within five years be registered as 
effectually as is ordered by this act concerning those who are not 
within this state, on producing such slave before any two justices 
of the peace, and satisfying the said justices by due proof of his 
former residence, absconding, running away, or absence of such 
slaves as aforesaid, who thereupon shall direct and order the said 
slaves to be entered on the record as aforesaid." 

And the jurors further found, that at a session of the Gene- 
ral Assembly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, holden at 
the city of Philadelphia, on the 29th day of March, 1788, the 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 13 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

following law was passed and enacted, "An act to explain 
and amend 'An act for the gradual abolition of slavery.' " 

"Sec. I. For preventing many evils and abuses arising from ill- 
disposed persons availing themselves of certain defects in the act 
for the gradual abolition of slavery, passed on the first day of 
March, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and 
eighty, be it enacted : 

Sec. II. The exception contained in the tenth section of the act 
of the first of March, one thousand seven hundred and eighty, 
relative to domestic slaves, attending upon persons passing through 
or sojourning in this state, and not becoming resident therein, shall 
not be deemed or taken to extend to the slaves of such persons as 
are inhabitants of or resident in this state, or who shall come here 
with an intention to settle and reside ; but all and every slave or 
slaves who shall be brought into this state by persons inhabiting 
or residing therein, or intending to inhabit or reside therein, shall 
be immediately considered, deemed, and taken to be free, to all 
intents and purposes. 

Sec. III. No negro or mulatto slave, or servant for term of 
years, (except as in the last exception of the tenth section of the 
said act, is excepted,) shall be removed out of this state, with the 
design and intention that the place of abode or residence of such 
slave or servant shall be thereby altered or changed, or with the 
design and intention that such slave or servant, if a female and 
pregnant, shall be detained and kept out of this state till her 
delivery of the child of which she is or shall be pregnant, or with 
the design and intention that such slave or servant shall be brought 
again into this state, after the expiration of six months from the 
time of such slave or servant having been first brought into this 
state, without his or her consent, if of full age, testified upon a 
private examination, before two justices of the peace of the city 
or county in which he or she shall reside, or being under the age 
of twenty-one years without his or her consent, testified in man- 
ner aforesaid, and also without the consent of his or her parents, 
if any such there be, to be testified in like manner aforesaid, where- 
of the said justices, or one of them, shall make a record, and 
deliver to the said slave or servant a copy thereof, containing the 
name, age, condition, and the place of abode of such slave or 
servant, the reason of such removal, and the place to which he 

B 



14 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

or she is about to go ; and if any person or persons whatsoever 
shall sell or dispose of any such slave or servant to any person 
out of this state, or shall send or carry, or cause to be sent or 
carried, any such slave or servant out of this state, for any of the 
purposes aforesaid, whereby such slave or servant would lose 
those benefits and privileges which by the laws of this state are 
secured to him or her, and shall not have obtained all such con- 
sent as by this act is required, testified in the manner before men- 
tioned, every such person and persons, his and their aiders and 
abettors, shall severally forfeit and pay, for every such offence, 
the sum of seventy-five pounds, to be recovered in any Court of 
record, by an action of debt, bill, plaint, or information, at the 
suit of any person who will sue for the same ; one moiety there- 
of, when recovered, for the use of the plaintiff, the other moiety 
for the use of the poor of the city, township, or place from which 
such slave or servant shall be taken and removed. 

Sec. IV. All persons who now are, or hereafter shall be, pos- 
sessed of any child or children, born after the first day of March, 
one thousand seven hundred and eighty, who would by the said 
act be liable to serve till the age of twenty-eight years, shall on 
or before the first day of April, one thousand seven hundred and 
eighty-nine, or within six months next after the birth of any such 
child, deliver, or cause to be delivered, in writing to the clerk of 
the place of the county, or the clerk of the Court of Record of 
the city of Philadelphia, in which they shall respectively inhabit, 
the name, sur-name, and occupation or profession of such pos- 
sessor, and of the county, township, district, or ward, in which 
they reside, and also the age, (to the best of his or her know- 
ledge,) name and sex of every such child, or children, under the pain 
and penalty of forfeiting and losing all right and title to every such 
child and children, and of him, her, or them, immediately becom- 
ing free, which said return or account in writing shall be verified 
by the oath or affirmation of the party, which the said clerks are 
hereby respectively authorized and required to administer, and 
the said clerks shall make and preserve records thereof, copies 
and extracts of which shall be good evidence in all Courts of jus- 
tice, when certified under their hands and seals of office, for which 
oath or affirmation, and entry on extract, the said clerks shall be 
respectively entitled to one shilling and six pence, and no more, 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 15 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

to be paid by him or her, who shall so as aforesaid make such 
entry, or demand the extract aforesaid. 

And whereas it has been represented to this house, that vessels 
have been fitted out and equipped in this port, for the iniquitous 
purpose of receiving and transporting the natives of Africa to 
places where they are held in bondage, and it is just and proper 
to discourage, as far as possible, such proceedings in future : 

Sec. V. If any person or persons shall build, fit, equip, man, 
or otherwise prepare, any such ship or vessel, within any port of 
this state, or shall cause any ship or other vessel to sail from any 
port of this state, for the purpose of carrying on a trade or traffic 
in slaves, to, from, or between Europe, Asia, Africa, or America, 
or any place or countries whatsoever, or of transporting slaves to 
or from one port or place to another, in any part or parts of the 
world, such ship or vessel, her tackle, furniture, apparel, and 
other appurtenances, shall be forfeited to the commonwealth, and 
shall be liable to be seized and prosecuted by any officer of the 
customs, or other person, by information in vene, in the Supreme 
Court or in the County Court of Common Pleas for the county 
wherein such seizure shall be made : whereupon such proceed- 
ings shall be had, both unto and after judgment, as in and by the 
impost laws of this commonwealth in case of seizure is directed. 
And moreover, all and every person and persons so building, 
fitting out, manning, equipping, or otherwise preparing or send- 
ing away any ship or vessel, knowing or intending that the same 
shall be employed in such trade or business, contrary to the true 
intent and meaning of this act, or in any wise aiding or abetting 
therein, shall severally forfeit and pay the sum of one thousand 
pounds, one moiety thereof to the use of the commonwealth, and 
the other moiety thereof to the use of him or her who will sue 
for the same, by action, debt, bill, plaint, or information. 

And whereas the practice of separating, which is too often 
exercised by the masters and mistresses of negro and mulatto 
slaves, or servants for term of years, in separating husbands and 
wives, and parents and children, requires to be checked, so far as 
the same may be done without prejudice to such masters or mis- 
tresses : 

Sec. VI. If any owner or possessor of any negro, mulatto slave 
or slaves, or servant or servants for term of years, shall, from and 



16 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

after the first day of July next, separate or remove, or cause to be 
separated or removed, a husband from his wife, or wife from, her 
husband, a child from his or her parents, or a parent from a child, 
or any or either of the descriptions aforesaid, to a greater distance 
than ten miles, with the design and intention of changing the 
habitation or place of abode of such husband or wife, parent or 
child, unless such child shall be above the age of four years, with- 
out the consent of such slave or servant for life or years shall 
have been obtained and testified in the manner hereinbefore de- 
scribed, such person or persons shall severally forfeit and pay the 
sum of fifty pounds, with costs of suit, for every such offence, to 
be recovered by action of debt, bill, plaint, or information, in the 
Supreme Court or in any Court of Common Pleas, at the suit of 
any person who will sue for the same, one moiety thereof, when 
recovered, for the use of the plaintiffs, the other moiety for the 
use of the poor of the city, township, or place, from which said 
husband or wife, parent or child, shall have been taken and re- 
moved." 

(Sec. VII. Repealed 27th March, 1820, and 25th March, 1826.) 
And the jurors further found, that at a session of the General 
Assembly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, holden at Har- 
risburg, on the 25th day of March, 1826, the following law was 
passed, " An act to give effect to the provisions of the Constitution 
of the United States relative to fugitives from labour, for the pro- 
tection of free people of colour, and to prevent kidnapping." 

"Sec. I. If any person or persons shall from and after the pass- 
ing of this act, by force and violence, take and carry away, or 
cause to be taken or carried away, and shall by fraud or false 
pretence, seduce, or cause to be seduced, or shall attempt so to 
take, carry away, or seduce any negro or mulatto from any part 
or parts of this commonwealth, to any other place or places, 
whatsoever, out of this commonwealth, with a design and inten- 
tion of selling and disposing of, or of causing to be sold, or of 
keeping and detaining, or of causing to be kept and detained, 
such negro or mulatto, as a slave or servant for life, or for any 
term whatsoever, every such person, or persons, his or their 
aiders or abettors, shall on conviction thereof, in any Court of this 
commonwealth having competent jurisdiction, be deemed guilty 
of a felony, and shall forfeit and pay at the discretion of the Court 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 17 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

passing the sentence, a sum not less than five hundred, nor more 
than one thousand dollars, one-half thereof shall be paid to the 
person or persons who shall prosecute for the same ; and the other 
half to this commonwealth ; and moreover shall be sentenced to 
undergo a servitude for any term or terms not less than seven 
years, nor exceeding twenty-one years, and shall be confined and 
kept to hard labour, fed and clothed in the manner as is directed, 
by the penal laws of this commonwealth, for persons convicted 
of robbery. 

Sec. II. If any person or persons shall hereafter, knowingly 
sell, transfer, or assign, or shall knowingly purchase, take, or 
transfer on assignment of any negro or mulatto, for the purpose 
of fraudulently removing, exporting, or carrying said negro or 
mulatto out of this state, with the design or intent by fraud or 
false pretences of making him or her a slave or servant for life, 
or for any term whatsoever, every person so offending shall be 
deemed guilty of a felony, and on conviction thereof, shall forfeit 
and pay a fine of not less than five hundred dollars, nor more 
than two thousand dollars, one-half whereof shall be paid to the 
person or persons who shall prosecute for the same, and the other 
half to the commonwealth ; and moreover shall be sentenced at 
the discretion of the Court to undergo a servitude for any term or 
time not less than seven years, nor exceeding twenty-one years, 
and shall be confined, kept to hard labour, fed and clothed in the 
same manner as is directed by the penal laws of this common- 
wealth for persons convicted of robbery. 

Sec. III. When a person held to labour or servitude in any of 
the United States, or in either of the territories thereof, under the 
laws thereof, shall escape into this commonwealth, the person to 
whom such labour or service is due, his or her duly authorized 
agent or attorney, constituted in writing, is hereby authorized to 
apply to any judge, justice of the peace, or alderman, who on 
such application, supported by the oath or affirmation of such 
claimant or authorized agent or attorney, as aforesaid, that the 
said fugitive hath escaped from his or her service, or from the 
service of the person for whom he is duly constituted agent or 
attorney, shall issue his warrant under his hand and seal, and 
directed to the sheriff, or any constable of the proper city or 
county, authorizing and empowering said sheriff, or constable, to 



18 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

arrest and seize the said fugitive, who shall be named in said 
warrant, and to bring said fugitive before a judge of the proper 
county, which said warrant shall be in the form or to the follow- 
ing effect : 

" State of Pennsylvania, county, ss. 

The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to the sheriff or any 
constable of county, greeting. 

Whereas, it appears by the oath, or solemn affirmation of 

, that , was held to labour or service to 

, of county, in the state of , and the 



said hath escaped from the labour and service of 

the said , you are therefore commanded to arrest 

and seize the body of the said if he be found in 

your county, and bring him forthwith before the person issuing 
the warrant, if a judge (or if a justice of the peace or alderman) 
before a judge of the Court of Common Pleas, or of the District 
Court, as the case may be, of your proper county, or recorder of 
a city, so that the truth of the matter may be inquired into, and 

the said be dealt with as the constitution of the 

United States, and the laws of this Commonwealth direct. 

Witness our said judge (or alderman, or justice, as the case 

may be) at this clay of , in the year of our Lord 

one thousand eight hundred and . 

By virtue of such warrant the person named therein may be 
arrested by the proper sheriff, or constable to whom the same 
shall be delivered, within the proper city or county. 

Sec. IV. No judge, justice of the peace, or alderman shall 
issue a warrant on the application of any agent or attorney as 
provided in the said third section, unless the said agent or attorney 
shall, in addition to his own oath, or affirmation, produce the 
affidavit of the claimant of the fugitive, taken before and certified 
by a justice of the peace or other magistrate authorized to admi- 
nister oaths in the state or territory in which such claimant shall 
reside, and accompanied by the certificate of the authority of 
such justice or other magistrate to administer oaths, signed by 
the clerk or prothonotary, and authenticated by the seal of a court 
of record, in such state or territory, which affidavit shall state the 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 19 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

said claimant's title to the service of such fugitive, and also the 
name, age, and description of the person of such fugitive. 

Sec. V. It shall be the duty of any judge, justice of the peace, 
or alderman, when he grants or issues any warrant under the 
provisions of the third section of this act, to make a fair record 
on his docket of the same, in which he shall enter the name and 
place of residence of the person on whose oath or affirmation the 
said warrant may be granted ; and also if an affidavit shall have 
been produced under the provisions of the fourth section of 
this act, the name and place of residence of the person making 
such affidavit, and the age and description of the person of the 
alleged fugitive contained in such affidavit, and shall, within ten 
days thereafter, file a certified copy thereof in the office of the 
clerk of the Court of General Quarter Sessions of the peace, or 
Mayor's Court of the proper city or county ; and any judge, jus- 
tice of the peace or alderman, who shall refuse or neglect to com- 
ply with the provisions of this section, shall be deemed guilty of 
a misdemeanor in office, and shall, on conviction thereof, be sen- 
tenced to pay, at the discretion of the Court, any sum not exceed- 
ing one thousand dollars, one-half to the party prosecuting for 
the same, and the other half to the commonwealth. And any 
sheriff or constable, receiving and executing the said warrant, 
shall without unnecessary delay, carry the person arrested before 
the judge, according to the exigency of the warrant. And any 
sheriff or constable who shall refuse or wilfully neglect so to do, 
shall, on conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay, at the discretion 
of the Court, any sum not exceeding five hundred dollars, one- 
half to the party prosecuting for the same, and the other half to 
the commonwealth, or shall also be sentenced to imprisonment, 
at hard labour, for a time not exceeding six months, or both. 

Sec. VI. The said fugitive from labour or service, when so 
arrested, shall be brought before a judge as aforesaid, and upon 
proof to the satisfaction of such judge that the person so seized 
or arrested, doth under the laws of the state or territory from 
which she or he fled from service or labour, to the person claim- 
ing him or her, it shall be the duty of such judge to give a certi- 
ficate thereof to such claimant, his or her duly authorized agent 
or attorney, which shall be sufficient warrant for removing the 
said fugitive to the state or territory from which she or he fled : 



20 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

Provided, That the oath of the owner or owners, or other person 
interested, shall in no case be received in evidence before the 
judge on the hearing of the case. 

Sec. VII. When the fugitive shall be brought before the judge, 
agreeably to the provisions of this act, and either party allege 
and prove to the satisfaction of the said judge that he or she is 
not prepared for trial, and have testimony material to the matter 
in controversy that can be obtained in a reasonable time, it shall 
and may be lawful, unless security satisfactory to the said judge 
be given for the appearance of the said fugitive, on a day certain 
to commit the said fugitive to the common jail for safe keeping, 
there to be detained at the expense of the owner, agent, or attor- 
ney for such time as the judge shall think reasonable and just, 
and to a day certain, when the said fugitive shall be brought 
before him by habeas corpus in the courthouse of the proper 
county, or in term time at the chamber of the said judge, for final 
hearing and adjudication: Provided, That if the adjournment 
of the hearing be requested by the claimant, his agent or attorney, 
such adjournment shall not be granted unless the said claimant, 
his agent or attorney, shall give security satisfactory to the judge 
to appear and prosecute his claim on the day to which the hear- 
ing shall be adjourned : Provided, That on the hearing last men- 
tioned, if the judge committing the said fugitive, or taking the 
security as aforesaid, should be absent, sick, or otherwise unable 
to attend, it shall be the duty of either of the other judges, on 
notice given, to attend to the said hearing, and to decide thereon. 

Sec. VIII. The officer which may or shall be employed in the 
execution of the duties of this act shall be allowed the same fees 
for service of process that sheriffs within this commonwealth are 
now allowed for serving process in criminal cases, and two dollars 
and fifty cents per day for each and every day necessarily spent 
in performing the duties enjoined on them by this act, to be paid 
by the owner, agent, or attorney, immediately on the perform- 
ance of the duties aforesaid. 

Sec. IX. No alderman or justice of the peace of this common- 
wealth shall have jurisdiction or take cognisance of the case 
of any fugitive from labour from any of the United States or 
territories under a certain act of Congress, passed on the tenth 
day of February, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three, 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 21 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

entitled "An act respecting fugitives from justice, and persons 
escaping from the service of their masters;" nor shall any al- 
derman or justice of the peace of this commonwealth issue or 
grant any certificate or warrant of removal of any such fugitive 
from labour as aforesaid, except in the manner and to the effect pro- 
vided in the third section of this act, upon the application, affidavit, 
or testimony of any person or persons whatsoever, under the said 
act of Congress, or under any other law, authority, or act of the 
Congress of the United States ; and if any alderman or justice 
of the peace of this commonwealth shall, contrary to the pro- 
visions of this act, take cognisance or jurisdiction of the case of 
any such fugitive as aforesaid, except in the manner hereinbefore 
provided, or shall grant or issue any certificate or warrant of 
removal as aforesaid, then, and in either case he shall be deemed 
guilty of a misdemeanor in office, and shall, on conviction there- 
of, be sentenced to pay at the discretion of the Court any sum 
not less than five hundred dollars, nor exceeding one thousand 
dollars, or half thereof, to the party prosecuting for the same, 
and the other half to the use of the commonwealth. 

Sec. X. It shall be the duty of the judge or recorder of any 
Court of Record in this commonwealth when he grants or issues 
any certificate or warrant of removal of any negro or mulatto 
claimed to be a fugitive from labour to the state or territory from 
which he or she fled, in pursuance of an act of Congress passed 
the twelfth day of February, one thousand seven hundred and 
ninety-three, entitled "An act respecting fugitives from justice 
and persons escaping from the service of their masters," and of 
this act to make a fair record of the same, in which he shall enter 
the age, name, sex, and general description of the person of the 
negro or mulatto for whom he shall grant such certificate or 
warrant of removal, together with the evidence and the name of 
the places of residence of the witnesses, and the party claiming 
such negro or mulatto, and shall within ten days thereafter file a 
certified copy thereof in the office of the clerk of the Court of 
General Quarter Sessions of the Peace, or Mayor's Court of the 
city or county in which he may reside. 

Sec. XI. Nothing in this act contained shall be construed as a 
repeal or alteration of any part of an act of assembly passed the 
first day of March, one thousand seven hundred and eighty, 



22 SUPREME COURT. 

fPrigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

entitled "An act for the gradual abolition of slavery," except the 
eleventh section of said act, which is hereby repealed and sup- 
plied, nor of any part of an act of assembly passed on the twenty- 
eighth day of March, one thousand seven hundred and eighty- 
eight, entitled "An act to explain and amend an act for the 
gradual abolition of slavery," except the seventh section of this 
last mentioned act, which is hereby supplied and repealed." 

And the jurors further found, that the negro woman, Margaret 
Morgan, in the within indictment mentioned, came into the state 
of Pennsylvania from the state of Maryland, some time in the 
year eighteen hundred and thirty -two ; that at that time, and for 
a long period before that time, she was a slave for life, held to 
labour, and owing service or labour for, under, and according to 
the laws of the said state of Maryland, one of the United States, 
to a certain Margaret Ashmore, a citizen of the state of Maryland, 
residing in Hartford county, and that the said negro woman, 
Margaret Morgan, escaped and fled from the state of Maryland 
without the knowledge and consent of the said Margaret Ash- 
more; that in the month of February, eighteen hundred and 
thirty-seven, the within named defendant, Edward Prigg, was 
duly and legally constituted and appointed by, the said Margaret 
Ashmore, her agent or attorney, to seize and arrest the said negro 
woman, Margaret Morgan, as a fugitive from labour, and to re- 
move, take, and carry her from this state into the state of Mary- 
land, and there deliver her to the said Margaret Ashmore ; that 
as such agent or attorney the said Edward Prigg afterwards, and 
in the same month of February, eighteen hundred and thirty- 
seven, before a certain Thomas Henderson, Esquire, then being 
a justice of the peace in and for the county of York, in this state, 
made oath that the said negro woman, Margaret Morgan, had 
fled and escaped from the state of Maryland, owing service or 
labour for life, under the laws thereof, to the said Margaret Ash- 
more ; that the said Thomas Henderson, so being such justice of 
the peace as aforesaid, thereupon issued his warrant, directed to 
one William M'Cleary, then and there being a regularly appointed 
constable in and for York county, commanding him to take the 
said negro woman, Margaret Morgan, and her children, and bring 
them before the said Thomas Henderson, or some other justice 
of the peace for said county; that the said M'Cleary, in obedience 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 23 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

to said warrant, did accordingly take and apprehend the said 
negro woman, Margaret Morgan, and her children, in York 
county aforesaid, and did bring her and them before the said 
Thomas Henderson ; that the said Henderson thereupon refused 
to take further cognisance of said case, and that the said Prigg 
afterwards, and without complying with the provisions of the 
said act of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Penn- 
sylvania, passed the 25th of March, 1826, entitled "An act to 
give effect to the provisions of the Constitution of the United 
States relative to fugitives from labour, for the protection of free 
people of colour, and to prevent kidnapping," did take, remove, 
and carry away the said negro woman, Margaret Morgan, and 
her children, mentioned in said warrant, out of this state into the 
state of Maryland, and did there deliver the said woman and 
children into the custody and possession of the said Margaret 
Ashmore. 

And further say, that one of the said children so taken, removed, 
and carried away, was born in this state more than one year after 
the said negro woman, Margaret Morgan, had fled and escaped 
from the state of Maryland as aforesaid. 

But whether or not upon the whole matter aforesaid, by the 
jurors aforesaid in form aforesaid, found, the said Edward Prigg 
be guilty in manner and form as he stands indicted the jurors 
aforesaid are altogether ignorant, and therefore pray the advice 
of the Court, and if, upon the whole matter aforesaid it shall seem 
to the said Court that the said Edward Prigg is guilty, then the 
jurors aforesaid, upon their oaths aforesaid, say that the said Ed- 
ward Prigg is guilty in manner and form as he stands indicted. 

But if upon the whole matter aforesaid, it shall seem to the 
said Court, that the said Edward Prigg is not guilty, then the 
jurors aforesaid, upon their oaths aforesaid, say that the said 
Edward Prigg is not guilty in manner and form as he stands 
indicted." 

This special verdict was, under an agreement between Messrs. 
Meredith and Nelson, counsel for Edward Prigg, and Mr. 
Johnson, the attorney-general of Pennsylvania, taken under the 
provisions of an act of the Assembly of Pennsylvania, passed 
22d of May, 1839 ; and by agreement, the Court gave judg- 



24 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

ment against Edward Prigg, on the finding of the jury and the 
indictment. 

The defendant prosecuted a writ of error to the Supreme Court 
of Pennsylvania to May term, 1840. On the 23d May, 1840, 
the following errors were assigned before the Court, by Mr. Mere- 
dith, and Mr. Nelson, who represented the state of Maryland, as 
well as the defendant. 

The plaintiff in error suggests to the Supreme Court here, that 
the judgment rendered in the Court of Oyer and Terminer of 
York county in this case, should be reversed for the reason fol- 
lowing, viz. : That the act of Assembly of the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania, set out in the record in the said cause, is repugnant 
to the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, and is 
therefore void. 

The Supreme Court affirmed, pro forma, the judgment of the 
Court of Oyer and Terminer ; and the defendant, Edward Prigg, 
prosecuted this writ of error. 

The case was argued, for the plaintiff in error, by Mr. Mere- 
dith and Mr. Nelson, under authority to appear in the case for 
the state of Maryland; and by Mr. Johnson, the attorney- 
general of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Hambly, for the Common- 
wealth of Pennsylvania. 

The arguments of all the counsel, with the exception of that 
of Mr. Nelson, which has not been received, have been by them, 
respectively, furnished to the reporter. 

The counsel for the plaintiff in error contended : 
That the law of Pennsylvania, on which the indictment of the 
defendant founded, was unconstitutional, 

1. Because Congress has the exclusive power of legislation 
upon the subject-matter of the said constitutional provision, which 
power has been exercised by the act of the 12th February, 1793. 

2. That if this power is not exclusive, still the concurrent power 
of the state legislatures is suspended by the actual exercise of the 
federal power. 

3. That if not suspended, still the statute of Pennsylvania, in 
all its provisions applicable to this case, is in direct collision with 
the act of Congress ; and is therefore unconstitutional and void. 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 25 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

Mr. Meredith, for the state of Maryland ; interposing in behalf 
of the plaintiff in error ; adverted to the special act of the legis- 
lature of Pennsylvania, of the 22d of May, 1839, as the result 
of a negotiation between that state and Maryland, the object of 
which was to settle, by the authoritative decision of the Supreme 
Court of the Union, the power of state legislation, over that pro- 
vision of the Constitution of the United States, which relates to 
fugitive slaves. He then briefly stated the facts of the particu- 
lar case, as found by the special verdict; and referring to the 
provisions of the act of Congress of the 12th of February, 1793, 
respecting fugitives from justice, and persons escaping from the 
service of their masters, and to the several sections of the Penn- 
sylvania law of the 25th of March, 1826, which had given rise 
to the controversy between the two states, he remarked, that the 
validity of this law depended entirely upon the constitutionality 
of the act of Congress. If that act was constitutionally passed, 
he argued that it was wholly immaterial to inquire whether it 
was passed in the exercise of an exclusive or of a concurrent 
power of legislation. Because, in either case, the conclusion 
would be the same. The Pennsylvania law must be declared 
inoperative and void, and the judgment of her Courts, which he 
was about to examine, must necessarily be reversed. 

If this should appear to be a proper view of the question 
presented by the record ; if it depended solely upon the constitu- 
tionality of the act of Congress ; the whole matter, as he believed, 
would be found to lie within very narrow limits. But, undoubt- 
edly, the cause itself, looking to the consequences of its decision 
by the tribunal he addressed, was one of deep and pervading 
interest. It involved matters of high concernment, not only to 
the two sovereign states, which stood before the Court as the im- 
mediate parties to the controversy ; but to those other states of 
the Union, which, with reference to the questions at issue, occu- 
pied the same relative position. Indeed, it would perhaps be not 
too much to say, that the case was one of vital interest to the 
peace and perpetuity of the Union itself. For he believed that 
to the interference of state legislation, might justly be ascribed 
much of that exasperation of public sentiment, which unhappily 
prevailed upon a subject that seemed every day to assume a more 
malignant and threatening aspect. It was fit, therefore, that such 
3 C 



26 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

a cause should receive not only a careful, but a thorough exami- 
nation, before it was finally passed upon by the conclusive judg- 
ment of the Court. 

That he might render what assistance was in his power to this 
end, he proposed to consider the case, with a view of maintain- 
ing the three following propositions : 

1. That Congress has the exclusive power of legislation upon 
the subject-matter of the constitutional provision in question. 

2. That if the power is not exclusive, still, from its very nature, 
the concurrent power of the state legislatures is suspended by 
the actual exercise of the federal power. And 

3. That if the power is not suspended over the whole subject- 
matter of the provision, still it cannot be constitutionally exercised, 
so as to conflict with federal legislation ; and consequently, that 
the law of Pennsylvania, so far as it was applied upon the indict- 
ment to the case of the plaintiff in error, is void and inoperative ; 
because its provisions are in direct collision with those of the 
act of Congress. 

Before proceeding to discuss these propositions, he observed, 
that there was a preliminary inquiry on which it would be 
proper to bestow a brief attention. And that was, whether this 
constitutional provision required legislation ; whether, proprio 
vigore, it was not sufficient of itself, and by itself, to effectuate the 
object it contemplated. He did not, it was true, anticipate such 
a construction from the learned counsel for the state of Pennsyl- 
vania : for, if successfully maintained, it would be fatal to their 
case. Because it was clear beyond all doubt, that if the legisla- 
tion of • Congress is inhibited on the ground that the Constitution 
neither intends nor requires legislative regulation, the same 
reason must necessarily exclude the legislation of the states ; and 
therefore, in reference to the present case, if the Constitution effects 
its own purposes, by its own unassisted strength, the law of 
Pennsylvania, which professes by its title " to give effect to the 
provisions of the Constitution of the United States, relative to 
fugitives from labour," is at best a mere work of legislative 
supererogation, wholly futile and inoperative. It was not, there- 
fore, he said, in its direct bearing upon the case, that he deemed 
the inquiry important ; but because, elsewhere, in legislative 
assemblies, as well as in judicial forums, this construction had 



JANUARY TERM, 1S42. 27 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

been so gravely insisted on as to deserve at least a passing 
notice. 

A very brief examination of the provision in the Constitution, 
would, he thought, make it manifest that it looks to subsequent 
legislative enactments. The first clause prohibits the states from 
passing any law, or adopting any regulation by which fugitives 
from labour may be discharged from service. If the provision 
had stopped there, he admitted that legislation would have been 
unnecessary. Because a state law, in violation of so express a 
prohibition, would be ipso facto void. And the judicial power, 
extending to all cases arising under the Constitution, would be 
unquestionably competent so to declare it. But the next clause 
of the provision is of a different character. It guarantees a 
right ; and enjoins a duty. It declares that the fugitive shall be 
delivered up, on claim, to the party to whom his service or labour 
may be due. Here, then, are two acts to be done. A claim is 
to be made ; but the mode in which it is to be made, and the 
forms to be observed in making it, are not provided for. Again, 
a delivery is required ; but from whom, and in what manner, 
and on what condition, the Constitution does not prescribe. Re- 
gulations upon these points were indispensable to effectuate the 
object, and they were left to legislative enactments. And very 
properly so, because it is the office of a written constitution to 
establish general principles only, leaving them to be carried out 
by future legislation. 

Mr. Meredith then adverted to the history and origin of the act 
of Congress, of the 12th of February, 1793, as the strongest illus- 
tration of the necessity of such legislation ; and for this purpose re- 
ferred to the first volume of State Papers, title Miscellaneous, page 
38 et seq. It appeared from these documents, that in the year 
1791, but two years after the organization of the government, the 
Governor of Pennsylvania, under the analogous provision in the 
Constitution relative to fugitives from justice, made a demand upon 
the Governor of Virginia for the surrender and delivery of three 
persons, who had been indicted in Pennsylvania for kidnapping a 
negro, and carrying him into Virginia. The Governor of Virginia 
hesitated upon the course to be pursued, and referred the matter 
to the attorney-general of that state, who advised that the demand 
ought not to be complied with. In an elaborate opinion, to which 



28 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

the Court was referred, he took several objections ; and among 
them, the one most strenuously insisted on was, that the Constitu- 
tion had provided no means, and prescribed no method, for 
carrying the provision into effect. And that Congress had not 
supplied such means by any law upon the subject. " If," he said, 
" the delivery and removal in question can be effected, it must be 
under the authority only of the Constitution of the United States. 
By that, the delivery is required, and the removal authorized. 
But the manner in which either shall be effected is not pre- 
scribed." And again, " The demand cannot be complied with by 
the Governor of Virginia, without some additional provision by 
law, to enable him to do so." The governor adopted this view 
of the subject, and expressed a hope, in communicating his refu- 
sal, that the case would furnish an inducement to Congress to 
legislate at once upon the constitutional provision. Upon this 
refusal, the Governor of Pennsylvania addressed a communication 
to the President of the United States, in which he says, " As the 
attorney-general of Virginia has suggested another difficulty with 
respect to the mode of arresting persons as fugitives from justice, 
I have thought the present a proper occasion to bring the subject 
into your view ; that by the interposition of the federal legisla- 
ture, to whose consideration you may be pleased to submit it, 
such regulations may be established, as will in future obviate all 
doubt and embarrassment upon a constitutional question so deli- 
cate and important." The president, it appears, laid these pro- 
ceedings, with the opinion of the attorney-general of the United 
States, before Congress ; and the result was, that at the same ses- 
sion, the act, as it now stands upon the statute-book, was reported 
by a committee ; and was finally passed without opposition, on 
the 12th of February, 1793. 

The origin then of this act of Congress, so strongly illustrative 
of the difficulties and embarrassments which would continually 
have arisen, if the article of the Constitution referred to had been 
left to execute itself, dispenses with the necessity of all further 
argument upon this part of the subject. For it is scarcely neces- 
sary to remark, that the same difficulties and embarrassments 
would have arisen in reference to the provision regarding fugi- 
tives from labour, but for the enactments of the law of 1793. In- 
deed, in looking to both provisions, it would be found that the 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 29 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

necessity of legislation is obviously much less, in that which con- 
cerns fugitives from justice, than in the one now more immedi- 
ately under consideration. The act of Congress had never been 
questioned upon this ground, till the case of Jack v. Martin came 
before the Court of Errors of the state of New York. And even 
in that case, it was a mere intimation thrown out by the Chan- 
cellor, but neither reasoned out, nor relied on. In every other 
case, it has been taken for granted that legislation was necessary 
to effectuate the object of the framers of the Constitution. In 
Wright v. Deacon, 5 Serg. & Rawle, 63, Chief Justice Tilghman, 
after quoting the provision, says, " Here is the principle ; — the 
fugitive is to be delivered on claim of his master. But it required 
a law to regulate the manner in which this principle should be 
reduced to practice. It was necessary to establish some mode, in 
which the claim should be made, and the fugitive be delivered 
up." So also, in the case of the Commonwealth v. Griffith, 
2 Pick. Rep. 11. Parker, Chief Justice, says, "The Constitution 
does not prescribe the mode of reclaiming a slave, but leaves it to 
be determined by Congress. It is very clear that it was not 
intended that application should be made to the executive 
authority of the state.' 7 

It being then indisputable, as the counsel thought, that the Con- 
stitution looks to, and requires the aid of legislation to accomplish 
its purpose ; he proceeded to argue, that this legislation was 
intended to be federal, and exclusive of state legislation. Why, 
he asked, was the provision introduced into the Constitution ? 
The colonial history of the country would show that at one 
period slavery was recognised as a legal institution in all the 
provinces ; and that in all of them, a customary or conventional 
law prevailed, which conferred upon the owner of a fugitive slave 
the right to reclaim him, wherever he might be found. Before 
the close of the Revolution, however, public opinion in the north- 
ern section of the country, had materially changed with regard to 
the policy and humanity of a system, that had unfortunately been 
fastened upon the colonies by the power of the mother country, 
without regard to their interests and in defiance of repeated 
protests. In 17S0, Pennsylvania passed an act for the gradual 
abolition of slavery. In the same year, Massachusetts, by her 
Declaration of Rights, emancipated her slaves. And in a short 

c 2 



30 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

time afterwards, these examples were followed by all, or nearly 
all of the New England states. 

The institution, however, still continued to exist in the south. 
The climate of that region, and the products of its soil, peculiarly 
adapted to this species of labour, has increased the slave popula- 
tion to so great a number, that, at the close of the Revolution, the 
system had so intertwined itself with the vital interests of private 
property, and with the maintenance of the public safety, as to 
render every project, even of gradual abolition, unsafe and imprac- 
ticable. During the confederation, the southern states had sus- 
tained great inconveniences and loss by the change that had been 
effected by the abolition laws of the northern states. The con- 
ventional or customary law was no longer observed There was 
no provision upon the subject in the articles of confederation. In 
many of the northern states no aid whatsoever would be allowed 
to the owners of fugitive slaves ; and sometimes indeed they met 
with open resistance. 3 Story's Coram, on the Const. 677. "At 
present," said Mr. Madison, in the Virginia convention, 2 Elliott's 
Deb. 335, "at present, if any slave elopes to an}r of those states 
where slaves are free, he becomes emancipated by their laws. For 
the laws of the states are uncharitable to one another in this 
respect." And in the North Carolina convention, Mr. Iredell 
observed, that, " In some of the northern states they have eman- 
cipated their slaves. If any of our slaves go there, they would, 
by the present laws, be entitled to their freedom, so that their 
masters could not get them again." 

It was during this conflict of law, of opinions, and of interests, 
between the northern and southern states, that the Constitu- 
tion embracing the provision in question was adopted. That 
provision, it is well known, was the result of mutual concessions 
in reference to the whole subject of slavery. On the one hand 
the south agreed to confer upon Congress the power to prohibit 
the importation of slaves after the year 1808. On the other, the 
north agreed to recognise and protect the existing institutions of 
the south. And for that very purpose, the clause in question was 
engrafted upon the Constitution. The history of the times proves 
that the south regarded, and relied upon it, as an ample security 
to the owners of slave property. In the Virginia convention, in 
order to satisfy the minds of the people, that property of this 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 31 

[Prigg u. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

description was abundantly protected, Governor Randolph held this 
language : " Were it right to mention what passed in convention 
on the occasion, I might tell you that the southern states, — even 
South Carolina herself, — conceived this property to be secured 
by these words." 

Such, undoubtedly, was the confidence of the whole south, 
in the intention of the framers of the Constitution. Such was 
their intention ; and if so, it would seem to follow as a neces- 
sary consequence, that they meant to commit all legislative power 
over the subject exclusively to Congress. The provision was 
manifestly intended to restore to the south the rights which 
the customary law had formerly extended to them, in common 
with the other colonies. Those rights had been disregarded by 
many of the states. And the apprehension must have forced 
itself upon every southern mind in the convention, that if the 
provision were left to be carried out by state legislation, it must 
prove but a precarious and inadequate protection. The provision, 
it is true, yielded the right of the owner to reclaim the fugitive, 
in whatever state he might have sought refuge ; but if the power 
to regulate the mode in which this provision was to be carried 
into practical effect — if the power of enforcing its execution 
were left to the states, it could not but have been foreseen that its 
whole purpose might be defeated. That the states might either 
legislate or not. — In the one case leaving the owner without legal 
means to vindicate his rights ; in the other, embarrassing the prose- 
cution of them, so as to delay or defeat them. In a word, to borrow 
the language of Chief Justice Nelson, whose whole argument upon 
this subject, in the case of Jack v. Martin, 12 Wend. Rep. 311, 
is entitled to the most attentive consideration of the Court, " the 
idea that the framers of the Constitution intended to leave the legis- 
lation of this subject to the states, when the provision itself obvi- 
ously sprung out of their fears of partial and unjust legislation by 
the states, in respect to it, cannot be admitted." The confidence of 
the south could only have reposed itself in Congress, " where the 
rights and interests of the different sections of the country, liable 
to be influenced by local and peculiar causes, would be regulated 
with an independent and impartial regard to all." 

If such was the intention of the framers of the Constitution, 
the next inquiry is, whether it can be effectuated by the express 






32 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

or implied powers granted in that instrument. Congress has 
legislated upon the subject. But had it a constitutional authority 
to do so ? Is the power thus exercised directly or impliedly given ? 

In conducting this inquiry, it is proper, in the first place, to 
look to the collateral supports on which this act of Congress rests 
for its validity. It was passed only four years after the adoption 
of the Constitution. In that Congress were many of the leading 
and most distinguished men of the convention. The act was 
not passed hastily ; for it was reported in 1791, and finally acted 
on in 1793. It was not passed without full consideration; for 
the Virginia case, and the different opinions, looking to federal 
or state legislation upon a kindred subject, were communicated 
to Congress in 1791. Here, then, is a contemporaneous exposi- 
tion of the constitutional provision in the act itself, which has 
been always regarded by this Court as of very high authority. 
A practical exposition, which, in the language of a distinguished 
commentator, approaches nearest to a judicial exposition. 1 Story's 
Comm. on the Const. 392. It is, indeed, the very case he puts, 
having all the incidents of such an exposition. For the authority 
of Congress to pass this law was determined after solemn con- 
sideration, pro re nata, upon a doubt raised — upon a lis mota, 
in the face of the nation — with a view to present action, and in 
the midst of jealous interests. To this source of collateral inter- 
pretation, it has been already said, this Court is in the habit of 
looking with great respect. Among other cases, those of Martin 
v. Hunter's lessee, 1 Wheat. Rep. 351, and Cohens v. the State 
of Virginia, 6 Wheat. Rep. 418, may be referred to ; for the pur- 
pose of showing that the Court has resorted to contemporary 
construction — to practical expositions of constitutional powers, 
in cases of much more doubt and difficulty than the present. 

But further, from the period of its enactment, till very recently, 
this act of Congress has been acquiesced in — practically applied 
in all the states, and regarded as containing judicious and salu- 
tary regulations in reference to both the subjects to which it re- 
lates. Ought a construction, time-honoured as this is, to be lightly 
disturbed ? This Court has already answered the question. It 
has held a practice and acquiescence for a much shorter period, 
as fixing the construction of the Constitution on a question of at 
least quite as much doubt. In the case of Stuart v. Laird, 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 33 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

1 Cran. Rep. 309, which involved the constitutionality of the pro- 
vision in the judiciary act of 1789, giving to the judges of the 
Supreme Court Circuit Court powers, the Court held this language : 
"To this objection, which is of recent date, it is sufficient to 
observe, that practice and acquiescence under it for a period of 
several years, commencing with the organization of the judicial 
system, affords an irresistible answer, and has, indeed, fixed the 
construction. It is a contemporary interpretation of the most 
forcible nature. This practical exposition is too strong and obsti- 
nate to be shaken or controlled. Of course the question is at 
rest, and ought not now to be disturbed." 

But in addition to contemporaneous exposition, and long acqui- 
escence, we have the judicial decisions of the three great non- 
slaveholding states — Massachusetts, New York, and Pennsyl- 
vania ; in which the constitutionality of this act of Congress was 
challenged and sustained. Commonwealth v. Griffith, 2 Pick. 
Rep. 11 4 Wright v. Deacon, 5 Serg. and Rawle's Rep. 63; Jack 
v. Martin, 12 Wend. Rep. 312. 

So, too, in every case before the Circuit Court of the United 
States, the provisions of this act of Congress have been judicially 
dealt with, without a question as to its constitutionality. It is 
submitted, therefore, that a very clear case of construction ought 
to be made out, to shake even the collateral supports on which 
this law rests. 

But if the question can still be considered an open one, there 
is no difficulty in showing that the power of legislation in re- 
ference to this subject is granted by the Constitution to Congress. 
It would be strange if it were not so ; strange, if upon a subject 
of such intense and general interest, to which the mind of the 
convention had been so directly called, they had left their work 
unfinished ; their purpose unaccomplished. It has been said, 
however, and may again be said, that the legislative power of 
federal government is a limited one ; that the Constitution enu- 
merates the cases in which it may be exercised, but that this is 
not among the number. That besides these enumerated cases, 
a general power is given to Congress to pass all laws necessary 
and proper to carry into execution all powers granted by the 
Constitution to the government, or any of its departments or 
officers. But that there is no power so granted in reference to 
5 



34 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

this provision. Is this so ? The Constitution declares that slaves 
escaping from service shall be delivered up, on claim, to the 
person to whom such service shall be due. What is the meaning 
of these words " on claim ?" They look to a proceeding of a 
judicial character ; to an assertion of the right of property, to be 
made before a tribunal competent to judge and decide; and to 
execute that decision, by a delivery of the property, if the claim 
be established. Is not this, then, a part of the judicial power, 
which extends to all cases at law and in equity, arising under the 
Constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States ? Is not 
every such claim a legal claim ? and when asserted, is it not a 
case at law arising under the Constitution ? 

If then the judicial power extends to cases falling within this 
provision of the Constitution, Congress had an unquestionable 
right to vest it. It was a duty to vest it ; because this Court 
has decided that the language of the Constitution in regard to 
the impartment of the judicial power is imperative upon Con- 
gress. Martin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. Rep. 304, 316. 

The judiciary act of 1789 does not cover the whole judicial 
power under the Constitution. Subsequent legislation has sup- 
plied many omissions in that act, of which the act of 1793 is an 
instance, vesting in the Circuit and District Courts that portion 
of the judicial power which is embraced by the second and third 
sections of the fourth article of the Constitution. 

It is true that the act does not prescribe a judicial proceed- 
ing according to the forms of the common law. But in the same 
case of Martin v. Hunter, this Court has said, that in vesting the 
judicial power, Congress may parcel it out in any mode and form 
in which it is capable of being exercised. The act contemplates 
a summary proceeding, but still of a judicial character. It pro- 
vides for the preliminary examination of a fact, for the purpose 
of authorizing a delivery and removal to the jurisdiction most 
proper for the final adjudication of that fact ; to the state on the 
laws of which the claim to service depends. But this examination 
is judicial in its character. The parties, — claimant, and alleged 
fugitives, — are brought within the jurisdiction ; the case is to be 
heard and decided upon proof; the certificate is not to be granted, 
unless the judge shall be satisfied upon evidence that the party 
is a fugitive owing service to the claimant. He acts, therefore, 
in a judicial character, and exercises judicial functions. 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 35 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

If, then, Congress possesses this legislative power, which has 
been thns exercised, the nature of that power requires that it 
should be exclusive. It can only be efficacious and adequate to 
its object, by being exclusive. And if exclusive, either expressly, 
or by undeniable implication, the settled principle is, that the 
states are as absolutely prohibited from legislation as if they 
were expressly forbidden to legislate. Sturgis v. Crowninshield, 
4 Wheat. Rep. 122. 

What is the nature of the power in this case ? What is the 
object of this constitutional provision? It is to restore to the 
slaveholding states, substantially, the right which the conven- 
tional law of the colonies gave them. It is to confer upon them 
an authority to reclaim and remove their fugitive slaves, with the 
least possible inconvenience, expense, and delay. To be effectual 
to this end, it is obvious that the mode of proceeding ought to be 
uniform. And in order to its being uniform, the power to pre- 
scribe that mode should be exclusively vested in one legislative 
body. If there be a concurrent power of legislation in the states, 
with a right to exercise that power, then it follows that the fugi- 
tive could only be reclaimed according to the forms of state laws, 
irrespective of the regulations prescribed by Congress. The con- 
stitutional guaranty would thus become a sounding phrase, signi- 
fying nothing. State legislation, upon such a subject, would 
become the sport of prejudice. Different tribunals, forms of pro- 
ceeding, and modes of proof, would be established in the different 
states. And the pursuing owner would find it utterly impracti- 
cable, ignorant of the particular state into which the fugitive had 
escaped, to meet the requirements of the local law. 

A still further difficulty would be inseparable from the exist- 
ence of a concurrent power. State laws have no obligatory 
force beyond state limits. A certificate of removal would carry 
no authority beyond those limits ; and consequently it would 
be necessary for the owner to make a new claim, offer new 
proofs, and obtain a new certificate in every state through which 
he might be compelled to pass to the state of his own residence. 
The nature of the power, therefore, and the effect of its actual 
exercise by the states, raise an implication sufficiently strong to 
render it exclusive. 

But admit it to be concurrent : the principle is too firmly esta- 



36 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

Wished to admit of argument, that in a case of this kind, where 
there is but one subject-matter of legislation, the concurrent 
power of the states is wholly suspended by the action of the 
federal power. The doctrine in Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 
Rep. 1, is this, that where once Congress has exercised its power 
on a given subject, the state power over the same subject, which 
has before been concurrent, is by that exercise absolutely prohi- 
bited. In other words, wherever Congress exercises a concurrent 
power, it is made in effect an exclusive power, over the particu- 
lar subject-matter of the power. There are, it is true, cases of 
concurrent powers on which both federal and state legislation 
may act at the same time ; and where the latter is not suspended 
by the action of the former. Thus the exercise of the taxing 
power by Congress does not suspend the concurrent power of 
the states. Because, although the same power, it is exercised on 
different objects, or for different purposes. But where the power 
acts on the same subject-matter, to accomplish the same end, as 
in this case, the state power is necessarily suspended. 

But if the principle thus adverted to, were not applicable to 
this case, there is another which would be conclusive ; and that 
is, that in the exercise of concurrent powers, if there be a conflict 
between federal and state legislation, the latter must yield to the 
constitutional supremacy of the former. It remains, then, only 
to show that such a conflict exists in the present case ; and a 
very cursory examination and comparison of the two laws will 
be abundantly sufficient for the purpose. Thus, the act of Con- 
gress authorizes the claimant to arrest the fugitive without a 
warrant. The Pennsylvania law peremptorily requires one. 
The act of Congress admits the oath of the owner or his agent, 
as proof of the claim. The Pennsylvania law excludes both, 
and requires the testimony of indifferent witnesses. The act of 
Congress protects the claimant from all unnecessary delay and 
expense. The Pennsylvania law authorizes delay upon the 
suggestion of the fugitive; and burdens the claimant with the 
incidental costs. The act of Congress imposes a penalty for 
obstructing or hindering the claimant in the prosecution and en- 
forcement of his rights. The Pennsylvania law gives him no 
redress. In a word, the regulations which the two laws pre- 
scribe, are in all essential respects variant from each other. The 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 37 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

object of both may be the same, but the means of attaining it 
are entirely different. 

In conclusion then of the whole matter. The indictment 
charges the offence of kidnapping under this state law. The 
special verdict expressly finds, that the fugitive was a slave for 
life, owing service and labour according to the laws of Maryland. 
The judgment of the Court was against the party thus indicted. 
It follows, that in the judgment of the Court, the offence of kid- 
napping in Pennsylvania, may consist m seizing, and carrying out 
of that state, an acknowledged slave, if the provisions of the state 
law for his arrest and removal are not complied with. The spe- 
cial verdict finds that fact, and the judgment of the Court is 
founded on it. 

The offence charged is not that the fugitive was removed 
from the state of Pennsylvania, without complying with the 
provisions of the act of Congress. Supposing that to be an 
offence punishable by state authority; which it clearly is not; it 
is not an offence provided for by this law ; nor according to the 
tenth section would an exact compliance with the act of Congress 
have been any protection to the party accused. The special ver- 
dict expressly finds that the slave was carried out of the state, 
without complying with the requirements of this law of Pennsyl- 
vania. That is the gravamen of the charge. And, consequently, 
if the state of Pennsylvania has no constitutional power to legis- 
late at all upon the subject, the power being exclusively in Con- 
gress ; or, if having originally a concurrent power, it has been 
suspended by its actual exercise by Congress ; or if this state 
legislation is found to be in conflict with the federal legislation 
upon the same subject-matter ; if either of these propositions has 
been successfully maintained, this judgment of conviction ought 
to be reversed. 

Mr. Hambly, for the defendant in error. 

The final decision of a great constitutional question, should at 
all times be regarded as a subject for grave consideration and 
reflection ; inasmuch as it may affect the happiness and prospe- 
rity, the lives or liberties of a whole nation. 

Among the people of this free country, there is nothing which 
should be guarded with more watchful jealousy, than the charter 

D 



38 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

of their liberties ; which, being the fundamental law of the land, 
in its judicial construction every one is immediately interested, 
from the highest dignitary to the meanest subject of the common- 
wealth. Any irreverential touch given to this ark of public 
safety should be rebuked, and every violence chastened ; its sanc- 
tity should be no less than that of the domestic altar ; its guardians 
should be Argus-eyed ; and as the price of its purchase was blood, 
its privileges and immunities should be maintained, even if this 
price must be paid again. 

In all the solemn constitutional questions which have been 
adjudicated before this, the highest tribunal in the land, no one 
has arisen of more commanding import, of wider scope in its 
influence, or on which hung mightier results for good or ill to 
this nation, than that which is now presented to the Court for 
consideration. An all-absorbing subject is incidentally involved 
in it — a subject, which is even now heaving the political tides of 
the country, which has caused enthusiasm to throw her lighted 
torch into the temples of religion, and the halls of science and 
learning, whilst the forum of justice, and the village bar-room 
have equally resounded with the discussion. Its influences have 
been calculated by political economists; its consequences and 
determinations by political prophets; until all, from the statesman 
in the hall of legislation to the farmer at his fireside, are found 
arrayed on one side or the other of this great question, so that, 
whilst it has become " sore as a gangrene" in one region, it is the 
football of the enthusiast in another. 

Prigg having been convicted in the State Courts of a crime 
which the statutes of Pennsylvania designate as " Kidnapping," 
the state of Maryland, of which he is a citizen, now raises the 
objection that the laws of our state are unconstitutional ; and to 
test this question we are this day here. 

On the 25th of March, 1826, the General Assembly of Penn- 
sylvania passed an act, the first section of which renders it a 
felony to seduce or carry away any negro or mulatto from the 
state of Pennsylvania, to make them slaves. Mr. Hambly cited 
sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 of the act of 1826. 

All the provisions of this act of the General Assembly are 
alleged to be unconstitutional; and the plaintiff in error says are 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 39 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

in contravention of the act of Congress and the Constitution of the 
United States. 

The third paragraph of the second section of article 4th of the 
Constitution, declares, "That no person held to service or labour 
in one state, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, 
in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged 
from such service or labour, but shall be delivered up on claim 
of the party to whom such service or labour may be due." 

Under this section, some contend that the owner of a slave has 
a right, without reference to the municipal regulations of the state 
or territory where he happens to be, to seize and carry away any 
alleged slave. That no legislation is necessary either by Congress 
or the states ; that the clause is perfect in itself, and totally inde- 
pendent ; and that the word " claim" means demand and sur- 
render, without inquiry or investigation ! 

That if legislation be necessary, Congress has exclusively that 
power, has already acted, exercising its power over the whole 
matter, and therefore all state legislation is invalid. 

The act of Congress was passed 12th of February, 1793 ; and 
authorizes the arrest of a fugitive from labour, and taking him 
before a judge of the Circuit or District Courts of the United 
States, or before any magistrate of a city or town corporate, and 
upon satisfactory proof, the judge or magistrate shall give a cer- 
tificate which shall be sufficient warrant for the removal of the 
fugitive. 

The second section fixes a forfeiture of five hundred dollars on 
any person who shall obstruct, hinder, rescue, or harbour such 
fugitive, &c. 

In the argument of this matter, it is asserted that no legislation 
is needed; that the constitutional provision is ample; and that 
under the phrase " shall be surrendered on claim," every thing 
which legislation can give is already secured ; and that under this 
clause a power is contained, in virtue of which, any one may step 
into a crowd and seize and carry off an alleged slave, "just as he 
would a stray horse," or any other article of personal property. 

If this conclusion be correct, it is surely a strange deduction 
from the language used in that clause, and in direct opposition to 
what would seem to be impliedly its meaning. 

If such be the true meaning of " claim," why does that clause 



40 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

say, that no state by " any law or regulation therein," shall dis- 
charge from service ? Why speak of " law or regulation," if 
none be allowed? Why allude to that which is forbidden and 
unlawful ? Why speak of state laws or state regulations, if the 
states dare not pass any ? And why not at once use the language 
which obviously presented itself, and say, that " escaping into 
another state," shall not discharge from service or labour, without 
adding a word about "laws or regulations?" The conclusion is 
unsound, and altogether unwarranted. The language of the 
Constitution not only presupposes legislation, but that this legis- 
lation not only is to be, or may be, but will be by the states. It 
was just as much as saying to the states : You may pass laws 
upon the subject — you may make regulations — you may prescribe 
the time and manner of seizure, the authorities before whom the 
parties shall come for adjudication — but you shall not discharge 
a bona fide fugitive from labour from that service which he owes 
under the laws of the state from whence he fled. Your authori- 
ties shall say whether under the laws of that state he owes ser- 
vice, and if he do, you shall hand him over. 

This construction is likewise contradicted by the fact, that, 
not only the states but Congress, legislated upon the subject not 
long after the formation of the Constitution, — Congress, as early 
as 1793. It is, therefore, manifestly an argument which raises a 
strong presumption against the position contended for ; that, at 
that early day, when the framers of that instrument were almost 
all in full public life ; when the debates at its formation and upon 
its adoption were still fresh in the memory of the whole country; 
that Congress should have legislated upon this very point. Had 
the public men of the day forgotten the meaning of this phrase ? 
Could they forget that "claim" meant peremptory surrender — that 
this was the meaning intended in the use of that word by the 
framers of the Constitution, and should go to work to legislate, 
where not only no legislation was necessary, but not at all allow- 
able ? Such supposition will not be indulged a moment. 

But, again : if they had intended that neither the states nor 
Congress should legislate upon this subject, is it not altogether 
certain that they would not have used the term " claim," but 
would have selected other language better fitted to carry defi- 
nitely the meaning which they intended to attach ? What is the 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 41 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

meaning of "claim?" "A challenge of ownership," says Plow- 
den. A challenge of interest in a thing which another hath in 
possession, or at least out of the possession of the claimant. 
" Claim" implies that the right is in dispute or in doubt. "Claim" 
may be made by two or more at the same time. " Claim" has a 
technical legal meaning; and those who drew this instrument, 
being eminent lawyers and well versed in the use of language, 
may possibly have designed so to point the meaning of the phrase, 
and for that reason used that word. 

This impression, too, is greatly strengthened by the recollection 
that in the preceding clause respecting fugitives from justice, a 
much stronger word is used. " Shall be delivered up on demand," 
is the language used in reference to criminals ; but fugitives from 
labour are to be delivered up "on claim." What now is the 
difference between these two terms ? Why, evidently, " demand" 
is peremptory. It will not admit of delay ; it insists upon imme- 
diate obedience. " Claim" supposes debate, litigation, the deci- 
sion of a right. How is it when one seeks satisfaction for an 
offence ? I " demand" satisfaction : I require it immediately. 
You shall give it me, or I will force it from you. His antagonist 
sees by his language he is in earnest, and he must reply. But if 
he should say, I "claim" satisfaction, debate springs up, negotia- 
tion ensues, and the offence most likely takes another shape. 

This word "demand," in fact, thrust itself upon the attention 
of the framers of the Constitution. It was used in the preceding 
paragraph in reference to criminals from justice, and is eminently 
better fitted to express unconditional surrender than "claim" is. 

But beside this, if the framers of this paper had designed such 
a purpose as that imputed to them, would they not have omitted 
from this clause the words " in consequence of any law or regu- 
lation therein" — and the clause would then have stood in an 
obvious shape; and every one would have understood that any 
fugitive from labour, escaping into another state, should not 
thereby be discharged from service, &c. This puts the matter, it 
is considered, in a very clear and strong light; and exceedingly 
adverse to the construction that neither the Union nor the states 
can legislate upon this subject. 

Another reason which might here be noticed is, that no one, 
either in the debates upon the formation of the Constitution, or 
6 d2 



42 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

at its adoption by the states, ever asserted that to be the meaning 
of this clause. 

Mr. Hambly here referred to the debates in the Virginia con- 
vention. 

Another most valid and substantial reason against this con- 
struction is, that it would be a violation of the very spirit of the 
instrument. 

If, under this term "claim" the stretch of power is so very 
great that a man from a neighbouring state can venture into 
Pennsylvania or Maryland, and upon his simple allegation seize, 
and without reference to state authorities, carry off any one 
whom he may choose to single out as his fugitive from labour, 
it is a most unheard-of violation of the true spirit and meaning 
of the whole of that instrument. 

The same power that can, upon simple allegation, seize and 
carry off a slave, can, on the allegation of service due, seize and 
carry off a free man. There is no power, if neither Congress 
nor the states can legislate, to dispute the question with the 
seizing party. 

In non-slaveholding states the presumption is, that every man 
is a free man until the contrary be proved. It is like every other 
legal presumption, in favour of the right. Every man is pre- 
sumed to be innocent until proved guilty. Every defendant 
against whom an action of debt is brought, is presumed not to 
owe until the debt be proved. Now, in a slaveholding state 
colour always raises a presumption of slavery, which is directly 
contrary to the presumption in a free or non-slaveholding state; 
for in the latter, prima facie, every man is a free man. If, 
then, under this most monstrous assumption of power, a free 
man may be seized, where is our boasted freedom? What 
says the fourth article of the amendments to the Constitution of 
the United States ? " The right of the people to be secure in 
their persons, houses, papers, and effects against unreasonable 
searches and seizures, shall not be violated." Art. 5: "No person 
shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process 
of law." 

But here we are met with the remark that " slaves are no par- 
ties to the Constitution;" that "we, the people, " does not embrace 
them. This is admitted, but we are not arguing the want of 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 43 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

power to "claim" and take a slave, but to claim and take a free 
man ! Admit the fact that he is a slave, and you admit away 
the whole question. Pennsylvania says : Instead of preventing 
you from taking your slaves, we are anxious that you should 
have them ; they are a population we do not covet, and all our 
legislation tends toward giving you every facility to get them: 
but we do claim the right of legislating upon this subject so as 
to bring you under legal restraint, which will prevent you from 
taking a free man. If one can arrest and carry away a free 
man "without due process of law;" if their persons are not in- 
violate ; your Constitution is a waxen tablet, a writing in the sand; 
and instead of being, as is supposed, the freest country on earth, 
this is the vilest despotism which can be imagined ! 

Is it possible this clause can have such a meaning? Can it be, 
that a power so potent of mischief as this, could find no one of 
all those who had laid it in the indictment against the king of 
Great Britain, as one of the very chiefest of his crimes, " that he 
had transported our citizens beyond seas for trial," whose jea- 
lousy would not be aroused — whose fears would not be excited, 
at a grasp of power so mighty as is claimed for this clause ? 
Think you not that some one of those ardent, untiring, vigilant 
guardians of liberty, would have raised a warning voice against 
this danger ? And that, too, when only eighteen months after 
the formation of this charter, although they had already in the 
body of the instrument carefully guarded the writ of habeas 
corpus, and provided for the trial of all crimes by jury and in the 
state where committed, yet, as if their jealousy had been excited 
to fourfold vigilance, in their amendments provided for the per- 
sonal security of the subject from " unreasonable seizure," and 
that no one should be " deprived of liberty without due process 
of law." 

Suppose, — by no means impossible case, — suppose a man to 
be seized in the streets of Philadelphia simultaneously by a citi- 
zen of South Carolina and a citizen of Virginia, each claiming 
him as their slave : under the construction contended for, each 
would be entitled to carry him off upon mere allegation ! He 
offers satisfactory evidence to show that he is entirely free; but 
the state authorities cannot interfere, because the states cannot 
legislate and give them power ; and Congress cannot legislate, and 



44 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

if it did, could not give state officers judicial power. Martin v. 
Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304. What is to be done ? allow 
these parties to wrangle it out in the streets, to settle the question 
with dirk and bowie knife, or execute the judgment of Solomon? 
No, the answer will be, hand them over to the District Court, and 
there let them settle the right to property ! Yes, but there you 
meet an unexpected difficulty. The District Court can try the 
right of property as between the claimants, but not the right of 
liberty as between them and the arrested free man ; therefore it 
follows that because the party out of possession of the alleged 
slave cannot prove his right to take him, the party in possession 
retains him, and carries a free man into slavery. Possession of 
a slave, in the absence of proof, is sufficient evidence of title. 
2 Marsh. Rep. 609. 

But in exercising the power of claim, and of excluding the 
arrested party from testing the question of slave or free, do you 
not violate the first clause of sec. 2, art. 4 ? " The citizens of 
each state shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of 
citizens in the several states." 

In some states they sell out, for jail fees, the personal services 
of certain prisoners. Now, suppose such an one, not a negro, to 
be seized in Pennsylvania, as an alleged fugitive from labour, — 
and undoubtedly under this clause he may be seized, — but the 
truth comes out that the party seized is not and never was a 
prisoner, or sold out to service. Under this construction you can- 
not try the question ; and a free citizen goes promptly and without 
redress into slavery ! Ay, but let that be tried, say the advocates 
of this doctrine, in the state to which he goes. 

There are two answers to this remark : First, it is in direct 
violation of the spirit of that provision in the Constitution which 
requires trials to take place in the state where the infraction of 
law occurred ; and secondly, what chance of fair trial would any 
man under such circumstances have in the state to which he is 
taken, where all the presumptions are against him, where the 
whole public opinion is against him, where he is entirely sepa- 
rated from his witnesses, whilst the whole onus probandi is thrown 
upon him. Better a thousand slaves escape, than that one free 
man should be thus carried into remediless slavery ! 

It is true that Chancellor Walworth, in the case of Jack v. 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 45 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

Martin, in 14 Wendel, says that the right of recaption existed at 
common law, and " is guarantied by the Constitution." Now, 
with the greatest deference for the opinion of the learned judge, 
we are not convinced that the right of recaption of persons ever 
existed here, or if it did exist, it is taken away by the amend- 
ments to the Constitution. The open avowed ground is taken, that 
in a free state every man is prima facie a free man who is at large. 
If so, he comes under that class called "people;" and the right, 
of "the people" to be secure in their persons against unreasona- 
ble seizures is guarantied by the Constitution. Ay ! but he is a 
slave, say the opponents of this doctrine. But that is not admitted. 
The very question at issue is, slave or free. Now, so long as he 
is not proved a slave, he is presumed free ; and, therefore, if you 
seize him, it is a violation of this constitutional privilege. 

But, it is said, if this be not the true construction of this clause, 
and legislation be necessary, that the right appertains alone to 
Congress; and that the act of 1793 covers the ground, and leaves 
no room for the action of state legislation. 

That no power to legislate upon this subject is expressly granted 
" in terms" to Congress must be at once conceded. It must like- 
wise be as readily conceded that it is not " prohibited" to the 
states. Then, if Congress possesses this power, it must be in vir- 
tue of a concurrent authority of acting upon the subject-matter ; 
or because this is a faculty which is necessary to the exercise of 
some power already granted. 

That it is not the latter, is manifest ; for the most laborious 
investigation and the most careful search, aided by the most 
critical powers of mind, can show no single provision of the 
instrument to the exercise of which this legislative power would 
be necessary. 

There are two kinds of concurrent powers embraced by the 
Constitution : 

1. Those which both bodies may lawfully legislate upon ; and, 

2. Those which the states may legislate upon until Congress 
acts; when the latter, being the supreme power, excludes the 
former. 

As an instance of the former, the regulation of the militia may 
be cited. Congress can " organize, arm, discipline, and govern," 
whilst to the states is reserved the right of appointing officers and 



46 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

the authority of training. Art. 1, sec. 8, clause 16 ; Houston v. 
Moore, 5 Wheat. 24. 

An illustration of the latter class may be found in the power 
to establish bankrupt laws; on which, it has been decided by this 
Court, that the states might legislate until Congress did, when the 
acts of the former would cease and expire. Sturgis v. Crownin- 
shield, 4 Wheat. 193. 

In order, therefore, to ascertain whether this power of legisla- 
tion be concurrent or not, we must inquire : 

1st. Whether it were possessed by the states previous to the 
formation of the Constitution, and appertained to sovereignty. 
2d. Whether granted in express terms to the Union, or prohibited 
to the states. 3d. Whether it be an exertion of sovereign power 
by operating beyond the state territory ; or, 4th. As necessarily 
originating in the Union, so that no exercise of it by the states 
can take place, without clear, open, and undisguised conflict with 
the Constitution. 

Now let us test this question by these rules. It is manifest that 
slaves and slavery were the subjects of legislative power by the 
states, before the Union. After the declaration of independence 
in 1776, each state, at least before the confederation, was a sove- 
reign, independent body. Each had the right to enact laws which 
no other power could revise. Each could make war or conclude 
peace, without reference to the other. Each could raise armies 
or maintain a navy, without consulting the others; and, in 
fine, possessed every faculty of sovereign power, as effectually 
and entirely as either France or England or any of the king- 
doms of the Old World, and equally as untrammelled. Then, 
this being the case, the union was formed, by taking away from 
the individual states portions of power, and vesting them in one 
central body, known as "the Union," in the formation of which 
were admitted maxims : 1st. That it possessed nothing by impli- 
cation, except what was absolutely necessary to its existence ; and, 
2d. That powers not delegated to the Union, nor prohibited to 
the states in express terms, were reserved. Article 9 and 10 of 
Amendments. 

South Carolina, as early as 1695, passed laws upon the subject 
of slaves and slavery, and so down to the present time. So 
also Connecticut, in 1711, and Maryland, in 1715. These, then, 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 47 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

are sufficient, as instances of the exercise of this power by the 
states, long before the Constitution was formed ; and this proves 
the first position, — That it was possessed by the states previous 
to the formation of the Constitution. And it will not be contro- 
verted that the power is not "expressly" granted to the Union, 
nor prohibited to the states. 

Thirdly, The exercise of this power by the states is merely a 
matter of police and internal regulation; and therefore does not 
operate beyond the state territory : and, 

Lastly, the power does not originate in the Union — that is, the 
right of legislation does not grow out of the Union ; the power 
itself, the subject matter, is not the birth of the Union ; nor is its 
exercise a " clear, open, undisguised conflict with the Constitu- 
tion," as the exercise of extra-territorial power would be. 

It is inferred, then, from all this, that this power is not a con- 
current one ; that for want of express reservation of such right, 
it has not the features which enable it to be exercised at the same 
time by both parties, as is the case with the militia laws. Nor 
can the action of Congress absorb it and drive the states from it, 
as is the case with the bankrupt laws. It is a power which exists, 
and can only exist in the states. Nor is it any answer to all this, 
to say, that a variety of laws and regulations will be passed by 
different states ; that the legislation will be incongruous and dis- 
similar. We must take the Constitution as we find it ! Our 
duty is to construe, not to legislate ! And we are told by good 
authority that in the construction of constitutions, the argumentum 
ab inconvenienti, will not answer ; we dare not use it. The ita 
scripta rule, is enough for us. If the constitutional provision be 
defective, there is a constitutional mode to amend it : let us then 
rather apply to that, than violently wrest the instrument by con- 
struction. 

It is urged, however, that the passage of the act of Congress 
of 1793 affords a very strong argument in favour of congressional 
action upon this subject ; that the fact of its passage at so early 
a day evinces the understanding of that clause of the Constitu- 
tion to have been, amongst the framers of it, that Congress alone 
had the right to legislate ; and hence, by implication, as it were, 
they would convince us, that it was one of those concurrent 



48 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

powers which the action of the highest legislative body absorbs 
and takes away from the states. 

This argument, if it prove any thing, will prove too much. 

The act of Congress authorizes the arrest of the fugitive, and 
requires him to be taken before any judge of the District or Cir- 
cuit Court, or before any magistrate of a county, city, or town 
corporate. 

Now, it is a principle perfectly settled by judicial decision, that 
Congress cannot communicate the exercise of judicial power to 
any person who does not hold the commission of the general 
government. Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 330: "Con- 
gress cannot vest any portion of the judicial power of the United 
States except in Courts ordained and established by itself.'-' 
Cons. sec. 3, art. 2 : "The President shall commission all officers." 
Now, if no man can be an officer of this government without 
bearing the commission of the President, certainly no "magistrate 
of a county, city, or town corporate" can be a judicial officer of 
the general government, and so cannot take authority under the 
act. This principle is necessarily derived from art. 3, sec. 1, 
which provides "that the judicial power of the United States 
shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts 
as Congress shall from time to time ordain and establish;" and 
of course the persons holding this power must be commissioned 
by the power which establishes the Courts. This doctrine has 
long been held by both the Supreme and State Courts. United 
States v. Lathrop, 17 Johns. 4 ; Ely v. Peck, 7 Conn. R. 239. The 
former was a case in which an action of debt was brought for a 
penalty under the act of 1813, for selling spirituous liquors, and 
gave the State Courts jurisdiction. The last case was an action 
against a deserting mariner, in which the State Court had juris- 
diction given it by an act of Congress; but the judges in both cases 
declined exercising it. 1 Kent's Com. 402, 403. 

This, then, being the case, that the act of Congress of 1793 gave 
to " magistrates of a county" an authority which it could not 
give, the conclusion is irresistible, that they did not at that day 
understand in the legislative hall, the construction of the Consti- 
tution, as well as we do now, after an interval of half a century; 
and therefore the argument above cited is of no avail, inasmuch 
as it explodes itself. Besides which, we might add, that the states 



JANUARY TERM, 1342. 49 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

have claimed the power just as openly and avowedly as Congress 
has done. 

It is supposed, however, that the weight of judicial authority 
from the State Courts, is in favour, very decidedly, of the exercise 
of this power by the national legislature. Let us therefore 
examine. 

In 5 Serg. and Rawle, 62, is contained the case of Wright v. 
Deacon. This was a writ de homine replegiando. The case had 
already been tried on habeas corpus, and adjudicated against the 
party, and upon that point decided; whilst it was taken for 
granted that the Constitution and act of Congress gave warrant 
for his removal. The question was not agitated as to the consti- 
tutionality of the law of Congress, or that of Pennsylvania ; and 
the case therefore gives no authority for this construction. 

Commonwealth v. Griffith, 2 Pick. 11, was an indictment for 
an assault and battery upon a negro, and the defence made 
was that he was a slave, and had fled from servitude. The 
Court say, " This brings the case to a single point, viz. : whether 
the statute of the United States is constitutional or not. The 
Constitution, say they, does not prescribe the mode of reclaiming 
a slave, but leaves it to be determined by Congress." 

Here is taken for granted that which is far from appearing. 
One leap reaches the conclusion ; without showing how Congress 
attains this power, whether expressly, by implication, or how. 
In fact, one of the judges dissents, saying that he thought the 
fugitive should be seized in conformity to state laws. Further, the 
unconstitutionality of the law was not attacked on the ground that 
Congress had no right to legislate at all ; but merely because in 
conflict with other parts of the instrument. This case, therefore, 
it is respectfully conceived, proves nothing for the plaintiff in error. 

In 12 Wend. 314, is found the case of Jack v. Martin. This 
was a writ de homine replegiando; and Judge Nelson in the 
Court below decided that the legislative power was concurrent, 
and therefore the action of Congress excluded the states from 
legislating, and that the object being palpable — i. e., to secure 
the slaves of the south — it should have a construction that would 
operate most effectually to attain the end. 

We contend that we are giving that construction to this clause 
most likely to produce the desired end. If excited argument and 
7 E 



50 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

an interested withdrawal of the whole subject-matter from the 
hands of the states could be effected by the south, will it not pro- 
duce constriction and collapse with the free states? Which is most 
likely to keep the peace? A tone of confidence and conciliation, 
or of defiance and the attempted exercise of illegal power? 
We must negotiate and legislate upon this and every other sub- 
ject with the calumet of peace, rather than the tomahawk; with 
the conciliatory spirit of a band of brothers, instead of the animo- 
sity of deadly foes. 

The case of Jack was taken up before the Court of Errors and 
Appeals, and the decision below sustained — not the question of 
constitutionality, but the question of fugitive or not, because 
Jack had admitted he was a slave by his pleas. But the question 
of constitutionality was debated, and in my judgment not a single 
solid reason was given for that construction, but, on the contrary, 
Chancellor Walworth says, " I have looked in vain among the 
delegated powers of Congress for authority to legislate upon the 
subject," and concludes that state legislation is ample for the 
purpose. 

Now, then, upon recapitulating these cases, what have we ? 

1. We have one case where the constitutionality of the law is 
taken for granted, by Chief Justice Tilghman. 

2. We have the argument of Judge Nelson and Senator Bishop, 
in favour of it, and the case in Pickering ; and — ■ 

3. We have the decisive opinion of Chancellor Walworth, and 
the dissenting judge in the case in Pickering. 

For neither in Ex parte Symmons, tried by Judge Washington, 
and reported in 4 Wash. C. C. Rep. 396, nor in the case of John- 
son v. Tompkins, 1 Baldw. Rep., was the question of constitu- 
tionality at all mooted or spoken of, but both judges speak in the 
same breath of state laws and laws of Congress; without once 
impugning the right of either party to legislate, or for one mo- 
ment intimating a doubt as to the constitutional right of either 
party to pass them. 

It may, however, be contended that this authority to legislate 
is given to Congress by the 18th clause of sec. 8, art. 1, of the 
Constitution : "And to make all laws which shall be necessary 
and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers and 
all other powers vested by this Constitution in the govern- 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 51 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

merit of the United States or in any department or officer 
thereof." 

Judge Story says, in his Commentary, sec. 1238 : " The plain 
import of this clause is, that Congress shall have all the incidental 
and instrumental powers necessary and proper to carry into exe- 
cution all the express powers. It neither enlarges any power 
specifically granted, nor is it a grant of any new power to Con- 
gress." 

This case, then, is not embraced by the first part of the section, 
because it is not one of the "foregoing" enumerated powers. 
Nor is it included under the other term, "all other powers vested," 
because there is no power vested, for the. learned commentator 
just alluded to, says it means express powers. 

Speaking of the Constitution, we are told in Hunter's Lessee 
ad. Martin, 1 Wheat. 326, the government of the United States 
can claim no powers which are not granted to it by the Constitu- 
tion, and the powers actually granted, must be such as are ex- 
pressly given or given by necessary implication. On the other 
hand, this instrument is to have a reasonable construction, accord- 
ing to the import of its terms. The words are to be taken in their 
natural and obvious sense; not in a sense unreasonably restricted 
or enlarged. 

Certainly, then, this phrase, " powers vested," means express 
powers ; any other mode of construction would do violence to the 
whole instrument, and overturn a whole series of decisions. If 
then it means express power, there is none such in this case; and 
therefore, under this clause, Congress cannot exercise the authority 
claimed. 1 Kent's Com. 388, 90. " The correct principle is, that 
whenever the terms in which the power was granted to Congress, 
or the nature of the power required that it should be exclusively 
exercised by Congress, the subject was as completely taken away 
from the state legislature as if they had been expressly forbidden 
to act on it." But is that the case here? — the power is not 
granted in terms at all, and the nature of the power is such, that 
the states can as easily and usefully exercise it as Congress. 

The truth is, the power is one of police and internal regulation, 
as much as ferries, turnpikes, and health-laws; and in Gibbons v. 
Ogden, 203, we are told that " no direct power is granted over 
these objects to Congress, and consequently they remain subject 



52 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

to state legislation. If the legislative power of the Union can 
reach them, it must be for national purposes." 

How can legislation respecting slaves become national when 
only a part of the states hold them ? Such legislation cannot as- 
sume a national aspect, or attain a " national purpose." 

If then this power be not expressly in Congress, nor concur- 
rently, nor necessarily appurtenant to any other power, what is 
the meaning of this clause ? 

" No person held to service or labour in any state, under the 
laws thereof, escaping into another, shall in consequence of any 
law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service, but 
shall be delivered up, on claim of the party to whom such ser- 
vice or labour is due." 

It simply means this — nothing more nor less : You may legis- 
late — you may regulate — but this one point alone you shall not 
touch : — You shall not discharge the fugitive from service, if he 
were a slave by the law of the state from whence he fled. 

The result is, that no power being given to Congress to legis- 
late, it is reserved to the states under the 10th article of the 
amendments. 

" The powers not delegated to the United States by the Consti- 
tution, nor prohibited by it to the states, are reserved." Federalist, 
No. 32. The state governments clearly retain all the rights of 
sovereignty which they had before the adoption of the Constitu- 
tion, and which were not by that Constitution exclusively dele- 
gated to the Union. 1 Wheat. 325. 

Suppose art. 4, sec. 1, is read thus: — "Full faith and credit 
shall be given in each state to the public acts, records, and judicial 
proceedings of every other state :" — and then stopped. Is it not 
apparent, that the states could by law regulate the kind and 
quantum of proof, the manner in which their Courts should receive 
it ; and if it was thought they could not, why in express terms 
reserve to Congress " the right to prescribe the manner in which 
they shall be proved, and the effect thereof." 

Under art. 1, sec. 4, clause 1, the times, places, and manner 
of holding elections for senators and representatives shall be pre- 
scribed by the state legislatures; but the framers of the Constitu- 
tion cautiously add, that Congress may make or alter such regula- 
tion, except as to place. 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 53 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

Art. 1, sec. 8, clause 5, the power to coin money, one of the 
highest attributes of sovereign power, is expressly given to Con- 
gress; and yet, in section 10, clause 1 of art. 1, the states are 
cautiously and expressly prohibited from coining money. This 
has always been the highest mark of sovereign power. 

It is, however, supposed by some, that because Congress has 
legislated on the surrender of criminals, that therefore there is 
stronger ground for claiming the right of legislating here. 

Mr. Hambly cited the Madison Papers and Debates in Conven- 
tion, that this matter was expected to be left to state legislation ; 
and that the south was not united itself upon the subject. Madi- 
son Papers, p. 1447. 

As if, however, to remove all doubt upon this subject, we have, 
in the Constitution itself, an open admission that the whole sub- 
ject of slaves and slavery was left in the hands of the states. 
Art. 1, sec. 9: "The migration or importation of such persons 
as any of the states now existing shall think proper to admit, 
shall not be prohibited by Congress prior to 1808." 

Now what is the meaning of this ? Why, that Congress shall 
leave the slave-trade, and all its operations, to state legislation 
entirely, with the exception that after 180S they may stop it if 
they choose ; but if they do not choose, it will always remain in 
the hands of the states, until they do see fit to close it. This, to 
my mind, without any other consideration, is sufficiently con- 
vincing that every body at that day rightly understood this whole 
matter to be the subject of state legislation. 

The use of the terms "legally" and "justly," in the formation 
of the Constitution, shows that the right was to be ascertained by 
competent authority, not taken for granted ; and that legislative 
power somewhere was to exercise itself upon the matter, and by 
none more probably than the same power which then had it in 
control, — the state legislatures. 

It now only remains to examine two arguments urged on be- 
half of the plaintiff in error. 

It is alleged that the judiciary act of 1789 vests in the Courts 
of the United States the whole judicial power of the government ; 
and that this being judicial power, which is sought to be attached 
to the general government, it is impliedly embraced by that act. 

e 2 



54 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

One word will be a sufficient answer to that argument. The 
power asked, or rather claimed, is not judicial, but legislative ; and 
therefore can by no possibility be claimed by, through, or under, 
the judiciary act. 

Another argument is, that legislative construction has, with 
this Court, almost the authority of judicial decision. And be- 
cause Congress has, in its reports upon slavery, admitted or 
asserted this right, their claim therefore should be regarded almost 
as a judicial construction. 

It is answered, that if there be any one thing in this country 
entirely loose, uncertain, and vascillating, it is legislation ; and 
whenever the judicial exposition of our highest Courts becomes 
so wavering and uncertain as to bear comparison with our legis- 
lation, we shall truly be the pity and contempt of all civilized 
nations. 

It has been shown : 

1. That "claim" does not mean peremptory demand and un- 
conditional surrender. 2. That legislation is contemplated by 
the language of the clause ; and that both Congress and the states 
have legislated. 3. That this construction was never asserted by 
the framers of the Constitution. 4. That it would violate its 
spirit. 5. That the power of recaption of persons never existed, 
or if it did, is restrained by the amendments. 6. That this power 
is neither expressly granted to Congress nor prohibited to the 
states ; nor is it necessary to the exercise of any granted power, 
nor impliedly reserved. 7. That the states possessed this power 
before the Constitution was formed. 8. That it is a mere regu- 
lation of police, and does not suppose the exercise of national 
power ; and, 9. That the Constitution, in art. 1, sec. 9, gives, or 
rather leaves the whole subject in the hands of the states, where 
it originally found it. 

Mr. Johnson, attorney-general of Pennsylvania, stated that he ap- 
peared before the Court in obedience to the directions of the act of 
Assembly, passed in 1839, to which reference had been made, to 
maintain the constitutional authority of Pennsylvania to enact the 
several laws set out in the paper-book in the hands of the Court ; 
and constituting the groundwork of the indictment and proceed- 
ings in the present case. He said he occupied a position of great 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 55 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

delicacy and embarrassment : He stood before the Court not only 
as the counsel, but as the official representative of the Common- 
wealth of Pennsylvania ; and was, as such, bound by an oath as 
solemn as that taken by their honours, to support the Constitution 
of the United States. It was made his duty to vindicate the 
right of Pennsylvania to adopt the laws in question against the 
allegation of the learned gentlemen, who so ably represented the 
interests of Maryland, that they conflicted with the Constitution 
and laws of the general government. In performing this duty, 
he felt the responsibility to be almost as binding as if he were 
pronouncing a judicial decision, to advance no doctrines that 
were, in his judgment, incompatible with the true construction of 
the federal Constitution. 

It was gratifying to him to be able to assure the Court, that his 
official duty and his own conscientious convictions of right, as a 
citizen of the Union, were in perfect harmony on this subject. 
He should not hesitate to speak in earnest, for he spoke with sin- 
cerity. Pie desired to place Pennsylvania rectus in curias, on her 
proper footing, before the Court. She came there voluntarily. She 
was not dragged sullenly to that high bar, denying the jurisdic- 
tion of the Court and disclaiming its authority. This proceeding 
was one of amity, of concord, on the part of Pennsylvania and 
of Maryland, which were, as the learned counsel had told the 
Court, the real and substantial parties. They came into that 
Court to try a great question of constitutional law, to terminate 
disputes and contentions which were arising, and had for years 
arisen along the border line between them, on this subject of the 
escape and delivery up of fugitive slaves. Neither party sought 
the defeat or humiliation of the other. It was for the triumph 
of law they presented themselves before the Court. They were 
engaged under an imperative sense of duty in the work of peace ; 
and he hoped he would be pardoned if he added, of patriotism also. 

The difficulties which resulted in the present case had been 
previously felt, and made the subject of negotiation between 
these states. And it was a curious fact, that this very act of 
25th March, 1826, the unconstitutionality of which is alleged in 
this case, was the joint fruit of such negotiation. It was passed, 
as he believed, at the instance and with the entire approval of 
commissioners appointed by the constituted authorities of the state 



56 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

of Maryland, to wait upon the legislature of Pennsylvania to 
obtain the passage of some law of the kind. At the time of its 
passage it was loudly condemned by that portion of the citizens 
of Pennsylvania who favoured the abolition of slavery. And 
now, a singular change of places is exhibited — the state of Mary- 
land repudiates what she then sanctioned — and the adversaries 
of slavery sustain, though not very cordially, what they then 
condemned. One of these parties thinks this act of 1826 is too 
indulgent to slaveholders ; the other, that it deprives them of their 
just rights. The considerate and enlightened citizens of Pennsyl- 
vania, with few, if any, exceptions, were, he believed, of the 
opinion that this law was precisely what it should be — alike war- 
ranted by the federal Constitution, and careful to protect the 
rights of all. As such, it would be his duty, as it was his plea- 
sure, to maintain it against every assault upon its constitutionality, 
let it proceed from whatever source it may. 

By the act of 1780, Pennsylvania began the great work of phi- 
lanthropy in regard to her slaves. She has pursued the policy 
there indicated, until slavery, with only here and there a time- 
stricken relic of former policy, has vanished from the soil. She 
did not trench on the rights of other states. She did not impugn 
the principles, or the conduct of their citizens ; deeply as she ab- 
horred slavery herself. She performed her own duty, and left to 
others the glory or the shame of performing, or of neglecting 
theirs. In this act of 1780, there is a saving of the rights of slave- 
holders in other states. So in the act of 1826. Its very title 
speaks its object. It is " An act to give effect to the provisions 
of the Constitution of the United States, relative to fugitives from 
labour, for the protection of free people of colour, and to prevent 
kidnapping." Thus is this very unconstitutional act found to be 
an act to give effect to the Constitution. The history of the legis- 
lation of Pennsylvania on this subject will prove, that though she 
has been ever found in the vanguard of the friends of liberty and 
humanity, she never has forgotten what is due to her sister 
states ; she never has wavered in her loyalty to the Constitution 
of the Union ; and come what may, she never will depart from 
this course. 

That Pennsylvania had the right then, to enact the law in 
question, she solemnly avers to have been accorded to her by 



JANUARY TERM, 1S42. 57 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

the state of Maryland herself. She will not consent to surrender 
it, until this Court, by its decision, strips her of that valued attri- 
bute of sovereignty. None will deny, that the main questions 
involved in this case are delicate, in some respects intricate, and 
in any point of view important to all sections of the Union. Sub- 
stantially they are these : 

1. Is the power of prescribing the mode of delivering up fugi- 
tives from service or labour, under the 2d section of the 4th article 
of the Constitution, exclusively vested in the general govern- 
ment ? 

2. If it is not, is it concurrently vested in the state and general 
governments, to be exercised on particular terms ? or is it solely 
vested in the state governments? 

3. Have the states the right to inflict penalties, as in cases of 
crimes, upon those who seize and remove fugitive slaves out of 
their territories, without pursuing the mode prescribed, either by 
the act of Congress of 1793, or by the acts passed on the same 
subject, by the states themselves ? 

The last of these three questions is the most material in the 
present case : perhaps it is the only real question in this case, upon 
which the Court is imperatively called upon to pronounce its 
judgment. 

It is to be extremely regretted that we have no judicial guides 
to aid us in the argument of this cause, which are of higher 
authority than the mere opinions of individual judges, who have 
incidently, often hastily expressed them. The cases, such as they 
are, unfortunately are few, conflicting, and contradictory. They 
have, it is true, all occurred in states where slavery has been 
abolished, for such questions must rarely indeed happen, in states 
where slavery exists. It is obviously the interest of all parties in 
such states, to determine the question in one way. Without pre- 
tending to trouble, the Court with a detailed and critical examina- 
tion of the following cases, he would refer to them as exhibiting 
a most striking illustration of the "uncertainty of the law." 
Deacon's Case, 5 Serg. & Rawle, 62 ; Johnson v. Tompkins, 
1 Baldwin, 571 ; Com. v. Holloway, 2 Serg. & Rawle, 306 ; S. C, 
3 Serg. & Rawle, 4 ; Com. v. Griffiths, 2 Pick. 18 ; Jack v. Martin, 
12 Wend. 312 ; S. C, 14 Wend. 510. In the cases in the New York 
and Massachusetts reports, the Courts were divided in opinion. In 
8 



58 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

the cases in the Pennsylvania reports, the question did not properly 
arise, and the Court, without examination, declared its opinion 
on the constitutionality of the act of Congress of 1793. This sub- 
ject has been incidentally noticed in a few other instances, but 
not in such a manner as to be deemed essential. 

The questions are thus perfectly open and free from all embar- 
rassment on the score of authority. Decisions of this Court on 
other provisions of the Constitution will supply us with useful 
analogies; but we are thrown back on the elementary principles 
of the Constitution itself for the foundation of the present argu- 
ment. Let us then recur to these principles, as the source of the 
power we are in quest of, and trace it up to its fountain-head. 

The times call for a full and frank exposition of this subject; 
and he rejoiced that it had been presented at this juncture, before 
this tribunal, and in the friendly spirit that actuated the parties 
now at the bar. He begged leave to make one further prelimi- 
nary suggestion, before he opened the Constitution. It was this ; 
that the state and national governments were too often viewed 
as hostile and repugnant to each other in their relations. Powers 
granted to one, were regarded as if withdrawn from the other; and 
it seemed to be the effort of some, who were called upon to judge 
between them, to treat them as if they mutually approached each 
other as belligerents, with swords drawn. This was not his opinion, 
nor would it be his course. He thought, with the fathers of the 
republic, that both were essential to each other ; both formed one 
consistent, harmonious, beautiful system of government — complete 
when united — imperfect when divided : combined, stronger than 
links of iron ; dissevered, weaker than a rope of sand. It would 
be his purpose, therefore, to contend for such a construction of the 
federal Constitution as would place the state and national govern- 
ments, on this solid and impregnable basis. 

1. In regard to the first question he had suggested, he would 
proceed to read and comment on the second section of the fourth 
article of the Constitution, which was in these words, " No person 
held to service or labour in one state under the laws thereof, 
escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regula- 
tion therein, be discharged from such service or labour, but shall 
be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service or 
labour may be due." This provision certainly gives no authority 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 59 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

to the general government in terms ; none even by implication. 
It simply enjoins a duty on the states, and prohibits them from 
passing laws or regulations liberating fugitive slaves. It recog- 
nises the general right to legislate on this subject, for it restricts 
its exercise in a particular manner. If they could not legislate at 
all, it was futile and absurd to say they should not pass laws of a 
particular description. But it enjoins that the fugitives shall be 
"delivered up" "on claim." This duty is made incumbent on 
the states, without prescribing the exact mode of its performance. 
The agency of the general government is in nowise concerned or 
invoked. The obligation is on the states, and for the states ; their 
power is left perfectly free and untrammeled, with this single 
restriction — that they cannot discharge the fugitives from the 
claim of their masters or owners. The authority vested in the 
states, is in the nature of a negative pregnant ; it denies and 
admits — denies the particular power of liberating fugitives, and 
admits the general power to prescribe how they shall be delivered 
up. Should the states transcend their authority by enacting laws 
impairing the right of the slaveholder, the remedy is by judicial 
instrumentality. It is here. This Court will pronounce the acts 
unconstitutional and void. But this power of the general govern- 
ment is preventive — not active. It is solely the right to restrain, 
not the right to compel. There are various restrictive clauses in 
the federal Constitution ; but no one ever supposed, that a pro- 
hibition of legislation upon the states gave the positive right to 
Congress to legislate ; much less can it be pretended, that a pro- 
hibition of a particular species of legislation divested the states 
of all general authority on the subject, and transferred the right 
to the national government. This construction of the powers of 
the general government would annihilate the state sovereignties 
at a blow. See on this subject of the general powers of the 
federal government, the letters of the Federalist, Nos. 41, 42, and 
43 ; but especially 42. In this letter, the subject of the 4th article 
of the Constitution is distinctly and elaborately considered. Every 
line, and every word, is noticed ; but this very identical provision, 
in regard to fugitive slaves, is entirely omitted. Had it at that 
day been supposed to have conferred any power on the general 
government, could it thus have been passed silently by ? Does 
the tremendous power arrogated for the national government, in 



60 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

this case, lurk in this provision, without having been discovered 
by the keen eyes of Hamilton, Madison, or Jay ? These letters 
of the Federalist, were written before the adoption of the Consti- 
tution. They were read by almost every one. The comments 
were identified with the letter of the Constitution itself. They 
have been always treated as a contemporary exposition, by the 
first judicial intellects of the age, sanctioned by popular adoption,* 
and he felt persuaded the Court would pause, before it construed 
into the Constitution, powers, which these great men never 
dreamed of ascribing to the general government. 

The reason for introducing this provision into the Constitution, 
is itself the best exponent of its meaning. Prior to the adop- 
tion of the Constitution, slavery, absolutely, or in a modified form, 
existed in all the states except perhaps in Massachusetts. The 
right of the master to pursue and recapture fugitive slaves then 
existed by mutual comity. Few, if any, free negroes could be 
found. The presumption was that all negroes were slaves. No 
general regulation was necessary; for it was the interest of all 
the states, to countenance and aid the master in the recapture 
of his runaway slave. But symptoms of repugnancy to slavery 
began to be manifested in Pennsylvania and other states ; and 
the southern states were apprehensive that it might at some 
future day interfere with the recovery of their property. They 
desired a guarantee from the general government; not that that 
government should provide for the redelivery of their fugitive 
slaves, but that the Constitution of the Union should prohibit the 
states from passing laws declaring them to be free. The pro- 
vision of the Constitution under consideration furnishes this gua- 
rantee ; it never was intended for more. See 2 Elliot's Debates, 
335, 336 ; Mr. Madison's and Governor Randolph's speeches in 
the Virginia convention. Had the southern states demanded 
more than this simple guarantee; had they required that the right 
of the states to prescribe the mode of surrendering up fugitive 
slaves should be yielded to Congress exclusively; we know not 
but it might have jeoparded the formation of the Union itself. 
It is well known the word " slave" is not found in the Constitu- 
tion. That it was excluded on account of the scruples of certain 
of the northern members of the convention; and had these mem- 
bers been told that they were depriving the states they represented, 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 61 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

of the power of directing the mode in which fugitive slaves were 
to be redelivered to their masters, who can doubt that they would 
have rejected with indignation any instrument of government, 
containing such a surrender of state sovereignty as this? 

The Constitution does not aim at any abridgment of the state 
sovereignties on this subject, except in the single point of pro- 
hibiting them from setting fugitive slaves at liberty. In all other 
essential particulars, it wisely leaves them to the exercise of their 
own judgment. Different rules on this subject would naturally 
be established in different states. Less strictness of proof of the 
right of the master would be satisfactory in a slave state, than 
would be so in a free state. Some respect is due to the common 
feelings, or even prejudices of a community, in the enforcement 
of claims deemed odious in principle to any considerable number 
of the people. If even compatible with j ustice, they should not be 
pressed in a manner to outrage or wound the sympathies of those 
on whom the demand is made. To abhor slavery, in principle, 
is no great offence in a country where liberty is the boast and the 
birthright of every creature wearing the image of his Maker. 
The states are the best judges of that mode of delivering up 
fugitive slaves, which will be most acceptable to their citizens. It 
is evident that no general law can suit the spirit of the people in 
all; and the only rational mode of providing for the evil, is that 
provided by the framers of the Constitution — by committing it to 
the wisdom and patriotism of the states themselves. The ten- 
dency of this course of reasoning is, not only to prove that the 
general government has not exclusive, but that it has no jurisdic- 
tion over this subject whatever. To remove all possibility of 
difficulty, however, he would proceed to consider the nature of its 
exclusive powers with some minuteness, but great brevity. 

On every principle of rational construction, recognised by 
common sense and by judicial decisions, exclusive authority on 
any given subject was vested in the national government in 
only three cases. 

1. When the power is expressly granted. 

2. When the power is vested in the general government, and 
prohibited to the states. 

3. When the exercise of a power by the states would be con- 

F 



62 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

tradictory and repugnant to the exercise of a rightful power by 
the general government. See the Federalist, No. 32 ; Sturgis v. 
Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1. 

Under which of these classes of exclusive powers, can such 
power be inferred in this case ? Not under the first, for, as has 
been already shown, no such power is given. Not under the 
second, for no power is vested in the general government, or 
prohibited to the states, in the section now before the Court, 
which has been violated. Not under the third, for the general 
government neither possesses, nor has exercised any power, to 
which the exercise of the power of enacting the law in question 
by Pennsylvania, is either contradictory or repugnant. The sup- 
posed incompatibility, arising from the nature of the power to be 
exerted, cannot render it exclusive in the national government; 
for the very foundation of the argument is wanting, the existence 
of the power at all. 

2. Taking it, then, as established by the argument, that exclu- 
sive authority to legislate on this subject is not vested in the 
general government, is it vested in the respective states concur- 
rently, and co-operatively with it, or solely, and independently 
of all control on the part of Congress ? Anterior to the adoption 
of the Constitution, the power of prescribing the mode of sur- 
rendering up fugitive slaves, clearly belonged to the states alone. 
It is not taken away by that instrument ; it is not inconsistent 
with any of the powers vested in Congress or the general go- 
vernment; it is one of the most necessary attributes of sovereignty 
recognised and sanctioned by every principle of national law. 
It belongs to them still. No rightful power exists to divest it. 
The Constitution forbids it ; and the Constitution only can strip 
them of this power. See 4 Wheat. 122 ; 5 Wheat. 1 ; 2 Dallas, 
294; 3 Dallas, 386 ; 2 Wheat. 259 ; 3 Wash. C. C. R. 316, 322. 
The tenth article of the amendments of the Constitution settles 
this part of the case beyond all cavil or controversy. There let 
it rest. Whatever may be the power exercised by Congress, the 
states at least cannot be deprived of the power that belongs to 
them under the Constitution. 

The act of Congress of the 12th February, 1793, on this sub- 
ject, is supposed to have been a constitutional exercise of power. 
Passed so recently after the adoption of the Constitution, and 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 63 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

by men intimately associated with that event, it has hardly ever 
been subjected to the test of examination, it has been taken for 
granted, and acted upon without question. But even great names 
cannot sanctify wrong ; time cannot supply the want of constitu- 
tional authority. We must examine that act of Congress now, 
as it would have been examined if it had come before this Court 
the day after it was enacted. He would not speak irreverently 
of the Congress of 1793 ; but he would take occasion to say, the 
history of this famous law exhibited some curious reminiscences. 
Its origin in a few words was this. In the year 1791, the Gover- 
nor of Pennsylvania made a demand on the Governor of Virginia, 
for the surrender of three persons charged with kidnapping a free 
negro. After taking the advice of the attorney-general of that 
state, the governor refused to comply, on the ground that although 
the Constitution made it obligatory on him to surrender up fugi- 
tives from justice, yet as there was no act of Congress directing the 
mode in which it should be done, he could not and would not 
yield to the demand. The Governor of Pennsylvania submitted 
the question to President Washington, who, after consulting the 
attorney-general of the United States, brought the whole matter 
to the notice of Congress. See 1 American State Papers, Miscel- 
laneous, 38, 39. That body referred the subject to a committee ; 
a bill was reported, substantially the act of 1793. It lay upon 
the table for a considerable period, and finally passed and became 
a law on the 12th February, 1793. It is to be observed that the 
only question submitted, was the one touching fugitives from 
justice, not fugitive slaves. The two subjects were compre- 
hended by Congress in one bill, and the northern states were 
constrained to agree to the provision relative to fugitive slaves, 
for the purpose of procuring the passage of a law providing for 
the case of fugitives from justice. 

The science of legislative log-rolling, which has been deemed 
of quite modern origin, appears not to have been unknown to 
the Congress of 1793. There is no question about the power 
of Congress to legislate on the subject of fugitives from justice. 
The demand is to be made by the executive authority, on a 
" charge made" against a person, of treason, felony, &c, &c, 
who shall flee, &c. The first section of the fourth article of the 
Constitution expressly confers on Congress the power of pre- 



64 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

scribing the manner in which "records and judicial proceed- 
ings shall be proved, and the effect thereof." The right, there- 
fore, to legislate on this subject is clear. But there is not the 
remotest connection between this matter and that of fugitive 
slaves. The one has sole reference to crimes perpetrated against 
the public peace and public safety ; the other to the recapture 
or reclamation of private property : yet Congress classed them 
together, and made the provision for one depend on a similar 
provision for the other. 

What are the features of this act of Congress, which, as is 
contended, was passed in pursuance of the constitutional autho- 
rity of the general government ; and which terminated forever, 
if such right ever existed, the concurrent power of the states to 
legislate on the same subject? It empowers state judges, magis- 
trates, &c, &c, to take cognisance of the cases of fugitive slaves, 
together with judges holding their appointments under the na- 
tional government. So far as it attempts to vest this or any 
jurisdiction in state officers, it is unconstitutional and void. 
The solemn decision of this Court has branded such attempt 
with condemnation. See Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 
304; 3 Story's Commentaries on the Constitution, 114, 115, 386, 
603; Sergeant's Constitutional Law, 3S6, 398. 

That act, then, is void, so far as relates to all instrumentality 
for its execution, but by the judges of the Courts of the United 
States. The authority of its framers, as constitutional lawyers, 
is thus exploded ; and their boasted work, like all things human, 
is characterized by frailty and error. If it even be regarded as 
conformable to the Constitution, its execution is rendered almost 
impracticable by the want of adequate agents. In a large state 
like Pennsylvania, with but two district judges residing three 
hundred miles apart, how is the difficulty of obtaining certificates 
of removal for fugitive slaves to be obviated ? If the state au- 
thorities cannot be called upon to furnish aid, what are the limits 
to the obstacles that environ the masters ? A very brief season 
of trial will make them known. He would suggest to the Court, 
whether this act of Congress was not operative only in the Dis- 
trict of Columbia, the territories, and wherever Congress had 
exclusive right of legislation. To this extent he did not intend 
to question its validity. 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 05 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

It was a fair and reasonable presumption from the provision 
of the act of Congress itself, authorizing the interposition of state 
officers, that Congress, aware of its inherent defect of jurisdiction, 
contemplated the co-operative, or concurrent aid of state legisla- 
tion, to carry the provisions of this law into effect. If not, why im- 
pose on the state magistrates duties which they could not perform? 
Would a certificate of removal, given under this void authority, 
authorize the master to remove his slave ? Clearly not. Nor 
would it afford him any protection against the rescue or escape 
of his slave. To seek the aid of such official authority would 
be alike dangerous and idle. It would lead to incessant broils 
and disturbances of the public peace; and to the inevitable escape 
of the fugitive from his master. 

In this state of the case, the legislature of Pennsylvania deem- 
ing the act of Congress pursuant to the federal Constitution, steps 
forth to aid the pursuers of fugitive slaves. The act of Assembly 
of that state of the 25th March, 1826, was passed in the manner 
he had already stated, to confer authority on her own magistrates 
and judges, which the Constitution had denied under the act 
of Congress. 

It, in the first place, describes the offence charged against the 
defendant in this case, and then proceeds to define the mode in 
which the state magistrates and judges shall take cognisance 
of the cases of fugitive slaves. It does not change the mode 
of making proof on the part of the claimants, nor the mode of 
granting certificates of removal ; it simply deprives subordinate 
magistrates of the power of granting such certificates, but it 
directs their interference to procure the arrest of the fugitive, and 
enjoins on the several judges the duty of hearing the proof and 
granting the proper certificates for the removal of the fugitive on 
certain terms therein prescribed. It does not touch the act of 
Congress. It recognises its authority, and leaves it as it stood 
before. Proceedings under this act of Assembly are purely vo- 
luntary. Claimants may resort to it for aid, or pursue the direc- 
tions of the act of Congress. If its provisions are onerous, discard 
them. Take shelter under the national law. But it is an addi- 
tional remedy provided for the benefit of the slaveholders. It 
gives them a short cut to justice, and what cause have they to 
complain, if it leaves the other course equally free for their adop- 



66 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

tion ? In determining which remedy to invoke, the slave owner 
will be governed by circumstances ; distance, place, character 
of neighbourhood, clearness of his own proof, &c, &c, and will 
act accordingly to the preponderance of advantages. Not one 
particle of inconvenience can he suffer under this act of Pennsyl- 
vania, while he has the chance of manifold benefits. 

The acts of Congress and of Pennsylvania form together a 
harmonious system, neither jarring nor conflicting in any part 
of its operation. It is careful of the rights of the slaveholder, 
and is adapted to the feelings, sympathies, and sovereign power 
of the states. If the power to pass laws on the subject of de- 
livering up fugitive slaves be concurrent, the states cannot control 
the acts of Congress, and cannot therefore impair the right of the 
owners. If the power be solely vested in the states, they cannot 
impair this right under the federal Constitution. In either case, 
the slaveholders may bid defiance to hostile state legislation. 
The mode of recapturing or seizing their property by the south- 
ern slaveholders, under the laws, both of Congress and of the 
legislature of Pennsylvania, is a summary one, in derogation of 
the common law; and might be confined to a strict and rigid 
adherence to the boundaries laid down on the subject, in either 
of them, to the exclusion of the other under the Constitution : but 
when the free states themselves who might require this construc- 
tion, choose voluntarily to surrender it, and treat it as a remedial 
power to be enlarged, by both state and national legislation, for 
the benefit of the slaveholders, it is an extraordinary spectacle to 
see those most deeply interested arrayed among the adversaries 
of this liberal policy. It appeared to him one of the most unac- 
countable delusions that ever seized the human mind. He would 
leave to future times, as a matter of wonder, the task of discover- 
ing why his learned and zealous friends on the other side, and 
himself, had not changed places in this argument. Experience 
will demonstrate who advocates the true interest, not of the north 
only, but of the south, and of all sections of the Union. He did 
not for an instant question motives, he spoke of results alone. To 
these he would appeal, for a judgment that might abide the test 
of time with all its attendant train of circumstances, fraught 
with good or ill to our country. 

Supposing the power to pass laws on the subject of fugitive 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 67 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

slaves to be concurrent, the learned counsel on the other side 
contended that it had been exercised by Congress ; that the whole 
ground of legislation was provided for ; that the right of the 
states was thereby superseded, and that the act of Assembly of 
Pennsylvania was absolutely void. To all these positions he 
would answer, in addition to what had already been advanced, 
that Congress had not covered the whole ground ; that it had ex- 
pressly intended to employ the agency of state magistrates, which 
could not be done without state legislation ; and that the states, 
if they had a right to authorize the action of their officers, could 
do so on such terms as they pleased, if they did not contradict 
the act of Congress. There was no such contradiction or re- 
pugnancy in this case, and of course, the argument raised on that 
presumption totally failed. 

He could not on this branch of the case fortify his argument 
with stronger reason or authority than by quoting the words 
of Mr. Justice Story, in the case of Houston v. Moore. On 
this basis he did not fear to let it rest. " The Constitution, 
containing a grant of powers in many instances similar to those 
already existing in the state governments, and some of these 
being of vital importance also to state authority and state legis- 
lation, it is not to be admitted that a mere grant of such powers 
in affirmative terms to Congress, does, per se, transfer an ex- 
clusive sovereignty on such subjects to the latter. On the con- 
trary, a reasonable interpretation of that instrument necessarily 
leads to the conclusion that the powers so granted are never 
exclusive of similar powers existing in the states, unless where 
the Constitution has expressly in terms given an exclusive power 
to Congress, or the exercise of a like power is prohibited to the 
states, or there is a direct repugnancy or incompatibility in the 
exercise of it by the states." And also, "In all other cases not 
falling within the classes already mentioned, it seems unquestion- 
able that the states retain concurrent authority with Congress not 
only on the letter and spirit of the eleventh amendment of the Con- 
stitution, but upon the soundest principles of general reasoning." 

3. The vital question in this cause seemed to him to be this : 
whether the state of Pennsylvania could not punish the forcible 
removal of a negro, in the manner and for the purposes set forth 
in this special verdict, as a criminal offence, when such removal 



68 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

was made in total disregard of the act of Congress, and of her 
own act of 1826. He need hardly remind the Court, that the 
provisions of the federal Constitution under consideration, pre- 
scribed that fugitive slaves were to be " delivered up" " on claim." 
Both the acts of Congress and of the legislature of Pennsylvania 
directed the mode to be pursued in making claim and delivery. 
It is obvious that the Constitution contemplated two acts — the 
claim by the master, and the delivery in pursuance of it, of the 
state where the fugitive was found. One preceded the other ; and 
neither could be available to restore the slave to his master alone. 
Under the act of Congress, he might " seize" the slave, but could 
not remove him without the certificate of the judge or magistrate. 

Under the act of 1S26, the magistrate may issue his warrant to 
apprehend the fugitive ; but the judge alone can grant the certi- 
ficate. Under neither can the master remove the slave without 
this certificate. It is his only legal warrant of removal, and it is 
a sufficient warrant throughout the whole Union. A forcible 
removal is nowhere authorized or countenanced; on the con- 
trary, it can only be a removal under the law, and according to 
the law. The master, under the act of Congress, may " seize" 
his slave, but only for the purpose of taking him before a judge. 
He is protected in making such seizure ; but the moment he 
abuses this right, and, in defiance of law, undertakes to remove 
his slave without a certificate, he forfeits the protection of the 
law and becomes amenable to such punishment as the states 
may prescribe. 

The act of Congress punishes those who interfere with the 
rights of the slaveholder ; but is silent as to the rights of ne- 
groes wrongfully seized, and of the states whose territory is 
entered by persons, under pretext of right, to violate the laws 
and carry forcibly away those who are living under their pro- 
tection. These cases are clearly left to the guardianship of the 
states themselves. The tenth article of the amendments to the 
Constitution secures this right ; and self-respect, if not self-pro- 
tection, demands its exercise. It has already been decided, by 
this Court, that persons who violate or disregard the provisions 
of an act of Congress may be made amenable to state law. 
Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1 ; 2 Hamilton's Works, 347. This 
is not on the principle that to violate an act of Congress is a 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 69 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

crime against the state ; but that the offence denounced by the 
laws of the state is not protected by the national authority, and 
hence may be punished as a crime. 

Prigg, the defendant in this case, first sought the aid of the state 
law to seize his slave, and then, in contempt of both its mandates 
and those of the act of Congress, removed the fugitive without 
making claim, obtaining certificate, or doing any thing to procure 
the warrant of the law. This was a wanton insult to the dignity 
of the state of Pennsylvania ; and tended directly to produce riots, 
disturbances, and ill-blood between her citizens and those of the 
state of Maryland. Would it not be monstrous to hold, that an 
act which leads to such results, which offends so deeply the honest 
prejudices of large portions of the citizens of a state, is not, or 
may not be punished as a crime against her sovereignty and her 
laws ? If such power do not belong to the states, it is difficult 
to conceive how any portion of their police arrangements may 
not at any time be annulled and abrogated by the general govern- 
ment. A more absolute annihilation of the state sovereignties 
than this would be, is not within the stretch of human power. 

It is a familiar principle to the Court, that on the ground of 
repugnancy to the Constitution, state laws may be void in part, 
and valid for the residue. These questions are extremely deli- 
cate ; and this Court will declare laws void for this reason, only 
in a clear case. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87. If possible, the 
Court will reconcile them with the Constitution ; and so far as de- 
pends on their policy or justice, leave that to the judgment of the 
people who enact and must obey them. Dismissing from considera- 
tion, for the purposes of this argument, the right of the states to pass 
laws on the subject of the delivery up of fugitive slaves, in what 
respect does the act of 1826, so far as relates to the punishment of 
those who are guilty of kidnapping, conflict with the Constitution 
of the United States or with any act of Congress ? He thought 
he might challenge the utmost ingenuity to point out such con- 
flict. It was clearly the exercise of a reserved power. It only 
punished those who set all laws on this subject at naught, and 
by their examples did more to endanger the rights of the slave- 
holders in the recovery of their fugitives, than all the state laws 
ever adopted had done or could do. Such rash and indiscreet 
efforts to regain fugitive slaves, as this defendant made, have done 



70 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

much to foment the spirit of opposition to slavery in the north ; 
and if persisted in, will awaken a feeling not easily subdued or 
controlled. Did the chivalrous and considerate slave owners of 
the south come themselves in pursuit of their fugitive slaves, 
these instances of outrage would seldom, if ever, happen ; but 
the agents often employed by them, are of the most debased 
character, and, being alike ignorant and regardless of law and 
courtesy, excite, by their conduct, the deepest emotions of indig- 
nation and abhorrence. It is against such offenders that the 
penal enactment in question is chiefly aimed. Can it be possi- 
ble that this Court will strike down the arm of state authority, 
thus uplifted to maintain peace, order, and the respectful obser- 
vance of the law ? 

The fact that the negro thus forcibly and illegally removed is 
a slave, is wholly immaterial. It is admitted by the other side, 
that legislation under the Constitution is necessary to carry the 
provision on this subject of fugitive slaves into effect. If so, the 
right of removal cannot exist independent of such legislation. 
Although the slave may be so in fact, yet he must be identified 
and certified by the law to be such, to authorize his removal. 
Until this is done, no presumption of slavery arises. True, it 
will arise, if " seized" on " claim" and taken before a judge, 
but not if removed without this judicial sanction. Here is the 
true point of the case. The law protects the owner or agent, 
until he proceeds to remove the slave in defiance of its prohibition. 
The instant he does this, the crime is committed ; the penalty 
is incurred ; the violated law demands its victim. The Constitu- 
tion evidently contemplates the act of the law, and not the act 
of the party in the recovery of fugitive slaves ; and he who with 
a strong hand usurps the prerogative of the law and tramples on 
its mandates, has no right to complain of the punishment it inflicts. 

The special verdict in this case distinctly admits, that the act 
of the defendant is neither sanctioned nor protected by either the 
act of Congress or the legislature of Pennsylvania. It was 
therefore clear, as he believed, whatever might be the opinion 
of the Court upon the broad question of the power of the states 
to pass laws directing the mode of delivering up fugitive slaves ; 
that the act of Pennsylvania, so far as it affected this case, or was 
involved in its determination, was not repugnant to the Constitu- 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 71 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

tion, and that accordingly the judgment of the Supreme Court 
of that state must be affirmed. 

In conclusion, said Mr. Johnson, the Court will allow me to 
say, that I have argued this case on the presumption that many 
great rules of constitutional interpretation have been settled by 
its decisions ; and that I have adopted and applied them so far as 
they appeared applicable, without consuming the time or abusing 
the patience of the Court, by elaborate inquiries into their justice or 
their authority. I have not deemed it respectful to address this 
Court as if I were delivering a course of elementary lectures in a 
law academy. I know my own duty and the character of this Court 
too well, to engage in such an undertaking. I feel persuaded 
that my deficiencies will be far more than supplied by the learn- 
ing and experience of your honours. I have sought to confine 
my argument strictly to the case before you, and I hope within 
this scope no points of essential interest have escaped my attention. 

I trust I shall be pardoned if I again reiterate my conviction, 
that the construction of the Constitution for which I have con- 
tended, is the true, rational, and just one. Whatever may be 
the opinion of others, it cannot and will not be plausibly alleged 
that this construction violates any of its provisions, or endangers 
any power vested in either the national or state governments. It 
offends no prejudices ; it trenches on no rights ; it sets no example 
to be hereafter pleaded in justification of measures which tend 
to augment the power of the general government, and to strip 
the states of their proudest attributes of sovereignty. It binds 
each in its proper sphere ; it invests both with all requisite and 
proper authority to perform the functions for which they were 
designed, and it divests this obligation to deliver up fugitive 
slaves, which, to the sensitive, is harsh and odious, of almost 
every feature of painful repugnance to the feelings. 

But let the picture be reversed. — Deny the right of the states 
to legislate on this subject for the preservation of their own peace 
and the protection of their own soil from insult and aggression ; 
arrogate exclusive power for the general government to order 
and direct how, and by whom alleged fugitive slaves are to be 
restored to their masters or hired pursuers, and you arouse a spirit 
of discord and resistance, that will neither shrink nor slumber till 
the obligation itself be cancelled, or the Union which creates it be 



72 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

dissolved. I do not say this in menace — God forbid I should ; 
but in expostulating warning to those who, by demanding too 
much, may sacrifice even that to which they are justly entitled. 

The various, diversified, and almost antagonist interests of dif- 
ferent sections of our Union, render government here a task of no 
small caution, forbearance, and responsibility. Time and expe- 
rience have emphatically taught us that there is but one mode in 
which these interests can be effectually guarded and promoted ; 
and that is by a strict, steady, and undeviating adherence to the 
spirit and letter of the national Constitution. 

The events of every day, and every year, invest the Constitution 
with additional claims to our veneration. Its advantages seem to 
multiply with our necessities, and to spring out of them. It would 
not be difficult in the course of our history, to point out particu- 
lar instances, in which different quarters of the Union, influenced 
by adverse interests, have sought to apply opposing constructions 
to the same provisions, on assumed general, strict, or latitudinarian 
principles ; and yet, in a very brief period of time, constructions 
of other provisions have compelled these sectional parties to 
change their respective ground, and to repudiate what they had 
before adopted. These considerations rebuke the spirit of self-con- 
fidence and of self-interest, and admonish us, that, in the end, that 
construction is the only sound, rational, and safe one, which en- 
croaches on no peculiar interest, and which sustains all alike, with 
even-handed justice. Let the south and the north remember, 
that he who lives by the sword to-day, may die by the sword to- 
morrow. Then, indeed, may we read the Constitution in the 
benign spirit of the golden rule, to do "unto others, as we would 
that they should do unto us." 

The framers of our glorious Constitution, appear to have been 
little less than inspired. They not only guarded the liberties of 
their own age, but they looked into futurity, and provided for the 
liberties of ages to follow them — constitutional indemnities which 
must then have been established, or never established at all. The 
day to intrench political freedom within a written Constitution, 
was the day when the fresh recollection of the revolutionary con- 
test not only taught its value, but the duty of placing it beyond 
the reach of invasion ; and our fathers, conscious of this truth, 
performed the duty devolved on them, in a manner worthy of 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 73 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

its inestimable importance. The most skeptical must trace the 
finger of God in this work; and acknowledge that he has sancti- 
fied it in the councils of his Providence. 

It is adapted to our condition in every stage of our national 
advancement. From the Atlantic to the Pacific Oceans, and from 
the lakes to the borders of Mexico, it has stretched forth its che- 
rishing arm over our people, and diffused its blessings on all alike. 
It has "grown with our growth, and strengthened with our 
strength ;" it was the swaddling clothes of our national infancy ; it 
is the coat of mail that envelopes the giant-limbs of our national 
manhood. Changed as is our condition, modified as may seem 
our government in various matters of policy; the Constitution 
of our fathers is still solid and entire, the Constitution of their 
descendants. 

If we would preserve it, if we would perpetuate its benefits, 
we must, in its interpretation, adhere with inflexible tenacity to 
that spirit of generous and enlightened concession in which it had 
its origin, which now and forever must be its breath of life. It 
is equally endangered by straining its just powers too far, as by 
crippling their operation, and shrivelling up the vigorous energies 
which alone make it a form of government capable or worthy of 
popular confidence and support. To claim for it, what is with- 
held — exclusive authority to legislate on the delicate subject of 
directing the delivery up of fugitive slaves, to the entire exclusion 
of state interposition, seems to me the rankest usurpation. In 
resisting this doctrine, I verily believe I stand here more as the 
true friend of the south, than those who honestly, but erroneously, 
urge it upon the Court. In the name then of Pennsylvania, in 
the name of all the states — in the name of the Union itself — I 
protest against this dangerous encroachment on state sovereignty 
and state independence. The long and impatient struggle on this 
question, I trust is nearly over. The decision of this Court will 
put it at rest. 

Pennsylvania will be the first to acquiesce in whatever deci- 
sion may be pronounced; and deeply and anxiously as she desires 
to see all the rights guarantied to her by the national Constitu- 
tion steadfastly maintained, she submits, with a confidence that 
knows no fear, these rights, which are equally dear to every 
10 G 



74 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

sister state as they are to her, to the judgment of this high and 
enlightened tribunal. 

Mr. Justice Story delivered the opinion of the Court. 

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, 
brought under the 25th section of the judiciary act of 1789, ch. 
20, for the purpose of revising the judgment of that Court, in a 
case involving the construction of the Constitution and laws of the 
United States. 

The facts are briefly these : The plaintiff in error was indicted 
in the Court of Oyer and Terminer for York county, for having, 
with force and violence, taken and carried away from that county 
to the state of Maryland, a certain negro woman, named Marga- 
ret Morgan, with a design and intention of selling and disposing 
of, and keeping her as a slave or servant for life, contrary to a 
statute of Pennsylvania, passed on the 26th of March, 1826. That 
statute in the first section, in substance, provides, that if any per- 
son or persons shall from and after the passing of the act, by 
force and violence take and carry away, or cause to be taken and 
carried away, and shall by fraud or false pretence, seduce, or 
cause to be seduced, or shall attempt to take, carry away, or se- 
duce any negro or mulatto from any part of that commonwealth, 
with a design and intention of selling and disposing of, or causing 
to be sold, or of keeping and detaining, or of causing to be kept 
and detained, such negro or mulatto as a slave or servant for life, 
or for any term whatsoever; every such person or persons, his or 
their aiders or abettors, shall, on conviction thereof, be deemed 
guilty of a felony, and shall forfeit and pay a sum not less than 
five hundred, nor more than one thousand dollars; and moreover, 
shall be sentenced to undergo a servitude for any term or terms 
of years, not less than seven years nor exceeding twenty-one 
years ; and shall be confined and kept to hard labour, &c. There 
are many other provisions in the statute which is recited at large 
in the record, but to which it is in our view unnecessary to ad- 
vert upon the present occasion. 

The plaintiff in error pleaded not guilty to the indictment ; and 
at the trial the jury found a special verdict, which, in substance, 
states, that the negro woman, Margaret Morgan, was a slave for 
life, and held to labour and service under and according to the 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 75 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

laws of Maryland, to a certain Margaret Ashmore, a citizen of 
Maryland ; that the slave escaped and fled from Maryland into 
Pennsylvania in 1832 ; that the plaintiff in error, being legally 
constituted the agent and attorney of the said Margaret Ashmore, 
in 1837, caused the said negro woman to be taken and appre- 
hended as a fugitive from labour by a state constable, under a 
warrant from a Pennsylvania magistrate; that the said negro 
woman was thereupon brought before the said magistrate, who 
refused to take further cognisance of the case ; and thereupon the 
plaintiff in error did remove, take, and carry away the said negro 
woman and her children out of Pennsylvania into Maryland, and 
did deliver the said negro woman and her children into the cus- 
tody and possession of the said Margaret Ashmore. The special 
verdict further finds, that one of the children was born in Penn- 
sylvania, more than a year after the said negro woman had. fled, 
and escaped from Maryland. 

Upon this special verdict, the Court of Oyer and Terminer of 
York county, adjudged that the plaintiff in error was guilty of the 
offence charged in the indictment. A writ of error was brought 
from that judgment to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, where 
the judgment was, pro forma, affirmed. From this latter judg- 
ment, the present writ of error has been brought to this Court. 

Before proceeding to discuss the very important and interesting 
questions involved in this record, it is fit to say, that the cause 
has been conducted in the Court below, and has been brought 
here by the co-operation and sanction, both of the state of Mary- 
land, and the state of Pennsylvania, in the most friendly and 
courteous spirit, with a view to have those questions finally dis- 
posed of by the adjudication of this Court ; so that the agitations 
on this subject in both states, which have had a tendency to inter- 
rupt the harmony between them, may subside, and the conflict 
of opinion be put at rest. It should also be added, that the statute 
of Pennsylvania of 1826, was (as has been suggested at the bar) 
passed with a view of meeting the supposed wishes of Maryland 
on the subject of fugitive slaves ; and that, although it has failed 
to produce the good effects intended in its practical construction, 
the result was unforeseen and undesigned. 

1. The question arising in the case, as to the constitutionality of 
the statute of Pennsylvania, has been most elaborately argued at 



76 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

the bar. The counsel for the plaintiff in error have contended 
that the statute of Pennsylvania is unconstitutional ; first, because 
Congress has the exclusive power of legislation upon the subject- 
matter under the Constitution of the United States, and under the 
act of the 12th of February, 1793, ch. 51, (7), which was passed in 
pursuance thereof; secondly, that if this power is not exclusive 
in Congress, still the concurrent power of the state legislatures 
is suspended by the actual exercise of the power by Congress ; 
and thirdly, that if not suspended, still the statute of Pennsyl- 
vania, in all its provisions applicable to this case, is in direct 
collision with the act of Congress, and therefore is unconstitu- 
tional and void. The counsel for Pennsylvania maintain the 
negative of all these points. 

Few questions which have ever come before this Court in- 
volve more delicate and important considerations; and few upon 
which the public at large may be presumed to feel a more pro- 
found and pervading interest. We have accordingly given them 
our most deliberate examination ; and it has become my duty to 
state the result to which we have arrived, and the reasoning by 
which it is supported. 

Before, however, we proceed to the points more immediately 
before us, it may be well — in order to clear the case of difficulty — 
to say, that in the exposition of this part of the Constitution, we 
shall limit ourselves to those considerations which appropriately 
and exclusively belong to it, without laying down any rules of 
interpretation of a more general nature. It will, indeed, pro- 
bably, be found, when we look to the character of the Constitu- 
tion itself, the objects which it seeks to attain, the powers which 
it confers, the duties which it enjoins, and the rights which it 
secures, as well as the known historical fact that many of its 
provisions were matters of compromise of opposing interests and 
opinions; that no uniform rule of interpretation can be applied 
to it which may not allow, even if it does not positively demand, 
many modifications in its actual application to particular clauses. 
And, perhaps, the safest rule of interpretation after all will be 
found to be to look to the nature and objects of the particular 
powers, duties, and rights, with all the lights and aids of contem- 
porary history ; and to give to the words of each just such opera- 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 77 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

tion and force, consistent with their legitimate meaning, as may 
fairly secure and attain the ends proposed. 

There are two clauses in the Constitution upon the subject 
of fugitives, which stand in juxtaposition with each other, and 
have been thought mutually to illustrate each other. They are 
both contained in the second section of the fourth article, and are 
in the following words : "A person charged in any state with 
treason, felony, or other crime, who shall flee from justice, and 
be found in another state, shall, on demand of the executive 
authority of the state from which he fled, be delivered up, to be 
removed to the state having jurisdiction of the crime." 

"No person held to service or labour in one state under the laws 
thereof, escaping into another, shall in consequence of any law 
or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labour ; 
but shall be delivered up, on claim of the party to whom such 
service or labour may be due." 

The last clause is that, the true interpretation whereof is directly 
in judgment before us. Historically, it is well known, that the 
object of this clause was to secure to the citizens of the slavehold- 
ing states the complete right and title of ownership in their slaves, 
as property, in every state in the Union into which they might 
escape from the state where they were held in servitude. The 
full recognition of this right and title was indispensable to the 
security of this species of property in all the slaveholding states; 
and, indeed, was so vital to the preservation of their domestic 
interests and institutions, that it cannot be doubted that it consti- 
tuted a fundamental article, without the adoption of which the 
Union could not have been formed. Its true design was to guard 
against the doctrines and principles prevalent in the non-siave- 
holding states, by preventing them from intermeddling with, or 
obstructing, or abolishing the rights of the owners of slaves. 

By the general law of nations, no nation is bound to recognise 
the state of slavery, as to foreign slaves found within its terri- 
torial dominions, when it is in opposition to its own policy and 
institutions, in favour of the subjects of other nations where slavery 
is recognised. If it does it, it is as a matter of comity, and not as 
a matter of international right. The state of slavery is deemed 
to be a mere municipal regulation, founded upon and limited to the 
range of the territorial laws. This was fully recognised in Somerset's 

G 2 



78 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

Case, Lofft's Rep. 1 ; S. C, 11 State Trials by Harg. 340 ; S. C, 
20 Howell's State Trials, 79 ; which was decided before the Ame- 
rican revolution. It is manifest from this consideration, that if 
the Constitution had not contained this clause, every non-slave- 
holding state in the Union would have been at liberty to have 
declared free all runaway slaves coming within its limits, and to 
have given them entire immunity and protection against the claims 
of their masters ; a course which would have created the most 
bitter animosities, and engendered perpetual strife between the 
different states. The clause was, therefore, of the last import- 
ance to the safety and security of the southern states ; and could 
not have been surrendered by them without endangering their 
whole property in slaves. The clause was accordingly adopted 
into the Constitution by the unanimous consent of the framers 
of it ; a proof at once of its intrinsic and practical necessity. 

How, then, are we to interpret the language of the clause ? 
The true answer is, in such a manner, as, consistently with the 
words, shall fully and completely effectuate the whole objects of it. 
If by one mode of interpretation the right must become shadowy 
and unsubstantial, and without any remedial power adequate 
to the end ; and by another mode it will attain its just end and 
secure its manifest purpose ; it would seem, upon principles of 
reasoning, absolutely irresistible, that the latter ought to prevail. 
No Court of justice can be authorized so to construe any clause 
of the Constitution as to defeat its obvious ends, when another 
construction, equally accordant with the words and sense thereof, 
will enforce and protect them. 

The clause manifestly contemplates the existence of a positive, 
unqualified right on the part of the owner of the slave, which no 
state law or regulation can in any way qualify, regulate, control, 
or restrain. The slave is not to be discharged from service or 
labour, in consequence of any state law or regulation. Now, 
certainly, without indulging in any nicety of criticism upon words, 
it may fairly and reasonably be said, that any state law or state 
regulation, which interrupts, limits, delays, or postpones the right 
of the owner to the immediate possession of the slave, and the 
immediate command of his service and labour, operates, pro 
tanto, a discharge of the slave therefrom. The question can never 
be, how much the slave is discharged from ; but whether he is 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 79 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

discharged from any, by the natural or necessary operation of 
state laws or state regulations. The question is not one of quan- 
tity or degree, but of withholding, or controlling the incidents of 
a positive and absolute right. 

We have said that the clause contains a positive and unquali- 
fied recognition of the right of the owner in the slave, unaffected 
by any state law or regulation whatsoever, because there is no 
qualification or restriction of it to be found therein ; and we have 
no right to insert any which is .not expressed, and cannot be 
fairly implied ; especially are we estopped from so doing, when 
the clause puts the right to the service or labour upon the 
same ground and to the same extent in every other state as in 
the state from which the slave escaped, and in which he was held 
to the service or labour. If this be so, then all the incidents to 
that right attach also ; the owner must, therefore, have the right 
to seize and repossess the slave, which the local laws of his own 
state confer upon him as property ; and we all know that this 
right of seizure and recaption is universally acknowledged in all 
the slaveholding states. Indeed, this is no more than a mere 
affirmance of the principles of the common law applicable to 
this very subject. Mr. Justice Blackstone (3 Bl. Comra. 4) lays 
it down as unquestionable doctrine. " Recaption or reprisal (says 
he) is another species of remedy by the mere act of the party 
injured. This happens when any one hath deprived another of 
his property in goods or chattels personal, or wrongfully detains 
one's wife, child, or servant ; in which case the owner of the 
goods, and the husband, parent, or master may lawfully claim 
and retake them, wherever he happens to find them, so it be not 
in a riotous manner, or attended with a breach of the peace." 
Upon this ground we have not the slightest hesitation in holding, 
that, under and in virtue of the Constitution, the owner of a slave 
is clothed with entire authority, in every state in the Union, to 
seize and recapture his slave, whenever he can do it without any 
breach of the peace, or any illegal violence. In this sense, and 
to this extent this clause of the Constitution may properly be said 
to execute itself; and to require no aid from legislation, state or 
national. 

But the clause of the Constitution does not stop here ; nor, in- 
deed, consistently with its professed objects, could it do so. Many 



80 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

cases must arise in which, if the remedy of the owner were con- 
fined to the mere right of seizure and recaption, he would be 
utterly without any adequate redress. He may not be able to lay 
his hands upon the slave. He may not be able to enforce his 
rights against persons who either secrete or conceal, or withhold 
the slave. He may be restricted by local legislation as to the 
mode of proofs of his ownership ; as to the Courts in which he 
shall sue, and as to the actions which he may bring ; or the pro- 
cess he may use to compel the delivery of the slave. Nay, the 
local legislation may be utterly inadequate to furnish the appro- 
priate redress, by authorizing no process in rem, or no specific 
mode of repossessing the slave, leaving the owner, at best, not 
that right which the Constitution designed to secure — a specific 
delivery and repossession of the slave, but a mere remedy in 
damages • and that perhaps against persons utterly insolvent or 
worthless. The state legislation may be entirely silent on the 
whole subject, and its ordinary remedial process framed with dif- 
ferent views and objects ; and this may be innocently as well as 
designedly done, since every state is perfectly competent, and has 
the exclusive right to prescribe the remedies in its own judicial 
tribunals, to limit the time as well as the mode of redress, and to 
deny jurisdiction over cases, which its own policy and its own 
institutions either prohibit or discountenance. 

If, therefore, the clause of the Constitution had stopped at the 
mere recognition of the right, without providing or contemplating 
any means by which it might be established and enforced in cases 
where it did not execute itself, it is plain that it would have, in a 
great variety of cases, a delusive and empty annunciation. If it 
did not contemplate any action either through state or national 
legislation, as auxiliaries to its more perfect enforcement in the 
form of remedy, or of protection, then, as there would be no duty 
on either to aid the right, it would be left to the mere comity of 
the states to act as they should please ; and would depend for its 
security upon the changing course of public opinion, the muta- 
tions of public policy, and the general adaptations of remedies 
for purposes strictly according to the lex fori. 

And this leads us to the consideration of the other part of the 
clause, which implies at once a guaranty and duty. It says, " But 
he (the slave) shall be delivered up on claim of the party to 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 81 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

whom such service or labour may be due." Now, we think it 
exceedingly difficult, if not impracticable, to read this language 
and not to feel that it contemplated some farther remedial re- 
dress than that which might be administered at the hands of the 
owner himself. A claim is to be made. What is a claim ? It is, 
in a just juridical sense, a demand of some matter as of right made 
by one person upon another, to do or to forbear to do some act 
or thing as a matter of duty. A more limited, but at the same 
time an equally expressive definition was given by Lord Dyer, as 
cited in Stowell v. Zouch, Plowden, 359 ; and it is equally applica- 
ble to the present case : that " a claim is a challenge by a man of 
the propriety or ownership of a thing, which he has not in posses- 
sion, but which is wrongfully detained from him." The slave is to 
be delivered up on the claim. By Avhom to be delivered up ? In 
what mode to be delivered up ? How, if a refusal takes place, 
is the right of delivery to be enforced ? Upon what proofs ? 
What shall be the evidence of a rightful recaption or delivery ? 
When and under what circumstances shall the possession of the 
owner, after it is obtained, be conclusive of his right, so as to 
preclude any further inquiry or examination into it by local tri- 
bunals or otherwise, while the slave, in possession of the owner, 
is in transitu to the state from which he fled ? 

These, and many other questions, will readily occur upon the 
slightest attention to the clause ; and it is obvious that they can 
receive but one satisfactory answer. They require the aid of 
legislation to protect the right, to enforce the delivery, and to 
secure the subsequent possession of the slave. If, indeed, the 
Constitution guarantees the right, and if it requires the delivery 
upon the claim of the owner, (as cannot well be doubted.) the 
natural inference certainly is, that the national government is 
clothed with the appropriate authority and functions to enforce 
it. The fundamental principle applicable to all cases of this sort, 
would seem to be, that where the end is required, the means are 
given ; and where the duty is enjoined, the ability to perform it is 
contemplated to exist on the part of the functionaries to whom it 
is entrusted. The clause is found in the national Constitution, and 
not in that of any state. It does not point out any state func- 
tionaries, or any state action to carry its provisions into effect. 
The states cannot, therefore, be compelled to enforce them ; and 
11 



82 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

it might well be deemed an unconstitutional exercise of the power 
of interpretation, to insist that the states are bound to provide 
means to carry into effect the duties of the national government, 
nowhere delegated or intrusted to them by the Constitution. On 
the contrary, the natural, if not the necessary conclusion is, that 
the national government, in the absence of all positive provisions 
to the contrary, is bound, through its own proper departments, 
legislative, judicial, or executive, as the case may require, to carry 
into effect all the rights and duties imposed upon it by the Con- 
stitution. The remark of Mr. Madison, in the Federalist, (No. 43,) 
would seem in such cases to apply with peculiar force. " A right 
(says he) implies a remedy ; and where else would the remedy 
be deposited, than where it is deposited by the Constitution?" 
meaning, as the context shows, in the government of the United 
States. 

It is plain, then, that where a claim is made by the owner, out 
of possession, for the delivery of a slave, it must be made, if at 
all, against some other person ; and inasmuch as the right is a 
right of property capable of being recognised and asserted by 
proceedings before a Court of justice, between parties adverse to 
each other, it constitutes, in the strictest sense, a controversy be- 
tween the parties, and a case " arising under the Constitution" of 
the United States ; within the express delegation of judicial power 
given by that instrument. Congress, then, may call that power 
into activity for the very purpose of giving effect to that right y 
and if so, then it may prescribe the mode and extent in which it 
shall be applied, and how, and under what circumstances the pro- 
ceedings shall afford a complete protection and guaranty to the 
right. 

Congress has taken this very view of the power and duty of the 
national government. As early as the year 1791, the attention 
of Congress was drawn to it, (as we shall hereafter more fully 
see,) in consequence of some practical difficulties arising under the 
other clause, respecting fugitives from justice escaping into other 
states. The result of their deliberations, was the passage of the 
act of the 12th of February, 1793, ch. 51, (7,) which, after having, 
in the first and second sections, provided for the case of fugitives 
from justice by a demand to be made of the delivery through 
the executive authority of the state where they are found, 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 33 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

proceeds, in the third section, to provide, that when a person held 
to labour or service in any of the United States, shall escape into 
any other of the states or territories, the person to whom such 
labour or service may be due, his agent or attorney, is hereby em- 
powered to seize or arrest such fugitive from labour, and take 
him or her before any judge of the Circuit or District Courts of the 
United States, residing or being within the state, or before any 
magistrate of a county, city, or town corporate, wherein such 
seizure or arrest shall be made ; and upon proof to the satisfaction 
of such judge or magistrate, either by oral evidence or affidavit, 
&c, that the person so seized or arrested, doth, under the laws of 
the state or territory from which he or she fled, owe service or 
labour to the person claiming him or her, it shall be the duty of 
such judge or magistrate, to give a certificate thereof to such 
claimant, his agent or attorney, which shall be sufficient warrant 
for removing the said fugitive from labour, to the state or territory 
from which he or she fled. The fourth section provides a penalty 
against any person who shall knowingly and willingly obstruct 
or hinder such claimant, his agent, or attorney, in so seizing or 
arresting such fugitive from labour, or rescue such fugitive from 
the claimant, or his agent, or attorney when so arrested, or who 
shall harbour or conceal such fugitive after notice that he is such ; 
and it also saves to the person claiming such labour or service, 
his right of action for or on account of such injuries. 

In a general sense, this act may be truly said to cover the whole 
ground of the Constitution, both as to fugitives from justice, and 
fugitive slaves ; that is, it covers both the subjects, in its enact- 
ments ; not because it exhausts the remedies which may be ap- 
plied by Congress to enforce the rights, if the provisions of the 
act shall in practice be found not to attain the object of the Con- 
stitution ; but because it points out fully all the modes of attain- 
ing those objects, which Congress, in their discretion, have as yet 
deemed expedient or proper to meet the exigencies of the Consti- 
tution. If this be so, then it would seem, upon just principles of 
construction, that the legislation of Congress, if constitutional, 
must supersede all state legislation upon the same subject ; and by 
necessary implication prohibit it. For if Congress have a consti- 
tutional power to regulate a particular subject, and they do actu- 
ally regulate it in a given manner, and in a certain form, it cannot 



84 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

be that the state legislatures have a right to interfere ; and, as it 
were, by way of complement to the legislation of Congress, to 
prescribe additional regulations, and what they may deem auxi- 
liary provisions for the same purpose. In such a case, the legis- 
lation of Congress, in what it does prescribe, manifestly indicates 
that it does not intend that there shall be any farther legislation 
to act upon the subject-matter. Its silence as to what it does not 
do, is as expressive of what its intention is as the direct provisions 
made by it. This doctrine was fully recognised by this Court, in 
the case of Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. Rep. 1, 21, 22 ; where it 
was expressly held, that where Congress have exercised a power 
over a particular subject given them by the Constitution, it is not 
competent for state legislation to add to the provisions of Congress 
upon that subject ; for that the will of Congress upon the whole 
subject is as clearly established by what it had not declared, as 
by what it has expressed. 

But it has been argued, that the act of Congress is unconstitu- 
tional, because it does not fall within the scope of any of the enu- 
merated powers of legislation confided to that body ; and therefore 
it is void. Stripped of its artificial and technical structure, the 
argument comes to this, that although rights are exclusively se- 
cured by, or duties are exclusively imposed upon the national 
government, yet, unless the power to enforce these rights, or to 
execute these duties can be found among the express powers of 
legislation enumerated in the Constitution, they remain without 
any means of giving them effect by any act of Congress; and they 
must operate solely proprio vigore, however defective may be their 
operation ; nay, even although, in a practical sense, they may be- 
come a nullity from the want of a proper remedy to enforce them, 
or to provide against their violation. If this be the true interpre- 
tation of the Constitution, it must, in a great measure, fail to attain 
many of its avowed and positive objects as a security of rights, 
and a recognition of duties. Such a limited construction of the 
Constitution has never yet been adopted as correct, either in 
theory or practice. No one has ever supposed that Congress 
could, constitutionally, by its legislation, exercise powers, or enact 
laws beyond the powers delegated to it by the Constitution ; but 
it has, on various occasions, exercised powers which were neces- 
sary and proper as means to carry into effect rights expressly 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 85 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

given, and duties expressly enjoined thereby. The end being 
required, it has been deemed a just and necessary implication, 
that the means to accomplish it are given also ; or, in other words, 
that the power flows as a necessary means to accomplish the end. 
Thus, for example, although the Constitution has declared that 
representatives shall be apportioned among the states according 
to their respective federal numbers ; and, for this purpose, it has 
expressly authorized Congress, by law, to provide for an enumera- 
tion of the population every ten years ; yet the power to appor- 
tion representatives after this enumeration is made, is nowhere 
found among the express powers given to Congress, but it has 
always been acted upon as irresistibly flowing from the duty 
positively enjoined by the Constitution. Treaties made between 
the United States and foreign powers, often contain special pro- 
visions, which do not execute themselves, but require the interpo- 
sition of Congress to carry them into effect, and Congress has 
constantly, in such cases, legislated on the subject ; yet, although 
the power is given to the executive, with the consent of the 
senate, to make treaties, the power is nowhere in positive terms 
conferred upon Congress to make laws to carry the stipulations 
of treaties into effect. It has been supposed, to result from the 
duty of the national government to fulfil all the obligations of 
treaties. The senators and representatives in Congress are, in 
all cases, except treason, felony, and breach of the peace, ex- 
empted from arrest during their attendance at the sessions there- 
of, and in going to and returning from the same. May not Con- 
gress enforce this right by authorizing a writ of habeas corpus, to 
free them from an illegal arrest in violation of this clause of the 
Constitution ? If it may not, then the specific remedy to enforce 
it must exclusively depend upon the local legislation of the states; 
and may be granted or refused according to their own varying 
policy, or pleasure. The Constitution also declares that the pri- 
vilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended, unless, 
when in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may re- 
quire it. No express power is given to Congress to secure this 
invaluable right in the non-enumerated cases, or to suspend the 
writ in cases of rebellion or invasion. And yet it would be dif- 
ficult to say, since this great writ of liberty is usually provided 
for by the ordinary functions of legislation, and can be effectually 

H 



86 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

provided for only in this way, that it ought not to be deemed by 
necessary implication within the scope of the legislative power of 
Congress. 

These cases are put merely by way of illustration, to show that 
the rule of interpretation, insisted upon at the argument, is quite 
too narrow to provide for the ordinary exigencies of the national 
government, in cases where rights are intended to be absolutely 
secured, and duties are positively enjoined by the Constitution. 

The very act of 1793, now under consideration, affords the 
most conclusive proof that Congress has acted upon a very dif- 
ferent rule of interpretation, and has supposed that the right as 
well as the duty of legislation on the subject of fugitives from justice, 
and fugitive slaves was within the scope of the constitutional 
authority conferred on the national legislature. In respect to 
fugitives from justice, the Constitution, although it expressly pro- 
vides that the demand shall be made by the executive authority 
of the state from which the fugitive has fled, is silent as to the 
party upon whom the demand is to be made, and as to the mode 
in which it shall be made. This very silence occasioned embar- 
rasments in enforcing the right and duty at an early period after 
the adoption of the Constitution ; and produced a hesitation on the 
part of the executive authority of Virginia to deliver up a fugi- 
tive from justice, upon the demand of the executive of Pennsyl- 
vania, in the year 1791 ; and as we historically know from the 
message of President Washington and the public documents of that 
period, it was the immediate cause of the passing of the act of 
1793, which designated the person (the state executive) upon 
whom the demand should be made, and the mode and proofs 
upon and in which it should be made. From that time down to 
the present hour, not a doubt has been breathed upon the consti- 
tutionality of this part of the act ; and every executive in the 
Union has constantly acted upon and admitted its validity. 
Yet the right and the duty are dependent, as to their mode of 
execution, solely on the act of Congress ; and but for that, they 
would remain a nominal right and passive duty; the execution 
of which being intrusted to and required of no one in particular, 
all persons might be at liberty to disregard it. This very acquies- 
cence, under such circumstances, of the highest state functionaries, 
is a most decisive proof of the universality of the opinion that the 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 87 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

act is founded in a just construction of the Constitution; inde- 
pendent of the vast influence which it ought to have as a con- 
temporaneous exposition of the provisions, by those who were its 
immediate framers, or intimately connected with its adoption. 

The same uniformity of acquiescence in the validity of the act 
of 1793, upon the other part of the subject-matter, that of 
fugitive slaves, has prevailed throughout the whole Union until 
a comparatively recent period. Nay; being from its nature and 
character more readily susceptible of being brought into contro- 
versy, in Courts of justice, than the former, and of enlisting in 
opposition to it the feelings, and it may be the prejudices of some 
portions of the non-slaveholding states; it has naturally been 
brought under adjudication in several states in the Union, and 
particularly in Massachusetts, New York, and Pennsylvania, 
and on all these occasions its validity has been affirmed. The 
cases cited at the bar, of Wright v. Deacon, 5 Serg. and Rawle, 
62 ; Glen v. Hodges, 9 Johns. Rep. 67 ; Jack v. Martin, 12 Wend. 
Rep. 311 ; S. C, 12 Wend. Rep. 507 ; and Com. v. Griffin, 2 Pick. 
Rep. 1 1 ; are directly in point. So far as the judges of the 
Courts of the United States have been called upon to enforce it, 
and to grant the certificate required by it, it is believed that it 
has been uniformly recognised as a binding and valid law ; and 
as imposing a constitutional duty. Under such circumstances, if 
the question were one of doubtful construction, such long ac- 
quiescence in it, such contemporaneous expositions of it, and such 
extensive and uniform recognition of its validity, would in our 
judgment entitle the question to be considered at rest ; unless 
indeed the interpretation of the Constitution is to be delivered 
over to interminable doubt throughout the whole progress of 
legislation, and of national operations. Congress, the executive, 
and the judiciary have, upon various occasions, acted upon this 
as a sound and reasonable doctrine. Especially did this Court 
in the cases of Stuart v. Laird, 1 Cranch Rep. 299 ; and Martin 
v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. Rep. 304 ; and in Cohen v. The Common- 
wealth of Virginia, 6 Wheat. Rep. 264; rely upon contempora- 
neous expositions of the Constitution, and long acquiescence in 
it, with great confidence, in the discussion of questions of a highly 
interesting and important nature. 

But we do not wish to rest our present opinion upon the ground 



88 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

either of contemporaneous exposition, or long acquiescence, or 
even practical action ; neither do we mean to admit the ques- 
tion to be of a doubtful nature, and therefore as properly calling 
for the aid of such considerations. On the contrary, our judg- 
ment would be the same if the question were entirely new, and 
the act of Congress were of recent enactment. We hold the 
act to be clearly constitutional in all its leading provisions, and, 
indeed, with the exception of that part which confers authority 
upon state magistrates, to be free from reasonable doubt and 
difficulty upon the grounds already stated. As to the authority 
so conferred upon state magistrates, while a difference of opinion 
has existed, and may exist still on the point, in different states, 
whether state magistrates are bound to act under it ; none is en- 
tertained by this Court that state magistrates may, if they choose, 
exercise that authority, unless prohibited by state legislation. 

The remaining question is, whether the power of legislation 
upon this subject is exclusive in the national government, or 
concurrent in the states, until it is exercised by Congress. In our 
opinion it is exclusive ; and we shall now proceed briefly to state 
our reasons for that opinion. The doctrine stated by this Court, 
in Sturgis v. Crowninshield", 4 Wheat. Rep. 122, 193, contains the 
true, although not the sole rule or consideration, which is applica- 
ble to this particular subject. " Wherever," said Mr. Chief Jus- 
tice Marshall, in delivering the opinion of the Court, "the terms 
in which a power is granted to Congress, or the nature of the 
power require that it should be exercised exclusively by Con- 
gress, the subject is as completely taken from the state legislatures, 
as if they had been forbidden to act." The nature of the power, 
and the true objects to be attained by it, are then as important to 
be weighed, in considering the question of its exclusiveness, as 
the words in which it is granted. 

In the first place, it is material to state, (what has been already 
incidentally hinted at,) that the right to seize and retake fugitive 
slaves, and the duty to deliver them up, in whatever state of the 
Union they may be found, and of course the corresponding 
power in Congress to use the appropriate means to enforce the 
right and duty, derive their whole validity and obligation exclu- 
sively from the Constitution of the United States ; and are there, 
for the first time, recognised and established in that peculiar cha- 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 89 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

racter. Before the adoption of the Constitution, no state had 
any power whatsoever over the subject, except within its own 
territorial limits, and could not, bind the sovereignty or the legis- 
lation of other states. Whenever the right was acknowledged or 
the duty enforced in any state, it was as a matter of comity and 
favour, and not as a matter of strict moral, political, or interna- 
tional obligation or duty. Under the Constitution it is recognised 
as an absolute, positive, right and duty, pervading the whole 
Union with an equal and supreme force, uncontrolled and uncon- 
trollable by state sovereignty or state legislation. It is, therefore, 
in a just sense a new and positive right, independent of comity, 
confined to no territorial limits, and bounded by no state institu- 
tions or policy. The natural inference deducible from this con- 
sideration certainly is, in the absence of any positive delegation 
of power to the state legislatures, that it belongs to the legisla- 
tive department of the national government, to which it owes its 
origin and establishment. It would be a strange anomaly, and 
forced construction, to suppose that the national government 
meant to rely for the due fulfilment of its own proper duties and 
the rights which it intended to secure, upon state legislation ; and 
not upon that of the Union. A fortiori, it would be more objec- 
tionable to suppose that a power, which was to be the same 
throughout the Union, should be confided to state sovereignty, 
which could not rightfully act beyond its own territorial limits. 

In the next place, the nature of the provision and the objects 
to be attained by it, require that it should be controlled by one 
and the same will, and act uniformly by the same system of 
regulations throughout the Union. If, then, the states have 
a right, in the absence of legislation by Congress, to act upon 
the subject, each state is at liberty to prescribe just such regula- 
tions as suit its own policy, local convenience, and local feelings. 
The legislation of one state may not only be different from, but 
utterly repugnant to and incompatible with that of another. The 
time, and mode, and limitation of the remedy ; the proofs of the 
title, and all other incidents applicable thereto, may be prescribed 
in one state, which are rejected or disclaimed in another. One 
state may require the owner to sue in one mode, another in a dif- 
ferent mode. One state may make a statute of limitations as to 
the remedy, in its own tribunals, short and summary ; another 
12 h 2 



90 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

may prolong the period, and yet restrict the proofs : nay, some 
states may utterly refuse to act upon the subject at all ; and others 
may refuse to open its Courts to any remedies in rem, because 
they would interfere with their own domestic policy, institutions, 
or habits. The right, therefore, would never, in a practical 
sense be the same in all the states. It would have no unity of 
purpose, or uniformity of operation. The duty might be enforced 
in some states ; retarded, or limited in others • and denied, as com- 
pulsory in many, if not in all. Consequences like these must 
have been foreseen as very likely to occur in the non-slaveholding 
states; where legislation, if not silent on the subject, and purely 
voluntary, could scarcely be presumed to be favourable to the 
exercise of the rights of the owner. * 

It is scarcely conceivable that the slaveholding states would have 
been satisfied with leaving to the legislation of the non-slaveholding 
states, a power of regulation, in the absence of that of Congress, 
which would or might practically amount to a power to destroy 
the rights of the owner. If the argument, therefore, of a concur- 
rent power in the states to act upon the subject-matter in the ab- 
sence of legislation by Congress, be well founded ; then, if Congress 
had never acted at all ; or if the act of Congress should be repealed 
without providing a substitute, there would be a resulting authority 
in each of the states to regulate the whole subject at its pleasure ; 
and to dole out its own remedial justice, or withhold it at its pleasure 
and according to its own views of policy and expediency. Surely 
such a state of things never could have been intended, under such 
a solemn guarantee of right and duty. On the other hand, con- 
strue the right of legislation as exclusive in Congress, and every 
evil, and every danger vanishes. The right and the duty are 
then co-extensive and uniform in remedy and operation through- 
out the whole Union. The owner has the same security, and the 
same remedial justice, and the same exemption from state regula- 
tion and control, through however many states he may pass with 
his fugitive slave in his possession, in transitu, to his own domicile. 
But, upon the other supposition, the moment he passes the state 
line, he becomes amenable to the laws of another sovereignty, 
whose regulations may greatly embarrass or delay the exercise 
of his rights ; and even be repugnant to those of the state where 
he first arrested the fugitive. Consequences like these show that 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 91 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

the nature and objects of the provision imperiously require, that, 
to make it effectual, it should be construed to be exclusive of state 
authority. We adopt the language of this Court in Sturgis v. 
Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. Rep. 193, and say, that "it has never 
been supposed that the concurrent power of legislation extended 
to every possible case in which its exercise by the states has not 
been expressly prohibited. The confusion of such a practice, 
would be endless." And we know no case in which the confu- 
sion and public inconvenience and mischiefs thereof, could be 
more completely exemplified than the present. 

These are some of the reasons, but by no means all, upon which 
we hold the power of legislation on this subject to be exclusive 
in Congress. To guard, however, against any possible miscon- 
struction of our views, it is proper to state, that we are by no 
means to be understood in any manner whatsoever to doubt or to 
interfere with the police power belonging to the states in virtue 
of their general sovereignty. That police power extends over all 
subjects within the territorial limits of the states; and has never 
been conceded to the United States. It is wholly distinguishable 
from the right and duty secured by the provision now under con- 
sideration; which is exclusively derived from and secured by the 
Constitution of the United States, and owes its whole efficacy there- 
to. We entertain no doubt whatsoever, that the states, in virtue 
of their general police power, possess full jurisdiction to arrest and 
restrain runaway slaves, and remove them from their borders, and 
otherwise to secure themselves against their depredations and evil 
example, as they certainly may do in cases of idlers, vagabonds, 
and paupers. The rights of the owners of fugitive slaves are in 
no just sense interfered with, or regulated by such a course ; and 
in many cases, the operations of this police power, although de- 
signed essentially for other purposes, for the protection, safety, and 
peace of the state, may essentially promote and aid the interests 
of the owners. But such regulations can never be permitted to 
interfere with or to obstruct the just rights of the owner to reclaim 
his slave, derived from the Constitution of the United States; or 
with the remedies prescribed by Congress to aid and enforce the 
same. 

Upon these grounds, we are of opinion that the act of Pennsyl- 
vania upon which this indictment is founded, is unconstitutional 



92 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

and void. It purports to punish as a public offence against that 
state, the very act of seizing and removing a slave by his master, 
which the Constitution of the United States was designed to jus- 
tify and uphold. The special verdict finds this fact, and the State 
Courts have rendered judgment against the plaintiff in error upon 
that verdict. That judgment must, therefore, be reversed, and 
the cause remanded to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania: with 
directions to carry into effect the judgment of this Court rendered 
upon the special verdict in favour of the plaintiff in error. 

Mr. Chief Justice Taney. 

I concur in the opinion pronounced by the Court, that the law 
of Pennsylvania, under which the plaintiff in error was indicted, 
is unconstitutional and void ; and that the judgment against him 
must be reversed. But as the questions before us arise upon the 
construction of the Constitution of the United States, and as I do 
not assent to all the principles contained in the opinion just de- 
livered, it is proper to state the points on which I differ. 

I agree entirely in all that is said in relation to the right of 
the master, by virtue of the third clause of the second section of 
the fourth article of the Constitution of the United States, to arrest 
his fugitive slave in any state wherein he may find him. He has 
a right, peaceably, to take possession of him and carry him away 
without any certificate or warrant from a judge of the District 
or Circuit Court of the United States, or from any magistrate of 
the state ; and whoever resists or obstructs him, is a wrongdoer : 
and every state law which proposes directly or indirectly to au- 
thorize such resistance or obstruction is null and void, and affords 
no justification to the individual or the officer of the state who 
acts under it. This right of the master being given by the Con- 
stitution of the United States, neither Congress nor a state legisla- 
ture can by any law or regulation impair it, or restrict it. 

I concur also in all that is contained in the opinion concerning 
the power of Congress to protect the citizens of the slaveholding 
states, in the enjoyment of this right; and to provide by law an 
effectual remedy to enforce it, and to inflict penalties upon those 
who shall violate its provisions ; and no state is authorized to 
pass any law, that comes in conflict in any respect with the 
remedy provided by Congress. 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 93 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

The act of February 12th, 1793, is a constitutional exercise of 
this power; and every state law which requires the master, 
against his consent, to go before any state tribunal or officer, be- 
fore he can take possession of his property ; or which authorizes 
a state officer to interfere with him, when he is peaceably re- 
moving it from the state, is unconstitutional and void. 

But, as I understand the opinion of the Court, it goes further, 
and decides that the power to provide a remedy for this right is 
vested exclusively in Congress ; and that all laws upon the sub- 
ject passed by a state, since the adoption of the Constitution of 
the United States, are null and void ; even although they were 
intended, in good faith, to protect the owner in the exercise of his 
rights of property, and do not conflict in any degree with the act 
of Congress. 

I do not consider this question as necessarily involved in the 
case before us ; for the law of Pennsylvania, under which the 
plaintiff in error was prosecuted, is clearly in conflict with the 
Constitution of the United States, as well as with the law of 1793. 
But as the question is discussed in the opinion of the Court, and 
as I do not assent either to the doctrine or the reasoning by which 
it is maintained, I proceed to state very briefly my objections. 

The opinion of the Court maintains that the power over this 
subject is so exclusively vested in Congress, that no state, since 
the adoption of the Constitution, can pass any law in relation to 
it. In other words, according to the opinion just delivered, the 
state authorities are prohibited from interfering for the purpose 
of protecting the right of the master and aiding him in the reco- 
very of his property. I think the states are not prohibited ; and 
that, on the contrary, it is enjoined upon them as a duty to pro- 
tect and support the owner when he is endeavouring to obtain 
possession of his property found within their respective terri- 
tories. 

The language used in the Constitution does not, in my judg- 
ment, justify the construction given to it by the Court. It con- 
tains no words prohibiting the several states from passing laws to 
enforce this right. They are in express terms forbidden to make 
any regulation that shall impair it. But there the prohibition 
stops. And according to the settled rules of construction for all 
written instruments, the prohibition being confined to laws inju- 



94 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

rious to the right, the power to pass laws to support and enforce 
it, is necessarily implied. And the words of the article which 
direct that the fugitive "shall be delivered up," seem evidently- 
designed to impose it as a duty upon the people of the several 
states to pass laws to carry into execution, in good faith, the com- 
pact into which they thus solemnly entered with each other. The 
Constitution of the United States, and every article and clause in 
it, is a part of the law of every state in the Union ; and is the 
paramount law. The right of the master, therefore, to seize his 
fugitive slave, is the law of each state ; and no state has the 
power to abrogate or alter it. And why may not a state protect 
a right of property, acknowledged by its own paramount law ? 
Besides, the laws of the different states, in all other cases, con- 
stantly protect the citizens of other states in their rights of pro- 
perty, when it is found within their respective territories ; and no 
one doubts their power to do so. And in the absence of any ex- 
press prohibition, I perceive no reason for establishing, by impli- 
cation, a different rule in this instance ; where, by the national 
compact, this right of property is recognised as an existing right 
in every state of the Union. 

I do not speak of slaves whom their masters voluntarily take 
into a non-slaveholding state. That case is not before us. I 
speak of the case provided for in the Constitution ; that is to 
say, the case of a fugitive who has escaped from the service of 
his owner, and who has taken refuge and is found in another 
state. 

Moreover, the clause of the Constitution of which we are 
speaking, does not purport to be a distribution of the rights of 
sovereignty by which certain enumerated powers of government 
and legislation are exclusively confided to the United States. It 
does not deal with that subject. It provides merely for the rights 
of individual citizens of different states, and places them under 
the protection of the general government ; in order more effectu- 
ally to guard them from invasion by the states. There are other 
clauses in the Constitution in which other individual rights are 
provided for and secured in like manner ; and it never has been 
suggested that the states could not uphold and maintain them, 
because they were guarantied by the Constitution of the United 
States. On the contrary, it has always been held to be the duty 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 95 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

of the states to enforce them; and the action of the general 
government has never been deemed necessary except to resist 
and prevent their violation. 

Thus, for example, the Constitution provides that no state shall 
pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts. This, like 
the right in question, is an individual right, placed under the 
protection of the general government. And in order to secure it, 
Congress have passed a law authorizing a writ of error to the 
Supreme Court, whenever the right thus secured to the individual 
is drawn in question, and denied to him in a State Court. And 
all state laws impairing this right are admitted to be void. Yet 
no one has ever doubted that a state may pass laws to enforce 
the obligation of a contract, and may give to the individual the 
full benefit of the right so guarantied to him by the Constitution, 
without waiting for legislation on the part of Congress. 

Why may not the same thing be done in relation to the indivi- 
dual right now under consideration ? 

Again. The Constitution of the United States declares that 
the citizens of each state shall be entitled to all the privileges and 
immunities of citizens in the several states. And although these 
privileges and immunities, for greater safety, are placed under the 
guardianship of the general government ; still the states may by 
their laws and in their tribunals protect and enforce them. They 
have not only the power, but it is a duty enjoined upon them by 
this provision in the Constitution. 

The individual right now in question, stands on the same 
grounds, and is given by similar words, and ought to be governed 
by the same principles. The obligation to protect rights of this 
description is imposed upon the several states as a duty which 
they are bound to perform ; and the prohibition extends to those 
laws only which violate the right intended to be secured. 

I cannot understand the rule of construction by which a posi- 
tive and express stipulation for the security of certain individual 
rights of property in the several states, is held to imply a prohi- 
bition to the states to pass any laws to guard and protect them. 

The course pursued by the general government after the 
adoption of the Constitution, confirms my opinion as to its true 
construction. 

No law was passed by Congress to give a remedy for this right, 



96 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

until nearly four years after the Constitution went into operation. 
Yet, during that period of time, the master was undoubtedly en- 
titled to take possession of his property wherever he might find 
it ; and the protection of this right was left altogether to the state 
authorities. In attempting to exercise it, he was continually 
liable to be resisted by superior force ; or the fugitive might be 
harboured in the house of some one who would refuse to deliver 
him. And if a state could not authorize its officers, upon the 
master's application, to come to his aid, the guarranty contained 
in the Constitution was of very little practical value. It is true 
he might have sued for damages. But as he would, most com- 
monly, be a stranger in the place where the fugitive was found, 
he might not be able to learn even the names of the wrongdoers ; 
and if he succeeded in discovering them, they might prove to be 
unable to pay damages. At all events, he would be compelled 
to encounter the costs and expenses of a suit, prosecuted at a dis- 
tance from his own home ; and to sacrifice perhaps the value of 
his property in endeavouring to obtain compensation. 

This is not the mode in which the Constitution intended to 
guard this important right ; nor is this the kind of remedy it in- 
tended to give. The delivery of the property itself — its prompt 
and immediate delivery — is plainly required, and was intended to 
be secured. 

Indeed, if the state authorities are absolved from all obligation 
to protect this right, and may stand by and see it violated without 
an effort to defend it, the act of Congress of 1793 scarcely de- 
serves the name of a remedy. The state officers mentioned in the 
law are not bound to execute the duties imposed upon them by 
Congress, unless they choose to do so, or are required to do so by 
a law of the state ; and the state legislature has the power, if it 
thinks proper, to prohibit them. The act of 1793, therefore, must 
depend altogether for its execution upon the officers of the United 
States named in it. And the master must take the fugitive, after 
he has seized him, before a judge of the District or Circuit Court, 
residing in the state, and exhibit his proofs, and procure from the 
judge his certificate of ownership, in order to obtain the protec- 
tion in removing his property which this act of Congress pro- 
fesses to give. 

Now, in many of the states there is but one district judge, and 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 97 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

there are only nine states which have judges of the Supreme 
Court residing within them. The fugitive will frequently be 
found by his owner in a place very distant from the residence of 
either of these judges; and would certainly be removed beyond his 
reach, before a warrant could be procured, from the judge to 
arrest him, even if the act of Congress authorized such a warrant. 
But it does not authorize the judge to issue a warrant to arrest 
the fugitive ; but evidently relied on the state authorities to pro- 
tect the owner in making the seizure. And it is only when the 
fugitive is arrested and brought before the judge that he is 
directed to take the proof, and give the certificate of ownership. 
It is only necessary to state the provisions of this law in order to 
show how ineffectual and delusive is the remedy provided by 
Congress, if state authority is forbidden to come to its aid. 

But it is manifest from the face of the law, that an effectual 
remedy was intended to be given by the act of 1793. It never 
designed to compel the master to encounter the hazard and ex- 
pense of taking the fugitive in all cases, to the distant residence 
of one of the judges of the Courts of the United States; for it 
authorized him, also, to go before any magistrate of the county, 
city, or town corporate wherein the seizure should be made. 
And Congress evidently supposed that it had provided a tribunal 
at the place of the arrest, capable of furnishing the master with 
the evidence of ownership to protect him more effectually from 
unlawful interruption. So far from regarding the state authorities 
as prohibited from interfering in cases of this description, the Con- 
gress of that day must have counted upon their cordial co-opera- 
tion. They legislated with express reference to state support. 
And it will be remembered, that when this law was passed, the 
government of the United States was administered by the men 
who had but recently taken a leading part in the formation of the 
Constitution. And the reliance obviously placed upon state au- 
thority for the purpose of executing this law, proves that the con- 
struction now given to the Constitution by the Court had not 
entered into their minds. Certainly, it is not the construction 
which it received in the states most interested in its faithful exe- 
cution. Maryland, for example, which is substantially one of the 
parties to this case, has continually passed laws, ever since the 
adoption of the Constitution of the United States, for the arrest 
13 I 



98 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

of fugitive slaves from other states as well as her own. Her offi- 
cers are by law required to arrest them when found within her 
territory ; and her magistrates are required to commit them to the 
public prison, in order to keep them safely until the master has 
an opportunity of reclaiming them. And if the owner is not 
known, measures are directed to be taken by advertisement to 
apprize him of the arrest; and if known, personal notice to be 
given. And as fugitives from the more southern states, when 
endeavouring to escape into Canada, very frequently pass through 
her territory, these laws have been almost daily in the course of 
execution in some part of the state. But if the states are forbid- 
den to legislate on this subject, and the power is exclusively in 
Congress, then these state laws are unconstitutional and void; and 
the fugitive can only be arrested, according to the provisions of 
the act of Congress. By that law the power to seize is given to 
no one but the owner, his agent, or attorney. And if the. officers 
of the state are not justified in acting under the state laws, and 
cannot arrest the fugitive, and detain him in prison without 
having first received an authority from the owner; the territory 
of the state must soon become an open pathway for the fugitives 
escaping from other states. For they are often in the act of passing 
through it by the time that the owner first discovers that they 
have absconded ; and in almost every instance, they would be 
beyond its borders (if they were allowed to pass through without 
interruption) before the master would be able to learn the road 
they had taken. 

I am aware that my brethren of the majority do not contem- 
plate these consequences ; and do not suppose that the opinion 
they have given will lead to them. And it seems to be supposed 
that laws nearly similar to those I have mentioned, might be 
passed by the state in the exercise of her powers over her internal 
police, and by virtue of her right to remove from her territory 
disorderly and evil-disposed persons, or those who, from the na- 
ture of her institutions, are dangerous to her peace and tranquil- 
lity. But it would be difficult perhaps to bring all the laws I 
have mentioned within the legitimate scope of the internal 
powers of police. The fugitive is not always arrested in order 
to prevent a dangerous or evil-disposed person from remaining in 
her territory. He is himself most commonly anxious to escape 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 99 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

from it ; and it often happens that he is seized near the borders 
of the state when he is endeavouring to leave it, and is brought 
back and detained until he can be delivered to his owner. He 
may sometimes be found travelling peaceably along the public 
highway on his road to another state, in company with and under 
the protection of a white man who is abetting his escape. And 
it could hardly be maintained that the arrest and confinement of 
the fugitive in the public prison, under such circumstances, until 
he could be delivered to his owner, was necessary for the internal 
peace of the state; and therefore a justifiable exercise of its powers 
of police. 

It has not heretofore been supposed necessary, in order to jus- 
tify these laws, to refer them to such questionable powers of in- 
ternal and local police. They were believed to stand upon surer 
and firmer grounds. They were passed, not with reference merely 
to the safety and protection of the state itself; but in order to 
secure the delivery of the fugitive slave to his lawful owner. 
They were passed by the state in the performance of a duty 
believed to be enjoined upon it by the Constitution of the United 
States. 

It is true that Maryland as well as every other slaveholding 
state, has a deep interest in the faithful execution of the clause in 
question. But the obligation of the compact is not confined to 
them. It is equally binding upon the faith of every state in the 
Union; and has heretofore, in my judgment, been justly regarded 
as obligatory upon all. 

I dissent therefore, upon these grounds, from that part of the 
opinion of the Court which denies the obligation and the right of 
the state authorities to protect the master, when he is endeavour- 
ing to seize a fugitive from his service, in pursuance of the right 
given to him by the Constitution of the United States ; — provided 
the state law is not in conflict with the remedy provided by Con- 
gress. 

Mr. Justice Thompson. 

I concur in the judgment given by the Court in this case. But 
not being able to yield my assent to all the doctrines embraced 
in the opinion, I will very briefly state the grounds on which my 
judgment is placed. 



100 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

The provision in the Constitution upon which the present 
question arises is as follows : " No person held to service or 
labour in one state, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, 
shall in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be dis- 
charged from such service or labour, but shall be delivered up 
on claim of the party to whom such service or labour may be 
due." Art. 4. sec. 2. We know, historically, that this provision 
was the result of a compromise between the slaveholding and 
non-slaveholding states ; and it is the indispensable duty of all to 
carry it faithfully into execution according to its real object and 
intention. 

This provision naturally divides itself into two distinct consi- 
derations. First, the right affirmed ; and secondly, the mode and 
manner in which that right is to be asserted and carried into 
execution. 

The right is secured by the Constitution, and requires no law 
to fortify or strengthen it. It affirms, in the most unequivocal 
manner, the right of the master to the service of his slave, ac- 
cording to the laws of the state under which he is so held. And 
it prohibits the states from discharging the slave from such ser- 
vice by any law or regulation therein. 

The second branch of the provision, in my judgment, requires 
legislative regulations pointing out the mode and manner in 
which the right is to be asserted. It contemplates the delivery 
of the person of the slave to the owner ; and does not leave the 
owner to his ordinary remedy at law, to recover damages on a 
refusal to deliver up the property of the owner. Legislative 
provision, in this respect, is essential for the purpose of preserving 
peace and good order in the community. Such cases, in some 
parts of our country, are calculated to excite feelings which, if 
not restrained by law, might lead to riots and breaches of the 
peace. This legislation, I think, belongs more appropriately to 
Congress than to the states, for the purpose of having the regu- 
lation uniform throughout the United States, as the transporta- 
tion of the slave may be through several states; but there is 
nothing in the subject-matter that renders state legislation unfit. 
It is no objection to the right of the states to pass laws on the 
subject, that there is no power anywhere given to compel them 
to do it. Neither is there to compel Congress to pass any law 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 101 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

on the subject. The legislation must be voluntary in both ; and 
governed by a sense of duty. But I cannot concur in that part of 
the opinion of the Court, which asserts that the power of legisla- 
tion by Congress is exclusive; and that no state can pass any law 
to carry into effect the constitutional provision on this subject; 
although Congress had passed no law in relation to it. Congress, 
by the act of 1793, has legislated on the subject ; and any state 
law in conflict with that, would be void, according to the provi- 
sions of the Constitution, which declares, that the laws of the 
United States, which shall be made in pursuance of the Consti- 
tution, shall be the supreme law of the land, any thing in the 
laws of any state to the contrary notwithstanding. This provi- 
sion meets the case of a conflict between congressional and state 
legislation; and implies that such cases may exist, growing out of 
the concurrent powers of the two governments. The provision 
in the Constitution under consideration, is one under which such 
conflicting legislation may arise ; and harmony is produced by mak- 
ing the state law yield to that of the United States. But to assert 
that the states cannot legislate on the subject at all, in the absence 
of all legislation by Congress, is, in my judgment, not warranted 
by any fair and reasonable construction of the provision. There 
is certainly nothing in the terms used in this article, or in the 
nature of the power to surrender the slave, that makes legislation 
by Congress exclusive. And if, as seems to be admitted, legis- 
lation is necessary to carry into effect the object of the Constitu- 
tion, what becomes of the right where there is no law on the 
subject ? Should Congress repeal the law of 1793, and pass no 
other law on the subject, I can entertain no doubt that state 
legislation, for the purpose of restoring the slave to his master, 
and faithfully to carry into execution the provision of the Consti- 
tution, would be valid. I can see nothing in the provision itself, 
or discover any principle of sound public policy, upon which 
such a law would be declared unconstitutional and void. The 
Constitution protects the master in the right to the possession and 
service of his slave, and of course makes void all state legisla- 
tion impairing that right ; but does not make void state legisla- 
tion in affirmance of the right. I forbear enlarging upon this 
question, but have barely stated the general grounds upon which my 
opinion rests; and principally to guard against the conclusion, that, 

I 2 



102 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

by my silence, I assent to the doctrine that all legislation on this 
subject is vested exclusively in Congress ; and that all state legis- 
lation, in the absence of any law of Congress, is unconstitutional 
and void. 

Mr. Justice Baldwin, 

Concurred with the Court in reversing the judgment of the 
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, on the ground that the act of the 
legislature was unconstitutional; inasmuch as the slavery of the 
person removed was admitted, the removal could not be kid- 
napping. But he dissented from the principles laid down by the 
Court as the grounds of their opinion. 

Mr. Justice Wayne. 

I concur altogether in the opinion of the Court, as it has been 
given by my brother Story. 
In that opinion it is decided : 

1. That the provision in the second section of the fourth article 
of the Constitution, relative to fugitives from service or labour, 
confers upon the owner of a fugitive slave the right, by himself 
or his agent, to seize and arrest, without committing a breach of 
the peace, his fugitive slave, as property, in any state of the 
Union ; and that no state law is constitutional which interferes 
with such right. 

2. That the provision authorizes and requires legislation by 
Congress to guard that right of seizure and arrest against all 
state and other interference, to make the delivery of fugitive 
slaves more effectual when the claims of owners are contested ; 
and to insure to owners the unmolested transportation of fugitive 
slaves, through any of the states, to the state from which they 
may have fled. 

3. That the legislation by Congress upon the provision, as the 
supreme law of the land, excludes all state legislation upon the 
same subject; and that no state can pass any law or regulation, 
or interpose such as may have been a law or regulation when 
the Constitution of the United States was ratified, to superadd 
to, control, qualify, or impede a remedy, enacted by Congress, 
for the delivery of fugitive slaves to the parties to whom their 
service or labour is due. 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 103 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

4. That the power of legislation by Congress upon the provi- 
sion is exclusive ; and that no state can pass any law as a remedy 
upon the subject, whether Congress had or had not legislated 
upon it. 

5. That the act of Congress of the 12th February, 1793, en- 
titled "An act, respecting fugitives from justice, and persons es- 
caping from the service of their masters," gives a remedy ; but 
does not exhaust the remedies, which Congress may legislate 
upon the subject. 

6. That the points so decided are not intended to interfere in 
any way, nor do they interfere in any manner, with the police 
power in the states, to arrest and imprison fugitive slaves, to 
guard against their misconduct and depredations ; or to punish 
them for offences and crimes committed in the states to which 
they may have fled. 

7. These points being so decided and applied to the case be- 
fore the Court, it follows that the law of Pennsylvania, upon 
which the plaintiff is indicted is unconstitutional ; and that the 
judgment given by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania against 
the plaintiff must be reversed. 

All of the judges of the Court concur in the opinion that the 
law under which the plaintiff in error was indicted is unconsti- 
tutional. All of them concur, also, in the declaration, that the 
provision in the Constitution was a compromise between the 
slaveholding, and the non-slaveholding states, to secure to the 
former fugitive slaves as property. All of the members of the 
Court, too, except my brother Baldwin, concur in the opinion 
that legislation by Congress, to carry the provision into execution, 
is constitutional ; and he contends that the provision gives to the 
owners of fugitive slaves all the rights of seizure and removal 
which legislation could give ; but he concurs in the opinion, if 
legislation by Congress be necessary, that the right to legislate is 
exclusively in Congress. 

There is no difference, then, among the judges as to the rever- 
sal of the judgment; none in respect to the origin and object of 
the provision, or the obligation to exercise it. But differences do 
exist as to the mode of execution. Three of the judges have ex- 
pressed the opinion, that the states may legislate upon the provi- 
sion, in aid of the object it was intended to secure ; and that 



104 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

such legislation is constitutional, when it does not conflict with 
the remedy which Congress may enact. 

I believe that the power to legislate upon the provision is ex- 
clusively in Congress. 
- The provision is, that " No person held to service or labour in 
one state, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in 
consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from 
such service or labour, but shall be delivered up on claim of the 
party to whom such service or labour is due." 

The clause contains four substantive declarations ; or two con- 
ditions, a prohibition, and a direction.' 

First, The fugitive must owe service or labour under the law 
of the state from which he has escaped ; second, he must have 
fled from it. The prohibition is, that he cannot be discharged 
from service, in consequence of any law or regulation of the state 
in which he may be ; and the direction is affirmative of an obli- 
gation upon the states, and declarative of a right in the party to 
whom the service or labour of a fugitive is due. 

My object, and the only object which I have in view, in what 
I am about to say, is, to establish the position that Congress has 
the exclusive right to legislate upon this provision of the Consti- 
tution. I shall endeavour to prove it by the condition of the 
states when the Constitution was formed; by references to the 
provision itself; and to the Constitution generally. 

Let it be remembered, that the conventioners who formed the 
Constitution, were the representatives of equal sovereignties. That 
they were assembled to form a more perfect union than then ex- 
isted between the states under the confederacy. That they co- 
operated to the same end ; but that they were divided into two 
parties, having antagonist interests in respect to slavery. 

One of these parties, consisting of several states, required as a 
condition, upon which any constitution should be presented to 
the states for ratification, a full and perfect security for their slaves 
as property, when they fled into any of the states of the Union. 
The fact is not more plainly stated by me than it was put in the 
convention. The representatives from the non-slaveholding 
states assented to the condition. The provision under review 
was proposed and adopted by the unanimous vote of the conven- 
tion. It, with an allowance of a certain portion of slaves with 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. lo* 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

the whites, for representative population in Congress, and the im- 
portation of slaves from abroad, for a number of years; were the 
great obstacles in the way of forming a constitution. Each of 
them was equally insisted upon by the representatives from the' 
slaveholding states; and without all of them being provided for,. 
it was well understood, that the convention would have been 
dissolved, without a constitution being formed. I mention the 
facts as they were. They cannot be denied. 1 have nothing to 
do, judicially, with what a part of the world may think of the atti- 
tude of the different parties upon this interesting topic. I am 
satisfied with what was done ; and revere the men and their mo- 
tives for insisting, politically, upon what was done. When the 
three points relating to slaves had been accomplished, every im- 
pediment in the way of forming a constitution was removed. 
The agreement concerning them was called, in the convention, 
a compromise. The provision in respect to fugitives from service 
or labour, was called a guarantee of a right of property in fugitive 
slaves, wherever they might be found in the Union. The Con- 
stitution was presented to the states for adoption, with the under- 
standing that the provisions in it relating to slaves were a com- 
promise and guarantee ; and with such an understanding in every 
state, it was adopted by all of them. Not a guarantee merely 
in the professional acceptation of the word, but a great national 
engagement, in which the states surrendered a sovereign right, 
making it a part of that instrument, which was intended to make 
them one nation, within the sphere of its action. The provision, 
then, must be interpreted by those rules of construction assented 
to by all civilized nations, as obligatory in ascertaining the rights 
growing out of these agreements. We shall see, directly, how these 
rules bear upon the question of the power of legislation upon this 
subject being exclusively in Congress; and why the states are 
excluded from legislating upon it. 

The prohibition upon the states to discharge fugitive slaves is 
absolute. 

The provision, however, does not contain, in detail, the manner 
of asserting the right it was meant to secure. Nor is there in it 
any expressed power of legislation ; nor any expressed prohibi- 
tion of state legislation. But it does provide, that delivery of a ( - 
fugitive shall be made on the claim of the owner — that the fugi-- 
14 



106 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

tive slave owing service and labour in the state from which he 
fled, and escaping therefrom, shall be decisive of the owner's right 
to a delivery. It does not, however, provide the mode of proving 
that service and labour is due in a contested case, nor for any 
such evidence of the right, when it has been established, as will 
insure to an owner the unmolested transportation of the fugitive, 
through other states, to the state from which he fled. But the 
right to convey is the necessary consequence of a right to deli- 
very. The latter would be good for nothing without the former. 
Proof of ownership gives both, if it gives either or any thing ; and 
yet the right might be in the larger number of instances unavail- 
ing, if it were not certified by some official document, that the 
right had been established. A certificate from an officer author- 
ized to inquire into the facts, is the easiest way to secure the 
right to its contemplated intent. It was foreseen that claims 
would be made, which would be contested. Some tribunal was 
necessary to decide them, and to authenticate the fact that a claim 
had been established. Without such authentication, the contest 
might be renewed in other tribunals of the state in which the 
fact had been established ; and in those of the other states through 
which the fugitive might be carried on his way to the state from 
Avhich he fled. Such a certificate too, being required, protects 
persons who are not fugitives from being seized and transported. 
It has the effect of securing the benefit of a lawful claim ; and of 
preventing the accomplishment of one that is false. Such a cer- 
tificate, to give a right to transport a fugitive slave through 
another state, a state cannot give. Its operation would be con- 
fined to its own boundaries ; and would be useless to assert the 
right in another sovereignty. This analysis of the provision is 
given to show that legislation was contemplated to carry it fully 
into effect, in many of the cases that might occur ; and to prevent 
its abuse when attempts might be made to apply it to those who 
were not fugitives. And it brings me to the point I have as- 
serted, that Congress has the exclusive right to legislate upon the 
provision. 

Those who contend that the states may legislate in aid of the 
object of the provision, admit that Congress can legislate to the full 
extent to carry it into execution. There is, then, no necessity for 
the states to legislate. This is a good reason why they should not 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 107 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

legislate ; and that it was intended that they should not do so. 
For legislation by Congress makes the mode of asserting the 
right uniform throughout the Union ; and legislation by the 
states would be as various as the separate legislative will and 
policy of the different states might choose to make it. Certainly 
such an interest as the Constitution was intended to secure, we 
may well think the framers of the Constitution intended to pro- 
vide for by a uniform law. I admit, however, that such con- 
siderations do not necessarily exclude the right of the states to 
legislate. The argument in favour of the right, is, that the states 
are not in express terms prohibited from legislating, and that the 
exclusion is not necessarily implied. I further admit, if it be not 
necessarily implied, that the right exists. Such is the rule, in re- 
spect to the right of legislation by the states, in all cases under 
the Constitution when the question of a right to legislate is 
merely such. 

My first remark is, and I wish it to be particularly observed, 
that the question is not one only of the right of the states to legis- 
late in aid of this provision, unconnected with other considera- 
tions bearing directly upon the question. The true question in 
the case is, by what rules shall the compromise or guarantee be 
construed ; so that the obligations and rights of the states under 
the provision may be ascertained and secured. 

It is admitted, that the provision raises what is properly termed 
a perfect obligation upon all of the states to abstain from doing 
any thing which may interfere with the rights secured. Will this 
be so, if any part of what may be necessary to discharge the ob- 
ligation is reserved by each state, to be done as each may think 
proper ? The obligation is common to all of them, to the same 
extent. Its object is to secure the property of some of the states, 
and the individual rights of their citizens in that property. Shall, 
then, each state be permitted to legislate in its own way, accord- 
ing to its own judgment, and their separate notions, in wlr 
manner the obligation shall be discharged to those states to 
which it is due ? To permit some of the states to say to the 
others, how the property included in the provision was to be 
secured by legislation, without the assent of the latter, would cer- 
tainly be, to destroy the equality and force of the guarantee, and 
the equality of the states by which it was made. That was 



108 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

not anticipated by the representatives of the slaveholding states 
in the convention, nor could it have been intended by the 
framers of the Constitution. 

Is it not more reasonable to infer, as the states were forming a 
government for themselves, to the extent of the powers conceded 
in the Constitution, to which legislative power was given to make 
all laws necessary and proper to carry into execution all powers 
vested in it — that they meant that the right for which some of the 
states stipulated, and to which all acceded, should, from the pecu- 
liar nature of the property in which only some of the states were 
interested — be carried into execution by that department of the 
general government in which they were all to be represented, 
the Congress of the United States. 

But is not this power of legislation by the states, upon this 
provision, a claim for each to use its discretion in interpreting the 
manner in which the guarantee shall be fulfilled ? 

Are there no rules of interpretation, founded upon reason and 
nature, to settle this question, and to secure the rights given by 
the provision, better than the discretion of the parties to the obli- 
gation? Has not experience shown that those rules must be 
applied to conventions between nations, in order that justice may 
be done? All civilized nations have consented to be bound 
by them ; and they are a part of the laws of nations. Is not one 
of those rules, the maxim that neither one or the other of the in- 
terested or contracting powers has a right to interpret his act or 
treaty at his pleasure ? Such is the rule in respect to the treaties 
and conventions of nations foreign to each other. It applies with 
equal necessity and force to states united in one general govern- 
ment. Especially to states making a provision in respect to pro- 
perty peculiar to some of them, which has become so interwoven 
with their institutions and their representation in the general 
government of all of them, that the right to such property must 
be maintained and guarded, in order to preserve their separate 
existence, and to keep up their constitutional representation in 
Congress. Such cannot be the case, unless there is uniformity in 
the law for asserting the right to fugitive slaves ; and if the states 
can legislate, as each of them may think it should be done, a 
remedy, by which the right of property in fugitive slaves is to be 
ascertained and finally concluded. Nor does it matter, that the 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 109 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

rule to which I have adverted as being exclusive of the right of 
the states to legislate upon the provision, does not appear in it. 
It is exactly to such cases that the rule applies, and it must be so 
applied, unless the contrary has been expressly provided. The 
mode of its application is as authoritative as the rule. The rule, 
too, applies to the provision without any conflict with the other 
rule that the states may legislate in all cases, when they are not 
expressly or impliedly prohibited by the Constitution. The latter 
rule is in no way trenched upon by excluding the states from 
legislating in this case. This provision is the only one in the 
Constitution in which a security for a particular kind of property 
is provided : provided, too, expressly against the interference by 
the states in their sovereign character. The surrender of a sove- 
reign right carries with it all its incidents. It differs from yield- 
ing a participation to another government, in a sovereign right. 
In the latter, both may have jurisdiction. The state yielding 
the right, retaining jurisdiction to the extent of doing nothing 
repugnant to the exercise of the right by the government to 
which it has been yielded. 

But it is said, all that is contended for, is, that the states may 
legislate to aid the object, and that such legislation will be consti- 
tutional if it does not conflict with the remedies which Congress 
may enact. This is a cautious way of asserting the right in 
the states, and it seems to impose a limitation which makes it un- 
objectionable. But the reply to it is, that the right to legislate a 
remedy, implies so much indefinite power over the subject, and 
such protracted continuance, as to the mode of finally determin- 
ing whether a fugitive owes service and labour, that the require- 
ments of the remedy, without being actually in conflict with the 
provision or the enactments of Congress might be oppressive to 
those most interested in the provision, by interposing delays and 
expenses more costly than the value of the fugitive sought to be 
reclaimed. Ordinarily, and when rightly understood, it is true 
that the abuse of a thing is no argument against its correctness or 
its use ; but that suggestion can only be correctly made in cases 
in support of a right or power abstractly and positively right, and 
which has been abused under the pretence of using it ; or where 
the proper use has been mistaken. In matters of government, 
however, a power liable to be abused is always a good reason 



110 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

for withholding it. It is the reason why the powers of the 
United States, under the Constitution, are so cautiously given — 
why the express prohibitions upon the states not to legislate in 
certain cases were expressed — why the limitation upon the for- 
mer, that the powers not granted are reserved to the states, as it 
is expressed in the amendments to the Constitution. But in 
truth, any additional legislation in this case by a state, acting as a 
remedy, in aid of the remedy given by the Constitution and by 
Congress, would be, in practice, in conflict with the latter, if it 
be a process differing from it ; though it might make the mode 
of recovering a fugitive easier than the former, and much more 
so, when it made it more difficult. The right to legislate a 
remedy implies the ability to do either ; and it is because it does 
so, and may be the latter, that I deny all right in the states to 
legislate upon this subject ; unless it be to aid, by mere ministe- 
rial acts, the protection of an owner's right to a fugitive slave — 
the prevention of all interference with it by the officers of a state, 
or its citizens, or an authority to its magistrates to execute the 
law of Congress — and such legislation over fugitives as may be 
strictly of a police character. 

Admit the states to legislate remedies in this case, besides such 
as are given by Congress, and there will be no security for the 
delivery of fugitive slaves in half of the states of the Union. 
Such was the case when the Constitution was adopted. The 
states might legislate in good faith, according to their notions how 
such a right of property should be tried. They have already 
done so, and the act of Pennsylvania, now under consideration, 
shows, that the assertion of a right to a fugitive slave is burdened 
by provisions entailing expenses disproportioned to his value ; 
and that it is only to be asserted, by arraying against the claim 
all of those popular prejudices which, under other circumstances, 
would be proper feelings against slavery. 

But the propriety of the rule of interpretation, which I have 
invoked to exclude the states from legislating upon this provi- 
sion of the Constitution, becomes more obvious, when it is re- 
membered that the provision was not intended only to secure 
the property of individuals, but that through their rights, that 
the institutions of the states should be preserved, so long as any 
one of the states chose to continue slavery as a part of its policy. 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. ill 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

The subject has usually been argued as if the rights of indivi- 
duals only were intended to be secured, and as if the legislation 
by the states would only act upon such rights. 

The framers of the Constitution did not act upon such narrow 
grounds. They were engaged in forming a government for all of 
the states; by concessions of sovereign rights from all, without 
impairing the actual sovereignty of any one, except within the 
sphere of what was conceded. One great object was, that all 
kinds of property, as well that which was common in all of the 
states, as that which was peculiar to any of them, should be 
protected in all of the states, as well from any interference with 
it by the United States, as by the states. Experience had shown 
that under the confederacy, the reclamation of fugitive slaves 
was embarrassed and uncertain, and that they were yielded to by 
the states only from comity. It was intended that it should be 
no longer so. The policy of the different states, some of them 
contiguous, had already become marked and decided upon the 
subject of slavery. There was no doubt it would become more 
so. It was foreseen, unless the delivery of fugitive slaves was 
made a part of the Constitution, and that the right of the states 
to discharge them from service was taken away, that some of 
the states would become the refuge of runaways ; and, of course, 
that in proportion to the facility and certainty of any state being 
a refuge, so would the right of individuals, and the institutions 
of the slaveholding states, be impaired. The latter were bound, 
when forming a general government with the other states, under 
which there was to be a community of rights and privileges for 
all citizens in the several states, to protect that property of their 
citizens which was essential to the preservation of their state con- 
stitutions. If this had not been done, all of the property of the 
citizens would have been protected in every state, except that 
which was the most valuable in a number of them. In such a 
case, the states would have become members of the Union upon 
unequal terms. Besides, the property of an individual is not the 
less his, because it is in another state than that in which he lives. 
It continues to be his, and forms a part of the wealth of his state. 
The provision, then, in respect to fugitive slaves, only compre- 
hended within the general rule a species of property not within 
it before. By doing so, the right of individuals, and that of the 



112 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

states in which slavery was continued, were preserved. It re- 
mained in the states as a part of that wealth, from which contri- 
butions were to be raised by taxes laid with the consent of the 
owners, to meet the wants of the state as a body politic. If this be 
so, upon what principle shall the states act by their legislation upon 
property, which is national as well as individual ; and direct the 
mode when it is within their jurisdiction, without the consent of 
the owners, and without the fault of the states where the owners 
reside, how the right of property should be ascertained and 
determined. The case of a fugitive slave is not like that of a 
contest for other property, to be determined between two claim- 
ants by the remedy given by the tribunals of the state where the 
property may be. It is not a controversy between two persons 
claiming the right to a thing, but the assertion by one person of 
a right of property in another, to be determined upon principles 
peculiar to such relation. If the provision had not been intro^ 
duced into the Constitution, the states might have adjudged the 
right in the way it pleased ; but having surrendered the right to 
discharge, they are not now to be allowed to assume a right to 
legislate, to try the obligation of a fugitive to servitude, in any 
other way than in conformity to the principles peculiar to the 
relation of master and slave. Their legislation, then, in the way 
of remedy, would bear upon state as well as individual rights ; 
and I am sure, when the Constitution was formed, the states 
never intended to give any such right to each other. If it has 
such an effect, I think I may rightly conclude that legislation in 
the case before us is forbidden to the states. 

But I have a further reason for the conclusion to which I have 
come upon this point ; to which I cannot see that an answer can 
be given. 

The provision contemplates, besides the right of seizure by the 
owner, that a claim may be made, when a seizure has not been 
effected, or afterwards, if his right shall be contested. That the 
claim shall be good, upon the showing by the claimant that the 
person charged as a fugitive owes service or labour, under the 
laws of the state from which he fled. 

The prohibition in the provision, is, that he shall not be "dis- 
charged, in consequence of any law or regulation of a state" 
where he may be. If then, in a controverted case, a person; 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 113 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,] 

charged as a fugitive, shall be discharged under a remedy legis- 
lated by a state to try the fact of his owing service or labour, is 
he not discharged under a law or regulation of a state ? It is no 
answer to this question, to say, that the discharge was not made 
in virtue of any law discharging the fugitive from servitude ; and 
that the discharge occurred only from the mode of trial to ascer- 
tain if he owed service and labour. For that is to assume, that 
the provision only prevented discharges from being made by the 
states, by enactment or law, declaring that fugitive slaves might 
be discharged. The provision will not admit of such an interpre- 
tation. Nor is it any answer to say, that state regulations to 
ascertain whether a fugitive owes service or labour, are distin- 
guishable from such as directly or by construction would lead 
to his discharge ; for if a discharge be made under one or the 
other — whether the discharge be right or wrong, it is a discharge 
under the regulation of a state. 

I understand the provision to mean ; and when its object and the 
surrender by the states of the right to discharge are kept in mind, 
its obvious meaning to every one must be, that the states are not 
only prohibited from discharging a fugitive from service by a law, 
but that they shall not make or apply regulations to try the ques- 
tion of the fugitive owing service. The language of the provision, 
is, " No person, &c, shall in consequence of any law or regulation 
therein," be discharged from such service or labour. The words 
" in consequence," meaning the effect of a cause — certainly em- 
brace regulations to try the right of property, as well as laws, 
directly discharging a fugitive from service. 

If this be not so, the states may regulate the mode of an owner's 
seizing a fugitive slave, prohibiting it from being done except by 
warrant, and by an officer ; thus denying to an owner the right to 
use a casual opportunity to repossess himself of this kind of pro- 
perty, which there is a right to do, in respect to all other kinds of 
property, where not in the possession of some one else. It may 
regulate the quantity and quality of the proof to establish the 
right of an owner to a fugitive, and give compensatory and 
punitory damages against a claimant, if his right be not established 
according to such proof. It might limit the trial to particular 
times and Courts ; give appeals from one to other Courts; and 
protract the ultimate decision, until the value in controversy 
15 k2 



114 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

was exceeded by the cost of establishing it. Such rights of legis- 
lation in the states to try a right of property in a fugitive slave, 
are surely inconsistent with that security which Judge Iredell 
told the people of North Carolina, in the convention, that the Con- 
stitution gave to them for their slaves when they fled into other 
states. Speaking of this clause of the Constitution, he says, ". In 
some of the northern states, they have emancipated all of their 
slaves. If any one of our slaves go there, and remain there a 
certain time, they would, by the present laws, be entitled to their 
freedom, so that their masters could not get them again. This 
would be extremely prejudicial to the inhabitants of the southern 
states; and, to prevent it, this clause is inserted in the Constitu- 
tion." To the same purpose, and with more positiveness, Charles 
Cotesworth Pinckney said to the people of South Carolina, in the 
convention of that state, "We have obtained a right to recover 
our slaves in whatever part of America they may take refuge ; 
which is a right we had not before." 

But further, does not the language of this provision in the pre- 
cise terms used, " shall not be discharged from such service or 
labour," show, that the states surrendering the right to discharge, 
meant to exclude themselves from legislating a mode of trial, 
which, from the time it would take, would be a qualified or tem- 
porary discharge to the injury of the owner ? Would not a post- 
ponement of the trial of a fugitive owing service or labour, for one 
month, be a loss to the owner of his service, equivalent to a dis- 
charge for that time. And if a state can postpone by legislation 
the trial for one month, may it not do so for a longer time? And 
whether it be for a longer or a shorter time, is it not a discharge 
from service, for whatever time it may be ? It is no answer to 
this argument, to say, that time is necessarily involved in the 
prosecution of all rights. The question here is not as to a time 
being more or less necessary — but as to the right of a state by 
regulations to try the obligation of a fugitive to service or labour, 
to fix in its discretion the time it may take. 

The subject might be further • discussed and illustrated by 
arguments equally cogent with those already given. But I for- 
bear. For the foregoing reasons, in addition to those given in 
the opinion of the Court, I am constrained to come to the con- 
clusion, that the right of legislating upon that clause in the Con- 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 115 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

stitution, preventing the states from discharging fugitive slaves, 
is exclusively in the Congress of the United States. I am as little 
inclined as any one can be, to deny, in a doubtful case, a right 
of legislation in the states ; but I cannot concede that it exists 
under the Constitution in a case relating to the property of some 
of the states in which the others have no interest ; and whose 
legislators, from the nature of the subject, and the human mind 
in relation to it, cannot be supposed to be best fitted to secure the 
right guarantied by the Constitution. 

I had intended to give an account, of the beginning and pro- 
gress of the legislation of the states upon this subject; but my 
remarks are already so much extended, that I must decline doing 
so. It would have shown, perhaps, as much as any other in- 
stance, how a mistaken, doubtful, and hesitating exercise of 
power in the commencement, becomes, by use, a conviction of its 
correctness. It would also have shown that the legislation of 
the states in respect to fugitive slaves, and particularly that which 
has most embarrassed the recovery of fugitive slaves, has been 
in opposition to an unbroken current of decisions in the Courts 
of the states, and those of the United States. Not a point has 
been decided in the cause now before this Court, which has not 
been ruled in the Courts of Massachusetts, New York, and Penn- 
sylvania, and in other State Courts. Judges have differed as 
to some of them, but the Courts of the states have announced 
all of them, with the consideration and solemnity of judicial 
conclusion. In cases too, in which the decisions were appropriate, 
because the points were raised by the record. 

I consider the point I have been maintaining, more important 
than any other in the opinion of the Court. It removes those 
causes which have contributed more than any other to disturb 
that harmony which is essential to the continuance of the Union. 
The framers of the Constitution knew it to be so, and inserted 
the provision in it. Hereafter they cannot occur, if the judg- 
ment of this Court in this cause shall meet with the same patri- 
otic acquiescence which the tribunals of the states and the people 
of the states have heretofore accorded to its decisions. The 
recovery of fugitive slaves will hereafter be exclusively regu- 
lated by the Constitution of the United States, and the acts of 
Congress. 



116 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

Apart from the position that the states may legislate in all 
cases, where they are not expressly prohibited, or by necessary 
implication ; the claim for the states to legislate is mainly advo- 
cated upon the ground that they are bound to protect free blacks 
and persons of colour residing in them from being carried into 
slavery by any summary process. The answer to this is, that 
legislation may be confined to that end, and be made effectual, 
without making such a remedy applicable to fugitive slaves. 
There is no propriety in making a remedy to protect those who 
are free the probable means of freeing those who are not so. 
It is also said, the states may aid by remedies the acts of Con- 
gress, when they are not in conflict with them. I reply, Congress 
has full power to enact all that such aid could give ; and if ex- 
perience shows any deficiency in its enactments, Congress will 
no doubt supply it. If there are not now agencies enough to 
make the assertion of the right to fugitives convenient to their 
owners, Congress can multiply them. But if it should not be 
done, better is it that the inconvenience should be borne, than 
that the states should be brought into collision upon this subject 
as they have been ; and that they should attempt to supply defi- 
ciencies, upon their separate views of what the remedies should 
be to recover fugitive slaves within their jurisdictions. 

I have heard it suggested, also, as a reason why the states 
should legislate upon this subject, that Congress may repeal the 
remedy it has given, and leave the provision unaided by legisla- 
tion ; and that then the states might carry it into execution. Be 
it so ; but the latter is not needed, for though legislation by Con- 
gress supports the rights intended to be secured, there is energy 
enough in the Constitution without legislation upon this subject, 
to protect and enforce what it gives. 

Mr. Justice Daniel. 

Concurring entirely as I do with the majority of the Court, in 
the conclusions they have reached relative to the effect and vali- 
dity of the statute of Pennsylvania now under review, it is with 
unfeigned regret that I am constrained to dissent from some of 
the principles and reasonings which that majority in passing to 
our common conclusions, have believed themselves called on 
to affirm. 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 117 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

In judicial proceedings generally, that has been deemed a safe 
and prudent rule of action, which involves no rights, nor questions 
not necessary to be considered ; but leaves these for adjudication 
where, and when, only, they shall be presented directly and un- 
avoidably, and when surrounded with every circumstance which 
can best illustrate their character. If, in ordinary questions of 
private interest, this rule is recommended by considerations of 
prudence, and accuracy, and justice ; it is surely much more to be 
observed, when the subject to which it is applicable is the great 
fundamental law of the confederacy : every clause and article 
of which affects the polity and the acts of states. 

Guided by the rule just mentioned, it seems to me that the regular 
action of the Court in this case is limited to an examination of the 
Pennsylvania statute, to a comparison of its provisions with the 
third clause of the fourth article of the Constitution, and with the 
act of Congress of 1793, with which the law of Pennsylvania is 
alleged to be in conflict ; and that to accomplish these purposes, a 
general definition or contrast of the powers of the state and federal 
governments, was neither requisite nor proper. The majority of 
my brethren, in the conscientious discharge of their duty, have 
thought themselves bound to pursue a different course ; and it is 
in their definition and distribution of state and federal powers, 
and in the modes and times they have assigned for the exercising 
those powers, that I find myself compelled to differ with them. 

That portion of the Constitution which provides for the recovery 
of fugitive slaves, is the third clause of the second section of the 
fourth article ; and is in these words : " No person held to service 
or labour in one state under the laws thereof, escaping into an- 
other, shall in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be 
discharged from such service or labour; but shall be delivered up 
on claim of the party to whom such service or labour may be 
due." The paramount authority of this clause in the Constitu- 
tion to guaranty to the owner the right of property in his slave, 
and the absolute nullity of any state power directly or indirectly, 
openly or covertly, aimed to impair that right, or to obstruct its 
enjoyment; I admit, nay, insist upon to the fullest extent. I con- 
tend, moreover, that the act of 1793, made in aid of this clause 
of the Constitution and for its enforcement, so far as it conforms 
to the Constitution is the supreme law to the states ; and cannot 



118 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

be contravened by them without a violation of the Constitution. 
But the majority of my brethren proceeding beyond these posi- 
tions, assume the ground that the clause of the Constitution above 
quoted, as an affirmative power granted by the Constitution, is 
essentially an exclusive power in the federal government ; and 
consequently that any and every exercise of authority by the 
states at any time, though undeniably in aid of the guarantee 
thereby given, is absolutely null and void. 

Whilst I am free to admit the powers which are exclusive in the 
federal government, some of them became so denominated by the 
express terms of the Constitution ; some because they are prohi- 
bited to the states; and others because their existence, and much 
more their practical exertion by the two governments, would be 
repugnant, and would neutralize if they did not conflict with and 
destroy each other : I cannot regard the third clause of the fourth 
article as falling either within the definition or meaning of an ex- 
clusive power. Such a power, I consider as originally and abso- 
lutely, and at all times incompatible with partition or association. 
It excludes every thing but itself. 

There is a class of powers originally vested in the states, which 
by the theory of the federal government have been transferred to 
the latter ; powers which the Constitution of itself does not exe- 
cute, and which Congress may or may not enforce either in whole 
or in part, according to its views of policy or necessity; or as it may 
find them for the time beneficially executed or otherwise under 
the state authorities. These are not properly concurrent, but may 
be denominated dormant powers in the federal government ; they 
may at any time be awakened into efficient action by Congress, 
and from that time so far as they are called into activity, will of 
course displace the powers of the states. But should they again 
be withdrawn or rendered dormant, or should their primitive exer- 
cise by the states never be interfered with by Congress; could it be 
properly said that because they potentially existed in Congress 
they were therefore denied to the states ? The prosperity, the 
necessities of the country, and the soundest rules of constitutional 
construction, appear to me to present a decided negative to this 
inquiry. Nay, I am prepared to affirm, that even in instances 
wherein Congress may have legislated, legislation by a state which 
is strictly ancillary, would not be unconstitutional or improper. 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 119 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

The interpretation for which I contend cannot be deemed a no- 
velty in this Court ; but rests upon more than one of its decisions 
upon the constitutional action of state authorities. In the case of 
Sturgis v. Crowninshield, which brought in question the right of 
the states to pass insolvent or bankrupt laws, Chief Justice Mar- 
shall holds the following doctrine, 4 Wheat. 192, 193 : " The coun- 
sel for the plaintiff contend that the grant of this power to Congress 
without limitation, takes it entirely from the states. In support 
of this proposition, they argue, that every power given to Con- 
gress is necessarily supreme ; and if from its nature, or from the 
words of the grant, it is apparently intended to be exclusive, it 
is as much so as if they were expressly forbidden to exercise 
it. These propositions have been enforced and illustrated by 
many arguments drawn from different parts of the Constitution. 
That the power is both unlimited and supreme, is not questioned. 
That it is exclusive, is denied by the counsel for the defendant. 
In considering this question, it must be recollected that previous 
to the formation of the new Constitution, we were divided into 
independent states, united for some purposes, but in most respects 
sovereign. These states could exercise almost every legislative 
power; and amongst others, that of passing bankrupt laws. 
When the American people created a national legislature with 
certain enumerated powers, it was neither necessary nor proper 
to define the powers retained by the states. These powers re- 
main as they were before the adoption of the Constitution, except 
so far as they may be abridged by that instrument. In some in- 
stances, as in making treaties, we find an express prohibition ; 
and this shows the sense of the convention to have been that the 
mere grant of a power to Congress did not imply a prohibition 
on the states to the exercise of the same power." Again, p. 198, 
"It does not appear to be a violent construction of the Constitu- 
tion, and is certainly a convenient one, to consider the powers of 
the states as existing over such cases as the laws of the Union do 
not reach. Be this as it may, the power of Congress may be ex- 
ercised or declined, as the wisdom of that body shall decide. It 
is not the mere existence of the power, but its exercise, which is 
incompatible with the exercise of the same power by the states. 
It has been said that Congress has exercised this power ; and by 
doing so, has extinguished the power of the states, which cannot 



120 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

be revived by repealing the law of Congress. We do not think 
so. If the right of the states is not taken away by the mere grant 
of that power to Congress, it cannot be extinguished ; it can only 
be suspended by enacting a general bankrupt law. The repeal 
of that, cannot, it is true, confer the power on the states ; but it re- 
moves a. disability to its exercise, which was created by the act 
of Congress." 

In the case of Houston v. Moore, 6 Wheat. 48, the following 
doctrine, was held by Mr. Justice Story, and in accordance with 
the opinion of the Court, in that case. "The Constitution con- 
taining a grant of powers, in many instances similar to those 
already existing in the state governments, and some of these 
being of vital importance also to state authority, and state legis- 
lation, it is not to be admitted that a mere grant of powers, in 
affirmative terms, to Congress, does, per se, transfer an exclusive 
sovereignty in such subjects to the latter; on the contrary, a rea- 
sonable interpretation of that instrument necessarily leads to the 
conclusion that the powers so granted are never exclusive of 
similar powers existing in the states ; except where the Constitu- 
tion has, in express terms, given an exclusive power to Congress, 
or the exercise of a like power is prohibited to the states. The 
example of the first class is to be found in the exclusive legisla- 
tion delegated to Congress over places purchased by the consent 
of the legislature of the state in which the same shall be, for forts, 
arsenals, dock-yards, &c. : — of the second class, the prohibition 
of a state to coin money or emit bills of credit : — of the third class, 
as this Court have already held, is the power to establish an uni- 
form rule of naturalization ; and the delegation of admiralty and 
maritime jurisdiction. In all other cases not falling within the 
classes already mentioned, it seems unquestionable that the states 
retain concurrent authority with Congress, not only under the 
eleventh amendment of the Constitution, but upon the soundest 
principles of general reasoning. There is this reserve, however, 
that in cases of concurrent authority, where the laws of the states 
and of the Union are in direct and manifest collision on the same 
subject, those of the Union being the supreme law of the land, 
are of paramount authority ; and the state laws, so far, and so far 
only, as such incompatibility exists, must necessarily yield. Such 
are the general principles by which my judgment is guided, in 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 121 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

every investigation of constitutional points. They commend 
themselves by their intrinsic equity ; and have been amply justi- 
fied by the great men under whose guidance the Constitution was 
framed, as well as by the practice of the government of the 
Union. To desert them, would be to deliver ourselves over to 
endless doubts and difficulties ; and probably to hazard the exist- 
ence of the Constitution itself." 

In the case of the City of New York v. Miln, 11 Peters, 102, 
Mr. Justice Barbour, in delivering the opinion of the Court, lays 
down the following position, (p. 137,) as directly deducible from 
the decisions in Gibbons and Ogden, 7 Wheat. 204, and Brown and 
the State of Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419: "Whilst a state is acting 
within the legitimate scope of its power, as to the end to be at- 
tained, it may use whatever means being appropriate to that end, 
it may think fit ; although they be the same, or so nearly the 
same as scarcely to be distinguished from those adopted by Con- 
gress acting under a different power ; subject only to this limita- 
tion, that in the event of collision, the law of the state must yield 
to the law of Congress. The Court must be understood, of 
course, as meaning that the law of Congress is passed upon a 
subject within the sphere of its power." In the same case, the 
following language is held by Mr. Justice Thompson, p. 145 : 
" In the leading cases upon this question, where the state law has 
been held to be constitutional, there has been an actual conflict 
between the legislation of Congress and that of the states, upon 
the right drawn in question. And in all such cases, the law of 
Congress is supreme. But in the case now before the Court, 
no such conflict arises ; Congress has not legislated on this sub- 
ject in any manner to affect the question." And again, p. 146, 
it is said by the same judge ; " It is not necessary in this case 
to fix any limits upon the legislation of Congress and of the states 
on this subject ; or to say how far Congress may, under the 
power to regulate commerce, control state legislation in this 
respect. It is enough to say, that whatever the power of Con- 
gress may be, it has not been exercised so as in any manner to 
conflict with the state law ; and if the mere grant of the power 
to Congress does not necessarily imply a prohibition of the states 
to exercise the power until Congress assumes the power to exer- 
cise it, no objection on that ground can arise to this law." 
16 L 



122 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

Here then are recognitions, repeated and explicit, of the pro- 
priety, utility, and regularity of state action, in reference to 
powers confessedly vested in the general government, so long as 
the latter remains passive, or shall embrace within its own action 
only a portion of its powers, and that portion not comprised in 
the proceedings of a state government ; and so long as the states 
shall neither conflict with the measures of the federal govern- 
ment, nor contravene its policy. From these recognitions, it must 
follow by necessary consequence, that powers vested in the 
federal government which are compatible with the modes of exe- 
cution just adverted to, cannot be essentially and originally, nor 
practically, exclusive powers ; for whatever is exclusive, utterly 
forbids, as has been previously observed, all partition or associa- 
tion. I hold then that the states can establish proceedings which 
are in their nature calculated to secure the rights of the slave- 
holder guarantied to him by the Constitution ; as I shall attempt 
to show, that those rights can never be so perfectly secured, as 
when the states shall, in good faith, exert their authority to assist 
in effectuating the guarantee given by the Constitution. Fugi- 
tives from service, in attempting to flee either to the non-slave- 
holding states, or into the Canadas, must, in many instances, pass 
the intermediate states, before they can attain to the point they 
aim at. 

If there is a power in the states to authorize and order their 
arrest and detention for delivery to their owners, not only will 
the probabilities of recovery be increased by the performance of 
duties enjoined by law upon the citizens of those states, as well 
private persons as those who are officers of the law ; but the 
incitements of interest, under the hope of reward, will in a certain 
class of persons powerfully co-operate to the same ends. But 
let it be declared that the rights of arrest and detention, with a 
view of restoration to the owner, belong solely to the federal 
government, exclusive of the individual right of the owner to 
seize his property, and what are to be the consequences ? In the 
first place, whenever the master, attempting to enforce his right 
of seizure under the Constitution, shall meet with resistance, the 
inconsiderable number of federal officers in a state, and their fre- 
quent remoteness from the theatre of action, must, in numerous 
instances, at once defeat his right of property, and deprive him 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 123 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

also of personal protection and security. By the removal of every 
incentive of interest in state officers, or individuals, and by the 
inculcation of a belief that any co-operation with the master be- 
comes a violation of law, the most active and efficient auxiliary 
which he could possibly call to his aid is entirely neutralized. 
Again, suppose that a fugitive from service should have fled to a 
state where slavery does not exist, and in which the prevalent 
feeling is hostile to that institution ; there might, nevertheless, in 
such a community, be a disposition to yield something to an ac- 
knowledged constitutional right — something to national comity 
too, in the preservation of that right ; but let it once be proclaimed 
from this tribunal, that any concession by the states towards the 
maintenance of such a right, is a positive offence, the violation of 
a solemn duty, and I ask what pretext more plausible could be 
offered to those who are disposed to protect the fugitive, or to 
defeat the rights of the master ? The Constitution and the act of 
Congress would thus be converted into instruments for the de- 
struction of that which they were designed especially to protect. 
But it is said that if the states can legislate at all upon the subject 
of fugitives from service, they may, under the guise of regulations 
for securing the master's right, enact laws which, in reality, impair 
or destroy them. This, like every other argument drawn from 
the possible abuse of power, is deemed neither fair nor logical. 
It is equally applicable to the exercise of power by the federal as 
by the state governments ; and might be used in opposition to all 
power and all government, as it is undeniable, that there is no 
power and no government which is not susceptible of great 
abuses. But those who argue from such possible or probable, 
abuses against all regulations by the states touching this matter, 
should dismiss their apprehensions, under the recollection that 
should those abuses be attempted, the corrective may be found, 
as it is now about to be applied to some extent, in the controlling 
constitutional authority of this Court. 

It has been said that the states in the exercise of their police 
powers may arrest and imprison vagrants or fugitives who may 
endanger the peace and good order of society ; and by that means 
contribute to the recovery by the master of his fugitive slave. It 
should be recollected, however, that the police power of a state 
has no natural affinity with her exterior relations, nor with those 



124 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

which she sustains to her sister states ; but is confined to matters 
strictly belonging to her internal order and quiet. The arrest or 
confinement, or restoration of a fugitive, merely because he is 
such, falls not regularly within the objects of police regulations ; 
for such a person may be obnoxious to no charge of violence or 
disorder ; he may be merely passing through the state peaceably 
and quietly ; or he may be under the care and countenance of 
some person affecting ownership over him, with the very view 
of facilitating his escape. Under such circumstances he would 
not be a proper subject for the exertion of the police power ; and 
if not to be challenged under a different power in the state, his 
escape would be inevitable, however strong might be the evi- 
dences of his being a fugitive. But let it be supposed that either 
on account of some offence actually committed, or threatened ; or 
from some internal regulation forbidding the presence of such 
persons within a state, they may be deemed subjects for the 
exertion of the police power proper, to what end would the ex- 
ercise of that power naturally lead ? Fugitives might be arrested 
for punishment, or they might be expelled or deported from the 
state. Nothing beyond these could be legally accomplished; and 
thus the invocation of this police power, so far from securing the 
rights of the master, would be made an engine to insure the de- 
privation of his property. Such are a portion of the consequences 
which, in my opinion, must flow from the doctrines affirmed by 
the majority of the Court : doctrines in my view not warranted 
by the Constitution, nor by the interpretation heretofore given of 
that instrument ; and the assertion whereof seemed not to have 
been necessarily involved in the adjudication of this cause. With 
the convictions predominatory in my mind as to the nature and 
tendencies of these doctrines; whilst I cherish the profoundest 
respect for the wisdom and purity of those who maintain them; 
it would be a dereliction of duty in me to yield to them a direct 
or a tacit acquiescence ; I therefore declare my dissent from them. 

Mr. Justice M'Lean. 

As this case involves questions deeply interesting, if not vital, 
to the permanency of the union of these states ; and as J differ on 
one point from the opinion of the Court, I deem it proper to state 
my own views on the subject. 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 125 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

The plaintiff, Edward Prigg, was indicted under the first sec- 
tion of an act of Pennsylvania, entitled "An act to give effect to 
the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, relative to 
fugitives from labour, for the protection of free people of colour, 
and to prevent kidnapping." 

It provides, " If any person or persons shall, from and after the 
passing of this act, by force and violence, take and carry away, 
or cause to be taken or carried away, and shall by fraud or false 
pretence, seduce, or cause to be seduced, or shall attempt to take, 
carry away, or seduce any negro or mulatto from any part or 
parts of this commonwealth, to any other place or places whatso- 
ever, out of this commonwealth, with a design and intention of 
selling and disposing of, or of causing to be sold, or of keeping 
and detaining, or of causing to be kept and detained, such negro 
or mulatto as a slave or servant for life, or for any term whatso- 
ever ; every such person or persons, his or their aiders or abettors 
shall, on conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of felony, and shall 
be fined in a sum not less than five hundred nor more than one 
thousand dollars, and shall be sentenced to imprisonment and 
hard labour not less than seven nor more than twenty-one years." 

The plaintiff being a citizen of Maryland, with others, took 
Margaret Morgan, a coloured woman, and a slave, by force and 
violence, without the certificate required by the act of Congress, 
from the state of Pennsylvania, and brought her to the state of 
Maryland. By an amicable arrangement between the two states, 
judgment was entered against the defendant, in the Court where 
the indictment was found ; and on the cause being removed to 
the Supreme Court of the state, that judgment, pro forma, was 
affirmed. And the case is now here for our examination and 
decision. 

The last clause of the second section of the fourth article of the 
Constitution of the United States, declares that, " No person held 
to service or labour in one state, under the laws thereof, escaping 
into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation there- 
in, be discharged from such service or labour ; but shall be deli- 
vered up on claim of the party to whom such service or labour 
may be due." 

This clause of the Constitution is now, for the first time, brought 
before this Court for consideration. 

L 2 



126 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

That the Constitution was adopted in a spirit of compromise, 
is matter of history. And all experience shows that to attain 
the great objects of this fundamental law, it must be construed 
and enforced in a spirit of enlightened forbearance and justice. 
Without adverting to other conflicting views and interests of the 
states represented in the general convention, the subject of 
slavery was then, as it is now, a most delicate and absorbing con- 
sideration. In some of the states, it was considered an evil, and 
a strong opposition to it, in all its forms, was felt and expressed. 
In others it was viewed as a cherished right, incorporated into the 
social compact, and sacredly guarded by law. 

Opinions so conflicting, and which so deeply pervaded the ele- 
ments of society, could be brought to a reconciled action only by 
an exercise of exalted patriotism. Fortunately for the country, 
this patriotism was not wanting in the convention and in the 
states. The danger of discord and ruin was seen, and felt, and 
acknowledged ; and this led to the formation of the confederacy. 
The Constitution, as it is, cannot be said to have imbodied in all 
its parts, the peculiar views of any great section of the Union ; 
but it was adopted by a wise and far-reaching conviction, that it 
was the best which, under the circumstances, could be devised ; 
and that its imperfections would be lost sight of, if not forgotten, 
in the national prosperity and glory which it would secure. 

A law is better understood by a knowledge of the evils which 
led to its adoption. And this applies most strongly to a funda- 
mental law. 

At an early period of our history, slavery existed in all the 
colonies ; and fugitives from labour were claimed and delivered 
up under a spirit of comity or conventional law among the colo- 
nies. The articles of confederation contained no provision on the 
subject, and there can be no doubt that the provision introduced 
into the Constitution was the result of experience and manifest 
necessity. A matter so delicate, important, and exciting, was 
very properly introduced into the organic law. 

Does the provision, in regard to the reclamation of fugitive 
slaves, vest the power exclusively in the federal government? 

This must be determined from the language of the Constitu- 
tion, and the nature of the power. 

The language of the provision is general. It covers the whole 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 127 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

ground, not in detail, but in principle. The states are inhibited 
from passing " any law or regulation which shall discharge a fu- 
gitive slave from the service of his master ;" and a positive duty- 
is enjoined on them to deliver him up, "on claim of the party to 
whom his service may be due." 

The nature of the power shows that it must be exclusive. 

It was designed to protect the rights of the master, and against 
whom? Not against the state, nor the people of the state in 
which he resides ; but against the people and the legislative action 
of other states where the fugitive from labour might be found. 
Under the confederation, the master had no legal means of enforc- 
ing his rights in a state opposed to slavery. A disregard of rights 
thus asserted was deeply felt in the south. It produced great ex- 
citement, and would have led to results destructive of the Union. 
To avoid this, the constitutional guarantee was essential. 

The necessity for this provision was found in the views and 
feelings of the people of the states opposed to slavery ; and who, 
under such an influence, could not be expected favourably to re- 
gard the rights of the master. Now, by whom is this paramount 
law to be executed ? 

It is contended that the power to execute it rests with the 
states. The law was designed to protect the rights of the slave- 
holder against the states opposed to those rights ; and yet, by this 
argument, the effective power is in the hands of those on whom 
it is to operate. 

This would produce a strange anomaly in the history of legis- 
lation. It would show an inexperience and folly in the venerable 
framers of the Constitution, from which, of all public bodies that 
ever assembled, they were, perhaps, most exempt. 

The clause of the Constitution under consideration declares 
that no fugitive from labour shall be discharged from such labour, 
by any law or regulation of the state into which he may have 
fled. Is the state to judge of this ? Is it left for the state to de- 
termine what effect shall be given to this and other parts of the 
provision ? 

This power is not susceptible of division. It is a part of 
the fundamental law, and pervades the Union. The rule of ac- 
tion which it prescribes was intended to be the same in all the 
states. This is essential to the attainment of the objects of the 



128 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

law. If the effect of it depended, in any degree, upon the con- 
struction of a state by legislation or otherwise, its spirit, if not its 
letter, would be disregarded. This would not proceed from any 
settled determination in any state to violate the fundamental rule, 
but from habits and modes of reasoning on the subject. Such is 
the diversity of human judgment, that opposite conclusions, 
equally honest, are often drawn from the same premises. It is, 
therefore, essential to the uniform efficacy of this constitutional 
provision that it should be considered, exclusively, a federal power. 
It is in its nature as much so as the power to regulate commerce, 
or that of foreign intercourse. 

To give full effect to this provision, was legislation necessary ? 
Congress, by the passage of the act of 1793,legislated on the sub- 
ject, and this shows how this provision was construed shortly 
after its adoption : and the reasons which were deliberately 
considered, and which led to the passage of the act, show clearly 
that it was necessary. These reasons will be more particularly 
referred to under another head of the argument. But looking 
only at the Constitution, the propriety, if not the necessity of 
legislation is seen. 

The Constitution provides that the fugitive from labour shall 
be delivered up, on claim being made by the person entitled to 
such labour ; but it is silent as to how and on whom this claim 
shall be made. The act of Congress provides for this defect and 
uncertainty, by establishing the mode of procedure. 

It is contended, that the power to legislate on this subject is 
concurrently in the states and federal government. That the acts 
of the latter are paramount, but that the acts of the former must 
be regarded as of authority, until abrogated by the federal power. 
How a power exercised by one sovereignty can be called concur- 
rent, which may be abrogated by another, I cannot comprehend. 
A concurrent power, from its nature, I had supposed must be 
equal. If the federal government by legislating on the subject 
annuls all state legislation on the same subject, it must follow that 
the power is in the federal government and not in the state. 

Taxation is a power common to a state and the general govern- 
ment, and it is exercised by each independently of the other. 
And this must be the character of all concurrent powers. 

It is said that a power may be vested in the federal govern- 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 129 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

merit which remains dormant, and that in such case a state may- 
legislate on the subject. In the case supposed, whence does the 
legislature derive its power? Is it derived from the constitution 
of the state, or the Constitution of the United States ? 

If the power is given by the state constitution, it must follow 
that it may be exercised independently of the federal power ; for 
it is presumed no one will sanction the doctrine that Congress, by 
legislation, may abridge the constitutional power of a state. 

How can the power of the state be derived from the federal 
Constitution ? Is it assumed on the ground that Congress having 
the power have failed to exercise it ? Where is such an assump- 
tion to end ? May it not be applied with equal force and pro- 
priety to the whole ground of federal legislation ; excepting only 
the powers inhibited to the states ? Congress have not legislated 
upon a certain subject, but this does not show that they may not 
have duly considered it. Or, they may have acted without ex- 
hausting the power. Now, in my judgment, it is illogical and 
unconstitutional to hold that in either of these cases a state may 
legislate. 

Is this a vagrant power of the state, like a floating land war- 
rant to be located on the first vacant spot that shall be found? 
May a state occupy a fragment of federal power which has not 
been exercised, and like a tenant at will, continue to occupy it 
until it shall have notice to quit? 

No such power is derived by implication from the federal 
Constitution. It defines the powers of the general government, 
and imposes certain restrictions and duties on the states. But 
beyond this it in no degree affects the powers of the states. The 
powers which belong to a state are exercised independently. In 
its sphere of sovereignty it stands on an equality with the federal 
government, and is not subject to its control. It would be as 
dangerous as humiliating to the rights of a state, to hold that its 
legislative powers were exercised to any extent and under any 
circumstances, subject to the paramount action of Congress. 
Such a doctrine would lead to serious and dangerous conflicts of 
power. 

The act of 1793 seems to cover the whole constitutional ground. 
The third section provides, "That when a person held to labour 
in any state or territory of the United States, under the laws 
17 



130 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

thereof, shall escape into any other of the said states or territories, 
the person to whom such labour or service may be due, his agent 
or attorney, is empowered to seize or arrest such fugitive from 
labour, and to take him or her before any judge of the Circuit or 
District Courts of the United States residing or being within the 
state, or before any magistrate of a county, city, or town corpo- 
rate, wherein such seizure or arrest shall be made, and upon 
proof, to the satisfaction of such judge or magistrate, either by 
oral testimony or affidavit, &c, that the person so seized or ar- 
rested, doth, under the laws of the state or territory from which 
he or she fled, owe service or labour to the person claiming him 
or her, it shall be the duty of such judge or magistrate to give a 
certificate thereof to such claimant, his agent, or attorney, which 
shall be sufficient warrant for removing said fugitive to the state 
from which he or she fled." 

The fourth section imposes a penalty on any person who shall 
obstruct or hinder such claimant, his agent, or attorney, &c. or 
shall rescue such fugitive, when so arrested, &c. 

It seems to be taken as a conceded point in the argument, that 
Congress had no power to impose duties on state officers, as pro- 
vided in the above act. As a general principle this is true ; but 
does not the case under consideration form an exception ? Con- 
gress can no more regulate the jurisdiction of the state tribunals, 
than a state can define the judicial power of the Union. The 
officers of each government are responsible only to the respective 
authorities under which they are commissioned. But do not 
the clauses in the Constitution in regard to fugitives from labour, 
and from justice, give Congress a power over state officers, on 
these subjects ? The power in both the cases is admitted or 
proved to be exclusively in the federal government. 

The clause in the Constitution preceding the one in relation to 
fugitives from labour, declares that, "A person charged in any 
state with treason, felony, or other crime, who shall flee from 
justice, and be found in another state, shall, on demand of the 
executive authority of the state from which he fled, be delivered 
up to be removed to the state having jurisdiction of the crime." 

In the first section of the act of 1793, Congress have provided 
that on demand being made as above, " it shall be the duty of 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 131 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

the executive authority to cause the person demanded to be ar- 
rested, &c. 

The constitutionality of this law, it is believed, has never been 
questioned. It has been obeyed by the governors of states, who 
have uniformly acknowledged its obligation. To some demands 
surrenders have not been made; but the refusals have, in no 
instance, been on the ground that the Constitution and act of « 
Congress were of no binding force. Other reasons have been 
assigned. 

Now, if Congress may by legislation require this duty to be 
performed by the highest state officer, may they not on the same 
principle require appropriate duties in regard to the surrender 
of fugitives from labour, by other state officers. Over these sub- 
jects the constitutional power is the same. 

In both cases the act of 1793 defines on what evidence the 
delivery shall be made. This was necessary, as the Constitution 
is silent on the subject. The act provides that on claim being 
made of a fugitive from labour, " it shall be the duty of such 
judge or magistrate to give a certificate that the person claimed 
owes services to the claimant." 

The Constitution requires " that such person shall be delivered 
up, on claim of the party to whom the service is due." Here is 
a positive duty imposed ; and Congress have said in what mode 
this duty shall be performed. Had they not power to do so ? If 
the Constitution was designed, in this respect, to require, not a 
negative but a positive duty on the state and the people of the 
state where the fugitive from labour may be found ; of which, it 
would seem, there can be no doubt ; it must be equally clear that 
Congress may prescribe in what manner the claim and surrender 
shall be made. I am therefore brought to the conclusion that, 
although, as a general principle, Congress cannot impose duties 
on state officers, yet in the cases of fugitives from labour and 
from justice, they have the power to do so. 

In the case of Martin's Lessee v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. Rep. 304, 
this Court say, " The language of the Constitution is imperative on 
the states as to the performance of many duties. It is imperative 
on the state legislatures to make laws prescribing the time, place, 
and manner of holding elections for senators and representatives, 
and for electors of President and Vice President. And in these as 



132 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

well as in other cases, Congress have a right to revise, amend, or su- 
persede the laws which may be passed by the state legislatures." 

Now, I do not insist on the exercise of the federal power to 
the extent as here laid down. I go no farther than to say, that 
where the Constitution imposes a positive duty on a state or its 
officers to surrender fugitives, that Congress may prescribe the 
mode of proof, and the duty of the state officers. 

This power may be resisted by a state, and there is no means 
of coercing it. In this view the power may be considered an im- 
portant one. So the Supreme Court of a state may refuse to 
certify its record on a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the 
Union, under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act. But 
resistance to a constitutional authority by any of the state func- 
tionaries, should not be anticipated ; and if made, the federal go- 
vernment may rely upon its own agency in giving effect to the 
laws. 

I come now to a most delicate and important inquiry in this 
case, and that is, whether the claimant of a fugitive from labour 
may seize and remove him by force out of the state in which he 
may be found, in defiance of its laws. I refer not to laws which 
are in conflict with the Constitution, or the act of 1793. Such 
state laws, I have already said, are void. But I have reference 
to those laws which regulate the police of the state, maintain the 
peace of its citizens, and preserve its territory and jurisdiction 
from acts of violence. 

About the time of the adoption of the Constitution, a coloured 
man was seized by several persons in the state of Pennsylvania, 
and forcibly removed out of it, with the intent, as charged, to 
enslave him. This act was then, as it is now, a criminal offence 
by the law of Pennsylvania. Certain persons were indicted for 
this offence, and in the year 1791, the Governor of Pennsylvania 
demanded of the Governor of Virginia, the persons indicted, as 
fugitives from justice. 

The Governor of Virginia submitted the case to the attorney- 
general of that state, who decided, that the offence charged in the 
indictment was not such a crime as under the Constitution re- 
quired a surrender. He also held, " that control over the persons 
charged ought not to be acquired by any force not specified and 
delegated by positive law." The Governor of Virginia refused 



JANUARY TERM,- 1842. 133 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

to arrest the defendants, and deliver them to the authorities of 
Pennsylvania. The correspondence between the governors and 
the opinion of the attorney-general of Virginia, with other papers 
relating to the case, were transmitted to the President of the 
United States, who laid them before Congress. And there can 
be no doubt that this correspondence, and the forcible removal of 
the coloured person, which gave rise to it, led to the passage of the " 
act of 1793. 

It is not unworthy of remark, that a controversy on this subject 
should first have arisen after the adoption of the Constitution, in 
Pennsylvania ; and that after a lapse of more than half a century, 
a controversy involving a similar act of violence should be brought 
before this Court, for the first time, from the same state. 

Both the Constitution and the act of 1793, require the fugitive 
from labour to be delivered up on claim being made, by the party 
or his agent, to whom the service is due. Not that a suit should 
be regularly instituted. The proceeding authorized by the law 
is summary and informal. The fugitive is seized by the claimant, 
and taken before a judge or magistrate within the state, and on 
proof, parol or written, that he owes labour to the claimant, it is 
made the duty of the judge or magistrate to give the certificate, 
which authorizes the removal of the fugitive to the state from 
whence he absconded. 

The counsel inquire of whom the claim shall be made. And 
they represent that the fugitive, being at large in the state, is in the 
custody of no one, nor under the protection of the state ; so that 
the claim cannot be made, and consequently that the claimant 
may seize the fugitive and remove him out of the state. 

A perusal of the act of Congress obviates this difficulty, and 
the consequence which is represented as growing out of it. 

The act is framed to meet the supposed case. The fugitive is 
presumed to be at large, for the claimant is authorized to seize 
him. After seizure, he is in custody ; before it, he was not. And 
the claimant is required to take him before a judicial officer of the 
state ; and it is before such officer his claim is to be made. 

To suppose that the claim is not to be made, and indeed can- 
not be unless the fugitive be in the custody or possession of some 
public officer or individual, is to disregard the letter and spirit of 
the act of 1793. There is no act in the statute book more pre- 

M 



134 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

cise in its language ; and, as it would seem, less liable to miscon- 
struction. In my judgment, there is not the least foundation in 
the act for the right asserted in the argument, to take the fugitive 
by force and remove him out of the state. 

Such a proceeding can receive no sanction under the act, for it 
is in express violation of it. The claimant having seized the 
fugitive, is required by the act to take him before a federal judge 
within the state, or a state magistrate within the county, city, or 
town corporate, within which the seizure was made. Now, can 
there be any pretence that after the seizure under the statute, the 
claimant may disregard the other express provision of it, by 
taking the fugitive without claim out of the state. But it is 
said, the master may seize his slave wherever he finds him, if by 
doing so he does not violate the public peace ; that the relation 
of master and slave is not affected by the laws of the state, to 
which the slave may have fled, and where he is found. 

If the master has a right to seize and remove the slave with- 
out claim, he can commit no breach of the peace by using all the 
force necessary to accomplish his object. 

It is admitted that the rights of the master, so far as regards the 
services of the slave, are not impaired by this change ; but the 
mode of asserting them, in my opinion, is essentially modified. 
In the state where the service is due, the master needs no other 
law than the law of force to control the action of the slave. 
But can this law be applied by the master in a state which makes 
the act unlawful ? 

Can the master seize his slave and remove him out of the state 
in disregard of its laws, as he might take his horse which is 
running at large ? This ground is taken in the argument. Is 
there no difference in principle in these cases ? 

The slave, as a sensible and human being, is subject to the 
local authority into whatsoever jurisdiction he may go. He is 
answerable under the laws for his acts, and he may claim their 
protection. The state may protect him against all the world ex- 
cept the claim of his master. Should any one commit lawless 
violence on the slave, the offender may unquestionably be pu- 
nished ; and should the slave commit murder, he may be detained 
and punished for it by the state, in disregard of the claim of the 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 135 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

master. Being within the jurisdiction of a state, a slave bears a 
very different relation to it from that of mere property. 

In a state where slavery is allowed, every coloured person is 
presumed to be a slave ; and on the same principle, in a non- 
slaveholding state, every person is presumed to be free without 
regard to colour. On this principle, the states, both slaveholding 
and non-slaveholding, legislate. The latter may prohibit, as 
Pennsylvania has done under a certain penalty, the forcible re- 
moval of a coloured person out of the state. Is such law in 
conflict with the act of 1793 ? 

The act of 1793 authorizes a forcible seizure of the slave by 
the master, not to take him out of the state, but to take him 
before some judicial officer within it. The act of Pennsylvania 
punishes a forcible removal of a coloured person out of the state. 
Now, here is no conflict between the law of the state and the 
law of Congress. The execution of neither law can, by any just 
interpretation, in my opinion, interfere with the execution of the 
other. The laws in this respect stand in harmony with each 
other. 

It is very clear that no power to seize and forcibly remove 
the slave without claim is given by the act of Congress. Can it 
be exercised under the Constitution ? Congress have legislated 
on the constitutional power, and have directed the mode in which 
it shall be executed. The act, it is admitted, covers the whole 
ground ; and that it is constitutional there seems to be no reason 
to doubt. Now, under such circumstances, can the provisions 
of the act be disregarded, and an assumed power set up under 
the Constitution ? This is believed to be wholly inadmissible by 
any known rule of construction. 

The terms of the Constitution are general, and like many other 
powers in that instrument require legislation. In the language 
of this Court in Martin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. Rep. 304, "the powers 
of the Constitution are expressed in general terms, leaving to the 
legislature, from time to time, to adopt its own means to effectuate 
legitimate objects, and to mould and model the exercise of its 
powers, as its own wisdom and the public interests should re- 
quire." 

This, Congress have done by the act of 1793. It gives a sum- 
mary and effectual mode of redress to the master, and is he not 



136 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

bound to pursue it ? It is the legislative construction of the Con- 
stitution ; and is it not a most authoritative construction ? I was 
not prepared to hear the counsel contend that, notwithstanding 
this exposition of the Constitution, and ample remedy provided 
in the act, the master might disregard the act and set up his right 
under the Constitution. And having taken this step, it was easy 
to take another, and say, that this right may be asserted by a 
forcible seizure and removal of the fugitive. 

This would be a most singular constitutional provision. It 
would extend the remedy by recaption into another sovereignty, 
which is sanctioned neither by the common law nor the law of 
nations. If the master may lawfully seize and remove the 
fugitive out of the state where he may be found, without an 
exhibition of his claim, he may lawfully resist any force, physi- 
cal or legal, which the state, or the citizens of the state, may 
interpose. 

To hold that he must exhibit his claim in case of resistance, is 
to abandon the ground assumed. He is engaged, it is said, in the 
lawful prosecution of a constitutional right. All resistance then, 
by whomsoever made, or in whatsoever form, must be illegal. 
Under such circumstances the master needs no proof of his claim, 
though he might stand in need of additional physical power. 
Having appealed to this power, he has only to collect a sufficient 
force to put down all resistance and attain his object. Having 
done this, he not only stands acquitted and justified; but he has 
recourse for any injury he may have received in overcoming the 
resistance. 

If this be a constitutional remedy, it may not always be a 
peaceful one. But if it be a rightful remedy, that it may be car- 
ried to this extent, no one can deny. And if it may be exercised 
without claim of right, why may it not be resorted to after the 
unfavourable decision of the judge or magistrate ? This would 
limit the necessity of the exhibition of proof by the master to the 
single case where the slave was in the actual custody of some 
public officer. How can this be the true construction of the Con- 
stitution ? That such a procedure is not sanctioned by the act of 
1793 has been shown. That act was passed expressly to guard 
against acts of force and violence. 

I cannot perceive how any one can doubt that the remedy 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 137 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

given in the Constitution, if indeed it give any remedy -without 
legislation, was designed to be a peaceful one ; a remedy sanc- 
tioned by judicial authority, a remedy guarded by the forms 
of law. But the inquiry is reiterated, is not the master entitled 
to his property? I answer that he is. His right is guarantied 
by the Constitution, and the most summary means for its enforce- 
ment is found in the act of Congress. And neither the state nor 
its citizens can obstruct the prosecution of this right. 

The slave is found in a state where every man, black or white, 
is presumed to be free ; and this state, to preserve the peace of 
its citizens, and its soil and jurisdiction from acts of violence, has 
prohibited the forcible abduction of persons of colour. Does this 
law conflict with the Constitution ? It clearly does not, in its 
terms. 

The conflict is supposed to arise out of the prohibition against 
the forcible removal of persons of colour generally, which may 
include fugitive slaves. Prima facie it does not include slaves, as 
every man within the state is presumed to be free, and there is 
no provision in the act which embraces slaves. Its language 
clearly shows, that it was designed to protect free persons of 
colour within the state. But it is admitted, there is no exception 
as to the forcible removal of slaves. And here the important 
and most delicate question arises between the power of the 
state, and the assumed but not sanctioned power of the federal 
government. 

No conflict can arise between the act of Congress and this 
state law. The conflict can only arise between the forcible 
acts of the master and the law of the state. The master ex- 
hibits no proof of right to. the services of the' slave, but seizes 
him and is about to remove him by force.. I speak only of the 
force exerted on the slave. The law of the state presumes him 
to be free, and prohibits his removal. Now, which shall give 
way, the master or the state ? The law of the state does, in no 
case, discharge, in the language of the Constitution, the slave from 
the service of his master. 

It is a most important police regulation. And if the master 
violate it, is he not amenable ? The offence consists in the ab- 
duction of a person of colour. And this is attempted to be justi- 
fied upon the simple ground that the slave is property. That a 
IS m 2 



138 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

slave is property must be admitted. The state law is not violated 
by the seizure of the slave by the master, for this is authorized 
by the act of Congress ; but by removing him out of the state by 
force, and without proof of right, which the act does not authorize. 
Now, is not this an act which a state may prohibit ? The pre- 
sumption in a non-slaveholding state is against the right of the 
master, and in favour of the freedom of the person he claims.' 
This presumption may be rebutted, but until it is rebutted by the 
proof required in the act of 1793, and also, in my judgment, by 
the Constitution, must not the law of the state be respected and 
obeyed ? 

The seizure which the master has a right to make under the 
act of Congress is for the purpose of taking the slave before an 
officer. His possession of the slave within the state, under this 
seizure, is qualified and limited to the subject for which it was 
made. 

The certificate of right to the service of the slave is undoubt- 
edly for the protection of the master ; but it authorizes the re- 
moval of the slave out of the state where he was found, to 
the state from whence he fled. And under the Constitution this 
authority is valid in all the states. 

The important point is, shall the presumption of right set up 
by the master, unsustained by any proof, or the presumption 
which arises from the laws and institutions of the state, prevail. 
This is the true issue. The sovereignty of the state is on one 
side, and the asserted interest of the master on the other. That 
interest is protected by the paramount law, and a special, a sum- 
mary, and an effectual mode of redress is given. But this mode 
is not pursued, and the remedy is taken into his own hands by 
the master. 

The presumption of the state that the coloured person is free 
may be erroneous in fact ; and if so, there can be no difficulty in 
proving it. But may not the assertion of the master be erroneous 
also ; and if so, how is his act of force to be remedied ? The co- 
loured person is taken, and forcibly conveyed beyond the jurisdic- 
tion of the state. This force, not being authorized by the act of 
Congress nor by the Constitution, maybe prohibited by the state. 
As the act covers the whole power in the Constitution, and carries 
out, by special enactments, its provisions, we are, in my judgment, 



JANUARY TERM, 1842. 139 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.] 

bound by the act. We can no more, under such circumstances, 
administer a remedy under the Constitution, in disregard of the 
act, than we can exercise a commercial or other power in disre- 
gard of an act of Congress on the same subject. 

This view respects the rights of the master and the rights of 
the state. It neither jeopards nor retards the reclamation of the 
slave. It removes all state action prejudicial to the rights of the 
master; and recognises in the state a power to guard and protect 
its own jurisdiction, and the peace of its citizens. 

It appears, in the case under consideration, that the state magis- 
trate before whom the fugitive was brought refused to act. In 
my judgment he was bound to perform the duty required of him 
by a law paramount to any act, on the same subject, in his own 
state. But this refusal does not justify the subsequent action of 
the claimant. He should have taken the fugitive before a judge 
of the United States, two of whom resided within the state. 

It may be doubted whether the first section of the act of Penn- 
sylvania under which the defendant was indicted, by a fair con- 
struction applies to the case under consideration. The decision 
of the Supreme Court of that state was pro forma, and, of course, 
without examination. Indeed, I suppose, the case has been made 
up merely to bring the question before this Court. My opinion, 
therefore, does not rest so much upon the particular law of Penn- 
sylvania, as upon the inherent and sovereign power of a state, to 
protect its jurisdiction and the peace of its citizens, in any and 
every mode which its discretion shall dictate, which shall not 
conflict with a defined power of the federal government. 

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the re- 
cord from the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, and was argued 
by counsel ; on consideration whereof, It is the opinion of this 
Court, that the act of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, upon 
which the indictment in this case is founded, is repugnant to the 
Constitution and laws of the United States, and, therefore, void ; 
and that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania 
upon the special verdict found in the case, ought to have been 
that the said Edward Prigg was not guilty. It is, therefore, or- 
dered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the said 
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania be, and the same is, hereby, re- 



140 SUPREME COURT. 

[Prigg v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,] 

versed. And this Court, proceeding to render such judgment in 
the premises as the said Supreme Court of Pennsylvania ought 
to have rendered, do hereby order and adjudge that judgment 
upon the special verdict aforesaid be here entered, that the said 
Edward Prigg is not guilty in manner and form as is charged 
against him in the said indictment, and that he go thereof quit 
without day ; and that this cause be remanded to the Supreme 
Court of Pennsylvania with directions accordingly, so that such 
other proceeding may be had therein as to law and justice shall 
appertain. 



THE END, 



13 



DECISION OF SUPREME COURT IN CASE OF T»ftIGO. 

The last year will be memorable in anti-slavery annals for a 
decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, determin- 
ing the construction of the clause in the Constitution securing 
the delivery of persons owing service or labor in one State, 
escaping into another, to the persons to whom such service or 
labor is due. A slave-catcher having been indicted and con- 
victed, under a law of Pennsylvania, making it felony to remove, 
by force or fraud, any negro or mulatto, with intent to sell or 
detain him as a slave, except according to the provisions of the 
law itself, carried up his case, by writ of error, to the Supreme 
Bench. After solemn argument, this high tribunal pronounced 
its grave decision, by Mr. Justice Story, a citizen of Massachu- 
setts. A few of the leading points of this decision are all that 
we can recount in this place. It begins by assuming that we 
know, historically, the object of this clause to be the recapture 
of fugitive slaves, and that it must be so interpreted as to effect- 
uate the whole object at which it aims. It contemplates the 
unqualified right of ownership in slaves, which no State laws 
can be permitted to regulate, qualify, control, or restrain. Any 
State law to delay or postpone the right of the owner to the 
service of his slave is, pro tanto, a discharge, and therefore void. 
The owner has, in every State, all the rights conferred by the 
local laws of his own State, that of recapture among the rest. 
Under the Constitution, the owner is invested with the right to 
recapture his slave, wherever he finds him, throughout the Un- 
ion. ' We have not the slightest hesitation in holding,' — says 
Judge Story, delivering the opinion of the Court, — 'that under 
and in virtue of the Constitution, the owner of a slave is clothed 
with entire authority, in every State in the Union, to seize and 
recapture his slave, whenever he can do it without any breach 
of the peace, or any illegal violence. In this sense, and to this 



14 

extent, this clause of the Constitution may properly be said to 
execute itself, and to require no aid from legislation, state or na- 
tional.' Or, in the plainer language of Chief Justice Taney, 
when referring to and explaining the opinion of the Court, — 
' The master has a right, peaceably, to take possession of him 
(the slave) and carry him away, without any certificate, or war- 
rant, from a Judge of the District or Circuit Court of the United 
States, or from any magistrate of the State, and whoever resists 
or obstructs him is a wrong-doer ; and every State law, which 
proposes, directly or indirectly, to authorize such resistance or 
obstruction, is null and void, and affords no justification to the 
individual or the officer of the State who acts under it.' But, 
when the seizure cannot be made without a breach of the peace, 
or when the title of the owner is contested, then the right thus 
secured to him is of no practical value without a remedy. This 
remedy the States are not obliged, nor are they permitted, to 
afford. Congress has, therefore, provided it by the act of 1793, 
which empowers certain United States officers, and authorizes 
certain State officers, to assist in the capture, detention and de- 
livery of fugitives. These officers may grant a certificate to the 
claimant, upon the production of evidence satisfactory to them- 
selves of the condition of the fugitive, which certificate ' insures 
to owners,' in the language of Judge Wayne, ' the unmolested 
transportation of fugitive slaves, through any of the States, to 
the State from which they may have fled.' The Court further 
decided, that any action of State magistrates, under the law of 
1793, is purely voluntary on their part. Congress has no power 
to compel State officers, as such, to act under this, or any other 
of its laws. Nor can the States legislate in aid of, or against, 
the rights of the slaveholder. The States may, clearly, prohibit 
their magistrates, and other officers, from any interference in the 
case. This was the decision of the majority of the Court, and 



15 

is, consequently, the law of the land. The Chief Justice ( Ta- 
ney) dissented from Ins brethren on the point that the States 
may not legislate in aid of the owner's rights, which he thought 
they were bound to do. And his opinion contained the pregnant 
intimation, that unless they did so, eveiy State became an open 
pathway for the escape of the fugitives. Mr. Justice Thompson 
held, that the power of legislation on this subject was not vested 
exclusively in Congress. Mr. Justice Baldwin, of Pennsylvania, 
with a servility of spirit worthy of Scroggs or Jeffries, was of 
opinion that no legislation was needed from Congress cr State 
Legislature ; that the provision executed itself; and regretted 
that the Court had not decided, that the master may, under all 
circumstances, seize and bring back his slave, without warrant 
from any body ! Mr. Justice Daniel coincided in opinion with 
the Chief Justice, affirming that the States might and ought to 
legislate for the security of the rights of the slaveholder, guar- 
anteed to him by the Constitution. In short, the majority of the 
Supreme Court have decided, that the master may seize his 
slave, and remove him out of the State, in disregard of its laws, 
as he may take his horse which is running at large. In this 
opinion all the Judges agreed, with the honorable exception of 
Mr. Justice McLean and Mr. Justice Thompson, who held that, 
after seizure, the master is bound to prosecute Ms claim accord- 
ing to the act of 1793, before he can lawfully remove such fugi- 
tive from the State. 

Such is the substance of this celebrated decision of the Su- 
preme Court; a decision which sweeps away by a breath all the 
safeguards of our personal liberties, winch the jealous care of 
our ancestors, for five hundred years, has been devoted to secure 
for us. And this by the tribunal which the People have estab- 
lished as the sacred depository of their liberties, where they 
might be safe even from their own excesses ! The bitterness of 



16 

the wound is enhanced by the knowledge of the trusted hands 
that dealt it — as poison seems to its victim the more deadly, 
when administered by his Confessor, in the Eucharist. By this 
decision, the personal liberty of every inhabitant of the Free 
States is placed at the mercy of a single Judge, selected by his 
enemy. The right of trial by jury, though guaranteed by the 
Constitution of the United States, is denied by it in the case in 
which, of all others, it is the most precious, not even excepting 
that which touches life itself, and the laws securing it to their 
inhabitants by some of the States, in cases affecting their liberty, > 
inferentially declared to be void. The writ of Habeas Corpus 
is forever suspended, in the case in which its interference is the 
most essential to personal liberty. If a man claim the horse of 
another as his property, he must establish his claim to the satis- 
faction of a jury of the country. If he claim a man as his chat- 
tel personal, by mistake or perjury, he may carry him off into 
hopeless slavery by the certificate of a single justice of the 
peace, who may be the vilest and most abandoned of men, — 
who may, by possibility, be abiding a trial that will consign him 
to the penitentiary or the gallows. The whole tone' of the de- 
cision is marked by the assumption that the preservation of the 
blessings of slavery, and not of liberty, to themselves and their 
posterity, was the guiding purpose of the framers of the Consti- 
tution; and to the accomplishment of that great end all the 
rights of the inhabitants of the Free States must be sacrificed. 
If this be indeed the meaning of the Constitution of Govern- 
ment which our fathers purchased with their blood, the battles of 
the Revolution were fought in vain. The star-chamber and 
court of high commission, in their most despotic days, never 
claimed for any tyrant such a power as this. If this be indeed 
the law of the land, and if it cannot be speedily changed, then, 
upon the principles in which men glory as those of the conflict 



'pi day of the 
xhe dance ; 
lif'and apos 
fcworst the 
jimplacontly 
ifjBco, and its 
Testation of 
ig a Catho- 
This New 
per that ad- 
latimer into 
letter that a 
llavery, than 
By be viola- 
|y to thwart 
ts, especial- 
churches 
tlood-stains 
I how his 
ty of "the 
'dancing !" 
' this prac- 
brethren ;" 
berality he 
anti-dancing 
What is 
snapping, and 
auctioneer's 
with the two 
ich day brings 
[he slave?— 
ge Latimer, or 
sheltering roof 
have succored 
hyenas to be 
m church has 
■tafiicker, and 
dstry of 
atii to s 



.• »vao ma uuier ot attorney, the proauu- 

tion of which was waived by Parish ; that 
Parish went into the house and brought her 
to the door, that when she saw him sho recog- 
nized him, and was advancing towards him 
when Parish put bis band before her and pre- 
vented her; that he asked for the boy whom 
the woman thereupon brought forward, that 
he also was advancing when Parish also put 
his hand before him and prevented it ; that 
he then demanded permission to arrest them ; 
that Parish inquired by what authority, that 
he answered by authority of his letter of at- 
torney ; that Parish replied that would not 
do, be must have judicial authority, that he 
asked what was judicial authority, that Par- 
ish merely remarked 'judicial authority,' and 
ordered the woman and child to go into the 
house and followed them in, shutting the door 
upon Mitchell and Driskell who were left 
standing upon the pavement. 

Upon cross examination, Mitchell denied 
that any thing was said at this time as to a 
fair trial, or that he had made in the Court 
House at Sandusky any different statement 
as to the transaction. 

It appeared from the statements of this wit- 
ness that upon the seizure of the boys by 
Mitchell and Driskell, suits for assault and 
battery had been commenced against them for 
that act, which however, were discontinued; 
that they were also arrested on a charge of «i- 
ot and required to find bail for their appear- 
ance, and that a writ of habeas corpus was 
sued out for the boys, who upon hearing, 
were discharged from the custody of their 
captors. The power of attorney under which 
Mitchell claimed to a. t, was not 
and therebeino rlcien 



jams ai Vaijanuo in 



nials. 

The charge to the Jury was delivered by 
Judge M'Lean. He held that the plaintiff 
could at most recover but one penalty for the 
same act of harboring, though more than one 
person might be harbored. He held, also, 
that proof of notice to the party charged, that 
the person harbored was a fugitive from labor," 
was indispensable to the plaintiff's right to 
secover, and that in addition to proof of such 
motice, there must be proof that the defendant 
intended to shelter or withdraw the servant 
from the pursuit of the master and thereby 
defeat his efforts to reclaim the fugitive, but 
that sugIi proof, if made, could not be over- 
come by proof on the part of the defendant, 
that he honestly believed the law warranted 
him in his acts. If for example, the defend- 
ant believed that he could not be made liable 
unless the claimant or his attorney should 
produce a judicial warrant to take the fugi- 
tive, such belief would not protect him, for 
no such judicial warrant was necessary. It 
was necessary tftaS the notice should bring 
home knowledge to the defendant that the 
persons harbored were fugitives from labor. — 
If the defendant had such knowledge, no mat- 
ter whence derived and intended to defeat the 
master's right was sufficient. The intention 
of the defendant must be gathered from his 
afts. If these showed a design to defeat the 
night of reclamation and evade the law, he 
was liable; but he was not liable if his in- 
tention, in> affording the servant the protection 
of his house was only to secure a fair and im- 
partial trial be^vepn the claimant and his fu- 
gitive unnVr the r ""* nf Congress. 



- "1111(1 


'1 


A' under 
H ]) 


Wship 

VI by 


r »n Ware J 


with 


ffiw 0/ J 


s l'rom 


Mesial 
WWsf 


Ue po- 
cai an- 


Ijwfflpmisirjty 

»*J of tluse 
s | are. eu- 

31 "Ml WflCtZ iijj 



|s issued a 
f c'r/ncing, 
]. Puritan, 
fin Boston, 
1 intolerance 
takes, but 
and devo- 

with great 

ng, No. 491, 

ract Society. 

In spirit it 

skes reason, 

iervation and 

iprecepts. I 

jean well get 

^close and 

•khas done 

l^sition of 

1 liand 



per to his people. Out upon such cant! — 
.Such hypocrisy ! We give all lienor to the 
Inn- priest. Wo revere the faithful minister, 
who will "declare the whole counsel of Cod, 
whether men will hear or forbear ;" who 
finds the life of love within his sacred form, 
and reads divine truth in the symbol of his 
faith ; the man who, while lie loves his creed 
ami his church, looks on them only as means 
i.n bless his human brothers, and proves his 
love to Gqd by bis faithfulness to man.- He 
may be mistaken — his form may not be ours 
— but from our soul we revere and bless him 
as a (I oil -sent soul — the friend of hununiily. 
We. have no quarrel with the church for its 
opinions of dancing any more than for its the- 
ories of theology. It is welcome to them, 
and we care not how zealously they are main- 
tained but we do have cause of complaint in 
its sibnee towards the moat grievous sins of 
the lanf.jj still more for its apology and de- 
fence for those sins, and its neglect of their 
suffering victims — nor shall we cease to com- 
plain till the evil ceases. The clergy try to 
shield tl is inhumanity by texts of scripture, 
which, hey tell us, prove slavery to have 
been authorized or permitted. Do any of 
them ever hunt for such authority for dancing 
or a virlation of the Sabbath ] They would 
be at nD loss for texts, if they found these 
practices so popular, as to make it unsafe to 
assail them. Their course towards these 
sweeps away the only ingenious excuse they 
have ever had for standing aloof from the 
cause of the slave. It proves that they know 
and acknowledge their duty to expose and 
abolish sin, "out of their own mouths thev 
am nnnJ"— • J ." 



cealment within the purview of the act of Con- 
gress. This motion was argued by Messrs. 
Andrews & Chase for the defendant, and by 
Mr. Stanbury for the plaintiff. 

Judge M'Lean intimated his opinion that 
authority could not be conferred by a master 
on an agent to pursue a fugitive servant into 
another State and arrest him there, otherwise 
than by writing : such authority being in the 
nature of process ; but he did not decide this 
point. He held, however, that in order to 
make a case of obstruction, there must be 
proof that the plaintiff or his duly authorized 
agents were attempting to arrest, and that 
they were obstructed in such attempt; thafc 
in this case, as the agent professed to act ai- 
der a power of attorney it must be produced, 
or its loss must be shewn and its contents 
proved ; that as neither of these thing? had 
been done the case stood without any compe- 
tent proof of agency, and the chargf of ob- 
struction must consequently fail. Jn regard 
to the charge of harboring, the Judge held 
that the presence or pursuit of the master or 
his agent assisting and endeavoring toenforce 
a claim was not necessary to constitute the 
offence. It was enough if the defendant know- 
ing from whatever source, that the person em- 
ployed by him was a fugitive from labor, did 
any act intended and calculated to evaije the 
vigilance of the master and defeat his efforts 
to recover the servant. There was some evi- 
dence tending to establish such facts ascould 
make a case of harboring, and he could there- 
fore permit the case to go to the Jury. 

The defendant thereupon proceeded tc ex- 
ominp his witnesses; Messrs. A. H. Bucher, 



s most ha 
f slavery 
r ou deny 
ilantationt 
jlted and 
i what ha: 
tellect, h 
alignan 
Wnt. 



rifle 

If Hit 

ther hi 

not subs 

ly used ct 

ator, And w 

radrtion and 

Ttis principle 

baman liberty. , 
-■ / \ this 

me dearest mtere 

often are man's h 

man himself, sacri.,.. 

tions. How long, 

continue to consecra 

themselves also to ot 

terests and elevation 

will they spend theit 

is not bread, and thej 

satisfieth not] Goj 

tributes. He needs 

fusions of blood ; F~, 

./the 
or civil organizati/ 



; nstii 
ab 



form to no laws 



Pri 



his nature, and/ . tQ J 
happiness l>ere/ hile a I 
short, He nee/ ck of fen 

a differer 



but that ac 
When, the 
come op' 
Fubser* 



3 laity or 



Coin m y J <Zvt<f */&& /£ . /p&. 






*&e<?t^ /2-^/ 



C £*— 



f 



