r 



Cl 







^1 



^ 



W^-^- 



ffi,\ 









K bd^^nxAjM C^Ai 



J'/^,y-^,^r, /^^J^A^ 







« 

• 



D 




Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 with fundingfrom 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/monthlyoffering1841coll 




yt i^^ 



/^■C^l^'-^'J J 



J)raMm for^Ou ■^forUMy OFferv 



THE 



MONTHLY OFFERING. 




BY JOHN A, COLLINS. 



BOSTON: 
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE,— 25 CORNHILL, 

DOW AND JACKSON, PRINTERS. 

1841, 



CONTENTS. 



NO. I. 

Our Object ----- i 

I fear the Slave will get no benefit from it - - 4 

The weekly contribution box . . - 7 

Monthly Concert for the enslaved - - - 9 

O ! how happy - - - - - 10 
The spirit which will effect the destruction of Slavery 11 

Pinda — a true tale - - - - 11 

NO. II. 

" He is contented and happy " - - - 17 

Pinda — a true tale, — concluded - - 20 

Kind Treatment - - - - 28 

Gratitude, a Poem - - - - 31 

NO. III. 

The Instinct of Childhood, - - - 33 
Appeal of a Slave Mother to Mothers at the North 40 

Can Slaves Feel - - . - 42 

State A. S. Convention - - - - 43 

Worcester A. S. Fair - - - - 44 

Pray for the Slave - - - - 44 



IV CONTENTS. 



Pray for the Slaveholder - - - 45 

Who shall Pray for the Slave - - - 45 

The Agony and the Triumph — a Poem - 46 

NO. IV. 

What do you Abolitionists Want - - - 49 

James Major Munroe — a Fugitive Slave - - 51 

A Tale of Endeavor - - - - 56 

Plead the Promises - - - - - 62 

The Offering - - - - - 62 

To Juvenile Societies - - - - 63 

Lines - - » - - - 63 

The Liberty Bell - - - - 63 

Anecdote - - - ~ - - 63 

Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Fair - - - 64 

Poetry — the Slave's Reply - - ■< 64 

NO. V. 
Sin of Slavery ----- 65 

The Press . - - . . 69 

The North Opposed to Slavery - - - 72 

The American and the French Statesman - 76 

Petitioning - - - - - 77 

Liberty Bell ----- 78 

Thanksgiving Hymn - - - - 79 

Thanksgiving - - - - - 80 

NO. VI. 

James Major Munroe- — a Fugitive Slave, {concluded) 81 

Letter to the Editor of the Offering - - 85 

Liberty and Equality - - - - . 86 

Dr. Ghanning's New Work - . - 88 



CONTENTS. 



A Fact- - - - ^ . _ 93 

Testimony of a Dying Witness - - - 93 

NO. VII. 

Anti- Slavery Experience - - - 97 

Progress of True Principles - - - 102 

A Conversation - . . _ 104 

Free— Extract from "The Hour and the Man" - 105 

NO. VIII. 

Sectarianism - - - - - 113 

The Fugitive from Injustice - - - 118 
Free— from "The Hour and the Man" {concluded) 123 

NO. IX. 

To Readers - - - - . - 129 
Anti-Slavery Fair ----- 130 

Edward Everett - - - - 130 

Keep up the Excitement • - - 131 

They are Happy - - - - 132 

Export ... - . 137 

The Gag - - - • ■ 139 

Spirit of Love . - - - 142 

Petitions - - ■ - • 144 

NO- X. 

Slavery as it is - ■ - - 145 

Narrative of Nehemiah Caulkins - - 14S 

Eastern Rail Road - - - - 152 

Something New . - - - 153 
Abby Kelly ----- 154 

Edward Everett « = - = 154 



Vi CONTENTS. 



They are a Stupid Race - - - 155 

They are a stupid race, made to be slaves, - 196 

The Gag 157 

The Fugitive Slave's Apostrophe to the North Star 158 

The Teeth - . - - - 160 

NO. XL 

The Offering - - - - - 161 

Rhode Island 162 

George Bradburn ". " " " 1^3 

Plymouth County - - - 164 

Public Opinion vs. Justice - - . 164 

Christmas Week - - - - 170 

Mass. A. S. Fair - - - - 171 

Worcester North Division A. S. Society - 172 

Stanzas . - - - - 173 

A colored Representative - - - 176 

NO. XII. 

Making Capital, - - - . 179 

Stanzas for the Times - - - - 179 
Narrative of Nehemiah Caulkins, — continued - - 182 

The Offering, - - - - - 184 



SONNET.— THE BIBLE. 

O Book of books ! though skepticism flout 
Thy sacred origin, thy worth decry ; 
Though transcendental folly give the lie 
To what thou teachest ; though the critic doubt 
This fact, that miracle, and raise a shout 
Of triumph o'er each incongruity, 
He in thy pages may perchance espy ; 
- As in his strength th' effulgent sun shines out, 
Hiding innumerous stars, so dost thou shine 

With heavenly light, all human works excelling: 
Thy oracles are holy and divine, 

Of free salvation, through a Saviour, telling : 
All truth, all excellence, dost thou enshrine— 
The mists of sin and ignorance dispelling. 

Wm. Lloyd Garrison. 
Boston, Nov. 1, 184L 



r H E 



MONTHLY OFFERING. 



JULY, 1840. 



OUR OBJECT. 

We have often been strongly impressed with the im- 
ponance and necessity of a cheap Anti-Slavery period- 
ical which conld be afforded so low that every one 
might procure it, who had a desire to become acquainted 
with the nature and influence of slavery, and the means 
employed for its removal. 

The great body of the people of the free slates are, and 
ever have been, in feeling and sympathy, abolitionists. The- 
absence of all opposition to, and the great interest manifest- 
ed by them for the colonization scheme, during the time it 
was held up before them as competent to remove slavery 
from the land, is conclusive evidence of the truth of this pro- 
position. If the same influences which were enlisted for 
colonization, could be marshalled in favor of immediate 
and unconditional emancipation, the slavery sustained by 
the General Government of the United States, the very 
life-guard of the whole system, would at once be hewn 
down, leaving the confused ranks of slavery in the several 
states, unprotected by this great ally, an easy prey to the 
all-subduing influence of moral principle. The reason, 
then, why our cause has been treated with so much oppo- 



THE MONTHLY OFFEKING. 



sition, contempt, and indifference is, that the avenues to 
the understanding and sympathy of the people have been 
hedo-ed up. Those who imbued their souls vv'ilh love for 
that scheme, have inspired them with disgust to the anti- 
slavery cause, and supreme contempt for those associated 
with it. 

This state of feeling has been effected by the declarations 
of those who stand high in this world's estimation, that the 
Africans were designed by Providence to occupy an inferior 
and menial station in the society of the more favored 
whites ; that they were contented in their situation ; that 
the movements of abolitionists were rolling back the day 
of their redemption, and necessarily tending to create 
insurrection, murder and rapine; that it was a direct 
violation of the spirit of the constitution to discuss the 
subject at the North ; besides a thousand and one other ob- 
jections that were daily retailed by the haters of freedom. 
Our hope and the hop.- of the slave, is in the people, but 
they can never be made to act until they can be reached, 
and all these objections removed. This, in connection 
with the weekly contribution, will be the design of" The 
Offering." It will be our endeavor to enlist sympathy for 
the cause, by holding up to view the suffering and benight- 
ed slave. Our articles shall be adapted to the wants of 
those who have read but little upon the subject, at the same 
time that they are interesting to the more advanced in the 
school of anti-slavery. 

This little work was originally designed to aid and en- 
courage the collectors and contributors to " The Weekly 
Contribution Pl^n" in their work of love and mercy, to 



OUR OBJECT. 



insist upon the latter to be panctual in their payments, and 
to urge most earnestly upon the former to be prompt and 
refralar in making their monthly collections, inasmuch as 
the entire success of the system depends upon the efforts of 
both ; to remind them of the wrong and outrage that is im- 
posed upon three millions of native-born Americans, to show 
them why their prayers, influence and worldly substance 
should be consecrated to redeem them from the most revolt- 
ing system of cruelty and oppression the world ever 
SRW. Yet it is hoped that "The Offering," through the 
efforts of its friends, will gain admission to the hearts of thou- 
sands, who never have, as yet, bestowed one serious thought 
upon the subject. On their efforts its circulation will depend. 
If they think it adapted to promote the interest of the 
cause, will they not take prompt and efficient means to 
secure its circulation ? Many of our best writers have en- 
gaged to furnish tales, &c. for " The Offering." Some- 
thing of this kind, very interesting, may be expected from 
our brother Hiram Wilson, of Toronto, Upper Canada^ 
who is devoting all his time in educating those fugitives 
from our republic, who have taken refuge in Victoria's 
dominions. " The Offering''^ will be issued monthly, and 
sent to single subscribers one year for 37 1-2 cent", but to 
encouran-e our friends to aid in its circulation FOUR 
COPIES, or 4S pamphlets like this,.will be sent to ONE 
ADDRESS for one dollar. Payment must invariably be 
made in advance. These terms will be rigidly adhered to. 

All communications and remittances must be addressed, 
postage paid, to the subscriber, 25 Cornhill, Boston, Mass. 

Boston, July, 1840. J. A. COLLINS. 



THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 



I FEAR THE SLAVE WILL GET NO 
BENEFIT fROM IT. 

When those who profess to be friends of the slave are 
asked to contribute money in aid of his cause, the reply of 
many of them is, " I fear the slave will get no benefit from 
it. None of it reaches him." 

Now that there may be people who honestly entertain 
this opinion, we are not disposed to deny ; though, if it be 
true, their integrity is saved at the sacrifice of their judg* 
ment and common sense. But we have no hesitation in 
saying, that by far the larger part of these descendants of 
" Walter the Doubter " make this objection mainly, if not 
solely, for the sake of having, at least, the shadow of an 
excuse for drawing tight their purse-strings, and coldly 
and heartlessly turning a deaf ear to the wailings of the 
" peeled, and the meted and outcasts of earth," and to the 
earnest appeals for assistance from the friends of the scourg- 
ed and imbruted bondman, to liberate him from his dark 
and dreary prison-house. 

So, then, you are afraid the slave will get no benefit from 
the money you are called upon to furnish the anti-slavery 
society to carry on its operations. Friend, whoever you 
may be, let me ask you, before God and your own con- 
science, how much of real sympathy there is in your heart, 
when you urge this objection, for the millions who are now 
writhing under the lash of the driver's whip, or are toiling 
in the rice-swamp, or the cotton field, to support in luxury 
and idleness their inhuman taskmasters ? You love the 
slave, do you ? You are an abolitionist. You recognize 
the duty of feeling for those in bonds as bound with them. 
Yes; and when you are called upon to give of your abun- 
dant m.eans for the destruction of a system which surely 
may be regarded as the climax of all iniquity, as the key- 
stone to the great Babel of sin and misery which has 
spread over our earth, and which now towers toward heav- 
en, — as the masterpiece in the devil's store-house of 



I FEAR THE SLAVE WILL GET NO BENEFIT FROM IT. O 

means for marring the beauty of the moral universe, while 
every breeze that is wafted from the South is freighted 
with the groans and tears of the bleeding captive, telling 
us in the heart-breaking accents of unutterable woe, some- 
thing of the wrong and outrage which slavery inflicts upon 
her victims, — while this highly favored but dreadfully 
guilty nation is sinking deeper and deeper from day today 
in oppression and crime, and is fast ripening for an untime- 
ly and miserable end, — while there is an apathy in the 
public mind which one would think might cause the very 
stones in the streets to cry out, or there is seen a base 
subserviency to the slaveholding power which threatens to 
blight the fairest prospects of freedom throughout the 
world, — while all this is seen and felt around us, when you 
are called upon for assistance to avert the ruin which im- 
pends over us, you reply with the greatest sang froid 
imaginable, " You dont know as it will benefit the slave." 
Well, my friend, to your own master you stand or fall. 
But let me entreat you, by every thing that can move the 
impulses of a generous heart, to ponder well your course, 
and no longer to occupy that position, so fatal to the inter- 
ests of humanity, in which this objection places you. 

N. H. W. 

The above article of our brother " N. H. W." ought 
to make every one blush for shame, who makes an apol- 
ogy like the above to satisfy himself for not contribut- 
ing to sustain the great cause of human rights. 

Slavery is not only at war with the rights and interests 
of the slave, but with the whole country. This proposition 
is susceptible of the clearest demonstration. When the na- 
ture and influence of slavery can be fully and clearly pre- 
sented to the great mass of the people, their own interests 
will at once, as a matter of sound expediency, lead thetn to 
give their testimony for its immediate abolition. Hence 
it is that those who are directly or indirectly interested in 
its continuance, are so unwilling that its merits should have 



6 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

a free, full, and candid investigation. Free inquiry, when ap- 
plied to slavery, will produce the same effect upon that sys- 
tem as the application of the match to the magazine. 

All that is necessary, for the successful overthrow of this 
odious and soul-destroying system, is, that the people 
should be enlightened. Its cruelties should be exhibited — 
the prejudices of education should be removed — they 
should be made to see the native capabilities and resources 
of the colored race, and their oneness with the human fam- 
ily. We have every thing on our side but the interest of 
a few, to aid us in its destruction. The religion and poli- 
tics of the land are its deadliest foe. The natural feelings 
of the soul revolt at the very idea of one man's irnbruting 
his fellow, while all the feelings of the heart gush forth 
in sympathy for him m his suffering condition. 

The minds of the people, then, must necessarily be en- 
lightened before our hopes can be realized. But how can 
we expect the people to rush to the rescue of Liberty before 
they arc aware that she has been assailed ? '' And how 
shall they believe on him of whom they have not heard ? 
and how shall they hear icithout a preacher ? and hoiu 
shall they preach, except they be sent ? " 

Arrayed against us as are the leaders both in church 
and state — shut out as we are from the sympathies of the 
wise, the noble and the 7^ich, we are under the necessity of 
using all the means which God hath given us, to fight our 
way through this pro-slavery life-guard, to obtain access 
to the hearts and sympathies of the people, the laboring 
people, who get their bread by the sweat of their face. 
These instrumentalities are the circulation of books, pamph- 
lets, and papers, and, above all, the sustaining of preach- 
ers or lecturers. These all require money. The printer, 
the paper-maker, &c., cannot work without the means to 
sustain themselves — the lecturers and the editors must 
have food and clothing for themselves and families. Their 
obligations to devot-- their labors for the slave are no 
greater than your own. If you are permitted to remain 



THE WEEKLY CONTRIBUTION BOX. 



at home and enjoy the society of your family and friends, 
you are under the highest moral obligations to aid in sus- 
taining those who devote their time to the prosecution of 
this cause. They should, of all men, be free from pecun- 
iary embarrassments. All their time, influence and en- 
ergies should be used to gain admittance to the understand 
ings and consciences of the people. It is your daty, then, 
instead of throwing in these icy objections, to anticipate 
their few wants, by giving freely as God prospers you. 




THE WEEKLY CONTRIBUTION BOX. 
Have you purchased one of those beautiful little contri- 
bution boxes, in which to deposit your weekly offering for 



THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 



the bondman's redemption ? If you have not, we would 
advise you to procure one forthwith, and give it a conspic- 
uous place in the most public room in your house, where 
it may plead for suffering and outraged humanity. It will 
cost you but six and a quarter cents. A picture like the 
above adorns the front of the box. Behold the woman 
upon her knees, in chains ! What sorrow and anguish 
are depicted upon her countenance. Perhaps she is a sis- 
ter or daughter, or what is more ])robable, she is a poor 
distressed mother, imploring the Great God, with clasped 
hands, and earnestness equal to the occasion, to restore to 
her embrace, a beloved infant, which had just lieen torn 
from her bosom. It may be that the slaveholder has just 
deprived her of a brother, a father, or husband. Reader, 
what would be your feelings if slavery should enter your 
dwelling and desolate your fire-side, by carrying away 
one of your little group ? Bring the thing home to your- 
self, and you will be better prepared to sympathize with the 
oppressed. 

Look at the beautiful pillars of our government, entwin- 
ed with chains. Around their base are fetters and clogs, 
and whips and gags. This is a fair representation of our 
re*publican government with respect to slavery. But, not- 
withstanding this revolting picture, there is something in 
the scene, which to the friend of the slave is truly cheer- 
ing. Mark the rays of light emanating from the arch 
resting upon those pillars. Those rays contain not only 
light but heat. Already are the chains beginning to melt 
away. The anti-slavery societies only need funds to en- 
able them to scatter light and heat throughout the Union, 
by which all these extraneous fabrics, which have gathered 
around the pillars of our republic, will be burned to dross 
and cinder. Fail not, then, as soon as you secure one of 
these depositories, to decide in view of your conscience and 
your God — in view of the degraded, brutalized, and be- 
ni^-hted slave — in view of the declaration of your Divine 
Master, " and as ye would that men should do unto you, 
do ye also unto them likewise," — v/e say, in view of all these 



MONTHLY CONCERT FOR THE EN SLATED. \) 

considerations, fail not to decide what shall be the amount 
of your weekly oblation, and then in view of that decision, 
let every returning Sabbath morning be a witness that you 
" Remember those in bonds as bound with them^ 



MONTHLY CONCERT FOR THE ENSLAVED. 

Why is it that the anti-slavery monthly concert is not 
established in your town ? It cannot be because you have 
no time to spare. Do you not attend conference meetings, 
and political meetings, and social parties, &c. &c. ? You 
can meet with your friends to pray for the conversion of 
the heathen across the waters, or beyond the Rocky Moun- 
tains, or for a revival in your own neighborhood, or for the 
conversion of a father, wife, sister, daughter, or some dear 
friend. You can meet with comn:iittees of bank, steam- 
boat, rail-road, meeting-house and hundreds of other cor- 
porations, half a score of times every month without any 
inconvenience; but when you are requested to meet once a 
month to plead for the temporal and eternal interests of 
millions of the most degraded heathen in the world, for- 
pooth you cannot command time for such a purpose. What 
interest have you, my friends, in the slave, when you will 
offer an apology like this ? 

Let no consideration prevent your establishing the con- 
cert forthwith in your place. Let the last Monday in eve^ 
ry month witness your wrestlings with God for the bond- 
man's deliverance. Let efficient plans be there made for 
the successful prosecution of the cause for the coming 
month. Let every collector have the monthly subscrip- 
tion collected, and then pay it over to the Treasurer, that 
our friend Chapman can have the money k) apply to the 
cause as soon as may be. During every moment of delay 
the slave is in chains. We want to hear his ransom 
shout. We long to mingle our praises with his, on the 
great day of his redemption. 



10 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

♦ OH! HOW HAPPY!!! 

The following anecdote from our brother Bishop proves 
conclusively that the slaves are possessed with the same 
feeling's and emotions, and governed by the same motives 
and influences which would govern others under like cir- 
cumstances. Read it, and judge for yourselves. 

For the Uffering. 

" Why do you not get a wife ? " said I, jokingly, one 
evening to a noble looking and noble hearted man of dark 
skin, in Virginia. "Why," he replied, looking very se- 
rious and sad, " if I must answer you, it is because I cdn- 
sider myself to be a tight bound slave. All my time and 
all my earnings belong to my master, so that it would be 
impossible for me to bestow upon a wife those little at- 
tentions which a husband should. I become so fatigued 
through the day, that I cannot work in the night to pro- 
cure presents and little necessaries for her. Besides, if I 
had a wife, she would belong to some other master, so that 
I could not even visit her without going away to a 
distance, on foot, at times when I should greatly need 
sleep and rest. Under these and similar disabilities, I 
think it better for me to remain as I am. Why should I 
have a wife, when I cannot oe a husband to her? Do you 
not think that I am right ? " 

Do slaves desire freedom ? was a question that I 
involuntarily asked myself, and the answer rushed over 
my' mind from the look and tone of that chained man be- 
fore me. He felt that he was a slave, and his very coun- 
tenance showed that his emotions were all after freedom. 
I shall never forget that conversation, nor can I forget that 
now while I am writing, this man, so noble, and so capable, 
is laboring for another without reward, or, to use his own 
words, as a " tight hound slave."" Let us. persevere in our 
anti-slavery labors, till from his limbs and the limbs of his 
two million seven hundred thousand associates, the fetters 
are all melted away. J. P. B. 



PINDA : — A TRUE TALE. 



11 



The Spirit which will effect the destruction 
OF Slavery. 

The following- extract of a letter received from a noble- 
hearted friend of the slave, in Walpole, exhibits that self- 
sacrificing spirit, and that untiring devotion to the cause of 
the crushed and imbruted bondman, which, if universally 
manifested by those who claim to be his friends, would, 
with the blessing of God, soon raise him from his de- 
gradation, and give him a practical residence on the 
great platform of humanity. We say to all who may read 
the extract, Go and do likewise. 

" I and my yoang daughter pay a weekly contribution 
of a cent a week apiece, and more if we can get it. But, 
reading your address, it drew tears of real sympathy, and 
I have put in one shilling. I know it is but a mite, but 
receive it with my prayers. I wish I had more to give, 
but I have just paid our monthly allowance, and can send 
no more this time " 



PINDA: 

A T RU E tale. 
By Maria Weston Chapman. 



CHAPTER L— A SHIPS CABIN. 

O ie dark night in the year 1836, an unusual stir took 
place on the deck of the good ship Eli Whitney, about to 
sail from Boston to Savannah. It was occasioned by the 
appearance of an officer, charged with a writ of habeas 
corpus, in favor of a supposed slave, who was known to 
have been carried on board by her master. 

Slave-holders are accustomed 'o say that their victims 
cannot be persuaded to take their freedom, and to bring 
their own assertion as a proof of the merits of slavery It 
was, therefore, an anxious moment for the friends of free- 



12 THE BIONTHLY OFFERING. 

dom on shore, while they waited to learn the result of the 
legal process by which they oflered to the poor slave- wo- 
man, the freedom secured by the laws of Massachusetts, to 
all slaves brought under its jurisdiction by their masters. 

Their anxiety was not without cause. Notwithstanding 
the statement of the officer that she was free; — notwith- 
standing the assurances of her master that she might do ps 
she pleased, she refused to leave the ship. She was evi- 
dently both confused and a!armed, as well as undecided, for 
a few moments; but she finally persisted in remaining 
with her master, and, to the great pain of all the friends of 
freedom who were aware of the circumstance, she was car- 
ried away into slavery. 

They felt a double grief; — not only for the individual in 
question, but for the reproach her course could not fail to 
bring upon their cause. They knew, for they had felt 
and reflected upon this subject, and had seen and known 
more than the heedless community in which they lived, 
gave them credit for, that there might exist a thousand rea- 
sons why this woman should wish to return to Savannah, 
without supposing her to be in love with slavery. But 
they knew also that advantage would be taken of the fact 
by the enemies of the cause, to prove that slaves do not 
wish to be free. 

As they expected, the newspapers of the ensuing day 
were loud in censure of their " impertinent interference 
with gentlemen's servants, who were wise enough to pre- 
fer slavery with their masters, to trusting themselves with 
these hare-brained philanthropists." 



CHAPTER II. THE SLAVE HUT. 



" Dear wife," said Abraham to Pinda, as they stood by 
the door of his little hut, in the yellow moonlight of a Sa- 
vannah evening, — "you must never lose another chance for 
freedom out of regard to me. Look here!" (digging in a 
little sand-heap and turning up his hoarded silver to the 



PlNDAi — A TRUE TALE. IS 

rays.) " See what I have saved besides paying master 
ten dollars a morith. You will want some of this at 
the North. Master has written to Mr. Mitchell to send you 
on to wait upon Missis in New Hampshire, because 
he feels sure of you, since that night on board the Eli 
Whitney. Dont cry, Pinda. If freedom don't part us, 
slavery will. When you get to the Norths take the first 
chance and be off. Dont cry, Pinda, don't ! See how^ 
nice I have got your trunk packed ; and here is a list I got 
made of^all the things in it; may be they have some 
law by which you can get the things again if you are 
obliged to leave them in master's hands at first. See here 
is the key — all safe. He has sold two or three boys lately, 
and our turn will come sooner or later." 

This consideration helped Pinda to stifle her grief at 
parting from her husband. He might yet rejoin her ;-— 
they might yet be free and happy. She had no choice 
but to go to the North at the mandate of her master's 
agent; and she resolved, that night, to stay at the North, 
in the hope that her husband might find opportunity to fol* 
low her. When on board the Eli Whitney the chance for 
freedom had been presented to her, her mind had been 
convulsed by conflicting emotions. If she had not return- 
ed, her master, she knew, would have deemed it but a 
proper retribution to leave Abraham in a state of cruel un- 
certainty respecting her. Now, that part of the case was 
changed ; and though the husband and wife parted in 
grief, it was grief mingled with hope. 



CHAPTER ni.~THE ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING. 

On the 25th of January, 1837, the 6th annual meeting of 
the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society had called togeth- 
er a true hearted array of the sons and daughters of that 
ancient Commonwealth. " Not many rich — not many no- 
ble" were there, as the world counts riches and nobility ; 
but of the rich in generous sympathy — the noble in their 



14 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

devotedness to freedom, came a goodly multitude. Far- 
mers, traders, and artisans — the fair and the dark — of 
English and of x\frican descent, men, women and children, 
they thronged toi^ether with one heart and with one mind : 
the worthiest children of Massachusetts, by this token, that 
the trumpet-call of freedom came not to them in vain. 
During one of their thirteen sittings on that occasion, a 
stranger rose to speak. He was gentlemanly and preposses- 
sing in his appearance, and every ear gave him attention. 
He was announced to the assembly as Mr. Logan, of Sa- 
vannah. He added that, though a slaveholder, he was 
also a Christian; and could he be convinced that slave- 
holding was condemned by Scripture, he would instantly 
renounce it; and he cited the case of Onesimus and Phil- 
emon, and the laws of Moses. The bible argument against 
slavery, (thanks to the labors of anti-slavery societies now 
the only one the New England people will receive,) was 
fully presented to him. His reply was, " You have 
said much that is true, and much that is new; but 
what is true is not new, and -what is new is not true." 
He proceeded to declare that he still held himself open 
to conviction, and sincerely hoped that, if he were in 
the w^rong, he might be convinced of it, though at pres- 
ent he saw no proof of it, either from Scripture of from 
the nature of slavery. " You call us men-stealers," he 
said "as if that could be branded as a sin, w^hich was uni- 
versally practised by the Patriarchs. " Well, Sir ! " 
exclaimed a man of color v/ho had more than once sprung 
upon his feet as the discussion proceeded; "what said the 
patriarchs themselves of it ? Indeed I ivas stolen, — said the 
patriarch Joseph :— We are verily guilty concerning our 
brother ! said the other sons of Jacob," Driven from this 
ground^ the Southerner proceeded to enlarge upon the fe- 
licity secured to the slaves by the system. " Our servants 
are very happy," he said. " One of my own people had 
the opportunity presented her, last year, of leaving me. 
We were on board the Eli Whitney, down in your bar- 



PINDA :— A TRUE TALE. 15 

bor here, just about to sail for the dreadful land of slavery ; 
but she would not quit me. They could not get her to do 
it. There is nothing dhe so much dreads as an abolition- 
ist. She knows she is fr.r better off as a slave than are your 
free women at the North. She told the other women on 
her return that " her missis' mother, in New Hampshire 
did more work in a day. than they were obliged to doin a 
week." She saw no charms in your boasted northern 
liberty." 

Great pains were taken by the meeting that the lonely 
advocate of slavery should have no reason to think himself 
unkindly or unfairly dealt with, because he was in a mi- 
nority of one. Men checked themselves in their expres- 
sions of detestation for his sentiments, lest he should sup- 
pose that they had a disposition to deny him opportunity 
for the fullest presentation of them. 

At the close of the meeting, more than one of the mem- 
bers invited the stranger to share the hospitalities of their 
homes. They hoped, by their private conversation and 
kindly reception, to assure him that it was the best good of 
the South and of the whole country that they sought, in 
their labors for the abolition of slavery. Their houses 
were open day and night to the fugitive slave, and they 
hoped that good might, in this instance, result from opening 
them to the slaveholder. 

"Mamma!" exclaimed a little girl of six years 
old, who pressed closer to the side of her parents as 
she heard Mr. Logan accept an invitation to dine with 
them, " oh ! if you please, mamma, let me dine with 
Aunt Mary." " It is not convenient to day, Elizabeth," re- 
plied the mother. " But, mamma ! I cannot hear to sit 
down to dinner with a man who sells little children." 



CHAPTER IV. — THE MORNING CALL. 

If my readers are Bostorfians, they cannot have failed to 
pass through West Street, one of the avenues leading from 
the Common to Washington Street. On the left side of 



16 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

it they will reco-Ilect stables and carriage manufactories — • 
on the right, a row of brick dwellings. It was in the draw- 
ing-room of one of these houses, that the conversation I 
am about to relate, went on between the mistress of the 
mansion and a visitor. Both ladies seemed " on hospita- 
ble thoughts intent," " The Logans are Presbyterians, I 
learn," said the visitor, " and so I shall ask all our ortho- 
dox friends to meet them. I think they will be altogether 
more likely to be impressed by the arguments and conver- 
sation of those of their own denomination." 

" When do you receive them ? " rejoined the lady of the 
house. 

*' This evening)" was the reply. " I am on my way 
there now, to invite them." 

Here the conversation was interrupted. — "Someone 
wishes to speak with you a moment." Apologizing to her 
friend, the lady descended to the hall. The person in 
waiting informed her that, as he was crossing the street 
near the Providence Rail-road, he had observed a woman 
of color standing in the way, as if doubtful where to go. 
She had on her head only the turban that constitutes the 
head-dress of the Southern female slave, and her w^hole 
appearance bespoke her condition. 

*' Are you a slave? '^ he said. " Yes ; my master sent 
for me to come to him, but I cannot find the way." 

" Do you wish to be free ? " 

"Yes." 

" Come with me, then ; " — and he conducted her to 
the nearest anti-slavery dwelling, which chanced to be 
the one where we have seen our two ladies in conversation. 

They set food before the travel-worn stranger, and bade 
her depend on them that no one thing that her case requir- 
ed should be left undone. 

To he concluded in the next No. 



MONTHLY OFFERING. 



AUGUST, 1840. 



'' HE IS CONTENTED AND HAPPY," 

Though this objection is almost as old as the doctrine of 
immediate and unconditional emancipation, and in many 
places worn thread-bare and lain aside ; yet, among a cer- 
tain class, it is quite common. No sooner do this class of 
republicans and Christians hear the wretched condition of 
the miserable subjects of " the peculiar institutions" por- 
trayed, than they meet it with the above objection, 
which they conceive to be perfectly unanswerable. It 
matters not to them, how great the cruelty imposed upon 
the slave, how benighted his mind, how ignorant of the na- 
ture, character and government of God, and the relation he 
sustains to HIM and his fellow creatures. It matters not 
how entirely ignorant he is of .his temporal and eternal in- 
terests, — how unconscious of the dignity and immortalitv 
of his nature, if he does not appear like a ghost for starva- 
tion, but exhibits that indiflference, and mirthfulness, char- 
acteristic of servility and degradation, in every age and 
country, — they instantly raise their hands and cry out, 
" Dont agitate the subject, they are contented and happy." 

Only arrange the machinery so as to make him uncon- 
scious of the wrong, — ^just benumb the soul of the victim 
by the touch of the torpedo slavery — extinguish, if possi- 
ble, the fire of freedom, as it enkindles in the soul, and if 
you can reduce him to the condition of a brute, so that he 
is satisfied with his scanty rations, andj pleased when he 
can evade the snappings of the lash, or escape the watch- 
ings of his task-master ; in a word, if he can be so lost to 
all the attributes of man as to be " contented and happy," 
he has not been wronged nor outraged. The nature and 



18 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

degree of the guilt is not to be graduated by the atrocity of 
the crime, but by the intelligence and feelings of him upon 
whom the outrage is committed. 

THIS WILL SUPERCEDE ALL BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATIONS. 

Let this system of benevolence be at once universally 
adopted, and never interfere with a community, if those who 
compose it are but " contented and happy." Let the Mis- 
sionary Societies call home their laborers from the whole 
world, as it is generally understood that the heathen are 
satisfied with their condition, and desire to walk in the foot- 
steps of their fathers. Even the Hindoo widow, as she 
casts her body to be consumed upon the burning pile of her 
deceased husband ; the mother, as she throws her smil- 
ing infant to be drowned in the waters of the Ganges, and 
the devotees to Juggernaut, as they prostrate themselves 
before its car, and are crushed, are all " contented and hap- 

py-" 

Whisper no rebuke in the ears of an inebriate, or to the 
man who imports, manufactures or vends " the liquid fire," 
unless it can be perfectly shown that they are not "-con- 
tented and happy ;" and finally never admonish your neigh- 
bor of the wretchedness that awaits him, as he is going 
down the broad road to eternal ruin, if he is so unconscious 
o( his condition as to be " contented and happy." 

What a beautiful system I How admirably adapted to 
relieve mankind of all the ills flesh is heir to ! If the 
cares of life oppress you, or misfortune crosses your path, 
— if poverty stares you in the face, or the irksome hours of 
day roll heavily along, the remedy is plain. There is 

" A sovereign balm for every vt'Oiuid, 
A cordial for y-our fears." 

Put yourselves under the guardian care of Franklin & 
Armfield, who will kindly provide you with a home for 
life, where you can luxuriate under the driver's lash, and 
bask in a Georgia's sun, upon a rice swamp, cotton field, 
or sugar plantation. How distressing it was, that the in- 
habitants of this country did not understand the nature of 
tiii.v universal Panacea, Vvrhon war seemed inevitable with 



HE is CONTENTED AND HAPPY. 19 

l^'rance, on account of her unwillingness to acknowledge 
our claim to a few millions of her francs; and with Eng- 
land, too, because she laid claim to a few square leagues of 
our territory, of little more value than so much blue sky. 
If they had known their best good, they would have prayed 
these, governments to convert them into things, goods, 
and chattels personal, to all intents, purposes, and construc- 
tions, whatsoever-^to rob them of all their rights, — in a 
word, to make them slaves, and then, this done, oh ! how 
" contented and happy'" they would have been. 

HAPPINESS IN THE SLAVE CONDEMNS THE SYSTEBI. 

But what is slavery? What is its influence upon the 
mind and soul ? It is easy to conceive of many of the 
cruelties it inflicts upon the body of the slave ; but as cruel, 
monstrous, and heart-rending as these may be, they are 
but as dust in the balance, to the vv^rong it inflicts upon the 
mind. It has a darker feature. It aims at the annihilation 
of the soul. Slavery endeavors to reduce the man, men- 
tally, to the condition of the brute, and in proportion as it 
succeeds in this, he rises in value. It aims to thrust 
its poisoned sting into the very centre of his heart, — to 
seal over the avenues to his understanding, — to annihilate 
all desires for improvement — to stand between his ton- 
science and his God. Man was created to be free, free to 
go and come at his pleasure, — to search after knowleda^e 
and to pry into all the mysteries of the Godhead, — to make, 
continually, new discoveries in scientific and religious 
truth, — never to be satisfied with his present attainments, 
but to be always progressing. This principle is developed 
in every department of society, and strikingly exemplified 
in the school boy, as he desires to enter a class in advance 
of himself. To enter that class is the desire of his heart. 
Every thing is made subsidiary to that object. But no 
sooner is this purpose accomplished, than he reaches for- 
ward for higher attainments, and advancing thus, step by 
step, eventually becomes dissatisfied with any thing short 
of Newtonian science. Thus the mind will, throughout eter- 
nity, be approximating to the great Fountain of all knowl» 



20 TKE MONtHLY OFFERING. 

edge and perfection, the CREATOR. This is what con- 
stitutes the happiness of man : it is his peculiar characteris- 
tic in contradistinction from that of the brute. Now, that 
system which can annihilate in tht slave his natural pant- 
ings for freedom, paralize the energies of his soul, root 
out his inborn desires for improvement, so that he can be 
"contented and happy" in being entirely used for another's 
benefit, needs no further evidence to convict it, in the lan- 
guage of the immortal Wesley, of being " the execrable sum 
of all villanies." This alone is conclusive against the sys- 
tem of slaverv^ 



PINDA: 
A TRUE TALE, 

By Maria Weston Chapman. 



Concluded from page 16. 

" Master sent for me to be forwarded here to him, but I 
cannot find the way. I should not go near him, only he 
has my trunk with every thing I have. We got snagged 
going down the river, and I was put on board one vessel 
and my trunk on board another, which got on first. Mas- 
ter's house is here," she said, showing a soiled scrap of 
paper, on which was written, though it it had become al- 
most illegible, "No. 5 Court Street." 

" What is your master's name '? " exclaimed both ladies, 
in a breath. 
" Logan." 

Great was the astonishment of the two friends at this 
wonderful coincidence. " Truth was strange — stranger 
than fiction." Here then was the " happy slave" of the 
hero of the Massachusetts annual meeting ! Here was she 
who had. refused to take her freedom ; — the heroine of the 
Eli Whitney, who had dared slavery that she might not 
distress the heart of her husband. 

Her new friends advised her to go openly to her master, 
and claim her freedom and her property, face to face. She 



PINDA:- — A TRUE TALE. 21 

shook her head. " He could contrive to hinder me in a 
thousand ways, if I let him know first. No, — I'd better 
take my clothes and things and go off before he knows — if 
I knew how to find this place." 

" Follow me, " said the projector of the Presbyterian 
tea-party. " I am going there this moment, and shall de- 
light tc show you the way." 

Forward they went, down Washington Street, up Court 
Street ; — the lady rung at No. 5, and delivered her note of 
invitation to the servant ; — Pinda squeezed past, inquiring 
for " my master" — and so ended this eventful morning. 



CHAPTER V. THE TEA PARTY. 

As 7 o'clock that evening drew nigh, the guests began to 
gather around the pleasant hearth of the " South-end Abo- 
litionist." The Logans, for whom the party had been 
made, failed not to be of the number. 

The talk naturally fell on slavery, and Mr. Logan, how- 
ever open to conviction he might have kept his mind, con- 
fessed himself still unconverted. He dvi^elt particularly oi^ 
the unfitness of the slaves for freedom, and on their unwil- 
lingness to receive it. Again " my woman" was walked 
over the course, as at the annual meeting, and the fact of 
her arrival that morning announced. 

" How she ever found me," he said, "I cannot conjec- 
ture." The hostess, who labored under no su£h uncer- 
tainty as to the modus operandi, looked hard into the fire, 
the better to conceal her inclination to laugh. 

" She could not even procure a carriage," he continued, 
'* to bring her to me from the rail-road. There is much 
boasting of liberty at the North, but there seems to be little 
"real justice here for her race." This was too painfulhr 
true to excite mirth. 

*' I think," he went on, smiling courteously, with a slight 
and general bow to the company, " that we of the South 
may defy even such zeal and perseverance, as I admiringly 
acknowdedge in the abolitionists. We can rely on the at- 



•22 THE BIONTHLY OFFERING. 

lachment of our servants. I knew, when I sent to my 
ag^ent for the one who arrived this morning, how much 
pleasure it would give her to rejoin us." 

The host, unavv^are of the developments of the morning, 
could not enter so fully as the ladies, into the exquisite 
comedy of the scene, but the words " I sent to my agent 
&c." arrested his attention; and by a mule glance, he took 
the company to witness that here was a case in which a 
slave might hereafter require their aid to prove her mas- 
ter's acknowledged agency in her transportation. 

In the relative position of the company to each other, 
affected as it had been by the events of the morning, a free 
flow of conversation coukl hardly be expected. Some, 
wondering at the constrained mianner of others, strove to 
sustain the conversation upon the scriptural arguments, 
and the loveliness of liberty — but it was a relief to all 
when the evening w^as at an end. To one party, that they 
might recount to each other the events of the day; — to the 
other, that they might, with the help of " our woman," just 
arrived, arrange their line of march from No. 5 Court Street 
to New Hampshire, which was to be taken up the ensuing 
morning. 

How many a slip is there between the cup and the lip I 
" Our woman," on being summoned by Mr. Hogan, to at- 
tend upon the night-toilette of her mistress, was ascertain- 
ed to be in society altogether unbecoming the character of 
'-' an attached slave ; " — i. e. among the missing. 



CHAPTER VI. THE FREE DAVELLING. 

After a few weeks residence with the friend whose 
house had first sheltered her, Pinda expressed a desire to 
be no longer dependent on an}^ one, for what her own ex-. 

ertions might procure. She selected a room in - 

Street, where she lived as happily as the separation from 
her husband would permit. She experienced no difficulty 
in providing for all her wants by the labor of her hands. 
It was, to say the least, as easy, she' found, to wash, iron, 
brew, bake, sweep or *' clean paint," for a consideration^ 



- PINDA : A TRUE TALE. 23 

as to do all these things without receiving any considera- 
tion at all. 

She was sometimes annoyed by Mr. Logan, who never 
failed, when he visited Boston, to alarm her by endeavors 
to find out her humble apartment, or to send her some 
threat, from which, in her uncertainty as to the extent of 
his power, she could not help suffering. 

She used, when so annoyed, to pay a visit to "her peo- 
ple," as she always called those who first sheltered her, 
that she might obtain fresh assurance of the safety of her 
new position. ' ' 

" Mr. Logan tells us," said this family to her, (for they 
always made it a point of conscience to transmit his 
messages ;) '* that he wants you to go back with him, that 
he may have you nursed up, and taken care of" " Why 
did not he take care of me when he had the chance ?" was 
the reply. 

" He says he wishes very much to see you." 

" I have seen as much as I want to of him. 



When those who had the opportunity of watching the 
facts here narrated, as they evolved from the arrangements 
of Providence, hear it said that slaves cannot take care of 
themselves if made free, they point to Pinda, living in 
freedom with industrious and provident comfort. 

When they hear the ignorant and heartless assertion 
that slaves do not wish to be free, they point to Pinda, 
struo-gling between the claims of freedom and affection. 

When they hear it denied that the North is guilty of 
upholding slavery, they point to the " gentlemanly and re- 
ligious slave-holder,"^ — connected by marriage with the 
farthest North — brinofing his slaves into the free New 
Hampshire homes— takino- his place in the assemblies of 
our northern social and religious life — partaking of every 
symbol of Christian communion — following his letters of 
introduction into the first society, and disseminating every 
where the principles of unrighteousness and slavery : and 
then they bid the beholder mark the conduct of those who 



24 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

claim to represent the piety and intelligence of the North, 
towards such a man. 

They claim to be ministers of Christ and conservators of 
morals ; yet their " poor dumb mouths " are never opened 
on this giant iniquity, and silent they are determined to re- 
main, till the mouths of " Garrison and the like" are shut. 
When we see such men, racked by the pressure of a pub- 
lic in the process of regeneration, all refusing to do more 
ihan to admit that " it might, perhaps, be well for men to he- 
gin to corisider this subject," they point to the slave-holder'' s 
unrebuked and incessant labors among us, and say; "while 
we have among us devotedness to slavery like this, and 
continue to sustain religious teachers who refuse to con- 
demn it, while they unhesitatingly denounce abolitionists^ 
what can be said but that the North is guilty of upholding 
slavery with the most powerful means she possesses ? " 



CHAPTER VH. THE SURPRISE. 

A year and seven months from the time of Pinda's ar- 
rival in Boston, as the cold November rains began to set in, 
she sat lonely by her humble hearth in B. street. A mel- 
ancholy feelmg crept over her as she thought of her absent 
husband, and of the length of time that had elapsed since 
they parted. She thought of all the dreadful uncertainties 
af his situation. Had Mr.Logan sold him to the far South ? 
Had he kept him in ignorance of her fate ? Had he suc- 
ceeded in making Abraham believe Pinda dishonest and 
unworthy? She had every reason to suppase the latter 
might be the case, as Mr. Logan had spared no pains to 
create prejudice against her in the minds of her new friends, 
by declaring that she had robbed Abraham of all his sav- 
ings before she left Savannah, as well as himself of larg-e 
sums. Her heart sunk within her as she weighed the 
probabilities that she might never again behold her hus- 
band. She had once procured a letter to be written to him, 
but how many contingencies might have prevented his i^e- 
ceiving it. The mail does not run forslavesj nor^ as aboli' 



PINUA : A TRUE TALE. 25 

tionists have learned to their cost, for truly freemen either. 
In this, at least, we are in bonds as bound with them. 

Ov^erpowered with painful reflections, she sat nourishing 
the expiring fire, till it seemed the emblem of her perishing 
hopes. A knocking at the door aroused her, and as she 
opened it a man of color stood in the passage, bidding her 
< come to a certain house he mentioned in Battery-march 
Street that evening, and she would find a letter from her 
husband. He was alive then — well, perhaps — still confid- 
ed in her affection and integrity. She could hardly wait 
for evening, and its first stars saw her on her way to the 
place of appointment. The same man received her on her 
arrival, but seemed in no haste to produce the promised 
letter. He talked vaguely of the many changes and chan- 
ces of life, and how we ought to be prepared for whatever 
might take place. What — what has happened, she strove 
to say ; but she could not speak the words. " What would 
you say," continued the m.an, " if the person from whom 
you expect to receive a letter were not far from here ? " 
Pinda rose — fear, doubt, joy, struggling within her for the 
master}^ She made a step towards the entrance — her 
consciousness gave way, and she fell fainting to the floor. 
The humane man, who had striven in vain to prepare her 
for the unexpected arrival, raised her up and succeeded in 
reviving her. 

Her husband was called in, and all the various experi- 
ences of both recounted. " I am here," said Abraham. 
"How I got here you must not tell, for it may bring kind 
people into difficulty, and close up the way to those who 
are left behind. Our two little children — it is well they 
are dead. W'e have not left them in slavery. 970 dollars 
1 have paid master since he first hired me out 6 years ago, 
and have paid all my own clothes, food, doctoring, and for 
all the doctoring that Pinda needed, even to a spoonful of 
oatmeal, though she was master's house-slave : and to hear 
him say that she stole ! " " Yes," interrupted Pinda, " he 
said that I had robbed you and himself" Abraham could 
not suppress an interjection of contempt. " Is not all that 
I have vours, Pinda, and could it be in better hands?*' 



^6 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

Abraham o-ave evidence, in all his remarks, of sound 
sense and right feeling. Aware that his own case differed 
from that of his wife, he being a fugitive, and she protected 
by the law in the enjoyment of her freedom, he laid his 
plans for safety with acuteness, and followed them out with 
steadiness. He keenly realized, though the fair and the weal- 
thy find it difficult to do so,that the freest state of the twenty 
six has so much to do with slavery that there is not a foot 
of ground in all its fair territory where the fugitive may 
feel secure. Not a hamlet where he can be assured that 
men will let the outcast dwell with them and bewray not him 
that wandereth. Both the husband and v/ife were perfect- 
ly aware of the cares and duties of freedom — of its respon- 
sibilities, as well as of its delights. " No," said Pinda, " in 
reply to one who queried whether slavery were not as easy 
to be borne as the disadvantages and possible privations of 
their new condition,— " a crust here, with only cold water, 
is better than the greatest plenty in slavery. AH my youth 
I have suffered under different mistresses with no enjoy- 
ment of my family. Now, Abraham is with me. I will 
take care of him — he will take care of me. We may suf- 
fer with the cold — we may suffer from want, but our last 
days will be our best days, for we are FREE." 



CHAPTER Vni. THE WEEKLY CONTRIBUTION. 

Tw^o ways opened to Abraham, either of which would 
ensure his safety from pursuit. One was the way to Can- 
ada — the other to Guiana. While making up his mind 
respecting them, his thoughts often reverted to the condi- 
tion of his afflicted people at the South ; and he felt, what 
every human soul ought deeply to feel, — " that Freedom 
itself is not sv/eet to a man, while a brother is suffering in 
bondage." Many a midnight found him in discussion with 
Pinda upon the " principles and measures of Anti-Slavery 
Societies." It was surprising how little difficulty they 
found in comprehending problems that had puzzled Theo- 
logical institutions, and whole bodies of clergymen. They 



PINDA: A TRUE TALE. 27 

saw, as by intuition, how their former Master's northern 
friends and associates might bring him to understand, if 
they would, that slavery was an intolerable abomination. 
It was no riddle to them " What the North had to do with 
it." It was to them as clear as the sun at noon-day, that 
the Boston man who manufactured "negro-cloths" for the 
Savannah man, and took his pay in cotton, had precisely 
the same interest in the continuance of slavery as the latter. 
It was no marvel to ihera that the members of Park St. 
Bowdoin St. Federal St. and Berry St. &;g. who per- 
chance held mortgages of Southern property, or deeds of 
Alabama lands, should give their respective ministers to 
understand that it was disagreeable to them to hear notices 
read on Sunday of an anti-slavery meeting. 

They had had opportunities to know how many a north- 
ern conscience is killed with kindness at the South, — and 
how many a southern conscience, strengthened in iniquity 
by the conduct of professors of religion at the North. It 
looked as clear as day to them, that the more members there 
were in a church, the easier the minister's salary was rais- 
ed : — -and they saw that as matters stood, the richest men 
would be the first to quit a church whose discipline for- 
bade participation in slaveholding. 

They saw why it should be as much as a minister's liv- 
ing was worth to be an abolitionist, and what made it so 
difficult to " work with Mr. Garrison." 

That enigma, " immediate emancipation," was not too 
much for their philosophy : that dark saying " slavery is a 
sin in all circumstances," looked luminous to their ethics. 
Anti-Slavery Societies of men and women, helping each 
other to put a stop to slavery, looked to them as natural as 
life, and as beautiful as religion. If a man hated slavery, 
thev sawthat he would just as surely call " all hands to the 
work," as he would breathe. 

But then they had had those actual illuminations on the 
subject, before which the fashionable mental difficulties flee 
away like fog before the sun of a summer morning. Thir- 
ty-nine lashes, well laid on, or the severing of the first-born, 



28 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

would soon make a man see, they thought, that all this 
hanging back sprung out of selfish sympathy with the 
master, and the want of common human feeling for the 
slave. 

Seeing so clearly and feeling so deeply, as these two did, 
their first inquiry was, " What shall we do ? Poor as they 
were, they felt rich in the possession of liberty, and they 
gave their mite to extend it to others, with that effusion of 
heart, so lovely and so rare, that commands a blessing up- 
on the spot where it is poured out. 

"Just the thing for us ! " they said; as they saw the 
" weekly contribution plan," set up in the dwelling they 
loved so well to visit, as it was so many centuries ago in 
the dwellings of the Christian Greeks. They entered their 
names upon the card as subscribers, each of a cent a week; 
and as they might so soon depart, they paid in advance. 
The little boxes of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, 
the savings banks of the cause, have the aperture made too 
narrow for the reception of any but small coins ; and the 
contributors to the West Street box blushed to think that the 
first time that the size of a donation rendered it necessary 
to raise the cover for its admission, was when Pinda 
brought her discolored Mexican dollar, yet incrusted with 
the sand of its Savannah hiding-place,) to carry on the op- 
erations of the Massachusetts Society against Slavery. 



KIND TREATMENT. 

Probably no one of the multitude of objections, urged by 
slaveholders and their apologists against the abolitionists, 
has ever gulled more people, or contributed more effectual- 
ly to quell the gushing tide of sympathy for those in bonds, 
which rises spontaneously in every human heart at the 
bare mention of that system by which they are ground in 
the dust, than the old stereotyped one about kind treatment. 
From the time man first imbruted and murdered God's im 
age by claiming to hold his equal brother as an article of 



KIND TREATMENT. 29 



merchandise to the present mid-day career of this " glori- 
our republic" of men-stealers, this has beet! the constant 
cry of every tyrant and every robber of his species. 
"Treated well." "Better off than if they were free," 
" Would not take their freedom if they could get it," &c. 
&c., constitute the universal pro-slavery humbug, which 
has been palmed upon a too credulous community, in every 
age and nation where man has exercised unrighteous do- 
minion over his fellow man, and philanthropy has attempt- 
ed to break every yoke and let the oppressed go free. The 
following graphic grouping together of histories in support 
of the position we have here assumed, is taken from Weld's 
"Slavery As It Is ; "-a work by the way which should be in 
the hands of every human being, and which was never yet 
read by any one whose heart was not harder than ada- 
mant, or whose conscience was not literally seared as with 
a hot iron, without feeling a glow of indignation against 
that outrageous system which reduces man to the condi- 
tion of a brute, or without rising up with a determination 
to labor for its destruction while " life and thought and 
being last," or until it shall cease to debase and murder 
the human race. N. H. W. 

It is no marvel that slaveholders are always talking of 
their kind treatment of their slaves. The only marvel is, 
that men of sense can be gulled by such professions. Des- 
pots always insist that they are merciful. The greatest 
tyrants that ever dripped with blood have assumed the 
titles of "most gracious," " m.ost clement," "most merci- 
ful," &c., and have ordered their crouching vassals to ac- 
cost them thus. When did not vice lay claim to those 
virtues which are the opposites of its habitual crimes ? 
The guilty, according to their own showing, are always 
innocent, and cowards brave, and drunkards sober, and 
harlots chaste, and pickpockets honest to a fault. Every 
body understands this. Vfhen a man's tongue grows 
thick, and he begins to hiccough and walk cross-legged, 
we expect him, as a matter of course, to protest that he is 
not drunk; so when a man is always singing the praisag 



30 THE MOMTHLY OFFERING. 

of his own honesty, we instinctively watch his movements 
and look out for our pocket-books. Vv'hoever is simple 
enough to be hoaxed by such professiobs, should never be 
trusted in the streets without somebody to take care of 
him. Human nature works out in slaveholders just as it 
does in other men, and in American slavehojders just as 
in English, French, Turkish, Algerine, Koman and Gre- 
cian. The Spartans boasted of their kindness to their 
slaves, while they whipped them to death by thousands at 
the altars of their gods. The Romans lauded their own 
mild treatment of their bondmen, while they branded their 
names on their flpsh with hot irons^ and when old. threw 
them into their fish ponds, or like Cato " the Just," starved 
them to death. It is the boast of the Turks that they treat 
their slaves as though they were their children, yet their 
common, name for them is " dogs," and for the merest tri- 
fles, their feet are bastinadoed to a jelly, or their heads 
clipped off with the scimetar. The Portuguese pride 
themselves on tiieir gentle bearing toward their slaves, yet 
the streets of Rio Janeiro are filled with naked men and 
women yoked in pairs to carts and w^agons, and whipped 
bv drivers like beasts of burden. 

"^Slaveholders, the world over, have sung the praises of their 
tender mercies towards their slaves. Even the wretches 
that plied the African slave trade, tried to rebut Clarkson's 
proofs of their cruelties, by speeches, affidavits, and pub- 
lished pamphlets, setting forth the accommodations of the 
" middle passage," and their kind attentions to the com- 
fort of those whom they had stolen from their homes, and 
kept stowed away under hatches, during a voyage of four 
thousand miles. So, according to the testimony of the au- 
tocrat of Russia, he exercises great clemency towards the 
Poles, though he exiles them by thousands to the snows of 
Siberia, and tramples them down by millions, at home. 
Who discredits the atrocities perpetrated by Ovando in 
Hispaniola, Pizarro in Peru, and Cortez in Mexico, — be- 
cause they filled the ears of the h'panish Court with pro- 
testations of their benignant rule ! While they were yok- 



KIND TREATMENT. 31 



ing the enslaved natives like beasts to the draught, work- 
ing them to death by thousands in their mines, hunting 
them with bloodhounds, torturing them on racks, and 
broiling them on beds of coals, their representations to the 
mother country teemed with eulogies of their parental 
sway ! The bloody arocities of Philip 11. in the expulsion 
of his Moorish subjects, are matters of imperishable histo- 
ry. Who disbelieves or doubts them ? And yet his cour- 
tiers magnified his virtues and chanted his clemency and 
his mercy, while the wail of a million of victims, smitten 
down by a tempest of fire and slaughter, let loose at his 
bidding, rose above the Te Beums that thundered from all 
Spain's cathedrals. When Louis XIV. revoked the edict 
of Nantz, and proclaimed two millions of hi^ subjects free 
plunder for persecution. — when from the English channel 
to the Pyrennees the mangled bodies of the Protestants 
were dragged on reeking hurdles by a shouting populace, 
he claimed to be " the father of his people," and wrote 
himself " His most Christian Majesty." 



For the Offering. 

GRATITUDE.— By M. W. Chapman. 

'* We must show that we appreciate the privileges of 
Freedom by our labors and our sympathies for those who 
do not possess them. This is the way to pay to God our 
gratitude and our thanks." — Speech of S. R. Alexander^ 
071 the first of August, 1840, at the Belknap- St. Church. 

Though fervid summer's heat is here, 

As to our work we go, 
Yet plenty crowns the smiling year, 

And Liberty's bright glow. 
Then evermore an offering pour, 

To make the bondmen know 
The happy cheer of Freedom's year. 

E'er to the grave they go. 



32 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

Resolve, as in His presence dread 

Who made you strong and free, 
To leave no burning word unsaid, 

Till every land shall be 
Pure from the stain of scourge and chain; 

And every slave shall see, 
On every plain, the golden reign 

Of peace and liberty ! 

To leave no earnest deed undone, 

Nor time nor wealth unspent, 
Untill the all-beholding sun, 

From his blue firmament 
Shall mark a light than his more bright, 

Gild mountain, plain, and wave ; 
And sink in shame the hated name 

Of master and of slave. 



Fail not tf) read the interesting narrative of PINDA, 
which is concluded in this number. Comment upon it is 
useless. The reader may be assured that even the minut- 
est of its details are facts. 



To Correspondents. We thank our friend Simmons 
for his article on the inherent sinfulness of slavery. It will 
appear in our next. 

We would sav to " Liberty^'' that his article is quite too 
long for "The Offering." 



This number of " The Offering" has been delayed to 
give subscribers an opportunity to send in their subscrip- 
tions, so that we might be better prepared to know how large 
an edition to issue. Hereafter it will be issued about the 
middle of each month. Subscribers are earnestly request- 
ed to act as agents. (t^See conditions on the second 
page of the cover. These will be rigidly adhered to. 



THE 



MONTHLY OFFERING, 



SEPTEMBER, 1840. 



We cannot give the readers of the Offering a more de- 
lightful half-hoar's occupation, tlian by presenting them 
with the following story, for which we are indebted to that 
eoterprizing band of the slave's friends, The Pawtucket 
Juvenile Society. Their little annual, '' The ENVOY 
from. Free Hearts to the Free,'' is a perfect gem. Its literary 
merit, though of so high an order, is its least recommenda- 
tion. Its Aiiti' Slavery thoroughness is truly refreshino-. 
If the friends wish to present the cause favorably to 
their friends who are unfriendly to it, they need look 
no farther than this delightful little volume. N. P. Roo-- 
ers, Sophia L. Little, Elizabeth B. Chace, Sarah A. 
Chace, William Chace, Anne Warren Weston, F. H. 
Whipple and Mary S. Gove, are among the contribu- 
tors. It seems to be given to X\ie faithful to make a good 
book. John Neal, the author of this little story, is distin- 
guished among the literati of America ; may he be distin- 
guished hereafter among the abolitionists of America. 

[From the Envoy.] 
The Instinct of Childhood. 

BY JOHN NEAL. 

A beautiful child stood near a large open window. Th^ 
window was completely overshadowed with wild-grape 
and blossoming honey-suckle, and the drooping branches 
of a prodigious elm — the largest and handsomest you ever 



34 THE MONTHLY OFFERING^ 

saw. The child was leaning forward, with half open 
mouth and thoughtful eyes, and looking up into the firma- 
ment of green leaves, forever at play, that appeared to 
overhang the whole neighborhood ; and her loose bright hair 
as it broke away in the cheerful morning wind, glittered 
like stray sunshines among the branches and blossoms. 

Just underneath her feet and almost within reach of her 
little hand, swung a large and prettily contrived bird-cage — ■ 
all open to the sky ! The broad plentiful grape leaves lay 
upon it in heaps — ^^the morning wind blew pleasantly 
through it, making the very music that birds and children 
love best — and the delicate branches of the drooping elm 
swept over it— and the .glow of blossoming herbage round 
about, fell with a sort of shadowy lustre upon the basin of 
bright water, and the floor af glittering sand, within the 
cage. 

" Well, if ever! " said the child ; and then she stooped 
and pulled away the tilling branches and looked into the 
cage ; and then her lips began to tremble, and her soft eyes 
almost filled with tears. 

Within the cage was the mother bird, fluttering and 
whistling — not cheerfully, but mournfully — -and beating' 
herself to death against the delicate wires : and three little 
bits of birds watching her, open-mouthed, and trying to- 
follov/ her from perch to perch, as she apened and shut her 
golden wings, like sudden flashes of sunshine, and darted 
hither and thither as if hunted by something invisible — a 
snake in the grass, or a bird of prey perhaps — or a cat for- 
aging in the shrubbery. 

'' There, now ! — there you go again ! you little foolish 
thing, you ! Why, what is the matter with you ? I should 
be ashamed of myself! I should so! Hav'nt we bought 
the prettiest cage in the world for you ? Hav'nt you enough 
to eat and the best that could be had for love or money — 
sponge cake — loaf sugar — and all sorts of seeds ? Did'nt 
father put up a little nest for you with his own hands ; and 
hav'nt I watched over you — you little ungrateful thing ! — 
till the eggs they put there had all turned to birds— little 



THE INSTINCT OF CHILDHOOD. 35 

live birds, no bigger than grasshoppers, and so noisy, ah, 
you can't think ! Just look at the beautiful clear water 
there — and the clean white sand — where do you think you 
could find such water as that, or such a pretty glass dish — 
or such beautiful bright sand if we were to take you at 
your word and let you out with that little nest full of young 
ones to shift for yourselves, heyV 

The door opened, and a tall benevolent looking man 
stepped up to her side. 

" Oh father, I'm so glad you've come ! What do you 
think is the matter with poor little birdy ? " 

The father looked down among the grass and shrubbery, 
and up into the top-branches, and then into the cage' — the 
countenance of the poor girl growing more and more per- 
plexed and more sorrowful every moment. 

" Well father — what is it?— does it see any thing ? '' 

" No, my love — nothing to frighten her, but where is 
the father bird ? " 

" He's in the other cage. He made such a to-do when 
the little birds began to chipper this morning that I was 
obliged to let him out; and brother Bobby he frightened 
him into the other cage and carried him off." 

'* Was that right, my love ? " 

"Why not, father ? He would'nt be quiet here, you 
know, and what was I to do ? " 

'* But Moggy, dear — these little birds may want their 
father to help feed them ; the poor mother bird may want 
him to help take care of them — or to sing to her." 

" Or perhaps to shew them how to fly, father?" 

" Yes, dear. And to separate them just now — how 
would you like to have me carried off, and put into anoth- 
er house, leaving nobody at home but your mother to 
watch over you and the rest of my little birds ? " 

The child grew more thoughtful. She looked up into 
her father's face and appeared as if more than half dispos- 
ed to ask a question— which might be a little out of place ; 
but she forbore, and after musing a few moments, went 
back to the original subject— 



36 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

"• Bat, father, what can be the matter with the poor thing? 
— you see how she keeps flying about, and the little ones 
trying to follow her — and tumbling upon their noses — and 
toddling about as if they were tipsy, and could'nt see 
straight." 

" I am afraid she is getting discontented." 

" Discontented ! how can that be, father ? Has'nt she 
her little ones about her, and every thing on earth she can 
wish ? And then, you know — she never used to be so be- 
fore ? " 

" When her mate was with her perhaps ? " 

*"' Yes, father — and yet, now I think of it, the moment 
these little witches began to pee-peep, and tumble about so 
funny, the fother and the mother both began to fly about 
the cage, as if they were crazy. What can be the reason ? 
the water, you see, is cool and clear; the sand all bright : 
they are out in the open air, with all the green leaves 
blowing about them; their cage has been scoured with 
soap and sand, the fountain filled, and the seed-box — and 
— and — I declare, I cannot think what ails them ! " 

" My love — may it not be the very things you speak of, 
things which you think ought to make them happy, are the 
very cause of all the trouble you see ? The father and 
molher are separated ! How can they teach their young 
to fly in that cage 1 how teach them to provide for them- 
selves ? " 

" But father — dear father — ! " laying her little*hand up- 
on the spring of the cage door — " dear father ! would you ?" 

'' And why not, my dear child ? " And the father's 
eyes filled with tears, and he stooped and kissed the bright 
face upturned to his, and glowing as if illuminated with in- 
ward sunshine. " Why not .?" 

" I was only thinking father. If I should let them out, 
who will feed them ? " 

" Who feeds the young ravens, dear ? Who feeds the 
ten thousand little birds, that are flying about us now? " 

"True, father; but they have never been inprisoned, you 
know, and have already learned to take care of themselves V' 



THE INSTINCT OF CHILDHOOD. 



37 



The mother looked up and smiled. " Worthy of pro- 
found consideration, my dear — I admit your plea, but have 
a care, lest you. may over-rate the danger, and the difficul- 
ty, in your unwillingness to part with your beautiful little 
birds." 

" Father" — and the little hand pressed upon the spring, 
and the door flew open — wide open ! 

" Stay, my child ! What you do must be done thought- 
fully, conscientiously, so that you may be satisfied with 
yourself hereafter, when it is all over. Shut the door a 
moment, and allow me to hear all your objections." 

" I was thinking, father, about the cold rains, and the 
long winters, and how the poor birds that have been so 
long confined would never be able to find a place to sleep 
in, or water to wash in, or seeds for their little ones." 

" In our climate, my love, the winters are very short : 
and the rainy season itself does not drive the birds away ; 
and then you know birds always follow the sun — if our 
climate is too cold for them, they have only to go farther 
south. But in a word, my love, you are to do as you would 
be done by. As you would not like to have me separated 
from your mother and you ; as you would not like to be 
imprisoned for life, though your cage were crammed with 
loaf sugar and sponge cake — as you " 

"That'll do, father! that's enough! Brother Bobby! 
hither, Bobby ! bring the little cage with you, there's a 
dear I " 

Brother Bobby sung out in reply — and after a moment 
or two of anxious enquiry, appeared at the Vv^indow with 
the little cage. The prison doors were opened, the father 
bird escaped, the mother bird followed, with a cry of joy, 
ana then came back and tolled her little ones forth among 
the bright green leaves. The children clapped their hands 
in an ecstacy — and the father then fell upon their necks and 
kissed them; and the miOther who sat by sobbed over 
them both for a whole hour, as if her very heart would 
break ; and told all the neighbors the story with tears in 
her eyes. 



3S THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 



" The .ungrateful hussey ! What ! after all that we 
have done for her ; giving her the best room we could 
spare — feeding her from our own table — clothing her from 
our own wardrobe — giving her the handsomest and shrewd- 
est fellow for a husband within twenty miles of us --allow- 
ing them to live together till a child is born ; and now, be- 
cause we have thought proper to send him away for a 
while, where he may earn his keep — now forsooth ! we 
are to find my lady discontented with her situation." 

"Dear father!" 

"Hush, child!" 

" Ay, discontented — that's the word — actually dissatisfied 
with her condition ! the jade ! — with the best of every 
thing to make her happy ; confits and luxuries she could 
never dream of obtaining were she free to-morrow — and 
always contented, never presuming to be discontented till 
now." 

" And what does she complain of, father ? 

" Why, my dear child, the unreasonable thing complains 
just because we have sent her husband away to the other 
plantation for a few months : he was getting idle here, and 
might have grown discontented, too, if we had not packed 
him off. And then instead of being happier, and more 
thankful — more thankful to her Heavenly Father, for the 
gift of a man child, Martha tells me that she just found 
her crying over it, calling it a little slave, and wishing the 
Lord would take it away from her — the ungrateful wench ! 
when the death of that child would be two hundred dollars 
out of my pocket, every cent of it ! " 

" After all we have done for her, too ! " sighed the moth- 
er. 

" I declare I have no patience with the jade ! " continu- 
ed the father. 

" Father— dear father ! " 

" Be quiet, Moggy, don't teaze me now." 

" But father ! " and as she ^pokp, the child ran up to 
her father and drew him to the window, and threw back 



THE INSTINCT OF CHILDHOOD. 39 

her sun-shiny tresses, and looked up into his eyes with the 
face of an angel, and pointed to the cage as it still hung 
at the window, with the door wide open ! 

The father understood her, and colored to the eyes ; 
hnd then as if more than half ashamed of the weakness, 
bent over and kissed her forehead, smoothed down her 
silky hair, and told her she was a child, now, and must 
not talk about such matters till she had grown older. 

" Why not, father'? " 

" Why not ! — Why bless your little heart ! — -Suppose I 
were silly enough to open my doors and turn the poor 
thing adrift with her child at her breast — what would be- 
come of her ? Who would take care of her ? — ^who feed 
her?" 

" Who feeds the young ravens, father ? Who takes care 
of all the white mothers, and all the white babies we see?" 

'* Yes, child — but then — I know what you are thinking 
of; but then — there's a mighty difference let me tell you 
between a slave mother and a white mother — between a 
slave child and a white child." 

" Yes, father." 

" Don't interrupt me : you drive every thing out of ray 
head. What was I going to say? — Oh — ah ! that in our 
long winters and cold rains, these poor things who have 
been brought up in our houses, and who know nothing 
about the anxieties of life, and have never learned to take 
care of themselves — and — a — a — " 

" Yes, father ; but could^nt they follow the sun too ? or 
go farther south?'' 

" And why not be happy here .^" 

"But father — dear father ? How can they teach their 
little ones to fly in a cage ? " 

" Child, you are getting troublesome ! " 

" i^nd how teach their voung to provide for themselves, 
father ? " 

" Put the little imp to bed, directly — do you hear! " 

" Good night, father ! good night mother — Do as you 

WOULD BE DONE BY ! " 



40 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 



Appeal of a Slave Mother to Mothers at the North. 

Mothers ! I appeal to you, because there is an undying 
fountain of love and sympathy kindled in your bosoms, 
when, for the first time, you press the new born infant to 
your lips and list to its gentle breathings ! I appeal to you, 
because there is a cord in your hearts, which always vi- 
brates at the mention of a mother's love, a mother's anxie- 
ty, and a mother's tenderness. And think you that in the 
bosom of that mother, who has a skin " not colored like 
your own," there throbs a heart less lender and susceptible 
to the holiest impulses of our nature ? Ah no ! we too 
have human sensibilities, and they are as deep and strong 
in the sable daughters of Africa, as in the pallid children 
under Northern skies. 

With what untiring solicitude do you watch over your 
beloved offspring during the years of helpless infancy! 
Are they sick? with sleepless eyes you sit by their couch, 
and you neither faint nor weary in your efforts to ease the 
sufferer's pains. 

As you lay them down at night, and listen to their quiet 
slumbers, or smile at their innocent prattle and joyous 
laugh ; as you dandle them on the knee, forget not us, I 
entreat of vou, to whom children, and children's children 
only multiply sorrow and anguish of heart. Our babes are 
ever strangers to all those delicate attentions, w'hich it is a 
mother's delight to bestow. Doomed as we are to unre- 
quited toil from morning till night, their piteous cries must 
reach our ears unheeded. 

No cradle lulls them while they sleep, but we must 
place them beneath the rays of the burning sun, while we 
labor ; and if occasionally we stop a little longer than the 
wants of nature require, to caress our darlings, must 
writhe under the cruel lash of the driver's whip. When 
the daily task is over, and we seek rest and retirement in 
our poor and humble dwelling, we might enjoy some hours 
of happiness, did not the bitter, agonizing thought so often 



APPEAL OF A SLAVE MOTHER. 



41 



comfi over us, These little ones are not our own ; we must 
nurse and bring them up, only to be torn from our arms ; 
to be carried, we know not whither, and to be treated we 
know not how. All the endearing ties, which link kin- 
dred and friends together in one happy family, are with us 
sundered before they have had time to strengthen by age 
and exercise. 

Could you but once hear the heart-rending cries, see the 
falling tears, and wringing hands, of parents and chii- 
sren brought to the block, to be sold at auction, into differ- 
ent and distant States, never to behold each other's faces 
again, your hearts, I know, would melt with pity, and no 
terms would appear too strong, to condemn a system, 
which sanctions such scenes. 

With what interest do you watch the early developement 
of the mental faculties of your children ! and how do your 
eyes sparkle with joy, and your hearts beat with gladness, 
as from time to time, they return from school, eager to re- 
hearse to you some new acquisition they ha^e made. 
Father comes home, and to him the twice told tale is again 
repeated. No sacrifice is too great, and no deprivation too 
hard to be endured, that you may afford your children the 
opportunity of receiving instruction. But these are privi- 
leges which we are forbidden to participate, by unjust and 
oppressive laws. Born in ignorance, in ignorance our 
children are compelled to grow up and die, unless by stealth, 
or accident, they learn the merest rudiments of knowledge. 
With what a holy indignation must a just and righteous 
God look down upon a people, that denies the reading of 
his blessed word to two and a half millions of accountable 
beings. Fancy not we are happy, because we know no 
better state. Can we not see that the sons and daughters 
of those whom we serve, are in possession of a good de- 
nied to us ? At a period when your children are under 
the paternal roof, where you can form their habits and 
mould their characters, ours are either rent from us, and 
carried to a distance, or are subject to the tyranical con- 
trol of young masters and misses, for whose sins and follies 



42 THE BIOMTHLY OFFERING. 

they are often obligfed to suffer. Perhaps we might learn 
submission to our lot, were not our descendants to all fu- 
ture generations, so far as we can see, doomed to the same 
state of degradation. Mothers ! what is the pearl of great- 
est price in your daughter's characters ? What is it you 
teach them, from the earliest infancy to value more than 
gold and silver,and which fills you with such unutterable an- 
guish to see them deprived of, by artifice or constraint ? 
Would you not rather see them cold and silent in their 
graves than to have the sanctity of their virtue invaded by 
the unfeeling libertine? Think then of the daughters of 
the slave mother. They are compelled to submit without 
a murmur, to the most unbridled passions of their masters, 
and we must sit by, with our lips sealed against all inter- 
ference 1 Oh, the woes, and miseries of slavery ! You 
must come and be one with us to know what they are ! 
Can you not, will you not put forth every energy to relieve 
us from a bondage worse than death ? If nothing can be 
done for us^ may we not indulge the hope, that our chil- 
dren will, some day, enjoy the blessings of freedom ? I 
close wtth exhorting you to " Remember them that are in 
bonds, as bound with them." — Envoy. 



Can Slaves feel 1 

" Some years since, when travelling from Halifax, in 
North Carolina, to Warrenton, in the same state, we passed 
a large drove of slaves on their way to Georgia. Beforo 
leaving Halifax, I heard that the drivers had purchased a 
number of slaves in that vicinity, and started with them 
that morning, and that we should probably overtake them 
in an hour or two. Before coming up with the gang, we 
saw at a distance a colored female, whose appearance and 
actions attracted my notice. I said to the driver, (who was 
a slave,) " What is the matter of that woman, is she cra- 
zy !" " No, massa," said he, " I know her, it is Her 

master sold her two children this morning to the soul-dri- 



STATE CONVENTIONS— WORCESTER FAIR. 



43 



vers, and she has been following along after them, and I 
suppose they have driven her back. Don't you think it 
would make 3'"ou act like you was crazy, if they should take 
your children away, and you never see 'em any more ?" 
By this time we had come up with the woman. She 
seemed quite young. As soon as she recognized the dri- 
ver, she cried out, " They've gone I they've gone ! The 
soul-drivers have got them. Master would sell them. I 
told him I could'nt live without my children. I tried to 
make him sell me too ; but he beat me and drove me o|f, and 
I got away and followed after them, and the drivers whip- 
ped me back: — and I never shall see my children again. 
Oh ! what shall I do !" The poor creature shrieked and 
tossed her arms about with maniac wildness- — and beat her 
bosom, and literally cast dust into the air, as she moved to- 
wards the village. At the last glimpse I had of her, she 
was nearly a quarter of a mile from us, still throwing 
handfuls of sand around her with the same frenzied air." 

Theo. D. Weld. 



State Anti-Slavery Conventions. 

We would call the attention of our readers to the calls 
on the 3d and 4th pages of the cover, for the State Con- 
ventions to be held at Worcester and Springfield in the 
early part of October. Every town in the Commonwealth 
should be largely represented. Let the world see that 
there is still a zeal for the suQering slave, and an enthusi- 
asm not to be crushed by party strife or sectarian jealousy. 

The meeting at Worcester will be, probably, the largest 
and most spirited anti-slavery meeting ever held in this 
Commonwealth. Como and get your hearts warmed up. 
We need a revival. Shall we not have it ? It will be a 
fine opportunity for those who have not been familiar with 
the abolition movements to gain a knowledge of past pro- 
ceedings. More information can be obtained in one day 
than by a week's reading. 



44 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

Messrs. Garrison and Rogers will inform us what are the 
views of the English people with respect to America n 
Slavery, and of their efforts to bring it to an end. 



Worcester Anti-Slavery Fair. 

The women of Worcester are to hold a Fair during the 
sittings of the Convention in that place to aid in swelling 
the bondman's treasury. They are but few in number, and 
need and expect aid from the friends in different parts of 
the -^'tate. Will not the men and women of this Com- 
monwealth send in their offerings forthwith to Mrs. JOHN 
MILTON EARL, Worcester, Mass. 

Let the women in different towns, who intend to furnish 
tables, inform Mrs. Earl to that effect as soon as possible. 
And let those who attend the Convention go prepar- 
ed to purchase freely such articles as may be useful. 



Pray for the Slave. 

Abolitionists, do you pray for the slave 1 I don't ask 
whether you labor for him, or give for him, or speak or 
write for him, or vote or petition for him. But do you pray 
for the slave 1 If this part of the work is not done faith- 
fully, rely upon it, nothing else will be luell done. And if 
this be done as it should he, no other duty to the slave will 
be neglected I don't ask whether you mention him in your 
petitions at the monthly concert, or in the conference room, 
or at the family altar, or in the closet, or at set times and 
places, or in set postures, or set phrases, or in connected 
expressions or ejaculations — but do you pray for the slave? 
Do you put your soul in his soul's stead, and wrestle 
\y\ih. God for his deliverance ? Do you pray as much, and 
plead as fervently, and wrestle as ' agonizingly, as you 



"MISCELLANEOUS. 45 



would if 3^011 firmly believed that it is God that must redeem 
him, if he is ever redeemed, and that He surely will do it ? 

Prayer is indispensable. It will strengthen our hearts 
and our hands while we toil. It will soften and sweeten 
our spirits, and prepare us to speak the truth in love. It 
will fill us with that holy courage so needful amid the pop- 
ular violence and haughty menaces that beset us. It will 
keep our motives pure, and our eye single. It will buoy 
us above the pollutions of worldly expediency, and poise us 
immoveably in the pure upper air of principle. It will 
draw down into our councils wisdom from above, and arm 
our measures with the energy of faith. 

Though prayer is not a substitute for other instrumen- 
talities, yet it is above all, as God is above man, and oper- 
ates with and through all. Therefore, as we would have 
God co-operate with us in the deliverance of the enslaved, 
let us EXALT peayer. — A. S. Almanac for 1841. 



Pray for the Slaveholder. 

! forget him not ye who plead for his slaves. He 
needs your prayers. God is arrayed against him. " If he 
turn not, he will whet his sword ; lie hath bent his bow 
and made it ready." O pray for him ere the bent bow 
twangs above him, and the "arrows of the Almighty" 
drink up his spirit. He needs your prayers. Never 
was mortal more destitute cf prayer. Remember that no 
effectual prayer can go up for the slaveholder except from 
those who pray for the deliverance of the slave. As ye 
love his soul, as ye hate his sins, as ye deprecate his 
doom, pray for the guilty slaveholder. — tb. 



Who shall pray for the Slave 1 

We have agents to speak for the slave, but who shall 
pray for him ? We have editors and others to write for 



46 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

the slave — but who shaW pray for him? We have socie- 
ties, and multiplying hosts to labor for the slave — but who 
sh<i\\ pray for him ? We have ministers — a few of them, 
thank God, who dare to preach for the slave — but who 
shall pray for him? We have statesmen, here and there 
one, who plead for the slave— but who shall j^ray for him? 
We have multitudes who petition for him, and though oft 
repulsed, still petition-^but who shall pray for the slave 1 
Shall it be true, that what is left for all to do, will be done 
by none? God forbid! Who, then, shall pray for the 
slave ? All — all the children of prayer. Lecturers must 
pray for him, if they would speak well for him : editors 
must pray for him, if they would write v/ell for him : min- 
isters must pray for him, if they would preach well for 
him : statsemen must pray for him, if they would plead 
well for him : petitioners must pray for him, if they would 
have their prayers received and answered. lb. 



For the Offering. 
The Agony and the Triumph. 

Borne on the southern breezes, 

From highland peak and vale, 
From tear wet plain and cottage, 

From the opening in the dale, 
Prom groves of southern pine trees, 

From the river's sloping verge — 
The heavy tones of sorrow 

Come like the Ocean surge. 

For there are heaving bosoms,-— 

The starless heart is there,— 
The fitful flash of madness,— 

The blackness of despair : 
For there the dark, dark waters 

Of slavery, as they roll. 
Break o'er the outward barriers 

And dash upon the soul ! 



POETRY. 47 



Upon our ears imploring 
These notes of sorrow fall, 

Like the billows ever moaning. 
Unceasing in their call ; 

They haunt us in our slumbers — 
They chase us through the light ; 

By day with stern reality- 
Like fabled ghosts at night. 

Wo if we gird not on us 

The armor of the skies ; 
Wo if our souls shed slowly 

The blood of sacrifice ; 
Wo if we drive not quickly 

Foul slavery from our land. 
And rear the shrine of Freedom 

Where his goary altars stand. 

In vain the labor? never--- 

Nor is the gift in vain ; 
Each blow we strike for righteousnesf 

Shall fall upon the chain ; 
Each prayer— each sigh we utter^ 

Each word of burning power^ 
Each tear of gushing sympathy 

Shall speed the glorious hour. 

Mighty is Truth forever— 

The throne of God is sure,— 
The Right shall be victorious 

While earth or stars endure, 
While God hath yet a sceptre, 

While man is less than him. 
While spirit hath a being, 

Or existance hath a name. 

Sadly the slave is toiling 

Beneath his ponderous chain, 

Like a creeping brook at August, 
But the fall shall bring its rain^ 



48 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

And his joy and gladness leap forth 
And dance along the vale, 

His bondage shall be broken 
And his spirit on the gale ! 

Hark! o'er the plains ascending, 

Like the sound before the rain, — 
Like the noise of many waters, — 

Like the wind upon the main, 
The shouts of deep rejoicings 

That tremble on the sky. 
The music of two million tongues 

In a dance of ecstacy ! 

"Dark slavery now is over, 

" It shall trouble us no more, 
" Its cruel scourge and bondage 

" And its agony are o'er ; 
"And great is our redemption," 

These million voices sing, 
*' Praise to the high Deliverer — 

" To Freedom's Prince and King." 

Long live this blissful chorus 

O'er the light of happier years, 
Oh swiftly speed the moment 

When its toneci shall greet our ears 
Like the slave, in all his rapture, 

Will we, who toil for him. 
Shout for hia great deliverance 

Till the mornina" stars are dim. 



J. P. B. 



Boston, Sept. 14, 1840. 



"We would suggest to the contributors to " the weekly 
CONTRIBUTION," always to have the amount of their monthly 
contribution deposited in the BOX, so that the collectors 
need not be under the necessity of calling twice. This 
must be, to them, very discouraging. 



THE 

MONTHLY OFFERING. 



OCTOBER, 1840 



For the Monthly Offering. 
What do you Abolitionists Want I 

Methinks I hear one of our modern Conservatives., who- 
is holding in his breath for fear of excitement, and looking 
with cold indifference on the struggle which is going on 
in this country between freedom and slavery, — methinks I 
hear him whispering in my ear, " What do you abolitionists 
want, that you are so furiously agitating the community, 
thereby destroying the peace of society, dividing churches, 
unsettling pastors, and turning the world upside down?' 
Whtii would you have us do 1 " 

What do we want? I will tell you. We want you to 
aid us in raising to the condition of men, millions of your 
equal brethren, who are now regarded as marketable com- 
modities. We want you to aid in the erection of a plat- 
form of rights and privileges, on which the whole human 
family can stand free and unmolested. We want to leave 
the human mind in the free exercise of all those powers 
and faculties which God has given it, to increase its enjoy- 
ment and usefulness in this world, and prepare it for never- 
ending felicity in that which is to come. The slave lies 
bleeding at your feet — crushed to the earth by this " freest 
nation under heaven.*' We ask you to work for his liber- 
ation. We want you to aid in abolishing that system of 
worse than Hindoo caste, which prevails so extensively in 
our midst, and compels one portion of our citizens to toil 
on through an unending series of degradation and wretch- 
edness, with scarcely a prospect of escape from that stern 



50 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

despotism which grinds him to the dust. What do we 
want? do you ask, Mr. Conservative? We want what 
Diogenes wanted of Alexander. We want you to get out 
of our sunshine. We want you no longer to keep our 
brother yonder in the midnight darkness in which he and 
his ancestors have been enveloped for centuries, through 
the avnrice and cruelty of the while man. We want you 
no longer to throw your sympathies and your influence in- 
to the scale of slavery, and strive by all the means in your 
power to arrest the progress of the car of emancipation as it 
rolls onward to its heavenly goal. We want you to clothe 
yourself in the panoply of truth, and engage with untidng 
zea], and unshrinking fortitude, in the cause of oppressed 
humanity, and let neither friendship nor love, nor selfish 
fear, nor calculating expediency drive you from the contest, 
until no slave shall be found on the broad footstool of the 
Almighty. 

We ask you to array yourselves on the side of universal 
liberty, and thus aid in saving this nation from that vortex 
of ruin into which, in consequence of her multiplied op- 
pressions, she is madly plunging. Our land is filled with 
professions o{ freedom, republicanism, democracy, and equal 
rights. They are heard on every breeze, are in the mouth 
©f all the robbers of God's poor, from Maine to Georgia* 
But it is a democracy of money. It is a republicanism 
which wastes all its energies and exhausts all its sympa- 
thies on a question of dollars and cents. The inherent, 
vital principles of humanity, enter but little into the compo* 
sition of the republicanism of the present day. Webster, 
and Clay, and Calhoun, and most of the other great states- 
men can spend all the energies of their mighty minds to 
portray the evils or the benefits of a Sub-Treasury or a 
National Bank. But on the question whether two and an 
half millions of immortal beings shall be reduced to the 
level of brutes, by a system which may surely be regarded 
as the fruitful parent of all abominations, they are either 
found the open and unblushing adyocates of this system, 
or of a most sickly and tempori?if)g expediency, which 



WHAT DO YoU ABOLITIONISTS WANT. ^1 

would wink out of sight, great and paramount principles of 
truth and justice, to advance the interests of a party. To 
all this the church responds amen ; and the. people " lov^e 
to have it so." 

In view of this alarming fact, this dreadful state of thin^^s, 
we call upon you who are so anxious to "keep in the quiet'* 
-^who have such a holy horror of all excitement, to join 
hands with us in our warfare against oppression — to sta3'' 
this sweeping tide of corruption as it rolls over the land' — 
to liberate the slave from his chains, and save our nation 
from the destruction which hovers over her. This is 
*' what we want" of you. We demand it in the name of 
the outraged millions now groaning in the great Southern 
prison house. Shall we have it ? Will you not speak 
and act in their behalf as G@d shall give ^^ou strength ? 

" Ay, s\)e?ik'^-while there is time, , 

For all a freeman's claim, — 
, Ere thought becomes a crime. 
And Freedom but a name ! 
While yet the Tongue and Pen 
And Press are unforbid, 
And we dare to feel and act as men — 
Speak— as our fathers did ! " 

N. H. W. 



For the Offering. ? 

lAMES MAJOR MONROE— A Fugitive Slave, 

BY HIRAM WILSON. 

I am sure the readers of " the Offering" will peruse 
with intense interest, the following narration of facts cop- 
nected with the flight of a fugitive, four years ago, from 
Western Virginia to this *' land of promise." I had the 
pleasure of conducting him from northern Ohio to the 
head of Lake Erie, and of introducing him through /ree- 
■dorri's great loestern gate to the blessings and privileges 
of British liberty. He was then about thirty years of age. 



52 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

of a robust, athletic frame, quite intelligent, and possessed 
of unconQmon vigor of mmd and decision of character. 
All who saw him, saw a " knock down argument" that 
slavery was wrong. His name is Ji»MES Major Monroe* 
He was held in bondage in Guyandolte, Va., by a French 
Roman Catholic whose name was LaTule. 

When I first saw James at Oberlin, he was remarkably 
timid; so much so, that even in the midst of hundreds of 
true hearted friends, he dared not show himself in the 
light of day, and very few persons knew that he was in 
the place. He made a most forlorn appearance, — he was 
flying from intolerable oppression at the peril of his life, 
and the expense of the most bitter separations that ever oc- 
cur during an earthly pilgrimage. He had broken away 
from the wife of his youths whom he left upon the south- 
ern bank of the beautiful Ohio, gazing after him till he had 
passed the stream, and he could only discover her obscure 
form like a melancholy statue in the place where he left 
her ; while he disappeared from her view, and was soon 
lost to her vision in the dim distance, to become a nightly 
wanderer among human and canine enemies. She pre- 
fered the separation to a more direful one, then in contem- 
plation, of sending him to the lower market. Day after 
day, he concealed himself in thickets, and night after night 
pursued his toilsome journey. One evening, in August, 
1836, he came out of his concealment near Chilicothe, 
Ohio, as the sable curtains of night were shutting down 
around him. Unfortunately, he met four men with guns, 
who bad been out upon a hunting excursion. By them 
he was instantly captured, disarmed, and taken back to a 
tavern. They pinioned his elbows with strong corJsy 
intending to watch him through the night, and for the 
sake of the reward that was offered, return him as soon as 
practicable to his master. They drank freely, and convers- 
ed in the presence of their trembling victim about the pro- 
spective reward of their iniquity. Still they were not 
without compunctions of conscience. One remarked, that 
it was a hard case, and that he would let him go if the rest 



JAMES MAJOR MONROE — A FUGITIVE SLAVE. 53 

would. Another said he had been sick, and with his 
share he could pay his doctor's bill. Another knew it 

was hard for the " d d nigger," but they might as well 

have the reward as somebody else. 

Thus they reasoned, while their poor victim lay awake 
upon his couch, with his eyes shut. The cord was nearly 
imbedded in the flesh of his arms, which became badly 
swollen and painful ; but having been broken of his rest 
and weakened by much fasting and exhaustion, he fell into 
a slumber, from which he awoke about midnight, and to his 
great surprise, discovered his captors all sleeping aud snor- 
ing about him. He now began to cherish, for the first 
time, the hope of escape. By a desperate struggle, he sooo 
loosed his arm.s. The door being fast, his only chance of 
flight was through the window. He stepped softly across 
the floor and recovered his pistol from the pocket of one of 
his enemies, extinguished the light upon the stand, and at- 
tempted to raise the window. In this attempt he made 
some noise, that startled the man from whom the pistol 
had been taken ; who sprung to his feet and was advanc- 
ing towards the window, when our prisoner turned and 
snapped the pistol at him. It struck fire, but happily fail- 
ed of discharging. In an instant the alarm was given; 
they all sprung to their feet and were about to pounce up- 
on their falsely imprisoned victim, who, despairing at this 
awful crisis of every other means of escape, plunged head- 
long through the window, breaking his way through glass, 
sash and all. They caught him by one of his legs, and 
with a dirk or knife inflicted a deep flesh wound in his 
thigh. By a desperate struggle, he loosed himself from 
their bloody grasp, and run through the heavy rain and 
nocturnal gloom, mangled and bleeding as he went. He 
stopped a moment, however, having thick darkness for his 
protecting shield ; heard the alarm, and saw lights waver- 
ing about the house as they were commencing the search. 
For a moment he turned his thoughts to heaven and gave 
thanks to God, his deliverer, who had so signally wrought 
for him in this hour of peril. He made the best he could 



54 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

'^. " • ^ ■ ■ ' — 

of the remainder of the night, pursuing his lonely course 
towards Chilicothe. The heav}^ rain was much in his fa- 
vor, defacing his tracks, and washing away the blood that 
dripped from his flowing wounds. By day dawn he be- 
came extremely stiff and sore, and by reason of faintness 
from hunger, loss of blood, and over action, he found it 
exceedingly difficult to proceed any further, and yet he 
trembled at the thought of stopping, lest he should fall in- 
to the hands of enemies, and be doomed to that state which 
was more intolerable than death itself. At length he came 
to a house, turned tremblingly through the gate, and dis- 
covered a man at the d®or in plain attire, with a broad 
brimmed hat. The first sight of the broad brim, asd the 
beckoning hand, attended with the sweet soothing voice of 
humanity, at once inspired hope and revived his drooping 
spirits. The Quaker look him in, bound up his wounds, 
and good Samaritan-like, poured into his bleeding bosom 
the balm of consolation. He there received the kindest 
treatment for the space of two weeks, when his health was 
recovered and his limbs were sufficiently sound to admit 
of his proceeding on his way. His generous host having 
interested others in his case, supplied him with provisions 
and money, conducted him to the Ohio canal, put him on 
the tow path, and gave him directions to Cleaveland. 
About this time he fell in with another man of the sable 
hue. whose face was set Canada-ward in search of person- 
al liberty. They travelled together to Newark, where his 
companion stopped to buy a drink of whiskey, which he 
feared would endanger them both. So he left his whiskey 
drinking companion behind, and proceeded afone, thinking 
sobriety the surer passport to freedom. 

After travelling many days upon the tow-path, he be- 
came sore and lame, and concluded to seek an easier mode 
of conveyance. So after spending near Massillon a night 
with a colored man, who generously entertained him, he 
made known his intention to take passage in a line boat 
for Cleaveland. Accordingly he availed himself of the first 
boat, and came without interruption to Akran. While 



JAMES MAJOR MONROE — >A FUGITIVE SLAVE. 55 

passing down through the locks there, he looked out of the 
cabin window and discovered two men on the bank in 
search of him. They immediately inquired if there was a 
colored man in the boat. The poor fugitive was now in 
trouble ; his countenance fell ; he knew not what to do. 
One of the pursuers he recognized as the colored man 
with whom he had stopped over night. He thought with- 
in himself, — Can it be possible he is acting the traitor ? 
" Leap off the boat,'^ said one of the passengers, on learn- 
ing that he was a fugitive slave. " Jump into the canal,''^ 
said others, '* if you can do no better, and make your es- 
cape from the other side into the woods." "No, no;" 
said one in whom wisdom and humanity were blended, 
"just be quiet, and Pli go ashore and see what those men 
want." So he leaped upon the tow-path, and inquired 
what they wanted of the colored man in the boat For a 
moment all was anxiety and solemn suspense. Then said 
he to the white man pursuing, Are you in favor of liberty.- 
Are you a friend to the slave? " Yes I am^^^ said he. 
'* Well so am I," responded the inquirer. At this an- 
nouncement the scene was changed, and in a moment, in- 
stead of the painful anxiety which had pervaded the com- 
pany, joy beamed from many a countenance. 

It appeared that the pursuers were following the poor 
captive out of regard for his safety, hoping to direct him 
through a more obsc^ure route ; whereupon he was convey- 
ed to Medina, thence to Oberlin, and thence to Cleaveland, 
where I had the pleasure of embarking v>'ith him for the 
Canada shore. He found a few generous hearted friends 
in each of the above places, but at this time, w^hich was 
near the meridian of Harriet Martineau's " Martyr age 
in America," the most daring abolitionists were obliged to 
hold in their breath, except in secret places, while consult- 
ing the best interests of the panting captive. 

On .our passage up the lake, we were weather-bound 
two days at the mouth of Black river. Becoming tired of 
the boat, I conducted my sable companion to the house of 
Mr. R. whom I knew to be a trusty friend, i introduced 



56 



THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 



him, and made known his delicate condition. We were 
most cordially received and kindly entertained. On the 
morning before we left, as we were about rising from the 
breakfast table, James having already withdrawn and seat- 
ed himself by the fire, we heard a loud knock at the door, 
and in came a large, stern looking man, opened his pocket- 
book, took out a piece of paper, and presented it to our 
host. " There,^^ said he, " take that, and pursue such a 
course with it as you think proper. ^^ The trembling fugi- 
tive narrowly watched the stranger, and at the same time 
cast about for some weapon of defence. His eye fastened 
upon a hammer on the mantlepiece, and as he was about 
springing to grasp it, the fact came out that the man was 
no slave hunter, but some neighbor on business with the 
magistrate. His fears presently subsided, so that he became 
more quiet. We sung in his presence the beautiful hymn 
commencing thus, 

" Whither goest thou, pilgrim stranger, 
Wandering though this lonely vale," &c. 

We had not proceeded far, when his countenance was 
moistened with tears, which foiled down like rain-drops 
upon his manly cheeks. 
Toronto, Sept. 20th, 1840. 

[To be Continued.] 



A Tale of Endeavor. 

Mrs. James vras a physician's wife in the western part 
of Massachusetts. She received, one day, an odd number 
of the Liberator, through the medium of the Post Office, 
from one who had seen her name in the list of donors at 
the end of the Missionary Herald. The same spirit that 
had made her solicitous for the welfare of the distant Asi- 
atics, caused her to read with interest the pages that recom- 
mended to her attention the more distressing condition of 



A TALE OF ENDEAVOR. 57 

the American slave. She was a Christian ; and the ex- 
tinction of slavery ever seems to the Christian heart a holy 
and ennobling- object, demanding immediate exertions for 
its attainment. She could not account for the hot excite- 
ment which the discussion of the subject seemed to have 
produced on the sea-board. She was extremely ignorant 
of plantation details and of all the statistics of the matter; 
— in fact, she had never before given it a moment's thought ; 
and was indebted to the following paragraph, which caught 
her eye, for the whole amount of her actual knowledge re- 
specting it. 

" Two and an half millions of slaves in a Christian 
country 1 The degraded bondmen of the freest nation on 
earth ! mere human chattels ! Every sixth man, woman, 
and child owned like pieces of merchandise, as little re- 
spected, and as transferable!" 

It was little, but it was enough. " Slavery as it is," 
had not then been published, but out of this short para- 
graph her active mind drew inferences, which rendered 
such a book, to her, unnecessary. " Two millions and an 
half!" The paper dropped from her hand— her eye fell 
upon her infant child, and the reflection that every one of 
those children of misery must be as sensitive and as be- 
loved as her own, sunk deep into her heart. Had any 
one told her then, that slaves do not feel as freemen do, 
she would have denied it ; and she would have been right; 
for slavery does not extinguish the instincts of humanity, 
nor destroy the ability to suffer. This her own human in- 
stinct told her, and to this mental philosophy and physiolo- 
gy are obliged, when brought up to the witness-bar, to tes- 
tify. 

" What shall I do for the extinction of such a system ? " 
she said ; (for the first determination of a sound and un- 
prejudiced judgment in contemplating the removal of any 
evil, is, to strike at the root.) " Suppose," she exclaimed, 
as a friend entered the room, " we go this afternoon and 
talk with some of our neighbors, and try to prevail on two 
or three of them to take this newspaper, from which we 



58 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

shall be able to learn what instrumentalities are already in 
motion. 1 don't doubt we shall find that there is a socie- 
ty in operation, and it will be best, if there is, for us to aid 
it. We might associate ourselves together for that pur- 
pose, in this place ; for vve know by the effect of all our 
other fissociations, that many hands make light work. 
Ten persons together can effect more than ten times the 
amount that one person can. We can help to print and 
circulate publications and sustain agents, as we do in oth- 
er benevolo'nt operations. Indeed, it seems as if a little 
light only, were wanting, to stir up the whole nation about 
it. This one paper has awakened me, never to sleep again 
on this subject, I trust." 

The friend fell in with her views, and arm in arm, they 
took their way to pursue what they had ever found the 
efficient course to promote the various objects of benevo- 
lence they had at heart, viz : to take measures for secur- 
ing the co-operation of others. Their first call was upon 
the family of their pastor. He was himself within, and 
readily entered into conversation with them. He feared, 
he said, that they were hardly aware of the delicacy of the 
subject, or the difficulties that surrounded it. Situated as 
the ministry and the church were at the South, he had no 
doubt that the agitation of it, must be necessarily follow- 
ed by division, and every ill that ought to be most depre- 
cated. He knew, perhaps, more than some others, respect- 
ing the character of those by whom the movement had 
been commenced. They were harsh and denunciatory, 
and abusive of good men. He could not but hope that 
Mrs. James would refrain fromjdentifying herself with 
them, though he was as anxious as any one could be for 
the abolition of slavery. He should advise, however, wait- 
ing till such a time as the subject could be introduced 
without giving offence. This could not be done while the 
instrumentalities he alluded to were in existence, as they 
caused all efforts to be suspected. Indeed, it was no won- 
der that the South, and the North, too, should close the^r 
ears against men who strove to deprive of influence, some 



A TALE OF ENDEAVOR. 59 

of the best Christians in the land, who were unfortunately 
involved in slaveholdin^. 

"Best Christians! Slaveholding! unfortunately!" ex- 
claimed Mrs. James, with a hasty touch of indignation 
and sympathy with the suffering' and the wronged ; "why 
surely it ought to be made an object to deprive of his in- 
fluence, forthwith, the man who in the nineteenth century, 
in Christian and republican America, uses it to gild the 
system of slavery. Every jot of character and influence 
he has, prolongs the existence of slavery." 

Her pastor could not forgive her for having a truer mo- 
ral sense than himself, and never after beard the subject 
adverted to withcut shame, and pain, and opposition. 

Her next call was upon the deacon of another church, 
who was one of her neighbors. He was no advocate for 
slavery, he said, but he always had observed something in 
ladies which unfitted them for the consideration of such 
subjects as this. They were apt to be carried away with 
one idea, and to introduce it, as it were, hutt end foremost. 
These subjects ought to be managed on the principle of 
the wedge. " Just as he chose," Mrs. Jamefe replied ; 
" she would leave it entirely to him how they should be- 
gin." He thought ivhen they should begin, was the more 
difficult question, as the time was now so occupied. Al- 
most every evening in the week was devoted to some be- 
nevolent operation. They must not leave these things un- 
done. " No, nor the other, either," was the reply. "True," 
responded the deacon, " but we have a very interesting re- 
vival of religion in our society, and we ought to be exceed- 
ingly careful how we grieve away the Spirit, by introduc- 
ing any matters which would give rise to difference of 
opin' 



ion. 



"The Spirit, like a peaceful dove, 
Flies from the scenes of noise and strife. 



you know the hymn, my dear madam." 

Again Mrs. James lost the power to suppress her 
thoughts. " Religion, indeed ! What sort of a revival of it, 



60 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

must that be, which a consideration of human sufferini^, 
and the means of relieving it, will hinder ! ' The Spirit ! ' 
not the Spirit of the Lord, for that is anti-slavery, and can 
only stay where there is liberty. I do not construe the 
Bible as you do, ray friend, I find." 

Here was another opposer of the anti-slavery cause 
brought out. 

Her next call was as unsuccessful, because the neighbor 
to whom she applied, did not wish to join in benevolent ef- 
forts with any but his own denomination. He liked, with 
Yankee foresight and discretion, to build up benevolent 
societies and the presbyteries with the same trowel, or as 
he inwardly said, " to kill two birds with one stone." This 
low state of mind was not able to perceive the beauty of 
the parable of the good Samaritan, with an allusion to 
which, his visitor favored him, or to exercise that Christian 
foresight which would have shovvn him, that if there was 
any need of societies, it must be because the presbyteries 
had not dorie their duty, and consequently, that both could 
not be temporally built up together. 

A fourth effort was repulsed by the confession of the 
friend with whom it was made, that she did not think 
affairs so connected with the politics of the country, the 
proper sphere of women. Mrs. James wondered in silence, 
as her friend had, only the week before, presided at a 
Whig pic nic. 

The next call failed of success, because the lady had a 
married cousin in Virginia, whose feelings would be hurt, 
if, on her return in the summer, she found her engao;ed in 
an affair of this kind. The North had no right to interfere 
— it was a state concern. 

Another attempt in the lawyer's family, was also fruit- 
less. After half an hour's conversation with the lady of 
the house, which apparently produced conviction, the gen- 
tleman overset the whole by coolly looking up from his 
conveyancing, and recommending them to form a Sewing 
Circle, and buy a slave with the avails; as then their con- 
sciences must be relieved by the fact that they had done 
all they could. 



A TALE OF ENDEAVOK, 61 

To make a long story short, the only efiect of an after- 
noon's intense exertion, in walking and talking, was to 
raise up a set of opposers to the anti-slavery cause. Mrs. 
James returned to her home sad, but not disheartened, for 
the effect upon her mind was a deeper and still deeper 
conviction of the goodness of the cause ; her cause, as she 
now felt it must be for the rest of her life. The very cold- 
ness, and discouragement, and contempt that had been pour- 
ed upon it, made her feel the necessity of vigorous exer- 
tion on her own part. 

The slaves had a friend in herself— the principles of 
freedom were inextinguishably kindled in her own mind, 
and she did not leave undone what one could do for their 
promulgation, because no others could be found to sustain 
them. 

" It is like the first preaching of the gospel ; " thought 
slie-'— " this application of it to a hitherto unrebuked sin-— 
a sin which i find is growing up rank in the bosoms, that by 
their distance from its grand centre, might be supposed to 
have escaped its influence." And she prepared herself for 
the w^ork with all the means she could command. She 
subscribed for and lent the Liberator— purchased and dis* 
tributed tracts— circulated petitions— solicited donations— 
in conversation was '* instant in season and out of season." 
To the observance of this last precept, she attributed much 
of the ultimate measure of success which crowned her efforts. 
She ceased to be called " the' agreeable, delightful Mrs. 
James," but she prevailed, out of all that populous town, on 
a half-dozen obscure individuals to consider the cause of 
him who had none to help him, and they associated them-' 
selves with her to promote it. She has not what she en-* 
joyed three years since, the enviable distinction of being 
"at the head of good society" in her neighborhood, — but 

the Senators and Representatives of —-^ county voted 

against slavery last year in their respective places, and the 
ministers there, who refuse to speak for the cause, begin to 
be accounted recreant to that Savior who came to proclaim 
liberty to the captive. A hot encounter is going on among 



THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 



a whole roused people, which must end, as all battles foi* 
freedom ever do, in being won. Persecution, misrepre^ 
sentation. opposition of the most malignant and unantici* 
pated character, she has met; but she ever joyfully testifies 
that the principles by which she has striven to win freedom 
for others, at what the world calls a sacrifice, have been to 
her a better inheritance of happiness than any thing that 
the world can give or take away. 



Plead the Pi'omises. 

Not to pray for the slave, is almost as great a sin as 
slavery itself. It is practical unbelief of the promises, and 
makes God a liar. Think of the promises of God for the 
deliverance of the enslaved ! The Bible is full of them* 
Here is a single specimen out of hund-reds ; " The Lord 
executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are op- 
pressed." (Ps. ciii. 6.) How poailive-^how emphatic-^ 
how universal— how unconditional ! x4nd yet there is one 
condition, though not expressed. " Thus saith the Lord 
God : I will yet for this be inquired of by the house of 
Israel, to do it for them*" Then plead the promises. A. S. 
Alma7iaci> 



The Offering. 

We have the pleasure of finding that the Offering gives 
great satisfaction to the friends of the cause, and enables 
them to do much good, by increasing the numbers of the 
subscribers to their contribution cards. We have assur- 
ances from the most able writers among the faithful anti- 
slavery friends, that they will contribute to its pages with 
pleasure, ftom a conviction that it will supply a vacancy in 
the publications, occasioned by the discontinuance of the 
Anti-Slavery Record and Slave's Friend. Excellent com* 
munications, already received, will appear in due season* 



MiSCELLANfiOtJS. 60 



To Juvenile Societies 

The little ones who have put their hands to the work of 
freeing the slave, will find the " Offering" a suitable pub^ 
lication to read in their little circles, when they meet to 
work for the cause* 



Lines. 

Oould'st thou forget thine infant son, 
Or thy gray father, made a slave ! 
Forget not, till their rights are won. 
The sires and babes, thy love might saVe* 



gtj-The Liberty Beil.^ 

This beautiful Annual will be issued as a Christmaf 
and New^ Year's gift, the last week in the year* 

Anecdote. 

A preacher, worthy of the name of ministet of the Gos-^ 
pe], was warned by a more worldly-minded brother with 
whom he was arranging a^ exchange, against touching ort 
certain exciting topics, in his pulpit. The total-abstinence 
question had almost upset the parish — anti-slavery had 
well nigh divided the church, owing to the obstinacy of 
one who had persisted in introducing those subjeris with- 
out his consent, and he wished his brother would not al- 
lude to them. He thought it wise, also, to give a caution 
against dwelling too strongly upon the doctrine of future 
retribution ; as he had a prospect of gaining over some 
Universalists to his church, if that subject was not made 
too prominent at first. " Then, sir," replied his friend, 
" I think it would be better for me to decline the exchange 
at once ; for, in the present state of our churches in Mas- 
sachusetts, it seems hardly worth while to preach at all, 
if one must not touch on " temperance, righteousness, or 
juJgment to come." 



64 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

Notice to the Various Towns Concerned. 

[D^The Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Fair will be 
held on Christmas Week. 0;j^All perishable articles 
should be forwarded before the \st of November. .yj\ 

The Slave's Reply. 

By Maria W. Chapman^. 

*♦ What can I do for the cause 1 " said the farmer. " /should not be 
at a loss," rephed the fugitive he had slieltered the preceeding night> "wefe 
all these fields of yours mine." — From a Manuscript Sketch, J 

When the creaking harvest-wain 
Homeward bears the golden grain — - 
When the glowing orchard-trees 
Bend beneath the autumn breeze — ^ 
When the dairy's rich produce, 
Safely stored for winter use, 
Fills your heart with grateful pride, 
Think of me, and set aside 
Somewhat then, as freedom's duej 
•' As the Lord hath prospered you.'* 
Blessed be you evermore. 
In your basket and your store, 
You in whose free homes the joy 
Of a freeman finds alloy, 
When the tale of wrong is told 
Of our rights betrayed for gold. 
Blessed be ye whom the cry 
Of expiring infancy, 
Or the mute, reproachful glance 
Of grief loo deep for utterance^ 
Moves your harvest-fruits to bring,-^ 
To my cause fit offering. 
Brother! ?iow my right maintain! 
Bear not thou the heart of Cain : 
Then the Lord shall have respect 
To the shrines thou dost erect, 
And upon thy faithful head 
Blessings from on high be shed* 



TH12 



MONTHLY OFFERING. 



NOVEMBER, 1840. 



For the Monthly Offering. 
Sin of Slavery. 

By Charles Simmons. 

In illustrating the sin of slavery, T remark, — It is a dar- 
ing and imjnous invasion of the rights of God. We ean 
conceive no more complete and important right than God 
has to give supreme law to all his rational creatures, or to 
say to each one, " Thou shalt have no other Gods before 
me." True religion and morality, and consequently the 
order and happiness of the world, depend upon a proper 
and sacred regard to this divine right. By assuming this 
divine prerogative, and exercising it over some of the in- 
telligent creation, as slaveholders do, they open the flood- 
gates of moral disorder upon the world. Slavery sets 
aside the divine precepts, and substitutes lavvs of its own. 
Can any thing be more impious, more heaven-daring, or 
God-defying? It is nothing less than a bold effort to de- 
throne the MAJESTY OF HEAVEN, the rightful own- 
er and proprietor of the universe. 

Slavery is a plain violation of the law of God. It might 
easily be shown, that it is a viojation of every precept in 
the decalogue.^ In his first command, God requires a 
supreme regard to his own glory and interests, to his rights 
and prerogatives, which is the substance of our duties to- 
wards Him. And in his second, He requires us to love 
our neighbor as ourselves, and to regard the rights and in- 

*Vide New England Telegraph and Eclectic Review, 1835, page 81. 



66 THE BIONTHLY OFFERING. 

terests of each one of our fellow creatures, as if they were 
our own. This involves the duties of doing justly, loving 
mercy, and walking humhly with God. It embraces the 
self-evident duties of universal, disinterested benevolence^ 
compassion, condescension, kindness, forbearance, charity, 
and whatever is pure, lovely, and of good report. But 
slavery, both in principle and practice, is a plain violation 
of both these cardinal and comprehensive divine precepts, 
upon which hang all the law and the prophets. No sys- 
tem which ever assumed the form of law, was ever a more 
palpable violation of the law of God. 

Slavery is exceedingly offensive to the feelings of God^ 
The injustice of slavery is offensive to his love of righte- 
ousness. The selfishness of slavery is offensive to his in- 
finite benevolence. The cruelty of slavery is offensive to 
his tender compassion. The lewdness of slavery is offen- 
sive to His infinite purity. The sophistry of slavery is 
offensive to His love of truth. And the degrading tenden- 
cy of slavery is abhorrent to His love of knowledge, holi- 
ness and happiness. Both in principle and practice, in its 
nature and tendencies, it is abomination to the Lord. His 
soul abhors it, and it grieves him at his very heart to see 
such havoc made with the beauty and glory of a part of 
his intelligent creation. 

Slavery is diskojiorahle to God. By assuming his pre- 
rogative to give supreme law to creatures, slaveholders 
dishonor His supremacy. By wresting it in favor of slave-» 
ry, they dishonor His word. They mar the wcirks of God, 
by transforming His rational offspring into chattels. They 
reproach their Maker, by representing him as the author 
or approver of the system of slavery. In its nature, ten-^" 
dencies and appendages, slavery is highly dishonorable to 
God. If any thing is malum in se, slavery is a flagrant, 
impious and palpable sin against the rights, the law, the 
feelings and the honor of God, 

Slavery is also a hold and recMess invasion of human 
rights. It takes away the right of its victims to their own 
persons ; to enjoy civil and religious liberty j their right 



SIN OF SLAVERY. 67 

to give a supreme attention to the Bible, and to qualify 
themselves to " go into all the world and preach the gospel 
to every creature ; " to worship God according to the dic- 
tates of conscience ; to form and enjoy domestic relations 
and happiness ; to control and train up their offspring in 
the nurture and admonition of the Lord, for the kingdom 
of heaven ; to possess and enjoy the fruit of their own in- 
dustry ; to prove all things and hold fast that which is 
good ; to rebuke and reprove others for their transgressions, 
not suffering sin upon a brother ; to preserve their own 
health and lives ; and in short, it takes away their right 
to make strenuous and successful efforts to rise to a state 
of knowledge, holiness, usefulness and happiness. These 
are some of the principal rights which God has given to 
the human race. The possession and enjoyment of these 
rights is vital to the usefulness, dignity and happiness of 
mankind, and essential to our properly worshiping and 
glorifying God ; while the invasion of them tends to the 
ruin of the whole man, soul and body. It tends to inflame 
the worst passions of our nature. What is better adapted 
to provoke to anger, WTath, strife, hatred, revenge, and 
other dire passions, than slavery ? To take away these 
cardinal human rights, tends powerfully to sap the founda- 
tion of all virtue, order, and happiness ; and to subvert eve- 
ry thing that is near and dear to man. Who can conceive 
a greater outrage upon human rights than slavery ? 

Slavery is a most cruel outrage upon human feelings. 
It tramples upon conscience — makes nothing of natural af- 
fection — crushes the tender sympathies of the soul to the 
earth ; and neithes regards the sighs for mental and cor- 
dial happiness, or the cries and groans of human suffering. 
Every species of human feeling, however sacred or valua- 
ble, are immolated by the cruel system of slavery. It is 
perhaps impossible to conceive a greater outrage upon the 
feelings of humanity. Of v/hat avail is it for the slave to 
consider his rational and moral nature,formed in the image 
of God — or to reflectupon the native dignity of his deathless 
6oul, capable of endless and accelerated improYement in 



68 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

knowledge, holiness and happiness ? Of what avail to 
look upon the wife of his bosom, or upon his tender off- 
spring ? Slavery holds a rod of iron despotism over his 
head, ready to crush all his hopes and happiness. The 
very thoughts of abject, hopeless bondage drinks up the 
spirits of the slave, and crushes the whole man to the 
earth. 

Slavery is a well kiiown pest to human society. It ruins 
the morals and manners of a state, and nation. It is "a 
moral and politcal evil" of the " first magnitude." Said 
Jefferson, an eye witness of the tendencies of slavery, " The 
whole commerce between master and slave, is a perpetual 
exercise of the most boisterous passions, the most unremit- 
ting despotism on one part, and degrading submission on 
the other. The parent storms, the child looks on, catches 
the lineaments of wrath, puts on the same airs in the cir- 
cle of smaller slaves, gives a loose to his worst of passions; 
and thus nursed, educated, and daily exercised in tyranny, 
cannot but be stamped by it with odious peculiarities. The 
man must be a prodigy who can retain his manners and 
morals undepraved by such circumstaces." 

Genius flies from the province of slavery, and the insti- 
tutions of science languish. Passion, and the most de- 
praved passions, take the lead. Licentiousness grows rank. 
Human life and property become insecure. Credit is rid- 
den to death, and the currencies become so deranged as to 
prostrate the business of the country and create a want of 
bread among a large and useful class of the laborers. Real 
estate sinks far below its ordinary value. Internal im- 
provements make* little if any progress, and every thing 
tends to decay and ruin, in a land of slavery. Witness 
Senator Preston's rail road speech at Charlestown, after 
his return from the North, in which he portrayed the con- 
trast between the slave and non-slaveholding states. Its 
effects upon the interests of religion and morality are still 
more deplorable, for it turns the former into gross hypoc- 
risy, and the latter into vice. 

Whether we consider its nature, its objects, its means of 



SIN OF SLAVERY. 69 



support, its inherent tendencies, or its appendages, slavery 
is a sin of the first magnitude against God and man — is 
the extreme of despotism, both civil and ecclesiastical; the 
climax of irresponsible power, or, as Bolivar expressed it, 
" the infringement of all lav^s." It is difficult to conceive 
of any worse legal or practical tyranny ; or of a more per- 
fect antipode to the principles of natural justice avowed in 
the Declaration of American Independence, and the objects 
set forth in the preamble of our Federal Constitution. 
Well might John Jay, of Revolutionary memory, exclaim, 
*' We have the highest reason to believe that the Almighty 
will not suffer slavery and the gospel to go hand in hand. 
It cannot, will not be." 

Such is the moral hydra that the people of the United 
States, churches, ministers, and all, have long cherished as 
a friend, or apologized for as a neccessary evil. Lord 
what is man ! ! ! 



The Press. 
The literature of the world is against slavery. This 
has become more and more apparent to all interested in 
slaveholding since the anti-slavery agitation. The new 
watchword — " Liberty for the slave" has made the ab- 
stract idea of liberty hateful to them. To keep up do- 
mestic slavery, they have consented to become slaves to, 
one another. How many books have been purged of their 
best contents, and how many more suppressed by slavish 
booksellers at the despotic nod of the slaveholder ! As 
long ago as 1836, a work of an exceedingly interesting 
character appeared in England from the pen of Frances 
Trollope. It was entitled "Jonathan Jefferson Whitlaw, 
or "Scenes in Mississippi." It had a frame work of fiction to 
enable it the more completely to combine in one view the 
various effects of slavery on the colored race and on socie- 
ty, than could be otherwise done. It was a remarkably 
accurate and illustrative delineation. All her previous 



70 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

works had had a large sale in this country, and a subse- 
quent one, "The Factory Boy" written on a similar plan, 
to illustrate the condition of the factory population in Eng- 
land, had a prodigious run. But no such good fortune 
was permitted to the poor " Scenes on the Mississippi.'' In- 
teresting and just as it was, it was never allowed to appear. 
It was dedicated "to those states of the American Union 
where slavery has been abolished or never permitted." But 
to this day the terror of losing southern patronage or incur- 
ring southern vengeance, forbids the free northern book- 
seller to republish it ! The following description of New 
Orleans is extracted from it ; and the whole book is an 
illustration of life at the extreme South, which wonld do 
great good could it be circulated. 

New Orleans. 

Meanwhile our hero arrived at New Orleans. There is 
always something splendid and attractive in the sight of a 
great cit)^ rising on the banks of a majestic river. The 
effect, indeed, is often delusive, giving an idea of general 
cheerfulness and prosperity which either belongs not to the 
scene at all, or only to a very limited portion of its popula- 
tion. In no instance, perhaps, is this more the case than 
at New Orleans. The noble Levee, forming a barrier to 
one of earth's most powerful streams — the long, long line 
of shipping, bearing the colors of all the nations of the 
world — the busy market — the well dressed crowd — the gay 
verandas — all speak of industry and wealth. But pene- 
trate a very little beyond the surface, and where is the 
barren rock or desert moor that shows not a spectacle more 
cheering? Year after year, religion and philosophy have 
-Struck off the fetters from the emancipated slave in differ- 
ent quarters of the globe, but at New Orleans, every white 
man's object is to rivet them on his black brethren firmer 
and firmer still. This is the business of their lives : and 
what are their pleasures ? To form illicit connections 
vv^th the race they scorn, and to rouse their dreamy, idle 
souls to. animation -by the sordid stimulants of strong 



THE PRESS. 7i 



drink and gambling : and then, as if their own unhappy- 
deeds brought not sufficient punishment, the terrible fever 
stalks through the land breathing avenging curses with 
his poisonous breath. Such is NEW OELEANS. 

Another Insfance. 

Several years since, tv^ro French gentlemen travelled 
through the United States for the purpose of observing our 
government and institutions. Their names were Gustave 
Beaumont and Alexis de Tocqueville. On their return to 
France, they published the results of their observations, 
M. de Tocqueville's book was entitled " Democracy in 
America." It spoke of slavery as a great evil, but one 
from which it was exceedingly doubtful v/hether the coun- 
try could ever be rid. This dispairing tone was not disa- 
greeable to slaveholders ; on the contrary, it was their own 
favorite one till within a few years. So the book was re- 
published without difficulty here, and is now passing 
through a new, improved edition. M. Beaumont embod- 
ied the result of his observations in a novel, illustrative of 
the practical workings of slavery and its unfailing shadow, 
prejudice against color. 

This book is deeply interesting, and it is hardly possible 
for one to rise from reading it, without being w^armed into 
a state of mind to resolve to labor unceasingly against the 
oppressions done under our American sun ! There is in 
in it nothing insurrectionary, nothing objectionable ; but to 
this day it can not be published. The press of/7*ee Amer- 
ica is under the control of slavery — the writers and the 
publishers of America have taken a retaining fee of slavery. 

Mrs. Caroline Gilman, a northern woman, resident at 
the South, the wife of a clergyman, writes a work of fic- 
tion sifting in the praises of slavery. Is there any difficul- 
ty about its publication ? are booksellers afraid it will 
bring them a larger income of paving stones than of dollars ? 
— not at all. It goes like wild-fire. Hardly the necessity 
of a pufF. And when the minister of a town in free Massa- 
chusetts (who is as much opposed to slavery as any body, 



72 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

only he feels it his duty to do his people's thinking for 
them, and dislikes the introduction of any subject that 
might impede the exercise of his functions as thinker-gen- 
eral,) I say when that minister was asked by the ladies of 
his society to select a book for the social Library, he select- 
ed this pro-slavery work of Mrs. Oilman's. So flimsy 
and worthless a one, its pro-slavery aside, that I cannot re- 
member its name. That man is no more guilty than the 
great majority of I he Gallileans and Gallios of the ministry. 
Farm.ers of Massachusetts ! you are in bondage to slavery 
this hour ! she holds the leading strings of your ministers — 
&he teaches theology at your seminaries — she maintains at 
every corner, a supervisor of your libraries, and a censor 
of your presses. One publishing office,however, is free. It is 
the publishing office of the American Anti- Slavery Society. 
No pro-slavery spirit mounts guard there. Its managers, 
your servants for the cause sake, are poor in every thing 
but faith, and weak in every thing but integrity, but in 
these they are strong. In the name of humanity, furnish 
them with the means to go on with energy. 



For the Monthly Offering. 
" The North Opposed to Slavery." 

" I am for the abolition of slavery ; nor would I arrogate 
t© myself, and a few others with me, this as our exclusive 
honor. I believe all v/hom I address, and the great body 
of the people of the New England and of the northern 
states, share the same honor. That there may be individ- 
uals at the North having pecuniary interests involved in 
southern slavery, and therefore in favor of perpetuating 
the system, is very possible ; but it is the speaker's privi- 
lege never to have knoivn such a person. 1 doubt whether 
there is such a citizen in Boston ; there certainly is not 

IN THE CONGREGATION TO W^HICH I MINISTER." Hubbard 

Winslow. 

The above declaration of Mr Wioslow in his celebrated 



THE NORTH OPPOSED TO SLAVERY. 73 

" Thanksgiving sermon" is, with some exceptions, often 
made by a large class of people among us who contend 
that the North is, and alimys has been, opposed to slavery. 
They insist that the position of the abolitionists that the 
North is pro -slavery and is the real slaveholding power of 
tills country, is a foul slander, and a crime of sufficient 
enormity to merit death without benefit of clergy. 

Now I know not what others may think, but for my sin- 
gle self, I find it hard to bring the assertion of Mr. W. to any 
principle which will not deprive him who uttered it either 
of common sense or common honesty. Can it be possible 
that a person with such opportunities of obtaining informa- 
tion as this man, could be so deplorably ignorant of the 
events which have transpired in our country for a few past 
years, and of the relation which subsists between the 
North and South, and the structure of our government, and 
so wofuUy blind to the connexion which must of necessity 
exist between these and slavery, as really to believe this 
declaration ? I dont know but it is possible, but it is surely 
hard to believe it. 

Is it then true that the North is heartily opposed to slave- 
ry, and sincerely desirous for its abolition ? Are the citi- 
zens of Boston to a man, or even the members of Mr. 
Winslow's congregation, anxious to have this foul sin blot- 
ted from the land? Why then has there been such fiend - 
like opposition to the principles and measures of the aboli- 
tionists ? Why did " 5,000 gentlemen of property and 
standing" assemble in the streets of that city to mob a few 
females, who had met together to pray for the overthrow 
of slavery, and to inquire of one another and of their God 
in the fulness of hearts warmed with the purest benevo- 
lence, whether they could not do something to liberate 
their oppressed brethren and sisters from their unrighteous 
bondage 1 Why was it, that an unoffending citizen was 
dragged like a felon through the streets and finally incar- 
cerated by the city authorities within "the walls of a prison 
to preserve him from the tender mercies of these same 
gentlemen of property and standing,who are represented as 



74 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

being so decidedly opposed to slavery ? Why have almost 
the entire population of this slavery-hating city pitted them- 
selves against the friends of the slav^e, and strove^by the most 
bitter and relentless persecution to crush the free spirit of 
abolition within their borders ? Why is it that churches 
have been closed, and notices of anti-slavery meetings sup- 
pressed, and abolitionists excluded from pulpits where the 
southern rolber and man-stealer is welcomed with the 
most fraternal embrace 1 Why was it that the noble phi- 
lanthropist, George Thompson, was hunted like a wild 
beast of the forest, ostensibly because he Vv^as a foreigner 
interfering with our domestic institutions, while foreigners 
are permited to write and speak infavoj' of the patriarch- 
chal institution without let or hindrance 1 Why was it, 
that when the Marlborough Chapel was dedicated, the 
Mayor was obliged to put in requisition the military force 
of the city to prevent a mob ,from destroying it, on the 
ground that it was to be '' dedicated to abolition ? " Are 
all these, and much more which might be named, indica- 
tions of hostility to slavery? 

If the North is opposed to this system, why was our de- 
voted and beloved brother Lovejoy shot down in the streets 
of Alton for his advocacy of freedom 1 Why is it that this 
deed which, if not like that of the witches in Macbeth, ab- 
solutely 'Svithout a name," it would still be difficult to 
class with the ordinary crimes of mistaken patriotism or 
deliberate villainy, why is it that this deed has been sufferr 
ed to go unpunished and the perpetrators walk unmolested 
through the community, boasting their agency in the abom- 
inable outrage ? Why is it that the only building erected for 
the purpose of free discussion upon all the great questions 
connected with human welfare in a population of fifteen 
millions of professed disciples of freedom, and which was 
dedicated to "virtue, liberty and independence" was burnt 
to the ground within three days from its completion by a 
mob composed of thousands of the citizens of Philadelphia? 
Why has this item been added to the nation's guilt? Why 
has this addition been made to the dark catalogue of crime 



THE NORTH OPPOSED TO SLAVERY. 75 

and oppression with which she stands charged before the 
God of the universe 1 Why is it that the spirit of violence 
has rolled like a flood over the iand,destroying the property, 
deranging the business and endangering the lives of those 
who are endeavoring to make a practical application of the 
great truths contained in the Declaration of Indpendence? 
Why have both church and state basely bowed the knee to 
the dark spirit of slavery ? Why even now are the two 
great political parties of the day vieing with each other in 
doing her homage and trampling upon the rights of man ? 
Why is all this if the people of the so called free States are 
opposed to slavery, as Hubbard Winslow and a multitude 
of others say they are ? 

Will any one say that this is all evidence of anti-slave- 
ry feeling and that such a course has been rendered neces- 
sary in order to prevent the abolitionists, by their wild and 
fanatical course, from "riveting the fetters upon the slave," 
and placing " the day of his emancipation in the more dis- 
tant and uncertain future ? " If this is the true state of 
the case it was probably for the same reason that the Post 
Office was robbed at Charlestown, and Amos Dresser was 
lynched at Nashville, and Aaron Kitchell and John Hop- 
per in Georgia, and even brother Lovejoy murdered in Al- 
ton. The same motive too doubtless induced Calhoun to 
strive to prevent the transmission of A. S. publications 
through the mail, and Preston to declare that if an aboli- 
tionist entered South Carolina, he would be hung in spite 
of all the governments in the world ! The same philan- 
thropic feelings have also caused the Priests and Levites, 
the literary and theological seminaries to oppose with such 
surprising pertinacity and bitterness the mad schemes of 
the fanatics, and to defend slavery from the word of God. 
The same love of freedom beat in Webster's breast when 
he sold himself and his party to slavery at Alexandria, and 
confirmed the sale still more recently at Richmond ; and 
thus damned himself to an immortality of infamy, second 
only to that of him who betrayed the " Son of Man" into 
the hands of his murderers for thirty pieces of silver. For 



76 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

the same purpose too, " arch Van Buren" aroused his de- 
termination to veto any bill for the abolition of slavery in 
the District of Columbia, to which avowal the people by 
electing him to office said Amen ! The same love for suf- 
fering humanity was in the General Conference of the 
Methodist Church at its last session in Baltimore in refus- 
ing to permit colored testimony against white persons, and 
in the General Assembly of the Presbyterian church when 
it called on its Presbyteries to receive their anti-slavery acts. 

But a truce with this irony. I ask once more serious- 
ly, how it happens, if, as represented, the majority of the 
people of this country are opposed to slavery, (and the 
North has always been a majority) that seven thousand 
slaves are still pining in bondage in tho District of Colum- 
bia, and thousands more in Florida; and how does it hap- 
pen that less than 250,000 slave owners are able to keep 
three millions of human beings in slavery if all the rest of 
the nation are " as much opposed to slavery as any body?" 
I pause for a reply. 

I conclude by saying as I commenced that the person 
who, in the face of all the facts to the contrary which are 
scattered so thickly and broadly over our countr'y history 
during the half century of its existence, will still maintain 
that the North has always been and is still truly hostile to 
the foul system of slavery, shows himself to be either 
strongly deceived or m.ost wretchedly depraved. 

N. H. W. 



The American and the French Statesman. 

The great statesman of New England, as he is called, 
Daniel Webster, in the sincerity of his belief that a single 
crumb is better than no bread, has outraged the great 
principles of liberty on which our country's prosperity and 
existence rests, in order to afford the South a guarantee 
for the continuance of slavery. The great French states- 
man, the Due de Broglie, is the president of a commission 



PETITIONING. 77 



for effecting the abolition of slavery in the Erench Colo- 
nies. "This" says the Revue des deux Mondes, — a French 
periodical, " is a work great and complicated enough to 
claim the first attention of a statesman, even his who has 
so firmly held the reins of government in the most difficult 
times. In recompense for the rarest of all self-denial — 
that of ambition, it is reserved to M. le Due de Broglie 
to attach his name to the last serious act that liberty has to 
do in France to accomplish her legal ivork.^^ The proposi- 
sition of a law of emancipation may probably terminate 
the session of 1841, and open the session of 1849. 

M. W. C. 



Petitions. 

It will doubtless suggest itself to the monthly coilectors 
to combine other labors with that of collecting. Petition- 
ing is the next work to be done. Forms are ready for 
distribution at the rooms of the Massachusetts AntiSiavery 
Society, 25 Cornhill. 

We would exhort you not to be easily discouraged in 
the task of obtaming signatures. If you find ignorance, 
try to enlighten it; if you find scruples, try to remove them; 
if you find indifference, try to arouse sympathy. One of 
our friends in Boston declared that two-thirds of the signa- 
tures in her ward, were obtained after a battle of argument 
fairly fought and won. This answers a three-fold purpose. 
You not only gain the person's name, but you excite in- 
quiry in her mind, and she will excite it in others; thus 
the little circle imperceptibly widens, until it may embrace 
a whole town. 

Do not take it for granted, that any one will refuse to 
sign a petition because he or she has hitherto opposed us. 
Visit every house, ask every individual. Annually renew 
your appeals, Make them uncomfortable in their sinful 
negligence, by giving repeated opportunities to decline 
their duty. Then, when they read or hear any stories of 
the suffering slaves, it will not be your fault if their con- 
sciences do not say, You have not even ashed that young 



78 THE Monthly offering. 

girls should not be sold in the shambles — Yoa refused to 
intreat that the heart-broken wife should not be separated 
from her husband— ^You would not even sign your name 
to a prayer that little children might not be torn from their 
shrieking mothers ! 

To persons who plead the authority of others as a reason 
for not signing, we commend the godly example of Mrs. 
Wesley, rather than silent acquiescence. The mother of 
the Rev. John Wesley was wife of an Episcopal clergyman, 
residing in the midst of a poor and ignorant neighborhood. 
During the absence of her husband, she was in the habit 
of calling her family together to unite in prayer and listen 
to the Scriptures. By degrees, several poor neighbors 
joined the circle, that they might share the consolations of 
her ministry. The rector of an adjoining village reproved 
her for thus departing from the allotted province of woman. 
She replied that these ignorant creatures were hungry for 
the bread of life, and no man could be found in the vicinity 
capable of feeding the neglected flock. A letter of com- 
plaint was then written to her husband, who immediately 
urged her to desist from a course so unusual and improper. 
She answered, " If my husband commands me to refrain 
from discharging this duty, I will obey, as becomes a duti* 
ful wife ; provided, he will take the responsibility at the 
judgment seat of Christ." When Mr. Wesley received 
this solemn reply, it took from him all disposition to fetter 
the conscience of his wife. 



Liberty Beli. 

Articles of the highest degree of excellence have been 
received by the editor of this Annual, for the forth coming 
No. Donations towards the publication, should be sent to 
M. W. Chapman. Arrangements have been made for a 
fine engraving of superior excellence. It will probably be 
the best gift book that has yet issued from the anti-slavery 
press. 



THANKSGIVING HYMNS. 79 



^O^^^^^ 




^ By Maria Weston Chapmarli 
Matthew v. 23, 24. 

Have we not all one Father ? 

Then let us all with filial hearts unite^ 
As on this hallowed festival we gather, 

To bring an offering precious in his sights 

We stand before thine altar, 

Oh, God of freedom! with the free hearts' giftj 
Then wherefore should our troubled accents falter^ 

As at thy shrine our orisons we lift ? 

Because the voice of weeping 

From long-forgotten slaves who wear our chain, 
Comes to our hearts where brotherhood was sleeping, 

And stays the utterance of our choral strain* 



80 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

Thou wouldst have mercy, rather 

Than sacrifice by slavery's breath defiled, 

Oh thou of every race alike the father ! — 
No gift like hearts in freedom reconciled ! 

Oh thou of good the giver I 

We fling our worthless gift with tears away; 
And haste our suffering brethren to deliver 

Ere at thy shrine our grateful hearts we lay. 



Thanksgiving^. 

By M. TV. Chapman. 

Free children of New England ! gather round 
Your hearths on this time-honored festival, 
A freeman's blessing on the slave to call, 

Who toils in hopeless pain beyond the sound 

Of joy and gladness in your dwellings found. 
Free though your own unfettered footsteps are, 
Your wills to follow, limitless and far. 

Your land is yet with freedom's wreath uncrowned. 

There's not a hollow of her smiling hills 

That may not echo to the blood-hound's baying 

As o'er the field the free-born laborer tills, 

The slave's proud master hunts him even to slaying ! 

Shall such things be ! no ! gather tenfold stronger, 

And cry to heaven and earth — Such wrong shall be no 
longer ! 



We regret not having received the remainder of the 
story of the fugitive slave, by our friend Hiram Wilson. 
In anticipation of receiving it, we prepared no other narra- 
tive, and request our juvenile friends to excuse the defi- 
ciency. 

DC7"The Collectors are requested to increase the number 
of subscribers to the Offering as they find opportunity. 



'f u m 



MONTHLY OFFERING 



DECEMBER, 1840. 



For the Monthly Offering. 

JAMES MAJOR MONROE— A Fngith/e Slave. 

BY HIRAM WILSON. 

'Concluded from page 56 

Deep solieitude ' sat upon the brow of the poor captiv-;. 
We had every .physical 'comfort that heart could wish. 
The happy circle around the Autumnal fire-side assuaged 
the sorrows^ and iq some degree, dispelled the gloom that 
darkened the prospect of the care-worn pilgrim to' the 
American Canaan. The frightful howling of the winds, 
the rapid falling of the leaves, and the constant roar of the^ 
waves, dashing upon the southern shores of the lake, most 
effectually impressed my mind with the decay of nature 
beneath the vi^arring elements, and at the same time fitly; 
corresponded with the tempestuous heavings of his troubled 
breast. We waited with' painful anxiety till the going 
down of the sun, when the wind abated, a calm ensued, and 
we were called to the departing steamer. We proceeded 
on our way, thankful to God for our protection, and soon 
found ourselves at Detroit. A narrow strait only, separat- 
ed the pilgrim from the "promised land." He was soon 
at the east end of what we sometimes call Freedom's Fer- 
ry, vs^here the deep gloom of a worse than Egyptian night 
departed, andgave place to the bright sun of British libertyj 
which now beamed upon him. He readily found employ- 
ment in a respectable family, wjaere he not only received 
liberal wages, but soon gained the confidence and approba- 



82 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

tion of his employer. When he first entered the Province 
I lost sight of him and he of me for about three weeks. 

When we met again, I found him remarkably grateful 
for his deliverance. Seldom have I ever seen a person 
apparently more thankful for the protection of Heaven and 
the benefactions of men. He remained but a short time 
on the Canada side till he found he could command much 
higher wages at a public house in Detroit, Michigan. Ac- 
cordingly he spent several months in that city, during 
which time he periled his liberty for the purpose of accu- 
mulating property and furnishing himself with the means 
of getting his wife out of bondage. For industry, integri- 
ty, and fidelity to his engagements, he soon established a 
good reputation and was much respected by all who knew 
him. During the winter of 1837, he discovered that 
southern hyenas were prowling about in Detroit and spread- 
ing a snare for him. To avoid them he skipped across 
upon the ice to the Canada shore, in extremely perilous cir- 
cumstances—the river having but just frozen over, and no 
other person yet daring to cross. In the course of a few 
days when all was again quiet, he returned to the city and 
resumed his services, and continued to labor unmolested 
till some time in the spring, when some tile miscreant in 
the capacity of a man-thief entered his sleeping apartment 
in the dead of the night, for the purpose of capturing and 
returning him again to slavery. A sharp conflict ensued, 
in which the invader was wounded with a large carving 
knife and immediately repulsed. 

Traces of blood were noticed in the yard the next morn"^ 
ing, but who the assailant was, or whither he went, was 
not known. Fortunately for James, and perhaps more so for 
himself he showed his face there no more. ^ 

In mid-summer of the same year, I visited Detroit, and 
found him in trouble and deep anxiety about his wife, she 
was still south of the Ohio river in the cruel fangs of slav- 
ery, and he was determined if possible to rescue her. He 
showed me a thrilling letter he had but just received from 
her, which wrought upon his sympathies and strengthened 
liis noble but desperate purpose. He seemed to think that 



^AMES MAJOR MONROE ^A FUGITIVE SLAVE. 83 

time, that no other being on earth but the wife of his youth 
could ever have his affections — he was ready therefore to 
jeopardize his liberty and his life on her behalf. Several 
persons tried to discourage him, and told him he w^as a 
fool for going, but to no purpose — his heart was fixed — 
his mind was unwavering. He gathered together a suf- 
ficient amoant of money to defray his expenses — unbosom- 
ed to me his cares and submitted to my judgment his plan 
which was well contrived for accomplishing his object. 
The most I feared was, that his strong affection for his 
companion, would induce him to go too far in periling his 
own liberty. As I was then coming down the lake from 
Detroit to Buffalo, he took a passage witii me to Cleaveland 
in the same boat. We reached Cleaveland about midnight. 
I conducted the poor fellow up into the city to the house of 
a friend, whom I knew would not be offended if called up 
at that hour. I introduced the pilgrim stranger to my 
friend who kindly received him. I stated briefly his deli- 
cate circumstances — gave him a few lines of introduction 
to friends on his way, prayerfully commended him to God. 
and returned in haste to the boat, lest I should be left. I 
heard nothing more of him for many weeks. When we 
met again, he narrated to mehis adventures. Unfortunately, 
he failed of accomplishing his object and was under the ne- 
cessity of flaying back to the North in sad loneliness, grieved 
and disappointed. He saw his old master LaTule, but was 
not discovered by him. How must his aching heart have 
throbbed and his grief-worn frame have quivered at the 
sight of the bloody tryant ! For I had often noticed broad 
scars of a finger length about the face and neck of James, 
which he said LaTule had caused in freaks of passion with 
a butcher's knife. His master was a butcher by trade, and 
evidently a cruel, bloody man. James saw his wife and 
had a brief interview with her on the trembling theme of 
elopement. She engaged to meet him at a certain time 
and place, when he was to bring her away, but for some 
cause or other, she failed of coming at the time proposed. 
He waited beyond the time, and finally despairing of her 
coming, he left the place, well nigh overcome with anguish. 



84 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

Several slaves had but recently escaped from that neigh- 
borhood, in consequence of which a rigid system of vigi- 
lance was kept up, and his noble purposes were thwarted. 
On his return to, the North, he was twice interrupted an^ 
taken. Once he liberated himself by violence, and once 
he was' brought before a strangely fanatical raagistratev 
who interrogated the captor thus; " Why have you brought 
this man before me ? " Ans. " Because I thought him to 
be a runaway!" l^ou thought him to be a runaway!' 
(indignantly) " You thought him to he a rvMaway ! /" said' 
the magistrate, " and what right had you to stop this man 
on his journey? Suppose you were travelling among 
strangers, and some person should stop you and bring you 
before a magistrate, simply because he thought you to be a 
thief, when there was no shadow of proof against you, how 
would you regard such treatment?" The case was in- 
stantly non-suited. Said the magistrate to the poor cap- 
tive, " You see the high way out there." Yes.-. " Ve^-y 
well, just go out and take which end you please, and go 
where you yleaseP I have frequently seen the subject of 
this narrative since that time, and am sorry to end the story 
by saying, that he is married to another woman. We may 
not wonder at this. I know a man in this Province, who 
is now living with his fifth wife, and for aught he knows 
the four first are all living, but were violently sundered 
from him at the South. In the first instance, he was work- 
ing at a mill when news came to his ear that his wife was 
sold and driven off. He took a large stone, lashed a grape- 
vine round it, went upon the mill-dam, fixed a noose for 
his neck and was about to plunge to the bottom of the deep 
vi^ater below, but the thought occurred that it would be the 
riAin of his soul for eternity. So he rolled off the stone, 
which went quick to the bottom. He sat and gazed upon 
the spot while the bubbles rose to the top and broke — aw- 
ful thoughts revolved within his breast for a few moments, 
when he rose and left the place. 

" Fleecy locks and dark conaplexion, 

Cannot forfeit nature's claim; 

Skins may differ, but affection 

Dwells in black and whites the same.'* 



A LETTER. 85 



To THE Editor of the Offering. 

The following letter to Professor Eodges, Princeton, 
New Jersey, induced by an article in the Liberator of May 
17th, headed " Slavery in the Churches " Vv^as sent more 
than a year since. No reply has been received. It is at 
3^our service for the Offering. H. S. 

Boston, June 14th, 1839. . 

Sir, — In a late Southern Christian Sentinel, an article 
written by you and published in the Biblical Repository, is 
quoted with great approbation ; an extract from this article 
has alone meet my view; from that I learn you seek to 
maintain the position that Slavery is not forbidden in the 
Bible. Your arguments have proved a healing unction to 
the sore mind of the slaveholder. 

I have reflected very deeply on your position advanced 
at this time, when an effort is now making by a band of 
religious people to impress the slaveholder that he is guilty 
concerning his brother ; will you alloy/ me to propound a 
few" questions to you on this subject, and to request you to 
have the goodness to answer them 'categorically ? 

1. If the statutes of the Lord are right and his com- 
mandments pure, enlightening the e37-es, has he not in these 
statutes and commandments furnished us with a rule to 
guide us in every possible situation in which we may be 
placed towards himself, and our fellow men ? 

2. Would the slaveholder violate any lav/ of God, by 
breaking every yoke and letting the oppressed go free ? 

3. If slavery is not forbidden in the Bible, may it not 
continue in our midst, when transgression is finished, and 
an end made of sin, and everlasting righteousness be brought 
in? 

4. If the letter and the spirit of the Bible are not against 
slavery, then the awful denunciations against oppressors 
cannot reach the slaveholder. (See Job xxvii.) On whom 
then, will these punishments fall ? 

5. There is something divinely tender in God's direc- 
tions for the kind treatment of the stranq-er ! " If a stran- 



86 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

ger sojourn with thee in your land, ye shall not vex hirn, 
but the stranger that dwelleth with you shall be unto you 
as one born amongst you, and thou shall love him as your- 
self." Will not this law reach the human beings brought 
here in slave-ships ? If not, where do you class them ? are 
they the poor, the outcast, the needy, the naked, the hun- 
gry, the sick, the broken-hearted, the ignorant, the heath- 
en, the sinners, the members of God's mystical body? 
does not God's mercy meet them in each of these charac- 
ters, and enjoins upon his brother a dnty to be performed ? 
Is the slave without the pale of God's love ? 

6. What wrong did the sons of Jacob by selling Joseph 
into slavery ? was it more sinful to sell one of Jacob's sons 
than any other of our heavenly Father's children? 

7. What wrong did Pharaoh to the Israelites ? if slavery 
is not forbidden, where are his accusers? 

8. How will slavery stand the law, '* Love thy neighbor 
as thyself?" and the golden rule, " Do as yo-u would be 
done by ? " Can it remain where these laws are applied ? 
. I have many other questions to propose, but will not 
trouble you with them at this time. Should you conde- 
scend an answer to my queries, I shall consider it as a per- 
mission to address you again on this subject. 

Liberty and Equality. 

BY SAMUEL J. MAY. 

But, say our opponents, your plan contemplates the ele- 
vation of negroes, to the rank of white men— you claim for 
them equal civil and social privileges. Surely we do. 
We would give them every opportunity, every facility, every 
assistance to rise to an equality with us, ay, to surpass us, 
if they can. For we do not presume, that even white men, 
though they are rich, and proud, and indolent, have at- 
tained the summit of human excellence ; and we dare not 
bid the sable children of our heavenly Father to aspire 
after a resemblance to any lower one than that dearly be- 
loved Son, with whom the Father declared himself well 
pleased. 



LIBERMY AND EQUALITY. 87 

And where is the folly, or the hazard, in what we say, 
and would do 1 We by no means insist, that ignorant men 
shall be regarded as wise, or vicious men accounted as up- 
right and pure. But we do insist, that the ignorant of all 
complexions ought to be permitted and assisted to become 
wise — and the wicked to become good. And we insist 
that men, black, no less than white, should be acknowledged 
to be what they are, both positively and comparatively. 

Our white brethren, we suspect, would not be so very 
sensitive on this point, as they are, if their title to the su- 
periority they claim, was not doubtful. Were some vision- 
ary disciples of LordMonboddo, (if he has any,) to propose 
a plan for the improvement of the race of monkies, and 
their elevation to the rights and privileges of men, who 
would think of seriously opposing the project? Who 
would not readily say to the dreamers, go on, if you will, 
and \yhen you get your monkies to be men, we will ac- 
knowledge them. 

Many there are, who affect to regard the negroes as a 
race of beings nearly akin to monkies. But when we see 
severe laws enacted, prohibiting the instruction of colored 
people throughout the slave-holding States ; and heavy 
penalties inflicted upon those who dare to teach them ; — 
and when, at the North, we see every impediment thrown 
in the way of their improvement, Vvhat does it prove ? 
What ? That their opposers know there are beneath their 
darker skins intellectual powers, and moral affections, 
which, if cherished and suffered to unfold, would com- 
mand for these despised, oppresed, outraged ones all that 
respect and affection, which are due to those, who are 
made of the same blood, are the children of the same pa- 
rent, and heirs of the same immortality. 

We are fairly ashamed of our white brethren. They 
have had the advantage of the colored men for two centu- 
ries, if no more, and are afraid to give them an equal 
chance even now. This is mean. For ourselves, we can 
feel no self complacency in keeping in advance of our col- 
ored brethren, so long as they are chained behind us. We 



THE MONTHLY . OFFERIJ^IG, 



v.:o.uld rather strike oiFtheiil chains, lay aiside every weight 
that encumhers them, rethove; every iinpediment from their 
path, lend them an helping. hand, ii;t'lieyn;eed.it, rais6 ttie.m 
up when they fall, apd in evei'y way encourjage them to 
run the race, which is Set before them, as well as us, and 
to stretch forward that they may attain, if they can, nearer 
than ourselves to the mark of our high cfAlling — the stat- 
ure of perfect men. 



I3,r.,Chani4mg'sNew Work. ^/^,■.;^-; 
. , We rejoice to give the readers of the Offering a few de- 
tached passages from Dr. Channing's neW work. It4^ 
the best that he has 3ret written on the subject of Slavery 
arid Freedom ; and we hope, it will be widely circulated. ^ 
" It is important, that we should eachcof jus bear our 
conscientious testimony against slavery, not only to swell 
that tide of public opinion, which is to sweep it away, but 
that we may save ourselves from sinking into .silent, un- 
suspecting acquiescence in the evil. A constant resistance 
is. needed to this downward tendency, as is proved by the 
tone of feeling in the free States. What is more common 
among ourselves,, than a courteous, apologetic disapproba- 
tion of slavery, which differs little from taking its part. 
This is one of its v/orst influences. It taints the whole 
country. The existence, the perpetual presence of a great, 
prosperous, unrestrained system of wrong in a community, 
is one of the sorest trials to the moral sense of the people, 
and needs to be earnestly withstood. The idea of justice 
becomes unconsciously obscured in our minds. Our hearts 
become more or less seared to wrong. The South says, 
that slavery is nothing Jto us at the North. But through 
our trade, we are brought into constant contact with it ; we 
grow familiar with it.; still more, we thrive by it; and the 
next step is easy, to consent to the sacrifice of human be- 
ings, by whom: we prosper. The dead know not their 



EXTRACTS FROM. DR. CHANNING. 89 

want of life, and so a people, whose moral sentiments are 
palsied by the interweaving of all their interests with a 
system of oppression, become degraded without suspecting 
it. In consequence of this connection with slave countries, 
the Idea of Human Rights, that great idea of our age, and 
on which w^e profess to build our institutions, is darkened, 
weakened among us, so as to be to many little more than 
a sound. A country of licensed, legalized wrongs, is not 
the atmosphere in which the sentiment of reverence for 
these rights can exist in full power. In such a communi- 
ty, there may be a respect for the arbitary rights, which law 
creates, and may destroy,, and a respect for historical rights, 
which rest on usage.. Bui the fundamental rights which 
inhere in man as man, and which lie at the foundation of 
a just, equitable, beneficent, noble polity, must be imper- 
fectly comprehended. This depressio-n of moral sentiment 
in a people, is an evil, the extent of which is not easily ap- 
prehended. It afiects and degrades every relation of life. 
Men, in whose sight human nature is^ stripped of all its 
rights and dignity, cannot love or honor any! who possess 
it, as they ought. In offering these remarks, I do not for- 
get what I rejoice to know, that there is much moral feel- 
ing among- us in regard to slavery. But still there is a 
strong tendency to indifference, and to something worse ; 
and on this account we owe it to our own moral health, 
and to the moral life of society, to express plainly and 
strongly our moral abhorrence of this institution." 

" There is one portion of the community, to which I 
would especially commend the cause of the enslaved, and 
the duty of open testimony against this form of oppression; 
and that is, our women." 

" I know it will be said, that in thus doing, woman will 
wander beyond her sphere, and forsake her proper work. 
What I Do I hear such language in a civilized age, and in 
a land of Christians. What, let, me ask, is woman's work? 
It is to be a minister of Christian love. It is to sympathize 
with human misery. It is to keep alive in society some 
feelina; of human brotherhood. This is her mission on 



90 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

earth. Woman's sphere, I am told, is home. And why is 
home instituted ? Why are domestic relations ordained ? 
These relations are for a day ; they cease at the grai^e. 
And what is their great end ? To nourish a love which 
will endure forever, to awaken universal sympathy. Our 
ties to our parents are to bind us to the Universal Parent. 
Our fraternal bonds to help us to see in all men our breth- 
ren. Home is to be a nursery of Christians ; and what is 
the end of Christianity but to awaken in all souls the 
principles of universal justice and universal charity. At 
home we are to learn to love our neighbor, our enemy, the 
stranger, the poor, the oppressed. If home do not train us 
to this, then it is woefully perverted. If home counteract 
and quench the spirit of Christianity, than we must re- 
member the Divine Teacher, who commands us to forsake 
father and mother, brother and sister, wife and child, for 
His sake, and for the sake of his truth. If the walls of 
home are the bulwarks of a narrow, clannish love, through 
which the cry of human miseries and wrongs cannot pen- 
etrate, then it is mockery to talk of their sacredness. Do- 
mestic life is at present too much in hostility to the spirit 
of Christ. A family should be a community of dear friends, 
strengthening one another for the service of their fellow 
creatures. Can we give the name of Christian to most of 
our families ? Can we give it to women, who have no 
thoughts, or sympathies for multitudes of their own sex, 
distant only two or three days' journey from their doors, 
and exposed to outrages, from which they would pray to 
have their own daughters snatched, though it were by 
death?" 

" Having spoken of the individual, I proceed to speak of 
the duties of the Free States, in their political capacity, in 
regard to slavery ; and these may be reduced to two heads, 
both of them negative. The first is, to abstain as rigidly 
from the use of political power against slavery in the States 
where it is established, as from exercising it against slavery 
in foreign communities. The second is, to free ourselves 
from all obligation to use the powers of the national or 



EXTRACT FROM DR. CHANNING. 91 

State governments in any manner whatever for the support 
of slavery. 

The first duty is clear. In regard to slavery, the South- 
ern States stand on the ground of foreign communities. 
They are not subject or responsible to us more than these. 
No state-sovereignty can intermeddle with the institutions 
of another. We might as legitimately spread our legisla- 
tion over the schools, churches, or persons of the South, as 
over their slaves. And in regard to the general govern- 
ment, we know that it was not intended to confer any 
power, direct or indirect, on the free, over the slave States. 
Any pretension to such power on the part of the North, 
would have dissolved immediately the convention which 
framed the constitution. Any act of the free States, when 
assembled in Congress, for the abolition of slavery in other 
States, would be a violation of the national compact, and 
would be just cause of complaint. 

On this account, I cannot but regret the disposition of a 
part of our abolitionists to organize themselves into a po- 
litical party. Were it indeed their simple purpose to free 
the North from all obligation to give support to slavery, I 
should agree with them in their end, thou'gh not in their 
means. By looking, as they do, to political organization, 
as a means of putting down the institution in other States, 
they lay themselves open to reproach. I know, indeed, 
that excellent men are engaged in this movement, and I 
acquit them of all disposition to transcend the limits of the 
Federal Constitution. But it is to be feared, that they 
may construe this instrument too literally ; that, forgetting 
its spirit, they may seek to use its powers for purposes very 
remote from its original design. Their failure is almost 
inevitable. By extending their agency beyond its true 
bounds, they ensure its defeat in its legitimate sphere. By 
assuming a political character, they lose the reputation of 
honest enthusiasts, and come to be considered as hypocrit- 
ical seekers after place and power. Should they, in oppo- 
sition to all probability, become a formidable party, they 
would unite the slaveholding States as one man ; and the 



92 



THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 



South, always able, when so united, to link with itself a 
party at the North, would rule the country as before." 

*' I cannot but express again regret at the willingness 
of the abolitionists to rely on and pursue political power. 
Their strength has always lain in the simplicity of their 
religious trust, in their confidence in christian truth. For- 
merly, the hope sometimes crossed my mind, that, by en- 
larging their views and purifying their spirit, they would 
gradually become a religious community, founded on the 
recognition of God as the common, equal Father of all 
mankind, on the recognition of Jesus Christ as having liv- 
ed and died to unite to himself and to baptize with his spir- 
it every human soulj and on the recognition of the brother- 
hood of all the members of God's human family. There 
are signs that Christians are tending, however slowly, to- 
ward a church, in which these great ideas of Christianity- 
will be realized ; in which a spiritual reverence for God, 
and for the human soul, will take place of the customary 
homage paid to outward distinctions ; and in which our 
present narrow sects will be swallowed up. I thought, 
that I saw in the principles with which the abolitionists 
started, a struggling of the human mind toward this chris- 
tian union. It is truly a disappointment to see so many of 
their number becoming a political party, an association al- 
most always corrupting, and most justly suspected on ac- 
count of the sacrifices of truth, and honor, and moral inde- 
pendence, which it extorts even from well-disposed men. 
Their proper work is to act on all parties, to support each 
as far as it shall be true to human rights, to gather laborers 
for the good cause from all bodies, civil and religious, and 
to hold forth this cause as a universal interest, and not as 
the property or stepping stone of a narrow association. 

I know that it is said, that nothing but this political ac-' 
tion can put down slavery. Then slavery must continue ; 
and if we faithfully do our part as Christians, we are not 
responsible for its continuance. We are not to feel, as 
if we were bound to put it down by any and every means. 
Let us then work against all wTong, but with a calm, sol- 



POETRY. 93 



emn earnestness, not with vehemence and tumult. Let us 
work with deep reverence and filial trust toward God, nnd 
not in the proud impetuosity of. our own wills. Happy 
the day, when such laborers shall he gathered by an in« 
ward attraction into one church or brotherhood, whose 
badge, creed, spirit, shall be Universal Love." 



A Fact. 

A lady vv^ho had been informed that the children of slaves 
receive religious instruction, was undeceived by the an- 
swer of a little bright-eyed slave girl to a single question. 

'' My dear, can you tell me what you were made for? " 

" Yes, missey ;— made to selj." 

No oral instruction that the child had ever receivedj 
(though it might have enjoyed the privilege of family\ 
prayer at the great house, catechetical instruction, and 
three sermons a week,) could countervail this terrible in-^ 
struction o^ facts, M, W. C- 



Testimony of a Dying Witness. 

It is a gentle eve, the pale pure moon. 

Looks o'er the sweep of waters, as they lie 

Stretched out, beneath her meek and lovely eye« 

It is a grateful hour, even to the sidk ; 

The balmy flowers that wreathe yon window loWj 

Are not more sweet, than to the languid soul 

This grateful stillness, this refreshing calm. 

Turn thy faint head, my brother ! said a maid. 
Kneeling beside the couch of wasting pain ; 
. Oh ! turn and see ho\v full of heaven is earth. 
In this most blessed night — such, oh beloved ! 
Such be the hour when thou art called away, 
To the far mansion of thy heavenly rest,--- 



94 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

" Sister," the sick mari^ answered, " now the while 
I lie at ease, and feel the influence bland 
Of this heart-soothing hour, I will relate 
The history of my wanderings and return, 
As thou hast tenderly of me required. 
Thou knowest beloved sister, I was born 
Where freedom visits all, but those like me 
Tinctured with Ethiop blood. — Early I felt 
The burning of the brand, though counted free. 
I felt the withering of eternal scorn 
Repress the gladness of my childish hours ; 
And harrow up my warm aspiring youth ; 
Oh 1 who can think of Nature's sufferings, 
Till Jesus, till my blessed Savior came, 
His heart o'erflowing with his healing love^ 
His arms extended, and his bosom warm. 
To clasp the closer his despised one. 

Could I unmindful of such mercy prove ! 
Ah ! sister hear the truth ! I fain must tell 
How christian pride, and my revolting heart, 
But for Eternal Grace, had wrecked my soul. 

I went to a fair city ; everywhere. 

The temple of the impartial God arose. 

1 entered in, the pale-faced worshippers 

Had equal seats— but there was none for me. — 

1 like a culprit, guilty of some crime, 

Too vile to mingle with his fellow men. 

Must be permitted in some lonely nook, 

Oh, foulest shame ! oh ever during blot I 

Eternity shall tremble yet, to hear. 

How pride usurps the very seat of God. 

Even the love with which my new born soul 
Had sought her christian kindred, thus repulsed. 
Quickened the bitterness. I turned away 
A " little one offended," — darkness came, 



foEfuv. QS 



And gloomy doubt, athwart my tempted soul. 
My mind confused, could separate no more 
The unrighteous practice from the holy faith^- 
1 heard the name of Jesus but from those, 
Whose heart despised me, claiming to be his. 
That once so precious name, associate now 
With what most stung me, was no longer -dear. 
Once to a fallen church Jehovah said, 
" It is through you the Eternal blessed name 
Is every day blasphemed/' Alas ! my heart. 
Though it blasphemed not-^seemed to love no more. 

At length one Sabbath day, while in this mood 

I roamed at will, and heard from every side 

God praised in all the churches, I beheld 

The temple also of those blinded men 

Who see no God, in this God breathing world. 

I entered in. Here to be thrust away 

In some lone corner, had not wounded Wie. 

Men free to act themselves, without restraint 

Of God or conscience, should be prone to pride. 

But lo, here was equality; no man 

Came with a look severe to show my place- 

I felt myself at once an equal man ; 

I cannot tell, how dangerously fast 

This overcame my soul ; soon, soon I grew 

As lost as these in deadly unbelief. 

Too soon, too soon, I found, that I had lost 

My precious peace of mind, my Comforter. 

The sweet, clear shining of redeeming love. 

Before obscured, seemed now erttirely gone. 

No evidence had I, but the deep pain 

With which I sought in vain an absent God, 

Still came with deeper gloom- — till as it were 

Hell closed around me. — Hapless one ! thought I, 

Driven from thy Father's house, why didst thou go 

To engulph thy spirit in that fiery state, 

Of everlasting blackness and despair ? 



96 TliE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

I left the infidels : the inward storm 

Raged till it spent itself — then died away 

In sullen calmness, till I thought my soul ,, 

Had seen her last of the white wings of hope i 

Soaring away from me, far out of sight. 

But while I sat in darkness of the grave, 

With heart all desolation, having past 

My last, last struggle with my threatened fate, 

Lo, suddenly there broke a ray of light 

Upon my soul.; from Calvary it came. 

God of my spirit, what an hour w^as that, . ; 

When on my knees, my thirsty soul imbibed, 

That first sweet draught of thy returning love^ 

Jesus, thou knowest, how I wept away, 

In one short moment, all the pain of years. 

In flowed the sweetness, in a deeper gush, 

Till all my soul, and all my heart was full 

Of the abundant joy:.. . So Godforgavey 

And at his feet I there forgave the men, 

Whose pride had blighted all my early love. 

But sister, with my love to God, there came 

Pure jealous indignation, when I saw • 

The holy name so outraged and betrayed, 

Brought to sustain and sanction foukst crime,-" :: 

By those who call themselves the sons of God. 

But now I die in peace^ for lo I see 

The hastening morning of abetter day, ,^i: j^.,, ... 

I hear the battlements of many towers; ^riooa aoT 

Come groaning to the ground* I see tne throndS 

Are all cast down^— the highest stars of pride 

Fall from the skies— the heavens grow dark and voidj 

The former things all pass away, and lo 

A Heaven and Earth, where God may ever dwell. 

Farewell, sweet sister, I have told thee all ; 

Go wipe thy weeping eyes and pray for me, 

Then sink to sleep, for ail within is well 

With thy loved brother, if he. wakes ■ no rifiorei" 



THE 

MONTHLY OFFERING. 



Ji^NUARY, 1841 



Anti-Slavery Experience. 

" Thought would destroy their paradise." — Gray. 

It was a cold and cloudy morning, in the December of 1835, 
when I prepared to go forth on a mission, very far from de- 
lightful, as will appear before I finish. The putting on of 
my cloak and bonnet occupied, at least, twice the usual 
time, and my collar, my scarf, and even my over-shoes, re- 
ceived a share of attention, to which they were, by no 
means, accustomed. Usually, a very few minutes suffice 
for the arrangement of my walking equipments, even when 
the place of the promenade is Washington Street, and its 
time from twelve till two.— I wish the obvious reason, worst 
of all, personal vanity, were the true one, but I fear that 
must be found in the ever recurring phrase of the Gienburn 
cottagers, "I winna be fashed," language to which my 
very heart responds ifi many matters besides those of dress. 
But now, to my imagination, the very interests of Free- 
dom and Righteousness were connected with the smooth- 
ness of my ribbon and the frill of my cap ; Truth seemed 
to rest for support on the fact whether indeed the starch- 
ing of my collar was dear starching, and Mercy to ask 
anxiously if there was not a pinch in my bonnet. Rosa- 
mond's anxiety hardly equalled mine. 

On one part of my dress, I felt it useless to waste either 
time or thought. No expenditures of either could 
preserve my stockings from the most unjust represen- 
tations. What availed it that they were white, and that 



98 THE MONTHLY OFFEKING. 

this was the first time of wearing ? I knew that through 
some optical delusion, they would appear to the gaze of 
nearly ail my beholders both blue and ragged. 

I gave a last glance at my face, and in view of its pale- 
ness, pitied myself as kindly as if I had been my neighbor 
' — seized three or four ominous rolls of paper, mended my 
pencil, and rushed out of the house. As I hurried along 
she Mall, a very cold, cutting wind drove over it, but I 
heeded it not. — *' Whistling to keep one's courage up," is 
a privilege strictly masculine, and was therefore to me un- 
available ; but I supplied its place by calling to mind sun- 
dry scraps of Anti-Slavery poetry— and as the severity of 
ihe weather had created a solitude around me, I even ven- 
tured to repeat them aloud. 

The melancholy cadence of my own voice strengthened 
me, and as I entered one of our most fashionable streets, I 
felt my composure return wonderfully. I rung at the door 
of a large handsome house, and was shewn into a large, 
liandsome drawing-room. The lady of the mansion en- 
tered, and her courtesee astonished me. I forgot two im- 
portant facts, which, remembered, wbuld have caused my 
astonishment to cease. 1st. She did not know the busi- 
ness on which I came — and secondly, as I had done jus- 
tice to my dress, it now returned me the favor by inspiring 
Mrs. W. with a kindly feeling, which expressed itself in 
sundry little civilities. I seized the first pause, it was like 
pulling the strings of a shower bath. 

*' I called. Madam, for the purpose of asking your sig- 
nature to a petition for the Abolition of Slavery in the Dis- 
trict of Columbia." 

The tone of her voice, the expression of her face, the 
repose of her manner, changed as by magic. " Oh, no, in- 
deed ! not on any condition, oh, no ! oh no !" She could 
hardly assure herself that even these multiplied negatives 
rendered her safe. I rose, at once, but as I rose, she ex- 
claimed, " Pray were you one of the ladies who were mob- 
bed, a month or two ago ?" 

I answered in the affirmative,-^and in a remark or two 



ANTI-SLAVERY EXPERIENCE. 99 



from her, that followed, she seemed to consider the fact, 
that I had been mobbed, so complete a justification of her 
refusal to sign the petition, that I felt emboldened to bear 
a testimony which was received with a mixture of amuse- 
ment and wonder. 

A number of calls succeeded too similar to the one I 
have just described, to require further mention. There was 
such perfect sameness in the furniture of the various draw 
ing-rooms, such a very upholster shop look, such an ab- 
sence of almost every thing that could imply that their in- 
mates ever worked or read, (for the souvenir on the centre 
table go for nothing) that one specimen of a room would 
fairly represent the class, in the same way any well dress- 
ed woman, polite before ; she knew my business, a little 
frightened, and a little angry afterwards, might well enough 
represent the class who all turned a deaf ear to my request. 
One or two of my reminiscences, however, are sufficient- 
ly permanent to merit description. Some young ladies, 
whose initials, even, I will not venture to give, have several 
brothers uncommonly ill-formed, and silly, even in the eyes 
of the public, that constitute the gay Soeieiy of Boston. 
One of them, after studying the petition attentively, for a 
few minutes, told me, " No ; we think it best to leave mat- 
ters of such great importance as this to our brothers. They 
know, I am sure, what is best to be done, and they will do 
all that is necessary." 

Not feeling quite prepared to leave the cause of Freedom 
in those hands which the Misses thought so pre- 
eminently safe, I entered the house of Mr L I rejoiced to 

see the master of the mansion on the sofa, for the ignor- 
ance and indifference of the women had been such that I 
felt for at least half woman kind as much contempt as a 
new organization minister affects to feel for the whole sex. 
Mrs L. sat in a rocking chair opposite her husband ; as I 
presented the petition, her husband held out his hand to 
receive it, and I then saw she was partially blind. 

"This lady has brought you a document of great im- 
portance, my dear," said the gentleman. '' Shall I read it 



100 THE' MOT^THLY OFFERING. 

to you ?" She assented, and he began, in a tone of mingled 
ridicule and irony to read aloud, but as he continued, the 
words " wives torn from their husbands, mothers from their 
children" seemed strangely to interrupt his utterance. He 
slid in a parenthesis, " For all this I am very sory." But 
after he had finished and made sundry inquiries as to the 
number of subscribers obtained, the touch of grace vanish- 
ed and the man's natural feeling returned. 

" Now, my good young lady, let me have a little talk 
with you. I really feel sorry to see you running about on 
such an errand. I suppose you have beard of the CrU' 
saders, havnt't you ?" I assented. " Well, everybody now 
a days laughs at the Crusaders ; everybody thinks they 
were very ridiculous people : now you are acting just like 
the Crusaders. Freeing the slaves is a perfect Crusade. 
I dare say all the things on this paper you have brought 
are true enough ; but only look at the matter reasonably. 
If it be our duty to be working for people as far off as the 
slaves, why, if we should succeed and free them, there 
would be half the world still in some difficulty or other, 
and the same reasons that make it right to help the slaves 
would bring all these other people on our hands ; so you 
see," ended he, in a triumphant tone, "it is no use for 
yoia to begin, for where are you to stop?" 

I admitted the truth of a part of what he said, and add- 
ed that I supposed it was the duty of all Christians tola- 
bor for the annihilation of all suffering, during the whole 
of their lives, that to do this was one of the reasons for 
which they were sent into this world. 

A laugh on his part, and an avowal that we all had better 
manage our own affairs, and leave those of our neighbors,, 
closed the interview. I met with hot little of gross abuse. 
One lady turned me out of the house with much violence of 
manner, declaring that I must mean to insult her. I found 
the solution of her conduct in the fact that she was, before 
marriage, a eoutherner, and a slave-holder. Another, the 
wife of a distinguished merchant, when some allusion was 
made to the sufferings of the slaves, exclaimed, *' It is alia 



ANTI-SLAVERY EXPERIENCE. 101 

perfect farce!" and angrily left the room, leaving me stand- 
ing on the middle of the floor. Peace to the memory of 
one amiable old lady, since dead, who, though the v;idow 
of a man once high in state, complimented me on my kind- 
ness in travelling so far as was the Discrict of Columbia. 
I explained to her her mistake, and she replied, " Why, I 
thought, my dear, as you was only trying to help the slaves 
in the District of Columbia, you must belong there ; else, 
why dont you try to do something for the rest, as you say 
there is so many." I again explained, and she kindly said 
she would think about the matter. One did not know 
what her husband would think about it, and a large major- 
ity coldly indicated that the whole subject of slavery being 
out of the appropriate sphere of women, was one in which 
they took no interest. I obtained but a single signature. 
It was that of an intelligent looking girl, who came to the 
door, and who anxiously asked what success I met. Mr. 
Harrison Gray Otis ushered me from the room with much 
impressment, and Lieut. Gov. Armstrong, as far as I could 
conjecture, from a s-ort of dumb show, told his wife not to 
give her name. 

One name, though obtained on another day, I judge wor- 
thy of mention here. A Rev. Dr. high in the theological 

. world, said to his wife, " Give your name, if you like, but 
make use of your own christian name, don't use mine." 
So it was written, Julia so and so, not Mrs. , which 

^might have compromised the interests of an association 
which seems actively engaged in the work of raising more 
ministers to shut more^ pulpits. 

But let me pursue the uncomfortable reme^nbrance no 
farther. I came home, weary and dispirited. All ray tre- 
mors had subsided, but I felt so tired, so discouraged, and 
in fact, so amazed that women, to whom their owm domes- 
tic ties were such objects of importance, should apparent- 
ly esteem those of others of no consequence at all. 

This was five years since, and I have gone over the 
same work every year, in the interim. Slowly, very slow- 
ly has my success increased, and now, in 1840, so harden- 



10§ THE MONTHLY OrFERING. 

ed to the task have I become, that I shall present my peti- 
tion with us unbeating a heart as though it were a paper 
in aid of the Bunker Hill Monument. 

What has been the reason of my ill success ? To two- 
causes I would fain impute it. Ignorance on the subject 
of slavery in the first place, and in the second misappre- 
hension of their own individual responsibilities. Slavery 
is not sin and suffering, or if it be, their position as women 
absolves them from the labor of its removal. I cannot 
think that all who refuse even to ask for its extinction are 
hard hearted and selfish. Let us rather think that ''• they 
know not what they do." 

December 23, 1840. 



For the Monthly Offering. 
Progress of True Principles^ 

BY L. M. CHILD. 

Eefoimers are exceedingly apt to become discouraged,, 
because the truths they so earnestly seek to sustain are not 
advanced by the same agencies, and in the same way, they 
had expected. They forget that an impulse once given ta 
any truth, its effects go on widening, like circles in the 
river; and that the outer circles could not receive even the 
faint motion they have, without the central agitation. Thus 
it is with Anti-Slavery. Some are disappointed in their 
expectations, and find their hopes chilled, because the pre- 
judices of the community are more deeply seated than they 
imagined, and because the strong co-operative zeal, with 
which they began the work, has been weakened by secta- 
rian feuds. But let them not be discouraged,, though after 
nine years of strenuous effort, and continual self sacrifice, a 
very small proportion of the property and standing of the 
community-have come up to help them. Infl.uences are at 
work where we see them not. Laws and customs are be» 



PROGRESS OF TRUE PRINCIPLES. 103 

coming in some degree perceptibly mollified ; literature is 
more or less tinged with anti-slavery sentiments; men are 
every where more uncomfortable in their half disguised ef- 
forts to sustain a bad institution. These, and a thousand 
other remote inflaences, are provokingly gradual, and will 
cease altogether if we do not with a mighty effort, keep up 
the central agitation, from which they derived their exist- 
ence. But if we do continue our elforts, the next generation 
will see these influences increasing in ten-fold ratio. Even 
now, under the change of sentiment we have already ef- 
fected, young slave-holders cannot, if they try their worst, 
grow up with such sentiments as characterize their fathers. 
Freedom is in the air, and they breathe it when they know 
it not. 

These remarks were suggested by an occurrence in one 
of the western towns of Massachusetts, during the last 
Spring. 

A fugitive slave who had let himself to a farmer, was 
one day at work in the fields, near the high-way, when his 
'' old boss," (as he called his southern master) suddenly 
came within sight. With great trepidation he threw down 
his hoe, and escaped into the woods. Thinking it proba- 
ble that his master was travelling, and had put up at the 
hotel for a few days, he concluded it was best for himself, 
meanwhile, to leave the town. He did so ; but after eight 
or ten days returned and resumed his service wjth the 
farmer. A week or two passed without bringing any fresh 
cause of alarm, and he became unguarded. Turning a cor- 
ner of a road rather suddenly, one day, he almost ran 
over a gentleman and lady, who proved to be his young 
master, with his wife leaning on his arm. They recog- 
nized each other at once; and the Southerner extending 
his hand, said, very cordially, " Ah, Jack, is this you? I 
am glad to see you." The slave, though really glad to 
see the young man looking well and happy, was some- 
what choked for utterance. But looking round and see- 
ing that they were alone, he formed the rapid conclusion 
that he could certainly clear himself, if any attempt were 
made to seize him. So he shook hands and inquired after 



104 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

the health of the family. " We are all well," replied the 
young man, " afid how are you doing? Do you get constant 
employment and good wages?" " Yes, master, I am doing 
very well indeed." " I am glad to hear it, Jack. Stay 
where you are, and do the best you can. Keep out of your 
old master's sight, and ice vrill keep your secret ; never 
fear. But you had better go away tilfthe middle of next 
week, for Ave shall be in the neighborhood till then. Here 
is a little keepsake to remember us by. Mind and keep 
out of your old master's sight ; for father is trying hard to 
find you out. Good bye. "^God bless you, Jack." " God 
bless you, master." 

The young gentleman gave him a new silk handker- 
chief, and the lady a silver coin, which the grateful slave 
holds as sacred as did the ancients their household gods. 
He stood looking after them for a few moments with tear- 
ful eyes, and then turned to hide himself from his old 
master 



A Conversation. 

*' Have you seen John C. Gore's deed ?" said a smooth 
looking gentleman to an elderly looking one, after they 
liad comfortably seated thf mselves in an omnibus. " O 
yes," said he, and then followed some account of Mr. Gore's 
peculiarities, and some remarks on the dim.unition of the 
slave population, as it appears by the last census. Then 
Doct. Channing's last w^ork, " Emancipation," was talked 
of, then the abolitionists. " I do not think this is the time 
for agitatiDg that subject," said the smooth looking gentle- 
man. The old gentleman, whose head was white with 
age, and whose dress and conversation bespoke him a cler- 
gyman, answered him thus : " I remember an old saying," 
said he, " when you don't know what to do, don't do you 
knov/ not what." 



FREE. 105 

Art thou a master in Israel? thought I, and know not 
the remedy for slavery 1 

Said the first mentioned gentleman, " the abolitionists 
exaggerate so much — they tell such horrible cruel stories, 
that you don't know when to believe them." The old man, 
who seemed to be ready to attach a tale to every remark 
that was made, told an instance of a Methodist clergyman, 
who was the owner of slaves at the South, and who treat- 
ed them kindly. Only think, a professed minister holding 
slaves and treating them kindly ! And this told to deride 
abolitionists who maintain that the cruelty lies in slavery, 
not in the appendages or the treatment. 

Things seemed to be going on smoothly, and two other 
passengers had acquiesced in th£ conclusi©n that the two 
worthies had come to, namely, that slavery was not so 
bad after all, &c. When the elderly gentleman pro- 
ceeded to state a clincher, as he evidently thought it. He 
said an abolitionist, who was conversing with a passenger 
on board of a steamboat about slavery, wa.s proceeding to 
remonstrate against the enormities of slavery, when a 
very fine, intelligent looking lady, who was sitting by, 
spoke out and said, " why, sir, you thing that slavery is 
very bad ; but I can tell you, sir, that my husband has one 
thousand slave communicants in his charch." The com- 
pany appeared to regard this as a knock down rejoinder* 
I could restrain myself no longer, but, looking at the elder- 
ly gentleman, said, may I ask you a question, sir ? '* Cor- 
tainly," said he, '' What kind of treatment is it to make 
chattels and merchandize of one thousand members of the 
church?" " 0, that," said he, " is another question." I 
replied, I knew it; but it was a knock down question to 
his apology for the system of slavery. * * 



Extract from " The Hour and the Man." 
Free. 

Day after day passed on, and the prisoner found no 
change in his condition — as far, at least, as it depended on 



106 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

his jailers. He was more ill as he became enveloped in 
the damps of the spring, and he grew more and more 
sensible of the comfort of being alone. Death by violence, 
however, did not come. 

He did not give over his concern for Mars Plaisir, be- 
cause he was glad of his absence. He inquired occasion- 
ally for the commandant, hoping that, if he could see Ru- 
baut, he might learn whether his servant was still a prison- 
er, and whether his release from this cell had been for 
freedom, or for a worse lot than he had left behind. There 
was no learning from Bellines, however, whether the com- 
mandant had returned to the fortress, or who was lieuten- 
ant if he had not. In the middle of April, the doubt was 
settled by the appearance of Rubaut himself in the cell. 
He was civil — unusually so— but declared himself unable 
to give any information about Mars Plairsir. He had noth- 
ing more to do with his prisoners when they were once 
taken out of his charge. He had always business enough 
upon his hands to prevent his occupying himself with 
things and people that were gone by. He had delivered 
Mars Plaisir into proper care, and that was the last he 
knew of him. The man was well at that time — as well as 
usual, and pleased enough to be in the open air again. 
Rubaut could remember no more concerning him ; in fact, 
had not thought of him again, from that day to the present. 

'* And this is the kind of answer that you would give 
concerning me, if my sons should arrive hither in search 
of me some days after my grave had been closed ?" 

" Come, come ! no foreboding !" said Rubaut, " Fore- 
boding is bad." 

" If my sons should present themselves- — " proceeded 
Toussiant. 

" They will not come here — they cannot come here," 
interrupted Rubaut. " No one knows that you are here 
but some three or four who will never tell." 

*' How !" thought Toussaint ; " have they secured Mars 
Plaisir, that he shall never tell ?" For the poor man's 
sake, however, he v^ould not ask this aloud. 

Rubaut continued : '* The reason why we cannot have 



FREE. 107 

the pleasure of giving you the range of the fortress is, that 
the First Consul thinks it necessary to keep secret the place 
of your abode — for the good of the colony, as he says. With 
one of our own countrymen this seclusion might not be 
necessary, as the good people of the village could hardly 
distinguish features from the distance at which they are ; 
and they have no telescopes — no idea of playing the spy 
upon us, as we can upon them. They cannot distinguish 
feaiures so high up — " 

" But they could complexion." 

'^ Exactly so : and it might get abroad that some one of 
your color was here." 

" And if it should get abroad, and some one of my sons 
or my wife should come, your answer would be that you 
remember nothing. That you cannot charge your memory 
with persons and things that are gone by — that you have 
had prisoners of all complexions — that some have lived 
and some have died — and that you have something else to 
do than to remember what became of each. I hope, how- 
ever, and (as it would be for the advantage of the First 
Consul) 1 believe, that you would have the complaisance 
to show them my grave." 

'* Come, come ! nc foreboding ! Forboding is bad," 
repeated Eubaut. 

Toussaint smiled and said, 

" What other employment do you aiTord me than that 
of looking into the past and future, in order to avoid the 
present? If, turning from the sickening view which the 
past presents of the treachery of your race to mine, of the 
abuse of my brotherly trust in him by which your ruler has 
afflicted ogr hearts — if, turning from this mournful past, I 
look the other way, what do I see before me but the open 
grave ?" 

" You are out of spirits," said Eubaut, building up the 
fire. " You wear well, however. You must have been 
very strong in your best days. You wear extremely well." 

** I still live ; and that I do so is because the sun of my 
own climate, and the strength of soul of my best days. 



108 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

shine and glow through me now, quenching in part even 
these damps. But I am old, and every day heaps years on 
me. However, I am as willing as you that my looking 
forward should be for others than myself. I might be able 
to forbode for France and for its ruler." 

Rubaut folded his arms, and leaned, as if anxious to lis^ 
ten, against the wall beside the fire ; but it was so wet that 
he quickly shifted his position — still, however, keeping^his 
eyes fixed on his prisoner. 

" And what would you forbode for France and for her 
ruler?" he asked. 

*' That my country will never again be hers. Her retri- 
bution is as sure as her tyranny has been great. She may 
send out fleet after fleet, each bearing an army ; but the 
spirit of freedom' will be too strong for them all. Their 
bodies will poison the air and choke the sea, and the names 
of their commanders, will, one after another, sink in dis- 
grace before they will again make slaves of my people in 
St. Domingo. How stands the name of Leclerc at this 
moment in France ?" 

*' Leclerc is dead," said Rubaut ; repenting, the next 
moment that he had said so much. Toussaint saw this by 
his countenance, and inquired no farther. 

*' He is dead ! and twenty thousand Frenchmen with 
him, who might at this hour Have been enjoying at home 
the natural wealth of my pountry, the fruits of our indus- 
try. The time was when I thought you ruler and I — the 
ruler, in alliance with him, of my race in St. Domingo — 
were brothers in soul, as we were apparently in duty and 
in fortune. Brothers in soul we were not, as it has been 
the heaviest grief of my life to learn. I spurn brotherhood 
of soul with one whose ambition has been for himself. 
Brothers in duty we were ; and, if we should yet be broth- 
ers in fortune— if he should fall into the hands of a strong 
foe — But you are saying in your heart, ' No foreboding ! 
Foreboding is bad.'' 

Rubaut smiled, and said foreboding was only bad for the 
. spirits ; the First Consul's spirits were not likely to be af- 



FREE. 109' 



fected by anything that could be said at Joux. To pre- 
dict bad fortune to him was like looking for the sun to be put 
out at noonday ; it might pass the time, but would not dim 
the sun. 

'* So was it ?aid of me," replied the prisoner ; " and with 
the more reason, because I made no enemies. My ene- 
mies have not been of my own making. Your ruler is mak- 
ing enemies on every hand : and alas ! for him, if he lives 
to meet the hour of retribution ! If he, like myself, should 
fall into the power of a strong foe — if he should pass his 
remaining d^ys imprisoned on a roek, may he find more 
peace than I should dare look for if I had his soul !" 

*' There is not a braver man in Europe, or the Indies 
either, than the First Consul." 

*' Brave towards foes without, and sufferings to come. 
But bravery gives no help against enemies harbored with- 
in and evils fixed in the past. What will his bravery 
avail against the images of France corrupted, of Europe 
outraged, of the blacks betrayed and oppressed — of the 
godlike power which was put into his hands, abused to the 
purposes of the devil !" 

" But perhaps he would not view his affairs as you do ?'* 
" Then would his bravery avail him no better. If he 
should be so blind as to see nothing higher and better than 
his own acts, then will he see no higher nor better hope 
than he has lost. Then will he suffer and die under the 
slow torments of personal mortification and regrets." 

" You say you are sinking under your reverses. You 
say you are slowly dying." 

'*I am. I shall die of the sickening and pining of 
sense and limb— of the wasting of bone and muscle. Day 
by day is my eye more dim and my right arm more feeble. 
But I have never complained of evils that the bravery you 
speak of would not meet. Have I ever said that you have 
touched my soul ?" 

Rubaut saw the fire in his eye, glanced at his emacia- 
ted hand, and felt that this was true. He could bear the 
conversation no longer, now that no disclosures that could 
serve the First Consul seemed likely to be made. 



no THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 



" You are going?" said Toussaint. 
" Yes, I looked in to-day, because I am about to leave 
the fortress for a few days." 

" If you see the First Consul, tell him what I have now 
said; and add that if, like him, I had u'sed my power for 
myself, he would have had a power over me which he has 
not now. I should not then have been here — (nay, you 
must hear me) — I should not then have been here, crushed 
beneath his hand ; I should have been on the throne of St. 
Domingo— flattered, as he is, by assurances of my glory 
and security, but crushed by a heavier weight than that 
of his hand — by his image, as that of one betrayed in my- 
infidelity to his country and nation. Tell him this; tell 
him that I perish willingly, if this consequence of my fidel- 
ity to France may be a plea for justice to my race." 

''How people have misrepresented you to me!" said 
Rubaut, bustling about the cell, and opening the door, to 
call Bellines. " They told me you were very silent — rarely 
spoke." 

" That was true when my duty was to think," said Tous- 
saint. " To-day my duty has been to speak. Remember 
that yours in fidelity to your ruler, is to repeat to him 
what I say." 

'* More wood, Bellines," said Rubaut, going to the door 
to give further direction in a low voice. Returning, he 
said, with some hurry of manner, that, as he was to be ab- 
sent for two or three days, he had sent for such a supply of 
wood and flambaux as might last some time. More books 
should also be brought. 

" When shall we meet again?" asked Toussaint. 
" I don't know. Indeed I do not know," said the com- 
mandant, looking at his watch by the firelight. His pris- 
oner saw that his hands trembled, and that he walked with 
some irresolution to the door. 
*' Au revior !" said Toussaint. 

Rubaut did not reply, but went out, leaving the door 
standing wide, and apparenttly no one to gard it. 

Toussaint's heart beat at the thought that this might give 
him one more opportunity of being abroad in the daylight — 



FREE. ^ 111 



perhaps in the sun ? He rose to make the attempt ; but he 
was exhausted by the conversation he had held — the first 
for so long ! His aching limbs failed him, and he sank 
down on his bed, from which he did not rise till long after 
Bellines had laid down his load and left the place. 

The prisoner rose at length, to walk, as he did many- 
times in the day, from corner to corner of his cell. At the 
first turn, by the door, he struck his foot against something, 
which he upset. It was a pitcher of water, which, with a 
loaf of breads had been put in that unusual place. The 
sight was as distinct in the signification as a yawning grave. 
His door was to open upon him no more. He was not 
again to see a human face. The commandant was to be 
absent a while, and, on returning to find his prisoner dead. 

He used all means that he could devise to ascertain 
whether it were indeed so. He called Bellines from the 
door in the way which Billines had never failed to reply 
to since the departure of Mars Plaisir. Bellines did not 
some. He sang aloud, as he had never before been allow- 
ed to sing, unchecked, since he entered the fortress. He 
now sang unchecked. The hour of the afternoon meal 
passed, and no one came. The evening closed, and no bolt 
had been drawn. The case was clear. 

The prisoner now and then felt a moment's surprise at 
experiencing so little recoil from such a fate. He was 
scarcely conscious even of repugnance. His tranquility 
was doubtless owing, in part, to his having long contemplat- 
ed death in this place as certain ; to life having now little 
left to make its countenance desirable ; and to hisknowing 
himself to be so reduced that the struggle could not be very 
long. But he himself believed his composure to be owing 
to another cause than any of these. 

" He who appointed me to the work of such a life as 
mine," thought the dying man, " is making its close easy 
to his servant. I would willingly have suffered to the ex- 
tremity of his will : but my work is done ; men's eyes are 
no lunger upon me ; I am alone with him ; and He is pleas- 
ed to let me enter already upon my everlasting peace. If- 



112 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

Father Laxabon were here, would he now say, as he has 
often said, and as most men say, that looking back upon 
life from its close, it appears short as the time of the early 
rains 1 Instead of this, how long appear the sixty years 
that 1 have lived! How long, how weary now seems the 
life when I was a slave — though much was done and it 
was the schooling of my soul for the work preparing for 
my hand ! My Margot I my children ! how quiety did 
we then live, as if no t^.hange were ever to come, and we 
were to sit before our door at Breda every evening :ill 
death should remove ns one by one ! While I was com* 
posing my soul to patience by thought and by reading, 
how little did I dream that I was so becoming prepared to 
free my race — to reign, and then to die of cold and hunger, 
such as the itieane^t slave never knows! Then the next 
eight years of toil — they seem longer than all that went 
before. Doubtless they were lengthened to me, to make 
my weak powers equal to the greatness of my task ; for ev- 
ery day of conducting war and making laws appeared to 
me stretched out into a year. These late seasons of reverse 
have passed over more rapidly, for their suffering has been 
less. While all, even to Henri, have pitied me during 
these latter years, they knew not that I was recovering the 
peace which I shall now no more lose. It is true that I 
erred, according to the common estimate of affairs, in not 
making myself a king, and separating my country from 
France, as France herself is compelling her to separate at 
last. It is truo I might now have been reigning there in- 
stead of dying here ; and, what is worthy of medita- 
tion, my people might now have been laying aside their 
arms, and beginning a long career of peace. It might pos- 
siby have been so— but at what cost ! Their career of 
freedom (if freedom it could then have been called) would 
bave begun in treason and in murder, and the stain would 
have polluted my race forever. Now they will have free- 
dom still ; they cannot but have it, though it is delayed. 

TO BE CONTINUED IN NEXT NUMBER. 



THE 

MONTHLY OFFERING. 



FEBRUARY 1841. 



Sectarianism. 



1 attended, last summer, what is technically called *' A 
Union" Convention," a meeting of all religious sects, being 
thereby indicated, for the purpose of finding a common 
ground on which they might ail unite. In seeking to find 
this ground, a great number gave their definition of Sec- 
tarism. For my own part, I did not receive any that was 
given as the true one. My definition of Sectarism is 
this ; the sentiment that induces a man to postpone the 
interests of acknowledged truth to the support of any re- 
ligious party ^ or the promotion of any religious creed. 
When Mr., Kirk, in the New School General Assembly, 
moved the indefinite postponement of the Slavery ques- 
tion, he preferred what he deemed the interest of that par- 
ty to those of truth and justice. All who voted with him, 
who had ever acknowledged the justice of Anti-Jilavery 
principles, did the same. When in the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, the testimony of colored against white men, 
was declared inadmissive, every professed Abolitionist who 
contributed to produce that result, knowingly and deliber- 
ately trampled on Humanhy, that thereby the imagined 
good of the Methodist Church might be promoted. It was 
this sentiment that created, and as far as it has any active 
life, that now supports New Organization, and it is this sen- 
timent, latent in the bosom of many Abolitionists, and al- 
most unknown to themselves, that at present greatly im- 
pedes the progress of the Anti-Slavery cause. Indeed, it 
is the one thing which will prevent the peacable abolition 



114 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

of American Slavery, should that event never take place. 
Abolitionists, at the outset, took the ground that Slave- 
holding was a sin of so shocking a nature that any man, 
who, after expostulation and argument, persisted in it, had 
no claim to recognition of Christian character by the world 
around. Time proceeded, and Abolitionists saw plainly 
that it was their duty to carry out their principles still more 
strictly. If the slave-holder merited not the christian 
name, could it be accorded to him who strengthened his 
hands and guided his conscience ? Reason and conscience 
said, No — -and thus, so fnr as the verdict of Abolitionists go, 
a large portion of the ministry and church of Massachusetts 
occupy a position the very reverse of their profession. But 
the number of those consistent and fearless enough to take 
this ground, is small, and their influence comparatively 
weak. But why is not their number larger, when in our 
periodicals we have been wont to enumerate Abolitionists 
by thousands? A few words will suffice for 2;Ae ?/;%. One 
word might furnish a key, and that word would be Sectar- 
ism. Strong in their undoubting confidence in the truth 
of their principles, the Abolitionists, at first, boldly re- 
buked their pro-slavery clergymen and church members, 
nothing doubting that the truth Vv^ould produce its legiti- 
mate result, or, perhaps, a lower motive, the pressure of 
public opinion might force them to abandon their sinful posi- 
tion. Both these hopes were disappointed. Avarice, in- 
dolence, actual sympathy with oppression, but above and 
beyond all, sectarism prevented the clergy and church 
members of the dominant religious parties from becoming 
Abolitionists. How could they become so ? Such a course 
could hardly be expected of either section of the Presbyte- 
rian churchjfor Southern influence and patronage was almost 
as essential to either as it could have been to either of the 
two political parties. Could the Methodists or Baptists 
afford to lose all the South and half the North ? But the 
Congregationalists — the men holding to independence of 
the churches, what tie binds them to the slave-holding in- 
terest? It is as truly the love of sect as any thing that 
the more consolidated ecclesiastical bodies exhibit. This is 



SECTARIANISM. H^ 



the only difference ; among the Congregationalists it takes 
the guise, more subtle, but not less dangerous, of zeal for 
doctrine, and adherence to purity of faith. To stop the 
progress of the A. S. cause, the cry is raised that it will 
not do to work with heretics ; instead of asking what a man 
thinks about slavery, the query is " what are his views of the 
Trinity t" One cannot labor heartily to promulgate the idea 
that immediate emancipation is safe, because somebody is 
trying to help him who doubts the existence of a visible 
church. Another would make a very indignant outcry 
against the enormity of v/orking men six days without wa- 
ges, only his neighbor v^^ho stands ready to second his out- 
cry holds heresies concerning the first day of the week.^ — 
Far be it for me to say that many of these persons are not 
conscientious, m.eaning by this that they verily think thej^ 
are doing God service. Those who refuse to work with 
members of all sects and parties for the Abolition of Slave- 
ry, may be divided into two classes. The first comprises 
txhose who are aware that the majority of their churches 
will not respond to the duties that Abolitionists claim at 
their hands. These men are sufficiently intelligent to be 
aware that the most conscientious members of their de- 
nominations, Vx^hen the true character of Slavery is brought 
before them, will not hesitate, left to the promptings of their 
own hearts, to aid any organization for its overthrow found- 
ed on right principles, no matter who compose that oro-ani- 
zation. Now these conscientious members must be stop- 
ped in their Anti-Shvery progress, or the peace of the 
church will be destroyed, or still more, if the church re- 
main pro-slavery, and these few members continue faithful 
to duty, that church will be cast out as salt that has lost its 
sy.vor. But how shall this progress be stopped — not hy 
meeting these troublesome members on the mere merits of 
the question at issue, by artful appeals to sectarian feeling, 
and reasoning sufficiently sophistical to blind those who in 
spiritual matters have rarely dared to do their own thinking. 
Some pro-slavery church member begs his abolition broth- 
er to consider what he is about before he attempts to build 



116 THE MaNTHLt OPFERINS. 

up the influence of the Unitarian agent, Mr; so and so, in 
opposition to the wishes of Rev. Dr. so and so. The fol- 
lowing train of reasoning is a specious one, and well cal- 
culated to produce an effect on a conscientious but unedu- 
cated mind, 

*' Do you not perceive that if you will persist in holding up 
your minister to public view, as a frierrd of oppression, an op- 
poser of common humanity, and a contemner of the plainest 
command of the Scriptures, you are injuring his influence 
in other respects; you are destroying his ability to save souls, 
and giving the opposers of his religious faith ground upon 
which to make a false issue ? Are you not aware that in 
upholding certain agents whose religious opinions are un- 
sound, you are aiding to commend those opinions to the 
adoption of the world around. Your coolly expressed de- 
claration that his religious views are wrong, will not coun- 
terballance the fact that you freely give him your person- 
al confidence and friendship, and laud to the skies his he- 
roism, disinterestedness and zeal, in behalf of suffering 
humanity." 

In the above is involved the substance of the argument 
by which Sectaiism, in a thousand instances, withdraws 
to its support the aid once given to the cause of acknowl- 
edged trulh. How quickly would an enlightened con- 
science reply, *' Ought not the influence of a pro-slavery 
minister to be done away ? If he be a contemner of the 
commands of Scripture, and a friend of oppression, what 
kind of influence will he exert over the souls he attempts to 
save. To save a soul, is to deliver it from the power of 
sin — but what greater evidence can be given of its thral- 
dom to sin than its sympathy with American Slave-hold- 
ing. A Christianity that sanctions it has brought the 
American church to her present perilous position, and the 
attempt to further sustain such a Christianity can only en- 
sure its ruin. As to the doctrines this pro-slavery minis- 
ter holds, they are mine, and, thank God, their purity re- 
mains in my eyes undimmed,ihough they have not produced 
in his life their legitimate result. As to the doctrines of 



i 
SECTARIANISM. »117 



my heretical fellow laborers, others must do as I have done ; 
submit them to the test of reason and scripture, and judge 
of them for themselves. If in respect to all his opinions, 
a man has never done this, it is comparatively little con- 
sequence what he accepts or what he rejects." 

But the man to whom considerations like these do not 
present themselves, shows conclusively that ignorance and 
bigotry have fitted him to be the tool with which the more 
enlightened, and therefore more culpable worshiper of sect, 
accomplishes his work. He is an example of the other 
class of sectaries, that class, who are, in fact, the dupes of 
the first. The withering influence of these two classes is 
the most formidable obstacle with which we have now to 
contend. The cause has advanced to that point where we 
must meet and overcome this insidious enemy, or fall be- 
fore it. Not that it is part or parcel of Anti-Slavery labor 
to attack Sectarism, but when we find it directly imped- 
ing our way, it becomes our duty to lend all our energies to 
its removal. Nothing can excuse us from this, unless we 
are ready to admit that the Anti-Slavery enterprise is 
based on other than the divine foundation of Truth. If it be 
indeed so based, we are bound to carry it steadily for- 
ward, in meekness and firmness, seeking to remove every 
obstacle that opposes us, whether that obstacle present it- 
self in the shape of our pecuniary interest, our political 
party, or even our pro-slavery church and minister. It is 
hardly worth while to waste much metaphysical acumen in 
seeking to show how far a good man may oppose the Anti- 
Slavery cause, and yet retain his goodness^ or how much 
piety is consistent v^^ith sympathy with oppression. We 
cannot estimate the exact amount of sin committed by the 
abettor of American Slavery, and it is not, therefore, worth 
our while to consume much time in attempting it ; but we 
do know that abettor to be a most unfit expounder of the 
Gospel, and consequently that it is our duty to refuse to 
support him as such. Much is said and much written as 
the baneful influence a sectarian spirit exerts. Would we 
4>nly follow the strait way^ not stopping to ask whether that 



lis 



THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 



fidelity would injure the sect to which we belong, the 
workings of this spirit would no more appear among us. 
But now it is too evident that few dare leave their religious 
sect to a collision with Truth. They either lower the 
Truth, or put light for darkness, in a vain attempt to prove 
a pro-slavery church and ministry an Anti-Slavery one. 
The fallacy of such attempts must be pointed out by the 
faithful, and then comes American Union, Clerical Appeals, 
New Organizations, Foreign Anti-Slavery Societies, and 
third parties, the latter designed to draw the fire of Aboli- 
tionists from the Church to the State. 

Abolitionists have long professed to derive the encourage- 
ment from the fact that the Truth ivas mighty. It is so, 
indeed ! Let them not tremble when their own sect, or 
their own church bears witness to the assertion. Unless 
Abolitionists become their own betrayers, every sect and 
church in the land must do so by hearfelt repentance or 
utter destruction. 



The Fugitive from Injustice* 

BY LYDIA MARIA CHILD. 

A >e\v years ago, I made a visit to a Quaker family in 
the State of New York. The autumn was unusually 
bright and bland, and my November rambles in the woods 
were cheered with mellow sunsets and a balmy air. Re- 
turning from such a ramble, at dusky twilight, with a bas- 
ket full of gleanings under the walnut tree, I found our 
evening repast spread in the hospitable kitchen. I needed 
not the straight coat, or the lawn kerchief, folded across 
the bosom with such neat exactness, to remind me that I 
was among the Society of Friends ; for on the outer plat- 
form I had seen, with a loving smile, a clean little wooden 
trough, where seven cats were eating their ample supper , 



THE FUGITIVE FROM INJUSTICE. 119 

fearless and frolicsome, because none could be found wil- 
ling to kill them, or to disturb their joyful existence ; and 
I needed no further proof of the presence of a sect, which, 
above all other forms of the Christian church, inculcates 
tenderness of heart. The daughter of the family, a gen- 
tlemwoman by nature and by grace, received me with her 
usual greeting of quiet sunshine, and said, '* I was coming 
to look for thee, Maria ; for father has brought letters for 
thee from the Post-Office." The letters were from Anti- 
Slavery friends in Boston, and after supper were read aloud 
for the benefit of all assembled round the supper table. 
However ultra might be their contents, they could excite 
no opposition here ; for this family were among the very 
few of the Society of Friends, who had not departed one 
whit from the purity of their early testimony, concerning 
the equality and brotherhood of man. The brown boy, 
who had come in from the farm-work, and supped at the 
left hand of his employer, with a darker-visaged man, on 
his way from Southern cane fields to Canadian snows, 
smiled with intelligent satisfaction, as I read ; for colored 
people are as naturally anti-slavery, as hens are anti-hawk. 
Suddenly a knock was heard at the door behind me, timid 
and hesitating. The Quaker girl and I exchanged signi- 
ficant glances, as I said, ** That is a slave." When gently 
bid to walk in, a dark face and hand appeared at the upper 
half of the Dutch door, a letter was dropped, and the door 
closed again. The letter, addressed to my host, was brief 
and expressive. 

*' Friend J. — No man should be called a Christian, of 
whom it can be said, ' I was a stranger and ye took me not 
in.' 

The meaning was instantly comprehended. Twenty 
pages could not have made it more clear. The bearer was 
welcomed with words of friendly sympathy, and soon 
seated beside us at the evening meal. 

The next day, in answer to my inquiries, he told his 
story ; which, as nearly as I can remember it, was as fol- 
lows : 



120 



THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 



" I was born of free parents, in Charleston, S. C. When 
I was sixteen or seventeen years old, Doctor McDonald 
wanted to hire me of my father. He was going to New 
Orleans, for a few months, and wanted to take a servant 
with him. My father had several children, and he thought 
it would be a good chance to let me ; so I went with the 
Doctor. When I had lived with him a few months, and 
was beginning to think it almost time for hirn to carry me 
back to Carolina, according to his promise, he said to me, 
one day, *' Stephen, I am obliged to go to Kentucky, on 
business ; but I shall not be gone long. It will be rather 
expensive to take you with me in stages and steam-boats, 
and therefore I wish to have you stay with a friend of 
mine in this city, till I return." 

I readily agreed to this proposition ; and a few days af- 
ter, he left me at the house of his friend. I had no partic- 
ular reason to complain of my treatment in this family, un- 
til one day, being sent of an errand, I stopped on my way 
home, just to give one kick to a foot-ball, w^hich bounded 
by me, thrown by some boy at play. The gentleman saw 
me, and ordered me to be flogged for it. I had never been 
flogged before, and it made me very angry. I told him I 
should like to have my wages paid, for I was going to look 
out another place ; and that when Doctor McDonald came 
back, I should tell him I did not like to w^ork in any place 
where I was flogged ; for I was'nt used to it. •' What 
liave you to do with Doctor McDonald?" said he, *'you 
are my slave ! " "I am not any body's slave," said I, " I 
was born of free parents, and have always been free." "I 
cannot help that," he replied, ** I bought you of Doctor 
McDonald, and paid him in cash." 

I could not sleep that night, for ^he bitterness of my 
thoughts. 1 could not help crying, when I thought of my 
father and mother, and brothers and sisters. My first im- 
pulse was to run away. But where could I go ? I dared 
not go home ; for the laws of Carolina forbade a free color- 
ed person, who had once left the State, ever to return, un- 



THE FUGITIVE FROM INJUSTICE 121 

less at the especial request of the gentleman who employ- 
ed him. I knew that Slavery awaited me there, if I re- 
turned without Doctor McDonald; so I waited week after 
week in hopes he would come back, and that I could per- 
suade him to do justice. But I know not whether he re- 
mained in Kentucky, or returned to South Carolina, 1 nev- 
er saw him again. 

Weary of waiting for ;him, I laid plans to escape. I 
was assisted by a slave, who lived in the same family ; and 
I promised him if I was successful, I certainly would put 
him in a way to escape also. It so happened that I reach- 
ed Ohio with very little difficulty ; and I might have done 
well there, h&d not my mind been uneasy about the prom- 
ise I had made to my good friend left in slavery. I re- 
solved to get a place as steward of a steam-boat going to 
New Orleans, and to make use of the facilities which such 
a situation afforded. I went back to the scene of my bon- 
dage and my sufferings. I found means to communicate 
with my friend, and succeeded in getting him on board, 
into an empty barrel, in which I had made some air-holes. 

Fifteen minutes before the boat started, an officer came on 
board, and demanded search for a runaway. My friend 
they did not find. He went off in the barrel, and I know 
not what became of him. But in searching .for him, the 
officer recognized me. I was carried back to my master, 
who handed me to the overseer for a severe flogging. I 
was transferred from the house to the field, where I was 
kept at hard labor, with a chain on my feet and wrist to 
which was fastened a very heavy iron ball. I dragged this 
about for three weary months ; and the day after they 
took it off, I ran away again. This time I escaped easily 
by reason of the excess of my boldness. Seeing no one 
within sight, one day, I walked off towards the city. As I 
betrayed no signs of haste, nobody questioned me. I went 
straight to the wharves, and offered myself as a steward of a 
vessel. 1 found a captain who wanted a steward ; and 
either through forgetfulness, or from secret friendliness to 
the colored people, he made no inquiries for free papers. 



122 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

Luckily for me the vessel sailed soon, and carried me to 
England. I then resolved never to see the United States 
again ; but England is fall of sailors, and I found it difficult 
to get employ. ' The captain who carried me out was to 
make his next voyage to New York. When he offered to 
hire me again, I at first refused ; for I was afraid to go 
near America. But then I remembered having heard that 
New York was one of the Free States, and as the captain 
had been kind to me, I concluded to accept his offer. 

Though my New Orleans master had found it so hard 
to give up a bargain, which made a poor, free boy his slave, 
he was a very wealthy man. I knew that he had a great 
sugar-house in New York, as well as in New Orleans ; 
but I thought to myself that in a Free State they could not 
claim me for a slare, and that I might snap my fingers at 
them. I found myself mistaken. Three days after I ar- 
rived, I was walking in the streets of New York, when, 
who should I meet, face to face, but the very overseer, who 
flogged me at New Orleans ! He clapped his hand on my 
shoulder, and exclaimed, " Stephen ! How came you 
here ? " 

I felt as if I should sink into the earth. 
Seeing my alarm, he added in a friendly tone, *• Don't 
be frightened, Stephen. I've done being an overseer. I've 
had enough of slavery. I'll be your friend. Get out of the 
city as quick as possible. Don't you know your master's 
partner lives here ? He is looking out for you. It was 
only yesterday that he asked me if I could help him to find 
your track." 

" But can they take me in a Free State 1 " said I. 
" To be sure they can, if they prove you to be a runa- 
way," he replied ; " but come with me, and don't be afraid ; 
for I won't betray you. I'll take you to a man, who will 
advise you what to do." 

I felt half afraid to trust him ; but when I found they 
could seize me in a Free State, I was bewildered, and I did 
not know whom I could trust. So I followed him and he 



THE FUGITIVE FROM INJUSTICE. 123 

guided me to a good man, who gave me a letter to "his 
friend here." 

By the aid of intelligent friends, Stephen might doubt- 
less have obtained from South Carolina, evidence sufficient 
to establish his legal claim to himself; but Southern laws 
rendered it highly dangerous for him to return to his fami- 
ly ; and the outrages he had suffered induced such a state 
of nervous fear, that he preferred quitting the United 
States altogether. 

I wrote a letter of introduction for him to James Crop- 
per, the v/ealthy Qaaker merchant of Liverpool, and he was 
put on board an English vessel. I never heard whether 
he arrived or not. 

That he carried a letter to a Quaker was enough to sat- 
isfy Stephen's mind. Though most of the Society of 
Friends are now lying buried in dead forms, more careful 
about buttons than principles, yet for the brightness of their 
early testimony, which still lingers around them with a 
sort of farewell glory, they well deserve their enviable pre- 
eminence of being trusted above all others by the miserable 
and the oppressed. 



From the Hour and the Man. 
Free. 

CONCLUDED. 

And upon this freedom will rest the blessing of Heaven. 
We have not faught for dominion nor for plunder ; nor, as 
far as I could govern the passions of men, for revenge. 
We began our career of freedom in fidelity, in obedience, 
and in reverence towards the whites ; and therefore may 
we take to ourselves the blessing of Him who made us to 
be free, and demands- that we be so with clean hands and 
a pure heart. Therefore will the freedom of St. Domingo 
be but a baginning of a freedom to the negro race. There- 



124 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

fore may we hope that in this race will the spirit of Chris- 
tianity appear more fully than it has yet shown itself 
among the proud whites ; show itself in its gentleness, its 
fidelity, its disinterestedness, and its simple trust. The 
proud whites may scorn this hope, and point to the ignor- 
ance and the passions of my people, and say, " Is this your 
exhibition of the spirit of the Gospel?" But not for this 
will we give up our hope. This ignorance, these passions, 
are natural to all men, and are in us aggravated and pro- 
tracted by our slavery. Remove them by the discipline 
and the stimulous of freedom, begun in obedience to God 
and fidelity to men, and there remain the love that embra- 
ces all; the meek faith that can bear to be betrayed, but 
is ashamed to doubt ; the generosity that can forgive offen- 
ces seventy-and-seven times renewed ; the simple, open, 
joyous'spirit, which marks such as are of the kingdom of 
Heaven. Lord ! I thank thee that thou hast made me the 
servant of this race !" 

Never, during the years of his loneliness or the days of 
his grandeur, had Toiissaint, spent a brighter hour than 
now, while the spirit of prophecy (twin-angel with death) 
visited him, and showed him the realms of mind which 
were opening before his race— that countless host whose 
van he had himself led to the confines. This spirit whis- 
pered something of the immortality of his own name, hid- 
den, lost as he was in his last hours. 

" Be it so !" thought he. " If my name can excite any to 
devotedness, or give to any the pleasure of being grateful. 
If my name live, the goodness of those who name it will be 
its life; for my true self will not be in it. No one will 
more know the real Toussaint. The weakness that was 
in me when I felt most strong, the reluctance when I ap- 
peared most ready, the acts of sin from which I was saved 
by accident alone, the divine constraint of circumstances to 
which my best deeds were owing — these things are be- 
tween me and my God. If my name and my life are to 
be of use, I thank God that they exist ; but this outward 
existence of them is nothing between him and me. To 



FREE. 125 



me henceforth they no more belong than the name of Epa- 
minondas or the life of Tell. Man stands naked on the 
brink of the grave, his name stripped from him, and his 
deeds laid down as the property of the society he leaves be- 
hind. Let the name and deeds I now leave behind be a 
pride to generations yet to come — a more innocent pride 
than they have sometimes, alas ! been to me. I have done 
with them." 

Toussaint had often known what hunger was : in the 
Morens he had endured it almost to extremity. He now 
expected to suffer less from it than then, from being able 
to yield to the faintness and drowsiness which had then to 
be resisted. From time to time during his meditations, he 
felt its sensations visiting him, and felt them without fear 
or regret. He had eaten his loaf when first hungry, and 
had watched through the first night, hoping to sleep his 
long sleep the sooner when his fire should at length be 
burned out. During the day, some faint sound reached 
him from the valley— some tokens of the existence of men. 
During the last two nights of his life, his ear was kept 
awake only by the dropping of water— the old familiar 
sound — and the occasional stir of the brands upon the 
hearth. About midnignt of the second night he found he 
could sit up no longer. With trembling hands he laid on 
such pieces of wood as he could lift, lighted another fiam- 
heau, and lay down on his straw. He raised himself but 
'once — hastily and dizzily in the dawn (dawn to him, but 
sunrise abroad.) His ear had been reached by the song of 
the young goatherds as they led their flocks abroad mto 
another valley. The prisoner had dreamed that it was his 
boy Denis, singing in the piazza at Pongaudin. As his 
dim eye recognized the place by the flicker of the expiring 
llambeau, he smiled at his delusion, and sank back to sleep 
again. 



The commandant was absent three days. On his return 



126 THE MONTHLV OFFERING. 

he summoned Bellines, and said, in the presence of several 
soldiers, 

" How is the prisoner there ?'* pointing in the direction 
of Toussaint's cell. 
" He has been very quiet this morning, sir." 
"Very quiet? Do you suppose he is ill?" 
" He was as well as usual the last time I went to 
him." 

" He has had plenty of everything, I suppose ?" 
" Oh, yes, sir. Wood, candle, food, water — everything." 
/' Very well. Get lights, and I will visit him.'* 
Lights were brought. A boy who carried a lantern 
shivered as he saw how ghastly Belline's face looked in the 
yellow gleam, in the dark vault on the way to the cell, and 
was not sorry to be told to stay behind till called to light 
the commandant back again. 

" Have you heard anything?" asked Rubaut of the sol- 
dier, in a low voice. 

" Not for many hours. There was a call or two, and 
some singing, just after you went, but nothing since." 
" Hush ! Listen 1" 

They listened motionless for some time ; but nothing 
was heard but the everlasting plash which went on all 
around them. 
" Unbar the door, Bellines." 

He did so, and held the door wide for the commandant 
to enter. Rubaut stalked in, and straight up to the straw 
bed. He called the prisoner in a somewhat agitated voice, 
felt the hand, raised the head, and declared that he was 
gone. The candle was burned completely out. Rubaut 
turned to the hearth, carefully stirred the ashes, blew among 
them, and raised a spark." 

" You observe," he said to Bellines, " his fire was burn- 
ing when we found him." 
*' Yes, sir." 

" There is more wood and more candle T' 
" Yes, sir ; the wood is in this corner, and the candle on 
the table— just under your hand, sir," 



TREE. 1^7 



" Oh, ay — here." Put on some wood and blow up a 
flame. Observe, we found his fire burning." 

" Yes, sir.'' 

They scon reappeared in the courtyard and announced 
the death of the prisoner. Rubaut ordered a messenger 
to be in readiness to ride to Pontarlier by the time he should 
have written a letter. 

" We must have the physicians from Pontarlier," ob- 
served the commandant, aloud, " to examine the deceased^ 
and declare what he died of. The old man has not been 
well for some time past. I have no doubt the physicians 
will find that he died of apoplexy, or something of the 
kind." 

" No wonder, poor soul !" said a suttler's wife to another 
woman. 

" No wonder, indeed," replied the other. " My husband 
died of the heat in St. Domingo ; and they took this poor 
man — (don't tell it, but he was a black ; I got a sight of 
him; and he came from St. Domingo^ you m.ay depend 
upon it) — they took him out of all that heat, and put him 
into that cold, damp place there ! No wonder he is dead!" 

" Well, I never knew we had a black here !" 

" Don't say I told you, then." 

" I have no doubt — yes, we found his fire burning," 
said Bellines to the inquirers around him. " They will 
find it apoplexy, or some such thing, I have no doubt of it." 

And so they did, to the entire satisfaction of the First 
Consul. 

Yet it was long before the inquiring world knew with 
certainty what had become of Toussaint L'Ouverture. 



Blessed is he that considereth the poor ; the Lord shall 
deliver him in time of trouble. 21st Psalm. 

The hour of trouble darkly comes to all, 

There is not one whose bright and sunny glance 
Upon this brief and simple page shall fall 



128 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

For whom that hour comes not with sure advance. 
The beautiful, the gifted, and the great 
Alike the gathering of its gloom await. 

And when the hour of trouble comes to theey 
What vowed deliverer to thy aid shall rise ? 

Wealth, Genius, Power and Earthly Dignity 
Shall seem but mockeries to thy tearful eye. 

Earth's firmest staflf shall prove a trembling reed 

That breaks and fails thee in thy hour of need. 

But dost thou say, " a surer stay is mine, 
The hope dependant on no earthly power, 

The brightness of whose ray shall ever shine, 
And deeper burn as darker grows the hour V^ 

Is this the thought that calms thy anxious heart, 

And says to each foreboding fear, depart ? 

Know that unless the suffering and the poor 
Have in thy sympathy and prayer a place, 

The Hope that to thy soul doth seem so sure 
Shall melt like wax before the sun's bright face* 

The summer threshing floor's light ^haff shall seem 

More stable than thy idly cherished dream. 

And who within thy country's ample bound 
Is poorer than the robbed and tfampled slave 1 

Whose grief within her borders can be found 

That more thy sympathy and help should crave ?J 

This is his hour of uttermost despair, 

And therefore that when thou shoulds't do and dare. 

And if witK heart sincere and purpose pure 
Thy hand is nerved to labor for the slave, 

To watch and pray, an^ in his cause endure. 
And firm the outrage of his foes to brave, 

Oh, fear not, doubt not, in thy trial hour 

God has made promise of his aid and power. 

A. W. W. 



THE 



MONTHLY OFFERING, 



SEPTEMBER, 1841. 



Dear Headers : — By the blessing of the great Disposer 
of human affairs, I have been permitted, after an absence of 
ten ittonths in Great Britain, to return with renewed health, 
to unite my feeble efforts with the great army of abolition- 
ists in the free states, to battle against slavery, until every 
bondman which now pines in our land shall be made free. 

I regret that the " Offering" was suspended without any 
previous intimation. This, however, was brought about 
by circumstances over which I had no control. I did not 
expect, when I left, to be absent more than three or four 
months, and for this period, Mrs. Maria W. Chapman kind- 
ly offered to furnish the printers with matter, and it would 
have appeared regularly until the present time had she not 
been forced, on account of the ill-health of her husband, to 
take refuge in a warmer climate. 

Hereafter the " Offering" will regularly make its appear- 
ance every month. Many of the first anti-slavery writers 
have pledged to contribute to its pages. No pains will he 
spared to make it both useful and interesting. 

I have been much gratified to learn that it has been read 
with great interest. Those of our friends who think it 
adapted to promote the cause of suffering humanity, will 
please aid in its circulation. It only needs but a little of 
their co-operation to give it an extensive circialation, whi^ 



130 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

on account of its cheapness must be very great to cover its 
expenses. It is by far the cheapest work for the size, pub- 
lished in the United States. J. A. Collins. 
OC/^" See terms on the Second page of the cover. 



Anti-Slavery Fair. 

We have inserted on the third page of the cover, the ap* 
peal to the women of Massachusetts, from the Boston Fe* 
male Anti-Slavery Society, in relation to the Fair^ to be 
held in Boston, about the close of the present year. 

Sewing circles should be established immediately in ev* 
ery town and parish in the state. If there are not enough, 
however, to constitute a circle, let there be no delay on the 
part of individuals to commence the work. ' These little 
sewing assemblies are not only useful in promoting the in- 
terest of the Fair, but the information that may be obtained 
by the reading of some member of the circle, and conver- 
sation, will tend greatly to interest and encourage each 
other on this question. 

In 1838 the Boston F. A. S. Society realized 700 dol- 
lars from the Fair, in 1839, 1500 dollars, and in 1840 it 
obtained 2000 dollars. The women of England, Ireland, 
and Scotland are already at work for this Fair. How 
much are you willing to do ? Wl^at is done must be done 
quickly. 



Edward Everett. It appears that this gentleman's 
nomination by President Tyler, as minister to the court of 



KEEP UP THE EXCITEMET. 131 

St. James, has not been confirmed by the Senate. Objec- 
tions, were made, 'tis said, on the ground of his abolition" 
ism. It will be remembered that Mr. Everett, in 1839, pre- 
vious to the gubernatorial election acknowledged himself in 
a letter to N. B, Borden, now a member of Congress, a 
genuine abolitionist in principle. We are glad to see the 
South now openly manifesting that hostile spirit to north- 
ern men and to northern interests which it has hitherto 
been able to effect without exhibiting the spirit which gov- 
erned their movements. Our northern doughfaces will 
soon learn to their sorrow, that slavery has something to do 
with the North, if the North has nothing to do with slavery. 



Keep up the Excitement* 

During the past year not far from 60,000 human beings, 
in this boasted land of liberty and Christianity, have died in 
their chains. These welcomed death as their greatest ben- 
efactor. Yes, grim visaged death did for them what chris- 
tians and republicans would not. Two and a half millions, 
have at this moment their eyes turned to the north, and 
are watching with anxious solicitude for the dawnings of 
that day when liberty shall be proclaimed to alh Said Mr. 
Douglass, the fugitive slave, the other evening, as he was 
addressing a large audience in Concord, " The slaves know 
there is a movement going on at the north for their re- 
demption. This inspires them with hope. They are 
waiting patiently for the developement of this movement. 
They do not know precisely its character, yet they feel 
that it is to give them the liberty which they know is their 
due, and for which their souls pant." "Take away this 



132f fSE MONTHLY OFFfiRlNG. 

hope,'* continued this eloquent representative of the chaU 
tel system, " convince them there is nothing doing amongf 
you to effect their freedom — convince them that there is 
no power without to effect their peaceful emancipation, and 
my word for it, plans will be instantly matured to bring 
about their freedoni by those very hands which have culti- 
Tated and beautified the South. They will, to ^ man, 
stand fortii in their own defence, and if need be, to secure 
their liberty, they will create a sea of Mood. If you wish 
to put a weapon into the hands of the slave, — if you wish 
to goad him to use it, in a slate of desperation, drop the" 
anti-slavery question — cease to agitate, and then the hand 
of the slave, Ishmael-like, will be against every slave-hold- 
er. Every petition you send to Congress, while it makes 
the slave-holder roar with rage, it at the same time lights 
up a feeling of hope in the bondman's bosom^and assures 
bim that the day of his redemption draws nigh." 



They are liappy 

The chapter from the '* Memoirs of a Slave, or Arcfiy 
Moore^^ is here inserted that the reader may perceive that 
the slaves are subjected not only to great bodily privations, 
but to constant and excessive mental sufferings. This is 
one of the most interesting anti-slavery books which has 
been published. It should be in the possession of every 
one. It is published in two volumes, and can be had at 
the Depository, 25 Cornhill, for 50 cents. 

I have before observed that Sunday is the slave's holi* 
day. Where intermarriages are allowed between the 
slaves of different plantations, this is generally the only 



THEY ARE HAPPY. 133 



<jccasion on which the scattered branches of the same fam- 
ily are indulged with an opportunity of visiting each other. 
Many planters, who pride themselves upon the excellence 
.of their discipline, forbid these intermarriages altogether; 
and if they happen to have a superabundance of men-ser- 
vants, they prefer that one woman should have half a doz- 
en husbands rather than suffer their slaves to be corrupted 
by gadding about among other people's plantations. 

Other managers, just as good disciplinarians,, and a little 
more shrewd than their neighbors, forbid the men only to 
marry away from home. They are very willing to let the 
women get husbands where they can. They reason in 
this way. When a husband goes to see his wife, who 
lives upon another plantation, he will not be apt to go emp- 
ty-handed. He will carry something with him, probably 
something eatable, plundered from his master's fields, that 
may serve to make him Vv^elcome, and render his coming a 
sort of festival. Now every thing that is brought upon a 
plantation in this way, is so much clear gain ; and so far 
as it goes, it amounts to feeding one's people at the ex- 
pense of one's neighbors! 

Sunday, as I have said, is the day upon which are paid 
the matrimonial visits of the slave. But Sunday was no 
holiday to me ; for I was generally obliged, on that day, 
to attend my master upon his ecclesiastical excursions. To 
make up for this, Mr. Carleton allowed me Thursday af- 
tprnoons, so that 1 was able to visit Cassy at least once a 
week. 

The year that followed, was the happiest of my life ; 
and with all the inevitable mortifications and miseries, 
which slavery, even under its least repulsive form, ever 
carries with it, I still look back to that year with pleasure, 
' — a pleasure that yet has power to warm a heart, saddened 
and embittered hy a thousand painful recoPections. 

Before the end of the year, Cassy n?ade me a father. 
The infant boy had all his mother's beauty; and only he 
who is a father, and as fond a husband too as I was, can 
know the feelings with which I pressed the little darling 
to raj heart. 



134 THE MONTHLY aFFERING. 

No ! — no one can know my feelings, — no one, alas, but 
he, who is, as I was, the father of a slave. The father of 
a slave ! And is it true, then, that this child of my hopes 
and wishes, this pledge of mutual love, this dear, dear in- 
fant of whom I am the father, is it true he is not mine ? 

Is it not my duty and my right, a right and duty dearer 
than life, to watch over his helpless infancy, and to rear 
him with all a father's tenderness and love, to a manhood, 
that will perhaps repay my care, and in turn, sustain and 
cherish me, a tottering weak old man ? 

My duty it may be ; but it is not my right. A slave 
can have no rights. His wife, his child, his toil, his blood, 
his life, and every thing that gives his life a value,, they 
are not his ; he holds them all but at his master's pleasure. 
He can possess nothing ; and if there is any thing he seems 
to have, it is only by a sufferance which exists but in his 
owner's will. 

This very child, this very tender babe, may be torn from 
my arms, and sold to-morrow into the hands of a stranger, 
and I shall have no right to interfere. Or if not so ; if 
some compassion be yielded to his infancy, and if he be 
not snatched from his father's embraces and his mother's 
bosom while he is yet all unconscious of his misery, yet 
what a sad, wretched, desolate fate awaits him ! Shut out 
from every chance or hope of any thing which it is worth 
one's while to live for : — -bred up a slave ! 

A slavQ ! — That single word, what volumes it does speak! 
It speaks of chains, of whips and tortures, compulsive la- 
bor, hunger and fatigues,, and all the miseries our wretched 
bodies suffer. It speaks of haughty power, and insolent 
commands ; of insatiate avarice ; of pampered pride and 
purse-proud luxury ; and of the cold indifference and scorn- 
ful unconcern with which the oppressor looks down upon 
his victims. It speaks of crouching fear, and base servili- 
ty ; of low, mean cunning, and treacherous revenge. It 
speaks of humanity outraged ; manhood degraded ; the so- 
cial charities of life, the sacred ties of father, wife and 
child trampled under foot ; of aspirations crushed ; of hope 



THEY ARE HAPPY. 135 



extinguished ; and the light of knowledge sacrilegiously- 
put out. It speaks of man deprived of all that makes him 
amiable or makes him noble; stripped of his soul, and 
sunk into a beast. 

And thou, my child, to this fate thou art born! May 
Heaven have mercy on thee, for man has none ! 

The first burst of instinctive and thoughtless pleasure, 
with which I had looked upon my infant boy, was dissipat- 
ed forever, the moment I had recovered myself enough to 
recollect what he was born to. Various and ever chang- 
ing, but always wretched anid distressing were the feelings 
with which I gazed at him, as he slept upon his mother's 
bosom, or waking, smiled at her caresses. He was indeed 
a pretty babe ; — a dear, dear child ; — and for his mother's 
sake I loved him, how I loved him ! Yet struggle as I 
might, I could not, for a moment, escape the bitter thought 
of what his fate must be. Full well I knew that did he 
live to be a man, he would repay my love, and justly, with 
curses, curses on the father who had bestowed upon him 
nothing but a life incumbered and made worse than worth- 
less, by the inheritance of slavery. 

I found no longer the same pleasure in Cassy's society, 
which it used to afford me ; or rather the pleasure which I 
could not but take in it, was intermingled with much new 
misery. I did not love her less ; but the birih of that boy 
had infused fresh bitterness into the cup of servitude. 
Whenever I looked upon him, my mind was filled with 
horrid images. The whole future seemed to come visibly 
before me. I saw him naked, chained, and bleeding under 
the lash; I saw him a wretched, trembling creature, cring- 
ing to escape it; I saw him utterly debased, and the spirit 
of manhood extinguished within him ; already he appear- 
ed that worthless thing, — a slave contented with his fate ! 

I could not bear it. I started up in a phrensy of passion; 
I snatched the child from the arms of his mother, and 
while I loaded him with caresses, 1 looked about for the 
means of extinguishing a life, which, as it was an emana- 
tion from my existence, seemed destined to be only a pro- 
longation of my misery. 



186 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

My eyes rolled wildly, I doubt not ; and the stern spirit 
of my determination must have been visibly marked upon 
my face; for gentle and unsuspicious as she was, and 
wholly incapable of that wild passion which tore my heart, 
my wife, with a mother's instinctive watchfulness, seemed 
to catch some glimpse of my intention. She rose up hasti- 
ly, and without speaking a word, she caught the baby 
from my feeble and trembling grasp ; and as she pressed 
it to her bosom, she gave a look that told me all that she 
feared ; and told me too, that the mother's life was bound 
up in that of the child. 

That look subdued me. My arms dropped powerless, 
and I sunk down in a sort of sullen stupor. I had been 
prevented from accomplishing my purpose, but I was not 
satisfied that in foregoing it, I did a father's duty to the 
child. The more I thought upon it — and it so engrossed 
me that I could scarcely draw my thoughts away, — the more 
w^as I convinced that it were better for the boy to die. And 
if the deed did peril my own soul, I loved the child so well 
I did not shrink, even at that ! 

But then his mother? 

I would have reasoned with her ; but I knew how vain 
would be the labor to array a woman's judgment against a 
mother's feelings ; and I felt, that one tear stealing down, 
her cheek, one look of hers, like that she gave me when 
she snatched the child away, would, even in my own mind, 
far outbalance the weightiest of my arguments. 

The idea of rescuing the boy, by one bold act, from all 
the bitter miseries that impended over him, had shot upon 
my mind, like some faint struggling star across the dark- 
ness of a midnight storm. But that glimmer of comfort 
was now extinguished. The child must live. The life I 
gave him, I must not take away. No ! not though every 
day of it would draw new curses ''on my devoted head, — 
and those, too, the curses of my child. This, this, alas ! is 
the barbed arrow that still is sticking in my heart ; the fa- 
tal, fatal wound, that nought can hc*Lii. 



EXTRACT. 137 



Extracts 

The following touching story is extracted from a letter 
from one of our correspondents who spends eight months 
of the year at the South. The writer is entitled to the 
highest confidence. 

In the course of a two years, residence at the South — 
many deeply interesting facts in regard to '* slavery as itis^* 
have come under my observation. While staying a few 
weeks in the family of a planter — I became familiar with 
the faces and names of all the domestic servants. — The 
kind and amiable disposition of the master and mistress 
rendered their situation as comfortable as that of slaves can 
ever be. On my return, after an absence of some month, 
they welcomed me with every expression of joy, as an old 
friend. I very soon noticed among them, one, whom I had 
not been accustomed to see ; her appearance was so dif- 
ferent from the other negroes, as she performed her daily 
duties, about the kitchen and yard — (seldom being seen in 
the house) attracted my attention. 

Her form was large, tall and athletic, but grief and suf- 
fering had traced deeply upon her face the furrows of age, 
which should still have born the lineaments of youth — I 
made few inquiries concerning her, but soon had an oppor- 
tunity of learning, from her own lips, the sad history of her 
woe. 

It was Sabbath afternoon, when looking into the house 
appropriated to the servants, I found her alone, the others 
having gone to '* preaching" — Her siory was told in few 
and simple words; but her countenance spoke the deep 
feelings of her soul in language too strong for human utter- 
ance, — how then can any idea of it be conveyed to another, 
by relating the story she told me. " Aunt Phebe," said I, 
" you were not here'when I was here before." " No, bless 
you, ' said she, "lama stranger here." " And so am I" I an- 
swered. She looked at me with the reply—" But you 
came because you wanted to" " then" I said *' you have 

not always lived in —- " naming the state we wereiii. 

*' No bless you that I haven't, I dont belong to this wicked 



138 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

country — my country is a great way from here." — "And 
why did your master sell you?" I asked — " Ah," said she, 
" my master, I had no master. They stole me away." — I 
could ask no more, but she went on. " Yes, bless you, I 
Vf?iiS free-born and lived with my mother; but hired my- 
self out by the week to a man by the name of . He 

kept house by himself,and was thought to be a good man, 
and was a clerk in the Baptist Church. He had told me 
a great many times, if I would give up my time to him and 
be a slave, he would take good care of me, and I should be 
well off — But no 1 1 always said, that I would never do. 
God made mQ free as well as him. I used every Satur- 
day night, to go home, to spend Sunday with my mother. 
One Monday morning, as 1 came back as usual to go to my 
work, and had just got inside the palings, there came three 
men upon me from the house. One had a club, another a 
rope, and the other a gun, pointing it at me, and telling me 
to take the road and that if I refused to do as they told me, 
they would shoot me down. I was taken and put into a 
drove with sixty or seventy others, and along with us was 
a large wagon filled with negro children. These poor crea* 
tures were brought from different plantations and different 
states, by the speculator, for a Southern market." I can 
no longer give you her words ; my feelings were too much 
agitated to allow me to recollect them, — but the substance 
of her story is too deeply engraven or my memory ever to 
be effaced. Having travelled the whole distance of sever- 
al hundred miles on foot, they were put in the market and 
every day brought out to be examined and set up for sale. 
One after another was taken, herself the last. ** For*' 
said she, " when I said to every one who came to look at 
me, I yv^s free-born, they were afraid to buy me ; then the 
speculators would get angry with me and threatened to shoot 
me if I did it again; but it did not stop me, for I knew 
they wanted the money for me, and they never shall beat 
it out of me as long as I live." But there was not wanting 
one who called himself a man ; ready to pay twelve hun- 
dred dollars for her and take her still further from her home. 



THE GAG. 



139 



She told me much of her treatment by the unfeeling fami- 
ly into which she was taken, and recounted, with many 
tears, the four years until she was purchased by her pres- 
ent master, who knew not at the time she was ever free. 
She did not tell him, probably because she was rejoiced at 
any change, assured that it could hardly be for the worse. 
And she was truly much more comfortably situated. But 
what of that ? What is the scourging and lashing of the 
body compared with the constant and daily agony of mind 
she endures, as he scontrasts her former condition with her 
present, not only to toil on without recompense, but liable 
at any time to be sold and taken away, she knows not 
where. 

I am happy to add, that her present situation was comfort- 
able as it can be while she is held in bondage, her master, 
though nursed in the lap of slavery, and a full believer in 
its rightfulness, is a man of kind feelings, and says that 
freedom shall be granted her as soon as he is convinced 
that her story is true. From subsequent acquaintance I 
found her very wretched and sad. Though going-frhrough 
her daily routine of duty with apparent patience, — every 
sigh she breathed was for liberty, earnestly desiring to re- 
turn once more to her " poor old mother," and her ** own 
country." 



The Gag. 

Ho! children of the granite hills, 

That bristle with the hackmatack, 
And sparkle with the crystal rills 

That hurry toward the Merrimack, 
Dam up those rills ! — for, while they run, 
They all rebuke your Atherton. * 

* I have no feelings of pergonal hostility towards the Hon. 
Charles G-. Atherton. But if, by stifling the prayers of more 
than one million of his fellow men, in order that he may per- 
petuate the slavery of more than two millions, the best friend 
I have on earth shall seek to make his name immortal, I will 
do my best to — help hirn. 



140 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

Dam up those rills ! — they flow, so free 

O'er icy slope, o'er beetling crag, 
That soon they'll all be off at sea, 

Beyond the reach of Charlie's gag ;— ' 
And when those waters are the sea's, 
They'll speak and thunder as they please I 

Then freeze them stiff! — but let there come 
No winds to chain ihor^ ; — should they blow, 

They'll speak of freedom ;— let the dumb 
And breathless frost forbid their flow. 

Then, all will be so hushed and mum 

You'll think your Atherton has come. 

Not he !— " Of all the airts t that blow," 
He dearly loves the soft South-west. 

That tells where rice and cotton grow, 
And man is, like the Patriarchs, blest 

(So say some eloquent divines) 

With God-given slaves t and concubines. 

Let not the winds go thus at large, 
That now o'er all your hills career,— 

Your Sunapee and Kearsarge, — 

Nay, nay, methinks the bounding deer 

That, like the winds, sweep round their hill, 

Should all be gagged, to keep them still. 

And all your big and little brooks, 

That rush down laughing towards the sea, 

Your Lampreys, Squams, and Contocooks, 
That show a spirit to be free. 

Should learn they're not to take such airs ;— 

Your mouths are stopped ;— then why not theirs ? 

Plug every spring that dares to play ' 
At bubble, in its gravel cup, 

t " Of a' the airts the wind can blaw." Burns, 
i " Here we see God dealing in slaves" &c. — Sermon of the 
Mev. T. Clappf New Orleans, ■ 



tftfi ^A(S. 141 



Or babble, as it runs away !— ^ 

Nay, — catch and coop your eagles up ! 
It is not meet that they should fly, 
And scream of freedom through your sky. 

Ye've not done yet ! Your very trees, — 
Those sturdy pines, their heads that wag 

In concert with th^ mountain breeze,—^ 
Unless they're silenced by a gag, 

Will whisper, — " We \vill stand our ground ! 

Our heads are Up ! OtJii hearts Are sound ! '* 

Yea, Atherton, the upright firs 

O'er thee exult, and taunt thee thus, — ■ 

" Though thou art fallen, no feller stirs 
His foot, or lifts his axe at us.^ 

Hell from beneath, is moved at thee," 

Since thou hast crouched to Slavery. 

" Thou saidst, * I will exalt my throne 

Above the stars ; and, in the north 
Will sit upon the mount alone. 

And send my Slavery " Orders" forth ! ' 
Our White Hills spurn thee from their sight I 
Their blasts shall speed thee in thy flight. 

" Go ! breathe amid the aguish damps 

That gather o'er the Congaree ;— 
Go ! hide thee in the cypress swamps 

That darken o'er th6 b^ack Santee,— 
And be the moss, above thy head, 
The gloomy drapery of thy bed ! 

* " Yea, the fir trees rejoice at thee, and the cedars of Leba» 
non, saying, Since thou art laid down, no feller is come up 
against us. Hell, from beneath, is moved for thee, to meet thee 
at thy coming. For thou has said in thy heart, I will ascend 
into heaven, I will exalt myself above the stars of God ; I will 
sit also upon the mount of the congregation, in the sides of 
the north." Isaiah^ xiv. 8, 9, 13. 



142 THE MONTHLY OFFERINGf. 

" The moss, that creeps from bough to bough, 
And hangs in many a dull festoon ;— 

There, peeping through thy curtain, thou 
Mayest catch some ' glimpses of the moon ; ' 

Or, better, twist of it a string, 

Noose in thy neck, repent, and — swing ! " * 

Sons of the granite hills, your birds, 

Your winds, your waters, and your trees, 

Of faith and freedom speak, in words 
That should be felt in times like these ; 

Their voice comes to you from the sky ! 

In them God speaks of Liberty. 

Sons of the granite hills, awake ! 

Ye're on a mighty stream afloat, 
With all your liberties at stake ;' — 

A faithless pilot's on your boat ! 
And, while ye've lain asleep, ye're snagged ! 
Nor can ye cry for help,— ye're gagged I 

* These fir trees that grow Upon the granite hill, thnogh they" 
seem to have some heart, can certainly have no bowels, or on- 
ly granite ones, else they could never give such suicidal counseL 



From the Envoy. 
Spirit of tove* 

Faint, weary, and heart-stricken, the Spirit of Love clos» 
ed her drooping pinions, by the gates of Paradise, just as 
the slanting beams from the Central Sun marked one of 
the changes of Eternity. The golden ringlets that cluster* 
ed round her lovely forehead, w^ere dank with cold and 
heavy moisture. Tear-drops stood in her beautiful eyes | 
and her musical voice which had been wont to call forth, 
the gladdest echoes among the vales of Paradise, was mute. 
The Eternal beheld her, and his spirit melted with com* 
passion. He bent and lifted her to his bosom. 

*' What aileth thee, my daughter ? '' he said. " Hath the 
siroc of the desert overtaken thee ? or have the cold vapors 



SPIRIT OF LOVE. 143 

of Earth oppressed thee with the heaviness of sorrow ? 
Speak, my daughter." 

" No, Father ! " she said, " it is not the siroc ; nor yet 
the pestilent vapor ; but a spirit more deadly, more cruel^ 
more unsparing than either ! Behold the Shepherds whom 
ihou hast set over the pastures, to keep thy flocks, have 
ceased feeding the flock, and feed only themselves ; and 
when they saw the wolf and the panther entering among 
them and devouring the flocks, they rebuked them not: but 
they eat of the flesh and drink of the blcod of their own 
flocks ! and, Father, only for the color of their face! and 
when they And a black sheep they go about to slay him I 
Then they point to Thy Book, and say thy hand hath 
written it there. Are not these, Father, unfaithful to 
their trust t Should such be placed to guard the sheep- 
folds of Zion, for did they not go forth from the caverns of 
the Evil One 1 Behold, when they heard my voice, they 
scourged me, and entreated me evil, and cast me forth." 

Then the Eternal wiped the tears from her eyes, and 
said, " Go forth again, my daughter. Behold I have made 
thee a chief instrument in this great work. Fear not, for 
I will put into thy mouth wisdom to answer the cunning- 
rebuke to arrest the sinner— hope to comfort the despair- 
ing ; and the blessing of the Eternal shall envelope thee 
as with a transparent garment, lettered with mystic chaf" 
acters— Thy sisters. Truth and Justice, are already whis* 
pering, and thundering, through the nether world — Eest 
thee here awhile, my daughter ; then go forth. Thy mi^'_ 
sion is to the heart. Behold, I give ihee power to reach it.'' 

Then the beautiful Spirit bowed herself before the 
Throne, and said, *' Father, thy Words are life ! I am 
strong. I live again. Suffer me to depart, even now ; 
for I will not give rest to my feet till the work be accom- 
plished." Then, stooping down, she bathed her forehead in 
the Waters of Life, and went forth upon her mission : and 
when all of her own sex have received her into tlieir heart, 
and are imbued with her spirit, Oppression, and Wrong, 
and Violence, shall no more be known, in all the Earth. 

Sinithfield, R. L 1840. 



144 tHE MONTHLY OFFERING. 



CCf»Petition8.-^ 

It is time that the work of obtaining signatures to aboli- 
tion petitions was commenced in earnest. Never, perhaps, 
has the prospect of success and usefulness in this important 
department of anti-slavery effort been more cheering, than 
at the present time* The anti-slavery field has, in a meas- 
ure, been suffered to lie fallow, for a considerable petiod, 
and, if noW broken Up, will amply repay rien^Wied and in- 
creased exertion. 

The encouragement to effort from the increased proba- 
bility of a favorable reception, and proper consideration o 
the requests we make ; both in Congress, and our Own 
Legislature, is also very great. Thete is Very little doubt 
of the removal of the odious " Gag" at ihe next session of 
our National Congress ; and if the abolitionists of this Com- 
monwealth will exert themselves as duty to the cause of 
human rights requires, they may confidently expect a de- 
claration of the equal rights of men of every color, in the 
use of the means of conveyance furnished under State 
charters ; and the repeal of the odious law prohibiting the 
marriage of persons of different colors, during the coming 
session. 

Although abundant occasion exists for the exertions of 
the anti-slavery women of Massachusetts in a sphere so 
*' appropriate ; " yet the charge made during the last ses- 
sion of the Legislature that they only were desirous of pro- 
curing the repeal of the marriage law, and that the anti- 
slavery men had not sufficient gallantry to co-operate with 
them; should serve as a special inducement to the male aboli- 
tionists of the state to begin the work with zeal, and refute 
the false accusation hy the testimony of thousands of wit* 
nesses. H.-W. W. 



THE 

MONTHLY OFFERING. 



OCTOBER, 1841 



*' Slavery as it is.'* 

This is the title of a large pamphlet prepared and pub- 
lished by the American Anti-slavery Society sometime 
since. Though scores of thousands of this work have 
been scattered broad cast over the country, yet it has not 
had that circulation it merits. Could the facts therein re- 
vealed, be brought before the good people of the free states, I 
am confident there would be no more cavilling about " kind 
treatment" towards the slaves. The old stereotyped argu- 
ments, that " the slaves are contented and happy," — that 
" they are better off than our northern laborers," *' that they 
would not take their freedom if it was not offered them," and 
a thousand and one other objections, fostered by ignorance 
and prejudice, would be urged no longer. 

Slavery is at war with the whole constitution of man, 
every principle of which cries out for freedom. The sys- 
tem is the most unnatural one that can possibly be con- 
ceived of, and requires the most unnatural means to sus- 
tain it. It does not rob a man of a part of his rights only, 
but lays the axe at, and completely annihilates the very 
foundation of all rights. It converts the person of the 
slave, body and soul, — that which was created a little lower 
than the angels, into a mere thing, a chattel, a piece of 



146 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

merchandise, and then places it under the supreme, ab- 
solute and irresponsible control of another, and for his special 
benefit. The wants, feelings and desires of the slave are 
never consulted. The laws of the slave states declare that 
a " slave cannot accumulate nor possess anything, but is the 
property of his master to all intents, purposes and con- 
structions whatsoever." Ho has no right to his feet, his 
hands, his bones, his muscles, his body, or his soul. His 
freedom of speech, and right of locomotion are completely 
annihilated. If it is for the master's interest to feed and clothe 
him like a prince, or to reduce him to a skeleton by star- 
vation, he will do it precisely upon the same principle as 
he would give oats lo his horse or place a fine guilted har- 
ness upon his back. Vv^hips and chains and gags, exces- 
sive toil and painful starvation, — bleeding backs and broken 
hearts,— the tearing assunder the ties of family relations,— 
the separating of wives and husbands, of parents and child- 
ren, — degrading ignorance and debasing crimes arc the 
natural and legitimate results of reducing man to a piece 
of merchandise, and who is to be used for another's benefit. 
We here insert a portion of the editor's (T. D. Weld's) 
preface. All the propositions therein made, are more than 
sustained by the facts embodied in the work, and from 
which we shall occasionally make extracts. 

As slaveholders and their apologists are volunteer wit- 
nesses in their own cause, and are flooding the world with 
testimony that their slaves are kindly treated ; that they 
are well fed, well clothed, well housed, well lodged, mod- 
erately worked, and bountifully provided with all things 
needful for their comfort, we propose — first, to disprove 
their assertions by the testimony of a multitude of impar- 
tial witnesses, and then to put down slaveholders them- 
selves through a course of cross-questioning which shall 



SLAVERY AS IT IS. 



147 



draw their condemnation out of their own mouths. We 
will prove that the slaves in the United States are treated 
with barbarous inhumanity ; that thej are overworked, un- 
derfed, wretchedly clad and lodged, and have insufficient 
sleep ; that they are often made to wear round their necks 
iron collars armed with prongs, to drag heavy chains aad 
weights at their feet while working in the field, and to wear 
yokes,and bells, and iron horns ; that they are often kept con« 
fined in the stocks day and night for weeks together, and 
made to wear gags in their mouths for hours or days, have 
some of their front teeth torn out or broken ofiT, that they 
may be easily detected when they run away ; that they 
are frequently flogged with terrible severity, have red pep- 
per rubbed in their lacerated flesh, and hot brine, spirits of 
turpentine, (fee, poured over the gashes to increase the tor- 
ture ; that they are often stripped naked, their backs and 
limbs cut with knives, bruised and mangled by scores and 
hundreds of blows with the paddle, and terribly torn by 
the claws of cats, drawn over them by their tormentors ; 
that they are often hunted with blood hounds and shot 
down like beasts, or torn in pieces by the dogs ; that they 
are often suspended by the arms and whipped and beaten 
till they faint, and when revived by restoratives, beaten 
again till they faint, and sometimes till they die ; that their 
ears are often cut ofl^ their eyes knocked out, their bones 
broken, their flesh branded with red hot irons ; that they 
are maimed, mutilated and burned to death over slow fires. 
All these things, and more, and worse, we shall prove. 
Reader, we know whereof we affirm, we have weighed it 
well ; more and worse WE WILL PROVE. Mark these 
words, and read on ; we will establish all these facts by 
the testimony of scores and hundreds of eye witnesses, by 
the testimony oi slaveholders \n all parts of the slave states, 
by slaveholding members of Congress and state legisla- 
tures, by ambassadors to foreign courts, by- judges, by doc- 
tors of divinity, and clergymen of all denominations, by 
merchants, mechanics, lawyers and physicians, by pres- 
idents and professors in colleges and professional semina- 
ries, by planters, overseers and drivers. We shall show, 



MS THE MONTHLY OFFERING, 

not merely ihat such deeds are committed, but that ihey 
are frequent; not done in corners, but before the sun ^ 
not in one of the slave states, but in all of them ; not per- 
petrated by brutal overseers and drivers merely, but by 
magistrates, by legislators, by professors of religion, by 
preachers of the gospel, by governors of states, by " gentle- 
men of property and standing," and by delicate females 
moving in the " highest circles of society." 

The foregoing declarations touching the inflictions up- 
on slaves, are not hap-hazard assertions, not the exagera- 
tions of fiction conjured up to carry a point ; nor are they 
the rhapsodies of enthusiasm, nor crude conclusions, jump- 
ed at by hasty aud imperfect investigation, not the aimless 
outpourings either of sympathy or poetry ; but they are 
proclamations of deliberate, well-weighed convictions, pro- 
duced by accumulations of proof, by affirmations and affi- 
davits, by written testimonies and statements of a cloud of 
witnesses who speak what they know and testify what they 
havs seen, and all these impregnably fortified by proofs 
innumerable, in the relation of the slaveholder to his slave, 
the nature of arbitrary power^ and the nature and history 
of man. 



Narrative of Nehemiah Caulkius. 

The author of the following interesting narrative, is Mr. 
Nehemiah Caulkins,of Waterforu, Connecticut, and who is 
a highly respected member of the Baptist church, in that 
town. Mr. Caulkins was introduced to the Executive 
Committee of the American Anti -slavery Society by twelve 
influential citizens of Waterford, embracing three justices 
of the Peace, two Physicians, one Commissioner of the 
County Court for New London, one Clergyman, one Post 
Master, and one Deacon, as a man of high respectability, 
whose character for truth and veracity were unimpeacha^ 



NARRATIVE OF NEHEMIAII CAULKINS. 149 



ble." We would urge upon the readers of the " Offering'* 
to peruse with attention the following facts : 

*' I feel it my duty to tell some things that I know about 
slavery, in order, it possible, to awaken more feeling at the 
North in behalf of the slave. The treatment of the slaves 
on the plantations where I had the greatest opportunity of 
getting knowledge, was not so bad as that on some neigh- 
boring estates, where the owners were noted for their cruel- 
ty. There were, however, other estates in the vicinity, 
where the treatment was better ; the slaves w^ere better 
clothed and fed, were not worked so hard, and more at- 
tention was paid to their quarters. 

The scenes that I have witnessed are enough to harrow 
up the soul ; but could the slave be permitted to tell the 
story of his sufferings, which no white man, not linked 
with slavery, is allowed to know, the land would vomit out 
the horrible system, slaveholders and all, if they would not 
unclinch their grasp upon their defenceless victims. 

I spent eleven w^inters between the years 1824 an4 1835, 
in the state of North Carolina, mostly in the vicinity of 
Wilmington ; and four out of the eleven on the estate of 
Mr. John Swan, five or six miles from that place. There 
were on his plantation about seventy slaves, male and fe- 
male : some were married, and others lived together as 
man and wife, without even a mock ceremony. With 
ther owners generally, it is a matter of .indifference ; the 
marriage of slaves not being recognized by the slave code. 
The slaves, however, think much of being married by a 
clergyman. 

The cabins or huts of the slaves were small, and were 
built principally by the slaves themselves, as they could 
find time on Sundays and moonlight nights ; they went 
into the swamps, cut the logs, backed ov hauled them to the 
quarters, and put up their cabins. 

When I first knew Mr. Swan's plantation, his overseer 
was a man who had been a Methodist minister. He treat- 
ed the slaves with great cruelty. His reasons for leaving 
the ministry and becoming an overseer, as I was informed, 



150 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

was this : his wife died, at which providence he was so 
enraged, that he swore he would not preach for the Lord 
another day. This man continued on the plantation about 
three years ; at the close of which, on settlement of ac- 
counts, Mr. Swan owed him about 8400, for which he 
turned him out a negro woman, and about twenty acres of 
land. He built a log hut, and took the woman to live 
with him ; since which, I have been at his hut, and seen 
four or five mulatto children. He has been appointed a 
justice of the peace, and his place as overseer was after- 
wards^ occupied by a Mr. Galloway. 

It is customary in that part of the country, to let the 
hogs run in the woods. On one occasion a slave caught a 
pig about two months old, which he carried to his quar- 
ters. The overseer, getting information of the fact, went 
to the field where he was at work, and ordered him to 
come to him. The slave at once suspected it was some- 
thing about the pig, and fearing punishment, dropped his 
hoe and ran for the woods. He had got but a few rods, 
when the overseer raised his gun, loaded with duckshot,and 
brought him down. It is a common practice for overseers 
to go into the field armed with a gun or pistols, and some- 
times both. He was taken up by the slaves and caried to 
the plantation hospital, and the physician sent for. A 
physician was employed by the year to take care of the 
sick or wounded slaves. In about six weeks the slave got 
better, and was able to come out of the hospital. He came 
to the mill where I was at work, and asked me to exam- 
ine his body, which I did, and counted twenty-six duck 
shot still remaining in his flesh, though the doctor had re- 
moved a number while he was laid up. 

There was a slave on Mr. Swan's plantation, by the 
name of Harry, who, during the absence of his master, run 
away ond secreted himself in the woods- Thi.? the slaves 
sometimes do, when the master is absent for several weeks, 
to escape the cruel treatment of the overseer. It is com- 
mon for them to make preparations, by secreting a mortar, 
a hatchet, some cooking utensils, and whatever things they 
can get that will enable them to live while they are in the 



NARRATIVE OF NEHEMIAH CAULKINS. 151 

woods or swamps. Harry staid about three months, and 
lived by rubbing the rice grounds, and by such other 
means as came in his way. The slaves generally know 
where the runaway is secreted, and visit him at night and 
on Sundays. On the return of his master, some of the 
slaves were sent for Harry. When he came home he was 
seized and confined in stocks. The stocks were built in 
the barn, and consisted of two heavy pieces of timber, ten 
or more feet in length, and about seven inches wdde ; the 
lower one, on the floor, has a number of holes or places, 
cut in it, for the ancles ; the upper piece, being of the 
same dimensions, is fastened at one end by a hinge, and 
is brought down after'^the ancles are placed in the holes, 
and secured by a clasp and padlock at the other end. In 
this manner the person is left to sit on the floor. Harry 
was kept in the stocks day and night f 07^ a week, and flog- 
ged every morning. After this, he was taken out one 
morning, a log chain fastened around his neck, the two 
ends dragging on the ground, and he sent to the field, to 
do his task with the other slaves. At night he was again 
put in the stocks, in the morning he was sent to the field in 
the same manner, and thus dragged out another week. 

The overseer was a very miserly fellow, and restricted 
his wife in what are considered the comforts of life — such 
as tea, sugar, &-c. To make up for this, she set her wits 
to work, and, by the help of a slave, named Joe, used to 
take from the plantation whatever she could conveniently, 
and watch her opportunity during her husband's absence, 
and sent Joe to sell them and buy for her such things as 
she directed. Once when her husband was away, she told 
Joe to kill and dress one of the pigs, sell it, and get her 
some tea, sugar, &c. Joe did as he was bid, and she gave 
him the offal for his services. When Galloway returned, 
not suspecting his wife, he asked her if she knew what 
had become of his pig. She told him she suspected one 
of the slaves, naming him, had stolen it, for she had heard 
a pig squeal the evening before. The overseer called the 
slave up, and charged him with the theft. He denied it, 
and said he knew nothinsf about it. The overseer still 



152 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

charged him with it, and told him he would give him one 
week to think of it, and if he did not confess the theft, or 
find out who did steal the pig, he would flog every negro 
on the plantation ; before the week was up it was ascer- 
tainee that Joe had killed the pig. He was called up and 
questioned, and admitted that he had done so, and told the 
overseer that he did it by the order of Mrs. Galloway, and 
that she directed him to buy some sugar, &c. with the 
money. Mrs. Golloway gave Joe the lie ; and he was 
terribly flogged. Joe told me he had been several times 
to the smoke-house with Mrs. G. and taken hams and 
sold them, which her husband told me he supposed were 
stolen by the negroes on a neighboring plantation. Mr. 
Swan, hearing of the circumstance, told me he believed 
Joe's story, but that his statement would not be taken as 
proof; and if every slave on the plantation told the same 
story it could not be received as evidence against a white 
person. 

To show the manner in which old worn-out slaves are 
sometimes treated, I will state a fact. Galloway owned a 
man about seventy years of age. The old man was sick 
and went to his hut; laid himself down on some straw 
with his feet to the fire, covered by a piece of an old blank- 
et, and there lay four or five days, groaning in great dis- 
tress, without any attention being paid him by his mas- 
ter, until death ended his miseries ; he was then taken out 
and buried with as little ceremony and respect as would 
be paid to a brute. 

To be Continued. 



Eastern Rail Road. 

"Within the last few weeks, several outrages, of a most 
brutal character have been committed upon colored people 
and their white friends, by the conductors and other ser- 
vants of this corporation. The spirit of Lynch Law and 
Mobocracy has grown- so rampant upon that rout, that well- 
dressed, intelligent and highly respectable colored people» 



EASTERN RAIL ROAD. 153 

of both sexes, who pay the highest price for their tickets, 
are subjected to the most scurrilous abuse, and ejected 
from the cars, if they do not see fit to degrade themselves, 
by entering into a small filthy negro-box prepared for them. 
Not satisfied with this, but every white person, who dares 
to remonstrate against such flagrant outrages,— such viola- 
lations of law and good order, are subjected to the same 
insult and proscription. Our rights are indissolubly bound 
up with those of the slave and the free people of color. 
Already have four or five white persons been dragged 
from the cars, because they could not set still in silence 
and see their poor defenceless colored fellow citizens in- 
sulted, and outraged. The Directors are perfectly consis- 
tent with themselves. If they eject persons on account 
of their complexion, why may they not proscribe, insult and 
cast out their white friends ? At Lynn, where some of the 
most barbarous scenes transpired, the good people have 
held several large and spirited indignation meetings, and 
condemned in unqualified terms the corporation, and have 
called upon their fellow citizens to send up memorials to 
the next General Court praying that all distinctions solely 
on account of complexion may be abolished upon rail roads. 
This is as it should be. Memorials upon this question 
should be signed by every individual in the state. 



Something New. 

Anti-slavery Wafers. — Of all the various methods 
which abolitionists have adopted to bring their principles 
before the public, the ANn-SLAVERY wafers, just prepared 
and published by the American and Massachusetts Anti* 



154 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

slavery Societies are, in our estimation, the most effective. 
Every letter that is written, should be sealed w^ith one of 
these wafers, every one of which contains some beautiful 
anti-slavery sentiment, taken from the scriptures, and writ- 
ings of well known statesmen, philanthropists and others. 
Bank bills, which pass through the hands of abolitionists, 
should receive one of these upon their back. By this 
means our principles can gain admission to those minds 
where our lectures, periodicals and books could never 
reach. 

For particulars, see advertisement on the cover. 



Abby Kelly. — This talented and devoted friend of the 
suffering bondman, is now laboring with her accustomed 
efficiency and success in Rhode Island, where she will re- 
main till after the annual meeting of the Rhode Island An- 
ti-Slavery Society, which is to be held in Providence, on 
the 11th and 12th of next month. Her efforts are greatly 
needed in this state. We hope she will make Massachu- 
setts her field of labor the coming winter. A new impetus 
has been given to our cause in those towns recently visited 
by her. 



Edward Everett. — Since the last number of the " Of- 
fering^'' v/as issued, the nomination of this gentleman as 
minister to London, has been confirmed by the Senate. 
This, however, was not effected till after the pro-slavery 
press at the North had talked, foamed and blustered most 
terribly ; and actually frightened the bragging, bullying 
South into terms, by threatening to divide the union, if Mr. 



STUPID RACE. 155 



Everett was rejected on the ground of his abolitionism. 
This may be looked upon as the greatest victory that free- 
dom, in this country, has ever gained over slavery. Hov\? 
soon would slavery be abolished if the ecclesiastical and 
political press of the North would speak out boldly upon 
this question, as becomes Christians and Freemen. Let 
them take a bold and uncompromising stand upon this sub- 
ject, and they may rest assured, the people, the bone and 
muscle in both church and state, will sustain them. 

The facts in relation to the cruelties of this most atro- 
cious system, — its demoralizing influences, alike upon the 
master as the slave, — its debasing the higher and holier 
feelings of our common nature — its paralyzing the prosper- 
ity and industry of the whole country, — its influence in 
rendering the whole nation insensible to the great princi- 
ples of justice and humanity, professedly the very ground- 
work upon which rests all our free institutions, — all these 
things, we say, are but to be seen and understood by the 
people, when they will immediately, and without reserve, 
give their co-operation for its immediate and complete 
overthrow : for 

'^ Slavery is a monster of so frightful mein. 
That to be hated, needs but to be seen." 



The following interesting facts are taken from the Na- 
tional Anti-Slavery Standard, which are from the pen of 
its interesting and talented editor, Mrs. Child, 
They are a Stupid Race. 

Of the many cunning contrivances to escape from slave- 
ry, we think the following is about the most shrewd we 
have heard yet. Two slaves in a certain county of Virgin- 



156 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

ia, ran away with one of their master's horses. — They 
started very early in the morning, in the following fashion. 
One of the slaves fastened a strong rope round the other's 
body, tied him to the saddle, and drove off. — When met 
and questioned, the rider answered, " That black rascal 
undertook to run away from massa. I've caught him, and 
am taking him home, quick step. I guess he won't be for 
running away again in a hurry, after massa's had the cook- 
ing of him." This failed not to elicit warm approbation, 
accompanied with hospitable offers of refreshment for him- 
self and his horse. 

When arrived at a convenient place, the slaves exchang- 
ed places ; the rider submitting to the rope in his turn, 
while the other performed his part to admiration ; and 
like him received assistance and praise for his honest zeal 
in his master's service. 

Thus they sojourned " in tye," till they reached Pensyl- 
vania, when the rope was no longer necessary. Thence 
they passed over into Canada. 

"They are a Stupid Race, made to be Slaves.*' 

Two slaves in Lousianna were let out by their master, 
at a considerable distance from his own residence. They 
were skilful, intelligent mechanics, and of course he ob- 
tained high wages for their work. What time remained 
after their daily allotted tasks were finished, they were al- 
lowed to have for themselves; and these precious hours 
they employed most industriously with the view of purcha- 
sing their freedom. When they had accumulated by pa- 
tient toil a sum which they deemed sufficient, they endea- 
vored to negotiate with their master ; but without success. 
Again they went to work ; and after two or three years, 
were enabled to offer a sum so large, that they felt almost 
certain it would tempt him to accede to their wishes. But 
he found them too profitable to be lightly parted with ; 
moreover, whatever they had of property was in reality his. 
He might, with perfect impunity, have taken all their hard- 
earned wages, and kept them in slavery still, as thousands 



STtTHD llACfi. 157 



of slave-holders had done before him. But whether he 
doubted their having so much money as they pretended or 
whether he was too honorable to steal more than ninety- 
nine hundredths of their earnings, 1 know not ; at all events, 
he would not listen to their proposition on any terms. 

Finding they could not purchase liberty, they wisely re- 
solved to take it. The enterprise was a perilous one; for 
through a long line of slave States, they must run the 
gauntlet of patrols, blood-hounds, lynchers, jail-keepeis, and 
rifles — and if they reached the States called free, they 
must dodge constables and kidnappers, backed by the glo- 
rious Constitution. 

They were sufficiently intelligent and well-informed to 
understand the dangers they would incur, and to devise a 
most cunning method of avoiding them. 

They made themselves acquainted with a white beggar 
and made him offers large enough to secure his secresy. 
they dressed him in a handsome suit of clothes, and through 
his agency purchased a carriage and a fine Span of horses, 
they brought the carriage to an appointed place, stood hat 
in hand while he entered, and then mounted outside, as 
footman and groom. Of course no patrol thought of chal- 
lenging such an equipage; and a white gentleman travel- 
ling through the country attended by his servants was wel- 
come at all the inns. The obsequiousness of their man- 
ners was an admonition to their brethren in bonds. " Yes 
massa," and " Certainly, massa," were accompanied with 
the most profound bows, and spoken in the humblest tones. 

The trio arrived in Buffalo unmolested ; there the car- 
riage and horses were sold ; and the white beggar paid 
handsomely for consenting to play the gentleman. 

The slaves passed over to Victoria's dominions, whence 
they wrote a very friendly letter to their whilom master, 
begging that he would feel no uneasiness on their account 
as they were most comfortably situated. 

The Gag. — These spirited lines which were copied in- 
to the last number of the *' Offering,'* should have been cred- 
ited to their worthy and talented author,— John Pierpokt* 



158 THE BIONTHLY OFFERING. 

The fugitive Slave's apostrophe to the North star. 

BY JOHN PIERPONT. 

' Star of the^North ! though night winds drift 

The fleecy drapery of the sky, 
Between thy lamp and me, I lift, 

Yea, lift with hope, my sleepless eye 
To the blue heights wherein thou dwellest, 
And of a land of freedom tellest. 

Star of the North ! while blazing day 
Pours round me its full tide of light, 

And hides thy pale but faithful ray, 
I, too, lie hid, and long for night : 

For night: I dare not walk at noon, 

Nor dare I trust the faithless moon^- 

Nor faithless man, whose burning lust 
For gold hath riveted my chain,— 

Nor other leader can 1 trust 

But thee, of even the starry train ; 

For all the host around thee burning, 

Like faithless man, keep turning, turning 

I may not follow where they go :— 
Star of the North, I look to thee 

While on I press : for, well 1 know 

Thy light and truth shall set me free :— 

Thy light, that no poor slave deceiveth ; 

Thy truth, that all my soul believeth. 

They of the East behold the star 

That over Bethlem's manger glowed : 

With joy they hailed it from afar, 

And followed where it marked the road, 

Till where its rays directly fell, . 

They found the Hope of Israel. 

Wise were the men who followed thus 

The Star that sets man free from sin I 
Star of the North ! thou art to us— 



FUGITIVE SLAVE, ETC. 159 

Who're slaves because we wear a skin 
Dark as is Night's protecting wing — 
Thou art to us a holy thing. 

And we are wise to fpUow thee ! 

I trust thy steady light alone.— 
Star of the North ! thou seem'st to me 

To burn before the Almighty's throne, 
To guide me through these forests dim 
And vast, to liberty and HIM. 

Thy beam is on the glassy breast 
Of the still spring, upon whose brink 

I lay my weary limbs to rest, 

And bow my parching lips to drink. 

Guide of the friendless negro's way, 

I bless thee for this quiet ray ! 

In the dark top of southern pines 

I nestled, when the Driver's horn 
Called to the field, in lengthening lines, 

My fellows, at the break of morn. 
And there I lay till thy sweet face 
Looked in upon " my hiding place." 

The tangled cane-brake, where I crept 

For shelter from the heat of noon, 
And where, while others toiled, I slept. 

Till wakened by the rising moon, 
As its stalks felt the night wind free, 
Gave me to catch a glimpse of thee. 

Star of the North ! in bright array 
The constellations round thee sweep, 

Each holding on its nightly way, 
Rising, or sinking in the deep, 

And, as it hangs in mid heaven flaming, 

The homage of some nation claiming. 

This nation to the Eagle=^ cowers ; 
Fit ensign ! she's a bird of spoil :— 



160 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

Like worships like ! for each devours 

The earnings of another's toil. 
I've felt her talons and her beak, 
And now the gentler Lion seek. 

The Lion,^ at the Virgin's^ feet 

Crouchesj and lays his mighty paw 
Into her lap ! — an emblem meet 

Of England's Queen, and English law- 
Queen, that hath made her Islands free ! 
Law, that holds out its shield to me ! 

Star of the North ! upon that shield 
Thou shinest, — 0, for ever shine ! 

The negro, from the cotton field 
Shall, then, beneath its orb recline, 

And feed the Lion, couched before it, 

Nor heed the Eagle, screaming o'er it ! 



The Teeth. — We would call the attention of those of 
our leaders who w^ould like to have operations performed 
upon their teeth, in the most scientific and workmanlike 
manner, to the advertisement of Dk. Hitchcock, on the cov- 
er. 

Dr. Hitchcock has published a popular little "manual on 
THE TEETH," filled with useful suggestions, and contains a 
fund of the most valuable information with respect to the 
science of dentistry. We are happy to learn that it has al- 
ready passed through three editions. 

*The Constellations Aquila, Leo, and Virgo, are here 
meant by the astronomical Fugitive. 



MONTHLY OFFERING. 



NOVEMBER, 184 1. 



"Tlie Offering." 

The next number of this little monthly, which will ap- 
pear the first of December, completes its first volume. 
Those of our readers who feel disposed to renew their sub- 
scriptions are requested to send in their names with the 
amount of their subscriptions as soon as may be, that we 
may know how large an edition of the first number of the 2d 
volume to strike ofT. No pains will be spared to make it both 
pleasing and valuable. If any of our subscribers have not 
received their Offerings regularly, or if any errors have oc- 
curred by which they have not received the am.ount of 
their subscriptions, they shall be rectified as soon as we 
are made acquainted with the facts. 

We regret to say that the '* Offering'^ has failed to meet 
its expenses by a considerable amount. Within the last 
two months our subscription list has greatly increased, 
and we have strong hopes that it will not be much expense 
to us the coming year. This will depend, however upon 
the abolitionists of New England, They can increase its 
circulation if they wish. We shall have a few volumes of 
the Offering neatly bound and ready for sale by the first 
of December. It will make a neat little Christmas and 
New Years present. The price will be from fifty cents to 
one dollar, according to the expense of binding. 

Orj=' It will be illustrated with a splendid portrait of that 
faithful and eloquent Philanthropist, George Thompson. 



162 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

Rhode Island. 

We attended the annual meeting of the R. I. State Anti- 
Slavery Society on the 11th, 12th and 13th inst, in the city 
of Providence. An uncommon large delegation was pres- 
ent from all parts of the state. This was mainly owing 
to the recent efforts of our unflinching and unfaultering co- 
adjutor, Abby Kelley, who has labored, the few months 
past, in that state with great success. It was the most spirit- 
ed and interesting meeting we ever attended. We regret that 
the limits of the Offering will not allow us to give a 
lengthened account of the proceedings of the meeting. 

The evening session of the first day contined till past ten 
o'clock, and was eloquently and ably addressed by several 
colored gentlemen. The impression made was most favora- 
ble. We heard many express their astonishment that col- 
ored people could speak so well. 

The abolitionists of R. I. are wide awake. Local caus- 
es exist which tend to test the sincerity of their abolition. 
Probably most of our readers are aware that the good 
people of R. I, have no written constitution. There is 
no restriction upon the acts of the Legislation, which, on 
account of the property qualification, essential to become 
a voter, is created by the landholders. These comprise 
but a small portion of the community. The disfranchised 
class, or those whoare not in possession of real estate to the 
amount of one hundred and thirty four dollars, have called 
a convention, and drafted a constitution, by which every 
V/HITE man at the age of 21 is allowed the elective fran- 
chise. This constitution is to be sent to the people for adop- 
tion. The abolitionists have nobly resolved tc spare no pains 
to prevent the adoption of this unnatural and proscriptive 
constitution. Should the abolitionists defeat the adaption of 



-GEOR-GE BRADBURN. 163 



this instrument, or cause the word lohiie to disappear, 
it will, most assuredly, be another great victory over the 
slaveholding spirit of this country. 



George Bradbnrn* 

The voice of this devoted friend of the slave will not be 
heard in our legislature the coming winter, for the millions 
of oppressed in our land. Let the blame rest were it be- 
longs. George Bradburn is an uncompromising out-spoken 
abolitionist. Yet there is no mistake about his being 
equally a thorough, unyiielding and unbending whig. On 
all party questions he has invariably voted with the whigs. 
In point of energy, eloquence, shrevrdness and talent he 
has but few superiors. Now why is it that George Brad- 
burn was not elected, by the Whigs of Nantucket, a mem- 
ber of the General Court ? simply because he is an 
abolitionist and an independent politician. The day is 
coming when Nantucket will be proud of the name of 
Bradburn, yet he must be immolated by the whigs of Nan- 
tucket upon the shrine of Southern slavery. The Demo- 
cratic party are equally as proscriptive. Robert Morris, of 
Ohio, failed to be re-elected to the United States Senate, 
for no other crime than making a speech against slavery 
upon the floor of the Senate. We fear that the abolition- 
ists of Nantucket have not been sufficiently faithful to our 
cause. The election of George Bradburn should have 
been a sine qua non with them. If we mistake not, the 
abolitionists of Nantucket hold the balance of power m 
their hands, so that no man could be elected without their 
consent. If so, they are highly culpable. No man will be 
missed more from the house than Bradburn. All parties 



164 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

fear him. However his influence need not be lost. Brad- 
burn would draw full houses in almost any town in this 
state, should it be announced that he was to lecture on sla- 
very. 

PlymouthL County. 

A most spirited and delightful meeting of the Plymouth 
County Anti-slavery Society was held at Hingham on the 
5ih inst. Our friends, Quincy, Garrison, May, Foster^ 
Douglass, Lunsford Lane and others, addressed the meet- 
ing. A good delegation was present. The anti-slavery 
of this county is thorough and efficient. 



Public opinion verstss Justice^^ 

We noticed the outrages, in the last number, committed 
upon citizens of Massachusetts by the Eastern Rail 
Road corporation. Among the number of white persons 
whose rights and liberties were outraged was Dr. Mann, a 
highly respectable physician and dentist of this city. One- 
Harrington, a conductor and a leader of the ruffian gang, 
was, on complaint of Dr. Mann, to the city authorities 
brought before Justice Simm.ons of the Police Court, for an 
assault upon his (Dr. Mann's) person, at East Boston, on 
the afternoon of the 30th September. 

The facts of the case were simply these. "We speak 
what we know and testify what we saw, for we were 
present and observed the whole affair. A respectable col- 
ored man was found by this Harrington in one of the long 
cars, who instantly entered, followed by five or six paid 
ruffians, who, from their appearance, were brakemen, fire- 
men, and other of the company's servants, with horrid oaths 
and dreadful imprecations, gave orders to his minions to- 



PUBLIC OPINION VS. JUSTICE. 



165 



take the colored man out. No sooner had the command 
gone forth than these savage looking fellows siezed him 
by his head, arms and legs, and thrust him out, endanger- 
ing both his person and life, without giving him a mo- 
ment's opportunity to leave, of his own-free will. Many pas- 
sengers present protested against this exhibition of Lynch 
Law. From the time the first assault was committed 
upon the colored man, one minute had hardly disappeared 
before Harrington, followed by his ruffian corpsCjre-entered, 
and in a f rofane,bullying,blustering style, ordered them to 
snake out every abolitionist. Meaning those who had 
protested against his mobocratic proceedings, whereupon. 
Dr. Mann and several others were thrust out, though they 
had paid their fare through to Lynn. 

Several witnesses of unimpeachable integrity testified 
that the facts, the substance of which we have stated above 
were all true. To counteract this testimony,these very mob- 
ocrats and others interesed in the employ of this cor- 
poration, came into the court and completely overthrew 
all the testimony of the witnesses for the prosecu- 
tion, and swore that Harrington, the conductor, v/as 
always exceedingly pojite and civil to passengers,— that 
the colored man was urged again and again to leave and 
take his seat in another car, as it was against the rules of 
the company for the colored people to ride in the cars pro- 
miscuously with the whites, — that when they attempted 
gently to lead him out. Dr. Mann and others interposed 
*o prevent the regulations of the company being carried in- 
to effect, whereupon they were requested to desist or leave 
the cars. These perjured witnesses testified that no al- 
ternative was left but to take them from the cars, 
which was done without insult or violence to any one ; 



166 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

they swore, in fact,that Harrington was a perfect gentle- 
man, &C. &/C. 

Justice Simmons discharged the prisoner on the ground 
that public opinion required the separate negro car, and 
thus sanctioned that all the outrageous proceedings which 
have been committed upon many of our most respectable 
citizens, by this corporation, created by the people for the 
public good. Thus, according to the decision of this learn- 
ed Justice who, by the way, it is said, is of African de- 
scent, the rights and liberties of the citizens of this com- 
monwealth are to be graduated by the state of public opin- 
ion. Let " public opinion" change so as to look down up- 
on the poor in our midst as it does now upon the free color- 
ed people. Let one of the great political parties so increase 
as to embrace the prosperity and standing of our land. 
Let one of the Ecclesiastical denominations gain the ascen- 
dency over all the Keligious sects in our country. Let the 
sentiment of this common wealih change so that the Poor, the 
Eeligious and the Political heritic shall be dispised as the 
free man of color is now, and then " public opinion" will re- 
quire a separate car for such, and should any one venture 
to protest against their " snaking out" he would be subject 
to the same treatment, and for all this the law of Justice 
Simmons is pliable and elastical enough to cover the 
whole. It was this doctrine that banished our Forefathers 
fi'om their native country to the American Wilderness. It 
v,ras this very principle which lead the Puritans to banish 
and brand the Quakers. Every murderous act of the Span- 
ish Inquisition — The bloody deeds committed by almost 
every despot whose name disgraces the page of history, 
had as high authority for their acts as this learned Judge 
had for this despotic and ungodly decision. 



PUBLIC OPINION VS. JUSTICE. 167 

Be it remembered that this decision was given in the 
smoky atmosphere of Boston, and by one, too, who knows 
'but very little of the free and liberal opinions of the people 
in the country. His son, it is said, married one of the rich- 
est slaveholding ladies in Cuba, and of course he has by 
this time learned some of the benefits of slavery. We can 
assure His Honor that he v/as mistaken in his estimate of 
public opinion upon this question of prejudice. Within the 
last three months we have visited 54 different towns in this 
Commonwealth, and delivered 84 lectures on slavery, and 
have had Mr. Douglass, a -colored man, travelling with us 
all the time, and the Eastern, the Boston and Providence 
Rail Roads are the only places where any distinction has 
been made. We have rode hundreds of miles in stage 
coaches — we have rode on the Lowell, the Dedham, the 
Andover and Haverhill — the Worcester and Norwich and 
the Western Rail Roads, and my colored friend was treat- 
ed with all the civility of other passengers. 

We will state one fact to illustrate the state of " Public 
Opinion" on this subject. 

It was early one cold damp morning in Oct. that I en- 
tered the Boston and Worcester Depot to take passage for 
West Brookfield,to attend a country meeting of the Worces- 
ter South Division A. S. Society. The sudden transition of 
the weather from the balmy breezes of summer to the cold 
blasts of the North East, caused the travellers to muffle 
themselves up in their shawls, cloaks &c. The Depot 
Bell was ringing, warning the passengers who poured in 
from almost every quarter, breathless and exhausted, that 
no time should be lost in securing their tickets. Around 
the ticket office v/as a dense crowd, the individuals com- 
posing it, were scrambling to secure their tickets. The 



168 



THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 



mothers, daughters and sisters were provided with seats 
by their friends. 

Among the crowd around the ticket office, I discovered 
a colored women, with an infant in her arms. Incumber- 
ed with her little charge she was unable to resist and over- 
come the force of the men around the pigeon hole of the 
ticket dealer. Dispirited and exhausted, she retired back 
•from the press and sighed, but " I fear I shall be left after 
all!" On hearing this, I introduced myself to her, and 
inquired if I should secure her a ticket. Upon hearing 
this, the sadness and nielaneholy disappeared from her 
countenance at once. She thanked me and passed into my 
hand six dollars, and at her request I purchased a ticket 
for the first classs cars to Albany. Having fresh in my 
memory the outrages committed upon intelligent and re- 
spectable colered people on the Eastern Eail Road, I felt 
that this woman might need my protection and assistance. 
Notwithstanding T had learned that colored people were not 
proscribed on this route, I offered to escort her into the \ 
cars. To this she gratefully assented, and I gave her a 
seat near the door in one of the long cars divided into 
apartments, each of which were capable of accommodating 
eight persons. Here we were, (if any judgement can be 
formed from appearances) in the midst of gentlemen and 
ladies, according to common parlance, moving in the high- 
est walks of society. Yet no one of the passengers appear- 
ed horrified or even molested. 

I entered into conversation with her and found her affia- 
ble, intelligent, and prepossessing in her manners, and was 
anticipating no small pleasure in holding three or four hours 
conversation with her,but in this I wasdisappointed,for the 
train had hardly got under weigh when the conductor en* 



PUBLIC OPINION VS. JUSTICE. 169 

tered our apartment, and stood silent for a nainute or there- 
abouts like Banquo's ghost, with his eyes rivited upon us» 
and then disappeared. My colored friend appeared 
somewhat agitated, and I must confess that my heart 
struggled for my mouth. I had but little relish for 
controversy, and less for being insulted or "snaked 
out." While our imaginations were conjuring up the 
most unpleasant scenes, the conductor re-entered, and 
with doubt expressed upon his countenance, stood mo- 
tionless, like a stature, for nearly a minute, which on ac- 
count of our anxiety seemed like an hour. 'At last he 
broke silence. But how unprepared we were for what 
followed. Instead of cursings and blustcrings, he address- 
ed the colored woman in tones of the greatest kindness 
with *' Madam, I fear that your babe will take cold, set- 
ting, as you do, in the draft of that door— Shan't I wait up- 
on, you into the Ladies Saloon where there is a stove.'' To 
this our friend assented, thanked him for his kindness, and 
followed him into a beautiful long car, fitted up in the first 
style with sofas, &c &c. To this, there was no murmur- 
ing. Now we should like to understand why " Public Opin- 
ion" requires such barbarous and inhuman treatment in 
one or two parts of the state, and in all other parts allows 
such developements of kindness and humanity? 

.Let the legislature put a stop to such proceedings. The 
petition relating to this question is placed on the cover of 
the '* Offering.^'' Copy it, sign it yourself, and then circu- 
late it among your friends. Let every man and woman 
in your town have an opportunity to sign it, and when you 
have circulated it, please forward it to J. A. Collins, 25 
Cornhill, Boston, free of passage, who will see that it is 



170 



THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 



presented to the Legislature. Let there be no delay on 
this point. 



Poetry. — Read and commit to memory the soul inspir- 
ing lines in this number of the Offering. Read them, and 
then if you do not feel to labor for the slave's redemption, 
you may then fear that 

*« There is no flesh in your obdurate heart.*' 



Christmas Week. 

This, to the friends of the slave, will be an interesting 
week. The Committee on the Anti-Slavery Fair are spar- 
ing neither time nor pains to make the coming Anniversary 
one of the most interesting occasions of the kind ever wit- 
nessed. The women of England, Ireland and Scotland, 
have been busy with their fingers the present season, as 
the multiplicity of articles enumerated in their invoice ful- 
ly demonstrates . 

Will the women of Massachusetts be less active and in- 
terested in the abolition of American Slavery — that bar- 
barous and inhuman system which is covering the fame, 
prosperity and purity of our otherwise comparatively hap- 
py country with blight and mildew, than our transatlantic 
coadjutors? If there is any individual who has not com- 
menced working for this fair, we would say to such, dont 
delay to commence another moment. Much can be done 
in four or five weeks. 

Poultry, butter, cheese, eggs and vegetable of all kinds 
will be acceptable. A friend of ours the other day, in an- 
swer to an application for funds to carry on the operations 
of the Anti-Slavery cause, remarked, " Iv'e got no money, 
but if you'll accept of 25 Bushels of carrots, they shall 
be at your service when " digging time arrives!'^ We saw 



FAIR. 171 

those carrots, sold a few days since, for six dollars and 25 
cents. 

To you, who are in want of useful and fancy articles, 
and have money to spend for th^m we say,wait till Christ- 
mas week, when your taste can be gratified from the al- 
most infinite variety of things which will be exposed at the 
fair. If you cannot visit the city yourself, commission 
some friend to purchase for you. This all contributes to 
aid our cause. 



Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Fair. 

This eigth annual anti-slavery effort bids fair already to 
surpass all its predecessors. Those who have no hand in 
it, will lose some of the richest gratifications of human 
nature. They lose the opportunity of gratifying in one 
effort their benevolence, their conscientiousness, their love 
of the beautiful, — their desire for congenial society. The 
very flower of the Anti-Slavery enterprise is engaged in 
the occasion ; and it will be a foretaste of the far-off Jubilee 
as well as a means of hastening its approach. 

The women of Scotland — God bless them ! — have risen 
" in the majesty of their mercy." A letter from the Sec- 
retary of the Glasgow Society has just been received by 
the Boston Committee of the Fair, full of steadfast sympa- 
thy and encouragement ; enough to cheer the hearts of the 
most desponding. It accompanies a valuable case of 
articles not yet received from the steam boat, and 
announces that more are on their way from Scotland, Ire- 
land and London, — the fruits of the appeal of the Women 
of Glasgow to the whole country, in behalf of the persecu- 
ted American A. S. Society. May the abolitionists of the 



172 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

true old stock, ever take joyfully the persecutions of their 
enemies both secret and open, for every false friend or se- 
cret foe has been the occasion of raising up a true and 
faithful advocate. Again nve say — God bless the women 
of Glasgow! They sent us George Thompson, to whom 
so many American abolitionists are indebted — They re- 
ceived our representatives, Garrison, Rogers and Collins, 
and now their generous hearts and diligent hands are unit- 
ed with us in that true fraternal love of our cause, and of 
us for its sake which is to us an ample reward for every 
just exertion, and a stimulus for every future one. We 
have secured the most beautiful hall in the city for the oc- 
casion, and we call with undoubting confidence upon every 
town where there is an abolitionist, to aid us. It is not 
yet too late: much may be done in three weeks. Begin 
then, dear friends, for the Cause's Sake, and let its friends 
hear from you. In behalf of the Committee. 

MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN. 



Worcester North Division Anti-Slavery Society. 

This Society held its Quarterly meeting in Gardner on 
Wednesday the 17 inst. The meetings, which continued 
through the day and evening, were large and spirited. 
The greatest harmony prevailed. Rev. Messrs Lincoln, 
Smith, Stacy, Bradford and others addressed the meet- 
ing. 

The annual meeting of this Society is to be held at 
Barre on the 7th of January 1842. We trust that this 
will be a meeting full of interest. Large delegations should 
be sent up from every town in the division. Let the abo- 
litionists in that vicinity see to it that this part of the busi- 



STANZAS. 173 



ness is attended to. We hope to be there with our elo- 
quent friend Doicglass, the fugitive slave. It is expected 
that Garrison, Phillips, Abby Kelley, and other speakers 
will be there also. Worcester family is wide awake. Keep 
the ball in motion. 



Istaiizas. 

Our fellow-countrymen in chains! 

Slaves— in a land of light and law ! 
Slaves crouching on the very plains 

Where roU'd the storm of Freedom's war \ 
A groan from Eutaw's haunted wood — 

A wail where Camden's martyrs fell — 
By every shrine of patriot blood, 

From'Moultrie's wall and Jasper's well ! 

By storied hill and hallaw'd grot, 

By noisy wood and marshy glen, 
Whence rang of old the rifle-shot, 

And hurrying shout of Marion's men ! 
The groan of breaking hearts is there— 

The falling lash — the fetter's clank ! 
Slaves — SLAVES are breathing in that air, 

Which old De Kalb and Sumter drank ! 

What, ho I — our countrymen in chains 1 

The whip on "Woman's shrinking flesh ! 
Our soil yet reddening with the stains, 

Caught from her scourging, warm and fresh ! 
What ! mothers from their children riven ! 

What, God's own image bought and sold ! 
Americans to market driven. 

And barter'd as the brute for gold ! 

Speak ! shall their agony of prayer 
Come thrilling to our hearts in vain? 



174 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

To US, whose father's scorn'd to bear 

The paltry mtnaoe of a chain ; 
To us, whose boast is loud and long 

Of holy Liberty and Light — 
Say, shall these writhing slaves of Wrong, 

Plead vainly for their plunder'd Right? 
What ! shall we send, with lavish breath, 

Our sympathies across the v/ave, 
Where Manhood, on the field of death, 
Strikes for his freedom, or a grave? 
Shall prayers go up, and hymns be sung 
For Greece, the Moslem fetter spurning, 
And millions hail with pen and tongue 
Our light on all her altars burning? 
Shall Belgium feel, and gallant France, 

By Vendome's pile and Schoenbrun's wall 
And Poland, gasping on her lance, 

The impulse of our cheering call? 
And shall the slave, beneath our eye, 

Clank o'er our fields his hateful chain ? 
And toss his fetter'd arms on high, 

And groan for Freedom's gift, in vain ? 
Oh, say, shall Prussia's banner be 
A refuge for the stricken slave ? 
And shall the Russian serf go free 

By Baikal's lake and Neva's wave ? 
And shall the winiry-bosom'd Dane 

Re^ax the iron hand of pride. 
And bid his bondmen cast the chain, 
From fetter'd soul, and limb, aside? 
Shall every flap of England's flag 

Proclaim that all around are free, 
From ** farthest Ind" to each blue crag 

That beetles o'er the Western sea ? 
And shall we scoff at Europe's kings. 

When Freedom's fire is dim with us, 
And round our country's altar clings 
The damning shade of Slavery's curse ? 



STANZAS. 175 



Go — let us ask of Constantine 

To loose his grasp on Poland's throat ; 
And beg the Lord of Mahmoud's line 

To spare the struggling Suliole — 
Will not the scorching answer come 

From turban'd Turk, and fiery Russ t 
" Go, loose your fetter'd slaves at home, 

Then turn, and ask the like of us!" 

Just God ! and shall we calmly rest, 

The Christian's scorn— the Heathen's mirth- 
Content to live the lingering jest 

And by-word of a mocking Earth ? 
Shall our own glorious land retain 

That curse which Europe scorns to bear 1 
Shall our own brethren drag the chain 

Which not even Russia's menials wear ? 

tip, then, in Freedom's manly part. 

From gray-beard old to fiery youth, 
And on the nation's naked heart 

Scatter the living coals of Truth ! 
Up— w^hile ye slumber, deeper yet 

The shadow of our fame is growing ! 
Up— while ye pause, our sun may set 

In blood, around our altars flowing ! 

Oh ! rouse ye, ere the storm comes forth— 

The gather'd wrath of God and man — 
Like that which wasted Egypt's earth, 

When hail and fire above it ran. 
Hear ye no warnings in the air ? 

Feel ye no earthquake underneath? 
Up — up — why will ye slumber where 

The sleeper only wakes in death ? 

Up now for Freedom ! not in strife 
Like that your sterner fathers saw — 

The awful waste of human life — 
The glory and the guilt of war: 

But break the chain-— the yoke remove, 



176 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

And smite to earth Oppression's rod, 
With those mild arms of Truth and Love, 
Made mighty through the living God ! 

Down let the shrine of Moloch sink, 
And leave no traces where it stood ; 

Nor longer let its idol drink 

His daily cup of human blood : 

But rear another altar there, 

To Truth, and Love and Mercy given, 

And Freedom's gift, and Freedom's prayer, 
Shall call an answer down from Heaven ! 



A Colored Representative. 

Our enemies will have it that abolitionists have put back 
the cause of Emancipation. Some say twenty, others fifty, 
and some a hundred years, notwithstanding the develope- 
ments which are daily being made, give the strongest 
proof that our cause is advancing Rail Road speed. 

A few years since such a movement^ would have been 
treated with supreme contempt. Probably a coat of tar 
and feathers, and a ride upon a rail would have been the 
reward of the colored man for the impudence of his friends. 
Now the Boston Daily Telegraph can chronicle the fact in 
the following mild and respectful language. Straws point 
which way the wind blows. Does not this indicate the 
progress of our cause 1 

We believe there are between nine and ten thousand 
colored people in this commonwealth. It would seem that 
they were entitled to one representative at least. 

* " Black Representative. — We are informed that in the 
town of Townsend, there being some difficulty in the 
choice of Representative, in consequence of some scatter- 
ing votes thrown by abolitionists, both political parties 
united in the choice of John Henry, a respectable col- 
ored man, as a representative of the town at the next leg- 
islature. We learn that Mr. Henry was fornoerly a slave, 
but ran aw^ay from his master in Boston, and has resided 
in Townsend several years, where he has accumulated 
some property."— ;Bo5^7z Daily Telegraph. 



THE 

MONTHLY OFFERING, 



DECEMBER, 184 1. 



Making Capital. 

BY M. W. CHAPMAN. 

It is the custom with the friends of the Anti- Slavery 
cause in Boston to open their houses to their fellow labor- 
ers from the country, on the occasions of Annual meetings 
of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, New Eng- 
land Convention, and Massachusetts Anti- Slavery Fair, 
which are the grand gatherings of the cause. It was at 
the New England Convention, of 1841, that I availed my- 
self of the friendly hospitality which has so much more of 
beauty in it, than the ostentatious display of plate, china 
and other things that usually go under the name of expen- 
sive. I went home from the first meeting of the conven- 
tion with my town friends, to their pleasant sunny parlor 
in Poplar street, which I found as full of people as a pres- 
byterian's, at anniversary tiine, or a Quaker's, at yearly 
meetings. The conversation, however, was far more easy 
and interesting than one can expect to find in any room 
filled with individuals all of one way of thinking. The 
variety of opinion, the novelty of expression, — the freedom 
of intercourse, keep the forbearance to utter anything un- 
kind or uncharitable respecting different opinions, and the 
heartfelt views in the condemnation of wicked practices, 
which I found at the house of my friends, greatly delight- 
ed me. I felt as if one w^as repaid as one went along, for 
all labors in the Anti-Slavery cause. 

At table I sat opposite to a handsome young man whom 
I had noticed at the meetings for his benevolent eounte- 



178 THE MONTHLY OFFEEING 



nance, and the awkward manner in which his clothes, "a 
world too wide" hung about him. His frankness, good 
humour and good sense soon made me forget the awk- 
wardness of his dress, and when we parted, it was with 
satisfaction on my part at the reflection that the anti-slavery 
cause would have the benefit of such a grand advocate, 
and the young advocate the benefit of such a cause. He 
looks, I thought, like one that will be able to bear its odi- 
um without, and to receive its peace within, giving it his 
unreserved support, expecting nothing agam. Time re- 
veals to us that there are not so many such as we had sup- 
posed. No matter— the cause is none the less holy or 
dear. 

After the evening meeting the company of the morning 
were again met at :he house of their kind entertainers. 
The conversation took the Anti-slavery course, though not 
the customary one of the w^orld ; — first the progress and 
concerns of the cause — second, the news of the day. The 
channel of ge7ieral conversation has become so narrow that 
news only can How in it. Throw in even a few inferen' 
ces, and it foams and overflows its banks, and you are 
made to feel how the pro-slavery spirit restrains the free- 
dom of every New-England circle. 

Eul to leturn. Among the newspaper paragraphs 
which were alluded to, was one respecting the rescue of 
the son of a Salem gentleman from drowning. He was 
saved by the exertions of a young Universalist clergyman 
of the name of Davis, said the newspaper. All eyes turn- 
ed upon our friend " whose clothes like a lady's loose 
gown hung about him." He ^vas young, a Universalist ^ 
(as had appeared from his remarks during the day at the 
convention) and a clergyman. For he had been introduced 
to my friend as the Rev. Mr. Davis. He was fairly found 
out, and being overwhelmed with questions, told the cir- 
cumstances he had thought to keep to himself, and which 
would as greatly edify the believers in special providences, 
as they must every lover of humanity. He was in the 



STANZAS. 179 



Gloucester s:age, on his way to fhe Anti-Slavery convention. 
When they reached the Salem and Beverly bridge the 
draw was up, and they were obliged to stop. It was at 
the moment that a crowd stood shrieking at the side of 
the bridge that a child was drowning, " Oh, If I were on- 
ly out of the stage," said Mr. Davis, I would leap off the 
bridge and make one effort for him." " Would you ? 
would you !" eagerly exclaimed half a dozen voices : — The 
door of the coach was opened, he was helped out, and be- 
fore he had time for another thought, he stood on the edge 
of the bridge. " You have a watch in your pocket, sir/* 
said a by-stander : Davis handed him the watch and leap- 
ed over. Once he came up without the child. He fortu- 
nately had practiced diving wkh his eyes open, and so 
was able to direct his descent the second time ; and v/hen 
he rose to the surface with the child, a boat was approach- 
ing and he was taken in just as strength was giving way. 
The child vi^as resuscitated, and all congratulated our 
friend Davis, as they slipped off his wet clothes, and en- 
dued him into the miscellaneous garments in which we 
now saw him, " This," said the friend who accompanied 
him (also a minister of the same denomination) " this will 
make TJniversalist capital.^^ " It ought to make Anti- 
Slavery capital, if it makes any capital at all" was the re- 
ply ; for the thought that filled my mind when at the bot- 
tom was, what a stir is here about this one drowning in- 
fant, at the north : while at the south, how many a moth- 
er is there who would gladly choose such a death for the 
children she sees daily exposed to a doom so much more 
dreadful." 



^ Stanzas for tlie Times* 

BY J. G. WHITTIER, 

Is this the land our fathers loved. 

The freedom which they toil'd to win ? 
Is this the soil whereon they moved ? 



ISO THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

Are these the graves they slumber in ? 
Are ive the sons by whom are borne 
The mantles which the dead have worn ? 

And shall we crouch above these graves, 
* With craven soul and fetter'd lip ? 
Yoke in with mark'd and branded slaves, 

And tremble at the driver's whip ? 
Bend to the earth our pliant knees, 
And speak — but as our masters please 1 

Shall outraged Nature cease to feel ? 

Shall Mercy's tears no longer flow? 
Shall ruffian threats of cord and steel— 

The dungeon's gloom — th' assassin's blow, 
Turn back the spirit roused to save 
The Truth — our Country — and the Slave ? 

Of human skulls that shrine was made, 
Round which the priests of Mexico 

Before their loathsome idol pray'd — 
Is Freedom's altar fashion'd so ? 

And must we yield to Freedom's God, 

As offering meet, the negro's blood ? 

Shall tongues be mute, when deeds are wrought 

Which well might shame extremest Hell? 
Shall freemen lock th' indignant thought? 

Shall Mercy's bosom cease to swell? 
Shall Honor bleed ?— Shall Truth succumb ? 
Shall pen, and press, and soul be dumb ? 

No— by each spot of haunted ground. 

Where Freedom weeps her children's fall- 
By Plymouth's rock — and Bunker's mound — • 

By Griswold's stain'd and shatter'd wall — 
By Warren's ghost — by Langdon's shade — 
By all the, memories of our dead I 



STANZAS. 181 



By their enlarging souls, which burst 
The bands and fetters round them set — 

By the FKEE Pilgrim spirit nursed 
Within our inmost bosoms, yet^-— 

By all above — around — below — 

Be ours th' indignant answer-— NO ! 

No — guided by our country's laws, 

For truth, and right, and suffering man, 

Be ours to strive in Freedom's cause, 
As Christians may — as freemen can ! 

Still pouring on unwilling ears 

That truth oppression only fears. 

What ! shall we guard our neighbor still, 
While ivoman shrieks beneath his rod, 

And while he tramples down at will 
The image of a common God ! 

Shall watch and ward be round him set. 

Of Northern nerve and bayonet ? 

And shall we know and share with him 

The danger and the open shame ? 
And see our Freedom's light grow dim, 

Which should have fill'd the world with flame 1 
And, writhing, feel where'er we turn, 
A world's reproach around us burn ? 

Is't not enough that this is borne? 

And asks our haughty neighbor more ? 
Must fetters which his slaves have worn, 

Clank round the Yankee farmer's door ? 
Must he be told, beside his plough, 
Yfhat he must speak, and when and how? 

Must he be told his freedom stands 

On Slavery's dark foundation strong — 

On breaking hearts and fetter'd hands, 
On robbery, and crime, and wrong? 



182 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

That all his fathers taught is vain — 
That Fredom's emblem is the chain ? 

Its life — its soul, from slavery drawn? 
False — foul — profane ! Go— teach as well 
i^ Of holy Truth from Falsehood born ! 

Of Heaven refresh'd by airs from Hell ! 
Of Virtue nursed by open Vice ! 
.v.; Of Demons planting Paradise ! 

Rail on, then, " brethren of the South" — 
Ye shall not hear the truth the less — 

No seal is on the Yankee's mouth, 
No fetter on the Yankee's press ! 

From our Green Mountains to the Sea, 

One voice shall thunder — w^e are free ! 



Narrative of Nehemiah Caulkius. 

Continued. 
There is a practice prevalent among the planters, of let- 
ting a negro off from severe and long-continued punish- 
ment on account of the intercession of some white person, 
who pleads in his behalf, that he believes the negro will 
behave better, that he promises well, and he believes be 
will keep his promise, &c. The planters sometimes get 
tired of punishing a negro, and, wanting his services in the 
field, they get some white person to come, and, in the pres- 
ence of the slave, intercede for him. At one time a negro, 
named Charles, was confined in stocks in the building 
where 1 was at work, and had been severely whipped sev- 
eral times. He begged me to intercede for him and try to 
get him released. I told him T would ; and when his mas- 
ter came in to whip him again, I went up to him and told 
him I had been talking with Charles, and he had promised 
to behave better, &c., and requested him not to punish him 
any more, but to let him go. He then said to Charles, '* As 



PUBLIC OPINION VS. JtJSTICE. 183 

- - 

Mr. Caulkins has been pleading for you, I will let you go 
on his account;" and accordingly released him. 

Women are generally shown some little indulgence for 
three or four weeks previous to child-birth ; they are at 
such times not often punished if they do not finish the task 
assigned them ; it is, in some cases, passed over with a se-"* 
vere reprimand, and sometimes without any notice being 
taken of it. They are generally allowed four weeks after 
the birth of a child, before they are compelled to go into 
the field ; they then take the child with them, attended 
sometimes by a little girl or boy, from the age of four to 
six, to take care of it while the mother is at work. When 
there is no child that can be spared, or not young enough 
for this service, the mother, after nursing, lays it under a 
tree, or by the side of a fence, and goes to her task, return- 
ing at stated intervals to nurse it. While I was on this 
plantation, a little negro girl, six years of age, destroyed the 
life of a child about two months old, which was left in her 
care. It seems this little nurse, so called, got tired of her 
charge and the labor of carrying it to the quarters at night, the 
mother being obliged to work as long as she could see. 
One evening she nursed the infant at sunset as usual, and 
sent it to the quarters. The little girl, on her way home, had 
to cross a run, or brook, which led down into a swamp ; 
when she came to the brook she followed it into the swamp, 
then took the infant and plunged it head foremost in- 
to the water and mud, where it stuck fast ; she then left 
it and went to the negro quarters. When the mother 
came in from the field, she asked the girl where the child 
was ; she told her she had brought it home, but did not 
know where it was ; the overseer was immediately inform- 
ed, search was made, and it was found as above stated, 
and dead. The little girl was shut up in the barn, and 
confined there two or three weeks, when a speculator came 
along and bought her for two hundred dollars. 

The slaves are obliged to work from daylight till dark, 
as long as they can see. When they have tasks assigned, 



184 THE MONTHLY OFFERING. 

which is often the case, a few of the strongest and most ex- 
pert, sometimes finish them before sunset ; others will be 
obliged to work till eight or nine o'clock in the evening. 
All must finish their tasks or take a flogging. The whip 
and gun, or pistol, are companions of the overseer ; the 
former he uses very frequently upon the negroes, during 
their hours of labor, without regard to age or sex. Scarcely 
a day passed while I was on the plantation, in which some 
of the slaves were not whipped ; I do not mean they were 
struck a few blows merely, but had a set flogging. The 
same labor is commonly assigned to men and women, — 
such as digging ditches in the rice marshes, clearing up 
land, chopping cord-wood, threshing, &c. I have known 
the women go into the barn as soon as they could see 
in the morning, and work as late as they could see at night, 
threshing rice with the flail, (they now have a threshing 
machine,) and when they could see to thrash no longer, 
they had to gather up the rice, carry it up stairs, and de- 
posite it in the granary. 

To he continued. 



"The Offering." 

This number completes the first volume of the Offering. 
The friends who feel disposed to sustain it, are earnestly 
requested to aid in extending its circulation. The volume 
is now bound, embellished with a correct and most beauti- 
ful likeness of that eloquent, efficient, and disinterested ad- 
vocate of the oppressed slave, George Thompson. The 
portrait is worth nearly the price of the volume, which is 
fiom fifty cents to one dollar, according to the style of 
binding. 



. g 




i^^i 



