Stack 6 



PROPERTY OFTHE 



^SU 6 




^€^n/y^^^&t€m^n^tJ^^i^ 



MX- 




tHE 

| SLAVE COLONIES 

OF 

GREAT BRITAIN; 

or 

& yfrutuvt of NtQVQ glatoerg 

Irraton 

3Sg t§t Gtolonim fbtm*tVQt$ ; 



BEING 

AN ABSTRACT OF THE VARIOUS PAPERS RECENTLY LAID 
BEFORE PARLIAMENT ON THAT SUBJECT. 



Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee." Luke six. 22. 



SECOND EDITION, CORRECTED. 



LONDON: 

PRINTED BY ELLERTON AND HENDERSON, 
GOUGH SQUARE, 

FOR THE SOCIETY FOR THE MITIGATION AND GRADUAL ABOLITION OF 
SLAVERY THROUGHOUT THE BRITISH DOMINIONS ; 

AND SOLD BY J. HATCH ARD AND SON, PICCADILLY; 
AND J. AND A. ARCH, CORNHILL. 

1826. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/slavecoloniesofgOOsoci 



CONTENTS. 



Titles of the Papers abstracted 1 

Circular of Lord Bathurst to the Governors of Colonies .... 2 
Antigua 4 

Bahamas 4 

Act for free People of Colour , 4 

New Slave Law, with Notes 5 

General Remarks, &c 9 

Barbadoes 11 

New Slave Law, with Notes 12 

Reflections 18 

Destruction of Methodist Chapel 19 

Berbice 20 

Fees on Manumission, &c. 
Bermuda 20 

Cape of Good Hope 20 

New Slave Law. 

Demerara 21 

Taxes and Fees on Manumissions 21 

Fiscal's Returns of Proceedings between Master and Slave 22 

Discussions on the proposed Reforms 24 

Court of Policy's Draft of New Slave Law, with Notes 27 

Dominica • 33 

Grenada 34 

Honduras ...... •••• 34 

Jamaica 35 

Proceedings of Legislature 35 

Secret Report of Assembly, with Remarks 36 

Trials of Insurgents — St. Mary's k 41 

— — — St. James's 47 

-St. George's, and the Case of Lecesne and 

Escoffery • 53 

■ Hanover • 60 

Maroons 63 

Bishop of Jamaica 64 

Mauritius , , 65 

Slave Trade. 



CONTENTS. 

Page 

Montserrat 70 

Nevis »». 70 

St. Christopher's 71 

Letter of the Chief Justice on Reform. 
St. Lucia , 73 

Objections to Reform. 
St. Vincent 76 

Rejection of Reform. 
Tobago 77 

Rejection of Reform. 

Trinidad 78 

Supplementary Orders in Council 79 

Remonstrances of Planters • • « • • «■ 80 

Lord Bathurst's Explanations. . . « . . . 81 

Operation of Order in Council : — Report of Protector 83 

Criminal Proceedings ib. 

Manumissions 86 

Actions for Debts due to Slaves • • ib. 

Returns of Recorded Punishments ib. 

Marriages — Sayings Banks 92 

Virgin Islands , 92 

Case of the Donna Paula, with Remarks ib. 

Case of Mr. Pickering's Negroes <■... • 9i 

Conclusion 97 

Review of the Abstract .97—103 

Postscript 104 

Abstracts of Returns from the Fiscal of Berbice of Proceedings 

in Complaints of Slaves • • • • • • 104, 

Observations on the Letters of Vindex 121 



THE 

SLAVE COLONIES, 

4"C. Sfc. 



JL/URING the session of 1824, a number of papers were moved 
for in the House of Commons on the subject of Colonial Slavery. 
A few of these were presented and printed in the same session ; but 
by far the most important were not produced till the following sessiou, 
and were not printed and in the hands of Members till near its close, 
when it was too late to make any but a very partial use of them. As 
these papers are very voluminous, it has been judged advisable to 
form an abstract of them, with a view both to the convenience of 
Members of Parliament, and to the information of the public at large. 
A few observations and notes will be added, for the purpose of ex- 
planation, and in the hope of thereby rendering the abstract more in- 
telligible and useful. 

The following are the titles of the various papers which this analysis 
is intended to embrace. In order to avoid confusion, and promote 
brevity, a distinguishing letter is prefixed to each, which will be em- 
ployed to designate it, whenever a reference to it becomes necessary. 

A. — Papers presented to Parliament by his Majesty's command, in 
explanation of the measures adopted by his Majesty's Govern- 
ment for the melioration of the condition of the Slave Population 
in his Majesty's possessions in the West Indies and on the con- 
tinent of South America (in continuation of the Papers presented 
in 1824). 1825. 

E. — Additional Papers presented to Parliament by his Majesty's 
command, in explanation, &c. (in continuation of the Papers 
presented this session). 1825. 

C. — Further Papers relating to Slaves in the West Indies ; Demoli- 
tion of the Methodist Chapel in Barbadoes. Ordered to be 
printed 16th March, 1825, and numbered 113. 

D. — Further Papers relating to Slaves in the West Indies ; Demoli- 
tion of the Methodist Chapel in Barbadoes. Ordered to be 
printed '21st March 1825, and numbered 127. 

E. — Papers relating to the Manumission, Government, and Popula- 
tion of Slaves in the West Indies, 1822 — 1824. Ordered to be 
printed 1st March 1825, and numbered 6(>. 

E 



2 LORD BATHURST'S INSTRUCTIONS. 

F. — Further Papers relating to Slaves in the West Indies ; Informa- 
tion respecting Lecesne and Escoffery. Ordered to be printed 
4th March 1825, and numbered 74. 

G. — Honduras: Letter from Captain R. Maclean. Ordered to be 
printed ltsth June 1824, and numbered 439. 

H. — Slave Population, West Indies. Ordered to be printed 14th 
June 1824, and numbered 424. 

I. — Slave Population, West Indies, Cape of Good Hope, and Mau- 
ritius. Ordered to be printed 1st July 1825, and numbered 512. 

K. — Population of the Mauritius. Ordered to be printed 30th May 
1825, and numbered 361. 

L. — Slaves in Tortola. Ordered to be printed 25th April 1825, and 
numbered 1235. 

M. — Slaves in Tortola: Case of the Donna Paula. Ordered to be 
printed 18th June 1824, and numbered 441. 

In the Appendix to the Second Report of the Anti-slavery Society 
will be found a copy of the Instructions transmitted to the Governors 
of the different West-India Colonies by Earl Bathurst, respecting the 
reforms in the system of colonial slavery which his Majesty's Minis- 
ters were desirous of introducing ; together with the substance of the 
Order in Council for improving the condition of the slaves in Trinidad, 
in which Order those instructions were for the most part embodied. 
Soon after that Order was promulgated in Trinidad, Lord Bathurst, 
in July 1824, transmitted a copy of it to the different local govern- 
ments in the West Indies, accompanied by letters recommending its 
adoption. The general tenor of these letters will be sufficiently un- 
derstood by the following copy of one of them, which was addressed 
to the Governor of Jamaica, and from which the others do not mate- 
rially vary. It is as follows :— 

" I have the honour of enclosing to your Grace a copy of the Order 
in Council for the improvement of the condition of the slaves in Trini- 
dad : and I have also to notify to you his Majesty's appointment of 
two Bishops ; the one for Jamaica, and the other for the Leeward 
Islands ; to whom are to be entrusted the controul of the Clergy of 
the Church of England within their respective dioceses, and the duty 
of reporting upon the state of the ecclesiastical establishments, par 
ticularly as it relates to the slave population ; and upon the bes 
means of diffusing the benefits of religious instruction to that part o 
the community. Your Grace must, indeed, have been long informed 
of both these measures ; but my reason for calling your attention 
to them at this moment, is for the purpose of enabling you to bring 
more completely under the consideration of the Legislature, at their 
ensuing meeting, the whole of the measures which his Majesty's Go- 
vernment have in contemplation for the melioration of the state of the 
slave population. 

" His Majesty's Government have been anxious to prove the deep 
interest which they feel in the encouragement of the religious and 
moral instruction of the Negroes, by at once taking upon themselves 



LORD BATHUJRST'S INSTRUCTIONS. 3 

the whole charge of placing the clergy of the West Indies under 
episcopal controul ; and they have further directed, that a given sum 
shall be forthwith placed at the disposal of the Bishops, for the pur- 
pose of providing for the more immediate supply of persons in holy 
orders within their respective dioceses ; and his Majesty confidently 
expects to receive every assistance from the Assembly, to promote 
the establishment of a system so calculated to produce the most be- 
neficial effects on the morals and habits of the slave population. 

" With respect to the Order in Council for meliorating the condi- 
tion of the slaves in Trinidad, similar provisions to those which are 
contained in that Order will be extended to Demerara and Essequibo, 
St. Lucia, the Cape, and the Mauritius, with such modifications as 
may be necessary to adapt them to the Dutch and French laws, which 
are respectively in force in those possessions. 

" The Assembly of Jamaica shewed their anxiety for the improve- 
ment of the condition of the slaves, by many of the provisions of their 
Consolidation Act, passed in 18 1G; and it is impossible to believe, 
that, consistently with the spirit which then animated thern, they will 
now refuse to go further. On attentively considering the provisions 
of the Order in Council, they will not fail to perceive much which 
practice has already established in Jamaica, and which requires little 
more than the formal sanction of a law to complete*. In comparing 
it with the provisions of their own Act, they will observe, that, upon 
the principle of those provisions, many of the suggested alterations 
must be considered as improvements ; and by incorporating in their 
statutes those additional provisions of the Order, which as yet are not 
to be found in their Consolidation Act, they will lay the foundation 
for such a system of gradual improvement of the condition of the 
slave population, as will prove equally honourable to the Assembly, 
and beneficial to those for whose advantage it appears to be more 
immediately intended. 

" Your Grace will readily anticipate the serious extent of the dis- 
appointment which his Majesty's Government will experience, if, un- 
fortunately for their best interests, as well as for the cause of humanity, 
the Assembly of Jamaica shall reject the substance of these regula- 
tions, which they must be aware have received the sanction of Parlia- 
ment, and the general approbation of the country." (A. p. G.) 

We shall now proceed to state the effect which has resulted in the 
colonies from the various recommendations of his Majesty's Govern- 
ment, as far as it is to be deduced from the papers recently laid before 
Parliament ; combining with that information the substance of such 
communications from the colonies on collateral topics, as may bear 
materially on the main subject of the present publication, — the Pro- 
gress of Colonial Reform. The coionies will be taken separately, 
and in their alphabetical order. 

* Lord Batliurst, we fear, has been led to think far too favourably, both of 
the law and the practice of Jamaica. 



BAHAMAS. 



I. ANTIGUA. 



The only information obtained from this island is to be found in a 
dispatch of Mr. President Athill, addressed to Earl Bathurst, dated 
Sept. 3, 1824, and is as follows : — 

" The Committee, to form the Bill for consolidating the laws 
respecting the slave population into one Act, have not proceeded with 
as much industry as might have been expected from the importance 
of the subject. Since I received your Lordship's letter, I have 
called the attention of the chairman to the subject ; and I hope that 
will be more completely done by the consideration of the dispatch 
itself, when laid before the Assembly, at their meeting, on the 9th of 
this month." (A. p. 102.) 

The want of industry in the Colonial Assembly, of which the 
President complained on \he 3d of September 1824, does not appear 
to have been remedied by the subsequent communication to them of 
Lord Bathurst's dispatch. No further report of progress appears to 
have been since made to his Majesty's Government. 



II. BAHAMAS. 

The Legislature of the Bahamas has given us a useful specimen of 
the kind and degree of improvement to be expected, when it is left to 
the colonists themselves to reform their slave code. In the Bahamas, 
from their peculiar circumstances, but more especially from the un- 
productiveness of their soil, and the total absence of all sugar culture, 
the treatment of the slaves has been practically less severe than in 
most of the other slave colonies. The slaves have been less worked 
and better fed ; and their numbers have consequently increased, at 
the rate of about two per cent, per annum, or probably at a still 
higher rate. In January 1824, the Bahama Legislature proceeded, 
in compliance with the recommendations of his Majesty's Govern- 
ment, to pass Acts to amend their slave laws, and to improve the 
condition of the free People of Colour. It will be only necessary to 
advert to the provisions of these Acts, in order to judge how far this 
colony has advanced in the career of amelioration. 

In some of his Majesty's colonies, free Blacks and Persons of 
Colour have been long admitted to give testimony in courts of justice 
against Whites ; but in the colony of the Bahamas it was not until 
the year 1824 that a person of any description, not White, was 
admitted to this priviledge. Free Blacks and People of Colour are 
now allowed to give evidence in courts of justice, in all civil or 
criminal cases affecting White persons. But it is under the guard of 
the most jealous restrictions that even this privilege is conceded to 
them : none are permitted to enjoy it fully, who have not been born 



tiAHAMAS-r-people of colour. 5 

free) and who have not been born Creoles — that is to say, who arc 
not natives of the West Indies — and who have not resided at least 
five years in the Bahamas. Thus a Mulatto born in England, for 
example, whatever may be his acquirements, his station in life, or the 
respectability of his character, is excluded from giving evidence, in 
all cases affecting the White persons who form the petty oligarchy 
of the Bahamas. — But the next clause contains a further extension of 
this liberal system. All Creole Negroes or Mulattoes, who, though not 
born free, yet have been manumitted since their birth, and have actu- 
ally enjoyed freedom for five years, and who profess the Christian Reli- 
gion, shall be admitted to all the rights and privileges in this respect 
of Persons of Colour born free in the Bahamas ; except that they shali 
not be allowed to give evidence of any treason, felony, or other 
offence committed previous to their emancipation. But from these 
rights and privileges all " Negroes, Mulattoes, and other Persons of 
Colour, being natives of Africa, or of any of the islands contiguous 
thereto," are to be absolutely excluded ; while all who are not Creoles 
— that is, natives of the West Indies — are virtually excluded from 
them. We presume that this extraordinary Act has not received his 
Majesty's sanction. (A. p. 20.) 

The new Consolidated Slave Law contains seventy-eight clauses. 
(A. pp. 21 — 37.) We shall briefly advert to such of them as require 
observation. 

§2. The allowance of provisions given to slaves is to be equal to 
twenty-one pints of wheat flour per week*. 

§ 3. All manumissions of slaves incapable of labour are made void, 
and the master is bound, under a penalty of ten pounds for everv 
failure, to provide for such slave f. 

§6. Slaves being husband and wife, or reputed husband or wife, 
and their child or reputed child being under fourteen years of age, 
when belonging to the same owner, are not to be sold separately ; 
and the same rule is to be observed in the case of testamentary 
bequestsj. 

* This is more than double the allowance in the Leeward Islands, where 
the labour is far more severe than in the Bahamas. 

f Lord Bathurst justly objects to this clause, which, he argues, may become 
the source of great abuses. " If the slave," his Lordship remarks, " possesses, 
or can find, the means of purchasing his own freedom, there is no danger of 
his becoming a burden to society." Besides, " it may at any time become a 
question, whether the manumission of a slave is not void in consequence of 
his owner having been induced to grant it by his incapacity to labour; and a 
class of persons may therefore arise, respecting whom, and respecting whose 
descendants, it may always remain a question whether they are free men or 
slaves." His Lordship refers them to the Trinidad Order in Council, which 
sufficiently guards against all the probable evil arising from improper manu- 
missions, by requiring of the owner, in the case of his voluntary manumission, 
either of infant children, or of infirm and aged slaves, a bond to be entered 
into, for the maintenance of the infant till the age of fourteen, and of the aged 
and infirm during life. (A. pp. 39 and 136.) 

t The provisions of the Spanish and Portuguese laws require, not only that 
husbands, wives, and children of a certain age, belonging to the same owner, 



6 BAHAMAS— new slave law. 

§ 9. " All masters or owners, or, in their absence, their overseers, 
shall, as much as in them lies, endeavour to instruct their slaves in 
the Christian religion ; and shall do their endeavour to fit them for 
baptism : and, as soon as conveniently may be, shall cause to be 
baptised all such slaves as they can make sensible of a Deity and of 
the Christian faith*." 

§§ 10 — 13. These clauses are intended for the encouragement and 
due celebration of marriage between slaves, and between slaves and 
free People of Colour. Such marriages cannot be celebrated without 
the consent of the owner in writing ; which consent there is no pro- 
vision for compelling the owner to grant, or to assign an adequate 
reason for not granting. Marriages so celebrated are declared to be 
good, valid, and binding, to all intents and purposes in the law what- 
soever, " saving always the just right of ownership, which in no case 
whatever shall be in any wise hurt, prejudiced, straitened, or other- 
wise affected thereby," and '.' provided that the marital power and I 
authority to be thus acquired by the husband over the wife, shall in 
no such case impugn, diminish, or interfere with, the rights or 
authority of the owner, in any manner whatsoever-}-." 

§§14, 15. The wilful mutilation of a slave is made liable to be 
punished by a fine, not exceeding lOOi. (currency), and imprison- i 
ment, not exceeding twelve months ; and the court may free the slave || 
so mutilated from slavery. — No court of justice shall sentence a slave 4 
to be mutilated or maimed. 

§ 16. A person killing a slave " wilfully, and with malice afore- i 
thought," shall suffer death without benefit of clergy. 

§17. A person wantonly or cruelly treating a slave, is liable to l{ 
be punished by fine or imprisonment, or both, at the discretion of 'J 
the court. 

§ IB. "In order to restrain arbitrary punishment," " no slave shall I 
receive more than twenty lashes at any one time, or for any one jl 
offence, unless the owner or employer of such slave, or supervisor of «g 
the workhouse, or keeper of the gaol, be present ;" and these persons \\ 
are restricted from inflicting more than thirty-nine lashes at one time, ; I 

and for one offence : " nor shall any female slave above the age of 



should not be separated by sale or bequest, but Jliat, when they belong to 
different but neighbouring owners, an arrangement should always be made to 
prevent their being separated, by obliging the owner, either of the wife or the 
husband, to become the purchaser of the other, on reasonable terms. 

* We have here a specimen of the ordinary provisions of West-Indian Legis- 
latures for the religions instruction of the slaves, whenever they have con 
descended, out of deference to public feeling in this country, to notice the 
subject at all ; viz. an enactment without penalty or sanction of any kind, 
without any specification of time or place, without any provision of means of 
instruction, or of instructors — an enactment, in short, intended for effect in 
England, but which must be a dead letter in the West Indies. 

+ What may be the exact import of this proviso we are unable even to 
guess. Whether it leaves to the husband any connubial rights whatever ; 
and whether it conveys any means of redress against the master, or any other 
free person, violating thoae rights ; are points which remain involved in a 
happy obscurity. 



Bahamas — new slave law. 7 

twelve be punished otherwise than in private" — all under a penalty 
of 10/. (currency) for every offence*. 

§ 19. This clause recognises the right of owners to send their 
slaves to gaol, and authorises the marshal or gaoler to keep them there, 
without any limitation as to time. 

§ 20. The practice of fixing iron collars, with projecting bars or 
hooks, round the necks of slaves, or loading their bodies or limbs 
with chains, irons, or weights of any kind, beyond what is necessary 
for securing their persons (a somewhat indefinite measure of punish- 
ment!), is forbidden, under a penalty of 50/. (currency.) 

§§ 28 — 39. All slaves who have been in the island two years, and 
who shall run away, and be absent for more than ten days and not 
exceeding six months, may suffer any punishment that two justices 
may inflict, not extending to life or limb. If absent more than six 
months, they may be transported for life, or suffer any other punish- 
ment the two justices may inflict, not extending to life or limb. Slaves 
harbouring run-away slaves may be punished in like manner; and 
free persons doing so, on conviction in the general court, may be 
punished by fine and imprisonment. All persons taking up run- 
aways, shall have certain rewards. Slaves shall receive for each re- 
bellious slave they kill, 5/. ; and for each they take alive, 10/. and a 
blue coat with a red cross f. 

§ 40. After a run-away slave committed to gaol shall have been 
advertised for twelve calendar months, if no person shall claim him, 
he may be sold by public outcry ; and the surplus, after paying the 



* Lord Bathurst(A. p. 39) very justly objects to arming the supervisor of 
«j workhouse, or the keeper of a gaol, with the power of inflicting " on a slave 
a punishment as severe as could be inflicted by his owner,'' because " such 
power cannot be placed in the hands of such officers without a danger of its 
being much abused." But might not this just remark have extended much 
farther? Is there, then, no similar danger of abuse from arming an owner 
or employer with such a power? or from arming all other persons with a 
power of inflicting twenty lashes — of the cart-whip to wit — at their discretion ? 
In Jamaica, forty years ago, an owner or overseer was allowed to inflict only 
thirty-nine lashes, and all other persons only ten ; but the ameliorating law of 
the Bahamas has uow only arrived at the limit of thirty-nine for the owner 
and twenty for all other persons. In the Trinidad Order in Council, no 
punishment exceeding three lashes is allowed, without certain important for- 
malities; and, with all these formalities, the utmost extent to which a master 
can go is twenty-five. In the Bahamas, however, for any offence, or for no 
offence, without record and without witnesses, at the caprice of a driver 
twenty lashes, and at the caprice of an owner or employer, thirty-nine lashes, 
of the cart-whip — every stroke of which may leave a deep incision — may be 
inflicted on any slave, male or female, the latter being whipt in private ! ! 

t The extent and the jealous minuteness of the provisions respecting run- 
aways, form a curious contrast to the brevity, and the absence of all penalty 
and sanction, which mark the single clause about religion. And then let the 
frightful severity of these enactments be considered. Two justices may inflict 
any punishment short of life and limb — even the unsparing torture of 500 or 
J0O0 lashes, if the wretched sufferer can live through it; for there seems to 
he no other limit. 



8 BAHAMAS — new slave law. 

prison fees and charges, " shall he paid into the public treasure, to 

be applied towards defraying the expenses of the government*." 

§ 42. Slaves escaping from gaol before trial, and being taken, on 
proof of identity before two justices, may receive fifty lashes. 

§ 47. Any slave having concealed in his or her house, or possession, 
any fire-arms, gunpowder, slugs, or ball, and convicted before two 
justices, shall be punished by whipping, at their discretion — (no limit 
to its extent). 

§ 48. Any slave offering violence, by striking or otherwise, to any 
White person, shall be punished, at the discretion of two justices, 
with any punishment short of life or limb. 

§§ 49, 51. Slaves mixing poison, with intent to give, or actually 
giving it, though no death ensue ; and stealing or killing cattle, sheep, 
horse, mule, or ass; may be punished with death. 

§ 50. To a slave " fraudulently " possessed of from five to twenty- 
eight pounds of beef, mutton, veal, or the flesh of horse, mare, mule, 
or ass, two justices may give thirty-nine lashes ; if more than twenty- 
eight pounds, they may inflict any punishment not extending to life or 
limb. 

§§ 52 — 54. A slave aiding a slave to depart from the Bahama 
islands, shall suffer transportation, or any other punishment, not ex- 
tending to life and limb. A free Negro, or Person of Colour, doing 
so, shall be subject to transportation ; and, if afterwards found at 
large, to death, without benefit of clergy. A White doing so, shall 
forfeit lOOZ., and be imprisoned, for not more than twelve monthsf. 

§§ 57, 50. Slaves vending spirituous liquors, or playing at dice or 
cards, or guilty of any other kind of gaming, shall be publicly whip- 
ped, by the order of any two justices. 

* After all that has been said and written on the subject, it has been re- 
enacted as a law, in the reformed slave code of the Bahamas, that a Negro or 
Mulatto, who shall have been committed to gaol as a run-away, after having 
been confined and worked there for twelve months, shall, without any proof 
of his being a slave, and against the fair presumption of his being a freeman, 
have this additional cruel and irreparable wrong inflicted upon him, of being 
sold into perpetual bondage. Lord Bathurst makes an objection to this part 
of the law respecting run-aways. The following are the terms he uses, 
(A. p. 39) : " It is necessary," he says, " that some provision should be made 
for ascertaining whether the person is really a slave. The non-claim for twelve 
months raises at least a presumption that he is not a slave ; and if he asserts 
himself to be free, it is in justice necessary that he should be secured from 
being sold into slavery, without sufficient proof that he is a slave." But is it 
not also necessary, in justice, that a person thus situated should be assumed to 
be free, and dealt with as free, until the contrary is proved ? 

t Lord Bathurst is struck with the gross inequality of these punishments, 
(A. p. 39.) "Since the superiority of rank and education," he observes, 
" which belongs to the White inhabitant, is an aggravation of the offence com- 
mitted by him, there is an injustice in assigning to the aggravated offence the 
minor punishment." This admirable principle of law would go to abrogate, 
and ought to abrogate, more than one half of the whole frame of colonial legis- 
lation, which proceeds universally on the very opposite principle to that so 
well laid down by his Lordship, aggravating both crimes and punishments in 
proportion to the inferiority in rank and education of the criminal. 



BAHAMAS — new slave law*, 9 

§§ 59 — 63. Slaves accused of crimes subject to death without bene- 
fit of clergy, are to be tried by the general court, in the same way as 
Whites or free persons. Those accused of clergiable felonies, are to 
be tried by a court composed of two justices and five jurors, and are 
not to be allowed any right of peremptory challenge of a juror, or any 
right of exception to the form of indictment- 

§ 64. Slaves giving false evidence, shall suffer the same punishment 
which the person, " on whose trial the false evidence was given, 
would, if convicted, have been liable to suffer," " and such other 
punishment as the justices shall award, not extending to life and limb*." 

§ 69. Slaves receiving sentence of death or transportation, shall be 
appraised and valued. " But, if it shall appear that the owner of any 
such slave had treated him or her with inhumanity, and that necessity 
or hard usage might have driven such slave to the commission of the 
offence of which he or she shall have been convicted ; then no valua- 
tion shall be made, nor certificate granted, and the owner shall not 
be entitled to receive any allowance whatever for such slave from the 
public f." 

§ 73. All free Negroes, or Persons of Colour, who have been slaves, 
shall, for all offeuces under the degree of felony, be tried as slaves are 
directed to be tried, and the evidence of slaves shall be admitted 
against them J. 

§ 74. Inferior offences on the part of slaves may be summarily 
punished, b^ two justices, to the extent of fifty lashes. 

Such is the attempt, made by the Bahama Legislature, in the year 
1824, to improve the condition of their slaves. Who could have be- 
lieved it possible, prior to the fact, that, after the Resolutions passed 
in Parliament, after the Instructions issued by his Majesty's Secre- 
tary of State, after all that has been said and written on the subject of 
slavery, men, calling themselves Englishmen, could have been found 
so lost to all sense of propriety as to frame such an Act (an Act 
worthy of the most barbarous age), and to present it for the delibe- 

* His Lordship also objects to this clause, which, however, forms a part of 
almost every West-Indian code. " By this clause," he remarks, " the operation 
of the law against the crime of perjury committed by a slave, whose ignorance 
is an extenuatiou of his guilt, is much more severe than against others, for 
whose guilt no such extenuation can be presumed." Happy would it be for 
the slaves, if this principle had its just application universally ! 

t It is difficult to conceive how such an enactment as this should have found 
its way into any code of law. Is it possible for any man to read, without 
amazement and horror, that, though the convicted slave should be proved to 
have been driven to the commission of his crime by necessity or hard usage 
on the part of his master — a master possessing absolute and nncoutrouled 
power — yet that the law does not order his sentence of condemnation to be 
reversed, but leaves him to be executed, or transported, as the case may be ; 
while the only punishment inflicted on the real criminal is, that he does not re- 
ceive the value of the murdered slave ? 

t Lord Bathurst objects to this clause, which marks so very strongly the dis- 
position of the White legislators of the Bahamas to degrade the free People 
of Colour. " Any enactment," he says, '« caunot but be objectionable which 
deprives any free class of men of the benefits of trial by jury." (A. p. 40.) 

c 



10 BAHAMAS. 

rate approbation of his Majesty? It is due to Lord Bathurst to ob- 
serve, that his estimate of this legislative act is not to be measured by 
the terms he applies to particular clauses of it. In the letter which 
contains his specific objections, he adds the following general caveat 
against being supposed to approve what he does not specifically con- 
demn. " With respect to the other provisions of this Act, and to the 
important omissions in it, I have only to refer you to my circular 
dispatches of last year, and to the Order in Council for the improve- 
ment of the condition of the slaves in Trinidad *, by a comparison 
with which you will be fully enabled to judge how far this Act may 
consist with, and in what respects it will fail to carry into effect, the 
wishes of his Majesty's Government." 

In the first section of the Act now reviewed, a number of former 
Acts, respecting slaves and free Persons of Colour, are suspended. 
From the operation of this suspending enactment, however, one clause 
of one of these Acts, passed in 1784, is excepted. This clause is 
not recited in the Act which thus distinguishes it from all the others, 
by continuing it while they are suspended ; but Lord Bathurst has 
happily discovered its purport. It is a clause which condemns 
any Negro, Mulatto, or Indian, who assaults a White person with 
a dangerous weapon, (except a slave in defence of his owner's 
person or property,) to suffer death ; and if the assault is committed 
by direction of the owner, it then renders the owner answerable by 
law, as he ought ; — and it also condemns any Negro, &c. who is 
otherwise abusive to any White person, to be punished by a fine of 
not more than 15/., or by corporal punishment. Such is the law 
specially selected from the mass by the White legislators of the Ba- 
hamas, to be maintained in all its savage rigour, for the purpose of 
upholding the despotism of colour. The following is Lord Bathurst's 
comment on this curious exception, this smuggled act of legislation : 
li The injustice of these enactments is so manifest, that, when the at- 
tention of the legislature is called to them, I assure myself they will 
not be desirous to continue them in force." 

His Lordship, however, judged far too favourably of the disposition 
of that legislature. On receiving his observations, they transmitted a 
long message to the Governor, General Grant, complaining grievously 
of the wish expressed by Lord Bathurst for their adoption of the prin- 
ciples of the Trinidad Order in Council, the provisions of which they 
vehemently impugn as unjust and injurious ; and, with a gravity 
which would be quite ludicrous, if the happiness of thousands were 
not implicated in the result, they proceed to argue that it is infinitely 
better for all parties that the Negro should be left to the voluntary 
and unforced kindness of his master, than to be protected by law. 
For, protect him, they say, by law — in the enjoyment of his property, 
for example — and from that moment, that property, " instead of a 
bond of union between him and his master, would become ' a barrier 

* See the Second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society for these important 
documents ; Appendix, pp. 71—104-. 



barb ado lis— new slave law. 11 

of inextinguishable hate.' " In short, " a strong sense of the great 
impolicy and absolute danger of making any further innovations at 
present in the slave system of the colony, and a decided conviction of 
the correctness of the principles on which they are now acting, " compel 
them to refuse to alter their legislation. (A. p. 48.) This is at least 
a bold and frank defiance, on the part of the petty Parliament of the 
Bahamas, of the King, Lords, and Commons of England. 

It would be wrong to close the abstract of these proceedings without 
adverting to the various communications of the Governor. In trans- 
mitting the Act which we have so fully abstracted, he observes to 
Lord Bathurst, that " it improves the condition of slaves very consi- 
derably." (A. p. 19.) What, then, must that condition have been 
previously ? He adds, " Having stated what has been done by the 
legislature in favour of the free coloured and slave population," (we 
have seen what that is,) " I conclude with observing, that I am not 
of opinion there exists, among the generality of the inhabitants of 
the community, any disposition to oppose the immediate wishes of 
Government, on the subject in question, from any spiteful principle, 
but, ou the contrary, they will hereafter be found to go farther than 
they have done when the matter becomes less novel to them." (ibid.) 
Again : he assures Lord Bathurst, that he does not believe there exists 
among them " any innate disposition to oppose the wishes of Govern- 
ment," but that their reluctance proceeds from fear; and he has 
thought it best not to confute their objections, though that would 
have been easy, as more, he thinks, will be gained by " allowing time 
for cool reflection, than by appearing over anxious here, before it was 
known what may have been done by the other colonies." (p. 41.) 
His speech to them at the close of the session is in the same style : 
" Although nothing has been done this session, I nevertheless enter- 
tain the expectation, that, when the measures come to be less novel, 
you will be found duly to appreciate the position which his Majesty's 
Ministers have assumed," &c..." I cannot acquiesce in your argu- 
ments or conclusions ; but I shall refrain from entering upon any 
argumentative discussion, as I conceive nothing is more likely to create 
and keep alive irritation in one class of persons, and excitement in 
another, than the giving unnecessary publicity to the various specu- 
lative opinions which are likely to be formed on a subject of such 
extent.'' (A. p. 49.) 

General Grant does not believe that there is the smallest room for 
apprehending any insubordiuate feeling or disposition among the 
slaves. (A. p. 37.) 



III. BARBADOES. 

The Second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society, lately published, 
adverts at some length to the legislative reforms attempted at Bar- 
badoes, and points out some of the topics which had so divided the 
opinions of the Council and Assembly as to prevent the adoption of 



12 BARBADOES. 

a new consolidated and ameliorated Slave Act, which had occupied 
two years of anxious deliberation on the part of the legislators of this 
oldest slave colony of the British Crown. This measure has at 
length passed into a law ; so that we have now a fair opportunity of 
ascertaining what, in their judgment, are the best means of so re- 
forming their slave code as to meet the wishes of the mother coun- 
try, and to satisfy the demands of humanity and justice. We pro- 
ceed to analyze the new law. 

§ I. The preamble sets out with declaring, that " many circum- 
stances, arising out of the present state of the slave population, render 
it necessary that the laws enacted by the prudence and wisdom of our 
forefathers, for their government, " should be revised ; " and they 
therefore repeal no fewer than sixteen statutes on the subject, framed 
at different times from 1688 to 1818. 

§§ 2 — 4. Slaves accused of capital crimes are to be tried by three 
justices, and twelve freeholders of the parish where the crime was 
committed. If the jury are unanimous in convicting, and the sentence 
be death, the execution shall take place not less than forty-eight hours 
after passing the sentence ; and if the owner or overseer of the slave 
be the prosecutor, then a solicitor is to be engaged for the accused, 
and a clerk is to be appointed to take minutes of the trial, which are 
to be filed in the Crown-office of the island. If, when a slave is 
condemned to death or transportation, the owner, &c, shall desire 
to appeal (the slave himself has no right of appeal), the execution 
shall be staved for ten days, that such owner may have time to apply 
to the Governor for a writ of error ; and the judgment of the Court of 
Error, which shall have power either to affirm or reverse the sentence, 
shall be final ; such court having power also to award costs against 
persons who may be deemed obstinate and vexatious for moving a writ 
of error without good cause. 

§§ 5—8 contain minute regulations of police, about taking up slaves 
going abroad without leave, or found with any offensive weapon ; and 
about permitting them to beat drums, or blow horns or shells, or use 
any instruments of dancing ; or to dance, except in the mill-yard, 
and before nine at night ; or to have their funerals after seven at 
night ; or to have music or singing at such funerals. The Governor 
is empowered to forbid, by proclamation, all dances of slaves ; and 
to employ the militia in searching the Negro-houses for run-aways, 
or for mischievous weapons. 

§ 9. Every owner, who does not furnish every year his slaves with 
" decent clothing, according to the custom of the island," shall, on 
proof thereof, pay twenty shillings for each slave who shall not have 
been decently clothed within the year; half to be paid to the in- 
former, and half to the treasury of the island *. 

* This is a most whimsical enactment; for it leaves the slave still unclothed 
for the year, after the fine shall have been paid. And then, what is the fine 
for such an offence ? It is equal to thirteen shillings and four-pence sterling. 
Now, if this fine is intended to operate as a punishment, we may assume it to 
be at least double the value of that " decent clothing, according to the custom 



barbadoes — new slave laiv. 18 

§§ 10 — 18. These clauses regulate the apprehension and imprison- 
ment of run-away slaves till claimed by their owners. If not claimed 
in three months, the provost-marshal is empowered to sell them : the 
proceeds, after paying their expenses, to be paid into the treasury. 
Until sold, the run-aways are to be kept at work in the chain gang. 
Persons claiming to be free are to be advertised as such for three 
months ; and if at the end of that time their freedom is not proved, 
the Governor and Council are empowered to hear and to determine 
the matter, and either to sell them as slaves or send them off the 
island. For persons committed as run-aways, but claiming to be free, 
the provost-marshal may take bail in 100Z. The keepers of the cage, 
or of prisons, misconducting themselves, or being guilty of any crime, 
misdemeanour, or offence, in their office, shall be punished with im- 
prisonment, not exceeding one month, and fine, not exceeding five 
pounds*. 

§ 18. Slaves confined in the cage, or in gaol, shall be employed in 
gangs, on the streets and highways, or public works in and around 
Bridgetown, secured by fetters f, under the superintendance of a pro- 
per person, who shall be answerable for their safety. 

§ 19. Inquests of coroners on the bodies of slaves, are to be trans- 
mitted, with all the evidence, to the Governor, and to be recorded in 
the Crown-office. 

§ 20. Any justice of the peace may call out a guard of twenfy men, 
armed, to apprehend run-away slaves ; and if any such slaves are 
killed, in consequence of their resisting the authority of this guard, the 
guard shall not be punished for the same, either criminally or otherwise. 

§ 21. Any owner, &c. permitting a slave to go at large for the pur- 
pose of supporting himself, or paying hire for himself, or following any 
trade or business, for his own advantage or that of his owner or any 
other person, shall forfeit 51. ; the onus probandi resting on the party 
complained of. This most cruel and oppressive enactment is not to 
extend to a slave regularly settled in any house, and carrying on trade 
for the benefit of his owner, if licensed half-yearly. 

§ 23- Any person may apprehend any slave having in his posses- 
sion " any sugar-canes, sugar, rum, cotton, ginger, aloes, plate, 

of the island," which an owner is expected to give. If we are wrong in this 
assumption, and the" decent clothing " of a Negro would cost more than thir- 
teen shillings and four-pence sterling in the year, then the owner will gain, 
even if he pay the fine: of course he will gain stiil more by merely running 
the risk of being made to pay it, by means of a conviction consequent on the 
complaint of his slaves. 

* This law, bad as it is, is an improvement of the old law. It empowers the 
Governor and Council to examine his claim, before a man claiming to be free 
shall be sold as a slave. But even if he should not be proved to be a slave, he 
must still be banished; and in the mean time he must work in the chain gang. 
It seems to evince a most extraordinary confidence in the keepers of cages 
and prisons, or a great, tenderness for their crimes, to limit their punishment to 
5Z. fine and one month's imprisonment, for any malversation in their office, even, 
it may be, for starving or mutilating one of their prisoners, or whipping one of 
the chain-gang to death. 

t No exception is made of persons claiming to be free. 



14 barbadoes — new slave law. 

wrought or cast iron, lead, copper, pewter, brass, tin, or other article 
or thing, of what nature or hind soever, without a note descriptive of 
the same ; who, on conviction before any justice of the peace, shall 
be whipped, at his discretion, not exceeding thirty-nine lashes. And 
if any slave shall plant cotton, ginger, or aloes, it can only be reaped 
under the inspection of some White person, and sold or disposed of 
by the same*. 

§§ 25, 26. Any White, free person, or slave, buying of a slave 
stolen goods, knowing them to be stolen, shall be punished as the 
actual stealer would be. And if stolen goods are found in the 
possession of any White or free person, or slave, although it cannot 
be proved that it was with the knowledge of their being stolen, yet such 
person, if a White or free person, shall be proceeded against as re- 
ceivers of stolen goods are proceeded against in England, and shall 
be taken and deemed and punished as accessary to the felony after 
the fact ; and, if a slave, shall, on conviction before any justice of the 
peace, be whipped, not exceeding thirty-nine lashes f. 

§ 27. " Any slaves guilty of quarrelling or fighting with one ano- 
ther ; or of insolent language or gestures to or of any White person; 
or of swearing, or uttering any obscene speeches ; or of drunkenness ; 
or making, selling, throwing, or firing squibs, serpents, or other fire- 
works ; or of cock-fighting or gaming ; or of riding on a faster gait 
than a walk, or of driving upon a faster gait than a gentle trot, on any 
road, street, or lane of the island ; or of cruelly whipping, beating, or 
ill-using any horse, mule, ass, or other cattle ; or of negligently driving 
any waggon, cart, carriage, &c. ; or of any disorderly conduct or mis- 
behaviour ; shall, on conviction before any justice of the peace, be 
whipped, at his discretion, not exceeding thirty-nine stripes ; but the 
punishment of pregnant women shall be commuted to imprisonment J." 

§§ 28 — 30. Any person screening a slave, guilty of any of the 
above offences, from punishment, shall forfeit not less than bl. nor 
more than 25Z. A like punishment, with the addition of a month's 
imprisonment in the common gaol, is assigned to all who permit 

* This amounts to a virtual prohibition of the culture even of cotton, ginger, 
and aloes; the only articles, it would appear, except provisions, which slaves 
are allowed to plant. This is the way in which Negro industry is encouraged 
in Barbadoes. See also § 21. 

t The injustice of these enactments is so obvious as to need no comment. 

% There is something irresistibly but most appallingly ludicrous in this 
specimen of colonial legislation. What should we say to an Act which should 
condemn all men, women, and children (pregnant women scarcely excepted), 
at the discretion of any of his Majesty's justices of the peace, to thirty-nine 
lashes of the cart-whip, or the cat-o'-mne tails, on the bare breech, if they 
quarrelled, or used any insolent language or gestuse, or swore, or spoke ob- 
scenely, or were drunk, or fought cocks, or gamed, or rode faster than a walk, 
or drove faster than a gentle trot, or were guilty of any disorderly conduct or 
misbehaviour ? How admirably would the effect of Mr. Martin's Act be aided 
if the Barbadoes law were transferred to England, and thirty-nine lashes could 
be inflicted on every one who should whip, beat, or ill-use any horse, mare, 
gelding, mule, ass, or other cattle ! The tender feeling of the Barbadians for 
the brute creation goes far beyond even his. 



barbadoes — new slave law. 15 

gaming to be carried on by slaves on their plantations ; the penalty 
being doubled on each succeeding offence. Constables, under a 
penalty of 5/. and imprisonment for fourteen days, are not to permit 
slaves to game, or to assemble at huxters' shops, or dram shops, or 
any unlawful meetings *. 

§§ 32 — 40. Slaves wilfully striking or assaulting any White person 
shall suffer, for the first offence, not more than six months' imprison- 
ment and thirty-nine lashes ; for the second, transportation for life, or 
imprisonment and hard labour, at the discretion of the court. Slaves 
who " shall strike, or offer, or dare to strike, or use any violence 
towards their master or mistress, shall, for the first offence, suffer 
death without benefit of clergy, transportation, or such other punish- 
ment as the court may think fit to inflict; and for the second, death 
without benefit of clergy. Slaves guilty of treason or rebellion, or 
who shall plan, excite, raise, or in any way promote mutiny or rebel- 
lion, or any thing that shall have a tendency thereto, or prepare arms 
or offensive weapons ; or hold any council for, or compass or imagine 
for, the purpose of rebellion ; or commit any murder, rape, forgery, 
felony, or robbery ; or wilfully set fire to any house, out-house, canes, 
cane-trash, cane-tops, cane-stalks, pea-trees, cotton, wood, or piles 
of lumber; or break into any house, by night or day, and steal 
thence above the value of forty shillings; or compass and imagine the 
death of any person or persons whomsoever, and declare the same 
by some overt act ; or steal any live stock, or feathered stock, above 
forty shillings' value ; shall, for every such offence, suffer death with- 
out benefit of clergy, transportation, or such other punishment 
as the Court shall inflict. Slaves committing any crime not here 
specified, which, if committed by a White or free person; would be 
deemed felony by the laws of Great Britain ; or wantonly and wil- 
fully killing, by poison or in any other manner, any cattle, horse, 
mare, mule, ass, sheep, or hog ; or who shall pretend to superna- 
tural powers, or shall use obeah for malicious purposes ; or shall 
prepare poison, or cause it to be taken; shall suffer death without 
benefit of clergy, or such other punishment as the court shall think 
proper. Slaves stealing, or attempting to steal, under the value of 
forty shillings, any cane-trash, cane-tops, cane-stalks, pea-trees, cot- 
ton, wood, fruit, goods or chattels, or any ground provisions, shall 
suffer corporal punishment, imprisonment, and hard labour, at the 
discretion of any one justice; but if the slave was urged to the crime 
by his owner not giving him sufficient food, the punishment shall be 
proportionably lessened, and the master be subject to a fine of 50/. ; 
or, if he cannot afford to feed his slave, the slave shall be taken pos- 
session of by the treasurer, and let to hire for the benefit of the 

* The surprise we cannot but feel at witnessing the intense indignation 
of the Barbadians against every thing which borders on indecorum in the 
untutored slave, will not be lessened, if we should have derived our estimate 
of their own moral conduct from the account given of it by their Agent and 
Advocate, Mr. Jordan, in his pamphlet against the Registry Bill in 1816. 



16 BARKADOES — new slave law. 

owner. Slaves sentenced to death or transportation shall be valued* 
and the value, not exceeding 100/., paid to the owner *. 

§ 41. The practice of diviuation, or fortune-telling, shall be punished 
in a slave by whipping, imprisonment, and working in the chain gang, 
at the discretion of any one justice ; in a White or free person, by a 
fine of lO/.f 

§§ 42, 43. Any person wilfully or maliciously killing or murdering, 
or causing to be killed or murdered, any slave, shall be adjudged 
guilty of felony, and shall suffer death without benefit of clergy. But 
" if any person shall unfortunately kill by accident the slave of ano- 
ther, he shall only be liable to an action at law for the value of the 
slave :" or if any slave shall be killed while committing, or attempt- 
ing to commit, any robbery, theft, burglary, or arson, or in the attempt 
to maim or injure any White person, the person killing any such slave 
shall not be punished for the same, either criminally or otherwise J. 

§ 44. " Whereas it is highly expedient to restrain owners and others, 
having the government and direction of slaves, from indiscriminately, 
wantonly, and cruelly exercising the power they possess over slaves ; 
and as the cruelty of punishment by flogging necessarily depends 
much more on the manner of inflicting it than upon the number of 
stripes : it is therefore most conducive to the ends of humanity" [not 
to limit the number of lashes, but] " to trust to the discretion and 
good feelings of the justices before whom complaints shall be made :" 
it is enacted, that if any person commits, or causes to be committed, 
any wanton act of cruelty towards any slave, or shall wantonly, mali- 
ciously, and cruelly whip, beat, or bruise any slave, such person, on 
conviction before two justices, may be fined not more than 25/. (about 
17/. sterling) : and if the accuser cannot prove his complaint, yet if 
the marks of the cruelty appear on the person of the slave, and the 
slave makes a particular, consistent, and probable statement of the 
cruel punishment, then the accused shall be considered guilty, unless 
he shall prove, either by his own oath, or the oath of some credible 
wituess, that the punishment was not inflicted by him, or with his 
knowledge : and if any 'slave make a complaint, which shall appear to 
be frivolous, vexatious, or unfounded, then the justices may give him 
thirty-nine stripes. Any person maiming, mutilating, or dismember- 
ing a slave, may, on conviction at the grand sessions, be punished by 
fine and imprisonment [no minimum is fixed], or either, as the court 
shall think fit ; and if the maiming, &c. shall have been done by the 

* The obstinate maintenance of these Draconian laws by the Assembly, in 
despite of the remonstrances of the Council, sufficiently indicates the popular 
feeling of Barbadoes. The lust of multiplying capital crimes and felonies 
seems to have suffered no abatement among them. 

t How forcibly, in this and a variety of similar instances, does Lord Bathurst's 
remark, quoted above, apply ! (see notes page 11.) 

% The Barbadians have fought a stout battle for the privilege of extinguish- 
ing Negro life since Lord Seaforth first proposed to make the murder of a slave 
felony, instead of being liable only to a fine of 15/. ; even now, to extort pro- 
tection to Negro life seems like wringing from them drops of blood. 



barb A does — new slave law. 17 

owner, then the slave shall be taken possession of by the treasurer of 
the island, and forthwith sold [not made free, but sold] to some person 
of good and humane repute, for the best price that can be obtained for 
him, and the proceeds paid over to the owner or his creditors. For a 
second offence, the whole of his property in land and slaves shall be 
vested in trustees, to be managed for his benefit or that of his creditors, 
or to be sold, as the case may be, and paid lo him or to his credi- 
tors ; and he shall be declared incapable of holding the possession, or 
having any controul, management, or direction whatsoever over slaves. 

§ 45. All punishments by whipping, whether by order of the 
magistrates, or by owners, &c. shall be inflicted with the like instru- 
ment used in his Majesty's navy and army, except by owners who 
may use a milder instrument. When female slaves are punished by 
whipping, the same shall be inflicted on the shoulders, in a decent 
manner, without any unnecessary exposure of the body of such female 
slaves; but pregnant women are to be punished in no other way but 
by confinement. The penalty for acting in violation of this clause 
is 51. 

§ 46. Any person fixing an iron collar round the neck of a slave, 
or fixing chains, weights, or irons of any kind on his body or limbs, 
shall be punished by fine and imprisonment. Owners, however, may 
confine refractory or run-away slaves in iron or wooden stocks, or by 
other means of security ; or may send them to labour in the chain- 
gang for six months at a time ; provided it is made to appear, by the 
oath of the owner or some other witness, that the improper conduct of 
the slave was not caused by want of food or clothing, or cruel 
treatment. 

§ 47. Any slave who shall hear any other slave speak any words 
TENDING to mutiny or rebellion, or shall know of his having gun- 
powder or arms in his possession for purposes of rebellion, and shall 
not immediately disclose the same, shall suffer death without benefit 
of clergy, or such other punishment as the court may think fit. 

§ 48. Any slave giving information which shall lead to the dis- 
covery of plots, &e. and shall cause the conviction of the accused, 
shall be purchased by the treasurer and made free, and receive an 
annuity of 101. and be sent where he pleases*. 

§ 49. If any White or free person shall sell or give to any slave 
gunpowder or arms, or any poison or noxious drug or thing, they shall 
be fined, on conviction by two justices, not more than 50/. And if 
the offence cannot be otherwise proved, then the declaration of the 
slave is to be evidence, and the parly accused shall be deemed guilty, 
unless he clear himself by his own oath or that of some credible 
witness. Aud if the offender knew that the things sold or given were 
for illegal purposes, then, on conviction before the grand court, he 
shall suffer death without benefit of clergy, or transportation. 

§ 50. Every slave who, in the case of invasion or rebellion, shall 

* What a temptation is here given to the fabrication of plots, and to per- 
jury ! We shall hereafter meet with proofs of this. 

D 



18 barb A does — new slave law. 

by any means kill or destroy one or more of the enemy or rebels, shall 
be rewarded at the public expense, or made free, if his cost shall not 
exceed 100/. 

§ 54. Any slave running away or absenting himself, or mis- 
behaving himself to his owner, &c, and the owner not choosing him- 
self to punish such slave, complaint may be made to a justice, who 
may order the slave to be whipped at his discretion, not exceeding 
thirty-nine stripes, or to be worked for six months in the chain-gang. 

§ 60. " And be it further enacted, that from and after the passing 
of this Act the evidence of slaves shall, as heretofore, be taken and 
received, in all cases against each other." The evidence of slaves 
having a certificate of competency from the clergyman of the parish, 
shall be received in all cases which do not concern their owners, or 
affect the life of a White person. But if any White or free person 
shall associate with a slave in cock-fighting, gaming, getting drunk, 
&c. ; or shall live with any slave as man or wife, then the evidence 
of any slave shall be received against such person*. Slaves giving 
false evidence are to be punished as the person would be on tvhose trial 
the false evidence was given. 

§§ 64, 65. Hanging by the neck shall be the only mode of 
executing slaves. All slaves sentenced to imprisonment " shall and 
may be worked in chain-gangs." 

Such is the Act of which Mr. Moe, the Speaker of the Assembly, 
had such exalted conceptions, that he gave it as his opinion that the 
" two branches of the Legislature would splendidly close their 
labours, by forwarding that great work, completed, to the Executive; 
and, in the night-fall of their existence, to have given life to this Act 
would endear their remembrance to posterity." (B. p. 29.) What 
an extraordinary perversion of all just reasoning and just feeling is 
implied in such a sentiment, even if we make the fullest allowance for 
the horrors and abominations of the various Acts which this splendid 
Act, the fruit of so " many tedious hours," has superseded ! Of 
course such an Act never can be sanctioned by the King. It is an 
outrage upon him even to offer it to his approval. And let it also be 
kept in mind, not only what this Act does, but what it omits to do. 
It does not remove any of the obstructions to the manumission of 
slaves, not even the tax of 50/. ; nor does it enable slaves to purchase 
their freedom. It does not cause slaves to cease to be chattels, or 
prevent their being sold at the discretion of the owner, to the disrup- 
tion of the dearest family ties. It provides no means of instruction 
for them, and does not abolish Sunday markets and Sunday labour. 
It does not protect them in the possession or transmission of their 
property ; nor relieve them from the burden of legally proving their 
freedom when freed ; nor legalize marriage among them ; nor put an 
end to the driving system ; or to the flogging of women ; or to 
arbitrary punishments, to an almost unlimited extent, for any offence, 

• This is a virtual interdict of all intermarriages between slaves and free 
persons. 



bakeadoes — methodist chapel. 19 

or for no offence. In short, it scarcely advances one step towards 
giving the slaves a participation in the civil rights and privileges of 
British subjects. The very provisions, framed with a professed view 
to mitigate the rigours of their former state, avail but little to that 
purpose, while they serve to mark more unequivocally the depth of 
their degradation. Is it possible that Parliament can continue to 
delegate to such legislators its own powers and its own duties ; or that 
they can refuse at length to interfere between 800,000 of our fellow- 
subjects and such revolting despotism ? 

Sir Henry Warde, in transmitting this Act to Lord Bathurst, 
observes, that " though it may not be so complete as your Lordship 
might wish it to be, yet very great and substantial improvements" 
(what then must have been the former state of the law ?) " have been 
effected ;" and he gives a hope of farther improvements. (B. p. 1.) 
They must be very large improvements indeed, to satisfy the just ex- 
pectations either of Lord Bathurst or of the public. 

But there is another chapter in the history of Barbadoes, into 
which,, after the recent discussion in Parliament on the subject, it 
may now be less necessary to enter — namely, the persecution of the 
Methodists, and the destruction of the Methodist chapel*. The 
subject was brought forward by Mr. Buxton, in a speech which gave 
an able and luminous exposition of the whole of that atrocity. The 
sense entertained of it, both by the Government and Parliament, 
could not be more strongly marked than it was in the speech of Mr. 
Canning. He reprobated the conduct of the Barbadians with the 
most unsparing severity — " It was unjustifiable, indefensible, a 
violation of law and justice, a defiance of all legal authority, a flying 
in the face of Parliament and of the country ; " — and he moved, as an 
amendment, a resolution which was unanimously adopted by the 
House, " that they view with the utmost indignation that scandalous 
and daring violation of the law : and having seen with great satisfac- 
tion the instructions sent by his Majesty's Secretary of State to the 
Governor of Barbadoes, to prevent a recurrence of similar outrages, 
they humbly assure his Majesty of their readiness to concur in every 
measure, which his Majesty may deem necessary, for securing ample 
protection and religious toleration to all his Majesty's subjects in 
that part of his Majesty's dominions f." 

The most remarkable circumstance attending this flagitious act is, 
the general concurrence of all ranks of the White inhabitants, if not 
in entirely approving what had been done, at least in manifesting no 
dissatisfaction with it. The magistrates, with scarcely an exception, 
seem to have exulted in the success of the outrage, and some of them 
to have even participated in its contrivance and perpetration. We 
have not heard that any of those magistrates, who were guilty of so 
scandalous a dereliction of their duty, have yet been removed from 

* See Papers C. and D. 

t "An Authentic Report" of this interesting debate has been published for 
Hatchard and Son. 



20 BERBICE — BERMUDA — CAPE OF GOOD HOPE, 

the stations which they had so criminally prostituted. It is instruc- 
tive to compare the total impunity which has attended this insurrec- 
tion of the Whites, with the massacres in cold blood which followed, 
in 1816, the insurrection of the Blacks in the same island. 

IV. BERBICE. 

In this colony nothing whatever appears to have been done in the 
work of reform. Governor Beard had pressed the subject at differ- 
ent times on the attention of the Council of the colony, but without 
effect. On one occasion he observes, addressing Lord Bathurst, " I 
have no hope of the Council redeeming their pledge in this respect," 
(namely, the abolition of flogging in the case of women,) " or 
acceding in any manner to the proposed measures of his Majesty's 
Government." And again : " I cannot discover any friendly feeling, 
on the part of the individuals composing the present Council, towards 
the measures intended by his Majesty's Government to be carried into 
effect in this settlement." (A. pp. 227—236.) 

We have not heard what steps the Government have taken in con- 
sequence of this contumacy. 

A return has been made to the House of Commons of the taxes 
and fees paid on acts of manumission in Berbice, from the 1st of Ja- 
nuary 1822 to the 13th April 1824, being upwards of two years and 
a quarter. In that time there were only twenty-five acts of manumis- 
sion, being at the rate of about eleven annually ; and the amount of 
taxes and fees alone paid upon them, exclusive of the cost of redeem- 
ing the slaves, was 11,564 guilders, being at the rate of nearly 40/. 
sterling for each. (E. pp. 9, 10.) 

A motion was made, in the session of 1824, for " a copy of the 
record of the proceedings of the Fiscal of Berbice, in his capacity of 
guardian and protector of the slaves, with his decision in all cases of 
complaint of masters and slaves respectively against each other, and 
the punishments inflicted or the redress given in consequence of such 
complaint, from the 1st of January 1814 to the present time." To 
this motion a return has been made, the substance of which will ap- 
pear at the close of this pamphlet. 

V. BERMUDA. 

No account whatever has been received from this colony of the 
slightest movement towards reform ; although it will be seen by a 
reference to the Second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society (p. 144), 
that the laws of no colony more need reform than those of Bermuda. 

VI. CAPE OF GOOD HOPE. 
Since the Second Report of the Anti-slavery Society was printed, 



DEMERARA. 21 

a return from the Registry of Slaves has been laid on the table of the 
House of Commons, by which it appears that the slave population of 
the Cape of Good Hope, instead of being, as there estimated, only 
25,000 (p. 157), amounted in the year 1 823 to 35,27 L— viz. 20,491 
males, and 14,780 females. (I.) A disproportion in the sexes so 
great as this, after the Slave Trade had ceased for 17 or 18 years, 
raises a suspicion that slaves may have been illicitly introduced. 

In March 1823, Lord Charles Somerset, the Governor, issued a 
proclamation containing regulations for the religious instruction and 
treatment of the slaves. Compulsory labour on the Sunday is for- 
bidden by it, under a penalty of not more than fifty or less than ten 
rix-dollars for each offence. Certain regulations are adopted with a 
view to the marriage and the baptism of slaves. Married slaves * can- 
not be sold separately, or without their children f under ten, except 
(and why this exception ?) by the decree of a court of justice. The 
evidence of baptized slaves (why the restriction ?) is to be received in 
all cases whatsoever. Christian slaves (and why not all slaves?) are 
to pay no tax on manumission. Young slaves are to be sent for instruc- 
tion to the nearest free-school, by such proprietors as are Christians 
(and why not by ah"?). The property of slaves is secured to them, and 
they are empowered to bequeath it. In cases of suicide, the owner of 
the slave inherits his property!. The property of intestate slaves hav- 
ing no relations, is to go to a fund for redeeming female slave children. 
Owners, &c. are not to inflict on a slave more than twenty-five lashes 
for one offence, or to repeat the punishment until the delinquent has 
recovered from the former correction ; and no punishment is to be 
inflicted by any other hand than that of the owner, &c, under a 
penalty of from fifty to one hundred rix-dollars. An owner killing a 
slave is guilty of homicide ; maltreating him may be punished by fine, 
imprisonment, or banishment, and the slave may be sold for his ac- 
countf, but so as not to come into the power of him or his relations. 
An overseer maltreating a slave will be punished as if he had mal- 
treated a free servant. A slave whose complaint proves groundless 
shall be punished He 



VII. DEMERARA. 

The taxes and fees paid on manumissions in Demerara and Esse- 
quibo, from the 1st of January 1822 to the first of September 1824, 

* The right of marriage is confined to Christian slaves. Why may not 
Mohammedan and Pagan slaves be encouraged to marry, and protected in their 
marriages, as well as Christians? 

t This rule should also extend to reputed marriages. 

t The owner seems the last person who should inherit the property of a slave 
who commits suicide, acts of suicide generally proceeding from harsh usage. 

§ Ought not the slave to be made free ? 

|| This is surely most objectionable. Why should the complaints of slaves 
be discouraged ? To make the failure of proof a ground of punishment, unless 
malice or perjury can be proved, is repugnant to all pur ideas of justice. 



22 demerara — discussions on reform. 

being two years and eight months — during which time seventy-six 
slaves only were manumitted, being at the rate of twenty-eight or 
twenty-nine in each year— amounted to 32,750 guilders, or at the 
rate of about 36/. sterling each. (E. pp. 5 — 8.) 

In return to the motion for " a copy of the record of the proceed- 
ings of the Fiscals of Demerara, in their capacity of guardians and 
protectors of slaves, with their decisions in all cases of complaint of 
masters and slaves respectively against each other, and the punish- 
ments inflicted or redress given in consequence of such complaints, 
from the 1st of January 1814 to this time," the first Fiscal, Mr. Her- 
bert, thus writes : " There is no record of such proceedings at this 
office; and until the month of April 1824, there does not appear to 
have been even a memorandum of the proceedings held before the 
Fiscal as a magistrate." (E. p. 17.) Thus we learn that no record 
has been preserved of the judicial proceedings which have taken place, 
in cases most deeply affecting the happiness, if not the lives, of 
80,000 of his Majesty's subjects, prior to the month of April 1821. 
The only return made to this order comprises a period of not more 
than three months ; namely, from June 16 to September 18, 1824. — 
The number of complaints in that time is twenty-five, of which seven- 
teen are complaints of slaves against their owner or manager, and 
six of masters or mistresses against their slaves. The other two 
are complaints of slaves against each other. The complaints of the 
masters against their slaves appear to be in every case redressed. 
One man is reprimanded ; two women are confined for a week ; one 
man is punished (it is not said in what manner); of four men accused 
of ill behaviour, three are punished : and of twenty six, belonging to 
the estate Maria's Lodge, accused of running into the bush, striking 
work, and bad behaviour, four are punished — three men and one 
woman. It is added, that in this case the Negroes had no ground of 
complaint, and that the woman was very insolent, saying, " You can- 
not flog women." (E. p. 19.) 

The result of the complaints of the Negroes against their owners 
and managers is somewhat different. 

1. The Negroes of Plantation Big Diamond complain of ill-treat- 
ment: three of the ringleaders are punished, " the complaint being 
unwarranted." 

2. The Negroes of Plantation Friendship make the same complaint: 
four are punished, and all are sent back severely reprimanded. 

3. Negroes of the Plantation la Bonna Mere make the same com- 
plaint : it is pronounced frivolous and unwarrantable, and seven of 
them are punished. 

4. The gangs of Plantation Belle Hope complain of ill-usage, hard 
work, starvalion, &c. : the complaint is pronounced frivolous and ill- i 
founded, and three of the ring-leaders are punished. 

5. Izak, of Plantation Fowlis, complains of ill-treatment: he is 
punished. 

6. George makes a like complaint : he is to go to his work, and to 
be punished. 



demerara — discussions on reform. 23 

7. Sally begs leave to be sold without her child : not allowed, and 
warned to take care of it. 

8. Lucinda complains of various ill-treatment from the manager and 
overseer of La Jalousie : " a made-up story ; is punished." 

9. Adam complains of his little sister being ill-treated : contradicted 
by the mother and child ; is punished in gaol. 

10. A woman and boy complain of want of clothing, and ill-treat- 
ment : unfounded ; the woman confined eight days, the boy flogged. 

11. A Negress complains of Mr. Cantzlaar, her master, that he was 
taking her into the country to punish her for nothing : "she had mis- 
behaved ; he was taking her into the country ; she ran away to com- 
plain : — returned to her master to act discretionary." 

12. Irins and another complain, that the manager of Plantation 
Kissingin does not give them enough to eat : " frivolous — restored to 
the master." 

13. Caroline and some others of Plantation Groenseld complain of 
the manager ; Caroline, that he had flogged a Negro till he died ; 
and the rest, that he beat them with a tar rope : " Caroline's story 
unfounded ; six weeks' confinement on bread and .water, to be miti- 
gated on contrition :" the rest showed no marks of violence : " the 
tar rope was taken away, the Negroes satisfied, and the manager re- 
primanded," 

14. Peggy complains that her mistress, Miss Neil, treats her ill, and 
gives her no clothing : " altogether unfounded ; is punished." 

15. Four Negroes of Plantation Northbrook complain against the 
manager of hard work, over work, and flogging: " altogether un- 
founded ; punished, one man rather severely, one very slightly, two 
sent to work as convicts for a month." " Mr. Stuart, the master, is 
very kind and indulgent, but discipline and proper method wanting." 

16. Twenty-seven Negroes of the estate Land of Canaan complain 
of a want of clothing, lodging, food, comforts in sickness, &c. : 
"just, except as to food; fined the owner \0l. for every Negro; 
ordered him to furnish the things required, and informed the Negroes 
to that effect." 

17. Negroes of Plantation Jans and Coree complain of the mana- 
ger's ill-treatment: the manager to be discharged. (E. pp.10 — 20) 

In this return no part of the evidence is given ; we are left to con- 
jecture what it may have been : the particular details are throughout 
suppressed ; nor is even the nature or extent of the punishment 
specified. Such a record is, in fact, of no use whatever.- It affords 
not the slightest means of judging of the equity of the proceeding ; 
excepting that the very sententious brevity with which the entries are 
made excites a suspicion of a very summary mode of administering 
justice. One thing is clear, namely, that the general course of the 
Fiscal's administration is calculated to discourage all representation 
of harsh usage on the part of the slaves, except perhaps in the very 
grossest cases. But facts are wanting ; and an exposition of the 
facts of each case ought to be peremptorily required : it is only 
in this way that we can get at the real nature of the slave system, in 



24 DEMERARA — discussions on reform. 

its practical operation. If we had not obtained the particulars of the 
trials of the alleged insurgents in Demerara and Jamaica, we should 
not have suspected half of the gross perversions of justice which take 
place in the colonial judicatories, in the name and by the authority of 
the King. In this country, we all feel how essential publicity and 
the controul of public opinion are to the ends of justice : how much 
more are these required in the West Indies ! " If it be asked," said 
the murdered Missionary Smith, in speaking of the cruel treatment of 
the slaves in Demerara — " if it be asked, Are there not authorities to 
whom the injured slaves can appeal for redress? The answer is in 
the affirmative. But many of the legally constituted authorities are 
themselves owners of plantations, following the same system, and per- 
haps, by means of their managers, practising the same abuses on 
their slaves. Judging from their conduct, it would seem that some of 
them consider it a greater crime for the Negroes to complain of their 
wrongs, than for the master to inflict them. The complainants are 
almost sure to be flogged, and frequently before the complaint is in- 
vestigated, if listening to the exculpatory tale of the master can be 
called investigation ; and even when the cause is so evidently on the 
side of the complainant that it can neither be denied nor evaded, the 
decision is so studiously concealed from them that they scarcely know 
whether the law is to protect the oppressed, or to indemnify the oppress 
sor ; nor can they always solve this problem from the result." How 
painfully does the return of Mr. Fiscal Herbert (and still more that 
of Mr. Fiscal Bennett, inserted at the close of this pamphlet) illus- 
trate the statement of Mr. Smith ! 

The attention of the government of Demerara having been called, 
by Lord Bathurst, to the subject of a reform of the slave code of 
that colony, frequent discussions have taken plaCe upon it; hitherto, 
however, without leading to any satisfactory result. It- may be use- 
ful, nevertheless, to trace the progress of these discussions. 

Sir B. D'Urban, the Governor, professing to draw his information 
from the planters, states his opinion, in May 1824, to be, that the 
Negro mind is still " agitated, jealous, and suspicious." " Many of 
the slaves are described to me as remarkably well informed upon all 
that passes in England and in the colonies, interesting to their views 
and condition : many of them read, most of them well understand 
what is read or repeated to them ; they are (naturally enough) inqui- 
sitive, and anxious to learn whatever relates to them ; and unques- 
tionably they continue to procure very early information of all dis- 
cussions in Parliament, in the newspapers and in the public prints." 
(A. p. 193.)— Such a statement as this proves this, at least, most un- 
questionably, that the Governor has been made the dupe of false 
information ; and it will serve sufficiently to explain much in his com- 
munications, which would otherwise not have been explicable. It is 
somewhat surprising, so much depending upon accuracy, that the 
Governor should not himself have insisted on having these well-in- 
formed and erudite Negroes, these masters of intelligence from 
Europe, brought at once into his presence, and examined. He 



demerara — discussions on reform. 25 

would then have ascertained the depth of the delusion which had 
been practised upon him, by those in whose descriptions he con- 
fided *. 

Under the same influence, doubtless, which had been thus em- 
ployed to delude him as to the state of intelligence among the slaves, 
he proceeds, in a letter of the 25th of June 1824 (A. p. 196), to 
use the arguments of the planter for departing, in the reform of their 
code, from the Trinidad model. To this letter, on the 20th of No- 
vember 1824, Lord Bathurst replies at considerable length, and in 
most respects very satisfactorily. (A. pp. 219 — 226 ) He notices, 
in their order, the various provisions of the law framed by the Court 
of Policy which he says must be amended, and the various omissions 
which must be supplied, before that law can be promulgated. 

1. The principle of forbidding the person entrusted with the office 
of Protector to possess plantation slaves, must be adhered to. — It 
would have been well had his Lordship added domestic slaves also. 
. 2. It must be kept in mind, and expressed in the law, " that the 
total abolition of Sunday markets is contemplated, as soon as the 
measures shall have taken effect which are designed to remove the 
causes of its temporary inexpediency f." 

3. The employment of slaves on the Sunday is prohibited in the 
Trinidad Order: a close adherence to its rules is required in the pre- 
sent instance. 

4. The offence of carrying a whip in the field must be punished, 
not only by mulct, but, as in the Trinidad Order, by fine and im- 
prisonment. 

5. It is absolutely necessary to retain the provision which re- 
quires witnesses of the punishments inflicted on slaves. 

6. The abolition of the punishment of females by the whip, is an 
enactment of which no qualification can be admitted as relates to 
adults. 

7. If a slave, when produced in court, shall exhibit traces of recent 
flogging, and shall slate probable grounds for believing the punish- 
ment to have been unlawfully inflicted, the owner must be required to 
disprove the allegation, otherwise he must be convicted of the offence. 

8. The record of punishments must be kept, and the returns made 
once in every half year, on oath, as in Trinidad. 

9. The draft of the Court of Policy having been silent on the sub- 
ject of the evidence of slaves, on the ground that such evidence is by 
the Dutch law admissible in all cases, Lord Bathurst requires that the 

* The want of knowledge, the barbarism, and the total incivilization of the 
slaves, have hitherto formed one great plea for keeping them in slavery. When 
it suits the varying purposes of the planters, the same men are acute, intelli- 
gent, penetrating, and capable of surmounting difficulties of the most formid* 
able kind in the pursuit of information. 

t The reasons are given in the Appendix to the Second Report of the Anti- 
slavery Society (p. 72) for conceiving that this delay in the abolition of Sunday 
markets is altogether uncalled for, and not justified by any one of the reasons 
on which it is founded. 

E 



26 deMERARA— discussions on reform. 

omission should be supplied, and that the course pursued in the 

Trinidad Order should be adhered to. 

10. "The marriages of slaves are proposed," says his Lordship, " to 
be regulated by provisions substituted for those of the Order in 
Council for Trinidad ; but which will, 1 am sure, upon consideration, 
appear so inadequate, (and one part of that proposition is, in truth, 
so open to ridicule) that I am persuaded the Court of Policy will at 
once acknowledge the expediency of a stricter conformity to the 
Order in Council." 

11. A strict adherence to theTrinidad Order in Council is also neces- 
sary in regard to the acquisition and disposal of property by slaves. 
Lord Bathurst approves of the proposed prohibition of slaves possess* 
ing fire-arms and ammunition ; but sees no sufficient reason for not 
allowing them to possess the exportable produce of the colony*. 

12. Lord Bathurst wholly disapproves of that existing law of Deme- 
rara, by which the consent of the Governor and the Court of Policy is 

• The part of the draft to which Lord Bathurst here objects, states that 
slaves may, b,ut with the approbation and consent of their owners (a qualifica- 
tion which obviously altogether nullifies the right of property), possess pro- 
perty of any kind, and dispose of it by bequest or otherwise, save and except 
fire-arms arid ammunition, and such colonial produce as is prohibited to be 
sold or bartered by the eleventh article of the existing law. On turning to 
that article, we find it to be as follows : — 

" All slaves, as well males as females, are prohibited from selling or barter- 
ing, with any one whatever, any produce, — sugar, coffee, cocoa, indigo, rokow, 
syrup, rum, bottles, or flasks, or any thing else ; being permitted to sell only 
vegetables and ground provisions, the produce of their gardens, or stock which 
they are allowed to rear; on pain of being severely flogged on the plantation 
to which they belong, for the first offence ; and for the second to be punished 
by sentence of the court, according to the exigency of the case." (A. p. 210.) 
Lord Bathurst might well question whether any sufficient reason was assigned 
for making, by a side wind, such a cruel and preposterous enactment as this a 
part of the new and ameliorated slave code. But such is, in point of fact, the 
cruel and preposterous law of every slave colouy in his Majesty's dominions ; 
and Lord Bathurst himself, we fear, has inadvertently given it an indirect, 
sanction, in his correspondence with the Governor of Trinidad. The passage 
to which we allude is contained in a letter to Sir R. Woodford, dated 24th 
July 1824, and is as follows : — 

"In the papers before me, a construction is put upon a part of the Order in 
Council which is warranted by none of its provisions. It appears to be doubted 
whether the permission, conveyed to slaves, to purchase and hold land, does 
not indirectly revoke the existing law of Trinidad, whereby slaves are pro- 
hibited from cultivating for their own profit any of the staple commodities of 
the island. In granting the slaves the power of acquiring land, the Order does 
not, of course, exempt them from any existing restrictions as to the mode in 
which land might be cultivated by persons of their class and condition." — Now 
as the restrictions in Trinidad and Demerara are substantially the same, it 
appears that there is as good reason for questioning in the former as in the 
latter case the propriety of prohibiting slaves to cultivate or to possess export- 
able produce. In fact, the principle on which the legislators of the West 
Indies have uniformly proceeded, of absolutely prohibiting slaves from raising 
any exportable produce whatever, is one which deserves the very utmost 
degree of reprobation, and which, as the attention of Government has at length 
been called to it, will, we trust, iu every case, meet with their decided and 
unequivocal rejection. 



DEMERARA— discussions on reform. 27 

rendered necessary to every act of manumission, to which even the 
owner of the slave is consenting, and he cannot therefore allow such 
a principle to be introduced into the new code. It is impossible, he 
says, to admit of this, or indeed of any other departure from the pro- 
visions of the Trinidad Order in Council on this head. 

13. Another important regulation, which postpones the payment of 
the Protectors salary till he shall have made his periodical returns, 
has been omitted in the draff, but, his Lordship says, must be strictly 
adhered to. 

14. The clause proposing to vest in the Governor a power of suspend- 
ing the proposed law, is declared to be perfectly inadmissible. 

Lord Bathurst adds, that he trusts the Court of Policy is prepared 
to adopt these suggestions ; but, if not, " it is necessary that I 
should explain to you, that in such an event, however desirous his 
Majesty's Government may be that, the origination of this measure of 
melioration should proceed from the Court of Policy, they would 
feel it their paramount duty to issue, without further delay, an Order 
in Council for the purpose of carrying them into effect." 

The whole of this dispatch is most highly creditable to Lord 
Bathurst; and we trust to see, ere long, the important principles 
which it develops carried into full effect throughout all his Majesty's 
slave colonies. 

But what has been the practical result of these instructions of Lord 
Bathurst? This we learn from the Additional Papers (B.) presented 
to Parliament by his Majesty's command. On the 14th March 1825, 
the Governor transmits to his Lordship the amended draft of an 
ordinance; in which, however, there are such material deviations from 
Lord Bathurst's instructions as forbid him from promulgating it 
without a further reference to England. "What course Lord Bathurst 
may have pursued in consequence of this further reference, does not 
appear in these papers. We cannot doubt that it has been marked 
by the same firm adherence to just principles which distinguished his 
former communication, of which we have already given the substance. 
In the mean time, it will be of essential use to give an abstract of 
this last and highest effort of the Demerara Court of Policy in the 
work of legislative reform, adopted under the influence of all those 
powerful and constraining motives which the dispatch of his Lord- 
ship, last quoted, must have conveyed to their minds. The follow- 
ing is the substance of their draft. (B. pp. 259 — 279.) 

§ 1 — 6 appoint the First Fiscal Protector of Slaves*; disqua- 
lify him from holding any plantation or plantation slaves within the 
colony t, or acting as trustee, guardian, executor, attorney, manager, 
&c. of slaves ; and require him to perform his duty in person. 

* The union of these two offices appears to be utterly incompatible, the 
Fiscal being the public prosecutor. 

+ He ought not to hold slaves any where, or to have been a holder of slaves, 
who merely renounces his property in them for the sake of his office. 



28 DEMERARA — discussions on reform. 

§ 7 appoints the Deputy Fiscals, or Burgher Officers, Assistant 
Protectors ". 

§§ 9, 10, forbid the compulsory labour of slaves on Sunday, under 
a penalty of 600 guilders ; but this exemption from labour is not to 
authorize them to leave the plantation to which they belong, without 
leave ; or to exempt them from the operation of the existing laws ; 
or to prevent the distribution of their weekly allowance being made 
on that day ; or to extend to the following excepted cases — viz. 
domestic service, attendance on cattle or live stock, attendance on 
hospitals, burying of the dead, preventing or remedying breaches 
in dams, conflagrations, and all cases of the same general nature, 
and referable to the same principles ; all labour for the preservation 
of the crops, as boiling-off the cane-juice expressed before sun-set 
on Saturday, turning and drying of coffee or cottoa, picking of 
cotton and coffee during crop ; for which last service wages, to 
be fixed by the Protector, shall be paid f. 

§ 11. Until effectual provision shall have been made for the 
religious instruction of the slaves, when Sunday markets shall be 
wholly abolished, these shall be continued until eleven o'clock in the 
forenoon %. 

§ 12. A person carrying a whip, or any other instrument of punish- 
ment, in the field or elsewhere, either as a badge of authority or as a 
stimulus to labour, shall incur, if free, a penalty of 600 guilders, or 
be imprisoned for not more lhan six months; and if a slave, shall 
incur corporal punishment. 

§ 13. On male slaves, when punishment by the owner, &c. is 
necessary, it must be inflicted without cruelty or passion, to no 
greater extent than twenty-five lashes, and not till after sun-rise of 
the day next following that of the offence, in the presence either of 
one free person, or of six slaves (in which case the owner, &c. must 
prove he could not procure a free witness within twenty-four hours), 
to witness the infliction, besides the person ordering it. Punish- 
ment shall not be repeated on the same day, nor until the delinquent 
has recovered from former punishment §. 

• No restraint is imposed on the Assistant Protectors a3 to holding slaves. 
This is a most important defect. Dr. MacTurk, for example, will now be, 
ex-officio, an Assistant Protector of slaves. 

t Wages are allowed by the Court of Policy only in the case of picking 
coffee or cotton ; but this is a labour which ought on no account to be allowed 
to be carried on on a Sunday. With as much reason, nay, with more, might 
it be allowed, iu this country, to make hay or reap corn on a Sunday, or to 
perform any other harvest work. Such a practice is defended on a pretence 
■which is altogether unfounded ; namely, that coffee and cotton ripen so suddenly 
that they would be totally lost if not immediately picked. The other opera- 
tions spoken of ought unquestionably to be paid for. Why should persons mend 
a dam, or turn coffee or cotton, on a Sunday, without being paid for their 
labour ? Again : what are those existing laws, which are alluded to, but not 
specified, and which are to modify all this exemption from Sunday labour ? 

t See the Second Report of the Anti-slavery Society, p. 72. 

$ We greatly regret that Lord Bathurst should have given way as to the 
substitution of six slaves for one free person as witnesses of punishment. It 



DEMERARA — discussions on reform. 29 

§ 14 prohibits the flogging of female slaves absolutely, under a pe- 
nalty of 1400 guilders, or imprisonment from one month to six 
months; and substitutes the punishments, as in Trinidad, of solitary 
confinement, with or without work ; and of stocks, and distinguishing 
dresses, and marks of various kinds ; all which may also be substi- 
tuted in the case of males. Confinement for more than twelve hours 
can be ordered only by the Fiscal, who may extend it, together with 
labour in the tread-mill, to a month, or otherwise proceed according 
to the existing laws of the colony *. 

§ 15. A record book is to be kept by every person having a gang 
of slaves exceeding sixf, and on every estate; in which must be 
entered, within forty-eight hours (why this delay ?), the punishment 
inflicted on any female slave, or on any male slave exceeding three 
lashes ; the nature of the offence; the time and place of punishment ; 
the names of the persons ordering it, and of the persons witnessing 
it,- and the number of stripes actually inflicted. False entries, erasure, 
&c. are to be punished with a fine of 300 guilders, or imprisonment 
for not more than three mouths. A copy of this record must be 
delivered every six months, on oath, under a penalty of 300 guilders. 

§§ 19, 20, are intended to regulate the marriage of slaves, with the 
permission of the owner, &c. ; such owner, however, if he refuses 
permission, being to be called upon by the Protector to shew good 
cause for so doing. They are to be married without fee or reward, 
by any minister either of the Church of England, or Scotland, or 
Holland, or any licenced teacher within the colony; a register of 
the same being kept: " Provided always, that such marriage shall 
in no manner confer on the slaves any of those civil rights which by 
marriage are acquired by persons of free condition, nor subject such 
slaves to any penal infliction, the effects of which might destroy the 
rights or injure the property of their owners J." 

is a dangerous innovation, to make the witnesses persons so wholly dependant 
on the punisher as his own slaves must be ; and to suppose that a free person 
could not be found to witness a punishment, if not in 24 hours yet in 48 or 72 
hours (and where is the evil, in such a case, of delay ?), is absurd. 
Besides, it is in the power of the plauters to add to the number of free per- 
sons in the colony. 

* It is impossible not to be extremely jealous of such vague and undefined, 
references to existing laws— rlaws existing somewhere else than in this new 
slave code — because it is impossible to know to what extent oppression may 
be sanctioned by such loose and sweeping terms. 

t No good reason can be given, why, it' persons not possessing more than six 
slaves should not be subject to this regulation, they should not refer the 
offences of their slaves to the magistrate. Persons in low circumstances 
are both less likely to restrain their passions, and are less liable to observation, 
than others. The very circumstances, therefore, which render it expedient 
to exempt the owner from the necessity of keeping a record-book, and 
making a due return of its contents, make it still more expedient to exempt 
the slave from liability to punishment, at least beyond three lashes, without 
the interference of the magistrate. 

t The Court of Policy say that they have laboured to obviate the diffi- 



30 DEM ERAR A— discussions on reform. 

§ 21. Every female slave who isfailhfulin marriage, shall receive 
from her owner, &c, for her first child twelve, and for every other, 
fifteen guilders; and when she has six children living, she shall be 
exempt from labour in the field, or any other than light work, uuder 
a penalty of 300 guilders. (Why not made free?) 

§ 22. Owners of estates shall provide food for slaves at the rate 
of one acre for five Negroes, from which a reasonable weekly 
allowance shall be made them ; or shall otherwise purchase or pro- 
cure a sufficient supply ; and shall provide them with proper clothing; 
under a penalty of 90 guilders for every acre deficient, and of 150 
for every slave not properly provided for. 

§ 23. The hours for field work of slaves, shall be from six o'clock 
in the morning till six o'clock in the evening, two hours being al- 
lowed them during that period for rest and meals; under a penalty 
of 300 guilders *. 

culties which must arise from adopting the Trinidad code, which makes the 
marriage of slaves, " to all intents and purposes, binding, valid, and effectual 
in law," — " but that the civil rights acquired by marriage are so numerous 
and complicated, that it is found impracticable to adopt or modify this expres- 
sion." Lord Bathurst, in his letter of the 24th November 1824, had intimated 
that the particular ill effects which were apprehended from the rights of mar- 
riage should be specified, and especially guarded against. The Court of 
Policy have not chosen to comply with his Lordship's suggestion ; but repeat 
the same vague assertion, in the same vague manner, without any proof or 
specification whatever. Why could they not have stated what the various civil 
rights are which marriage confers ; and which of these rights they deem wholly 
incompatible with the slavery of Demerara, and with their own rights and 
property as masters ? This at the least they are bound to do. 

"* Now, in this apparently precise enactment, there is nevertheless much 
ambiguity. — "The hours of field-work" But is there no species of labour but 
that of field-work? Pulping coffee, or ginning cotton, or grinding and boiling 
sugar, is not field-work. AgaiH, collecting grass for the horses, cattle, and 
live stock, is not deemed field-work, and yet it forms a cruel aggravation of 
the daily task. The practice is thus described by the Missionary Smith : — 
** Soon after sun-set (which is always within about fifteen minutes of six), they 
leave off work in the field; and each one, having cut or picked a bundle of 
grass for the master's horses, which serves instead of hay, an article not made 
in the West Indies, they bend their course homewards. They all carry the 
grass to a certain spot, forming a general muster, and there remain, in the open 
air, often shivering with cold, till the cracking of the whip informs them they 
are to take it to the stable, which is generally at about eight o'clock. If there 
be no other work to do, they may then go home. I say, if there be no other 
work ; for, after toiling all day, many of the slaves are frequently compelled to 
work half the night," &c. But if any one is disposed to question Mr. Smith's 
authority, he has only to refer to the Minutes of the Trial of the Insurgents in 
1823, published by Mr. Herbert, the fiscal, and Mr. Wray, the judge, in order 
to find the practice incidentally recognised as of regular occurrence. Now 
of this practice what says Dr. Collins, a physician and planter of St. Vincent's, 
the author of the work called " The Professional Planter," a work of high au- 
thority, even with West Indians ? He says, ''The neglect of grass-picking is 
another frequent cause of punishment. On some estates it draws more stripes 
on the Negroes than all their other offeuces put together, as the lash seldom 
lies idle while the grass-roll is calling over." He strongly advises that the 
practice should be entirely abolished, " because it encroaches much on the 



demerara — discussions on reform. 31 

§ 24 provides for the employment on estates of a medical practi- 
tioner, and the erection of a hospital, under the penalty of 600 
guilders. 

§ 25. If any slave dies suddenly, information shall be given to the 
Protector or Assistant Protector, or, if this cannot be done, to some 
respectable inhabitant ; who, attended by a medical practitioner, 
shall inspect the corpse and certify the result. 

§ 26. Husband and wife, aud children under sixteen years of age, 
are not to be separated by judicial sales.— -There is no restraint im- 
posed on any other kind of sale. 

§§ 27, 28. No slave shall be deemed incompetent to purchase, 
acquire, possess, hold, enjoy, alienate, or dispose of property, as 
money, cattle, implements of husbandry, household furniture, or 
other effects of such like nature, honestly and lawfully acquired, save 
and except arms and ammunition, and such colonial produce as is 
prohibited to be sold by the existing law (being, in fact, all export- 
able produce). But it shall not be lawful for any slave to keep any 
stock or animals on the land of his owner, without the owner's con- 
sent ; and if he should refuse to remove them when required, the 
owner may destroy them. Slaves may sue their debtors, through 
their owners, or through the Protector. Owners, or other free per- 
sons, unjustly withholding the property of slaves, shall on conviction 
be made to restore it, and be further liable to fine and imprisonment, 
at the discretion of the court. Savings' Banks shall be established, 
in which slaves may deposit their property, being at liberty also to 
bequeath their deposits *. 

§ 29. No duty, tax, or fee shali be taken on the manumission of 
slaves, except a fee of 22 guilders for registering the deed, to be paid 
out of the colony chest, under a penalty of from 100 to 1000 guilders. 

§ 30. Any owner desirous of manumitting a slave shall give notice 
of his intention to the Protector; and if the Protector thinks the 
slave likely to become a burthen to the public, he is then to regulate 
the amount of the security or deposit to be given. He is also to give 
public notice of the intended manumission, with a view of enabling 
any one, having a right so to do, to oppose such manumission ; and 
in case of an action, the slave shall be defended in such action by the 
Protector, and the decree of the court of justice shall be binding. 



time allotted to their own use." See also Watson's Defence of Methodist 
Missions, for further proofs of the cruel and pernicious effects of this practice 
which still subsists, aud, in spite of such a clause as this, will still subsist in 
Demerara. 

* The Trinidad Order empowers the slaves to hold land : the Demerara 
Draft does not. This is a most material omission. The Court of Policy de- 
fend the clause which forbids slaves to possess exportable produce, by the 
passage in Lord Bathurst's letter to Sir R. Woodford already alluded to. (See 
note, p. 35.) If this clause be maintained, farewell to all hope of productive 
industry and accumulation ou the part of the slaves, whether in Trinidad or 
Demerara. 



32 d E M E R A R A— discussions on reform. 

If there be no opposition, then it shall be in the power of the owner 
to manumit his slave *. 

§§31, 32. The law of evidence is pretty much the same as in the 
Trinidad Order in Council, except that in some respects it improves 
upon that Order. It does not exclude the evidence of slaves in civil 
suits in which the owner is concerned, nor in cases where a White 
person may be charged with a capital offence. This blot in the Tri- 
nidad Order is avoided in the Demerara Draft. 

§§ 33, 34. The salary of the Protector shall be in lieu of all fees ; 
and if he shall take any fee or perquisite, he shall pay a fine equal 
to twice the amount, and be disqualified for the office of Protector. 
His salary is to be paid him half-yearly, but not until he shall have 
made all the required returns; namely, returns of the number and 
particulars of all actions and suits, or criminal prosecutions, in which 
he was concerned as Protector, with the accounts of the Savings' 
Banks, the records of punishments, &c. 

§ 35 appropriates the fines and forfeitures. 

* This enactment is as far removed a3 possible from the spirit and tendency 
of the corresponding enactment of the Trinidad Order. That order enacts, 
that if any slave shall be desirous to purchase his own or her own freedom, or 
that of wife or husband or child or brother or sister, he may do so : and if the 
owner be unwilling, or be unable, from mortgages, or minority, or lunacy, &c. 
&c. to grant his manumission ; or if the owner demand a greater sum than his 
fair and just value ; then the chief Judge shall summon the parties before him ; 
and if either of the parties shall refuse, or be unable, to effect such manumis- 
sion, then one appraiser shall be appointed by the owner, and another by the 
Protector, and an umpire by the chief Judge, who shall value the slave ; and, 
on the payment of this appraised value, the slave shall be manumitted ; such 
value being lodged in the treasury of the island, to abide the claim of the 
party lawfully entitled to the slave. The Court of Policy enter info a laboured 
vindication of their refusal to adopt the principle of the Trinidad code in this 
respect. "The court have felt it to be beyond their power" " to give their 
sanction to any measure which could, even by construction, imply an acknow- 
ledged right on the part of the slave to demand his freedom, invito domino. — 
They feel themselves called upon to avow the principle, that they have not the 
right to invade the property of their fellow-colonists, by admitting that they 
can in any manner be deprived of it contrary to the law by which it is secured 
to them, and which his Majesty has been graciously pleased to guarantee by 
the Articles of Capitulation "(as if articles of capitulation were at all binding 
subsequently to the cession of a colony in full sovereignty). ''The Spanish 
law allows a slave to enfranchise himself by purchase : the Dutch law gives no 
such right whatever to a slave. Here the interest of an owner in his slave is 
that of fee-simple absolute." "Let the Spanish law be what it may, it can 
never alter the existing law of this colony." " Slaves in this colony are chattels, 
as much as any other moveable property." " Neither is it the law that proprie- 
tors can be forced to dispose of their property, real or personal, when its value 
is offered to them by others. To give to the slave the right of purchasing him- 
self, against the will and consent of his owner, will annihilate the right of the 
owner, and confer on the slave a power which no other person possesses." An 
attempt is then made to point out the injurious effect, even to the slave himself, 
of thus giving him the power of purchasing his freedom ; but it is too absurd 
to require exposure. It is, in fact, an attempt to satisfy the people of England 
that slavery is a much better thing than freedom. The time is gone by for 
such fooleries. 



DOMINICA. 33 

§ .16- If any person shall be twice convicted of inflicting on a slave 
a cruel and unlawful punishment, he shall incur double the penalty 
of cruelty before mentioned, and shall be declared incapable of hav- 
iug the management of any slaves within the colony ; and if he is the 
owner, his estate shall be placed under curators, who shall manage 
the same : the owner, however, being at liberty to sell or dispose of it. 

§ 37. Nothing in this order is to be construed as extending to re- 
peal any of the regulations respecting the treatment of slaves enacted 
ihe 23d March 1735, except in as far as they may be repugnant to 
these regulations*. 

There is one entire omission in this draft : it is that clause which 
is numbered 2L in the Trinidad Order in Council, and which ordains 
that if any owner, &c. is prosecuted for cruelly and unlawfully punish- 
ing a slave, and if the slave alleged to be illegally punished is pro • 
duced in court with the marks upon him of recent flogging or lace- 
ration, and such slave shall make a consistent statement of the cir- 
cumstances, then the owner shall be bound to prove, either that the 
punishment was not inflicted by him or with his consent, or that it was 
a lawful punishment, and was lawfully inflicted ; and, in default of such 
proof, shall be adjudged guilty of the offence imputed to him. The 
Court of Policy labours hard to prove that it would be radically un- 
just to adopt this course of proceeding (p. 268) ; but Lord Bathurst 
will probably find as solid a reply to their reasoning on the subject,, 
as he has given to the remonstrance of the Trinidad planters againsfc 
the same regulation. 

VIII. DOMINICA. 

The legislature of Dominica was for a time very vehement in its* 
denunciations against the efforts of the abolitionists to ameliorate the 
condition of the slaves, and took pains to produce a general confe- 
deracy of the West-Indian colonies for the maintenance of the whip 
in its plenitude of power. Of late it has been remarkably quiescent. 
The Parliamentary Papers barely notice its existence. In August 
1824, the Governor, Nicolay, says he has reason to believe that the 
legislature will, on its meeting, carry into effect Lord Bat hurst's 
wishes. His only subsequent communication is dated the 28th 
March 1825, and is as follows : — 

" It is matter of much regret to me, that I am still unable to report 
that the legislature of this colony has passed an act for the melioration 
of the condition of the slave population, though I have repeatedly 
and strongly urged the subject, both by public message and other 
means. 

" A bill to that effect was long ago introduced ; but, after much 
discussion, it has not been completed. A new bill is to be brought in 
immediately ; and I trust no farther obstacles will arise, though I 

* See above, second note p. BO. 



34 GRENADA.— HONDURAS, 

greatly fear it will not comprise all the wished-for amendments in 
the slave laws ; for I plainly perceive, even among the best disposed 
of the proprietors, an apprehension, that, by going to the full extent 
that has been recommended, they may relinquish what they consider 
to be necessary authority over the slaves. 

" The only consolation under these delays, is the conviction, that, 
throughout this island, the slaves in general are contented and happy, 
and their treatment is certainly very good." (A. pp. 95, 96.) So, 
doubtless, the planters tell him. 

IX. GRENADA. 

The history of the progress of reform in this colony will also oc- 
cupy but a very narrow space. On the 5th of September 1824, the 
President, Paterson, writes, that an amended slave-code had been 
brought forward in the legislature, and would be further considered 
in October. The legislature met in October, but postponed the con- 
sideration of the subject till November. On the 2d of December, 
President Paterson states, that the Slave Act had been impeded by 
the great difference of opinion existing on some points ; but he still 
hopes to see the work completed. The slaves he stales to be per- 
fectly quiet and contented, and the planters are anxious to make 
them so ; he himself, of course, being one of them. On the 5th of 
March 1825, he writes, that the Bill bad at length passed the As- 
sembly, and was before the Council ; but nothing further has since 
been communicated on the subject. (A. pp. 97 — 100.) 



X. HONDURAS. 

No report has yet been made to Parliament of the final fate of the 
Indians unjustly and cruelly enslaved in this colony, and whom 
Colonel Arthur had endeavoured to restore to the enjoyment of their 
liberties. 

In this colony there are only 2,600 slaves, and 2,100 free persons 
of all descriptions. The peculiar circumstances of the colony render 
slavery much less oppressive there than in most other colonies. 

Captain Maclean, a Naval officer, makes a report (see Paper G.) 
respecting this colony, dated 2d March 1824, in which, after praising 
the treatment of the slaves, he observes, that he has recently read 
reports which contradict his statement, and which he believes 
to be wholly erroneous. But this is rather a rash and unwarranted 
assertion on the part of Captain Maclean; the acts of cruelty, to 
which he alludes as unfounded, being as satisfactorily proved, by in- 
contestable evidence, as the fact which he affirms of the general good 
treatment of the Honduras slaves when compared with that of other 
colonies. We believe both to be true. 



J A M A I c A — proceedings of the assembly. 35 



XI. JAMAICA. 

The progress of reform in this island has not been such as to 
require much detail. Every one, who is cognisant of the course of 
public events, must be aware of the determined hostility evinced 
by the legislature of Jamaica, in particular, to every proposition, 
emanating from this country, for ameliorating the condition of the 
slaves, with a view to their ultimate emancipation. The violence of 
opposition manifested by the Assembly has been only exceeded by 
the still more unmeasured resistance of the parish vestries, and the 
absolute rage of the journalists. The people of Jamaica appear to 
have imagined that the loudness of their clamour would have the 
effect of shaking the concurrent purpose of the Government and 
Parliament and People of England, with respect to the reform and 
ultimate abolition of the slave system. They little know either their 
own weakness and insignificance, or the power of public opinion in 
this country, if they suppose that by all their ravings they can 
materially retard that purpose. It is fixed, and must ere long render 
absolutely nugatory every opposing effort. 

On the meeting of the Jamaica legislature, in November 1824, the 
Governor, the Duke of Manchester, seemed to indulge an expecta- 
tion that some progress would have been made in the reform of the 
slave system. A Bill was introduced, admitting the evidence of 
slaves, under certain regulations ; and, though " some little clamour 
was at first excited" by it, yet his Grace entertained a hope of its 
passing. But even this slight indication of a better spirit was of 
short duration j for the Bill in question was lost, on the second 
reading, by a majority of thirty-four to one ; and the Duke of Man- 
chester, when on the 24th of December 1824 he acquaints Lord 
Bathurst with the termination of the session, feels himself obliged to 
express an apprehension that his Lordship will be dissatisfied with 
the proceedings of the Assembly. He seems, indeed, to attach some 
importance to two Acts, passed in the course of the session, " as 
affording protection and encouragement to the slaves ; and still more 
so as indicating an intention, on the part of the Assembly, of doing 
more hereafter." (A. p. 11.) They will do more hereafter, we have 
no doubt; but it will only be when they are compelled to do it. As 
for the Acts in question, they confer benefits directly on the master ; 
but on the slaves only indirectly and remotely, through him. Slaves 
had hitherto been exempt from all mesne process on Sundays, not 
on account of any debts of their own, for they had none, but on 
account of their master's debts. Sunday, therefore, was the only 
day on which a needy planter (and nine-tenths of the resident planters 
are needy men) could permit his slaves to carry their surplus provi- 
sions, or on which he himself could send them with his produce, to 
market, without the imminent risk of their being seized by the 



36 Jamaica — proceedings of the assembly. 

marshall. This exemption, as it respects slaves, is extended, by the 
Act of last session, to Saturday as well as Sunday. Now this exemp- 
tion, which the West Indians would represent to be intended as a 
boon to the slave, is in fact a still greater boon to the master. It is 
the master's property in the slave, and that alone, which this law 
protects ; and it is against the effect of the master's insolvency, and 
not against that of the slave, that it guards. The Act is as follows : 
—"Whereas, in these times of general distress, many planters are' 
greatly indebted, and by reason of such debts are unable to allow 
their slaves to go abroad upon any other than the Sabliath-day ; and 
whereas it is expedient to render the Sabbath as much as possible a 
day of rest, and for religious worship ; and whereas it would be right 
and proper that slaves should be protected in some other day in the 
week, beside Sunday, from being taken or levied upon for debt, under 
any piocess issuing out of any of the courts of justice in this island, 
or by collecting constables for taxes ; it is therefore enacted, That, 
from and after the 1st day of Jauuary next, it shall not be lawful to 
make any levy upon any Negro, or other slave, on Saturday ; and 
that they shall be exempt from all such process, and also from levies 
by collecting constables, on that day, the same as on Sunday." (A. 
p. 12.) The planters of Jamaica, therefore, have in fact availed 
themselves of the clamour for reform to raise additional barriers 
against their creditors, by an Act which, we admit, to a certain 
degree protects the slave also, but which, at the same time, does so 
no farther than the planters shall please. The slave cannot legally 
pass the bounds of his master's estate without his written permission. 
The other Act, for which the legislature of Jamaica desire credit, 
is one for " removing Impediments to the Manumission of Slaves by 
Owners having only a limited Interest," (A. p. 13)— not for removing 
impediments in the way of the slave who wishes to obtain his free- 
dom, but in the way of the master who, from interest or favour, may 
wish to give it. This vaunted Act, therefore, goes no farther than 
the point at which the planters of Demerara are resolved to stop, 
if they can prevail on Lord Bathurst to permit them to do so. 
(see p. 43.) 

At the close of the session, a Report was made to the House of 
Assembly, by a Secret Committee " appointed to inquire into the 
rise, progress, and means used to suppress the late disturbances ; 
and whether any and what Negroes have behaved themselves faith- 
fully and meritoriously, to their owners and the public, during such 
disturbances ; and whether any of them deserve rewards for the same." 
(A. p. 15.) This Report contains matter well worthy of notice. It 
begins with enumerating the different disturbances among the slaves 
which had taken place — namely, in St. Mary's, St. George's, St. 
James's, and Hanover. Each of these, it is asserted, had for its 
object, on the part of the slaves, to obtain their freedom, and to 
destroy the White inhabitants. These disturbances, it is further 
affirmed, did not originate in any cruel treatment or privation which 



JAMAICA — proceedings of the assembly, 37 

the slaves experienced * ; the very insurgents themselves declaring, 
at the place of execution, that they were contented and happy tili 
they imbibed the notion that the King and Wilberforce had made 
them free-f; — an idea which is said to pervade the island, and to 
have taken full possession of the Negro mind ; producing a totally 
altered behaviour, excluding the former feelings of subjection, and 
of respect and affection for their masters, whom they now regard as 
their bitterest enemies. These evils the Committee affirm to have 
been aggravated by the frequent renewal of discussions in the British 
Parliament respecting slavery ; the effect of all which, they predict, 
will be, that a flame will be kindled, which, if ever extinguished, will 
only be quenched in blood. This state of things is represented by 
the Committee as forcing the master to relinquish all attempts to 
ameliorate the condition of his slaves, lest they should be regarded 
as compulsory, and thus excite feelings of triumph in the Negro 
bosom. They deprecate, therefore, as impolitic, the discussion at 
this particular season of any question relative to the slave code ; — a 
\iew of the subject which appears to them to be greatly strengthened, 
in the case of Jamaica, by the proximity and the circumstances of 
Hayti. The cost caused by the late disturbances they state to have- 
amounted to 15,270/. 12s. ll|d. This expense, occasioned entirely 
by the agitation of the question of slavery by Mr. Buxton, they 
think ought to be defrayed by the mother country ; and they there- 
fore recommend that an application should be made to the British 
Government, to reimburse the island for the expense already sustain- 
ed, as well as amply to indemnify it against future losses. The 
Committee go on to recommend that freedom should be given to 
certain slaves, and pecuniary reward to certain free Persons of 
Colour, who had rendered essential services to the island by the 
discoveries they had made, and the evidence they had giveu, re- 
specting the different insurrections. Two, however, of those wit- 
nesses, on whose unsupported testimony many of the alleged in- 
surgents had been convicted and hanged, or transported, Charles 
Mack and John Baptiste Corberand, and to whom freedom and 
reward had been promised — these two witnesses,notwithstanding their 
signal and efficient services, the Committee recommend to be sent 
off the. island, " as persons of a most dangerous character to remain 
at large in this colony." The Report thus concludes : " The Com- 
mittee cannot draw this Report to a conclusion, without bestowing 
its mead of praise on the zeal and alacrity shewn by the regulars in 
Hanover, and by the militia regiments throughout the disturbed 
districts, both by the Whites and free People of Colour. The con- 

* This is contrary to the evidence in the only case of disturbance which 
really occurred, namely, that of Hanover. 

- + This statement is wholly unfounded, at least as it respects any of the per- 
sons executed ; no allusion whatever to any confession of the kind having 
appeared in the newspapers of the island, or being to be found iu the report 
of the trials. 



38 JAMAICA — proceedings of the assembly. 

duct of the latter evinced a warm interest in the welfare of the 
colony, and every way identified them with those who are the 
most zealous promoters of its internal security. And the Committee 
also thiwk it right to notice the good conduct of the Maroons in 
Charlestown, St. George's." 

Such is the Secret Report of the Assembly *, on which we proceed 
to make a few brief observations. 

1. With respect to the alleged disturbances, our conviction, after 
a careful perusal of the whole of the evidence, is, that no design of 
insurrection or rebellion was formed by the Negroes, in any of the 
cases specified in this Report. t This we hope hereafter to prove. Ii» 
the mean time, it is obvious to remark, that, in the then existing state 
of the question respecting the reform of the slave system, nothing 
could have occurred more seasonably, for the purpose of exciting 
prejudice against the measures of the abolitionists, than the discovery 
of an insurrection. It was impossible not to perceive that this was 
the very thing wanted to produce exasperation in the colonies, and a 
strong disinclination to interference at home. It had been affirmed 
by the colonists, that insurrection would inevitably follow the agita- 
tion of this question : their representations, they naturally felt, 
would have been discredited, and the efforts of the abolitionists en- 
couraged, had this confident prediction been falsified. • Any one,, 
therefore, who might be unprincipled enough to pander to the eager 
appetite for plots and conspiracies, naturally prevailing among the 
colonists at such a time, was sure to reap advantage from occupying, 
himself in their fabrication. It is not in Jamaica alone that such ■& 
result was to be apprehended: the history of, England sufficiently 
illustrates the dangers of this kind which never fail to attend an ex- 
tremely agitated state of the public mind. No one will argue that a 
Titus Oates could find credit only in England ; or that the delusion 
of feigned plots might not, in certain circumstances, be found a* 
strong in Jamaica as it ever was amongst ourselves. Alarm once 
excited, all calm consideration of the reasonableness of the alarm is 
at an end. Fear is the natural passion of the tyrant, and cruelty the 
never-failing effect of its unrestrained operation. Rumours of the 
most extrvagaut kind gain instant belief. Suspicions light as air are 
converted into irrefragable proofs. The danger is assumed to be 
unquestionable; and he who affects to doubt it, runs the risk of 
being deemed a traitor to his caste and country. In such a state of 
things, the man who comes forward with details, however impro- 
bable, which are confirmatory of the prevailing apprehension, and 
which open a prospect of satiating the hatred and lust of vengeance 
generally felt towards the supposed conspirators, is hailed as a,' 
deliverer. No reward is thought too great for his deserts. Let him 
but reveal a plot, and name the plotters, and he is sure of universal 

* The examinations and evidence taken by this Committee were ordered to 
be deposited with the Clerk of the House. We trust they will be moved 
tor in Parliament. 



JAMAICA— slave insurrectidns. 39 

credit and universal favour. To accuse, in such a case, is to condemn ; 
and to the impatient alarmists, who feel as if the knife was at their 
own throats, even West-Indian Justice will seem tardy, and appear to 
limp in her progress to the gibbet — the only consummation which is 
thought of, for one moment, especially in the case of Black men who 
have dared to " imagine the death of a White." If these observation* 
are kept in mind, ihey will sufficiently explain all the phenomena of 
the trials and executions which have disgraced this part of his Ma- 
jesty's dominions during the period to which the Jamaica Report re- 
fers. To the details of those trials we will come hereafter. 

2. Whether the conspiracies, of which the Report speaks, were 
real or not, it is obvious that they would be equally, and as a matter 
of course, referred by the planters to one cause; namely, the agitation, 
of the question of slavery in the British Parliament. To bring the 
past efforts of the abolitionists into disrepute, and to prevent their 
being renewed, by representing them as productive of blood and 
devastation, had been the uniform policy of the holders of slaves from 
the year 1787 to the present hour. It had been long their grand 
weapon of defence against the inroads of justice and humanity, and 
had so often proved successful, in thoroughly alarming the timid and 
the ignorant, and in relaxing the efforts of benevolence itself, that any 
one might have predicted, with absolute certainty, that it would have 
been resorted to on the renewed agitation of this great question. In 
one of the first publications of the Anti-slavery Society (the Ap- 
pendix to the Debate of the 15th of May 1S23, p. 227) allusion 
was distinctly made to the alarms which would not fail to be 
sedulously created by means of rumours of apprehended or of actual 
insurrection — rumours quite familiar to all who lived during the 
slave-trade controversy. There was then a regular importation of 
them from time to time ; so it was foretold it would be again. The 
prediction has been verified ; and all the new plots which have been 
got up, have issued, like the old, in the destruction, not of any 
White life, but of Black lives in great abundance. 

3. But, supposing the danger from such discussions to be as great 
as the planters represent them to be (a supposition which their own 
conduct altogether contradicts), what is their obvious policy, and the 
obvious policy of this country 1 Is it not to put a speedy end to a 
state of things so fearfully pregnant with alarm ; which cannot even 
be approached without the risk of explosion ; which cannot be 
spoken of, even in a whisper, without involving rebellion and 
massacre? The planters think differently. They make the very 
existence of such dangers the special ground for determining to per- 
petuate the abuses and evils which cause them. They will not ame- 
liorate the condition of their slaves : they will not even take those 
steps which " prudence and humanity might suggest" to that end, 
lest they should give a triumph to the Negro mind. (A. p. 16.) 
But why, it may be asked, did they not of themselves take these 
steps, when, according to their own shewing, they might have been 
taken with safety ? The fact is, the colonists never have taken. 



40 Jamaica — slave insurrections. 

and they never will take, one step in the career of reform, but as 
they are driven to it by the dread of the interference of the supreme 
authority of the state ; and even then what they do will be wholly 
inoperative. 

4. The Assembly proposes that this country should reimburse to 
them the cost of suppressing the disturbances that have taken place. 
It is to be hoped that they will bring this proposition regularly before 
Parliament. There will then be an opportunity of discussing the 
whole case on its merits; of ascertaining the grounds on which so 
many of our fellow-creatures have been put to death or transported ; 
and of exposing to public view those outrages on all law and justice, 
denominated trials, which, in the name of the King, have been per- 
petrated in Jamaica. 

5. It seems to be assumed by the Assembly of Jamaica as a maxim 
in jurisprudence, that the witnesses of plots are to be rewarded for 
their testimony*. All (with the exception of two) who have given 
evidence against the alleged conspirators, are to be rewarded — the 
slaves with freedom ; the free with money. The practice of thus 
remunerating witnesses after they have given their testimony, is suffi- 
ciently objectionable ; but if it shall appear that the principle has 
been acted upon of promising this remuneration beforehand, then it 
cannot be denied that justice has been corrupted at its very source. 
This point will be exemplified hereafter. With respect to the two 
individuals who, instead of being rewarded for the evidence they 
gave, according to the promise made to them, are to be transported 
for life as dangerous characters, it will be found that they are thus 
punished instead of being rewarded, because, by their subsequent 
prevarications and inconsistencies, they have completely damnified 
the evidence they had previously given, and on which so many indi- 
viduals had been unjustly condemned and executed. Possibly, also, 
it may be discovered hereafter, that it was highly expedient to 
have these men removed out of the way, lest, in the case of an inves- 
tigation, by Commission or otherwise, the whole of the alleged plots, 
a part of which they had been the instruments of fabricating, should 
be exposed in all their fraud and falsehood to the public reprobation. 

6. The merited compliment paid to the People of Colour, is a 
complete answer to those allegations of conspiracy among them 
which were brought forward to justify the unjust arrest and deporta- 
tion of Lecesne and Escoffery. 

We come now to the trials which took place in Jamaica of slaves 
accused of insurrection. The first occurred in St. Mary's, in the 
month of December 1823 (see E. pp. 37 — 45). On the evening of 
the 16th, about eight o'clock, a Mr. Roberts, residing in Port Maria, 
was told, by a Negro boy of the name of William who waited upon 
him, that he had learnt from his father, James Sterling — a slave on 
Frontier estate, belonging to Archibald Sterling, Esq. — that " they 
would have a bad Christmas," as the Negroes were going to rise and 

* This maxim, as we have seen, is law in Barbadoes. (supra, p. 17.) 



JAMAICA — trial of insurgents : Saint Mary s. 41 

murder the Whites. In consequence of this ' information, James 
Sterling and seven other slaves were apprehended and put upon their 
trial, which took place at the court-house of the parish on the 19ih. 
" I thought it my duty, 5 ' observes the Hon. Henry Cox, one of the 
magistrates, who acted as a judge on the occasion, in a letter to the 
Governor's Secretary, dated the- 20th December — "I thought it my 
duty to insist on the magistrates trying the Negroes that had been 
taken, immediately ', and to send their trial and sentence express ; as 
it will, in my opinion, be highly important for the safety of the 
parish, and probably of the island, that they should be executed 
before the holidays, as an example to the other Negroes, and to 
prevent the danger of an escape, or an attempt to release them." 
" 1 have taken up and issued orders for the capture of every Negro 
against whom there is the least suspicion, and shall try all, or any of 
them, as soon as I think I have sufficient evidence to convict them. 
Some Negro houses have been searched ; but as no arms of any kind 
have been found in them, it appeared that the Negroes had taken the 
alarm, and it would be harassing the men to no purpose to continue 
the search*." 

But, to come to the trials — The following is the account given of 
the trial of James Sterling, the Negro already named, the father of 
William the informant. He was charged " with being concerned in 
rebellious conspiracies, and committing other crimes, to the ruin and 
destruction of the White people and others in this island ; and for 
causing, exciting, and promoting others to aid and assist therein ;" 
and with entering iuto and being concerned " in rebellion, or rebel- 
lious conspiracy to commit murder, felony, burglary, robbery, and 
to set fiie to certain houses and out-houses, and to compass and 
imagine the death of the White people of the parish of St. Mary's." 

To these charges the prisoner pleaded not guilty. The following 
is the evidence, verbatim, as it appears in the papers transmitted 
from Jamaica. 

**. Ned, to James Walker, Esq., being admonished to speak the 
truth'' — (not sworn) — " says he knows the prisoner ; his former 

* Such was the state of feeling, not merely in the White community at large, 
or i'ri the jury impanelled to try the prisoners, but in a judge, who was bound 
to see impartial justice done in a case so likely to excite an unduly adverse 
leaning in the public mind. The charge brought against the prisouers was 
rebellion and rebellious conspiracy. No counsel' was assigned to them — no 
time was allowed them to prepare their defence. They were arrested on the 
17th ; on the 19th they were tried for their lives and condemned to die ; and 
on the 24th they were executed; it being " highly important," in the Opinion 
of their judge, " that they should be executed before the holidays, as an 
example to the other Negroes." The news of the plot too, he might have 
added, would just be in time for the meeting of Parliament. — But, amid all the 
alarm which prevails for the safety of the parish, and even of the island, not a 
single stand of arms is to be found. This circumstance, however, instead of 
raising a suspicion in the mind of the worthy magistrate that there had been in 
fact no rebellious conspiracy whatever, seems to have led him to the conclu- 
sion that the Negroes had taken the alarm and hid them ; and this, too, with- 
out the very slightest shadow of proof. 

G 



42 JAMAICA — trial of insurgents : Saint Mary's. 

name was Joe. Last Saturday week" (6th Dec), ** about eight 
o'clock in the evening, was going lo Frontier" (the estate to which 
the prisoner belonged) " for water ; just between the bridge and the 
spring saw prisoner and five others : as he came up they were 
talking : he heard what they said; they were going to rise at Christ- 
mas. Witness said they were talking bad words, and asked if they 
did not hear that guard was to be kept at Christmas. They then said 
they would change the day to Wednesday or Thursday this week" 
(the 17th or 18th), " being full moon. They said they would set fire 
to Frontier trash-house, and kill all White people ; and then come in 
the bay, and rise on the gentlemen and kill them, and take the bay 
to themselves. They were to set fire to the boiling-house and other 
houses. Prisoner had a cutlass, which he flourished, saying, that 
was the way he was going to serve Buckras" (i. e, White men)*. 

" William, to A. J. Roberts, Esq., being admonished to speak 
the truth"— (not sworn) — " says he went to his father the prisoner's 
house, who told him the Negroes were going to rise ; and he, witness, 
must take care of himself, and keep out of the way, in case he should 
be hurt, because they would kill evtry body. His master (Mr. Roberts) 
asked the witness if he thought the Negroes would kill him ; he said 
he did not think so, but advised him to go on board ship. His 
master asked him if he would not be safe if he went to the fort, or 
to Mr. Beard's ; he (witness) said no, he had better go on board 
ship, as the Negroes were to walk all about. He did not see his 

* The testimony of Ned bears fabrication on its face. He represents these 
dangerous conspirators as talking on the highway, at an hour when it must 
have been perfectly dark, so as to be overheard by every casual passenger ; 
and in that position they discuss aloud their whole plau, and even change the 
day of its execution on the suggestion of a person accidentally joining them. 
Never, we will venture to say, were conspirators more guiltless of danger, 
either to the parish or to the island, than those of St. Mary's. But who is this 
witness ? We learn from the Jamaica newspapers of the day, that he was one 
of the persons pointed out in the first instance by the boy William as impli- 
cated in the conspiracy. " Ned," the newspapers relate, " was apprehended, 
and brought before the magistrates, and the boy kept away. He denied the 
thing until the boy was brought as evidence to his face. He then received a pro- 
mise of pardon and of his freedom to discover the ichole, and then deposed " to the 
effect stated above. 

In the Report of the Secret Committee of the House of Assembly, it is 
recommended to the House to " reimburse to the parish of St. Mary's the sum 
of 37GI. paid by them for the manumission of certain slaves who render- 
ed essential service by the discoveries which they made." One of these 
was Ned, who, it seems, had the promise of his manumission, if we may 
believe the accounts from the spot at the time, before he made any discovery 
whatever. After that promise, and the assurance of his own immunity, he 
seems to have become willing without hesitation to confirm William's story. 
A current report is — we by no means vouch for its truth — that Ned was sub- 
jected in the first instance to the torture of the thumb-screw, without its 
succeeding to wring from him any admission of his knowledge of a conspiracy; 
but that, when the mode of attack was changed, and the offer of pardon and 
freedom substituted for the thumb-screw, he no longer scrupled to testify to 
the truth of William's accusation — who also had his freedom held out to him in 
prospect. 



JAMAICA — trial of insurgents : Saint Mary's. 43 

father among the Negroes. When Ned was with him, there were 
men and women : the men had a number of cutlasses flourishing *. 

" Mary, to George Merrilees, Esq. ; is a native of St. Domingo; 
sworn — (she was very unwilling to kiss the book, and gave her 
evidence most reluctantly) — says she knew prisoner; has seen him 
at her husband's house f. He came there the other night; he said he 
would. Witness saw him have a gun by his side : did not hear that 
prisoner was to join Charles Watson : saw the gun in her husband's 
house; is the same as a soldier's gun, with a bayonet. After her 
husband struck a light and loaded the gun, did not see who he gave 
it to. The night the prisoner had the gun, was the night the guards 
were fixed. Same time prisoner brought some bottles, he took 
away the gun. The gun prisoner had by his side was the same her 
husband had in his house %. 

" Andrew J. Roberts sworn: saith that on Monday night last, 
about eight o'clock, he scolded his Negro boy William for not getting 
his frocks, and asked him how he would appear to follow him about 
at Christmas. William said, ' Massa, you will have bad Christmas.' 
Witness said, For what? are the Negroes going to rise? He said, 
yes, his father, told him so. Witness asked him if he had seen the 
Negroes meeting. He said, yes, two times ; but that his father told 
him more than he knew at the meeting. Witness asked him if any 
of his Negroes were among them ; said, he believed George was. 
Witness asked if any more Bay Negroes : he said, yes, Mr. Walker's 
Ned and Douglas. Witness asked, if he thought they were going 
to kill all the Buckras (Whites) : said, his father told him so. Wit- 
ness then asked him what he must do ; should he go to Kingston or 
Spanish-town? He answered, no, Negroes would walk all about the 

* Here we have a son, a mere youth, brought forward to couvict his father 
of a capital crime; which capital crime is to be inferred from some loose 
conversation stated to have passed between the son and the father, whom, 
however, the son states he did not see among the Negroes. Ned, however! 
says he saw him there, with five others, who, it appears from the other trials, 
were all men. William, on the contrary, states, that, while Ned was with him, 
he saw both men and women, and a number of cutlasses flourishing. Ned' 
testifies to his having seen the conspirators only once : so that it must have 
been, if at all, on the occasion on which William saw him there, that he was 
present ; and yet, on all the trials, he states that when he was there, there 
were only six men present; and only two cutlasses flourishing — (see his evidence 
on the trial of William Montgomery, Richard Cosley, Rodney Wellington, 
and Morrice Henry, E. p. 42). — What can be more loose and disjointed than 
such testimony ? Much of William's evidence also relates in noway to the 
prisoner, but is the mere statement of a gossipping conversation between 
himself and his master, who appears to no great advantage in this strange 
colloquy with his slave. William, too, is one of those who were manumitted 
for their discoveries : his freedom was the blood-money paid him for his father's 
life. 

t Her husband, Henry Nibbs, was tried immediately after James Sterling, 
and was condemned to death, chiefly on this woman's (his wife's) testimony.' 
She was one of those who earned her freedom by her evidence. 

t Supposing all this testimony to have been perfectly correct, yet what 
does it prove in the way of rebellions conspiracy? Absolutely nothing : nay, 
it actually negatives the charge. 



44 JAMAICA— trial of insurgents: Saint Mary 1 s. 

country. Witness asked, if he should pack up his books and go to 
the fort, or Mr. Beard's, would he be safe ? He said, no, Negroes 
would walk all about, and Wentworth Negroes would rise the same 
as Frontier. Witness asked if they would kill every body ? He 
answered, yes, everybody; and advised witness and Captain Barton 
to go on board of ship, and take him with them ; would not be safe 
any where else*." 

" The prisoner, in his defence, said he thought his son William 
was a run-away, and scolded himf. He, prisoner, always attended 
his work. His master always supplied him with clothes and victuals, 
as he was an old man." — The jury found him guilty, and the court 
passed the following sentence : " That ycu, James Sterling, be 
hanged by the neck till you are dead." 

Now let the whole of this evidence -be calmly considered by any 
lawyer, and to what will it be found to amount] To rebellion, or 
rebellious conspiracy, or murder, or felony, or burglary, or robbery, 
or setting fire to houses, or out-houses, or compassing or imagining 
the death of any human being? Certainly to nothing of the kind, 
even if the whole of the evidence should be received as true. To 
James Sterling nothing, absolutely nothing, is brought home, of 
any of the charges preferred against him. No unprejudiced man 
could read the evidence without instantly pronouncing a verdict of 
not guilty. Nay, not only are ihe charges not proved, but they are 
absolutely disproved ; they are divested of every vestige of pro- 
bability. But when to the impression arising from the evidence, we 
add the consideration of the temptation held out to the witnesses; 
the breathless impatience manifested to try, condemn, and execute ; 
and the circumstance that a son is made the instrument of bringing 
his father to the gallows, we may well stand aghast at the awful 
aspect which criminal justice wears in Jamaica. 

iiut even James Sterling's trial is not half so discreditable to the 
judicial administration of St. Mary's, as that of Henry Nibbs, who is 
hanged chiefly on the evidence of his wife Mary. In this case, 
indeed, there are three or four other witnesses produced, who, 
though their testimony does not go to establish a single charge pre- 
ferred against the prisoner, yet may have appeared to make up in 
number what they wanted in weight. But on the trial of one of the 
alleged conspirators, Charles Watson, there is positively no witness 
but one, and that one the woman whose evidence hangs her husband. 

* Such a line of evidence as this, in proof of a capital charge, we wilt 
venture to say is quite unparalleled, even on the trial of the Missionary Smith: 
it does not appioach the prisoner in the slightest degree. Mr. Roberts also 
seems to have been wonderfully dependent for counsel and direction on his 
Negro boy William, whom he consults as quite oracular. 

+ The boy had been chidden by his father, and may have resented it. He 
had been scolded by his master, and may have been threatened with punish- 
ment which the mention of a plot might avert. These circumstances afforded 
at least grounds of suspicion, and should have led to an anxious cross- 
examination. 



JAMAICA— trial of insurgents: Saint Mary's. 45 

The evidence against Charles Watson is thus given : — ■" Witness's 
husband had (wo guns, one of which he gave to prisoner Friday 
week. Prisoner told witness, Negroes were going to rise at Christ- 
mas, and burn Frontier trash-house, and go down to the bay and set 
fire to the houses, and kill Buckras. Prisoner told her so in the 
house, and said some of the Frontier Negroes were good, and some 
deceitful : he meant by that, that he could not trust them with a 
secret. Prisoner said Negroes would rise at full of moon. They 
changed from Christmas to full of moon, because guard was fixed 
for Christmas. Prisoner said that they would rise on Wednesday 
night, and, if prevented then, on Thursday night; and after burning 
the buildings, take the country to themselves ; and that Nibbs (her 
husband) would go to Frontier to lend a hand. Did not hear who 
was to be head-man. They were to begin by burning the trash-house 
at Frontier, and come down on the bay softly. He said they would 
come on the bay, raise a mob, and kill the White people. Nobody 
present but witness, her husband, and prisoner*. Prisoner asked, 
what made him say what he did. She answered, he said it because 
they were all to be free." 

On the vague and unsupported evidence of this unhappy woman 
(rewarded with freedom for her evidence) was Charles Watson found 
guilty by the jury, and condemned to be hung. 

Four moie, William Montgomery, Richard Cosley, Rodney Wel- 
lington, and Morrice Henry, were, on the same day, condemned to 
the same death, on similar testimony. William, the discoverer of the 
whole, gave on this occasion a very remarkable testimony. Of the 
four, he said he knew only three ; these he saw with cutlasses, 
flourishing them : he heard them talking, but did not hear what they 
said. Ned and Douglas, he added, were with him. Plenty of 
women were there. Thought, by flourishing their cutlasses, and from 
what bis father told him, they were going to cut off Buckras' heads. 

On such evidence as has been detailed were eight human beings 
condemned to die ; and the Governor of Jamaica, after perusing that 
evidence, confirmed the sentence, and issued the fatal warrant for 
their immediate execution. They were accordingly executed on the 
24th of December, as the Hon. Henry Cox, in a letter dated the 
25tb, informs the Governor, " with all due solemnity and decorum." 
He adds, " Only one of the wretches f confessed to the Rev. Mr. 

* She was pretty secure, therefore, against contradiction. 

t This kind of language, applied lo men who had just been suffering the 
last extremity of colonial justice, indicates the spirit which actuated even their 
judges. What would have been thought of an official letter,addressed by one 
of the Judges of the Couit of King's Bench to the Secretary of State for the 
Home Department, announcing, in terms like these, the execution of Thistle- 
wood and his associates? We learn, from the Jamaica newspapers, that the 
individual who is here said to have made a confession to Mr. Girod, was 
Richard Cosley. Now, on looking into the evidence, there does not appear to 
have been a single tittle of it brought home to Aim by any one of the witnesses. 
He is one of the four who were tried together. Not one of the witnesses 
mentions him, excepting Ned, who merely says he saw him with the others. 



46 JAMAICA — trial of insurgents : Saint Mary's. 

Girod that it was their intention to have burnt Frontier works and 
Port Maria, and killed the Whites; but none would mention any 
other Negroes concerned with them, or shew any symptoms of 
religion or repentance. They all declared they would die like men, 
and met their fate with perfect indifference." (E. p. 44.) 

Such are the particulars of the formidable insurrection in St. 
Mary's, and of the sweeping and summary executions which avenged 
it. No act of violence whatever had been committed. Not a single 
weapon of any kind was found in the possession, or in the 
bouses of, the convicts, or in the houses of any other of the 
slaves. One or two guns, and a little gunpowder, had been seen 
in the possession of Henry Nibbs by his wife, which he might 
have had for the purpose of killing game ; and this appears to have 
been the total amount of warlike preparation that had been made 
for overthrowing the government of Jamaica, taking the fort at 
Port Maria, and exterminating the Whites of St. Mary's. Some 
persons must have felt how very inadequate the evidence was to sup- 
port such a case as this. On the day following the execution, there- 
fore, a Mr. Richard Gordon, overseer of Tremolesworth, is induced 
to file an affidavit, intended to satisfy any doubt that might arise as 
to whether there really had been a conspiracy which justified such 
prodigality of blood. Mr. Gordon gravely swears, " That on Wed- 
nesday night, the 17th December, lying awake, about twelve o'clock, 
he heard the report of a musket ; he got up, and, on putting his head 
out of the window, he heard horns blowing. He got up, dressed, and 
took a sabre. On looking at his watch, he found it was half-past 
twelve. Went out to the back door, and heard six different tones, or 
sounds, of a horn, in the direction of Nonsuch. Walked into the 
garden ; was there about an hour. Two Negroes in clean frocks 
passed up the road*; they went up a small distance; heard the door 
of a Negro-house open, and saw the Negroes returniug. They ap- 
peared to meet other people. They were so near him, whispering 
in conversation, he heard a voice say, * It is no use, it is no use.' 
They then went down the road. The rain set in, and he did not 
again hear the horns. They continued blowing about two hours in 
all, from about half-past twelve to half-past two o'clock. Before 
going to bed, about nine o'clock, heard five reports of guns in the 
direction of Nonsuch." (E. p. 40.) 

In what a state of morbid excitement must the minds of the good 

No one else appears to have seen him, or known him. It wonld be important, 
therefore, to have had the notes of this man's confession to the Rev. Mr. Girod 
produced. — A person, who was present at the execution of these men, has 
stated that pardon was offered on the scaffold to such of them as would acknow- 
ledge their guilt and discover their accomplices ; but that they, one and all, 
persisted in protesting their innocence, and positively refused to save their, 
lives by criminating other persons, of whose guilt they abjured all cognisance. 
— The value of these eight persons was assessed by the jury, and paid to their 
owners, at prices varying from 50/. to 1001. currency, but amounting, in all, 
to 655Z. or about 465/. sterling. 

• He could see, at midnight,- that their frocks were clean ! 



Jamaica — insurrection in Saint James's. 47 

people of Jamaica, high and low, have been, to convert stuff such 
as this into an official document furnishing evidence of insurrec- 
tion ! * 

A very striking proof of the extreme susceptibility of the public 
mind in Jamaica, for some time previous to the affair of St. Mary's, 
may be deduced from a letter officially addressed by a magistrate of 
St. James's, Mr. S. Vaughan, to the Governor's secretary. It is 
dated 9th October 1823, and evinces the eager appetite which had 
already been excited for something in the shape of a plot. " It 
appears," says Mr. Vaughan, " that there is a general expectation 
among the Negroes of freedom being given shortly by Government 
at home. The Negroes are every where behaving well, and perform 
their work as usual; but still entertain this belief. The grounds on 
which I have formed this opinion I'shall now give. — 

" 1. Mrs. Fowler saw many strange Negroes, who talked freely 
with her that they were soon to be free. 

" 2. Eliza Tucker hired a man on his own day, who talked much of 
this free, but said he did not like it, for many Negroes would be idle, 

* A person who resided in the parish of St. Mary's at the time these trials 
took place there, on perusing the above account of them, added the following 
particulars. We publish them to afford the Jamaica missionaries and others 
an opportunity of contradicting them if they are false. We believe them to 
be true. 

" The alleged conspirators belonging to Frontier Estate, were all religiously 
disposed, and were in the habit, after the hours of labour, of meeting iu each 
other's houses, often in the house of James Sterling, for prayer. A man of 
the name of Roberts, a butcher in Port Maria, was unfriendly to these meet- 
ings, which he affected to believe were held for rebellious purposes. He 
questioned the son of this James Sterling, a slave of his own, of the name of 
William, who was quite a boy, respecting these meetings, offering him his 
freedom and money if lie should be able to bring their plots to light. Accord- 
ingly the boy disclosed a plot to his master, which his master disclosed to the 
magistrates. The unfortunate Negroes who had been named were taken up 
as tbey came down from Frontier Estate with their grass for sale in town. 
The reward which awaited witnesses of plots being known, two others now 
came forward ; one a woman, Mary, who gave evidence against her husband, 
Henry Nibbs, and Mr. Walker's Ned. On the Sunday after the execution of 
the eight alleged conspirators, as this Ned was passing through the market, 
the wife of one of the slaves who had been executed, unable to control her 
feelings on seeing the false accuser, in fact the murderer, of her husband, used 
some abusive language towards him. He immediately reported the circum- 
stance to his master, who is a magistrate. This poor woman was soon after 
laid hold of, and in the presence of the concourse of people assembled in the 
market place, stretched prostrate on the ground by four Negro men, while a 
fifth inflicted a most unmerciful flogging on the bare posteriors of the wretched 
sufferer. — Henry Nibbs was an infirm old man, troubled with rheumatism, and 
incapable of much exertion, as appears from the price at which he was valued, 
namely S51. sterling. Charles Watson, another of the slaves who were executed, 
was a most harmless, inoffensive, and honest Negro, particularly noted for his 
religious dispositions, and the last to be suspected of improper conduct. Jt is 
my firm opinion that one object, with some, in these trials and executions, was 
to put an end to all the efforts of the missionaries in that quarter for the 
religious improvement of the slaves. As for Mr. Gordon, of Tremoleswortb, 
he was known to be in a state of great nervous excitement. " 



48 Jamaica — insurrection in Saint James's. 

and quarrel and fight, as in Guinea country; and who was then to 
give clothes, fish ? &c. 

" 3. The book-keeper on Caledonia estate heard a Negro complain 
of their having Saturday slopped (always more days are given them 
than the law requires); when another said, Never mind, they would 
soon have Friday also ; on which a third told him to hold his tongue, 
for they would soon be free altogether. 

!' 4. Mr. Williams stated, as a report, of some Negroes saying 
that it was long in coming, and if it did not come soon they would 
take it, or to this effect. 

" 5. Mr. Moore mentioned two Negroes had gone to two over- 
seers to ask when this free was to take place. This he had been 
informed of. 

" 6. The overseer of Bigland said the Negroes talked in the field, 
that, if they behaved well, they were soon to be free. 

"7. Mr. Walter Murray heard that the Negroes at George's Plain 
had said, on the arrival of the last packet, they would wait till next 
packet ; and that Mr. Mason, of St. James's, had heard very similar 
expressions, nearly in the same words — both alluding to the freedom 
in question," 

Such being the feeling of wakeful jealousy and suspicion in the 
mind of one of the chief magistrates of St. James's, it might be pre- 
sumed that a plot would sooner or later develop itself more distinctly. 
Accordingly, in two or three months these various floating rumours 
had acquired sufficient consistency to lead to meetings of magistrates 
and examinations; and two free Persons of Colour, named Bartibo, 
and a slave named Goldring, at last came forward to state that they 
had been at a festive meeting of Negroes, where they had heard it 
said, that, if they did not get Friday and Saturday, or their freedom, 
they would rise; and where Mr. Wilberforce's health was drunk 
with hurrahs (E. p. 47). After ten days, however, spent in examina- 
tions and in the eager pursuit of every idle rumour, and after having 
taken up and committed a number of slaves on suspicion, the magis- 
trates, on the 29lh December 1823, were of opinion, that " though 
the evidence before them proves that some mischief had been 
intended," they did not recommend any trial at present. The slaves 
supposed to be implicated in the conspiracy were nevertheless kept 
in close confinement ; and the same persons who originally gave in- 
formation continued to be examined and re-examined, their state- 
ments meanwhile improving gradually in fearful importance, by the 
invention from time to time of additional circumstances, until at 
length the affair seemed to have acquired the solidity and consistency 
of a regular plot ; and on the 28lh January 1824 it was ihought 
expedient, by Mr, Vaughan and some of his brother magistrates, to 
proceed to the trial of the supposed conspirators. Fourteen indivi-. 
duals, thirteen men and one woman, almost all belonging to Mr. 
Galloway's estate of Uuily Hall, and Mr. Kerr's estate of Spring 
Garden, were arraigned lor conspiring together, and, with other 
slaves, to enter into a rebellious conspiracy for obtaining, by force 



JAMAICA — trial of insurgents : Saint James's. 49 

and violence, and by acts of resistance to the lawful authorities, the 
freedom of themselves and others, against the peace of the king, 
his crown and dignity ; and for having attended a meeting for the 
unlawful and dangerous purpose of exciting, encouraging, and 
maintaining each other in this rebellious conspiracy, &c. The 
prisoners all pleaded not guilty. 

The only evidence against them, of the very slightest force, was 
that of the three men, Peter and Robert Bartibo, and Goldring, who 
are declared by the Jamaica Assembly (A. p. 18) to be severally 
entitled to rewards for the information which they gave of the con- 
spiracy. The temptation presented to these individuals to pursue 
the trade of plot-making, is very forcibly pointed out in one part of 
the evidence. A very respectable and intelligent female, a confi- 
dential slave of Mr. Galloway's, who had been eleven years with him 
as a servant in England, and evidently much attached to him and his 
interests, of the name of Jane M'Donald, having been called as a 
witness for the prosecution, gave the following evidence respecting 
a conversation she had had with one Bessy Bartibo, a sister of the 
two informers. Jane M'Donald remarked, with some emotion, what 
a hard thing it was for a person (alluding to one of the prisoners) for 
a little merriment to be taken up in that manner, though guilty of 
nothing: on which Bessy Bartibo said to her, "Don't you hear that 
if any free people bring out such a thing as this, they will have 
maintenance for life; and if slaves, they are to be free, and have a 
house and land for their life-time 1 " (E. p. 75.) 

But the testimony even of the Bartiboes and Goldring does not 
prove any thing beyond that idle conversation which was very likely 
to take place at a Negro merry-making, and especially where no 
harm was really intended — saving perhaps the crime of drinking Mr. 
Wilberforce's health, which appears to have been considered as the 
most serious part of the rebellion. But even to the commission of 
this overt act of treason by any of the prisoners, there is only one 
witness, Robert Bartibo. He alone heard this dangerous and in- 
flammatory toast: neither his brother nor Goldring heard it, and 
some others who were present positively deny the fact. But, in- 
dependently of the criminality of this wicked and insurrectionary 
toast, overheard only by one man, panting for the reward of such a 
notable disclosure, what is there to inculpate these poor creatures? 
Nothing but the idlest tattle. Even Robert Bartibo, though evidently 
disposed to go to all lengths, in order to satisfy the prevailing appetite 
for plots, can frame no better a conspiracy than is conveyed in the 
following statement. — There was a dance in the houses of one or two 
of the Negroes at Unity Hall. Robert Bartibo was there — not an 
invited guest, but an intruder, and sitting on a bench outside the 
house. He swore he there overheard the following conversation : 
" Trelawney* said, he heard they would get free, else Friday and 

* This Trelawney we afterwards find was a poor sickly hip-shot boy, who 
had been chiefly an inmate of the hospital for the preceding two years, and 
was. still too weak to do much work. 

H 



50 JAMAICA — trial of insurgents : St. James s. 

Saturday. William Stennett said, he had heard so, but he did not 
look for no free, nor Friday and Saturday : since he gothis clolh and 
fish he did not care for it : that was all he wauted. Trelawney said 
they would get free, else Friday and Saturday ; and if they did not 
get it, they would rise at Cbrislrnas ; and that, when they got free, 
he would not live in such small houses, but would have his master's 
great house ; and that he and the White people would be on a 
footing then. William Stennett said, that, if they got free, the 
White people would hire them to cut canes. This was in Cunning- 
ham's house, when Philip Haughton drank Wilberforce's health." 
Witness did not hear any thing else, either there or at several other 
dances at which he was present; but " almost every night, when the 
Negroes came from the field, he always heard Trelawney talking 
about free, and saying" (shouldering his crutch, we presume) " that 
it would be a word and a blow with them and the White people at 
Christmas, if they did not get free. Philip Haughton drank Wilber- 
force's health at Cunningham's house, and said that he would make 
them get free." 

With respect to the whole of the other prisoners, the utmost 
attempted to be proved against them, assuming all the evidence to 
be strictly true, was, that conversations of the following kind had 
passed between them : — James Campbell mentioned that the slaves 
were to get free. Thomas Darby said to James, he did not care 
about free ; if free came, very well ; if don't come, very well. 
James then said, that Thomas Darby lived well with his master was 
the reason he didn't care about free. — " Did you hear James say the 
people were going to rise 1 No ; he said, if free come, he would 
take it," &c. &c. 

The testimony, however, of by far the greatest part of the witnesses 
even of the Crowu, not only denies that any bad words were spoken 
at the dance, or elsewhere, by the prisoners, but is highly favourable 
to their general character and conduct. The overseer of Unity Hall, 
Thomas Aikman, who had lived there eleven years, gives them the 
most unqualified commendation. He says, " There are 232 Negroes 
on the estate: it has some bad characters as run-aways, one or two. 
They are a good working set of people, and well-disposed, as far as 
I know, and do every thing for their master's interest." Speaking 
of the prisoners, he says, Robert Galloway is head driver, a well- 
disposed Negro. Archy Buckner is head cattle-keeper, a very good 
character. Philip Haughton is a very good character ; he is second 
driver, and equal to any other, and one he would trust with any 
thing. William Stennett is as fine a Negro as he ever knew in 
Jamaica; he does not believe he ever passed an angry word with him 
since he lived on the estate. The others are field-Negroes, and 
work well. Richard Allen generally carries the first row in the gang. 
John Cunningham has a large family of six children. Trelawney has 
been an invalid for two years, " a weakly boy," (E. p. 61), doing little 
work : he is hip-shot. The character of Mary Ami Reid is good. — 
Such is Aikman's account of eight of the alleged conspirators. He 



JAMAICA — trial of insurgents ; Si. James's. 51 

next gives an account of their accusers, the Bavtiboes. " They have 
been great nuisances to the estate since he lived there. He has 
taken them up for their misconduct, and put them in the stocks; has 
frequently given orders to the Negroes to drive them off the estate, 
when they see them there ; and has even punished two or three for 
harbouring them. Fie has known them commit depredations on 
the estate. Their mother is free, but has lived as his wife with a 
slave belonging to Unity Hall ; who is a hard-working man, and sup- 
ports her, and is a great help to her family." (p. 70.) The same un- 
favourable account is given of the Bartiboes by almost every witness 
even for the Crown. Several say they would not believe them on 
their oaths ; all seem to agree that nothing good could be said of 
them : aud yet these are the men whom the Assembly of Jamaica 
crown with rewards as saviours of their country, and for the cost of 
whose perjuries they mean to apply to Parliament to indemnify the 
island. 

The overseer of Spring Garden estate gives also a highly favour- 
able character to three of the prisoners belonging to that estate. 
" He considers William Kerr, James Kerr, and Corydon to be three 
very good slaves ; never knew them guilty of any thing bad. Thinks 
they are all the very reverse of Negroes of a rebellious disposition, 
never subject to severity ; and when they came into any fault, a very 
little chastisement puts them to rights. He has every reason to sup- 
pose they are attached to their master; never knew them to injure 
the stock : when any accident happened on the estate, they seem to 
regret it as much as a White person." (p. 72.) 

Besides all this, much evidence was produced which was directly 
exculpatory, and which both repelled the alleged charges, and threw 
absolute discredit on the rewarded witnesses. 

The result of the trial is thus stated by Mr. Vaughan, who entered 
upon it, as we have seen, with a disposition to turu windmills into 
giants. " The court were divided : Mr. Barrett* and Mr. Dowuer 
were of opinion there was no conspiracy, and that there was nothing 
but common amusement; the majority, Messrs. Gray, Boyd, and 
myself, conceived there was legally conspiracy, and that there was 
great criminality. As, however, there was no specific plan proved, 
nor the possession of aims, nor preparation by exercising, nor any 
overt act of rebellion, or threat of murder of any White, or against the 
Whites, except by implication, the majority of the court did not 
think the puuishment should be capital, and stated their intention to 
the jury." (E. p. 60.) 

The jury found thirteen of the prisoners guilty. Four of them, 
Trelawney, William Kerr, Philip Haughton, and James Campbell, 
were condemned to transportation for life ; two, Garret Rainie and 

* Mr. Barrett has done himself great honour by the course he pursued on 
this occasion. His address to the jury tonus a remarkable contrast to. that or 
Mr. Vaughan. It is calm and dispassionate, and evinces the most enlarged 
views and liberal feelings. 



52 jamaiga — trial of insurgents : St. James's. 

Corydon, to hard labour for Iwelve months, and to thirty-nine lashes 
each at going in and coming out; John Cunningham, to hard labour 
for six months ; Mary Ann Reid, to hard labour for four months ; 
Robert Galloway and Richard Allen, to hard labour for three months, 
and to thirty-nine lashes each at going in and coming out; and William 
Stennett, Archy Buckner, and James Kerr, to hard labour for one 
month, and to thirty-nine lashes each at going in and coming out. 

Such were the punishments awarded by this slave court for a little 
idle gossipping about the news of the day, and for the alleged crime 
of drinking Mr. Wilberforce's health. 

The Governor, the Duke of Manchester, seems to have been justly 
shocked at the unwarranted rigour of these proceedings. Mr. Bullock 
addresses Mr. Vaughan, in the name of his Grace, to the following 
effect : — - i( After the most careful perusal of the evidence, his Grace 
has not been able to discover any concert or combination amongst the 
Negroes for any criminal purpose. There seems to have been a very 
active spirit of inquiry, which may be naturally accounted for 
without attributing to them any criminal intentions ; and their minds 
have been agitated by vague and uncertain rumours of benefits con- 
templated in their favour, the nature of which they were anxious to 
discover. This has led them to make use of inconsiderate, and in some 
instances intemperate, expressions. But the utmost extent to which 
even these expressions go, is a determination on the part of some to 
obtain what they have been deceived into a belief that they are en- 
titled to ; and theTe is no threat, no intention manifested to destroy 
the White inhabitants, or the properties on which they reside." " In 
regard to Trelawney, although he certainly made use of very unjustifi- 
able language, still, when it is considered how incompetent he must 
be from his infirmities, and unlikely from his general character, to 
exercise any sort of influence over the minds of the slaves, or to be 
the principal agent of any meditated mischief, his Grace is induced 
to commute his sentence to three months' imprisonment, and to such 
labour as he is able to undergo ; and to commute that of Kerr, 
Campbell, and Haughton, to confinement to onejnonth's hard labour. 
With respect to the slaves convicted of minor offences, it is rather to 
be regretted that so many were brought to trial; and his Grace does 
not see any useful purpose in detaining them any longer in confinement. 
His Grace has been pleased, therefore, to remit such parts of their 
sentence as have not yet been carried into effect*." (p. 82.) 

What can be a more decisive condemnation of the whole spirit of 
these transactions than the above able and manly despatch 1 It is 
an acquittal of the alleged conspirators, and a condemnation of their 
judges. The sa'me letter, however, contains a notice of the trials in 
St. Mary's and St. George's which admits of more question. There, 
Mr. Bullock observes, " crimes of a more marked and decided 
character have placed his Grace under the painful necessity of in- 

* We trust the thirty-nine lashes at going in were delayed till the above 
letter arrived. 



JAMAICA— trial of insurgents ; St. James's. 53 

Aiding the punishment of death on many, and on others that of 
banishing them the island for life." 

We have already had an opportunity of appreciating the justice of 
the sentence passed on the alleged conspirators of St. Mary's, and of 
seeing how slight and vague and unsatisfactory was the evidence on 
which eight men were there so precipitately thrust out of existence. 
We have still to examine the case of the alleged conspirators of St. 
George's. (E. pp. 83 — 111.) It is not, indeed, our intention to enter 
into it much at large ; for, although it would be easy to shew that, 
on the very face of the proceedings, enough appears to disprove the 
charge of any traitorous or rebellious conspiracy, it seems now 
admitted by common consent that the two individuals, on whose 
testimony alone the charge of conspiracy rested, were utterly un- 
worthy of credit, and have since completely damnified their own 
evidence by the most palpable inconsistencies and contradictions. 
It is respecting these two witnesses (the hope, at one time, of all the 
alarmists in Jamaica, and even now the only prop of the St. George's 
conspiracy) that the Secret Committee of the Assembly adopted the 
following recommendation : "The Committee feel it their duty to 
recommend to the House, that a message should be sent to his Grace 
the Governor, requesting that he would send off the island Charles 
Mack and John Baptiste Corberand, as persons of most dangerous 
character to remain at large in this colony." Without stopping to 
inquire by what legal authority either the Governor or the House of 
Assembly, or both, could thus transport two of his Majesty's subjects 
without even the form of a trial, we have, at least, in this recom- 
mendation, a sufficient proof of the infamous character of the witnesses 
on whose evidence alone eight slaves were condemned to death and 
eight more to transportation*. The sentences of five of the former 

"* Mack and Corberand are understood to have received a promise both 
of pardon and of their freedom for the discoveries they made respecting this 
conspiracy. Why the promise lias not been executed will hereafter appear. 
They doubtless well earned their reward in the first instance : they left indeed 
no wish of the alarmists ungratified. Latterly, however, their evidence, more 
especially that of Corberand, broke down so completely (see the trial of 
Chance, E. pp. 128—132) as to excite in the minds of the more dispassionate 
members of the community a conviction that the whole of the plot, to which 
they alone bore witness, was little better than a vile fabrication. But even 
this exposure of the falsehood of these witnesses (to say nothing of a more 
complete exposure, which probably still awaits them and their employers) was 
not necessary to satisfy any one, who had read with care their preparatory 
examinations, and the minutes of their evidence on the different trials, that 
there had been, in fact, no rebellious conspiracy whatever among the con- 
demned slaves. It is curious, among other things, to remark the progressive 
hardihood of affirmation on the part of these dealers in plots and conspiracies, 
at each successive examination. We have never met with a more striking 
parallel to Titus Oates, than has been furnished on his inferior stage by John 
Baptiste Corberand. While the delusion lasted, who more honoured than 
Corberand? But it could not stand before his clumsy contradictions ; and 
when it subsided, the man who had been hailed as a deliverer, and was to 
have been rewarded with freedom and wealth, was condemned to closeimprison- 
ment and exile, and became the object of universal disgust and execration. 



54 JAM A ica— Lecesne and Escoffery. 

were commuted by his Grace the Governor into transportation, 
and two of the latter were unconditionally pardoned. Still three 
were hanged and eleven transported on the evidence of these two 
desperadoes. 

The case of Lecesne and Escoffery, which has been more than 
once adverted to in the Society's Reports, naturally connects itself 
with the St. George's conspiracy ; the former of these gentlemen 
having been charged by the witness Corberand, but by him alone, with 
having supplied the conspirators with arms. It is not our intention 
to enter largely into this case, which has been recently exposed to 
the public indignation with so much power and effect by Dr. Lush- 
ington. It is a case of the most wanton and aggravated oppression ; 
and though no pains have been spared to blacken its victims, and to 
screen its perpetrators from merited disgrace and punishment, jet the 
day of vindication and of retribution also must come, and we trust is 
even now at hand. 

Lecesne and Escoffery (see F.) were arrested in Kingston as aliens 
of a dangerous description, with a view of being immediately deported 
from the island, on the 7th October 1823. They were kept in gaol 
till the 25th of that month, when, after a full investigation of evidence, 
they were pronounced by the Court of King's Bench to be British 
subjects, and discharged from custody accordingly. On the 29th of 
November following, however, they were again seized, under a war- 
rant from the Governor, hurried on board a ship of war, and sent off 
to St. Domingo, from which island they made their way to England. 
In no part of the proceedings relating to these men, up to the 
time of their deportation, is there the slightest allusion to any suspi- 
cion which existed against them of their being concerned in any 
conspiracy of slaves. Something was said, but without the slightest 
proof, of their criminal correspondence with St. Domingo ; which, 
however, their unfriendly reception by the authorities there must, of 
itself, had there been no other reply, have shewn to be unfounded. 
The ground on which their deportation was made to rest was their 
alleged alienage. But as that might be again disproved, and these 
persons might be placed hereafter in a capacity of vindicating their 
rights as British subjects, it became necessary to think of some 
expedient which should aggravate their case, and serve eventually to 
palliate, if not to justify, this extraordinary act of rigour towards two 
unoffending and untried British subjects. The St. George's con- 
spiracy afforded a very convenient occasion of doing this. To have 
kept these men in the island and put them on their trial would have 
been hazardous : they might have proved their innocence. But there 
was no hazard, now that they were deported, in having them in- 
cidentally exhibited as fomenters ©f the St. George's conspiracy. The 
effect would at least be to increase the prejudice against the exiles, 
and to exhibit in a favourable point of view the penetration, and 
foresight, and vigilance of those who had by anticipation detected 
and deported such dangerous miscreants. 

John Baptiste Corberand appears to have been the first person 



Jamaica — Lecesne and Escoffery. 55 

who afforded any information respecting the St. George's conspiracy. 
He was a native of St. Domingo, and a slave belonging to Mullet- 
hall plantation. The trials and executions which had just taken place 
in St. Mary's, had naturally excited the apprehension of disturbance 
in all parts of the island. In St. George's, that apprehension appears 
to have been particularly vivid, as may be seen by the newspapers of 
that period. At length, on the 26th of December, John Baptiste 
Corberand comes forward to announce a plot. On that day his first 
examination on oath is dated ; and it is remarkable, how modest and 
circumscribed his statement on that occasion is, as compared with 
his subsequent evidence. Not one word escapes him respecting 
Lecesne.- He merely states, that he understood the Negroes of 
Balcarras had for some time been mustering by night. One night he 
was present, and found a large concourse of Negroes in a house 
belonging to one Montagnac, which they called the Court-house. 
One man among them was called King, another Governor. They 
had some refreshment there, and talked with one another ; but he did 
not understand what they were talking about, and after some time he 
left them. He went the next night, and found the people mustering 
as before, when they offered to make his brother Second Governor ; 
but being offended that his younger brother should be put above him, 
aud not being able to obtain information from them, he did uot return 
any more — " and further, this deponent saith not." 

Different persons, who had been designated by Corberand, as 
having been present on these two occasions, were also examined ; but 
they said, that the whole affair was a matter of mere amusement. 
Montagnac said, that the Negroes in the field had made a regulation, 
that when one Negro cursed another, he should be fined 5c?. worth of 
rum. He himself was the first man fined, and the Negroes came in 
the evening to his house, to drink the rum ; and it was proposed, that 
all future fines should be drank at his house, which should be called 
the Court-house. Thompson, who was there, said he would be King, 
and Kerr said he would be Governor, but that was all meant iu fun". 
The Negroes, so assembled, sometimes made play with their sticks, 
and some of them had wooden swords made by Macfarlanef. 

This germinating conspiracy assumes, however, a very different 
shape in Corberand's next examination, which does not take place till 
the Sth of January 18'24, an interval of fifteen days. On the 26th of 
December he had sworn to the facts already detailed, which he 
swore also was all he had to depose. Who had access to him in the 
interim and were his prompters does not appear, but mav possiblv 

* It is well known, that in Jamaica, every Negro has his gala-day name, by 
which be is distinguished among his fellows. One is General Campbell, another 
is Admiral Rowley, a third is Colonel RnsseH, a fonrth Mr. Scarlett, a fifth 
Governor Conran, and so forth : and by these names they are generally ad- 
dressed at their festive meetings. 

t With respect to the use of sticks and swords in their amusements, see the 
account which Bryan Edwards gives of their Pyrrhic or warlike dances, in 
his History of the West Indies, 5th edition, vol. ii. p. 103. 



56 Jamaica — Lecesne and Escoffery. 

appear hereafter. His evidence on the 8th of January details the 
formation of a regular plot, with all due circumstances of unlawful 
oaths and murderous purposes ; the whole of which, if true, must have 
been as well known to him before as after his first examination. He 
stands, therefore, at once before us as a perjured and blasted witness. 
His testimony is nevertheless received and devoured by the greedy 
appetites of the magistrates without hesitation or reserve. Now the 
plot takes the character, in their official statements to the Governor 
(p. 83), of " a most extensive and diabolical plot for the overthrow 
of the government, and the massacre of the White inhabitants.'' Now 
first Lecesne's name comes forward. The information respecting him 
is thus given by Corberand : '• James Manhertz, and two run-away 
Negroes harboured by him, had made several visits to town, each 
time returning with a load of guns *, which was delivered by Lecesne, 
(the person lately shipped off): H. Oliver said, this Lecesne was his 
great support, and had promised him as many guns, powder, &c. as 
he could require. Since Lecesne's being sent off, H. Oliver had 
appeared much dejected : he knows of no one who has been ap- 
pointed to act in Lecesne's room/' This fact, observes the magis- 
trate, in making a communication of it, " will be important to 
Government." (p. 83.) 

On the trial of H. Oliver, on the 19th of January, a number of 
additional circumstances are introduced into Corberand's evidence 
respecting Lecesne. He (Corberand) went to Kingston — he does not. 
say when — along with James Manhertz. They were both introduced 
to Lecesne, by one Baptiste, a Negro from St. Domingo, and received 
from him fourteen guns, which were put in a Spanish bag, and 
brought by l hem to Balcarras, where they were hidden. " The 
guns," he says, " were to fight Buckra (the Whites) with. They 
were to kill all that would not join their party, without respect to 
colour. Oliver sent money to Lecesne for guns. Oliver was three 
days in Kingston ; he carried money to pay for arms ; and yet it is 
said, " Lecesne did not sell guns." (p. 83.) " Oliver was to walk 
round the country and tell the Negroes to join the plot, and Lecesne 
was to send troops from Kingston to help them when they rose." 
" Oliver sent letters to Mr. Lecesne, Manhertz carried the letters : 
he did not know who wrote them." " Lecesne told witness he would 
get them every thing they wanted. The plot was contemplated before 
witness knew Lecesne." " They got the arms about two months before 
Christmas +.'' 

* Not one of these guns has ever been found, although the whole power of 
the Jamaica police has been exerted to discover them. 

t From the 7th to the 25th of October, Lecesne was in confinement in King- 
ston gaol. It was surprizing that this statement did not excite a suspicion of 
the truth of all Corberand's evidence; and still more if, as the newspapers of 
the day represented him to have said, the arms were received two weeks before 
Christmas, when Lecesne had been already deported. But another circum- 
stance rendered the magistrates more inexcusable, in crediting Corberand's 
testimony. Mr. Paul La Motte testifies, that on the Sunday before the King- 
ston races, (being the 30th Nov. 1823), he met two slaves coming from King- 



JAMAICA — trial of insurgents : St. James's. 57 

The next mention of Lecesne is on the 3d of February, on the 
trial of a slave named Leon, condemned to die on the sole testimony 
of Corberand. " Leon," he said, " was made a postman by H. Oliver, 
to fetch people from Kingston to join them the night they were to rise. 
Afterwards, three weeks before Christmas, Leon came down to 
Balcarras," &c. " The people were to be brought, Christmas night, 
from Kingston. Leon accepted the situation, saying, he would do 
any thing to oblige a friend. They were to come from town with arms ; 
Lecesne was to furnish them. The people expected were Sambos, 
Blacks, and Browns." (See supra, pp. 37, 38.) 

Again: on the trial of Jack, on the 7th of April, Corberand testi- 
fies, " that fourteen guns were supplied by a Brown man, name 
Lecesne. They were brought over by James Manhertz, and a Brown 
man named James Grossly, in Spanish bags, on two mules, about 
two months before Christmas. A week after, he (witness) brought 
over a keg of powder on a mule, also from Lecesne." " He (the 
witness) was taken to Lecesne by Baptiste the Brigand " (p. 104), 
who introduced him and Oliver to Lecesne. (p. 106.) 

Corberand's next and last exhibition was in Kingston, on the trial 
of a slave named Chance, on the 1st of June, liJ24. He then stated, 
that he had known Lecesne since he was a little boy. Some time ago, 
as he passed his house, he saw him and Chance whispering a long 
discourse together, and he saw Lecesne give a jug of powder to 
Chance. " Baptiste, the brigand, and Oliver, were introduced to 
Lecesne in town, who said, at any time they wished for guns, to send. 
Witness took Manhertz to Lecesne, got a Spanish bag, and tied four- 
teen guns together ; and they put them on two mules, and walked all 
night, and got to Balcarras at cock-crow." 

It came out, on this trial, that Corberand had been promised his 
pardon by the St. George's magistrates if he told all he knew about the 
conspiracy. Mr. Lamotte, a planter of St. George's, testified that 
Corberand had varied in his testimony, on the present occasion, from 
all he had said before. " On five trials in St. George's he had 
always varied, and given something new." (p. 131.) Mr. Beaumont, 
the editor of the Public Advertiser, gave similar testimony. 

In consequence, we presume, of his manifest prevarication on this 
occasion, Corberand was immediately committed to close confine- 
ment in gaol ; and it was afterwards made the subject of a recom-^ 
mendation from the Assembly that he should be deported from the 
island, without even the form of a trial*. 

ston ; the one Manhertz, belonging to Balcarras, and the other Corberand j 
belonging to Mullett-Hall, with a mule and a bag on its back containing a gun ; 
and Mr Mendez, the overseer of Mullett hall testifies, that at that time he had 
sent to Kingston a Negro with a mule to get a stand of arms for himself, and 
that the Negro on his return told him he had met Mr. La Motte. This cir- 
cumstance seems to have furnished Corberand with the hint for the whole of 
his fabrication about aims. The overseer of Balcarras also testified, that he 
never missed H. Oliver more than one day from the estate. 

* The papers laid before Parliament omit one material circumstance with 
respect to Corberand, which tended more than any other to ruin his testimony. 

I 



58 JAMAICA — Lecesne and Escoffery. 

But, amid the various transactions in St. George's, none has struck 
us with more disgust and horror than the trial and condemnation of 
a poor sickly female slave, named Venus, who, on conviction, is 
valued at 25/. currency, or about 171. sterling, for " a rebellious con- 
spiracy to kill and murder the White inhabitants of Jamaica, and for 
compassing and imagining the death of the White people of that 
island." The slave and daughter of her master, a Frenchmau 
of the name of Paul Lamotte Carriere, appears against her, and 
testifies to her using violent language, the witness alone being present, 
about killing; the White people, and saying the Negroes would be free; 
adding, " Venus always grumbled against her master." Her master 
testifiestfhatshe was " ill-disposed, mischief-making, and disorderly ; " 
another White man, that she was " bad tempered, saucy, and lazy." 

He was.detected, while giving his evidence, with a piece of silver coin in his 
mouth, which, by the Negroes generally, is supposed to be an effectual charm 
against the evil consequences of perjury. The universal knowledge in 
Jamaica of the prevalence of this superstitious belief proved more damnatory 
of Corberand's evidence than all his contradictions, inconsistencies and exag- 
gerations. Indeed he did not scruple to avow afterwards, as may be clearly 
proved, that all he had testified about Lecesne and the St. George's conspira- 
tors was false, and had been said to secure the pardon and the rewards that 
had been promised him. After this, it seems unnecessary to point out the 
gross discrepancies of his various statements. On the 19th of January, for 
example, he said that he and Manhertz were introductd to Lecesne by Baptiste ; 
and then that Manhertz had carried letters to Lecesne from Oliver. He even 
says, that the plot was contemplated before he knew Lecesne. On the 7th of 
April, however, his testimony is, (hat he and Oliver, not Manhertz, were in- 
troduced to Lecesne by Baptiste. On the 1st of June h e had a different story. 
He then said that he had known Lecesne since he was a little hoy ; and Baptiste 
and Oliver, instead of being the introducers, were introduced themselves to 
Lecesne. He also took Manhertz to Lecesne. Again, his evidence on the 8th 
of January goes to prove that Manhertz and two other persons had made 
several visits to town for guns given by Lecesne, who was Oliver's great 
support. But on the 19th of January it was he and Manhertz who got the 
guns. On the 7th of April, it was Manhertz and Grossly ; and on the 1st of 
June, it was he and Manhertz again. 

In the first account of these trials in the Jamaica newspapers, the delivery 
of arms by Lecesne was said to have been two weeks before Christmas. This 
statement roust at once have blasted the whole of Corberand's testimony, 
Lecesne having been deported on the 29th of November. The time, however, 
which stood two weeks in the newspapers, stands as.two months in the parliamen- 
tary papers. But though the change brings the fact just within the verge of 
possibility, the improbability is still of a very formidable description. Mr. 
Lecesne had been a prisoner in Kingston gaol from the 7th to the 25th of 
October, and in five weeks more he was deported from the island. Now that, 
during any part of those five weeks Lecesne, just as he had escaped the most 
imminent peril of exile from his family and country, with a full knowledge of 
the rigid surveillance under which he was placed by Mr. Barnes and Mr. 
Mitchell, the magistrates of Kingston, who were known to be anxiously 
looking about for inculpatory evidence against him, should have employed 
himself in the hazardous work of furnishing arms to slave conspirators, is too 
absurd to be believed. There is no need, however, to resort to reasoning of 
this description to prove the charge to be false and unfounded. And this 
appears to have been the opinion of the Jamaica Assembly, who, in their 
report on the disturbances, do not once allude to Lecesne, but bestow high 
praise on the loyalty of the People of Colour generally. (Supra, pp. 37, 38.) 



JAMAICA — trial of insurgents : St. George's. 59 

Her defence was, that she was sickly, and could not work, and that 
the words attributed to her had really been used by her master's 
daughter She was condemned to transportation. 

The following extracts seem to us to throw additional light on these dark 
transactions. 

In an extra Postscript to the Royal Gazette of Jamaica of the 17th to the 
24th of January 1824, there is inserted a detail of the trial of the St. George's 
conspirators on the 19th January 1824. There Charles Mack is made to testify 
(p. 30), that the meeting at which he was present, when two bags were brought 
on two mules, containing, as he conceives, guns from town, took place two weeks 
before Christmas. On the very same trial John Baptiste Corberand is made 
to testify (p. 31), that fourteen guns were brought from Lecesue, in Kingston, 
in bags on mules, two months before Christmas. 

In the Postscript to the Royal Gazette, of the 31st January to the 7th Feb- 
ruary 1821, an account is given of a second trial (Feb. 3) of some St George's 
conspirators. On this occasion the editor observes (p. 20), " Baptiste Cor- 
berand varies considerably from the evidence he gave on the former trial" (on 
the 19th January). " He says there were some people from St. Domiugo at the 
musterings, when before he distinctly stated there was only the brigand Bap- 
tiste. He also implicates Sambos and Browns, whereas before he only im- 
plicated Lecesne. He now, too, implicates the Negroes on La Fitte's pro- 
perty, when, on the previous trial, he deposed that they would not join, as 
they were religiously inclined." Various other direct contradictions are spe- 
cified, but these may suffice. On this testimony, nevertheless, three men 
were, on this one occasion, condemned to die, and one to be transported, (p. 21.) 

In an additional Postscript to the Royal Gazette of the 10th to the 17th 
April 1824 (pp. 26, 27), is contained the account of the third trial of the St. 
George's conspirators, which took place on the 7lh of April. Here Corberand 
and Mack change places. Mack is made, on this occasion, to testify, that the 
guns arrived eight weeks before Christmas; while Corberand's testimony is 
thus given : — " They had fourteen guns to fight the Buckras with. They got 
their guns from Lecesne, a Brown man in Kingston, for nothing. They had 
been collecting money to purchase guns; but when they found they could 
get them for nothing, they stopped collecting." " James Manhertz brought 
the. guns up in a Spanish bag on amide, with John Crossdaile, a slave belonging 
to Cambridge, in Portland, two weeks before Christmas. A week after, this 
witness brought up a keg of gunpowder on a mule from Lecesne's." Le- 
cesne, be it remembered, was deported from Jamaica on the 29th of No- 
vember. Corberand is asked, " Do you know Lecesne ?" His reply is, 
" Yes, I know him well; was introduced by Baptiste the brigaud to him." 

In the Jamaica Courant of the 12th of April 1824, an account is given 
of the same trial of the 7th of April, which is verbatim the same which we 
have just quoted from the Jamaica Gazette. Corberand is there also made 
to state that the guns were brought from Lecesne two weeks before Christ- 
mas, and a keg of powder only one week before Christmas; while Mack is 
made to testify that they were brought to Balcarras eight we.ks before 
Christinas. The whole of the trial, extracted verbatim from the Jamaica 
Courant, and exhibiting these decisive proofs of perjury, may be seen in 
the John Bull of the 13th Juue 1825. 

Immediately after the trial of Chance, which took place on the 1st of 
Juno, and to which we have adverted above (p. 77), Corberand was placed 
in close confinement in the gaol of Kingston. He escaped from his con- 
finement, but, after some time, was retakeu and placed in one of the con- 
demned cells. The Jamaica Courant, of the 5th Juue 1824, makes the 
following observations on the escape of this witness for the crown : — 

V Jean Baptiste Corberand has effected his escape from the gaol of the 
city. The danger and impolicy of this man beiug abroad must strike 
every one. He has as pretty a notion of treason as any Jack Cade we ever 



60 Jamaica — trial of insurgents : St. James's. 

One other conspiracy remains to be considered, that of Hanover; 
and we must do the gentlemen of Hanover the justice to say, that it is 
the only affair which wears the very slightest semblance of a con- 
spiracy. There, we have at least some overt acts of violence — some- 
thing which, to a certain extent, might justify alarm, and punishment too. 

heard of, and may, if he is inclined, stir up the present tranquil passions 
of ignorant Negroes to those acts which, on his evidence on the last slave 
court, lie evinced having well studied and matured. We never witnessed 
a fellow more undaunted before a tribunal of justice, or more at home, on 
his being discovered in occasionally tripping in the continuity of his story. 
It is hoped every exertion will be resorted to in order to recover this incen- 
diary, who has evinced considerable and dangerous talents, and who would 
be prone to use them (if we judge aright of the fellow) to the prejudice of 
the present peaceable state of the colony, and to the perdition of his weak or 
headstrong associates." 

In the Public Advertiser of Jamaica, of the 27th July 1824, the following 
paragraph appears : — 

Cnrberand. — " In reply to the inquiry of a St. George's correspondent, 
' whether Charles Mack and Jean Baptiste Corberand, the crown witnesses 
in the St. George's trials, are treated like convicted felons, whilst the con- 
victed rebels are allowed the privilege of insolvent debtors,' we are request- 
ed to state, that Corberand has lately been confined in a cell for two causes; 
first, in consequence of his having effected his escape on a former occasion ; 
and, secondly, because he has manifested strong symptoms of insanity. The 
debtors insisted on his removal from the part of the gaol appropriated to them, 
as he made at night the most hideous yellings, sometimes roaring out that he 
saw the fire which was going to burn him ; at other times that he was sure he 
would be hanged, an impression which it is impossible to dispel. He also re- 
quested the Sheriff's officer to fetch him a parson, that he might tell him that 
all he (Corberand) had said was nothing but lies. Charles Mack, till the last 
week, was in the hospital, and for a considerable time previously. As he had 
also attempted his escape, it has been considered necessary to put him under 
some restraints." 

The same paper, of the 12th July 1824, contains the following remarks 
on the evidence of Corberand, as it bears on the case of Lecesne and 
Escoffery. 

" For our own part we hope (indeed we are confident), that our Executive 
have stronger grounds to defend the justice and propriety of their conduct 
(towards Lecesne and Escoffery), than the evidence of Jean Baptiste Cor- 
berand, whose evidence, we maintain, is wholly unworthy of credit. We put 
it, not to the Rev. Colin Donaldson, but to Mr. Kirkland and Mr. Stamp, two 
of the ablest magistrates in St. George's, whether they can deny that Cor- 
berand was always ready to swear to any thing which could tend, in his opi- 
nion, to raise his own consequence. We have heard him with our own ears, in 
a court of justice, detail before a jury impossibilities, absurdities, and incon- 
sistencies. In his cross-examination by Mr. Clement, in the Court-house of 
this city, at the trial of a slave named Chance, he so repeatedly contra- 
dicted himself, that the jury did not believe his evidence, and acquitted the 
prisoner of every part of the charge which Corberand was called to sub- 
stantiate. 

" Our readers will perceive, that we do not impeach Corberand's testimony 
on the opinion of a very inconsistent, and perhaps, we might say, very silly 
reverend gentleman (Mr. Donaldson), but we appeal to his own cross-ex- 
aminations, and the verdict of a jury composed of respectable inhabitants 
of this city. 

" Besides, were Corberand's evidence to be believed, it would be no excul- 
pation of the illegal act charged against our executive, inasmuch as the de- 
portation complained of, and the evidence which induced it, were long prior 
so this second edition of Titus Oates." 



J A M A I c A— trial of insurgents : St. James's. 61 

By the law of Jamaica, the slaves are allowed twenty-six days in the 
year out of crop, besides Sundays, for cultivating their provision 
grounds, which form the sole source of their subsistence. This pit- 
tance of time, it may be supposed, is highly prized by the slaves gene- 
rally, but most by those who are the best and most industrious. The 
crop of 1824 had been long: the month of May had nearly closed 
before it was finished on Argyll, the estate of Mr. X Malcolm, who 
was himseif resident ; so that the season for clearing their grounds 
and planting their provisions was rapidly passing. Mr. M. had made 
them to turn out to work on Saturday the 29th of May ; and after they 
had been working some time in the field (one witness says half a day), 
they were sent to their grounds ; but the afternoon proved wet, and 
was of little use to them. This plan of turning out before going to 
their grounds is stated to have been unusual on Argyll, nay, never to 
have occurred there before. The Negroes were unwilling to submit 
to it; and when Saturday the 5th of June came, they all went to their 
provision grounds without first going to the field. They were not 
flogged on the Monday morning, as they seem to have expected, for 
this act of disobedience. An intimation however appears to have 
been given them, that they would be required to attend in the field on 
the succeeding Saturday. They determined among themselves, that 
they would not obey the mandate ; but that when Saturday the 12th 
came, they should proceed as they had done on Saturday the 5th, and 
repair to their grounds without coming first to the field. They ac- 
companied this determination, it is affirmed, with some strong expres- 
sions of defiance, and with intimations of their right to be free ; but 
this was only among themselves. Early on the morning of Friday the 
11th, Mr. Malcolm was apprized by one of his slaves, William Roach, 
of the above determination, and of the intemperate language said to 
be used by the slaves. He immediately wrote a letter on the subject 
to the colonel of the militia, who called out his regiment to rendezvous 
at Argyll. A part of the corps reached the estate the same day during 
the dinner hour of the Negroes; and such was the alarm created 
amongst them by the appearance of the soldiery, that, when the shell 
blew to call them to their afternoon's task, instead of coming to the 
field, they all ran away into the woods. One witness describes the 
matter thus : — " They were frightened, having heard that, when they 
turned out, they were to be surrounded by the troops, and, if any ran 
away, they were to be shot and handcuffed." Some of them appeared 
now to consider their case as desperate. They killed seven horses 
and three mules belonging to Mr. Malcolm; and the trash house of a 
neighbouring estate was set on fire on Sunday, but by whom does not 
appear. Three of the principal offenders, among whom was the head 
driver of Argyll, killed themselves to avoid being taken, and a fourth 
failed in an attempt at suicide. A few were taken by the military, 
and the rest came in and delivered themselves up in two or three days. 
Eleven slaves belonging to Argyll and seven belonging to Golden 
Grove were put upon their trial. The charges against them were, 
entering into a rebellious conspiracy to obtain their freedom by acts 



62 JAMAICA -trial of insurgents: Hanover. 

of force and by resistance to the lawful authorities ; entering into such 
conspiracy to resist the lawful authorities and to overturn the con- 
stitution of the island ; and rising in open rebellion against the lawful 
authorities of the island. Sixteen were found guilty. Of these, 
thirteen were condemned to be hanged, and either ten or eleven of 
them were hanged, and three were condemned to be transported. 
The value put upon these sixteen persons, and paid to their masters, 
was 1560/. 

This, it must be admitted, was a sufficiently terrible example of 
vindictive justice. We shall be excused for making a few remarks 
upon it. 

1. There does not appear to have existed on the part of the slaves 
any premeditated design of rebellion. They conceived themselves to 
have been greatly aggrieved by the wanton abridgment of their 
Saturday, the only week-day allowed them for cultivating their 
grounds out of crop, no such day being allowed them during crop ; 
and their measures appear to have been directed solely, in the 
first instance, to secure to themselves the whole of the day to 
which they conceived themselves to be entitled by law. Instead, 
therefore, of obeying the mandate to muster in the field on the 
Saturday, they determined to go directly to their grounds, which, it 
is said, had been the usual course of proceeding. Mr. Malcolm, the 
proprietor, does not deny that he had summoned them to attend the 
field on Saturday ; but says his object was to ascertain that they were 
all on the estate, and had not wandered about on Friday night, and 
'■' he always sent them away by seven o'clock." He does not, how- 
ever, contradict the evidence which says that it had not been hi$ 
previous custom thus to summon them to the field on their own day ; 
neither does he deny the fact, alleged by one of the witnesses, that on 
the preceding Saturday they had been detained in the field half the 
day. This statement of Mr. Malcolm's, therefore, is not very intel- 
ligible ; but we presume that he wishes to have it understood that it 
was his intention, in summoning them to the field on their own day, 
not to detain them beyond seven o'clock. He does not say, however, 
that he made known this intention to the slaves. Now, let it be kept 
in mind that the Jamaica law makes the hours of field labour to 
extend from five in the morning till seven at night. Here, then, two 
full hours, the best hours of the day too, are to be taken from the 
day allowed to the slaves for labouring in their own grounds, in order to 
till their master's fields — although that day is the only allowance 
made them in lieu of subsistence ; — their master thus depriving them 
(including the time employed in going to and returning from the field) 
of a sixth, or perhaps a fifth, of that precious time. We cannot but 
regard such a proceeding as a most wanton infringement of the legal 
rights of the slave; an infringement which it became them to resist, 
by every legal means in their power. And yet, had they in their 
power any legal means of redress? We doubt it. They could onlv 
have complained to a magistrate ; and Mr. John Malcolm their master, 
the very person who inflicted the wrong, was himself a magistrate, 



Jamaica — trial of insurgents : Hanover —Maroons. 63 

and, from his connexions, one of the most influential magistrates in 
the parish. We cannot, therefore, greatly blame their adopting the 
only mode which was open to them, however unsafe and imprudent 
it may have been, of intimating to their master the sense they enter- 
tained of the wrong he had done them. 

2. We think that the conduct of Mr. Malcolm was not only unjust 
and illegal, but that it was ill-timed. He must have known that the 
minds of the Negroes had been much agitated by the rumours and 
discussions which had been afloat in the island, and by the trials and 
executions which had been taking place around them. The Duke of 
Manchester's recent letter to Mr. Vaughan might have reminded him 
of this circumstance. Surely this was not the time to innovate, in the 
way of severity, in the treatment of his slaves, and particularly by a 
regulation which must, in many ways, have been extremely galling to 
them. If he had intended to excite their bad passions, and to provoke 
resistance to his authority, he could not have fallen upon a more 
effectual device than that which he was so ill-advised as to adopt. 

3. That the appearance of the military on the estate should have 
led to the momentary defection of all the slaves, was no more than 
might have been expected. Their terror at the thought of military 
execution sufficiently accounts for it. Thus far they might fairly 
have found in the court and jury which tried them, that lenient con- 
struction of their conduct which was so judiciously given by the Duke 
of Manchester to the alleged conspirators of St. James's. The acts 
of violence afterwards perpetrated by a few individuals, were, doubt- 
less, acts deserving severe punishment; but they were not acts which 
could be considered as iuvolviug any but the actual perpetrators ; and 
certainly not such as could be considered as iuvolviug even the per- 
petrators, and much less the other slaves, in the "crime of rebellion 
against the government. 

4. We observe on these trials, as on all the others which have taken 
place, a remarkable disregard of all the received rules of evidence ; and 
in this instance also the slaves appear to have had no legal advocate, 
or even solicitor. On the face of the minutes, however, it is obvious 
that much would have been gained in favour of the prisoners, as well 
by a judicious cross-examination, as by the rejection of improper and 
irrelevant and mere hear-say evidence. On an English reader, for 
example, it is calculated to make a strong impression to be told that 
most of the Negroes were armed with mac/teats, and that one man was 
grinding his macheat. A single question would have brought out 
the answer, that the macheat is one of the common tools of the field 
Negroes. 

5. In the case of this, as of all the other trials, the informers and 
material witnesses either are rewarded with their freedom (a freedom 
which they had doubtless the assurance of before hand) ; or obtain 
the pardon of their own crimes, in order to cpualify them to give 
evidence against others. (A. p. 17.) 

A Return is made in. these papers of the number of Maroons in 



64 Jamaica — Bishop of Jamaica. 

Jamaica ; by which it appears that they had been greatly increasing. 
The returns are dated in June, July, and August, 1824, and are as 
follows-(E. pp. 21—33) 

Accompong-town (besides 14 slaves) 328 

Scot-Hall (besides 1 slave) 68 

Charles-town 365 

Moore-town (besides 49 slaves) , 438 

1199 

The only remaining document in the Jamaica papers is a letter 
from the Bishop of Jamaica, which, we think, it would have been 
well to have suppressed. It is dated on the 12th March 1825, when 
he had only been about three weeks in the island, and when it was 
impossible he could have formed any just judgment of the actual state 
of things, except from information, the soundness of which it would 
have been prudent to have questioned. 

" Wherever I go," says the Bishop, " I find the greatest aversion to 
Sectarianism of every kind and denomination, but every degree 
of confidence in any teachers of religion whom I may be pleased 
to appoint*. 

" 1 have as yet seen very little of the slave-population, except 
during a short excursion into the Poit-Royal mountains. The great 
want is, places of worship in situations where the Negroes of many 
surrounding estates might be easily assembled, and houses for the 
clergy f. Many proprietors have indeed tendered houses, which 
might be adapted for the purpose : and, from all I hear from the 
Clergy, much has been done in this way, particularly since the Society 
for the Education of Negroes has directed ils attention to this pointf. 
From the great uncertainty and capriciousness of the Negro character, 
it is difficult to make sure of their attendance even where great pains 



* The Bishop, of course, speaks here of the Clergy and the White colonists: 
he cannot mean to refer either to the free People of Colour or to the slaves. It 
was not necessary to have Episcopal authority for this fact: it was perfectly 
notorious. Did any douht whatever exist of the perfect hatred which the 
planters of Jamaica generally bear to Methodist and Baptist Missionaries? 

f According to the Bishop's account, the great want has not been any want 
of zeal in the resident Clergy, or any want of facilities in their labours on the 
part of the laity, but the want of churches and houses; and yet all previous 
accounts, even from the Clergy themselves, have given a different view of 
the most efficient causes of the non-instruction of the slaves. 

% The Bishop was informed by the Clergy, that much had been done in the 
way of assembling the Negroes in the houses of the proprietors. This, also, 
is in direct contradiction to all the evidence previously obtained on the sub- 
ject, both from the Clergy themselves and from others. (See Appendix to 
Debate of 15th May 1823, pp. 149 and 161.) But we are told, that it is more 
especially since the Society for the Education of Negroes has directed its at- 
tention to this point, that " much has been done." The resolutions adopted 
by that Society were first made known in July or August 1823, in London. 
Its progress must have been rapid, if much has already been done by it. But 
in what way their resolution to institute schools could have operated in leading 
the Clergy to do much in the way of assembling the Negroes in the houses of 
proprietors for public worship, is not very obvious. 



Mauritius — the slave trade. 65 

have been taken * ; but whenever a preacher is popular, they dress 
out their children and themselves, a sure sign they are in good humour, 
and throng the place of public worship f. Psalmody and organs, 
have great attractions for them. They seem particularly fond of form 
and ceremony, and greater critics than many persons will give them 
credit for, remarking every particularity of manner and gesture ; and 
have a great predilection for a powerful, sonorous voice J." "I am 
happy to assure your Lordship, that a very general wish to ameliorate 
the condition of the slaves, and to instruct them in the principles of 
the Established Church, seems to pervade the great mass of pro- 
prietors ; and every facility is afforded me of visiting the several 
plantations §." 



XII. MAURITIUS. 

Respecting the state of the Slave Trade in the Mauritius, during 
the years 1822, 1823, and 1824, the substance of what has heen 
communicated officially is contained in a letter from Sir Robert Far- 
quhar, and one from his successor, Sir Lowry Cole, both addressed 
to Earl Bathurst ; — the first dated the 23d January 1823 ; and the 
second, 18th November 1824. The fair inference from these com- 
munications would seem to be, that in those years the Slave Trade 
had been reduced to a very low ebb in the Mauritius. It is im- 
possible, however, under all the circumstances of the case, not to 
entertain very considerable doubts of the accuracy of that information, 
and a suspicion that the Governors may have been deceived upon the 
subject. Sir Lowry Cole indeed affirms, that not only has the intro- 
duction of slaves ceased at the Mauritius, but that, on the part of the 



* Does Mr. Trew, or Mr. Stainsby, or do the Methodist preachers, com- 
plain of a deficiency in attendance? 

t It would be worth while to obtain a specification of the parish churches, 
in the island of Jamaica, which slaves and their children have been in the 
habit of thronging. We believe, that, besides the Methodist and Baptist 
chapels, they would be confined to one or two. 

% The power and sonorousness of the Bishop's voice are loudly celebrated 
in all the newspapers of Jamaica. 

§ It is humiliating to peruse this first specimen of the official labours of the 
head of the Church of England in Jamaica. Where did the Bishop learn the 
fact of the general wish to ameliorate the condition of the slaves? From the 
chit-chat of the dinner-table, or from the acts of the legislature ? Has he not 
learnt to distinguish between the mere profession and the actual existence of 
a sincere desire for reformation ? And as for the wish, attributed to the great 
mass of proprietors, of instructing the slaves in the principles of the Esta- 
blished Church, if it really exists at all, it must be a wish of very recent 
origin: for, until a late period, even the Jamaica District Society for pro- 
moting Christian Knowledge found it necessary to obviate the alarm which 
their association had excited among those proprietors, by publicly declaring 
that the idea of the religious instruction of the slave population of Jamaica 
had not entered into their contemplation, their attention being exclusively 
directed to the free population. (See Appendix to Debate of 15th May 1823, 
p. ,8,.) 



66 MAURITIUS — the slave trade. 

inhabitants, there is no disposition to renew the Slave Trade, but rather 
a feeling of indignation at its horrors; and this appears to have been 
also the opinion of Sir Robert Farquhar. The planters of the 
Mauritius have, without doubt, professed to renounce and to detest 
the Slave Trade ; but it is very difficult to give them credit for the 
sincerity of this profession. They had long been familiar with this 
trade ; and they had evinced, even to a recent period, an attachment 
to it so rooted as to lead even some of the higher classes to brave, for 
the sake of its profits, all the infamy of a felonious conviction. What 
then could have wrought this extraordinary conversion in so short a 
time? An external difference of conduct, indeed, might fairly be 
expected. The increased vigilance of our cruizers increased the risks 
of transgression, while the extremely low price of colonial produce, 
during the period in question, diminished the temptation to transgress. 
But to infer from this temporary cessation of the trade, even if such 
cessation had actually taken place, that the planters of the Mauritius 
had become, in principle, adverse to that trade, is not consistent with 
the character of those planters, or with what we know of human nature 
itself. Besides, it is notorious, that, during this period, the planters 
of the Mauritius were making great efforts to obtain the removal of the 
protecting duty on their sugars ; and they must have felt, that a decent 
external compliance with the Abolition Laws was essential to their 
success. If a reference be made to the official testimonies already 
adduced, as disproving this suspicion, it may be said in reply, that the 
papers laid before Parliament in the late session furnish numerous 
proofs of similar representations, in favour of the conduct and dispo- 
sitions of the colonists, on the part of the colonial authorities in the 
West Indies, at the very moment when the whole course of proceeding 
pursued by those colonists was furnishing a direct and palpable con- 
tradiction to the official eulogy. 

One of the strongest presumptions against the alleged purity of 
the planters of the Mauritius, is drawn from the records of Parlia- 
ment. Had they been as sincere in their abhorrence of the Slave 
Trade as they are represented to be — and we may add, had the 
colonial functionaries been as earnest and vigilant in repressing it as 
they were bound to be — some proof of this would have been found in 
the regularity with which the Order in Council for the Registration of 
Slaves had been complied with by the slave-holders, and in the strict- 
ness with which the salutary provisions of that order had been en- 
forced by those charged with its execution. It was felt, by all 
enlightened abolitionists, and by none more than by his Majesty's 
Ministers, that the only effectual security against the continuance of 
the Slave Trade, to any extent which the planters of the Mauritius 
might desire, was in the establishment of a perfect system of slave- 
registration. Both in Mauritius and Bourbon, experience had shewn, 
that, for the due repression of the Slave Trade, no reliance could be 
placed on the fidelity of courts and juries composed of planters, them- 
selves participating, or desiring to participate, in its criminal gains. 
And as for our navy, what could one or two cruisers, however vigilant, 



Mauritius— the slave trade. 67 

effect to prevent small and fast-sailing vessels from throwing slaves on 
shore during the night, without the cognisance of any persons except 
the inhabitants, who were also the parties interested in concealing the 
transaction ? The slave market, be it remembered, was distant only 
a few hours' sail : Slaves could there be bought for only a few dollars. 
That they were eagerly desired by the planters, no one doubts. — 
What, under these circumstances, could prevent an active Slave- 
trade, but a well-regulated registry 1 But in the Mauritius the regis- 
try has not been well regulated. The proof of this is now on the 
table of the House of Commons. A registry of the slave population, 
regularly kept, it was admitted, could alone effectually prevent the 
illicit importation of slaves ; but it now turns out that that registry 
has been suffered to fall into inextricable confusion. It is not only 
wholly and absolutely inefficient to its purpose, but, there is every 
reason to fear, may have been converted into a convenient instrument 
of giving facilities to the illicit importation of slaves. And here it is 
remarkable, that, although the due establishment and the vigilant 
superintendance of the Slave Registry was one of the first and most 
essential duties of the local government, and although it was 
recognised by the supreme authorities of the state as the most 
effectual means of preventing the Slave Trade, yet the imperfection, 
not to say the perfect nullity, of the Mauritius registry, appears to 
have excited no attention till a recent period. It is obvious, however, 
that, in the peculiar circumstances of the Mauritius, the very course 
which the best friends of the Slave Trade would be disposed to pur- 
sue, in order to secure its undisturbed continuance, would be to de- 
claim against that trade, and to threaten punishment on those who 
should engage in it, and yet to allow the slave registry to fall into 
complete disorder. 

The Order in Council which established a slave registry in the 
Mauritius was promulgated there in the year 1815. From that time, 
had the provisions of the registry act been fulfilled, the introduction of 
slaves, if not entirely prevented, must have been rendered difficult 
and hazardous. If any one object, therefore, more than another de- 
served the vigilant inspection of the colonial government, it was this. 

A strong suspicion that this essential instrument of preventing the 
Slave Trade had become wholly inoperative, was excited by an ex- 
amination of the returns made to the House of Commons, and printed 
by order of that House on the 23d March 1823 (No. 89, p. 122), 
and which were found to be in so unsatisfactory a state as not even 
to afford any accurate information with respect to the slave popula- 
tion, much less to prove an effective check on the illicit importation 
of slaves. The suspicion thus excited has since been abundantly 
confirmed by a return made to the House of Commons, so recently as 
the 27th June 1B25, by Mr. Amyott, the registrar of colonial slaves 
in Great Britain. It is entitled, " Return of the Amount of the 
Slave Population in the Mauritius, as received in the Office of the 
Registrar of Colonial Slaves since its first Establishment,'' and is 
as follows : — 



68 MAURITIUS— Me slave trade. 

«< 1810. Males, 55,717; females, 29,700; total, 85,423. 

" The duplicate slave-returns in the Mauritius, for the year 1819, 
are so imperfect as not to afford any means whatever of ascertaining the 
amount of the slave population at that period, and have therefore been 
sent back to the colony for correction. Those for 1822 are supposed 
to have been lost in the ship George the Fourth, wrecked, on her 
voyage from the Mauritius, in June last." 

And this neglect is the more remarkable, as it is in defiance of the 
provisions and penalties of an Act of Parliament, passed in the 
session of 1819, for securing the regularity of such returns. To 
whom the neglect is to be attributed does not appear. It is, how- 
ever, so criminal in itself, and so ruinous in its effects, that it is to 
be hoped that one of the first measures of the next session of Par- 
liament will be the appointment of a Committee to investigate the 
subject of the Mauritius registry, as well as some other matters con- 
nected with Slavery and the Slave Trade in that quarter. 

Until the existing state of things, as to the registration of slaves, 
has undergone a radical change, all general statements as to the non- 
introduction of slaves into the Mauritius must be regarded as illusory. 
It is known, too, in this case, that a Governor is surrounded on all 
sides by functionaries, and judges, and juries, who are almost one 
and all holders of slaves, and wiio are therefore deeply interested, 
not only in keeping open the channels of supply, but also in conceal- 
ing every act of delinquency ; so that, without the infallible means 
of information which a perfect system of registration alone can afford, 
it would be impossible for him to pronounce with confidence as to 
the execution of the Abolition Laws. 

And if this reasoning is applicable to the Mauritius, even under 
the circumstances of depression, arising from low prices and pro- 
tecting duties, which prevailed there in 1822, 1823, and 1824, how 
much more strongly does it apply at the present moment, when the 
removal of the protecting duties, and the general rise in the price of 
colonial produce, must have given an increased stimulus to culti- 
vation, and rendered the temptation of the adjacent slave-market 
still more irresistible ! 

It would be easy to shew, in addition to this, in how open and 
barefaced a manner new Negroes have been introduced from the 
Seychelles, by means of certain " formalities," which, under all the 
known imperfections of the system of registration, can be of no use 
in checking, but may be of great use in facilitating, an illicit slave- 
trade. It were idle to suppose that the slave-registration system is 
more perfect in the Seychelles than it is in the Mauritius, and yet the 
certificate of the officer commanding at the former has been sufficient 
to secure the admission into the latter of any number of slaves he 
may accurately describe, and certify as coming from those islands ; 
and yet, for any thing that appears, or can appear, to the contrary, 
he himself may have first imported these slaves from Mozambique or 
Zanzebar, and then transferred them to the Mauritius. 

The whole of this state of things is an outrage on the honour and 



MAURITIUS— the slave trade. 69 

character of the British Nation. Our own Government has been 
strenuously urging France, and other powers, to adopt our plan of 
registration, for the effectual prevention of the Slave Trade. How 
justly may they charge us with hypocrisy and insincerity, when they 
contemplate the administration of that system in the Mauritius ! 

But it will be alleged, in reply to all this, that, the Slave Trade 
being abolished by Radama in Madagascar, and by the Imaum of 
Muscat, there is now no source from which slaves may be easily 
drawn to the Mauritius ; and, moreover, that slave-trading being now 
declared to be piracy by statute, none but a few desperate characters 
will venture to engage in it. 

As for the treaty with Radama, supposing it to be religiously ob- 
served on his part, (and, in consideration of the very large annual 
payment made to him by the British Government, which he would 
otherwise forfeit, this is possible,) it furnishes no security against the 
Slave Trade in those parts of Madagascar which are not subject to 
his dominion, and especially in those which are under French juris- 
diction. The treaty with Radama cannot, in the slightest degree, 
interfere to prevent a vessel which may have cleared out at Port 
Louis in the Mauritius, with a destination to any place whatsoever 
(or <{ to sea" generally, which there is a very usual destination), from 
calling at Fort Dauphin, one of the French establishments in Mada- 
gascar ; taking slaves on board there ; landing them in the night at 
some inlet in the Mauritius ; and appearing the next day at Port 
Louis, and entering at the custom-house there as returned from her 
voyage in ballast. 

With respect also to the treaty with the Imaum of Muscat, it pre- 
sents no effectual barrier to the introduction of slaves into the Mau- 
ritius by British subjects, which, in the present instance, is the crime 
to be specially provided against. 

As for the peril which is incurred by British subjects who engage 
rn the Slave Trade, and which, it may be argued, will of itself be 
sufficient to prevent any attempts at the illicit introduction of slaves, 
that risk, it is to be feared, is estimated in the Mauritius at a very 
low rate. It is perhaps not known in this country, that, notwith- 
standing the numerous and notorious infractions of the Abolition laws 
Which have taken place in that colony, since it came into the posses- 
sion of his Majesty, not one offender has hitherto been convicted and 
punished for slave-trading. A few individuals who were sent over to 
England for trial, were here convicted and punished ; but no indivi- 
dual brought to trial for slave-trading in the colonial courts, it is be- 
lieved, has hitherto met the reward of his crimes. To suppose, 
therefore, that the dealers in human flesh at the Mauritius should 
entertain any very lively fears with respect to the future, would be 
to accuse them of a strange inaptitude to profit by the lessons of 
experience. If it were credible that importations had ceased during 
the years 1822, 1823, and 1824, yet credulity itself can hardly sup- 
pose that they will not now be renewed. It is not to be hoped, that, 
in the absence of all effectual check from registration, as well as of 



70 MONTSERRAT. —NEVIS. 

all disposition in the colonial courts to convict slave-traders, either 
the fear of the gibbet, or the treaty with Radama, or the convention 
of the Imaum of Muscat, will prevent the revival of the Slave Trade 
(even supposing it to have ceased for a time), now, more especially, 
since the abolition of the protecting duties on sugar, and the enhance- 
ment of the price of that article, have combined to give a new and 
powerful stimulus to the extension of sugar planting. It were folly 
to expect it. 

This general, but, as it appears, most conclusive, reasoning on the 
subject, derives additional force from the amazing disparity in the 
sexes existing among the slaves of the Mauritius, which does not ap- 
pear to have been lessened since the capture of the colony, but which 
would have been greatly lessened in the intervening period, had im- 
portations really ceased. The inference fairly deducible from this 
fact is corroborated by the late progressive increase of the sugar cul- 
tivation of the Mauritius — a cultivation not only more destructive to 
human life than any other, but requiring a greater number of hands 
to carry it on. Connected with this fact, it is further necessary to 
bear in mind the known prejudices of the Mauritius planters in favour 
of the buying, as compared with the breeding, system ; the contiguity 
of the slave markets ; the extraordinary cheapness of the slaves ; the 
known partiality of the courts of justice in favour of slave-traders; 
and the eminently harsh and destructive nature of the bondage which 
prevails in this island. These things considered, it is impossible to. 
acquiesce in the opinion, so confidently announced, of the cessation 
of the Slave Trade in the Mauritius. 

But, independently of all the strong presumptions adduced above, 
and which are sufficient to justify the refusal of an implicit assent to 
the statements that represent the illicit importation of slaves into the 
Mauritius as having ceased, circumstances have occurred which go 
far to convert these presumptions into proof, and which at least call 
for increased vigilance in enforcing the laws, and for increased atten- 
tion to the due registration of the slaves. 



XIII. MONTSERRAT. 

From this island there is no information whatever of any kind. 

XIV. NEVIS. 

The legislature of this island has limited itself to the expression 
of an opinion, that it is adviseable to pause in a matter so generally 
affecting the interests of the colony, till they can learn what has been 
done at the seat of government, St. Christopher's, or some other of 
the principal colonies where, it is understood, consolidated slave-acts 
are in progress. 



St. Christopher's— letter of the chief justice. 71 



XV. ST. CHRISTOPHER'S. 

The Governor and the Chief Justice of this island appear to have 
been very solicitous to urge forward the amelioration of the slave 
code, and the improvement also of the condition of the free classes. 
From the legislature, however, nothing has as yet proceeded beyond 
the following statement contained in an address to the Governor. — 
" We are fully aware of the necessity which exists as to the amend- 
ment and consolidation of the several laws relating to slaves, the 
foundation for which is so surely laid that we aagur as speedy a con- 
summation of this measure, as the cautious deliberation which it de- 
mands shall permit. We approach this alteration in the actual con- 
dition of our labouring classes, with a perfect knowledge of the re- 
sult at which it aims, to which we cheerfully devote our attention, 
upon the express stipulation of full and fair indemnity for every in- 
terest that shall be injured thereby." 

A letter is inserted from the Chief Justice, Pickwood, to the Go- 
vernor, Maxwell, on the subject of reform, which contains some pas- 
sages worthy of being noted. 

" Although our statute book," he observes, <c is disgraced with 
perhaps fewer sanctions to atrocious and sanguinary conduct towards 
the slave population than are to be found among our neighbours, there 
is still much which proclaims the age when these our fellow-creatures 
were considered of less importance than the soil which they cultivated, 
or the cattle which they drove." — "Aware of the impossibility of 
reconciling the various incongruities of the slave code, with the better 
feelings which now prevail towards them, and the change in their 
condition, which that feeling and their improved habits demand, I 
resolved at once on the repeal of every existing law bearing on this 
subject." — He then proposes to abolish the odious terms "slave, and 
slavery," and to substitute " vassal, and vassalage," and thus " strip 
the condition of these people of an opprobrium which is revolting to 
all who venerate, or would preserve, the institutions to which the con- 
dition of these people is at once an exception and a reproach *." — 
He proposes to appoint a protector, and to abolish Sunday markets ; 
but he cannot bring himself to abolish wholly the flogging of females, 
who, he says, are the most turbulent, and the agitators on all occa- 
sions. " Until coercion shall cease to be the incitement to labour, I do 
not consider it to be expedient that women should be altogether ex- 
empted from this mode of chastisement." He adopts the other regu- 
lations of the Order in Council as to marriage, separation of relations 
by judicial sale, property, manumissions, and savings banks. In 
regard to evidence, he extends the principle beyond the Order in 
Council. He has never seen the necessity (nor can we see it) of any 



* We conceive, on the contrary, that it is important the name should con- 
tinue while the abomination exists. 



72 st. Christopher's— letter of the chief justice. 

restriction on its admission under the precautious which courts would 
necessarily adopt. " The prevailing feelings of our juries against the 
credibility of Negro evidence in general, will be an ample safeguard 
against the bias it may be supposed to have. I have therefore, in the 
Bill I have framed, authorized its reception in all civil suits or actions, 
in which the owner is concerned, or where any White person may be 
charged with an offence punishable with death ; for the recep- 
tion of such testimony can alone do away with the reproach which 
now attaches to us, that not only cruelty but murder may be 
committed openly, and in the presence of hundreds, without the pos- 
sibility of obtaining evidence for the conviction of the offender*.'' — 
Mr. Pickwood further states, that he has adopted the penal clause on 
cruelty from the Trinidad Order, and has added clauses to secure to 
the slave a sufficiency of food, allotments of land, clothing, time, 
attendance on public worship, medical treatment, &c. (points not 
touched upon by the Order in Council.) We regret to observe the 
numerous and vexatious disabilities, and distinctions, which Mr. 
Pickwood has thought it necessary, we suppose in deference to West- 
Indian prejudices, to sanction and perpetuate in his Bill. Those dis- 
abilities and distinctions are stated to consist, in requiring that they 
should be provided with a pass on going abroad; in the mode of ap- 
prehending fugitives, and of the punishment for harbouring or con- 
cealing them ; in searching their houses for stolen goods ; in the sale 
of liquor or arms to them, or their obtaining goods under false pre- 
tences ; and in the penalties attached to their being concerned in 
rebellion, or murder, or using words tending to rebellion, or in prepa- 
ration of mischief; to their firing squibs or struggling with, or wound- 
ing, a White person ; to their galloping horses through the streets ; 
their cruelty to cattle ; their gambling, or unlicenced dances ; their 
pretending to witchcraft ; and their preparing poison, or having 
poisonous drugs in their possession. "These offences," he adds, , 
"are not less offences in the White mau than in the slave; but they 
are here especially provided against, as requiring, in some cases, a i 
more summary mode of investigation, and a different punishment f." 

* It may be worth while pointing out how exactly the remarks contained 
in the Second Anti slavery Report (p. 76), on that past of the Trinidad Order 
which relates to the evidence of slaves, tally with the observations of this 
intelligent lawyer and judge. 

t But does not the principle so well laid down by Lord Bathurst, in the case 
of the Bahama Act, apply with equal force to the projected law of St. Christo- 
pher's? " Since the superiority of rank and education which belong to the 
White inhabitant is an aggravation of the offence committed by him, there is 
an injustice in assigning to the aggravated offence the minor punishment." 
The plan of the proposed Act is directly the reverse. It is to assign to the 
minor offence an aggravated punishment. — Mr. Pickwood observes, that these 
offences are not less offences in the White man than in the slave. Hut is it 
really so ? Is it any offence in a White man of St. Christopher's to go abroad 
without a pass; to use words in preparation for mischief; to fire squibs; to 
struggle with, or even wound, a White man if in self-defence ; to gallop a 
horse through the streets, to shew cruelty to cattle; to gamble; to have 
poisonous drugs in his possession? And if such acts are offences when com- 



ST. LUCIA— objections to reform. 73 



XVI. SAINT LUCIA. 

The communications from Ihis island, which occupy a large space, 
commence with letters addressed to Lord Bathurst, from Major- 
General Mainwaring and Colonel Blackwall, who have successively 
administered its government. The sentiments expressed in these 
letters bear strong marks of the influence of West-India prejudice. 
(A. pp.231— 318^ 

The state of the island, in respect to religious instruction, seems 
most deplorable ; it being " without one Protestant minister, or Pro- 
testant place of worship," in the whole colony, or even one place of 
worship at Castries, the chief town, for the Catholics, who form its 
main population. In two or three respects, the slave code of St. 
Lucia is more favourable to the slaves than it is in our own colonies. 
" The evidence of slaves is received, excepting for or against their 
masters." The law permits, and even ordains, the celebration of the 
marriages of slaves, with the consent of the owner; but then, adds the 
Governor, " in this colony, marriage is little common among slaves ; 
but that proceeds from the absence of religious instruction, not from 
any objection on the part of the owners, who would be anxious to 
encourage it." (Why then do they not ?) " Marriage between slaves of 
different estates, is not known." The husband and wife, and children 
under fourteen, cannot be sold separately. 

On manumissions, a sum of 99l. currency, or 43/. sterling, is pay- 
able as a tax; and for the continuance of this tax the Governor 
most ingeniously and earnestly pleads, having discovered that a tax 
is a great stimulus to industry, and a promoter of good conduct He 
is willing, however, in deference to Lord Bathurst, to abate a part 
of this tax, but proposes to retain about a moiety of it. 

Lord Bathurst had proposed to require a bond, in case of the 
manumission of children under a certain age, to prevent their becom- 
ing chargeable to the island. General Mainwaring (not being aware 
how strongly, with a view to defend taxes, bonds, &c. in cases of 
manumission, the West Indians generally had dwelt on the dangers 
of pauperism) answers with great simplicity, " I cannot conceive a 
case in which such a bond would be necessary for children, under the 
existing order of things : your Lordship may not be aware, that 

mitted by a White man, why should they be punished more leniently in him 
than in the slave ? — It is much to be lamented that the obeah clauses are con- 
tinued in a Bill framed by so respectable a man as Mr. Pickwood. It is re- 
markable that in the neighbouring island of Antigua, no such disgraceful and 
unchristian enactment exists ; and we have never heard that the very slightest 
inconvenience has there resulted from the omission. Are our West-Indian 
legislators so little acquainted with human nature as not to know that witch- 
craft, obeah, &c, acquire respect and veneration in the eyes of the ignorant, 
just in proportion as they appear to be regarded with apprehension by the 
more intelligent ; whereas the true cure for the prevalence of a belief in these 
things is wholly to disregard them, and to apply our efforts, not to punish the 
superstition, but to enlighten the ignorance which is its source ? 

L 



74 ST. lucia— objections to reform. 

there are no paupers in this colony," — obviously meaning, no free per- 
sons who are paupers. This remark equally applies to every other 
colony, however the fact may have been concealed or denied by 
colonial writers or orators, who have falsely alleged the apprehended 
charges of pauperism as their apology for taxes and other restraints 
on manumission. 

The General entertains serious doubts as to the propriety of dis- 
continuing to flog women. He thinks it may be possible, but speaks 
very hesitatingly upon the point, by means of tread-mills and solitary 
cells, to establish a system of punishment which might do away with 
the necessity of the whip ; but the whip or martinet he thinks should 
be reserved in terrorem. But for female slaves, on estates, he is ut- 
terly at a loss to conceive what punishment can be substituted. The 
unanimous opinion of all with whom he had conversed was, that the 
whip or martinet must be reserved as a punishment for the females, the 
women being infinitely more difficult to manage than the men. He 
adds, " I have had a special report, from one quarter of the island, 
that since the whip has been discontinued for the women, the men 
make use of their wives to convey to their owners all sorts of insolent 
and insubordinate requests and observations *. I can perfectly un- 
derstand the possibility of this being the case, and therefore cannot 
doubt that it is sot; as I am persuaded that the owner will not 
unfrequently punish the husband for the wife, if he be deprived 
altogether of the right of punishing this latter J." As to abolishing 
the use of the whip in the field, " the planters are exceedingly ap- 
prehensive that, without this badge of office, the commander (driver) 
will not he able to enforce his orders." If, however, the means of 
keeping up order and regularity on their properties, that is, enforcing 
labour, is reserved to them, they will no longer be disinclined to 
banish the whip. 

To grant to the slaves a right of property, the General thinks 
would be subversive of the existing law, and will besides induce the 
slave to be dishonest to his owner, or to steal §. To establish savings 
banks will be extremely difficult, slaves being both mistrustful and 
incautious, (p. 231, &c.) 

The letter of General Mainwaring is accompanied by some ob- 
servations of ihe Attorney-General. He conceives religious instruction 
to be scarcely practicable, from the greatness of the expense, the 
aversion of the slaves, and the hopelessness of procuring ministers. 

* This would imply, that as early as August 1823, the date of this letter, 
the flogging of females had actually been discontinued in St. Lucia. This 
however, as appears from subsequent statements, must have been a mistake; 
the planters having doubtless tried to impose upon him by this unfounded 
representation. 

t And yet what was there to prevent the owner at that time from punishing 
this insolence in the usual way ? The law had not yet been altered. 

+ What a shocking picture of the character of the very men whose humanity 
the General nevertheless praises, and on whose information he relies ? 

§ This mode of treating the subject affords a complete proof of the total 
want of property in the slave at present. 



ST. LUCIA — objections to reform. 75 

He defends the holding of the markets on Sunday. He objects to 
the proposed facilities to manumission, and for this strange reason : 
" There is no greater stimulus to labour for a slave than the desire 
of obtaining his liberty." And yet he proposes an impost to form a 
fund for their maintenance, because manumitted slaves are averse to 
work, give themselves up to excesses of all kinds, and are thus 
brought to a state of infirmity and misery *. The regulations for 
restraining, deferring, witnessing, and recording the punishments of 
slaves, he thinks are superfluous and impracticable. " Such changes 
would give the death-blow to the subordination of the slaves, and 
would essentially compromise the safety of the master." In short, he 
adds, with evident horror, " the total subversion of the colony would 
be the result of such innovations." (A. pp. 236* — 247.) 

Col. BlackwaH's communications are in a similar strain. The pro- 
posed measure could not be made law in St. Lucia with safety to the 
planters or advantage to the slave. The existing law is decidedly 
adverse to the abolition of flogging females, and to the right of the 
slave to redeem himself. The existing circumstances too of the co- 
lony are such, that his Majesty's Ministers will no doubt see the 
propriety of deferring any amendment of the slave laws. The general 
state of society is far from being highly civilized. There is not one 
school in the island. The slaves have the intelligence of contentment 
and simplicity, but no instruction whatever. The proposed change, 
therefore, would be too serious a change to be carried into effect, 
without imminent danger to the public peace, and would impede, 
rather than advance, the cause of freedom. The owner, who now 
gives his slave every opportunity of exerting his industry in his own 
behalf, and of disposing of the produce of it, will at once deprive 
him, as far as may be in his power, of these indulgences, and no 
law can be framed to prevent this. Manumissions, which go on ra- 
pidly at present, will be impeded rather than promoted by legislative 
enactments. The master, grateful for faithful services, may be ready 
of his own will to make any sacrifice ; but if the law compelled him 
,to do so, his feelings would be changed f. The most sanguine well- 
wisher to emancipation could hardly hope it should proceed faster 
than it does at present. Col. Blackwall views it as indispensible to 
make the slave look up to his owner alone for his freedom, as the 
reward of faithful service ; and he urges Lord Bathurst that the slave 
should not be entitled to claim his freedom as a right, without paying 
a sum beyond his value, and producing testimonials of his good 
conduct. " My object," says this officer, " is solely to preserve to 
the master the affection of the slave, which he would unquestionably 
lose, if the slave considered every moment he worked for his master 
as a robbery upon that time he ought to employ to obtain his own 
freedom, or that of his wife and children. I enter as warmly as any 

* And yet the Governor affirms that there are no paupers in St. Lucia. 
t The sooner such masters are deprived of the enormous powers they pos- 
sess, the better. 



76 ST. VINCENT. 

man into the views of Government for the amelioration of the condi- 
tion of the slaves ;" but " I conceive it to be impossible to grant, 
without limitation, this right to the slave without destroying that 
relation between the master and himself upon which the happiness 
of both entirely depends." Such are the views of this West-Indian 
governor. 

In a subsequent letter, he states, that he had made a tour of the 
island. The slaves are well and regularly clothed, fed, and attended 
to in every respect ; a great degree of leniency and humanity was 
observed towards them ; they appeared happy and contented, and 
their owners seemed to use their endeavours to make them so. And 
yet, notwithstanding these flattering representations of Col. Black- 
wall, the slave population, though consisting of many more women 
than men, appears, to be decreasing at the rate of two and one-tenth 
percent, per annum*. He ought to have reconciled this fact with 
his report. 

On the 9th of September, 1821, Colonel Blackwali transmitted to 
Lord Bathurst, agreeably to his Lordship's instructions, the draft of 
an Order " embodying the whole spirit" of the Trinidad Order in 
Council. He contends strenuously, however, for the continuance of 
Sunday markets, for preventing slaves from holding lands, and 
against the slave's right to be manumitted on paying his value, unless 
he shall have previously obtained his owner's consent. He also pro- 
poses, that in all criminal prosecutions, against any White person 
convicted on the evidence of his own slaves, such slaves shall be 
sold, together with their husbands, wives, and children, and the 
produce paid to the owner. Two clauses are proposed to be intro- 
duced, which are improvements on the Order in Council — first, that 
no punishment shall be inflicted by any owner or other person upon 
any slave, in respect of any complaint made by him to the protector; 
but if any punishment is inflicted, it shall only be after trial and con- 
viction before the proper tribunal ; second, that not only slaves, but 
persons of free coudition, shall be at liberty to purchase the freedom 
of their father, mother, wife, husband, child, brother or sister, who 
may still be slaves. 

It transpires incidentally, that under the existing law all interroga- 
tions and examinations are secret, to the exclusion even of the pro- 
secutor ; and that of course, unless the law is altered, even the pro- 
tector of slaves would be excluded from them ; but surely this ought 
not so to be. 

XVII. SAINT VINCENT. 

An Act had passed the legislature of Saint Vincent in 1820, for 
consolidating the different laws relative to slaves, the humanity of 
which was highly vaunted as having anticipated all Lord Bathurst's 
improvements. It was doubtless an improvement on the old law of 

* See Second Anti-slavery Report, p. 152. 



TOBAGO. 77 

Saint Vincent ; but, on being examined, it was found to be neither 
more nor less, with scarcely any variation, than a substantial trans- 
cript of the Consolidated Act of Jamaica of December, 1B16. On 
the 26th of July, 1824, Lord Bathurst addressed a letter to the 
governor, Sir C. Brisbane, commenting on this Act of 1820, and 
referring him to the Trinidad Order in Council for the general 
grounds of his objections. Among other classes he objects to two, 
which enact, that if one slave assist another to go off the island, he 
shall suffer deatli ; but that if a White or free person assist him, he 
shall be transported, without saying for what period. Lord Bathurst's 
remark on these clauses is important, as involving a general principle 
of extensive application in colonial legislation, and which will be 
found already propounded iii the case of the law of the Bahamas. 
"The offence for which such disproportionate punishment is pro- 
vided by the former of these clauses cannot be considered as of a 
malignant nature ; yet it would be aggravated rather than palliated, 
both as regards the delinquency of the act, and its danger to society, 
under the circumstance of being committed by a person of free con- 
dition, as contemplated by the latter clause, which, nevertheless, 
provides a minor punishment." (A. p. 112.). 

The Governor laid Lord •Bathurst's communication before the 
legislature. The Council, in reply, '.' cannot refrain from express- 
ing a hope that precipitance may be avoided in introducing untried 
innovations into this tranquil, happy, and hitherto contented coun- 
try ; and that our rulers will deign to recollect the wise opiuion on 
government, left to his country, by one of its most profound reason- 
ers and writers, ' It were good that men in innovations would follow 
the example of time itself, which, indeed, innovateth greatly, but 
quietly, and by degrees.' " — The Assembly resolve that the whole 
matter do stand over. " I have been unwilling/' observes the Go- 
vernor, in his letter of the 10th of September, 1824, " to press the 
matter on the immediate consideration of the legislature, for two 
reasons ; first, I am confident it will be much more satisfactory to 
your Lordship and creditable to themselves, that all these improve- 
ments should be voluntary ; secondly, that were I instantly to have 
directed their attention to this subject, I might, perhaps, have acted 
with some precipitancy, and, by irritating the public mind, rendered 
them more obstinate opponents than it is your Lordship's desire. 
They have, until December next, 1824, time sufficient to weigh the 
nature and principles of the measures proposed." It does not ap- 
pear, however, that a single step has since been taken towards the 
desired reformation. 

XVIII. TOBAGO. 

In 1824 the legislature of this island passed an act containing 
some improvements on their former slave-code. It admits slave 
evidence in the only case in which the Trinidad Older in Council 
has rejected it; viz. in the case of the wilful murder or mayhem of a 



78 TRINIDAD. 

slave by a White or free person, provided no White or free person 
had been present, and provided two slaves, unimpeached as to cre- 
dibility, concur in their testimony. Clauses are also introduced for 
securing the personal property of the slave; for abolishing Sunday 
markets, and substituting Thursday : for allowing to the slaves 
thirty-five weekdays in the year for their provision grounds; and 
for limiling arbitrary punishment to twenty stripes; any number 
more than twelve requiring the presence of a free person besides the 
person who inflicts the punishment. 

In this act, however, there are many omissions, and many objec- 
tionable clauses. To these Lord Bathurst calls the attention of the 
Governor, Sir F. P. Robinson, in his letter of 26th July 1824, 
referring him to the Trinidad Order, to which he wishes the law to 
be assimilated, and pointing out some specific objections to the act 
recently passed. He objects to the inflicting of capital punishment 
for the crimes of " compassing the death of a White or free person," 
"maiming of cattle," and " enticing other slaves to run off the island." 
Receivers of stolen goods are punishable with corporal punishment ; 
but it is not specified that a knowledge of the goods having been 
stolen is of the essence of the offence. The powers of slave courts 
are too extensive for courts which are not courts of record. Other 
defects are pointed out, in addition to which there are the very 
serious omissions of the inadmissibility of slave evidence, except in 
a particular case: the marriage of slaves; the removal of all ob- 
stacles to manumission; and the regulation of the sale of slaves 
nearly related. 

Sir F. P. Robinson, on the 27th October 1824, informs Lord 
Bathurst, that " there is great reason to fear the Colonial Legislature 
will not attend to the suggestions submitted to them respecting 
amendments and additions to the slave act." " To press them far- 
ther on the subject this session would answer no good purpose, 
and therefore it will be better to wait the event of the January 
sessions." But even this qualified hope lasts only a single day. On 
the 28th October the Governor writes, that it is his decided opinion, 
" that nothing more will be done towards the melioration of the con- 
dition of the slaves in this colony by the legislature." He transmits 
at the same time a message from the House of Assembly rejecting 
the Trinidad Order entirely. It could not, they say, be adapted to 
the island of Tobago, without equal prejudice to the interest of the 
master, and the good government and happiness of the slave popula- 
tion. The House is fully convinced that in the late act, they have 
gone as far as prudence and propriety can justify, and that in the 
present state of the slave population, io adopt all the measures re- 
commended by his Majesty's Government, would be equally destruc- 
tive of the interests of the master and the happiness of the slave. 

XIX. TRINIDAD. 

The whole of the papers connected with Trinidad, which are con- 



trinidad— supplementary orders. 79 

tained in the book A., have a reference to the promulgation of the 
Order in Council, which took place on the 24th May 1824, and 
to the subsidiary regulations which were found necessary either 
for giving effect to its provisions, or for supplying its defects. Into 
these it will be unnecessary to enter much at large. The substance 
of the Order itself, as it originally stood, will be found in the 
Appendix to the Second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society, p. 71. 

Two proclamations have since been issued : the first, of the 23d 
June 1824, directs that, instead of being punished by flogging, 
female slaves shall thenceforward be liable to be punished, by their 
owners, by solitary confinement, with or without work, not exceeding 
three days; by fieid-stocks for the hands, during the hours of labour, 
not exceeding thirty minutes for each offence ; by house-stocks for 
the hands and feet, with or without seats, during any period of the 
day, not exceeding six hours ; by bed-stocks for the confinement of 
the feet during the night; handcuffs ; distinguishing dresses, with or 
without stocks ; distinguishing marks to be suspended from the neck ; 
confinement, either solitary or otherwise, with or without task-work. 
These punishments may also be inflicted on male slaves in lieu of 
flogging : offences requiring a higher punishment are to be referred 
to the magistrates or tribunals according to their enormity. Regula- 
tions are also promulgated for the management of the Savings' Banks. 

The second proclamation is dated the 29th October 18<;4, and 
directs that nothing in the Order of Council, prohibiting compulsory 
labour on the Sunday, shall be construed to authorise any slave to 
hire himself to work, either to his owner or any other person, from 
sun-set on Saturday to sun-rise on Monday ; provided, however, that 
in case it shall be absolutely necessary for the preservation of the 
crops or produce on any plantation, or for the prevention of essential 
injury to the same, slaves may be employed for hire between these 
hours, provided they voluntarily consent to do so, and provided they 
are so hired by their owner, or by other persons with the owner's 
special consent in writing ; the lowest rates of wages, which shall be 
payable to slaves so hiring themselves, shall be fixed and made 
known by a public notice from the Protector and Guardian of slaves, 
and it shall not be lawful to pay them less than this fixed rate. It 
is further directed, that nothing in the Order shall be construed to 
prevent the employment between sun-set on Saturday and sun-rise 
on Monday, of watchmen, nurses, domestic servants, &c. ; it being 
understood that no field labour, or labour in any of the ordinary 
works of the plantation shall take place, on any pretence of irrepara- 
ble injury from delay, unless the slave shall voluntarily engage in it 
and be paid for it. It is further declared, that female slaves under 
the age of ten years may be corrected for faults as children of free 
condition are usually corrected ; that the expenses of appraisement, 
on the manumission "of a slave, are to be equally divided between 
the owner and the slave ; that when a person's interest in all his 
slaves shall, by reason of his cruelty and unlawfully punishing his 
slaves, become liable to forfeiture, the sentence shall not take effect 
until the whole case, with all its particulars, shall have been reported 



80 tri N I D A D — remonstrances of planters. 

to his Majesty, and bis royal pleasure thereon shall have been signi- 
fied ; and that the rights of third parties shall not be affected by such 
forfeiture. 

In the Order, as thus framed and modified, Lord Bathurst re- 
marks, " there is nothing which can give to the planters any just 
claim for compensation. I am as ready as any man to acknowledge 
and maintain that the slave must be considered as the property of 
his master. But the slave has his rights. He has a right to the 
protection of the master in return for his service, and the law must 
secure to him that protection. There is nothing in the provisions 
of this Order which goes beyond the limits which this principle pre- 
scribes. In most cases ihey do little more than what practice has 
sanctioned*, or the law has already enjoined. The master is not 
deprived of the service of his slave on any day except Sunday ; and 
it is to be hoped that no Christian master will so far forget himself 
as to claim indemnity for the loss of lhat which his religion must have 
taught him he ought never to require." 

The Second Report of the Anti-slavery Society has already stated 
the grief and dismay which the promulgation of this Order in Council 
produced among the planters in Trinidad. In reply to the strong 
remonstrances of the colonists, the Governor refuses to suspend the 
Order; and he affirms, that " the points comprised in it were recom- 
mended to his Majesty's Government by the whole body of West- 
India planters and merchants in London, as fit concessions on the 
part of the slave proprietors." It is important to bear this in mind. 
The remonstrants in Trinidad affect to regard the Order as the work 
of the abolitionists, while it is in fact the work of the West-India 
body in London. 

In one of the many remonstrances presented to Sir R. Woodford 
by the inhabitants, and in which they ransack the English vocabu- 
lary for words sufficiently strong to express their dissatisfaction and 
their alarm, we find the following passage: " It is avowedly a mea- 
sure by which the assumptions of theory are to be subjected to the 
test of experiment, to be falsified or confirmed; by which the phi- 
losophic legislator is to ascertain whether a slave can be raised from 
the lowest grade to a more elevated rank in society, and yet remain 
a slave, productive as property and subservient to the will of his 
master ; whether a partial infusion of the best principles, extracted 
from a society of the highest order and refinement into a system ra- 
dically vicious and bad, yet hitherto simple in its deformity, will, by 
the admixture, neutralize and improve the latter, or the whole ex- 
plode by repulsion." To this remonstrance they subjoin a long series 
of questions as to the precise meaning of various provisions of the 
Order in Council; in reply to which Lord Bathurst afterwards fur- 
nishes explanations, which, in most respects, are satisfactory. 

* Lord Bathurst, we fear, has not been well informed as to the extent of 
improvement which praclice, in the colonies, had previously sanctioned, hav- 
ing probably taken the unfounded statements of some even respectable West- 
Indians to be true representations — such statements, for example, as that the 
whip is used not as a stimulus to labour, but as a mere badge of authority. 



TRINIDAD — explanations of order. 81 

They ask whether the clause, prohibiting compulsory labour on 
the Sunday, forbids an exertion of the authority of the master to 
oblige lazy and indolent Negroes to work their grounds on Sunday, 
as has been the practice hitherto. Lord Bathurst' s reply is to this 
effect: " The Order in Council distinctly prohibits the use of com- 
pulsion to induce a slave to work even on his own ground on a Sun- 
day. The master is entitled to the labour of the slave for six days in 
the week, but he is not entitled to more ; and out of the profits of 
the six days' labour the slave must be supported. The seventh must 
belong to the slave entirely for his own profit and advantage. I can 
perceive no difference in principle between the practice of purchasing 
food for Negroes, who are exclusively employed for six days in the 
service of their masters, for their support during the whole week, 
and of appropriating an adequate portion of time, during the six 
days, for the cultivation of their grounds. It is therefore evident, 
that in cases where the master adopts the system of provision grounds 
(which is most frequently the case in Trinidad), he can have no pos- 
sible claim for the services of his slave on the Sunday, whether those 
services be for the execution of work exclusively to be performed for 
himself, or for the cultivation of provision grounds, by the produce 
of which he is to be relieved from the support of his slaves. Nor 
can he be considered as entitled to compensation for that day, or 
part of a day, which he may permit his slaves to appropriate dur- 
ing the six working days, for he makes this arrangement to supersede 
the necessity of purchasing provisions for his slaves." 

It is to be regretted that the Order is perfectly silent on the im- 
portant point of the quantum of time to be allowed to the slave in 
lieu of Sunday, over and above the time that had been previously 
allowed him in addition to it. 

The 21st clause enacts, that on the prosecution of an owner for 
inflicting an illegal punishment on a slave, if the slave (not himself 
being a competent witness) shall be produced in court with the traces 
of recent laceration visible, and shall make a probable and consistent 
statement of all the circumstances, then the owner shall be bound to 
prove either that the punishment was not inflicted by him, or that it 
was a lawful punishment ; and failing to do so shall be adjudged 
guilty. To this clause the planters object, that a slave might, from 
malicious motives, procure some fellow-slave to flog him, so as to 
create laceration, and then exhibit his sores in court as evidence 
against his master. But Lord Bathurst justly thinks that there is no 
probability of any such fraud being attempted. 

It is objected to the clause which prohibits the flogging of female 
slaves, that they are thus placed in a superior state to persons of free 
condition. Lord Bathurst observes, that the objection does not prove 
the impropriety of the clause, but rather demonstrates the necessity 
of altering the law which sanctions such a mode of punishing free 
females. He intimates at the same time, that a law is meditated for 
improving the condition of the free People of Colour. 

It is asked, whether the permission given to the slaves to hold 

M 



82 TRINIDAD— explanations of order. 

land does not virtually revoke the existing law of Trinidad, prohibit- 
ing slaves from cultivating the staple commodities of the island. 
Lord Bathurst replies, that in granting to slaves the povyer of acquir- 
ing land, the Order does not of course exempt them from any existing 
restrictions as to the mode in which the land may be cultivated by 
persons of their class and condition*. 

The Colonial Committee inquire, whether in the case of an old in- 
firm slave having acquired property to purchase either his own free- 
dom, or that of his son who might be in the vigour of life, such a 
slave might elect to remain in slavery himself, continuing a burden to 
his owner, and to free his son, who forms a valuable part of the 
owner's property: Lord Bathurst well replies, " This is a just right 
which the slave clearly possesses under the Order. The most power- 
ful inducement to a life of labour and self-denial is destroyed, if the 
slave is not permitted to employ, as may please him best, whatever 
property he may acquire by his exertions. An old man might pur- 
chase his freedom at a cheap rate ; but if he prefers labouring longer 
to purchase that of his son, such an instance of parental regard and 
self-denial would not make the father less deserving of support. Be- 
sides, if the father might not purchase the freedom of his own son, 
there is nothing which could prevent his making over to the son the 
means of purchasing it for himself. The prohibition, therefore, 
would not only be harsh but inoperative. Nor is the master really 
injured ; for if the son be strong and valuable, the owner will receive 
his proportionable price. If, on the other hand, the father is old and 
infirm, is it because he has spent his youth and strength in habits of 
industry, and in his master's service, that he is unworthy of support?" 
Lord Bathurst adds his opinion, that, where either infants or old per- 
sons are redeemed for a valuable consideration paid to the owner, no 
bond for maintenance ought to be required. It is true that the slave 
so redeemed may become a public burden. Where a slave, however, 
is manumitted for a valuable consideration, the security is considera- 
ble. " Such manumissions can only take place with the concurrence 
of the slave himself, with his own money, or with the money of some 
one who has an interest in his welfare. It is not to be supposed that 
the consent would be given, or the money paid, if there were a rea- 
sonable prospect that the manumission would injure the party manu- 
mitted, by reducing him from a state of sufficiency to poverty and 
distress. A slave who can raise or possesses the means of purchasing 
his own freedom, will seldom belong to that class of persons who 
sink into pauperism. On this, and every system of law, frauds may 



* What a hard measure is dealt out to the poor slave ! His want of industry 
is assigned as a reason for withholding freedom from him ; hut, by positive 
regulations, restraining the application of his industry, all motive to its exer- 
tion is as much as possible taken away. He is not allowed to grow, or even to 
possess, a single article of exportable produce. Lord Bathurst appears to 
Lave been struck with the injustice of this arrangement in the case of Deme- 
rara. Is it less unjust in the case of Trinidad ? 



Trinidad — operations of order. 83 

be attempted ; but the Protector of slaves will be bound to counteract 
such fraudulent practices *." 

The Order in Council, say the planters, has made slaves competent 
witnesses on producing a certificate from their religious teacher. It is 
asked whether the want of such a certificate will render a slave incompe- 
tent, who might, according to the pre-existing law, have been received 
as a witness. Lord Bathurst's reply is important. " The Order," 
he says, " furnishes a distinct answer to this question, by declaring 
that nothing therein contained shall extend to take away or diminish 
any power or authority which any court of criminal jurisdiction now 
hath to admit, in any case, the evidence of persons being in a state 
of slavery." At the same time, prior to this satisfactory explanation 
of his lordship, we should have been apt to form a different conclu- 
sion. If the whole community of slaves in Trinidad already enjoyed 
the privilege, in point of law, of giving evidence in courts of justice, 
we should have concluded that a clause, specially entitling those who 
obtain a certificate of competency to this privilege, was intended to 
operate to the exclusion of all others. 

The set of papers B. contains a report of the operations of the 
Order in Council in Trinidad, during the first half year of its existence 
—namely, from June to December 1824. " It is alleged," says the 
Governor, in transmitting this report, " that many planters do not 
punish their slaves, even when they merit chastisement, from the 
dislike, and often from the inability, to keep the Record Book. But 
though this may have occurred, it is, I believe, equally true that the 
fear of their offence being recorded has also served to restrain the 
slaves. Cases of insolence and insubordination frequently occur 
among the female slaves, for which confinement would be a sufficient 
punishment, if it were persisted in ; but the loss of the people's la- 
bour prevents all the benefit that might be felt from such a substitu- 
tion. More serious offences were intended to be met by labour on 
the tread-wheel under the orders of a magistrate ; but the distance of 
the majority of estates from Port of Spain prevents recourse being 
had to it. " 

The report of the Procurador Syndic, Mr. Henry Gloster, is very 
full. It contains a variety of information. 

1. Criminal prosecutions at the instance of the Attorney-Genera!, 
from 24th June to 24th of December 1824. These are eleven u* 
number. (B. pp. 39—67.) 

1. The King against Robert Gaston, the manager of La Puerta 
estate, for flogging a slave named Sebastian Mati, because he said he 
was sick, and afterwards beating him with a stick for the same cause, 
and breaking his arm. This was a case of much doubt, and the ac- 
cused was therefore properly acquitted. 

* His Lordship here furnishes a powerful reply to all those miserable 
slanders poured forth by the Rev. Mr. Bridges, and others of his class, against 
manumission, as converting the now happy slave into a miserable and helpless 
pauper. 



84 trinidad— slave trials. 

2. The King against Francis, a slave, for assaulting, and wounding 
a free Spaniard. The prisoner, being found guilty, was sentenced to 
hard labour in the tread-mill for four months, then to be punished 
■with forty stripes in presence of the slaves of the neighbouring es- 
tates, and then delivered 1o his master. 

«3. The King against Plato Anguilla, a slave, for assaulting and 
wounding Richard Pearce, a slave. Not guilty— discharged. 

4. The King against Jaques Grand Guile, a slave, for assault and 
murder of a free man, Telemaque. Not guilty of the murder, but 
guilty of the assault. The Court, however, deemed the confinement 
already sustained sufficient punishment, and discharged him. 

5. The King against Jean Paul Ongell, a slave, for an assault on 
the overseer and driver of the estate to which he belonged. He was 
found guilty, and sentenced to seventy stripes in the presence of the 
slaves of the neighbouring estates. 

6 The King against Robert Ramsay, a slave, for the murder of 
another slave. There was a second count for an assault. He was 
acquitted of the murder, but found guilty of the assault ; but which 
was of such a nature that his previous confinement was deemed a suf- 
ficient punishment. 

7. The King against two slaves, Hector Munro and L'Amour 
Roche, belonging to Belle Veu estate, for refusing to obey their mas- 
ter's orders, and resisting him and the overseer, and for seducing the 
other slaves to the same disobedience ; and also for improper and in- 
solent conduct towards the commandant of the district. The slaves 
on Belle Vue estate had usually had Friday given to them (out of 
crop, we presume,) for their own provision grounds. As a punish- 
ment for some laxity of discipline (not turning out in the morning 
earlier than half past six), the owner instructed the overseer to in- 
form them, on Thursday evening, that the next day (Friday) would 
not be allowed them as usual. Only a few of the Negroes, however, 
came to work. The owner, Mr. Byam Redhead, sent the driver to 
inquire the cause and to summon them to work. They refused, say- 
ing they were entitled to that day. Mr. Redhead complained to Mr. 
Armstrong, the commandant. The commandant came upon the es- 
tate and called the Negroes together, and, being unable to discover 
the ring-leader, selected Hector for punishment. Hector said he 
would not submit to be punished. The commandant then ordered 
the driver to seize him. Upon this all the Negroes, among whom 
was L'Amour, began to run, looking over their shoulders and bran- 
dishing their cutlasses, (a fact, however, which was contradicted by 
most of the witnesses,) saying they were men, and would defend 
themselves. The women also behaved riotously, and ran off in ano- 
ther direction. The prisoners were found guilty, and were sentenced 
— Hector to eighty and L'Amour to one hundred stripes, under the 
superintendance of the commandant, and in the presence of a medi- 
cal man. 

8. The King against Jean Griffis, a slave, for the wilful murder of 
another slave ; for assaulting and striking a watchman ; and fos steal- 



trinidad — slave trials. 85 

iog two bunches of plantains. He was found guilty of the murder, 
and condemned to be hung. The Protector appealed to the Gover- 
nor and Council, who confirmed the sentence. The prisoner suffered 
death accordingly. 

9. The King against Anaclato Hospidales, a slave, for an assault 
on the manager of the estate on which he was a slave; and for as- 
saulting and wounding two other persons of free condition. The 
manager and the slave had been dining and drinking rum together, 
and were both drunk. The outrage was clearly owing to this cir- 
cumstance. The prisoner was found guilty, and condemned to re- 
ceive fifty lashes, which ought rather to have been inflicted on the 
manager. 

10. The King against William Dallaway, a slave, for being a noto- 
rious thief and vagabond, and for stealing a trunk of clothing of the 
value of fifty dollars. He was found guilty, and seatenced to receive 
eighty lashes with a cat-o'-nine-tails in the public market-place. 

11. The King against Zaire Lingere a female slave, for running 
away for nearly two years from her mistress's service, and embezzling 
her property, to the amount of 120/. Zaire had been employed by 
her mistress, Madame Victoire Bernard, to sell goods for her, and had 
always conducted herself well, and made faithful returns of her trans- 
actions. She had been entrusted with goods to sell to the value of 
500 dollars, and had paid about 400 dollars of the amount ; but had 
absented herself since December 1822, with the remainder. It was 
proved on the part of the prisoner, that a free person, named Caesar 
Mandingo, had taken from her, on credit, goods to the amount of 100 
dollars, which he had not paid. She told him she would not quit his 
house till he had paid her. When, after some time, she returned to 
her own house, she found she had been robbed of the goods she had 
left there, and, being afraid to return to her mistress, had gone back 
to the house of Csesar Mandingo, where she had been detained ever 
since. She was found not guilty, and discharged. 

We have been more particular in recording the above eleven cases, 
making the whole of the criminal prosecutions, in which slaves were 
in any way concerned, occurring in six months, among a population 
consisting of upwards of 40,000 persons of all classes, 22,000 of 
which are slaves ; because it has been asserted by the Trinidadians 
not only that the Order in Council would demoralize the slaves, and 
be productive of a multiplication of crime, but that, during the time 
it had been in operation, their anticipations had been more than 
verified. How little foundation there is for such an assertion, the 
preceding authentic details will testify. In the only two cases which 
can be referred to the head of insubordination to authority on the 
part of the slaves, the persons in authority were themselves evidently 
and chiefly in fault. In one case a man deprives his slaves of the 
day that had been usually appropriated to their own provision 
grounds, expecting them nevertheless to feed themselves. In the 
other, the manager sits down in the house of the slave, and gets 
drunk with rum belonging to the slave, and then prosecutes the slave 



86 trinidad — protector's returns. 

for having, when in a state of intoxication, induced by his own en- 
couragement and example, committed an assault upon him. Nobody 
will deny that under these circumstances the criminals were punished 
with sufficient severity The manager's pot-companion is visited 
with fifty lashes of the cart-whip; and the two assertors of their 
rights are condemned, one to 80 and the other to 100 lashes. 

II. The number of slaves manumitted by private contract from the 
24th June to the 24th December 1824, amounted to sixty-five, besides 
twenty-four manumitted before the Chief Justice, and eleven more 
whose cases were undecided, making in the whole one hundred. Of 
the eighty-nine actually liberated, twenty received their freedom 
without any valuable consideration, and sjxty-nine purchased their 
freedom ; the whole sum paid by them amounting to 10,206/. 18s, 
being on au average 147^. 18s. currency for each slave, or about 6*5/. 
sterling. 

Ten cases occur of slaves applying for their liberty, but who, on 
being appraised, found the appraisement to exceed their previous 
expectations, and the funds they had accumulated therefore to be 
inadequate to their redemption. 

III. Four actions had been brought by the Protector, for debts 
owing to slaves by free persons, and judgment was given in all of 
them for the plantiff. The amount of these four claims was about 
410/. currency. 

IV. The returns of punishments for three months only, from 24th 
June to 24th September, are curious and most important. No fewer 
than 446 proprietors make a return of no punishment exceeding three 
lashes having been inflicted on their slaves during these three 
months. These 446 proprietors are possessors of slaves varjing 
ia number from 1 to 121, and, in the whole, of 59J5 slaves, 
being upwards of a fourth of the whole slave population of the 
colony. 

Returns of the punishments on 189 estates are given. They amount 
to about 1230 in three months, and include all inflictions above 
three lashes to the men, as well as those to which the women were 
subjected. One, two, or three lashes however, frequently repeated 
in the course of the day, might of course add largely to the sum of 
punishments, and there is nothing in the law to prevent the frequent 
repetition of these minor inflictions. — The number of women who 
are punished with confinement in the stocks for different periods of 
time appears to exceed the number of men who receive punishment 
by confinement and flogging. The largest classes of offences consist 
of noise, and neglect of work; insolence and disobedience; not 
finishing tasks ; and being from half an hour to an hour too late in 
the morning ; likewise the getting drunk; false pretence of sickness; 
quarrelling, &c. Not cultivating their gardens, is also a frequent 
source of punishment. Another is the failing to bring the required 



TRINIDAD— -returns of punishment. 87 

portion of grass for the cattle; a work, be it remembered, which is 
quite an extra work, after the prescribed term of labour in the field 
is over; and which, though a severe aggravation of the slave's toil, is 
never mentioned, except incidentally, by the West-Indians. Absence 
from prayers is also punished on some estates with the whip or the 
stocks. We proceed to make a few extracts from this record, merely 
as a specimen of its general tenor. 

1. Jean Philip of Le Vivier — "for being absent from his garden 
on the Saturday afternoon, and not appearing at grass with the rest 
of the people, nor at prayers on the Sunday evening : also for re- 
fusing to turn out on Monday morning to his work, alleging he was 
sick ; the doctor having visited him did not think proper to give him 
any medicine, but ordered him for duty the following morning*" — 
punished by the manager with confinement for thirteen hours of the 
night in the bed-stocks, and eighteen lashes. 

2. Grenville of Bon Air, " for striking and ill-using his wife," pu- 
nished by the manager with twenty stripes. 

3. May of Bon Air, " for being three mornings behind the others 
in going to work," punished by the manager with ten stripes. 

4. Margaret Jones of Dinsley, " for bringing a small bundle of 
grass, and impudence when reprimanded," confined in the bed- 
stocks one night. 

5. Paterson of Garden Estate, " for telling a lie on the overseer," 
put in the stocks ; but on the next day he was taken out, the lie not 
being proved; but afterwards put in again, being found guilty of the 
charge, and punished with twenty lashes. 

6. Jack of Golden Grove, " for bringing false charges against 
the manager," punished by the commandant with twenty-four 
lashes. 

7. Jack Abole of Orange Grove, " for making a false complaint to 
the commandant," punished by the commandant at his own works 
with twenty-two lashes. 

8. Gatto Campbell of Carapichaima Hall— " for doing bad work 
in the field, and answering the owner when found fault with, that it 
was well done : he returned only after being ordered twice, and 
with great reluctance and murmuring, to mend his work" — twelve 
lashes. 

9. Manilla of Mount Pleasant, " for turning out late," in the stocks 
one night. 

10. Frankey of ditto, "for going off the estate without a pass," 
confined two nights. 

11. Paul Collins of Vineyard, " for disobedience of orders, and not 
bringing grass," punished with twelve stripes. 

12. Peter Delezee of ditto, " for dancing to the drum after the hour 
appointed by Government," twenty-five stripes. 

13. Mary Anne Babrick of ditto, " lost twenty-five minutes'work," 

* If the doctor gave him a day's respite from labour, it was a proof that his 
indisposition was not altogether feigned. 



88 Trinidad — returns of punishment. 

and was imprisoned in the feet-stocks one of the hours of noon of the 
same day. 

14. Angolo of St. Francis and Frederick, " for saying with con- 
tempt to her master, that her clothing was not good, when it was 
proved that it was of her size," eleven hours in the bed stocks (being 
in fact the whole night). 

15. Cannette, of ditto, " did not throw grass;" ten hours in the 
bed-stocks. 

l(j. Rose Desir6e, of ditto, " for coming after three o'clock P. M. 
into the held," nine hours in the bed-stocks. 

17. Zabeth Robertson of Ross Park, " for not working her row 
with the rest of the gang as she ought to do," in the stocks during her 
noon time. 

18. The same, " for not working her provision ground on the day 
given by me," in the dungeon for one night. 

19. Catherine Bevarley of Union, "for being insolent and using 
insinuating language while throwing grass in the yard," confined her 
two nights and a day in the stocks. 

20. Nelly Grievous, of Union, " for going out of the hospital at 
night, she being there as an invalid," confined for one night in the 
stocks. 

21. Sally Nightingale, of Beausejour, for "neglecting grass twice," 
two days' confinement. 

22. Fanny, of Montrose, for " idleness and false complaint of 
having a pain in her belly*," confined in the stocks two days and two 
nights, and then begged to be permitted to go to work. 

23. Valere Gine, of Chaguaramas, " faisant le malade," fifteen 
lashes. 

24. Petit Jaques, of ditto, " ne voulant pas prendre Ies remedes du 
docteur," fifteen lashesf. 

25. Sandy Couchi, of ditto, " porte une fausse plainte chez le com- 
mandant," par le commandant, twenty-five lashes. 

2(>. Francoise Masson, of ditto, " ne voulant pas travailler depuis 
3 jours a conite de sa grossesse, n'etant grosse que de 6 mois, et lui 
ayant donne des petits travaux," en prison 24 heures|. 

27. Francoise Negui, of ditto, "manquant a la priere," en prison 
et au tae Oheures. 

28. Polly Bonaparte, of Perseverance, for "disobedience and in- 
solence," eleven hours in bed-stocks. 

20. Gilbert, for " omitting to bring grass twice," fifteen stripes 
with the cart-whip. 

30. On Plantation River, belonging to James Cadett, Esq. (a 



* Who could tell that the complaint was false? 

t This, it must be admitted, is rather a sharp punishment for not taking his 
physic. 

J Not choosing to work at all for three days on account of her pregnancy, 
being gone only six months, and having had light work given her; imprisoned 
twenty-four hours. 



TRINIDAD — return of punishments. 89 

gentleman whose name appears conspicuously among the remon- 
strants against the Order in Council, having been Chairman qf 
the Committee of Planters,) there are recorded 135 punishments 
of females " for neglecting provision-grounds, and refusing to 
work," &c. 

SI. Joseph Congo, of La Reumur, for "omitting to attend prayers," 
four hours in stocks *. 

32. Caroline, of Westmoreland, "came into the hospital sick, and 
refused to take medicine," two hours in the stocks. 

33. Rose Rosette, of Constance, for " neglect of duty as washer- 
woman, and taking one day more than usual to wash the linen of the 
family," in the bed stocks twelve hours of the night. 

34. Elizabeth Betsey, of ditto, " for abusing the driver for 
calling her up one hour before day to go to the mill ;" the same 
punishment. 

35. Marie Polly, of ditto, for " getting beastly drunk," the same 
punishment. 

36. Andrew, of Las Cuevas, for " neglecting his garden," twenty- 
five stripes. 

37. Timbo Congo, of Union, for " forgelfulness of duty," }en 
stripes. 

38. Boco Louise, of ditto, "having born a child five weeks ago; 
the child died on the third day. On being ordered to go to work 
refused, and preferred going to the stocks." In the stocks twenty- 
three hours. 

89. Jim James, of Bel Air, for if beating his wife," twenty-three 
lashes. 

40. Providence Wilberforce, of ditto, for " getting drunk on 
Sunday," twenty three lashes. 

41. Azzo, of Otaheite, for "impertinence," twenty-two stripes. , 

42. Zemire Congo, for " being pregnant, supposed by her re- 
puted husband, having two spare husbands ; creating a battle among 
them, and an uproar on the plantation;" two hours in the stocks. 

43. Mial of Cedar Hill, " guilty of many faults ; a barrel of beef 
robbed while in his charge, his ground neglected, off the estate 
without leave when he ought to have been at work, wishing to 
have a wife on the Endeavour Estate, though he has now, and has 
had for several years, a good wife on the estate where he resided ;" 
eighteen lashes. 

44. Frederick Shipley and Davy, of Endeavour, " neglect of 
order, and absence from throwing grass two nights ;" twelve lasjies 
each. 

45. Margarette, of Plein Palais, " pour avoir manqu6 a, la priere, 
a night in the stocks. 

46. Hamilton, of. Margaret's Hill, "for neglecting Jhis watch,' 



* Can any thing be conceived more absurd than this mode of instilling reli- 
gion by the stocks and the cart-whip ? 

N 



90 trinidad — return of punishments. 

twenty-five lashes, and had his posteriors well washed with pickle, 
to prevent bad effects. 

_47. Huit esclaves femelles apartenant a l'habitation Columbia, 
" pour les avoir trouve, toutes les huit, a ne rien faire," solitary con- 
finement an hour at noon. 

48. Philip Pirame, of Matilda, " frequent instances of disobedience, 
absence from prayers, frequent intoxication, riotous conduct;" twenty- 
one stripes. 

49. A number of slaves on the plantation called Clydesdale Cottage 
are punished for "not getting grass *," the men with about twelve 
stripes, the women wit h confinement in the stocks all night. 

50. Grace Sulky, of Diamond, for " insolence and refusing to work," 
nineteen hours in the feet-stocks. 

51. John Toussaint Michell, of Retrench, for " preventing the 
other Negroes from taking their task, saying it was too much, and 
putting into their heads bad ideas," twenty-five lashes. 

52. Felix Mer, of St. Charles, " n'ayant pas fait sa tache, j'avais 
ordonne qu'il couche au bed-stocks : mais aussitot qu'il y fut mis 
etant parte d'un eclat de rire en signe du mepris qu'il fesait de ce 
chatement," — fifteen lashes. 

53. Three women of Union Hall, for "broiling in the Negro houses," 
(what the nature of this crime is does not clearly appear,) twelve 
hours' confinement in the stocks at night ; and another, the same 
punishment, for absence. from grass roll. 

64. Thomas Hodge, of Woodlands, " for not turning out to work 
till half-past six o'clock, and being very insolent to the manager and 
driver," twenty-four stripes. 

hi. Philip Sydney, of ditto, " for having gone with a groundless 
complaint against the manager to the commandant," confined, by 
order of the manager, in the stocks for seven days, and fed on bread 
and water. 

56. Richard Long, of ditto, " for leaving the estate on Sunday, and 
not throwing grass with the other Negroes," put in the stocks all 
Sunday night. 

57. Amy Distiller, of Sevilla, " for refusing to work and telling a 
falsehood on the overseer," locked up in the sick-house for eight 
days. 

53. On the Plantation Curep, seven or eight women are punished 
with being put all night in the stocks, for coming to work an hour 
after sun-rise. 

59. Thomas Wilberforce, of Eldorado, " broke open a Negro house 
and stole a blanket;" twenty lashes. 

60. Patrick Wilberforce, of ditto, «* eating earth," fifteen lashes. 

* It will be seen from these details what a sad aggravation of the toil of the 
slaves, as well as what a source of additional punishment is this cruel exaction 
of grass-gathering after the labour of the field is over. It is not enough that 
a slave should labour in the field from day-dawn to night-fall. He must then 
collect and carry a large bundle of grass for his master's horses or cattle. The 
hardships of this practice may be seen above, p. 30. 



trinidad — operation of order. 91 

Some of the proprietors in their returns enter into details evidently 
■ for the purpose of exhibiting the injurious effects of the innovations 
introduced by the Order in Council. The following is a specimen. 

" Extrait du Registre de l'Habitation dite Le Fromager. 

" Ce jour Jeudy, vingt-neuf du mois de Juillet, de l'annee mil huit 
cent vingt-quatre, a deux heures de Tapres midi, le Negre nomme 
Sulpice Florice, mon esclave, age de dix-huit ans, etant sorti de sa 
case une demieheure apres que les autres ont ete rendus au jardin, 
habitude souvent recidivee qu'il avoit contracts depuis la proclama- 
tion des ordonnances du 10 Mars, 1824, qui interdit le fouet du com- 
mandeur, ne voulant aller au travail que long temps apres les autres, 
malgre toutes les reprimandes que je pouvois lui faire et les menaces 
de punition s'il persistoit a manquer k ce devoir, il me repondit inso- 
lemment, passant devant la portede ma maison, en langage Negre, ma 
sorti quand mon voulL Je lui dis que j'etois fatigue de ses insolences 
journalieres et que je le ferai chatier ; il repliqua fortement oui — vous 
dites oiii encore 1 Alors haussant la voix, marchant a grands pas, il 
cria fortement a plusieurs reprises, oui, oui, oui ! ! ! et fut au jardin 
rejoindre l'atelier avec des risoutres. Le lendemain Vendredy, trente 
du mois, a six heures et demi du soir, trente heures apres son offence, 
je fls apeller le nomme Manuel Gaytan homme de couleur libre, Es- 
pagnol majeur, qui etait dans une de mes cases a Negres, et en sa 
presence, je lui fis donner par mon commandeur, devant la porte de 
ma maison, quinze coups de fouet, etant debout et habille de ses vete- 
mens, et aussi en presence de l'atelier qui 6tait range pour faire la 
priere dusoir; puis voulant apres cela lui faire des remonstrances 
sur son insubordination journaliere, pour mettre le comble a ses in- 
solences, a chaque parole que je proferai, il s'efforcoit de tousser 
avec violence, et si fortement qu'il etouffoit ma voix et me coutraint 
de me taire. Les dernieres ordonnances ne permettant pas deux 
chatimens successifs, je fus oblige^ de me retirer avec la risee de mon 
esclave et d'avaler cette humiliation ! ! ! 

" (ont signes) Le Chr.de Gannes. 
Manuel Gaytan. 

" Ce jour Dimanche du mois de Septembre, de l'annee mil huit 
cent vingt-quatre, a cinq heures de l'apres midi, arrivant de la ville 
ou j'avois ete pour entendre la messe, je demandai mon diner, qui 
ne me fut servi aussitot. Trouvant que rien n'etoit cuit, et qu'il y 
manquait le beurre que j'avais donne moi-m6me avant mon depart ; 
(en l'absence de mon epouse) je fis apeller mon cuisinier nomme 
Raphael Faxa, jeune Negre, age de vingt-deux a vingt-cinq ans. 11 
etoit deja parti et ne se trouva plus dans ma cuisine, je l'attendis 
jusqu' a sept heures du soir que je le fis encore appeller. II repondit 
des cases k Negres ou il se trouva et revint a. sa cuisine ; je lui de- 
mandai d'ou il sortoit, pourquoi il s'etoit absenle avant que j'eus dine, 
parceque rien n'etoit cuit, sans appret, sans beurre et autres ingrediens 
qui entrent dans l'accomodement des mets? II me repondit avec 



92 virgin islands — 'the Donna Paula. 

brutalite et foreant sa voix a outrance, que quand le diner etoit servi 
qu'il pouvoit s'en aller, qu'il etoit aux cases a Negres et que c'etoit 
de la qu'il avail repondu. Je lui ordonnai de baisser sa voix. La 
bouche est pour parler me dit-il, et personue nc peut m'en empecher. 
Je vais vous mettre au ceps lui dis-je, pour votre voix, voscris et vos 
reponses insolentes et peu respeetueuses. Pou je riirai point au 
teps, pareequeje riai rienfait ; on ne met au ceps que les volens, etje 
n'ai point vole ! Etant jeune et fort ingambe a chaque pas que je 
faisois, il s'eloignoit, se tenant toujours a une grande distance de moi. 
N'ayant personne aupres de moi que deux servantes incapable de 
pouvoir l'arreter, je i'us force de me retirer. Le lendemain Lundi, a. 
sept beures du soir les Negres rassembles pour faire la priere, je fis 
speller le nomine Manuel Gaytan homme de couleur libre, majeur, 
qui etait dans une de mes cases a Negres, et en sa presence, je lui fis 
donner par mou commandeur devant la porte de ma maison douze 
coups de fouet, etant debout et habille de ses vetemens. II ne pro- 
fera aucune parole pendant les coups qu'il recevoit, mais, le fouet 
cessant, il resta un gros moment debout dans la meme posture, apres 
quoi pour braver son mailre, il dit, est ce tout ? resta la quelque mi- 
nutes et s'en fut ! ! ! 

. .-^'(Signes) Le Chr. de Gannes, Commandant. 
Manuel Gaytan." 

Only one marriage of slaves appears to have taken place in the six 
months, from 24th June to 24th December 1824. 

The deposits in the Savings' Banks of Port of Spain, during these 
six mouths were 351/. 8s. currency. 



XX. VIRGIN ISLANDS. 

Nothing has transpired respecting the progress of reform in these 
islands. 

A return has been made to a requisition of the House of Commons 
for " information concerning a Portuguese ship, called the Donna 
Paula, wrecked in the neighbourhood of Tortola ; and the Negroes 
on board of which were afterwards removed to Bahia or Porto Rico, 
with an explanation of the circumstances attending the transaction, 
and the purposes for which they were removed." The return (see 
paper M.) is most unsatisfactory. 

The facts of this case appear to be, that, in September 1819, the 
Donna Paula, of Para in the Brazils, was proceeding from the coast 
of Africa to Porto Rico, with 253 slaves on board, when she struck 
on the island of Anegada. Of the slaves 240 were saved ; and 180 
being put on board the British schooner Lord Wellington, of 53 tons, 
and 60 on board the sloop Elizabeth and Hannah, of 13 tons, these 
vessels were cleared out for Bahia, but in fact sailed for Porto Rico, 
and landed the slaves there. A salvage was awarded to the salvors 
of 8050 dollars ; but it does not appear by whom the salvage was 



virgin islands — the Donna Paula. 93 

awarded, or by whom the slaves were ordered (o be given up to 
the owners, and forwarded to Porto Rico. It was alleged that the 
person who was collector at the time had been induced to abstain 
from seizing these Negroes, as it was his duty to do, by a bribe of 
1000/. The clearance by him for Bahia was obviously an intentional 
fraud. Indeed, how could a vessel of 53 tons, with 180 Negroes on 
board, and a vessel of 13 tons, with 60, have made Bahia 1 The 
whole affair was a collusive and fraudulent transaction. — A similar 
case of a wreck had occurred at the Cape of Good Hope. On that 
occasion the King's Advocate, Sir C. Robinson, and the Attorney- 
General, Sir R. Gifford, now Lord Gifford, gave it as their clear 
opinion, "That Africans cast on the shore of a British colony, in 
consequence of the wreck of the vessel in which they were conveyed 
as slaves, are not to be considered as slaves illegally imported, but as 
free persons ; and in such case the law officers of the crown think 
that the Governor of the colony has no power to deliver up those 
Africans, without their consent, to the persons claiming ownership 
over them, either for the purpose of being dealt with as slaves in the 
colony, or of being conveyed to a foreign country, for the purpose of 
being so dealt with. In this case, as in the case of abandoned 
slaves, they are to be dealt with by the Governor as persons in such 
a situation, not being Africans, would be, and no claim for indemnity 
could be supported by owners, on account of such interference by 
the Governor." 

On this opinion of these eminent lawyers there is a comment an- 
nexed ; the author of which, however, is not named ; but which ap- 
pears to be nothing else than an insidious attempt to palliate the 
criminality of the transaction. " Such being the law of the case," 
as declared by the law officers of the crown, observes this commenta- 
tor, "the 240 Negroes from the Donna Paula ought to have been re- 
ceived and protected as so many inhabitants or subjects of any civi- 
lized nation would have been received." " Subjects of a civilized 
nation, on being wrecked, would be enabled to support themselves 
by their productive industry of some kind or other; and being aware 
of the rights of property, as understood among civilized nations, 
would be more likely to respect it than poor ignorant Africans, im- 
perfectly acquainted, as they must needs be, with the institutions of 
civilized life, and unaccustomed to that degree of personal labour 
and prudence which enables the poor in other countries, more ad- 
vanced in civilization, to gain their subsistence by steady and con- 
tinued industry; saving, when possible, the present reward in labour 
to support them in future times of sickness or want of employment. 
To leave such persons, without any other controul than that necessary 
for civilized people, would, in all probability, in such a poor colony 
as Anegada or Tortola, insure their destruction by famine or vio- 
lence, unless the Governor be authorized to provide for them at the 
expense of the treasury of Great Britain." Undoubtedly it was very 
proper to recommend that some means should be taken to provide 
for such cases ; but who, that had not had some favourite theory to 



94 virgin ISLANDS — Mr. Pickering's slaves. 

establish, would have thought of such an occasion of speculating on 
the comparative incapacity of Black and White, of Africans and Eu- 
ropeans, to sustain themselves ? And yet might not this writer on 
the law of nature and nations be asked whether 240 Dutch or Russian 
seamen, or 240 French convicts proceeding in irons to Cayenne, 
wholly ignorant of the English language, wrecked on the island of 
Anegada or Tortola, could have done more to support themselves 
than 240 Africans 1 These could at least till the soil, which the 
Dutch or Russian seamen, or the French convicts, might not be able 
to do, without falling victims to the climate. And would not the 
police be, at least, equally effectual for restraining 240 Africans, de- 
livered from a slave ship, as 240 Dutch or Russian seamen, or 240 
French convicts, freed from all the restraints of discipline, if means 
were not taken to provide them promptly with necessaries ? " Natives 
of a civilized country, on being wrecked, would be enabled to sup- 
port themselves by their productive industry of some kind or other." 
Aud did not the Africans support themselves in their own country, 
and do not Africans now support themselves in the West Indies? 
Does he mean to say, that 240 European men, women, and children, 
passengers in a stranded vessel, could have supported themselves 
better in Tortola, by their productive industry, than 240 Africans'? 
If he does, he can know nothing of Tortola, or he writes for those 
who know nothing of it. But he wishes to insinuate that emanci- 
pated Africans cannot support themselves by the produce of their 
labour as the lower classes do in other countries. And yet in 
which of the West-India islands are emancipated Africans,' a bur- 
den on the public, as too many of the poor in other countries 
are? We cannot but regret to see an official document defaced by 
such statements. 

The whole of the transaction which has caused this discussion still 
remains to be cleared up. It is discreditable to the national cha- 
racter, and most criminal in the immediate agents, and we trust it 
will be followed up to their exposure and punishment. 

Information had also been called for "of any judicial proceedings 
which had taken place in the island of Tortola, in consequence of 
some alleged acts of rebellion or insubordination of certain slaves 
belonging to Mr. Pickering, in the year 1823." That information 
has also been given (see paper L.) though enveloped by the president 
of the island in some confusion. The facts seem to be these : — 

Mr. Pickering, who possessed a large body of slaves in Tortola, 
had determined on removing them all to Trinidad. It was alleged 
that he had in the first instance obtained their consent to this remo- 
val, but of the correctness of this fact there is some reason to doubt. 
One thing is certain, that as the time approached for their embarka- 
tion, they manifested the very strongest reluctance to the measure : 
nor was this at all to be wondered at. They were almost all Creoles, 
natives of the island, who had near connexions on all the neigh- 
bouring estates, and who had, according to Dr. Stobo, one of the 
Judges who afterwards tried them, amassed some property, but 



virgin islands — Mr. Pickering's slaves. 95 

nearly the whole of which they would now be obliged to sacrifice : 
while they were to be transported, they knew not whither; to some 
other colony where they might have to open new lands, and might 
be subjected to a variety of privations, and in circumstances new 
and untried, and, for aught they knew, far more severe than any they 
at present experienced. Such at least was evidently their impression 
of the fate that awaited them. In order to avoid it, a number of 
them, about the end of October 1828, abandoned the plantation on 
which they lived, and seized a boat belonging to it, probably in the 
hope of escaping from the island. They did not succeed in this 
project ; and a body of hunters having been sent in pursuit of them, 
they were forced to return to the estate. On the 17th of November, 
five of them were brought to trial for their rebellious conduct, and 
found guilty. The sentence pronounced upon them was, that three 
of them should receive on the next day sixty-three lashes on the bare 
back, and that two of them should receive thirty-nine lashes ; and 
that they should then be remanded to gaol, there to be kept in close 
confinement in irons, until they could be transported from the colony; 
that they should be all banished from these islands for ever, as soon 
as possible, to such place as Mr. Pickering should think proper ; 
and that if they, or either of them, should be ever found voluntarily 
at large within any part of these islands, they, or either of them, 
should suffer death. 

Without some such proceeding, Mr. Pickering would probably 
have found it a very difficult task to expatriate his slaves. The whole 
judicial machinery of the island was therefore called into action to 
aid his intercolonial slave-trade, and it proved successful. Not only 
the persons tried, but all the other slaves belonging to Mf. Picker- 
ing, now submitted "to the hard necessity of their fate : they also 
embarked for Trinidad, the same place of exile to which Mr. Picker- 
ing had doomed the five convicts, who had been left by the court to 
his disposal. 

The president of the island, Mr. Porter, who sat as a magistrate 
on the trial of these men, writes to Governor Maxwell, that at one 
time he was told he should " be called to assist in forcing these peo- 
ple on board." After this trial, however, he found that " happily 
there was no occasion to perplex myself, for the Negroes went vo- 
luntarily ;" (voluntarily indeed !) — " at least I heard nothing to the 
contrary." 

President Porter, however, seems to have felt that this judicial 
proceeding required some justification. He therefore enters into a 
long detail of facts, to shew that for thirty- four years Mr. Pickering's 
Negroes had always been insubordinate and rebellious. Supposing 
this were true, what had it to do with this particular transaction, 
except to relieve the actors in it from some of the odium it must 
have tended to excite ? But that there had been occasionally suffi- 
cient ground for their insubordination in the excitement of that most 
painful of sensations, especially to men called to work under the 
lash, we mean hunger, comes out incidentally on the deposition of a 



96 virgin ISLANDS — Mr, Pickering's slaves. 

man that had been their manager ; for in testifying to one instance 
of great insubordination, which had happened while he was in 
charge of them, he proves that they must actually have been in a 
state of starvation. The weekly allowance to each Negro, he says, 
had been only two quarts of corn meal, and two mackarel ; but pro- 
visions becoming scarce, the deponent had reduced the allowance to 
three pints per week ; the regular allowance, be it remembered, in 
the Bahamas, as well as the prison allowance of Jamaica, being 
twenty-one pints per week. It appears, indeed, that under these 
circumstances of a starving allowance, Saturday was given them; 
but Saturday could not supply the present cravings of appetite. 
Months must necessarily elapse before any effect could be produced 
by the Saturday, in raising provisions ; and in the mean time how 
were they to find strength on three, or even four pints of corn meal 
a week, to till either their master's fields or their own ? Giving them 
Saturday, under such circumstances, was absolute mockery, if in- 
tended as a present alleviation of their starving state. 

Governor Maxwell is very properly anxious, in his communication 
on the subject to Lord Bathurst, to shew that this affair was wholly 
unconnected with the discussions which had taken place on slavery, 
either at home or in the colony, but arose entirely from the unwilling- 
ness of the people to be transported to Trinidad. 

We have reason to know from private information that Mr. Picker- 
ing himself was averse to the measures of judicial severity which 
were pursued with respect to his slaves, being desirous of rather 
employing means of conciliating them to his purpose ; but to this 
lenient course, Mr. President Porter appears to have been strongly 
indisposed. So eager was he indeed to frustrate Mr. Pickering's in- 
tentions, that on the 7th of November he wrote a private letter to i 
the sitting magistrate of Tortola, in which he thus expressed him- 
self; — 

" I agree with you, after having applied to the executive in the 
first instance, and represented the Negroes referred to as in a state 
of rebellion, it is certainly the duty of Mr. Pickering to state to me, 
or some other magistrate, that he has taken them, and to require that 
they may be dealt with according to law ; but as he has not done so, 
and as I have no reason to expect he will do so, I took the liberty to 
address you on the subject. I wish, as it is inconvenient to you to i 
do the needful, you would mention it to your successor. Something 
tells me, that unless the matter be speedily investigated, it will not 
be done at all." 

Mr. President Porter's laudable solicitude, lest these poor creatures, 
thus goaded to insubordination by circumstances peculiarly entitling 
them to consideration, should, through the lenity of their master, 
escape punishment, proved effectual. They were tried and pu- 
nished. 



CONCLUDING REMARKS. 97 



Having now brought the proposed analysis to a conclusion, we 
beg to offer a few observations upon it. 

The first impression, which its perusal is calculated to produce, is 
a feeling of surprise and horror at the extraordinary state of society 
which it develops, as existing in a considerable portion of his Ma- 
jesty's dominions. The laws now presented to the public are not 
obsolete statutes, the relics of some barbarous age, dragged from 
their obscurity by a painful research ; they are laws framed in the 
year 1824, by men calling themselves Britons, and who, instead of 
being sensible that such laws outrage every principle of justice 
and every feeliug of humanity, actually hold them forth as models of 
enlightened and beneficent legislation. But if the laws themselves 
be, as they are, a crime, what must be their administration in the 
hands of the men who framed them, and who do not blush to boast 
of them ? 

In the present analysis, as in Mr. Stephen's Delineation of Colonial 
Slavery*, the colonists are made to describe their own system ; the 
proofs of its iniquity being drawn from the colonial laws, from other 
colonial records of unquestionable authority, or from the evidence 
of colonial proprietors. We have heard much, it is true, of the im- 
provement which has taken place in West-Indian legislation, and those 
who deny it have been charged with misrepresentation. But the 
public have now an opportunity of judging for themselves. In the 
ameliorated slave-codes now brought before them, they will find the 
proof, the irrefragable proof, of the determined pertinacity with 
which the colonists cleave to the worst errors, and most revolting 
deformities of their system f. — That such would be the result of a 

. * Though no attempt has been made to reply to Mr. Stephen's admirable 
work, it has been the fashion, with the partizans of the colonial cause, to de- 
cry it as containing nothing which is applicable to the questions now at issue. 
" It refers," they say, " to times that are past. A new system both of law and 
practice has grown up in the West Indies. Mr. Stephen's work may be very 
correct as applying to a former period; but, to read it now would be only a 
waste of time.'' Nothing can be more untrue than this statement, and the 
insidious propagators of it know it to be untrue ; but they trust to the effect 
of its frequent and confident repetil ion, and of that indolence which leads 
men to avail themselves of any plausible excuse for not [reading a volume of 
four or five hundred pages. We, on the contrary, have no hesitation in affirm- 
ing, that whoever desires to obtain an accurate and comprehensive knowledge 
of the true genius, the governing principles, the whole frame and structure, 
the nature and effects, of our colonial slave-laws, must seek for that know- 
ledge in the pages of Mr. Stephen's Delineation. Nay, if any of our readers 
will only take the trouble to compare the legislation of our colonies, during 
the past year, with the principles laid down in that work, they will at once 
perceive how singularly those principles serve to explain and elucidate the 
recent enactments, and how aptly those enactments illustrate and confirm its 
principles. Mr. Stephen's masterly production will be found to form at this 
moment the best commentary on the new laws which we have been analyzing. 
t And here we beg our readers not to assume that they have fathomed all 
the depths of this system, merely because they have read the above brief ab- 
stract of a few of the slave codes. The acts themselves must be examined 

o 



98 CONCLUDING REMARKS, 

reference of this great question to the decision of the colonial as- 
semblies, we never doubted for a moment. We had been instructed 
by the wisdom and philosophy of many great authorities, as to the 
hopelessness of any benefit from such a course ; and we had the still 
more impressive lessons of experience to convince us that we could 
expect nothing from it but disaster, disappointment, and delay. Our 
opinions on the subject have never been more admirably or accu- 
rately expressed, than they were by Mr. Canning, in a speech on the 
Slave Trade made by him in 1799. " Trust not," says that enlight- 
ened statesman, making the sentiment of a previous speaker his own, 
" trust not the masters of slaves in what concerns legislation for 
slavery. However specious their laws may appear, depend upon it 
they must be ineffectual in their operation. It is in the nature of 
things that they should be so" — " Let then the British House 
of Commons do their part themselves. Let them not 
delegate the trust of doing it to those who cannot 
execute that TRUST fairly. Let the evil be remedied by an 
Assembly of freemen, by the Government of a free people, and not 
by the masters of slaves. Their laws can never reach, could 
never cure the evil." " There is something in the nature of 
absolute authority, in the relation between master and slave, which 
makes despotism in all cases, and under all circumstances, an in- 
competent and unsure executor even of its own provisions in favour of 
the objects of its power." 

The eternal truth of these maxims, applied at the time to the 
Slave Trade, loses none of its force when applied to slavery ; and it 
has been abundantly confirmed by the fatal experience of nearly 
thirty years, which have since elapsed, of protracted misery and op- 
pression to the slave, and of unceasing resistance on the part of the 
colonists, to every effort to alleviate that misery or to terminate that 
oppression. What indeed now remains to us, but to act on the wise 
and salutary counsel given to us in 1799, and our past neglect of 
which has entailed so many evils on the wretched African race? Let 
the British House of Commons do their part them- 
selves, and let them not continue any longer to DELEGATE THE 
TRUST OF DOING IT TO THOSE WHO CANNOT EXECUTE THAT 
TRUST FAIRLY. 

And this is a course which not only the Parliament, generally, but 
those members of it, in particular, who are connected with the 
West Indies seem bound to adopt. It appears from the papers we 
have now had under review, that the Order in Council for Trinidad 
was framed (with the exception of one point, that of the evidence 
of slaves,) on the suggestion of the West-India body in England. 
The plan, therefore, was theirs ; it was adopted on their recom- 

with close attention, in order to appreciate the whole extent of their injustice, 
oppressiveness, and cruelty. To convey an adequate idea of these, the ana- 
lysis must have been extended to a most inconvenient length, and its object 
in part frustrated. Lawyers and Members of Parliament, we trust, will refer 
to the laws themselves, to which our work may at least serve as an index. 



CONCLUDING REMARKS. 99 

mendation, and was supported in Parliament by their concurrence. 
It has been contumaciously rejected, however, by the colonists ; and 
now neither Parliament nor the West-India body can, with propriety, 
decline the only means of carrying their own propositions into effec- 
tive operation. The measures already adopted constitute a formal 
recognition of the existence of certain evils, which the authors of 
those measures have pledged themselves to remove. To this extent 
therefore, at the least, we trust that the West-Indians will support 
Mr- Brougham when he shall fulfil his promise of moving the House 
of Commons on the subject. On them indeed, more than on others, 
it seems incumbent to second the motion for parliamentary legisla- 
tion. Such a proceeding is necessary not only to vindicate the 
sincerity of their own professions in the counsel they have given to 
his Majesty's Ministers, but to rescue themselves from any share in 
that headstrong and ruinous line of policy which their brethren in 
the colonies seem determined at all hazards to pursue. If no one 
else were to take the matter up, we should consider the West-Indian 
proprietors in both Houses of Parliament as bound by a regard to 
consistency, and by a sense of justice to their wretched bondsmen, 
to call for the interference of Parliament. Not a few of them are 
the strenuous advocates of popular rights, and the sworn enemies of 
oppression, at least in Europe. Let them shew that the operation 
of their principles is not bounded by geographical limits, or by the 
colour of the victims of oppression, or by the degree in which their 
own personal interests may be affected by a denial of justice. They 
will then be able, when they re-appear on the hustings of those 
places which they represent, to vindicate more fearlessly and effec- 
tually their claim to the popular suffrage*. 

* One circumstance lias occurred which weakens our reliance on the sup- 
port which the West-India hody at home are bound, in consistency, to give 
to those measures which are indispensible to the adoption of the reforms 
proposed by themselves. On the Cth of July 1825, soon after Mr. Brougham 
had given notice of his intention to move Parliament on this subject, a 
General Meeting of West-India Planters was held at the West-India library, 
CO St. James's street, Charles Rose Ellis, Esq. in the chair, at which " it was 
unanimously resolved, That the West-India merchants, and other consignees 
of West-India produce resident in London, do charge in their accounts of 
sales, or accounts current, Gd. (instead of 3d. as at present) upon each cask of 
sugar, puncheon of rum, bag of coffee, and 1000 lb. weight of coffee, and 
in proportion on all other articles of West-India produce imported from the 
25th day of March last to the 25th day of March 1826, into the port of Lon- 
don; and that the same be collected in such manner as shall be directed by 
the Standing Committee of the West-Indian planters and merchants, and be 
paid into the hands of George Hibbert, Esq. the Treasurer." 

Similar imposts, we understand, have been laid in the other ports of the 
United Kingdom, into which West-Indian produce is imported. Nothing is 
said of the appropriation of this secret-service money thus levied by the man- 
date of the West-India club. But whether it shall go to assist in defraying the 
charges of contested elections ; or in rewarding the services of certain pe- 
riodical writers; or in paying for the circulation of such pamphlets as those 
of Mr. Grossett, Mr. Macdonnel, or Vindex j or in bearing harmless the too 
rash and fearless advocates of slavery; we trust it will oary serve to sti- 
mulate, to more unwearied efforts, all who really feel for the interests of hu- 
manity and justice. 



100 CONCLUDING REMARKS. 

We have hitherto confined our remarks to the single point of legis- 
lation ; and we think it has been shewn that it is the very height of 
fatuity to continue to look to the colonial assemblies for any adequate* 
improvement of the state of the slave law. They are themselves the 
authors of every legislative wrong which is to be rectified, and of every 
oppression which is to be redressed. They consist, almost to a man, of 
slave-masters, or at least of the representatives of slave-masters, har- 
dened by familiarity to the sight of those atrocities which have so 
shocked and astounded the people of Great Britain. And they are 
surrounded and controlled by a population of needy, ignorant, and 
profligate constituents, who derive their distinction from the utter 
degradation of the Negro race, and a wretched subsistence from the 
wages they receive as the drivers and coercers of slaves. 

But the papers which we have analysed exhibit a view not only of 
West-Indian legislation, but of the administration of West-India law. 
Here a new field of horrors opens upon us. And here again we de- 
rive our proofs of the radical iniquity of the system, exclusively, 
from the recorded testimony of the colonists themselves. They are 
our witnesses. We do not confine this remark to those domestic 
punishments of which we have so curious an exhibition in the re- 
turns from Trinidad, and of which neither law nor justice, but 
merely individual caprice, is the arbiter. We allude rather to their 
criminal slave-courts; — to the nature and imperfections of the ju- 
dicial returns from the Fiscal of Demerara ; to the trials of the 
insurgents in that colony in 1823 (which, however, are not com- 
prehended in the returns that form the subject of the preceding 
analysis);— to the impunity of the White insurgents of Barbadoes ; — 
and, above all, to the reports of the trials of the alleged Black 
conspirators in Jamaica, in which every species of judicial irregula- 
rity appears to find a place ; — and to the barefaced oppressions ex- 
ercised in that island towards some of the People of Colour*. Let 
these things be fully weighed, and neither the Government nor the 
Parliament can hesitate as to the imperative necessity of radically 

* In the Postscript to the Royal Gazette of January 31 to February 7, 1824, 
we find the following paragraph : — " A foreign Negro, of the name of* Louis 
Milord, who was apprehended the preceding day, underwent a long pri- 
vate examination yesterday before his honour the Mayor, and Hector Mit- 
chell, Esq." 

In the Jamaica Journal of March 13, 1824, we are told, that " two aliens 
were conducted to Port Royal on Thursday evening (March 11), and placed 
on board a vessel which sailed yesterday. The names of these individuals are 
Milord and Thompson, who were thus sent off, it is said, for adhering to cer- 
tain dangerous political tenets, inimical to the welfare of the isjand. This, 
however, must be mere conjecture, for the examinations are kept quite 
private. Several other foreigners have been taken up within these few 
days." 

Now both these men, we are credibly informed, had been slaves in Ja- 
maica, but had, by the fruit of their own industry, effected their manumission, 
and were living in the enjoyment of the freedom thus honourably acquired, 
when they were arrested and transported as aliens. We trust that the grounds 
of these and of all the other illegal violences, of the same kind, which have 
taken place during the last three years in Jamaica, will be fully investigated 
by the House of Commons in the ensuing session. 



CONCLUDING REMARKS; 101 

reforming a system which produces such abominations as have been 
detailed ; — such perversions of the very forms of law to purposes of 
cruelty and oppression, as can only find their parallel in the execrat- 
ed proceedings of Judge Jefferies, or in the practical jurisprudence 
of Constantinople, Morocco, or Algiers. 

These things must come to an end, and that speedily. — They must 
come to an end, because neither the government, nor the parliament, 
nor the people of England can tolerate them much longer; and even 
if the government and the parliament and the people of England 
should be so lost to a sense of their obligations, as to suffer them to 
continue, they must find their close in one ©f those convulsions which 
will involve White and Black, master and slave, the oppressor and the 
oppressed, in one common and undistinguishing and overwhelming 
calamity. Such must, sooner or later, be the effect of going on to 
delegate, tothe colonial assemblies, the solemn duty, which Parliament 
alone can discharge, of giving, to the Black and Coloured Population 
of our colonies, the protection of law, and a pure administration of 
justice. 

We are, at the same time, well aware of the preponderating influ- 
ence which the West-Indian proprietors possess in both houses of 
parliament. This alone could have prevented, for twenty long years, 
the abolition of the slave trade. This alone could, for fifteen years 
more, have paralyzed every effort which was made to rouze the 
attention of the government and the parliament to the enormities of 
the slave system, and to the utter worthlessness and inefficiency of 
all the pretended improvements adopted by the colonial assemblies. 
To this cause must we also ascribe it, that almost every public func- 
tionary in the slave colonies, is either a proprietor of slaves, or the 
known partizan of the slave system ; — -that not only many governors, 
and judges, and attorney-generals, and fiscals, and registrars are 
taken from the class of slave-holders and their friends, but that, even 
under the new order of things this class has been made to supply 
protectors and sub-protectors of slaves, the very officers on whose 
zeal, fidelity, and disinterestedness its whote efficiencydepends ; — that 
we should be burdened with imposts, and our commerce fettered by 
impolitic and injurious restrictions, in order to enable the colonists 
to perpetuate their demoralizing and murderous system; — that the 
interests of one hundred millions of British subjects in India, in addi- 
tion to those of Great Britain herself, should be sacrificed to about 
two thousand planters and merchants ; — and that all the benefits 
which would have flowed to us from establishing international rela- 
tions with Hayti should have been contemned, her overtures rejected, 
and her offered favours scorned, until she has at length been driven 
to throw herself again into the arms of France*. 

• No part of our policy is more inexplicable, on any rational principles, than 
that which we have pursued with respect to Hayti. It can only be accounted 
for by the predominance of West-Indian prejudices and West-Indian influence. 
During our war with Bonaparte we might have secured to ourselves the friend- 
ship, the commerce, and the assistance of Hayti: we were deaf to the most 



102 CONCLUDING REMARKS. 

We trust that the eyes of his Majesty's Government, of Parliament, 
and of the public will at length be opened to the real state of things ; 

urgent representations on the subject. By the exercise of the commonest 
courtesy, such as we scruple not to pay to the Dey of Algiers, or to the King 
of the Sandwich Islands, we might have conciliated the attachment, and made 
ourselves, in some degree, the masters of the destinies, of the Queen of the 
Antilles. We might have even sncceeded in inducing its inhabitants to adopt 
our language and habits ; as, at one time, their chiefs would have zealously 
concurred in promoting every measure which would have served to detach 
them from France. — We repelled their offers of friendship. — They went the 
length of even lowering their duties to the extent of one half in favour of Eng- 
land, in hopes of conciliating our goodwill. We treated even this liberality 
with disdain, and replied to it by an Act of Parliament, which prohibited all 
intercourse between Hayti and Jamaica. — They still persevered in their ad- 
vances : they still continued to treat our commerce with peculiar favour. At 
length our recognition of the independence of the Spanish provinces in South 
America, without the most remote allusion to Hayti, whose claims for recog- 
nition were infinitely stronger than theirs; and the renewal of the insulting 
Act, prohibiting their commerce with Jamaica, left them no hope of obtaining 
that standing among nations, which they deemed essential to their independ- 
ence and security, but by throwing themselves into the arms of France, and by 
sacrificing to her rivalry the interests of British commerce. It may not be 
known to our readers — it certainly was not known to ourselves, nor, as far as 
we have been able to discover, to any member of the House of Commons, un- 
connected with theWest-Indians, or with the public offices of Government — that, 
in the very last session of Parliament, an act was passed which contains the fol- 
lowing clause : — 

" And be it further enacted, that no British merchant ship or vessel shall 
sail from any place in the island of Jamaica to any place in the island of St. 
Domingo, nor from any place in the island of St. Domingo to any place in the 
island of Jamaica, under the penalty of the forfeiture of such ship or vessel, 
together with her cargo ; and that no foreign ship or vessel which shall have 
come from, or shall in the course of her voyage have touchedat, any such place 
in the island of St. Domingo, shall come into any port orharbour in the island of 
Jamaica; and if any such ship or vessel, having come into any such port or 
harbour, shall continue there for forty-eight hours after notice shall have been 
given by the officer of the Customs to depart therefrom, such ship or vessel 
shall be forfeited; and if any person shall be landed in the island of Jamaica 
from on board any ship or vessel which shall have come from or touched at 
the island of St. Domingo except in case of urgent necessity, or unless licence 
shall have been given by the Governor of Jamaica to land such person, such ship 
shall be forfeited, together with her cargo." 

When the date of this enactment is compared with that of the treaty which 
has been concluded with France, we cannot doubt that Boyer was influenced 
by it to agree to the severe terms which were exacted from him, seeing how 
completely he was excluded, by that galling measure, as well as by our 
declining all official intercourse with him, from every hope of the favour or 
friendship of this country. 

And now let it be calmly considered what will be our situation in the West 
Indies, in the event of another war with France. Our possessions there 
would not be worth a week's purchase. The whole navy of England, and 
a fresh debt of one hundred millions, could not save Jamaica from becoming 
the revolutionized dependent of Hayti. Nothing, in such an event, could 
avert our loss of that and our other slave colonies, but a previous radical 
change of our whole colonial system. We must raise the free People of 
Colour to the full enjoyment of their rights and privileges as British sub- 
jects ; and we must proceed, with as little delay as possible, to give liberty 
to the slave. If we refuse to do this, the catastrophe we anticipate may 



CONCLUDING REMARKS. 103 

and that, no longer deluded by misrepresentation, or intimidated by 
menace, they will not suffer evils of such magnitude, and of such 
malignant influence, to be prolonged for a day, in deference to the 
sixty or seventy West-Indians who hold seats in parliament. Justice, 
humanity, a regard to our own honour and consistency, and above 
all the sacred voice of religion, loudly call upon us, without a 
moment's delay, to redeem our solemn pledges, and to take care that, 
" with a fair and equitable consideration, indeed, of the interests of 
all parties," "effectual and decisive measures" are now adopted "for 
ameliorating the condition of the slave population in his Majesty's 
colonies ;" and for admitting them to " a participation in those civil 
rights and privileges which are enjoyed by other classes of his 
Majesty's subjects." 

be delayed for a few years, but it cannot, in the constitution of things, be far 
distant. 

Those who desire to understand the nature of this new danger, and the 
means of averting it, ought to read two publications of Mr. Stephen, written 
upwards of twenty years ago, on the subject of Hayti, entitled The Crisis 
of the Sugar Colonies, and The Opportunity; works which will now be found 
to wear almost a prophetic air, such was the accuracy of the author's know- 
ledge of the circumstances of the case, and his sagacity in appreciating their 
effects. 



104 



POSTSCRIPT. 



We have already mentioned at p. 20, a further Parliamentary Paper 
of considerable importance, of which we should give some account 
at the close of this pamphlet. It is entitled, "Copies of the Record 
of the Proceedings of the Fiscals of Demerara and Berbice, in their 
Capacity of Guardians and Protectors of Slaves, with their Decisions 
in all Cases of Complaint of Masters and Slaves respectively against 
each other, and the Punishment inflicted, or Redress given, in conse- 
quence of such Complaints, from the 1st of January 1814 to this Time, 
as far as the Same relates to Berbice." It was ordered to be printed 
the 23d June 1825, and is numbered 476. 

The Fiscal, Mr. Bennett, in transmitting these returns, observes, 
that until the year 1819, he had kept no minutes of the complaints 
of slaves ; but that from that time he had taken minutes of his exa- 
minations, but not, except in a few cases, of his decisions. Since 
the present application was made for copies of the complaints, he has 
been more particular in receiving them, and he has added the deci- 
sions. The Return embraces a period from February 1810 to No- 
vember 1823. 

Under all these disadvantages, the materials before us are, never- 
theless, very valuable. They admit us into the interior, the very 
penetralia of the slave system, which they exhibit in all its height 
and length and breadth and depth of deformity. It is out of our 
power, however to do more than select a few examples from the 
mass. 

The first com plaint on the list, we are sorry to say, is against a lady, 
Mrs. Sanders. Nine Negro men, on the 1st of February 1819, com- 
plain of a great want both of food and clothing. One man produces 
a bolt and shackles, with which the Negro women were often confined, 
the ancles and wrists crossways, by which they are bent double ; 
and says he was twice confined in that way himself. He and three 
others went on one occasion to complain of hunger. Mrs. Sanders 
ordered them to be tied down and flogged with two drivers. It was 
on a Sunday : supposes he had sixty. They are made to reap cassava, 
and get firewood, every Sunday, till the greatest part of the day is 
spent. The women and children have no allowance ; and the men 
are obliged to share their allowance, which is also a very scanty one, 
with them. These charges are denied by the lady. They are in part 
admitted, but in part denied, by her overseer. The Fiscal's judgment 
is not given, (pp. 5— 8.) 

On the 18th of August, 1820, the same lady again appears before 



berbige— -fiscal' s report. 105 

the Fiscal. The following is a transcript of his minute of the cora- 
» plaints preferred by her slaves : — 

" Negro Sam says, that his mistress is very had ; that the work 
is daily increased, so that ihey are unable to perform their task 
given them : That the last holidays when they got three days to 
dance at home, their mistress obliged them to work so hard after- 
wards as to complete the work lost in the dancing days : That his 
wife, named Adjuba, was locked up lately in his mistress's house 
for six days, her allowance being only one plantain daily, (com- 
plainant exhibiting some of their plantains) : and that the very pet 
in which she got water to drink, was to serve her, by her mistress's 
order, as a necessaire : That his young master is very good, but 
his mistress is of too cruel a nature ; that their allowance is very 
little, and that they get no clothing at all scarcely : Finally, begs 
that he may be sold elsewhere, as he is not able to bear it any 
longer there. 

" Negro Louis says, Mr. Hyneman bought him when very young, 
and sold him to Mr. Sanders; that from both of these masters he 
never was ill-treated ; but since the death of Mr. Sanders his mistress 
treats them with cruel barbarity sometimes ; that every Negro is 
obliged to bring home twelve bunches of shingles, although other 
Negroes bring but six weekly : That their mistress keeps them the 
whole Sunday employed with all sorts of trifling works : that they get 
only three cassava cakes a week, with a little bit of salt fish: Finally, 
that they get hardly any clothes ; — wishes therefore rather to be sold 
than remain with such a cruel mistress; as certainly all of the Negroes 
one day or other, after so much suffering, will run away in the bush. 

" Negro David says, that he is cow-minder to his mistress ; 
that lately oue of the cows ^ot sick, for which his mistress ordered 
the driver to tie him up as fast as he could, which caused dislocation 
at the time, and under which he is still suffering, (complainant look- 
ing rather sickly and having the marks of his flogging still visible on 
his posteriors); that he there received 150 lashes from Andrews by 
his mistress's order, who afterwards locked him up in the stocks in 
such a way that both feet and hands were fastened ; that his mistress 
says, because he is cow-minder she gives him no Sundays, neither 
any allowance whatever. Requests to be sold." 

Mrs. Sanders appears before the Fiscal on two other occasions, to 
answer to similar complaints. On the last, 8th September 1823, the 
following is the Fiscal's minute of the case :— 

" Complaint of the Negro David, belonging to Mrs. Sauders : — 
That he is too much punished with the whip and tamarind rods ; 
that he is employed to work in the kitchen, garden, and also as 
cook ; that he is swollen ; the soles of his feet flogged with tamarind 
rods; that his mistress says he is lazy, which is the cause of his 
being flogged ; he was flogged with the whip lately ; he has a beating 
' at his heart, the cause of his illness ; his posteriors shew that he has 
been lately punished, not to any excess, but the punishment much 
neglected : soles of his feet, examined, shew no marks of punishment ; 

p 



106 POSTSCRIPT. 

the Negro appears to be in a dropsy, and as such is treated by the 

doctor who has charge of the barracks." 

The son of this lady undertakes to defend his mother. He says, 
" that the Negro is a very bad character ;" — that " little or no work 
is done by him, for on the least harsh word he runs away ; he is 
a constant run-away. My mother will not allow him to be flogged, 
because he bears the marks of former punishment so very evi- 
dently ; he did receive a slight punishment for running away; 
this punishment was inflicted by two small boys with tamarind 
rods, and it was to endeavour to shame him. My brother brought 
him to town five days ago to cook, and why he has run away I do 
not know ; he was flogged by said boys tinder his feet with tamarind 
rods on account o/his back being cut up." 

" llth March, 1819. 

" Plantation Gelderland :— Nettelje, Julia, Lea, and Mietje, 
each with an infant in arms, complain that no time is allowed them 
to nurse their children ; that during the crop an equal quantity of 
coffee is expected and required of them as from other women having 
no children, or of the men ; that a similar task is given them in weed- 
ing grass with the rest of the gang, which they are not able to per- 
form, in consequence of carrying their children on their backs ; if 
they fail, they are beaten in the manager's presence with the handle 
of the whip by the driver Esperance. Nettelje and also Mietje were 
flogged the day before yesterday by the carpenter La Fleur ; they, 
with others, were weeding the dam ; they had made a fire to drive 
away the sand-flies ; they were seen by Mr. Toel, the manager, 
suckling their infants ; he inquired if they had no work to do : they 
replied they had just taken their children up, who were crying; 
they were laid down and flogged ; their coats were stained with blood. 
Mr. Toel took the fire up, and threw it in the trench. Julia was 
locked up in the stocks because she did not keep with the rest of the 
gang, and threatened to be flogged next morning ; she is a young 
girl, with her first child. Lea complains that she is not allowed to 
suckle her child during her work ; she was threatened to be flogged 
next day by Mr. Toel, at same time with Julia." (p. 13.) 

" Jane, belonging to Mr. Bourmester, says her master gave her 
to his housekeeper Grace, who is constantly abusing and ill-treating 
her ; she is often in the habit of kicking her, and beating her with 
any thing that comes to hand, sometimes with a fire-stick, sometimes 
with a piece of wood. Monday morning she was sent by Grace to 
look for wood ; when she returned she took a piece of crab-wood she 
had brought, and beat her with it, and kicked her. Her master was 
not at home : she got breakfast for her mistress and a gentleman, Mr 
Harvey. After breakfast, sent me for wood; I had just recovered 
from a fit of sickness, having had a blister on my belly, which was 
not yet healed ; I felt faint, and was under the necessity of sitting 
down to recover myself. When I came home with the wood it was 
about 11 o'clock; as soon as I returned she began to beat and kick 
me, saying she hated to see me ; a boy belonging to Mr. De George, 



berbice— -JiscaVs report. 10? 

named Alexander, saw when she beat me, and a girl named Sophia, 
belonging to Sue Austerhem." (p. 14.) 

" Complaint of the woman Minkie, belonging to Thomas C. Jones :— 
Says, Mr. Jones took her out of the barracks on Tuesday ; after I got 
home he sent me to Mr. Heuery ; he would not buy me. He sent me 
to another gentleman, I do not know his name, but he lives in town ; 
they both said my master asked too much money for me, and sent me 
back. I begged for a pass to look for an owner ; he said no, he 

would put me down and cut my , and would give me more than the 

law gives. I was then laid down and tied to three stakes, and Chance 
flogged me with a cart-whip ; I got a severe flogging ; I saw Mr. 
Layfield at his door with another gentleman, and Mr. Kerschner, the 
baker, saw it from his window. Mr. Jones bought me from Mr.Logie 
of Demerara. 1 have marks of severe punishment visible on me, old 
and recent floggings, all inflicted by Jones. 

" Exhibits her posteriors, which are covered with a plaister, by 
order of the doctor, and apparently lacerated to that degree that the 
court judged it expedient to direct her not to uncover it." {p. 14.) 

Mr. Jones said he had flogged her, and broke her mouth for her 
insolence. He had thiriy-nine laid on her, and they were well 
inflicted. When be sent for her, he had no intention of flogging 
her ; but after sending her to three persons for sale, and not succeed- 
ing, he told her she had often deserved a flogging ; he then directed 
her to be flogged, and that they should be well laid on, which was 
done. 

" August 23, 1822. 
" Felix, belonging to Plantation Scotland, states, That he has 
had a Black woman upon the estate for his wife now two years ; 
and the reason of his coming to complain is, that the manager 
of the estate takes her from him, although he has a wife of 
his own. He is always taking the Negroes' wives, particularly his 
wife (Felix's) ; for she has had a child for him ; and since the child 
has been born, the manager is always punishing him and his wife 
without a cause. Some time ago ten of the gang came to complain 
to their master (Dr. Broer), to report to him that the manager had 
connection with their wives : their master promised to them that he 
would remove the manager from the estate, and place another one 
there. Upon this promise the Negroes returned to the estate ; but 
since that they have never heard of another manager. Felix and 
his wife are daily punished, which has compelled him to come to your 
Honour for redress. He calls upon the whole gang of the estate to 
prove his assertions to be correct. 

" On hearing this complaint, the Acting Fiscal proceeded to the 
estate, accompanied by Dr. Broer, the owner; and on questioning 
the manager and Negroes, in presence of each other, on the subject- 
matter of the complaint, it appeared that Felix had neglected his 
work, and was told he would be punished if he did not finish his task 
the next day, which he did not do ; and therefore, supposing the 
manager would punish him, he went to the Fiscal to complain. This 



108 POSTSC: ;PT. 

being proved, Felix was punished i a hs misconduct, and the ma' 
nager severely reprimanded for taking improper liberties with the 
women on the estate, which it was evident he had done ; and Dr. Broer 
was therefore strongly recommended to disc-barge him from his em- 
ploy." (p. 75.) 

That Felix should be the person punished for misconduct, will 
appear very extraordinary to all who have not imbibed their notions 
of justice in slave colonies; and it is the more surprising that the 
fiscal should pursue this course in the present instance, as some time 
before he had addressed a letter to Governor Beard, then president 
of the court of justice (p. 15), in which he charges these very per- 
sons, Broer and his manager, specifically; first, with greatly over- 
working the Negroes ; secondly, with severe flogging repeated on 
successive evenings, and with illegal instruments of punishment ; 
thirdly, with making them work on Sunday; and fourthly, with con- 
siderably under-feeding them. The case was so gross that, notwith- 
standing an attempt on the part of the owner and manager to deny 
the charges, 4he fiscal ordered them to diminish the tasks of the 
Negroes, and to increase their food ; forbad their being worked on # 
Sunday ; threatened the owner with prosecution ; and told the 
Negroes if their wrongs were not redressed, they should complain 
again. They complain again ; and this is the result. 

June 26, 1819. 

Brutus a watchman, belonging to plantation Providence, com- 
plained that " the manager wanted my daughter Peggy. I said, 
' No.' He followed her. I said, ' No.' He asked me three times : I 
said, ' No.' Manager asked me again Friday night. I refused. Sa- 
turday morning he flogged me. This thing hurt me, and I came to 
complain." 

" Peggy being sick, Aqueshaba her sister attended : — Says, that 
manager sent aunty Grace to call Peggy, and to say if she would not 
come I must. We said, daddy said must not go; I was too 
young. Grace left us and went to daddy ; shortly afterwards she 
returned and tried to coax me to go, but I would not, as my daddy 
had forbid it. Grace went and told manager ; manager sent to call 
Fanny ; Fanny went. The manager was up in his. room ; and all of 
us, the Creoles, got orders to be watchmen at manager's door. I was 
watchman, Peggy, Frankey, and many more." (p. 30.) 

The manager of this estate on another occasion (p. 80.) laid a Ne- 
gro on the ground with two drivers over him, who gave him 100 
lashes. His innocence being afterwards proved, he went to the ma- 
nager for redress. The manager told him, " if you do not hold your 
tongue, I will put you in the stocks." He then went to his owner, 
Mr. Henery, who answered, " I cannot help itj it is not my fault, the 
punishment you had was the manager's fault." As he could get no 
redress from master or manager, he came to the fiscal. The manager 
endeavoured to justify himself, admitting that he had given him 
thirty nine lashes, (the number allowed by law for any or for no j 
offence,) and confined him in the stocks every night for a week. The 



iiERBiCE— -fiscal? s report. 109 

fiscal reprimanded the manager for punishing a Negro on such slight 
grounds. 

A numher of Negroes belonging to Mr. Elwes complain (p. 17.) of 
the harsh treatment they receive from him, and the slave Fanny his 
concubine. They are half starved, forced to work till four o'clock 
on Sundays, and also on holidays. The children get no allowance of 
food or clothing, (even girls of eleven and twelve going naked,) and 
are marked with the bush rope with which Fanny flogs them. One 
boy, eight or ten years of age, complains that she beats him, pulls 
him by the nose in a cruel manner, and pinches his ears most in- 
humanly. He gets no regular allowance, but lives on what he can 
get. His master makes him mind the horse, clean his shoes, burn 
the coffee, &c. &c. ; never gives him any clothes, and when sick, 
after taking salts, makes him still perform his task. "This com- 
plainant proves, by many old marks on his back and posteriors, that 
his statement is not at all incorrect, and that he has often been severely 
dealt with." (p. 17.) 

A Sambo girl, Betsey, belonging to Mr. I. F. Obermuller, says, 
she was washing a frock given her by her mother, when her mistress 
took it from her. She told her mistress it was hard to take her 
frock from her, as she never gave her any clothes herself. Her mis- 
tress complained to her master that she was insolent. Her master 
flew in a passion, and kicked her on the belly, so that she could 
scarcely draw her breath. The next day her mistress tore her jacket 
off. She again alluded to the hardship it was to have her clothes 
taken from her, but none given her. Mistress again complained of 
insolence, and master flogged her with a rope, and made her brother 
Jacob flog her. For the least trifle, she and her sister are locked up 
in the stocks, sometimes for three weeks, and fed only with two plan- 
tains a day. Her sister was locked up for a fortnight by her mistress, 
saying she had made the bed improperly, thereby causing the child 
to fall. Her sister denied it. (p. 18.) 

Four Negroes belonging to Cotton-tree Plantation, the property of 
the Hon. W. Katz, complain of not being allowed time for breakfast; 
that they have to go to the field before cock-crow, and work in it till 
gun-fire, and then have to cut grass. They are confined in the 
stocks, and not allowed to go out even for the calls of nature. They 
complained to Mr. Katz, and he flogged them. The charges are 
denied by the manager and overseer, the persons, in fact, who are 
accused ; and on their denial, the fiscal finds the complaint unfounded, 
and orders three of the complainants to be punished with seventy- 
five lashes, and one with fifty, in his own presence, in the market- 
place ! ! ! (p. 19.) 

There are complaints also against Mr. Katz, from his estate of 
Philadelphia. Amsterdam (p. 46) says, the overseer " Davies is ex- 
tremely hard against him, beating him on every trifling occasion 
Gave him last Monday 25 rods of a dam, and as he was not able 
to complete this, Davies flogged him very much ; after flogging he 



110 POSTSCRIPT. 

told him that he would go to complain, which brought Davies into 
such a passion that he sent all the Negroes after him to catch him, 
but he escaped and came to town to complain. Says they get enough 
to eat, but no time, on account of Davies's heavy tasks, to prepare the 
same. Complainant, on shewing his posteriors, proves to have liad of 
late a severe flogging." (p. 4(>«) 

Murphy came to the fiscal to complain, instead of going to Mr. 
Katz ; because three Negroes had gone to complain to Mr. Katz, and, 
without sending for the manager, they were flogged, and sent back, 
and the next day one of them was flogged again by the manager, 
(p. 58.) 

May 27, 1819. 

Seven Negroes, belonging to plantation Rose Hall, state as 
follows : — 

'* That they all were engaged by the manager to gin cotton for 
himself on their Sundays, for which he promised each 3 guilders a 
day ; when, after working three Sundays, and receiving no payment, 
they declined to continue with Ihis work. On demanding the pay- 
ment, the manager called the driver to give them a d d good 

payment: 

" That they are obliged to bring every evening, after their work, 
an uncommonly large sized bundle of grass, (the measure whereof the 
deponent deposits herewith), and that when the measure is not full 
they are obliged to search for more grass in the dark : 

" That in telling his master the hardness of the service, he flew 
into such a passion that he broke one of his (complainant's)^ teeth : 

" That in coming in the Negro houses at night after their work, and 
inquiring after their things, the manager, when hearing ihis, takes 
them up directly and lodges them in the stocks; adding further, 
that in case they are not satisfied with him, they may go and com- 
plain where they please." (p. 20.) 

Mr. Grade, the manager of plantation l'Esperance, is charged by 
the slaves with various delinquencies. A pregnant woman, named 
Rosa, was employed picking coffee with some other women. Think- 
ing they did not pick enough or well, Mr. Grade ordered the driver 
-Zondag to flog them. The driver did so. Rosa had previously ob- 
jected to working, as being too big, and being unable to stoop; but 
the manager over-ruled the objection, and she went to pick coffee on 
her knees. When Zondag came to her, he said to the manager, This 
woman is big with child. The manager replied, w Give it to her till 
the blood flies out." She was flogged with the whip doubled. This 
was on a Friday. She was sent to the field on Saturday, but, being 
seized with pains in her loins, was sent to the hospital. The doctor 
examined her, and ordered her to the field again. On Sunday she 
was delivered of a dead child, after a severe labour. The child's arm 
was broken, and one eye was bruised and sunk in the head. This 
woman had had seven children before by one husband. The driver, 
Zondag, and several others, confirmed the above statement. The 



berbice— fiscaVs report. I'll 

driver, being particularly asked, whether, on his representing- that Rosa 
was pregnant, the manager had used the expression, "Never mind, 
flog her till the blood comes," replied, " Yes." (pp. 25 — 27.) 

A Negro woman named Laura, belonging to plantation Reliance, 
with a very young child at the breast, complains that she is not 
allowed to take her child to the field to give it the breast now and 
then, but is obliged to leave it with an old woman at home. When 
she steals from her work to the child and is discovered, the manager 
flogs her. She brought this child into the world with great pain ; it 
is of a weakly constitution, and requires a mother's care, which she is 
not allowed to bestow. The manager does not deny any of the above 
facts, only says, that the women with young childre?i are not required 
to come out till half-past six in the morning, and they quit the field 
at half-past ten, return to the field at half-past one, and leave it at 
half-past Jive. 

The complaints are more frequent from Sandvoort, formerly one of 
the crown estates, than from any other plantation. " Carolus says 
he is sick and swelling, and that he cannot work, though willing. 
When he complains of sickness, the manager licks him, instead of 
helping him. Yesterday he was twice licked." (p. 33.) — " Amsterdam 
says he is afflicted with pains in his bones ; he does his best, but 
cannot work as others who are healthy. Mr. Cameron licks him 
with a horse-whip, curses him, and when lie goes to the hospital 
drives him away." (p. 34.) — Mielje (and her child Mars). "She says 
she is willing to work when healthy. She went yesterday sick to the 
hospital. Instead of getting physic, she received a flogging. She is 
| still sick, and has come to complain." (p. 35.) — Lambert had a bad 
disease, and the manager would give him nothing. He ran away. 
i His master, Mr. Cameron, states him to be a bad subject. He is 
admitted to labour under disease, but is directed by the fiscal to be 
punished ! ! ! (p. 55. See also pp. 57, 59, 65, 75, 7G, 77.) 

The complaints are also frequent from plantation Beerensteen, 
where some of the Crown Negroes are placed, against the driver 
Zealand, but chiefly against the manager, Mr. Deusseu. (pp. 24, 25, 
34, 36, 40, 43.) 

Samuel complains against his master Spangenburg, that the Ne- 
groes danced during the Christmas holidays from Sunday evening till 
Tuesday night. He proceeds thus: 

" On Wednesday they went to work, but as some of the people 
were still inebriated, so the large task given them was not finished ; 
the next day their task was renewed, with the addition of the re- 
mainder of the preceding day; that he, acting as driver, told his 
master it was impossible to finish the same ; he (Samuel) himself 
being accustomed to the field work, could not accomplish it, much 
less the women ; but his master, who knows very little of Negro work 
and treatment, insisted on the performance of the task given ; con- 
sequently the task was not finished, and principally the women were 
short in this ; the next day they (himself as a driver included) were all 
flogged ; the number of people working in the field consists of four 



112 POSTSCRIPT. 

men and three women, and they are so overwrought hy their cruel 
master that they are scarcely able to keep it out, which is the cause 
of their coming to complain, his master saying that he has no fear 
of fiscal or any one else, but that he will flog them when he finds it 
proper. The Negroes at present in town with their master, if called, 
would attest this. They get nothing but a small piece of pork, a 
little fish, two pipes and some tobacco ; nothing else ; no clothes or 
any thing more ; they get also a week only a small bunch of plaintains, 
and are generally very indifferently treated by their master. Wishes 
as his master is a person who is always flogging them, and who knows 
nothing of the work, that he, wilh his wife and brother, might be sold, 
being assured that they would be able to please a reasonable master, 
who understands the working and treatment of slaves." (p. 37.) 

Quamino complains of his master, F. Brittlebank's general ill treat- 
ment. — 

" Says, that some time ago many of them came to the ferry with 
the intention of going to town to complain, but were prevented by 
the ferrymen from crossing the Canje Creek ; that the fiscal then 
came to the ferry and ordered three of them to be flogged, amongst 
which the complainant was one ; that after flogging, the fiscal de- 
sired his master to dress his wounds well ; but that, on the contrary 
his master did nothing to them when he came home, but rubbed his 
back, with brine and salt ; that in consequence he has suffered very 
much by this neglect." (p. 37.) 

Scipio complains against the same master, Brittlebank, of being 
overwrought and severely treated. — 

" Came some time ago to complain, but was taken up at Jeffery's 
estate and confined there in the stocks for fourteen days : when he 
went home he got severely flogged ; he was taken to the waterside 
and there flogged for fear of the whip being heard ; his private parts, 
which he exhibits, are so severely wounded by the whip he can 
scarcely sit or stand. The Negro appears much emaciated.'' (p. 57-) 

Martin complains against Mr. Davies, manager of Sandvoort — ■ 

" That on Saturday he was almost unable, through pain in his neck, 
to finish his work, but nevertheless completed it ; that last Monday 
he went in the morning early to complain to Mr. Davies to give him 
physic ; that Mr. D., instead of assisting him, ordered Billy of Sand- 
voort, the driver, with four other Negroes, to lay him down ; that 
although he told Mr. D. he was never unwilling to work when well, 
he was, notwithstanding, flogged." (p. 39.) 

Philip and Leander complain of Mr. Luyken, the manager of 
Bertingdigheid, killing all their hogs. Leander had ten killed at one 
time. For complaining they were put in the stocks, (p. 45.) 

Jenny complains of her mistress, Elizabeth Atkinson, that she 
beats her unmercifully, kicked and trampled on her belly, locked her in 
the stocks, and beat her on the back. In half an hour she miscarried. 
Her child Philip is extremely ill-treated, and is never allowed to come 
near her. The child is exhibited : marks of severe flogging over the 
whole body. " Says she receives a good allowance." (pp. 45, 40.) 



berbice— -jiscal's returns. 113 

Three Negroes come to complain of Mr. Calmer of plantation Niew 
Stoop. One of them says, " That it is now the third time he has 
come to complain ; that twice he has been flogged by the fiscal at the 
market ; that he told the fiscal the last time he went, that in case his 
master troubled him again he would then come to complain also ; that 
Mr. Calmer, the last time he brought him home, flogged and kept him 
in the stocks during three weeks; after which, on applying to his master 
for relief, instead of gaining it, was severely flogged the next morning, 
and locked up in the stocks again ; after having been there a long 
time he was severely attacked by the scurvy, and although he begged 
hard to be allowed to go out and wash himself, was refused ; he 
grew so ill, that his master was afraid of losing him, and therefore 
released him; he recovered,, although very visible marks remain on 
his back: whilst in the stocks, his master gave him nothing to eat; 
whatever he got was by favour of the Negroes; he was not allowed 
to go out and ease himself, but lived in such a manner that it was 
impossible for any person to come near him ; his master bought a 
chain and block at plantation Zudwyk merely for him." (pp. 46, 47.) 

General Murray* the late Governor of Demerara, well known by 
the share he had in the prosecution of Smith, the Missionary, and 
who, in his public dispatches, has always highly lauded the treatment 
of the slaves, has two estates in Berbice, Resolution and Buses Lust. 
On the 23d October 1021, the manager of the former estate, Hop- 
kins, was reproved by the fiscal for having given three successive 
floggiugs to a Negro named Mark, who states, " He has been flogged 
severely by the manager, on account of complaining he was sick three 
different times ; once 12, another time 39, and again 25 lashes have 
been inflicted ; shews marks of severe flogging, and much neg- 
lected." (p. 49.) 

On the 29th of November there is another complaint from the 
same estate. Michael sajs he is a Negro, and knows well he must 
work ; but that they work from morning till late in the evening 
picking coffee, " and when he comes home, between six and seven 
in the evening, instead of going home to get some victuals, he is 
ordered to work till twelve at night, bringing mud from one place lo 
another. Also on Sundays they are ordered to work, and if they 
should refuse they would be flogged." — Philip makes a similar com- 
plaint. — Thomas " says he is an old man, and the work that the 
manager gives him to do is impossible for him to complete, from 
the weakness of his body and state ; for which he is always punished 
and kept continually in the stocks." (p. 50.) 

The result of the complaints made to the fiscal is seldom given. 
In this instance it is given in very laconic terms, and will doubtless 
surprize our readers : " Two (viz. of the complainants) directed to 
receive seventy-five lashes! //" 

Again, on the 17th November 1823, at the very time when Smith's 
trial was proceeding, we have a complaint from ten women belonging 
to the same plantation. 

Q 



114 POSTSCRIPT. 

" The governor, our master, when lie purchased us, gave us a 
task, one hundred trees to be weeded and cleansed ; with this we 
were satisfied: the manager, however, says this is no work, we shall 
not have task-work ; he gives eacli Negro a row of three trees ; if 
we do not finish the work given us, we are made to do it on Sunday; 
Ziemine, Maria, and others wrought in the field on Sunday ; the 
manager had the driver locked up in the stocks." (p. 66.) "We are 
content and happy when our master comes, who talks and laughs 
with us; but as soon as he goes off* the estate we are unhappy. 
We have no time to eat, none to cook ; we have no eleven 
o'clock; we are not wrought by task. Our master gave us spoons; 
the manager is dissatisfied with this ; he says the governor is too 
good, he minds us as if we were children; lie says he cannot flog 
us, because that can be seen, but he will punish us with work. If 
any of the women be pregnant, no attention is paid to them ; they 
are wrought as hard as the others ; for that reason there are no 
children ; manager says he does not come to mind children. The rows 
given us have each sixty trees ; the bell is rung, but we cannot leave 
the field, because if the work given us be not finished, we are pu- 
nished ; the punishment is, we are to finish our work on Sunday. 
We all have wrought on Sunday ; not one Sunday, but every one 
that any field work is left undone." (p. 66.) 

On the 4th September 1823, a number of women belonging to 
plantation Prospect came to complain of bad treatment. The ma- 
nager, Paterson, overworks them and gives them no time to eat. 
" We are now planting and supplying canes. The ground is so dry 
we are obliged to throw water on the beds before we can chop the 
earth." The work they had done the day before was reported to 
the manager at noon by the driver. The manager was unable to go 
himself from indisposition ; but he ordered the driver, when they 
returned to the field at one o'clock, to go out and flog each of the 
strong women. The women expostulated with him, shewing him the 
extreme hardness of the ground, which they had to moisten before 
they could dig it; observing, that, if the cane plant were not well 
put in, the manager would again order them to be punished for that. 
The overseer, coining up at the time, repeated the manager's order, 
and six of them were laid down and punished with twelve lashes 
each. They proceed, " We are too much punished ; we have no 
time to get our victuals ; we have every night got work, whether the 
mill is going or not. Sunday night even is not excepted, when we 
must bring fire-wood from the canal mouth. Tuesday night we had 
to carry corn from the great house to the horse stable-loft. We 
were employed at this work till near morning. We carry home wood 
on Sunday night as well as any other, and the boatmen are employed 
in bringing wood on Sunday as on any other day. If any of us go 
out on Sunday we must be back in time to bring home grass and 
firewood for the kitchen. After that we must still go to the canal 
for firewood for the engine. 



berbice— -Jiscars returns. ]]5 

" Mr. Ross sends two bundles of plantains for each Negro every 
week : one week I he men get two bunches, and the women one ; next 
week we get two, and the men one ; the rest are kept for sheep and 
hogs. Mr. Ross sends tobacco; we get none of that; we get no 
molasses, although it is given to the horses, sheep, and hogs. If yoff 
are sick, or have a sore, and put in the sick-house, only one bunch of 
plantains is allowed, and the allowance offish is stopped. Mr. Ross 
sends every thing to the estate very well, but we do not get it. The 
overseer's treatment is worse than the manager's ; since Caajee is come 
home, she is confined both legs in the stocks every night. Only four 
of us are allowed to take the magass from the engine ; in M'Cermol's 
time there were five of us to do this work. Our rum has been stopped 
for the week. Last night we received orders from the driver that we 
were not to come home to-day unless we finished our work ; we must 
boil plantains then for to-day ; the ground is so hard we knew we 
could not do it, and therefore came to complain." (p. 60.) 

It appeared, on farther inquiry, that they were well supplied with 
cither plantains, or rice, or corn; but no other part of the charges 
meets with a denial. The conclusion of the whole is thus given, and 
it will illustrate the nature of the protection which Negroes receive 
under harsh usage. Mr. Ross, the attorney, who was present, 
" expressed to the manager his entire dissatisfaction of the women 
having been flogged prematurely, and at the Negroes being employed 
on Sunday night ; and promised the Negroes they should have redress 
in as far as their complaints were grounded, but expressed his disap- 
probation of their not having sought redress from him as the attorney 
of the estate, instead of seeking it from the fiscal ; and this conduct 
haviug been also pointed out by the fiscal, as a want of proper respect 
to their master, who from their own account plentifully supplied their 
wants, they seemed to regret the measure they had adopted." (p. 61.) 

Whether this be the same Mr. Ross, who is proprietor of Culcaim 
plantation, we know not ; but the Negroes of that plautation also 
make bitter complaints against their manager. 

" When the sun is down, if our row is not finished we get flogged. 
I received thirty lashes, so did Joe. We are taken to the stocks at 
night, and flogged next morning. We told the manager the work 
was too much, that we had no time to get our victuals, and begged 
him to lessen the task : this was the reason we were flogged. There 
are plenly of plantains on the estate ; the manager, however, only 
gives us one bunch, and that is on the Sunday morning. We are 
very well supplied with fish. We are obliged to boil our plantains at 
night, and put them in a calabash to take to the field next morning ; 
we are obliged to eat them by stealth, we are driven so hard ; and 
before we can eat them they turn sour. When we come from the field, 
after this heavy day's work, we must work in the yard ; the punt 
brings wood to the canal, and we must carry it up to the engine; 
other times we must haul up bullet-tree to the saw-pit. When we are 
grinding we know very well we must sit up late ; and of this we do 
not complain, knowing it must be done. We have complained to our 



116 POSTSCRIPT. 

master, and he says that the manager, he supposes, troubles us he- 
cause we don't mind our work ; we had no redress from him." (p. 57.) 
These heavy complaints are referred by the fiscal, on account of 
the distance of the plantation, to Capt. Grant, a burgher officer. His 
letter of instructions on the occasion will throw no small light on the 
principles on which justice is administered to complaining slaves. 
After stating the heads of complaint, the fiscal observes — 

" It must be needless for me to request the most impartial inves- 
tigation ; and although I am perfectly satisfied that Mr. Ross would 
not permit his slaves to be oppressed by the manager, yet some of the 
charges of complaints may require redress; and in such case I cer- 
tainly shall recommend Mr. Ross to afford instant relief. I am also well 
aware and fully confident that such recommendation would be needless 
if the complainants had not lost sight of a duty incumbent on them, to 
have sought redress in the first instance from Mr. Ross, their pro- 
prietor, which they had ample opportunities of doing by his frequent 
visits to the estate , , 

" If, however, you find that the complaints are groundless, I re- 
quest you will, by every means, endeavour to convince them of the 
same, to point out how very unsatisfactory, unpleasant, and expensive 
such complaints must be to a proprietor of respectability and a good 
oumer of slaves ; and that although the complaints of slaves shall 
always command my ready and serious attention, and that whenever 
they are aggrieved I will exert myself to afford them relief, yet that 
the duty is no less imperious on me to punish such slaves, whose only 
motives in quitting their estates to prefer complaints proceed from 
idle and wanton dispositions, whose statements prove to be groundless 
and vexatious. 

" / ivould then recommend you to direct the said Negroes to be 
exemplarily punished in presence of the gang ; and one of them hav- 
ing asserted that was the one who induced them to come 
to ioivn to complain, he ought to receive fifty lashes, and the others 
thirty-nine each, ivell applied, and cautioned to refrain from further 
wanton behaviour, on pain of more severe punishment. 

" 1 also recommend you to request Mr. Austin f, the manager of 
49, to accompany you, and afford you his aid and opinion in ascer- 
taining the work done on the estate, and complained of." (p. 5tS.) 

* The Negroes distinctly say they had complained to Mr. Ross, and were 
refused redress. 

t Of this Mr. Austin who is thus made Captain Grant's assessor, and in whom 
the fiscal reposes so much confidence, we have several notices in these papers. 
— Bob says, " That almost three weeks ago, the manager Austin met him in 
the morning whilst going to the field, and without giving him the least provo- 
cation called the driver King to lick him, which had been of such a nature, 
that he had been obliged to lie down some days, and on recovery thought pro- 
per to report this proceeding to his honour the fiscal. Complainant's back has 
yet the visible marks of this treatment." (p. 31.) 

Trim says, " That he knows very well that a Negro is to work ; he does his 
duty but cannot please the manager, Mr. Austin; tliat the driver is continually 
finding fault with and licking him too much; that when complaining about this 



BERBicfi— fiscal* s returns. 117 

The plantation Profit, in Dr. Pinckard's time, was a model of 
humanity towards the slaves. Times are now changed. The former 
possessor no longer lives, and the slaves are in the hands of seques- 
trators. The following is a specimen of their grievances: — 

''. Hutchinson, the manager, is too cross ; that he will not give 
task-work, but works them by the day to that degree that they have 
no time to get their breakfast ; he comes after 11 o'clock in the field, 
and says we do not work enough ; the driver must give us twenty-five 
lashes every day. If we are flogged, we go to the burgher officer 
to complain ; he gives us a letter to the manager; but he says I want 
no letter, and the complainant is laid down and flogged ; two of the 
Negroes have letters they received from the burgher officer, which 
were given them by the manager after being flogged. We have no 
attorney, or at least we hear of none, and we have not seen one for 
five months ; there is no fish nor salt on the estate ; we have not had 
clothes, this makes the third year, nor have we pipes or tobacco; we 
make pleuty of rum, but never get a glass of it; if we feel our skin 
hurt us, and complain of sickness, we are flogged ; he then mixes 
salts, jalap, and calomel together, which is given to drink. Rose 
went to say she was sick ; she was flogged with the whip, and is yet 
cut. The manager says we are making bargain ; we do not know 
what he means ; he makes us think upon what we don't want. Sandy 
shews some stripes upon his posteriors ; he received them in the field 
from the driver by order of the overseer ; he says it is for work, as 
we make a bargain not to work. Having made our complaint to the 
burgher officer, who never came to the estate, but gave us letters 

to the manager, he gets for answer, ' It is jour master's work ;' says, that 
when Negroes are sick and go to the manager, instead of giving them physic, 
he drives them away with a horse-whip." (p. 41.) 

Rose says, " She lost her husband and child lately ; that the manager treats 
her very ill ; that the child whereof she was delivered died on the third day ; 
that the manager made her go to work too soon after her delivery; that he 
locked her up at night in the stocks, and made her work in the day ; that she 
told Mr. Kewley, her master, repeatedly, of the several ill-treatments which she 
received from Mr. Austin ; but as Mr. Kewley gives her no assistance, she is 
obliged to come and complain." (p. 41.) 

Again, Aug. 20, 1823, " Complaint of the Negro Harry, belonging to J. P. 
Chapman, of Demerara, hired to Mr. Kewley, proprietor of 49, Corantyn 
Coast : — States, that he is perfectly able to do his work, but not when he is 
sick ; that he went to the manager to say he was sick ; lie made the watchman 
take me to the field, where I was flogged by the driver. I had the fever two 
days; I went to complain ; I was put in the dog-house, where I neither ate 
nor drank ; there is no sick-house on 49 ; 1 could not eat nor drink from sick- 
ness. If a Negro says he is sick, two Negroes drive him to the field at five 
o'clock ; at night we are locked up : all the Negroes treated so. Some of the 
Negroes, from the bad treatment of the manager, have run away. One of Mr. 
Chapman's Negroes was flogged so often, and had so bad a foot, that he was 
obliged to run away in the bush ; if he is dead or alive we do not know ; he was 
one of the firemen, and walked on his hands and feet; he told the manager he 
could not stand to do work; he was laid down and flogged. Manager's name 
Austin." — Harry is ordered twelve lashes by the fiscal, on the statement of the pro- 
prietor, Mr. Kewley ; which, however, only goes to rebut a part, and an in- 
ferior part, of the charges. 



118 POSTSCRIPT. 

which were not attended to, and not knowing that we have any 
attorney or proprietor, we come to the fiscal to complain. We do 
not wish to run away in the bush, but we look for help. The mana- 
ger came in the field the other day after dinner ; as soon as he came 
into the field, he laid the driver down and flogged him ; next Saudy, 
and then me ; I asked what I had done ; but four Negroes were 
made to hold me, and I was flogged. I went to Mr. Muuro to com- 
plain ; he told me the manager could not have flogged me for nothing ; 
I suppose you gave him sauce. He went next morning to the manager, 
who said I had been saucy. I was locked up in the slocks day and 
night ; I think I was confined two weeks ; manager said I should stop 
there till Christmas, because 1 went to complain to Munro : I asked 
leave to go out to ease myself, and made my escape; the stocks are 
now full of people. Hannah has a severe cold, and complains of 
pain in the stomach ; she says she is locked up in the stocks ; the 
manager says if she dies he does not lose his money; the Negroes 
went to complain to the fiscal, and he came on the estate, and what 
did he do? Rose said she had a pain in her side, and begged fur a 
blister; manager said he would give her a blister on her backside; 
she was laid down and flogged, the marks still visible." (p. 64.) 

The Negroes of plantation Foulis complain of Dr. Munro, their 
owner, that they are made to work in the boiling house from eleven 
or twelve o'clock at night till eight or nine the next evening. They 
complain also of want of food. The fiscal proceeded to the estate, 
where he says he ascertained that the complaints were in a great 
measure groundless, but that some irregularities were chargeable on 
the overseers, who were admonished, and threatened with dismissal 
if they were not more attentive in future. 

" Two of the complainants, who, it was proved, were guilty of 
insolence and disobedience of orders, were punished in presence of 
the whole gang, who were informed that any real grievance they had 
to complain of would always be attended to, but that they would be 
severely punished whenever their conduct was proved to be refractory 
and disorderly. A copy of the ordinance respecting the clothing and 
feeding of Negroes was then handed to Mr. Munro, who was inform- 
ed that penalties would be rigidly enforced if the enactments were 
not strictly complied with." (pp. 6, 7.) 

Sixteen Negroes of plantation Herstelling all unite in complaining 
that the manager " turns the gang out in the morning a long time 
before the gun fires at the fort, and at day-light all the gang are at 
their work. At breakfast time, when the bell rings, before the 
Negroes are able to put their victuals on the fire, the bell rings again 
io turn out ; so that most of the Negroes go in the field again 
without breakfast. He states, that the manager gives them more 
work than they are able to do ; and if the work is not done in lime 
the whole gang are flogged. That their allowance only consists of 
one bunch of plantains and a little fish every week, and no more. 
He states, that when all the gang are at work, and two or three of 
them have not finished their task, for the sake of these two or 



kerbice— -fiscaVs returns. 119 

three people the whole gang are flogged, this happens almost every 
day in the week." 

The head driver, being examined, states, — 

" That on Thursday last he had a gang of sixteen men with him, 
weeding young canes in a field about 500 rods from the buildings : 
That the whole gang were at their work, and had got three beds 
weeded before the sun rose. An overseer, Michael Harrold, came 
to the field at seven o'clock, reckoned the gang, and directed the 
driver to see the work was properly done. About an hour after, the 
manager came to the field, and ordered the driver to flog the whole 
gang, with the exception of one man, Alexander, as the work was 
not going on properly. 

" On inquiring into the truth of this statement, in presence of the 
attorneys of the estate, it appeared that although the manager's 
conduct was, in some measure, reprehensible, yet the complainants had 
greatly exaggerated their grievances. They were therefore ordered 
to return home, on the attorneys promising to go to the estate the 
next day to see that every real cause of complaint was remedied ; 
and to warn the manager, that if the Negroes had cause to complain 
again, he would be immediately discharged." (p. 72.) 

On the 3d of March L823, nine Negroes, all women, belonging to 
plantation Port Moraunt, appeared to complain of the manager, that 
they are " constantly in the field from morning before gun fire until 
late in the evening ; that the work the manager gives is too much ; they 
are unable to complete it, although they work during breakfast time." 
" Sometimes they are obliged to work on Sunday to finish the task 
given during the week ; and often have no time to eat, from morning 
till night; if the row is not finished they are put in the stocks, and 
kept in until morning, when they are released and sent to work; some- 
times the whole of the women are flogged for the sake of two or three 
not finishing their task. Last Friday the driver was flogged on ac- 
count of his having allowed the women to come to the house to get 
breakfast, and they were sent all back to their work ; the manager 
saying to them, that they had time to eat at night, and not in the day. 
On Saturday last the manager went to the field, and found that they 
had not finished their row, and immediately ordered four women to be 
flogged." (pp. 78, 79.) 

" On investigation of this complaint," observes the fiscal, who, 
be it remembered, is himself a planter, " it appeared, that al- 
though the tasks given to the Negroes of the estate were not actu- 
ally more than they could do in a day, yet that the manager was 
very severe upon them, and too frequently inflicted punishment 
without sufficient cause: he was therefore informed that his conduct 
would be vigilantly looked after in future; and if he continued the 
same system, the attorney of the estate would be recommended to 
discharge him from the management." (p. 79.) 

The following complaint, from the same estate, was heard on the 
27th March 1823, and the result will further illustrate the course of 
judicial proceedings in the slave colonies. — 



120 POSTSCRIPT. 

" Ness states, That he is the driver over the women, and the manager 
asked him last Sunday why he did not go to work, and lie answered 
that he had not been ordered to do so, or he would have gone to work, 
as he did not wish to do any thing without the manager's order. 
The manager then offered to flog him ; but he made his escape, and 
came to your Honour for redress. 

*' The complainant in this instance was punished by the acting fiscal 
for having left the estate and come to town to complain without any 
cause, and when he knew he had been guilty of disobedience of orders 
and neglect of duty: and the manager was warned of the impropri- 
ety and illegality of working the Negroes on Sunday." (p. 79.) 

The manager is not punished for so flagrant a breach of the law, 
but warned of its impropriety! The poor Negro who came to com- 
plain of that acknowledged breach of the law, is punished for coining 
to town to complain ivithout any cause. 

Not one instance occurs, in the midst of all these atrocities, in which 
the penalties of the law are enforced on the owners or managers ! ! ! 

But we have done, not because our materials are exhausted, but 
because we have already swelled the work by our citations to an in- 
convenient size*. Last year Mr. Baring facetiously observed, that 
*' what might be called our stock stories" were worn threadbare. He 
was tired to hear of nothing but Huggins and Carty, and Kitty and 
Thisbe : they were repeated in every speech and pamphlet, till they 
were fairly worn out, proving also the absence of any new facts of 
the same kind. The fresh importation, of which we have given a 
specimen, will prevent, in the next session of Parliament, the offence 
to good taste of which Mr. Baring so sensitively complains. His 
commerce connects him with Berbice, the scene of these atrocities; 
and yet Mr. Baring, wilh all his assumed knowledge of the subject, 
was as ignorant of these transactions as the child unborn ; and wouid 
have been perfectly incredulous of them had they come, not from 
the fiscal of Berbice, himself a planter, but from some of those per- 
sons whom he unfairly and ungenerously represents as fabricating 
such stories in order to curry favour with their employers. He com- 
plains too of the assiduity with which petitions are got up on this 
subject. And does he suppose that such transactions as these, when 
they come to be known, will not rouse the public to petition? The 
people of Great Britain cannot remain unaffected by such enormities 
perpetrated on their helpless fellow-subjects ; nor can they continue 
to tolerate those fiscal regulations by which they are made to pay, in 
bounties and protecting duties, for the cost of this bloody and mur- 
derous system. 

One word more before we conclude our painful task. A work 

* We have given only a tithe of the atrocities brought before the fiscal of the 
small colony of Berbice, containing about 20,000 slaves! What a mass of 
horrors should we have had before us, could we have had a similar return from 
all our colonies, containing altogether upwards of forty times that number! 
Only one other colony, Demerara, has a fiscal to record, in any manner, how- 
ever imperfect, such transactions; and he has kept no record ! ! ! 



LETTERS OF VINDEX. 121 

has just made its appearance, of considerable labour, and considerable 
pretence to authority, containing 270 closely printed octavo pages, 
entitled "Considerations submitted in Defence of the Orders in 
Council for the Melioration of Slavery in Trinidad, and upon the pro- 
bable Effect of sudden Emancipation on Agricultural Industry and 
British Capital in the West Indies, in a Series of Letters which ap- 
peared in the Star Newspaper under the Signature of Vindex. To 
which is annexed, the thirteenth Article in the sixteenth Number of 
the Quarterly Review ; and the Observations thereon, in a Series of 
Letters which appeared in the New Times Newspaper under the Sig- 
nature of Anglus." It is printed for Murray, and is addressed "to 
those Members of both Houses of Parliament who, whatever may be 
their private interests, or preconceived opinions, feel anxious for the 
elucidation of truth in the question of West-India Slavery." It is an 
elaborate, ingenious, and humane attempt to quiet the consciences of 
those gentlemen and their friends who, having private interests in- 
volved in the question, are desirous of having a salvo against the agony 
of self-accusation, and a plausible excuse to the world for prolonging 
the existence of that foul and disgraceful system. But all will not do. 
The national conscience can no longer be lulled to sleep. Its power- 
ful voice will be heard, and will sweep away all those refuges of lies 
which seek to reconcile the toleration of such practices, either to the 
character of our country or to the paramount obligations of Christian 
duty. 

The grand object of this bulky pamphlet is to prove to the British 
Parliament, that slavery in the West Indies is a better and more gain 
fid condition of society than freedom. If this position were as true 
as it is false, the people of England would revolt from the idea of 
pocketing the gains arising from such a hideous combination of in- 
justice, cruelty and crime. But it is as false as it is impious and 
inhuman. 

The pamphlet to which we allude appears to have proceeded from 
the samearsenal which supplied the materials for Lord Balhurst'sspeech 
in March 1824 ; for the various articles on the West Indies in the 
Quarterly Review ; and for the comments on the case of the Donna 
Paula (see above, p. 92). One of the grand arguments, indeed the 
argumenlwn palmarium of this school, has been drawn from a com- 
parison of the island of Hayii with our own colonies. On this prop 
of their system, much of the present production has been made to 
rest. But, unfortunately for the author, it had vanished from under 
him before his pamphlet saw the light. The fact that the population 
ofHa^ti had grown, in about twenty years, from half a million to 
nearly a million, had already laid the axe to the root of his goodly 
argument; and the recognition of Haytiati independence, and the 
price which Hayti has engaged to pay for it, has swept away the very 
last vestice even of the rubbish that had been falling around him. 



THE END, 



ERRATA. 

Page 16, line 5 from bottom, for p. 11, redd pp. 8, 9. 

31, 3 from bottom,/or p. 35, read pp. 26, 27. 

33, last line, for p. 30, read p. 29. 



Ellerton and Henderson, Printers, 
Gough Square, London. 



123 



Thefolloxving Works may be had of 5. Hatchard&Son, 

REVIEW of the QUARTERLY REVIEW; or, an Exposure of the Erro- 
neous Opinions promulgated in that Work on the Subject of Colonial Slavery : 
being the Substance of a Series of Letters which appeared in the " New Times " 
of September and October, 1824. With Notes and an Appendix. 

EAST-INDIA SUGAR ; or, an Inquiry respecting the Means of Improving 
the Quality and Reducing the Cost of Sugar raised by Free Labour in the East 
Indies. With an Appendix, containing Proofs and Illustrations. 

FIRST REPORT of the COMMITTEE of the SOCIETY for the MITI- 
GATION and GRADUAL ABOLITION of SLAVERY throughout the 
British Dominions, read at the General Meeting of the Society held on the 25th 
day of June, 1 824, together with an Account of the Proceedings which took 
place at that Meeting. 

The SECOND REPORT, &c. with an Appendix, containing important 
Documents illustrative of the State and Impolicy of Slavery, and the means for 
its Amelioration and gradual Abolition. 1825. 

NEGRO SLAVERY; or, a View of some of the prominent Features of the 
State of Society, as it exists in the United States, and in the Colonies of the 
West Indies, especially in Jamaica. 

AN APPEAL to the Religion, Justice, and Humanity of the Inhabitants of 
the British Empire, in behalf of the Negro Slaves in the West Indies. By 
WILLIAM WILBERFORCE, Esq. M. P. 

EAST and WEST INDIA SUGAR; or, a Refutation of the Claims of the 
West-India Colonies to a Protecting Duty on East-India Sugars. 

A LETTER to WILLIAM W. WHITMORE. Esq. M. P., pointing out 
some of the erroneous Statements contained in a Pamphlet by Joseph Marryatt, 
Esq. M. P., entitled, " A Reply to the Arguments contained in various Publica- 
tions recommending an Equalization of the Duties on East and West India 
Sugars." By the AUTHOR of a Pamphlet entitled " East and West India 
Sugar." 

A LETTER to M. JEAN BAPTISTE SAY, on the comparative Expense 
of Free and Slave Labour. By ADAM HODGSON. Second Edition, 

SUBSTANCE of the DEBATE in the HOUSE of COMMONS on the 15th 
of May, 1823, on a MOTION FOR THE MITIGATION AND GRADUAL 
ABOLITION OF SLAVERY throughout the British Dominions: with a 
Preface and Appendixes, containing Facts and Reasonings illustrative of Colo- 
nial Bondage. 

A REVIEW of some of the ARGUMENTS which are commonly advanced 
AGAINST PARLIAMENTARY INTERFERENCE in Behalf of the Negro 



124 

Slaves, with a Statement of Opinions which have been expressed on that Subject 
by many of Our most distinguished Statesmen, including Earl Grey, Earl of 
Liverpool, Lord Grenville, Lord Dudley and Ward, Lord Melville, Mr. Burke, 
Mr. Pitt, Mr. Fox, &c. &c. &c. Second Edition, 

CORRESPONDENCE between GEORGE HIBBERT, Esq. and the 
Rev. T. COOPER, relative to the Conditian of the Negro Slaves in Jamaica, 
extracted from the Morning Chronicle ; also a LIBEL on the CHARACTER 
of Mr. and Mrs. COOPER, published in 1823, in several of the Jamaica Journals; 
with Notes and Remarks. By THOMAS COOPER. 

A LETTER to ROBERT HIBBERT, Jun. Esq., in Reply to his Pamphlet, 
entitled, "Facts verified upon Oath, in Contradiction of the Report of the Rev. 
Thomas Cooper, concerning the general Condition of the Slaves in Jamaica;" 
&c.&c; to which are added, A LETTER FROM MRS. COOPER to K. 
Hibbert, Jun. Esq., and an APPENDIX, containing an Exposure of the False- 
hoods and Calumnies of that Gentleman's Affidavit-Men. By THOMAS 
COOPER. 

FACTS ILLUSTRATIVE of the CONDITION of the NEGRO SLAVES 
in Jamaica ; with Notes and an Appendix. By THOMAS COOPER. 

RELIEF for WEST-INDIAN DISTRESS; shewing the Inefficiency of 
Protecting Duties on East-India Sugar, and pointing out other Modes of certain 
Relief. By JAMES CROPPER. 

A LETTER on the injurious Effects of High Prices, and the beneficial 
Effects of Low Prices, on the Condition of Slavery. By JAMES CROPPER. 

The SUPPORT of SLAVERY INVESTIGATED. By JAMES CROPPER. 

THOUGHTS on the NECESSITY of IMPROVING the CONDITION of 

SLAVES in the British Colonies, with a View'to their ULTIMATE EMAN- 
CIPATION ; and on the Practicability, the Safety, and the Advantages of the 
latter Measure. By T. CLARKSON, Esq. 1823. ' 

The SLAVERY of the BRITISH WEST-INDIA COLONIES delineated, 
as it exists both in Law and Practice, and compared with the Slavery of other 
Countries, Ancient and Modem. By JAMES STEPHEN, Esq. 

DEBATE in the HOUSE of COMMONS, June 23, 1825, on Mr. BUXTON'S 
MOTION, relative to the DEMOLITION of the METHODIST CHAPEL 
and MISSION HOUSE in BARBADOES, and the Expulsion of Mr. 
SHREWSBURY, a-Wesleyan Missionary, from that Island. 

NEGRO'S MEMORIAL ; or, ABOLITIONIST'S CATECHISM. By AN 
ABOLITIONIST. 



«5l«ilK'HifH!«!fHf5 



yiHH«s^snH 



