HOUSE— No. 44 



ComiHcsiiinMltij of JI5t*r^^ac^^iisetis, 



In the House op Representatives, March 6, 1840. 

The Joint Special Committee, to whom were referred the peti- 
tion of Spencer Vining, and 272 others, of Abington, and 
many other petitions of the same tenor, relating to the power 
and duty of Congress to abolish slavery and the slave trade 
in the District of Columbia and the territories, and the slave 
trade between the several States, and to whom were also re- 
ferred the petition of Nathan Webster and 130 others of Ha- 
verhill, and many other petitions of the same tenor, relating 
to the admission of Florida into the Union as a slave State, 
and to whom were also referred the petition of Windsor 
Morse of West Boylston, and 91 others, and many other pe- 
titions of the same tenor, relating to slavery, and the means 
to be used for its restraint and abolition, having considered 
the subjects so submitted to them, ask leave to 

H E P O R T . 

It is believed by your Committee, that on the question of 
the power of Congress to do the various things which are spe- 
cifically enumerated by the petitioners, as subjects on which 
its power should be exercised, there is almost entire unanimity 
of sentiment in this Commonwealth. Few are found to dis- 
1 



2 SLAVERY, &c. [March, 

pute that the clause of the eighth section of the first article of 
the Constitution which gives Congress " power to exercise ex- 
clusive jurisdiction in all cases whatsoever" within the district 
which is the seat of government, means what it says ; that the 
clause of the third section of the fourth article which provides 
that Congress shall have power to dispose of, and make all 
needful rules and regulations respecting the territory of the 
United States, gives Congress a power at least equal to that 
under which the old Congress of 1787, with the hearty con- 
currence of Jefferson and other leading southern statesmen, 
prohibited slavery forever, on so much of the territory as lay 
within certain parallels of latitude ; that the clause of the same 
section which provides that " new States tnay be admitted by 
Congress into the Union," leaves the general government en- 
tirely at liberty to refuse such admission, except upon such 
conditions as may appear just and reasonable to the party grant- 
ing the admission ; and finally, that the clause (art. 1, sect. 8,) 
which authorizes Congress " to regulate commerce with foreign 
nations, and among the several States," and under which Con- 
gress has heretofore laid an embargo, imposed discriminating 
and prohibitory duties, and abolished the foreign slave trade, 
conveys equal power to regulate, even to the extent of prohi- 
bition, the inter-state trade of any description. Not only do 
the constructions above given, follow the obvious and necessary 
import of the language used, but they are sustained by a vast 
mass of analogies, of cotemporary authorities, and of historical 
evidence, all showing that the powers now claimed, were in 
fact conferred with the full assent and entire understanding of 
all the States who took part in the framing of the Constitution. 
It is needless to say that Massachusetts has repeatedly sustain- 
ed these constructions by the lips and pens of her statesmen, 
and the almost unanimous expressions of her Legislatures. 
Your Committee have not, therefore, thought it necessary to 
present again, at any length, reasonings and authorities with 
which all have had ample opportunity of becoming acquainted. 
They will merely refer those to whom the subject may not be 
entirely familiar, to former legislative reports upon petitions 



1840.] ' HOUSE— Na 44, 3 

similar to those now under consideration, and particularly to 
the reports contained in documents numbered 86 and 87 of the 
Senate, for 1838 ; reports which exhaust the learning and the 
arguments applicable to the various subjects treated of, which 
are instinct with the spirit of freedom and truth, and which are 
the noblest monuments of a mind and character too early lost 
to the Commonwealth and to the country. 

Entertaining no doubt, therefore, that Congress has the powers 
claimed by the petitioners, your Committee come at once to the 
inquiry, whether those powers should be immediately exer- 
cised ; and on this point, also, they have come without hesita- 
tion to an affirmative result. The duty cannot, in the appre- 
hension of your Committee, be separated from the power ; ad- 
mit the last, and the first follows of course. If the evils of 
slavery and the slave-trade were doubtful, or remote, or of re- 
cent origin, or but recently discovered, or were principally of a 
metaphysical character, not palpable to common understandings 
and consciences, nor attended in practice with great suffering 
or wrong, then it might be proper for us as legislators to turn 
our attention first to the remedy of nearer or greater wrongs, if 
such there were, or to wait the result of further examination, 
and increased enlightenment of the popular mind. But there 
is no such reason for delay in this case. The wrongs to be 
remedied are open, gross, palpable to the dullest perception. 
The responsibility for their continuance rests upon us with a 
mighty weight, if we forbear to denounce and control, so far as 
we can, the legislation which inflicts them. So far is the ac- 
tion proposed by the petitioners, from being liable to the charge 
of undue precipitation, that, in the opinion of your Committee, 
it has only been too long delayed. Fifty years toleration of 
slavery and the slave-trade in the district and territories, and 
forty years toleration of an inter-state trade, which, when car- 
ried on with foreign countries, we denounce as piracy, are 
enough to fill the measure, and satisfy the claims, of gradualism, 
as enforced by the warmest of its early advocates. As a na- 
tion, we have not only reached, but we have long since passed 



4 SLAYERY, &c. " [March, 

the point in the tide of time, before which the gradualists of 
fifty years since predicted that slavery would cease by a death 
of progressive and half voluntary extinction. Within that pe- 
riod, two generations of slaves and masters have mingled in the 
dust ; and we find at this day the number of slaves quadrupled, 
the severity of slave laws increased, and a domestic slave-trade 
sprung up, which gives new vigor to the system, by giving it 
a new hold on the interests of the planter. The prohibition of 
the foreign slave-trade, which, by its advocates in this Com- 
monwealth, was intended and stated to be a death-blow to sla- 
very, has in fact had a tendency to retard emancipation in Vir- 
ginia and Maryland, by keeping up the value of slave property.* 
These remarks are made, not by way of taunt or injurious 
reflection, but to shew the utter futility of the expectation that 
slavery and the slave trade will soon cease in the district and 
terricories, and between the states, through a cessation of the 
institution in the states where it now exists. The signs of the 
times indicate any thing but speedy emancipation by those 
states. So much the more important is it that we should do 
our duty promptly and fearlessly, as far as we can — that while 
we solemnly disclaim all interference or intention of interference 
with the domestic institutions of any State, we insist, on the 
other hand, npou the exercise of our constitutional rights in 

* Slaves might be imported from Africa to New Orleans at a cost of less 
than two hundred dollars. The price of an able-bodied slave, in New Or- 
leans, is at least six or eight hundred dollars. It thus appears that no cul- 
ture or manufacture in the Union, is nearly so well protected as the slave 
culture. 

The extent to which this traffic is carried on, is very great, though the ex- 
act amount cannot be ascertained from any published official document. 
It is certain, however, that in several of the states this has been, for some 
years, the most important article of export. The import of slaves into Loui- 
siana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Arkansas, for the year 1836, was estimated 
by a Mississippi print, at two hundered and fifty thousand. It is believed, 
that the annual slave export of Virginia considerably exceeds five millions 
of dollars ; and all her foreign exports fell short of four millions, for the year 
ending Sept. 30th, 1838, as appears by the report of the Secretary of the 
Treasury on Commerce and Navigation, for 1839. 



1840.] HOUSE— No. 44. 5 

furtherance of the cause of justice and humanity, upon the do- 
main which we hold as citizens of the Union. 

Guided by the views thus briefly and imperfectly expressed, 
and believing that this Commonwealth should never be back- 
ward in manifesting by word or deed, her unshaken adherence 
to the great principles of human liberty, your Committee report 
the annexed resolves. 

All which is respectfully submitted. 

For the Committee. 

GEO. T. DAVIS, Chairman. 



SLAYERY, &c. [March, 



eommontoealtli of m^^^^tt)umttu. 



In the Year One Thousand Eight hundred and Forty. 



RESOLVES 

Relating to Slavery and the Slave Trade, and the admission of 
new States into the Union. 

Whereas, domestic slavery exists in the District of Colum- 
bia, under the express authority of Congress, which, at the time 
of the cession of the District, re-enacted the slave codes of Ma- 
ryland and Virginia ; and lohereas. the sanction thus given 
to slavery, and its continued toleration at the seat of govern- 
ment, form a manifest violation by this nation of the first prin- 
ciples of justice, and have a tendency to corrupt the moral 
sense, and to lower the character of the whole people of the 
United States ; and whereas, this nation can have no higher 
interest, either before God or in the eyes of men, than the es- 
tablishing of justice, and strengthening the just foundations of 
national honor ; and whereas, slavery in the District of Colum- 
bia, being thus a national concern, and involving national res- 
ponsibility, it is the right of the Commonwealth of Massachu- 
setts, to remonstrate against the common crime and the degra- 
dation of national character ; therefore 

Resolved, That Congress ought to exercise its acknowledged 
power, in the immediate suppression of slavery and the slave 
trade in the District of Columbia. 



1840.] HOUSE— No. 44. 7 

And ivhereas, by the Constitution of the United States, Con- 
gress has the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, 
and between the several States of the Union, in the exercise of 
which power. Congress in the year 1808 abolished the foreign 
slave trade : and whereas, a domestic slave trade, as unjustifia- 
ble in principle as the African slave trade, and scarcely less 
cruel and inhuman in practice, is now carried on between the 
several States : therefore 

Resolved, That the domestic slave trade ought to be abolish- 
ed by Congress, without delay. 

Resolved, That no new State ought to be admitted into the 
Union, whose constitution shall tolerate domestic slavery. 

Resolved, That our Sisnators in Congress be instructed, and 
our Representatives requested, to use their utmost efforts to give 
effect to the foregoing Resolves. 

Resolved, That His Excellency, the Governor, be requested 
to forward a copy of these Resolves to each of the Senators 
and Representatives from Massachusetts in Congress, and to 
the Governors of the several States, to be by them laid before 
their respective Legislatures. 



Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/commonwealthofmaOOmass 



