//^ 



i:e VIE w^ 



AND 



H. WICKLIFFE'S SPEECH 



ON THE 



"KEGUO i^aw." 



lY e. M, CJLAY. 

September 25, 1840. 



LEXINGTON: 
3fr« Li. FINNELIi, Printer— Intelligencer Office* 

1840. 



t€5 



75'tS''- "7^' ^^' ^*^ 



TO TME PEOPLE, 



You are not unapprised, ray countrymen, that since you pre- 
sumed to elect me to the Legislature over R. Wickliffe, Jr. that 
I have been the subject of unceasing ridicule and denunciation, 
both in private and in public. So long as the Wickliffes con- 
jfined themselves to sneers and unfeeling depreciation, I have stu- 
diously declined noticing their unprovoked attacks; believing 
that such exhibitions of mortified vanity would, in the eyes of all 
honorable men, sink them — not me. But your late Senator, not 
satisfied with denouncing me from the rostrum, and through his 
organ the Observer & Reporter, as if exasperated by my forbear- 
ance in not replying to his philippic against me, has undertaken to 
prostrate me in the favor of the people, by publishing what may 
be termed "a book to write R. Wicklifte, Jr. into a majority, and 
to destroy me politically forever." Has the Observer & Reporter 
forgotten that his ungentleman-like attack upon the Hon. R. 
Ha WES was resented by almost this whole people? Defamation 
of that elevated gentleman has caused one Wickliffe to be ostra- 
cised ! This last attempt to defame me, though "a politician of 
low degree," can hardly elevate another W. in the affections of 
the same people. This is not the first time that your late Sena- 
tor, losing the dignity which partisan warfare ever imposes upon 
chivalric gentlemen, has volunteered to pour out his poisonous ma- 
lev^olence upon the head of his destined victim, regardless of 
truth and decency. His calumnious letter upon Amos Ken- 
dall, drew from that gentleman a retort of such bitter irony, 
scathing sarcasm, and damning truths^ that all parties, moved to 
pity, cried spare him, Junius ! — though Gods and men acknowl- 
edged the justice of the punishment. 

The dead have not escaped the prolonged wrath of this des- 
troyer of men; all his insidious compliments heaped upon the vir- 
tuous and patriotic Green, cannot make amends to his manes for 
this attempt to damn him in the minds of posterity, by branding 
him with the modern epithet of ''^Abolitionist.'^ Breckinridge too, 
has been summoned from his exile, and borne in chains to grace 
your Senator's shameless triumph. Infatuated man, how dare 
you conjure up the ghosts of your departed victims? How tell 
us that this, and this, and this noble and gallant son of our beloved 
State, has been struck down in the pride of youth, and usefulness, 
and glorious hope, by thy red right hand? Though all should in 



sorrow admit the justice of the sentence, unhallowed shall be the 
name of the executioner in the hearts of Kentuckians forever! — 
Fellow-citizens, I am young — a stranger, as yet lightly grounded 
in your confidence, long since deprived of the advice and protec- 
tion of a father, I stand unaided and alone: the odds are against 
me. Were I that creeping thing which your Senator would 
make me, I might indeed tremble at the stern array of power 
with which this old and numerous, and wealthy family now 
threaten me. But when I reflect, I have ever trusted to the jus- 
tice of my cause and the good of my country as the true founda- 
tions of a glorious life; when I remember that the waves of po- 
pular indignation have rolled over me, and that I stood firm till 
their delusion passed and I was again restored to the favor of the 
people j — when, above all, I look upon the men whom I represent 
—the soil upon which I tread, this old Fayette, this "breeder of 
noble bloods" — shall I falter? "shall I be frightened when a mad- 
man stares?" Not "By all the Gods, though it do split him, he 
shall digest the venom of his spleen!" R. WicklifFe begins by 
saying that he stands before you "for trial." Who an-aigned 
him? himself! Who prosecuted? himself ! Who advocated his 
cause? himself! Who was the judge? who the jury? himself! — 
and at last who was condemned? "The gentleman from Madi- 
son!!" Will not the public be astonished at such a conclusion? 
Will your Senator stand acquitted in your judgment, when under 
the pretence of defending himself from — no one knows w^hat — 
charged by "a clique" — no one knows whom — he accuses me by 
insinuation of perjury; calls me the "orator of inquisitors," the 
enemy of Lexington; a secret personal foe; an agitator without 
spirit; a liar systematically; an Abolitionist at heart; — in a word, 
me enemy of my countrj^, regardless of the property and lives of 
the people! If I do not unharmed, hurl back these poisoned 
weapons, and fix their deadly points deep in the bosom of him 
who so im potently east them, then let me stand condemned in the 
estimation of all true men forever! "And on such declaration or 
oath was permitted to vote at the election of 1839, for members 
of the Legislature in that county." (Speech, page 5.) I have • 
already explained to the people of Fayette the circumstances un- 
der which I voted. Suffice it to say, that having property and 
furnished rooms in both counties, and having paid my general tax 
in Madison and my city and poll tax in the county of Fayette, I 
believed at the time that I was entitled to vote in either county I 
might select. I made no '-'•oath or affinnation" about it, the 
judges knowing me personally and all the circumstances of my 
residence^ received my vote without a question being asked or an 
objection made. Afterwards, when desired to represent this coun- 
ty, I examined the whole ground, and came to the same conclu- 
sion to which you did, men of Fayette, that I was eligible here. 
If tKer^* -w^n fault any where, it was not the guilt of design, but 



the error of voting without that mature reflection which men as- 
piring to office should never fail to entertain. Mr. WicldifFe can 
only reach successfully the purity of my motives through the 
wounded sensibilities of the generous people of Fayette. I have 
in public proved by Messrs. Curd and Curle that R. Wickliffe, in 
the very beginning of the late canvass, made secret war on vie: 
and yet he calls me an "inquisitor." Is it an unheard of thing 
for candidates to answer questions made to them through the pa- 
pers by their constituents? Yet because I thought proper to 
avow my sentiments upon a measure of State interest, I am bran- 
ded as an "agitator and abohtionist."' Should I have deprecated 
this great Senator^s wrath as his son did that of the people^ by si- 
lence and concealment? I am even upbraided for running at all! 
Am I a slave or the son of a slave? Did not my fathers bleed 
that I might seek honor at the hands of the people, and not bow 
the supple hinges of the knee at the foot of the tyrant? Your 
Senator contends that I laid a train for the defeat of his son. His 
insinuation that I brought up the slave question, directly or indi- 
rectly, is proven by the letter of John Ljde, Esq. to be false and 
malicious. That I appointed the speaking at the court-house, 
(p. 30) Messrs. Cunningham and Lamb can shew was also untrue ; 
it was only at the urgent solicitation of those gentlemen that I 
consented to speak at all. That I attacked the Senator in the 
court-house, or alluded to him in any manner whatever, as inti- 
mated, (p. 7,) the whole audience there present will bear witness 
when I pronounce it to be utterly untrue. Ttiat I acted in an un- 
der handed manner, or said or did any thing concerning himself 
or son, in the canvass, that was not said or done on the stump, my 
whole life and character will disprove; and I defy the Senator to 
the proof. Mr. W. accuses me of being the enemy of Lexing- 
ton. Though a member from another county, I voted for every 
measure Fayette ever asked, save one. I was the friend of her li- 
terary institutions, her banks, her rail-roads, her turnpikes. As a 
private citizen of Madison, I subscribed to the Lexington 
and Richmond Turnpike Road. Mr. Wickliffe, of Fayette, to 
the Frankfort and Lexington Rail-Road. I paid my stock; he 
forfeited his, for the purpose of preventing payment; and thus 
bsetrayed his fellow stockholders. I gave the road everv rio-ht of 
way through my land; he spent the winter in the Senate, which 
he owed to the public, in carrying on a private war upon the same 
road, because the directors would not let him have "exclusive pri- 
vileges" by passing their gates toll free! Who then, is the enemy 
of Lexington — 7, or the Senator? Y'our Senator, by reflecting 
that alL-pervading selfishness for which he is so notorious, says, so 
long as it was to pass through Richmond, Winchester and Paris to 
Cincinnati, leaving out Lexington, I was for the road, but when 
Lexington became the terminus, I was against it. All Kentucky 
knows that Richmond and Winchester never were made points 



6 

in the road. The whole Legislature knows that I never did vote 
against the road when Lexington was made a point. I voted 
against all amendments making any points in the road, and final- 
ly when Lexington was made a pointy I voted still for the char- 
ter, as the journals will show! With his characteristic liberality 
he asserts that when I found it would not pass my ferry^ I voted 
against the Rail-Road Bank; at that time, if even now, the route 
of the road was not located. The man who has so short a memo- 
ry should always stick to the truth. Then he did me the honor to 
say that I was opposed to the bank, because Dr. Warfield, my fa- 
ther-in-law, held shares in the Kentucky Banks ! But I weary you 
with a refutation ol these myriad slanders -AXidi malicious false- 
Jioods! I will assign nov/ my own reasons for my own vote. I 
voted for the road in the first place, bec*iuse the South asked the 
charter ma-elij^ professing to be about to make the road herself. 
Two years afterwards, when I was again in the Legislature, they 
asked us to give them during the general suspension, a new bank 
with immense capital, conti'olled by Southern men entirely; by 
those who saw monstrous oppression and unconstituti ■nality in a 
National Bank, but yet M'ished us Kentuckians, the friends of a 
general bank, to give to them, a part of the empire, the powers 
which they denied to the whole of the people! They wanted all 
this, and yet tell us in their official report, that "each State was 
expected to make its own road hi its oivn border.'''' I would not 
pledge my State to such a preposterous scheme. Mr. W. does 
me the honor of having defeated it. I saw not only embarrass- 
ment and insolvency by an irre?nediable debt; pro^-tration of all 
our home improvements ; the destruction of the sinking fund in 
our own banks. But I saw then, what the gentleman now con- 
fesses, a project for a firmer union of the Southern States, anti- 
national in all its phases, leading in the nature of things, to the 
destruction of the Federal Govrr7iment, the palladium of all our 
rights and glory. "Liberty and union now and forever, one and 
inseparable," was my motto then as it ever will be. 

I now ask the people to read the book which the Senator pub- 
lished during the year 1838, upon the rail-road, and which he cir- 
culated through my old Congressional district for the purpose of 
breaking me dow^n there, and also to read this book which he now 
puts forth against me here, and stand by me when I pronounce 
him in the face of the whole Union, an advocate of perpetual sla- 
very, a nullifler of the most dangerous die, a southern convention- 
ist, a reckless disunionist! "But on the contrary conventions 
should be held by delegates from all the slave States and rules 
adopted for their general safety. Nothing W'ould contribute so 
much to defeat the machinations of England against them, as to 
break down all restrictions made by particular States, and there- 
by to extend the slave population over the whole face of the 
territory of each and every State where slavery exists." (Speech,. 



p. 19.) Tfie constitution of the United States, art. .1, se'cv !(!,, 
clause 2d, has "no State shall, without the consent of Congress, 
enter into any agreement or compact with another State," Yet 
hear your leader of a new party ! What are "rules" but '''•agree- 
ments and compacts''' forbidden by the charter of our liberties. 
Is this not high treason ? What can it mean but that the unioii,-^ 
the constitution^ have no '•'•safety'''' in them; that we must look to' 
new alliances and compacts and adopt new rides for protection?' 
When these "rules" for their general safety shall have been con- 
summated, nothing will remain to be done on the part of the Hot- 
spurs of the South, but to "take up their hats and walk ©ut of 
Congress, and the Union is dissolved." I tell the Senator — I tell 
the people of "old Fayette" — I tell Americans—^! tell the whole 
world, that against such a scheme Kentuck}^ stakes her life, her 
fortune, and her sacred honor! She stands by the Union, the 
whole Union, and nothing but the Union; her flag is nailed to the 
mast; under its broad stripes and stars of fire she will live and 
die! There are two classes of fanatics in these States — one, the 
anti-slavery fanatics, the "abolitionists," the slave fanatics, the 
"disunionists." In one class are those reckless spirits who, to free 
the slave, would violate the National Constitution and plunge the 
country into a civil war. The other class are those enemies of hu- 
man liberty and the progress of civilization, who would destroy 
the same ever glorious palladium of freedom and equal rights 
among men, to perpetuate eternal slavery! They are both the 
outlaws of nations and the enemies of mankind ! The North has 
her abolitionists — her Garrisons, her Tappans; the South her 
'•'•disunionists'''' — her McDuffies and her Wickliffes! From such 
malign influences may Heaven in mercy preserve my native 
land! 

R. Wicklifle and his son-in-law, A. K. Woolley, in 1833 voted 
for the "law prohibiting the importation of slaves into this State." 
Then all was well! In 1837 the fSenator becomes acquainted 
with Southeni gentlemen; he finds the South "complaining of 
Kentucky about that law;" he is won over, and we of less plastic 
stuff, who hold on to this child of his paternity — we are '•^aboli- 
tionists;'''' and he denies that he ever heard such a law! and the 
Judge "comes down from the sacred seat of justice, casts from 
him the ermine of the Judge," enters upon the Hustings and de- 
cXoxes ikve ?,2Xi\e\di\v unconstitutional! To the proof : "I left the 
Senate without, I think, ever reading or hearing this bill read, un- 
til the year 1835, for the first time," (p. 20.) Now, in the Senate 
Journal, 1832-'3, "from the county of Fayette, R. WicklifFe," 
(p. 1.) Surely this must be the same man! A committee of 
courts of justice was appointed, "consisting of Messrs. Wick- 
liffe," &,c. (p. 173.) Thus we find him chairman of that commit- 
tee, before whom this law ought, as a matter of course, to have 
feeen laid. "On motion of Wm. Owsley leave was granted tO' 



bring iil a bill to amend the law prohibiting the importation of 
slaves into this State;" in the same hour "a bill was reported from^ 
the committee by Mr. Wickliffe," (p. 206.) The bill was again 
"referred (p. 23) to a committee of the whole house for to-morrow.'''' 
And finally, the yeas and nays being required on the final pas- 
sage^ stood "yeas, Messrs. Beatty, Bibb, &c. WICKLIJTE" — 23. 
(p. 1, s. SIQQ.) Surely this must he the same man! Yet this same 
Wicklifle now says Green succeeded in passing the bill in the 
lower house "without the Senate's being apprised of its contents.'''' 
Now the truth is, the hill of the lower house never was passed, but 
the bill of the Senate w§s reported to the House and passed. In 
the journals of the lower house, 1832-'3, you find "a bill more 
effectually to prevent the importation of slaves into this State," 
was introduced by "Mr. Thruston,''^ (page 21, H. R.) and after- 
wards laid on the table. The bill from the Senate, brought in by 
Wm. Owsley and voted for by R. Wickliffe, was reported to the' 
House and passed-^"yeas Messrs. Speaker, &;c., Woolley — ^S." 
(p. H. R. 31,) and not voted for by R. Breckinridge at all! 

Yet listen to this man "who has too long loved you:" *'I have 
not only shown you that its object and effect is emancipation, but 
that the publications of both Mr. Green and Mr. Breckinridge, the 
authors of the act, nail the present agitators" ( Wickliffe and Wool- 
ley i^) "to the counter," (p. 35.) Is it not most charitable to forget 
the victim of Amos KendalPs letter and call this deluded man a 
Fanatic? So far as Mr. Wickliffe and myself are personally 
concerned, I might rest this controversy here. Had he have per- 
mitted the warmth elicited by an animated canvass to have passed 
away by time, and had not attempted to ruin me in print, I should 
not have been forced in self-defence to perpetuate those evidences- 
of his reckless malice. But a great measure of State depends; I 
proceed to the main question. 

In 1790 there were 660,000 slaves and 1,250,00(> whites in the 
slave States, being 190 whites to 100 blacks. In 1830,? the last 
census, there were 3,760,000 whites to 2,000,000 blacks, as 1 86 to 
100. Now in Kentucky, in 1790, there were 61,247 whites to 
12.430 slaves: in 1830 523,494 whites to 165,359 blacks^ Thu* 
while in the whole slave States ^there was in 40 jears only a 
small increase of the blacks upon the whites, rising from 100 to 
186 instead of 190, in Kentucky in the same 40 years, there was 
the appalling decrease of from 5 whites to 1 black, to 3 1-6 whites; 
to 1 black, only ; and in less than 40 years more the blacks would 
have out-numbered the whites!! In view of these facts the law 
was passed, morq effectually to "prevent the importation' of slaves 
into this State." The effect was as anticipated, and it has roUetf 
back the tide of black population which, like a lava flood, threat- 
ened sudden ruin to our beloved Kentucky. Your Senator ad- 
mits that 60,000 blacks* have been sent out of the State: and 

*60,000 slaves carried out of the State, as Mr. W. admits, at a fair aver^« «f 
■^ S0§ a piece, make a return in coin to our State of $48,000,600 in the last seven 



from the best evidence 1 have, the whites are, instead of 3 i-6 t* 
1, as in 1833, now 4i to 1 black, shewing a very great decrease 
in the slave population in seven years, under this wholesome law. 
To nothing more than this law do I attribute the solvency of our 
State, when compared with Mississippi and Louisiana, to whom 
we sold our slaves for the precious metals . And from the whole 
South our returns were made in money instead of vicious slaves. 
Read for yourselves the Constitution and, this so much misrepre- 
sented law: 



1H33. — III force from its 'passage. 
AN ACT to amend the law prohibiting 
the importation of slaves into this 
State. Approved Feb. 2d, 1833.— 
Session acts, p. 258. 
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the General 
Assembly of the Commonwealth of 
Kentucky, 1 hat each and every person, 
or persons who shall hereafter import 
into this State any slave or slavesi 
or who shall sell or buy or contract 
for the sale or purchase for ^ longer 
term than one year, of the service 
of any such slave or slaves, know- 
ing the same to have been imported as 
aforesaid, he, she or ihey so offending, 
shall forfeit and pay six hundred dollars 
for each slave so imported, sold or 
bought, or whose service has been so 
contracted for, recoverable by indict- 
ment of a Grand .Tury, or an action of 
debt in the name of the Commonwealth 
of Kentucky, in any Circuit Court of 
the county where the offender or offen- 
ders may be found: Provided, however. 
ti?at nothing herein contained shall hh 
construed to anlhoiise a recovery of the 
aforesaid penally from any emigrant or 
emigrants to this Statefor or on account 
of his, her or their having brought with 
them any person or persons deemed 
slaves by the laws of any one of the 
United States, if such emigrant or emi- 
grants shall, within sixty days after his, 
her or their arrival into this State, have 
taken before some Justice of the Peace 
the following oath or afHrjnation, to-wit: 

I, , do solemnly swear (or affirm) 

that my removal to the State of Ken- 
tucky was with intention of becoming a 
I citir.en thereof, and that I have brought 
I with me no slave or slaves with inteh-* 
I tion of selling them — so help me God;" 
; and shall also within thirty days after 
; taking such oath, have had the same re- 
j corded in the office of the Clerk of the 
; county court of the county in which tho 
' oath or affirmation was taken. NorshaU 

years. Will any one assert that this amount of money h.)s had no inflacncc upon 
the present «o]vcncyjof our State? 



CONSTITUTION OF KENTUCKY. 

Art. 7. — Concerning Slaves. 
Skc. 1. The GeneralAssembly shall 
have no power to pass laws for the eman- 
cipation of slaves without the consent of 
their owners, or without paying their 
owhisrs previous to siich emancipation, 
a full equivalent in money for the slaves 
so emancipated. They shall have no 
power to prevent emigrants to this State 
from bringing with thehi suish persons as 
are deemed slaves by the laws of anyone 
of the U. States, so loiig as any person of 
the same ape or description shall be con- 
tinued in slavery by the laws of this 
State. They shall pass laws to permit 
the owners of slaves to einancipato 
them, saving the rights of creditors and 
preventing them from becoming a charge 
to an^ county in this commonwealth. — 
They shall have full power to prevent 
jlives being br ught into this Stute as 
merchandise. They shall have full pow- 
f!r to prevent any slaves being brought 
into this State from a foreign country, 
and to prcent those from being brought 
iiito this State who have been since the 
first day of January, 1789, or may here- 
after be imported into any of the Uni- 
ted States from a foreign country. And 
they shall have full power to pass such 
laws as may be necessary to oblige tlie 
owners of slaves to treat them with hu- 
manity; to provide for their necessary 
clothing and provision; to abstain from 
all injuries to them, extending to life or 
limb, and in case of their neglect or re- 
fusal to comply vvith the directions of 
siich laws, to have such slave or slaves 
sold for the benefit of their owner or 
owners; 



any thing herein contained authorise e 
recovery of the penalty aforesaid against 
any person or persons for or on account of 
his, her or their having imported into this 
State any slave or slaves, provided he, she 
or they prove on the trial to the satisfac- 
tion of the jury that he, she 0! they were 
traveJlers or sojourEers, making only a 
transient stay in this State, and brought 
such slave or slaves for the purpose of 
again carrying them out of the State. 

Sec. 2. . Be it enacted, That this act 
shall not be construed to extend to any 
person or persons who are residents of 
this State, and who derive title to such 
slave or slaves by will, descent, distri- 
bution or marriage, or gift in considera- 
tion of marriage. 

Skc. 3. Relates to mode of enforcing. 

Stc. 4. The duty of the attorney. 

Sec. 6. Be it further enacted, That 
it shall not be construed an importation 
within the meaning of this act, for the 
ownerorownersafterhe, sheor they may 
have hired their slave or slaves to any, 
person or persons out of this State, to 
bring such slave or slaves to this State, 
if such owner or owners be citizens of 
this StatCj and have in their possession 
in this State such slave or slaves at the 
time of the hire. 

Sec. 6. Relates to the mode of pro-- 
ceeding. Sec. 7 & 8 to the same, and 
repealing clause. 

Now, I too, am willing to leave it to any sensible farmer, law- 
yer or mechanic, if this law is not as conformable to the Consti- 
tution as human language can make it. I omit the argument that 
the negation of power in the first clause by special exception^ 
yields it in all other cases. The Constitution says emigrants shall 
not be prohibited from bringing slaves into this State, so long as 
the same shall be held in thi« State. Now, if slaves were libera- 
ted here, evidently the Legislature would have power to preveiit , 
them ftom being brought from abroad to this State in all cases 
without exception. Of course then, the only limits upon the pro- 
hibition abroad, is the extent of the prohibition upon our own cit- 
izens; so as in the language of the United States Constitution, 
"the citizens of each State may be entitled to all the privileges of 
the several States," But "emigrants" by our *S^afe Constitution, 
shall not be prohibited from bringing slaves with them ; neither does 
the law prohibit th'em. Mr. Wickliffe would make you believe . 
that the oath is a violation of the Constitution and a prohibition, 
~^Most moiistrous doctrine! The oath or affirmation merelv ascer- 
tains the tnotive or intent of the emigrant, and does not extend to 
the act at all. It is a police arrangement merely to distinguish 
between the importer of slaves as merchandise and the bona fidq 



■emigrant. Government cannot, like Omnipotence, act witliout 
means; there must be modes of procedure to carry out all laws. 
For instance, morally speaking, the credito|; has a right to his 
debt at the moment it is due, and by the Constitution "the obliga- 
tions of contracts shall not be impaired;" yet replevin' laws defer 
the collections for months; and feven without them, it requires 
time for the execution, sale, and paying over the money. So 
this oatii or affirmation is incidental and necessary in carrying out 
the spirit and letter of the Constitution and laws. So much for 
emigrards or persons who emigrate to our State as citizens. Next, 
v^^hat constitutes making merchandise of slaves — whenever mo- 
ney or, an equivalent is paid for a slave — when there is bargain 
and sale^ then is the domestic slave-trade carried on, and the slave 
is- made ?7ierchnndise; which by the law is forbidden, and by the 
Constitution allowed to be forbidden. I defy any man to set down 
and write a plainer grant of power! But allow, for argument's 
sake, that buying a slave in South Carolina and bringing him home 
for "one's own use," is not ''hnerchandise^'' in the meaning of 
the Constitution, and the Legislature yet in its wisdom thinks 
proper to forbid it — is there any thing in the Constitution to deny 
the power? I say there is not. -We have all power upon the sub- 
ject — to which the Constitution looks when it says, "50 loiig as 
any person of the same age or description shall be continued in 
slavery by the laws of this State," and no longer. By all the 
principles of logic and common sense, whatever can be predica- 
ted of the whole^ can also be said of the part; the greater com- 
prehends the less. If by denying her citizens- the entire power 
over slaves, Kentucky can prevent the importation of slaves in 
all cases altogether, a fortiori (much more,) can they prevent emi- 
grants from importing slaves to sell^ so long as she does not vio- 
late the Constitution of. the United States hy permitlifig her citi- 
zens to import to sell,, while denying the "same privileges" to the 
other States? The law then, under the State Constitution and the 
U. S. Constitution, is' plainly allowed. It is framed with great 
care — allows the admission of slaves in all cases except when 
purchase is made, and except where fraud may be committed 
with impunity. Hence a father by ivill may give his son a slave, 
yet not by gift- — hence a father-in-law in consideration of mar- 
riage, may give the son-in-law a slave ; because a man neither 
dies nor marries to commit fraud — neither could he do these 
things hut once. But were the father living in Virginia allowed 
to give to the son in Kentucky, he might give 100,000 slaves a 
year, and thus the domestic slave-trade be carried on with impu- 
nity. If the State Constitution graiits the power of the law, does 
the Constitution of the United States forbid it? I answer, that 
the Constitution of the United States has no control over the sub- 
ject of slavery. Slavery is peculiar; it difl^rs from all other pro- 
perty; it partakes of the attributes of citizenship; it is the foun- 



i4[itk»ti (i() mpr&sfsntalion : slaves have rights in-hpendent of the 
mobster; they are in many cases in law regarded as persons and 
not property. The States were jealous upon this subject, and 
denied all power to Congress over slaves except when special 
mention was made of them in the grant or denial. I defy Mr. 
W. to shew any power in Congress to license or forbid the slave 
trade between the States: if there is, they can force them upon 
Ohio and N. York as well as upon Kentucky. That each State 
for itself has the sole control over this subject, I shall ever con- 
tend:, the opposite doctrine places the whole slave population in 
the handa of Congress, and in the power of the Abolitionists! — 
Is that the doctrine for which Mr. "Vy . contends? The only clause 
in the Constitution which can be tortured into any bearing upon 
this law, is, "the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the 
privileges of the several States." (Art. 4, sec. 2.) In as much 
then, as we don't permit «ur own citizens to import slaves, the 
South cannot complain that we do not permit her to import slaves 
into our State. Mr. W.'s idea that we can't prevent emigrants 
from bringing slaves here for sale, is fully answered by the above 
reasoning. To suppose that an emigrant, under the Uniteff States 
Constitution could bring in slaves for sale when our citizens clear- 
ly cannot, would be giving to emigrants what we denied to our- 
selves, which is absurd! Away then, with all this special plead- 
ing about the unconsti'utionality oi the law: the grant of power is 
as palpable to the understanding as to the eye are the green leaves 
upon the trees or the bright sun in the Heavens. I cannot go 
over all Mr. W.'s ground in construing this law; his positions are 
top evidently untenable, and his arguments too flimsy to need any 
thi|ig but the mere statement of the facts. He says, emigrants 
comihg into our State are forced to take the oath, whether they 
intend to become citizens or not. Not so. Persons coming here 
from other States with slaves, not intending to become citizens, 
can stay as long as they please, and go when they please, and take 
their slaves, without violating the law or incurring its penalties, 
They are '■''sojourners''\'m the language of the law, and not "emi- 
grantsJ''' Consequently, all aliens, denizens, sojourners, travellers, 
steam-boat captains, students of law, Southerners residing here for 
healthj amusement, or instruction of their children, are not apd 
cannot be affected in any manner by this law; they may bring 
their slaves and keep and carry them out with impunity, Mr. W.'s 
say so to the contrary, notwithstanding! 

So madly bent is Mr. W. upon misconstruing this law, for the 
purpose of deceiving the people, that he asserts that a person ta- 
king his slave to Ohio or N. York, and returi^ing ^^'■ith him again 
to his home in Kentucky, would be "importing" in the meanipg of 
the law . So absurd is this doctrine, that even the conscientious 
J]Qdge Woolley admitted in his instructions to the Grand Jury on 
lionday last.' that it was not "importing." "Because import 



11$ 

jpneans to translate from a foreign country or from oneHtate to aa- 
other, (see lexicographers,) and as the slave is regarded in law as 
appertaining to the domicil of the master, no matter in what coun- 
try he may be, he is still in the eye of the law in Kentucky." I 
give the substance of the argument. If that be the true construc- 
tion, of which I have no doubt, then a K entuckian planting in 
Mississippi with slaves under his personal inspection or that of 
his overseer, can bring them back to Kentucky when he plea'ses; 
they are still "in the eye of the law regarded as belonging to the 
domicil in Kentucky," no matter whether they have been absent 
days or years. And I have already shown that a Mississippian re- 
siding in Lexington comes not under the penalties of the law. 
All this humbug about Daniel Vertner, Esq.* and others, ^^sojourn- 
ers^'' is all evidently intended, to use a western phrase, to "-honey 
fuggW'' them into the personal support of R. Wickliffe. 

" 'Tis pleasant, sure, to see one's name in print — 
A book's a book, although there's nothing in it." 

I shall not be the last to pay respect to talents, worth, intellectual, 
moral, and social cultivation, but should the loealthy of the lajjd know- 
ingly violate the laws of the country, in iliy estimation the poorest in 
the community should be shown more lenity than they. This argu- 
ment of violation of law being a reason for repeal, is new to me — sub- 
versive of all government and impartial justice. I tread it under foot 
with indignation and contempt, as not belonging to a country where 
^'all men are born free and equal."! As an evidence that I have rightly 
construed this law, the Grand Jury, though specially instructed by the 
Judge, I learn have made no presentments under the law, unless in 
case of failure of emigrants to take the oath. Thus all R. W.'s im- 
mense fabric of unconstitutionaUty and expediency and injustice falls to 
the ground, leaving no vestige behind! The whole question rests up- 
on broader principles, such as a heavy technical lawyer like R. Wick- 
liffe cannot grasp. The question is, shall the whites or blacks pre- 
dominate in our State? If you want the whites in the majority, let the 
law stand unrepealed in any particular. If you want a majority of 
blacks, repeal all laws preventing the importation of slaves from the 
States and from Africa also. Upon this subject, I for one, have, after 
mature reflection, made up my mind now and forever! You may come 

• *NoTE. — Since the above has been in press, I learn that Mr. Vertner claims to 
be a citizen, and having imported slaves without taking the oath, is of course lia- 
ble to the penalties of the law. 

tThe laboring class of the country may judge whether Mr. Wickliffe is truly 
their friend, not only by his partial mention of wealthy n-ames; by his denounciBg 
the honest and industrious Irish and Dutch and Yankee emigrants as Goths and 
Vandals, but by his most ungallant application of the epithet of ''wench" to all 
that class of women who have not "murky" maids to mould them into deformity. 
I may be a man of uncultivated taste, but to me, the rosy cheek, the bright eye, 
the glossy locks, the buoyant and well developed form of health and modest indus. 
try, arc far more lovely than the pickle-eating complexions and attenuated per- 
sons of milliner made graces, "Grecian bends" and French tournures of the apish 
aristocracy of "hard working America." 



to VL (litTerenL conclusion— 7let 1.1.5 bo charitable to each other; la oui' 
■God and our country wo both stand Rolemnly'accountablc. 

P.. Wickliffo calls me to account and would hold ma up to public odi- 
um and indignation, because I ''dared'''' to discuss the merits of slavery. 
When the que.stion is, shall \vo increase o;- decrease the nuinhe.r of 
slaves — what else, under the high heavens, remains to be discussed but 
the merit-" of slavery? Yet I am not a slave — I dare do all a man may 
dare. Thanks to liberty, I may yet' speak, though all the world be 
deuf. I shall speak — advisedly, calmly, honestly, boldly-— one free- 
man to another; — speak as one vv'ho plants his foot upon the right, feel- 
ing that he who falls for his country, most gloriously falls! i declare 
then, in the face of all men, that I believe s/avcr^ to be an evil — an evil 
morally, economically, physically, intellectually, socially, religiously, 
politically— evil in its inception, iu its duration, and in its catastrophe — 
an up^nixed evil, without palliation or defence, save in necessity. Still I 
am no emancipationist, far less an ^^abolitionist ;^^' butlike nine-tenths 
of the slave-halders in all the world, rest now where I was m the be- 
ginning. In part, like them., I know not v/hat to do; partly, because if 
1 knew, I have not the power to act — but mostly, because there is some 
thing in the hearts of all men which teach them "tis better to "bear 
those ills we have, than fly to others that we know not of." Yet still 
it is afi evil! That which distinguishes this age above all preceding 
lime, is the invention of steam power and its application to machinery; 
since then man has become god-like in his evidencing almost creative 
power. The world is teeming with improved machinery, the com- 
binqd development of science and art. To us, it is all lost; we are 
comparatively living in centuries that are gone! We cannot make it, 
we cannot use it when made. Ohio is many years younger; possessed 
of fewer advantages than our State, the next census will give her per- 
haps 30 members, whilst Kentucky will probably be struck down to 12 
members af the National Legislature. Cincinnati has manufactures 
to sustain her; last year she put up 1,000 houses. Louisville, with 
superior natural advantages, as all the world knows, wrote "to rent" 
■upon many of her houses already made. Ohio 'is a free, Kentucky a 
• slave State. Upon the sand-hills of Nev/ England, where 'oncc -grew 
junipers and black jacks, arc now villages, manufactories, meadows, 
wheat fields, all the comforts, and many of the luxuries of life. In the 
South where cotton and tobacco once rewarded the husbandman, can 
now be seen sterile pine-g'-oves, clay banks and naked rocks; the crab 
tree and muUen now struggle into life, where once luxuriantly grew 
the walnut and the vine. JNew England is cultivated by whites — Viv- 
ginia by blacks. The glory of the Old Dominion has departed, andN. 
fork has become the 'Empire State. 

Our autumn forests are illumined v/ith the camp fires of the emi- 
grant, as he leaves the home of his youth and the graves of his ances- 
tors forever, to seek in the far West, a more congenial soil in the un- 
tamed wilderness. A single puny wagon, a thin visaged wife, ragged 
children;, his dogs and his gun are his only household — these, these, 
Mr. WicklifFe, are "the rivals of slave labor.''''- Tell me not of Eng- 
land — with a territory not much larger than Kentucky — a mere speck 
above wide ocean's waves: — there she stands, amid the wreck of cen- 



luricS, the quecu of the workl, and the miritress of "the seas;' the pallar- 
dium of liberty; the moral and intellectual light-house., upon which are 
fixed the eyes of ambition's storm-worn wanderers, of every people, 
from the rising to the gomg down of the sun; the lawgiver of na- 
tions: the impersonation of ciyiliza-.ion and of the infinitude of the 
human mind. Were I not an Amzrican, would I were an Englishman! 
What then, are the secret foundations of her glory? Her liberty and 
her jnachineri/. The renown of her statesmen' and orators," is only 
equalled by the genius, the taste, and the skill of her mechanics ixad 
workmen. 'She liolds the accumulated po:?ulation of centuries; we feed 
upon a virgin soil, j^et old age and the' traces of dissipation are visibly 
traced upo'iithe leatures of our youthful mother; while England, Old 
England, wears her virgin broom unimpaired, ever brightened in youth 
and loveliness by time itself! The comparison is painful; I pursue' 
it no more! Every slave imported, drives out a free and independent 
Kentuckian. On almost every farm you will lind many a house' as 
good. as thai in v.'hich the proprietor lives, untenanted, and falling to 
ruins and untimely decay. The day is come, or coming, when evei-y 
white must work for the wages of the s^ave.. — his victuals and clothes-^—-' 
emigrate, or die! _My sympathies are for the white man — bone of my 
bone 'and fiesh of my flesh — his industry, independence and coaifort 
are the strength, the wealth and glory of the State. 

This act is no new thing in the legislation of the country. When Vir-- 
ginia was a colony of the British crown, she sternly remonstrated against 
the importation of slaves into her borders. In 1798 she passed a law, in 
foroe now in this State, forbidding the bringing in any slave from a for- 
eign country, or, who had been imported into the United States since 
the 1-st of January, 1793. The Constitution of the United States gives 
Congress the power to prohibit the importation of slaves into any of 
the States after the year 1808. In 1815 Kentucky passed a law simi- 
lar to that of 1 833. The thirteen original States were all slave States ; 
•the most of them have gradually thrown oft' the disease. Most or all 
the States have at times passed laws similar to this. There is nothing 
in Kentucky to make slavery eternal; nothing in the climate, nothing; 
in the soil, nothing in the products, nothing in the circumstances, by 
which we are surrounded. I have not made up my mind that slavery' 
shall exist here forever; revolutions in time must and will come. Let 
us not be of those who, having eyes, see not, and ears, hear not. God 
grant that we may avoid the dreadful remedy which some of the States- 
have made up their minds to bear — slavery, till extermination sha4l 
give to the whites or to the blacks entire supremacy. 

Kentucky is in the midst of the States; her destiny is more inti-- 
mately bound up in our Federal Government than that of any other 
in the Union,, If the Union is dissolved, we must become a border 
State, a province in importance, whether we attach ourselves to the- 
North or to the South; but while the Union lasts, we stand as media- 
tors between the North and the South. Not entirely a free State, yet 
having so few slaves as not to identify ourselves with the South as mat-' 
ter of necessity, a million of gallant Kentuckians will have no mean' 
influence in the councils of the nation. But if we pursue the plan 
proposed by R. W., repeal this law, and receive all the surplus vicious- 



1© 

slKte population which may lie thrown upon us till the whiter are;' 
thrown into a minority — our strength and influence are gone, our locks 
are shorn, the star of our glory will have set forever. Pause my 
tpuntrymen now, before it is too late! Have you made up your minds 
to leave your posterity under the certain determination that the tim-e 
must come when their lives shall depend upon the extermination of 
their natural enemy, or go down in blood and dishonor- forever. Do 
not, I beseech you, repeal this law,- set not your faces against the ci- 
vilization and the moral power of the whole world. Do-not attempt 
this retrograde march, with eyes blind lo the history of the past: but 
tvhen your heads shall sink down upon the green turf — your eyes close 
bn your offspring for the last time, sweet will be the assurance that all 
is Well — that the subterranean fires which threatened ^uption and 
universal deluge of fire and death, are subsiding — the coals are moul- 
dering away; the flames sink down into the depths of their caverns, 
to parish forever; the green sward is fast closing over the mouth of 
the crsLter, and ere long flowers and fruits, and ever living verdure, 
shall speak joy to the hearts of posterity; the volcano is no more — 
our country is redeemed. 

R. W. seems to think that the '''conspirators," as he is pleased to call 
the supporters of his laio, have already chosen their Senator to suc- 
ceed himi It seems indeed that h* at least will be in time for them; . 
h.\scoilsin is already in the field. Well, the office of Senator belongs 
to his family-^let them have it. The people would do well to compro- 
mise the matter with him, as I proposed: let them have half the offices 
bf the country, and the j^f^ople the other half R. Wickliffe, for a long 
term of years j holds the oftice of Senator; he goes out and his son-in- 
law, A. K. Woolley, goes in. Woolley goes out, is made Judge and 
Professor of Law — and R. Wickliffe goes back again; — one cousin 
Wickliffe is made Mayor of the City of Lexington; the other cousin 
Wickliffe is made City Printer, and brother Charles Wickliffe, Lieu- 
tenant Governor — and son R. Wickliffe, holding two executive offices, 
Bank. Director and Trustee of the University, is brought forward for 
the Legislature. One of the people ajso presumes to offer; the Wick- 
liffes raise the cry of clique; that they are proscribed and excluded 
from office. The people laugh and look a little incredulous: the Sena- 
tor makes war upon the "gentleman from JkZffr^i^on"— swears that if 
they don't elect his son, that he will resign his seat and inflict upon 
them the loss of his '■'■financial talents.'''' The Coonty, having seen 
sbmething of his financial ability* of late, shakes her head and "winks 
one eye, as much as to say it's so, or it ain't so," but says nothing.- 

•Mr. Wickliffe complains that I asserted that he Iiad squandered $100,000. I 
never did so assert. When he put up his financial abilities as a reasoa for my de- 
feat, 1 thought I had a perfect light to refer to his huirying the country into this 
abortive scheme; that the county does not pay the whole is no fault of Mr. W., 
for this road seems to be uppermost in his thoughts. His argument that the 
^10,000 was spent in the county, proves that he is perfectly destitute of all 
knowledge of the first principles of political economy. Money spent in mere lux- 
uries, is said by economists to be a Joss to the general wealth, although the eater 
of the banqiietmay have received all the pleasures of the table; but mon6y spent 
in surveying a road never to be made, is as if it were sunk in the sea. I^ot evea 
the faint vestige which temporary pleasures leave, mark its having ever been. 



ir 

The election comes on — R. Wickliffe, Jr. is beaten — the Senator re- 
proaches the people, curses me, saxdresigns sure enough! The Repor- 
ter roars, and with open mouth and rabid tooth, uses up — me, who 
waged the war? No indeed: but just lets Mr. Clay (Old Hal) know, 
and all the tvorld knoio, that R. Wickliffe won't go for Mr. Clay's Bank- 
rupt Law, nor his Bank Bill, at all! He never was for Clay! Hal 
wonders what the devil is the matter, not knowing how, when, or what ! 
The "Yeoman" thinks to catch a gudgeon, and casts out his hook ; the 
Intelligencer says it's a tartar, and "saft soaps" over the "krittur" to 
keep out the hook. The Reporter says it's tar and no '■'soapf the In- 
telligencer maintains it is "soap." The Reporter looks warlike, and 

talks of having killed "the dead Percy;" looks to Harrison for 

office? Oh no! But the consolation that by his (H.'s) election, they 
will be rewarded for all their defeats in his cause! Amici teneatis 
risum? I have no objection to all this; it's very pleasant during a 
long peace, to have a little personal blow-up now and then. But it 
seems I am a friend of General Scott's, and no friend of Harrison !~ 
Let the Reporter praise his cousin R. Wickliffe, and his cousin Charles 
Wickliffe, and his brother Charles Wickliffe, and his cousin R. Wick- 
liffe, Jr. and brother Bob Wickliffe, and all the cousins of the same — 
'tis his avocation — the man must have bread, I know— but I pray him 
to let me alone. Man, I am no seeker of office ; I hope I don't stand be- 
tween the77i and the light. Still I never did "'prefer Scott to Harrison." 
After losing my choice, H. Clay, I was for the strongest man, I cared 
not whom, whether Scott or Harrison. If I shall have contributed, in 
the least, to make Gen. Harrison President, the obligations under which 
he laid my family during the last war, will be in some degree released. 
If I shall have done the Whig cause any service in my "low degree 
(Rep.)" 1 look to the people for my reward;, Z7n<5 /ar- they have sus- 
tained me, and my heart is filled with gratitude! R. Wickliffe, taking 
up the same train of detraction, would make the public believe that I 
produced a breach in the Whig ranks "iia the sight of the enemy." — -. 
It seems the W^higs were accused of being "abolitionists;" the Van 
Buren men said so — Mr. Wickliffe comes out in his letter and proves it. 
So far as his testimony could operate in Kentucky or elsewhere against 
the Whigs, it has been given, freely and knowingly. He said to an 
Admmistration man (as he told me.) that if the Green River country 
knew of the agitation of the slave question here, that R. Letcher 
would lose 10,000 votes there. After this he publishes in the Reporter 
his fanatical letter, which was put into hand-bill form by the Adminis- 
tration men, I learn, and sent into the South of the State! In the same 
train of enmity to the cause, neither he nor his son-in-law, I believe, 
and many others of his friends, voted for R. Letcher or M. V. Thom- 
son ; although the eyes of all Whig America were on "Old Kentucky." 
R, Wickliffe declined speaking, "as rumor has.it," in behalf of his 
country, for fear it would injure his son's election. Some of his family 
"'as rumor has it," hold caucuses with the "enemy," and others address 
complimentary speeches to the Vice-President himself! Yet this man, 
who refused in the most important election, to vote; who publirshed his 
letter^knowing, or rather wishing, it would have a disastrous effect up- 
on the Governor's election, (because his brother Charles was not the 



- 18. i 

nominee;) who refused to speak in b^alf of the Whig cftuse; whose 
imraedJate and personal friends and blatives hold caucuses witli the 
"enemy," and address compliments to4heir leader; who threatens, "as 
rumor has it," to "join the opposition'if he should have no weight in 
Harrison's cabinet"— dare upbraid me is wanting in patriotism, whenl 
lold my friends in private and from the s^w^tp, to sustain the principles 
and men of our party, though I should faJK It is enough : the anathema 
is already passed against me, and I am to be written down and tram- 
pled under foot forever. (Speech, p. 30.) My countrymen, I call on you 
for safety and protection; try me and square me by the fiery lines of 
truth; but I pray you do not require me to bow down to any man or set 
of men; but stand, or fall, with all the just sympathies which become 
a man — ^all the proud and unbending firmness of soul wbieh become 
©ae who battles for bis country. 

C. M. CLAY- 

S^EPTEMBER 24tb, 1840. 



