RARE 
DEPT 










Digitized by tine Internet Arcliive 

in 2010 witli funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/antislaverymonth2527maca 



ANTI-SLAVERY 



MONTHLY REPORTER. 



VOLUME I. 



Commencing June 1825, and ending May 1827. 



LONUON: 

PRINTED FOR THE J.OJfPON SOCiFTY FOR i'HE- Mrri&''A'i;iON AND ABOLITION Oi" 
^ SLAVERT^IN :fII3'B:^ITlSirD01>n,<IIUNS; 

AND TO BE HAD AT THE ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 18, ALDEllMANBURY ; 

OF MESSRS. HATCHARD, 187, PICCADILLY; MESSRS. ARCH, CORNHILL ; AND OF ALL 

BOOKSELLERS; AND AT THE DEPOTS OF ALL THE ANTI-SLAVERY ASSOCIATIONS 

THROI/GHOUT THE KINGDOM. 



M.DCCCXXVII. 



i/^-PtX.PO 



<f 



ry 



(j^H 



JIH .y'i 



.-^? 






'^^J 



i f. 



London : KagsUr and Thoms, Printers, 14, Eitrthoiomew Close. 



CONTENTS. 



No. .... P^^* 

1. — 1825. June. Address to Anti-Slavery Associations . . 1 

Proceedings of Second General Meeting of the Society — 
Speeches of Lords Calthorpe and Milton, Messrs. Buxton, 
Wilberforce, Brougham, Denman, Whitmore, Sykes, Lush- 
ington and O'Connell, Sir John Sebright, and the Duke of 
Gloucester ....... 2—8 

II. — July. Address to Anti-Slavery Associations . . , 9 

Brief Sketch of Colonial Slavery .... ,10-16 

III. — August. Views of Demerara Planters on Marriage and Manu- 
mission ...... .17 

Views of Trinidad Planters on the Cartwhip . . . 19 

Sketch of Slavery in the Mauritius . . . .20 

Aberdeen Anti-Slavery Society .... 23 

IV. — September. Independence of Hayti, with a Sketch of its state . 25 

Case of Lecesne and Escoffery . . . , 28 

Ladies' Anti-Slavery Associations . . , . 32 

V. — October. Abstract of the Atrocities oificially reported by the 

Fiscal of Berbice ...... 33-48 

VI. — November. Picture of Slavery by the Colonists . . . 49--56 

Anti-Slavery Meeting and Petition at Norwich . . 57 

VII. — December. General Meeting of Society — Third Report — Reso- 
lutions and Petition ...... '61 --72 

VIII. — l826.January. Proceedings of the General Meeting — Speeches 
of Mr. Wilberforce, Sir J. Mackintosh, Messrs. Brougham, 
Buxton, Denman, Gurney, Dr. Lushington, and Mr. Cropper 73—80 

IX. — February. Jamaica Contumacy ..... 81 

Samples of Jamaica Jurisprudence .... 83 

Anti-Slavery Meetings — Bath, Speech of the Bishop of Bath — 
Buckingham, of Lord Nugent— Edinburgh, of Mr. H. 
Cockburn ....... 86—94 

Jamaica Advertisements ..... 95 

X. — March. Proceedings in the House of Commons on Slavery, 
(March 1.) — Speeches of Messrs. Buxton, Canning, 
W. Smith, P^el, Scarlett, Phillips, Horton, Sykes, Wilson, 
Grosset, and Hume, Sir E. East, and Mr. Brougham • 97-107 
Ditto on March 2d. — Speeches of Messrs. Denman, Horton, 
Buxton, Copley, Lushington, Wetherell, W. Smith, Wilson, 
Goulburn, Brougham, Canning, and Denman . . 113--127 

House of Lords on March 7th. — Speeches of Lords Bathurst, 
Calthorpe, EUenborough, Liverpool, Chancellor, Redesdale, 
Dudley, Lansdowne, Duke of Gloucester, and Bishops of 
Bath and Wells, and of Ferns . . . lOS-^-llS 

XI. — April. Progress of Colonial Reform, or a Brief View of the real 

Advance made since May 1823 . , . 129--170 



Falsifications of Quarterly Review 
Inconsistencies of Lord Dudley and Ward 

XII. — May. Speech of Lord Suifield in House of Lords 
Liverpool Meeting — Speech of Mr. Cropper, &c. 



171 
174 

179—185 

185 



CONTENTS. 

No. Page.' 

XIII. — June. Reports of the Bishops of Jamaica and Barbadoes on 

the State of their respective Dioceses, with Remarks . 189—196 

XIV. — July. Anti-Slavery Petitions and Motions, being a Vindica- 
tion of the Proceedings of the Enemies of Slavery from the 
Animadversions of Mr. Canning and others . 197—208 

News from Barbadoes, Trinidad, and St. Vincent's . 209—212 

XV. — August. Colonial Opinions on the proposed Reforms, exempli- 
fied from recent Documents . . . 213--222 
Election of Mr. Pallmer for Surrey— Rights of Negroes . 222 
Restrictions in favour of Slave Labour . . . 224 

XVI. — September. The Beibice Fiscal's official Vindication of his 

Report of Atrocities reviewed .... 240 

XVII. — October. On the Bounties and Protecting Duties, and the 

Restrictions on Trade for the support of Slavery . 241 --248 

XVIII. — November. The West India Controversy, being a full View 

of various points now at issue . . . 249--264 

XIX. — December. Statistics of Slave Colonies — 1. Marriage — 2. Sepa- 
ration of Families — 3. Pauperism — 4. IManumissions — 
5. Value of Slaves — 6. Liability of the Free to loss of 
Freedom ...... 265-286 

Surrey Anti-Slavery Petition ..... 287 

XX.— 1827. January. Slavei7 at the Cape of Good Hope . 289-296 

XXI. — February. Recent Transactions in the Slave Colonies on the 

subject of Reform, especially in Jamaica . . 297--308 

Haytian Proclamation and Code .... 309 

Ordinance of Berbice . , . . . . 311 

XXII.— i?/arc/t. The Monopoly of the Slave-holders . . . 313 

East India Trade . . . . . .318 

New Reasons for abolishing the Monopoly . . . 323 

Hayti — Code Rural ...... 324 

Attack on Methodists in Jamaica .... 326 

Manchester Petition on Sugar Duties .... 327 

XXIII.— ^P_?v7. Rural Code of Hayti . . . . 329-353 

Remarks upon it . . . . . 353—360 

West Indian Reporter — Petitions against Colonial Monopoly 360 

XXIV. — May. Discussions in the House of Commons, on the lath, 
on Restrictions of Indian Trade -^ Speeches of Messrs. 
Whitmore, Slaney, Leycester, Huskisson, Lord Milton, 
Phillips, Forbes, Sykes, Ross, Smith, Bernal, Brougham, 
• Wynne, Whitmore . . . . . 361-377 

Remarks on West Indian Monopoly . . . 378—384 

Case of Miss Threlfall and her Slaves, being an Appeal in 
Behalf of One Hundred and Twenty Black Men, Women, 
and Children, proposed to be transported for her Profit 384--392 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
last day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons wish- 
ing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the Secretary, 
at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the conveyance by 
which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be had of all 
booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half sheet of eight pages, or 2d. 
per sheet of sixteen pages. 



London, June 50, 1825. 
No. I. 



MONTHLY REPORTER. 



ADDRESS TO ANTI-SLAVERY ASSOCIATIONS. 

The Committee of the " London Society for the Mitigation and gradual Aboli- 
tion of Slavery throughout the British Dominions," have felt, in common with 
their friends in all parts of the kingdom, the want of a regular medium of com- 
munication concerning the progress of the work in wliich tliey are engaged. To 
this want, probably, are to be attributed the misconceptions which have occa- 
sionally been formed respecting the design and objects of the Society, but more 
frequently respecting the means which are deemed by the Committee most desi- 
rable to be employed. 

With a view tosupply this deficiency, the Committee propose to publish Monthly 
a sheet of the size of the present, which shall contain extracts from their corre- 
spondence, and such other intelligence relating to the pui'poses of their institution, 
as their acquaintance with the subject may enable them to furnish. The publi- 
catio.n to be named the " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter," will be ready for 
delivery on the last day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request 
of any Anti-Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, provided 
the oi-der for them be received within the month immediately following the date 
of each Number. It is requ-ested that all persons wishing to receive a regular 
supply, will make application to the Secretary, at the Society's office, No. 18, 
Aldermanbury, and mention the conveyance by which they may be most conve- 
niently sent. They might in many cases be sent at very little expense, enclosed 
in booksellers' parcels, or along with the Monthly Publications of the various re- 
ligious or charitable Societies ; permission to that effect being obtained from the 
country booksellers or others to whom the parcels are addressed. 

It is further earnestly i-ecommended by the Committee to all the friends of 
Negro improvement, to promote the circulation of the intelligence contained in 
the " Anti-Slavery Reporter," by lending their own copies, or encouraging others 
to purchase at the Dep6ts of the several Societies. 

■rhe Committee anticipate much benefit fiom the proposed publication, provided 
it be encouraged, as they trust it will be, by their friends throughout the country. 
In particular they calculate upon a large accession of strength to their cause from 
numerous and influential classes of the community, — not yet sufficiently informed 
respecting the objects and proceedings of the Society, but who need only to be 
fully assured that any undertaking which challenges their support, is on the 
side of justice and humanity, and unexceptionably prosecuted, in order cordially 
and effectually to espouse it. Such an undertaking the Committee believe theirs 
to be ; and they confidently submit it, together with all their measures, to be 
canvassed by their countrymen of the United Kingdom. The present measure 
is adopted at the request of several of their correspondents, and with their own 
full concurrence in its expediency. They commend it to the blessing of God, 
and to the favourable acceptance of all who wish to deliver their country from 
the guilt of supporting that system of oppression and wrong, which is the dis- 
grace and curse of so many of the colonial dependencies of Great Britain. 



PROCEEDINGS ^*!- "^ "' 



THE SECOND GENERAL MEETING 

OF THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, 

ON SATUIIDAV, APRIT. 30, 18C5. 

HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUKE OF GLOUCESTER IN THE CHAIR. 



THE Report having been read, 

Lord Calthorpe moved its adoption. He was aware tliat many imputations 
had been thrown out against them of indulging in exaggerated statements, and 
putting forth rather the suggestions of a heated imagination than the naked de- 
tails of authenticated fact. For this reason, he felt great pleasure in recommend- 
ing for their adoption the Report just laid before them, for it was not open to 
this cavil ; it was made up of the statements, the admissions, the confessions of 
the very individuals themselves, who were engaged in administering the dreadful 
system of Negro Slavery — a system so little like what they were accustomed to 
in this part of the world— so opposed to all their previous conceptions, that un- 
reflecting people at once rejected the too faithful accounts of it, as altogether 
unworthy of credit. The Report had detailed much that was highly interesting; 
and not the least important portion of it was that which referred to the views 
entertained in the colonies respecting the measures of Government on the subject 
of Slavery. In a fierce and uncompromising spirit the planters had censured 
and denounced those measures, though they had certainly proceeded in the 
mildest spirit of innovation. He conceived that the confessions of the West In- 
dians contained in the Report were of much more value tlian any thing that could 
be urged by the warmest advocates of emancipation ; and if any part of their lan- 
guage was more particularly deserving of attention than another, it was that in 
which they spoke of the use of the whip, as an instrument proper and necessary 
to be used in procuring human labour. The whip was spoken of by them as a 
thing quite essential to the existence of the colonies, just in the same way as we 
speak of a free press, or the trial by jury, as institutions essential to the existence 
of a free Government. But, however frightful the application of such an instru- 
ment of torture might be in reference to the Slaves themselves, it was not in that 
light perhaps that it was to be viewed as most hateful and debasing. It was 
not merely the agony and degradation which the Negro himself suffered ; but 
it was the corrupting and brutalizing effect produced on ilie master also. One 
motive for doing away with this hateful system, was to be found in the immense 
sum paid by this country for its support and protection. If the same amount 
were applied to the alleviation and extinction of the evil, and to the encourage- 
ment of industry by other and better means, it would be productive of a double 
benefit. It was a most just observation, and one in which he entirely concurred, 
that the people of England were the real supporters of the Slave system, — and 
this not merely because they paid for its support, but because it was in their 
power to put an end to it. No one acquainted with the vast results which public 
opinion could produce in this country, could doubt that if the people of England 
did but will it to be so. Slavery would cease. When we reflected upon the vast 
influence which those called the middle class exercised in this country, it was 
not possible to hesitate in believing, that if they were once to say this must not 
be, there would be an end to Slavery: it would be in vain for parliamentary in- 
terest or political connexion to attempt to uphold it for another year. — He cor- 
dially concurred with that part of the Report which gave utterance to the feelings 
of tlie Society on the occasion of the retirement from public life of one of its 
brightest ornaments, Mr. Wilberforce. If any man had reason to be cheered and 
consoled in the evening of his days, it was Mr. Wilberforce— an evening of more 
brightness than generally belongs to the morning or the meridian of other men's 
lives. Thougli not with them personally, it was not too great a stretch of ima- 



gination to say, that he was there to be seen in his works: he was then visible 
to them in the fruits of his mind. One additional 'motive for the unabated con- 
tinuance of their labours was, that Mr. Wilberforce still survived to be the witness 
of their success — still lived, and he hoped would continue to live, until the great 
object of his life had been attained. They owed it to him to strain every nerve, 
that within the period he had yet to live he might witness the total abolition of 
that odious system which, through evil and good report, he had never ceased to 
assail ; and to use their utmost endeavours to free their native land from the op- 
probrious imputation of being the abettor of Slavery ; and they must agree with 
him, that the grand means of accomplishing that object were to be found in the 
course which that eminent man had pursued. He could not have accomplished 
his great work of abolishing the Slave Trade had he not been |)acked by the 
people of England. He trusted the Meeting would remember ""that fact, and 
would in consequence spare no exertion to carry with them the weight and in- 
fluence of public opinion. To effect this, nothing remained to be done but to 
bring the light of English reason to bear on the subject. 

Lord DIiLTON expressed his warm admiration of the objects of this Society, 
and of the Report which had been read. If the great leaders in the cause of 
abolition thought they had obtained their object merely by abolishing the Slave 
Trade without the abolition of Slavery itself, they little calculated upon the real 
duty which they owed both to society and to their Creator. In glancing at the 
great effortswhich had been made to enlighten the public mind upon the horrors 
of the Slave system, next to Mr. Wilberforce, he could not overlook the power- 
ful labours of Mr. Stephen (the Master in Chancery), who sat near him, and who 
had, by his writings, exposed, in its naked deformity, all its odious evils. In- 
deed, the West-Indian mind deluded itself upon this question ; and he believed 
that many very well-meaning proprietors of West India property, who resided 
away from their estates, were the unconscious instruments of disseminating 
false intelligence as to the real state of things upon their plantations. — He, how- 
ever, knew many of these gentlemen who were themselves the advocates of free 
labour, in preference to Slave cultivation. Even for the sake of their own in- 
terests, they wished to see the system changed, and he entirely concurred in the 
good policy and sagacity of tlieir views. The noble Lord eloquently argued upon 
the degrading effects of Slavery, and the appalling influence which it exercised 
upon the human mind : so that at one time ingenious writers had declared that 
the Blacks were naturally an inferior order of beings to the Whites, and were 
not entitled, therefore, to be treated with the same humanity — a notion now hap- 
pily exploded. For the sake of humanity and juslice, for the sake of the cha- 
racter of the country, for the sake of the West Indies themselves, he trusted that 
an end would soon be put, and for ever, to so odious and unwise a system. 

On rising to move the thanks of the Society to Mr. Wilberforce, Mr. W. Smith 
said, that though, in common with all present, he lamented as a public misfortune 
that retirement of his revered friend from public life, (which, as a just precaution, 
might be styled necessary,) he yet could not but feel a satisfaction in the oppor- 
tunity afforded him of expressing his own feelings respecting the character and 
exertions of an individual whom he had so long and so highly honoured and 
esteemed. For one, however, who recollected the commencement, and had marked 
the progress of this labour of justice and charity, it was almost impossible, and 
would be highly unjust, to omit the mention of those ardent and disinterested 
friends of mankind who at different periods had given it their zealous support ; 
— of Granville Sharp, the precursor, rather than the leader of the band, who, 
liberal alike of expense and of toil, had first established the claim of Africans to 
liberty on British soil, in the case of the Negro Somerset ; — of Thomas Clarkson, 
who, following his steps, had first called to this subject the attention of that 
university which he adorned, and had since devoted himself, body and soul, to 
the promotion of the cause ; — of Mr. Pitt, who in its early stages had yielded it 
the most cordial and valuable assistance; — of Fox, whose resistless eloquence had 
never fulmined over the land with more force and effect than when poured forth 
in the defence of this sacred cause ; and of multitudes of other names, including 
■'almost all remarkable for talent and eloquence which, for the last forty years, the 
country could boast; and amongst whom he rejoiced to see enrolled that of the 
noble lord who had just sat down ; one who, to a thousand other claims on their 
attention, added that of having succeeded in the representation of the great county 
ofYork, to Mr. Wilberforce himself, and to that eminent and disinterested patriot. 
Sir George Saville, one of the earliest of the Abolitionists, — an anecdote respect- 
ing whom be recollected, so much to the present point that he would venture to 
relate it. Being invited to visit a slave ship Avhich was on the point of sailing; 



from Liverpool for Africa, while the merchant was exultingly displaying the va- 
rious contrivances of the ship, and the uses to which tliey weie adapted, Sir 
George appeared so mucli affected that his compauion inquired if he was ill. 
" No," he said, *' I am not ill; but while you are contemplating unmoved the 
profits of this voyage, I am wishing the ship may never reach its destination." 
But whatever may have been the exertions of the orators and statesmen alluded 
to, between them and their distinguished leader there existed a difference of the 
most important nature. Their services, however brilliant, however valuable, have 
been, comparatively, occasional and transitory; often, indeed, splendid, and con- 
tributing in a high degree to the success already attained, but still inferior in 
effect and utility to the labours of their chief, which, equally brilliant with those 
of his most powerful coadjutors, possessed the vast superiority of having been 
constant and unintermitted. His influence, and his alone, may be said to resemble 
the universal influence of the sun, enlightening, connecting, and invigorating 
the whole system. For such services no acknowledgments could be too grateful, 
no eulogium overstrained. He knew how imperfectly he had expressed them ; 
but he had also the satisfaction of knowing, that, however feebly he might touch 
tlie string, there was in every heart present a responsive chord which would not 
only catch but swell the note. 

Mr. F. Buxton said, that his Hon. Friend had gone through the list of their 
ablest advocates, save one, which one was himself ; for often had he heard Mr. 
Wilberforce declare, that during forty years of hard and laborious counsel and 
action, he had always found Rlr. Smith by his side, his able, cordial, and unflinch- 
ing supporter. The Hon. Gentleman then eulogized the powerful services of Mr. 
Wilberforce in labouring to rescue the honour and reputation of his native country 
iVom the guilt and odium of the Slave Trade, and took a retrospect of the public 
services of that distinguished individual, whose private as well as public prin- 
ciples and conduct were, he observed, so well calculated to shed a lustre upon 
any man's fame. Engaged as he had been in many public conflicts, it was t!ie 
singular happiness of that individual never to have made one personal enemy, 
■while he had always enjoyed a large and devoted circ'e of affectionate friends. — 
At this advanced period of their labours in tl^e cause of African freedom they could 
hardly estimate the obstacles which Mr, Wilber.fovce had, in his early efforts, to 
encounter, not only from parliamentary and commercial influence, but from popu- 
lar clamour. But what a contrast was the present v\ith the past state of the ques- 
tion ! There could not now be found one man in the community to avow himself 
a friend of the Slave Trade. The best results must follow a zealous prosecution of 
those labours which had already been the means of accomplishing so much good. 

Mr. W. WiLBERFOKCE, in rising to request the indulgence of his Royal Highness 
and the Meeting for a very few moments, could not but say, that he felt more 
than the ordinary degree of difficulty experienced by all who were, for tJie first 
time, placed in the situation in which he then stood, from the peculiar nature of 
those very circumstances which, at the same time, imperatively demanded his ap- 
pearance. To thank his Royal Highness and the Meeting for the kind expression 
of their feelings towards one so dear to himself, would be comparatively an easy 
task ; but here it happened, as naturally must be the case, from the nearness of 
the relationship, that those services which their partiality had that day so highly 
characterized, were in his view magnified to a still greater degree, and those ar- 
dent expressions of mingled admiration and regret, in which they recorded their 
sense of his father's labours, and had, as it were, embalmed his memory, all fell 
far short of the stronger feelings of filial affection. — It was the strength of these 
feelings which indeed rendered him almost incapable of addressing the Meeting. 
Doubtless itmiist excite in him, whose absence they that day so kindly regretted, 
some feelings of disappointment to know that the last battle was not yet fought, 
the last victory not yet achieved ; but it would be no little consolation to him, 
during the liours of retirement, to reflect, that those old and valued IVicuds by 
whose side he had fought for above forty years, while they lamented his absence, 
still themselves remained, strengthened and supported by an embattled phalanx 
of more recently acq^uired allies, to fight the battle, and to share the triumph. 

Mr. Brougham, in rising to propose a resolution, said, it gave him great satis- 
faction to have an opportunity of addressing his brethren of this Society upon the 
present occasion, because he was formerly unable to meet them as he intended, 
and because he had the gratification, in meeting them now, of congratulating them 
upon the prosperous aspect of that question in which they were all so deeplv in- 
terested. For although it was true, as an Hon. Gentleman had observed, "that 
nothing, absolutely nothing, had been done on either side the Atlantic to retrieve 
Uie pledges v.hich had been given last year— although the only occurrence which 



could e^citeewi'/atteiition had been the lamented retivemeut of tliiit distinguished 
individual vi'hose name would be mentioned with veneration as long as charity, 
justice, piety, and humanity were counted virtues in man, yet he could not but 
feel confident ol' ultimate and not long deferred success, and that from one single 
statement ; namely, that nothing had been done. They had been told, not for the 
first or second, but for the hundredth time, when they last pressed forward to lay 
the axe to the root of that poisonous tree under whose shade their fellow-men had 
so long withered and perished, that theirs was not the task to meddle with the 
trunk — that theirs was not the task to even prune the branches — that the evil must 
be gradually encountered in the West Indies, and that the time for withholding 
nourishment from its culture, for ceasing to water its roots, or for pruning its lux- 
uriance, could only be judged of by those on the spot, who knew the soil and the 
climate in which it was cultivated, and all the peculiarities of this delicate case. 
They had been assured, that by various means, slow, gradual, and almost imper- 
ceptible, their object would be accomplished, without that interference which 
could only mean hostility and destruction : if theWest Indians were but let alone, 
they would do the thing effectually themselves. "Now," he proceeded, "we did 
not believe them, and we told them so. And what did they say to that? Why, only 
that we were vituperative, uncharitable, inhuman to the West India planters ; that 
we were always as much the perverse, blind, prejudiced enemies of the Whites 
as we were the perverse, blind, and prejudiced advocates of the Blacks ; and that 
if we only waited a very little time, a month, or at most two or three, we should 
see the whole of our wishes speedily and surely effected by the West India Legis- 
. latures. What has been the result? Unbelieving, we had waited, and what have 
they done? Why, I say again, absolutely nothing. And here I beg to state, that 
I mean to follow up what has taken place, by a parliamentary notice on the sub- 
ject which shall compel them either to abide by their pledge, or to take the con- 
sequences which must^urely and inevitably follow its forfeiture. They have now 
had not one, or two, but twelve months, and during that revolution of the sun they 
have done nothing. 1 almost retract my assertion, when I say they have done no- 
thing ; for they have done much for us, though nothing for themselves. We have 
redeemed our pledges — they have forfeited theirs. I feel deeply impressed with 
gratitude to the West India planters, more than I ever expected to feel, for their 
advancement of this cause, by their fulfilling all I have ever ventured to predict 
of them. I know^ indeed many West India proprietors, who I am persuaded do 
all that those can do, by directions of lenity, and charity, and humanity, who are 
absent owners, who are living nearly 4000 miles from the unhappy objects of their 
compassion, and who, from necessity, leave over them delegates, invested with a 
power so absolute, that it might be almost called impiety to God, to grant it over 
anyof our fellow-creatures. To some resident proprietors too, I might express my 
obligation for their desire to meliorate the condition of their unhappy slaves— 
which, as long as slavery exists, must prove very unavailing; but I never expect- 
ed to live to feel sucii a weight of obligation as I now feel to the whole of the 
^Vest Indian authorities, and to them I now beg leave to express my most un- 
bounded gratitude. What has Trinidad done? Why much. It has resisted from 
the instant it was promulgated, that Order in Council which was framed in con- 
sequence of our efforts, and to which the faith of the West India body at home ^^as 
pledged. It resisted that Order to the very latest moment, and only j ielded at last 
in obedience to the strong arm of authority. But in that simple resistance the 
idanters of Trinidad have done more to advance our cause than we had done in 
a quarter of a century. They have favoured us at last with a fiank and undis- 
guised avowal of the real nature of their system, and in doing so have entitled 
themselves to a gratitude hardly to be exceeded by that which we owe to Ihe ex- 
ertions of my able and philanthropic friend, Mr. Stephen. They now admit, I 
say, nay, they loudly maintain that which my Hon. Friend had hmg asserted, and 
which many of Ihem had affected to deny, that the cart-whip is the real, the ef- 
ficient stimulus to West India labour, the essential and indispensable adjunct cf 
the whole system. The planters of Trinidad, I repeat, have declared, tliat to in- 
terfere with the discipline of the cart-whip is to cut ofl"at once that which every 
one there knows to be the very essence of West India Slavery. In Barbadoes, 
you know, they demolished a meeting-house, because it had been devoted to the 
, instruction of the unhappy objects of your solicitude ; and they drive the Missi- 
onary, Mr. Shrewsbury, with ignominy from the island, almost rivalling in cruelty 
the treatment of the persecuted and hapless Smith ; and when a successor was 
appointed to succeed Mr. Shi'ewsbiiry, they actually warned hira off the island, 
andvvoidd not suffer him to land. This too in Barbadoes, the oldest of our colonies, 
t'jc bortst, the little England of the West ludies. Does not this phiinly shew that 



6 

they are determined to support the tyranny and cruelty practised over the bodies 
of their Slaves, by perpetuating as far as they can the brutality and ignorance of 
their minds ? Then as to Jamaica — the largest of the Slave islands — the most en- 
lightened in its legislation — the place to virhich we have been always called upon 
to bend our hopes— Why the legislation of Jamaica stands foremost in the Don> 
performance of its promises— in the violation of its engagements ! A Bill, it is 
true, was brought into the Jamaica Assembly, in its last session, to make slave 
testimony admissible in a court of justice — but only in certain specified cases. 
This Bill, you will suppose, was passed unanimously : no such thing. It was re- 
jected by a majority of thirty-four to one ; and that one the author of the Bill, 
The question is now, therefore, I conceive, whether we are to go on and allow our- 
selves to be deceived by promises never intended to be performed ? Whether we 
will continue to subject ourselves to the ridicule of the West Indian planters, to 
the contempt of those for whom we are in fact labouring, by continuing to with- 
hold that effective interference without which we may go on for centuries ? Or 
whether, avoiding their examples of delays and manoeuvring, we will be at once 
resolute and determined in redeeming those pledges we have solemnly given to 
the world. I have stated thus much, in order to justify that which I consider it 
my imperative duty to propose; namely, that we should tell the West India pro- 
prietors, ' If you continue to pursue your present course, and allow more time to 
I)ass without adopting those measures which have been pressed upon you, the very 
first week of the ensuing session of parliament you shall see a Bill brought in to 
do that for you which you refuse to do yourselves ; and to set this question at rest 
for ever, not only for the benefit of the Negro Slave, but for the ultimate advan- 
tage of the short-sighted master.' " 

Mr. Denman congratulated the Meeting upon the support which their cause 
would receive from his eloquent friend, in that place where alone the oppressed 
could look for relief, and in which he had pledged himself to advocate it. The 
Hon. and Learned Gentleman strongly impressed upon the Meeting the necessity 
of a clear and distinct enunciation of public opinion ; as, without that, no admi- 
nistration would be found strong enough to carry their wishes into full effect. 
He concluded by alluding to the presence in the room of Mr. O'Connell, and to 
the powerful influence he possessed over the people of Ireland, and the assurance 
he felt of that gentleman's zeal to promote their objects. 

Mr. W. Whitmore said, he was fully persuaded they would find, the more the 
matter was examined, that the slavery of our colonies depended upon the restric- 
tions which were placed upon the importation of any sugars but those which were 
the growth of our West India islands. The removal of these restrictions would be 
the most effectual method of putting an end to that horrid system. The use of 
slaves prevented the introduction of machinery, and all those means by which free 
labour assisted its efforts, and thus abridged labour and cheapened production. 
It had been held, indeed, by Montesquieu, and other writers of eminence, that in 
no one instance had slavery and the use of mechanical inventions existed toge- 
ther. He would likewise appeal to the fact, that in all cases where free labour 
had been allowed to come into fair competition with slavery, it had been found 
impossible for the latter to maintain the competition for a moment : free labour 
had in every case (riumphed. If, then, the mass of free labour in the East was 
allowed to come into competition with the slavery of the West, there could be 
no doubt of ihe result. He implored the Meeting to join heart and hand in their 
efforts to remove those restrictions, which were the main supports of slavery, 
and concluded by moving a resolution to that effect. 

Mr. Sykes, M. p., fully concurred in all that had been said by his Hon. Friend 
who preceded him upon the subject of the sugar duties and restrictions, and the 
encouragement they afforded to Slavery. The best way to attack that system was 
undoubtedly by the abolition of all such regulations ; for if they would but call 
to their recollection the amount of the bounties alone, £1,200,000, they must be 
sensible, that if these were taken off, the whole machinery of slavery must be af- 
fected by the change. It ought to be fully understood, that we ourselves are in 
effect the upholders of slavery. The ladies who now heard him would hardly be- 
lieve him when he told them, that for every cup of tea they sweetened, they had to 
pay a premium on Slavery. He concluded with eulogizing the efforts of the Qua- 
kers in this cause, and paid amerited compliment to the philanthropic labours and 
enlightenedzealofthatindefatigablefriendof mankind, Mr.Cropper, of Liverpool. 

Dr. LusHiNGTON said, that without the universal cry of the whole empire urging 
Parliament to some decisive act, no efforts of any individual could procure a miti- 
gation of the horrors of West India Slavery. They were not perhaps aware, that 
there were no less than fifty-six Members of the House of Commons, deeply and 



- . ■ - . 7 

personally interested in the continuance of colonial slavery ; not all speaking in 
its favour, but all acting and voting in a compact body to defeat the endeavour 
which had been made to remove that foul stain upon the English name ; whilst 
Mr. Canning, on whose exertions in the cause of humanity, the friends of the 
Negro population must chiefly rely ; who, of the present administration in the 
House of Commons had manifested the deepest interest in the cause, was liable 
to be influenced by some of his most intimate personal friends interested in the 
preservation of West India Slavery. He would repeat, therefore, that without the 
voice of the people from one end of the three kingdoms to the other, they must 
not hope to succeed. Dr. Lushington then stated that a Member of the House of 
Commons, to him unknown save by character, having occasion to visit his West 
India property, took with him a sister to Jamaica, and upon his arrival there en- 
deavoured, in concert with her, as was natural for a feeling and philanthropic 
mind, to effect some alterations in the state of his Slaves, and to instil into them 
some rudiments of religious knowledge. But, would the Meeting believe it? the 
gentleman and his sister were assailed with the most violent abuse on account of 
these exertions, and actually libelled in the newspapers, in terms too gross for 
him to read to that assembly. From this single instance may be well learned what 
is the general disposition and feeling of those actually resident in Jamaica, and 
how hopeless it is to expect co-operation in mitigating the evils of Slavery from 
men who can mock, or patiently listen to the mockery of all humane attempts for 
the benefit of that oppressed class. They who could take any objection to Mr. 
Brougham's proposal of doing the work themselves, little knew what the state 
of the Negro population was, or the horrors which it involved. In no point of 
view did it strike his mind with more indignation and disgust than in its influence 
on domestic happiness, the dearest ties of which were torn asunder by this ac- 
cursed system. He had lately seen a parallel in the Jamaica papers, in which an 
English peasant was compared, through all the ramifications of his condition, with 
a West India Negro, and the balance in every respect, of food, clothing, lodging, 
liberty, and labour, drawn largely in favour of the Slave : but he would read them 
an extract from one of these same papers, and then ask, if in this country, there 
ever had been any thing approaching to it in cold-blooded heartlessness. " Run 

away, a female Slave named Mary Smith, from the estate of Miss ; " and 

then, after offering a reward for her apprehension, it goes on to say — " It is 
strongly suspected that the said Slave is harboured by her husband, William 
Smith," If a wife were here to fly to her husband's protection, the laws of God 
and man would justify him in protecting her — aye, and give bim here the power 
to do it J but there, in that favoured country, which boasts of the condition of its 
population, to obey God is to violate the law of the land, and to protect the wife 
of his affection, is to subject himself to stripes and punishment. The Hon. and 
Learned Gentleman, after some other observations, in which he exposed, in very 
forcible and eloquent language, the assertion that the Slavery existing in our 
colonies was not prohibited by the whole spirit and tenor of holy writ, concluded 
with recommending the formation of Associations throughout the kingdom, to 
excite and keep alive the interest necessary for a unanimous effort to abolish 
Negro Slavery. 

Mr. O'CoNNELL had no idea of being able, by any effort of his, to advance the 
cause in which this Society was engaged. But he did hate despotism so much — 
he did detest slavery so cordially^ — he did abhor cruelty so strongly — that he 
could not refrain from raising his voice in the cause of liberty, and joining his 
exertions to the labour of those who would strike off from the slave his chains, 
and from the Briton his reproach. The eloquent discourse of the last speaker 
had roused a chord in every bosom which beat responsive to the calls of humanity, 
and melted every heart which sympathized with the injured and oppressed. Like 
that mighty master of the human mind (Sterne), who, when he wished to set be- 
fore bis readers the blessings of liberty, did not indulge in empty declamation, 
or frigid discussion, but took the captive in Lis cell, and placed him before them 
— clanking his chains — solitary — broken-hearted — dying — with the iron entering 
into his soul, and the torpor of despair spreading over his body ; so the Learned 
and Hon. Gentleman did not speak of Slavery in its impolicy, or its impiety, or 
its cruelty ; but he took the wife, torn from the arms of her protecting husband, 
and pictured to you the mother subjected to stripes and the father to chains, for 
their adherence to those laws which God and nature had declared inviolable. 
Who could doubt that the people of this land would lend their support to put 
down a system so atrocious ? Who could doubt of the effect which the example 
of England must have on the world in general? It had had that influence uni- 
versally, and every page of its history confirmed it. Who could imagine that 



there would he, at the present moment, one spark of liberty on continental Eu- 
rope, from the frozen regions of Russia to the rock of Gibraltar, if, m hen feudal 
power was merging into despotism, England had not struggled for and gained 
her free Constitution, giving to all the earth her glorious example, and shewing 
how easy it was for a nation to be free if she willed freedom ? What was it but 
her example that had placed France under a new Constitution ? What was it 
which revolutionized Spain and Portugal ? And though fortune might for a time 
frown upon their efforts, yet many a gallant heart now glowed with the hope 
that they might yet be able to follow that example, and triumph at last over their 
oppressors. Nor was the example set by this country confined to Europe. That 
example had passed the Atlantic, and expanded itself over America ; for even 
among the echoes of the Andes the voice of Slavery was now heard no more. 
And here to instance Bolivar — the immortal Bolivar, — that illustrious hero, unit- 
ing in himself every thing magnanimous in ancient times, or heroic in modern: — 
what was the first act of his newly-acquired power? The liberation of his own 
Negroes. What was his first address to the assembled Senators of bis Govern- 
ment ? " I beg as fervently of my country as I would for the lives of my children, 
that you will never consent that clime, or colour, or creed, should make any dis- 
tinction in your republic." And what had been the fate of such exalted virtue? 
Why, while men joined in the universal sound of praise, Providence had smiled 
upon his exertions, and victory, wherever he went, had followed his standard ; 
and every triumph he obtained was not the triumph of the man, but of liberty — 
not the triumph of his country, but cf the human race. But the example must 
go farther even than America. Who could be so absurd as to think, that, when 
the Negro saw warriors and statesmen of his own race, he would not make a 
desperate exertion for freedom ? Could any man say, that, when that time came 
in which we should see the poet and the hero of the same cast and colour, slavery 
could exist a moment longer ? It was utterly impossible, and, instead of being 
cruel to the masters, a charge the less to be valued as it came from polluted lips, 
we should excite gratitude and praise for our attention to their interests, when 
we besought them to grant that gradual emanicipation which would secure to 
them the permanent enjoyment of their present property. He had thus ventured 
to lend his feeble efforts to the promotion of the objects of the Meeting. How, 
indeed, could he refuse, when he saw the cause of freedom advocated and sup- 
ported by one of that illustrious family whom their ancestors had placed on the 
throne to maintain their liberties and uphold their rights ; a support which for 
countless ages he prayed that that family might continue to afford. In conclu- 
sion, he conjured those who heard him to recollect that in this country the public 
mind upheld every thing, and that by its influence they could not fail to accom- 
plish their object. 

Sir J. Srbright then moved a vote of thanks to the Royal Chairman; which 
was seconded by Mr. Maxwell, and passed with acclamation. 

His Royal Highness said, it was with painful sensations that he had met them 
on this occasion, for he had expected that at this Meeting they would be able to 
report the progress made since last year ; but, unfortunately, they had not ad- 
vanced a single step. However, after what had passed this day, itwas impossible 
that the evil could last much longer. It was impossible that Englishmen could 
tolerate that system of slavery which was so incompatible with the British Con- 
stitution. They were accused of innovation, of proposing something new; but 
it ought not to be forgotten that, in the year 1795, Lord Melville, then Secretary 
of State, charged them with beginning at the wrong end in attacking the slave 
trade first: they should have begun with slavery itself. And Lord Melville was 
right ; for slavery was the real cause, the root, of the slave trade, and nnhappily, 
and to the disgrace of this country, slavery was just as flourishing now as it was 
then. He was sure, however, that if the public voice raised in its favour should 
be heard by Parliament, they would certainly attain their object. His family 
had been brought to this country for the protection of the rights and liberties of 
its subjects ; and as a member of mat family, he should not be discharging his 
duty towards them if he did not recommend the sacred principles of freedom by 
every means in his power. 



All Communications to be addressed to the Secretary of the Anti-Slavery Society, 
18, Aldermanhury, London ; where the publications of the Society are on sale, 
and also at Hatchard's, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill. 



London : Printed by Bagster and Thorns, 14, Bartliolomew Close. 



London, July 31, 1825. 
No. 2. 

ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 



ADDRESS TO ANTI-SLAVERY ASSOCIATIONS. 

THE Committee of the " London Society for the Mitigation and gra- 
dual AboUtion of Slavery throughout the British dominions," have felt, 
in common with their friends in all parts of the kingdom, the want of a 
regular medium of communication concerning the progress of the Avork 
in which they are engaged. To this want, probably, are to be attri- 
buted the misconceptions which have occasionally been formed respecting 
the design and objects of this Society, but more frequently respecting 
the means which are deemed by the Committee most desirable to be 
employed. 

With a view to supply this deficiency, the Committee propose to 
publish Monthly a sheet of the size of the present, which shall contain 
extracts from their correspondence, and such other intelligence relating 
to the purposes of their institution, as their acquaintance with the 
subject may enable them to furnish. The publication to be named the 
" Anti-Slavery Monthly Reportkr," will be ready for delivery 
on the last day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the re- 
quest of any Anti-Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per 
hundred, provided the order for them be received within the month 
immediately following the date of each Number. It is requested that 
all persons wishing to receive a regular supply, will make application to 
the Secretary, at the Society's office. No. 18, Aldermanbury, and men- 
tion the conveyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. — 
They might in many cases be sent at very little expense, enclosed in 
booksellers' parcels, or along with the Monthly Publications of the va- 
rious religious or charitable Societies; permission to that effect being 
obtained from the country booksellers or others to whom the parcels 
are addressed. 

It is further earnestly recommended by the Committee to all the 
friends of Negro improvement, to promote the circulation of the intel- 
ligence contained in the " Anti-Slavery Reporter," by lending their own 
copies, or encouraging others to purchase at the Depots of the several 
Societies. 

The Committee anticipate much benefit from the proposed publica- 
tion, provided it be encouraged, as they trust it will be, by their friends 
throughout the country. In particular they calculate upon a large 
accession of strength to their cause, from numerous and influential 
classes of the community, — not .yet sufficiently informed respecting the 



objects and proceedings of the Society, but who need only to be fully 
assured that any undertaking which challenges their support, is on the 
side of justice and humanity, and unexceptionably prosecuted, in order 
cordially and effectually to espouse it. Such an undertaking the Com- 
mittee believe theirs to be; and they confidently submit it, together 
with all their measures, to be canvassed by their countrymen of the 
United Kingdom. The present measure is adopted at the request of 
several of their correspondents, and with their own full concurrence in 
its expediency. They commend it to the blessing of God, and to the 
favourable acceptance of all who wish to deliver their country from the 
guilt of supporting that system of oppression and wrong, which is the 
disgrace and curse of so many of the colonial dependencies of Great 
Britain. 



BRIEF SKETCH OF COLONIAL SLAVERY. 

There are at this time more than 800,000 human beings in the British 
Colonies, in a state of the most degrading personal Slavery. They, or 
their ancestors, were torn from the land of their nativity by traders in 
human flesh, and were for the most part kidnapped or carried off in 
predatory wars excited in the interior of Africa, for the sake of supply- 
ing the market for Slaves on the coast of that country. 

" These unhappy persons, whether young or old, male or female, are 
the absolute property of their master, who may sell or transfer them at 
his pleasure, and who may also regulate according to his discretion 
(within certain limits) the measure of their labour, their food, and their 
punishment. 

" The Slaves being regarded in the eye of the law as mere chattels, 
they are liable to be seized in execution for their master's debts, and, 
without any regard to the family ties which may be broken by this op- 
pressive and merciless process, to be sold by auction to the highest 
bidder, who may remove them to a distant part of the same colony, or 
even exile them to another colony." — Brief View. 

This statement is illustrated by the following occurrence reported by 
eye-witnesses : — 

" A master of slaves," says the relater, " who lived near us in Kingston^ 
Jamaica, exercised his barbarities on a Sabbath morning, while we were wor- 
shipping God in the chapel ; and the cries of the female sufferers have fre- 
quently interrupted us in our devotions. But there was no redress for them or 
for us. This man wanted money ; and, one of the female slaves having two tine 
children, he sold one of them, and the child was torn from her maternal affec- 
tion. In the agony of her feelings she made a hideous howling, and for that 
crime was flogged. Soon after he sold her other child. This ' turned her heart 
vpithin her,' and impelled her into a kind of madness. She howled night and 
day in the yard ; tore her hair ; ran up and down the streets and the parade, 
rending the heavens with her cries, and literally watering the earth with her 
tears. Her constant cry was, ' Da wicked massa Jew, he sell my children. Will 
no Buckra massa pity Negar ? What me do ? Me no have one child/' As she stood 
before the window, she said, lifting up her hands towards heaven, ' 3Iy massa, 
do, my massa minister, pity me ! My heart do so ' (shaking herself violently,) 
^ my heart do so, because me have no child. Me go to tnassa house, in massa yard, 
and in my hui, and me no see 'em.' And then her cry went up to God." 



3 

'T^e'ilev. R. Bickell, late naval chaplain at Port Royal, Jamaica, and 
some time curate of that parish, writes in a recent publication entitled, 
"The West Indies as they are," — 

"-Many a bitter cry is heard M'heu the marshal's deputies (dogs as they are 
emphatically called) are sent to hunt down and seize the victim or victims, and 
drive or drag them away to the workhouse, or gaol, till the day of sale arrives, 
which is to deprive them of their little homes, the gardens they have cultivated, 
the acquaintances they have made, and all the little comforts which make even 
slavery, in some measure, tolerable. This hardship is much increased when 
slaves are married, or have families, as the woman may be separated from her 
husband, or parents from their children ; for here the tenderest ties of nature 
are broken in an instant, and the wife's, or mother's, or children's cries would 
not be in the least attended to, nor heeded, any more than the moans of so many 
[brute] animals." pp. 16, 17. 

" The distress and terror among a gang of Negroes, when the marshal's de- 
puty, with his dogs and other assistants, comes to levy in a large way, cannot 
be conceived by those who, happily for themselves, have never been spectators 
of such scenes, and can scarcely be described by those who have witnessed 
them. I was once on a coffee mountain, on which were about seventy or eighty 
Negroes. The proprietor was much in debt, and was aware that one or two of 
his largest creditors had for some time wished to make a levy on his slaves to 
pay themselves ; but by keeping his gates locked, and the ftnces round the 
dwelling-house and Negro-houses in good repair, he had hitherto baffled the 
Argus-eyed deputy and his deputies. The night after I arrived on the property, 
however, I was awaked, about an hour before daylight, by a great noise, as of 
arms, with cries of women and children. In a few minutes a private servant 
came to my window, and infoi'raed me that it was the marshal's deputies making 
a levy on the Negroes, and that the noise proceeded from the clashing of wea- 
pons; for some of the slaves, he said, had stoutly resisted. I then alarmed my 
friend, and we determined to go out to see that no improper use was made of 
the tremendous power given to these Cerberuses. By the time we arrived at the 
Negro-houses, the resistance had ceased ; for the Negroes being divided, had 
been overcome by the myrmidons of the law. One poor fellow, however, was 
being dragged along like a thief by a fierce and horrid-looking Irishman, who 
had been one of M'Gregor's freebooters, and who, when we came near, grasped 
his victim more tightly, and brandished his broadsword over the poor creature 
with the grin and growl of a demon, 

" Many of the men escaped from the property, and some few others, with 
some women, secreted themselves among the coffee trees, till the party had gone 
off with their prey. They secured, however, ten or twelve men, and many of 
the women and children, amounting in the whole to between thirty and forty, 
who were huddled together on the outside of the principal fence, and presented 
such a heart-rending scene as I never witnessed before, and should be very 
sorry ever to witness again. Some of the children had lost their mothers, and 
some of the mothers had been torn away from a part of their children ; for some 
of the little urchins also escaped. One woman in particular, a housewoman, 
had six or seven children ; two or three of them were seized, and the others 
escaped ; but the youngest, an infant, had been caught, and she wept aloud and 
very bitterly for it, saying, that she must give herself up if the child was not 
got back, for she could not live separated from it. There were many a bitter 
cry and sad lament among the women and children, for they loved their master, 
who was kind, and had excellent provision grounds for them ; but most of the 
men were dogged and sullen, and only wanted arms to obtain their freedom 
from the savage Whites and their associates, who now guarded them. As it 
was, two or three of the poor fellows were wounded ; and I was assured by a 
free Brown man, who was looking after the property in the master's absence, 
that had the proprietor been there, there would have been sad work, and very 
likely murder ; for it was an illegal levy, and the resistance would have been 
desperate under their master's eye and voice. They were tied together, or hand- 
cuffed, and driven off the same morning to Spanish-Town gaol, a distance 9f 
twenty miles ; but as they had been seized before sun-rise, and the fence had 



been also broken through, both of which are illegal, the owner obtained their 
enlargement shortly after, and they were allowed to go back to the spot they 
loved. I might here remark, that the labour is much lighter on a coffee 
mountain than on a sugar estate, and that the Negroes are not required to be 
up so much at night, to pick and cure coffee, as they are to make sugar ; where, 
therefore, they have good provision grounds, as they had on this mountain I 
have been speaking of, they are much more comfortable, and less harassed than 
on a sugar estate." pp. 19 — 23. 

It is impossible to look into a West Indian newspaper without seeing 
advertisements by proprietors of the sale of Negroes ; or by tlie mar- 
shals or under-sheriffs, and by the collectors of the revenue, of slaves 
levied upon, either for debt or for taxes. For example, in the Royal 
Gazette of Jamaica, of June 15, 1823: — 

<' For sale, Charlottenburg estate, in the parish of St. Mary's, consisting of 
982 acres of land, about 86 head of working stock, and 89 Negroes." 

April 26, 1823. "For sale, 15 valuable young Negroes, together or sing-Z?/, 
to suit purchasers. 

May 10, 1823. " Notice is hereby given, that on Tuesday next I will put up 
to public sale, a Negro woman, named Violet, a Creole, accustomed to all sorts 
of work, levied upon for taxes due, by G. H. Swift." 

April 26, 1823. " For sale, under a writ of venditioni exponas, " Charles 
James, a Black, a waiting boy, aged 6 years, belonging to M. Freeman." 

" William, a Black, a waiting boy, aged 8 years, belonging to M. Muir." 

" Frances, a Black, a field Negro, aged 34 years, belonging to C. Cole." 

" Quasheba, a Black, a drudge, aged 28 years, belonging to Solomon Isaac." 

Such extracts might be indefinitely multiplied. These will suffice to 
shew that men, women, and children are regarded absolutely as pro- 
perty, and are seized and sold as unceremoniously as cattle or household 
goods for the payment of debts or of taxes, or are disposed of by pro- 
prietors in gangs, or singly, as best suits their interest. 

These are enormities, not only such as did once exist, but which exist 
at the present moment. In the Royal Gazette of Kingston, of the 16th 
of October, 1824, there are advertisements for the sale of between 1900 
and 2000 negroes, to be sold either together or in families, and with or 
without the land. 

Many of the slaves are (and all may be) branded, by means of a 
hot iron, on the shoulder or other conspicuous part of the-body, with the 
initials of their master's name. 

" With respect to this horrid custom," observes Mr. Bickell, " it is not so 
common now as it was before the abolition of the slave trade : for then it was 
customary to brand the greater part, that they might be known in case of run- 
ning away. It is a horrid practice, for it must be attended with very acute and 
lasting pain, besides the disgraceful and disgusting appearance of a human 
being marked like, or worse than, a horse." p. 37. 

Mr. Bickell confirms this statement, by a long list of instances, oc- 
cupying nine or ten pages, taken from the Jamaica newspapers. We 
shall extract only a very few specimens. 

" John Stevens, a likely young Creole Negro man, 5 ft. 6| in. marked MI on 
left shoulder, has a large scar on the left side of his throat, and other scars be- 
tween his shoulders and neck, to the estate of Mr. Mark, of Black River, dec. 
—Aug. 5, 1823." p. 39. 

" Philip, a Creole Sambo man, of Carthagena, 5 ft. 5 in. marked ICD on left, 
and LH apparently, but blotched, on right shoulder, to Charles Newman, Esq. 
M:inchester.— Sept. 10, 1823." p. 39. 



" Richard, a Creole, 3 ft. 6| in. marked apparently CC and CA on shoulders, 
and CA on left cheek, to Syssons estate. — Sept. 29, 1823." p. 43. 

" William Nelson, alias Thomas Mole, an Eboe, 5 ft. 5^ iu. marked ASIA on 
shoulders, breasts, and cheeks, to Mr. Holmes, of Vere. — Oct. 17, 1823." p. 44. 

The Slaves, whether male or female, are driven to hard labour by 
the impulse of the cart-whip, for the sole benefit of their owners, from 
whom they receive no wages ; and this labour is continued (with certain 
intermissions for breakfast and dinner), from morning to night, through- 
out the year. 

In the season of crop, which lasts for four or five months of the year, 
their labour is protracted not only throughout the day, as at other times, 
but during half the night, or the whole of every alternate night. 

" The time of labour for the slaves," says Mr. Bickell, " is generally from 
sunrising to suusetting; viz. from five o'clock to seven, one half the year, and 
from six to six, or thereabout, the other half. They are generally summoned 
from their slumbers by the cracking of the driver's whip, about half an hour 
before daylight, and woe be to the hapless slave who does not lend a willing ear 
and. speedy footsteps to its repeated calls." " If he be absent at roll-call, the 
judge, juror, and executioner, all stand by him in the shape of an inexorable 
driver, and, without any defence or leave of appeal, he is subjected to the lash. 
Nor will a trifling excuse serve the Black female ; " " she makes the best of her 
way to take her place, her unequal share of the task, by the strong-armed and 
stout-made man, in the well dressed- up rank of the gang. Should she be too 
late, her sex and slender form, or gentler nature, will not avail ; but, as if de- 
void of feeling, she is laid down by force, and punished with many stripes on 
those parts which shall be nameless for me, but which, for decency's sake, 
ought never to be exposed. Surely nature is outraged at such devilish inde- 
licacies. 

" Out of this time is allowed half an hour for breakfast, and two hours for 
dinner; bnt many overseers have the first shell blow, for dinner, at half past 
twelve o'clock, and the second at two to go to the field again, as they are not 
very particular when they are busy in crop, or wish to have a certain quantity 
of work done. Independent of this also, in crop-time, the gangs are divided, 
and one half must work, at night, whilst the other half sleeps; so that on most 
sugar estates, the slaves work one half the year three nights in the week, inde- 
pendent of the days, and on the others two nights a week." 

Besides being made to work under the lash, without wages, during 
six days of the week, the Slaves are further obliged to labour for their 
own maintenance on that day which ought to be devoted to repose and 
religious instruction. And as that day is also their only market-day, 
it follows that " Sunday shines no Sabbath-day to them," but is of 
necessity a day of worldly occupation, and much bodily exertion. 

On this subject Mr. Bickell observes, " It is not enough that most of the 
Slaves must work in their grounds a part of that holy day, but, to add to the 
abomination, a market must be kept also on the Sunday, for the sale of provi- 
sions, vegetables, fruit, &c. It is the only market-day which the poor Negroes 
and Coloured Slaves have; and, instead of worshipping their God, they are 
either cultivating their portions of land to preserve life, or trudging, like mules, 
with heavy loads, five, ten, or even twenty miles to a market, to sell the little 
surplus of their provision grounds, or to barter it for a little salt fish to season 
their poor meals; or, what is much worse, to spend, very often, the value in 
new destructive rum, which intoxicates them, and drowns for a short time the 
reflection that they are despised and burthened Slaves. 

" I shall never forget the horror and disgust which I felt on going on shore, 
for the first time in Kingston, in the month of August, 1819 : it was on a Sunday, 
and I had to pass by the Negro market, where several thousands of human 
beings, of various nations and colours, but principally Negroes, instead of 



6 

worshipping their Maker on his holy day, were busily employed iu all kinds 
of traffic in the open streets." 

Marriage, that blessing of civilized and even of savage life, is pro- 
tected in the case of the Slaves by no legal sanction. It cannot be 
said to exist among them. Those, therefore, who live together as man 
and wife, are liable to be separated by the caprice of their master, or 
by sale for the satisfaction of his creditors ; while their unrestrained li- 
centiousness is encouraged no less universally by the debaucheries of 
their superiors, the whites. 

Id confirmation of this statement, Mr. Bickfll observes, "The evils of slavery, 
great as they have already been shewn to be, would yet be less lamentable than 
they really are, if thoy aflfected the slaves only ; but truly distressing to an 
awakened and well-regulated Christian mind is it to witness the demoralizing- 
effects brought on the White part of the population also, nearly the whole of 
whom live in a state of open and acknowledged, and even boasted, fornication. 
It is a well-known and notorious fact, that very few of the White men in the 
West Indies marry, except a few professional men, and some few merchants in 
the towns, and here and there, in the country, a proprietor or large attorney. 
Most of the merchants and shopkeepers in the towns, and the whole of the 
deputy planters, (namely overseers,) in all parts of the country, have what is 
called a housekeeper, who is their concubine or mistress, and is generally a free 
woman of Colour; but the book-keepers, who are too poor and too dependent 
to have any kind of establishment, generally take some Mulatto, or Black female 
slave from the estate where they are employed, or live in a more general state 
of licentiousness." 

The following passages, from the pen of the same gentleman, will 
serve to counteract some of the prevalent notions so industriously pro- 
pagated by West Indians, of the enviable comforts of the Negro slave ; 
comforts which, it is unblushingly said, place him above the British 
peasant. 

" Of the great care taken of the Slaves in sickness, and of the boasted and 
frequent attendance of the medical men on the different properties, I have 
never seen any very flattering specimens, though I have been on a great many 
plantations, and have seen plenty of doctors. Their hot-houses, or hospitals, 
are generally speaking, filthy receptacles; they are very happily styled hot- 
houses, for-4,hey are hot enough; as the hospital is, on most estates, a confined 
room, very often an earthern floor : in this is a platform of boards, raised two 
or three feet high, like the soldier's guard-bed, on which the sick lie down in 
their own clothes, covered sometimes with a blanket, and sometimes not : on 
some large estates they have a superior kind of hospital, on a first floor, with 
better accommodations. The hot-house is often the place where the Negroes are 
also confined in the stocks ; so that it is both hospital and gaol.'^ pp. 32, 53. 

" None but a bigotted and low-minded planter, or some interested profes- 
sional resident, who cannot return to reside in this country, would compare the 
course yams and cocoas, and the stringy indigestible plaintains, with a few bad 
or rotten herrings, to the wholesome bread of this country, and to potatoes and 
other fine vegetables, with a small portion of fresh meat or bacon, which the 
English cottager enjoys. I have seen a good deal of the state of the English 
poor, having served curacies in Somersetshire, Gloucestershire, Monmouthshire, 
and Wiltshire, besides having an intimate acquaintance with Devonshire ; and 
I can conscientiously say, that I never saw any one, even a pauper, who lived 
in the mean hoggish way that the Slaves in the West Indies do ; and, moreover, 
that if such coarse food as the Negroes generally eat was offered them, they 
would reject it, (at least much dislike it,) as thinking it hardly fit for human 
and rational beings : English stomachs could not well digest it, three times a 
day : I know mine could not ; and I can assert with much tioith, that the coarsest 
Irish potatoes, with a little milk, or buttermilk and salt, are preferable to the 



Negro yams and green plantains ; at least, I would sooner have them, and I 
think most of the British poor would approve of my taste, had they an oppor- 
tunity of judging. 

The English poor are also much better clothed : for where is there a poor 
cottager that has not a decent cloth or fustian coat, of any colour he pleases, 
with other parts of his dress suitable, independent of good and warm stockings, 
and sound shoes to keep his feet from the gravel and dirt ? But what has the 
Slave? He has for his best, (from his master, as I before observed,) a large 
baize surtout, which hangs about him like a sack, and would as well fit any 
person you please as himself; and, moreover, a pair of coarse trowsers and 
coarse shirt of Oznabuvgh, which, with the coarsest kind of hat, is his whole 
wardrobe ; for this is the general livery or badge of Slavery. The female slaves 
are clothed as much inferior to our poor women ; and both Negro men and 
women are without stockings and shoes, and generally go in a half-dressed 
state, viz. without coats or gowns; the women's petticoats up to their knees; 
and very often before fresh supplies are given out many of them are in a ragged 
state, and some almost in a state of nudity ; and yet it is said, they are better 
off than the poor in Great Britain. 

" Nor have they the comfortable cottage, and warm bed with decent furni- 
ture, and the snug chimney-corner of the English peasant, which no one, not 
even a lord or a prince, dares to enter into without permission. No, in his 
miid-built and straw-covered hut, without a window or a chimney, on two or 
three boards raised a little above the floor, or on the floor itself, the Negro Slave 
lies down on his mat, very often uncovered ; and if he wants a little fire, as in 
the mountains they sometimes do, he must light his few sticks in the open air, ■ 
and, like an animal I could mention, sit upon his heels shivering by it. It is 
painful indeed to carry on the comparison ; but, independent of all this, is it 
nothing that the peasant's son is commonly sent to school and taught to read 
his Bible, and oftentimes to write and cypher, and when grown up can travel to 
any part of this free country to better his condition, none molesting him, or 
daring to make him afraid ? " pp. 5G — 59. 

Such is the system which at this moment prevails almost universally 
in the Slave colonies of this free and happy country, and which, there 
is reason to fear, will continue to prevail, unless the British people shall 
interfere more effectually than they have yet done in behalf of the un- 
happy sufferers. In order that their past interference may produce its 
full and legitimate effect, the friends of Negro improvement throughout 
the kingdom must declare their determination to support his Majesty's 
ministers, in prosecuting through all the Colonies the work of amelio- 
ration which has been begun, but which the Colonists have unequivo- 
cally manifested their purpose, if possible, to frustrate. Such a decla- 
ration is due to those servants of the King, who, on furthering the 
wishes of the people, expressed in numerous petitions, have exposed 
themselves to no slight measure of opposition and obloquy from the 
West India planters. 

It is inconceivable that the people of Great Britain and Ireland could 
endure, within their sight and hearing, the spectacles and the sounds 
of woe with which their distant dependencies abound. But the distance 
at which oppression and cruelty are practised makes no difference as to 
the responsibility which rests upon those in whose power it is to miti- 
gate and put an end to them by just and lawful means. Such a re- 
sponsibility rests upon the people of this kingdom ; for it is chiefly for 
the sake of supplying them with an article of luxury — an article too, 
which they could purchase at a cheaper rate, and without prejudice to 
the revenue of the country, or to any other interests which ought to be 
protected — that hundreds of thousands of men and women, who were 



torn by a legalized piracy from tlie land of their nativity, are now 
doomed, along with the children to whom they have given birth, to 
wear down their strength by uncompensated toil under the lash of the 
cartwhip. 

It is moreover by Bounties and Protecting Duties, which not only 
operate as a heavy tax upon themselves, but greatly* aggravate the 
misery of the Slaves, that the people of this country uphold a system 
which, without such artificial support, would fall under its own enor- 
mity. The bounty alone paid on the export of sugar, raises the price 
of that article to the consumers at home to the extent of six shillings 
per cwt., and thus taxes the nation for the benefit of the West India 
proprietors in no less a sum than £1,200,000. The price of sugar and 
of other tropical produce, is further enhanced by protecting or prohi- 
bitory duties, which exclude from a fair competition with the West In- 
dies, the productions of our Indian empire and of other parts of the 
world. Besides this, large military and naval establishments are neces- 
sary to keep the slaves in subjection to their masters. The whole 
annual expense of these islands, together with the national loss incurred 
by the restrictions in their favour, cannot be fairly calculated at less 
than four millions sterling. At this cost does Great Britain perpetuate 
the evils of her colonial bondage; and yet this cost is of small ac- 
count compared with the amount of guilt which must attach to the 
upholders of such a system. 

What then is to be done by those who feel, not only for the spiritual 
and temporal good of the poor slaves, but also for the honour and best 
interests of their country, whose prosperity they believe to be dependent 
on the favour of the righteous Governor of the Universe? Let them 
stand forward, individually and collectively, as the avowed and strenu- 
ous advocates of those who are not permitted to give utterance to their 
own sense of wrong. Let them, in their several spheres, and in the 
legitimate exercise of their birthright, influence, as they may, by their 
votes, and by petitions addressed to the legislature, the decision of 
questions relating to this momentous national concern. Let them pray 
the Parliament to prosecute to its consummation the great work of jus- 
tice and humanity on which they have entered ; — to extend with all 
convenient dispatch to every one of his Majesty's Colonies the provisions 
of the Order of the King in Council framed for the Island of Trinidad, 
and such other provisions as may be severally expedient ; and to enforce 
them by such measures as shall secure their due execution : and espe- 
cially let them unequivocally declare their unwillingness to contribute 
to the maintenance of a system of Slavery which they abhor, by Boun^ 
ties and Protecting Duties, which are injui'ious to the commerce of the 
empire, and at variance with the enlightened and liberal policy of his 
Majesty's Government. 

* For a statement of the effect of Bounties and Protecting Duties upon the 
condition of the Slave, see the Second Report of tlie Committee. Page 19 — 26, 



London : Printed by Bag-ster and Thorns, 14, Bartlioloinew Close, 



London, August 31, 1825. 

No. 3. 

ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 



THE "Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter," will be ready for deli- 
very on the last day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the 
request of any Anti-Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per 
hundred, provided the order for them be received within the month 
immediately following the date of each Number. It is requested that 
all persons wishing to receive a regular supply, will make application to 
the Secretary, at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and men- 
tion the conveyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. — 
They might in many cases be sent at very little expense, enclosed in 
booksellers' parcels, or along with the Monthly Publications of the va- 
rious religious or charitable Societies ; permission to that effect being 
obtained from the country booksellers or others to whom the parcels 
are addressed. 

In our last Number, we gave a " Brief Sketch of Colonial Slavery," 
and we can easily imagine that after having perused it, (brief and inade- 
quate as it is to develope the enormity of the system), our readers would 
ask with astonishment, why such a state of things has been permitted 
to continue, and what means have been used for the purpose of correct- 
ing or destroying it? To the first of these questions, it may be difficult 
to find an explicit answer, unless we refer it to that insatiable avarice 
which has steeled the breasts of men to feeling, and instigated them to 
seek gold at the expense of justice and humanity; or to that supineness 
of the British public, which has permitted the despoilers of mankind to 
hold possession of their degraded victims in security, and even assisted 
them (in general, it is hoped, unwittingly) in the consumption of the 
produce of the " sinews and the bones of men." 

There was a time when the voice of this country was almost univer- 
sally raised against the traffic in human beings so iniquitously carried 
on between the coast of Africa and the West Indies ; the cruel practices 
then brought to light made the ears of all who heard to tingle, till jus- 
tice obtained a triumph, and the Slave Trade was abolished. With this 
abolition, the compassionate feelings that had been excited began to sub- 
side, and, for want of a more intimate acquaintance with the subject, 
the Abolition of the Trade in Slaves was identified, in the minds of 
most men, with the extinction of Slavery itself; whilst in their exulta- 
tion at a too partial victory, the majority of the British people forgot the 
800,000 of their fellow creatures already groaning in bondage, and the 
fate of their hapless posterity, who were still doomed to all the horrors 



18 

of a cruel and hopeless servitude, which could only be terminated by 
death. The more intelligent of our readers will, we trust, excuse our 
pressing this view of the subject, as it is a widely spread and fatal error 
which still prevails, that Slavery was put an end to by the Abolition of 
the African Slave Trade; and which also, perhaps, furnishes a reason, 
and the only excuse, why so iniquitous a system has been permitted to 
continue so long, but which reason and excuse are now sufficiently taken 
away by the opportunities of obtaining correct information so repeatedly 
offered to the public by the Anti-Slavery Society. 



BEMERARA. 

It appears, from the Parliamentary papers lately printed,, that the 
planters of Demerara have strenuously opposed certain parts of the pro- 
posed reforms which, after the example of the Order in Council, the 
Government have wished to introduce. It is one of the provisions of 
that order that the marriages of slaves shall be " to all intents and pur- 
poses binding, valid, and effectual in law." The planters of Demerara, 
however, remark that " the civil rights acquired by marriage are so nu- 
merous and complicated that it is found impracticable to adopt or mo- 
dify this expression." They, therefore, in theirwisdom, propose to intro- 
duce the following clause. " Provided always, that such marriage shall 
in no manner confer on the slaves any of these civil rights which, by 
marriage, are acquired by persons of free condition, nor subject such 
slaves to any penal infliction, the effects of which might destroy the 
rights, or injure the property of their owners." 

Such Is the marriage which the Christian planters of Demerara declare 
that they will alone concede to their slaves; and such, and no more, is 
the marriage which the Rev. Mr. Bridges, of Jamaica, boasts of having 
solemnized among the slaves of his parish — a marriage without any of 
the rights of marriage — a marriage which gives no security, and confers 
no benefit beyond that of an unlicensed concubinage: and even this, in 
the eyes of the Demerara planters, and of JMr. Bridges, is something of 
reform, something of improvement in the condition of the slave. What 
must that condition have been in this respect previously, and what, 
therefore, is it now ? It is one which only finds its parallel among the 
beasts of the field and the forest. 

Again, the Demerara planters absolutely refuse to grant to their slaves 
the liberty of purchasing their freedom, even at the full appraised value 
of their persons, of their sinews, bones and blood. Let us hear their 
reasonings on this point. " It is," say they, " beyond its power," that 
is, beyond the power of the legislative body, " without the breach of a 
sacred trust, to give their sanction to any measure which could ever, by 
construction, imply an acknowledged right, "on the part of the slave, to 
demand his freedom mvito domino. They feel themselves called upon 
openly to avow the principle, that they have not the right to invade the 
■property of their fellow colonists, by admitting that they can, in any 
manner, be deprived of it contrary to law, by which it is secured to 
them, and which his Majesty has been graciously pleased to guarantee 



19 

ta diem by the Articles of Capitulation."* " Slaves in this Colony are 
■chattels as much as any other moveable property." Except when slaves 
are mortgaged, the master "has the entire controul over his slaves; 
neither is it the law that proprietors can be forced to dispose of their 
property, real or personal, when its value is offered to them by others. 
To give to the slave the right of purchasing himself, against tlie will and 
consent of his owner, will annihilate the right of the owner, and confer 
on the slave a power which no other person possesses." Again, ^' the 
Dutch law, in this Colony, gives no such right whatever to a slave. 
Here the interest of the owner, m his slave, is that of fee simple abso- 
lute" 

Such, then, the Planters themselves tell us, is the tenure of Slavery 
in the British Colony of Demerara. And can they hope that, after hav- 
ing revealed the principle in all its naked wickedness, by which they 
hold mfee simple absolute the bodies and the souls of their fellow crea- 
tures, that they will find sympathy in any British bosom but for the 
wretched victims of such a tyrannical, and, in spite of all they can say, 
lawless systeni; a system which is an outrage on all law, divine and hu- 
man, recognized at least in this happy land. This horrid system, we have 
often said, needs only to be known to the people of this country, in all 
its length and breadth, and heigh th and depth of enormity, to be swept 
from the face of the British empire. It cannot endure the light which 
now beams upon it after ages of darkness and death. 



TRINIDAD. 

In one of the Newspapers, recently received from Trinidad, is con- 
tained an account of the proceedings at the General Annual Meeting of 
the Anti-Slavery Society, on the 30th April, 1825. It had been there 
asserted that, on the admission of the Trinidad Planters themselves, 
" the WHIP is identified with Slavery; and that it is by ^7s infliction, or 
the dread of its infliction, that the Slaves are alone made to work." On 
this assertion, ihey thus comment in the Gazette of Trinidad. 

" We did^ and do declare, ^Ae whip to be essential tc West Indian 
discipline ; aye, as essential, my Lord Calthorpe, as the freedom of 
the press, and the trial by jury to the liberty of the subject, in Eng- 
land, and to be justified on equally legitimate grounds. The comfort, 
welfare, and happiness of our labouring classes cannot subsist without 
it. The fact may have been denied by others, but never by us. We 
have never condescended to equivocation or disguise in this Colony. It 
may be denied by the West Indian Committee, but it has never been 
denied by us." 

Messieurs, the Planters, the Anti-Slavery Society are obliged to you 
for your frankness ! We now understand each other. To you, and your 
system, you say the whip is essential. With the whip employed to 
compel labour, we, and with us, the people of England, wage an inter- 
minable and exterminating warfare, 

* Just as if Articles ^f Capitulation could be of any force subsequently to «, 
cession by Treaty, 



20 



MAURITIUS. 

A Return of the Slave Population of the Mauritius, as received in 
the office of the Registrar of Colonial Slaves since its first establish- 
ment, was laid on the table of the House of Commons on the 27th of 
June last. It is as follows, viz. — 

" 1816. Males, 55,717 ; females, 29,706; total, 85,423. 

" The duplicate Slave Returns in the Mauritius, for the year 1819, 
are so imperfect as not to afford any means lohatever of ascertaining 
the amount of the Slave -population at that period, and have therefore 
been sent back to the Colony for correction. Those for 1822 are sup- 
posed to have been lost in the ship George the Fourth, wrecked, on 
her voyage from the Mauritius, in June last." 

It thus appears, that the registration of Slaves at the Mauritius is so 
incomplete as to prove a perfect nullity, and to be utterly useless to its 
grand purpose of checking the illicit introduction of Slaves. This 
state of things must now be more particularly favourable to the prose- 
cution of an active Slave trade, since the removal of the protecting 
duty of ten shillings from Mauritius sugar, and the general rise in the 
price of Colonial produce, must have given an increased stimulus to 
cultivation, and rendered the temptation of the adjacent Slave- 
markets irresistible. Those markets are so near, and the price of 
Slaves there so low, that they may be brought to the Mauritius 
and sold there for thirty or forty dollars a piece. The consequence 
must be, that the effectual check of a perfect system of registration 
being wanting, and the interests and feelings of the planters being all 
in favour of the Slave Trade, it will be carried on without limit or 
controul. 

One effect arising from this facility of importation is, the frightful 
disproportion of the sexes among the Slaves, as may be seen in the 
above extract from the Slave Registry- Another is, that the human 
animal being so cheap, (less than is now paid for a dead subject for the 
dissecting-room in this country, j the system of exaction, and the se- 
verity of treatment are carried to a height of cruelty which very far 
exceeds that of our Western Colonies. This might be expected on 
general principles. But facts moreover prove it to be so ; and whips, 
and chains, and mutilations, and torture, and death, are there still 
more the ordinary incidents of Slavery than in the West Indies or the 
United States. The mortality, therefore, is enormous ; and that mor- 
tality cannot fail to be largely increased by the admission of the sugar 
of the Mauritius to consumption in this country on the same terms 
with the sugar of the West Indies. 

It does seem most extraordinary, that from, all our dominions in the 
East, the Legislature should have selected the only Colony in which 
Slavery prevails for exemption from the protecting duty on sugar ; thus 
giving an impulse not merely to the exaction of labour, and all the 
aggravated severities of an increased sugar culture, but a direct pre- 
mium on all the horrors and atrocities of the Slave Trade, which the 



21 

total confusion into which the Slave Registry has been allowed to fall 
renders perfectly safe and easy. 

An attempt has been made, it is understood, to pass off the sugar of 
the Mauritius as the produce of free labour, •; The above statement will 
serve to undeceive our readers, and place them on their guard against 
the deception. 

The following are a few memoranda made on the subject of Slavery 
in the Mauritius by an eye-witness, who may be relied upon : — ■ 

The Slaves are either Creoles, or natives of Madagascar, Mozam- 
bique, or the eastern coast of Africa. They are employed as domestics, 
artisans, or in the plantations ; the latter class are often ill fed, hard 
worked, and cruelly treated. 

The Slaves are generally summoned to their labours by the cracking 
of the whip ; and, when they are at work in the field, the overseer 
stands over them v/ith it. If there is any law that prescribes limits to 
the punishment of Slaves, it is a perfectly dead letter, for lashes are in- 
flicted from the number of twenty- five to six hundred. It might be 
expected that any such restricting law would become obsolete, when 
it is known that in no instance can the evidence of a Slave be taken in 
a Court of Justice, when the interests of his master are concerned. 

Women are alike subject to flogging, and the punishment of working 
in chains.* 

The moral character of the Slave population, compared with that of 
other Slave Colonies, is supposed to be good. The number of Maroons 
(run-away Slaves) every year is asserted to be one fourteenth part of the 
number in Jamaica, In general they are subordinate and docile. 
Petty thefts are common, and the restraint of truth is little felt : but 
capital offences rarely occur. A listless inactivity, an indisposition to 
work except under coercion, the promiscuous intercourse of the sexes, 
&c. can hardly be called crimes in an unenlightened Slave ; and, upon 
the whole, their actual moral condition, when viewed in connexion with 
their opportunities of improvement, may well excite wonder. 

The marriage of Slaves is not recognized by the laws of the Colony. 
Cohabitation is common ; but without any tie to enforce constancy, 
except mutual consent. A child cannot be separated from the mother 
against her wish, under the age of seven ; but no law respects the bond 
of the parents. 

Cohabitation between the Whites and the Blacks is frightfully com- 
mon among all classes in the Mauritius ; but there is a law in the code 
of the last French governor, still in force, which not only greatly aggra- 
vates the evil, but, in fact, creates a considerable part of it. By this 
law, not only the marriage of a White and a Black person is prohibited, 
but even a person of colour, (i. e. one known to have descended, how- 
ever remotely, from a Black,) cannot be married to a White; nor can 
any property whatever be bequeathed, by will, to children born in such 
a connexion. A dreadfully immoral aspect is thus given to the whole 
state of society; which, in conjunction with the facility of obtaining 

* Chains of any endurable weight may be affixed by the master to his 
slaves, whether men or women. 



22 

divorces, must be considered to have divested marriage of much of its 
honor and its sanctity. 

The fees, securities, &c. required to be paid upon giving a Slave his 
freedom, are oppressive, — amounting to about three hundred dollars ; 
which tax must be deemed an obstacle in the way of benevolence, and 
the progress of the abohtion of Slavery. The formalities and provi- 
sions of the law are numerous ; and as the master alone is supposed to 
confer the boon of liberty, there seems no encouragement to the indus- 
trious exertions of the Slave. 

As labour is carried on on Sundays, it is not supposed there can be 
any law, appointing that holy day a day of rest to the Slaves. It is 
believed that some masters allow them the day, or part of it ; but, in 
general, they are not so favourably circumstanced as the Slaves in the 
West India Islands. 

ENGLISH LIBERTY NOT RECOGNIZED. 

There are several Slaves in the Island who have been in England, and 
by the glorious charter of that land of liberty, have become yVee : but 
returning ignorantly to the Mauritius, the Colonial law has not respected 
their British privilege ; they have been sold again as Slaves, and they 
and their children remain in bondage. 

Since the abolition of the Slave Trade, and the registration of Slaves 
in the Colony, the illicit traffic has been carried on to a great extent ; 
and a considerable portion of the present Slave property in the Island 
has been notoriously acquired in that manner. The proprietors being 
therefore liable to forfeiture, are not in a condition to oppose any meli - 
oration of the state of the Slaves that Government might recommend ; 
nor do they deserve that any prejudices or imaginary interest of theirs 
should countervail the moral wants of eighty thousand of their fellow- 
creatures. 

There are eleven hundred Slaves attached to the different departments 
of Government ; and many of them are let out to hire at the rate of 
from five to seven dollars per month ; a sum presumed to be more than 
enough to cover the expense of their food and clothing, which they are 
provided with by Government. 

There is another class of Blacks styled Government apprentices, 
whose situation requires attention. Since the abolition of the Slave 
Trade, all captured Slaves are bound apprentices by the Collector of 
Customs, according to Act of Parliament, for the term of fourteen 
years, to such persons as are willing to take them, engaging to teach 
them either trades or other occupations, and to bring them up in the 
principles of the Christian religion. The number of these is about 
six hundred. It is known that in two or three English houses some 
attempts are made to teach the Slaves and apprentices ; and it is said, 
that the lady of the late Commander of the Forces (Major-General 
Darling) set an admirable example in this respect, reading prayers in 
Creole twice a day to her Slaves and apprentices : but, in general, they 
are quite neglected. Doubtless many are prevented by the difficulty 



23 

of communicating with them ; and many more by indifference to the 
subject ; for no man who does not supremely value the Christian reli- 
gion for himself can be expected to undergo the labour of teaching it 
to an ignorant Black. 



ABERDEEN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

A powerful and active Anti-Slavery Society was formed at Aberdeen 
on the 18 th of March last. In the list of its Vice-Presidents and Com- 
mittee we observe with satisfaction the names of the most distinguished 
literary and influential characters in that important and populous place. 
In an energetic address from the Committee, they call upon their coun- 
trymen universally to consider calmly and deliberately the nature of 
personal Slavery, with all its injurious effects, as it exists in our Colo- 
nies ; and after describing it in much the same manner as it has been, 
on various occasions, exhibited in the publications of the London 
Anti -Slavery Society, they thus proceed : — 

" In this brief detail, the Committee have been anxious not to exagge- 
rate any of the circumstances. They disclaim all calumny and in- 
vective against the Planters and White inhabitants ; believing them to 
be men of like passions with ourselves, many of them labouring under 
the influence of strong prejudices^ consequently objects of our pity ; 
and probably not acting v/orse than we should do, were we placed in 
similar circumstances, entrusted with absolute power over our fellow- 
creatures. It may be asked, however. What has been done for ameli- 
orating the condition of our Colonial Bondsmen ? Have the humane 
regulations recommended by the Government at home been acted upon? 
Have they not, almost in every case, been evaded, or offensively re- 
jected ? While this is the case, we cannot sit still, year after year, 
silent spectators of such a system of oppression, exercised within the 
British dominions, without partaking of the guilt. 

" The Committee would particularly recommend that Associations 
should be formed in every part of the kingdom, for the purpose of co- 
operating to diffuse information, and to call forth the distinct expression 
of public opinion on the subject ; thereby strengthening the hands and 
seconding the movements of Government, for accomplishing the final 
and complete abolition of Slavery. Such a change would be equally 
advantageous to the Planters as to the Slaves, to the Whites as to the 
Blacks. Free or voluntary labour has invariably proved far more pro- 
fitable than compulsory or slave labour. Strong prejudices, and the 
innate love of power, have made the Colonial Proprietors, or their 
Agents, deny this important fact, and thereby sacrifice their own in- 
terest. The change would also powerfully contribute to the security 
and increasing value of all kinds of lawful property ; and it would be 
essentially felt in suppressing the unrestrained licentiousness which so 
much prevails among both the Slave and the White population. Many 
other advantages would naturally follow, which must be apparent tQ 
every inteUigent and unprejudiced observer. 



24 

"To the Ministers of religiou, of every denomination, the Committee 
confidently look for co-operation and assistance. By directing their 
respective congregations to this important subject, as their own wisdom 
and prudence may suggest, they will essentially promote the cause of 
justice and humanity ; and by exciting the inquiry and attention of all 
ranks to the dreadful wretchedness and degradation of Negro Slavery, 
they will hasten its final abolition. 

•' To the Ladies in this City, and throughout the country, the Com- 
mittee appeal with confident hopes of success. The subject is worthy 
of their attention. By their well-directed and persevering exertions in 
acquiring an accurate knowledge of the numerous hardships endured 
by the Slaves, and communicating the same in their domestic and social 
circles, it is almost impossible to calculate the happy effects that may 
result. In various parts of England, many amiable and highly- accom- 
plished Females are now devoting some of their leisure hours to this 
object, in the most exemplary manner, and are effecting a great change 
on public opinion. May their example be speedily followed here ! 

" Finally, the Committee most fervently vvish that Petitions to Parlia- 
ment may be prepared, and numerously signed, previous to the opening 
of next Session, from every county and every town, from every village 
and every parish, in the United Kingdom, making one energetic and 
concurrent appeal to both Houses of the Legislature in behalf of our 
enslaved fellow-subjects ; praying that they may be admitted to a full 
participation of those civil rights and privileges, and to all those moral 
and religious advantages, enjoyed by the rest of his Majesty's subjects." 



London: Printed hy Knight and Bagster, 14, BmHefymevi Close. 



London, Sepiemher 30, 182'')i 

No. 4. ■ 

ANTI-SLAVERY 
MONTHLY REPORTER 



HAYTI. 

THE French Government has, ai length, m consideration of the suni. 
of 150 millions of francs, as an indemnity to the ancient proprietors of 
lands in the French portion of St, Domingo, consented to acknowledge 
the independence of that country. Independent they have been, in 
point of fact, for a quarter of a century ; we might say, from the time 
of the French Revolution ; and there was no reason to fear, that either 
by arms or artifice, they could be made to return to their servile condi- 
tion : so that France may be considered as having received a most gra- 
tuitous boon for her acknowledgment, independently of the commercial 
advantages she may derive from the recognition, especially as the impo- 
litic tardiness of our own Government has prevented our securing the 
commercial advantages, and perhaps, preferences, which might have 
been our own, but which will now no longer be within our reach. 

There is however,, as yet, much that is ambiguous, in the terms in 
which the independence of Hayti has been recognised. It is recognised 
not in the usual mode of a treaty regularly contracted between inde- 
pendent parties ; but in a Royal Ordonnance, issuing by the sole fiat 
of the French King, who in the style of a Sovereign thus proclaims his 
will on the subject : — 



Paris, April 17. 

"CHARLES, BY THE GRACE OF GOD, KING OF FRANCE AND 
" NAVARRE. 

" To all to whom these presents shall come, greeting, 

" Considering Articles 14 and 73 of the Charter, desiring to provide 
for what is called for by the interests of the French Merchants, the 
misfortunes of the ancient Colonies of St. Domingo, and the preca- 
rious situation of the present inhabitants of that Island ; 

" We have ordained and ordain as follows : — 

"Art. 1. The Ports of the French part of St. Domingo are open 
to the Commerce of all nations. 

" The duties levied in the Ports, either upon vessels or merchandize, 
whether entering or going out, shall be equal and uniform for all flags 
except for the French flag, in favour of which these duties shall be re- 
duced one-half. 



26 

" Tl>e present inhabitants of St. Domingo shall pay into the Caisse 
Generals des Depos et des Consignations of France, in five equal in- 
stalments from year to year, the first of which will become due on the 
31st of December, 1825, the sum of 150,000,000 of francs, destined 
to indemnify the ancient Colonists who shall claim an indemnity. 

" 3. We grant, on these conditions, by the present Ordinance, to the 
actual inhabitants of the French part of the Island of St. Dominji^o, the 
full and entire independence of their Government. 

" The present Ordinance shall be sealed with the great Seal. 

" Given at Paris, at the Palace of the Tuileries, the 17th of 
" April, the year of grace 1825, and in the First of our reign. 
(By the King) " CHARLES." 

" The Peer of France, Minister, Secretary of State for the Depart- 
ment of Marine and Colonies, 

(Sealed) " Count de Chabrol. 

" The Keeper of the Seals of France, Minister, Secretary of State 
for the Department of Justice. 

(Countersigned) " Count de Peyronnet, 
" The President of the Council of Ministers, 

"M. DE Villele." 



But whatever be the doubts which may hang over this transaction as 
to its form, no doubt can exist that the measure is one of immense im- 
portance, and big with the most momentous consequences to the whole 
of the Slave Colonies in the western world. It cannot but be deemed 
to hold out a loud warning to the Colonists to shape their way as spee- 
dily as possible to a safe and amicable extinction of Slavery, before the 
extremity arrives, (as ai'rive it may, under various probable contingen- 
cies, especially in the event of another war), when the question may 
be, whether the mother country shall be forced either to abandon the 
Planters to their fate, or to imitate the conduct of France, in waging in 
defence of them a long, bloody, unpopular, and most ruinously expen- 
sive contest, to end only in degradation and defeat. 

As we have alluded thus far to the subject of Hayti, we shall subjoin 
a few particulars respecting what is stated, on good authority, to be the 
present condition of that country. 

The Island of St. Domingo, it is well known, is of great value, both 
in an agricultural and commercial view. It is generally mountainous, 
but has many extensive plains and beautiful valleys. Its climate, con- 
sidering the latitude, is salubrious and delightful, being tempered by 
the mountain breezes and trade winds. The immense wealth which it 
poured into France, while in a state of Colonial dependence, proves its 
fertility and great resources. The government is professedly framed on 
the model of the United States of America; the legislative and execu- 
tive powers being vested in a President, Senate, and Chamber of De- 
puties. The Deputies consist of two from the principal city of each 
department, (Port-au-Prince sends three), and one from each district: 
they are elected quinquennially by the people, all males of 21 years of 
age having a vote. The duties and privileges of all classes are defined 



27 

by the constitution: the Code Napoleon is in substance the law of the 
land. Having hitherto been unacknowledged, and being obliged to 
keep on foot a large force, both for achieving and maintaining their in- 
dependence; and having only their own arms to rely upon, for exemp- 
tion from slavery or extermination ; the Government has hitherto as- 
sumed chiefly a military aspect; but a standing army being now less 
necessary, we may hope to view it under a more peaceful appearance; 
especially as its constitution is opposed to a military government, and 
is founded on the modern system of checks and balances, and is not ill 
calculated to secure public and private liberty and prosperity. Since 
the union of the whole Island under the present administration, great 
improvements are stated to have taken place ; and for more than two 
years there has been the most perfect internal tranquillity. The Presi- 
dent is popular; and the Government appeared to be quite stable, even 
before the recent recognition of its independence. Indeed, all disinter- 
ested persons, who have visited and examined the Island, have stated 
that its fastnesses and mountains, the good discipline of its army, the 
spirit of liberty which animates the people, and the confidence of -the 
public in a Government which, by a pure administration of justice, se- 
cures liberty and property, and guarantees to every hum.an being who 
touches its shores, the rights of freedom, without distinction of clime 
or colour, rendered invasion an utterly hopeless project. The Legislature 
appear to be acting upon principles of sound policy; they have recently 
equalized the duties on imports; lessened those on exports, and ba- 
nished some remains of the feudal system in matters of property. The 
Police is excellent; so that public crimes and outrages are far more 
rare than might have been expected, considering that most of the elder 
and middle-aged population, and the parents of the younger, were born 
Slaves, and must therefore have been but ill qualified for all the duties 
and dignities of freemen. The moral and intellectual taint hence de- 
rived, is, however, still painfully visible, and years must elapse before 
many of the habits and vices engendered by Slavery will have wholly 
disappeared. This serious disadvantage the Haytians inherit (and 
inherit, be it remembered, from European hands,) in common with the 
lately enfranchised regions of South and Central America : but they 
are taking the best means to check its perpetuation, by encouraging 
education, and according to the best ideas which their late masters 
thought fit to give them, religion. To promote the former, the Govern- 
ment has established both Colleges and Schools, of mutual instruction, 
of both which classes of institutions the public defray a great part of 
the expense. These excitements were absolutely necessary; for every 
person who has witnessed the general indifference of uneducated per- 
sons, even in our own country, for the education of their children, will 
easily infer that great difficulties must exist in instilling such a desire 
into the population of an Island, where, thirty years ago, almost all 
were Slaves, and, as such, prevented, by a cruel policy, from being made 
acquainted with the simplest elements of mental cultivation. These re- 
marks apply chiefly, to those who were Slaves before the Revolution. 
Among those who have always enjoyed their freedom, there are many 
who are distinguished for intelligence and liberality of sentiment. Not 



28 

a few were educated in France ; and many of the children of both 
sexes are still sent to that country for instruction. There are several 
Printing Presses on the Island, from which issue a few Newspapers 
and one monthly publication. 

With regard to the second {>oint, Religion, when it is recollected who 
were the late masters of the Island, and in what manner West-Indian 
Colonies were peopled, it will not be wondered at that the Haytian po- 
pulation are not either very intelligent or very consistent Christians. 
The majority of them were African Pagans, torn from their homes ; who 
acquired little of Christianity but the name, and not perhaps always 
even that, by their residence in a professedly Christian and Catholic 
Colony. The present race have renounced their Pagan for Popish su- 
perstitions, or for a total disregard of all religious observances. A Pro- 
testaJit Sunday is unknown ; for, though the public offices, and gene- 
rally the wholesale stores, are shut, yet the Sunday market still exists, 
and comparatively little attention is devoted to religious duties. The 
Catholic holidays are retained ; and the Churches are open, and Mass 
performed, on occasion of their recurrence ; but they have the effect 
there, as every where else, of creating habits of idleness and vicious 
indulgence, rather than of strengthening religious sanctions. Many of 
the higher classes, we fear, have imbibed the infidelity of the French 
school. There is, however, on every hand, a visible and rapid improve- 
ment. The manners of the people are much less coarse than might have 
been expected, and even partake, it is said, of great civility, having been 
modelled on the proverbially polished deportment of French society. 
Marriage, that almost unknown institution among West India Slaves, 
is beginning to be duly honoured among the poorer classes ; and we 
trust, that, by the blessing of God, many years will not elapse before 
moral and spiritual improvements will have ensued, equal to those 
which have ameliorated their civil condition ; and that, being now 
blessed with temporal freedom and security, they will become increas- 
ingly partakers of the glorious liberty of the sons of God. 



MESSRS. LECESNE AND ESCOFFERY. 

Since the Second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society was published, 
(see page 14,) the case of the above-named Gentlemen has been brought 
before the House of Commons by Dr. Lushington, in a speech which 
produced a deep impression on the House, and obtained from Mr, 
Canning an assurance that the whole affair should undergo a full and 
fair investigation, with a view, in the event of their complaints being 
substantiated, of rendering them adequate redress and reparation. The 
following statement exhibits in substance, the particulars of this 
transaction. 

In the month of October, 1823, Lewis Celeste Lecesne and John 
EscofTery, were put under arrest, by a warrant of the Duke of Man- 
chester, the Governor of Jamaica, as aliens, and as dangerous persons, 
in order to be instantly deported from the Island. They found time, 
^.owever, to make an application to the Supreme Court of Jamaica, to 



29 

be brought before it by Habeas Corpus ; and, ihe whole of their case 
having been submitted to that tribunal, and argued at great length, 
they were discharged by order of the Judges, who declared them to be 
British-born subjects. 

While they were in jail, a memorial, signed by thirty of the most 
respectable merchants and magistrates, (one of them a member of the 
House of Assembly, and another the Provost- Marshal-General,) was 
submitted to the Governor, bearing the highest testimony to the cha- 
racters of Lecesne and EscofFery, whom many of them had known from 
their infancy, and others had known for many years ; and all of whom 
expressed a concurrent conviction that these men were not only British 
subjects, but perfectly free from all imputation of disaffection or dis- 
loyalty. This petition, thus respectably signed, was treated as unworthy 
of serious consideration. It was asserted that the petitioners were 
principally the creditors of these persons, and interested in keeping 
them on the Island ; while the unquestionable fact has proved to be, 
that out of the thirty petitioners, only five w^ere creditors, and these 
to an amount not greater than £25 each, exclusive of an open account- 
current with one house, that of Watson, Williams, and Co., the exact 
amount of which is uncertain. These men had uniformly borne an 
excellent character, not only for the punctuality of their commercial 
dealings, but for their general conduct, both as citizens and as members 
of the Militia, in which ihey held the rank of Serjeants. Mr. Hall, a 
Magistrate of Kingston, in particular, bore the most unequivocal testi- 
mony to their respectability, and to the confidence he placed in them ; 
and this testimony he has repeated in this country, where he now re- 
sides. But although this powerful testimony in their favour, together 
with the clear proof of their national character, was disregarded by the 
Executive Government of the Island, it had its full effect in the Supreme 
Court, which, as has been stated, after a long and laborious hearing, 
discharged both the individuals. On this occasion, six freeholders 
attended in the Court to offer bail ; but the Chief Justice said that the 
Court required none, for the men w^ere proved to be British subjects, 
and he knew of no charge against them. 

The subsequent proceedings, however, w^ere still more extraordinary. 
Shortly after their discharge by the Court of King's Bench, Mr. Hector 
Mitchell, with whom this outrageous persecution appears to have ori- 
ginated, moved in the House of Assembly for a Secret Committee,which 
was granted, for investigating the matter. He was himself appointed 
the Chairman ; and Mr. Barnes, the INJayor of Kingston, who was 
actively concerned with Mr. Mitchell in the arrest of these men, toge- 
ther with two others who had been retained as Counsel against them, 
were associated with him in the Committee. What evidence was taken 
before this Secret Committee does not yet appear, but whatever it was, 
it was wholly ex parte ; not a single witness in behalf of the persons 
accused having been heard, or even cited; and no notice having been 
given them of an investigation so nearly affecting them. All that is 
known of the proceedings of this Committee is a Report, in which the 
assertion was repeated that these men were aliens, and persons dan- 
gerous to the peace of the Island. But of this assertion no proof what- 
\ 



30 

ever as yet appears to have been exhibited beyond what the Supreme Court, 
after the gravest dehberation, had pronounced to be unworthy of credit. 

On the ground of this Report; without any further inquiry ; without 
a moment's warning to the individuals ; without the slightest intimation 
of the nature of the charges preferred against them, or of the nature 
of the further evidence that had been adduced before the Secret Com- 
mittee to invalidate that evidence in their favour which had appeared so 
decisive to the Supreme Court ; were these men, who had resided in 
the Island from their birth, and, by the acknowledgement of their ene- 
mies, from their earliest infancj ; who had conducted themselves most 
irreproachably in every civil and social relation ; who were married and 
had families, and upon whom those families, as well as their aged mo- 
thers, depended wholly for their support ; and who had also been ad- 
mitted to their privileges as British-born subjects, by the unanimous 
vote of the Magistrates of Kingston, nine years before, and as such 
had also been promoted to the rank of Serjeants in the Militia, to which 
only British-born subjects are eligible ; — thus were they, notwithstand- 
ing the strongest and most irrefragable proofs in their favour, suddenly 
torn from the bosoms of their families, sent into exile, ruined in their 
fortunes, maligned in their characters, and held up as traitors to their 
king and country, while those dependent on them were either left to 
starve, or to subsist on the precarious bounty of others. In a few 
hours after their arrest, they were sent off in a ship of war to St. Do- 
mingo, where they were put ashore and left to their fate. 

All this was done under the colour of the Alien Act of Jamaica. But 
it never could have been meant that the Alien Act should give the Colo- 
nial Government the power of inquiring into the birth of individuals 
who had resided in a country for nearly thirty years, and had been in 
the unquestioned enjoyment during that time, of all the rights of citizen- 
ship; or should arm it with authority, at such a distance of time, to call 
on an individual to prove his birth-place, when, from various circum- 
stances, he might be wholly unable to do so ; it being quite impossible 
that he himself should be cognisant either of the time at which, or the 
place in which, he was born. And yet, even under these disadvan- 
tageous circumstances, with the power of the Executive and the Magis- 
tracy combined against them, have these men been able, in the most 
triumphant manner, to negative the fact of their alienage, and thus to 
destroy the very foundation on which any attempt to justify this act of 
oppression could legally be built. 

Among other charges insidiously brought against them, it was alleged 
that they had been in the habit of holding meetings and raising money, 
ostensibly for the support of a benevolent institution formed for cha- 
ritable purposes, but really for dangerous political objects. This charge, 
however, was wholly unsupported by evidence of any kind ; and the 
proceedings of the benevolent society alluded to, having been carefully 
examined, furnish a complete refutation of the unsupported charge. 

It was also alleged, that the free People of Colour, in their endea- 
vours to gain, by legal means, an extension of their civil and political 
privileges, had placed their confidence in Lecesne, who was accused of 
being one of their leaders ; and yet these very People of Colour have 



31 

since been characterized, by the Assembly of Jamaica, as most zealously 
attached to the peace, security, and hiappiness of the Colony, and as 
having entitled themselves by their conduct to the most unqualified 
commendation. 

It was also said, that these parties kept up a correspondence with 
individuals in Hayti, for certain treasonable purposes ; but neither of 
this charge, nor of any other preferred against them, has any satisfac- 
tory proof, not even the slightest, been adduced. A single witness, a 
Slave, of the name of Corberand, did indeed venture to state, that 
Lecesne had sold arms to the insurgents of St. George's ; but the re- 
sult of further proceedings and inquiries tends to prove that Corberand 
was a suborned and perjured witness. And not only does it appear 
certain that his testimony against Lecesne was altogether false, but it 
has even become a matter of grave doubt, whether the St. George's 
insurrection, as it is called, (on account of which, on the testimony of 
this same Corberand, eight or nine Slaves were condemned to die,) ever 
had any existence, except in the fears of the Colonists and the perjuries 
of the witnesses. 

In short, no evidence whatever has been produced to substantiate the 
slightest charge of criminality against these oppressed and persecuted 
individuals, or to afford the slightest ground for the allegation of alien- 
age, on which the whole of these extraordinary proceedings have been 
attempted to be justified. If there was any such evidence in existence, 
it ought to have been included in the returns to Parliament; because the 
whole evidence was moved for, and the whole, in justice to the Duke of 
Manchester, no less than to the sufferers, ought to have been supplied. 

There are other transactions connected with this case which greatly 
aggravate its enormity ; and among these, the attempts to suborn false 
evidence against Lecesne are not the least revolting. To two of his 
Slaves large sums of money were offered, to induce them to give evi- 
dence agamst their master ; and they were threatened, in case of re- 
fusal, with severe punishment, — a threat indeed which was carried into 
execution. 

One of them was committed to prison, where he lay for seven months, 
confined during almost the whole of that time in a condemned cell, 
which he was not suffered to quit even for the purpose of taking a walk 
in the adjoining area. The other was kept in confinement for more 
than ten months. Both were at length discharged by proclamation, no 
charge whatever having been preferred against them to justify the length 
and the rigour of their confinement; their only crime, in fact, having 
been, that they equally resisted the bribes and threats of those who 
felt that it was necessary to the justification of their own nefarious 
conduct, to obtain some evidence which might go to inculpate Lecesne 
and EscofFery. One of these Slaves is now in England, and his testi- 
mony, corroborated as it is by that of other witnesses, seems to stamp 
the whole of this dark transaction with a character of more than ordi- 
nary malignity. 

The order for the deportation of these men was executed with as 
much harshness as it was in itself unjust and inhuman. Their suffer- 
ings on reaching St. Domingo were most severe. They were compelled 



32 

by their state of destitution to sell their watches and other trinkets ; 
and were only enabled to subsist and to proceed to England by the 
generous assistance of a few British merchants residing at Jacmel and 
Port-au-Prince ; in particular, Mr. Frith, an English gentleman, re- 
siding at the former place, and Messrs. Poole and Henderson, at the 
latter. 



FORMATION OF LADIES' ANTI-SLAVERY ASSOCIATIONS. 



A Ladies' Anti-Slavery Association was formed at Col- 
chester, at a Meeting held for that purpose, on, the 1st of July, 1825, 
when the following, amongst other Resolutions were passed: — 

" That every Member of this Association be earnestly recom- 
mended to adopt the use of Sugar, the produce of free labour, in 
lieu of that which is cultivated at the expense of the happiness, 
liberty, and lives of their helpless and. much injured fellow-subjects. 

" That every Member of this Association do strive to promote the 
formation of Associations in the Eastern District of this County, in 
aid of the Anti-Slavery Society. 

" That the Members of this Association be requested to endeavour 
to awaken in the minds of their families, and all those over whom 
they have influence, a lively sense of the injustice, inhumanity, and 
impiety of Negro Slavery; and to excite them to feelings of com- 
passion for their Negro fellow-creatures, and to zealous efforts for 
their relief." 



At a Meeting of Ladies held at Calne, Wiltshire, on the 11th of 
August last, a Ladies' Association was also formed for Calne and 
Melksham, and their respective neighbourhoods, in aid of the cause 
of Negro Emancipation, which already presents a considerable list of 
subscribers. 



Shortly will be published, Extracts from one of the " Royal Jamaica 
Gazettes," for the present year. 

The "Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for 
delivery on the last day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at 
the request of any Anti-Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings 
per hundred. All persons wishing to receive a regular supply are re- 
quested to make application to the Secretary at the Society's office, 
No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the conveyance by which they may 
be most conveniently sent. 



London: Printed by Bagster and Tlionis, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



hondon, 18, Aldermanhitry, October 31, 1825* 
No. 5. 

ANTI-SLAVERY 
MONTHLY R E P O R T E R. 



'J'he "Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on 
llie last day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request of any 
Anti-Slavery Society, at the rate 'of four shillings per hundred. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. 

BERBICE — Fiscal' s Returns, printed by order of the 
House of Commons, Z^rd June, 1825. 



THE Fiscal, Mr. Bennet, in transmitting these returns, observes, that 
until the year 1819, he had kept no minutes of the complaints of slaves ; 
but that from that time he had taken minutes of his examinations, but 
only in a few cases of his decisions. Since the present application was 
made for copies of the complaints, he has been more particular in re- 
ceiving them, and he has added the decisions. The account embraces: 
a period from February 1819 to November 1823. 

Under all these disadvantages, the materials before us are, never- 
theless, very valuable. They admit us into the interior, the very pene- 
tralia of the slave system, which they exhibit in all its height and length, 
and breadth and depth of deformity. It is out of our power, however, 
to do more than select a few examples from the mass. 

The first complaint on the list, we are sorry to say, is against a lady,; 
Mrs. Sanders. Nine Negro men, on the 1st of February, 1819, com- 
plain of a great want both of food and clothing. One man produces 
a bolt and shackles, with which the Negro women were often confined, 
the ancles and wrists crossways, by which they are bent double; and 
says he was twice confined in that way himself. He and three otiiers 
went on one occasion to complain of hunger. Mrs. Sanders ordered 
them to be tied down and flogged with two drivers. It was on a Sun- 
day : supposes he had sixty. They are made to reap cassava, and get 
firewood every Sunday, till the greatest part of the day is spent. Thd 
women and children have no allowance ; and the men are obliged to 
share their allowance, which is also a very scanty one, witii them. These 
chai'ges are denied by the lady. Tiiey are in part admitted, but in part 
denied, by her overseer. The Fiscal's judgment is not given, (pp. 5— -S.) 

On the 18th of August, ! 820, the same lady again appears before the 
Fiscal. The following is a transcript of his minute of the complaints 
preferred by her slaves : — 

" Negro Sam says, that his mistress is very bad ; that the woi'k is 
daily increased, so that they are unable to perform their task given 
them : That the last holidays, when they got tbree days to dance at 
home, their mistress obliged them to work so hard afterwards as to com- 
plete the work lost in the dancing days : That his wife, named Adjubu;, 
was locked up lately in his misti-ess's house for six days, her allowance 
being only one plaintain daily, (complainant exhibiting some of their 



34 

plantains;) and that the veiy pot in wliicli slie got water to drink, was 
to serve her, by her mistress's order, 2iS ^ necessah^e : That lii.s young 
master is very good, but liis mistress is of too cruel a nature : that their 
allowance is very little, and that they get no clothing at all scarcely : 
Finally, begs that he may be sold elsewhere, as he is not able to bear 
it any longer there. 

" Negro Louis says, Mr. Hyneman bought him when very young, and 
sold him to Mr. Sanders; that from both of these masters he never 
was ill-treated ; but since the death of Mr. Sanders, his mistress treats 
them with cruel barbarity sometimes ; that every Negro is obliged to 
bring home twelve bunches of shingles, although other Negroes bring 
but six weeklj^ That their mistress keeps them the whole Sunday 
employed with all sorts of trifling works : that they get only three cas- 
sava cakes a week, with a little bit of salt fish : Finally, that they get 
hardly any clothes ; — wishes therefore rather to be sold than remain 
Avith sucli a cruel mistress ; as certainly all of the Negroes one day or 
other, after so much suffering, will run away in the bush. 

" Negro David says, that he is cow-minder to his mistress ; that 
lately one of the cows got sick, for which his mistress ordered the 
driver to tie him up as fast as he could, which caused dislocation at the 
time, and under which he is still suffering, (complainant looking rather 
sickly, and having the marks of his flogging still visible on his poste- 
riors;) that he there received 150 lashes from Andries by his mistress's 
order, who afterwards locked him up in the stocks in such a way that 
both feet and hands were fastened ; that his mistress says, because he 
is cow-minder she gives him no Sundays, neither any allowance what- 
ever. Requests to be sold." 

. Mrs. Sanders appears before the Fiscal upon two other occasions, to 
answer to similar complaints. On the last, 8th September, ]823, the 
following is the Fiscal's minute of the case : — 

" Complaint of the Negro David, belonging to Mrs. Sanders : — That 
he is too much punished with the whip and tamarind rods ; that he is 
employed to work in the kitchen, garden, and also as cook ; that he is 
swollen ; the soles of his feet flogged with tamarind rods ; that his mis- 
tress says he is lazy, which is the cause of his being flogged ; he was 
flogged with the whip lately ; he has a beating at his heart, the cause 
of his illness; his posteriors shew that he has been lately punished, not 
to anj? excess, but the punishment much neglected; soles of his feet 
examined, shew no marks of punishment ; the Negro appears to be in 
a dropsy, and as such is treated by the doctor who has charge of the 
barracks." 

The son of this lady undertakes to defend his mother. He says, 
" that the Negro is a very bad character ;" — that 

" Little or no work is done by him, for on the least harsh word he 
runs away; he is a constant run-away. My mother will not allow him 
to be flogged, because he bears the marks of former 'punishment so 
very evidently; he did receive a slight punishment for running away; 
this punishment was inflicted by two small boys with tamarind rods, 
and it was to endeavour to shame him. My brother brought him to 
town live days ago to cook, and why he has run away I do not know; 



35 

he was flogged by said boysunder his feet, rvith tamarind rods, 
on account of ms BACK BEING cut up.'" 

"nth March, 1819. 

" Plantation Gelderland : — Nettelje, Julia, Lea, and Mietje,GQ.c\\ 
with an infant in arms, complain that no time is allowed them to nurse 
their children ; that during the crop an equal quantity of coffee is ex- 
pected and required of them as from other women having no children, 
or of the men; that a similar task is given in weeding grass with 
the rest of the gang, which they are not able to perform, in consequence 
of carrying their children on their backs ; if they fail, thej" are beaten in 
the manager's presence with the handle of the whip by the driver Espe- 
rance. Nettelje and also Mietje were flogged the day before yesterday 
by the carpenter La Fleur ; they, with others, were weeding the dam ; 
they had made a fire to drive away the sand-flies; they were seen by Mr. 
Toel, the manager, suckling their infants ; he inquired if they had no 
work to do: they replied, they had just taken their children up, who 
were crying ; they were laid down and flogged ; their coats were stained 
with blood. Mr. Toel took the fire up, and threw it in the trench. 
Julia was locked up in the stocks because she did not keep with the 
rest of the gang, and threatened to be flogged next morning : she is a 
young girl, with her first child. Lea complains that she is not allow^ed 
to suckle her child during her work ; she was threatened to be flogged 
next day by Mr. Toel, at same time with Julia." (p. 13.) 

^^ Ja7te belonging to Mr. Bourmester, says her master gave her to his 
housekeeper Grace, who is constantly abusing and ill-treating her ; she 
is often in the habit of kicking her, and beating her with any thing that 
comes to hand, sometimes with the fire-stick, sometimes with a piece of 
wood. Monday morning she was sent by Grace to look for wood ; 
when she returned she took a piece of crab-wood she had brought;, and 
beat her with it, and kicked her. Her master was not at home: she 
got breakfast for her mistress and a gentleman, Mr. Harvey. After 
breakfast sent me for wood; I had just recovered from a fit of sick- 
ness, having liad a blister on my belly, which was not yet healed ; 1 
felt faint, and was under the necessity of sitting down to recover myself. 
When I came home with the wood it was about 11 o'clock ; as soon as 
I returned she began to beat and kick me, saying she hated to see me ; 
a boy belonging to Mr. De George, named Alexander, sav,' when she 
beat me, and a girl named Sophia, belonging to Sue Austerhera." (p. 14.) 
" Complaint of the woman Mitikie, belonging to Thomas C. Jones: — 
Says, Mr. Jones took lier out of the barracks on Tuesday ; after I got 
home he sent me to Mr. Henery ; he would not buy me. He sent me 
to another gentleman. I do not know his name, but he lives in town ; 
they both said my master asked too much money for me, and sent me 
back. I begged for a pass to look for an owner ; he said no, he would 

put me dQwn and cut my , and would give me more than the law 

gives. I was then laid down, and tied to tliree stakes, and Chance 
flogged me with a cart-whip ; I got a severe flogging ; I saw Mr. Lay- ' 
field at his door with another gentleman, and Mr. Kerschner, the baker,, , 
saw it from his window. Mr. Jones bought me from Mr. Logie, of 
Demerara. I have marks of severe punishment visible on me, old and 
recent floggings, all inflicted by Jones, 



" Exhibits her posteriors, which are covered witli a plaister^ by order 
of the doctor, and apparently lacerated to that degree, that tlie court 
judged it expedient to direct her not to uncover it." (p. 14.) 

Mr. Jones said he had flogged her, and broke her mouth for her in- 
solence. He had thirty-nine laid on her, and they were well inflicted. 
When he sent for her, he had no intention of flogging her ; but after 
sending her to three persons for sale, and not succeeding, he told her, 
she had often deserved a flogging; he then directed her to be flogged, 
and that they should be well laid on, which was done. 

Augnst23, 1822. 

®= Felix belonging to Plantation Scotland, states, 
" That he has had a Black woman upon the estate for his wife now two 
years; and the reason of his coming to complain is, that the manager 
of the estate takes her from him, although he has a wife of his own. 
He is always taking the Negroes' wives, particularly his wife (Felix's ;) 
for she has had a child for him ; and since the child has been born, 
the manager is always punishing him and his wife without a cause. 
Some time ago ten of the gang came to complain to their master (Dr. 
Broer,) to report to him that the manager had connection with their 
wives : their master promised to them that he would remove the ma- 
nager from the estate, and place another one there. Upon this promise 
the Negroes returned to the estate ; but since that thej'have never heard 
of anotlier manager. Felix and his wife are daily punished, which has 
compelled him to come to your Honour for redress. He calls upon the 
whole gang of the estate to prove his assertions to be correct. 

"^ On hearing this complaint, the Acting Fiscal proceeded to the estate, 
accompanied by Dr. Broer, the owner ; and on questioning the manager 
aird Negroes, in presence of each other, on the subject-matter of the 
complaint, it appeared that Felix had neglected his work, and was told 
he would be punished if he did not finish his task the next day, which 
he did not do ; and therefore supposing the manager would punish him 
h& went to the Fiscal to complain. This being proved, Felix was 
punished for his misconduct, and the manager severely repri- 
manded for taking improper liberties with the wo^nen on the 
estate, which it was evident he had done ; and Dr. Broer was there- 
fore strongly recommended to discharge him from his employ." (p. 75.) 
That Felix should be the person punished for misconduct, will ap- 
pear very extraordinary to all who have not imbibed their notions of 
justice in slave colonies : and it is the more surprising that the fiscal 
should pursue this course in the present instance, as some time before 
he had addressed a letter to Governor Beard, then president of the 
court of justice (p. 15,) in which he charges these very persons, Broer and 
his manager, specifically ; first, with greatly overworking the Negroes ; 
secondly, with severe flogging repeated on successive evenings, and 
with illegal instruments of punishment ; thirdly, with making them 
work on Sunday ; and fourthly, with considerably underfeeding them. 
The case was so gross that, notwithstanding an attempt on the part of 
the owner and manager to deny the charges, the fiscal ordered them to 
diminish the tasks of the Negroes, and to increase their food ; forbad 
their being worked on Sunday ; threatefied the owner with prosecution ; 



L 



37 

and told the Negroes, if their wrongs were not redressed, they should 
complain ai^ain. 

June 26, 1819. 

Brutus, a watchman, belonging to plantation Providence, com- 
plained that " the manager wanted my daughter Peggy. 1 said, ' No :' 
He followed her. I said, ' No.' He asked her three times, I said, 
'No.' Manager asked me again Friday night. I refused. Saturday 
morning he flogged me. This thing hurt me, and I came to complain." 

" Peggy being sick, Aqueshaba her sister attended :— Says, that 
manager sent aunty Grace to call Peggy, and to say, if she would not 
come I must. We said, daddy said must not go ; I was too young. Grace 
left us and went to daddy ; shortly afterwai'ds she returned and tried to 
coax me to go, but I would not, as my daddy had forbid it. Grace 
went and told manager; manager sent to call Fanny; Fanny went. 
The manager was up in his room ; and all of us, the Creoles, got orders 
to be watchmen at manager's door. I was watchman, Peggy, Frankey, 
and many more." (p. 30.) 

The manager of this estate on another occasion (p. 80.) laid a Negro 
on the ground with two drivers over him, who gave him 100 lashes. 
His innocence being afterwards proved, he went to the manager for 
redress. The manager told him, " if you do hot hold your tongue, I 
will put you in the stocks." He then went to his owner, Mr. Henery, 
who answered, " I cannot help it, it is not my fault, the punishmert 
you had was the manager's fault." As he could get no redress from 
master or manager, he came to the fiscal. The manager endea- 
voured to justify himself, admitting that he had given him thirty-nine 
lashes, (the number allowed by law for any or for no offence,) and con- 
fined him in the stocks every night for a week. The fiscal reprhnanded 
the manager for punishing a Negro on such slight grounds. 

A number of Negroes belonging to Mr. Elwes complain (p. "IT.) of 
the harsh treatment they received from him, and the slave Fanny, his 
concubine. They are half starved, forced to work till four o'clock on 
Sundays, and also on holidays. The children get no allowance of food 
or clothing, (even girls of eleven and twelve going naked,) and are 
marked with the bush rope with which Fanny flogs the-m. One boy 
eight- or ten years of age, complains that she beats him, pulls him by 
the nose in a cruel manner, and pinches hig ears most inhumanly. He 
gets no regular allowance, but lives on what he can get. His master 
makes him mind the horse, clean his shoes, burn the coffee, &c. &c. ; 
never gives him any clothes, and when sick, after taking salts, makes 
him still perform his task. " This complainant proves by many old 
marks on his back and posteriors, that his statement is not at all incor- 
rect, and that he has often been severely dealt with." (p. 17.) 

A Sambo girl, Betsey, belonging to Mr. I. F. Obermuller, says, she 
was washing a frock given her by her mother, when her mistress took 
it from her. She told her mistress it was hard to take her frock from 
her, as she never gave her any clothes herself. Her mistress com- 
plained to her master that she was insolent. Her master flew into a pas- 
sion, and kicked her on the belly, so that she could scarcely draw her 
breath. The next day her mistress tore her jacket off. She again 
alluded to the hardship it was to have her clothes taken from her, but 



none given her. Mistress again complained of insolence, and master 
flogiSfed her v/ith a rope, and made her brotlier Jacob flog her. For 
the least trifle, she and her sister are locked up in the stocks, some- 
times for three weeks, and fed only with two plantains a day. Her 
sister was locked up for a fortnight by her mistress, saying, she had 
made the bed improperly, thereby causing the child to fall. Her sister 
denied it. (p. 18.) 

Four Negroes belonging to Cotton-tree Plantation, the property of 
the Hon. W. Katz, complain of not being allowed time for breakfast ; 
that they have to go to the field before cock-crow, and work in it till 
gun fire, and then have to cut grass. They are confined in the stocks, 
and not allowed to go out, even for the calls of nature. They com- 
plained to Mr. Katz, and he flogged them. The charges are denied by 
the manager and overseer; the persons, in fact, who are accused; and 
on their denial, the Fiscal finds the complaint unfounded, and orders 
three of the complaintants to be punished with seventy-five lashes, and 
one with fifty, in his own presence, in the market place, (p. 19.) 

There are complaints also against Mr. Katz, from his estate of Phi- 
ladelphia. Amsterdam (p. 46.) says, the overseer " Davies is extremely 
hard against him, beating him on every trifling occasion. 

" Gave him last Monday twenty-five rods of a dam, and as he was 
no tableto complete this, Davies flogged him very much; after flogging 
he told him that he would go to complain, which brought Davies to 
such a passion that he sent all the Negroes after him to catch him, but 
he escaped, and came to town to complain. Says they get enough to 
eat, but no time, on account of Davies's heavy tasks, to prepare the 
same. Complainant, on showing his posteriors, proves to have had of 
late a severe flogging." (p. 46.) 

Murphy came to the Fiscal to complain, instead of going to Mr. 
Katz ; because three Negroes had gone to complain to Mr. Katz, and 
without sending for the manager, they were flogged and sent back, and 
the next day one of them was flogged again by the manager, (p. 58.) 

May, 27 1819. 

Seven Negroes belonging to plantation Rose Hall, state as follows : — 
" That they all were engaged by the manager to gin cotton for him- 
self on their Sundays, for which he promised each three guilders a day ; 
when after working three Sundays, and receiving no payment, they 
declined to continue with this work. On demanding the payment, the 

manager called the driver to give them a d d good payment. 

" That they are obliged to bring every evening, after their work, an 
uncommonly large sized bundle of grass (the measure whereof the de- 
ponent deposits herewith,) and that when the measure is not lull, they 
are obliged to search for more grass in the dark. 

" That in tefling his master the hardness of the service, he flew into 
such a passion that he broke one of his (complainant's) teeth. That in 
coming into the Negro houses at night after their work, and inquiring 
after their things, the manager, when hearing this, takes them up di- 
rectly and lodges them in the stocks ; adding further, that in case they 
are not satisfied with him, they may go and complain where they 
please." (p. 20.) 



Mr. Grade, tiie manager of I'Esperance, is charged by the 
slaves with various delinquencies. A pregnant woman, named Ross, 
was employed picking coffee with some other women. Thinking they 
did not pick enougli, or well, Mr. Grade ordered the driver Zondag to 
flog them. The driver did so. Rosa had previously objected to work- 
ing, as being too big, and being unable to stoop ; but the manager over- 
ruled the objection, and she went to pick coffee on her knees. When 
Zondag came to her, he said to the manager. This woman is big with 
child. The manager replied, " Give it to her till the blood flies out." 
She was flogged with the whip doubled. This was on a Friday. She 
was sent to the field on Saturday, but, being Seized with pains in her 
loins, was sent to the hospital. The doctor examined her, and ordered 
her to the field again. On Sunday she was delivered of a dead child, 
after a severe labour. The child's arm was broken, and one eye was 
bruised and sunk in the head. This woman had had seven children 
before by one husband. The driver, Zondag, and several others, con- 
firmed the above statement. The driver being particularly asked, whe- 
ther on bis representing that Rosa was pregnant, the manager had used 
the expression, " Never mind^ flog her till the blood comes," replied^. 
"Yes." (pp.25— 27.) ^ ' ^ , 

A Negro woman, named Laura, belonging to plantation Reliance, 
with a very young child at the breast, complains that she is not al- 
lowed to take her child to the field to give it the breast now and then, 
but is obliged to leave it with an old woman at home. When she 
steals from her work to the child, and is discovered, the manager flogs 
her. She brought this child into the world with great pain; it is of a 
weakly constitution, and requires a mother's care, which she is ,not 
allowed to bestow. The manager does not deny any of the above facts, 
only says, that the wo7nen ivith young children are not required 
to come out till half-past six in the morning, and they quit the 
field at half -past ten, return to the field at half-past one, and 
leave it at half-past five. 

The complaints are more frequent from Sandvoot, formerly one of 
the crown estates, than from any other plantation. " Caro his says, he 
is sick and swelling, and that he cannot woi'k, though willing. When 
he complains of sickness, the manager licks him, instead of helping 
him. Yesterday he was twice licked." (p. 33.) — ^'- Amsterdam .says, 
he is afflicted with pains in his bones ; he does his best, but cannot 
work as others who are healthy. Mr. Cameron licks him with a 
horse-whip, curses him, and when he goes to the iiospital drives him 
away." (p. 34.) — Mietje (vA^di her child Mars.) "She says she is 
willing to work when healthy. She went yesterday sick to the hos- 
pital. Instead of getting physic, she received a flogging. She is still 
sick, and has come to complain." (p. 35,)— i>«»i6er/ had a bad disease, 
and the manager would give him nothing. He ran away. His master, 
Mr. Cameron, states him to be a bad subject. He is admitted to 
labour under disease, but is directed by the fiscal to be punished, 
(p. 55. See also pp. 57, 59, 65, 75, 76, 77.) 

The complaints are also frequent from plantation Beerensteen, where 
some of the Crown Negroes are placed, against the driver Zealand, but 
chiefly against the manager, Mr. Deussen, (pp. 24, 25, 34, 36, 40, 43.) 



40 

Samuel cnmplaius aj^ainst his master Span^cnbur.!.';, tliat the Ne- 
Sj;roes danced during the Christmas liolidiiys i'rotn Sunday eveni'ig till 
Tuesday night. He proceeds thus : — 

" On Wednesday they went to Avork, but as some of the people were 
still inebriated, so the large task given them was not finished; the next 
day their task was renewed, with the addition of the remainder of the 
preceding day ; that he, acting as driver, told his master it was impossi- 
ble to finish the same; he (Samuel) himself being accustomed tothe field 
work, could not accomplish it, much less the women ; but his master, 
who knows very little of Negro work and treatment, insisted on the 
performance of the task given ; consequently the task was not finished, 
and principally the v/omen were sliort in this ; the next day they (him- 
self as a driver included) vfare all flogged ; the number of people work- 
ing in the field consists of four men and three women, and they are so 
overwrought by their cruel master that they are scarcely able to keep 
it out, which is the cause of their coming to complain, his master say- 
ing that he has no fear of fiscal or any one else, but that he will flog 
them when he finds it proper. The Negroes at present in town with 
their master, if called, would attest this. They get nothing but a 
small piece of pork, a little fish, two pipes, and some tobacco: nothing 
else ; no clothes or any thing more; they get also a week only a small 
buncli of plantains, and are generally very indifferently treated by their 
master. Wishes as his master is a person who is always flogging 
them, and who knows nothing of the work, that he, with his wife and 
brother, might be sold, being assured that they would be able to please 
a reasonable master, v/ho understands the working and treatment of 
^•laves." (p. 37.) 

Quamino complains of his master, F. Brittlebank's general ill 
treatment. 

"Says, that some time ago many of them came to the ferry with the 
intention of going to town to complain, but were prevented by the fer- 
rymen from crossing the Canje Creek; that the fiscal then came to the 
ferry and ordered three of them to be flogged, amongst which the com- 
plainant was one ; that after flogging, the fiscal desired his master to 
-dress his wounds well; but that, on the contrary, his master did no- 
.thino- tt3 tlaem when he came home, but rubbed his back v/ith brine 
4and salt; tliat 'm consequence he has suffered very much by this neg- 
lect." (p. 37.) ■ 

Scipio complains against the same master, Brittlebank, of being 
overwrought and severely treated. 

*' Came some time ago to complain, but was taken up at Jeifery's 
estate and confined there in the stocks for fourteen days : when he went 
home he got very severely flogged ; he was taken to tiie water side and 
there flogged for fear of the whip being heard; his private parts, which 
he exhibits, are so severely wounded by the whip he can scarcely sit or 
stand. The Negro appears much emaciated." (p. 57.) 

Martin complains against Mr. Davies, manager of Sandvoort— 

" That on Saturday he was almost unable, through pain in his neck, 
.to finish his Avork, but nevertheless completed it ; that last Monday he 



41 

went in tlie rnoming early to complain to Mr. Davies to give him pity-* 
sic; that Mr. D. instead of assisting hira, ordered Billy of Sandvoort 
the driver, with four other Negroes, to lay him down ; that although he 
told Mr. D. he was never unwilling to work when v/ell, he was. not- 
withstanding, flogged." (p. 39.) 

Philip and Leander complain of Mr. Luyken, the manager of Ber- 
tingdigheid, killing all their hogs. Leander had ten killed at one time. 
For complaining they were put in the stocks, (p. 45.) 

Jenny complains of her mistress, Elizabeth Atkinson, that she beats 
her unmercifully , kicked and trampled 07i her belly, locked her in 
the stocks, and beat her on the back. In half an hour she miscar- 
ried. Her child Philip is extremely ill treated, and is never allowed to come 
near her. The child is exhibited : marks of severe flogging over 
the whole body. Says she receives a good allowance." (pp. 45, 46.) 

Three Negi*oes come to complain of Mr. Calmer, of plantation Nie\r 
Stoop. One of them says, 

" That it is now the third time he has come to complain : that twice 
he has been flogged by the fiscal at the market ; that he told the fiscal 
the last time he went, that in case his master troubled him again he 
would then come to complain also ; that Mr. Calmer, the last time he 
brought him home, flogged and kept him in the stocks during three 
weeks ; after which, on applying to his master for relief, instead of 
gaining it, was severely flogged the next morning, and locked up in the 
stocks again; after having been there a long time, he was severely 
attacked by the scurvy, and although he begged hard to be allowed to 
go out and wash himself, was refused : he grew so ill, that his master 
was afraid of losing him, and therefore released him ; he recovered, 
although very visible marks remain on his back: whilst in the stocks, 
his master gave him nothing to eat; whatever he got was by favour of 
the Negroes ; he was not allowed to go out and ease himself, but lived 
in such a manner that it was impossible for any person to come near 
him ; his master bought a chain and block at plantation Zudwyk merely 
for him." (pp. 46, 47.) 

General Murray, the late governor of Demerara, well known by the 
share he had in the prosecution of Smith, the Missionary, has two es- 
tates in Berbice, Resolution and Busses Lust. On the 23d October, 
1821, the manager of the former estate, Hopkins, was reproved by the 
fiscal for having given three successive floggings to a Negro named 
ifcr«r^, who states, — 

"■ He has been flogged severely by the manager, on account of com- 
plaining he was sick, three different times ; once 12, another tiipe 39, 
and again 25 lashes have been inflicted ; shows marks of severe flog- 
ging, and much neglected." (p. 49.) 

On the 29th of November there is another complaint from the same 
estate. Michael says he is a Negro, and knows well he must work ; but 
that they work from morning till late in the evening picking coffee, 
" and when he comes home, between six and seven in the evening, 
instead of going home to get some victuals^ he is ordered to work till 
twelve at night;, bringing mud from one place to another. Also on 



42 

Sundays they are ordered to work, and it they should refuse tliey would 
be flogged. Philip niakes a similar complaint. — Thomas 

" Says he is an old man, and the work that the manager gives him 
to do is impossible for him to complete, from the v/eakness of his body 
and state; for which he is always punished, and kept continually in the 
stocks." (p. 50.) 

The result of the complaints made to the fiscal is seldom givftn. In 
this instance it is given in very laconic terms, and will doubtless sur- 
prise our readers : " Ttvo directed to receive SEVENTY-FIVE lashes.''^ 

Again, on the 17th November, 1823, at the very^ time when Smith's 
trial was proceeding, we have a complaint from ten wotnen belonging 
to the same plantation. 

" The governor, our master, wlien he purchased us, gave us a task, 
one hundred trees to be weeded and cleansed ; with this we were satis- 
fied: the manager, however, says this is no work, we shall not have 
task-work ; he gives each Negro, a row of three trees ; if we do not 
finish the work given us, we are made to do it on Sunday: Ziemene, 
Maria, and others wrought in the field on Sunday ; the manager had 
the driver locked up in the stocks." (p. Qi%) 

" We are content and happy when our master comes, who talks and 
laughs with us ; but as soon as he goes off the estate we are unhappy." 
" We have no time to eat, none to cook ; we have no eleven o'clock ; 
we are not wrought by task. Our master gave us spoons ; the mana- 
ger is dissatisfied with this ; he says, the governor is too good, he minds 
us as if we were children ; he says he cannot flog us, because that can 
be seen, but be will punish us with work. If any of the women be 
pregnant, no attention is paid to them ; they are wrought as hard as 
the others ; for that reason there are no children ; manager says he 
does not come to mind children. The rows given us have each 
sixty trees ; the bell is rung, but we cannot leave the field, because if 
the work given us be not finished, we are punished ; the punishment is, 
we are to finish our work on Sunday. We all have wrought on Sun- 
day; not one Sunday, but every one that any field work is left 
undone." (p. ^^^ 

On the 4th of September, 1823, a number of women, belonging to 
plantation Prospect, came to complain of bad treatment. The mana- 
ger, Paterson, overworks them and gives them no time to eat. " We 
are now planting and supplying canes. The ground is so dry we are 
obliged to throw water on the beds before we can chop the earth." 
The work tliey had done the day before was reported to the manager at 
noon by the driver. The manager was unable to go himself from in- 
disposition ; but he ordered the driver, when they returned to the field 
at one o'clock, to go out and flog each of the strong women. The 
women expostulated with him, shewing him the extreme hardness of 
the ground, which they had to moisten before they could dig it ; ob- 
serving, that if the cane plant were not well put in, the manager would 
again order them to be punished for that. The overseer, coming up 
at the time, repeated the manager's order, and six of them were laid 
down, and punished with twelve lashes each. They proceed : " We 
are too much punished ; we have no time to get our victuals ; we have 



43 

every niglit got work, whetlier the mill is going- or not, Sunday night 
even is not excepted, when we must bring firewood from tlie canal 
mouth. Tuesday night we had to carry corn from the great house to 
the horse stable-loft. We were employed at this work till near morning. 
We carry home wood on Sunday night as well as any other, and the 
boatmen are employed in bringing wood on Sunday as on any other 
day. If any of us go out on Sunday we must be back in time to bring 
home grass and firewood for the kitchen," After that we must still go 
to the canal for firewood for the engine. 

" Mr. Ross sends two bunches of plaintains for each Negro every 
week: one week the men get two bunches, and the women one; next 
week we get two, and the men one ; the rest are kept for sheep and 
hogs. Mr. Ross sends tobacco ; we get none of that ; we get no mo- 
lasses, although it is given to the horses, sheep, and hogs. If you 
are sick, or have a sore, and put in the sick-house, only one bunch of 
plantains is allowed, and the allowance of fish is stopped, Mr. Ross 
sends every thing to the estate very well, but we do not get it. The 
overseer's treatment is worse than the manager's ; since Caajee is come 
home, she is confined both legs in the stocks every night. Only four 
of us are allowed to take the magass from the engine; in M'Cermot's 
time there were five of us to do this work. Our rum has been stopped 
for the week. Last night we received orders from the driver that we 
were not to come home to-day unless we finished our work; we must 
boil plantains then for to-day ; the ground is so hard we knew we could 
not do it, and therefore we came to complain." (p, 60.) 

It appeared on farther inquiry, that they were well supplied with 
either plantains, or rice, or corn ; but no other part of the charges 
meets with a denial. The conclusion of the whole is thus given, and it 
will illustrate the nature of the protection which Negroes receive under 
harsh usage. Mr. Ross, the attorney, who was present, 

"Expressed to the manager his entire dissatisfaction of the women 
having been flogged prematurely, and at the Negroes being employed 
on Sunday night; and promised the Negroes they should have redress 
in as far as their complaints were grounded, but expressed his disap- 
probation of their not having sought redress from him as the attorney 
of the estate, instead of seeking it from the fiscal ; and this conduct 
having been also pointed out by the fiscal, as a want of proper respect 
to their master, who from their own account plentifully supplied tlieir 
wants, they seemed to regret the measure they had adopted," (p. 69.) 

Whether this be the same Mr. Ross who is proprietor of Calcaim 
plantation, we know not ; but the Negroes of that plantation also mdke 
bitter complaints against their manager. 

" When the sun is down, if our row is not finished we get flogged. 
I received thirty lashes, so did Joe. We are taken to the stocks at 
night, and flogged next morning. We told the manager the work was 
too much, that we had no time to get our victuals, and begged him to 
lessen the task ; this was the reason we were flogged. There are plenty 
of plantains on the estate ; the manager, however, only gives us one 
bunch, and that is on the Sunday morning. We are very well sup- 



44 

plied with lish. We are obliged to boil our plantains at niglit, and 
put them in a calabash to take to the field next morning ; we are 
obliged to eat them by stealth, we are driven so hard ; and before we 
can eat them they turn sour. When we come from the field, after this 
heavy day's work, we must work in the yard : the punt brings wood to 
the canal, and we must carry it up to the engine ; other times we must 
haul up bullet-tree to the sawpit. When we are grinding we know 
very well we must sit \m late ; and of this we do not complain^ know- 
ing it must be done. We have comj)lained to our master, and he says 
that the manager, he supposes, troubles us because we don't mind our 
work ; we had no redress from him." (p. 57.) 

These heavy complaints are referred by the fiscal, on account of the 
distance of the plantation, to Capt. Grant, a burgher officer. His letter 
of instructions on the occasion will throw no small light on the prin- 
ciples on which justice is administered to complaining slaves. After 
stating the heads of complaint, he observes — 

" It must be needless for me to request the most impartial investi- 
gation; and although I am perfectly satisfied that Mr. Ross ivould 
not permit his slaves to be oppresed by the manager, yet some of 
the charges of complaints may require redress ; and in such case I 
certainly shall recommend Mr. Ross to afford instant relief. I am also 
well aware and fully confident that such recommendation would 
be needless if the complainants had not lost sight of a duty incumbent 
on them, to have sought redress in the first instance from Mr. Ross, 
their proprietor, which they had ansple opportunities of doing by his fre- 
quent visits to the estate,"^ 

" If, however, you find that the complaints are groundless, I request 
you will, by every means, endeavour to convince them of the same, to 
point out, how very unsatisfactory, unpleasant and expensive such com- 
plaints must be to a proprietor of respectability and a good owner of 
slaves; and that although the complaints of slaves shall always com- 
mand my ready and serious attention, and that whenever they are 
aggrieved I will exert myself to afford them relief, yet that the duty is 
no less imperious on rae to punish such slaves, whose only motives in 
quitting their estates to prefer complaints proceed from idle and wanton 
dispositions, whose statements prove to be groundless and vexatious. 

" I would recommend you to direct the said Negroes to beexem- 
plarily punished in presence of the gang ; and otie of them having 
asserted that was the one that induced them to come to 

town to complain, he ought to receive fifty lashes, and the others 
thirty-nine each, ivell applied, and cautioned to refrain from 
further wanton behaviour, on pain of moYe severe punishment. 

" I also recommend you to request iHfr. Austin\ the manager o( 49, 
to accompany you, and afford you his aid and opinion in ascertaining 
the work done on the estate, and complained of." (p. 58.) 



* The Negroes distinctly say they had complained to Mr. Ross, and were refused 
redress. 

t Of this Mr. Austin, who is thus made Captain Grant's assessor, and in whom the 
fiscal reposes so much confidence, we have several notices in these papers. 



45 

The plantation Profit, in Dr. Pincard's time, was a model of huma- 
nity towards the slaves. Times are now changed. The former pos- 
sessor no longer lives, and the slaves are in the hands of sequestrators. 
The following is a specimen of their grievances : 

" Hutchinson, tlie manager, is too cross : that he will not give task- 
work, but works them by the day to that degree that they have no time 
to get their breakfast ; he comes after 11 o'clock in the field, and says 
we do not work enough; the driver must give us twenty-five lashes 
every day. If we are flogged, we go to the burgher officer to complain ; 
he gives us a letter to the manager ; but he says, I want no letter, and 
the complainant is laid down and flogged : two of the Negroes have 
letters they received from the burgh officer, which were given them by 
the manager after being flogged. We have no attorney, or at least we 
hear of none, and we have not seen one for five months; there is no 
fish noi- salt on the estate ; we have not had clothes, this makes the 
third year, nor have we pipes or tobacco; we make plenty of rum, but 
never get a glass of it ; if we feel our skin hurt us, and complain of 
sickness, we are flogged; he then mixes salts, jalap, and calomel toge- 
ther, which is given to drink. Rose went to say she was sick ; she 
was flogged with the whip, and is yet cut. The manager says we are 
making bargain ; we do not know what he means ; he makes us think 

— Bob says, "That almost three weeks ago, the manager Austin met him in the 
morning whilst going to the field, and without giving him the least provocation 
called the driver King to lick liim, which had been of such a nature, that he 
had been obliged to lay down some days, and on recovery thought proper to re- 
port this proceeding to his Honour the fiscal. Complainant's back has yet the visible 
marks of this treatment." (p. 31.) 

Trim says, " That he knows very well that a Negro is to work, he does his 
dnty, but cannot please the manager, Mr. Austin^ that the driver is continually 
finding fault with and licking him too nmch ; that when complaining about this 
to the manager he gets for answer, ' It is your master's work ;' says, that when Negroes 
are sick and go to the manager, instead of giving them physic, he drives them away 
with a horse-whip." (p. 41.) 

Rose says, " She lost her husband and child lately ; that the manager treats her 
very ill ; that the child whereof she was delivered died on the third day ; that 
the manager made her go to work too soon after her delivery ; that he locked 
her up at night in the stocks, and made her work in the day ; that she told Mr. 
Kewley, her master, repeatedly of the several ill treatments which she received 
from Mr. Austin; but as Mr. Kewly gives her no assistance, she is obliged to come and 
complain." (p. 41.) 

Again, Aug. 10, 1823, "Complaint of the Negro Harry, belonging to J. P. 
Chapman, of Demerara, hired to Mr. Kewly, proprietor of 49, Corantyn 
Coast : — States, that he is perfectly able to do his work, but not when he is 
sick ; that he went to the manager to say he was sick ; he made the watchman 
take me to the field, where I was flogged by the driver. I liad the fever two 
days; I went to complain; I was put in the dog-house, where I neither ate nor 
drank ; there is no sick-honss on 49 ; I could not eat nor drink from sickness. 
If a Negro says he is sick, two Negroes drive him to the field at five o'clock ; 
at night we are locked up : all the Negroes treated so. Some of the Negroes, 
from the bad treatment of the manager, have run away. One of Mr. Chapman's 
Negroes was flogged so often, and had so bad a foot, that he was obliged to run 
away in the bush ; if he is dead or alive we do not know ; he was one of the firemen ; 
and walked on his hands and feet ; he told the manager he could not stand 
to do work; he was laid down and flogged. Manager's name Austin." — 
Harry is ordered twelve lashes by the fiscal, on the statement of the proprietor, 
Mr. Kewley; which however, only goes to rebut a part, and an inferior part, of the 
charges. 



46 

upon what we don't want. Sandy shows some stripes upon his posle- 
riors; lie received them in the fiekl from the driver by order of the 
overseer; he says it is for work, as we make a bargain not to work. 
Having made our complaint to the burgher officer, who never came to 
the estate, but gave us letters which were not attended to, and not 
knowing that we have any attorney or proprietor, we came to the Fiscal 
to complain. We do not wish to run away in the bush, but we look 
for help. The manager came in the field the other day after dinner; 
as soon as he came into the field, he laid the driver down and flogged 
him ; next Sandy, and then me : I asked what I had done ; but 
four Negroes were made to hold me, and I was flogged. I went to Mr. 
Munro to complain ; he told me the manager could not have flogged 
me for nothing; I suppose you gave him sauce. He went next morn- 
ing to the manager, who said I had been saucy. I was locked up in 
the stocks day and night ; I tliink I was confined two weeks ; manager 
said I should stop there till Christmas, because I went to complain to 
Munro; I asked leave to go out to ease myself, and made my escape; 
stocks are now full of people. Hannah has a severe cold, and com- 
plains of pain in the stomach ; she says she is locked up in the stocks : 
the manager says if she dies, he does not lose his money; the Negroes 
went to complain to the fiscal, and he came on the estate, and what did 
he do ? Rose said she had a pain in her side, and begged for a blister ; 
the manager said he would give her a blister on her backside ; she was 
laid down and flogged, the marks still visible." (p. 64.) 

The Negroes of Plantation Foulis complain of Dr. Munro, their 
owner, that thej^ are made to work in the boiling house from eleven or 
twelve o'clock at night, till eight or nine the next evening. They com- 
plain also of want of food. The fiscal proceeded to the estate, where 
he says he ascertained that the complaints were in a great inensure 
groundless, but that some irregularities were chargeable on the over- 
seers, who were admonished, and threatened with dismissal if they were 
not more attentive in future. 

"Two of the complainants, who, it was proved, were guilty of inso- 
lence and disobedience of orders, were punished in presence of the 
whole gang, who were'informed that any real grievance they had to 
complain of would be always attended to, but that they would be 
severely punished whenever their conduct was proved to be refractory 
and disorderly. A copy of the ordinance respecting the clothing and 
feeding of Negroes was then handed to Mr. Munro, who was informed 
that penalties would be rigidly enforced if the enactments were not 
strictly complied with." (pp. 6, 7.) 

Sixteen Negroes, of plantation Herstelling; all unite in complaining 
that the manager 

" Turns the gang out in the morning a long time before the gun fires 
at the fort, and at day-light all the gang are at their work. At break- . 
fast time, when the bell rings, before the Negroes are able to put their 
victuals on thefi re, the bell rings again to turn out; so that most of 
the Negroes go in the field again without breakfast. He states, that 
the manager gives them more work than they are able to do ; and if the 
work is not done in time, the whole gang are flogged. That their al- 



47 

lowance only consists of one bunch of plantains, and a little fish eveiy 
week, anil no more. He states, that when all the gang are at work, 
and two or three of them have not finished their task, for the sake of 
tliese two or three people the whole gang are flogged ; this happens 
almost every day in the week." 

The head driver, being examined, states, 

" That on Thursday last he had a gang of sixteen men with him, 
weeding young canes in a field about 500 rods from the buildings. 
That the whole gang were at their work, and had got three beds 
weeded before the sun rose. An overseer, Michael Harrold, came to 
the field at seven o'clock, reckoned the gang, and directed the driver 
to see the work was properly done. About an hour after the manager 
came to the field, and ordered the driver to flog the whole gang, with 
the exception of one man, Alexander, as the work was not going on 
properly. 

" On inquiring into the truth of this statement, in the presence of the 
attorneys of the estate, it appeared, that although the manager's conduct 
was, in some measure reprehensible, yet the complainants had greatly 
exaggerated their grievances. They were therefore ordered to return 
home, on the attorneys promising to go to the estate the next day to see 
that every real cause of complaint was remedied ; and to warn the 
manager, that if the Negroes had reason to complain again, he would be 
immediately discharged." (p. 72.) 

On the 3d of March, 1823, nine Negroes, all women, belonging to 
plantation Port Moraunt, appeared to complain of the manager, that 
they are " constantly in the field from morning before gun-fire until 
late in the evening ; that the work the manager gives is too nmch ; 
they are unable to complete it, although they work during breakfast 
time. 

" Sometimes they are obliged to work on Sunday to finish the task 
given during the week; and often have no time to eat, from morning 
till night ; if the row is not finished they ai'e put in the stocks, and 
kept in until morning, when they are released and sent to work ; some- 
times the whole of the women are flogged for the sake of two or three 
not finishing their task. Last Friday the driver was flogged on account 
of his having allowed the women to come to the house to get break- 
fast, and they were sent all back to their work ; the manager saying 
to them, that they had time to eat at night, and not in the day. On 
Saturday last the manager went to the field, and found that they had 
not finished their row, and immediately ordered four women to be 
flogged." (pp. 78, 79.) 

" On investigation of this complaint," observes the fiscal, who, be it 
remembered, is himself a planter, "it appeared, 

" That although the tasks given to the Negroes of the estate were 
not actually more than they could do in a day, yet that the manager 
was very severe upon them, and too frequently inflicted punishment 
without sufficient cause: he was therefore informed that his con- 
duct would be vigilantly looked after in future ; and if he continued 
the same system, the attorney of the estate would be recommended to 
discharge him from the management." (p. 79.) 



48 

Such was the result of these acknowledged atrocities. 

The followihf^ complaint, from the same estate, was heard on the 
27th March, 1823, and the result will further illustrate the course of 
judicial proceedings in the slave colonies. 

" Ness states. That he is the driver over the women, and tlie ma- 
nager asked him last Sunday why he did nOt go to work, and he an- 
swered that he had not been ordered to do so, or he would have gone 
to work, as he did not wish to do any thing without the manager's 
order. The manager then oli'ered to flog him ; but he made his escape, 
and came to your Honour for redress. 

" The complainant i?i this instance was punished bi/ the acting 
fiscal for ha^nng left the estate and come to town to coynpluin 
without any cause, and when he knew he had been guilty of disobedience 
of orders and neglect of duty ; and the manager was ivarned of the im- 
propriety and illegality oftvorking the Negroes on Sunday." (p.79) 

The manager is not punished for so flagrant a breach of the law, but 
warned of its impropriety ! The poor Negro is punished ! 

But we have done, not because our materials are exhausted, but be- 
cause we have already swelled this Number of our Avoi'k to an incon- 
venient size."^ Last year Mr. Baring facetiously observed, that " wliat 
might be called our stock stories" were worn threadbare. He was tired 
to hear of nothing but Huggins and Carty, and Kitty and Thisbe : they 
were repeated in every speech and pamphlet, till they were fairly worn 
out, proving also the absence of any new facts of the same kind The 
fresh importation, of which we have given a specimen, will prevent, in 
the next session of Parliament, the offence to good taste of which Mr. 
Baring so sensitively complains. His commerce connects him with 
Berbice, the scene of these atrocities; and yet Mr. Baring, with all Isis 
assumed knowledge of the subject, was as ignorant of these transactions 
as the child unborn ; and would have been perfectly incredulous of 
them, had they to come, not from the fiscal of Berbice, himself a planter, 
but from some of those persons whom he unfairly and ungenerously I'e- 
presents as fabricating such stories in order to curry favour with their 
employers. He complains too of the assiduity with which petitions are 
got up on this subject. And does he suppose that such transactions as 
these, when they come to be known, will not rouse the public to petition ? 
The people of Great Britain cannot remain unaffected by such enormi- 
ties perpetrated on their helpless fellow-subjects ; nor can they continue 
to tolerate those fiscal regulations by which they are made to pay, in 
bounties and protecting duties, for the cost of this bloody and mur- 
derous system. 

* We have giveu only a tithe of the atrocities brought before the fiscal of the small 
colony of Berbice, containing about 20,000 slaves ! What a mass of horrors should we 
have had before us, could we have had a similar return from all our colonies, containing 
altogether upwards of 40 times that number ! Only three, however, of these colonies 
have fiscals, or any analogous officers, to record in any manner, however imperfect, 
such transactions 

This,andaU other publications of the Society, may be had at their office, IS, Aklcnnan- 
hurp; or at Messrs. Hatchariis, 187, Piccadilly, and Area's, ConihiU. They may also- 
be ])irocureil through auy bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti-Slavery Society throiighoui 
the kingdom. 

W, Tyler, Printer, 5, liridgwaler Square. 



London, 18, Aldermanhury , Novemher 30, 1825. 

No. 6. 

ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
last day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred. All persons wishing 
to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the Secretary, 
at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldennanbury, and mention the conveyance by 
which they may be most conveniently sent. 



In our last number we gave a large extract from a pamphlet lately 
published by the Anti-Slavery Society, entitled, "The Slave Colonies 
or Great Britain ; or a Picture of Slavery drawn by the 
Colonists themselves ; being an Abstract of the various 
Papers recently laid before Parliament on that sub- 
ject." This pamphlet is exceedingly valuable, inasmuch as it is what 
it really purports to be ; " A Picture of Slavery, drawn by the Colonists 
themselves." We can now no longer be charged with misrepresentation 
or exaggeration, or with giving distorted views of Slavery from the 
writings of those whose veracity has been questioned only because they 
were friendly to the cause of emancipation. The "Picture, is drawn by 
the colonists themselves /'and upon their own statements we are content 
that the validity of our cause should rest. We earnestly recommend 
the perusal of the work to every one ; both to those who are against us 
as well as to those who are for us, as containing irresistible evidence 
of the enormous evils with which the system of slavery is polluted. The 
following remarks, with which this pamphlet concludes, bear so fully and 
forcibly upon the subject, that we give them entire. 

" Having now brought the proposed analysis to a conclusion, we beg 
to offer a few observations upon it. 

" The first impression which its perusal is calculated to produce, is a 
feeling of surprise and horror at the extraordinary state of society which 
it developes, as existing in a considerable portion of his Majesty's domi- 
nions. The laws now presented to the public are not obsolete statutes, 
the relics of some barbarous age, dragged from their obscurity by a 
painful research ; they are laws framed in the year 1824, by men call- 
ing themselves Britons, and who, instead of being sensible that such 
laws outrage every principle of justice and feeling of humanity, actually 
hold them forth as models of enlightened and beneficent legislation. 
But if the laws themselves be, as they are, a crime, what must be their 
administration in the hands of the men who framed them, and who do 
not blush to boast of them ? 

" In the present analysis, as in Mr. Stephen's Delineation of Colonial 
Slavery,* the colonists are made to describe their own system ; the 



* Though no attempt has been made to reply to Mr. Stephen's admirable work , 



50 

proofs of its iniquity being drawn from the colonial law». from other co- 
lonial records of unquestionable authority, or from the evidence of co- 
lonial proprietors. We have heard much, it is true, of the improvement 
which has taken place in West Indian legislation, and those who deny 
it have been charged with misrepresentation. But the public have now 
an opportunity of judging for themselves. In the ameliorated slave- 
codes now brought before them, they will find the proof, the irrefragable 
proof, of the determined pertinacity with v^^hich the colonists cleave ta 
the worst errors, and most revolting deformities of their system.* — • 



it has been the fashion, with the partizans of the colonial cause, to decry it as 
containing nothing which is applicable to the questions now at issue. " It re- 
fers," they say, " to times that are past. A new system both of law and prac- 
tice has grownup in the West Indies. Mr. Stephen's work may be very correct 
as applying to a former period ; but, to read it now would be only a waste of 
time." Nothing can be moreuutrue than this statement, and the insidious pro- 
pagators of it knovi' it to be untrue ; but they trust to the effect of its frequent 
and confident repetition, and of that indolence which leads men to avail them- 
selves of any plausible excuse for not reading a volume of four or five hundred 
pages. We, on the contrary, have no hesitation iu affirming, that whoever de- 
sires to obtain an accurate and comprehensive knowledge of the true genius, the 
governing principles, the whole frame and structure, the nature and effects, of 
our colonial slave-laws, must seek for that knowledge in the pages of Mr. Ste- 
phen's Delineation. Nay, if any of our readers Avill only take the trouble to 
compare the legislation of our colonies, during the past year, with the principles 
laid down in that work, they will at once perceive how singularly those princi- 
ples serve to explain and elucidate the recent enactments, and how aptly those 
enactments illustrate and confirm its principles. Mr. Stephen's masterly pro- 
duction will be found to form at this moment the best commentary on the new 
laws which we have been analyzing. 

* By the new slave law of the Bahamas,^ § 10 — 13. Marriages between slaves,, 
and between slaves and free People of Colour, cannot be celebrated without the 
consent of the owner in writing ; which consent there is no provision for com- 
pelling the owner to grant, or to assign an adequate reason for not granting. 
Marriages so celebrated are declared to be good, valid, and binding, to all in- 
tents and purposes in the law whatsoever, " saving always the just right of 
ownership, which in no case whatever shall be in any wise hurt, prejudiced, 
straitened, or otherwise affected thereby," and " provided that the marital power 
and authority to be thus acquired by the husband over the wife, shall in no such 
case impugn, diminish, or interfere with, the rights or authority of the owner-, 
in any manner whatsoever.— «See " Slave Colonies," pp. 7, 8. 

§ 48. Any slave q^enwg- violence, by striking or otherwise, to any White pei'- 
son, shall be punished, at the discretion of tivo justices, with any punishment 
short of life or limb. 

§ 50. To a slave " fraudulently'" possessed of from five to twenty-eight pounds 
of beef, mutton, veal, or the flesh of horse, mare, mule, or ass, two justices may 
give thirty- nine lashes — if more than twenty-eight pounds, they may inflict any 
imnishment not extending to life or limb. — Ibid. p. 10. 

^^52 — 54. A slave -Aiding a slave to depart from the Bahama islands, shall 
suffer transportation, or any other punishment, not extending to life and limb. 
A Free Negro, or Person of Colour, doing so, shall be subject to transportation ; 
and, if afterwards found at large, to death, without benefit of clergy. A White 
doing so, shall forfeit £100. and be imprisoned for not more than twelve months. 
— Ibid. p. 11. 

That the Assembly of the Bahamas is not singular in the spirit with which their 
recent and " improved" laws have been enacted, will appear from the following 
extract from ^ 27. of the Barbadoes new slave law. 

§27. " Any slaves guilty of quarrelling or fighting with one another; or of 
insolent language or gestures to or of any White persons ; or of swearing, or 
xttering any obscene speeches ; or drunkenness ; or making, selling, throwing, o? 



■51 

That such would be the result of a reference of this great question to 
the decision of the colonial assemblies, we never doubted for a moment. 
We had been instructed by the wisdom and philosophy of many great 
authorities, as to the hopelessness of any benefit from such a course ; 
and we had the still more impressive lessons of experience to convince 
us that we could expect nothing from it but disaster, disappointment, and 
delay. Our opinions on the subject have never been more admirably or 
accurately expressed, than they were by Mr. Canning, in a speech on 
the Slave Trade made by him in 1799. " Trust not,'' says that en- 
lightened statesman, making the sentiment of a previous speaker his 
own, " trust not the masters of slaves in what concerns legislation for 
slavery. However specious their laws may appear, depend ripon it they 
must be ineffectual in their operation. It is in the nature of things 
that they should be so." — " Let then the British House of Com- 
mons DO THEIR PART THEMSELVES. LeT THEM NOT DELEGATE 
THE TRUST OF DOING IT TO THOSE WHO CANNOT EXECUTE THAT 

TRUST FAIRLY. Let the evil be ?-emedied by an Assembly of freemen, 
hy the Governjnent of a free people, and not by the masters of slaves. 
Their laavs can never reach, could never cure the evil." 
" There is something in the nature of absolute authority, in the relation 
between master and slave, which makes despotism in all cases, and 
under all circumstances, an incompetent and unsure executor even of 
its own provisions in favour of the objects of its power J' 

" The eternal truth of these maxims, applied at the time to the Slave 
Trade, loses none of its force when applied to slavery ; and it has been 
abundantly confirmed by the fatal experience of nearly thirty years, 
which have since elapsed, of protracted misery and oppression to the 
slave, and of unceasing resistance on the part of the master to every 
effort to alleviate that misery or to terminate that oppression. What 
indeed now remains to us, but to act on the wise and salutary counsel 
given to us in 1799, and our past neglect of which has entailed so many 
evils on the wretched African race? Let the British House of 
Commons do their part themselves, and let them not contiuue 
any longer to delegate the trust of doing it to those who 

CANNOT EXECUTE THAT TRUST FAIRLY. 

'' And this is a course which not only the Parliament generally, but 
those members of it, in particular, who are connected with the West 
Indies seem bound to adopt. It appears from the papers we have now 
had under review, that the Order in Council for Trinidad was framed 



firing squibs, serpents, or other fire-works ; or of cock-fighting or gaming ; or ot 
riding on a faster gait than a walk, or of driving upon a faster gait than a gentle 
trot, on any road, street, or lane of the island ; or of cruelly whipping, beating, 
or ill-using any horse, mule, ass, or other cattle ; or of negligently driving any 
waggon, cart, carriage, &c. ; or of any disorderly conduct or misbehaviour ; shall, 
on conviction before an^ justice of the peace, be whipped, at his discretion, not 
exceeding thirty-nine stripes ; but the punishment of pregnant women shall he 
commuted to imprisonvient." — Ibid. p. 19. 

By §§ 19, 20. of the new slave law of Demerara, the marriage of slaves is pro- 
vided for " with the permission of their owner," &c. ; upon permission being 
refused, however, the Protector of Slaves may call iipnn the owner to shew good 
cause for so doing. " Provided always, that such marriage shall in no manner 
confer on the slaves any of those civil rights which by marriage are acquired by 



52 

(with the exception of one point, that of the evidence of slaves,) on the 
suggestion of the West-India body in England. The plan, therefore, 
was theirs; it was adopted on their recommendation, and was supported 
in Parhament by their concurrence. It has been contumaciously re- 
jected, however, by the colonists ; and nov/ neither Parliament nor the 
West-India body can, with propriety, decline the only means of carry- 
ing their own propositions into effective operation. The measures 
already adopted constitute a formal recognition of the existence of cer- 
tain evils, which the authors of those measures have pledged themselves 
to remove. To this extent, therefore, at the least, we trust that the 
West Indians will support Mr. Brougham when he shall fulfil his pro- 
mise of moving the House of Commons on the subject. On them in- 
deed, more than on others, it seems incumbent to second the motion 
for Parhamentary legislation. Such a proceeding is necessary not only 
to vindicate the sincerity of their own professions in the counsel they 
have given to his Majesty's Ministers, but to rescue themselves from 
any share in that headstrong and ruinous line of policy which their bre- 
thren in the colonies seem determined at all hazards to pursue. If no 
one else were to take the matter up, we should consider the West-Indian 
proprietors in both Houses of Parliament as bound by a regard to con- 
sistency, and by a sense of justice to their wretched bondsmen, to call 
for the interference of Parliament. Not a few of them are the strenuous 
advocates of popular rights, and the sworn enemies to oppression, at 
least in Europe. Let them shew that the operation of their principles 
is not bounded by geographical limits, or by the colour of the victims of 
oppression, or by the degree in which their own personal interests may 
be affected by a denial of justice. They will then be able, when they 
re-appear on the hustings of those places which they represent, to vin- 
dicate more fearlessly and effectually their claim to the popular suffrage.* 
" We have hitherto confined our remarks to the single point of legis- 



persons of free condition, nor subject such slaves to any penal infliction, the 
efifects of which might destroy the rights or injure the property of their oveners." 
—Ibid. p. 40. 

Instances of a like nature might be abundantly multiplied ; but we refer to 
the pamphlet, where satisfactory references will be found to the laws them- 
selves, and to every document mentioned in the " Abstract." 

* One circumstance has occurred which weakens our reliance on the sup- 
port which the West-India body at home are bound, in consistency, to give to 
those measures which are indispensable to the adoption of the reforms proposed 
by themselves. On the 6th of July 1825, soon after Mr. Brougham had given 
notice of his intention to move Parliament on this subject, a General Meeting of 
West-India Planters was held at the West-India library, 60, St. James's-street, 
Charles Rose Ellis, Esq. in the chair, at which " it was unanimously resolved, 
That the West-India merchants, and other consignees of West-India produce 
resident in London, do charge in their accounts of sales, or accounts current, 
6d. (instead of 3d. as at present,) upon each cask of sugar, puncheon of rum, bag 
of coffee, and 1000 lb. weight of coffee, and in proportion on all other articles of 
West-India produce imported from the 25 th day of March last to the 25th day of 
March 1826, into the port of London ; and tliat the same be collected In such 
manner as shall be directed by the Standing Committee of the West-Indian 
Planters and merchants, and be paid into the hands of George Hibbert, Esq. 
the Treasurer." , 

Similar imposts we understand, have been laid in the other ports of the 
United Kingdom, into which West-Indian produce is imported. Nothing is 



53 

lation; and we think it has been shewn that it is the very height of 
fatuity to continue to look to the colonial assemblies for any adequate 
improvement of the state of the slave law. They are themselves the 
authors of every legislative wrong which is to be rectified, and of every 
oppression which is to be redressed. They consist, almost to a man, of 
slave-masters, or at least of the representatives of slave-masters, 
hardened by famiUarity to the sight of those atrocities which have so 
shocked and astounded the people of Great Britain. And they are 
surrounded and controlled by a population of needy, ignorant, and 
profligate constituents, who derive their distinction, from the utter 
degradation of the Negro race, and a wretched subsistence from the 
wages they receive as the drivers and coercers of slaves. 

" But the papers which we have analysed exhibit a view not only of 
West-Indian legislation, but of the administration of West-India law. 
Here a new field of horrors opens upon us. And here again we derive 
our proofs of the radical iniquity of the system, exclusively, from the 
recorded testimony of the colonists themselves. They are our witnesses. 
We do not confine this remark to those domestic punishments of which 
we have so curious an exhibition in the returns from Trinidad,* and of 
which neither law nor justice but mere individual caprice is the arbiter. 
We allude rather to their criminal slave-courts ; — to the nature and im- 
perfections of the judicial returns from the Fiscal of Demerara;t — to the 
trials of the insurgents in that colony in 1823 (which, however, are not 
comprehended in the returns that form the subject of the preceding 
analysis) ; — to the impunity of the White insurgents of Barbadoes ;|— - 
and, above all, to the reports of the trials of the alleged Black conspi- 
rators in Jamaica, in which every species of judicial irregularity appears 
to find a place ;§ — and to the barefaced oppressions exercised in that 
island towards some of the People of Colour. IF Let these things be fully 
weighed, and neither the Government nor the Parliament can hesitate as 
to the imperative necessity of radically reforming a system which pro- 
duces such abominations as have been detailed; — such perversions of 
the very forms of law to purposes of cruelty and oppression, as can 
only find their parallel in the execrated proceedings of Judge JefFeries, 
or in the practical jurisprudence of Constantinople, Morocco, or Algiers. 
" These things must come to an end, and that speedily. — They must 
come to an end, because neither the government, nor the parliament, nor 
the people of England can tolerate them much longer ; and even if the 
government and the parliament and the people of England should be so 
lost to a sense of their obligations, as to suffer them to continue, they 



said of the appropriation of this secret-service money thus levied by the man- 
date of the West-India club. But whether it shall go to assist in defraying the 
charges of contested elections ; or in rewarding the services of certain perio- 
dical writers ; or in paying for the circulation of such pamphlets as those of Mr. 
Grosset," Mr. Macdonnel, or Vindex ; or in bearing harmless the too rash and 
fearless advocates of slavery ; we trust it will only serve to stimulate, to more 
unwearied efforts, all who really feel for the interests of humanity and justice. 
* See " The Slave Colonies," pp. 110-114. t Ibid. pp. 29-33. 

t Ibid. p. 29. — See also the debate on Mr. Buxton's Motion in the House of 
Commons on the 23d June, 1825, § The Slave Colonies," pp. 51-53. 

IT See Anti Slavery Monthly Reporter No. 3. 



54 

must find their close in one of those convulsions which will involve 
White and Black, master and slave, the oppressor and the oppressed, in 
one common and undistinguishing and overwhelming calamity. Such 
must, sooner or later, be the effect of going on to delegate, to the colo- 
nial assemblies, the solemn duty, which parliament alone can discharge, 
of giving, to the Black and Coloured Population of our colonies, the 
protection of law, and a pure administration of justice. 

" We are at the same time, well aware of the preponderating influence 
which the West-Indian proprietors possess in both houses of parlia- 
ment. This alone could have prevented, for twenty long years, the 
abolition of the slave trade. This alone could, for fifteen years more, 
have paralyzed every effort which was made to rouse the attention of the 
government and the parliament to the enormities of the slave system, and 
to the utter worthlessness and the inefficiency of all the pretended im- 
provements adopted by the colonial assemblies ? To this cause must 
we also ascribe it, that almost every public functionary in the slave co- 
lonies, is either a proprietor of slaves, or the known partizan of the slave 
system ; — that not only many governors, and judges, and attorney- 
generals, and fiscals, and registrars are taken from the class of slave- 
holders and their friends, but that, even under the new order of things, 
this class has been made to supply protectors and sub -protectors of 
slaves, the very officers on whose zeal, fidelity, and disinterestedness its 
whole efficiency depends ; — that we should be burdened with imposts, 
and our commerce fettered by impolitic and injurious restrictions, in 
order to enable the colonists to perpetuate their demoralizing and mur- 
derous system ; — that the interests of one hundred millions of British 
subjects in India, in addition to those of Great Britain herself, should 
be sacrificed to about two thousand planters and merchants ; — and that 
all the benefits which would have flowed to us from establishing inter- 
national relation with Hayti should have been contemned, her overtures 
rejected, and her offered favours scorned, until she has at length been 
driven to throw herself again into the arms of France.* 



* No part of our policy is more inexplicable, on any rational principles, than 
that which we have pursued with respect to Hayti. It can only be accounted 
. for by the predominance of West-Indian prejudices and West-Indian influence. 
During our war with Buonaparte we might have secured to ourselves the friend- 
ship, the commerce, and the assistance of Hayti : we were deaf to the most ur- 
gent representations on the subject. By the exercise of the commonest courtesy, 
such as we scruple not to pay to the Dey of Algiers, or to the Ring of the Sand- 
wich Islands, we might have conciliated the attachment, and made ourselves, 
in some degree, the masters of the destinies, of the Queen of the Antilles. W& 
might have even succeeded in inducing its inhabitants to adopt our language 
and habits ; as, at one time, their chiefs would have zealously concurred in pro- 
moting every measure which vrould have served to detach them from France. — 
We repelled their offers of friendship. — They went the length of even lowering 
their duties to the extent of one half in favoui' of England, in hopes of concili- 
ating our good will. — We treated even this liberality with disdain, and replied 
to it by an Act of Parliament, which prohibited all intercourse between Hayti 
and Jamaica. — They still persevered in their advances : they still continued to 
treat our commerce with peculiar favour. At length our recognition of the in- 
dependence of the Spanish provinces in South America, without the most remote 
allusion to Hayti, whose claims for recognition were infinitely stronger than 
theirs ; and the renewal of the insulting Act, prohibiting their commerce with 



55 

♦'We trust that the eyes of his Majesty's Government, of Parliament, 
and of the public will at length be opened to the real state of things; 
and that, no longer deluded by misrepresentation, or intimidated by me- 
nace, they will not suffer evils of such magnitude, and of such malig- 
nant influence, to be prolonged for a day, in deference to the sixty or 
seventy West-Indians, who hold seats in parliament. Justice, huma- 
nity, a regard to our own honour and consistency, and above all the 
sacred voice of religion, loudly call upon us, without a moment's delay, 
to redeem our solemn pledges, and to take care that, " with a fair and 
equitable consideration, indeed, of the interests of all parties," " effec- 
tual and decisive measures" are now adopted " for ameliorating the 
condition of the slave population in his Majesty's colonies ;" and for ad- 
mitting them to " a participation in those civil rights and privileges 
which are enjoyed by other classes of his Majesty's subjects." 

" One word more before we conclude our painful task. A work has 
just made its appearance, of considerable labour, and considerable pre- 
tence to authority, containing 270 closely printed octavo pages, entitled, 
" Considerations submitted in Defence of the Orders in Council for the 
Melioration of Slavery in Trinidad, and upon the probable Effect of 
sudden Emancipation on agricultural Industry and British Capital in the 
West Indies, in a Series of Letters which appeared in the Star Newspaper 
under the Signature of Vindex. To which is annexed, the thirteenth 
Article in the sixteenth Number of the Quarterly Review ; and the ob- 
servations thereon, in a series of Letters which appeared in the New 
Times Newspaper under the Signature of Anglus," It is printed for 



Jamaica, left them no hope of obtaining that standing among nations, which they 
deemed essential to their independence and security, but by throwing them- 
selves into the arms of France, and by saci'ificing to her rivalry the interests of 
British commerce. It may not be known to our readers ; it certainly was not 
known to ourselves, nor, as far as we have been able to discover, to any mem- 
ber of the House of Commons, Tinconnected with the West Indies, or with the 
public offices of Government, that, in the very last session of Parliament, an Act 
was passed which contains the following clause :— 

" And be it further enacted, that no British merchant ship or vessel shall sail 
from any place in the island of Jamaica to any place in the island of St. Do- 
mingo, nor from any place in the island of St. Domingo to any place in the island 
of Jamaica, under the penalty of the forfeiture of such ship or vessel, together 
with her cargo ; and that no foreign ship or vessel which shall have come from, 
or shall in the course of her voyage have touched at, any such place in the island 
of St. Domingo, shall come into any port or harbour in the island of Jamaica ; 
and if any such ship or vessel, having come into any such port or harbour, shall 
continue there for forty-eight hours after notice shall have been given by the 
officer of the Customs to depart therefrom, such ship or vessel shall be forfeited ; 
and if any iierson shall be landed in the island of Jamaica from on board any 
ship or ve^::,el which shall have come from or touched at the island of St. Do- 
mingo except in case of urgent necessity, or unless licence shall have been given 
by the Governor of Jamaica to land such person, such ship shall be forfeited, to- 
gether with her cargo." 

When the date of this enactment is compared with that of fhe treaty which has 
been concluded with France, we cannot doubt that Boyer was influenced by it 
to agree to the severe terms which were exacted from him, seeing how com- 
pletely he was excluded, by that galling measure, as well as by our declining 
all ofilcial intercourse with him, from every hope of the favour or friendship of 
this country. 

And now let it be calmly considered what will be our situation in the West 



56 

Murray, and is addressed " to those Members of both Houses of Par- 
liament who, whatever may be their 'private interests, or preconceived 
opinions, feel anxious for the elucidation of truth in the question of 
West-India Slavery." It is an elaborate, ingenious, and humane at- 
tempt to quiet the consciences of those gentlemen and their friends who 
having private interests involved in the question, are desirous of having 
a salvo against the agony of self-accusation, and a plausible excuse 
to the world for prolonging the existence of that foul and disgraceful 
system. But all will not do. The national conscience can no longer be 
lulled to sleep. Its powerful voice will be heard, and will sweep away 
all such refuges of lies as would seek to reconcile the toleration of such 
practices, either to the character of our country, or the paramount obli- 
gations of Christian duty. 

" The grand object of this bulky pamphlet is to prove to the British Par- 
liament, that slavery in the West Indies is a better and more gainful 
condition of society than freedom. If this position were true, it would 
be an arraignment of the moral government of God. If it were as true 
as it is false, the people of England would revolt from the idea of pocket- 
ing the gains arising from such a hideous combination of injustice, 
cruelty, and crime. But it is as false as it is impious and inhuman. 

The pamphlet to which we allude appears to have proceeded from 
the same arsenal which supplied the materials for Lord Bathurst's speech 
in March 1824 : for the article on the West Indies in the Quarterly Re- 
view; and for the comments on the case of the Donna Paula.* 
One of the grand arguments, indeed the argumentum palniarium 
of this school, has been drawn from a comparison of the island of 
Hayti with our own colonies. On this prop of iheir system, much of the 
present production has been made to rest. But, unfortunately for the 
author, it had vanished from under him before his pamphlet saw the 
light. The fact that the population of Hayti had grown, in about twenty 
years, from half a million to nearly a million, had already laid the axe 
to the root of his goodly argument ; and the recognition of Haytian in- 
dependence, and the price which Hayti has been able to pay for it, has 
swept away the very last vestige even of the rubbish that had been fall- 
ins; around him. 



Indies, in the event of another war with France. Our possessions there would 
not be worth a week's purchase. The whole navy of England, and a fresh debt 
of one hundred millions, could not save Jamaica from becoming the revoluti- 
onized dependent of Hayti. Nothing, in such an event, could aver-t our loss of 
that anql our other slave colonies, but a previous radical change of, our whole 
colonial ystem. We must raise the free People of Colour to the full enjoy- 
ment of their rights and privileges as British subjects ; and we must proceed. 
With as \: ".'.^ delay as possible, to give liberty to the slave. If we refuse to do 
thio the catastrophe we anticipate may be delayed for a f6w years, but it can- 
not, in the constitution of things, be far distant. 

Those who desire to understand the nature of this new danger, and the means 
of averting it, ought to read two publications of Mr. Stephen, written upwards 
of twenty years ago, on the subject of Hayti, entitled The Crisis of the Sugar 
Colonies, and The Opportunity ; works which will now be found to wear almost 
a prophetic air, such was the accuracy of the author's knowledge of the cir- 
cumstances of the case, and his sagacity in appreciating their effects. 

* See " The Slave Colonies," p. 124, 



57 
ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING AT NORWICH. 



On Thursday the 20th October last, a County Meeting for the 
County of Norfolk, to Petition the Legislature for the Abolition of Sla- 
very, was held at the Shirehall, in Norwich, pursuant to a requisition 
for that purpose ; among the signatures to which, were those of Lords 
Albemarle, W. G. Bentinck, Stafford, Calthorpe, and Suffield, the Bishop 
of Norwich, the Members for the County, and upwards of forty of the 
most respectable Clergymen and Gentlemen in the County. 

Upon the motion of Lord Suffield, the High Sheriff took the chair, 
when the following resolutions (among others) were unanimously passed. 

1st. — That the system of slavery, as it is now maintained in the West Indian 
and other colonies of Great Britain, a system which degrades many hundred 
thousands of our fellow men to the condition of chattels to be bought and sold at 
pleasure — appears to this meeting to be utterly inconsistent with the unalien- 
able natural rights of men, with the benevolent precepts of Christianity, and, 
with those essential principles of the British constitution, which ought to secure 
to all his Majesty's subjects, wherever situated, an equal participation in the 
benefit of the laws. 

2d. — That we consider it our bounden duty, as Christians and Englishmen, to 
promote by all justifiable means, with a due consideration of the interests of all 
the parties concerned, the immediate mitigation of that system, and its total ex- 
tinction at the earliest safe and practicable period ; and that we cordially approve 
the resolutions to this effect proposed by Mr. Canning to the House of Commons 
in May, 1823, and unanimously adopted by that Honourable House. 

3rd. — That it is with the deepest regret we observe that the wise proposals 
made by his Majesty's Government, for the purpose of effecting the just and be- 
nevolent ends, have either received little or no attention from several West 
Indian Colonial Legislatures, or after consideration have been positively rejected. 

4th. — That under these circumstances, we consider it our duty to support the 
Government in their great object, and to petition the Parliament of Great Bri- 
tain to take such further measures as may appear to them the most desirable, in 
order to surmount the difficulties occasioned by so unreasonable an opposition, 
and effect the immediate mitigation, and, with as little delay as possible, the 
final and entire abolition of British colonial slavery. 

6th. — That the Petition now read be adopted. 



THE PETITION. 



To the Honourable the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Bri- 
tain and Ireland in Parliament assembled. 

The humble Petition of the Inhabitants of the county of Norfolk. 
Sheweth, 

That your petitioners are deeply impressed with the conviction that the system 
of Slavery, as it is established in the West Indian and other Colonies of Great 
Britain, a system which degrades nearly eight hundred thousands of our fellow 
men to the condition of chattels, to be bought and sold at pleasure, and which 
occasionally exposes them to the most grievous sufferings, is utterly inconsistent 



58 

with the unalienable natural rigJits of men — with the benevolent provisions of 
our holy religion, and with the glorious principles of the British constitution, 
which ought to secure to all his Majesty's subjects, in whatever situation, a full 
participation in the benefits of even-handed justice and equal laws. 

That your petitioners consider that the continued maintenance of such a sys- 
tem involves this nation in the deepest guilt, and that it is our own indispensable 
duty as Christians and Englishmen, by every proper means in our power, to pro- 
mote its immediate mitigation and final extinction. 

That while your petitioners cordially approve of the resolutions unanimously 
passed to this effect by your Honourable House in May, one thousand eight 
hundred and twenty-three, and while they are thankful for tlie efforts so 
wisely made since that period by his Majesty's Government in order to promote 
the great end in view, they deeply regret that the fervent desires of the British 
people, the declared sentiments of Parliament, and the strong recommendations 
of Government, have hitherto been rendered almost entirely abortive by a local 
opposition of the most determined and disgraceful character. 

That under these circumstances your petitioners beseech your Honourable 
House to take the subject into your consideration, and to adopt such further 
measures as shall appear to you the best calculated to overcome so unreasonable 
an opposition, and to insure the immediate amelioration, and as early as pos- 
sible, consistently with the safety of all the parties concerned, the final and en- 
tire abolition of British Colonial Slavery. 

And your petitioners will ever pray, &c. 

In the course of the Meeting some observations made by Col. Wode- 
house, in opposition to the resolutions proposed, were i'lilly and satisfac- 
torily replied to, by T. F. Buxton, Esq., M. P. in an eloquent, and ani- 
mated speech, which produced a most powerful impression upon the 
Meeting; and so completely was every objection overborne by the Hon. 
Gentleman, and his noble associates, and by the facts they stated, that 
even the gallant Colonel himself did not hold up his hand in opposition 
to any of the resolutions. 

The people of Norfolk have done themselves great honour in thus 
standing forward as the first to present a County Petition to the Legis- 
lature; and we trust and confidently hope that their noble example will 
be followed before the opening of the next Session of Parliament, by 
every county in the kingdom. 

This, and all other publications of the Society, may he had at their office 
18, Aldermanbury ; or at Messrs. Hatchards, 187, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill. 
They may also be procured through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti- 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 



London, : Knight and Bagster, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



The following Publications may be -procured as above. 

REVIEW of the QUARTERLY REVIEW; or, an Exposure of the 
Erroneous Opinions promulgated in that Work on the Subject of Co- 
lonial Slavery: being the Substance of a Series of Letters which ap- 
peared in the " New Times" of September and October, 1824. With 
Notes and an Appendix. 

EAST-INDIA SUGAR ; or, an Inquiry respecting the Means of Im- 
proving the Quality and Reducing the Cost of Sugar raised by Free 
Labour in the East Indies. With an Appendix, containing Proofs and 
Illustrations. 

FIRST REPORT of the COMMITTEE of the SOCIETY for the 
MITIGATION and GRADUAL ABOLITION of SLAVERY through- 
out the British Dominions, read at the General Meeting of the Society 
held on the 25th day of June, 1824, together with an Account of the 
Proceedings which took place at that Meeting. 

The SECOND REPORT, &c. with an Appendix, containing im- 
portant Documents illustrative, of the State and Impolicy of Slavery, 
and the means for its Amelioration and gradual Abolition. 1825. 

NEGRO SLAVERY ; or, a View of some of the prominent Fea- 
tures of the State of Society, as it exists in the United States, and in 
the Colonies of the West Indies, especially in Jamaica. 

AN APPEAL to the Religion, Justice, and Humanity of the Inha- 
bitants of the British Empire, in behalf of the Negro Slaves in the 
West Indies. By WILLIAM WILBERFORCE, Esq. M. P. 

EAST and WEST INDIA SUGAR ; or, a Refutation of the Claims 
of the West India Colonies to a Protecting Duty on East India Sugars, 

A LETTER to WILLIAM W. WHITMORE, Esq. M. P. pointing 
out some of the erroneous Statements contained in a Pamphlet by Jo- 
seph Marryatt, Esq. M. P. entitled, " A Reply to the Arguments con- 
tained in various Publications recommending an Equalization of the 
Duties on East and West India Sugars." By the AUTHOR of a 
Pamphlet entitled " East and West India Sugar." 

A LETTER to M. JEAN BAPTISTE SAY, on the comparative 
Expense of Free and Slave Labour. By ADAM HODGSON. Second 
Edition. 

SUBSTANCE of the DEBATE in the HOUSE of COMMONS on 
the 15th of May, 1823, on a MOTION FOR THE MITIGATION 
AND GRADUAL ABOLITION OF SLAVERY throughout the Bri- 
tish Dominions : with a Preface and Appendixes, containing Facts and 
Reasonings illustrative of Colonial Bondage. 

A REVIEW of some of the ARGUMENTS which are commonly 
advanced AGAINST PARLIAMENTARY INTERFERENCE in Be- 
half of the Negro Slaves, with a Statement of Opinions which have 
been expressed on that subject by many of our most distinguished 
Statesmen, including Earl Grey, Earl of Liverpool, Lord Grenville, 
Lord Dudley and Ward, Lord Melville, Mr. Burke, Mr. Pitt, Mr. Fox^ 
&c. &c. &c. Second Edition. 

CORRESPONDENCE between GEORGE HIBBERT, Esq. and 



the Rev. T. COOPER, relative to the Condition of the Negro Slaves 
in Jamaica, extracted from the Morning Chronicle; edso a LIBEL on 
the CHARACTER of Mr. and Mrs. COOPER, published in 1823, in 
several of the Jamaica Journals ; with Notes and Remarks. By 
THOMAS COOPER. 

A LETTER to ROBERT HIBBERT, Jun. Esq. in Reply to his 
Pamphlet, entitled, " Facts verified upon Oath, in Contradiction of the 
Report of the Rev. Thomas Cooper, concerning the general Condition 
of the Slaves in Jamaica," &c. &c. ; to which are added, A LETTER 
FROM MRS. COOPER to R. Hibbert, Jun. Esq. and an APPENDIX, 
containing an Exposure of the Falsehoods and Calumnies of that Gen- 
tleman's Affidavit-Men. By THOMAS COOPER. 

FACTS ILLUSTRATIVE of the CONDITION of the NE'&RO 
SLAVES in Jamaica ; with Notes and an Appendix. By THOMAS 
COOPER. 

RELIEF for WEST INDIAN DISTRESS ; shewing the Inefficiency 
of Protecting Duties on East India Sugar, and pointing out other Modes 
of certain Relief. By JAMES CROPPER. 

A LETTER on the injurious Effects of High Prices, and the bene- 
ficial Effects of Low Prices, on the Condition of Slavery. By JAMES 
CROPPER. 

The SUPPORT of SLAVERY INVESTIGATED. By JAMES 
CROPPER. 

THOUGHTS on the NECESSITY of IMPROVING the CONDI- 
TION of SLAVES in the British Colonies, with a View to their ULTI- 
MATE EMANCIPATION ; and on the Practicability, the Safety, and 
the Advantages of the latter Measure. By T. CLARKSON, Esq. 1823. 

The SLAVERY of the BRITISH WEST INDIA COLONIES De- 
lineated, as it exists both in Law and Practice, and compared with the 
Slavery of other Countries, Ancient and Modern. By JAMES STE- 
PHEN, Esq. 

DEBATE in the HOUSE of COMMONS. June 23, 1825, on Mr. 
BUXTON'S MOTION, relative to the DEMOLITION of the ME- 
THODIST CHAPEL and MISSION HOUSE in BARBADOES, and 
the Expulsion of Mr. SHREWSBURY, a Wesleyan Missionary, from 
that Island. 

THE SLAVE COLONIES OF GREAT BRITAIN ; or, A PIC- 
TURE OF NEGRO SLAVERY, DRAWN by the COLONISTS 
themselves ; being an Abstract of the various Papers RECENTLY laid 
before PARLIAMENT on that Subject. 

Extracts from the Royal Gazette of Jamaica, from June 11 to June 18, 
1825. 

THE ARGUMENT,— " That the COLONIAL SLAVES are better 
off than the BRITISH PEASANTRY," Answered by Thomas Clark- 
son, M. A. 

BRIEF VIEW of the Nature and Effects of Slavery. 

The IMPOLICY of SLAVERY Illustrated. 



London, 18, Aldermanhury, December 31, 1825. 

No. T. 

ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
la^t day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request af any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred. AH persons wishing 
to receive a regular supply are repuested to make application to the Secretary^ 
at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the conveyance by 
which they may be most conveniently sent. _ 



AMeeting of the Members and Friends of the Anti-SlaVery Society, was held 
in Freemasoii's Hall, Great Queen-Street, on December 21st, for the purpose of 
petitioning Parliament for the Abolition of Colonial Slavery. The attendance 
was very numerous and respectable. Mr. Wilberforce was called to the chair, 
and was received on his appearance with the warm applauses of the Meeting'. 

The following Report of the Committee was read by Mr. Macaulay^ 

REPORT. 

Since the publication of the Second Report of the Society, read in 
this place on the 30th April last, a large mass of most important infor- 
Ynation on the subject of Colonial Slavery, has been laid before Parha- 
ihent. A digest of the most material parts of these parliametitary do- 
fcuments has been published, under the title of the " The Slave Colonies 
of Great Britain, or a Picture of Negro Slavery drawn by the Colonists 
themselves." As this pamphlet has been largely circulated, it will not 
be necessary to enter into a detail of the statements which it contains, 
or of the fresh horrors which it developes. It has admitted us to a 
heal- view of the interior of society in one of the slave colonies, 
Berbice, where the Fiscal had been so attentive to his duty as to pre- 
serve some record, though an imperfect one, of the causes of complaint^ 
on the part of the slaves, which came before him. We are not to sup- 
pose that the slave system in this colony is marked by features of pe- 
culiar atrocity. The presumption, on the contrary, is rather in favour 
of its comparative lenity, because it is one of the few slave colonies 
in which the population does not diminish. We have unfortunately no 
similar disclosures from any of the other colonies. But when we con- 
sider what a mass of suffering is laid open to our view in the account 
which has reached us from this single colony, containing about 23,000 
slaves, being about a fortieth part of the whole slave population, 
how frightfully would that mass have been augmented had we received 
a similar report of the remaining 800,000 ! Over their sufferings the 
Veil of oblivion has been drawn. Of them no record has been preserved; 
We may imagine, indeed, what they must have been, from the glimpse 
Vvhich has been afforded us in the returns from Berbice ; but the full 
Mtiiount of their horrors can now be known only to Him whose eye 



62 

makes inquisition for the blood of the innocent, and by whom not one 
sigh of the oppressed is disregarded. 

Revolting, in every point of view, as is the delineation, contained in 
these papers, of the stale of British colonial slavery, as it exists in hxw 
and in practice, there is at least this advantage attending the nielan- 
eholy detail, that it serves amply to confirm the view of the nature and 
effects of that cruel system whieh has been sanctioned and circulated 
by this Society, making their statements to appear even cold and tame 
in the comparison. 

These parliamentary documents are particularly valuable, as exem- 
plifying the unchanged spirit of colonial legislation on the subject of 
slavery. The local legislatures have refused, without a single excep- 
tion, to comply even with the moderate requisitions of his Majesty's 
Ministers, as these are embodied in the Order of Council for Trinidad; 
and the colonists, generally, exult in the refusal, encouraging each other 
to persevere in the same contumacious course. Their tone of secure 
and triumphant irony is remarkable. " We beg you to observe," says 
the editor of one of their newspapers — and we give the passage only 
as an illustration of the prevailing spirit — " We beg you to observe, 
that not one of the unconquered colonies" (meaning the colonies having 
legislatures of their own) " have had the civility to comply with Earl 
Bathurst's wishes, notwithstanding he informed them, in the most ear- 
nest and feeling manner, of the serious extent of the disappointmeiit 
which his Majesty's Government would experience if they rejected his 
application. We sympathize most sincerely^ ivith his Lordship on thi& 
zmexpected event.'^ 

Attempts, it is true, have been made, by several of the colonial legis- 
latures, to ameliorate their slave codes ; and they boast of their new 
law as models of wise and beneficent legislation. But it has been 
shewn, by the digest of these laws already laid before the public, that, 
vaunted as they have been, they are nevertheless an outrage on every 
just principle of legislation ; and afford, at the very moment they pro- 
fess to protect the slave, a decisive proof of his utter want of effective 
protection, and of the depth of his legal degradation. And if such be 
the character of their recent enactments, deliberately framed in the 
strange hope of satisfying the expectations of the parliament and peo- 
ple of this country ;^if the colonial legislatures can have so egregi^- 
ously misapprehended the whole current of British principle and feeling 
— would it not be the height of fatuity to continue to look for any useful 
reforms from that quarter ? The work must be undertaken and executed 
by the British Parliament. They alone are competent to it. In no other 
way can a reasonable hope be entertained, either of effectually miti- 
gating the rigours of colonial bondage, or of finally abolishing that op- 
probrious state of existence. 

It cannot be supposed, that, in the hands of the men who framed, 
and who boast of having framed, such enactments, the administration 
of the slave laws should manifest any remarkable traits of lenity and 
forbearance, or indicate any peculiar respect for Negro life or Negro 
comfort. On the contrary, the parliamentary papers exhibit many 
atrocious cases of judicial oppression, which have taken place in the 
colonies, and which may possibly become the subject of early parlia- 



m 

Miehtary investigation. If so, we trust they may lead to the instiliititxi 
of some adequate securities against the effects, on tlie lives and happi- 
ness of the Negro and coloured races, of the blind and irrational alarms, 
and headstrong and ungovernable passions, of thq dominant party, who 
exclusively act as judges and jurors. 

But of all the harsh features of the colonial slave laws, none is more 
revolting to every feeling of humanity and justice, than that which makes 
the very act of complaining a crime in the slave. In him, even the 
murmurs of suffering nature must be suppressed. We may see this 
lamentable perversion of all established principles of just legislation 
fully and strikingly illustrated in the recorded proceedings of the Fiscal 
of Berbice; of whom, at the same time, it is but right to say that he ap- 
pears to be a person of much natural mildness of disposition. — Four 
Negroes, belonging to the Hon. Mr. Katz, complained to the Fiscal of 
harsh usage by the manager. On the mere denial of the party accused, 
the Fiscal punished three of the complainants, with seventy-five lashes, 
and one with fifty. — Again : three Negroes belonging to General Mur- 
ray, late Governor of Demerara, complained to the Fiscal of overwork, 
and want of food, and severity of treatment. Two of them were select- 
ed by the Fiscal to receive the torture of seventy-five lashes each. 

But it is needless to proceed. Similar instances might be multiplied 
without end. Nay, the very laws of all the colonies provide that, in the 
case of a slave complaining of ill-treatment, the magistrate mayj'if he 
deems the complaint unfounded, punish the complainant with the cart- 
wMp at his discretion. And yet, be it remembered that, as Negro evi- 
dence is not admitted in proof of the^complaint, the complainant has no 
possible means, should the accused deny it, of establishing the most 
undoubted fact. 

.Since the pubhcation of the abstract to which we have been hitherto 
■referring, another official document, of considerable importance, has 
been made public; namely, " A Report on the Civil and Criminal 
Justice of the West Indies," by the only surviving commissioner, Mr. 
Pwarris, employed to inquire into that subject. 

This gentleman, it appears, is the proprietor of a considerable sugar 
estate in Jamaica, cultivated by about 220 slaves ; and although we 
have no doubt that it was his purpose fairly to represent the case which 
he was employed to investigate, yet we must lament that it should have 
■been found necessary to select a person in his peculiar circumstances 
for this delicate and difficult task. It surely never can be expedient to 
place any public functionary in a situation in which private interests, 
early prepossessions, and the most cherished associations and attach- 
ments, may be found unavoidably to clash with the uncompromising 
claims of public duty. If his Majesty's Ministers have felt it incum- 
bent on them to determine, that henceforward no governor, or judge, or 
fiscal, or protector of slaves, shall be the [owner of a plantation culti- 
vated by slaves, it surely is still more indispensable that the persons 
who are expressly delegated to inquire into the abuses of a particular 
system should not be chosen from the very class whose interests, as 
well as whose strongest prejudices, are deeply involved in its mainte- 
nance. We have been almost involuntarily led to this reflection, by 
the manifest anxiety which the Report evinces to prevent its exposure 



64 

of the many evils in the judicial administration of the West Indies, from 
producing an impression adverse to West-Indian planters, or to that 
system of Negro slavery, which, as planters, they are naturally solicitous 
to accredit. 

The general view of the condition of the Negro slave, which the 
commissioner has in this case gone out of his way to give, is, without 
doubt, widely different from that which a consideration either of general 
principles, or of the facts of the case, would permit any disinterested 
and unprejudiced individual to form. — " The poor slave, if left to 
himself," the Reporter informs us, " is generally contented and 
happy. Possessing a spot to which he is commonly attached " — (we 
shall presently see by what tenure he holds this spot)-—" Possessing a 
spot to which he is commonly attached, looking to his master" (a mas- 
ter, be it recollected, generally 4000 miles off, whom he never sees, and 
cannot therefore look to, but) " looking to his master for support in 
health, care in sickness, and advice and help in distress and difficulty, 
the improvident Negro, far from pining in misery, dances and sleeps, 
trifles and dreams away hfe, thoughtless, careless, and happily ignorant 
of his own unprotected condition and of the impotent fury of the laws." 
This, be it remembered, refers more immediately to Barbadoes, the very 
colony where, a few years ago, hundreds of Negro lives were sacrificed 
with breathless dispatch, by the operation of laws which the Report re- 
presents as only impotently furious. — " A little more time, and a little 
less work, form," adds the Reporter, " the narrow boundary of the 
wants and wishes of the Negro." — And what has reduced the Negro to 
this abject and brutish state of existence ; a sta,te which this, gentleman 
considers as a subject even of satisfactory contemplation ? — And, sup- 
posing such a picture as this to be realized on the estates of. a few of 
the few resident planters, yet in what respect does it differ from that 
•vhich might be given, by many an English gentleman, of his stud of 
liorses, or of his kennel of hounds ? The comforts and enjoyrnents of the 
Negro, on the shewing of this Report, are, like those of the horse and 
the dog, exclusively of the animal kind. Are we, then, to shut out of 
our view that the Negro is a human being, born with the power of look- 
ing afore and after ; possessing the capacities of thought, intelligence, 
reflection; — -that he is endowed with desires, affections, cares, passions, 
responsibilities, and — may we dare to add — rights, — in compion with 
ourselves ? Shall we forget that the poor Negro was formed, like his 
master, in the image of God ; has shared in the same moral ruin ; has 
been redeemed by the same blood ; and is an heir of the same immor- 
tality ? If, then, the delineation of the Reporter Avere as generally true 
as it is notoriously the reverse; still, to level the Negro's highest enjoy- 
ment with those of the brutes that perish ; to make his whole exist- 
ence, its comfort and even its duration, to depend, like theirs, on the 
will, the caprice, the prudence, the health, or the life of another ; to 
put it in the power of that other not only to be himself the sole arbiter 
of the destinies of his slave, the food he shall eat, the clothes he shall 
wear, the labour he shall undergo, the stripes he shall receive, the 
indignities, nay, the tortures, he shall suffer ; but even to delegate these 
tremendous powers to third parties — what is all this but a cruel spolia- 



65 

tion of man's inalienable rights ; an impious usurpation, for which no- 
thing can compensate; an insult to the Majesty of Heaven itself? 

Some idea of the wretched insecurity of the tenure, by which slaves 
enjoy even the spot to which the Report tells us they are attached, to- 
gether with all the dearest ties and charities of life, may be obtained 
from the case of a Mr. Padmore, who was driven to the necessity (a 
necessity of common occurrence in the West Indies) of selling his estate 
to satisfy his creditors. " The slaves," it is stated, " he could have 
sold separately (detached from the estate), at a much higher rate ; but 
they came to him in a body, with most distressing cries, and threw 
themselves on the ground before him; when a spokesman, appointed 
by the rest, fell down at his feet, and implored him, in all their names, 
not to separate them, both from himself and the estate. They were 
ready to follow him to the other end of the island ; but if he could not 
retain them about himself, if his necessities compelled him to sell them, 
they besought him not to part friends and relations, husbands and 
wives, parents and children; not to tear them from their houses and 
gardens; but to let them go with the land^ He could not resist such 
an appeal, and he lost at least forty pounds a-head by it." (p. 22.) This 
occurrence says much, it is true, for the ruined individual who had the 
courage and the feeling to make this sacrifice; — but what does it say 
for the system? for that state of society, that state of law, which can 
for one moment tolerate and sanction such enormities ? Even Mr. 
Dwarris admits, that, by the law of Barbadoes, there is no express di- 
rection that families should be sold together; nothing in any Act pro- 
hibiting the separation of husband and wife, parents and children. He 
endeavours, however, to palliate the effect of this statement, by re- 
marking, that many of our other islands had adopted, with the best 
effect, a humane provision to prevent the separation of families. In 
venturing to make this statement, in which, however, we believe him to 
be mistaken, he ought at least to have named the islands in which such 
a provision had been adopted ; especially as, in the case of the only 
two other islands, Tobago and Grenada, whose laws he speaks of, he 
himself distinctly tells us that, " unattached slaves are ordered to be 
sold one by one, except mother and child under twelve years of age." 
(pp. 81 and 103.) We find him, indeed, even becoming the apologist 
of that general principle of separating the slaves from the land, which 
destroys, root and branch, even the miserable semblance of property 
which a slave can be said to possess in his house and garden. " How- 
ever desirable it may appear," he observes, "to prevent the slave from 
being torn from his home and garden, it would be found very difficult, 
consistently with a due regard to the interest of creditors,^' (the para- 
mount consideration, of course, in the minds of colonial legislators,) 
" to provide any remedy for the evil." " It would be unsuitable to a 
state of things in which the support of credit, and the security for bor- 
rowed capital, form i\\e first object of attention, and even of legislative 
care and provision." — The first objects of attention, therefore, are, not 
human life and human comfort — at least in cases where the skin hap- 
pens to be darkly tinged — but the security of credit and capital ; an^ 
that even in the estimate of this Report — a Report which, while it 
affords some curious illustrations of the regard paid to the Negro, as an 



66 

article of the master's property, one of his chattels, one of his available 
securities^ exemplifies no less strikingly the utter disregard of all his 
rights and feelings as a man, as a rational and sentient being. 

We shall say nothing of the scandalous abuse of those forfeitures to 
the Crown, by means of escheats, by which the name of the King is 
abused to purposes of oppression and wrong, in a manner altogether 
unconstitutional, as well as most disreputable : but let us take a view 
of the proceedings of what are called Slave Courts in Barbadoes. — 
" In case of capital offences by slaves" — and these are very numerous — 
" the court is composed of two justices, and three freeholders of the 
neighbourhood of the place where the offence is committed. These five 
compose the court, and are all judges of the law and the fact. They 
are not appointed to meet at any fixed time, but only as occasion re- 
quires. When the court is assembled, no indictment is preferred, or 
bill found by a grand jury. The magistrate before whom the com- 
plaint was made is taken to have decided that there is sufficient ground 
to put the slave on his trial ; and this magistrate sits upon the trial. — 
The evidence may consist of the evidence of slaves, but not upon oath, 
unless they have been baptized. They are sometimes sworn on grave- 
dirt, according to a superstition. A Negro's wife's evidence is admitted 
(against him) because it is in general a nominal, and not a legal mar- 
riage. In the case of false evidence given by a slave, the justice, or 
the court, before which the false evidence is given, directs the offender 
to be (forthwith) flogged. There is no regular record : the magistrates 
who try the case keep an account of the proceedings. These are not 
returned to any public office ; and, after the lapse of a few years, it 
would be difficult to procure evidence to prove a former acquittal, if a 
slave were to be apprehended a second time for the same offence, while 
neither the slave nor the master has any remedy for the malicious pro- 
secution of the slave. If the five members of the court are agreed, a 
conviction takes place. Upon conviction, senteyice of death must be 
passed. An appeal may be brought by the owner (but by him only,) to 
the governor and council. If there is no appeal, no copy of the trial is 
laid before the governor, or report made to him or any other superior 
authority, before the execution takes place. The warrant of execution 
is directed to the constable who attends the trial, and he executes it 
without delay. There is no fixed time or appointed place for the pub- 
lic execution of slave malefactors. That the owner may not be discou- 
raged to detect and discover the offences of his Negroes, a condemned 
slave is always appraised, and the value paid to the owner out of the 
public treasury ; but if the master has not duly provided for the sup- 
port of the slave, and necessity might have compelled the Negro to 
commit the offence, the whole appraised value is to be paid to the party 
injured, and nothing to the master." And yet "the execution of the 
slaVe may still proceed !" The trials of slaves in this island, the Report 
goes on to remark in duly measured terms, " are very unsatisfactory. 
We heard them pronounced ' disgraceful.' 'The judges,' it is said, 'are 
ignorant;' the proceedings are slovenly ; the charge, being unwritten, 
shifts with the case. A disposition to favour, where it exists" (and the 
Reporter might have added, a disposition to condemn), " receive no 
check for want of publicity. There being no assigned place or appoint- 



67 

ed time for the execution of slave malefactors, the wretched convict, as 
soon as sentence is passed, is fastened to the nearest tree ; unless, which 
frequently happens, the owner of the soil it at hand to prevent it. In 
such case, the miserable culprit is dragged from tree to tree, from estate 
to estate ; and in one case, of then recent occurrence, the constable was 
at last forced to throw the exhausted sufferer off the town bridge, secur- 
ing the rope by a lamp-post." 

Is it necessary to add a single word more to these sickening state- 
ments ? Yet we cannot forbear touching upon another subject. After 
the eulogy pronounced by Mr. Dwarris on the general treatment of the 
slaves in Barbadoes, the Meeting will scarcely be prepared for the fol- 
lowing representations of the same gentleman in the very same Report. 
" Slaves in this island," he says, " are without legal protection or 
redress for personal injuries."...." The slave has no remedy, in case of 
the greatest oppression by the master or his delegate, or the grossest 
injury by third persons ; though the master (in case of his slave being 
assaulted and robbed) may have reparation in damages for the loss of 
service, or the injury to his property, in the slave. The murder of a 
slave, wilfully, maliciously, wantonly, and without provocation, is now 
a capital crime. But there is no other legislative provision, restraining 
the absolute power of the master over the slfive, or inflicting punish- 
ment upon the owners or others, in cases of mayem, mutilation, dis- 
memberment, or cruel treatment. No other act of Assembly has been 
framed for the protection of slaves ; no tribunal is specially appointed 
for inquiry into their wrongs. A slave who is, or thinks himself, 
aggrieved, looks in vain, in this island, for a proper quarter in which to 
prefer his complaint. It can no where be received. Murder is the 
only case in which the law interferes." " For the punishment of gene- 
ral oppression a7id maltreatment of a slave, there is no provision by 
atiy law of Barbadoes. If inflicted by the master, it would be dis- 
punishable. If perpetrated by a third person, the owner would have 
his remedy by civil action ; but the slave would still be without redress." 
" There is not, in Barbadoes, any law regulating the quantum and kind 
of punishment, the hours of labour and rest, the provision of food, and 
(except nominally) of clothing. These are dependant on the perform- 
ance of moral duties, of which good men feel the obligation, but of 
which the breach is not cognizable before any earthly tribunal. A wicked 
and cruel master or delegate (so that he do not kill or maim * a slave) 
may inflict on him any degree of severity of punishment. No man, or 
set of men, has legal power to call him to account for working his 
slave as long as he likes ; for whipping him as much as he pleases; 
for chaining ; for starving him." ^' A master has uncontrolled, unde- 
fined, and absolute power." Where then, asks Mr. Dwarris, very justly, 
however inconsistently, " where then is the protection of the slave, and 
where, in case of accident, the justification of the master V " In a 
case even of a very grievous bodily injury, inflicted upon a slave by a 
manager, the sufferer himself, or his slave brethren who were present, 
cannot give evidence, even though all the free persons on the premises 

* The exception of maiming is inconsistent with the other statements of Mr. 
Dwarris, 



68 

should have been designedly sent out of the way. In such a case, a 
slave is not allowed to be a prosecutor. Maimed, mutilated, disfigured, 
dismembered," (I am putting, says Mr. Dwarris, the most aggravated 
case), "his wounds must be the only tongue permitted to relate his 
wrongs." These, however, will speak for him here, if they do not 
speak for him in the colonies. 

But to proceed ; " It is generally held," says the Report, " as a 
principle in slave colonies, that slaves cannot acquire property, except 
for the benefit of their owners. By law they cannot, but only by indul- 
gence." p. 111. Again, the slave has not any means of acquiring 
his freedom without the consent of the master. There is no redemption 
of the slave in this island by force of law ;" (nor in Tobago and Gren- 
ada, nor, indeed, in any of the islands ;) and " every negro is presumed 
to be a slave, unless he can legally prove the contrary." 

To much the same effect is the view given of the legal rights of 
slaves in Tobago and Grenada. In the former island, the chief justice, 
Mr. Pigott, testifies as follows : "A manager sent all free persons out of 
the way, and then gave a Negro 150 lashes. The Negro was brought, 
in a state of which he might have died, to us, the sitting magistrates. 
We had no means of proving it. I proposed a bill to admit slave evi- 
dence, or to make the accused purge himself on oath. The bill was 
not approved." The testimony of the attorney-general of Tobago is to 
the same effect : " / know," he says, " as a magistrate, cases of ex- 
treme cruelty that have passed uupunished Jbr want of slave evidence." 
" It is very common, when they wish to be cruel, to send free persons 
out of the way. / have known many such cases. I think it a very 
common cause of discontent among the slaves, that, when they have 
been ill treated, and bring their fellow-slaves as evidence, such witnesses 
cannot be received. They go away with a feeling of injustice." The 
same gentleman has since expressed an opinion that by the new 
Tobago act, " the power of the master has been limited in almost every 
point essential to the well-being and comfort of the slave." This opi- 
nion only shews how easily some men may be satisfied with the shew 
of Reform. Lord Bathurst wisely disallowed the very act which the 
attorney-general thus commends. 

The Report from Grenada, though varying in a few points, is not 
more favourable than that from Tobago. Some of the Grenada laws 
are extremely harsh, and even manifest what may be properly called a' 
wantonness of severity. And as for the appointment of guardians of 
slaves, of which we have heard so loud a boast, it is admitted by the 
present Report to be inefficacious. No independent men, we are ex- 
pressly told, can be found to fill the situation, but it is filled by over- 
seers or managers, who cannot be expected to denounce their employ- 
ers ; and "in all cases between Black or Coloured persons and Whites," 
observes the attorney-general, " the prejudice of juries is very strong in 
favour of Whites." 

Neither in Tobago, nor in Grenada, " are there any public institu- 
tions, by which infant or adult slaves are instructed in religious princi- 
ples or useful knowledge. There are no Sunday-schools." The Wes- 
leyan Methodists alone have given any instruction to the slaves of these 
islands. In Barbadoes, only one school is said to exist for Black or 



69 

poloured children, though the Black and Coloured population is about 
90,000. 

Such are some of the material facts brought to light, in the most 
authentic form, by this recent Report; in which, however, we must 
admit that many opinions are expressed which are exceedingly difficult 
to reconcile with those facts, or, indeed, with the notorious realities of 
the case. Take an ejcample :-^-Mr. Dwarris states it to be the only just 
ground of complaint against the present inhabitants of Barbadoes, 
that they had not repealed a certain act, which inflicts the punishment 
pf slitting the nose, and burning the face with a hot iron on a Negro 
who strikes a Christian a second time. But when Mr. Dwarris thus 
sweepingly cleared the Barbadians from every other charge, had he 
not heard of the atrocities of 1804, reported by Lord Seaforth ? — of the 
Tvholesale massacres of slaves in 1816? — of the destruction of the 
Methodist chapel, and the expulsion of the Missionary in 1823? — or of 
their new slave law of 1824? — And is it not this very gentleman, 
whose report of the Barbadoes slave courts, and of the summary and 
brutal executions of their convicts, and of the unprotected state of the 
whole slave population, we have just been reading? How are we to 
explain such strange incongruities as these ? 

But it would require far too detailed a statement, were we to go 
through all the inconsistencies and incorrectnesses which might be 
pointed out in this, in some respects, invaluable Report. On the whole, 
however, we are extremely thankful for its appearance, and we cannot 
^oubt that it will do much to open the eyes of the public to the multi- 
plied abominations of this nnchristian and merciless system. 

Never, however, let the people of England forget, that of this un- 
christian and merciless system they will continue to be the criminal 
upholders, if they now refrain from lifting up their voice against it; or 
^f they silently acquiesce in contributing, as they now do, largely and 
directly to its support. On this part of the subject, however, we mean 
not now to enlarge, In the Second Report of the Society, the question 
of bounties and protecting duties was amply discussed ; and not only 
their impolicy, but their malign and wasting influence on the happiness 
and increase of the slave population, as well as their pernicious effects 
even on the interests of the masters, were fully and, as we believe, 
most inqontrovertibly established. We will therefore now content our- 
selves with remarking, that it is absolutely vain for us to be hopino- 
to succeed in abolishing slavery ; or to expect that by the vehemence 
of our speeches^, or by the strength of our resolutions, or even by the 
severity of our enactments, we shall be able very materially to abate 
this evil, if we continue, as we now do, to extend to the slave-holder 
those solid marks of our favour which are conveyed to him in bounties 
and protecting duties; thus supplying to him the very means of main- 
taining his iniquitous system, against the united wishes of the parlia- 
ment and the people of England. 

And [now, after the statement which has just been given, combined 
with all our previous information, are we not entitled to call upon the 
people of England to come forward to strengthen the hands of the go- 
vernment, in the righteous work of carrying into effect the hitherto 
abortive resolutions of Parlirment on the subject of Colonial Slavery ? 



70 - 

We call upon them therefore to assemble in every county, and city, and 
town, and even village of the United Kingdom, in order to testify their 
abhorrence of this impious system, and to implore of the Legislature, 
respectfully indeed, but most earnestly to relieve them from its guilt 
and its burden. Let no man in this free and happy country, where the 
voice of the very meanest has its appropriate weight in Parliament, 
imagine that he can discharge himself from the performance of this so- 
lemn duty; or — should his application to Parliament fail of its effect — 
from adopting every other expedient in his power, such as abstinence 
from slave-grown sugar, the promotion of cultivation by free labour, &c. 
for wiping away this foul stain from the national character. And we 
would address this call to men of all political parties in the state. 
"Those of every party who have sympathized with the victims of despo- 
tism in Spain, in Italy, and in Greece, have now an opportunity of com- 
bining to deliver 830,000 of their own fellow-subjects from a still more 
grievous despotism. The friends of the Government are bound to see 
its orders I'espected, and to repress that insubordinate and contumelious 
spirit in tlie colonists which would set them at nought. The members 
of the Opposition are bound by all their professed principles, and by all 
the recollections which are associated with the venerated name of Fox, 
to unite hand and heart in undoing the fetters of our own fellow- 
subjects. Above all (to avail ourselves of the language of one of the 
ablest advocates of this cause) — ^above all, we would call on Christians 
of every name to come forward to lend their aid as one man to deliver 
their country from this great national iniquity — " to reform this cruel 
and impious system which shuts out the liglitof the gospel ; which vio- 
lates, in the grossest manner, all its precepts ; which keeps, in a cruel 
thraldom, the minds as well as bodies of its unfortunate victims; and 
which adds to its other enormities the fierceness of anti-christian per- 
secution. There would surely be an inconsistency in the charitable 
efforts now making to convert our fellow-creatures in the most distant 
regions of the globe, while we suffer our fellow-subjects to be kept in 
pagan darkness, and the vilest moral degradation, not by choice but by 
compulsion, through a domestic tyranny, which our own power, within 
our own territories alone upholds." To all then we would say, in con- 
clusion, in the words of the same eloquent writer, " Come forward with 
your petitions. Instruct your representatives. Give or withhold your 
suffrages for the next Parliament, and use your personal influence 
throughout the country ; all in such a manner as may best promote the 
success of this great and sacred cause. If you succeed, you will give 
a new triumph to the British Constitution. You will exalt the glory of 
your country, in that best point, her moral elevation, and recommend 
her to the favour of Heaven. If you fail, you will at least have the 
inestimable consolation that you have done what you could ' to undo 
the heavy burden, and to let the oppressed go free;' and that the sins 
and calamities of your country, however pernicious in their consequences 
to yourselves or your children, were evils which you could not avert." 

One word more ; we rejoice to be able to report, that the number of 
associations, and especially of Ladies' associations, for the abolition of 
slavery, has been increasing of late. We trust that they will be largely 
multiplied both in the metropolis and in the country at large. 



71 

The present meeting, for the purpose of petitioning Parliament, has, 
we are also happy to say, been anticipated in several places, by the im- 
pulse of that popular feeling which furnishes the best pledge of our 
ultimate success. In this important line of service Norfolk has taken 
the lead, and has been followed by the city of Norwich, by Birmingham, 
by Hull, by Beverley, by Derby, and by Ipswich; as it had been pre- 
ceded, though notfor the purpose ofpetitioning, by Edinburgh. In all these 
places our cause has been advocated with remarkable power and effect, 
and has happily united the general suffrage. The Corporation of the 
City of London has signalized itself by its zeal in the sarhe cause, and 
we are anxious to record the high sense we entertain of the advantage 
whicli has accrued to it from tlie nearly unanimous and energetic 
declaration of the chief authorities of the first commercial eity in the 
world, against the principle of colonial monopoly, and in favour of the 
claims of injured and outraged humanity. The influence of their high 
example will, we trust, induce the mercantile and manufacturing olasses, 
throughout the kingdom, to come forward and vindicate the commercial 
character of this country from the discredit, and its commercial interests 
from the injury, caused by the prolongation of the existing colonial evils. 

It would be ingratitude in this connexion to withhold our warm ac- 
knowledgments of the great services which have been rendered to our 
common cause, since we last met, by the able, zealous, indefatigable, and 
successful efforts of Mr. Cropper of Liverpool. 

These various indications of the general sympathy in our labours are 
strong incentives to perseverance. And we must all feel it as not among 
the least cheering and encouraging circumstances, which we are called 
to acknowledge with gTatitude to the Giver of all good, that we should 
once more behold among us, and in the chair of this assembly, that 
loved and revered individual, dear to all to whom the interests of hu- 
manity are dear ; who, having consecrated the strength and flower of 
his days to the vindication of the Avronged and degraded African, and 
having at length signally triumphed in the protracted and painful conflict ; 
now, though bending under the weight of added years, still marshals 
our way, as we trust, to victory in a no less arduous struggle — in the 
endeavour to break the yoke of the oppressor, and to achieve the rescue 
of the oppressed, in every corner of the British dominions. May it 
please God to spare him to witness the final consummation of thislabour 
of love and mercy ! 



The following Resolutions, were unanimously adopted by the Meeting : 

That this Meeting desire to express, in strong terms, both their satisfaction 
with the Resolutions on the subject of Colonial Slavery, which, on the motion 
of Mr. Canning, were unanimously adopted by Parliament, and their high 
sense of the ability, promptitude, and zeal with which, as appears from the ofli- 
cial correspondence of Earl Bathurst with the Colonies, his Majesty's Ministers 
have laboured to carry these Parliamentary Resolutions into effect ; and they 
deeply lament that the opposition of the Colonial Authorities has hitherto suc- 
ceeded in almost wholly frustrating their benevolent purposes and efforts. 

That the various official documents on the subject of Slavery, and the treat- 
ment of Slaves, recently laid before Parliament by his Majesty's Ministers, 
afford additional and incontestible evidence of the injustice and cruelty of the 
system of Slavery now prevailing in the Colonies, and renders desperate the 
hope of its extinction, or even of its effectual mitigation, without the direct and 
authoritative interference of the Imperial Legislature, 



72 

That from the same authentic sources of information, tltis Meetiog^have learnt 
with regret, though not with surprise, that the Colonial Legislatures have eithei 
treated the recorded wishes of Parliament, and the beneficent recommendations 
and urgent remonstrances of his Majesty's Government with neglect, or have 
met them with decided opposition ; and that even in those Colonies where at- 
tempts have been made to frame an ameliorated Slave Code, the new enactments 
manifest the same substantial disregard of the most sacred principles of justice 
which characterised the old ; that the existing laws, in their practical adminis- 
tration, evidently afford no effectual protection to the Slaves, and have beeii 
made, on many recent occasions, an instrument of the most grievous judicial op-: 
pression ; and that the general treatment of the Slaves continues to exhibit th^ 
same harsh and disgusting effects of the domestic despotism prevailing in the 
Colonies, which first excited the indignant feelings of the British Public, and 
which should now lead to a fixed determination, on the part of every individual 
who values British freedom, or the blessings of Christianity, to do his utmost td 
prevent their continuance. 

That this Meeting are further anxious to record their conviction that this un- 
just and immoral system, as it exists in the British Colonies, derives great sup- 
port from those commercial regulations, which, by conferring bounties, and pro- 
tecting duties on the produce of Slave Labour, not only materially enhance itai 
price to the British consumer, but increase the miseries of the Slavesj and ren- 
der their liberation more difficult. 

That if called upon by Parliament to contribute to the same, or even to a much 
larger extent, for the purpose of extinguishing Slavery, than they ndw pay fof" 
its support, this meeting would cheerfully obey the call; but that to the exist- 
ing regulations of the Colonial Trade they entertain insuperable objections ; be- 
cause while these regulations violate the recognised principles of sound com- 
mercial policy, and impose on the nation a heavy pecuniary burden for the main- 
tenance of Slavery, they tend to counteract the hope Of its reformation, they 
serve to aggravate and perpetuate its evils ; and they involve the people of this 
country still more deeply in the guilt of upholding it. 

That it appears to this Meeting to be their bounden duty, and that of every 
individual who acknowleges the claims of humanity and justice, to promote 
with all their influence the fulfilment of the pledge given by the Government and 
Parliament in 1823, on this subject ; and for that ptirpose to lose no time in ear-^ 
nestly and respectfully petitioning both Houses of Parliament, that they will 
be pleased to take the great work of Colonial Reformation into their own bands ; 
and in accordance with their own Resolutions, and the wishes and prayers of 
the nation at large, to bring the state of Slavery itself to the earliest practicable 
termination in every part of his Majesty's Dominions. 

A Petition founded 07i these Resolutions was unanimously adopted^ 
and it was further resolved, 

That his Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester, whose unavoidable absence 
on this occasion the Meeting lament, and whose invaluable services they are de- 
sirous of gratefully recording, be respectfully requested to present the petition 
to the House of Lords, and Mr. Fowell Buxton that to the Commons. 
^That this Meeting eagerly embrace the present opportunity, both of presenting 
their heartfelt acknowledgmerits to their revered Vice-President, William Wil- 
berforce, Esq. for his gratifying attendance on this day, and for his conduct in 
the Chair ; and of testifying their deep sense of his services, which, during a 
long and arduous Parliamentary life, he has reildered to his country, and to th6 
world at large : and especially of that indefatigable, but tempered zeal, with 
which he has so unceasingly and successfully consecrated his powerful talents 
and fascinating eloquence to the vindication and relief of sufiering humanity. 

This, and all other publications of the Society, may he had at their office 
18, Aldermanbury ; or at Messrs. Hatchards, 187, Piccadilly , and Arch's, CornhiU, 
They may also he procured, through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Ant^'A 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 



London : Knight and Bagiter, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



LondoUy 18, Aldermanhury, January 31, 182(J. 

No. 8. 

ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
last day of every month. Copies vrill be forwkrded, at the request of any Anti- 
Siavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred. All persons wishing 
to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the Secretary, 
at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldennanbury, and mention the conveyance by 
which they may be most conveniently sent. 



Proceedings of the General Meeting of the Anti-Slavery 
Society, held at Freemason's Hall, Great Queen-Street, Lincoln s Inn 
_Fields, on December 2\st, 1826. 

Mr. Wilberforce having taken the chair, he assured the meeting 
that it was with unaffected diffidence he had obeyed the call of many 
kind friends in presuming to occupy the chair. He felt that having 
been compelled by indisposition to retire from his more proper scene of 
labour in Parhament, — it did not become him to occupy so prominent 
a situation as that which he filled on the present occasion. But he also 
felt that he ought not for a moment to consider any motives of a per- 
sonal nature when he was called upon to fulfil a great and important 
duty to God and man. Believing, therefore, that it might be for 
the interest of the cau«e that he should occupy the chair, without fur- 
ther parley, he consented to the proposal. They were assembled for 
the purpose of Petitioning Parliament to urge forward that reform in the 
state of the Slave Population in the British Colonies, which would place 
that population in a condition to enjoy and appreciate the blessings of 
enfranchisement; — a consummation that Parliament had pledged itself 
to bring about as speedily as possible. Of the necessity and propriety of 
such an application to the Legislature no one could entertain a doubt 
who recollected the circumstances attending the long contest on a sub- 
ject similar to that which now occupied their attention — he meant the 
abolition of the Slave Trade. It was in consequence of the people 
of England taking up that cause that it was at last rendered suc- 
cessful. It was at the present moment the more necessary for the friends 
of humanity to bestir themselves, because a large and active party was 
formed to oppose them. It was by the union of people of the middle 
class of society, amongst whom was comprised the greatest portion of 
virtue and understanding in every free community, that they must hope 
to render their cause successful ; one step towards which, was their 
assembling on the present occasion (hear, hear). He was happy to see 
several gentlemen present who would be able to point out the situation 
in which the cause at present stood, and what measures it was neces- 
sary to take thereupon. 



74 

Tlie Report of the Committee of the Society, as given in the last 
Number of the Reporter, was then read. 

Sir J. Macintosh, in rising to move the first resolulion, observed 
that, it gave him great pleasure to contemplate that on the present 
occasion the chair was filled, that their cause was served in the very 
van, by the venerable and illustrious person who was the deliverer of 
Africa, as far, at least, as this country was concerned, from the scourge 
of the Slave Trade, and who, he trusted, would live to co-operate in 
the delivering the British empire from the scourge of Slavery. Upon a 
subject which had been exhausted, if he might use the phrase, by the 
feelings of every one's heart then present, before one syllable had 
been uttered, it would be unpardonable in him to address the Meet- 
ing at length, even if it were otherwise convenient to do so. He would, 
therefore, shortly state the reasons of his continued and unshaken zeal 
for the cause in which they were engaged. He felt the most zealous 
wishes for the success of the cause, because he considered its success 
indispensable to acquit the consciences and clear the honour of the 
British people ; and because, in sincerity of soul, he believed its 
success would, more than any other measure, contribute to the 
safety and welfare of the European inhabitants of the colonies; and, 
lastly, and above all, because he thought it would raise a million of 
human beings to the condition of men. Sir James Macintosh then 
referred to the Report of Mr. Dwarris and its striking inconsistencies. 
It was impossible to imagine that any beings in human form, could 
exist iri such a state of degradation as these unhappy Slaves were 
described by him to be in. To one passage in particular he would call 
their attention as showing the grievous disquahfications under which the 
Negroes labour in procuring redress for injury. The passage occurred 
in Mr. Dwarris's Report of the Judicial Establishments of Barbadoes, 
and is as follows : — " In a case of even very grievous bodily injury, in- 
flicted upon a Slave by a manager, the sufferer himself, or his Slave 
brethren who were present, cannot give evidence, even though all the 
free persons on the premises should have been designedly sent out of 
the way. In such a case, a Slave is not allowed to be a prosecutor. 
Maimed, mutilated, disfigured, dismembered, his wouuds must be the 
only tongues permitted to relate his wrongs ! " Such is the condition, 
(Sir James went on to remark) the degraded and defenceless condition, 
of the unfortunate and devoted inhabitants of our Colonies. What then 
must be our surprise to meet in the statements of this very same Re- 
porter, an eulogy on the happy state in which the Slaves live under this 
degraded condition ? " But left to himself," the Reporter informs us, 
" the poor Slave is generally contented and happy. Possessing a spot 
to which he is commonly attached, looking to his master for support in 
health, care in sickness, and advice and help in distress and difficulty, 
the improvident Negro, far from pining in misery, dances and sleeps, 
trifles and dreams away life, thoughtless, careless, and happily ignorant 
of his own unprotected condition, and of the impotent fury of the laws." 
— What ! is it then possible that a human being, who may be ' maimed, 
mutilated, disfigured, and dismembered' with impunity, can frisk and 
dance, and dream away life in thoughtless ignorance of his unprotected 
condition? Are these the persons, who, we are to suppose, lead, as 



75 

they are deseribed to do, a life of luxurious enjoyment? Should we not 
rather say, that there could not be a more humiliating picture of human 
degradation than that presented to us by persons who could be con- 
tented under such a condition of existence ? As had been very properly 
sugaested in the Pk.eportj.ust read, " supposing such a picture as this to 
be realized on the estates of a few of the few resident Planters, yet in 
what respects does it differ from that which might be given, by many att 
English gentleman, of his stud of horses, or of his kennel of hounds ? 
The comforts and enjoyments of the Negro, on the shewing of Mr. 
Dwarris, were, like those of the horse and the dog, exclusively of the 
animal kind." The illustration was most appropriate; the comparison 
was just. It appeared to him that this ingenious writer, Mr. Dwarris, 
had studied poetry more than truth. He appeared to have had in his 
view a well-known passage of one of our most celebrated poets (Pope), 
in which he points out the wise dispensations of our Creator in assign- 
ing ignorance to the brute creation as a mitigation of their condition : — 
' The lamb thy riot dooms to bleed to-day, 
Had he thy reason, would he skip and play? 
Pleased to the last, he crops the flow'ry food, 
And licks the hand just raised to shed his blood.' 
This was the passage which doubtless Mr. Dwarris had in his eye, when 
he spoke of the gaiety with which West-Indian Slaves could dance and 
amuse themselves, whilst the same cruelty could be extended to them as 
is shewn, and often, he must say, with wantonness and depravity, shewn 
to the brute creation. This was a passage which the poet introduces to 
' justify the ways of God to man ;' it shewed how, by ignorance of their 
sufferings, he mitigated the condition of the brute creation. And it 
suggested to our ingenious writer, the parallel case of a million of our 
fellow- creatures reduced to a similar degradation. If this, then, was to 
be regarded as a state of happiness, it was a st^ate of happiness that 
could only exist by extinguishing within human beings, the capacities of 
thought, intelligence, and reflection, — by depriving them of the desires, 
affections, and passions of ordinary men — by brutalizing them, — nay, 
by worse than brutalizing them : for to reduce a human bj^ing to the 
level of a brute, it was necessary to deprive him of reason and reflection ; 
and the degradation thereby inflicted upon him was greater thaneven 
that of the brute. In 1 823, Parliament passed Resolutions which declared 
the necessity of adopting some effectual and decisive measures for miti- 
gating and improving the condition of the Slave population in the West 
Indies, with the view to their admission ultimately to share in the civil 
rights of the rest of His Majesty's subjects. At that time, Mr. Can- 
ning declared, that if any contumacy should be exhibited with regard to 
them by the Colonists, he would consider that a case upon which he 
would be authorized to claim the interference of Parliament. One of 
the things recommended in the Parliamentary Resolutions was, that 
the evidence of Slaves should be made admissible. How had this 
recommendation been received in one of the greatest Colonies ? A 
Resolution to that effect was proposed in the Assembly of Jamaica, and 
rejected upon a division of 34 to 1 — that was, the whole house divided 
against the maker of the motion. Here was one of the least objec- 
tionable of the recommendations of Parliament rejected indignantly. 



76 

Was not this an act of contumacy ? Was it not saying to Parliament — 
" Here we are masters, and we will not alter aey part of our Slave 
Code at your recommendation ?" After apologizing for having detained 
the Meeting so long, the honourable gentleman concluded with moving 
the first Resolution. 

Mr. Brougham, in rising to second the resolution, said, that he would 
detain the meeting but a very few moments. The friends of the cause 
were charged with violence, with enthusiasm, with hot zeal, because 
they felt for the sufferings of 830,000 of their fellow creatures ; because 
they beheld that their condition had not only n£)t been improved, but 
had grown worse and worse; and because this aroused their feelings of 
humanity, they were accused of proceeding with rashness and preci- 
pitancy ! Rashness in what? In having waited without advancing one 
step towards the accomplishment of their object for a quarter of a cen- 
tury ? Then they were charged with taking their accounts of facts from 
partial or ignorant sources. Well, their answer to this was, that not 
one word should be stated but what had come from under the 
planters' own hands and seals. His Learned Friend, Sir J. Macintosh, 
had alluded to the report of Mr. Dwarris. He (Mr. Brougham) gave 
that gentleman credit for the candour of that report, because he was 
himself a planter and the owner of a Slave Estate on which were 220 
Negroes; and therefore had to contend with prejudices arising from his 
situation, and with feelings of personal interest. He had been asso- 
ciated, in the discharge of the duty which he had been commissioned to 
perform, with another gentleman, who was not placed in similar cir- 
cumstances ; but the latter, unhappily, was no more. However, he (Mr. 
Brougham) certainly thought that Mr. Dwarris's statements, in many 
respects, evinced great candour, and at all events they were sufficient 
for their (the Society's) purpose. Mr. Dwarris stated that in Barbadoes 
the slave had no protection against his master. This might have been 
written before the passing of the late Barbadoes act ; but even if he 
had seen that act at the time, he did not think Mr. Dwarris would have 
altered his expressions on the subject unless it were to express his dis- 
approbation of it. " Previous to 1824," said Mr. Brougham, " there was 
no law in Barbadoes by which cruelty to a Slave, or even the torture, or 
mutilation, or dismemberment of a Slave, was punishable. In 1824, 
however, a clause was introduced into the new act to the following 
eflfect ; and here let me beg the attention of the meeting, and they will 
at once perceive the nature and extent of the protection afforded to the 
wretched Slave, even by this last and best edition of the Barbadoes 
Slave Code. — ' Whereas it is highly expedient to restrain owners, and 
others having the government and the direction of Slaves, from in- 
discriminately, wantonly, and cruelly exercising the power they possess 
over Slaves ; and as the cruelty of punishment by flogging necessarily 
depends much more on the manner of inflicting it than upon the number 
of stripes, it is therefore most conducive to the ends of humanity' [not 
to limit the number of lashes, but] * to trust-to the discretion and good 
feelings of the justices before whom complaints shall be made.' Here> 
then, are the wretched Slaves not protected by law, but turned over to 
the ' humanity' first of the master and his delegates, and then of the 
justices (they themselves always Slave-Owners), before whom complaints 



77 

shall be made ! It is further enacted, and I beseech you to nmrk the 
extent of protection extended to the Negroes by this ' wise' and * salu- 
tary' measure. It is enacted, that if any person commits, or causes to 
be committed, any wanton act of cruelty towards any Slave, or shall 
wantonly, mahciously, and cruelly whip, beat, or bruise any Slave, such 

person, on conviction before two justices, may be what do you 

think ? Subjected to some adequate punishment? Oh, no: he may be 
fined 25/. currency, or about 17/. sterling! So that you see any one 
may torture a Slave; he may bruise and crush his body ; he may inflict 
upon him every cruelty short of dismemberment or death, even cruelties 
from which death would be a relief, and yet does he pay not more than 
about 17/. sterling: and observe, that the 17/. mentioned here is jthe 
maximum, and may be reduced to 17c/. according to the pleasure of the 
justices before whom the complaint is made. And yet this act received 
the sanction of the legislature of that island ; nay, it was even described 
by the gentleman wlio proposed it as an act which would do honour to 
themselves, and endear their remembrance to posterity. Nor is this all. 
By the same act, any person may maim, mutilate, or dismember a 
Slave, and be liable, on conviction, only to fine or imprisonment, (no wi- 
nimum or maximum being fixedj, as the Court shall think fit. It was in 
this island that, previous to 1 805, the murder of a Slave, when it could 
be proved, was punished by a fine of 11/. sterling. In 1805, that act 
was repealed, and, in its stead, it was enacted, that any person wilfully 
maliciously, wantonly, and without provocation, killing any Slave, shall 
be adjudged guilty of felony, and shall suffer death without benefit of 
clergy. But the nature of the provocation was not defined ; so that let 
a Slave but hold up his finger — nay, let him but look cross or dissa- 
tisfied — let him even use an irritating or contemptuous expression, there 
is at once sufficient provocation, the poor wretch's life may be taken 
with impunity. The words * without provocation' have since been 
erased from the law ; but it still remains the law, that if any person 
shall unfortunately kill by accident the Slave of another, he shall only 
be liable to an action at law for the value of the Slave; or if any Slave 
shall be killed while committing or attempting to commit any robbery, 
theft, burglary, or arson, or in the attempt to maim or injure anv White 
person, the person killing any such Slave shall not be punished' for the 
same ^'either capitally or otherwise. Such are some of the enactments 
which will endear the remembrance of the Barbadoes legislature to 
posterity ! 

" Let us now," continued Mr. Brougham, " look at the other side of 
the account, and contrast with the impunity of the White the punish- 
ments to be inflicted on Slaves, as well as the sort of offences of 
which they may be guilty. I find it enacted, for example, ' that any 
Slaves guilty of quarrelling or fighting with one another ; or of insolent 
language or gestures' [mark that] ' to any White person ; or of swear- 
ing, or uttering any obscene speeches ; or of drunkenness, or making, 
selling, throwing, or firing squibs, serpents, or other fire-works ; or of 
cock-fighting, or gaming ; or of riding on a faster gait than a walk ; or 
of driving on a faster gait than a gentle trot; or of cruelly whipping or 
beating any horse, mare, mule, ass, or other cattle ; or of negligently 
driving any cart, &c., or of any, disorderly conduct or behaviour, shall, 



78 

on conviction before a magistrate, be' — What do you think? sentenced 
to a week's imprisonment, or fined a few shilhngs ? — No ; shall be 
' whipped at the discretion of such magistrate, not exceeding thirty-nine 
stripes!' Agam, it is wisely enacted, that ' any Slave who shall hear 
any other Slave speak any words tending to mutiny or rebellion, or 
shall know of his having gunpowder or arms in his possession for pur- 
poses of rebellion, and shall not immediately disclose the same, shall 
suffer death, without benefit of clergy, or such other punishment as the 
court may think fit.' Here is legislation with a vengeance ! You see 
that the Slave vs^ho hears another Slave use words tending to rebellion 
(of which tendency, mind, he is, in the first instance, constituted the 
sole judge) must make up his mind not only that such is their tendency, 
but also that the White judge to whom he is to make the communi- 
cation, will also make up his mind that such is their tendency ; and if 
he does not do this — that is to say, if he does not make up his mind be- 
forehand, to be of the same opinion with the White judge to whom he 
is to make a communication — then is he to be hanged without benefit 
of clergy, or be liable to such other punishment as the Court may think 
fit. It is needless to say much more upon this act, which is to entitle 
its franiers to the grateful remembrance of posterity." After expressing 
a strong hope that the example now set by the metropolis would be fol- 
lowed by meetings throughout the kingdom, the honourable and 
learned gentleman concluded by observing, that unless the necessity of 
adopting the measures they here recommended was now urged upon 
Parliament by the united voice of the People of Great Britain, the 
wretched Slaves would remain in their present miserable condition for 
another quarter of a century. 

Mr. F. Buxton rose to move a string of Resolutions, and in doing 
so, he would not affect that he appeared before the meeting with 
any faint-heartedness. Their cause had made rapid progress; a 
change had taken place which must lead to the speedy downfall of the 
system — a change, not in the minds of this Society, for they had 
always hated Slavery ; but a change in the minds of the people at large, 
who began to feel how abominable the system was, and how many mil- 
lions it cost them. It had often grieved him to perceive the incredulity 
with which their (the Abolitionists') statements were received, particularly 
in the House of Commons; but it had not surprised him, for it was diffi- 
cult to believe that such enormities existed in any part of the British 
dominions. But now the West India Planters have become their own 
historians, the system appeared, from their own confessions to be 
worse than it had ever been represented by its bitterest enemies. They 
(the Abolitionists) stated in the House of Commons, that the cart-whip 
was the principal stimulant to labour in the West Indies; they were told 
that that was a gross falsehood. Gentlemen of reputation came forward 
and said that they had resided there, and never witnessed it, or heard 
the music of its lash; whilst others admitted that it had been seen on a 
few estates, where, however, it was only exhibited tied across the driver's 
shoulders, not for the purpose of flogging the Negroes, but as an emblem 
of authority — as an ornament, but not for use. But mark; the legisla- 
ture recommended that the cart-whip should be put down ; instantly a 
cry was raised from one end of the Colonies to the other ; the cart-whip 



79 

was declared to be indispensable, so long as Slavery existed ; and the 
Planters replied, " Well, we will abolish this ornament, but you must 
give us compensation for our Slaves to the amount of many millions 
of pounds." Thehon. gentleman then animadverted upon the monstrous 
nature of a system that allowed wives to be torn from their husbands, 
and children from their parents, and read advertisements from Co- 
lonial Newspapers in proof of his assertions. He next dwelt upon the 
horrors of the Negroes' condition, subject as they are, both men, 
women, and children, according to the returns of the Fiscal of Ber- 
bice, to frequent and barbarous cart-whippings, and other dreadful in- 
flictions, at the caprice of proprietors or overseers ; and pledged him- 
self never to cease his exertions, until the odious and abominable system 
was abolished. After congratulating the Meeting upon the promise of 
his learned friend to bring the subject forward early in the ensuing 
Session of Parliament, he concluded by reminding them that they had a 
sacred duty to God and man to perform, which he called upon them 
to discharge manfully. 

Mr.Denman seconded the Resolutions proposed by Mr. Buxton in 
an animated speech, in the course of which he contended, that although 
laws in other countries were blessings to the inhabitants, those of the 
West Indies were rather intended as curses to the unhappy Slaves in 
those Colonies; and that what was there called trial by jury, had not 
one quality of that noble tribunal about it but the name, which it dis- 
graced. The honourable and learned gentleman took a rapid survey 
of the different questions connected with this subject, which had 
lately occupied the attention of Parliament, to show that the system 
could not be allowed to continue much longer, and to prove the ne- 
cessity of the gradual but rapid (instead of slow) emancipation of the 
Slaves. Mr. Denman's address was received with great warmth of 
approbation. 

John Joseph Gurney, in moving the adoption of the petition, 
suggested that some precise period should be fixed, beyond which no 
person should continue, and no child be born, a slave. 

Dr. Lushington said, wherever the great question of the Abolition 
of Slavery was agitated, he wished to attend, for the purpose of giving it 
his humble, but zealous support. It was necessary at this period, that 
public feeling should be aroused upon this momentous question ; for, 
in proportion to the difficulties they had to encounter, should be their 
exertions to surmount them. It was true, that the Resolutions passed 
in the House of Commons in 1823, proclaimed the repentance of that 
House for having ever sanctioned Slavery ; but he should never believe 
that repentance sincere until he saw Parliament come forward, and, at 
whatever price, profess their readiness to remedy the evils they had 
caused in our Colonies by their votes. But the House of Commons 
could do but little unless backed by the voice of the people. It should 
be recollected that the supporters of the Abolition of Slavery had, in 
the House of Commons between fifty and sixty interested opponents. 
Alas ! private interest there too often interfered with public duty, and 
those who had gain and emolument in view were much more active 
than those who merely endeavoured to achieve a public good. There- 
fore it was, that every exertion should be made — ^every nerve should be 



80 

strained to accomplish their great object — the Abolition of Slavery. If 
there was any truth in philosophy ; if they were to place confidence in 
the sacred Word of God himself— it was impossible to believe that such 
a system could continue to exist. It was never given by God to man, to 
hold his fellow-man in Slavery. He had early embarked in this cause, 
and he pledged himself never to retire from it until the objects 
they had in view should be attained. Every thing short of a total 
Abolition of Slavery, he considered as unsatisfactory, and ending only 
in disappointment and discontent. Almighty God, in his wisdom, never 
gave it to frail man to adopt a course of iniquity, and then to stop short 
and say, so far will I go and no farther; the evil, if not altogether 
rooted out, must go on increasing, and producing still added misery 
and distress. The learned Doctor, after a splendid and well merited 
eulogium upon the worthy Chairman, proceeded to point out Mr. F. 
Buxton as the most fit and proper person to tread in his steps, and 
present their Petition in the House of Commons ; in the House of Lords, 
he conceived, they could not intrust their Petition to any more zealous 
and undeviating friend than His Royal Highness the Duke of Glou- 
cester. The supporters of the Abolition of Slavery took their stand 
upon the eternal principles of truth and justice, and it would be next 
to blasphemy to doubt of their success. The supporters of the Ques- 
tion in Parliament, would use their best exertions — they only sought 
the aid of the people ; so supported, they would fight the battle, and, 
please God, would achieve the victory. The learned gentleman con- 
cluded by moving the fourth Resolution. 

Mr. Cropper, in seconding the Resolution, pointed out, in strong and 
forcible terms, the great advantage which free labour had over the 
work performed by Slaves, and in support of his argument alluded to 
different cases in the East and West Indies, and North Carolina. 

A Motion of thanks to the Chairman was then put, and carried 
unanimously, when 

Mr. Wilberforce rose and said, I will not detain you long at this 
late hour. I shall simply say that I have endeavoured to do the best I 
could — I hope all of you will do the same, with spirit and resolution. 
How long shall this abominable system continue? We are answerable 
to God and our country for its prolongation, and are bound to call out 
the sense of the country, were it only for the sake of the Planters them- 
selves. The slaves know they have rights ; they have had reason to 
hope for the restoration of them — the cup of freedom has been held to 
their lips, and has been dashed down again before they could taste it. 
That there be no more of this cruel trifling with their feelings — let Par- 
liament itself enact laws for their emancipation. The same objections 
were made to the abolition of the Slave Trade that are now urged against 
the emancipation of slaves ; yet they who urged them then, afterwards 
expressed their approbation of that measure. Let us do our duty, and 
Parliament will do theirs, and universal satisfaction and happiness will 
be the result. 

This, arid all other publications of the Society, may he had at their office 
18, Aldermanhury ; or at Messrs. Hatchards, 187, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill. 
They may also be procured through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti' 
Slavery Society throughout the kimgdom. 



London, 18, Aldermanhnry , February 28, 1826. 

o. 9. 



THLY REP 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
last day of every month. Copies will be forvt^arded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred. All persons wishing 
to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the Secretary, 
at the Society's office. No. IS, Aldermanbury, and mention the conveyance by 
which they may be most conveniently sent. 



JAMAICA. 

We beg to call tbe attention of our readers to the following extract 
from the Speech of the Duke of Manchester, the Governor of 
Jamaica, delivered on occasion of the prorogation of the Legislative 
Assembly of that Island, on the 21st of December last. 

(extract.) 

" 3Ir. Speaker and Gentlemen of the Assembly ^ 

*' Another year has been allowed to pass away without any effectual 
measure having been adopted for the improvement of the condition of the 
Slaves. It does not become me to anticipate what the result may be of 
the great disappointment His Majesty's Government will experience, 
when they learn that the reiterated representations which have been 
made to you, to do what your own interest calls for as much as a due 
regard for those who look up to you for protection and relief, have 
totally failed. In obeying the instructions which I have received, I 
earnestly pressed upon your consideration the necessity of doing some- 
thing, if not to disarm your enemies, still to satisfy friends, and, more 
than all, to convince Parliament that the urgent representations of His 
Majesty's Government had not been entirely disregarded." 

The same speech might be addressed, with equal propriety, to every 
Legislative Assembly in the West India Colonies. It is highly impor- 
tant, at the present moment, as showing how vain are the expectations 
of those friends of the Negro race, who look for effectual co-operation 
from assemblies of men who are themselves holders of Slaves, and who 
are the representatives of a privileged class, brought up, and living 
under the influence of West India Slavery. For our ov/n part, we must 
''ay, that we are not at all disappointed by this result of the experiment 
which has been again made of the spirit and conduct of these assem- 
blies. Such a result was foretold in the House of Commons, when the 
task of devising and executing measures calculated to give effect to the 
memorable resolutions adopted on the motion of Mr. Canning, was 
committed to the Colonial Legislatures. Those resolutions acknow- 
kdged the Slaves, in the British Colonies, to be feUoio subjects of the 



82 

honourable men who occupy the benches of St. Stephen's Chapel. They 
admitted the principle, that these Slaves ought to participate in the civil 
rights and privileges enjoyed by other classes of His Majesty's subjects. 
This was strange language for the ears of white men in the West Indies, 
who have been habituated from infancy to regard their Slaves — not as 
fellow subjects — not as persons, but as chattels, things to be branded with 
a mark as their property, to be bought and sold at their pleasiu'e, and 
to be driven like cattle, with a cart-whip, to uncompensated labour. 
Our slaves, our fellow subjects! Rights and privileges for our chat- 
tels ! Surely the Right Honourable Secretary is beside himself. Surely 
he has never breathed in the West Indies! 

We are not sure, however, that, but for the awful delay which it has 
caused in the work of Colonial reform, the course of again making trial 
of the disposition of the Colonists to carry into effect the recorded 
wishes of Parliament, may not, upon the whole, be attended with ad- 
vantage. He now knows from experience, that the Colonists are 
spoiled children, ready to insult and malign the generous country which 
has too long forborne to restrain their petulance. The reception which 
they have given to the recommendations of His Majesty, framed in 
accordance with the resolutions above referred to, will enable him and 
his colleagues to come down to Parliament for counsel, under very ad- 
vantageous circumstances. He can now say, that notwithstanding the 
forbearance and lenity exercised towards the Colonial assemblies, 
"contumacious resistance" has been made by them to the recorded 
wishes of Parliament*, and he can recommend, without hesitation, 
" the determined and persevering enforcement" of measures for melio- 
rating the condition of the Slave population, and for extinguishing 
slavery in the Colonies. 

The British public appear to have foreseen that an application for coun- 
sel would be made to their representatives by His Majesty's Ministers, 
and they are pressing forv/ard, in all parts of the Kingdom, with 
Resolutions and Petitions to the two Houses of Parliament, in which 
they express their determination to support the servants of the Crown, 
ill the execution of the arduous and important work which has been 
committed to them. That the work in which they are engaged is ar- 
duous as well as important, will be felt by all who consider that the prin- 
ciples recognized in Mr. Canning's resolutions are strenuously opposed, 
not only by the Colonial Legislatures, but by that very numerous and 
opulent, and closely confederated body of West India proprietors, Avho 
have promulgated to the British nation, and to the world, an uncom- 
promising assertion of right to the persons of their Slaves. These pro- 
prietors, with their agents, and consignees and mortgagees, form a very 
considerable component part of the legislature of this country, and 
cannot be succesfuUy encountered unless the ministers of the Crown be 
powerfully and promptly supported by the voice of the British people. 

Let, then, the British people, high and. low, rich and poor, who are 
not infected by West India interests, and West India connections, com- 
bine their efforts in the great cause of justice and humanity: let them 
stand forth, in Petitions to the two Houses of Parliament, as the 

* See Speech of Mr. Canning in the Kouse of Commons, on the 15th May, 1823. 



83 

avowed friends and advocates of their wretched fellow subjects^ the 
Slaves in the Colonies, who are not permitted to speak for themselves 
—who have no tongues but their bleeding wounds to plead their cause. 
Let the British people acquit themselves manfully of an awful duty 
which they owe to God, the author of all the blessings which they 
enjoy, as Christians and as Britons. Let them especially declare their 
unwillingness any longer to uphold, by bounties and protecting duties^ 
that system of Slavery which they abhor as cruel and unjust. Let the 
British people do this; and let them withhold their votes, at the ap- 
proaching general election, from those candidates who will not une- 
quivocally promise to promote the mitigation and extinction of Colonial 
Slavery by parliamentary enactments. And let them, moreover, dis- 
courage the consumption of West India produce, and require from 
those tradesmen with whom they deal, to be furnished, as far as pos- 
sible, with the produce of the labour of free men. Let them do this; 
and the system of Slavery in the Colonies, which is the curse and the 
bane of their country, must and will be done away. It cannot subsist 
without artificial and very expensive support, administered to it gratuit- 
ously out of the pockets of the poor, as well as the rich of the United 
Kingdom. By giving such support to a system of Slavery and Hea- 
thenism — for no attempt has yet been made to reclaim the great mass 
of the Slave population from the state of heathenish darkness in which 
they were born and have lived — the people of England are sinning 
against God, and against human nature. They are frustrating the pur- 
pose of Him who would have all men to be saved, and to come to the 
knowledge of the truth. They are keeping on a level with brutes those 
whom the great Creator made of one blood with themselves, and who 
are capable of participating in all the enjoyments of intellectual and 
immortal beings. 



SAMPLES OF JAMAICA JURISPRUDENCE. 

^' Why shoiild that vrrong be tolerated in the West Indies, for which a maii 
would be hanged in England?" — C. J. Fox. 

TO THE EDITOR. 

Sir, 
As the exposure of abuses in a free country is usually the first step 
taken to secure their reformation, I shall be particularly obliged by your 
inserting the following extracts from some Jamaica newspapers of re- 
cent date : [ 

"■ Public Advertiser, Kingston, Jamaica, April 22d, 1825 
" Sentence. — For Manslaughter. — The prisoner was put to the docfc> 
and by his Counsel, Mr. Recorder, pleaded his clergy. — His Hono'" 
then passed sentence: — ' You were indicted for the wilful murder of a 
female slave, but the jury only found you guilty of manslaughter. It 
appeared in evidence, that you were amusing yourself by discharging a 
loaded gun through the window of your dwelling-house; after some 
time, this gun was reloaded by one of your companions, and you pro- 
posed firing it over an assemblage of negroes; he declined, when YOU 



84 

POINTED OUT A NEGRO OF YOUR OWN PROPERTY, AND 
PROPOSED TO FIRE AT HIM, he again declined; you then renev/ed 
your proposal to fire it over the crowd, and upon his refusing, you 
seized ihe gun, and he had hardly time to utter an exclamation of sur^ 
prise, when you discharged the gun; the result was, that this iemale 
slave, who was sitting in the crowd, was shot, and the melancholy event 
was soon announced to you by the cries and lamentations of her mother. 
By your HEEDLESS CONDUCT, you have hurried a fellow creature 
out of existence ; you have bereft a mother of a child, and you have 
affixed a stain upon your own character, which it Avill require a long 
life of prudence and humanity to obliterate. The humane jury who 
tried you, accompanied their verdict with a recommendation to mercy. 
We will give that recommendation its due weight, and not inflict the 
full extent of punishment upon you ; we hope, however, that the punish- 
ment which we shall inflict will act as a warning to others, and make a 
due impression on yourself.' The prisoner was then sentenced to 
TWELVE MONTHS' IMPRISONMENT!!!" 

Such is the estimate given by Jamaica jurisprudence of the guilt of 
murdering a fellow creature, and that too in a case of the most aggra- 
vating character—" A DAUGHTER SHOT IN THE PRESENCE 
OF HER MOTHER," whose cries and lamentations were the expres- 
sive voice employed by suftering nature to proclaim to her oppressor the 
extent of her own bereavement, and of his crime. To what a depth of 
degradation must not that man be sunk, who, without any kind or de- 
gree oj" provocation, openly invites another to take away the life of an 
unoffending fellow creature, and subsequently himself undertakes the 
public perpetration of it. Does not every circumstance in this tragical 
affair loudly proclaim, that Slavery does deeply degrade those exposed 
to its baneful influence ; that it is a system, which, depressing one class 
to the abject condition of a brute — of a chattel — of a saleable commo- 
dity, and promoting the unrighteous exaltation of the other class — cor- 
rupts justice at the very source — perverts the good order of society, 
opens the door to every degree of despotism and cruelty, and occasion- 
ally leads to this dreadful consummation of it? Can we not also 
reasonably infer, that if the most heinous crime is thus committed for 
mere wantonness — that when interest prompts or provocation excites — 
all the catalogue of minor tvoes will be inflicted with the most unsparing- 
hand? If their suflferings are not regarded in the first instance, what 
claim to consideration are they likely to have in those which follow? 

I will now give the substance of two other sentences passed at the 
same time, and recorded in the same paper as the preceding. The 
first was for shooting a slave, who was severely injured; but, as the 
wound did not prove fatal, the Court deemed six months' impriso7inient 
a " commejisurate punishment" ! ! ! ! ! 

In the next case, it appeared that a poor abandoned black girl, who 
had, for the worst of purposes, been invited into the prisoner's house by 
his own brother, was so cruelly beat by the prisoner, that two medical 
men declared the girl's life had been in great danger. For this gross 
outrage, the Court felt it their duty to award an adequate punishment ; 
the prisoner was then sentenced to one month's imprisonment! ! ! 

With these accounts of the punishments awarded to the Whites for 



85 

their transgressions, I will how contrast the punishments which await 
those who are " guilty of a skin not coloured like our own." The first 
case is taken from the Royal Jamaica Gazette, June 11th to 18th, 1825. 
" Richard Price, a Wangee, marked REID on the right, and apparently 
H on the left shoulder; he was sentenced, at a Slave Court, to twelve 
months hard labour in the workhouse, " for OFFERING VIOLENCE 
to a WHITE person!!!!" Thus a poor ignorant slave, for the mere 
offer of violence to a white person, has a severer punishment, "by twelve 
months hard labour, than the enlightened white man receives who is 
guilty of the wilful inurder of the black. Lord Bathurst, forcibly struck 
with the gross inequality of the punishments in the Bahamas new slave 
laws, remarks, — " Since the superiority of rank a?id education which 
belongs to the white inhabitant, is an aggravation of the offence com- 
mitted by him, there is an injustice in assigning to the aggravated 
offence the minor punishment." Let this just reasoning be applied to 
the above cases, and it is hardly possible to describe a course of proce- 
dure more directly opposed to every principle of equity. May the vic- 
tims of such oppression be speedily released from its grasp! 

The next case is from the Postscript to the St. Jago Gazette, July 9th 
to 16th, 1825. King v. Tom — to Jno. Harrison, Esq. for being an in- 
corrigible runaway, guilty — -workhouse FOR LIFE!!! 

Such is the present state of despotism and misrule in a colony of the 
British empire. Have we not, in these cases, most convincing proof 
afforded us of the truth of Dr. Paley's remarks, that " the West Indian 
Slave is placed for life in subjection to a dominion and system of laws, 
the most merciless and tyrannical that were ever tolerated on the face 
of the earth "? Must we not also admit, with the late excellent Bishop 
of St. David's, that " the very existence of Slavery must be a heavy 
reproach to this country, and a disgrace to the age that can tolerate it"? 
And must we not also cordially concur with Mr. Fox, that '' it is neces- 
sary to abolish Slavery for the sake of our jurisprudence, and of our 
character as Christians"? And as these cases have just occurred in a 
Colony, v/hich we are informed, is " already possessed of an improved 
body of Slave Statutes," must we not agree with Mr. Canning, that 
" despotism is, in all cases and under all circumstances, an incompetent 
and unsure executor, even of its own provisions, in favour of the objects 
of its power"1 Let, then, the representatives of a free people be ear- 
nestly petitioned to take this important work into their own hands, and 
bring this odious system to the earliest practicable termination. I ear- 
nestly entreat the zealous co-operation of every individual, who values 
the blessing of personal liberty for himselfj to commiserate the hard lot 
of this degraded suffering race of our fellow creatures, WHO, HAVING 
BEEN DEPRIVED OF THEIR LIBERTY BY AN ACT OF GROSS 
AND ACKNOWLEDGED INJUSTICE ON THE PART OF THIS 
GOVERNMENT, HAVE AN UNDOUBTED CLAIM ON US FOR 
ITS RESTITUTION. 

I am yours, &c. 

JUSTITIA. 



86 



ANTI-SLAVERY PUBLIC MEETINGS. 



It is gratifying to observe the attention which the subject of Slavery 
is beginning to excite in every part of the Kingdom, and the many 
interesting Meetings which have been held for the purpose of petitioning 
Parhament for its amehoration and final extinction. Our limits pre- 
eliule our giving a detailed account of any of these Meetings : but we 
have much pleasure in presenting to our readers three excellent ad- 
dresses on the subject, recently delivered in different parts of the king- 
dom, by men whose high station and talents give weight to every 
sentiment which falls from them. 

• At a Meeting held in the City of Bath, on the 3d of February, 1826, 
the Lord Bishop of Bath and Wells entered the room, accom- 
panied by the Worshipful the Mayor; and having taken the chair^ 
opened the business of the Meeting by expressing the very sincere 
pleasure it afforded him to see so numerous and respectable an assem- 
blage as were met on this occasion ; affording, as it did, good and 
satisfactory proof that a question which involved the dearest interests 
of humanity, and which had for so many years been advocated by the 
associated efforts of virtue and eloquence, was duly appreciated in this 
eity. The system of Slavery was directly contrary to the precepts of 
our religion, and to the dictates of humanity; for, as in the case of war, 
although the Bible contained no specific prohibition of Slavery, yet it 
was impossible to look into a page of that sacred book, and not to see 
that the practice was substantially condemned by its letter, spirit, and 
essence ; and when the orb of Christianity shall have attained its zenith, 
and shall shed its meridian lustre over the moral world, war and Sla- 
very shall no longer exist. Slavery is also opposed to the requirements 
of morahty — ^that great law of right written in the heart of every man by 
the finger of God. In a word, it is contrary to natural as well as re- 
vealed religion. His Lordship then proceeded to remark, on the neces- 
sity of proceeding with prudence and caution, and with a due regard 
to the interests of all concerned. His Lordship then obviated the 
objection, that because the question of Colonial Slavery was now 
under the consideration of Parliament, there was no need of popu- 
lar representations to the Legislature upon the subject, by remark- 
ing on the very tardy progress which has been made, by Legislative 
measures, in mitigating the abject condition of the slaves, and 
said that the general expression of public feeling upon this question 
would have the effect of accelerating those beneficial measures which 
the Colonial Legislatures seemed by every means disposed to retard. 
His Lordship expressed his "sorrow and shame" that the Slave Trade 
was even yet, in the 19th century, carried on by several neighbouring 
States, who still force from the soil of Africa her devoted children — 
severing the dearest ties of human kind ; and transporting the hapless 
victims of rapine and cupidity across the waves of the Atlantic, com- 
pel them to toil in a Torrid Zone at the whip and will ef their merci- 



87 

less masters ! He was not without hope that the expression of pubhc 
feeling in this country on the atrocities of Slavery may have an effect 
upon foreign nations, and thus accelerate the utter termination of the 
odious traffic in human flesh. His Lordship concluded by eulogisino- 
the moderation observed in the Resolutions and Petition that would be 
proposed for adoption ; said he was glad of the opportunity of aiding 
the object of the Meeting; that he did not think he had stepped beyond 
the line of his official duty in advocating a measure sanciioned alike by 
Religion and Morality; that, as a Minister of the Church of England, 
he should look back with pleasure on the act of this day ; and that the 
great desire of his heart was, that the blessings of rational liberty might 
be extended to all the nations of the earth, without distinction of colour 
or climate [Great applause]. 



At a County meeting held in Buckingham on the 17th January, 

Lord Nugent was unanimously colled to the Chair. His Lordship, 
in opening the proceedings, said, " he should not detain the Meeting with 
any expression of the pleasure and pride he felt at being called to pre- 
side where freemen were assembled in the cause of humanity, justice, 
and liberty — in the cause of eight hundred tiiousand fellow men, and 
fellow subjects, deprived of the best gift of God to his creatures — the 
blessing of personal freedom ; — of men, engaged in the cause of their 
country's honour, which was still unredeemed, while one slave or slave- 
master existed under the shadow of the British flag. Even the Colonial 
Party had begun to relent, and, instead of uncompromising hostility to 
all change, had adopted a different system, with the motto ' gradual 
abolition.' He did not like the phrase. Unprepared and sudden eman- 
cipation of a population of beings, whom the crimes of this country had, 
for centuries, taught to know no law but their masters' word — no govern- 
ment but that of the cart-whip— was not the object of tlie friends of 
freedom. The Planters knew it was not ; but when they said, ' gradual,' 
they meant ' above all things, and at all events, niind you do not advance 
rapidly." When we, said his Lordship, say, 'gradual,' we mean, 'above 
all things, and at all events, mind you advance.' [Cheers.] Very im- 
portant progress had been already made. About four years ago, on a 
motion of Mr. Wilberforce's, on a day honourable to the House of 
Commons, and auspicious to mankind, the phrase ' ultimate emancipa- 
tion' was first adopted there ; and in 1823, the House of Commons re- 
solved, that it ' was anxious for the accomplishment of this purpose, at 
the earliest period consistent with the well-being of the Slaves, and 
safety of the colonies.' That vote no circumstances could ever here- 
after reverse or expunge [cheers]. The Colonial party asked for com- 
pensation. He would vote for compensation to-morrow, but never, 
never, as a matter of right. Never would he admit the right of one 
man to plunder another of his natural liberty — his heart was for ever 
shut against such a claim. England now paid 1,200,0001. in increased 
price of sugars and bounties on export, for the maintenance of slavery 
in the West Indies. He would willingly pay that sum directly, to re- 
deem 800,000 fellow subjects from slavery, and restore them to the 



88 

right that God had given them, at the moderate price of 11. 5s. per head 
per annum [cheers]. How often have we heard that the condition of the 
slave is on the v/hole preferable to tliat of the English peasant. Oh Iiow 
often is this said, with a degree of gravity too which would be very be- 
coming in any proposition a little less monstrously absurd ! We see 
his hard life and scanty means of comfort, and even of existence, in this 
rigorous season too, and v/e are told that his condition is harder thar> 
the slave's. Indeed ? Then shame on ourselves ! Attend to his wants, 
better his condition, raise him from the misery and degradation to which 
he is too generally reduced by that bad system called the Poors' Laws. 
But, in the name of common justice, common humanity, and common 
sense, use not his sufferings as an apology for the unspeakable horrors 
of slavery. At least, if he cannot always find a tender consideration of 
his necessities, the English peasant can always find redress against 
barefaced outrage, nor can the hand of created man be raised against 
him unpunished [cheers]. Enjoyments few, comforts few, hardships 
many and difficult to endure; but rights, God be thanked, intact and 
intangible — Rights which m.ay look the proudest oppressor in the face, 
and which would wither the hand that would so much as dare to ap>- 
proach them — -Rights, which, if not imperishable, can perish only among 
the last expiring embers of the English Constitution [loud and repeated 
cheers]. But, slavery, how can we picture to ourselves? — Scenes such 
as in this land eye hath not seen, and such as it hath not entered into 
the heart of freemen but most imperfectly to conceive ! We cannot 
generalise — we must take a single instance. Place the English peasant 
in his cottage ; surround him, like the negro, if you will, with every com- 
fort Avhich a better climate and the interested care of a calculating 
master can afford ; surround him with his family. He looks at his wife, 
the partner only of his bondage ; her back, perhaps, striped with the 
lash, her wrists galled with the fetters, and on her shoulder the burning 
brand which marks her as the chattel of another-^Subject, like him- 
self to the cruel caprice of a slave driver, to all the violence which unre- 
strained and irresponsible power never fails to engender in the human 
mind.; subject, perhaps, to worse — to the delicate partialities of her 
task master ! And these are the domestic reflections of a slave, until 
the crack of the thong calls him to labour, and tells him that reflection is 
not for the slave. — He looks at his children ; not the hope and pride of 
his affections, but children born only to receive from him, and drink to 
the dregs the bitter cup of hereditary degradation — -to inherit from him 
the hateful and hopeless portion of the bi-and, and the chain, and the 
cart-whip — A family whom he may love, but whom he can neither che- 
rish nor defend — and this is the condition of 800,000 British subjects 
[cheering]. It is said that slaves have no feelings to be wounded by 
this. Then a thousand times cursed he the system which has extin- 
guished such feeling within them ! But of this even slavery is not 
guilty, No ; the poor slave can feel as a man, and has feelings which 
would often put those of more cultivated minds to shame. 

' As the stern captive spurns his iron load. 

And asks the image back that Heav'n bestowed, 

Proud in his eye the fire of nature burns. 

And, as the Slave, departs, the Man returns !' [hear, liear !] 



89 

I would that those who deny to the poor slave a participation in feeling's 
like our own, who libel the justice of creating Providence, and would 
cancel the charter by wMch God has given feeling and soul to universal 
man — I would that they had but heard the testimony on that point, as 
I did, of a slave master, but one of the kindest of human beings, a gen- 
tleman who resided long on his property at St. Vincent's. He told me, 
that after a few years' residence there, finding that the village in which 
his gang lived was unhealthy, and incommodious, he looked about for 
some better spot to build habitations upon for them. He fixed upon one 
with all the advantages that situation and good air, and, the inestimable 
blessing there, of good water, could give them, and he employed the 
gang to collect materials for building. One day, as he was superin- 
tending his preparations, one of the gang advanced to him as spokes- 
man, and begged he would be kind enough to say what he was 
making those preparations for. He pointed out the advantages of the 
scite on which they stood, and told them he meant to remove them from 
the unhealthy swamp in which they v.'ere living. Suddenly a strange 
and universal groan burst from the gang. Divers slaves came up to 
him in attitudes of sorrow and supplication. They pointed to their vil- 
lage. One said, ' Under that tree lies the body of a child I lost in its in- 
fancy.' Another, 'There are buried my parents.' A third 'In that 
village I lived with my wife ; I lost her. Do not remove us from that 
spot.' Let Him who alone can try the hearts of man judge between 
such feelings and those of the majority of the men in whose hands the 
mortal destinies of these poor creatures are placed; between such feel- 
ings and those of the Legislatures of Barbadoes and Jamaica [hear, 
hear, hear !]. Why, then, driven to their last hold, the planters take re- 
fuge in the very citadel of their cause. They ask us, ' Have we not at 
least an interest in the health of our labourers? And can their health 
be better secured than by kind treatment? Would any man v/ho values 
his 'property abuse or overwork or starve his farm-horse ?' — -Let us for 
a moment subdue the sentiments of disgust and indignation that spring- 
up to meet such a question ; let us forget every claim of right and reason 
and immortal soul ; grant that man is justly given to his fellow man as 
-a beast of burthen and of toil ; and grant that the driver has the same 
interest and no passions — neither of which, I apprehend, is true ; — then 
I turn from the case of the slave of the farm and of the household, to a 
worse state than either — the jobbing slaves ; a class whom it is ahvays 
the business of the planters to keep out of sight in these discussions ; 
slaves kept by masters who have no land, to let out on jobs to those 
who have. And I then say that, whatever is the interest of him who 
works the poor horse in the mill to his last expiring sob, the same pre- 
cisely is the interest of the master of this jobbing gang. And who is to 
provide for the jobbing slave,, when old age or hopeless infirmity has 
closed for ever the account of profit between his master and himself? 
But I turn willingly from these subjects, to one which may well inspire 
us with hope and confidence in the good work to which we have set our 
hands. Let us look back to the Slave Trade debates. It is cheering, 
at least it is consolatory to see that the self-same opposition was raised, 
and nearly the self-same arguments, against the abolition of the Slave 
Trade, until the very hour when the slave ship went down with the bloody 



90 

flag still flying, went down amidst the cheers of a triumphant majority 
in Parliament, and a sympathising people ; the Slave Trade, now named 
only among the foul crimes against which the laws of the land have vin- 
dicated those of God and of nature, by declaring them felony by statute. 
The Slave Trade finds no one bold enough now to defend even its me- 
mory. And yet, when we hear the Slave Trade reprobated, and slavery 
defended by the same persons, I must own I think the Slave Trade un- 
fairly treated. The abuse of defunct Slave Trade is a cheap price for 
the abettor of living slavery to pay by way of compromise. But we 
cannot allow the Colonial party on these terms to cry truce with us, by 
stigmatising the Slave Trade. There is not one general principle on 
which the Slave Trade is to be stigmatised, which does not impeach 
slavery itself. If Slave Trade is spoliation, the liberty of the man is the 
spoil, and his fellow man loses his title to the possession. If slavery is 
more to be authorised on one account than any other, it is because it 
perpetuates, and always must, a Contraband Slave Trade. The Slave 
Trade abolition is incomplete, rapine and murder are still carried on, 
and by English hands too, upon the defenceless shores of Africa, and 
the murderous horrors of the middle passage still abound, and must 
abound, while slavery exists. It is with you, it is with the people of 
England, now to urge Parliament on to its duty. Great objects are in 
preparation for next Session. But we must look to your Petitions for 
support. You have in your cause the gigantic powers of Mr.Brougham, the 
fascinating eloquence of Sir J. Mackintosh, the indefatigable activity and 
knowledge of Mr. Buxton and Dr. Lushington, and you have the 
veteran and honest zeal of Mr. William Smith. 1 would advert to the 
invaluable assistance out of Parliament, of one of the most distinguished 
supporters of this great cause, whose name, I trust, we shall be honoured 
with as a Vice President; but it would be the worst taste in the world 
of me to speak of him while his son (Mr. Stephen) is at my left hand 
[hear, hear!] I may however speak ; how can we here be silent? on the 
venerable and glorious exampje of his immortal kinsman, Mr. Wilber- 
force. May the calm evening of his pure and illustrious life be cheered 
and made truly happy by meeting the final consummation of the great 
cause with which it is identified [cheers]. I glory in the position in 
which you have just placed me in this society. I only feel shame in the 
length of time I have trespassed upon you. Yet let me implore in the 
name of your country, because of freedom, — in the name of Justice and 
of Right, because of freedom, — in the name of Religion, — of that Being 
•' whose service' at least ' is perfect freedom,' never to relax your efforts 
until they shall have obtained peace for Africa, liberty forthose hundreds 
•of thousands of fellow subjects, who are unrepresented here -but by 
your sympathy, — and, though long delayed, the unspeakable glory for 
your native land, of leading the way before the Old Nations at least 
of the earth (some parts of the New World have set us a noble, exam- 
ple), in that great blessing for the whole of mankind, the full and entire 
abolition of Slavery. — [This address was received throughout with great 
applause, which lasted for some time after its conclusion.] 

On Wednesday, February 1, a Public Meeting for the same purpose 
was held at EDINBURGH, the Earl of Roseberky in the Chair. 



91 

During the meeting a slight opposition was attempted, but when an op- 
portunity was offered to the opponent to speak, he slunk away. We 
give the speech of Henry CocKBURN,Esq. Advocate, who addressed 
the Noble Chairman as follows. 

Henry Cockburn, Esq. Advocate : " My Lord, I hold in my hand a 
Petition, which 1 propose to submit to this meeting, as proper to be 
adopted; and after what you have heard, I have little more than to say, 
that [it embodies the Resolutions which have now been passed ; and 
that from the bottom of my heart, 1 do most sincerely approve of all that 
this Society has done — of all that it is now doing— and of the great work 
which I trust it is yet destined to accomplish [applause]. The fact is, 
my Lord, that we have now come to that stage in the history of this 
great question at which all doubts as to its material features are re- 
moved. I don't say that we have come to the time at which the railer 
is to be silent, or the selfish man is to avow that he is confuted ; but I 
do say that we are come to that stage in which no person, v/ithout 
plainly professing to resign his understanding, can say, ' I am still a 
friend of Slavery" [immense applause]. About a year or two ago, 
his Majesty's Government required the Colonial Authorities to send 
to Parliament a statement of what they had done for the amelioration of 
their slaves. They have sent that statement; and we now see, under 
their own hand-writing, how true their former statements were — and, if 
we only know them by their own accounts, we should judge more can- 
didly of them. We have it on the official reports of the Local authori- 
ties in the West Indies themselves ; and the essence of these reports is 
to be found in a book lately published, the name of which you will all 
observe, for I beg you will all read it for yourselves : it is entitled, ' A 
Picture of Negro Slavery, drawn by the Colonists themselves.' This 
pamphlet any body may read in the course of about two hours ; it con- 
sists of about 150 pages, of which I should suppose, upon a guess, not 
twenty of them are written by any person but the colonists themselves. 
These pages contain the evidence by the West Indian planters, why 
Great Britain should no more interfere. These pages contain the 
proofs that they are going on perfectly well. Now, my Lord, if there 
be one person in this room, who has not yet read every page of that 
terrible record, that person has not done — not what charity asks — but 
what justice demands in behalf of the family of man [applause]. Since 
the commencement of the long annals of human atrocity, I don't be- 
lieve that such a picture ever met the human eye. There was an old 
Italian poet, who had passed through many personal sufferings, and 
lived in the most troublous era of his country's history, who was pos- 
sessed of a fertile and gloomy imagination, and who, with the pen of 
fiction, sat down to embody in words all the terrible conceptions of his 
soul. This was a cause to exhaust his genius by supposing his enemies 
and human criminals placed in an aerial region of his own making, and 
in assigning to them all the dreadful punishments, all the terrible em- 
ployments, by which he thought that guilt ought to be visited. It has 
always been imputed to that genius, that it is in some degree absurd, 
by the extravagance of his fictitious wretchedness. — Gentlemen, I as- 
sure you, upon my personal authority — for I have read the book — that 
all the horrors of the dark fancy of Dante are exceeded by the actual 



92 

horrors which pass every day in our own islands upon those whom we 
have torn fromtheir country to put them there, protected by what we 
call our laws — shielded by what we term the charity of our relig-ion — 
sprung from the same origin with ourselves — partakers of the same 
common nature — destined to the same immortality [great applause]. 
I repeat, that if there be a person here who has not read that terrible 
and affecting record, let him go home, and let him not stay till he has 
got and read it. I repeat the title again. ' A Picture of Negro Slavery, 
drawn by the Colonists themselves,' — what, in this presence, I could 
not read one word of; and I know that the hardest heart I address, 
cannot read one page of it without feeling that heart to beat quick ; 
that ere he reads another, his blood will grow cold; and that he will 
shut the book at last, astonished and confounded at the atrocities which 
he, by his silence and apathy, should be the means of committing upon 
those persons [applause]. And I trust that no squeamish delicacy will 
prevent any man or woman who hears me going through from the be- 
ginning to the end of it — -you will not spare yourselves the horror and 
laceration of heart, the sickness which its disgusting details inspire — 
go on to the end — and then refuse to sign this petition if you can 
[cheers]. The fact is, that contemplating what the colonists themselves 
have told us is the improved condition of their slaves, it is to my mind 
one of the most humiliating pictures of the weakness of our nature that 
we can speak or hear so coolly of such a subject. We are living in the 
midst of our personal and domestic comforts ; we rise in the mornins-, 
and the sun shines on our employments ; we close the day in the midst 
of oui pleasures, our business and our families. But we consider not 
daring these last twenty-four hours, how many of these slaves have 
sufiered all that tyranny can inflict — all that humanity can endure. We 
think that because we attend a casual meeting, and sign our name to a 
petition, we have done enough ; and we do no more. And yet we 
meet every day with the most sensible and amiable persons, possessed 
of what is called a good heart; — ask them to think of this matter, ask 
them to come here, — they shake their heads, look grave, and give a few 
sighs for the sufferings of humanity; but they tell us, that they do not 
like to interfere,— they return jto their own selfish pleasures, wrapt up in 
the complacency of their own minds ; though we tell them that we 
want no more than the expression of their voice, and that by their si- 
lence they are increasing the miseries of their fellow-creatures [applause]. 
Adam Smith, that most accurate analyser of our moral sympathies, puts 
this case : — Suppose a man, of what we reckon generous enough feel- 
ing, has some little ailment of his own — some scratch about the edge of 
his nail— he is as wretched as he can be ; and he talks and thinks of 
nothing else but his scratched nail. Suppose a person were to meet 
this man, and to tell him, that certain news had been received that the 
whole empire of China had been swallowed up by a wave, and that three 
hundred millions of his fellovi^-creatures had in a moment ceased to 
live — what does he do ? The case the learned Doctor has put with a 
perfect knowledge of, but with a severe sarcasm on, our nature. — He 
will utter some well turned period on the precariousness of mortal life — 
look sad for a little — walk to the end of the division of a street, and 
then return to his nail [laughter]. Many of us exhibit in our conduct 



93 

the fancied case put by this profound philosopher. Here are we, an 
assembly met for the mitigation and gradual abolition of Slavery ; and 
yet, notwithstanding the acknowledged benevolence of our designs, and 
notwithstanding the respectability of this Meeting, we cannot muster as 
a society, move than five hundred contributors, to the extent of five 
shillings a year. But even with that small sum, what instruction has 
not been poured upon the minds of these poor benighted creatures ! 
What shocks have not been given to that system of tyranny by which 
they are oppressed ! The mite multiplied becomes a treasure ; and if 
these mites were poured in from one end of the island to the other, how 
many thousands might we not save from the worst of possible degrada- 
tions ! Why, then, is it withheld ? The truth is, it is the magnitude 
and enormity of the evil which prevents us from seeing it. If it was only a 
case of individual suftering. how easily would our sympathies be roused 
by it! for we could then hear every groan, and see every tear, and 
mark the quivering of every muscle in our fellow-sufferer. It is when 
we can follow him through his whole tale of family sufi^erings, that our 
sympathies become fluttered, and we are all humanity. But, when we 
attempt to describe the wretchedness endured in distant islands of the 
ocean, and talk of hundreds, or thousands, or millions of sufi'erers; then 
our imagination is baflfted by the conception, and we fall back on the 
generality of our nature, and repose in thought upon the continuance 
of this evil, as we do upon the continuance_of some of those evils in the 
moral and natural universe, which we cannot account for, and which we 
knov,^ man cannot remove. But could we only see the real circumstances 
of a single slave for a single day — I cannot tell you of them — how dif- 
ferent would be our sensations ! Imagination cannot conceive, nor 
words express, what these sufferings are — where every principle of hu- 
man nature is subverted — ^where all the extremity of distress is suffered 
that man can bear, and all the extremity of insolence which power and 
selfishness can inflict or man sustain — where there is life without the 
liberty of making the free use of their own limbs — labour without pro- 
perty — families without lawful relations — -wrongs without redress — 
punishment without guilt — minds in which memory can remember no 
early education, fancy anticipate no era of repose [murmurs of ap- 
plause]. — And yet, with all this, we are cold to the prosperity of this 
Society; and if our funds were allowed to become exhausted, in the 
next year, as they were in the last, and if our Petition shall be allowed 
to go forth without the great and united voice of this place, every ob- 
servation made will apply to every individual who shall be conscious 
that he has not done what in him lies to forward the objects of that 
Petition. I know that is a common sentiment among many — and it is 
a very dangerous one, for it encourages apathy — that we ought not to 
exert ourselves, for we cannot succeed. Many say, 'What can we do? 
This system has lasted a hundred years, and Government has done all 
that is requisite without our interference ; ive need not disturb our- 
selves, for we cannot succeed.' My Lord, I have no more doubt of the 
ultimate success of this measure, than I have of any future moral good. 
There is nothing I anticipate more confidently in this earth, than that 
the West Indian Islands will yet become the abode, not merely of the 
English language, but of the principles of the English Government, and 



94 

of English justice, and also of the principles of the Christian Religion 
[applause]. These islands, favoured with all the bounties of nature, 
have hitherto been cursed only by the selfishness of man. I will say, 
that though we were assured we could not succeed, that should not 
abate one jot our holy ardour in this sacred cause. Success is not to 
be commanded by men, but, speaking in a certain sense, all is in the 
power of man while he governs the world. We ought never to fail in 
using those means by which success may most probably be obtained. 
Had mankind always despaired in this manner, where would have been 
the Reformation ? Where the English Revolution [cheers] ? Or where 
the Redemption of this country from the persecution, which Scotland 
endured a hundred and fifty years ago [immense applause] ? We should 
remember, that even if we fail, there is an elevation of sentiment — an 
independence of character — a consciousness of the desire of usefulness, 
which renders failure in such a cause a greater delight than ordinary 
success without a struggle, and for a useless end [applause]. Let, 
therefore, no man imagine he does his duty when he sits down at home, 
with his hands folded before him, and says, there is a place hemmed in 
from the regions of the earth by a circle of wretchedness, whose people 
do not bear the same colour with us, — they speak not the same language, 
there is a little interfusion of water between us, we do not hear their 
groans, — we will not attend to them. Let it be remembered, it is only 
the person who does his duty, that can look the sun in the face, and say, 
this is not my doing. There is nothing so important in moral life, as 
to connect great principles with great causes ; and there is nothing so 
utterly heartless and contemptible, as the mind of that creature, who, 
wrapt up in his own ease, exclaims, ' I won't succeed; and therefore I 
won't exert myself.' " 

The Learned Gentleman concluded his address amid loud and con- 
tinued plaudits. 



Subjoined is a specimen of the disgusting advertisements which con- 
tinue to occupy a large portion of every weekly Royal Gazette from the 
Island of Jamaica. If the enormities here exhibited had been sooner 
held up to the view of the British public ; that vile system of slavery, 
which still perpetuates them without blushing, would not now pollute 
any territory subject to the British crown. We will not cease to call 
the attention of our countrymen to these abominations, so long as they 
are suffered to exist. Here are human beings, whom in their own per- 
sons, or in the persons of their parents, British subjects kidnapped or 
bribed others to kidnap in Africa,— bought and sold like cattle and other 
chattels, without regard to family ties, in countries absolutely dependent 
upon Great Britain for protection, and peculiarly favoured by her com- 
mercial code, and that to the prejudice of other dependencies where such 
atrocities are unknown. Here are human beings seized and sold in 
execution for their master's debts : — others, whether freemen or slaves, 
apprehended and committed to the nearest workhouse, only because their 
complexion is dark ; and, if unable to produce documents of freedom 
which may have been stolen from them, and not claimed by any ovpner, — 
sold after a while to pay the expenses of their committal and confine- 
ment! Read these advertisements, British labourers — free though 



95 

poor, and blush for those who tell you that these slaves are better off 
than you. Blush for those who tell you in the face of these docuraents, 
that their slaves are not branded and cruelly mangled ! 



Royal Jamaica Gazette, Dec. 10, 1825. 
Portland, Dec. 6, 1825. 
Notice is hereby given, that on Tuesday the 20th day of the present 
month, between the hours of ten and twelve o'clock in the forenoon, I 
shall set up to Public Sale, at the Court House of this Parish, a Sailor 
Negro Slave, named William Drummond, distrained on for taxes 8^ 
arrears of taxes against Arthur R. Jones Esq. John Steel, C. C. 
St. Andrews, Dec. 9, 1825. 
Take Notice, that on Monday the 19th day of Dec. next, I shall put 
up to Public Sale, at the City Tavern, Kingston, between the hours of 
ten and twelve in the forenoon, a Field Negro Man William, levied on 
for taxes Aue by Mr. George Rickard, Mount Elizabeth. 

Caleb M. Littlejohn, C. C, 
St. George's Workhouse, Oct. 19, 1825. 
Notice is hereby given, that unless the undermentioned Slave is taken 
out of this Workhouse prior to Monday the 19th day of December next, 
he will on that day, between the hours of ten and twelve o'clock in the 
forenoon, be put up to Public Sale, and sold to the highest and best 
bidder, at the Court House, BufF Bay, agreeably to the Workhouse law 
now in force, for payment of his fees : 

Thomas alias John Reynolds, a Moco, 5 feet 5 inches, marked 
B E on the right, and R S on the left shoulder, country marks on tem- 
ples, to John Reynolds, Esq. Pimento Grove, St. Thomas in the Vale. 
July 18. — Ordered, That the above be published in the newspapers 
appointed by law, for eight weeks. 

By order of the commissioners, 

Henry Burgess, Sup. 
Royal Jamaica Gazette, Dec. 31, 1825. 
Apprehended Deserters, 
. In St. Andrew's Workhouse, Dec. 29, 1825. 
Rowley, a Creole negro man, 5 feet 5| inches, marked apparently 
E O on the breasts, and mark not plain on the shoulders ; has a mark 
of an old sore on the outer part of his left leg, and the second toe of 
his right foot is lost; to George W. Strupan, Esq. Vine Yard Pen, in 
this parish. — Oct. 6. 

William, alias William Allbelly, a Nago, 5 feet 7^ inches, 
marked apparently D B D on left shoulder; has country marks on his 
back and stomach, also lick marks on his back, and his teeth are filed ; 
to New Castle Plantation, St. David's. — Nov. 23. 

Hardany, a Creole boy, 5 feet If inch, has a small scar on his left 
cheek, blister marks on his back, pouting lips, and speaks thick; to 
Mr. Davis, tinsmith, Kingston. — -Dec. 22. 

Hyslop Lawrence, a Chamba, 5 feet 8 inches, has lost some of 
his lower front teeth, scars on shin of his left leg, which is swoln. 



96 

marked not plain, apparently on both shoulders, is rather elderly ; to 
Mount-Rose Pen, St. Mary's.— Dec. 23. 

Gift, a Creole, 5 feet 5 inches, two of her upper front teeth are de- 
cayed, and marks of flogging on her back ; to Robertsfield Plantation, 
Port Royal Mountains. — Dec. 24. 

Maria, a Creole, 4 feet 11 inches, has a mark of a cut on her fore- 
head, lost the use of her right side ; says she formerly belonged to Dr. 
Alvarenga, who sold her to a Mrs. Benjamin, a person of colour. Har- 
bour Street, Kingston. — ^Dec. 29. 

In Spanish Town Workhouse, Dec. 9, 1825. 

Sarah, a Coromantee, 4 feet 10| inches, marked I B on shoulders, 
prominent lips, lost the second and third toes of her left foot, and also 
one of her lower front teeth; to Mr. John Bryson, Clarendon. — Nov. 28. 

James, or James Williams, a Creole, 5 feet 3 inches, marked 
W R in one, on different parts of his shoulders, a part of the second 
and fifth toes of his left foot are lost, and has a large scar on the left 
side of his head; to one Robert Henry, Kingston. — Dec. 10. 

In St. Ann's Workhouse, Dec. 21, 1825. 
Andrew Biggs, a Mundingo, says he is free, but cannot shew any 
document ; that he was formerly a pioneer, and was attached to the 
33d regiment, stationed at Falmouth. 

STRAYS.— In St. Catherine's Pound, Dec. 24, 1825. 

Oct. 10. — Light Bay Mare, no brand mark, long tail, hind feet white. 

Nov. 23. — Bay Stone Mule, marked N on near side and S on oft' side. 

Nov. 25. — Light Bay he Mule, long tail, marked R on near side, and 

two spots on the back. Donald M' Bean. P. K. 

In St. Andrew's Pound, Dec. 29, 1825. 

Dec. 16. — Black and White Cow, marked apparently I Y W, sent in 
by J.P. TardifF. 

Dec. 22. — Brown she Mule, hogged mane, docked tail, sore back ; 
sent in by D. Sutherland. Caleb Blades. P. 

This, and all other publications of the Society, may he had at their office 
18, Aldermanhury ; or at Messrs. Hatchards,187, Piccadilly , and Arch's, Cornhill. 
They may also he "procured, through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti- 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 



London : S. Bagiter, Jmi. 14, Bartliolome7i: Close. 



London, 18, AUkrmanhury, March 31, 1826. 

No. 10. 

ANTI-SLAVERY 
MONTHLY REPORTER. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
last day of -^very month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion when it exceeds that quantity. All persons wish- 
ing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the Secretary, 
at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the conveyance bj 
which they may be most conveniently sent. 



PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES IN PARLIAMENT ON THE 
SUBJECT OF SLAVERY. 

HOUSE OF COMMONS, March 1, 1826. ' 

Mr. F. Buxton rose, pursuant to notice, to present the petition from the in- 
Jiabitants of the Metropolis, for the Abolition of Slavery in the Colonies. It 
was more numerously signed than any petition that had ever before been pre- 
sented to the House. The number of signatures was 72,000. Following the 
petitions already presented that evening from many other populous and enlight- 
ened places, it proved beyond all doubt, the great and lively interest taken by the 
public with regard to this question. He, therefore, should avail himself of this 
opportunity to ask the Right Hon. Gentleman (Mr. Canning) what was the course 
his Majesty's Government intended to pursue as to the amelioration of the condi- 
tion of the slave population in the Colonies ? He would not enter into the general 
argument of the question, but he would state the precise position in which, at this 
moment, it stood. In 1823, his Majesty's Government said that it was a ques- 
tion of such vast importance, and of such extreme delicacy, that they desired 
to have it placed in their hands. Those by whom it had been brought forward 
consented to the proposition, and it was accordingly transferred to the care of 
Government. On that occasion the Right Hon. Gentleman stated his opinions 
very fully regarding the general question of Slavery, and he (Mr. Buxton) hav- 
ing since attentively and deliberately considered the Right |Hon. Gentleman's 
speech, could find no material distinction between his views and those of the 
original promoters of the discussion. The Right Hon. Gentleman was far from 
attempting to justify the existence of slavery as a desirable or even tolerable 
state of society ^ and he had admitted that the principles of the Christian Reli- 
gion and the spirit of the British Constitution were equally favoiii-able to the 
extension of freedom to all who lived under their influence and protection. The 
Right Hon. Gentleman was a decided advocate of the gradual extinction of 
what he treated as an unquestionable evil. He would not trouble the House by 
reading at length the resolutions with which the Right Hon. Gentleman, on that 
occasion, concluded his speech. It was enough to say, that their purport was 
clearly to pledge the House to an amelioration of Slavery so effectual, as to lead 
to a participation, on the part of the Negroes, in all those civil rights and privi- 
leges which the rest of the King's subjects enjoyed ; in other words, to the final 
and complete abolition of Slavery. In pursuance of these resolutions, his Ma- 
jesty's Government had framed an Order in Council, which they intended to 
bring into operation in those Colonies which were immediately under the autho- 
rity of the Crown, and to recommend to the Colonies having Legislatures of 
Ihfiir own, as the basis of their legislation foi the Slave Population. That Onleir 
1 



in Council, thouglx defective in some material respedts, certainly contained! 
piany excellent regulations. It provided, tliat Negro evidence should, under 
certain restrictions, be admissible in the Courts of Law ; the marriages of the 
slaves were legalized ; the obstacles in the way of manumission were removed ; 
the use of the whip, as the badge of authority and the stimfcilus to labour, was 
prohibited, and, as vegarded the punishment of females, entirely abolished ; pro- 
vision was made for eventually putting an end to the practice of Sunday mar- 
kets, and Sunday labour; the property of the Negro was protected ; and he was 
empowered to apply the property he might possess in purchasing either his own 
redemption, or that of his immediate relations. On the discussion in 1823, to 
which he had referred, all parties seemed to be agreed in principle. The only 
question was, how could the new system be brought, in the soonest and safest 
manner, into practice? No doubt was expressed by the Hon. Gentlemen con- 
nected with the West India interest as to the cordial co-operation of the Colonial 
Assemblies. The Right Honourable Gentleman, however, foreseeing, as it 
now appeared, the true nature of the obstructions to be apprehended, bad de- 
clared that, if his Majesty's Government encountered any opposition partaking 
of the nature of contumacy, he would call on Parliament to perform its duty 
towards the Negroes, and exercise its power to compel the melioration of their 
condition. The principles on which that melioration was to proceed were laid 
down in the Order in Council. Nothing could be more unequivocal than what 
was required from the West India Colonists ; nor could any thing be more 
unequivocal than the utter refusal, on their part, to carry into execution the 
proposed measures for the benefit of their slaves. He was anxious to avoid 
the excitement of feeling ; and he would, therefore, only state the bare facts 
of the case. Generally speaking, he might say that very little indeed had 
been done. In Tobago, the Legislature had certainly done something. They 
had altered the law of evidence, so as to admit the evidence of slaves against 
free persons in cases of murder and mayhem alone, and that under rigid restric- 
tions ; they had changed the market day from Sunday to Thursday ; they had 
reduced the discretionary power of the master from 39 to 20 lashes; they had 
enlarged the number of days allowed the slaves for their own grounds ; and they 
had protected the slaves' property. In the Bahamas they had partially legalized 
marriage, and forbidden the separation of families by judicial sale. In Barba- 
does they had partially admitted the evidence of slaves against free persons. 
These he believed were all the improvements which had taken place. But even 
these scanty concessions had been accompanied with the re-enactment of the 
worst features of the old system. His Majesty's Government, therefore, were 
obliged to withhold their assent from even the acts which contained these partial 
amendments. To this extent the Colonists had carried their attempts to meliorate 
the condition of their slaves. The House would see, by the contrast, how little 
they had attempted. They had not abolished the driving system, or the flogging 
of females; they had not regulated the use of the whip, except in the instances 
mentioned, or mitigated the arbitrary power of the master, or legalised tlie mar- 
riages of the negroes, or protected their property, or prevented them from being 
sold separately from their families. They had not in any case given to the slave 
the power of redeeming himself. In Jamaica, two very insignificant acts had 
been passed, which were calculated to give some incidental advantages to the 
Negro, though, undoubtedly, the positive and direct advantages belonged wholly 
to the master. Nothing else had been done in that Colony, nor, as far as he 
knew, in any of the other Colonies, having local legislatures, to carry into effect 
the recorded wishes of the House. The'conclusion he drew was, that it was 
only within the walls of that House they could expect to see any measures en- 
acted, tending to the Abolition of Slavery. The fact was manifest, that either 
the House must renounce their pledge to the public in behalf of the Negro, or 
at once take the question into their own hands. He was anxious to say nothing 
that could give offence to any party ; but it was his duty broadly to declare, that 
it was his deliberate and confirmed conviction, that the House must do the work 
themselves, or suffer it to be altogether abandoned. He would now conclude 
by reading an extract from a speech of the Right Hon. Gentleman (Mr. Canning), 
which far more eloquently explained his sentiments on the subject than he could 
himself state them. The eloquence of the passage, however, was its least praise. 
The prophetic spirit by which it was dictated entitled it particularly to the pre- 
sent attention of the Houscj who would find that every apprehension expressed 



9$ 

in it had unfortunately been realized : — " Trust not the masters of slaves in 
what concerns legislation for slavery ! However specious their laws may ap- 
pear, depend upon it they must be ineffectual in their application. It is in the 
nature of things that they should be so. Let then the British House of Com- 
inons do their part themselves ! Let them not delegate the trust of doing it to 
those who cannot execute that trust fairly. Let the evil be remedied by an 
•assembly of Freemen, by the Government of a free people, and not by the mas- 
ters of slaves !" 

The Petition was then brought up, and ordered to be read. 

Mr. Canning expressed a wish that the Petition should be read through fully. 

The Petition was then read through accordingly. 

On the question that the Petition do lie on the table, 

Mr. Canning rose to address the House, and spoke to the following effect : — 
Sir, before I answer the call made upon me by the Hon. Gentleman, 1 must 
rel'er briefly to the contents of the petition which he has selected as best calcu- 
lated to afford him the opportunity of making that call ; because, I presume, he 
considered it to embody, in the most effective shape, the sentiments in which he 
participates.* I was desirous, therefore, to hear it read, in the hope, which has 
been realized, that I might be able to express my unequivocal agreement in its 
prayer. I perfectly concur in applauding the unexceptionable terms in which 
the whole of the petition is couched, and the propriety and moderation in which 
it suggests the attainment of its object, by the. most safe and practicable means. 
In order to recall, as perfectly as possible, to the memory of the House, the cir- 
cumstances in which I stand with regard to this question, I will take the liberty 
to request the Clerk to read the Resolutions I moved in 1823. I am particularly 
anxious that the very words should be present to the House, before I answer 
the question of the Hon. Gentleman, 

The Resolutions passed by the House, on the motion of Mr. Canning, on the 
15th of May, 1823, were then read. 

Mr. Canning resumed. I wished not only to have the resolutions read which 
I had the honour of moving, but the resolution which was originally proposed by 
the Hon. Gentleman himself, and by the unanimous voice of the House super- 
seded by mine, because, as the Hon. Gentleman has referred to what I said, as 
to the existence of slavery being incompatible with the principles of the British 
Constitution, and the spirit of the Christian Religion, I am desirous the House 
should understand in what degree I agree with that proposition, and in what 
degree I dissent from it. Undoubtedly no man can affirm that the state of 
slavery is consistent in the abstract with the principles of the British Constitu- 
tion. Still less is it accordantwith the mild and benignant spirit of Christianity ; 
but as the resolution was originally moved by the Hon. Gentleman, it was an 
obvious inference from the statement of that truth, that the incompatibility of 
slavery with those principles, and with that spirit, was of such a nature as to 
take away the exercise of all discretion from Parliament, as to the mode of re- 
moving the evil. It was to be abated at once as an intolerable nuisance. Gra- 
dual means were discarded as unfitted for the occasion, and the whole system of 
slavery was to be destroyed by the general voice of the community, as a state 
of things which Religion could not endure, nor the Constitution suffer one hour 
longer to exist. I am exceedingly unwilling to discuss the principles of religion 
in a place where religion ought rather to be referred to, than directly brought 
into debate. But I must say, that though the spirit of Christianity, in the course 
of ages, gradually extirpated the slavery it found every where prevailing, yet, 
I believe the precept is no where to be found, which proscribes it as absolutely 
Tinlawful. In various countries it consisted with that state, and never, by its 
early teachers, was declared to be essentially incompatible with it. If, tliere- 
fore, the proposition means any thing beyond an expression of religious feeling, 
it is not true. In all ages of the world, the spirit of the Christian Religion had 
tended towards the extinction of the evil, by slow steps indeed, but with un- 
erring certainty. So with regard to the British Constitution ; if it be contended 
that slavery cannot co-exist with it in any part of the King's dominions, the 
proposition is undoubtedly untrue ; but it surely is not untrue that the freest 
Parliament of the freest country in the world has knowingly, and witli its eyes 
open, tolerated in parts of its dominions the existence of slavery, more or less 

* See for the petition in question, the Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter, No. VII. 



100 

modifled, and fov move tLan a century countenanced and encouraged the maio> 
tenance of that condition. Do I therefore contend, that it is not our duty t» 
make those changes, which are conformable both with the spirit of our religion, 
and the principles of our Constitution ? Certainly not. The difference between 
the resolution moved by the Hon. Gentleman, and that by which it was super- 
seded, was, that his allowed no pause, and admitted of no qualification. The 
resolutions adopted by the House, on the contrary, recommended gradual mea- 
sures, * and did not propose, by setting up a principle, to overthrow at a blow 
a system which Religion has tolerated, and the Constitution has permitted to 
grow up under its protection. If the conduct of his Majesty's Government be 
judged with reference to the resolutions unanimously passed by the House, and 
not by the spirit and tendency of the resolution which was superseded by them, 
I hope to satisfy the House, that, going upon the principles laid down in those 
resolutions, we have not been unsteady in our measures, or unmindful of the 
cause to which we stand pledged. Those resolutions were passed in May, 1823. 
Copies of them were immediately transmitted to the several Colonies in the 
West Indies, and in the first instance we attempted, by exhortations, to induce 
them to act upon the principles of the resolutions, leaving to themselves entirely 
the mode of action. And I did hope, at that time, that that most desirable re- 
sult would have been attained, and am now ready to admit that I have been 
disappointed. The following year I had the honour to state to the House the 
expedient to which Government had resorted on their first disappointment. 
That expedient was to embody in an Order in Council those measures which 
appeared most necessary for the reformation of the' negro population. This 
Order in Council was carried into effect in those Colonies in which the Crown 
had power to act without the concurrence of a local Legislature. t To the other 
Colonies it Mas also sent, with an urgent recommendation that its principles and 
forms should be adopted by the acts of their own Legislatures. That recom- 
mendation, the Hon. Gentleman says, has been totally without effect ; and the 
result shews, he contends, that Parliament is compelled to resume the delega- 
tion it had made of its powers to the Government, and take steps of its own, 
for the accomplishment of its object. It is true that I did state, that if a spirit 
of contumacy appeared on the part of the Colonies in the shape of a determined 
resistance to the views of Parliament and the recommendations of Government, 
I would not hesitate to come down to this House, and ask for the powers neces- 
sary to quell the threatened opposition. I do not deny, that I meant to imply, 
that if such a case did arise, I would advise that we should enforce what they 
contumaciously resisted. The ickole question between the Hon. Gentleman and me 
is, whether that case has ariseji, and whether it is now necessary that Parliament 
should take back the powers they have intrusted to the hands of Government, 
in order to adopt a new course of a more direct and precipitate nature ? Though 
I see much to blame in the conduct of the Colonial Legislatures, I am of opinion 
that the case of contumacy has not arisen. I do not deny that I have seen symp- 
toms which have alarmed me. I do not deny that I have seen indications of a 
spirit, that may in time become a spirit of contumacy ; but I will hope to the 
last ; I will carry my forbearance longer, perhaps, than reasonably I ought, 
before I precipitate a step which necessity only can justify. As to the conduct 
of Government, the points in the Order in Council are, I understand, on the 
w^hole, those which the most sanguine fiiends to the abolition of slavery, con- 
sider such as it is most prudent and useful, in the first instance, to submit to 
legislation. I have not heard it intimated that there are any points which even 
the West India interest consider to have been rashly introduced. On the other 
hand, I have not heard of any material omission tending to the prejudice of the 

* It is diiBcult to account for the view which Mr. Canning has thought proper 
to take of IMr. Buxton's resolution as contrasted with his own. In order to 
shew how groundless the whole of the attempted contrast is, it is only necessary 
to transcribe that resolution. It was as follows : — "That the state of slavery is re- 
pugnant to the principles of the British Constitution and of the Christian Religion 
and that it ought to be gradually abolished throughout the British dominions, 
7cith as much expedition as may be consistent with a due regard to the Kcll-being 
of the parties concerned." 

t It has in fact been earned into effect only in one of these Colonies, Trinidad, 
and partially in another of them, Demarara. 



lOi 

slave. [Mr. Brougliain dissented from this proposition.] With respect to the 
regulations recommended in the Orders in Council, I find, by the latest returns, 
that the recommendation as to religious instruction, has been modified, more or 
less, by different colonies ; but out of twelve, eight have taken cognizance of it. 
Respecting the receiving of slave evidence, seven out of twelve have either 
adopted the recommendation now, or have had such a regulation prevailing. 
On the subject of marriage, I fear that five only have done anything towards 
forwarding the recommendation. As far as regards the security of property, 
eight have take cognizance of the Order in Council, or had some security before. 
In regard to manumission, seven had either the recommendation carried into a 
more or less perfect slate before, or have adopted it now. The recommendation 
respecting the separation of slaves from the estates, I am sorry to say, only four 
have adopted ; but to the adoption of this recommendation, the obstructions 
which exist are rather of a legal than a moral nature. On the subject of the 
non-separation of families, only five have adopted the recommendation ; eight 
have adopted the recommendation for mitigating the severity of general punish- 
ment ; and, with respect to the corporal punishment of females, I am sorry to 
say, the recommendation has only been listened to by five, although it is by far 
the simplest and shortest and cheapest mode by which a disposition could be 
implied of complying with the wishes of Parliament, and which I had thought 
there was no one legislature could have hesitated to adopt. Of all the cases 
which can be imagined, this is an instance of refusal which can be explained 
upon no other ground than a disposition to fly in the face of the legislature. In 
the only remaining instance, and the most difficult of execution, that of the 
establishment of Savings Banks, the recommendation has been adopted by two 
only. This is the information which has been received.* The question now 
before the House for discussion between the Hon. IM ember (Mr. Buxton) and 
myself is, whether the period has arrived when the conduct of the Colonial 
Legislatures has assumed a resistance so obstinate, and a contumeliousness so 
absolute, as to render it necessary for us to abandon the course we have already 
pursued, and to stir at the present that great question, upon which, if necessity- 
should arise, I shall have no hesitation in expressing my opinions — I mean the 
question of legislating for our Colonies. I cannot pretend to deny that the late 
proceedings in the principal Colonial legislature have filled me with sentiments 
which I do not wish to express. I confess, that when I remember the many 
trials which have taken place in that country, and the instances in which life 
has been taken away on so small a portion of questionable evidence — when I 
contemplate the result of those trials upon such evidence, and see that in 
Jamaica a bill for the admissibility of slave evidence was thrown out — a mea- 
sure in which the question of human life is concerned — when I witness pro- 
ceedings so sanguinary — but I would rather address an imploring voice to the 
legislature, and entreat them quickly to vv'ipe away the stain : and from some 
jcircumstances which have come to my knowledge, I have the greatest hopes 
that, in the next session of the Colonial Legislature, an act will pass to accom- 
plish this object. I am anxious to give them another chance for that desirable 
consummation, which we all should rejoice to see take place. I am desirous to 
give space and rest for a fair trial ; but I am not at variance with the Hon. 
Member (Mr. Buxton), except as to the question of degree. If due advantage 
be not taken of that space. and rest which is permitted them, it may then become 
the duty, if not of Parliament to take out of the hands of Government that trust 
which I hope they have not unfaithfully executed, at least of Government to 
call upon the Parliament to arm them with additional power. It would not be 

* After a most careful examination of all the means of information accessible 
to the public, it do€S not appear, whatever cognizance the Colonial legislatures 
may have taken of the above topics, that any of them has passed an act for em- 
powering slaves to redeem themselves ; or for preventing the sale of slaves de- 
tached from the estate ; or for abolishing the flogging of females ; or for esta- 
blisliing savings banks. One only appears to have provided for the repose of the 
sabbath ; two for the legalizing of marriage, and the restriction of the driving 
whip ; and only three in any degree, and that a very slight one, for the security 
of property; or for the non- separation of families; or for the mitigation of 
arbitrary punishments; and in a very restricted measure indeed, for admitting 
the evidence of slaves. 



102 

answering the question of the Hon, Gentleman, if I did not state, that during 
the remaining interval it is the intention of the Government at home to take 
such steps as will bring the intentions of the Colonial Legislature to a fair trial 
— it is the intention of his Majesty's Government to direct the introduction of a 
Bill into each of the Legislatures in their next session, embodying the Order in 
Council, so as to ensure the acceptance, rejection, or modification of the recom- 
mendations which it contains. The House will then understand there are three 
gradations in the course which has been pursued. 1st. The vote of this House 
was sent to the Colonial Legislatures, coupled with the recommendation of the 
Government to accede to the principles which that vote comprehended. That 
having been refused, the Government threw out an enactment of its own, en- 
forcing those points in which it had the power, and recommending those others 
in which it did not exercise its authority. That having failed, we now propose, 
that a Bill, founded on the principles to which this House has acceded, should 
be sent to each Colonial Legislature ; and upon' that Bill they must come to 
some decision, subject to the various modifications which the different circum- 
stances of each Colony may require. I should be therefore extremely sorry that 
the course of experiment should be disturbed, for I am persuaded that there 
exists in the Colonies not only much resistance, but misconception. In many 
cases, too, they expect some compensation equivalent to what they consider the 
deterioration of their property. I am at a loss to know what deterioration can 
arise, except by withdrawing the service of their slaves by compulsory manu- 
mission — and their compensation in that case they would lind in the appraise- 
ment of the slave so withdrawn from his ownership. But in the case of the 
general amelioration of the condition of the slave, compensation is not to be 
"iven [cheers]. Their best compensation they would find in the increased value 
of the slave's labour — in bis increased happiness and comfort — in his elevation 
from the condition of a brute to a state approximating the dignity of man. 
Many of the objections which now exist may be done away with in time; the 
experiment is at least worth making ; and I should much regret that Parliament 
should take any step to intercept the chance of a plan, which, if it succeeds, 
will be much more acceptable than any forcible measure ; and if it should fail, 
Parliament would at least have the consolation of not having resorted to the 
ultimate measure until they had exhausted all their expectations of any thing 
bein<T done by the Colonies themselves. Coercion must be applied to cvnfirmed 
contumacy — but that degree of contumacy has not yet arisen, to call for its 
exercise. I do confess, I have seen some symptoms displayed, which the 
Government would much desire to see done away with. But time may render 
any extraordinary interference unnecessary ; and during the interval which 
shall be left for the trial of the experiment, I mean to supply an omission, 
which I am at a loss how it could have occurred at the passing of these resolu- 
tions — I mean to propose that these resolutions be communicated to the House 
of Lords, for their concurrence. I have now stated the whole amount of what 
the Government proposes to do. I trust the House will agree with me in 
thinkin"- that it would be inexpedient to make any attempt at legislating in the 
present session ; but I do so, neither denying the abstract power of Parliament, 
or the possibility of an occasion arising for its exercise ; but simply not admit- 
ting that a case has arisen to call for its exercise at the present moment. 

In reply to a question from Mr. Brougham, intended to elicit more explicit 
information as to the improvements which had been effected by the Colonial 
leo'islatures, Mr. Canning replied with some hesitation, that, he believed that as 
to'the admissibility of evidence, steps had been taken for carrying into effect 
the recommendations of the House, in St. Vincent's, St. Kitts, and Grenada. 
On the subject of manumission, only one Legislature had adopted the recom- 
mendation. As to the separation of families, and general punishment, Tobago 
and St. Kitts had attended to the suggestion. St. Vincent had done something — 
Grenada something — and as to the driving system, St. Kitts. 

Mr. Buxton wished to know whether, in Jamaica, which contained one half 
of the Black population, any thing had been done ? The Governor had said 
that in last December, after another Session, nothing had been done towards 
amelioration. 

Mr. Canning said he was afraid, that, with respect to Jamaica, nothing had 
ibeeu done, except the measure for allowing slaves to take by bequest. 

Mr. William Smith said, the House ought to be informed whether it was the 



103 

intention of the Right Hon. Gentleman, in case nothing vvas donfe before the 
next Session, to call the attention of Parliament to the subject. The House 
ought to attend to the speech of the Duke of Manchester, at the close of the 
last Session, addressed to the House of Assembly in the month of last Decem- 
ber, in which he complains that they had allowed another year to pass away 
without any attempt to improve the condition of the Negroes. The contumacy 
of these Legislatures would be quite contemptible, did it not demonstrate that 
they would yield to neither kindness nor remonstrance, or, in fact, to any thing 
but force. In conclusion, the Hon. Member observed, that the sentiments which 
had been extracted by his Hon. Friend (Mr. Buxton) from a former speech of 
the Right Hon. Gentleman (Mr. Canning) with respect to the hopelessness of 
any benefit from Colonial legislation on the subject of Slavery, and which were 
expressed with equal force and eloquence, applied with as much propriety to 
the circumstances of the present times, as those in which they were delivered. 

Mr. Secretary Peel said, there were various points mentioned in the speech 
of the Hon. Gentleman, which deserved the most serious attention ; but there 
was one, above all others, upon which he could not avoid expressing a decided 
opinion — the qualification of slaves to give evidence in a court of justice. Of 
that he would say, that he hoped not one year, no not even a single session, 
would pass by without the enactment of some regulation upon the subject. A 
power of that kind, which would raise the slave, under certain conditions, to a 
state which would enable him to give evidence, might be rendered one of the 
safest, cheapest, and most effectual methods of commencing the amelioration 
they desired. It seemed to him that any measure through which the courts of 
justice might be no longer closed against the slave, would ultimately tend to fortify 
the interests, and secure the property of the master. For who were the persons 
to whom that evidence was to be offered? Why to the Whites — to a White 
Jury. Could it then be said, in opposition to such a proposal, that those who 
were to judge of the value of their testimony, were unreasonably prejudiced in 
favour of the Black population ? Quite the contrary ; a White Jury were in all 
cases to exercise their judgment as to whether that evidence was or was not . 
admissible. He most earnestly hoped that there woiild not be a moment's un- 
necessary delay in giving full effect to the intentions of the Legislature on that 
■ important subject. In two or three Colonies the evidence of a slave was ad- 
mitted, in cases which did not aflect the life or property of his master, and where 
no White evidence can be procured. But, did the House see the effect of that 
law ? When White evidence can be procured, then the Black evidence is inad- 
missible ; and if t4iat evidence should happen to be in favour of the person 
accused, then the Black evidence cannot be received to prove his guilt, even in 
the most glaring cases. What he wanted to see was, some principle adopted 
in their legislation on the subject, so that the responsibility of rejecting a black 
man's evidence should rest, not on the law, but on some known tribunal. Such 
E^ measure would be the first step to invest him with those rights which that 
House considered it right to bestow upon him. And if they were resolved to 
carry their intentions into execution, arwi raise the black population to the rank 
of human beings, he could not understand any reason why they should delay 
giving effect. to their views, upon the subject of their testimony, a single mo- 
ment. The slave was liable to be summoned just in the same manner as an 
idiot might be in this country ; and it should be left to the jury to determine, 
when he appeared before them, whether they considered his testimony should 
or should not be believed ; and, for his part, he could not conceive a mind, 
even the most deeply imbued with West India prejudices, who could see any 
danger likely to accrue to the life or the property of the white man, by invest- 
ing the slave with such a privilege. 

Mr. Scarlett eould not help expressing his regret that Jamaioa, one of the 
most enlightened, in the character of its white population, should be exposed to 
the censure of being foremost in its opposition to the wishes of the friends of 
freedom and humanity. He was sure, that if the gentlemen of that island were 
to give the subject the slightest consideration, they would see that their own 
interests were inseparably connected with the amelioration of the condition of 
their slaves, and feel an earnest wish to comply with the unanimous desire of 
all the civilized part of mankind. In his earliest years he had imbibed preju- 
dices against the condition of the slave population — viewed with horror the 
treatment they received, and felt the strongest desire to witness their entire 



104 

emancipation from the controul to which they were subjected. But he thought 
that they should rather wait even the tardy measures of the Colonists, if they 
could by that means conciliate the masters, than bj'^ any language of intimida" 
tion, reproach, or blame, and more than all, of threatening, attempt to force on a 
premature and unwilling concession. Such a course would prove an effectual 
barrier to that object which they all had ia view — the permanent amelioration 
of the condition of the slaves. He did not mean, however, to say that he did 
not highly disapprove of the reluctance exhibited by the Colonial Legislatures ; 
and he thought, that iu the course they pursued, they seemed manifestly to be 
ignorant of their best interests. The measure recommended by the Right Hon. 
Gentleman respecting the evidence of the slaves, had his full concurrence ; and 
he would conclude by expressing a hope that the execution of their intentions 
should be confided still to the hands of his Majesty's Government, who had, it 
appeared to him, most worthily fulfilled their trust, and who would, he was 
convinced, give the most effectual operation to the recommendations of the 
House, united, as they were, with the desire of the whole kingdom. 

Mr. Phillips felt himself very much at a loss to understand the contrariety of 
opinion which seemed to prevail on the suliject between the ¥,'est India pro- 
prietors resident in England and the Colonial Legislatures. He could not 
avoid believing, that much of the reluctance on the part of the Colonists pro- 
ceeded from their fears of such alteration affecting their properties. These pre- 
judices, however, would, he was convinced, gradually disappear before a better 
consideration of the question. He was old enough to recollect a time when the 
man who merely hinted at any thing like the emancipation of the slaves of the 
West Indies, was looked upon as a visionary enthusiast, who proposed plans of 
ideal happiness for that unhappy race which could never be realized — and yet 
he had lived to see those very men, who had thus scouted the idea of all im- 
provement, vote themselves for that very abolition, and become some of the 
most ardent and zealous in their endeavours to carry its resolutions into effect. 
So it would be with those who now objected to any further alteration in the 
condition of the slaves ; and they would see tlie time when those who now 
oppose them will return their unmeasured gratitude for their exertions, and 
call that interference, which they now deprecate, a great practical benefit. He 
hoped they would steadily pursue their course, and leave the execution of their 
intentions still in the hands of the Government, who had gone on so prosper- 
ously to the consummation of their wishes. 

Mr. WiLMOT HoRTON would have seen with regret, any resolution of the 
House which would take the management of the question out of the hands of 
his Majesty's Government. If any man gave himself the trouble to examine 
the protests which have issued from the Colonial Legislatures, he would find 
that they all rested their objections to the measures of the Government, upon 
the conviction that their properties might be endangered and their authority 
over the slaves weakened, by the effect of the new regulations. In proportion as 
that fear faded away, he was convinced their opposition would be abated ; as it 
seemed to him a matter of certainty, that no abstract love of slavery influenced 
their actions, either at this time or any other. How far the principles they were 
adopting had begun to produce the effect which they anticipated, might be, 
perhaps, best shewn to the House by reading an extract from a letter which he 
had received that morning from Demerara. The letter, which was written a 
week after the Order in Council had been in operation, stated, that after the 
writer and others had contemplated, with great alarm, the effect of the approach- 
ing change in the treatment of the slaves, he was happy to say, that although 
the whole of the regulations had been carried into effect, there had not been a 
single instance of any abuse of the liberty bestowed upon the slaves. The 
writer continued to say, that he had assembled the slaves on his estate, and 
informed them of the alteration in their condition, declaring at the same time, 
that all punishments should be entered in the^Black Book — that if they behaved 
well the new stocks should not be used, and that the money which had been 
destined for the new jail, should be devoted to the improvement of theii cot- 
tages. The slaves had promised to conduct themselves, in consequence of these 
alterations, with propriety and decorum, and he was glad to be able to say that 
they had not, as yet, or in any one instance, forfeited their word. 

Mr. SvKES feared that the delay in taking some decisive measures would but 
add another year to the wretchedness and misery of the. slave population. They 



105 

had been deluded year after year by these promises, and the condition of the 
slaves, in their colonies, remained unaltered. Against the plan of looking for 
reform to the Colonial Legislatures he must enter his solemn protest. These 
Legislatures did not, in his opinion, evince a disposition to abate the severity of 
the system. He referred, in proof. of this position, to the new law lately passed 
in Barbadoes, and which retained many of the most barbarous enactments of the 
old. He read one clause, whereby any person, for driving too fast a horse or-^mule 
upon the road, or for a variety of other acts of a similarly trivial nature, or for 
what was termed disorderly conduct, without specifying what that conduct 
was, became liable to the infliction of thirty-nine stripes ; except in the case of 
a woman in a state of pregnancy, who was liable to imprisonment. It was now 
three years since the resolutions of Parliament had passed that House, and no- 
thing had yet been done. It was right that they shciild be informed at what 
time it was likely these resolutions would at length begin tp be acted upou. 

Mr. T. Wilson was not inimical to the Abolition of Slavery, but he was not 
friendly to a measure which would make the slave free at the expence of the 
master. There were other interests as well as the comforts of the slave popula- 
tion, whicli it was the duty of the House to consider — long-vested and established 
rights of property, which should be protected. He was therefore averse to any 
compulsory proceeding whatever in any change it might be intended to intro- 
duce ; or if a compulsory proceeding were resorted to, those who petitioned in 
favour of it should be ready, as those who signed the Petition from the city of 
London were, to defray their proportion of expence to indemnify the proprietors 
for the injury and loss to which such a proceeding may subject them. He 
lamented the loss of Mr. Marryat, as an advocate of the Colonial interests. 

Mr. Grosset suggested that attention ought to be directed to the conditioa 
of the slaves in the East Indies, as well as to that of those in the West Indies. 

Mr. Hume said that he had been in the East Indies ; and speaking of what 
he knew of society there, particularly in Bengal, he could undertake to say, 
that there were no agricultural slaves there ; and those persons whom the Hon. 
Member had described as slaves, were performers, or dancers ; who, forming 
themselves into bands under a chief, went from place to place for a livelihood. 
There was this difference, Iiowever, in the condition even of these persons and 
the slaves of the West Indies, that although the former had been purchased in 
their youth, yet, if they thought proper to detach themselves at any time after- 
wards from the baud with which they had been so connected, there was no law 
in India which could compel them to return. They might go where they pleased. 
Now this was a very different condition from that of the slaves of the West 
Indies. He believed the same state of law prevailed in all places within the 
territory of the East India Company. As to the passage in the book of Buchanan 
relative to slaves, which was applied to the East Indies generally, it was only 
applicable to some parts of the interior, with which he was not acquainted ; 
but what he had stated, and he believed he was correct in the statement, re- 
ferred to those places which he knew and where he had been. 

This statement on the part of Mr. Hume w^as confirmed by Sir Edward Hyde 
East, formerly the Chief Justice of Bengal. 

Mr. Broogham said, that those who complained of the charges brought 
against the Slave Proprietors by the advocates for Emancipation, ought not to 
indulge in charges against their own countrymen who espoused the cause of the 
Negroes. However different might be the opinions entertained upon some 
points of the subject, there was no difference whatever, either specific, or in the 
degree of feeling entertained by all parties against the enormous mass of prac- 
tical abuses in the Slave system. By far the strongest appeals that «ould be 
made to the humane feelings of the country, might be found in the speeches of 
the Colonial Legislatures, They afforded the most appalling details of that 
most infernal scourge to humanity, Slavery. He was not for a sudden 
emancipation, though, if any measures were now to be promptly pursued, they 
could not be reproached as rash or headstrong, for sufficient warning had been 
given to all the parties concerned. He might once have been of opinion that 
the mother country ought to interfere solely with the Abolition of the Slave 
Trade, and to leave the subject of Slavery to the Local Legislatures, in the 



106 

confidence that they would have done their duty. They had failed to do so ; 
and he now thought it was high time for the mother country to shew tliat they 
would be trifled with no longer. He had little or no hope of any advantage to 
be derived from the Colonial Assemblies. To expect that they would, of them- 
selves, enter into any reform, such as the Orders in Council had pointed out, 
was most absurd. They declared it would be ruin to do so ; and yet it was ex- 
pected that they should pursue a course they believed to be ruinous. With 
respect to the language of menace which they were accused of employing 
towards the Colonists, it was only in the sense of saying, that if the Colonial 
Legislatures did not think the measures advised proper for them to adopt, we 
should ourselves be obliged to enact them; and it was the undoubted right of 
the House to legislate for all the subjects of the Crown. He had heard to-night, 
that Government intended to send out to each Colony a statement of the mea- 
sures to be adopted, and to insist upon a decided acquiescence, or a refusal, by 
the Colonists. He felt, however, that whilst Parliament delayed its measures, 
thousands of our fellow subjects were suffering under the present slave system. 
But, as he understood that some additional information was to be laid before the 
House, he should postpone the motion for leave to bring in a bill for bettering 
the condition of the slave, which he had intended to make that evening, until 
after the recess. 

Mr. F. Buxton said, he certainly felt deeply disappointed at the delay which 
was likely to take place upon this subject — a delay which, while it produced no 
good, was likely to cause great and extensive injury. He then adverted to the 
decisive reply which had that night been given from the Yery highest authority, 
the Chief-Justice of India, to the non-existence in India of any state similar to 
that of West India Slavery ; and begged of all who accused him, and his friends, 
of publishing exaggerated statements of th-e sufferings of the slaves in our Co- 
lonies, only to read the recent Reports from Berbice and other islands, in which 
they would find detailed numerous acts of cruelty, which would far exceed any 
thing that had yet been put forth to the world. 

The same subject was resumed in the House of Commons on Friday the 4th 
of March, when, on the occasion of Mr. Denman presenting a petition, signed by 
7,000 inhabitants of Nottingham and its neighbourhood, pi'aying that the rights 
of British subjects might be as soon as possible extended to the unfortunate 
persons called Slaves in the West Indies, and whose only crime was the colour 
of their skin, Mr. Brougham said, that he would take the opportunity of in- 
quiring whether any Acts for the amelioration of the condition of the Slaves, 
had lately been transmitted from the Colonies to his Majesty's Government. 
The Right Hon. Gentleman opposite, in the course of liis observations ou Wed- 
nesday night, had otherwise reasoned upon incorrect data. 

Mr. W. HoRTON said, that in addition to the acts already laid on the table of 
the House, whatever else had been received, would be laid on the table next 
week. 

Mr. Brougham contended, that there was a discrepancy between the state- 
ments of the Right Hon. Gentleman and the facts of the case, as he understood 
them. The question was, whether the improvements contemplated by the Legis- 
lature of this country, and the Orders of Council, had been carried into effect in 
the Colonies, and to what extent. Had the slaves acquired there the right of 
being manumitted by appraisement, notwithstanding the unwillingness of their 
masters? Had the Colonial Legislatures, in conformity with the Orders of Coun- 
cil, abolished the driving whip, and the whipping of females as a punish- 
ment ? He could not discover that they had. Had the evidence of slaves been 
rendered admissible as proposed? There were thirteen British Colonies which 
possessed Legislative Assemblies; there were twenty in which Slavery existed. 
In the latter number, he included the Mauritius, the Cape of Good Hope, and 
Honduras. Of these twenty, thirteen enjoyed the right of Legislative Assem- 
blies, and of those thirteen, he had understood the Right Hon. Gentleman to 
say, that seven had admitted slave evidence. From a careful perusal of the 
documents before the House, however, as well as from a review of the latest 
Colonial newspapers, it appeared to him that not more than three Colonies had 
hitherto passed any legislative enactments to that effect. These Colonies were, 



107 

Tobago, Barbadoes, and Dominica. The act of Doniinioa had passed its Asseju 
bly eig4it years since ; of course it was not attributable to the Orders in Coun- 
cil. In Tobago, an Act had been passed for that purpose; but the admissibility 
of the evidence of a slave was so shackled with conditions as to render it nuga- 
tory. The evidence was admissible only in case of the murder or mayhem of a 
slave by a white man, and even then under two material distinctions; first, that no 
other persons but slaves were present; and, secondly, that two slaves of irre- 
proachable character should coincide in their testimony. Of the Barbadoes act, 
enough had been said on a former occasion, and it could not be necessary for 
him to rehearse the details. The Order of Council for Trinidad had provided, 
that the certificate of any clergyman, whether of the Established Church, of the 
Koman Catholic Church, or of any other sect of Christians, would avail to ren- 
der the evidence of a slave admissible; but the Barbadoes act required that the 
certificate should be given by the regular clergy, whether the slaye received 
instruction from them or not. Such was the mode of baffling the Legislature and 
Government of England which the Colonists used. His Majesty's Government, 
and the House, would be bound to investigate the matter fully, and to take care 
that such mockery should not be repeated. He might have erroneously ab- 
stracted the papers laid on the table of the House; but he thought he had not, 
and such was the amount of the improvement that had been effected. In fact, 
notwithstanding the efforts of his Majesty's Government, by issuing Orders in 
Council, it appeared that only in two of the Colonies had any attempts been 
made towards improvement in the condition of their slaves, as to the admissi- 
bility of their evidence; they were Barbadoes and Tobago. As to the improve- 
ment of the morality of the slaves, and, in particular, as to Ihe observance of 
the Sabbath, it appeared that, in Tobago alone, the market day, not the slaves' 
working day, had been altered from Sunday to Thursday. In Tobago alone, 
had a law been passed for securing the property of the slaves. Mr. Brougham 
said, he was sorry to observe that, in Demerara, the Trinidad Order in Council 
had undergone some considerable mutilations; and even in Trinidad itseif, the 
slaves, he was concerned to see, had been precluded from having property in 
any of the produce of the island which could be considered as its exports, and, 
of course, were precluded from those means of obtaining their manumission by 
their own efforts, which the permission to raise exportable produce would afford 
them. In Tobago, there had been a diminution of the number of lashes to which 
a slave; could be subjected, from 39, as formerly allowed, to 20; but this seemed 
to be the only island where the right of arbitrary punishment had been modified. 
The Right Hon. Gentleman opposite had stated, that from sixty to seventy va- 
rious descriptions of improvements had been elfected. Now he (Mr. B.), after 
due examination of the papers on the table of the House, was enabled to find 
not more than nine or ten improvements, and even they were not of great 
amount. In the absence, therefore, of documents on which to found a correct 
judgment, the House could not but be as embarrassed as he was, to know the 
real state of the case. Tlie Hon. Gentleman would, therefore, he was sure, not 
oppose a motion which he intended to submit to the House, for a return of all 
the Acts passed in the Colonial Legislatures for the improvement of the condi- 
tion of the slaves, and of any Acts containing clauses for improvement, distin- 
guishing the names of the Acts, and of the Legislatures in which they were 
enacted ; whether those Acts were allowed or disallowed by his Majesty's Go- 
vernment, and including all information received down to the latest arrivals 
from the Colonies. He trusted, when those papers should have been laid before 
the House, that it would be able to form a more fair opinion of the improve- 
ments which had been effected, or were likely to be effected, than it had hitherto 
had the means of doing. 

Mr. WiLMOT HoRTON said, that it was his (Mr. W. Horton's) intention, 
shortly, to submit to the House a tabular statement w hich would fully elucidate 
the points at issue, and shew what had been done and what had not been done 
by the Colonial Legislatures. With respect to the Order in Council, it was 
already in force in Trinidad and Demerara, in the latter, with some defects 
which would be supplied by a fresh order; and it would be s€nt very shortly to 
St. Lucia, as well as to the Cape of Good Hope, and Berbice. Its introduction 
a,t the Mauritius had been delayed by the Commissioners having been detained 
on their passage, and not having had sufficient time to prepare their Report, 



- 108 

-Mr. Brougham then said, that on the 20th of April, he should submit a motion, 
having for its object the bettering the condition of the Slaves in the Colonies. 

5n consequence of a motion of Mr. Canning's on the 1st of March, the resolu- 
tions of the House of Commons of the 15th May, 1823, were communicated to 
the House of Lords, and the concurrence of their Lordships requested. Tues- 
day, the 7th of March, having been appointed for considering this communica- 
tion, an interesting discussion took place, which terminated in the adoption of 
the resolutions. It will be impossible to give more than a brief abstract of this 
discussion. 

Earl Bathurst, in proposing their Lordships' concurrence, took occasion to 
state what the Government had done in consequence of the vote of the House of 
Commons, of the loth May, 1823. Those resolutions had been made the foun- 
dation of certain instructions for improving the situation of the slave population 
ill the West India Colonies, which, in the case of Trinidad, had been embodied 
in the shape of an Order in Council, and made the law of the island. Since that 
time, various communications had taken place between his Majesty's Govern- 
ment and the Colonies; but he was extremely sorry to say, that those communi- 
cations had not been attended with so much success as might have been expected. 
His Lordship, indeed, admitted that very little had any where been done, to- 
wards effecting the objects his Majesty's Government had in view. The only 
point on which his Lordship dwelt, as having evinced a disposition on the part 
of the Colonists generally to do so, was their having invested the Bishops with 
certain powers of ecclesiastical jurisdiction, and having shewn a readiness to 
contribute to the building or to the repair and enlargement of churches. Beyond 
this, it did not appear, from his Lordship's speech, that any thing more had been 
effected, in the way of amelioration, beyond the very partial measures which 
have been alieady stated, in a note above, to have taken place in a few 
of the Colonies. He was sorry to say, that the Legislative Assembly of Jamaica, 
though it had passed a law protecting from arrest for theirmaster's debts, slaves 
going to market on Saturday as well as Sunday ; and, though they had allowed 
slaves to take money by bequest, and afforded facilities to a master in volunta- 
rily manumitting his slave, yet had done nothing more. It had rejected the 
proposed law for admitting the evidence of the blacks under certain modifica- 
tions. The bill for that purpose had been thrown out by a majority of 23 to 13. 
But that assembly, and the othets which had rejected the measures recom- 
mended by his Majesty's Govei-nment, would soon be called upon to re-consider 
the subject, and there was reason to hope that they would then evince a differ- 
ent spirit, and that measures calculated to ameliorate the condition of the slaves 
would then be passed. His Lordship took occasion to allude to the language 
of some of the petitions for the Abolition of Slavery, in some of which it was 
broadly asserted, that a state of slavery was forbidden by the Gospel, and was 
wholly incompatible with the doctrines of Christianity. This doctrine thus laid 
down he could not admit, and he thought it highly mischievous, as well as in- 
consistent, that those who called for the religious instruction of the slaves, 
should, in their petitions, set forth that the Christian doctrine was incompatible 
with a state of slavery. He believed, the best security for the good conduct of 
the slave was to be found in tue knowledge and practice of the principles of the 
Christian religion. But it would be unfair to say, that pains should be taken 
to attach the slave to Christianity, and, at the same time, to teach him that the 
state of slavery (no matter what the kindness and indulgence of the master 
might be) was inconsistent with the religion he was solicited to embrace. Having 
now stated what had been done in the Colonies for improving the condition of 
the slave, and he regretted to say, that a great deal had been left undone, he 
would state what was proposed by his Majesty's Government. The resolutions 
of the House of Commons embraced two objects — the first was the improvement 
of the condition of the slaves ;, and the other, those facilities for the manumission 
of the slaves that would gradually lead to the total extinction of slavery, with- 
out injury to the interests of the proprietors. The modes by which it was pro- 
posed to improve the condition of the slave were, to provide increased facilities 
for religious instruction — to give greater security to property — to prevent the 
separation of families by sale or otherwise — to admit slave evidence in certain 
cases — to give a,n additional day for the cultivation of their grounds, by which 



109 

they might be enabled to keep a more strict observance of the Sabbath — to abo- 
lish the punishment of females by the whip, and to disuse the whip as a badge 
of authority in the hands of drivers, or as a stimulus to labour: and for the ^ysl- 
dual extinction of slavery, it was proposed to establish a regulation, by which, 
when the slave possessed sufficient property, he might claim his manumission 
by having his value declared by appraisement, without requiring the consent of 
his master. Bills containing these provisions would now be sent to the Gover- 
nors of the several West India Colonies, by whom they would be proposed for 
the consideration of their Legislative Assemblies, and the Government would 
soon be in possession of their decisions upon them. From the earnest manner 
in which the subject would be recommended to their attention, he did hope that 
it would have a successful result. But should it prove otherwise, it would then 
be for their Lordships to consider what course it would be expedient to adopt, 
to carry the measures into effect. 

Lord Calthorpe said, that though he concurred in the general tenor of the 
resolutions now proposed for their Lordships' adoption, yet he thought that they 
by no means went far enough. The low ground of expediency which was made 
the basis of them, did not convey the feelings which pervaded the country on 
the subject of negro slavery, and which, he thought, ought to be clearly announced 
in the resolutions, and embodied in the instructions of his Majesty's Govern- 
ment. For his part, he would have preferred the resolution which had been first 
proposed in the Commons by Mr. Buxton, and superseded by those now before 
their Lordships. In that resolution, it was declared that a state of slavery was 
repugnant to the British constitution, and to the spirit of the Christian religion. 
But, then, it was argued by a distinguished Member of the other House (Mr. 
Canning), that they who declared a state of slavery to be repugnant to the Bri- 
tish constitution, and to the spirit of Christianity, must, as a matter of course, 
be disposed to put aside every consideration of expediency, and all reference to 
the various interests in the question, and rush at once to the attainment of their 
object without any regard to consequences, and without any hesitation as to the 
means of effecting it; and that having laid down the abstract principle of the 
$vi\ of slavery, they were bound not to allow its continuance one hour after their 
resolution was declared. But that such was not a fair interpretation of the 
views of those who concurred in the resolution, was manifest from the terms of 
the resolution itself, which, while it affirmed " that slavery is repugnant to the 
principles of the British constitution, and of the Christian i-eligion," stated also 
their clear opinion " that it ought to be gradually abolished throughout the 
British dominions, with as much expedition as may be consistent with a due 
regard to the well-being of the parties concerned." It was quite an erroneous 
view of the subject to suppose that, because slavery was held to be inconsistent 
with Christianity, those who held that opinion were bound by it to proceed to 
its destruction, without a cautious and prudential regard to all the circumstances 
of the case. The Christian religion, while it was repugnant to slavery, was no 
less opp(<"e"' to violence and precipitation, and it required that even the best 
ends should be pursued by lawful means> and in a right spirit. The objection, 
therefore, to the proposition had, in his view, no just foundation; and he should 
have thought that their Lordships would be acting in away more consistent with 
their own dignity, and with the moral magnitude of the subject, if they were to 
express themselves in more forcible language, and to adopt a higher and nobler 
principle for their proceedings than the low and cold one of expediency. The 
Noble Earl had complained of the language of some of the petitions presented 
to their Loi-dships on this subject, but his Lordship might be assured that that 
language expressed the universal feeling of the country at large ; and who were 
perfectly ready, whatever might be the opinions prevalent within the walls of 
Parliament, to declare and to maintain that slavery was altogether repugnant 
to the genius and spirit of the Christian religion. He particularly rejoiced to 
perceive that this view of the subject, was that of the Bishops and clergy of our 
church, who, in entertaining it, consulted as much the dignity of the church as 
they did the sacred duties of their profession. He also entertained this opinion, 
and he wished to see slavery abolished, as not only inconsistent with the genius 
of Christianity, but with the spirit of the British constitution ; and he thought 
they were rather diminishing than promoting the chances of ultimate success in 
the Colonies, by substituting a lower expression of indignation at the existing 



no 

state of things than such a system, in his opinion, imperatively called for. The 
best course would have been the direct adoption of tlie tone originally recom- 
mended to the other House of Parliament, and which he believed to be, not only 
the best calculated to produce a satisfactory issue in the Colonies, but also that 
most consonant with the general feelings of the people of this country, which, he 
"was fully convinced, were not adequately represented in the resolutions recom- 
mended for their adoption. 

Lord Ejllenborough thought that the true question before them was, ought 
they to adopt resolutions fully proved by three years of experiment, to have been 
ineffectual, or to adopt others more likely to promote a salutary result? He 
agreed that the colonial system ought to be ameliorated, — he agreed that the 
odious system of slavery ought to be abolished ; but bis doubts were great that 
either purpose would be attained by the line of conduct now proposed. The 
question then was, in what manner could they most easily, surely, and at the 
same time rapidly, diminish the sum of human misery which must exist as long 
as slavery was tolerated? If these resolutions were alone to be adopted, 
accompanied with a vague hint, that if they failed in their intended effect the 
Legislature would proceed to ulterior measures, without avowing what the 
nature of such measure would be, he not only doubted that the anticipations of 
the Government would be realized, but he rather inclined to the opinion that 
such a course, instead of diminishing, would tend greatly to aggravate the existing 
evil. The Noble Earl (Bathurst) was obliged to admit ihat the colonial assemblies 
had disappointed the expectations of His Majesty's Government, but he never- 
theless went on to state, that thei'e was some hope of their now departing from 
this contumacious course. He, however, could foresee no beneficial result from 
adopting the measures now proposed, with the experience before them of their 
total inadequacy. Let them, by putting a parallel case for one moment consider 
the argument, and they must be at once struck with its futility. Suppose that the 
Noble Earl opposite and his Right Hon. Friend were walking in the metropolis, 
had had their attention arrested by seeing a man ill treating his horse in a bar- 
barous manner — supposing his Right Hon. Friend to have said to him — " Two 
or three years ago I saw that very fellow committing the same outrage, and on 
that occasion I forewarned him that if he persevered in the same course I should 
take such measures as must secure the better treatment of the animal. Do you 
now go up to him, and say, that if he continues to practice such brutality, I will 
certainly fulfil my intentions." Might not the Noble Earl reply, " I could un- 
derstand youv asking me to knock this fellow down for his incorrigibly cruel 
propensities ; but would he not laugh at me, were I only prepared to repeat 
threats vi'hich he had already so entirely disregarded ?" 

The Earl of Liverpool said, if he was asked why these resolutions had lain 
on the table of the House of Commons from the year 1823 to the present time, 
without the concurrence of their Lordships being required, he had little in the 
way of explanation to offer, and -would fairly admit that he had no satisfactory 
reason to assign why, according to the usual forms of business, such a delay 
should have arisen ; but he would nevertheless add, that if their present appear- 
ance before their Lordships was calculated to show that Government were 
serious and determined in the course which these resolutions implied, and 
would thereby give another chance of success to the experiment, he, for one, 
was not sorry that such an opportunity had been afforded of putting on record 
the determination of Parliament and Government. They had on all sides ad- 
mitted, that it was desirable the condition of the slave population should be 
ameliorated, and that slavery itself should be abolished, as soon as possible 
consistently with the respective interests of all who were concerned in that condi- 
tion. If that were so, their only consideration was, as to the course to be 
taken ; for something was clearly to be done, or they must be prepared to 
abandon their declared opinions. It was generally admitted that the iirst step 
ought to be, to disseminate a religious education among the colonial slave popu- 
lation, to ret rid of their badges of thraldom, such as the whip, the Sunday-work, 
and those other degradations which mark the inferiority of the man. They must 
also establish a better system of justice for the slave trials ; and something must 
Le done to regulate their valuation on the plan of the orders in council, or some 
other mode. That they were bound to call upon the colonial assemblies to do what 



Ill 

was right he readily admitted : but allowances should at the same time be made 
for the common infirmities of human nature, and a reasonable time ought to be 
allowed for the growth of reason when heated feelings had unfortunately be- 
come excited. At all events, he would say, that whether the result of the reso- 
lutions should realize or disappoint their expectations, wisdom and good policy 
alike pointed out their present adoption. In the event of their failure, it would of 
course be for Parliament to determine upon the course which they ought even- 
tually to pursue, and he did not tiiink it prudent to say more on that point at 
present. 

The Duke of Gloucester was ready to agree with those who regretted that 
these resolutions had not been sooner submitted to their Lordships. He was 
ready to agree with those who thought that it were better they were expressed 
in stronger terms ; but still as they were here, and must be taken in their present 
form, he was ready to give them his cordial support, wishing to send forth these 
resolutions with the full sanction of their unanimity ; and if the consummation 
to which they now anxiously looked forward should not be realized, the 
time would undoubtedly arrive when the evil must be conquered, and when His 
Majesty's Government would be imperatively called upon to enforce the para- 
mount authority of Parliament, and to carry into execution the measures which 
it pronounced. He trusted that His Majesty's Ministers would strenuously 
urge the adoption of these resolutions upon the colonial authorities, who would 
not do their duty to themselves, to their country, or their God, if they declined 
to fulfil the beneficent washes of the legislature. 

The Lord Chancellor said, he would not enter into the consideration why 
these resolutions had lain so long without their being called upon for their con- 
currence — it was enough for him to know that they were now before them, and 
must be disposed of: and with respect to the wording of them, he saw no reason- 
able objection, more particularly to the term expediency ; and he for one should 
have felt a great difficulty in giving his assent to a stronger term. He entirely 
agreed that slavery should be abolished as soon as it could be safely and prac- 
tically effected; and, in the mean time, who could hesitate to ameliorate the 
condition of those unhappy persons whom their policy had consigned to such a 
doom ? He heartily approved therefore of these resolutions, and the more be- 
cause of their being groxinded on expediency. If the local authorities now 
acceded to the measures about to be urged with renewed force upon their consi- 
deration, then there could be no further difficulty. If they refused to do so, 
then the Parliament would know how to meet such contumacy, without aflfect- 
ing the well-being of the slave, or infringing on the rights of property of the 
master. 

Lord REDESDALEsaid, that the resolutions ought to pass. The colonists should 
be made aware of the feeling of the mother country on the subject of the ameli- 
oration of slavery. They should be taught to respect that feeling and be pre- 
pared to second it. The state of slavery should be improved ; but nothing should 
be rashly attempted. A gradual amelioration should he adopted, in order to 
render improvement permanent and efl'ectual ; but if measures were hastily 
adopted, the contrary effects would certainly follow. 

Lord Dudley and Ward, in rising to deliver his sentiments on the question of 
West India slavery, felt that the subject was one from which (beinij a West- 
Indian proprietor himself,) he could willingly have abstained altogether, and 
•which few could approach with any thing like satisfaction. Public attention 
had lately been considerably occupied by this subject, and who could deny that 
it was one in which the popular feeling was deeply interested ? Scarcely a dis- 
trict of the country, scarcely a corporation, a city, or a town, that had not 
addressed Parliament on the evils of slavery ; and every petition expressed but 
one opinion on the subject. This united expression of popular feeling ought to 
meet with the attention of the legislature. It afforded a most convincing and 
gratifying proof of the increased and increasing spirit of liberality which distin- 
guished the present age. Not only without but within the walls of Parliament, 
there existed, he might say, but one opinion. With this unanimity of feeling no 
doubt could be entertained that the purpose of putting an end to slavery must be 
successful ; and the only thing to be considered was, how to effect the object in 
the least objectionable form. He heartily wished that the West-Indian system 



]12 

had never existed at all. It was morally wrong, and if it was morally wrong 
it could not be politically right. The system must be changed ; but the question 
was how was that change to be effected ? Monopoly and slavery went hand in 
hand in the West India system, and their united pressure, in the present en- 
lightened state of the public mind, was more than it could bear. It could 
not long be sustained under such a weight. His Lordship, after these and 
some other very candid concessions, proceeded to state in defence of the colo- 
nists, a number of palliating circumstances which should ensure a tender and 
liberal construction of their conduct in having hitherto resisted the wishes of the 
country. Their feelings had been irritated by the exaggerated statements 
which had gone abroad, and they were alarmed by an apprehension of the de- 
struction of their property. He severely censured the abolitionists for the un- 
conciliating line of conduct they had pursued, but without specifying particulars, 
and he went on to plead for compensation as ameasure of indispensable justice, 
and which no man with a spark of honest feeling could think of withholding. 
He lamented, at the same time, the unreasonable and obstinate resistance which 
had been made by the colonists to the moderate and necessary measures of 
reform proposed by His Majesty's Government. 

The Marquis of Lansdown wished that the Noble Lord who had just sat 
down would prevail upon the island of Jamaica, with which he was connected, 
to adopt his views and act in his spirit in passing laws for the amelioration of 
slavery. He was willing that the assemblies should again be tried, and he 
would, to the very last moment, indulge a hope of their co-operation in the work 
of reform. At the same time, he could not deny, that past experience dis- 
couraged any such hope. He was afraid that he could not be contradicted 
when he stated, that up to the present time, with the exception of one island, no 
steps had been taken in the West Indies to give legality to marriage. The only- 
attempt to adopt a measure of this nature took place in the Bahamas ; and it 
was the lamentable fact, that every other island was without any regulation to 
govern the most sacred of human ties. Could the West India population be 
happy under such circumstances, and what were we to think of the legislature 
that could refuse its sanction to the introduction of a measure of this nature ? 
He would wish to call the attention of their Lordships to another point on which 
the local legislature had been equally remiss. There was no law passed for 
facilitating the manumission of slaves who might possess the means of pur- 
chasing their own freedom. Could there, he would ask, be a more satisfactory 
mode, both for the master and slave, than that the latter should obtain his free- 
dom in this way? An example would thus be held out to other slaves to perse- 
vere in habits of industry, in order to eifect their freedom at no very distant day. 
The good to be thus produced would be infinite, and the omission of such a law 
was much to be lamented. There was another point to which he wished to draw 
the attention of their Lordships — namely, that no means had as yet been taken 
to prevent the punishment of women by means of the whip. There were many 
other points too tedious in detail to trouble their Lordships with at present, and 
he hoped that the legislature in the West Indies would save the Parliament here 
the necessity of interfering to put down those abuses in future. Before sitting 
down, he wished to ask the Noble Earl whether he had any objection to direct 
the several legislatures to be summoned with a view of giving them the fullest 
opportunity of considering the propositions of Government, and making known 
their own views thei'eupon in time for the first meeting of the British Parlia- 
ment? Re thought it would be good for them, and for th^ subject, that the 
knowledge should be communicated at an early period ; and that it was essen- 
tial to the character of sincerity which ought to be stamped upon the proceedings 
of that night, that the Government should take care to enable the Parliament, 
after adding one year more to the three years so unprofitably and to so little 
purpose passed over, to resume with effect their present determination to enforce 
principles which were now admitted to be right on all hands, but which, he 
admitted, ought only to be pursued with a proper regard to the safety of the 
colonies, and to a just sense of the welfare of individuals. i 

Earl Bathurst said, he should send out directions to the Governors to cause 
the several assemblies to be called together to receive the instructions of Govern- 
ment at the earliest possible period. 



113 

Tlie Bishop of Bath and Wells asserted the incompatibility of slavery with 
the Christian religion, of which he was a minister, and with the British consti- 
tution, whose free and willing and obedient subject he professed himself. What- 
ever seeming countenance and toleration might be shown towards a property in 
slaves by Christianity and the law of the land, there could be no question of 
their direct antipathy to all oppression and injustice. No less hostile to slavery 
were the dictates of common justice and humanity : a system also which was 
•equally opposed by all sound maxims of political economy. Free labour must 
dn every sense be preferable to that of slaves. The man who was conscious that 
by the sweat of his brow he was providing for his wife, liis children, and him- 
self, must be far before the hopeless creature who had only to work to that 
extent of toil to which the whip would goad him. With pleasure had he wit- 
nessed the resolutions of 1823, which were consonant with humanity and 
justice ; he was sorry that they had been so ill received by the colonial legisla- 
tures. He rejoiced at the resolutions now taken by the Government, and if they 
were not better executed, he hoped that the spirit which had loaded their table 
with petitions, would be again awakened among the people, and that the deter- 
mination of Parliament and the expectations of the country would be carried 
into effect by doing away that foul stain upon the character of a Christian nation. 

The Bishop of Ferns cordially concurred in the sentiments that had just been 
expressed, and was furtlier anxious to satisfy the House of the concurrence in 
the same sentiments of the Irish church in general. He thought that the slave- 
owners must be the most deadly foes to their own interests, if the resolutions 
now proposed should be still opposed. 

The most interesting debate, however, connected with the question of Slavery, 
took place in the House of Commons, on Thursday the 2nd of March, when 
Mr. Denman brought forward a motion respecting the Trials of certain 
SLAVES IN Jamaica, charged with conspiracy and rebellion. The subject, 
Mr Denman observed, was of vast importance, and merited the deepest consi- 
deration of the house ; and although he knew how difficult it was to draw its 
attention at this moment to any topic not connected with the awful and perilous 
situation in which the credit of the country was placed, yet he trusted that the 
momentous nature of that which he had now to submit would sufficiently excuse 
him. If they would shut their eyes to this painful subject, they would be un- 
faithful representatives of the people of England, for that people, notwithstand- 
ing the pinching distress which wrung them on every side, had not lost sight of 
the miseries of the slave population, but had expressed in numerous petitions 
their sense of the necessity of ameliorating the condition of those their unfortu- 
nate fellow-subjects on the other side of the Atlantic. Considering, then, that 
of all oppressions judicial oppression was the least to be borne, and the easiest to 
be remedied, he was sure that in submitting to the house a case in which, as it 
appeared to him, that sort of oppression had been practised to a dreadful extent 
against certain slaves in Jamaica, he should be discharging a duty which the 
house would not think either unimportant or ill-timed. The events to which he 
had to allude took place in December, 1S23, and in the following year. They 
were detailed in papers which lay on the table of the house, and to which he 
should restrict himself; and though furnished by the parties themselves, against 
whom his motion was directed, yet they contained sufficient to found that cen- 
sure upon the courts of justice and the government of the Island which he meant 
to propose, and which he thought their conduct merited. The first case he 
should bring before the house was that of a trial which had taken place in the 
parish of St. Mary, on the 19th of December, 1823. The circumstance on which 
this trial was founded, was nothing more than that a Mr. Roberts, who was a 
butcher, at Fort Maria, in Jamaica, having occasion to reprove his negro boy 
for carelessness with respect to his person and wearing apparel, a conversation 
ensued, in consequence of which eight negroes were arrested, tried for a rebel- 
lious conspiracy, found guilty, and sentenced to be hanged by the neck until they 
were dead ; a sentence which was executed four days after it was pronounced. 
Every one of those negroes died with the most solemn protestations of his inno- 
cence, andthey refused one and all, even on the scaffold, to purchase any mitigation 
of their sentence, either by a confession of their own guilt, or by accusing others. 
3 



114 

Mr. Denman then detailed at some length the evidence which the Government 
of Jamaica had thought sufficient to warrant this summary and sanguinary pro- 
ceeding. To him it appeared that the whole charge rested on the evidence, chiefly 
hearsay, and scarcely supported in any one instance, of a boy who had trumped 
up a story to save himself from correction, which was seized with extraordinary 
avidity, and without any attempt to sift and investigate the facts of the case, 
as conclusive proof of a dangerous plot. The childish story gained universal 
credit, and without any previous examination of the unhappy persons accused, 
or any attempt to confront them with their accusers, or to guard against the pos- 
sibility of falsehood, were these eight men in two days brought to trial and found 
guilty. In the course of the trials not a single witness appears to have been 
cross-examined. The discrepancies in the evidence were innumerable: not one of 
these was noticed. The charge was of the most vague description ; they were ac- 
cused of rebellion, conspiracy, «»</ vf her- crimes. Persons were mentioned as privy 
to the facts, who, though on the spot, were never called to give their testimony. 
The evidence admitted was, in some cases, indeed in all that were material, 
hearsay, and sometimes two and three deep : added to all which, a father was 
hanged on the evidence of his son, a boy of thirteen, and a husband on the evi- 
dence of his wife ; and in their case and that of the other witnesses, the strong- 
est temptation which could be applied to the mind of sla^ es was applied to 
theirs, namely the prospect of freedom ; — of freedom to be obtained as the rewaid 
of their evidence. On such testimony, so loose, so contradictory, so inconclusive, 
not amounting, if the whole had been as true and consistent as it was evidently 
untrue, were these eight men, unaided by counsel, without a witness in their fa- 
vour, on the second day after their apprehension, condemned to die — and the ciiief 
magistrate, in a letter to the Governor, gives as his reason for this precipitancy, 
that he thought it highly important for the safety of the Island, that they should 
be executed before Christmas, as an example to the other negroes. Now, was it 
on such a report as this, and on such evidence as the house had before it, that the 
Governor ought to have given an order for tiie execution of these eight men ? 
He trusted the house would express its clear opinion of the iniquity of such a 
proceeding, and by its vote this night interpose to prevent persons in future, 
whether slaves or not, from falling the victims of perverted evidence, of igno- 
rance, and of passion, which tended not less to the punishment of innocence 
than to the impunity of guilt. Mr. Denman then adverted to the trials which 
had taken place in St. George's, St. James's, and Hanover ; and shewed that 
in all of them except the last, a similar and gross perversion of all the forms 
of justice had taken place. The St. George's plot had its parallel only in the 
infamous history of Titus Oates ; and it was impossible to read the evidence 
and compare its different parts, without a firm conviction that the plot from first 
to last was a mere fabrication, supported by false and perjured witnesses, acting 
with a view to the promised reward of their villanies. In the case of Hanover, 
indeed, there had been conduct on the part of the slaves, which it became neces- 
sary to repress and punish, but it partook in no degree of the nature of rebellious 
conspiracy. The disturbance arose out of the misconduct of the owner of the 
Estate, who had wantonly abridged the slaves of a part of the day which they 
were in the habit of having for the cultivation of their grounds. Their subse- 
quent conduct admitted of no excuse ; still they did not take a single human 
life except their own : two of them died by their own hands. In all, about 
twenty-four slaves were executed, and some transported, mostly on evidence of 
a kind which would not have been allowed to be given in any English Court. 
Besides this, the evidence was almost entirely that of slaves, — of slaves too un- 
sworn, — of slaves, whose testimony is deemed by the people of Jamaica wholly 
unworthy of credit in every case small or great, civil or criminal, affecting a 
person of free condition. While the house of assembly of Jamaica was rejecting 
a. bill to admit in the most qualified and restricted manner the testimony of 
slaves as necessarily leading to gross and multiplied perjuries, on that very tes- 
timony, thus repudiated and rejected as unfit even to be heard, were the magis- 
tracy and the Government of Jamaica executing their enslaved fellow-subjects 
by wholesale. The bill that had been thus rejected, had been brought forward 
in the" house of assembly by a Mr. Stewart, who stated some strong cases in 
favour of it. One was the case of a female slave whose head was twisted off; 
but in which a conviction did not take place, not because there was any doubt 



115 

that the deed had been done, but because, although several persons had seen it, 
their evidence, being slaves, was not legal. Another case Mr. Stewart said was 
of very rceent date. " In this town (Spanish Town), a white man, a monster of 
cruelty, concealed a female slave in a room, where with a hot iron used for burn- 
ing marks on cattle, he disfigured, and mutilated the poor creature v\ ho was so 
unfortunate as to be in his power. He trusted to the effect of the law which 
prevented slaves from giving evidence, but it chanced that a young free man of 
colour, suspecting what was going forward, peeped through a crevice, and saw 
the horrid scene. On his evidence the owner of the slave was convicted and 
punished." Another fact was related by Mr. Mais. " There is one instance 
which, because of recent occurrence, I must take leave to mention. It is the 
case of a female slave, who on her return home, was met by a free man of colour, 
who had been out shooting. A little dog which accompanied her, barked, and 
probably might have snapped at the man. This irritated him, and he threatened 
to shoot tlie dog ; the woman, alarmed for his safety, called out 'O don't shoot 
him ; don't shoot my dog ;' upon whichthe man turned angrily upon her, and 
said, ' Not shoot him? I'll shoot you if you say much,' and with little ceremony, 
lodged tiie contents of his piece in her side. 'J'his was in the face of day, in the 
presence of many persons, but who, being slaves, were not qualified to give tes- 
timony on the occasion, and the offende escaped." On the other hand, the argu- 
ment against admitting slave evidenct, was very forcibly urged by Mr. Hyslop. 
" What can you expect," said he, " from persons, v/ho if called to give evidence, 
may as soon as they quit the court, be subjected to the cart-whip by their master ? 
Will not bodily fear predominate over the love of truth, or a sense of duty ?" And 
yet under these appalling circumstances 24 slaves had been executed on the evi- 
dence of their fellow- slaves : Shall it be said, then, that a remedy for such astate 
of things is not necessary ? If he were asked what remedy he would apply to 
such a case, he should say he knew but of one. It was one simple in its nature and 
in its operation, namely, the extinction of slavery. It was of the highest impor- 
tance that the people of England should be fully infoi-med of what was passing 
in their colonies ; and this was one of his motives for bringing this subject for- 
ward. He would now move the following resolution : — "That this house, hav- 
ing taken into their consideration the account laid before them of certain ju- 
dicial proceedings in the Island of Jamaica, on the trials of slaves for rebellion, 
conspiracy, and other olfences, in the years 1823 and 1824, deem it their duty to 
express, in the strongest terms, the sorrow and indignation with which they con- 
template the perversion of law and the violation of justice displayed in those 
trials; they deeply lament the precipitation v.'ith which sentences of death 
wholly unwarranted by proof, were carried into execution ; and they cannot re- 
frain from declaring their conviction of tlie necessity of a reform in the adminis- 
tion of criminal justice as affecting the slaves." 

Mr.WiLMOT HoRTON deprecated discussions of this sort, which served to keep 
alive irritation in the West Indies, and to retard improvement. He entered into 
an elaborate defence of the Magistracy and Government of Jamaica, who, he 
maintained, were fully justified, by their well founded fears of insurrection, and 
by the state of law in that Island, in the course they bad pursued with respect to 
the trials which had been broiisiht under the notice of the house. The Duke of 
Manchester felt convinced, from various sources of information, that rebellious 
intentions existed in the minds of the slaves ;* and there could rest no reason- 
able doubt in the mind of any man, that rebellious conspiracies had existed in the 
parish of St. Mary and St. George. In St. George's especially, the confessions 
of the negro Jack would satisfy every man that there had been a conspiracy, t 

*The Government of Jamaica has doubtless furnished the whole of the evi- 
dence on which it was led to believe in the existence of rebellious intentions in 
the minds of the slaves, and that evidence appears, it is to be pi-esumed, in the 
papers laid before the House of Commons. These, however, most certainly ex- 
hibit no satisfactory proof of any such intentions. 

+ The object of Jack's confession, evidently was to recriminate upon Cor- 
berand, whom he regarded as the cause of his death. The desire of revenue 
ismanifest in the v/hole of that confession ; and supposingit to be correctly "riven, 



116 

As to the case of Hanover, the existence of rebellion was undoubted. Mr. Hortora 
then quoted various passages from the laws of Jamaica, which inflicted the pu^ 
nishment of death on a variety of offences, when committed by slaves, which were 
not punishable with death in this country ; as rebellion or rebellious conspiracy, 
compassing the death of a w hite person, having in his custody any arms, gun- 
povvder, or ball ; unlawfully meeting together ; mixing human blood with rum, 
&c. &c. : and under these laws it was, that the punishment of death in the pre- 
sent cases had been inflicted. It would be unfair, then, to blame the Magis- 
trates and the Government, who had merely executed the laws as they stood — . 
laws which had received the ifoyal sanction. He did not mean to justify the 
law, he merely stated the fact. If the law was bad, and if the established prac- 
tice admitted an extreme laxity of evidence, the fault ought not to be charged on 
the public functionaries, whose duty it was to obey the law as it stood. The 
laws ought indeed to be altered ; but while they remained in their present state 
Magistrates must execute them. The laxity of the evidence, the want of coun- 
sel, &c., were the fault of the law, not of the magistrates. * The Duke of 
Manchester too had stated, that the trials had been most scandalously reported, t 
As to the assertion that manumission and money were given as rewards for evi- 
dence, the Duke of Manchester had authoi-ised him positively to deny the 
charge.:): In tine the Duke had felt that an example was absolutely necessary 
to check insurrection, and to secure the peace of the Island ; and the only ques- 
tion for the house was, whether, under all the circumstances of the case, sub- 
stantial justice had been done. He admitted at the same time, that these pro- 
ceedings proved the necessity of a complete reformation of the slave system. 
On the whole he did not feel that the house was justified in passing a censure 
upon the Magistrates and Governor of Jamaica ; and he should therefore move as 
an amendment, — " That this house sees, in the proceedings which have been 
brought under its consideration relative to the late trials of slaves in Jamaica, 
only a further proof of the evils inseparably attendant upon a state of slavery, 
and an increased evidence of the propriety of those resolutions which it passed 
in the year 1823 : but that, however desirable it may appear that the law unde? 
which the late trials had taken place should be amended, it does not seem safe 
to the house, or expedient, to in)peach the sentences passed by a competent tri- 
bunal upon persons brought to trial according to law, and convicted by a jury 
duly empanelled, and sworn to give a true verdict upon the evidence lai4 
before them." 

it contains little that is specific beyond charging Corberand as the author of a 
plot, and the person who alone was possessed of its secrets. With respect to. 
his own crimes of practising Obeah and being a runaway, he states, very pathe- 
tically, that the cruel usage of his owner had driven him to what he had done. 
His confession, supposing it to be true, affords no legal proof whatever of any 
conspiracy. 

* There exists no law in Jamaica, which could justify the admission of hear- 
say evidence, or of contradictory evidence, or which could justify a vague oral 
charge of "rebellious conspiracy and other crimes ;" or which could exempt magis- 
trates from the duty of sifting and cross-examining evidence, or which could 
oblige them to put men to death, whose crimes were not fully and satisfactorily 
proved. 

t And yet upon that same report of the trials, which was then before the 
House of Commons, did the Duke of Manchester order these eight men to be 
hanged by the neck till they were dead. 

tThis denial on the part of the Duke of Manchester is by far the most extraor- 
dinary part of the whole case ; as it is directly and most completely contradicted 
by an unquestionable document, transmitted to this country by the Duke himself,, 
and now lying on the table of the House of Commons, namely the Report of the 
Secret Committee of the Jamaica Assembly, of December, 1824, in which they 
recommend the reward of manumission to the slaves who gave evidence for the 
prosecution in St Mary's, and elsewhere ; and other rewards to the free persons 
who appeared as witnesses for the Crown on the various trials. Such asser- 
tions, so contradicted, necessarily throw doubt on the oflicial information JQ 
'•eneral of the Govennent of Jamaica. 



]17 

■ Mr. FowELL Buxton observed, that instead of deprecating Avith Mr. Horton 
discussions like the present, he was greatly in favour of them. They never 
occurred without some advantage gained, some concession made in favour of the 
slave. Even the speech of the Hon. Gentleman in this view had been most im- 
portant. He had admitted that no such proceedings as these would be endured 
in this country, and that where Slavery existed, impartial justice was unattain- 
able. Mr. Buxton briefly adverted to the various atrocities which had occupied 
their attention during the last two years : the murder of the missionary Smith, 
the Demerara massacre, the persecution of Shrewsbury, the deportation of 
Lacesne and Escoffery, the returns of the Berbice Fiscal, and now these trials. 
With respect to these, he undertook to prove from the papers on the table, fur- 
nished by the Jamaica Government as their justification, that there had been no 
plot in St Mary's, St. James's, or St. George's ; and in Hanover only acts of 
violence originating in no regular plot, and instigated merely by the circum- 
stances of the moment. In proof of this, he entered into a minute examination 
of the evidence, and shewed its direct and palpable contradiction in a great 
variety of instances,* and that no conclusion could be drawn from it but that 
the whole was a mass of fraud, perjury, and imposture. He could not there- 
fore but agree in the conclusion of his Hon. Friend, that these trials exhibited 
such a total perversion of law, such a gross violation of justice, as merited the 
marked censure of this House, and called for an immediate and effective re- 
form. In the annals of this country there was only one parallel to these atro- 
cious proceedings, that of the popish plot, speaking of which Mr. Hume had 
said thus : " Titus Gates began by stating a little, and finding that his state- 
ments gained credit, he soon furnished an improved version of his plot. In the 
same way Bedloe began by degrees, and enlarged his tale as he found the 
reward likely to increase." In this case, as Mr. Hume remarked in that of 
Titus Gates, " the bountiful reward held out did, as must have been expected, 
bring forward a great number of witnesses." It was incumbent on the House 
to avow its detestation of such a system, and to shew its determination to 
prevent the recurrence of scenes at once so unjust and so disgraceful. 

The Attorney-General did not rise to justify the proceedings in discussion, 
for no man could reprobate more strongly than he did the whole system of the 
administration of justice in our colonies, as far as the slave population was con- 
cerned. He could not understand upon what principle the law should be 
differently administered when the lives of a black man and a white were at 
stake ; or why any of the forms and securities should be waved in the one case, 
■which were insisted upon in the other. Nor could it be questioned, that we 
must soon come to an altered state of things, a state in which the slave, upon 
trial for his life, would be prosecuted nnder the same restrictions, and defended 
in the same manner as his master. What was the comparative situation of 
these two parties at the present moment ? If a white person was put upon his 
trial, no matter for what offence, a distinct charge was necessarily preferred 
against him, which he would be able to defend himself against, and know how 
to meet. Now a particular act bad not long since compelled, in the case of 
slaves, the reduction of this charge to vrriting ; but though that act had passed 
the Legislative Assembly at Jamaica, it had been accompanied with the sweep- 
ing proviso, that no objection ever should be raised upon a point of form. 
Unfortunately, persons in the situation of magistrates in that Island, were very 
likely not to distinguish accurately that which was matter of form from that 
which was matter of substantial importance. This was his first objection. He 
did not mean to say, with reference to the present proceedings, that they were 
illegal under the slave law of Jamaica ; but only let the forms of the charges in 
any of the trials be looked at, and let the house then say whether that system of 
law could go on to be supported. The prisoners were here charged with being 
guilty — ^of what? — of "rebellious conspiracy:" and was that all? No; but 
there was the addition — and ^^ of other crimes." This left the prosecutor at 
liberty to give evidence of any crime (no matter how unconnected with the main 
charge) of which the party might have been guilty. The prisoners were 
charged with " rebellious conspiracy." Every body knew, in this country, that 

*The proofs of contradiction adduced by the Honourable Gentleman were 

very striking and decisive: they will probably be exhibited on afuture occasion. 



118 

a man could not conspire by himself ; but these charges stated no time, no 
place, nor any parties, with whom, or against whom, the culprit was accused of 
having conspired. Would the house, then, fail to say, that this system 
deserved reprobation in the highest degree ? He would now call the attentioa 
of the house to another curious point— he meant the law as it related to slave 
evidence. In the case of an accusation made against one of the white popula- 
tion, slave evidence was not allowed. They were viewed as beings who had no 
due notion of the distinction between truth and falsehood ; and they were not 
suffered, therefore, to give evidence against a white man. But let the house 
mark the extraordinary inconsistency which distinguished the system. When a 
slave was to be tried, when the life, character, or property of a white were not 
at stake, the evidence of slaves was freely admitted against the accused party ; 
not under the sanction of an oath, but on his bare word, he having previously 
listened to an exhortation not to tell a falsehood. Now, he would ask the house, 
could a system of this kind be defended ? Could it lead to the ends of justice ? 
He did not blame the persons who acted under this system, but he blamed, in 
the most decided manner, the system itself. Those individuals were not pro- 
ceeding contrary to the law ; their acts were only in accordance with it. He 
reproached not them — it was the law which he condemned. Now let the house 
look at the charge which was made in the case of Charles Brown, for example. 
What was it? — It was a charge of high treason. The principal witness on the 
occasion was the boy William. Was he sworn ? No, he was not. He was in- 
sensible to the obligation of an oath, and yet he was admitted to give evidence 
to take away the life of a fellow-slave. Here he begged the house to mark 
another peculiar circumstance. Was it not, he asked, the universal rule of 
common law in this country (and he always understood that the common law of 
this country extended to Jamaica),that hearsay evidence should not be received? 
Yet, in this case, hearsay evidence was received to a very great extent. The 
boy William said, " Sterling, my father, spoke such and such facts." This was 
the very worst species of hearsay evidence, and yet it was admitted against the 
prisoner. He understood, that though the law was different with respect to 
whites, this course of proceeding had been uniformly admitted with reference 
to blacks. He condemned this system in its general principle, he condemned it 
also in its mode of working, as it was developed in the cases before the house. 
But when he stated this, he must declare his conscientious belief, that the per- 
sons who were engaged in those prosecutions acted in accordance with what 
they thought the law of the colony. He could not attempt to defend that sys- 
tem ; but still it was due to those who only acted under that system to state the 
fact. Let the house consider further, the inconsistency which appeared in some of 
those trials, and which had been very properly pointed out by his learned friend. 
The boy William declared, before the court, that he knew of large bodies of 
negroes meeting together; but, in his first examination, he had spoken only of 
the assembling of five persons. Every body, however, who read the reports 
of those trial?, must perceive that they were very imperfectly given. Indeed, 
they could form but a very loose idea of the guilt or innocence of the parties 
accused, from the mere reading of these reports. Those who were present, by 
marking the demeanour of the witnesses, by observing the conduct of the 
accused, could form a more just idea of the guilt or innocence of the parties, 
than any set of men were capable of doing from the perusal, not to say of 
an imperfect report, but of the most perfect report of the proceedings.* 
After some observations, tending to shew that it was not strictly illegal to 
receive the evidence of a son against a father, or of a wife, so called, if she were 
only a concubine, against her husband ; and after pronouncing an eulogy on 
Colonel Cox who presided at these trials, the y\ttorney-General concluded with 
saying, that he believed the magistrates and juries had acted fairly and 
honestly under an impression of the existence of conspiracy ; and that, there- 
fore, though he would be willing, in the words of the amendment, to condemn 
the system, he could not agree with his learned friend to pass a sweeping cen- 
sure on the individuals, who he thought had conscientiously administered the 
law as they found it. , 

* And yet it was on this imperfect report, with all its gross inconsistencies 
and contradictions, that the authorities in Jamaica ordered these eight men to 
execution. 



119 

Dr. LushiNgton said, the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman who had 
just addressed the house, went to this — to the fearful extent of showing, that if 
the forms of law were but observed— if the forms established in any one of the 
distant territories of this country, however revolting to humanity, were adhered 
to — the House of Commons was prohibited from inquiring hoAV far justice was 
administered in any given case. The hon. and learned gentleman had dwelt on 
the difficulty which must arise in judging of what had occurred at a great dis- 
tance, when an incorrect record of the proceedings was before the house ; when 
they had not such an opportunity as the jury had, for sifting and examining the 
matters alleged against the accused. If that position were well founded, then 
it would follow, that it mattered not whether those individuals were executed 
on the evidence of bribed slaves, or of an unsworn boy ; or if they had been 
condemned on half the evidence adduced, the argument of the learned gentle- 
man would have been just as conclusive. He, however, would argue, that the 
first duty of that house was, to see that justice was administei'ed in a strictly 
impartial manner, even in the most distant possessions of this countiy. This 
was the more important, because in those distant possessions, there was an infi- 
nitely greater opening for injustice and oppression, than could, by possibility, 
be found near tlie seat of Government. Here, if an apprentice were ill-used, 
or if any abuse were discovered in a gaol, members of that house were ready to 
startup, to call on ministers to redress the grievance, or, if they found it neces- 
sary, to proceed with the case themselves. In the Colonies, however, all was 
hidden in obscurity or buried in oblivion. In the present case, they heard of 
the execution of eight individuals, under most extraordinary circumstances, and 
they were told, that they w'ere not to inquire into w hat took place, because, 
forsooth, it was all in accordance with an old and barbarous system, which had 
warranted the Duke of Manchester, it was said, in ordering their execution. 
But was not the evidence on which he liad acted, the same which was now be- 
fore them, and which was the most inconclusive that could be imagined? How 
came it, he should like to know, that the Duke of Manchester had authorized 
the execution of eight individuals, found guilty upon such evidence, without 
having it fully examined by legal men ? He might have had the opinion of the 
Chief Justice of the island, who, well acquainted as he was with English law, 
would at once have detected the errors with whicii that evidence abounded. 
He contended that the whole proceeding was contrary to every idea of sub- 
stantial justice, and he was astonished to think tliat any tribunal, consisting of 
Englishmen, could, in a case of life or death, receive such evidence. He im- 
puted not to the Duke of Manchester or the magistrates any wilful malice; but 
he did impute to them great carelessness in the performance of their high duties. 
Dr. Lushington quoted various passages in the papers, to shew tliat evidence 
had been admitted at third hand, hearsay testimony three deep, in order to prove 
the existence of that desperate and formidable conspiracy, on the reality of 
which Mr. Horton rested his defence of the Duke of Manchester and the 
magistrates. The Attorney-General had expressed his entire disapprobation of 
the system of law prevailing in Jamaica ; but that law, he ai-gued, had been 
lionestly executed. From tiiis proposition he entirely dissented ; nor could he 
"see how a verdict of guilty could have been given, but through the influence of 
fear or cowardice, or some worse passion uniting men to do injustice to their 
fellows. His hon. friend (Mr. Horton) had said, that he was authorized by the 
Duke of Manchester to declare, that none of the witnesses had received rewards 
for their evidence. And yet what said the Secret Report of the Jamaica As- 
sembly now before them? It recommended to the House to reimburse the parish 
of St. Mary the sum of £376. paid for the manumission of certain slaves, who 
had rendered essential service by the discoveries tliey had made. Did this look 
like a pure administration of justice, by witnesses free from the influence of 
intimidation or reward ? If any thing could pollute the course of justice and 
make the verdicts of juries the means of oppression, it was holding out to slaves 
such a temptation as the boon of freedom to convict their fellows. To prove a 
plot, testimony was to be obtained in any way ; and bribes were to be offered 
to any man base enough to receive one. It was thus that such miscreants as 
Mack and Corberand were induced to invent and swear to the most malignant 
falsehoods. On the single evidence of one of these meu, himself an accomplice^ 
who had already been guilty of manifest perjury, and whose evidence was un- 



120 

confirmed byany other testimony, did the Duke of Manchester, in one case, that 
of Leon, order the execution of the final and dreadful sentence of the law. The 
white people of Jamaica claimed as their birthright the enjoyment of Englisli 
laws and privileges. How had they enjoyed them? By engrossing to them- 
selves all the advantages of that excellent system, and by placing the blacks 
under a code of laws in which every feature of injustice and tyranny were dis- 
gustingly prominent. It had been asserted, that the conduct of the judges on 
these trials had been free from all imputation. And yet, though the miserable 
and ignorant prisoners were without counsel or attorney, the judges had not 
cross-examined a single witness. Did Colonel Cox. whose humanity was so 
much extolled, ask, " Have you been promised your freedom ?" "Have you been 
threatened by your master.'" Nothing of the sort : and altliough five magistrates 
presided, not one had the common honesty, or rather the common humanity, to 
put a single question to elucidate the truth. In short, if the amendment were 
carried, it would henceforth be thought sufficient in the Colonies to adhere to the 
mere forms of law, and to disregard all the obligations of substantial jurlice. It 
had been said, that one of the slaves, Cosley, had confessed his crime. He did not 
believe it. M'here was his confession ? He begged to ask, whether the following 
scene had not occurred at the place of execution : — Were not the graves of the 
miserable sufferers dug beneath the gallows ? Was not an offer made to spare 
the lives of any two who would confess their guilt? and did they not one and 
all refuse to acknowledge the slightest criminality ? That such was the fact, 
he had from a respectable gentleman, an eye-witness of the scene. In defence 
of the Duke of Manchester it was said, that the alarm was great, and the 
responsibility heavj% and that examples were necessary. But before examples 
were made, ought not guilt to be established? The very laws of Jamaica were 
framed in defiance of every semblance of justice, as respected the blacks. 
Hence judges and juries, in the case of blacks, lost sight of what would be 
mere humanity in the case of a white ; and hence the horrible scenes, origi- 
nating in pusillanimity and hatred, which were last year exhibited. Much had 
been said of the horrors attending negro insurrection ; but even these would 
form no parallel to the horrors which the whites, professors of Christianity, and 
acquainted with the forms and principles of justice, had heaped from time to 
time on the devoted negroes. All the massacres of St. Domingo were not to be 
compared with the barbarities related by Bryan Edwards to have been per- 
petrated by the whites of Jamaica on tiie negroes, and yet, though himself a 
man of education and talents, he relates them unaccompanied by a single 
reflection on their needless and wanton cruelty. Conspiracy might be danger- 
ous, but it was not less dangerous to drive a population to desperation by such 
scenes as these. If they meant to preserve the Colonies, they might administer 
the laws strictly ; but they must do justice and love mercy. JSo race of men 
would submit to be quiet, if their feelings were wronged and tortured by oppres- 
sion. If in our conduct to the negro we followed the principles of Christian- 
ity ; if we taught him a sense of justice and a knowledge of God; if we 
afforded him present comfort, and a future hope of rising from his present de- 
graded state, we might keep him qbiet ; but we could never do so by the opera- 
tion of the mere fear of terrible punishment. If we looked to past events, 
and contemplated those likely to arise, we must be convinced, that it was good 
for all who lived in the distant parts of our dominions, that the doors of 
this house should be open to their complaints, and that in all cases parliament 
iihould shew its readiness to do justice and to punish oppression. 

The Solicitor-General perfectly concurred with his Learned Friend in all 
the sentiments he had expressed of a generous abhorrence of slavery as well as 
in his eloquent denunciation of its abuses ; and he most earnestly desired a re- 
formation of these evils ; but he could not agree with him as to the gross mal- 
versation of all who were concerned in the late trials. The House could not 
adopt Mr. Denman's resolution without being prepared to state, that the judges, 
the jury, and the governor, had all been guilty of a perversion of law and a 
violation of justice. He did not contend that these trials had been properly 
conducted, but that such as they were, they were in accordance with the laws 
of Jamaica. Were these trials illegal according to the lex loci? That that law 
was bad and required a thorough reformation, every individual on both sides of 
the House was agreed. That in all trials the black should be on the saine foot^ 



121 

ing witli the white he maintained as strongly as any man ; but he would not 
consent to stigmatise individuals who had only acted according to the existing 
state of law. They were not to be punished because the law was bad, or be- 
cause they were not such a nicely balancing jury as a jury of the county of 
Kent ; and yet for this the resolution went to condemn them. He was not pre- 
pared indeed to defend these proceedings. He was not prepared to take. upon 
bimself the task of threading the ichnography. Still he did not think the judges 
and governor ought to be censured. It would be injustice as great as any 
which had taken place in the Colonies if we were to condemn these men for 
acting under the existing law. The House, he trusted, would execute the duty 
of amending that law ; and he agreed fully with his Hon. Friends opposite as 
to the hated and accursed nature of the system of slavery, and he went along 
with them in desiring the abolition of it and its evils ; but still he could not 
yote for the original motion, but must vote for the amendment. 

Mr. W. Smith gave his meed of praise to the force and eloquence displayed 
by his Learned Friends, (Mr. Denman and Dr. Lushiagton), and would not 
weaken the effect of their arguments by repeating them. He fully agreed, 
liowever, with the Solicitor General in designating the colonial system as a 
hated and accursed system. He himself avoided the use of such expressions, 
but he rejoiced to hear them fall from the mouth of so high an authority. That 
Hon. and Learned Member, while he denied the dishonesty of the Jamaica 
Jury, in fact, admitted that the negroes were living in a state of society, the 
very nature of which required such a system of laws as almost to render it 
impossible for them to expect justice. If, however, he had examined the pro- 
ceedings of the courts rather more accurately, he would find that they were not 
to be justified even on the ground of having administered the law strictly, ac- 
cording to its e:dsting forms. They had not admitted or rejected evidence, on 
mere technical rules of evidence. They had admitted against the prisoners 
hearsay evidence, at the third hand ; and without atteuding to mere technical 
distinctions, which a common or even special jury of the country might not be 
supposed to know, they had violated principles of evidence so clear that every 
man must be acquainted with them. In fact, ,no inan of common sense and 
tommon humanity could fail to observe the looseness of the evidence on which 
these persons had been convicted. These trials, however, did not furnish the 
only instances of the absolute necessity of altering the present laws of the 
island. Indeed those laws could not be exposed to the view of the British 
people, without their saying instantly, that such a system could not be sutfered 
to exist in any dependencies of the British empire. The people and the Par- 
liament of this country were disposed to alter this system. The white people 
of Jamaica said it should not be altered. In what a dilemma, then, was this 
country placed . The alteration must eventually take place, but in the inter- 
mediate time what controul was possessed by the people of England, that an 
administration of law according to the principles of justice and humanity shoilld 
be secured to the Colonies ? Was there now any other security than that of 
public opinion ? His Hon. and Learned Friend had proposed a resolution, by 
which the voice of public opinion would be clearly expressed. However the 
question now at issue between the motion and the amendment might be derided, 
the discussion, he was convinced, would have done infinite good. It would 
open to the eyes of the public such scenes as they were not accustomed to see ; 
it would convince them, that the representations made by those who were some- 
times falsely accused of misleading the public mind, were true representations; 
that they had not asserted one fact which was not fully made out when the do- 
cuments were produced ; that they had not put forth one statement which was 
not confirmed to its very letter ; that there was not one single accusation of 
cruelty which was not fully established. He did not say that the Right Hon. 
Gentleman opposite (Mr. Canning) had given, two nights ago, a view of the 
meliorations in the condition of the slaves which he did not believe to be true ; 
but he thought the persons to whom that Right Hon. Gentleman had trusted for 
his information had misinformed him. He was quite sure that the meliorations 
had neither been so numerous nor so important as the Right Hon. Gentleman 
had stated. The present system of slavery, be it remembered, was not that 
which Christianity at its first coming had tolerated. It had not, as was alleged 
■1 



122 

antiquity to justify it ; it was of mushroom growth ; it had sprung up long, long 
after the prevalence of Christianity had actually abolished the ancient slavery, 
and, in his opinion, the existing slavery and the Christian religion were most 
entirely opposed to, and wholly incompatible with, each other. 

Sir Robert Wilson agreed with the Hon. Member who had just sat down, 
and with the Hon. and Learned Gentleman who had brought forward the motion, 
who he thought was entitled to the thanks of the House and the country, for 
calling their attention to these gross abuses. The motion of his Learned Friend 
was more agreeable to the view he took of the matter than the amendment, 
precisely because he thought the House was called on to pass a vote of censure 
on the magistrates, the governor, and the whole course of the proceedings ; it 
was bound to censure the judges, the jurors, and all the parties concerned in 
carrying on these lawless and sanguinary proceedings. The magistrates had 
not acted under the sanction of the law, but in violation of it. The evidence 
was such as common justice, common sense, and common humanity would in- 
stantly have rejected. He would do the Law Officers of the Crown the justice 
to say, that they had spoken of the system in those strong terms it merited ; but 
he did not know that the House was as yet aware of all its atrocities — what 
would Members think of the following case? In 1822, a man named James 
Simpson was tried at Jamaica, for having chained down a young girl, only nine 
years of age, and then committing a rape on her person. He was found guilty ; 
but his counsel moved, in arrest of judgment, that the man had committed no 
crime, for the girl was not a human being, but a chattel, and that as against her 
the offence was no off'ence. The case was remitted to England, and he believed 
the opinion of the twelve judges was required on it, who declared, that, in the 
existing state of the law in Jamaica, no punishment could be inflicted on the 
man, and he was set at liberty. The Governm.ent had taken the matter up, he 
also believed, and had made strong representations to the Colonial Legislature 
on the subject of the law. From such circumstances as these, proving what 
was the actual state of the law, and what the condition of the slave, he thought 
we were bound to pursue the total destruction of slavery, reckless of every 
opposing plea. 

Mr. GouLBURN, having had the misfortune to succeed to a property in the 
Colonies, could not allow the debate to close without asserting, that there were 
Gentlemen connected with the colonies, who felt as warmly concerning all these 
transactions as any of the Honourable Members on the other side of the House. 
It was due to the Colonists to state, that the sentiments of many of them were 
perfectly in unison with those of the Gentlemen who reprobated these proceed- 
ings. He found it the more necessary to make this declaration, because he 
intended to vote for the amendment, though in most of what had been said 
respecting the trials, the evidence, the laws of the colonies, he fully agreed with 
the Hon. Gentlemen opposite. But, though of this opinion, he could not go the 
length of the original proposition, because he was not prepared to visit with a 
heavy censure, or to stigmatize as criminal, men, who, living in a state of society 
quite different from this, whose property and lives being at stake, and who 
acting under the greatest apprehension, had not conducted themselves quite so 
calmly, so dispassionately, as Gentlemen would have conducted themselves here. 
If the resolution of his Hon. Friend went forth with the unanimous approval of 
the House, it would be impossible for the Colonists to doubt how highly their 
conduct was disapproved of. They must see, that Gentlemen who agreed on 
no other subject, had united to condemn the Colonial laws ; and such a sentence 
of condemnation w^ould, he thought, operate as an effectual check against such 
proceedings in future. The original resolution involved in it a principle that, 
if applied to the judicial establishments of this counti-y, might lead to enormous 
evils. It called on the House, with very insufficient evidence, to pass a severe 
censure on the magistracy of Jamaica. 

Mr. Brougham differed entirely from the Right Hon. Gentleman in the view 
he took of the subject. The opinion of that House, censuring the unjust con- 
duct of the Magistrates, and pointing out that the system was wrong, and 
required reform, would indeed convince the Colonists that it must be reformed. 
But as the amendment, though expressing a strong disapprobation of the system, 
.sought to screen those acts of injustice which were not denied, and could not he 



123 

denied, which were undefended and indefensible ; as this Amendment not only- 
sought to screen, but actually defended what no single man in that House would 
stand up to defend, he felt himself bound to take the sense of the House on the 
subject ; and he should divide against the Amendment, though he stood alone, 
rather than it should go forth to the public as having received the unanimous 
approbation of that House. The Amendment attributed all the blame to the 
system, but assumed that the trials were all sti'ictly according to the regular 
mode of proceeding ; therefore, it was said, that the system alone was to be 
amended, and it was not proper to express an opinion on the conduct of those 
who had acted under it. The Attorney-General had said, he should be the last 
man to defend the system ; and the Solicitor- General had said, God forbid, that 
he should deny or defend the atrocities of the system. He was even indignant, 
that it should be supposed he had looked through the Report, and examined the 
cases, with a view to defend them. He did not even attempt to palliate, what, 
all admitted, deserved blame ; but he wished the House to distinguish between 
the law and the individuals, and only to censure the former. But, in his opinion, 
the law had been so perverted — the evidence was so inadmissible— the charge 
so vague and irregular, that it was not possible to defend the conduct of the in- 
dividuals. Even in Smith's case there was abetter ground of defence : he was 
tried, indeed, by an anomalous Court — by a Court half military, half civil ; but 
there had been a definite disturbance, and there was against him a specific 
charge; but in the St. Mary's case, how were the men put on their trial ? His 
Learned Friend said they were legally tried ; but all the evidence against them 
was hearsay evidence, some at third hand — such as would not, as he well knew, 
be received in this country, or in any country where law was known. His 
Learned Friend had stated, that the whole had been conducted according to 
law, and that the law had not been violated. With all due respect to his 
Learned Friend, he would say, that if the law had not been violated, it had 
been perverted — that justice had been violated, and that, under colour of law, 
a gross and a violent act of injustice had been committed. The precipitancy 
with which the St. Mary's trial had been conducted was most indefensible. " I 
thought it my duty (says Colonel Cox) to insist on the Magistrates trying the 
Negroes that had been taken, immediately : and to send their trial and sentence 
express, as it will, in my opinion, be highly important for the safety of the 
parish, and probably, the island, that they should be executed before Christmas :" 
— no respite — no breathing time, was allowed between the trial and the execu- 
tion. There was a necessity, it was supposed, to hasten forward the operation 
— to proceed with the trial, trusting to a conviction, in order that there might 
be an execution before Christmas. At St. Mary's the men were put on their 
trial without many of the formalities resorted to in the other trials, and which, 
therefore, must have been omitted, not from ignorance, but intentionally, or 
from mere indifference. The charge was vague and indefinite, and the prisoners 
were condemned on evidence which would not have been thought sufficient in 
this country to convict the basest of mankind of the smallest penal offence. 
Those eight men were sentenced to death, to gratify the headlong impatience 
and alarm of some of their masters ; and to deter others, they were ordered to 
be executed before Christmas. If the House felt as he knew they must feel, he 
was sure they would not be satisfied, unless they passed a censure on the judi- 
cature that tried them. But if the proceedings of this judicial body were 
influenced by their apprehensions, that could not be said of the Governor, who 
was at a distance, and could not be affected by the vain fears which existed 
among the people of St. Mary's. These fears were local : and if they afforded 
a justification of the people on the spot, they afforded no justification, no exten- 
uation whatever, of the precipitancy of the Governor. He received the state- 
ment of the trial, read the vague charges, compared the evidence, varying and 
contradictory as it was ; he was surrounded by his Council, his Secretary, and 
his Law Officers, and had access to their opinions. And yet even he would 
give these men no breathing time, would allow them no respite, but by the return 
of the messenger, dispatched instructions that they should be executed forth- 
with. There was a similar haste, and a similar irregularity, in the trial of Leon, 
of St. George's, and similar discrepancies in the evidence of Corberand ; for it 
was on his varying and contradictory evidence the man was capitally con- 
victed. He considered the whole of the proceedings to be a perversion of the 



124 

law, and the convictions to be a gross violation of justice ; and if men were 
placed in a situation where they could be excited by their apprehensions to 
commit such acts, and where the system was such that they could commit them 
with impunity, he thought it was so much the more necessary that the House 
should express a strong opinion on their conduct. If men were placed in a 
situation in which they might, under the influence of some momentary passion, 
lend themselves to the commission of irrevocable measures, involving no less 
than the life and death of individuals, it behoved the House the more strongly 
to express an opinion which might prevent the recurrence of similar conduct. 
The House was bound to shew the world, that if justice and mercy were duties, 
it was no less a duty in those intrusted with power to retain their self-posses- 
sion and firmness ; and it was no less imperiously required of them, not to allow 
themselves to be led away by a panic or terror, under the influence of whicli 
they might shed, or, as in this case, sanction the shedding of innocent blood. 
He would not think he had done his duty if he had not stated these his reasons 
for holding that these proceedings ought not to pass without merited reproof. If 
it were to go out to the ^Vest Indies that such proceedings had escaped the 
censure of Parliament, then the same injustice, the same cruelties, would be 
committed over and over again with impunity. 

Mr. Canning, in rising to state the reasons why he approved of the Amend- 
ment, in preference to the original motion, was anxious to have it distinctly un- 
derstood that he did not yield to any man in the feelings wliich those proceedings 
were naturally calculated to excite, and that he differed from the Gentlemen 
opposite, only because it appeared to him that the question must be decided 
upon grounds of a more limited nature. — Even upon the Hon. and Learned 
Gentleman's own shewing, it would be impossible for him consistently to vote for 
the original Resolution ; and why ? Because that Resolution condemned the 
whole of these proceedings by one sweeping affirmation of a perversion of all 
law and justice ; whereas, his speech went in some degi'ee to discriminate the 
cases from each other. But the Amendment stated what was true, with respect 
to all the proceedings, viz. : — That Negro life was put to hazard, and Negro 
blood shed, by a system totally different from that which was applied to white 
men. In all these proceedings this was to be lamented, and so, with respect to 
all, the Amendment was strictly correct. If the Resolution of the Honourable 
and Learned Gentleman had been couched in such words as these, — " That 
this House, considering the trials in Jamaica in 1823-4, felt it to be its duty to 
express, in the strongest terms, its sorrow for the manner in which these trials 
had been conducted, and thought that the system ought to be altered," he 
would have had no objection to it. But instead of this, in his original Resolu- 
tion, he proposed, that the House should express its " sorrow and indignation 
at the perversion of law and justice in the proceedings, and at the precipitation 
in the execution of a sentence wholly unsupported by evidence." Now, 
he was not prepared to vote for a resolution containing these assertions. 
He was not prepared to say, that in these proceedings there was a perversion of 
law, as usually administered in the Colonies. Undoubtedly, he considered the 
law as one which ought to be altered; but he was not prepared to atiirm that 
the authorities had perverted the law, such as it was, or that there had been 
undue precipitation in the execution of the sentence. With respect to the 
Judges, they had the power to have ordered it without any reference to the 
Governor at all ; yet, in point of fact, they had referred the sentence to the 
Governor. They were acting under an alarm which pervaded the whole of 
the white population; and yet, they did not avail themselves of the power 
of ordering immediate execution, but, of their own free will, they referred the 
sentence to the Governor; so that, with respect to them, the proposition with 
respect to precipitation was completely negatived. Then, as to the Duke of 
Manchester, he was the representative of the Crown in that country, and, among 
other prerogatives, he had the exercise of that of mercy. Now, as a general rule, 
he said, with respect to the prerogative of mercy, that he could not conceive a 
more formidable and dangerous example than that which would be furnished by 
the House interfering to censure the exercise of the prerogative of extending or 
withholding mercy. The exercise of that prerogative must be left unquestioned, 
or the prerogative itself must be entirely taken away; for you totally deprive 
it of its essence when you make it subject to Parliamentary investigation. If 



125 

the Hon. and Learned Gentleman had communicated his resolution to him be- 
fore it was moved in the House, he would have been happy to suggest such 
amendments as might have led to an unanimous approbation of it by the House, 
instead of drawing up, along with others, another resolution expressive of their 
views, which was now proposed as an amendment. Nay, he might say, that if the 
original resolution had not contained propositions which he thought unfounded in 
fact, he would have preferred voting for it; but, as the matter stood, he thought 
that the amendment would best satisfy — not all the feelings which a perusal of 
these papers naturally and necessarily excited — not all the feelings which might 
very properly be expressed in communications between man and man — but that 
which was most fitting for Parliament to resolve ; and this would operate as 
effectually in the Colonies as a specific censure, while it avoided all the incon- 
veniences with which a censure on the proceedings of a Court of Judicature 
would be attended. He was particularly anxious to show that there was no 
difference among them on any other point than an apprehension of the evils that 
might result from passing a censure upon a judicial and legal proceeding. It 
was to save that point — to save the public from the. danger of such a precedent, 
that he voted for the amendment in preference to the original resolution. For 
the precedent might, if once established, ascend from these disgusting tribunals 
to others of a higher and better description. With whatever disgust, therefore, 
in a moral point of view, they must look at these proceedings, still, if conducted 
according to the law of the place, they were not a proper subject for censure in 
that House. He would not enter into the details of these trials, nor say any thing 
to blunt the edge of those feelings with which they must be regarded. He only 
wished to impose this check, not upon the feelings themselves, but upon that 
undue and irregular mode of expressing them which the original resolution in- 
volved. 

Mr. Denman, in reply, said, he had apprized many members, and among 
otheis, the Colonial Secretary, of the contents of his resolution. He certainly 
felt very desirous that any resolution which it was proper to pass upon this sub- 
ject, should be adopted unanimously; and he was not so much attached to any 
particular phrases of his own, as to refuse to adopt other words, provided he 
could do so consistently with his duty, and with that which he believed the 
House owed to itself. If he had failed in making the most of his case, his de- 
ficiencies had been supplied by his friends around him ; and, if they had left any 
thing undone, that deficiency also had been supplied by the arguments of the 
gentlemen on the other side ; for every gentleman who had spoken on that side, 
had used expressions as strong, if not stronger, than those contained in his 
resolution, but had endeavoured to get rid of the natural effect of them, by a 
quibbling fallacy. It was said that those tribunals proceeded according to the 
laws of Jamaica, and it was denied that there was precipitation. Now, he 
would ask, whether it was the law of Jamaica, that the trial should take place 
in two days after the apprehension of the supposed offenders ? — whether it was 
the law of Jamaica that they should have the assistance of neither counsel nor 
witnesses? — whether it was the law of Jamaica that eight men should be exe- 
cuted in one morning, in order that there might be executions before Christmas? 
— whether it was the law of Jamaica that the wife should he called upon to give 
evidence against her husband on a trial for his life? If the law did not ab- 
solutely compel them to adopt such a course of proceeding, then there was here 
a gross perversion of law and justice. His resolution was founded upon this, 
that, although some form of law had been preserved, it had been perverted in 
principle. It was a perversion of the law to precipitate execution under a sen- 
tence resting on proof, upon which no human beings ought to be condemned. 
It was a perversion of the law to execute eight men in one morning, that there 
might be executions before Christmas. The Attorney-General had said that it 
was the practice in the Colonies to proceed on hearsay evidence, and that he 
had found, upon inquiry, that such had been usually received in the trial of 
slaves. Now, the Common Law of Jamaica was the same as the Common Law 
of England ; and was it the law of England, that persons should be tried and 
condemned on hear-say evidence? That a wife should be received as a witness 
against her husband ? This was not the law ; and, even if it had been the law, 
that would not have justified these disgusting and infamous proceedings. But, 



126 

then, the Attorney-General meets part of the objection in another way, and says 
that the woman, although she cohabited with the man, might not be his wife : 
he had made inquiries, he said, to ascertain how the matter stood ; but it did 
not appear that he had got any information, either the one way or the other. 
But the fact that she was his wife was stated on the record; and if she had not 
been so, it was not to be supposed that the Judge would not have taken notice 
of it. It was, therefore, in this case, to be taken that the woman was really the 
wife of this man, against whom she gave evidence. In these cases, the Common 
Law had been grossly perverted, and the only reasonable objection to his reso- 
lution was, that it did not go far enough — that it did not sufficiently set fortl* 
the extent of the violation of law, which had taken place in these infamous pro- 
ceedings. Then, another point was argued, that the resolution did not discri- 
minate between the several cases. It, however, proceeded upon grounds which 
were common to them all, as far as respected the perversion of law. Persons 
were tried and condemned on the testimony of witnesses not sworn, and on 
hearsay — the wife had been adduced as evidence against her husband — the 
executions had been indecently precipitated. All these were perversions of law 
— all of them clearly supported his resolution, and the House would abandon its 
duty if it adopted any thing short of it. Then, as to the Judges, it was said that 
they had not been precipitate, and they had almost been praised for not ordering 
immediate execution, but referring the sentence to the Governor. It was a lame 
cause which required tb.is sort of bolstering. The Juries were certainly the least 
blameable, because they had been misled by the Judges. And who was the 
chief judge in this case? The military commander, who headed the troops 
which surrounded the Court, %vho was anxious to have executions before Christ- 
mas — who condemned these poor creatures on such unheard-of testimony, and 
who was said not to have been precipitate, because he did not order instant exe- 
cution, but referred the sentence to the Governor. Then came the defence of 
the Governor. It was said, that it would be most dangerous to interfere with 
the exercise of the prerogative of extending or withholding mercy. But he 
maintained that it was not a question of mercy, but of justice; for the Governor 
was bound, in justice, not to have ordered execution in such a case. Suppose 
a case had come before the Secretary for the Home Department, where persons 
had been condemned upon evidence clearly bad and insufficient; would he, in 
such a case, advise execution without further inquiry? And that, too, in order 
to have execution done, and an example made before a certain day? Then 
his resolution called for a reform — of what? Not of the law, though that doubt- 
less required it, but of the administration of criminal justice in the island. But, 
they were told, that the system of law ought to bear all the blame. But, was it 
to be endured, that public functionaries should thus carry unjust sentences into 
execution in such a precipitate manner, and that the House should do nothing 
more than coolly say, that all the blame rested with the system? What was the 
check upon the administration of the law under such a system? Why, that an 
English nobleman, having an English education— acquainted with the laws and 
usages of Parliament, and knowing something of the general feelings and dis- 
position of the English people, stood there like a great sea-mark, not to give 
effect to the fears of the rabble, but to take care that impartial justice was done 
to all classes. If he did not act in this manner, he deserved censure, and ought 
to be censured. The system, such as it was, was still in operation, and it cer- 
tainly was the more necessary that the judicial proceedings should be strictly 
watched. Then came the argument of the late Secretary to the Colonies, and 
he said that this resolution would be a dangerous precedent in other cases. But, 
was the House prepared to say that it never would inquire into any judicial 
proceedings, where, although the essence of justice had been violated, the forms 
had been complied with ? What would be said of the case of St. Mary's ; what of 
that of St. George's, in which a person had been condemned and executed, on 
the evidence of Corberand alone, after the infamy of-the witness was manifest? 
In the trials of Russell and Sydney, the forms of law had been complied with. 
They had been indicted, tried, and convicted by Juries misled by the Judges. 
And yet, if their cases were to come before the House, would it be a good ground 
of argument against a censure upon the Judges who condemned, and the Go- 
rernment who executed, that the mere forms of law had been complied with ? 



127 

So neither, in the present case, could a compliance with mere forms protect the 
Judges and Governor, the former of whom seemed almost to be praised by the 
other side for not doing all the injustice they could have done. With respect to 
fh.e system, it was quite impossible it could last long, and he was not very 
anxious about that part of the resolution. But he was sure, that if such conduct 
as this had been exhibited in Britain, it would have been visited with the 
utmost severity; and, if these proceedings in the Colonies were to be suffered 
to pass unreprobated by that House, they would be laying a foundation for the 
foulest perversions of justice. He could not, therefore, consent to withdraw 
his resolution. 

The House then divided — 

For the original motion, 63 — Against it, 103 — Majority, 40. 

After the division, and while strangers remained excluded, Mr. Brougham, 
referring to the course and temper of the discussion, suggested the propriety of 
cutting off the latter part of the amendment relative to the inexpediency of im- 
peaching the verdict of the Court, being all that part which followed the words 
" the year 1823." 

Mr. Canning assented to the suggestion, and it was agreed nem. con. to alter 
the amendment accordingly. 

It then stood thus : — 

Resolved, nemine contradicente : — " That this House sees, in the proceedings 
which have been brought under its consideration, with respect to the late trials 
of slaves in Jamaica, further proof of the evils inseparably attendant upon a 
state of Slavery ; and derives therefrom increased conviction of the propriety of 
the resolutions passed bythis House on the 15th of May, 1823." 



This, and all other publications of the Society, may he had at their office, 
18, Aldermanhury ; or at Blessrs. Hatchards, 187, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill, 
They may also be procured through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti- 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 



The following Publications, among viamj others, may be 
■procured as above. 

NEGRO SLAVERY; or, a View of some of the prominent Fea- 
tures of the State of Society, as it exists in the United States, and in 
the Colonies of the West Indies, especially in Jamaica. 

AN APPEAL to the Religion, Justice, and Humanity of the Inha- 
bitants of the British Empire, in behalf of the Negro Slaves in the 
West Indies. By WILLIAM VvlLBERFORCE, Esq. M. P. 

The SLAVERY of the BRITISH WEST INDIA COLONIES 
Delineated, as it exists both in Law and Practice, and compared with 
the Slavery of other Countries, Ancient and Modern. By JAMES 
STEPHEN, Esq. 

THE SLAVE COLONIES OF GREAT BRITAIN ; or, A PIC- 
TURE OF NEGRO SLAVERY, DRAWN by the COLONISTS 
themselves ; being an Abstract of the various Papers RECENTLY 
laid before Parliament on that Subject. 

THE ARGUMENT,— "That the COLONIAL SLAVES are better 
ofF than the BRITISH PEASANTRY," Answered by THOMAS 
CLARKSON, M. A. 

ENGLAND ENSLAVED by her OWN COLONIES; an Address 
to the Electors of Great Britain". By JAMES STEPHEN, Esq. 

FIRST, SECOND, and THIRD REPORT of the Anti-Slavery 
Society. 

The IMPOLICY of SLAVERY Illustrated. 

A REVIEW of some of the ARGUMENTS which are commonly 
advanced AGAINST PARLIAMENTARY INTERFERENCE in 
Behalf of the Negro Slaves, with a Statement of Opinions which have 
been expressed on that subject by many of our most distinguished 
Statesmen, including Earl Grey, Earl of Liverpool, Lord Grenville, 
Lord Dudley and Ward, Lord Melville, Mr. Burke, Mr. Pitt, Mr. Fox, 
&c. &c. (fee." 2d Edition. Is. 

DECLARATION of the OBJECTS of the LIVERPOOL SOCIETY 
for ABOLISHING SLAVERY. Price 6d. 

RELIEF for WEST INDIAN DISTRESS; shewing the Ineffi- 
ciency of Protecting Duties on East India Sugar, and pointing out other 
Modes of certain Relief. By JAMES CROPPER. 8vo. Price Is. 

A LETTER on the injurious Effects of High Prices, and the 
beneficial Effects of Low Prices, on the Condition of Slavery. By 
JAMES CROPPER. Price Is. 

The SUPPORT of SLAVERY INVESTIGATED. By JAMES 
CROPPER. 6d. 

THOUGHTS on the NECESSITY of IMPROVING the CON- 
DITION of the SLAVES in the British Colonies, with a View to their 
ULTIMATE EMANCIPATION ; and on the Practicability, the 
Safety, and the Advantages of the latter measure. By T. CLARK- 
SON, Esq. 1823. Price 2s. 

EAST and WEST INDIA SUGAR ; or, a Refutation of the Claims 
of the West India Colonies to a protecting Duty on East India Sugars, 
Price 3s. 

Printed by S. BAGSTER, Jun. Printer and Stereotype Funnier, 
14, Bartholomev) Close, London. 



London, 18, Aldermanhury, April 30, 1826. 
[o. 11. 



ONTHLY REPORTER. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Rkporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
last day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons wish- 
ing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the Secretary, 
at the Society's office. No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the conveyance by 
which they may be most conveniently sent. 



THE PROGRESS OF COLONIAL REFORM ; 

Being a Brief View of the real Advance made since the 1 5th of May, 
1823, in carrying into effect the Recommendations of His Majesty, 
the unanimous Resolutions of Parliament, and the universal Prayer 
of the Nation, with respect to Negro Slavery, — Drawn from the 
Parliamentary Papers which have appeared prior to the l^dth of 
April, 1826. 

On the 15th of May, 1823, the House of Commons resolved, on the 
motion of Mr. Canning, " to adopt effectual and decisive measures for 
meliorating the condition of the Slave population in his Majesty's Colo- 
nies ;" and expressed its hope that " through a determined and perse- 
vering, but judicious and temperate enforcement of such measures," the 
slaves might be prepared, '* for a participation in those civil rights and 
privileges which are enjoyed by other classes of His Majesty's subjects ;" 
" at the earliest period compatible with the well-being of the Slaves, the 
safety of the Colonies, and a fair and equitable consideration of the 
interests of all parties concerned therein." 

In pursuance of this resolution, His Majesty's Government proposed 
to introduce into all the Slave Colonies the following reforms : viz. 

1. To provide the means of religious instruction and Christian edu- 
cation for the Slave population. 

2. To put an end to markets and to labour on the Sunday, and to 
appropriate that day entirely to rest and recreation, and to religious 
worship and instruction ; and instead of Sunday, which had hitherto 
been the day on which, in most of the Colonies, the Slaves had culti- 
vated their provision grounds, to allow them equivalent time on other 
days for that purpose. 

3. To admit the testimony of Slaves in courts of justice. 

4. To legalize the marriages of Slaves, and to protect them in the 
enjoyment of their connubial rights. 

1 



130 

5. To protect the Slaves by law in the acquisition and possession of 
property, and in its transmission by bequest, or otherwise. 

- 6. To remove all the existing obstructions to manumission, and to 
grant to the Slave the power of redeeming himself, and his wife and 
children, at a fair appraisement. 

7. To prevent the separation of families by sale, or otherwise. 

8. To prevent the seizure and sale of Slaves detached from the 
estate or plantation to which they belong. 

9. To restrain generally the power, and to prevent the abuse, of ar- 
bitrary punishment at the will of the master. 

10. To abolish the degrading corporal punishment of females. 

11. To abolish the use of the driving-whip in the field, either as an 
emblem of authority, or as a stimulus to labour. 

12. To establish Savings' Banks for the use of the Slaves. 
Besides these important changes, as to the propriety of which, little 

difference of opinion has appeared to exist in this country, and even 
the West-Indian body have generally concurred,* there were two 
other points which formed the subject of much discussion, and to 
the expediency of which it was understood that His Majesty's Govern- 
ment assented. 

One of these respected the question of relieving Negroes and per- 
sons of colour, from the operation of that unjust principle of Colonial 
law, which subjects them to be dealt with as Slaves, unless they shall 
be able to establish, by legal proof, their right to freedom. The other 
respected the policy of not permitting future governors, or judges, 
or attorneys-general, or fiscals, or religious instructors, in the Slave 
Colonies, to be holders of property in Slaves.f 

The views which were taken of the condition of the Slave popula- 
tion by His Majesty's Ministers, and by the Anti-Slavery Society, may 
possibly have differed in some respects, and the former may have been 
led to think more favourably of it than the latter. But, thus far they 
were agreed ; that that condition was such as to require those sweep- 
ing reforms which the above propositions involved, and which virtually 
conceded to the abolitionists the substance of their case. It was clearly 
impossible to maintain that such reforms were called for in our Slave 
Colonies, without admitting that the state of society existing there was 
at war with every acknowledged principle of natural equity, of common 
humanity, or of British constitutional law, and with the whole spirit 
and genius of the Christian religion, and that therefore the most prompt 
remedial measures were called for. 

His Majesty's Government appeared to have felt so strongly the 
force of this necessary inference from the facts of the case, that a 
fortnight was not suffered to elapse, after the resolution of the 15th of 
May, ] 823, had been adopted, before brief instructions were sent to 

* Lord Bathurst affirms repeatedly, in his dispatches to the Colonial gover- 
nors, that the measures he was anxious the legislatures should adopt, had 
"■ in almost every instance, been recommended by the principal planters resident 
in this country." 

t See substance of the debate in the House of Commons, 15th May, 1823. 
Preface xxvi — xxxiii. 



131 

fcbe governors of the different Slave Colonies, to have it forthwith 
carried into effect ; and these were followed, in a few weeks, by further 
instructions still more ample and peremptory, to the same purport.* 
The abolitionists are accused of impatience, because they complain of 
the delay of three years which has already taken place, and of the 
much greater delay which, on the present plan of proceeding, is likely 
to take place before the proposed work of reform shall have even effec- 
tually commenced. But what was the language of Lord Bathurst, His 
Majesty's Secretary of State, as early as the 9th of July, 1823, in con- 
veying to the Colonial governors His Majesty's commands ? — " I have 
most earnestly to impress upon you," says his lordship, in his circular 
letter of that date, " the necessity of proceeding to carry these im- 
provements into effect, not only with all possible dispatch, but 
in the spirit of perfect and cordial co-operation with the efforts of His 
Majesty s Government." " If you should meet with any serious opposi- 
tion, you will lose no time in transmitting to me the necessary commu- 
nication, in order that I may take the earliest opportunity of laying 
the matter before Parliament, and submitting for their consideration 
such measures as it may be ft to adopt in consequence" 

It may be inferred from the language of this dispatch, as well as 
from that which His Majesty's Ministers held in parliament, that at this 
time they were not fully aware of the real state of things in the West 
Indies, or of the general temper and feeling of the Colonists; and 
that they relied on a ready compliance with requisitions so reasonable 
and moderate in themselves, and so consonant to the universal senti- 
ment of the British parliament and public. They were in vain warned, 
by persons who assumed to be better informed upon this point, that 
they had embarked in a hopeless undertaking ; that the Colonists 
would prove inflexible by any recommendations v/hich could be ad- 
dressed to them, or, indeed, by any considerations short of authoritative 
interference, on the part of the Government, and of Parliament ; and 
that the course it was determined to adopt, must end in delay and 
disappointment, if not in insurrection, and all its concomitant evils. 

Even in those Colonies in which (having no local legislatures) the 
King alone possessed the power of framing laws, it was deemed right 
not to issue the requisite orders on the subject, but to submit the pro- 
priety of adopting the proposed changes to the Colonial authorities, 
and to await their decision. The result was such as those who knew 
them best had fully expected. The clamour against improvement was 
no less loud, the resistance to the Royal recommendations no less un- 
qualified, in the Colonies subject to the Crown, than in those possessing 
assemblies of their own. The universality of this opposition on the 
part of the Colonists, the occurrence of tumult in Demerara, the fabri- 
cated plots in Jamaica, and the bullying remonstrances which burst 
concurrently from every part of the West Indies, appear to have had 
no inconsiderable effect on the measures of His Majesty's Ministers. 
Instead of coming down to Parhament to complain that the recommen- 
dations of His Majesty had not been carried into effect " with all pos- 

* See for these instiuctious, the Society's Second Report, Appendix D. 



132 

sible dispatch," and " in a spirit of perfect and cordial co-operatjon 
with His Majesty's Government," and to ask for further counsel, they 
determined on delay ; in the hope that when the existing- irritation had 
subsided, the Colonists would be induced to act from a sense of what 
was due to the dignity of the Crown and the authority of Parliament, 
and to the recognized claims of humanity and justice. The single 
measure, to which, in the second year, they limited themselves, was to 
embody their plan of reform in an Order of Council, which should take 
immediate effect in the island of Trinidad, and be presented to the other 
Colonies as the model of their legislation. This expedient has proved 
equally abortive with that which was first resorted to ; and, at the end 
of three years, the work of reformation which Lord Bathurst so properly 
and so peremptorily required should be proceeded in with all possible 
dispatch, has, as yet, scarcely commenced in any of the Colonies, ex- 
cepting Trinidad ; and even there it was found impossible to induce 
the Colonists to pursue it in the required spirit of perfect and cordial 
co-operation with His Majesty's Government. It became necessary 
to resort to compulsion, as affording the only means of carrying their 
plans into effect. No discretion was allowed to the local autho- 
rities. The Order in Council was imposed and enforced by the 
peremptory mandate of the Sovereign. Trinidad, therefore, is the only 
Colony where the proposed reforms have been carried into any thing 
like effect ; and even there they have had to encounter from the first, 
and they are still encountering the decided and avowed hostility of the 
whole White Population.* 

As the Trinidad Order has been exhibited to all the Colonies, as the 
model to which they are to assimilate their Slave codes, it is important 
exactly to ascertain the degree in which it may be considered to have 
successfully embodied the various reforms, which were originally contem- 
plated by Ministers, as the first step in their progress towards the final 
emancipation of the Slaves. To this end it will be necessary to take in 
succession the different points mentioned above, and to show how far 
they have been effectively provided for by the Order in Council. 

1. The Order speaks of some future tim.e, when effectual provision 
shall be made for the religious instruction of the Slaves ; but it contains 
itself no regulation whatever either for the instruction of adults, or the 
education of children. 

2. It is not until the effectual provision, thus indefinitely spoken of, 
shall have been made, that Sunday markets are to cease; and, mean- 
while, they are to be held only before ten in the morning of Sunday. 
The master is at the same time forbidden, except in the case of domes- 
tics, cattle-keepers, &c. to compel his Slaves to labour for his benefit on 
the Sunday ; and whatever necessary labour the Slaves may be induced 
voluntarily to perform for him, on that day, .is to be paid for at fixed 
rates of wages. The Order therefore does not prohibit Sunday 
markets, except prospectively, and when religious instruction shall have 

* See the Parliamentary Papers, passim, under the head Trinidad ; the So- 
ciety's Second Report, p. 1 — 7 ; and the Slave Colonies of Great Britain, p. 80. 
It is the second edition of this last work, M'hich is quoted throughouto 



133 

been provided for the Slaves ; and yet it institutes no means vi'hatever 
of such instruction. It furtlier leaves the very important question of 
the Sunday labour of the Slave, in his provision grounds, for his own 
sustenance, wholly untouched. It has been most justly assumed by 
His Majesty's Ministers, as an undeniable position, that Sunday must 
be considered as a day belonging to the Slave : and this position has 
been clearly laid down by Lord Bathurst, in one of his dispatches to 
the governor of Trinidad. A question had been put to him by the 
planters of that island, as to their right of compelling lazy and turbu- 
lent negroes to work their grounds on Sunday, " as had," they say, 
" been the practice hitherto.'' His Lordship tells them that they are 
prohibited from using compulsion in this case, because they are entitled 
only to six days labour of the Slave in the week ; and out of the profits 
of these six days, the Slave must be supported. The master, there- 
fore, can have no possible claim for the services of his Slave on the 
Sunday, either on his account, or vi'ith a viev/ to the sustenance of the 
Slave. And for the time during the week vphich he may appropriate 
to his Slaves for their provision grounds, he can have no claim to com- 
pensation ; as the arrangement of allowing them land, and sufficient 
time for cultivating it, is adopted, adds his Lordship, in order to super- 
sede the necessity of purchasing provisions for them.* 

This view of the subject is clear and intelligible ; and the fair infer- 
ence to be drawn from it is that the Sunday should be ^iven 
wholly up to the Slave, while, to use Mr. Canning's language, e^dva- 
lent time should be secured to him on other days, for cultivating his 
provision grounds. But this equivalent time has not been assigned to 
him in the Trinidad Order in Council. 

It had hitherto been the practice in Trinidad, and indeed in all Colo- 
nies that pursued the plan, which is there pursued, of making the 
Slaves support themselves by the cultivation of their provision grounds, 
to allot the Sunday and a certain portion of time besides, varying from 
16 to 26 days, for that purpose; the master assuming a right of com- 
pelling the slave so to employ not only those week-days, but the Sun- 
days also; and it being often a part of the ordinary duty of the inferior 
overseers on plantations to visit the negro grounds on Sunday, in order 
to ascertain and report which of the Slaves were engaged there, and 
which were not. What precise number of days, besides Sundays, 
were allowed to the Slaves in Trinidad, for the purpose of raising their 
own provisions, is no where specified. Had the Spanish law been 
adhered to, as it ought to have been, the Slaves would then have had 
52 week days and 30 holidays, besides the Sunday ; which they might 
have called their own, and which they might have employed in raising 
food, and in acquiring the means of effecting their own or their children's 
manumission.f This merciful law, however, has not been enforced under 
the English government ; and it is believed that the number of week 
days in the year, allowed to the Slave, has at no time exceeded 26, if 
it has even amounted to so many. If this apprehension be erroneous, 

* See Slave Colonies of Great Britain, p. 81. 

t See for pvoof the Society's Second Report, Appendix A, p. 72 and 77. 



134 

it will be easy to correct it by producing the law of Trinidad on the 
subject. 

What then is the situation in which the Trinidad Slave is placed by 
the Order in Council ? The Sunday ceases to be a day of compulsory 
labour : Lord Batburst justly affirms the right of the Slave to its ab- 
solute and undisturbed enjoyment; and yet no provision whatever is 
made by this Order for giving him equivalent time in lieu of it. The 
Slave, it will, perhaps, be said, may still work his ground as formerly 
on the Sunday. Without doubt he may. But was this the intention 
of His Majesty's Government, or of Parliament ? Was it not intended, 
bona fide, that the Sabbath should be what its name designates — -a day 
of rest, as well as of religious worship, to the Slave? And let the fact 
be supposed that the clergymen, or missionaries, who visit Trinidad, 
should succeed in conveying to any -considerable number of Slaves 
proper impressions of the sanctity of the Sunday, and of the duty of 
devoting it to purposes of religious worship and instruction, would not the 
effect necessarily be that such Christian Slaves would at once have the 
pittance of time applicable to their own purposes, (at least, which they 
could conscientiously thus apply,) reduced from 78 in the year to 26. 
Seventy-eight week days in the year, however, is obviously the smallest 
number which, if the supposition that has been made respecting the 
practice which had hitherto prevailed in Trinidad be correct, can in justice 
be appropriated to the Slaves for their own use. They will otherwise be 
placed in a worse situation than before, as to time for cultivating their 
grounds. The Order in Council specifies no time which is to be secured 
to them, but leaves them either to the possession of the number of days, 
whatever it be, which, in addition to the Sunday they had hitherto 
been allowed, or to the tender mercies of their master for an increase. 

The continuance of the Sunday market, even till ten o'clock, is, 
without doubt, greatly to be deplored, whether it be regarded as a volun- 
tary and unnecessary desecration of that day, by the supreme au- 
thority of the state, or as a mere question of policy. The Government 
clearly possessed the power at once to put an end to this immoral 
and irreligious practice, and no good reason has been assigned for their 
not putting an end to it. The limitation of the market also to ten 
o'clock, while it does not save the day from desecration, imposes pe- 
culiar hardships on the Slaves. Many of them have to travel ten, fif- 
teen, and twenty miles, with their loads for sale. In what way is it 
possible for them to attend the market, and to effect their sales, and to 
make their purchases, before ten o'clock, without sacrificing a night's 
rest, after a week of labour, in order to reach the Sunday market in due 
time ? The regulation is therefore a cruel one to the Slaves, if it were 
possible to observe it; and if the Sunday markets are still to be con- 
tinued, it can only be wished that the regulation may not be enforced. 

The reason for this most objectionable prolongation of the practice 
of Sunday markets, is said to be an apprehension lest, until religious in- 
struction shall have been provided, the Slaves should abuse the day to 
purposes of riot and licentiousness. But how is this effect to be obviated 
by fixing the market on Sunday, and above all by the limitation of that 
market to ten o'clock ? On the contrary, is not this arrangenient more 



135 

likely than any other to produce the effect which it proposes to avoid ? 
The slaves are drawn together in great crowds, from distant parts of 
the country, at an early hour on the morning of Sunday ; and after a 
fatiguing walk, the length of which they must again retrace before they 
reach their homes, and with the money obtained by marketing in their 
pockets, are they not much more likely to be tempted to spend a part 
of the day idly and dissolutely, and, perhaps, after getting drunk, to 
unite for purposes of disorder, than if they had been induced, as they 
•would have been had not the market drawn them to town, to remain 
quietly at home, to repose themselves after the labours of the week, or 
to attend to their grounds or to other domestic occupations ? It is an 
arrangement therefore both impolitic in itself, and most injurious to 
the slave. 

The abolition of Sunday markets is made, by the Order in Council, 
to depend on a very vaguely defined, and most dubious contingency ; 
namely, the making effectual provision for the religious instruction of 
the Slaves. Until that is provided, much, it is true, may be said for not 
interfering to prevent their labouring moderately in their gardens, or 
grounds, on that day ; but no good reason can be assigned for continu- 
ing on that account the Sunday market. 

It is chiefly, however, when the effect of this part of the Order in 
Council for Trinidad, upon the conduct and feelings of the other Colo- 
nies, is contemplated, that its regulations are to be deplored. It is ex- 
hibited to them as an example ; but they do not find in it the proof of 
any high regard for the sanctity of the Sabbath ; on the contrary, 
Sunday markets are, for a time, expressly sanctioned by it. It con- 
tains no provision for giving to the Slave equivalent time in lieu of Sun- 
day, though it forbids his compulsory labour, even on his own grounds, 
on that day. It, moreover, does not contain a single regulation requir- 
ing or enforcing the religious instruction, or Christian education, of the 
Slaves, in any degree however liniited. To those also who are adverse 
to the abolition of the Sunday markets, being the great majority of the 
resident planters, it actually holds out an inducement to abstain from 
providing that religious instruction, on the existence of which the abolition 
of them is made to depend. Can it then be any subject of surprise, 
that with this example before them, only one of the Colonies should 
have abolished the Sunday market? In the unfortunate laxity of their 
model, do they not find a sufficient apology, at least, for delay ? 
Would it not be unreasonable to blame them for not being in advance 
of the wishes of Government, as those wishes are to be traced in its 
own acts? Before improvement in these important respects is to be 
looked for in any of the Colonies, there must be a revision and correc- 
tion of those clauses of the Trinidad Order which bear on this sub- 
ject. Their malign influence on the progress of reform, in the other 
Colonies, is too plainly visible to be denied. Notwithstanding the ap- 
pointment of bishops and archdeacons, and additional clergymen, only 
one Colony, throughout the whole range of the Antilles, has abolished 
the Sunday market. And, even in the two Colonies, which are the im- 
mediate residence of the Bishops, no measures have yet been adopted 
for abolishing it. 



136 

3- The next head, in the list of proposed reforms, is the admission of 
the evidence of Slaves in courts of justice. When the council of 
Trinidad were asked what was the state of the existing law on this point, 
in that particular colony, they rephed, in their minute of the 9th July, 
1823, that the evidence of Slaves was now received there quantum 
valeat; and to this rule they do not state any exception. Now, if this 
be a correct account of the matter, and it does not appear to have been 
disputed, then the condition of the Slave, in respect of his admissibility 
as a witness, seems to be deteriorated instead of being improved by the 
Order in Council. For though it be true that the Order in Council has 
declared that " nothing therein contained shall extend to take away or 
diminish any power or authority which any court of criminal jurisdiction 
now hath to admit, in any case, the evidence of persons being in a state 
of slavery ;" yet it seems difficult to conceive, that the special regulations 
respecting the admission of the evidence of slaves, introduced into the 
Order, were intended to have no operation whatever. It is there 
ordained, that any slave, whom any clergyman, priest, or religious 
teacher shall certify to understand the nature of an oath, shall be recorded 
as entitled to give evidence in courts of justice, in all cases civil or cri- 
minal, excepting in civil suits where the master is concerned, or in trials 
affecting the hfe of a white man. Is it not fair to ask, Did these ex- 
ceptions exist under the old law of Trinidad ? If they did not, then a 
positive injury is inflicted on the Slave by this (so called) amelioration. 
But it may be said, that these exceptions were not intended to operate in 
Trinidad, to the prejudice of the Slaves of that island, whose rights have 
been reserved by a saving clause in the' Order, but were inserted in order 
to furnish a convenient exemplification of the provisions, on the subject 
of Slave evidence, which it was desired ihat the other Colonies should 
adopt. Even on this ground, each of the proposed exceptions is liable 
to some formidable objections. 

In the first place, with respect to the non-admissibility of the evidence 
of Slaves in those civil suits in which their master may happen to be 
concerned; it is not denied that a Slave may be liable to a strong bias 
in favour of his master in cases of disputed property between him and 
third parties. Neither is it denied, that where an action of debt or 
trespass is brought by a Slave against his master, a species of suit 
which the Trinidad Order legalizes, the evidence of his fellow Slaves 
ought to be received with great caution, whether it be for or against the 
claim. But to shut out that evidence entirely, instead of leaving the 
question of its competency X)x credibility to be decided by the proper tri- 
bunal, seems to be a rule of very dubious import. 

Another of the exceptions, however, is of a still more objectionable 
nature, namely, that which renders the evidence of Slaves inadmissible 
in trials affecting the life of a White man. Why, the White man, in par- 
ticular, should be protected against the evidence of Slaves is not 
explained. If it be on the ground of his freedom, or of his proprietor- 
ship, these are grounds which apply with as much, if not more strength, 
and especially in Trinidad, to the Brown and to the Black who are free, 
and who are proprietors of Slaves, than it does to the White class. 
Throughout the West Indies, the judges and jurors, at present, are all 



137 

White, and the White class, therefore, possesses, in this very circum- 
stance, a peculiar guarantee against the evil effects which are to be 
apprehended from the admission of the evidence of Slaves on the trial of 
free persons accused of capital oftences. If any class of proprietors 
could be regarded as more endangered than another, by admitting the 
evidence of Slaves in such cases, it v?ould be the Black and the Brovpn 
classes, vfho are at present wholly excluded, in all the colonies, from a 
seat either on the bench or in the jury-box. 

But this novel principle of legislation is liable to a still more formi- 
dable objection. The cruelties, mayhems, mutilations, and murders, 
which have taken place from time to time in the Slave Colonies, have 
been chiefly perpetrated by White men. The very strong feeling which 
has been excited in this country, in favour of the admission of the evi- 
dence of Slaves, has arisen from an anxious desire and hope of thereby 
guarding against the recurrence of these evils. The exception in ques- 
tion puts an extinguisher on that natural and reasonable hope, for it 
tends to confer impunity on the very parties whom it was desired, by the 
admission of Slave evidence, to restrain. A White man, under the operation 
of this exception, might safely murder his Slave, though a hundred or a 
thousand other Slaves were present. And by the peculiar construction 
of the Trinidad Order, a temptation seems actually held out to him, (of 
course undesignedly and through mere inadvertence) to do so in certain 
supposable cases. If, for example, a White man should be accused of 
cruelty to a Slave, Slaves may testify against him and convict him. If 
the same man should be convicted, as he may also be on Slave evidence, 
of a second offence of the same description, he would be condemned to 
the forfeiture of all his Slaves, and rendered incapable of ever holding 
such property, or being entrusted with the management of it. Is it not 
a possible case, that to avoid this ruinous result, he should be tempted 
to kill the maimed Slave outright? He would then be secure from con- 
viction, if no free persons were present, although the whole of the Slave 
gang should have witnessed the murder. 

It is the more extraordinary that this particular exception should 
have been admitted into the Trinidad Order, because, in almost every 
instance where the West India Legislatures have themselves chosen to 
relax, in any degree, their stern exclusion of the evidence of Slaves, 
it has included those capital cases in which the Trinidad Order has 
rendered their evidence inadmissible. In Tobago, for example, the evi- 
dence of Slaves has been admitted, against free persons, without excep- 
tion, in one case and one case only, and that is on their trial for the 
mayhem or murder of a Slave. In the latest Grenada Act the evidence of 
Slaves is also admitted against all free persons, but only when they are 
tried for capital crimes ; and the abortive Bill of the Jamaica Legisla- 
ture limited the admissibility of Slave evidence to capital offences. The 
Planters themselves in these islands must have perceived the ground- 
lessness of those apprehensions which have led the Government to in- 
troduce so dangerous an exception into the Trinidad Order, 

But there is a third exception, which has not yet been noticed, 
namely, that which requires the certificate of a clergyman or religious 
teacher, in order to entitle the Slave to be heard in evidence in any case, 



138 

civil or criminal. Ought such a certificate to be required? Was it re- 
quired under the Spanish Slave Code? Was it required in Trinidad 
under the old law ? Is it now, required in Cuba or Porto Rico? Has it 
ever been required under the operation of the civil law, in the Colonies 
planted by Holland ? Is it now required of any one of our numerous 
subjects in Hindostan or in Africa, whatever be the gross and revolting 
form of idolatry which they practise, or the ignorance in which they are 
sunk ? What could be more decisive than the language which was 
held, during a late discussion in the House of Commons, by Mr. Peel on 
this subject? He is reported to have said, that there was one topic 
above all others, upon which he could not avoid expressing a decided 
opinion — the qualification of Slaves to give evidence in a court of jus- 
tice. Of that he vpould say, that he hoped not one year, no, not even a 
single session would pass by, without the enactment of some regulation 
on the subject. For, vpho were the persons to whom that evidence vv^as 
to be offered ? Why, they were the Whites. Could it be said then, 
that those who v/ere to judge of the value of such evidence were unrea- 
sonably prejudiced in favour of the Black population? Quite the con- 
trary. What he wanted was, that the responsibility of rejecting a Black 
man's evidence should rest, not on the law, but on some known tribunal. 
Such a measure would be the first step to invest him v/ith those rights 
which that House considered it right to bestow upon him. And if they 
were resolved to carry their intentions into execution, and raise the 
Black population to the rank of human beings, he could not understand 
any reason why they should delay giving effect to their views, upon this sub- 
ject, for a single moment. The Slave would be liable to be summoned just 
in the same manner as an ideot might be in this country ; and it would 
lie with the jury to determine, when he appeared before them, whether 
his testimony should or should not be believed. For his part, he could 
not conceive a mind, even the most deeply imbued with West Indian 
prejudices, who could see any danger likely to accrue, to the life or pro- 
perty of the White man, by investing the Slaves with such a privilege. 

Such is in substance the language which Mr. Peel is reported to have 
held on the 1st of March, 1826. The language is worthy of his enlarged 
and liberal mind ; and it is most ardently to be desired, that the principle 
which it maintains may form the basis of all future legislation on this 
subject, whether by the British Parliament, or by the Colonial As- 
semblies. 

4. The fourth measure of reform proposed to be adopted, was to 
legahze the marriage of Slaves. This object appears to be effectually 
accomplished by the Trinidad Order, as far as regards the intermarriage 
of Slaves with each other^but no provision is made for legalizing the 
intermarriage of Slaves with free persons. 

5. By the Trinidad Order, the Slave is protected in the acquisition, 
possession, and transmission of property, and is empowered to hold land 
as well as every other species of property, whether real or personal. 
This is, without doubt, a most important enactment, and fraught with 
the most beneficial consequences, provided the equivalent time to 
which the Slave is entitled, in lieu of the Sunday, is fairly and effectu- 
ally secured to him ; and provided also his industry is relieved from the 



t3£h 

cruel restrictions under which the law of Trinidad, in common with the 
law of every other Slave Colony in the British empire, has placed it. By 
that law the Slave is prohibited, under severe penalties, from cultivating 
or selling any of the staple productions of the island, — any articles, in 
short, of exportable produce. It is perfectly obvious, that under the 
operation of this law, if it is allowed to remain in force, (and Lord 
Bathurst himself admits it to be now in force*) the new regulation, 
liberal as it is in its terms, which gives to the Slave the power of hold- 
ing land and of acquiring other property, is deprived of a great part of 
its value and efficiency, while a powerful motive to industrious effort, on 
the part of the Slave, is most unjustly withheld from him. At least, 
this principle of unqualified exclusion, which is now exercised towards 
the Slaves, throughout the Colonies, with respect to the liberty of culti- 
vating or selling any articles of exportable produce, surely might, without 
prejudice to the interests of their immediate owner, admit of very exten- 
sive modifications. 

6. The next point respects the removing of all obstructions to manu- 
mission, and the empowering of the Slave to effect the redemption of 
himself, and of other members of his family, at a fair appraisement. 
Upon this vital point, the provisions of the Trinidad Order, are, as far as 
they go, full and effective. They enable the Slave, if he has the 
means of paying the appraised value, to compel the liberation of him- 
self, of his wife, or of his child. The beneficial effect of this regu- 
lation, however, would be greatly promoted, if it were combined with 
that admirable principle of the Spanish Colonial Code, which enables a 
Slave to purchase his freedom by instalments, and if measures were 
also at once taken for fixing, by anticipation, the maximum of price, 
which could be required for the difi'erent classes of Slaves^ according to 
their age, sex, and acquirements.f 

7. It was understood that the separation of families by sale, would be 
entirely prevented by the Trinidad Order.! This separation, however, is 
there prohibited only in the case o{ judicial sales. On what principle h 
is that the power of separating by sale, or otherwise, husband and wife^ 
parents and children, which is denied to courts of justice, should be 
continued to the private owner, is not very obvious. On the contrary, it 
seems to be still more imperatively requisite to restrain the exercise of 
this cruel power, in the case of private individuals, than even in that of 
courts of justice. The latter are only occasionally called to interfere in 
such sales. The former enjoy, and may exercise the power at any time, 
when interest or inclination may prompt them to use it. There is no 
restraint on their sales or bequests ; and the very threat of a separate 
sale by the owner may paralyze every exertion of industry in the Slave. 

Neither by the Spanish nor by the Portuguese law can the husband 

* See the Slave Colonies of Great Britain, p. 82. 

t See on this subject the Society's Second Report, p. 77 — 79, and a communi- 
cation from Mr. Kilbee, the British Commissioner at the Havannah. to Mr. 
Canning, printed in the Parliamentary Paper, respecting the Slave Trade in 
1825. Mr. Kilbee's Report will be found at the end of the Tract, entitled 
Negro Slavery, No. XV. 

If See Mr. Canning's Speech on 16th March 1816. 



140 

and wife be separated, on any account whatever, except for crime. So 
jealous is the Spanish law especially, on this point, that it even enacts, 
(as may be seen in the Cedula of 31st May, 1789,) that "Slaves are 
not to be hindered from marrying with the Slaves of other masters ; — in 
which case, if the estates are distant from one another, so that the new 
married couple cannot fulfil the object of marriage, the wife shall follow 
her husband, whose master shall buy her at a fair valuation, (by ap- 
praisers,) and if the master of the husband does not agree to the 
purchase, the master of the wife shall have the same facility." The same 
principle is made to regulate the sale of husband and wife residing on 
neighbouring estates, but belonging to different owners. 

How far short of these regulations the Trinidad Order falls, which 
merely forbids the separation of husband and wife and children hy ju- 
dicial sale, it is unnecessary to point out. 

The Trinidad Order further provides, that not only the husband and 
wife and children, but the reputed husband and wife and children shall 
not be separated by judicial sale. This provision seems to render it 
indispensable, that some subsidiary regulations should be forthwith 
adopted for ascertaining and recording these relations by repute, and for 
giving them a legal sanction ; otherwise extreme confusion must, in no 
long time, necessarily arise in carrying into effect the existing law. Such 
a measure might, moreover, be rendered eminently useful in putting an 
easy termination to the unlawful and injurious practice of polygamy in 
all our Colonies. 

8, The eighth head of reform proposes to prevent the seizure and 
sale of Slaves detached from the estate or plantation to which they be- 
long. The Order in Council for Trinidad does not contain any provision 
to this effect, nor has such been adopted by any of the other Colonies. 

9. The Trinidad Order contains some judicious regulations for restrain- 
ing the abuse of that arbitrary power of corporal punishment, at the will 
of the master, which is still left to him. It limits the number of lashes 
which he can inflict on a male Slave at one time, and for one offence, to 
twenty-five, and no fresh punishment can be inflicted until former lacera- 
tions are completely healed. It requires that twenty-four hours should 
elapse, after an offence has been committed, before it can be punished; 
and when punishment is inflicted, it must be in the presence of a com- 
petent witness, besides the person by whose authority it is inflicted. It 
further requires that, on all plantations, a record should be kept specify- 
ing the crime which has been committed, and the kind and extent 
of punishment which has been inflicted ; this record to be signed 
by the parties present, and copies of it to be regularly transmitted, 
certified on oath, to the Governor, and by him to the Secretary of State. 
The above regulations apply only to punishments which exceed three 
lashes; but it is not said how often punishments to that amount may be 
inflicted, nor is the instrument of punishment defined. 

One of the clauses connected with this subject, which, in the Trinidad 
Order, is numbered the twenty-first, is extremely important. It pro- 
vides that if any owner or manager is prosecuted for cruelly and unlaw- 
fully punishing a Slave, and if the Slave, alleged to be illegally punished, 
is produced in court with the marks of recent flogging or laceration, and 



141 

such Slave shall make a consistent statementof the circumstances, then 
the owner or manager shall be bound to prove either that the punishment 
was not inflicted by him or with his consent, or that it was a lawful 
punishment and was lawfully inflicted; and in default of such proof, 
shall be adjudged guilty of the offence imputed to him. 

It is one of the evils of the system of Slavery, that the British Govern- 
ment should thus feel itself compelled to regulate the manner in which 
private caprice may inflict the torture of the cart whip on the bodies 
of human beings, without even defining the offence for which it is 
to be inflicted. It is impossible that a system can long be maintained 
which is considered to impose on that Government the painful necessity 
of placing so tremendous a discretion as that of inflicting on a fellow sub- 
ject twenty-five lacerations of such an instrument, in the hands of an in- 
dividual, whatever be that individual's character, who may thus combine 
in his own person the offices of accuser, jury, and judge, and if he will, 
executioner also. This is, indeed, a dire necessity, the ground of which 
ought to be anxiously considered by the Government and Parliament of 
this country, under a sense of the weighty responsibility which is attached 
to the rash delegation of such a power. 

But not to dwell on this painful part of the subject, it seems im- 
portant to remark, before closing the observations on this head, that the 
record of punishments is confined to plantations. The number of per- 
sonal Slaves, however, in Trinidad, that is to say, of Slaves not attached 
to plantations, is considerable. Their owners are exempted from all the 
controul arising from the necessity of keeping and returning a record of 
the punishments they inflict, and from the formalities with which, in the 
case of plantations, those punishments must be accompanied. But is 
this exemption either expedient or just? Are a third or a fourth part of 
the Slaves in Trinidad to be thus abandoned to the tender mercies of 
their owners, without even that degree of protection which this part of the 
Order in Council affords to the remainder ? Jobbing gangs, the Slaves 
of mechanics of various classes, and domestics, are all thus left out of the 
pale of this beneficial restraint on the arbitrary power of the master, while 
they are subjected to the immense disadvantage of being more under his 
eye, and therefore more exposed to the effects of his passion and caprice, 
than the others. Why should not the infliction of punishment in these 
cases be taken out of the hands of the master, and placed in the hands of 
the magistrate? It cannot be deemed right that it should remain on its 
present footing. 

10. The entire abolition of the degrading and indecent corporal pu- 
nishment of female Slaves, v/hich is secured by the Trinidad Order in 
Council, must be hailed as a great improvement. 

11. The abolition of the driving whip is another most important im- 
provement. It would be well, however, if we were informed what is the 
precise substitute now practically adopted for that powerful stimulus, 
which the Planters of Trinidad have declared to be so indispensable as to 
be, in fact, identified with the very existence of Slavery. It is no ques- 
tion of idle curiosity to ascertain this point. It would, therefore, 
confer an essential service on humanity, if those who deny that the 
Negroes will work from any other motive than coercion would inform 



142 

the public what are the precise means, which, in the absence of the 
driving' whip, and without the temptation of wages, have procured from 
the Slaves in Trinidad, during the year 1825, the quantity of labour 
which they have yielded to their owners. It would be important to know 
the whole process of this extraction ; the nature and extent of the task ; 
the criterion of its fairness ; the penalty annexed to its non-performance ; 
the advantage accruing from its speedy and correct execution ; the pro- 
portion which the defaulters bear from day to day to the whole gang, 
with various other problems connected with the subject. 

12. The establishment of Savings' Banks, under proper regulations, 
cannot be too highly applauded. 

On the question of the effect, on the freedom of an individual, of his 
inability to establish his right to it by evidence, nothing is said in the 
Order for Trinidad ; nor was it necessary : the registry act which is in 
force there, has settled that point in favour of freedom. 

The Trinidad Order likewise recognizes the important principle that 
a man is disqualified for the office of protector and guardian of Slaves 
by being himself a planter. But while this principle is recognized, it 
is much to be regretted that its application should have been so limited 
as to divest it of much of its utility. It is true, that the protector and 
guardian of Slaves in Trinidad is prohibited from owning, or from being 
concerned in managing, a plantation cultivated by Slaves, in that 
island; but then he is not debarred from being the owner of plantations, 
and plantation Slaves, in every other Colony in the Antilles. He may 
be more deeply interested, in the maintenance of the Slave system with 
all its evils, than any planter in the island ; and yet merely because his 
estates are not locally situated within its limits, they constitute no dis- 
qualification for aa office, which, of all others, requires to be filled by 
an impartial and disinterested functionary. Nor this is all. Though 
he may not possess a plantation, worked by Slaves, in Trinidad itself, 
lie may, nevertheless, not only possess plantations worked by Slaves in 
other Colonies, but be a master of Slaves within that Colony to almost 
any extent. He may be the owner of a jobbing gang ; he may possess 
numerous mechanics ; his domestic establishment may be filled wholly 
by Slaves ; and though not a proprietor of estates within the island, he 
may, for a number of years, have been a manager of the estates of 
others, until he has become imbued with the worst prejudices of the 
system ; — but none of these circumstances, nor all of them together, will 
form a ground of disqualification for this important office. 

It may be argued, that without the liberty of holding domestic Slaves, 
it is impossible to live with comfort in the West Indies. But there is 
no Colony in the West Indies where domestics of free condition may not 
be obtained for hire, and in Trinidad especially, where there are 15,000 
free Blacks and persons of Colour, the argument is preposterous. But, 
independently of this circumstance, so long as this country continues to 
garrison its Colonies with European soldiers, it is absurd to maintain 
that the requisite number of European domestics may not also be pro- 
cured by public functionaries. By such a course, a part, however 
small, of the excess of our population at home would find beneficial 
employment, while the safety of the Slave Colonies would be promoted 



143 

by thus diminishing the disproportion between the free and the en- 
slaved. 

To permit the protector and guardian of Slaves, therefore, to hold 
Slaves of any description, or in any part of the world, is as unneces- 
sary, as it is manifestly unfavourable to the progress of Colonial Reform, 

The case is still worse as it respects the assistant guardians, for 
they are not debarred, by the Order, from being the possessors of plan- 
tations, and of Slaves, within the Colony, whether domestic or predial. 
Now as in all the Colonies, all the larger Colonies especially, the main 
duties connected with the office of protector and guardian must of neces- 
sity devolve on his assistants, it is plain that the whole intentions of 
the Government may be, and probably will be, frustrated by such an 
arrangement. The Slaves will be no better off than before. They will 
be as entirely and unreservedly as ever in the power of functionaries 
who are Slave-holders, and who will still be without efficient check or 
controul. The picture drawn by Mr. Dwarris of the operation of 
the former guardian act of Grenada, will thus be realized in all the 
Colonies. " It is not," says the attorney-general of that island, 
" a dead letter," (though the symptoms of its hfe have certainly not 
been very visible,) " but the misfortune is that proper persons cannot 
he found to carry it into effect. They are those who may be liable to 
it themselves who are the guardians. Perhaps a man may be a guar- 
dian one year, and his neighbour the next, which would prevent his 
acting strictly according to the act." The governor of Grenada testifies 
to the same effect. " There are i^o persons to be found to fill the situa- 
tion of guardian, such as ?nust have been contemplated by the act, tvho 
are, as they ought to be, independent. They are chief y overseers or manag- 
ers. Call TiiEY be expected to say, that the clothing or food furnished by 
their employers is insufficient? Or if they do, may they not be afraid 
of the charge being retaliated?"^ And this is said of Grenada, the most 
liberal and enlightened, as we are told, of all the Colonies. What then 
must be the case in Trinidad under a similar constitution of things ? 
With an immense list of naval and military officers on half-pay, is it 
impossible to apply any remedy to this evil ? Is there not to be found 
in that list a sufficient number of highly respectable and meritorious 
men who, at a small expense, might be most beneficially employed in 
filling these important offices in all our Colonies, and whose remunera- 
tion might be made to depend on the regularity of their returns, and 
the propriety of their conduct ? 

There still remain two points of objection to the Trinidad Order in 
Council, which it will be convenient briefly to notice in this place. 

One is that the hours of labour are not fixed. It is possible that there 
may already exist some law in Trinidad for that purpose : it is desirable, 
however, that it should be known. But whatever may be the limitation of 
the hours of field labour in Trinidad, it is manifest that there, as in the 
other Colonies, is superadded the oppressive task (after the labours of 
the field are closed) of collecting, and bringing to an appointed place, 
bundles of grass for the horses and cattle on the estate. It is difficult 

* See Mr. Dwarris's Report, p. 96 and 98, and the Society's Third Report, p. 34. 



144 

adequately to describe the vexatiousness of such a task; and it is evi- 
dent, from the returns of punishment in Trinidad, that there is no part 
of the duties required from the Slaves which leads to more frequent 
inflictions of punishment than this. Instead of employing, during the 
day, an individual or two to cut and carry the grass which is needed, 
the whole gang, men and women, at the close of a day of exhausting 
toil, under a vertical sun, must be engaged, for an hour or two after it 
is dark, in cutting and carrying large bundles of grass, perhaps tho- 
roughly wet with rain, for a mile or two on their heads ; till having all 
assembled, (possibly after long waiting,) and delivered their bundles, 
they are dismissed to their homes ; some of them, perhaps, first receiv- 
ing a few lashes, or being punished with a night in the stocks, on ac- 
count of the scantiness of their bundles. This is an enormous abuse, 
which ought not to be endured for a day longer.* 

But there is another, and perhaps a still more important, blemish in 
the Order in Council. It consists in a supplementary enactment, which 
directs that upon the complaint of a Slave to the magistrate, of an 
illegal punishment having been inflicted, the accused, if convicted, 
shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding ten pounds ; but that should 
the complaint prove groundless or malicious, the magistrate shall re- 
turn the Slave, with a written declaration of the cause of dismissing 
the charge, to his master, who thereupon may inflict punishment, at his 
discretion, to the extent of 25 lashes ; or, if deserving of a higher 
punishment, the Slave may be remitted to the proper tribunal. 

It is impossible not to feel that this system of making Slaves liable 
to punishment when they fail to establish, by satisfactory evidence, the 
truth of their complaint, (a system which prevails throughout the whole 
of the West Indies,) is radically vicious, and ought not to have been 
sanctioned by His Majesty's Government. A Slave fails to prove the 
truth of a complaint, involving, even if established, a penalty not ex- 
ceeding ten pounds ; and for this failure, the complainant may be sub- 
jected to 25 lashes of the cart-whip, inflicted by an exasperated master, 
and that without his being arraigned, or tried, or having any opportu- 
nity afforded him of preparation, or of producing witnesses in his 
favour, but merely on the ground of what may have transpired before 
the magistrate, not on an examination of a specific charge against him- 
self, but on the trial of a charge against his master. It may be per- 
fectly proper to punish malicious complaints, but surely the punishment 
ought to follow a regular arraignment, and a regular trial and convic- 
tion, after all fair means of disproving the charge of malice have been 
allowed to the accused. The attorney-general, in a recent debate, 
expressed most strongly, in common with Mr. Canning and Mr. Peel, 
his sense of the obligation which lay on Parliament to provide that the 
Negro should enjoy the same protection from the law, both in its sub- 
stance and its forms, as the White man. But what can be a more 
direct contravention of that principle, than the provision that has been 

* See Collins's Practical Planter; Watson's defence of West Indian Metho- 
dist Missions ; the Tract, Negro Slavery, No. 1 ; and the Slave Colonies of 
Great Britain, p. 30, and p. 86—90. 



145 

mentioned ; a provision, not only radically unjust in itself, but pregnant 
with the rnost disastrous effects on the happiness of the Slave popula- 
tion. Of the extent of those effects, some idea may be formed from 
the proceedings which took place in Trinidad itself, as detailed in the 
papers before the House of Commons, in the case of two slaves, P/Iar- 
quis and Regis; but still more from the returns of the fiscals of 
Deraerara and Berbice. In the report of this last, especially, are to 
be found numerous instances of Slaves having been severely punished 
on the pretence that, supported only by the evidence of the very indi- 
viduals against whom they complained, their complaints were unfounded. 
It has been necessary to dwell at so much length on the Order in 
Council for Trinidad, because it is professedly the model on which the 
Government has declared its intention of acting, with respect to all the 
Colonies directly subject to its own legislation. It is extremely im- 
portant therefore that its defects should be understood. In five of those 
Colonies, however, nothing has yet been done for giving effect to any one 
of its provisions, although it has been stated to be the intention of 
Ministers no longer to delay the necessary measures for that purpose. 
These Colonies are Berbice, St. Lucia, Honduras, the Cape of 
Good Hope, and the Mauritius. Of them, therefore, nothing need 
now be said ; as the legal condition of their Slave population remains 
still in precisely the same state in which it was on the 15th of May, 1823. 
In Demerara alone has any thing as yet been done for assimilating its 
Slave laws to those of Trinidad. 

It was Lord Bathurst's instructions to the governor of Demerara, that 
the whole of the provisions of the Trinidad Order should be introduced 
into that Colony ; and it might have been introduced there, as easily as 
it had been introduced into Trinidad, merely by exercising the same act 
of the Royal authority in the one case as in the other. It was thought ex- 
pedient to pursue a different course, and to prevail, if possible, with the 
Demerara Court of Policy, to adopt and promulgate the new code as their 
own enactment. Two years were passed in efforts to this effect, until Lord 
Bathurst was at length obliged to intimate to them, that " however, de- 
sirous His Majesty's Government might be that the origination of this 
measure should proceed from the Court of Policy," it was necessary 
to explain that if they did not adopt his suggestions, His Majesty's 
Government *' would feel it their paramount duty to issue, without fur- 
ther delay, an Order in Council for the purpose of carrying them into 
effect."* This intimation led to the adoption, by the Court of Policy, of 
the draft of an Order, which was transmitted to Lord Bathurt by Sir B. 
D'Urban, on the 14th of March, 1825 ; and of which an analysis with 
observations will be found in a former publication of the Society.f 

On the 9th of July, 1825, Lord Bathurst returned this draft to 
Demerara, with a strong expression of His Majesty's approbation of 
the zeal with which the Court of Policy had proceeded to give effect 
to his wishes; and although he admits that the law will be imperfect 

* See Lord Bathurst's letter to Sir B. D'Urban, dated 20th Nov. 1824 ; and 
she Slave Colonies of Great Britain, p. 25. 
t Slave Colonies, &c. p. 27 — 33. 
2 



146 

until some important additions shall have been made to it, he neverthe- 
less directs that a law, expressed in the terms of the draft, should be 
forthwith promulgated ; his Lordship being anxious that the chief civil 
authorities of the Colony should appear to the Slaves to be the immediate 
authors of the beneficial change in their condition. He guards them, 
however, against considering the adoption of this course as, in any 
degree, admitting the claims of the Court of Policy, or compromising 
the rights of His Majesty, to the legislative authority in Demerara ; or, 
as implying that Government meant to abandon any of the principles of 
reform enforced and acted upon in Trinidad, as nothing short of a 
complete compliance with those principles will satisfy them. 

These observations are accompanied by a repetition of the arguments 
that had been already used by his Lordship in his dispatch of the 20th 
November, 1824,* in reply to the objections of the Court of Policy ; and 
he closes with expressing a hope, that they will spare him the necessity 
of introducing, into the Order in Council, regulations which the Court of 
Policy shall not have previously adopted. 

The Court of Policy having taken this dispatch into their consider- 
ation, refused to modify any part of their draft, excepting the clause 
relating to the marriage of Slaves, which they have now agreed shall, 
when solemnized in the prescribed mode, " be held, and considered 
binding, valid, and effectual in law ; provided nevertheless, that such 
marriages shall not confer, on the parties or their issue, any rights incon- 
sistent with the duties which Slaves owe to their owners or to the govern- 
ment, or at variance with those rights which the owner or the govern- 
ment are by law entitled to assert over Slaves and their progeny, or sub- 
ject such Slaves, so intermarrying, to any penal infliction the effects of 
which might destroy the rights or injure the property of their owners. "f 
The Demerara Ordonnance has been promulgated in this state of mu- 
tilation, and came into operation on the 1st of January, 1826. 

The defects of the Order in Council for Trinidad, have been already 
pointed out. These defects, of course, remain in the law which has been 
adopted in Demerara, and they remain there in greater force in conse- 
quence of the omission, in the Demerara law, of several of the most im- 
portant and most beneficial of the provisions of the Trinidad Order. 

On the subject of these omissions. Lord Bathurst addressed the Gover- 
nor of Demerara, in a dispatch, dated February 25, 1826. The first to 
which he adverts, respects Sunday labour, various kinds of which, as pot- 
ting sugar, turning and drying coffee and cotton, &c. the Court of Policy 
contend it is necessary to continue, compulsorily, and without wages. Lord 
Bathurst, in commenting upon this statement, observes, that it is neces- 
sary to maintain inviolate the maxim that the owner of a Slave has no 
title to his labour, except during six days of the week. J All labour, 
therefore, on Sunday, for the preservation of the crops, must be neces- 

* Slave Colonies, &c. p. 25. t See Papers of March, 1826. 

t The transcribing of these and similar expressions, is not to be considered as 
implying an acquiescence in the justice of the principles which they involve. It 
would obviously be difficult for the owner to establish, on anj^ very satisfactory 
ground, his just title to the labour of his fellow-men for six, or for any, days in 
the week. 



147 

sary to that end, and must both be voluntary on the part of the Slave 
upon any estate, and must be paid for at a regulated rate by the master. 
This principle of remuneration to the Slave for Sunday labour cannot, 
his Lordship says, be departed from ; and that remuneration must be 
paid, not in a small portion of the produce, but by ascertainable wages. 
Lord Bathurst is, therefore, of opinion, that the reasons alleged by the 
Court of Policy for permitting, in certain cases, the compulsory labour 
of Slaves without wages on Sunday, are insufficient to justify the 
practice. 

With respect to the Slave's right of property. Lord Bathurst seems 
disposed to concede, that Slaves should be debarred from cultivating or 
selling the staple articles of sugar, coffee, and cotton, on the ground 
alleged by the Planters, both of Trinidad and Demerara, that a permis- 
sion to cultivate or sell the staple commodities of the Colony, would 
tempt the Slaves to commit depredations on their owners' properly. 
But even such a restriction as Lord Bathurst proposes would fall far 
short of that imposed by the law of Demerara, which enacts that " AH 
slaves, as well males as females, are prohibited from selling or barter- 
ing with any one whatever, any produce, sugar, coffee, cocoa, indigo, 
cotton, rokow, syrup, rum, bottles, or flasks, or any thing else ; being 
permitted to sell only vegetables and ground provisions, the produce of 
their garden, or stock which they are permitted to rear ; on pain of their 
being severely flogged, on the plantation to which they belong, for the 
first offence ; and, for the second, to be punished by sentence of the 
court, according to the exigency of the case." * 

If this law, or even the modified version of it proposed by Lord 
Bathurst, is. to be maintained, what hope can reasonably be entertained 
of productive industry, beyond the mere supply of their necessities, on 
the pari of the Slaves ? What would be thought of a law in this country 
wlwch should prohibit labourers, who might be the owners or occupiers 
of a few acres of land, from cultivating upon it any of the staple articles 
of production ? But the Planters say, that if the existing prohibition 
were removed, a door would be opened to depredations on the Master's 
property. If depredation is practicable, the Master will be liable to it, 
whether such a law exists or not. But even if all the weight were al- 
lowed to the argument which is claimed for it, it does seem alto- 
gether unwarrantable to make the prohibition, as it now is, universal and 
unqualified. Why should the slaves of a sugar estate be debarred from 
growing coffee, or the slaves of a coffee plantation from growing cot- 
ton, or the slaves of a cotton plantation from growing coffee, ginger, and 
other exportable articles ? The law, as it stands at present, is con- 
ceived in the very worst spirit of a pure and unmitigated monopoly ; 
and if it shall be deemed necessary to continue it, it will only serve to 
convince the people of this country, more fully than ever, of the untract' 
able nature of Slavery, and of the necessity, on every sound principle, 
whether of morals or of political economy, to effect its utter ex- 
tinction. The Court of Policy had also brought forward an array bf 
objections to the allowing Slaves to hold property in land, or to the 



Slave Colonies of Great Britain, p, 26, 



148 

giving theBu a power of civil action in regard to tlieir properly ; to some 
of which objections it is to be regretted that Lord Bathurst seems to 
attach sufficient weight to incHne him to modify, in some degree, the 
provisions of the Trinidad Order. 

The third grand omission in the Demerara Order respects the right 
proposed to be given to the Slave to purchase his manumission. On 
this point Lord Bathurst justly observes, "no system of measures would 
satisfy the feelings of this country, or execute the purposes of the House 
of Commons, which did not contain some direct provision, some acting- 
principle, by which the termination of Slavery may be gradually ac- 
complished." He regards therefore the right in question as " a vital 
part of the whole measure," which " cannot be dispensed with." His 
Lordship then discusses at some length, and refutes, the reasoning of 
the Court of Policy on this subject, though "occasionally on grounds 
which are themselves liable to very considerable question, and with occa- 
sional concessions which expose even his main principle to the risk of 
becoming practically inefficient. His Lordship's dispatch thus con- 
cludes — 

" This principle of emancipation will proceed on presumptive evi- 
dence of the Slave having acquired habits of industry which may fit 
him for an independent existence, while it will secure to the owner that 
compensation to which it may be found by experience, as the measure 
advances in operation, he will be fairly entitled ; and it is by experience 
alone that this can be truly ascertained.* 

" A manumission of Slaves under these regulations will be in confor- 
mity with the concluding Resolution of the House of Commons in 1823, 
which declares that the great object of emancipation must be accom- 
plished ' at the earliest period which shall be compatible with the well- 
being of the Slaves themselves, with the safety of the Colonies, and 
■with a fair and equitable consideration of the interests of private pro- 
perty. 

" But the Court of Policy must recollect, that if, on the one hand, 
Parliament and His Majesty's Government stand pledged to give the 
Planters an equitable compensation, they stand equally pledged to take 
such measures as may ultimately, though gradually, work out the free- 
dom of the Slaves. 

" The Court of Policy may be assured, that from the fnal accomplish- 
ment of this object this country will not be diverted. 

" It remains for me only to add, that I now, for the last time, bring 
these regulations under the consideration of that Court, with no other 
alternative, in the event of their declining to admit them, than that of 
ray humbly submitting to His Majesty the expediency of enacting them 
by direct royal authority. "f 

* This proposition is not a very obvious one, although its tendency is scarcely 
to be mistaken. But, after all, is not the real value of any article, whether it be 
a machine, or cattle, or the human animal, if we must so degrade him, the amount 
which it will command in the market? 

+ See the papers laid before Parliament, March 1826. 

The author of a pamphlet, more largely noticed below, has justified the course 
of referring this matter to the Court of Policy, by pointing out the important in- 



149 

There is, however, a fourth most important omission not noiieed in 
the dispatch of Lord Bathurst, though mentioned by him on former oc- 
casions, namely, that clause numbered 21 in the Trinidad Order, 
which directs that on the prosecution of any Owner, &c., for inflictiiig- 
any illegal punishment on a Slave, if the Slave so alleged to be pu- 
nished shall be produced in open court, and if the marks of recent 
laceration shall appear on his person, and if the Slave shall make a con- 
sistent and probable statement of the facts, the accused shall be bound 
to prove either that the punishment was not inflicted by him or with his 
privity, or that it was a lawful punishment, lawfully inflicted ; and in 
default of such proof he shall be convicted. 

But besides the defects belonging to the Trinidad Order in Council, 
and which are also attributable to that of Demerara, and the further im- 
portant omissions which have now been noticed in the latter, there are 
to be found in it some minor but yet material deviations from the Trini- 
dad model, which ought not to be overlooked in any Royal Order it 
may be necessary to issue. 

The interval between an offence and its punishment is altered from 
the definite period of twenty-four hours in the Trinidad Order, to 
" after sun-rise" of the day next following that of the offence ; which 
may allow an interval of only six or seven hours. Again, instead of re- 
quiring, as in Trinidad, a free witness of the punishment, it is made 
suflficient that six Slaves shall witness it. It is surely a hazardous in-< 
novation to make the witnesses in such a case persons so wholly de- 
pendent on the punisher as his own Slaves must be ; and the pretence 
for it, too, seems inadmissible, namely, that it may be impracticable to 
obtain, in any reasonable time, a free person,White, Brown, or Black, to 
attend and witness the infliction. If free persons are so extremely scarce 
in Demerara, as to require such an arrangement, it is only a proof of the 
importance of imposing additional checks on arbitrary punishment, in^ 
stead of granting additional facilities for its exercise. A delay of forty- 
eight hours is allowed in recording punishments, on what account does 
not appear. The penalty for failing to deliver, every six months, a copy 
of the record on oath, is only 300 guilders, or 251. sterling. 

The hours ^ox field work in Demerara are made to extend from six in 
the morning till six in the evening, with an interval, in the whole, of 
two hours for rest and meals; being half an hour less than in the other 
Colonies. But, as has been already observed, field work by no means 
comprises the whole of the labour exacted from Slaves. One of the 
most onerous, vexatious, and injurious of the tasks daily imposed on 
them follows after the cessation of field work. We speak not of the labour 

fluence which will be produced, on the other Colonies, by the example of a local 
legislature like that of Demerara appearing to take into its own hands the ini- 
tiathm of such an Ordonnance. But those Colonies are not in ignorance of the 
real facts of the case. They know them as well as the author of the pamphlet. 
He cannot throw dust into their eyes on this subject, as they may have done too 
successfully into his. They well know that, whatever appearance may be given to 
the transaction, both the iniliaiiun and the comjiletion of it belong to His Ma- 
jesty's Government, and not to the Court of Policy. The attempt, therefore, to 
fcj>hibit it to them under such a semblance, can serve no rational purpose vvhat"- 
soev«r. 



150 

of crop, as grinding and boHing sugar, pulping coffee, Sec, vftach are al- 
lowed to be continued for half the night, thus depriving the Slaves, for 
several months of the year, of a great part of their natural rest ; but of the 
prevalent practice, when the field work is over, of obliging the Slaves to 
collect food for the horses, cattle, and other live stock — a task which 
necessarily consumes from one to two hours of the evening in a most 
troublesome and unhealthy occupation ; bringing with it also a needless 
multiplication of penal inflictions.* 

In Demerara the Fiscal has been appointed the protector and guar- 
dian of Slaves. The two offices seem not to be very compatible ; and 
if we may judge by the returns, already received from this very gen- 
tleman, of his decisions on the complaints of Slaves, they certainly 
present no satisfactory ground of confidence that he is peculiarly qua- 
hfied for his new office. 

After having }X)inted out the comparative defects of the Demerara 
Order, as compared with that of Trinidad, it is but an act of justice to 
state wherein it has improved upon that model. A record of punishments 
is directed to be kept not only on all plantations, as in Trinidad, but by 
all persons having gangs of Slaves exceeding six. Those who possess 
a smaller number are not subject to any such regulation ; and yet per- 
sons in low circumstances are both less likely to be accustomed to 
restrain their passions, and less liable to observation than others. Their 
slaves, therefore, if no record of their punishments is to be kept, ought 
surely to be exempt from any arbitrary inflictions (at least beyond the 
three lashes which may be given in all cases without a record), unless 
by the order of a magistrate. 

The Demerara law of evidence is also more favourable to the Slaves 
than that of Trinidad, inasmuch as it admits the evidence of Slaves in 
civil suits in which the Owner is concerned, and on the trial of Whites 
charged with capital offences. 

Such, then, is the actual extent of the improvements effecied in the 
seven Slave Colonies subject to the crown. In Trinidad an Order has 
been promulgated, comprizing many beneficial regulations, but falling 
short of even that measure of reform which the public had been led to 
expect. In Demerara an Ordonnance has been published, which, as 
has been seen, falls, in some very important respects, below that of Tri- 
nidad. In the other five Colonies nothing has as yet been done. 

The Colonies having Legislatures of their own are thirteen in number. 
To these the Trinidad Order was transmitted by Lord Bathurst in the 
year 1824 (full instructions to the same purport having been sent out in 
the preceding year), recommending it to them, in the strongest manner, 
to frame their Slave Codes accordingly. The result of these recommen- 
dations will now be explained.— Nine of these have done nothing, viz. 
Antigua, Barbadoes,t Bermuda, Dominica4 Jamaica,^ Montserrat, 
Nevis, St. Kitt's, and Tortola, or the Virgin Islands. 

* See above, p.. 143, 144. 
t In the paper laid before Parliament, co^itaining a " Statement of Slave 
meliorating Provisions recommended by His Majesty's Government," and en- 
acted in the Colony of Barbadoes, the word " none" is affixed to each separate 
head of improvement. 



- 151 

In these nine Colonies, therefore, not one of the twelve or rather 
fourteen heads of proposed improvement specified above (p. 1, 2.) has 
been adopted, in consequence of the recommendations of His Majesty. 

There remain, however, four Colonies in which something, it appears, 
has been done. We proceed to shew to what that something amounts. 

I. THE BAHAMAS. 

The papers laid before Parliament would shew that improvements 
had been introduced into the law of the Bahamas, passed in 1824, in six 
particulars, namely, religious instruction, manumission, regulation of 
punishment, female flog-ging, marriage, and the separation of families. 
With respect, however, to the first three of these heads, they ought to 
have been entirely excluded, for reasons which shall now be given, 

1st. All that the new Act says on the subject of religious instruction 
is to this effect: — " That all Masters, or, in their absence, their Over- 
seers, shall, as much as in them lies, endeavour to instruct their Slaves 
in the Christian Religion ; and shall do their endeavour to fit them for 
baptism, and as soon as conveniently may be, shall cause to be baptized 
all such Slaves, as they can make sensible of a Deity and of the Christian 
faith." Now these words, which form the 9th clause of the Act of 1824, 
are the very identical words which form the 6th clause of the Slave Act 
of the Bahamas of 1796, and which will probably be found in every ge- 
neral Slave Act passed before or since. Precisely the same words, 
without any variation, sfand as a part of the Jamaica Slave Act of 1 696,* 
and have continued to be transferred, to each successive Act down to 
the last which was passed there in 1816. The very same clause, there- 
fore, which is now produced as an amelioration, has stood a perfectly 
dead letter in the Bahama Code for at least thirty, and in the Jamaica 
Code for 130 years. How, indeed, could it be otherwise? The clause 
provides neither time nor means for performing the prescribed duty, 
and attaches no penalty to its neglect. Be its value, however, what it 
may — and it is not apprehended that any man will contend that it has 
had any practical operation whatever — it is not a new or even improved 

X In the same paper several particulars are given of a Bill that had been 
proposed to the Legislature of Dominica, but had not yet passed into a law ; 
but these cannot be regartied in the light of actual, but merely of projected 
ameliorations, which may or may not be adopted. Dominica has, however, at 
length repealed its tax on manumission, which Barbadoes has not done. 

§, Some trifling regulations have been adopted in Jamaica, which cannot be 
considered as meeting any one of the recommendations of His Majesty's Go- 
vernment, and which tend rather to relieve the master than the slave. Of what 
benefit, for example, can it be to the Slaves, generally, that they are free from 
arrest on Saturday as well as Sunday, unless their masters are pleased to do 
what they are not now obliged to do — to give them Saturday as well as Sunday 
for tlieir own use ? So, the facilities given to manumission are facilities for the 
accommodation of the master, in his voluntary acts of manumission, but which 
convey no rights to the Slave. And as for the power which is given of bequeath- 
ing moneyor chattels to Slaves, it is only permissive to the testator and executors. 
It conveys to the Slave no right of property even in the bequest which is made 
to him, and it expressly excludes him from the power of instituting any action 
or suit at law or in equity for the recovery of such legacy. 
* See Privy Council Report of 1789. 



152 

enactment, but one almost as old as the Colonies themselves; standing 
on their statute books, not as a monument of their zeal for religious in- 
struction, but of the utter inefficiency of all such mere recommendatory 
provisions. The same worthless and wholly inoperative clause meets 
the eye in the codes of several of the other Islands. 

2. The clause with respect to manumission has, if possible, still less 
claim to be exhibited as an improvement. It professes to suspend all 
acts imposing a tax on manumissions, when, in point of fact, no such 
acts were in existence. This is gaining credit for amelioration at a 
very moderate cost. Whoever will take the trouble of looking at a 
paper ordered by the House of Commons to be printed on the 14lh of 
May, 1823, and numbered among the papers of that year, No. 347, 
will find there, at p. 151, a return from S. Nesbitt, the Secretary of the 
Bahamas, dated 5th November, 1821, which states that there are " no 
taxes imposed on manumissions in this Colony," and that the fee 
charged for recording an act of manumission is only five shiUings. 

3. The pretence to improvement with respect to the regulation of 
punishment is equally destitute of all foundation. The 18th clause in the 
Bahama Act of 1824, which is quoted as justifying this part of the state- 
ment, is to the following effect, being in fact a literal transcript of the 
11th clause of the printed act of 1796, viz. — " In order to restrain arbi- 
trary punishment," " no Slave shall receive more than twenty lashes 
at any one time, or for any one offence, unless the owner or employer of 
such Slave, or supervisor of the workhouse, or keeper of the goal be 
present;" and these several persons are then restricted from inflicting 
more than thirty-nine lashes at one time and for one offence. But 
surely the framer of the abstract of ameliorations which has been laid 
before Parliament, must have been aware that this enactment Avas no 
amelioration, though it is represented as such. Thirty-nine is the great- 
est number of lashes which any law of any Colony has permitted to be 
given, at the will of the master. And the number twenty, which the 
driver in the Bahamas is allowed to give, is double the number to what 
he is now limited in almost all the other Islands, and has been limited 
in Jamaica for at least thirty-eight years.* 

4. The clause relative to whipping females is to .this effect, not that 
females shall not be flogged, as all Slaves may be flogged, with twenty 
lashes by the driver, and with thirty-nine lashes by the master, and, if it so 
please them, as heretofore, on the bare body ; but that no female slave, 
above the age of twelve, shall be so punished otherwise than in private. 
In short, the Bahama Legislators, by way of improving their penal code, 
have borrowed a leaf from that of the Spanish Inquisition: their pu- 
nishments of females are henceforward to be in secret. 

5. The clauses respecting marriage direct that marriages of Slaves, 
or of Slaves and free persons, may be solemnized (one free witness at 
least being present) by clergyinen or justices of the peace, without pub- 
lication of banns or licence; hut only on Sunday, between eight and 
twelve, a fortnight's notice being given ; and provided the parties pro- 

* See the Jamaica Act of 1788, limiting the driver to tea lashes, and the 
owner to thirty-nine. 



153 

less the Christian religion, and produce the written consent of their 
owners. Such marriages are to be registered, and are declared to be 
valid, and their issue legitimate; "saving always the just rights of 
ownership, which in no case whatsoever shall be hurt, prejudiced, 
straitened, or otherwise affected thereby ;" and also, " provided that 
the marital power and authority to be thus acquired, shall in no such 
case impugn, diminish, or interfere with the rights or authority of the 
owner or owners in, to, and over such slave or slaves, in any manner 
whatsoever." It is a remarkable part of this provision that it debars from 
the benefits of the marriage tie all slaves who are not Christians, or 
who are married by any religious teachers but clergymen, and this in a 
colony where but for the labours of the Methodists there would be few 
if any Christians. The legislators of the Bahamas mighthave known that, 
in other parts of the British dominions, among the many millions of our 
Hindoo and Mahommedan subjects, for example, and even in Great 
Britain itself, the profession of Christianity is no necessary condition of 
a valid marriage. Jews and others may there form vahd marriages 
without any such profession, nor is any thing of the kind required even 
in that most religious part of the empire, Scotland. One would have 
expected that wise legislators would rather have been desirous of re- 
moving all possible impediments to marriage, than of thus multiplying 
them. The present limitation is one, which, through the utter insuffi- 
ciency of the clause enjoining religious instruction, must shut out a 
large portion of the slave population of the Bahamas from the benefit of 
this provision. 

6. The regulation with respect to the non-separation of families is 
less liable to just exception than any that has been mentioned. Slaves 
being husband or wife, or reputed husband and wife, and their child, or 
reputed children under fourteen, being the property of the same oivner, 
are not, whether by private contract, or public sale, or by virtue of any 
mortgage, execution, or other legal process, to be sold separately, or 
otherwise than in one lot, and to the same person; and the same rule 
applies to slaves passing by bequest. This law suppHes one great de- 
fect in that of Trinidad on the same subject, prohibiting the separation 
of families by private sale, as well as h-^ judicial process. The remarks 
already made on the subject of reputed marriages, (see p. 13.) are ap- 
plicable equally to the Bahamas as to Trinidad. Such marriages ought 
at once to be registered and rendered valid. 

It is unnecessary now to refer to the many unjust provisions of the 
new Slave Law of the Bahamas. They are pointed out in the pamphlet 
entitled the Slave Colonies of Great Britain, (p.. 4' — 11.) But, besides 
these, it has not provided for the religious instruction or Christian edu- 
cation of the slaves; or for the observance of the Sunday (equivalent 
time being given to the slaves on other days); or for the admission of 
slave testimony ; or for the protection of slave property ; or for facilita- 
ting manumissions ; or for preventing the sale of slaves detached from 
tlie plantation ; or for restraining the power of arbitrary punishment ; or 
for abolishing the corporal punishment of females ; or for putting down 
the driving whip; or for establishing saving banks. 



154 

II. TOBAGO. 

Tobago has been the first of the Colonies, having legislatures of their 
own, to adopt any of the proposed ameliorations. A brief view of some 
very serious objections to various provisions of its recent act, may be seen 
in the pamphlet already referred to, the Slave Colonies of Great Britain 
(p. 78), At present the object is to shew wherein its legislation has 
been improved. The points in which any improvement is alleged to 
have taken place are — the observance of Sunday ; the admission of 
slave evidence ; the right of property ; the regulation of arbitrary 
punishment; and the sale of Slaves detached from the estate. 

1. The observance of Sunday. In this island alone have Sunday 
markets been as yet abolished. In future the markets are to be held ou 
Thursday. It is not hov?ever provided that the slaves shall have the 
Thursday on which to go to market; neither is equivalent time allowed 
them in lieu of the Sunday. The allowance of time to the slaves, 
indeed, for the cultivation of their grounds, besides the Sunday, is 
more liberal than in any other colony. It amounts to thirty-five week 
days in the year : but even this is far below what the equity of the case 
calls for; for the Sunday being now no day of labour, as formerly, the 
addition to the preceding allowance of week days, whatever it was, ought 
to have been fifty-two. 

2. Slave evidence is admitted, by the Tobago act, in no civil case 
whatever, and in no criminal case, excepting where a free person is 
charged with murder or mayhem of, or cruelty to, a slave ; and when 
no free person was present, or can be produced to prove the facts. In 
that case, if two slaves testify to the same fact, and their credibility be 
unimpeached, their testimony is to have the effect of the testimony of one 
White; and the slave suffering the mayhem, &c. may be one of the two. 

3. Slaves are declared to be entitled to hold personal property, 
*^ fairly acquired," and to sell the same, and to bring all actions per- 
sonal for recovering the same, slavery being no plea in abatement of 
such action. Here, however, no means are pointed out by which a slave 
shall proceed in asserting his right, nor any penalty affixed to his being 
hindered or molested in doing so. 

4. The regulation of punishments consists in limiting the power of 
the owner, &c. to the infliction of twenty stripes, being fewer than any- 
other law authorizes, and in requiring that a free witness should be pre- 
sent whenever the punishment exceeds twelve stripes. Drivers are 
restrained from punishing without express orders; but those orders, it 
is obvious, may be renewed from day to day. One clause, the 25th, 
appoints the President of the Council, the Speaker of the Assembly, 
and the Judges of the Court of Common Pleas, guardians, to inquire 
into complaints of cruelty towards slaves, and to direct, if need be, their 
prosecution by the Attorney General. The uselessness of such a re- 
gulation may be seen in the case of Grenada as stated above (p. 143), 
Indeed Grenada has just repealed its Guardian Act. 

5. It is said that ihe separation of slaves from the land was prevented 
by a former law of Tobago, There is, it is true, a law of some standing 
which makes slaves, as well as cattle, real estate; but then this appears 



155 

to be only for certain special purposes. They are to be real estate, in 
so far as to descend to the heir at law, and that widows may be endowed 
thereof; but they are still to be chattels, if the owner's other goods are 
not sufficient to pay his debts. 

Here then we have the amount of improvement in Tobago. No 
means are provided, and no time set apart for religious instruction. 
Equivalent time in lieu of Sunday is not given to the slaves. Their 
testimony is admitted in a very partial and restricted manner. Their 
marriages are not legalized. Facilities are not afforded to manumis- 
sion. The separation of families by sale is not prevented. The flogging 
of females is not prohibited. The use of the driving Avhip is retained. 
Saving banks are not established ; and free persons are not adequately 
protected in the enjoyment of their liberty. — And yet the authorities of 
Tobago declare, in the most peremptory terms, that they have reached 
their ultimate point in the scale of improvement, and that they will not, 
in deference to a wild fanaticism, sacrifice their inalienable rights by 
proceeding another step. 

III. GRENADA. 

The points in which, since May 15th, 1823, the Legislature of this 
Colony has adopted the recommendations of his Majesty, are stated, 
in the papers recently laid before Parliament, to be eight; namely, reli- 
gious instruction; the observance of the Sabbath; the evidence of 
slaves; manumission; the non-separation of families; the regulation of 
punishment; the driving whip ; and the slave's right of property. These 
different points are m.entioned, without doubt, in an act recently passed 
in Grenada ; but how far they merit to be mentioned as ameliorations, 
will more clearly appear on an examination of them in detail. 

I. Religious instruction. On this head, though it is so stated in the 
abstract, there is really no amelioration. The Grenada slave act of 
1788 contained a clause on this subject, which was far more specific 
than the corresponding clause in the recent act, and had penalties an- 
nexed to it which the new act has not. The penalties and specification 
of the old act have been abandoned, and the barren generalities of 
the Jamaica act of 1696, the established form of evasion throughout 
the West Indies, have been substituted. Nay more, the former Gre- 
nada acts were prefaced by an imposing preamble, recognizing in solemn 
terms the obligation to introduce among their slaves a knowledge of the 
Christian religion (see the act of 1797); and yet so utterly useless, so 
devoid of all force and vitality has been this parade of legislation, that 
the clergymen of that island, in making their returns to Lord Bathurst 
of the state of religion (see Papers printed by the House of Commons 
in July 1818), admit that very few of the slaves attend divine service. 
*' Sunday is the general public market day," " and almost the only one 
on which slaves have an opportunity of bartering the produce of the pro- 
vision grounds allotted to them for other commodities." " These 
markets are generally at their height during the performance of divine 
service, and being holden on the Sabbath day, little attention or respect 
is shewn to the religious duties of tlie day." " When I remonstrate," 
says one of these gentlemen, the Rev. W. Nash, " they reply, that if 



156 

Uiey come lo church they must starve, as Sunday is the only day they 
have to cultivate their garden. The plea is so reasonable that 1 cannot 
oppose it ; but I heartily wish their masters would deprive them of it by 
allowing them one day in each week lo labour for themselves." *' If 
they have not time for instruction," he justly remarks, " ignorance is 
unavoidable" — though " to human beings whose moral feelings and in- 
tellectual faculties have been suspended for ages unknown, and at 
length almost annihilated by an execrable system of oppression, under 
which, in order to endure existence, it was necessary to suppress every 
generous sentiment, to stifle every tender emotion, to forget they were 
men, every consideration that the horror of their situation can suggest, 
and the benevolence of the Christian religion inspire is certainly due."* 

Now if the more stringent clauses of 1788 have produced no effect, 
and have never been alleged to have produced any, are we to be de- 
luded into a hope of amelioration by the repetition of words which have 
been repeated to satiety, and without effect, for 1 30 years ; which point 
to no means; prescribe no time; and are accompanied by no sanctions? 
Here the movement is absolutely a retreat and not an advance. 

2. At the time that Mr. Nash wrote the report which is cited in the 
last paragraph, it is obvious that there was in Grenada no observance 
of the Sabbath, that first preliminary requisite to effectual rehgious in- 
struction, and which v/ould have done more for religion than all its 
other specious but hollow enactments. 

Had the Slaves come to church, in quest of the religious instruction 
the act required to be given to them, Mr. Nash tells us, they must have 
starved, as Sunday was the only day they had to cultivate their grounds. 
The law, it is true, allovred them even then one day in fourteen out of 
crop, or about eighteen days in the year. Mr. Nash does not say that 
those eighteen days, though allowed them by the letter of the law were, 
like the religious instruction, in practice withheld from them, though his 
language seems to imply it. But, whether that were the case or not, it 
is still plain from his statement, that, in his opinion, with fifty-two 
Sundays in the year at their own disposal, they could not have come to 
church without the riskof being starved. But what does the new Act do 
to remedy this state of things ? Does it give the Slaves equivalent time 
for their fifty-two Sundays, so that Sunday may be left for repose and 
instruction? No. The act merely prescribes, that the Slaves shall have 
twenty-eight days in the year, that is ten more than they were allowed 
before. Now, to fulfil the purposes of Government as to religious in- 
struction and the observance of Sunday, and to give the Slaves equi- 
valent time in lieu of Sunday, seventy days in the week ought to be given 
them, whereas they have only twenty-eight. This is a singular mode of 
improving their condition and of rendering common justice to the Slaves. 
The Sunday market, however, is not abolished in Grenada. Some- 
thing is said, indeed, about extending the market hours on Thursday, 
and it seems to have been assumed, by the framer of the abstract, that 

* This passage, with mauy others of the same description transmitted to 
Lord Balh\irst at the same time, lay unheeded oh the table of the House ot 
Commons for five long years. 



157 

the clause on this subject is intended as an amelioration of the condition 
of the Slaves. But the clause has nothing whatever to do, necessarily, 
with the Slaves. It is to this effect — 

That, " whereas by the laws at present in force" (what are those laws ?) 
" for regulating the public markets, the hours thereby limited may not 
afford sufficient time for the sale of provisions and other articles necessary 
for the consumption of the inhabitants, be it therefore enacted, that in 
addition to the time already appointed for holding such markets," (what 
is that time ?)" the market hours on Thursday, throughout the year, 
shall be extended from six o'clock in the morning till six o'clock in the 
evening." And what does this clause do for the poor Slaves ? Does it 
give them the Thursday on which to go to market ? No such thing. 
They, for aught that appears to the contrary, are occupied wholly in the 
.field in that day. Nay, it may be even impossible for their masters to 
allow them on that day to travel to market for fear of arrest. The 
clause has not the slightest immediate bearing on the condition of the 
Slaves, except as it serves to throw dust in the eyes of the people of 
England. With precisely the same effect, as respects them, might the 
market have been extended from six to six on every day of the week, as 
well as on Thursday. Sunday would still of necessity be the Negro's 
market day. He can have no other unless it is specially given to him 
by law, or by the special favour of an unincumbered owner. As for the 
clause that no stores are to be kept open on Sundays, under a penalty 
of £10 it is an enactment of precisely the same description ; — 'it may do 
to be read in England, but cannot, in present circumstances, be acted 
upon in Grenada. A law, precisely in the same terms, was passed in Ja- 
maica in 1816, but it could not be rigidly acted upon, as the markets con- 
tinued to be held on Sunday. Indeed, how is it possible, that while 
Sunday continues the market day for the Slaves, and no other has been 
appointed, that this law can be enforced ? It it were possible, it would 
to them be most cruel. 

A clause forbids the employing of the Slaves on Sunday. If this 
mean nothing more than that they shall not work elsewhere than in 
their grounds on that day, which is, in fact, working for their masters, 
nothing is gained by it ; for this has always been the law and the general 
practice in all the islands in which the Slaves are fed from their own 
provision grounds. But, if it means that they are not to work on their 
own grounds on that day, then a positive wrong is done to them : they 
are deprived of their Sunday without an equivalent. So much for the 
amelioration in respect to religious instruction, and the observance of the 
Sunday, in Grenada. 

3. The evidence of a Slave is only admissible by this new law against 
a free person on a charge for a capital offence ; and even then, he must 
produce from the clergyman a certificate of baptism, and of compe- 
tency as a witness, and also of good character from the proprietor, &c., 
who may be the very man against whom the charge is made. But no 
free person shall be convicted, unless two Slaves shall clearly and con- 
sistently depose to the same facts, and unless their evidence shall be 
corroborated by circumstantial evidence to the satisfaction of the court 
and jury. It may be fairly assumed, that few convictions will take place 
on evidence so fettered. 



158 

4. The Slave's right of property. The clause which is cited in the 
abstract as giving this right, does not in fact give any such right. It 
merely provides, that if any owner or any other person shall unlawfully 
take away from, or deprive, any Slave of any personal property by hini 
possessed, such person shall forfeit £10 over and above the value of the 
property taken away. And this is all. It is not enacted, that a Slave 
may legally hold and enjoy property, or legally transmit it to others, or 
may sue for it by himself, or any one else in his name, or ihat he can cite 
others as witnesses in his behalf, or that to take it unlawfully from him 
is theft or robbery, as the case may be ; but whatever be the circum- 
stances, the person so unlawfully taking it, forfeits ten pounds. As the 
matter ought not to be treated as a debt, but a crime; the penalty 
is rather a protection to the free person against the legal con- 
sequences of such a crime, than of the Slave against lawless depredation. 

5. In the clause also which pretends to afford facilities for manu- 
missions, all that is done is to permit the owner of an estate, upon 
which there may be a mortgage, to manumit a Slave, provided he can 
put in his place another Slave of equal value, to be ascertained by ap- 
praisement. This clause can produce little or no benefit to the Slaves 
generally. Its chief practical effect will be to enable mortgagors in pos- 
session, or their representatives, to redeem their own spurious offspring, 
or the mother of such offspring from slavery. 

6. It is enacted, that no married Slave, or unmarried female Slave, 
having a child or children under twelve, who may belong to the same 
owner, siiall be sold by judicial process, except together and to the same 
person. But thus far, according to Mr. Dwarris, Grenada had previ- 
ously gone. His words are, " Unattached Slaves are ordered to be 
sold one by one, except mother and child under ten years of age." The 
necessary condition of being actually married in order that husband and 
wife may not be separated, is peculiarly hard in a Colony, the returns 
from which shew that no marriages had taken place there for fourteen 
years. 

7. The regulation of arbitrary punishment, by the master, consists in his 
not being allowed to inflict beyond fifteen lashes, except in the presence of a 
free person ; or more than ten without a record to be produced only when 
called for ; or more than twenty-five for any one offence on any one day, or 
till the Slave has recovered the effects of the former whipping. But, if the 
owner thinks that the Siacves fault, though not cognizable by law, is of 
such enormity as to deserve a more exemplary punishment than twenty- 
five lashes, it shall be lawful for the owner to carry the offending Slave 
before one or more justices of the peace, who may direct such cor-poral 
^punishment, not extending to life or limb, as the offence shall in his or 
their discretion merit ; and all this without appeal. This enactment is 
itself an enormity. What then are the crimes, not cognizable by law 
(the West India Penal Laws, as they affect slaves, are surely sweeping and 
comprehensive enough) of which a Slave can be guilty, which shall be of 
such enormity, as to require that one justice or any number of justices, 
shall have the power of inflicting upon him an exemplary corporal pu- 
nishment to any extent short of life or limb? Is it impossible to ima- 
gine two neighbouring owners or managers, each in the commission of 
the peace, agreeing to execute this summary and terrible justice on the 



159 

staves of each other, /or cnmes not cognizable by law, and therefoffi 
violating no law ? Is there not enough in this single enactment to shew 
not merely the uselessness, but the criminality, of continuing to commit 
the well being and happiness of so many thousands of our fellow sub-^ 
jects to persons capable of framing, apparently without a feeling of its 
cruelty and injustice, such a provision as this ? And then, with respect 
to the record of punishment, directed to be kept by the owner or the 
justice, there is no penalty imposed for its not being kept, and no return 
required on oath, or otherwise, of its contents. They are to produce it 
only when called for, but without any penalty for refusing to do so. 

8. The 12th clause, respecting the driving whip, affords a happy in- 
stance of legislative evasion. It enacts that, " 720 Slave or Slaves shall 
carry any whip, cat, or other instrument of the like nature, as amark or 
emblem of his, her, or their authority, while superintending the labour of 
any slaves on any estate, and the persons so offending, and each and 
every person who shall or may direct, instigate, or abet such illegal 
use or exhibition of any such whip, cat, or other instrument, shall be 
deemed guilty of a misdemeanour, and being thereof convicted, shall 
suffer such punishment as the Court before which such misdemeanour 
is cognizable may direct." Now, let this miserable, unmeaning, and 
worthless enactment be compared with the corresponding clause in the 
Trinidad Order, which the Grenada legislators had before their eyes at 
the time they framed it. — " And it is further ordered, that it is, and shall 
henceforth be illegaiybr any person or persons, within the island of Tri- 
nidad, to carry any whip, cat, or other instrument of the like nature, 
■while superintending the labour of any slaves in or upon the fields or 
cane pieces upon any plantation, or to use any such whip, cat, or instru- 
ment, for the purpose of impelling or coercing any Slave to -perform any 
labour of any kind or nature whatever, or to carry or exhibit, upon any 
plantation or elsewhere, any whip, cat, or other instrument of the like 
nature, as a mark or emblem of the authority of the person so carrying 
or exhibiting the same over any Slave," and then all persons doing so, 
or authorizing, or aiding, or abetting " such illegal driving, or use, or 
exhibition of any such whip," shall be deemed guilty of a misdemea- 
nour, to which is attached a fine not exceeding £500 7ior less than £50 or 
imprisonment for not more than sixmonths, or less thanone month, or both 
fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of the court. 

In the Grenada act, it will be seen that the prohibition as to carrying 
a whip is confined to Slaves, as if no one but a Slave could be em- 
ployed as a driver. The crime prohibited too is not the using a whip 
to impel or coerce labour, but the carrying and exhibiting it as an em- 
blem of authority. The evasion is of so gross a kind as to defeat 
its object.; but it shows the reluctance which prevails to part with the 
driving-whip. 

In one point the framer of the abstract has not done full justice to 
the Grenada act. He has omitted to notice that it contains a clause 
permitting any Slave, who may be desirous of intermarrying with any 
other Slave belonging to the same owner, to apply to any Clergyman of 
the Church of England, or any Catholic priest, or " other persons 
thereto legally authorized," who are required to solemnize the same, 



160 

provided a written permission is produced from the owner; and the 
clergyman, &c. shall consider the Slave to have an adequate know- 
ledge of the nature of the marriage vow. It is luinecessary to repeat 
the observations ah-eadymade (p. 153.) on this strange restriction. The 
clause, however, after all, while it perrnits marriages of Slaves in cer- 
tain cases, dexterously avoids conferring upon them any legal validity. 
It was, perhaps, on this account diat all notice of it was omitted in the 
abstract. 

Another reason for the omission, no less valid, may have been that 
this clause, instead of being an ameliorating provision, falls far short of 
the Grenada law of 1788, which not only authorizes the marriages of 
Slaves, but imposes penalties on the clergyman who shall refuse to so- 
lemnize them ; and furthermore imposes penalties of a still heavier 
kind, on all who shall violate the purity of married females, being Slaves. 
Thirty-four years after this lav/ had been passed, in the returns laid 
on the table of the House of Commons, in March, 1823, we are told 
by one clergyman of Grenada, Mr. Nash, that " the legal solemnization 
of marriage between Slaves in this island, is a thing unheard of;" by 
two others, Mr. Webster and Mr. Macmahon, that no application had 
ever been made to them to marry Slaves. The former, during an incum- 
bency of 12 years, and the latter, during one of 37 years, had " never 
heard of such a thing" as the marriage of a Slave. And yet, in the 
ameliorating Slave law of Grenada, the sam.e enactment as to mar- 
riage is again inserted, but divested of all the penalties which seemed 
to afford some chance of its efficiency, and without any provision for 
giving a legal effect and validity to Slave marriages. 

This act sweeps away the whole system of guardians of Slaves, 
which the legislators of Grenada had exhibited in their former Slave 
acts, as the very perfection of West India legislation; and which, as 
they have repealed it, Tobago has taken up. This is another curious illus- 
tration of the uncertainty of Colonial legislation. It would be endless to 
go through the different clauses of this act, in order to shew the gross 
injustice of many of the provisions which it retains, and which are to 
much the same effect as those which will be found in the Slave acts of 
the Bahamas and Barbadoes.* A few instances will suffice. 

By clause 7, The hours of labour are fixed from day-break till sunset, 
with an interval of two hours and a half for breakfast and dinner (half 
an hour more than Demerara gives), and slaves are not to be compelled 
to work beyond that time, except in " manufacturing such produce as 
necessarily requires night or extra labour," or " in the carrying a bundle 
of grass or stock meat from the field to the stable or other place where 
the same is consumed."t 

By clause 15, A slave complaining, and whose complaint shall appear 
to the justices to be groundless, shall be punished, not exceeding thirty- 
nine stripes.J — A person taken up as a runaway slave, but claiming to 
be free, may (by the 22d clause) be sold by order of a meeting of Justices, 



* See Slave Colonies of Great Britaiii,p. 4 — 19. 

t See Slave Colonies of Great Britain, p. 30, and 86, and above p. 144. 

+ See above, p. 144, 145. 



161 

even though no one prefers any claim to his services. And this is the 
more remarkable, because one clause, the 48th, throws the onus pro- 
bandi on the claimant of a slave in a question of slave or free. But the 
Justices, by this act, may sell a man to vphom no one else can establish 
a claim, merely because they are not satisfied he is free. 

By clause 29, Any person carrying off or attempting to carry off from 
the island a slave without the owner's leave, shall be guilty of felony 
without benefit of clergy. 

By clause 33, Swearing, committing any indecent act i7i any place, 
getting drunk, quarrelling, wilfully gallopping, cantering, or trotting a 
horse in the town of St. George, may be punished in a slave with twenty- 
five lashes by any justice. 

By clause 35, Black men and women pretending to communication 
with the devil, or (clause 37) compassing or imagining the death of a 
free person, may be punished with death. — A slave breaking loose from 
prison, when committed for felony (clause 38), is punishable with death, 
without benefit of clergy. 

By clause 40, Slaves executed or transported, or condemned to hard 
labour for life, are to be valued and the price paid to their owners. 

Such are some of the barbarous provisions contained in this new act, 
passed in 1825, and they make it the more to be regretted that Lord 
Bathurst, while he objects to many of the clauses, should have expressed 
himself so strongly as he has done in approbation of it. " I cannot 
but be sensible," he says, " that it falls short of what has been recom- 
mended, yet it deserves to be considered as an important improvement 
of the existing code.* Its provisions are all of a beneficial nature as far 
as they go." — I instruct you, therefore, he writes to the governor, " to 
convey to the legislature his Majesty's gracious approbation of what 
has been done ; to recommend first that they should revise those enact" 
ments in the late act to which I have more particularly called their at- 
tention in a separate dispatch, and secondly, to take into their serious 
consideration the important measures which are yet wanting to fulfil the 
expectations entertained from them." 

The acting Governor, Mr. Paterson, who is himself a planter, in a 
letter dated the 21st Nov. 1825, tells his lordship that there are some 
points which seem to Lord Bathurst to be indispensable, with which he 
fears it will be " impossible to comply," namely, " the total prohibition 
of the whip as an instrument of correction of females, and the right of 
slaves to purchase their freedom." Other things, he says, may admit 
of being modified or explained — but to cease from flogging women, or 
to give a slave a power of purchasing his freedom, are, in the estimation 
of this public functionary, ruinous innovations. The women, he says, 
are the most turbulent of the slaves ; and to allow slaves, he adds, to 
purchase their freedom would be tantamount to gradual but ultimate 
ruin ! — Now, what hope can be entertained of beneficial enactments, on 
these subjects, from men who can thus speak and judge? Mr. Paterson 
argues against the appointment of a Protector of slaves as unconstituti- 
onal : he is " an officer unknown to the British constitution." How such 

, * As compared with the act of 1788, it is the reverse of an improvement. 
3 



162 

an officer c&uld be known, to the Briiish constitution whicli suffers no 
slavery — Mr. Paterson will perhaps explain. But what makes this 
objection on his part the more extraordinary is, that he must have 
taken a part in renewing, if not in framing, the boasted Guardian 
Act of Grenada, by which men's eyes in this country were Cor a 
time blinded. Now, however, he has acquired nev/ lights on the 
subject: neither guardians nor protectors are any longer wanted. " The 
magistrates," he says, " men of the first note," all interested in the wel- 
fare of the slave population, " can afford the injured slave more imme- 
diate redress than he covdd receive" from a protector in town. Let the 
reader look back to the conduct of those Grenada magistrates, as certi- 
fied by the Governor and Attorney General of the colony (p. 143), and 
then judge of the delusive nature of the acting Governor's representa- 
tions. — ^Equally unsound and delusive is every syllable of his defence of 
Sunday markets; and if all he says were true, yet how inconsistent is it 
with his reasoning, to impose a fine of £10 on every one who keeps 
open his store on Sunday ! How are the poor negroes to make their 
market if that law is enforced on the only market day allowed them? 
Mr. Paterson does not even pretend that it was meant to give them 
any other day at present for their markets. — On the subject of the 
whip, he observes, " that its use was not intended to be prohibited, but 
the exhibition of it to be interdicted, not only as the emblem of autho- 
rity, but as an instrument of coercion, excepting when sent for, or 
taken to the field, for the purpose of punishing an offence previously 
committed, and requiring immediate correction." This is not a fair 
representation of the Act, as may be seen by referring to the tran- 
script of it above, (p. 159.) Besides, Mr. Paterson must have known that 
the principle of immediate correction, for which he manfully contends, 
and the benefit of which he exemplifies by a reference, (which, we be- 
lieve, is wholly unfounded,) to the army, navy, and public schools, is in 
the teeth of the principle of the King's recommendation, that an interval 
of 24 hours shall always pass between the offence and the punishment. — 
He defends the discretionary power, given to a single magistrate, of in- 
flicting any punishment, short of life and limb, on offences not cogni- 
zable by law, by saying, in the usual style, that " the magistrates are 
the lawful and willing protectors of the Slaves." — " It would be con- 
trary," Mr. Paterson further tells us, " to the whole system and very 
existence of Slavery, to admit a right of action in a Slave against his 
owner, and what no West Indian legislature would or could concede." 

Then follows some metaphysical reasoning to prove the wis- 
dom of the Grenada legislation in admitting Slaves to give evidence 
in the case of capital offences, but refusing to receive such evidence in 
civil suits, or in petty cases of assault, or of trivial crimes. 

Is it right that men who can thus reason, and thus feel, should be 
the representatives of His Majesty in protecting, and in administering 
justice to so large a portion of His subjects; or should be entrusted 
with the delicate task of legislating for them? 

IV. ST. VINCENT'S. 

The new act of St. Vincent's resembles that of Grenada in several 



163 

respects. It contains a similar clause on the subject of religious in- 
struction. It limits markets to ten on Sundays, and yet shuts up shops 
on that day, under a penalty of £10 ; appointing no other day for mar- 
keting. It does not give equivalent lime to the Slave in lieu of the 
"Sunday. It protects the property of Slaves in the same inade- 
quate manner as the Grenada act, and follows it in adopting, in nearly 
the same terms, the same evasive enactment respecting the driving- 
whip. It says nothing of manumission, except that free Black and 
Coloured freeholders are not to be freeholders for any other purpose 
than that of holding and assigning their freehold property ; thus dis- 
franchising, by a stroke of the pen, a large class of His Majesty's sub- 
jects, whose only crime is the colour of their skin. It says nothing of 
preventing the separation of families by sale. Slaves are declared, by 
an old law now renewed, to be real estate and not chattels, and as such 
shall descend to heirs, and widows be endowed thereof; but if there 
be not chattels to pay debts, then Slaves shall be taken and sold as 
chattels. It does not modify the power of arbitrary punishment by the 
master, but leaves the Slaves, men and women, subject, in all respects 
as before, to 10 lashes by the driver, or 39 bythe owner or manager. It 
requires a register to be kept on every estate, but it is to be produced 
only when called for, of all punishments above ten lashes. It requires 
clergymen to solemnize the marriages of Slaves, producing the consent 
of their owneis, and understanding the nature of the marriage vow ; 
but it gives uo express validity to such marriages, and declares that they 
shall confer no rights inconsistent with the duties of Slaves, or subject 
them to penalties, the effect of which may injure their owners. It 
admits, in capital cases alone, the evidence of a Slave, provided he 
produces a certificate of baptism and character ; provided also that 
two Slaves clearly and consistently depose to the same fact, being ex- 
amined apart, and that the crime is prosecuted within the year. But 
no Slave is to give evidence where his ovt'^ner, or manager, or any White 
|)erson, is charged with a capital crime. — How strangely the principles 
of West India legislatures vary^ even on such a point as this. Grenada 
and Tobago admit the evidence of Slaves in the very case in which St. 
Vincent and Dominica exclude it. But besides the defects which have 
been noticed, more numerous and still greater violations of all just and 
enlightened principles of legislation are to be found in the new law of 
St. Vincent, than even in that of Grenada. 

The whole of the alleged improvements, in the Slave codes of our 
different Colonies, has now passed under revision, with the exception 
of Dominica. The parliamentary papers, however, having given only 
the draft of a bill for that Colony, with the blanks not yet filled up, it 
would answer no purpose to examine it. And even if, as has been 
stated, that bill has actually passed the different branches of the legis- 
lature, it would constitute no improvement in the legal condition of the 
Slave, as compared with the act of the same island, passed in 1788. 
There is nothing in it really new, except that females are not in future to 
be whipped in public, and so as to occasion any indecent exposure; and 
that a register is to be kept of punishments. The clauses in the new act 
about religion, and the observance of Sunday, fall even below those of 



, 164 

the old act, which are admitted to have been wholly inoperative ; while 
the clauses in the former act on marriage, and the violation of the pu- 
rity of married females, so much vaunted at the time of its passing, are 
wholly omitted in the new. The clause on Slave evidence appears to 
be of the same restricted kind as that passed eight or ten years ago. 

Such then is the result of that reference of the great work of Colonial 
Reform, which was made to the local assemblies nearly three years 
ago. The most cursory reader will at once perceive how widely differ- 
ent is that result, not only from what was origmally proposed by the 
Government, as the first step in the progress of that reform, but even 
from the statement recently made, as from authority, in the House 
of Commons,* of the ameliorations that had actually been effected. — 
That statement is reported to have been to this effect, viz. — That, since 
May, 1823, of the Colonies having legislatures of their oivn, eight 
had taken measures with respect to religious instruction ; the observance 
of Sunday ; the giving security to the property of Slaves; the modifi- 
cation of punishment ; and the abolition of the driving -whip : — That 
SEVEN had admitted the evidence of Slaves; and had given facilities to 
mamimissioyi : — That five had legalized marriage; prohibited the 
separation of families ; and abolished the fogging of females : — That 
Fou R had prohibited the sale of Slaves detached from the estate : and 
That TWO had established saving banks. 

Now, instead of having this flattering picture of improvement realized, 
it turns out, that, even if we include Dominica in our estimate, only 
lavE of the Colonies, out of thirteen, having legislatures of their own, 
have done any thing whatsoever towards carrying: the resolutions of the 
15th May, 1823, into effect ; and 

Of these five, 

None have done any thing with respect to religious instruction.f 

One (Tobago) has abolished Sunday markets. 

Four (Tobago, Grenada, St. Vincent's, and Dominica) have given a 
very limited protection, in certain cases, to the property of Slaves. 

Two (Tobago and Grenada) have lowered the scale of arbitrary pu- 
nishment by the master. 

* On the 28th of February, 1826. 

t We are aware of the statements on this head which have been made, both 
in the House of Lords and in the House of Commons ; but they do not go in the 
slightest degree to invalidate the position, that nothing has been done by Colo- 
nial legislation for the religious instruction or for the education of the Slaves, 
since May, 1823. The passing of a law to regulate the ecclesiastical jurisdiction 
of the Bishop, or the raising money to build a church, are both very proper mea- 
sures ; but they do not constitute either religious instruction or education, ex- 
cept in the view of those who conceive that when a clergyman has received 4500 
dollars for baptizing 9000 Slaves in a year, or two years, he has made them all 
Christians. Barbadoes, for example, has had eleven, and Jamaica nineteen. 
Churches, for at least a century. It is stated, as a proof of the religious zeal of 
the people of those Islands, that they are about" to build another. This is very 
laudable ; but will this twelfth or twentieth church do for the Slaves more than 
the former eleven or nineteen ? The bishops and clergy lately sent may, with- 
out doubt do much, if they are so disposed, for the religious instruction and 
education of the Slaves : but they are appointed by the Crown, not by the 
Colonies. 



165 

Two (Grenada and St. Vincent's) have made a mere shew of aboHsh- 
ing- the driving-whip. 

TiiKEE (Tobago, Grenada, and St. Vincent's) have admitted the evi- 
dence of Slaves in a very hmited degree. 

None have given to the Slave the power of effecting his manumis- 
sion by purchase. 

One (Bahamas) has legalized marriage, and two (Grenada and 
St. Vincent's) have permitted it in certain cases. 

One (Bahamas) has prohibited the separation of families, either by 
private or judicial sale ; and one (Grenada) has prohibited it by judicial 
sale. 

None have abolished the flogging of females. 

None have prohibited the sale of Slaves detached from the estate. 

None have established saving banks. 

And now, after reading this meagre statement, let any man look care- 
fully at the vain and inefficient, and often contradictory and unjust pro- 
visions, by which it is pretended to ensure even the scanty measure of 
improvement which the most partial advocate of the Colonies can deduce 
from these papers, and he nmst feel convinced, that no useful or con- 
sistent legislation is to be expected by continuing to pursue the present 
course. Delay and disappointment can be its only results. 

In the first place, the great mass of the enactments are framed in 
direct contradiction to the admirable principle involved in the following 
passage of one of Lord Bathurst's letters to the Governor of the Baha- 
mas : — " Since the superiority of rank and education which belongs to 
the White inhabitant, is an aggravation of the offence committed by him, 
there is an injustice in assigning to the aggravated offence the minor 
punishment." He also condemns those clauses which enact that a 
severer punishment should be inflicted on a crime committed by a Slave, 
" whose ignorance is an extenuation of his guilt," than by others, " for 
whose guilt no such extenuation can be presumed." And yet it is the 
uniform character of the, so called, meliorating laws which have now 
been reviewed, that they are built upon this reprobated principle. 

The enactments in question are further at war with the important 
principle laid down in a late debate,* by such high authorities as Mr. 
Canning, and the Attorney General, namely, that it was indispensable to 
the ends of justice, that there should be, both in form and in substance, 
an equal administration of it to White and Black. These enactments 
proceed on a totally different principle. 

Further, even those provisions of law which wear the semblance of 
amelioration, are almost all destitute of adequate sanctions, or of an 
executory principle ; and they are all confided to the administration of 
the very men whose power it ought to be their object to controul, and 
against whom it is the universal feeling of the country, that the Slave 
requires to be protected. 

In short, if such impotent and evasive enactments, as most of those 
now laid before the public, are to be represented, under the sanction of 
the highest authority in the state, as " Slave meliorating provisions ; " 
and if some of the views, as far as we understand them, which have been 

* On the motion of Mr. Denman, the 2nd of March, 1826. 



166 

developed, or rather hinted at, in certain quarters, are henceforth la 
regulate the measures to be taken in respect to Slavery, the hope of 
an early and effectual reform, not to say extinction, of that opprobrious 
condition of society, is, to say the least, very greatly discouraged. 

But here the Colonists, and their friends in this country, meet every 
call for parhamentary interference, by using, in order to combat the ex- 
pediency of that line of policy, the very arguments which have been 
advanced in its favour. " It is utterly impossible," they say, " and 
your own statements prove it, that Parliament can legislate effectively 
for the Colonies, unless the Colonists become the willing and concurrent 
executors of its enactments. No benefit can be hoped for, from laws, 
however excellent, which the courts and juries of a country combine to 
frustrate or to elude. The feelings and prejudices of the community 
will triumph over the most skilfully framed statutes." 

It would be vain to deny that a very formidable difficulty is here 
brought forward, and that if it admits of no satisfactory solution, the 
evils of Colonial bondage are irremediable, except by one of those con- 
vulsions which shall suddenly and irresistibly burst the chains that bind 
the Slave, involving, perhaps, him and his master in one common ruin. 
For that the Colonists will of themselves frame and execute laws, which 
shall carry into full effect the recommendations of His Majesty and the 
wishes of the nation, is what no one, who is acquainted with their sen- 
timents, can be weak enough to suppose. They see nothing but ruin 
in every measure tending to emancipation; and they will not, they 
plainly tell us, be themselves the artificers of that ruin. 

But " what," it is asked, " can Parliamentary legislation effect, to 
obviate this formidable and fatal difficulty ? " The question requires^ 
and shall receive, a distinct answer. 

1. In the first place, it will be admitted that good laws are better than 
bad laws. In as far as the Colonial statutes are chargeable with a want 
of uniformity and consistency ; with gross inequality and injustice ; 
and with the absence of adequate sanctions and executory provisions ; 
it would clearly be in the power of Parliament to apply a remedy. The 
object of Parliament Vi'ould be to give effect to its own wishes and reso- 
lutions : the object of the Colonists, in all the Colonies, is rather 
to resist, and, if they cannot resist, to elude, their accomplishment. 
Here, at least, would be a manifest advantage on the side of Parlia- 
mentary legislation. And when it is considered how very contracted is 
the White population of most of the Colonies, and how large a portion 
of that class are necessarily in low and servile situations; and, of the 
remainder, how few are qualified, by their rank in life, and by the union 
therewith of intelligence and high principle, U) form wise and enlight- 
ened legislators, in points at once so difficult, and so deeply affecting 
their pride, their passions, and their interests; it would evince an extra- 
ordinary disregard of the claims of humanity and justice, if, after expe- 
rience has so fully confirmed all the deductions of reason on this subject, 
we should continue to delegate to them the task of legislating for the 
entire Black and Coloured population of our Colonies. 

If it be doubted whether any good may be done by means of checks 
and sanctions, mtroduced into the Colonial Acts by some paramount 



autliority, it is only necessary to refer to the Trinidad Order in CounciL 
It is there provided, that the Protector of Slaves shall not be entitled to 
receive his salary until the returns, which are required from him, have 
been made in a complete and satisfactory manner. This single provision 
will serve to illustrate what may be eS'ected by the judicious regulations 
of willing legislators, in enforcing even those laws which are obnoxious 
to the general feelings of a community, 

2. But, in the second place, however well the laws may be framed, 
as to their letter, it must be admitted, that if the judicial administration 
of the Colonies remains on its present footing ; if the Judges are still to 
be Planters, and to be dependent for their salaries on assemblies of 
Planters; comparatively little good would result from the improvement. 
But is it not the duty of Parliament to provide, not only that the laws 
should be good and just, but that they should be justly, and equitably, 
and faithfully administered ? Would it make no difference in the cha- 
racter of that administration, if the offices of Judge, Attorney General, 
and Fiscal (to say nothing at present of Governors, and of Protectors and 
AssistantProtectorsof Slaves), were filled by barristers of a certain stand- 
ing, wholly disconnected from Colonial interests, with fixed and suitable 
salaries, altogether independent of the local assemblies, and receiving their 
authority and their instructions from the Crown ? Would it make no dif- 
ference, if the whole judicial administration were placed under the super- 
intending care, and the responsibility of such intelligent and independent 
functionaries, receiving regular reports of every judicial proceeding from 
the inferior tribunals, and transmitting them, together with their own 
records, to the supreme authorities of the State, to be by them laid before 
Parliament? Would not the institution of this universal system of record, 
report, inspection, publicity, and consequent responsibility, go far, of 
itself, and still more when combined with the suggested change in the 
executive department of the law, to reform many of the existing evils of 
the Colonial system ? And is it not in the power of Parliament to follow 
up its enactments for the improvement of the law, by such improve- 
ments in the administration of that law as have now been hinted at ? 
And if in the power, is it not also, the duty, of Parliament to do so ? 

3. But it will be argued that, though something may be done, by re- 
forming the judicial administration of the Colonies, to correct the exist- 
ing evils of the Slave system, yet the juries must still be composed of 
men actuated by the prevailing Colonial prejudices, and equally ready 
as now to render nugatory every obnoxious law. Neither the Judges, 
however able and upright, nor the Parliament itself, can prevent the 
powerful influence of the esprit de corps on the minds of jurymen. 

This is to a certain degree true. There is, however, a large depart- 
ment of the judicial administration which is entirely in the hands of the 
judges, independently of juries ; and even in that department of it which 
rests wholly on the decisions of a jury, it cannot be supposed that the 
presence and dicta of an intelligent and unbias^sed judge, and the sys • 
tern of revision and publicity which has been suggested, would not 
produce a very powerful and salutary effect on those decisions. 

Besides this, there is another and obvious palliative at least, if not 
remedy, for the evil under consideration, in the admission to the jury 



168 

box of those free Blacks and persons of colour, who are qualified by 
their property, and intelligence, and acquirements, to take a share in the 
administration of justice. Why should they be excluded ? Have they 
not interests, and large interests too, at stake 1 Even foreigners have 
a right, v?hen tried, to have a moiety of their peers foreigners like 
themselves. By v^hat stranj^e anomaly in British jurisprudence is it that 
native born subjects^ men possessing a common interest in the state, 
shall, (not on account of the want of a qualification as to property, or in- 
telligence, or loyalty, but on account of the varying shades of their com- 
plexion,) be excluded, as a degraded caste, from the first and dearest 
right of the British Constitution, a trial by their peers ? 

That such reforms are in the power of parliament ; and that, if made, 
they would improve the administration of justice, and afford increased 
security to the slave, and thus obviate the only solid objection to par- 
liamentary legislation, cannot be questioned ; and without parliamentary 
legislation, what hope exists that slavery will either be materially miti- 
gated, or finally extinguished? 

The object of these pages has been fulfilled. It would therefore be 
out of place to enter upon a variety of questions, foreign to its imme- 
diate purpose, though connected with the general subject, to which the 
public attention has recently been directed by various publications, par- 
ticularly by a pamphlet entitled " The West India question practically 
considered," and to which rumour has assigned somewhat of an official 
origin. 

That pamphlet, though it be impossible now to enter upon it, may 
require an early discussion. This remark, however, has no reference to 
the pains the author has taken to convince the world that the views 
entertained by the leading abolitionists, in 1826, on the subject of the 
necessity and expediency of legislative interference with the colonies, 
has undergone a great change since 1792, and even since 1807. This 
fact is not only admitted, but stands forward as the very ground of their 
recent proceedings.* But if they then placed, it may be, an unwar- 
ranted, but nevertheless, a liberal, confidence in the purposes of the 
colonists, with respect to the improvement of the condition of their 
slaves, are they, or those who have entered into their labours, to be 
blamed as wanting in good faith, because the painful experience of 
twenty years has satisfied them that their confidence was misplaced, 
and all hope of improvement, except from parliamentary interference, 
vain and illusory ? 

On this point the author may enjoy his victory undisturbed. There 
are other questions however from which not only the Anti-Slavery 
Society, but the whole British public will dissent, and which are either 
distinctly stated, or may be deduced as fair corollaries from the reason- 
ing employed in this and some other kindred writings. Such, for ex- 
ample, are the following : 

That because the British parliament and people have participated largely 
in the crime of slavery, they ought not, though convinced of its guilt, 
to cease from it, lest some of the guilty should cease to profit by it. 

* See substance of the debate of 15 May 1823— Preface, p. xj. 



169 

That because great cruelties are among the necessary incidents of 
slavery, it is our duty not to make a noise about them, but quietly to 
acquiesce in what cannot be prevented. 

That though it is of the very essence of despotic power to be abused, 
and its existence has hitherto been deemed a curse, yet such is the pecu- 
liar character of our colonists, that the most unmeasured despotism 
ever exercised by man over his fellows is converted, in their case, into a 
blessing to the subjects of it. 

That though it may be proved that the slave population of our colo- 
nies are in the singular situation of being a diminishing population, yet 
we are bound, in common courtesy, to believe that they are leniently 
treated, moderately worked, well fed, clothed and lodged ; because 
many honourable men, the masters of these slaves, have affirmed the fact. 

That it is so great an evil to irritate and provoke the colonists, that 
we must not call the crimes they commit by their appropriate names, but 
speak of them as the unfortunate accidents of their unfortunate situation. 

That on the same principle, we must be content to indulge them for 
a few years longer, until they can be weaned from former habits, with 
the privilege of lacerating the flesh of men and women, and of urging 
them to their uncompensated labour like cattle by the lash. 

That though the colonial legislatures have hitherto framed their laws 
in such a manner as to deprive the Slave of all effective legal protection ; 
and though they protest against giving him any civil rights as utter 
ruin to themselves ; they are still to have the abused trust of legislating 
for him confided to their hands. 

That though it is admitted that slavery is a bad and vicious system, 
debasing the slave and corrupting the master, and though it cannot be 
affirmed that those who are born of slaves are incapable of being reared 
for the duties and rights of freemen, yet the government and parliament 
of Great Britain are bound to retain, in all the acknowledged vices of 
slavery, the successive generations of the negro race, until it shall have 
been ascertained that the value of an acre of land in Demerara may not 
suffer some depreciation from educating them as freemen. 

That for Black men, especially if they live on the edge of forests, and on 
a fertile soil, slavery is a condition of life infinitely preferable to freedom. 

That though sugar planting, as conducted in our colonies, has been 
proved to be the most deathful of all the branches of slave culture, those, 
nevertheless, are guilty of cruelty and injustice, who refuse to buy the 
sugar thus raised at the price of blood, or who protest against paying 
largely in bounties and protecting duties to enable the planters to con- 
tinue thus to raise it. 

That though this deathful occupation has been over and over again 
admitted by the planters to be unprofitable, nay ruinous, still we are 
bound, in deference to their wishes, to apply large sums to its support. 

That though our manufacturers are starving for want of a market for 
their productions, and though India opens an indefinite field for the con- 
sumption of those productions, we must dam up this easy channel of re- 
lief, lest we should be deprived of the pleasure of paying the West India 
Planters a compensation, in bounties and protecting duties, for the destruc- 
tion of Negro life, caused by sugar planting and sugar manufacturing. 



170 

That thougli it cannot be denied, that the free Blacks and people of 
Colour, of Jamaica, Grenada, Trinidad, &c. (themselves emancipated 
Slaves, or the descendants of such,) have been growing in wealth, intel- 
ligence, and respectability, notwithstanding a variety of heavy restric- 
tions and oppressions under which their industry labours, it still remains 
a problem to be solved, whether, as a tropical sun is hot, and tropical 
soils productive, emancipated Slaves will ever think of bettering their 
condition, or whether, on the contrary, they will not merge again into 
an inert and savage state. 

That although, according to West Indian statements, ihe Negro 
Slaves, who are all, of course, well fed and clothed by their masters, 
and therefore stand in need of nothing, do, nevertheless, while they 
continue in slavery (such are the blessed fruits of that state), employ 
their small pittance of time so industriously and to such advantage, 
that many of them abound in wealth and luxuries; yet, the same Negroes, 
if manumitted (such is the baneful effect of freedom) would likewise make 
no effort whatever to better their condition, but would sink into penury, 
and wretchedness, and into a greater degree of moral degradation than 
ever. 

That though it is admitted that the British nation and the Colonists 
have been guilty of a great crime, in subjecting the Negroes to Slavery, 
yet compensation is due, not from the criminals to each other, or to the 
victims of their crime, but is due from the Negroes to their oppressors ; 
and that in order to furnish this compensation to the criminals, the un- 
offending victims of their crime must be retained, for ages if need be, in 
their present abject and degraded state. 

And lastly, that though some of the executive officers, entrusted 
with the administration of the Colonies, may entertain and promulgate 
such views as these, Parliament, and the electors of Parliament, are 
bound still to wait, in patience and silence, the developement, in some 
future age, of their wise and philanthropic plans. 

Leaving these and similar positions of our author and other Colonial 
writers to produce their effect on the Electors of Great Britain, it will be 
sufficient to say, that as the Colonial interests have found in him a 
zealous and certainly an able advocate, so neither will there be wanting, 
both in and out of Parliament, advocates, if not so able yet no less zea- 
lous, of the interests of the Negro race, who will be ready to expose such 
positions as these to the reprobation they merit. Let justice, indeed, be 
done (and who resists it?) to the claims of the Planters upon the British 
nation; but let it not be done at the expense of their wretched bonds- 
men. These, Mr. Dwarris, himself a West Indian, has told us, with an 
emphasis and eloquence we should in vain attempt to rival ; — these poor 
outcasts from the pale of humanity, in one at least of our Colonies, 
even when " maimed, mutilated, disfigured, and dismem- 
bered ;" have their " wounds," as " the only tongue to relate 
THEIR wrongs." — But they will find, in free and happy England, if no 
where else, some who will put a tongue into those wounds, which will 
make all the cold-blooded sophisms and unstatesman-like and unchris- 
tian paradoxes that have now been exposed, to shrink into their due 
dimensions of littleness and imbecilitv. 



171 

THE QUARTERLY REVIEW. 

The hostility of this work to the Anti-Slavery cause is well knoM'n- 
An article which appeared in the 65th Number, has been briefly noticed 
in the Society's Third Report. The 66th Number, which has recently 
been published, contains a less able but a more virulent article of the 
same description. It would be impossible in the brief space which is 
left, to notice a tythe of the misrepresentations, gratuitous assumptions, 
and false reasonings with which it abounds. We must content our- 
selves with noticing a few of its false facts, and for that purpose we shall 
transcribe entire a passage which occupies a little more than a page of 
the Article, and add in the margin a few brief observations upon it. Our 
readers will judge how far such a work merits encouragement. 

" There is, indeed, one circumstance external to the real merits of the 
case, which we can easily believe to have some influence — and that, to 
whatever it may amount, most unpropitious — on the minds of our colo- 
nists. We allude to the manner in which their characters are suffered 
to be assailed, too often without even an attempt at any answer, in the 
House of Commons.* It is from that House that they consider the 
Regulations in question as emanating ; can it possibly dispose them the 
more willingly to accept of such suggestions, to read in the newspapers 
that such a lawyer and such a gentleman as Mr. Denman permitted 
himself, and was permitted by others, to speak in St. Stephen's chapel, 
of one of the conspiracies detected in Jamaica, in 1823-4, as, having 
been ' got up — a mere trick in short, a cunning, politic, bloody little jest 
of a knot of Jamaica magistrates ? Is it wonderful that the minds of 
these men, and the minds of those who know them, should boil with 
scorn and indignation when the account reaches the colony ? — a con- 
spiracy got up ! and by whom ? — not merely by the magistrates who 
tried the case, for the evidence in the case was submitted to the Gover- 
nor of Jamaica, and the sentence executed under his warrant — and it is 
from the character of (he evidence itself that Mr. Denman pronounces 
the conspiracy to which it refers to have been a trick ab ovo.\ And what 

* It was the conduct, not the character of the Jamaica magistracy which was 
assailed in the House of Commons on this occasion. And was it by Mr. Decman 
and the Abolitionists alone that it was so assailed ? The Attorney General said, 
" No man could reprobate more strongly than he did the whole system of the ad- 
ministration of justice in our colonies." — " The system deserved reprobation in 
the highest degree." — The Solicitor General " agreed fully with his Hon. Friends 
opposite, as to the hated and accursed nature of the system of slavery, and he 
went along with them in desiring the Abolition of it and its evils." Mr. Can- 
ning said, that " in all these proceedings, it was to be lamented, that Negro life 
was put to hazard, and Negro blood shed by a system totally different from that 
which was applied to White men." He spoke also of " these disgusting tri- 
bunals," and of the " moral atrocities" of the system. Was there any thing in 
Mr. Denman's speech which could be more offensive to West India feeling than 
such expressions as these ? 

t The Reviewer seems determined to blow the coal of hostility between the 
Colonists and the Abolitionists. He has certainly given an unfair and exagge- 
rated representation of Mr. Denman's speech. The gravamen of that speech, 
however, in the estimate of the Reviewer, is the clear and decided opinion which 
it expressed that the conspiracies of Jamaica were " got up." And what is there 
so very offensive in this opinion ? Does not the Reviewer himself in the very same 
number of his work speak without reserve of " the cruel and infamous persecu- 



172 

was the purpose that all these worshipful magistrates and their noble ac- 
complice had in view ? — Why, according to Mr. Denman, it is their in- 
terest that the people of England should believe there are conspiracies in 
Jamaica! For such purposes, the Gentlemen of Jamaica and the Duke 
of Manchester commit judicial murders ! But was there ever such a 
shadow of pretence for this enormous cruelty? This conspiracy was 
only one out of three that took place in the same island within the same 
twelve months : the evidence in regard to the other two insurrections, 
Mr. Denman does not dare to attack — and that in regard to the Hanover 
business, he expressly admits to be conclusive and unanswerable. Were 
two conspiracies in the year so very scanty an allowance ? Were these 
' white devils' of Jamaica determined to sup so very full with horrors ?* 

'* In the ' Picture of Negro Slavery,' &c.a pamphlet lately published 
under the authority of the African Institution,! all the three J conspi- 
racies — that of which Mr. Denman admits the proof to be complete and 
satisfactory,§ as well as the others — are boldly pronounced to have been 
' got up.' II It is also added, tliat in none of these conspiracies the pri- 

tion, commonly called the Popish Plot, when a vertigo seemed suddenly to pos- 
sess the heads of the people of England, rendering them incapable of distinguish- 
ing truth from falsehood, justice from oppression, or common sense from the 
grossest absurdity. The Earl of Shaftesbury, the foster father of that most wicked 
delusion," &c. (p. 286.) Hard words these, Mr Reviewer. And why should Mr. 
Denman be blamed for supposing that, even in the immaculate island of Jamaica, 
some men as base as Shaftesbury might have found in Corberand, &c. instru- 
ments as base as Titus Gates, to work on the fears of the good people of that 
colony, until their heads also were possessed with a vertigo, i-endering them in- 
capable of distinguishing truth from falsehood, justice from oppression, or com- 
mon sense from the grossest absurdity ? Men deluded by the knavery of others 
may be weak, but they are not necessarily accomplices : and therefore, it would 
be as unreasonable in the whole body of Jamaica Colonists to feel themselves 
assailed in their character by the allegation that their plots were got 4]p, as it 
would be in the body of the English nation in Charles the Second's time, to resent 
the statement that Titus Oates's plot was got up. The Reviewer, therefore, in 
his comments on Mr. Benman's speech, and the Anti-Slavery pamphlet, is act- 
ing the part of a mere firebrand. 

* This statement from beginning to end is a misrepresentation of the facts. 
There were four alleged conspiracies in Jamaica, not three. Mr. Denman 
denied that any of them was entitled to be so denominated, not even the dis- 
turbance in Hanover. There, he admitted, that outrages had been committed 
which justly merited punishment, but he maintained that these outrages were 
not the result of any preconcerted scheme to which the name of plot or conspi- 
racy could be given, but were produced by the irritation of the moment, and by 
sudden and unforeseen provocation. He distinctly stated his opinion, that there 
was as little ground for the alleged conspiracies of St. James's and St. George's 
as for that of St. Mary's. 

+ This pamphlet did not proceed from, nor was it sanctioned by the African 
Institution. 

i There were four, not three. 

§ Mr. Denman made no such admission. 

II The Jamaica .conspiracies are represented to have been got up as the 
Reviewer represents the Popish Plot to have been got up. The cases are remark- 
ably similar. But, it is not true, that the pamphlet in question does not distin- 
guish between the Hanover trials, and the others. It expressly states, (p. 60.) 
" We must do the gentlemen of Hanover the justice to say, that it is tlie only 
aftair which wears the semblance of a conspiracy. There we have at least some 
overt acts of violence — something which, to a certain extent, might justify alarm, 



173 

soners were allowed the benefit of counsel :* a statement in direct op- 
position to the truth, as may be seen by any one who refers to the parlia- 
mentary papers, of which this pamphlet professes to be an abstract, 
and in which the names of Mr. Burke and Mr. James, counsel for the 
prisoners, occur passim. f In one of the cases, it is true, no counsel is 
named as having been present on the part of the accused : but the reason 
was, that the accused were all the slaves of one gentleman, who had 
formerly practised at the bar, and who appeared at the trial, without 
gown or wig to be sure, to do all that any barrister could have done for his 
dependents.! 

" Mr. Denman quoted from the record of his * got up' conspiracy, a 
letter, in which it was said that, ' only one of the wretches confessed the 
crime before execution.' Mr. Denman sees in this sentence only the 
word wretches, and expresses his indignation at the magistrate and mur- 
derer who could use such a word upon such an occasion. But, after all, 
why did any one negro, and above all, why did this one negro confess?^ 
— Was Obeah Jack, too — the ringleader — the only one of the set that 
could not possibly hope for pardon at any period of the investigation — 
was he, too, with the rope about his neck, a member of the dark-souled 
junta that got up the conspiracy for the purpose of persuading the people 
of England that parliamentary discussions have an unpleasant effect in 
the colonies ? 

" It may be as well to remark, that the authors of the African Institu- 
tion's pamphlet, entitled "England enslaved by her own Slave Colonies," 
suppress entirely the fact of this Obeah Jack's confession.il This con- 
duct is much bolder than Mr. Denman's." 

Quarterly Review, No. LXVl. p. 516. 

and punishment too." In all the cases, there was at least this presumptive risk 
of their having been got up, that the principal witnesses knew beforehand that 
reward awaited the discovery of a plot, and the conviction of plotters. 

* This is another false assertion on the part of the Reviewer. The pamphlet, 
which he pretends to quote, confines the remark respecting the absence of coun- 
sel to two cases, namely, St. Mary's (p. 41. Note), and Hanover (p. 63.) ; and 
the last passage expressly states, that " in this instance also the slaves appear to 
have had no legal advocate, or even solicitor ;" meaning, in this instance, as well 
as in that of St. Mary's. 

t These names do not occur passim. They occur only in one of the trials. 

t " In one of the cases." — In which ? In that of St. Mary's, or of Hanover, 
where alone the pamphlet says there was no counsel ? It cannot be St. Mary's 
to which the Reviewer alludes, because the proprietor of seven of the St. Mary's 
convicts, Mr. Sterling, did not reside in Jamaica, but in Great Britain, and the 
proprietor of the eighth was no barrister. It 6annot be Hanover, because Mr. 
Malcolm, the proprietor of almost all the convicts in that parish, was himself the 
prosecutor, and a witness for the crown. 

§ Mr. Denman expressed his disbelief, that any one of the St. Mary's convicts 
had confessed his guilt. If he did, why were not the particulars of his confes- 
sion produced? It is not denied that a respite was offered to any one, or two, or 
three of the convicts who would make a disclosure of the plot. If this " wretch" 
really confessed, how happened it that he was executed with the others, and that 
the promised mercy was not extended to him ? 

II This pamphlet is no pamphlet of the African Institution, any more than that 
before referred to. The name of Mr. Stephen is attached to it. It does not sup- 
press the fact of Obeah Jack's confession, because it has not approached the 
subject at all. We suppose, that the Reviewer really meant to attack, not Mr. 



174 

_ VISCOUNT DUDLEY AND WARD. 

This Nobleman has of late taken so conspicuous a part as an advo- 
cate of Colonial interests, and has laboured with so much zeal to dis- 
credit the efforts of the Anti-Slavery Society, that it becomes a matter 
of some moment to ascertain the degree in which he has acquired a 
title to guide the public opinion on this point. Without doubt he pos- 
sesses many claims to respect, distinct from his high rank. He has 
steered an honourable and independent course in political life. He has 
sedulously cultivated talents of no mean order. He has distinguished 
himself by his acquisitions in the science of political economy. And he 
has ever been forward to promote the general diffusion of knowledge. 

But the circumstance above all others which produced a favourable 
impression of his Lordship's character upon our minds was a' speech 
which he delivered in the House of Commons on the 6th March, 1807. 
The question was the Abolition of the Slave Trade. 

His Lordship, then Mr. Ward, observed, that " The questions which 
arise upon this bill respect the inhumanity and impolicy of the slave 
trade. On the former, so strong a case has been made out that it is 
almost unnecessary to add anything; and with regard to the latter, even 
if I were convinced that the argument of humanity was groundless, yet 
I should think myself bound to put a period to it on the score of policy, 
as I would in cases of robbery, piracy, and other crimes."* 

" The two principal arguments urged in opposition to this measure 
are the depopulation of the Colonies and the diminution of culture." 
After expressing his belief that neither of these effects would follow, he 
added, " It is a fact which needs no evidence to support it, that the 

Stephen's pamphlet of " England enslaved by her own Slave Colonies," but the 
same pamphlet which he has already so liberally misrepresented, " A picture of 
Negro Slavery," &c. Now, if the facts stated by Obeah Jack, had been given in 
evidence on the trials either of the St. Mai^r's or the St. George's conspirators, 
they might, so far as they go, have added some slight presumption to the mani- 
festly worthless evidence on which these men were condemned. But Obeah 
Jack's confession was no evidence. It was not made until the men were already 
hanged whom alone it could affect, if we except indeed Corberand, against 
whom, and in a spirit of revenge to whom, it appears to have been framed. To 
whatever weight it may be entitled, it cannot weigh one feather in vindication 
of previous convictions and executions. But, in our opinion, under all the 
doubts which naturally attach to its correctness, as to that of another Jack of 
still more famous memory, Jack Gladstone, of Demerara, it does not merit the 
very slightest mention as affording any corroborative evidence of an armed con- 
spiracy. Where are the arms ? Corberand is still alive. Is he not accessible to 
a sufficiently high reward, now that his life is safe, to induce him to point out the 
place of their concealment ? Obeah Jack says, that Corberand alone can tell 
where they lie concealed. What motive can he now have for refusing to make 
the discovery? 

* How are plain men to distinguish between slave-trading and slave-holding, 
so that while the one is a felony of the worst order, the other is a guiltless prac- 
tice ? It would, probably, puzzle them to decide which crime was the worst, that 
of stealing men, women, and children, and selling them ; or that of buying these 
stolen men, women, and children, and dooming them and their posterity for ever 
to a cruel and hopeless bondage, to interminable and uncompensated toil, and to 
moral and intellectual degradation, and all for the sake of personal advantage. 



175 

human race is prevented by nothing but ill treatment from multiplying 
as fast in the West Indies as in every other conutry ivhere the bounty of 
nature is not cramped by mischievous institutions." 

As to the discontent which itwas alleged was hkely to be excited among- 
the slaves by passing this bill, his Lordship reftiarked, " I can never be- 
lieve that when you have begun by tearing the African by fraud and vio- 
lence from his native country, it needs the act of the legislature to inform 
him that it is done by the violation of all justice. Why 7nay they not at 
length learn, that their lives and labours have become more important in 
the eye of the Imperial Legislature ; and that more regard will be paid 
henceforward to their health and comfort ? If the predicted mischiefs were 
in reality to be dreaded, I fear that they would already have been felt 
by the planters, for the injustice of the servitude in vjhich the negroes 
have been held, might not only have been learnt by the perusal of the 
debates on the subject in this House, but it might have been known by 
the inspection of the English Statute Book, where slavery is regarded, 
with the utmost abhorrence." 

He thus concluded his speech, " These, Sir, are reasons which apply 
as well to the total abolition of slavery as to the termination of this 
trade. And if I did 7iot believe that this measure woidd ultimately tend 
to the emancipation of the negroes, I should be inclined to oppose it as 
an improper compromise between the British parliament and the West 
India planters."* 

After such a speech as this, his Lordship, if he has since changed his 
opinions, might have at least exercised some forbearance towards those 
who have retained them, and spared a little of the vituperation which 
is issuing, in the shape of a pamphlet bearing his Lordship's name, 
from the great Colonial Mart in Albemarle-street. Is it less true now 
than it was then, that " the human race is prevented by nothing but ill 
treatment from multiplying as fast in the West Indies as in every other 
country where the bounty of nature is not cramped by mischievous in- 
stitutions ?" And why should his Lordship charge those with intem- 
perance and exaggeration, who, reasoning on his own principles, affirm, 
that the continued decrease of the slaves in Jamaica must find its cause 
in the same unfaihng source of depopulation to which his Lordship has 
so justly referred it? If his Lordship was of opinion in 1807 that it 
was time the negroes should learn that the finperial Legislature was 
interested in their well-being , surely a delay of twenty years, during 
which nothing effectual has been done to improve their condition, does 
not make the obligation less urgent. Or is the refusal to take the ne- 
cessary steps for the emancipation of the negroes less a compromise of 
principle now than in 1807 ? 

At the time the above speech was made, his Lordship had, we admit, 
the prospect of inheriting a considerable West India property, of which 
he has since become the possessor. His father was the proprietor of 
estates in Jamaica, the population of which regularly increased. 

It does not appear, however, that the slaves of Lord Dudley and 

* See substance of the debates on the Bill for abolishing the Slave Tvado 
printed for Phillips and Hatchard, 1808, p. 165. 



176 

Ward are now any longer distinguished by that rapidity of increase 
which is his own criterion of good treatment. On the contrary their 
numbers have of late been stationary, or rather diminishing. In March, 
1820, the population of his estates amounted to 640. In March, 1823, it 
amounted only to 636. We leave this fact for his Lordship to explain 
without any further comment of ours, or without venturing even to sur- 
mise how far his late speculations in sugar planting, and their results, 
(we allude to his new sugar estate of New Yarmouth, in Vere,) may have 
operated in checking the increase of his slaves, or may have affected his 
opinions on West India subjects. 

We have given the predecessor of his Lordship credit for the physical 
comfort which his slaves enjoyed. We will assume that under his 
Lordship's dominion, as far as the directions of non-resident proprietors 
can avail, their physical comfort has continued to be anxiously studied. 
But the notice with which his Lordship has honoured the Anti-Slavery 
Society justifies us in putting a few questions to him relative to the con- 
dition of his slaves in other respects. We beg to ask therefore, 

1. Has a single step been taken to give religious instruction to his 
slaves? A year ago, we learn from good authority, none had yet been 
taken. 

2. Eager as his Lordship has shewn himself for the diffusion of ge- 
neral knowledge, has any, even the lowest form of education, been 
afforded to the 400 or 500 children, who, since his Lordship's speech in 
1807, may have been born on his estates ? 

3. Has Sunday been a day of repose and instruction to his slaves ? 

4. Have his slaves, women as well as men, ceased to work under the 
lash and without wages from morning to night, and during crop-time 
for half the night ? 

5. Is not the whip still the instrument of punishment for men and for 
women ? If not, when did it cease to be so ? 

6. Has a single marriage ever been celebrated among the slaves on 
his estates ? 

We put these questions to his Lordship with the less scruple because 
we believe that on the whole the state of his slaves is more favourable 
than that of many other planters. Still we are persuaded that a full and 
candid reply to them would prove all we contend for as to their low and 
degraded condition. * 



This, and all other publications of the Society, may he had at their office 
18, Aldermanbury ; or at Messrs. Hatchards, 187, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill. 
They may also he procured, through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti- 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 



London : S. Bagiter, Jnn. 14, Bariholomero Close. 



London, 18, Aldermanhury, May 31, 1836. 

No. 12. 

ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred. All persons wishing- 
to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the Secretary*^ 
at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanhury, and mention the conveyance by 
which they may be most conveniently sent. 



On the 17th of April, Lord Suffield brought forward the subject 
of Colonial Slavery in the House of Peers. He spoke to the following 
effect. His Lordship said that since he had first declared his hope that 
the motion which he was about to submit would meet with their Lord- 
ships' unanimous approbation, nothing had occurred to diminish his 
confidence. It was a proposition unconnected with any matter upon 
which difference of opinion was known to prevail. Emancipation itself 
would neither be protracted nor accelerated by the result of his motion 
and although a difference of opinion might exist upon the fittest time 
for carrying that measure into effect, he was happy to say he believed 
no man in the country, certainly no one in that House — no, not even 
the Noble Lord who was the most able and ready advocate of Slavery, 
or rather the most ready and able apologist of the West India system, 
(Lord Dudley) was prepared to deny that Slavery ought to cease through- 
out the British dominions. Here Lord Suffield took occasion to repel 
the accusation against the abolitionists of a desire for precipitancy. He 
was personally acquainted with many of those best known to the public 
as advocates for emancipation ; he had attended many of their private 
conferences, and it was remarkable that he had in no one instance 
heard a wish expressed for sudden or convulsive emancipation, nor had 
he heard one scheme devised for its attainment, by any means that 
were not cautious and gradual. Next, as he had complained of one 
accusation, and as very recent allusion had been made to the matter of 
compensation to the Colonies in the event of emancipation, he could 
not forbear expressing his own sentiments on that subject. The Abo- 
litionists had been accused of disinclination to compensate slave-owners 
for their losses ; he denied that charge, on his own behalf and on the 
behalf of the country, if a clear case of damnification could be made 
out. But the call for compensation seemed to him to come from the 
wrong quarter ; the mother country had, it was calculated during a 
period of thirty years, added 150 millions to her debt in support of the 
Colonies ; 50,000 British subjects had, during the same space of time, 



178 

been sacrificed to the climate, and two or three millions of money were 
now annually paid to continue the system of Slavery! Surely the mo- 
ther country should be indemnified for this vast exhaustion of blood 
and treasure; but it appears in the mean time that the Colonists have 
become impoverished and not enriched — they have found it unprofitable ; 
they do find it so, and ever will find it unprofitable, as it seems by the 
ordination of Providence. Then he was quite sure that the people of 
England would rather pay six millions annually for the discontinuance, 
than three millions for the continuance of Slavery. Thus compensation, 
however unreasonable in principle, would readily be granted. One 
point more on the general subject, and he would proceed with his mo- 
tion. Some indignation in that House had been exhibited at the asser- 
tion that Slavery was incompatible with Christianity, and this asser- 
tion was fathered on the abolitionists; now, although conscienti- 
ously thinking as he did that the principles of the Christian religion 
were adverse to Slavery, the assertion alluded to he believed might be 
traced to a different source from that contemplated perhaps by the 
Noble Earl opposite, viz. to the West Indies themselves, not to the abo- 
litionists. In ] 808, the Royal Gazette of Demerara promulgated this 
doctrine : — " He that chooses to make slaves Christians, let him give 
them their liberty. What will be the consequence \^hen to that class 
of men is given the title of beloved brethren, which actually is done. — 
Assembling negroes in places of worship gives a momentary feeling of 
independence both of thinking and acting, and by frequent meetings of 
this kind a spirit of remark is generated ; neither of which are sensa- 
tions at all proper to be excited in the minds of slaves." Again, in 
1823, says the same paper, " To address a promiscuous audience of 
Black or Colonial people, bond and free, by the endearing appellation 
of my brethren and sisters, is what can no where be heard except in 
Providence chapel." Such are the sentiments of the Colonists as given 
in their own newspapers, if correctly quoted in the House of Commons 
in the course of a debate on the trial and condemnation of the Mis- 
sionary Smith. Lord S. now came to the subject of his motion : — He 
did not strive on the present occasion to convey to the slaves civil 
rights ; his object was to prevent criminal wrongs, in the words of Mr. 
Dwarris, (who expressed the same ideas so exactly, he should beg to 
read an extract to the House from his report now upon the table). — 
" Lastly," says Mr. Dwarris, " to all arguments drawn from the evils 
of the system and strangely applied in favour of its continuance, because 
Slavery is a great or a necessary ,\t ought not therefore to be an unmiti- 
gated evil; it ought, as it appears to me, to be softened, precisely be- 
cause it is contended it cannot with safety and justice be destroyed.''' 
The attempt entirely to secure persons in a state of Slavery from cri- 
minal wrongs, would perhaps be impracticable ; but it will be something 
if we oppose some check to that mockery of justice — that pretence for 
legal oppression and violence, of' which this fallen race have at present 
to complain. 

All Avho have ever written or spoken in public on the subject of Sla- 
very, all who have directed their thoughts to it, he believed agreed in 
the opinion that the evils of the system were by no means confined to 



179 

the individuals wlio were slaves — those degraded and unfortunate 
beings only shared the bad effects of Slavery vi^ith their masters, and 
with all who were in any degree connected with the system. Its bane- 
ful influence extended itself over all classes of society within its sphere, 
and he was confident that he could shew, from papers on the table, that 
no persons resident in the Slave Colonies, and connected with the ad- 
ministration of the laws, were exempt from the contagion. He would 
begin with the Colonial Legislatures, and their blind and ill-advised 
resistance to the wishes and recommendations of his Majesty's ministers; 
2dly, he would prove the apathy of the Colonists, relative to recorded 
cases of cruelty ; — 3dly, he would shew something very like misrepresen- 
tation, at all events gross inconsistency, on the part of a commissioner 
appointed to inquire into and report upon the civil and criminal jurist- 
diction of the West Indies; the more unintentional the misrepresentation 
the better for his argument. Now if he could shew impolitic conduct 
on the part of the Legislatures — apathy, injustice and partiality on the 
part of those who had to administer the laws, and unintentional misre- 
presentation on the part of the commissioners, all these persons being 
men of undisputed integrity and honour, his case was made out beyond 
a question. — What better proof could be afforded that persons being 
owners of slaves are not fit for the high offices which they hold ? But 
if still a doubt could exist, he would lastly quote the opinion of some 
of the Colonists themselves, high in authority, who had favoured us 
with their sentiments on the subject, in direct concurrence with the ob- 
ject which v/as to be accomplished by the motion he had that day to 
ofier to their Lordships. The first reference he would make to the 
papers in their Lordships' hands, was relative to the blind resistance 
made by the Colonial Legislatures to the recommendations of His Ma- 
jesty's Government, who desired the improvement in the conditiou of the 
.slaves to be the work of the Colonists themselves, and wished the slaves 
to feel indebted to their masters for any benefits they might receive. — ■ 
Now let us see what has been the consequence of these recommenda- 
tions. He would read an extract from a dispatch, signed by the Noble 
Earl opposite (Lord Bathurst) respecting Jamaica. He selected the 
observations on Jamaica especially — 1st, because it appeared on the 
face of the correspondence printed and on the table — ^2dly, because 
Jamaica was our principal Colony — and lastly, because Jamaica had 
ready and able defenders in that House upon all occasions when it was, 
■and often when it was not attacked. 

Lord Bathurst says, " Jamaica has always been considered as the 
Colony which was most likely to take the lead in every measure which 
was calculated to improve the state of society in the West India Colo- 
nies, and it is a great mortification to those who looked with confidence 
to the support of that legislature, that there is not any one West India 
Colony that has not done more than Jamaica, or has not made the ex- 
ample of Jamaica their apology for doing so little." — And now, said 
Lord S. let us see what the Duke of Manchester thinks of the house of 
assembly — resident as he has been for some time in the island, and com- 
petent therefore, it is to be presumed, to form a pretty correct notion of 
the sentiments of its inhabitants. " I am afraid," says the Duke of 



180 

Manchester in one of his dispatches, " I am afraid after so many 
repeated trials, that there is no hope of persuading the present house of 
assembly to do any thing eflPectual for the relief of the slaves. — I have 
exhausted all the means in my povper to lead them to a proper way of 
thinking." Can any thing more clearly shew the prejudice which pre- 
vails against all improvement ? But we will now proceed to examine a 
summary which Lord S. said he had made with great care, of all that 
each of the Colonies had done in compliance with the wishes of our 
Government at home. It appears that Sunday markets are prohibited 
by only One of the West India legislatures — viz. Tobago. 

That evidence of slaves is admitted in Grenada, Tobago, St. Vin- 
cent's, and Dominica, but under such qualifications and restrictions as 
to render it almost valueless. That the legalization of marriages has 
taken place in only one — the Bahamas, and has been permitted in Gre- 
nada and St. Vincent's. That a very limited right of slaves to property 
is enacted in four only — Grenada, Tobago, St. Vincent's, and Dominica. 
That the power to purchase manumission is enacted no where. And 
the non-separation of families in two only — the Bahamas and Grenada. 
That the abolition of the driving whip — is not professed to be enacted, 
except in two Colonies ; and that of flogging females — no where. 

Having now aiForded their Lordships a fair specimen of the disposi- 
tion of the Colonies to comply with the recommendations of this Govern- 
ment, he would proceed to examine the report of the fiscal of Demerara. 
The record of complaints includes only the short period of three months. 
It appears that cognizance was taken of 25 complaints in that time — 17 
of slaves against their masters, six of masters against their slaves, two 
of slaves against each other. Of the 17 slaves complaining against their 
masters, 12 were punished for complaining, two were restored to their 
masters, liable of course to similar punishment, and sure to receive it 
for the same reason — and two of the complaints were redressed, one 
by the dismissal of the manager, and one by fine, which appears not to 
have been paid — the remaining complaint seems to have been simply 
disallowed. Now it happens that of the six complaints of masters 
against slaves, not one remains unredressed — four by flogging and two 
by imprisonment. The two other complaints, making up the number 
25, are of Slaves against each other. 

Having no account of the nature of some of the charges, or the 
grounds upon which the decisions have taken place, little more can be 
gathered from this document, than an inference from the contrast be- 
tween the redress afforded to slaves complaining against their masters, 
and the redress afforded to masters of complaints against their slaves ; 
but surely the partiality of the fiscal was at least made sufficiently 
apparent. Lord S. then proceeded to the shocking record from the 
fiscal of Berbice, which he prefaced by observing, that whoever desired 
to be made acquainted with the condition of slaves in the West Indies, 
would do well to examine this record with care. Here may be seen a 
picture of Slavery, though not perhaps in its worst form, because it is 
notorious that where slaves are worst treated, in the greater ratio does 
poj "ition diminish, whereas in this Colony no such diminution takes 
plac / Then again it is to be remembered, that the record regards only 



181 

23,000 persons out of a West Ladian slave population of 800,000, and 
that it relates only to the short period of about four years. The first 
case his Lordship would cite, would be found in page 39 of the Berbice 
report. Four women complain that they are not allowed time to suckle 
their children. Two of them were flogged for the enormous crime of 
suckling their offspring, and their statement was corroborated by the fact 
recorded by the fiscal, that their coats were stained ivith blood. 

The second case, page 39, is that of a woman who was flogged be- 
cause she was unsaleable ; she was sent out by her master to find a 
purchaser, and because a customer could not be found, on her return 
home she was flogged. 

The third and fourth cases, pages 56 and 51, are of women reported 
to have been flogged, and to have miscarried in consequence, being 
pregnant at the time of the flogging. One of these cases especially 
having been already noticed in public, and remarked upon as being at- 
tended with peculiar circumstances of atrocity, has excited a strong 
sensation in the West Indies, and has been adverted to and combatted, so 
far as it could be, by those who had the means of ascertaining the facts. 
It therefore deserved their Lordships' particular attention. It is proved 
in all its ferocity of perpetration by seven witnesses, the only part of 
the statement made on behalf of the unhappy female disputed is, a part 
of the consequences ensuing from the punishment — not the miscarriage, 
that remains uncontradicted, but the effect of the flogging upon the un- 
born child, and this is disputed on medical authority. What then 
remains an undeniable fact is, " that a woman, big with child, was 
ordered to do work that she was unable to execute — the driver was 
ordered to flog her for laziness — he aman pretty much habituated, it may 
be supposed, to severity — even he remonstrated, saying, she is rather 
big with child — the word rather was omitted, my Lords, in a former 
representation of this case, and the omission was made the ground of 
solemn complaint. He (Lord S.) trusted therefore it would now be 
remembered that the driver said the woman was rather big with 
child. What was the reply? — Flog her till the blood flies out! ! ! She 
was ordered the next day to work ; she complained of being ill, and the 
day following she miscarried ! Now then how stands the case ? Ad- 
mitting the consequences so far as regarded the unborn child to be mis- 
represented, and admitting the very important qualification as to the 
DEGREE of PREGNANCY, the casc, my Lords, shrinks into awzere act 
of ferocious brutal outrage 2Lad infanticide! The 5th case, page 
86, is of another woman who miscarried in consequence of ill usage, 
and she complains also of the harsh treatment of one of her children, 
who exhibits marks of flogging. The 6th case, page 63, is that of 
Brutug, who is flogged because he would not consent to the violation of 
his daughter ! A violation however is committed, and proved against 
the manager by a host of witnesses, who declare that they were posted 
as watchmen at the door while the crime v/as perpetrated ; and would 
your Lordships believe it — the omission of this proof, the horrible fact 
that persons were posted as watchmen, is impudently charged upon those 
■who made allusion to this case also on a former occasion in public, as a 
culpable suppression of evidence which would have overturned the case ! 



182 

Upon this, and upon all the cases hitherto cited, no decision of the fiscal 
is recorded. But as an introduction to a few of those cases upon which 
there has been a decision, his Lordship said hev/ouid next advert to one 
connected with the last mentioned ia some degree, upon which it seems 
the fiscal had expressed an opinion. It would be found in page 137. 
It was the case of a negro, Michael, who had been punished on suspi- 
cion of a robbery — goods very similar to those stolen were afterwards 
found on the person of another individual ; Michael protests his inno- 
cence, and complains to the manager of his unjust flogging — the 
manager tells him to hold his tongue, or he shall be put in the stocks ; 
he then complains to the master, and be it observed (this is the 
same viaster who owned Brutus, the sa7ne plantation^ and for aught we 
know to the contrary, the same ■profligate manager), the master, Mr. 
Kenny, says the unjust flogging was not his fault — it was the manager's ; 
he finally complains to the fiscal for redress, and here of course obtains 
it. But vfhat is the redress ? The manager is reprimanded for punish- 
ing a slave on such slight suspicion, and Michael gets no redress because 
his innocence is not proved. In England, happily, it is necessary to 
prove guilt — innocence is presumed ; but in the West Indies the rules of 
justice seem to be reversed. It is to be lamented that we have no infor- 
mation relative to the decisions of the fiscal in any of the cases cited ex- 
cept the last; but luckily we find some other cases on which decision 
has been recorded, and from the nature of them we may form some 
conjecture of the weight of jmnishment inflicted upon the monsters 
whose crimes have been represented in the papers before us. First, 
there is a case, (page 124,) a complaint of fifteen slaves against their 
master, who had treated them with the greatest cruelty — forced them to 
work on Sundays, and robbed ihem of their ducks, fowls, &c. all this 
was proved before the fiscal — and v/hat was his decision ? awful instance 
of retributive justice ! The master is absolutely required to make resti- 
tution of the stolen property or its value, and as a terrific example to all 
other masters of slaves, he is threatened that wpon a repetition of his 
offence he shall be criminally prosecuted. The second decided case I 
will quote is in page 92. Mark, a negro, is proved to have been ille- 
gally flogged. What is the consequence ? the manager is reproved for 
three successive fog gings ! The third case decided upon is in page 131. 
Felix complains of the debauched conduct of the manager generally, and 
especially with respect to his own wife. The case is inquired into by 
the fiscal, and it appeared that Felix had not completed his task when 
he came to complain. The case is proved against the manager, who the 
fiscal remarks had evidently taken improper liberties Avith the women on 
the estate — and what is the consequence? Their Lordships could not 
believe it if it were not on record in this official document. Felix, not 
the adulterous manager, but Felix, the complainant, is ordered to be 
fogged, and the manager is reprimanded ! — The fourth case was one in 
page 100. Lambert, a sick negro, complains lie could obtain no medi- 
cine, and was forced to work night and day ; nothing appears in con- 
tradiction of his testimony, and he is flogged — why we do not know, 
but here is the decision. Again, page 93,5th case. Michael, an 
old man, complains of overwork, and it is decided that he shall receive 



seventy-five lashes. Sixth and lastly, page 137, Ness is ordered to 
work on Sundays ; he does not irresistibly refuse, but complains to the 
constituted authority. He is, for so doing, punished by the fiscal, not 
because his tale is untrue, for it appears that although Ness is flogged, 
tlie manager is warned by the fiscal of the illegality of working 
slaves on a Sunday. From these six decided cases we may draw some- 
thing like a reasonable inference of the mode in which those other cases 
were decided, of which we have no information as to the result. In 
England, when men of education and of superior rank in life are proved 
to have violated the law, they usually hear from the judge who tries 
them, that they deserve, from having superior knowledge of their duty, 
the more signal punishment — and it is notorious that they generally re- 
ceive it; but in the West Indies, as it has been before observed, the rules 
of justice and equity are directlyreversed. His Lordship then proceeded 
to point out the inconsistencies, amounting, as he thought, to misrepre- 
sentation on the part of Mr. Dwarris, employed by his Majesty's ministers 
to inquire into and report upon the civd and criminal jurisdiction in the 
West Indies. In pages 14 and 15, said his Lordship, the Commis- 
sioner tells us, that cruel masters were certainly heard of sometimes; he 
believes he heard of three such instances in twelve i$la?ids ! He says, 
" the poor slave left to himself is generally contented and happy." — 
" A little more time and a little less work form the narrow boundary of 
his wants and wishes." — " He is in the enjoyment of domestic comfort, 
capable of acquiring comparative wealth, and wearing an air of inde- 
pendence, quite INEXPLICABLE to those who have never had an oppor- 
tunity of observing how manners and opinions can control laws." He 
then speaks of the paucity of crimes and the absence of want. Now 
really. Lord S. observed, 1 did not expect to find in page 62, of the 
same report, that " in this island," speaking of Barbadoes, " slaves are 
without legal protection or redress for personal injuries." Murder is a 
capital crime, but *' there is no other legislative provision to restrain the 
absolute power of the master over the slave, or of inflicting punishment 
upon the owners or others, in case of mutilation, dismemberment, or 
cruel treatment." — Here, said Lord S. is a condition in which men may 
be happy and contented ! Mr. Dwarris adds, " A slave who is or 
thinks himself aggrieved, looks in vain in this island for a proper quarter 
in which to prefer his complaint. — He can no where be received .'" The 
Commissioner surely could not mean the slaves were contented and 
happy in Barbadoes ! Did he mean in Grenada ? H^e particularly 
speaks in page 16 of the high reputation of Grenada for the humanity of 
her laws; then in page 66 he tells us that slave evidence can not be 
received, and to prove the humanity of the Grenada law more parti- 
cularly, he tells us in page 95, that harbourers of felons are to suffer 
death ; in page 96, that any slaves personally insulting, or in any mea- 
sure contemptuously treating any white or free person, shall be punished 
for every such offence at the discretion of any one justice of the peace, 
not to extend to life or limb. The happy condition of the slave could 
hardly have had reference to Grenada. But where is the happy and 
independent-looking slave ? is he in St. Vincent's ? Here the Commis- 
sioner tells us in page 66, " that there was a very affecting case, in 



184 

which the dying declaration of a black woman, a slave murdered 
under very peculiar circumstances, was, in consequence of the 
exclusion of slave evidence, rejected, and an acquittal rendered 
necessary." " A little more time and a little less work form the narrow 
boundary of the slave's wants and wishes," and " he wears an air of in- 
dependence QUITE inexplicable to thosc who have never had an op- 
portunity of observing how manners and opinion can control laws." Now 
this statement of Mr. Dwarris, if correct, would still appear a little in- 
explicable, especially if he meant to refer to Barbadoes, or to Gre- 
nada, or St. Vincent's. Did he then mean to refer us to Tobago ?— 
Here perhaps we who do know how manners and opinions can control 
laws, shall find the case quite satisfactorily explained. In page 89, Mr. 
Dwarris gives us the evidence of the provost marshal, I think, who 
states, " a manager to Windward sent all the overseers, all white and 
free persons, out of the way- — he then gave a negro 150 lashes. The 
negro was brought, ITS a state of which he might have died" 
— (how very cautiously worded is this by the worthy provost marshal.) 
" in a state of which he might have died, to us the sitting 
magistrates. We had no means of proving it — and upon this, proposed 
a bill, either to admit slave evidence, or make the accused purge him- 
self on oath. The bill was not approved. — It is a very common thing," 
adds the justice of peace, " when they wish to be cruel, to send all the 
free people out of the way — I have knoavn many such cases." 
Still, be it remembered, the commissioner of inquiry tells us, although he 
heard this testimony, and furnishes us with it, that he only heard of 
three cases of cruelty in twelve islands. Really this is quite inexpli- 
cable. Then as to paucity of crimes, spoken of in page 16, we have 
to oppose the testimony of the senior justice of peace in Barbadoes, that 
he has had 2500 complaints before him, breaches of the peace and mis- 
demeanors, in something more than a twelvemonth ! I will, said Lord S. 
trouble your Lordships with no more of these glaring inconsistencies. I 
am confident that Mr. Dwarris did not mean to mislead or to deceive, 
and if he did not, how much must slave-ownership have obscured 
his faculties I I think, my Lords, I have conclusively now made out 
the blind and ill-advised resistance of the colonial legislatures, the 
apathy and the partiality of those who administer the laws, and lastly 
the inconsistency of the commissioner of inquiry. I have now only to 
refer, for confirmation of my own opinion, to that expressed by some 
persons high in authority in the Colonies, and quoted in Mr. Dwarris's 
report. It does not distinctly appear in page 17, whether an attorney- 
general, or Mr. Dwarris himself, speaks of the Guardian Act, when he 
says " the magistrates in the one case and the guardians in the other 
are themselves ov/ners of estates and slaves, who would resist the intru- 
sion of a stranger upon their own grounds, and therefore will not set an 
example of interference with the property of others." Page 18. The 
fault in these cases, it appears to me, is not fn the law or the lawgiver, 
still less is there any mala fides, any deliberate fraud and designed eva- 
sion. What is wanting, I conceive, is a due administration — 

WHICH CAN ONLY BE BY INDIFFERENT PERSONS;; and this COn- 

clusion I apprehend will be fully established, and the principles upon 



185 

whicli it depends developed dearly, as the report proceeds. In p^ge 
98, his Excellency the Governor of Grenada observes, " there are no 
persons to be found to fill the situation [of guardian] such as must have 
been contemplated by the Act, who are, as they ought to be, inde- 
pendent. They are chiefly overseers and managers. Can they be ex- 
pected to say that the clothing or food furnished by their employers is 
insufficient, or if they do, may they not be afraid of the charge being re- 
taliated on estates under their management?" After the citation of 
these opinions, I feel, said Lord S, that it would be an unwarrantable 
waste of your Lordships' lime if I were to add another argument in sup- 
port of the motion which I am about to submit. It is not in our power 
to do much for the unhappy people whose cause I advocate, but I trust 
I shall have your Lordships' aid in doing the little that we can. Be- 
fore I sit down, however, I cannot forbear remarking how sensible I am 
of the consequences entailed on every one who steps forward to ame- 
liorate in any, even the smallest degree, the condition of the unfortunate 
slave. In the front rank of these consequences I foresee the sarcastic 
complaints of the Noble Lord opposite to me, (Lord Dudley), but by 
him I am sure nothing will be offered which it would be unbecoming in 
a gentleman to offer, or in a gentleman patiently to receive. From an- 
other quarter I am aware that the grossest abuse is to be expected — but 
my Lords, so long as I draw breath, I will do the best in my power to 
excite that public feeling through the means of which the extinction of 
Slavery is to be accomplished. I wish not to excite clamour, but reso- 
lution of purpose. To those whose efforts to suppress feeling on this 
subject are notorious, I shall make no further allusion than to say, in 
contemplating the consequencesof my efforts this day, they are the last and 
least in my consideration. I now move that an address be presented to 
His Majesty, praying that in future he will be pleased to appoint to the 
offices of governor, chief justice, attorney-general, fiscal, guardian, and 
religious instructor, in the West Indies, only such persons as are not 
owners of, and have no reversionary or other interest in slaves. 

Earl Bathurst replied to the observations of the Noble Lord, and 
concluded by moving the order of the day. After a few words from 
Lord Ellenborougii, Lord Dudley and Ward, and Lord 
Calthorpe, Lord Suffield withdrev? his motion. 



PUBLIC MEETING AT LIVERPOOL. 

On Monday, the 24th of April, a numerous and respectable Meeting' 
was held in the Music Hall, Liverpool, pursuant to advertisement, to 
consider the propriety of Petitioning Parliament for the Amelioration 
and final Abolition of Negro Slavery. James Cropper, Esq. the well- 
known and able advocate of the cause of Emancipation, was unani- 
mously called to the chair, and having stated the object of the Meet- 
ing, a letter froih Wm. Roscoe, Esq. was read, in which that gentleman 
stated his hearty concurrence in the objects of the Meeting, and his re- 
gret that the state of his health was such as to prevent his attending. 

The Chairman then rose and said, 

Amongst all the evils with which mankind are afflicted^ there is none 



186 

greater than to be placed in the situation of our West Indian slaves, 
and, happily, there is no evil, for the removal of which the means 
appointed by an all-wise and beneficent Creator may be more distinctly 
seen. He has made it the interest of every one to do right ; he has 
made it the interest of man to employ the labour of free men rather 
than the labour of slaves, although there are circumstances and situa- 
tions under which Slavery may still be continued with profit. These 
are, a fertile soil which produces great crops with little labour, and a 
scanty population ; when, although labour may be of the most expensive 
sort, a profit may be made : but a beneficent Creator has decreed, 
that where land is cultivated by the hand of a slave, that land shall de- 
teriorate, and become barren. I am not speaking of any miraculous 
interposition of Divine Providence, for the operation of this principle can 
be easily seen and understood ; our own soils would become barren, if 
they were constantly cultivated with the same crop; but, happily, the 
people of England are not slaves ; they live in a manner which requires 
the introduction of cattle, and green crops. Slaves, on the contrary, 
are not fed on beef and mutton, nor are they clothed (except in a very 
small degree) with the produce of the cattle. Deterioration of soil is not 
peculiar to a state of Slavery ; wherever man exists in a state of misery 
and oppression the same thing takes place. When the fertility of the 
soil is thus destroyed, better management and greater economy become 
necessary ; and in order to make cultivation profitable, man must be 
restored from the situation of a brute, to which, as a slave, he had been 
degraded, and raised towards that condition in which his Creator had 
made him. The energies of the mind, which had been sunk and 
degraded, must again be called forth to assist and direct the energies of 
the body : better treatment ensues, and the consequence of that better 
treatment is an increase in the slave population ; and this increase of 
population puts an end to Slavery ; for what inducement could any man 
have to hold men in slavery in Ireland, where he can have the labour of 
a man for any time he pleases for the smallest sum which can maintain 
him ? The effects of this contrast are to be seen in Demerara and the 
Bahama Islands ; the one the most fertile, and the other the most un- 
productive of our Colonies. In the former, the population decreases at 
about the rate of 2| per cent, per annum; and in the latter it increases 
at nearly the same rate. If the slaves in Demerara were to be so 
treated as to increase at the rale they are doing in the Bahamas, the 
population now about 80,000, would be increased in fifty years to 
240,000; whilst, at the rate they are now reducing, they would, in fifty 
years, be only 20,000. Thus are the planters pursuing a system more 
certainly destructive to their property than the wildest schemes 
attributed to the abolitionists. Those fine and fertile soils must, in a 
while, be rendered useless for want of population. In many of our 
smaller islands they have a population adequate to their present wants ; 
if these increase, how are they to make them of value but by giving them 
more instruction? by teaching them to make many things which are 
now imported from the mother country ; by following the example of 
the Colonies of Spain and Portugal, where manumissions have been en- 
cpuraged bylaw. There they clay or refine their sugars; they make 



187 

their packages for their cotton and sugar; but in these islands, as the 
increase proceeded, they would become of no value as slaves, and their 
masters would be ready to give them up just when their exertions to in- 
crease their value for their own profit had fitted them for freedom, and 
when they would emigrate as free labourers in search of employment. 
It may, however, be said, that if the slaves become worth nothing, then 
the master's property is gone. Quite the contrary, however, is the fact. 
Land is worth nothing without people, and as the number of the people 
increases, the value of the land increases ; it is, therefore, only a trans- 
fer of value from the slaves to the land. This is strikingly exemplified 
in the United States : in the State of Maryland, inferior land, more dis- 
tant from a market, and cultivated by free men, sells for more than 
double the price of better land in a better situation, under the cultivation 
of slaves. Instead of suffering any loss by the change, the slave-owner 
becomes a land-owner ; instead of the uncertain tenure of a property in 
the lives of his fellow men, worth at most fifteen or sixteen years' pur- 
chase, he would have an income from land which would sell for at least 
50 per cent. more. Here we cannot but admire the beautiful order 
which has been established in the nature of things, by which this glorious 
change might be effected with the greatest benefit to all parties ; but 
the gracious designs of an all-bounteous God may be obstructed by the 
acts of men. This system would have been changed, and Slavery 
would have had no existence in many of our Colonies, if it had not been 
supported by the enormous pecuniary sacrifices made by the people of 
this country in the shape of bounties and protections. For what are 
these bounties and protections given ? They are either given for the 
support of a system which would fall if they were removed, or they are 
absolutely thrown away without any object whatever. With respect to 
the successful competition of free labour and its effects on Slavery, it is 
a remarkable fact, that just about the time when the slave trade coritro- 
versy commenced, the first small supplies of indigo, the effects of Bri- 
tish skill and capital in the free labour of India, were arriving from the 
East ; within a very few years the state of South Carolina, where indigo 
was then extensively cultivated, shut its ports against the further im- 
portation of slaves, most probably because they had no further occasion 
for them. From Caracas our largest supplies of indigo were formerly 
received. When Baron Humboldt travelled in that country, he states 
that he found the wages of labour lower there than in France ; a certain 
indication that Slavery was fast approaching towards its end ; and there 
can be no reasonable doubt that the cultivation of indigo by free labour 
in the East has contributed to that state of things, by which Slavery, in 
those countries, is to expire with the present generation ; and, with 
respect to the slave trade, if the substitution of free labour had only 
been one-fourth, instead of at least nine-tenths as it has been, it is plain 
they could require no more slaves for the cultivation of this article, and 
hence, as far as indigo was concerned, an end has long since been put to 
the slave trade. — It will be said by some, that you may have relieved the 
slaves in the west, and have removed the scourge of the slave trade 
from Africa ; but have you not merely transferred the oppression to the 
backs of the poor Hindoos in the east ? So much the reverse has been 



188 

the case, that the effects of the change are scarcely less gratifying in the 
east than they are in the west. By a gentleman who resided many- 
years in India, and who was well acquainted with the district where in- 
digo is most extensively cultivated, f am informed that a most happy 
change has taken place in the condition of the natives ; they apply to 
the Europeans resident among them for information as to European dis- 
coveries in science ; they apply to them to arbitrate their disputes, 
instead of going to law or appealing to force; and, lastly, for advice 
and medicine in troubles and sickness. Their prejudices will rapidly 
give way to the temporal advantages they are reaping from European 
intercourse, and thus will the way be opened for the introduction of 
knowledge of far greater importance. To revert again to our efforts to 
put an end to these evils by laws and by treaties : suppose for a 
moment we had succeeded in inducing France, Spain, and Portugal to 
declare the slave trade piracy ; but suppose, too, that we had allowed 
our bounties and protections to remain, it is probable the supplies of 
sugar to Europe would, for a time at least, have lessened, and the 
prices wouldhave advanced, — the temptation for smuggling into our own 
islands might then have been too strong for resistance. We might, in^ 
deed, have caught some of these pirates, whom our bounties had been, in 
part, the means of hiring to the commission of the crime, and have 
hung them when they had done it : but what must have been our re- 
flections on pursuing this course ? Should we not have rejoiced to find 
there was a more certain, more effectual, and bloodless course : a course 
accordant with the mild and peaceable principles of Christianity ; a 
course which would be the means of raising from bondage the whole of 
the 5,600,000 African in the western world, whilst British laws, how- 
ever effectual, could only reach to the 700,000 or 800,000 in our own 
dominions. — Commerce has, in the times of ignorance and barbarism, 
been the cause of much misery, when the inhabitants of the west were 
destroyed, and those countries Tepeopled through the ravages of the 
slave trade on the African coast. Let us now hope that, under more 
enlarged and enlightened views, it may be one means, though a 
secondary one, of preparing the way for the approach of that day when 
*' the knowledge of the Lord shall cover the earth, as the waters cover 
the sea." 

Several Clergymen and Gentlemen then eloquently addressed the 
Meeting, and moved and seconded the various resolutions which were 
proposed. Petitions to both Houses of Parliament were unanimously 
resolved on, which have since been numerously and respectably signed, 
and presented. 

It is gratifying to be able to record a Meeting of this kind in Liver- 
pool, the existence of the commercial prosperity of which was a few 
years ago, deemed by many to depend on the traffic in slaves. 

This, and all other publications of the Society, inay be had at their office^ 
\%, Aldermanhury ; or at Messrs. Hatchard's, 187, Piccadilly, and Arch's, CornhiU. 
They may also be procured, through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti- 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 



LondiHi Si Baysier,, Jim, 14j Beri/ieldmem Close'. 



London, 18, Aldermanhury , June 30, 1826. 

No, 13. 

ANTI-SLAVERY 
MONTHLY REPORTER. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred. All persons wishing 
to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the Secretary, 
at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanhury, and mention the conveyance by 
which they may be most conveniently sent. 



REPORT OF THE BISHOPS OF JAMAICA AND BARBADOES 
ON THE STATE OF THEIR RESPECTIVE DIOCESES. 

In one of the communications lately made to Parliament by His 
Majesty, is contained a Pceport from the Bishops of Jamaica and Bar- 
badoes, to Lord Bathurst, a brief abstract of which may not prove 
uninteresting to our readers. 

I. Report of the Bishop of Jamaica. 

"The general result," his Lordship observes, in a letter, dated I6th 
September, 1825, of his and his Archdeacon's observations, "is a 
hearty desire, on the part of the proprietors, and their representatives, 
cheerfully to promote, as far as their limited means wiil allow, any 
measures which I have thought it my duty to suggest /o?- the benefit of 
the church. Public meetings have been called in many parishes, and 
private subscriptions entered into to promote the same desirable object." 

"With respect to the instruction of the negroes," he adds, " I have 
'proposed, by way of experiment, that the children of three or four con- 
tiguous estates should, with the consent of the proprietors, be assembled 
twice in the week, at some given point most convenient for all, there to 
receive oral instruction from any clergyman or catechist properly 
licensed- From the best consideration I can give the subject, and from 
experience, I know of no method, in the present state of public opinion 
here, liable to so few objections, or better calculated, from its probable 
effects on the adults, to lay the foundation of permanent good." 

In this communication, two points are particularly noticed by the 
Bishop — what has been done for the benefit of the church, and what 
has been done for the instruction of the negroes. — On the first point, 
something appears to have been done. The Bishop expresses great 
satisfaction in being able to announce that a bill, for placing fully and 



190 

effectually, in his hands, the ecclesiastical regimen over the clergy, had 
passed into a law. By this act, he adds, the clergy are exempted from 
the interference of parish vestries, and the raininmm of their salaries is 
raised to 600/. currency per annum. 

On the second point, the instruction of the negroes, instead of equally 
effective measures, we have only a very moderate proposal on the part 
of the Bishop, and that only by way of experiment. And, to avoid any 
collision with the present state of public opinion in Jamaica, his Lord- 
ship limits this proposal to the communication to the slaves of oral 
instruction only, intimating clearly that the general state of feeling 
among the planters is such as to render it unadviseable to teach the 
negroes to read. How long it may be before even this modest and 
measured proposal is carried into effect, it were rash to decide. If the 
process, which the Bishop states to be expedient, should be pursued, 
some considerable time must elapse before even the oral instruction 
which he ventures to hint at shall be communicated; and the whole 
existing generation may have passed away before public opinion is so 
improved as to admit of any thing beyond it. Nay, in a letter, dated 
Oct. 17, 1825, the Bishop tells Lord Bathurst, that he feels convinced 
" that the erection of additional places of worship must -precede every 
other method of instruction." " Schools will naturally follow in the train 
of churches, and the prejudices against education must be gradually 
removed by the effects of regular attendance on the house of God." 

What a dark and discouraging prospect does this report of the Bishop 
hold out to us! Before the negroes can be educated churches must be 
built ; and the prejudices against education must then be gradually re- 
moved by the preaching which is to take place in those churches, the 
salutary effect of which preaching is to depend on a regular attendance 
in the' house of God. He does not explicitly state who the parties are 
who entertain the prejudices which it will require this lengthened and 
gradual course of public teaching to encounter and remove. We presume 
they are the planters, and not the slaves. But, in what way is the 
Bishop to ensure the regular attendance of the planters in his churches, 
even should the additional churches he recommends be built? If their 
prejudices be so strong, as they now are, against the end which he pro- 
poses, viz. the education of the slaves, will they not be equally set 
against the means by which he proposes to attain that obnoxious end? 
Of this, at least, we may be well assured, that if the negroes are not to 
be educated until the requisite places of worship are first built, and then 
until the prejudices of the planters against education are removed by the 
lessons taught them there, we need not indulge a very sanguine hope of 
any early improvement among them. 

We certainly cannot see with the Bishop, that by any necessary con- 
nection of cause and effect, the erection of churches " must precede 
every other method of instruction." For our own part, we should have 
thought, that the negroes might be orally instructed, and might even 
be taught to read, though not a single additional place of worship were 
built. We equally question the correctness of the Bishop's reason- 
ing, when he says, that " Schools will naturally follow in the train of 



191 

churches." Tlic fact, at least, is against him. Clmiches have existed 
in Jamaica for 150 years, and not one negro school has hitherto been 
erected. 

But what, we would ask, in the name of common sense, is to prevent 
schools from being erected, and children from being taught, before, as 
well as after, churches are built, or contemporaneously with them ? 
The Bishop himself, if he would speak out, might tell us — (he has indeed, 
already told us so, by implication) — Nothing but the inveterate pre- 
judices of the planters against education, that is against the improve- 
ment of the negro mind. While the Bishop so far defers to those preju- 
dices, as thus to postpone the work of education, in the expectation of 
certain vague and hopeless contingencies, he may rest assured, he will 
continue to meet with that complaisance, on the part of the planters, 
which has given him so much satisfaction, and which has led them so 
heartily to promote his measures for the benefit of the church. They 
will even subscribe, and give their money for such a purpose, as freely 
as they now contribute it, notv;ithstanding their limited means, to the 
secret service-fund of the West Indian Committee at home, or to that 
for rewarding the labours of Mr. Macqueen;* provided the Bishop 
■\\ill be content to postpone the work of educating the negroes until 
additional churches have been built, until schools have followed those 
churches, and until the planters have been gradually preached out of 
their prejudices against the education of their slaves. 

The Bishop proposes his limited plan of instruction as an experi- 
ment ; and by way of recommending it to adoption, observes, that 
" from the best consideration he can give the subject, and from expe- 
rience," he knows no method, " in the present state of public opinion, 
liable to so few objections, or better calculated from its probable effects 
on the adults, to lay the foundation of permanent good." Where he can 
have obtained any experience of the efficacy of such a plan, we know 
not. — -When he says' it is liable to few objections, he must mean, of 
course, on the part of the planters ; and this may be very true, for 
without doubt, it is as inefficient a plan as even they could desire or 
hope for. But still, we do not very well comprehend how this plan, 
which is a plan for bringing together children for oral instruction, is to 
operate on the adidts, and, through its effects on them, to lay a foun- 
dation for permanent good. 

The Bishop, in his solicitude to accredit the efforts of the planters of 
Jamaica for the improvement of their slaves, has transmitted to Lord 
Bathurst what he seems to think a document of some importance. It 
contains the answers of the overseer of an estate, called Golden Grovej 
in the parish of St. Thomas in the East, the property of Mr Chaloner 
Archdeckne, to certain questions put to him by the Bishop respecting 
the treatment of the slaves under his charge. The answers of this over- 
seer (who is in fact a witness in his own cause) are evidently, and very 
naturally framed in such a manner, as to produce what he conceives 
will be a favourable impression of his own conduct, and of the comfort 

* The assembly of Jamaica voted a sum of 3,000?. to this gentleman, in theiir 
I ast session. 



192 

and happiness of the slaves he governs ; and, this is clearly the impres- 
sion made upon the Bishop, These answers, however, disclose some 
facts which when duly weighed ought to have a very different tendency, 
and which will be found to throw light on some of the difficulties the 
Bishop experiences in promoting education among the slaves. This 
overseer describes the "men" and the " women" as employed in cut- 
ing canes, digging cane-holes, and doing the hard work of the estate; 
the " boys" and the "girls" as employed in planting canes, &c ; the 
" children " as employed in weeding the young canes, and doing other 
light work; and the younger children, ']ns\. old enough to be taken from 
the nurseries, as employed in picking and carrying hog-meat, till they are 
big enough to be put into the gang above them. The first tv/o gangs 
are followed by drivers, the last two by driveresses. Now does not 
this detail give a picture of continuous and compulsory labour, reach- 
ing from the full grown men and women to mere children, v;hich suffi- 
ciently accounts for the reluctance of the planters to incur that waste 
of precious time which education must cause ? If the children are in 
school, the weeding of the canes, and the picking of hograeat, must of 
course be suspended while they are there. 

But this overseer tells us that in the administration pf punishment on 
this estate the whip is not now used for females, but only confinement in 
the stocks, or switches ; for switches, he says, do not lacerate the skin ; 
implying of course, that the cart-whip does lacerate the skin. And 
yet, while he allows that the switch answers every purpose of work 
and discipline with the women, though they, the women, "are always 
more refractory and difficult to manage than the men;" — yet he tells 
lis, in the same breath, that the men continue to be punished with this 
lacerating whip. We should like to know, whether these switches are 
the ebony bushes, which, though they do not lacerate the skin, yet make 
the blood to start at every stroke. 

This overseer further tells us, that " the treatment of the slaves is 
greatly improved, less labour is exacted from them, they have larger 
allowances than formerly, more time to cultivate their provisions, and 
much less punishment ;" and "though much certainly remains to be 
done," yet a stricter attention is paid " to their comfort and happiness." 
Such has been precisely the language to which our ears have been 
accustomed, from the com.mencement of the slave trade controversy to 
the present hour. There has never been any present tense for cruelty 
in the statements of the planters and their friends. They will admit 
the justice of the charges formerly made against the system, but that 
system they affirm is now perfection itself. Now let it not be for- 
gotten, that these charges were formerly repelled as vehemently and 
indignantly as they are repelled by the present race of planters, and, it 
may be justly added, with the same truth. In opposition to this 
overseer, we assert as an undeniable fact, that since the year 1816, 
there has been no beneficial alteration in the laws of Jamaica affecting 
the slaves, for the purpose either of ensuring to them better treatment, 
or larger allowances; or for abridging their hours of labour, which con- 
tinue by law from five in the morning to seven at night ; or for 
increasing the time for cultivating their provision grounds, which is 



193 

still only twenty-six days in the year besides Sunday. And when we 
contemplate the universality and continuity of labour on this picked and 
selected plantation of Golden Grove ; — how from earliest infancy the 
slaves are bound down to incessant drudgery, — can we wonder that the 
colonial bondsman should grow up in a resemblance rather to the brute 
than the human animal? And yet it must be admitted, that in St. 
Thomas in the East, from which this example is selected, the slaves 
have possessed for years very peculiar advantages. They have had the 
benefit of much faithful Christian instruction, both from the excellent 
rector of the parish, and his assistant, and also from the Methodist 
Missionaries ; and they are therefore greatly advanced beyond their 
fellows. But after all, what a picture of toil and degradation does even 
this plantation exhibit ! What must it be under masters less humane 
than Mr. Chaloner Archdeckne, and in those parishes of which the 
Bishop tells us, " The parishes in the interior are absolutely without the 
semblance of the forms of religious worship ?" 

But what is above all remarkable in this document, on which the 
Bishop lays so much stress, is the slight manner in which the progress 
of population is adverted to. We have been told by Viscount Dudley, 
(himself a Jamaica planter,) that the infallible test of the good and 
humane treatment of the slaves, is the increase of population. Now 
what hasMt been on Golden Grove, this selected instance of good and 
humane treatment? In March, 1820, the slaves on that estate amounted 
to 717. In March, 1823, they amounted only to 677 ; being a decrease, 
in three years, of forty, or nearly two per cent, per annum. Even if we 
deduct a certain proportion of the thirty-two, who are said to have fallen 
victims to the measles, we shall here have still a decrease for which to 
account ; while in the United States, slaves increase at the rate of two and 
a half per cent, and almost as rapidly even in the Bahamas, where no 
sugar is cultivated as in Jamaica. Let us not deceive ourselves. It 
is not to any temporary cause, as the measles, to which this perpetual 
waste of the lives of the wretched negroes is to be ascribed, but to 
incessant and excessive labour. The women equally with the men 
perform all the hard toil of the estate, besides losing their rest in crop 
time. The boys and girls labour according to their strength. The 
children are made to stoop down all day, weeding canes, or performing 
similar work. And the very infants, when able to run about, are placed 
under a driveress, and have their tasks assigned them. Human life in 
such a climate cannot possibly increase under such a continuity of com- 
pulsory labour, from morning to night, and from infancy to age. 

Besides this report of the overseer of Golden Grove, from which so 
much is to be learnt, we are also favoured with a report from the Rev. 
H. Beame, respecting the parish of St. James, in Jamaica. This gen- 
tleman resides on Montpellier, an estate of Mr. Charles Ellis, now Lord 
Seaford. He gives no account of any attempt which has been made to 
teach the children to read ; only, once a week, on Sunday morning, (the 
children, we presume, being, like those of Golden Grove, in the cane- 
holes on other mornings,) some attend to be taught orally the Lord's 
Prayer, the Creed, and the ten Commandments. Mr. Beame labours 
hard to establish a difference in natural capacity between the children 



194 

of African and of Creole slaves ; holding that the negroes improve in 
intellect and capacity, and perhaps in moral habits, (such are the 
happy fruits of slavery and the cart whip, or its substitute, the ebony 
bush !) as they diverge from the African stock. Mr. Beame tells also some 
absurd stories about the modes in which the negresses procure abor- 
tion, though it is plain he can know nothing about the matter; indeed, 
he admits that he speaks from the information of others. He proposes 
likewise some absurd plans, which would go to postpone almost in- 
definitely, the work of negro instruction, " Polygamy is a vice to 
which slaves" Mr. Beame further tells us, " are attached ; but," he 
adds, " it is found chiefly among the men." Has it ever been found, 
then, among the women ? 

A still more important document, however, than the report of Mr. 
Beame, is a tabular statement, by the Bishop himself, of the ecclesias- 
tical condition of his diocese. We there find that, for the accommo- 
dation of a population which, including all classes, amounts to about 
400,000, there are churches and chapels belonging to the establishment 
capable of containing only about 11,500 individuals. This is exclusive 
of Baptist, Methodist, and Moravian meeting-houses. The schools for 
the education of free persons contain nearly 700 scholars; being about 
one in eighty or ninety of the free population. The Bishop does not 
state that there are any schools /or the slaves. 

Such is the Bishop of Jamaica's ecclesiastical account of his diocese.- 

II. Report of the Bishop or Barbadoes. 

The Bishop of Barbadoes makes a report, if possible, still more dis- 
couraging than that of his brother bishop. He was received, indeed, 
in the different islands of his diocese with great respect, and with as- 
surances of a readiness to co-operate with him on the part of the 
planters ; some of whom have explicitly stated, that they hail his ap- 
pointment as " a happy means of defeating the designs and refuting 
the calumnies of their self-interested enemies." The planters of Bar- 
badoes assure his Lordship, that they have " the most sincere desire 
to afford the blessings of religious instruction to their slaves ;'' though, 
weighed down as they are, they cannot " consent to such a subtraction 
of labour from the cultivation of their estates, as would lead to a mate- 
rial reduction of income." They cannot, that is to say, spare the chil- 
dren from the cane-field and the hogmeat gang. Accordingly we find, 
from the parochial returns sent to the Bishop, that the whole of the re- 
ligious instruction given, or likely to be given, to the slaves in Barba- 
does, consists in this — that on about half of the estates in the island, 
either a clergyman or catechist visits the estate once a month, or once 
a fortnight ; or an overseer or book-keeper acts as his substitute, for 
the purpose of teaching the children to repeat the Lord's Prayer, the 
Creed, and the ten Commandments. We have also such remarks as 
the following respecting particular estates :— " The negroes have been 
lectured by the Rector." — " It is expected the white servants give daily 
instruction to the children." — "These have been attended by a Moravian 
missionary." — *' These have been attended by a Methodist missionary." 



195 

Now, as we know, that no Methodist missionary has appeared in the 
island of Barbadoes since Shrewsbury's expulsion in 1823, this mode 
of expression throws the whole of the Bishop's statement into great 
doubt and ambiguity. Does he mean to say, that some three or four 
years ago the Rector gave a lecture to the negroes, on a particular estate, 
the savour of which, hke the attendance of the Methodist missionary, 
has endured ever since? Again, when the report says, " it is expected 
the white servants give daily instruction to the children," what are we 
to understand by this statement? The extent of instruction, however, 
even where any instruction at all is given, is, for the most part, confined 
to the Lord's Prayer, the Creed, and Commandments, once a month, 
or once a fortnight, by the overseer, or by a clergyman. On some there 
is an occasional lecture, and the Catechism. Only on one estate do the 
young negroes appear to be taught to read, namely, Mr. Leacock's. 
The exception is most honourable to him. 

The Clergyman of the parish of St. Lucy states his having opened a 
school in his parish ; and the language he uses, would lead a common 
reader to infer that the slaves were admitted to it. " All children," he 
says, " are admitted into tlie school without distinction of rank, age, or 
sex." Yet it appears that the applications for admission come from the 
parents of the children that are admitted, and not from their masters, 
as must be the case if they were slaves — a proof that the persons ad- 
mitted are not slaves, but free. Of the planters, all that is said is, that 
some of them have visited the school, and have been so much pleased 
with it, as to express a wish to adopt it. Why should these statements 
be involved in so much obscurity ? Why should it not be explicitly 
stated, whether the children educated are slaves or free ? The omission 
may be accidental, but the purpose that may be served by it is obvious. 
The Bishop applies to Government for the following articles, viz: — 
Twelve churches, ten chapels, thirty parsonage-houses, nineteen school- 
houses, seventeen clergymen, and thirty catechists; and he says he has 
pressed most earnestly on the local legislatures, and on individual pro- 
prietors, the expediency of an increased number of places of worship, 
together with residences for the clergy, and schools for the religious 
instruction of the young. He does not say that his urgent recommen- 
dations have been complied with. In not one of the islands of his 
diocese has he stated that there is a single school for slaves, connected 
with the establishment, nor one even for free coloured persons, except 
in Barbadoes. There it is mentioned that there are six, though of their 
nature and objects, and of the number attending them, no explanation 
is given. We trust soon to receive a more gratifying account of the 
progress actually made in the work of instruction, than either of these 
reports exhibit. 

Before we quit these reports, shall we do wrong in adverting to some 
of the gross misrepresentations, respecting the state of slavery in the 
West Indies, which they are calculated to expose? A large octavo 
volume has recently made its appearance in this country, entitled " A 
Practical View of the Present State of Slavery in the West Indies," 
&c. by Alexander Barclay, lately, and for twenty-one years, resident 



196 

in the West Indies. Among a variety of very palpable misstatements, 
to which we may hereafter advert, he gives us the following favoura- 
ble picture of negro improvement : (p. xxii.) " Twenty years ago, the 
churches were scarcely at all attended by the slaves ; since then, the 
number of churches or places of worship, of one kind or other, has been 
more tliau doubled, in fact, nearly trebled; and yet, in the districts 
where I have had an opportunity of seeing them, they are fully at- 
tended, and principally by slaves." Now, the Bishop distinctly tells 
us, that in the whole island, there are not places of worship belonging 
to the established Church capable of containing more than eleven or 
twelve thousand individuals, the whole population being 400,000; and 
that " the parishes in the interior are absolutely luithout the semblance 
of the forms of religious worship." The dissenting places of worship 
erected in the island have afforded some additional room to the slaves; 
but still, can any statements be substantially more at variance than 
those of Mr. Barclay and the Bishop ? 

Again Mr. Barclay affirms, that in Jamaica " Sunday is strictly, a 
day of rest." Yet it is the market-day throughout the island; and the 
very Slave-law now in force there states, that slaves are to be allowed 
twenty-six days in the year, exclusive of Sundays, for their provision 
grounds. Act of 1816, §"^4. 

The looseness with which similar statements are made by gentlemen 
who may be considered as having stronger claims on our confidence 
than Mr. Barclay, is worthy of particular notice. At the late Surry 
election, one of the candidates, Mr. Pallraer, is reported to have said, 
that he had been the instrument of introducing within the pale of the 
Christian Church a thousand slaves, not nominally, but really. The 
statement, coming from that gentleman, surprised us not a little, 
because we can have no doubt whatever that it is altogether untrue; 
and that he has suffered himself to be deceived by his informant. Such 
an event as this occurring, in any one of the parishes where Mr. Pallmer's 
estates are situated, in which, until 1825, if even then, there had been 
little or no instruction, could not have escaped the notice of the Bishop, 
or of his eye, the Archdeacon. So desirous was his lordship of collect- 
ing every fact creditable to the planters, that in October last, in giving 
an account of the very parishes in which this great religious revolution 
must have taken, if it took place at all, while he notices the fact, that 
on Halse-hall estate (belonging to Mr. De la Beche) a Methodist 
Missionary attended once a fortnight, he says not one word of Mr. Pall- 
mer's thousand new and real converts to Christianity. We should be 
glad to have some more distinct specification of this most extraordinary 
transaction ; time, place, circumstances, and means, clearly pointed 
out ; for the facts, if true, deserve to be recorded in the most au- 
thentic form, and with all the requisite proof. 

This, and all other publications of the Society, may be had at their office, 18, 
Aldermanbury ; or at Messrs. Hatchard's, 187, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill. 
They may also be procured, through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti- 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 

Londo^.— BACSTER .% THOMS, Trinters, 14, Bart/wlomem Close. . 



London, 18, Aldermanhury , July 31, 1826. 

No. 14. 

ANTI-SLAVERY 
MONTHLY REPORTER. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Rf.porter" -will be ready for delivery on the 
last day of every month. Copies will be forvrarded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons wish- 
ing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the Secretary, 
at the Society's office. No. 18, Aldennanbury, and mention the conveyance by 
which they may be most conveniently sent. 



ANTI-SLAVERY PETITIONS AND MOTIONS. 

The number of Anti-slavery petitions which have been presented to 
the House of Commons in the last session amounts to 674. Several 
more would have been presented on the last day of the session had an 
opportunity been afforded. A like number was presented to the House 
of Peers. Many of these petitions conveyed the sentiments (almost 
always unanimous) of large county and other meetings, at which the 
whole subject of Colonial Slavery was fully and freely discussed ; and 
all of them were numerously subscribed by persons of every class. The 
petition from London contained, 72,000 signatures ; that from Manches- 
ter, 41,000; that from Glasgow, 38,000; that from Edinburgh, 17,000; 
that from the county of Norfolk, 38,000 ; and from other places in a 
like proportion. 

Various attempts have been made to detract from the weight due to 
these petitions as a fair expression of the public feeling on the subject 
of slavery, but with no success. They could not justly be said to pre- 
cede inquiry, for they followed three years of active discussion, during 
which no one can truly reproach the friends of slavery with having been 
inert in pleading their own cause, or in counteracting the efforts of their op- 
ponents. The merits of the great question at issue have been fully can- 
vassed ; and the effect of its thorough exposure has indubitably been 
a growing, and it may even be said an almost universal conviction, on 
the part of the public, that the slavery which prevails in our colonies is 
opposed to the spirit of our holy religion, to the genius of the British 
Constitution, to the principles of humanity and justice, and to every 
sound view even of our commercial interests. 

It has been alleged indeed that great pains were taken by the Com- 
mittee in London to excite the public feeling, and that much unfair ar- 
tifice was employed by them to get up petitions from all parts of the 
country ; while the identity in their language and structure sufficiently 
shewed them to have been formed on some common model which had 
foeen supplied from the Anti-Slavery Office. 



198 

In reply to these charges it may be sufficient to state, that all the 
publications circulated by the Society are easily accessible to its bit- 
terest enemies, who may be challenged to cite a single passage 
therein contained which is opposed to fair dealing, or which is charge- 
able with undue excitement. If they can find such a passage, let them 
produce it, that the public may judge between the parties. Such an 
enquiry, it may be said with confidence, will prove most clearly that 
the Society has not transgressed the limits of truth and soberness, either 
in its appeals to the country, or in the statements on which those appeals 
were founded. Of course, the Society cannot be made responsible for 
any rash or exaggerated statements of individual writers or orators, who 
may have espoused their cause. 

With respect to the charge of identity in the language of the peti- 
titions, the refutation is equally easy. Of the 674 petitions presented to 
the House of Commons, 376 have been printed in the Appendix to the 
votes of that house. A very cursory inspection of them will prove, that 
on no occasion have so many petitions, relating to one subject, and 
uniting in the same general prayer, manifested so clearly that they spoke 
the unprompted and spontaneous feelings of the petitioners, and that 
they were not servilely copied from any model. And, in point of fact, 
no such model was supplied . So far indeed is this charge from being true, 
that it might be shewn that not a few of the petitions contain statements 
in v/hich the London Committee would not have concurred. Some of 
them, for example, express their satisfaction (a satisfaction certainly in 
which the Committee did not participate) with the measures that had 
been adopted in Demerara for ameliorating the condition of the slaves, 
and with ^the provisions generally made for their religious instruction ; 
while many of them omit all mention of the impolitic restrictions in 
favour of Slave culture, or of that enormous injustice by which the people 
of this country are made to contribute, in bounties and protecting duties, 
to the maintenance of a system which they detest and reprobate. 

From the commencement of the Slave Trade controversy, it has been 
the uniform practice of the West Indians to endeavour to depreciate 
both the number and the value of the petitions presented to parliament 
on the subject. In like manner the journals which now support 
Slavery have been anxious to represent those presented in the last 
session, as small in number and identical in language. One journal 
speaks slightingly of them as amounting only to 45 ; and this false state- 
ment lis c€pied into the colonial newspapers as if it were true, and is 
mad« a ground for encouraging the Planters in their resistance to Go- 
vernment. This fact, however, only evinces more clearly the impression 
of the importance of those petitions, and the apprehension of their effect, 
which are entertained by the Colonists. 

These common and unworthy artifices of the avowed advocates of 
Slavery may well be disregarded. We deem it incumbent upon us, how- 
ever, to advert at greater length to objections coming from another and a 
more respectable quarter, — not from a friend, but from an avowed oppo- 
nent of Slavery, whose high official situation gives scarcely more weight 
to his observations, than they acquire from his splendid talents and com- 
manding eloquence. 



199 

On the 20th of April last, a motion was made in the House of 
Commons by Mr. William Smith, the object of which was to urge 
on Parhament the expediency of placing the administration of the Colo- 
nial Slave Laws exclusively in the hands of men unconnected with Slave 
property. On this occasion Mr. Canning, adverting to the numerous 
petitions which had been presented to the House, and which he admitted 
to convey an unequivocal expression of the prevalent wish of the nation 
for the mitigation and extinction of Slavery, is reported to have thus 
spoken : — 

" Such aid" (as it is alleged these petitions afford to the Governihent) 
" rather adds to our incumbrance than increases our power. What are 
our difficulties ? On the one hand, overweening expectations of too 
sudden results ; — hopes of wrong placed enthusiasm inculcating im- 
practicable measures. On the other, alarms for property and life. — Re- 
solutions at public meetings add to the enthusiasm of the enthusiatics, 
and, threatening those at a distance, make obstinacy more obstinate 
and apprehension more fearful. On one side enthusiasm is increased. 
On the other angry passions are aroused, and alarms are quickened ; 
new opposition is engendered; new difficulties are created ; old ones are 
aggravated, and obstacles multiplied. If the question now were whether 
this system should be upheld or not; if there were any fingering reluctance 
to acknowledge its enormities ; if any attempt were made in this House 
to uphold the system, the object of bringing forward facts and cruelties 
to excite abhorrence and disgust would be just and necessary. But this 
is not the object to be obtained. No man upholds the system ; all 
agree that it is necessary to amend it; and these facts are only brought 
forward to excite enthusiasm which requires controul, and which can lead 
to no practical good ; while they excite in the colonies determined re- 
sistance which must be overcome before our purposes can be effected." 

The above passage is without doubt very forcibly and eloquently ex- 
pressed. It is also well adapted to excite a prejudice against the abo- 
litionists. It is not, however, too much to affirm, that it is neither accu- 
rate in its statements, nor sound in its anticipations. 

In the first place, is it true — on the contrary, is it not the very reverse of 
truth, that, now, " no man upholds the system," and that there is no longer 
^* ^.fty lingering reluctance to acknowledge its enormities?" Or is it 
true, that the facts which serve to excite an abhorrence of slavery are 
brought forward by the abolitionists only for the reasons said to be as- 
signed by Mr, Canning ? Have they not of late been brought forward only 
or chiefly in self defence ? The abolitionists have been charged again 
and again with the crime of calumniating slavery. This charge was re- 
newed with great vehemence on the very evening on which Mr. Canning's 
speech was delivered ; and the mildness and humanity of the system 
were again and again affirmed. Is no reply to be made to such repre- 
sentations ? And what reply can be so summary and effectual as a re- 
ference to facts that are matter both of public and authentic record, and 
of recent occurrence? "No man," says Mr. Canning, "upholds the 
system ;" there is no longer " any lingering reluctance to acknowledge 
its enormities." Mr. Canning's numerous and important aVocations 
have doubtless prevented his knowing how little such an averment cor- 



200 

responds with the reality of the case. He cannot be aware that the 
whole of the West Indian periodical press, and a considerable part of 
that of Great Britain are regularly employed in attempting to uphold 
Slavery, to palliate, if not to deny its enormities, and, in some instances, 
to prove it to be a humane and beneficent institution. If he had read 
the Quarterly Review, or Blackwood's Magazine ; or the pamphlets 
reported to be demi-official, which the last year has produced ; or 
the voluminous reports framed by persons more or less connected with 
the Colonial department, which load the table of the House of Commons ; 
all tending to the same point; — to abate the disgust and horror of 
Slavery, to retard its extinction, and to fritter away the pledges of 
Government and Parliament on that momentous subject, he would have 
somewhat qualified this allegation. 

" No man upholds the system." For whai object then are large 
suras raised, by the West India Committee, on all West India produce 
imported into this country, of the appropriation of which no account is 
given ? What mean also the thousands of pounds voted by West 
Indian Legislatures, or subscribed by West Indian communities, and 
lavished on writers whose claim arises from the dexterity with which 
they varnish the deformities of the West Indian System, and the viru- 
lence with which they blacken and revile its adversaries ? 

But, although Mr. Canning may have been unapprised of the extent 
and eflficacy of all this combination of means (and we have only glanced 
at some of them), which are at work to " uphold the system " and to 
abate the feeling of its enormities, yet he must be cognizant of what 
passed within his hearing in the House of Commmons. On the very 
night on which he is said to have uttered the words in question, no 
fewer than five or six West Indians rose in their places to charge the 
aboUtionists, in strong but general terms, with misrepresentation, exag- 
geration, and falsehood. Against such charges how are the aboli- 
tionists to defend themselves ; how are they to prove that they have not 
misled the public ; how are they to vindicate their own character for 
fair dealing, except by not only referring to the latest colonial enacts- 
ments, but by citing recent and authentic facts, facts which stand on the 
unexceptionable testimony of West Indian authority, as fully bearing 
out all that they have asserted of the cruelty and oppressiveness and 
undiminished malignity of the system? 

Much more might be said on this subject did our limits allow of it; 
but we pass to another assertion contained in the above passage, which 
appears equally unfounded v.ith that which has now been commented 
upon. The abolitionists are there charged with indulging " overweening 
expectations of too sudden results, and hopes ot wrong placed enthu- 
siasm ;" and with " inculcating impracticable measures." 

We have not the slightest conception what those impracticable mea- 
sures are to which Mr. Canning alludes. We have searched for them 
in vain in the speeches of Abolitionists in Parliament, and in the publi- 
cations of the Anti-Slavery Society. In point of fact, the identical mea- 
sures, originally recommended by Mr. Buxton, were those, which, Avith 
oj)ly one material exception, were adopted by Government, and recom- 
mended in his Majesty's name, by the Earl Bathurst,to the Colonial autho^ 



201 

rities. The exception related to the emancipation of children born after 
a certain period. But even this point has not been brought forward in 
Parliament, the abolitionists having; consented that, in furtherance of the 
well-knov/n resolution of the 15th of May, 1823, those measures should 
be adopted in the first instance, on the expediency and beneficial 
tendency of which no difference of opinion existed between them and 
his Majesty's ministers. Those measures may be briefly stated to be, 

1. To provide the means of religious instruction and Christian edu- 
cation for the slave population. 

2. To put an end to markets and to labour on the Sunday, and to 
appropriate that day entirely to rest and recreation, and to religious 
worship and instruction ; and instead of Sunday, which had hitherto 
been the day on which, in most of the Colonies, the slaves had culti- 
vated their provision grounds, to allow them equivalent time on other 
days for that purpose. 

3. To admit the testimony of slaves in courts of justice. 

4. To legalize the marriages of slaves, and to protect them in the 
enjoyment of their connubial rights. 

5. To protect the slaves by law in the acquisition and possession of 
property, and its transmission by bequest, or otherwise. 

6. To remove all the existing obstructions to manumission, and. to 
grant to the slave the power of redeeming himself, and his wife and 
children, at a fair appraisement. 

7. To prevent the separation of families by sale, or otherwise. 

8. To prevent the seizure and sale of slaves detached from the estate 
or plantation to which they belong. 

9. To restrain generally the power, and to prevent the abuse, of arbi- 
trary punishment at the will of the master. 

10. To abolish the degrading corporal punishment of females. 

11. To abolish the use of the driving-whip in the field, either as an 
emblem of authority, or as a stimulus to labour. 

12. To establish Savings' Banks for the use of slaves. 

It had been previously intimated, that as soon as the requisite in- 
formation could be obtained, means should be taken to reform the ad- 
ministration of justice in the Colonies. 

Wherein then have the views of the abolitionists so differed from those 
of his Majesty's ministers, as to justify Mr. Canning in designating the 
former as visionary and impracticable, while the latter must, of course, 
be assumed to be judicious and practicable ? For our own parts, we 
know of no such difference, and it is for those who prefer this charge to 
verify it by a specification, founded on some authentic exposition of the 
sentiments of those whom they impugn. A difference, it is true, has 
existed, not, however, as to the measures announced as to be immediately 
adopted, but as to the mode of carrying those measures into effect. 
Government proposed to submit them to the adoption or rejection of the 
Colonial authorities. The abolitionists, instructed by experience, could 
see nothing but disappointment, delay, and disaster, in committing the 
work of reform to their deliberalion. They had learnt, from Mr. Canning 
himself, to distrust " the masters of slaves in what concerns legislation for 
Slavery ;" and that " in the nature of absolute authority, in the relation 



202 

between master and slave, there is something which makes despotism, in 
all cases, and under all circumstances, an incompetent and unsure ex- 
ecutor, even of its own provisions in favour of the objects of its power." 

Mr. Canning, therefore, must^have been greatly misinformed, if he 
were led to suppose that the object, either of the hundreds of thousands 
of petitioners who approached Parliament with their supplications on 
this subject during the last session ; or of the Members of Parliament 
who, from time to time, agitated the question of Slavery in the House; 
was to inculcate impracticable measures, and not the very identical mea- 
sures to which the resolutions of Parliament, and the instructions of 
Lord Bathurst had pledged the Government. They were anxious, in- 
deed, that these measures should not continue to be frustrated by the re- 
sistance of the Colonial authorities. They were further anxious, that the 
just expectations of the people and Parliament of this country should 
not be eluded by the shew without the substance of reform. They saw, 
with regret, that an erroneous estimate had been formed of the dispo- 
sitions of the Colonists. Their efforts, therefore, were directed to en- 
lighten the Government and Parliament on this point, and to induce 
them to adopt the only practicable means of executing their own bene- 
volent purposes, by clearly and authoritatively prescribing, in the case of 
all the Colonies, as in that of Trinidad, the course to be pursued. More 
than three years have already been sacrificed to the vain effort of obtain- 
ing the concurrence of the Colonies in any effective measures of reform. 
The threat which was thrown out in the last session may, we admit, 
produce a shew of compliance with the wishes of Government, and a 
partial adoption of some fragments of their plan ; but beyond this, be- 
yond that degree of acquiescence which, it may be conceived, will furnish 
a pretence to Parliament for postponing its direct interference in the 
work of Colonial legislation, they will not be willing, unless we are 
greatly mistaken, to proceed a single step. 

In 1788, in 1797, and again in 1816, the Colonial legislatures were 
induced, by a similar apprehension, to adopt some ostensible improve- 
ments of their slave codes — but to all of these improvements, might, 
with truth, be applied the report made by Governor Prevost, in 1805, 
to Lord Camden, respecting a clause in the Slave law of Dominica, 
" The Act of the legislature, intituled * An Act for the encouragement, 
protection, and better government of Slaves,' appears to have been con- 
sidered," observed that gallant officer, '' from the day it was passed 
until this hour, as a political measure to avert the interference of the 
mother country in the management of slaves. Having said this, your 
Lordship will not be surprised to learn that clause seven of that Bill 
has been wholly neglected," 

Since the renewed agitation of the question in 1823, a course not very 
dissimilar has been pursued ; and where resistance has been deemed un- 
safe, an illusory compliance has been substituted. The most exagge- 
rated statements have been made of the progress of Colonial Reform, 
which a very slight examination of the subject has served to disprove. 
But yet, so complete was the illusion that Mr. Canning was led to be- 
lieve, and, on the 1st of March last, to state to the House of Commons, 
that since May, 1823, of the Colonies having legislatures of their own, 



203 

eight had taken measures with respect to reUgious instruction ; tlsc 
observance of the Sunday; the giving^ security to the property of slaves ; 
the modification of arbitrary punishment ; and the abolition of the 
driving'-whip ; — That seven had admitted the evidence of slaves ; and 
had given facilities to manumission ; That j^ue had legalized marriage ; 
prohibited the separation of families ; and abolished the flogging of 
females ; That/oi«r had prohibited the sale of slaves detached from the 
estate ; and that two had established saving banks. 

At the time when Mr. Canning was so far misled as to exhibit to 
Parliament this flattering picture of improvement, the fact was, That 
no7ie of the thirteen Colonies, having legislatures of iheir own, had passed 
any Act for the religious instruction of the slaves ; or for facilitating 
manumission ;- or for abolishing the flogging of females ; or for prohi- 
biting the sale of slaves detached from the estate ; or for establishing 
saving banks; — That only one had abolished Sunday markets; or 
legalized marriage (two others permitting it); or prohibited the separa- 
tion of families by sale (another prohibiting it by judicial sale only ;)— 
That only two had lowered the scale of arbitrary punishment, or made 
even a show of abolishing the driving-whip ; — and that only three had 
admitted the evidence of slaves, aild that in a very limited degree. 
Besides all which, at the very time when vehement charges of exagge- 
ration were making against the abolitionists, laws were enacting, and 
atrocities were perpetrating in the Colonies, which loudly reprehended 
our heartless indifference to the claims of humanity, and our criminal tardi- 
ness in enforcing those reforms which all agree ought to be enforced, 
but which are as yet scarcely begun to be adopted even on paper. 

Is it possible, for any man who calmly weighs these circurmstances, or 
who contemplates the strong language in which the Colonists express 
their persuasion of the utter ruin to their interests, which must attend 
the adoption of the plans of Government, still to hope for their honest, 
cordial, and effective concurrence? 

Here, then, is the grand difference between his Majesty's ministers 
and the abolitionists. The course pursued by the former has hitherto 
left, and is likely still to leave their own measures, however excellent in 
design, wholly ineffective in operation. The course suggested and urged 
by the latter, alone holds forth a hope of redeeming the solemn pledge 
given to the country — that effectual and decisive measures will be 
adopted for so ameliorating the condition of the slave population in his 
Majesty's Colonies, as to raise them, at the earliest safe and practicable 
period, to a participation in the civil rights of his Majesty's other 
subjects. 

We leave it to our readers to decide, which plan is best entitled 
to the designation of impracticable. 

But the abolitionists forsooth are enthusiasts ! An enthusiast, we have 
always supposed, to be a person who believes without evidence, or even 
against evidence. If this be a correct definition of the term, then we 
ask to which party is the charge of enthusiasm most justly applied ; — 
to those who against all evidence, as well as against all sound conclu- 
sions from general principles, believe that the masters of slaves may be 
trusted in " what concerns legislation for slavery ;" — or to those, who, 



204 

proceeding on the ground of fact and universal experience, supported 
by tlie justest deductions of reason, affirm, that " despotism in all cases, 
and under all circumstances, must be an incompetent and unsure exe- 
cutor, even of its own provisions in favour of the objects of its power?" 
But the abolitionists are further charged with " overweening expec- 
tations of too sudden results." — No charge can be less founded : in 
fact, they expect no results whatever but delay and disappointment 
from the course which has been taken, should that course be persisted in. 
They complain not of the measures, as far as they go, which Government 
has proposed to accomplish, but only that those measures have 
hitherto been, and, so long as it looks to Colonial legislation for their 
accomplishment, will continue to be, ineffective. And even from parlia- 
mentary legislation, supposing it to embrace every measure of improve- 
ment originally proposed by his Majesty's ministers, they expect no 
sudden results : they only consider it as the effectual commencement of a 
reform, which otherwise will never be effectually commenced, but which 
even then can proceed only by slow and progressive steps to the con- 
summation which all desire, and to which Government and Parliament 
are solemnly pledged. The more slow however is likely to be the pro- 
gress of reform, the more anxious they naturally are, that it should be 
early and solidly and effectively, and not delusively, commenced. 

There is another point indeed to which the abolitionists extend their 
views, and which they deeply regret is not embraced by the plan of his 
Majesty's ministers, but which is called for by the interests both of the 
Colonial slave, and of the manufacturing labourer of Great Britain, 
namely, the removal of those bounties and protecting duties which 
powerfully maintain, while they cruelly aggravate the evils of Slavery, 
and are alike injurious to our distressed manufacturers, and to our Colonial 
bondsmen. It will not be alleged by statesmen professing and acting 
upon the commercial principles of his Majesty's Government, that the 
views of the abolitionists on this point are either " enthusiastic" or 
" impracticable." 

Mr. Canning objected to the loud and concurrent expression of the 
public voice on the subject of Slavery, and to the speeches and resolu- 
tions which led to the petitions that have crowded the tables of 
both Houses of Parliament, for this reason, among others, that the effect 
of them would be to make the obstinacy of the Colonists more obstinate; 
to rouse their angry passions to greater fury ; to quicken their alarms ; 
to engender new opposition ; to create new and to aggravate old diffi- 
culties ; to multiply obstacles ; and to excite determined resistance 
which must be overcome, before the purposes of Government could be 
effected. 

And yet, without the efforts of abolitionists, and the loud and concur- 
rent expression of public feeling which these have called forth, can any 
man believe that we should have obtained the solemn Resolutions of the 
legislature as to the expediency of abolishing Slavery; or that a single 
step would have been taken to that end ? And even supposing such Re- 
solutions to have been passed, what weight would they, or the speeches 
which might accompany them in Parliament, have had in the West 
Indies, unbacked by the awakened feeling, and the firm and conscientious 



205 

determination of the country at large ? Tiiey would have been utterly 
disregarded. And let it here be remembered, that the highest paroxysms 
of fury, and the most vociferous threats of resistance and even rebellion, 
on the part of the Colonists, preceded that universal manifestation of 
the public sentiment which the last year has exhibited, and were ex- 
cited, not by public meetings and inflammatory speeches and resolutions, 
but by those calm, sober, temperate, and pracfica^^e measures which 
Mr, Canning announced in Parliament, and which Lord Bathurst 
recommended to the Colonies. The Colonists, at that time, enter- 
tained a hope by their clamours to turn Government from its purpose, 
and they were willing to incur considerable risk in order to effect that 
object. This hope it was which gave augmented vehemence to their 
protests and remonstrances, and which made them exult in every 
symptom of insubordination among the Slaves, and magnify it, how- 
ever trivial, into conclusive evidence of an insurrectionary movement. 
And this policy, to a certain degree, served its purpose. It produced 
delay and hesitation, and at one time, it threatened to paralyze if not 
wholly frustrate the efforts of benevolence. But the country has main- 
tained its ground without flinching, and has now spoken, in terms that 
can no longer be mistaken, its determination that Slavery shall cease ; 
and in proportion as this determination has become more general and 
less equivocal, has the violence of the Colonists abated, and they have 
begun to consider by what degree of reluctant compliance it may still 
be in their power to avert the dreaded and threatened interference of 
Parliament. The view, therefore, which we are now combating, was 
both philosophically unsound and experimentally untrue ; and that it 
was so, is strongly confirmed by the whole tone and tenor of the recent 
Newspaper communications from the Colonies, the change in which is 
most remarkable. Their policy, it may be apprehended, will now be to 
yield such a partial acquiescence in the wishes of Government, as 
without materially either mending their system, or forwarding the great 
end of the ultimate extinction of Slavery, may still furnish, to their 
dexterous advocates in this country, a plea for continuing to delegate, 
to the Colonial authorities, the performance of that work which belongs 
to Parliament, and which Parliament alone is competent to carry into 
effect. 

We might quote many passages, from recent West India journals, 
to prove, that the effect produced in the Colonies by what has taken 
place in this country, during the last twelve months, both in and out of 
Parliament, on the subject of Slavery, has been correctly described; 
but a single extract must suffice as illustrative of the fact. It is taken 
from the Jamaica Gazette of last May. 

" As we think it essential at the present critical crisis, that no means 
should be omitted, which can be safely adopted, likely to convince the 
clamorous opponents of the West-India system, that we are willing to 
concede every reasonable point that may tend to bettering the condition, 
or improving the morals of our Slave Population, we insert the follow- 
ing letter from a Member of Parliament, fully acquainted with the 
political manoeuvres of both the Ministerial and Opposition benches, 
to shew that, if we cannot conquer the popular prejudice, which ira- 



206 

pedes the passing of the Slave Evidence Bill, we shall in the end be 
subjected to the degradation of having it forced upon us by external 
legislation. 

"'London, March 13, 1826. 
"' My dear Sir, 

" ' Since my last I have not had the pleasure of hearing from you. 
I enclose three newspapers containing the reports of the debates in the 
House of Commons, on Mr. Buxton's presenting the petition of the 
City of London for the Abolition of Slavery — and on Mr. Denman's 
Resolutions, respecting the trials of the rebel Negroes in Jamaica — 
and in the House of Lords, on the reference to them of the Resolutions 
of the Commons of 1 823. 

" ' They are three most important debates. You will observe in the 
first of them, that Mr. Buxton asked for an explanation from the 
Government of the course which they meant to pursue, in consequence 
of the non-compliance of the Colonial Legislatures with the recommen- 
dations sent out from the Colonial Office ; and that Mr. Brougham 
had announced his intention to bring in a bill, to enact, throughout the 
Colonies, the regulations which had been carried into effect in Trinidad 
under the Order in Council. Mr. Canning declared it to be his in- 
tention to resist Mr. Brougham's bill, but in answer to the inquiry from 
Mr. Buxton, he declared it to be the intention of the Government to 
embody, in several bills, the several regulations of the Order in Council, 
and to send them out to the Governors with instructions to have them 
introduced into the several Legislatures, so as to bring the question of 
the adoption or rejection of each to an issue in the next Session of the 
Assemblies, and before the next Session of Parliament ; and he further 
declared it to be the intention of Government, in case of the reception 
of these bills proving unsatisfactory, to come down to Parliament for 
counsel as to the course which it would then be proper to pursue. 
You will perceive in Lord Bathurst's speech in the house of Lords, a 
material difference in his statement of the course intended to be pur- 
sued by the Government. Lord Bathurst stated it to be their intention 
to class the several regulations of the Trinidad Order in Council under 
separate heads, and to send out instructions to the several Governors 
to submit those regulations so classed to the several Colonial Legis- 
latures, to be by them framed into bills, and modified according to the 
circumstances of the several Colonies. In the interval between the 
debates in the House of Commons and House of Lords, representation 
has been made to Lord Bathurst and Lord Liverpool from the Planters 
and Merchants, stating our apprehensions that the sending out the bills, 
ready formed, might be felt by the Colonial Legislatures as an act of 
dictation, and might create an additional obstacle instead of facilitating 
the adoption of the regulations. Whether the altered plan of Govern- 
ment was the result of this representation, or of their own consideration, 
I will not presume to say. — You will observe also that, in the whole 
course of these debates, there is not one person who did not admit the 
extinction of Slavery to be the whole object of Parliament and the 
Country — an object which they were determined to accomplish, and 
that the only difference was as to the means and time of its accomplish- 



207 

ment. Nobody ventured to contend that the state of Slavery ought 
to be maintained for ever : Even the Lord Chancellor, who spoke most 
strongly as to " the due consideration for the rights of private properly," 
expressed his entire approbation of the Resolutions of the House of 
Commons, and his concurrence in the object of putting an end to 
Slavery. In a word, this feeling has become so universal throughout 
the Country, that any opposition to it would be quite hopeless. The 
Ministry are committed to the Trinidad Order in Council, and the 
Country are determined to have measures adopted in the Colonies, 
which shall afford some certain means of putting an end to Slavery, 
though they may be content to agree to their being gradual and slow 
in their operation. They are also very much dissatisfied with the 
Colonial Legislatures. They would, I beheve, now have applauded 
any measure of rigour which the Government might have been dis- 
posed to adopt for enforcing the Trinidad regulations; and, if the 
Assemblies should not adopt them all (or with few or unimportant ex- 
ceptions,) the Country and the Parliament will drive the Governmeni 
to some strong measures of coercion. 

" ' Seeing how violently and how rapidly the torrent of public feeling is 
running, I am convinced the only chance of preserving the independence 
of the Colonial Legislatures is by the adoption of the regulations 
which are about to be sent out in their next Session. It is difficult for 
Gentlemen, resident in Jamaica, to be fully aware of the force of public 
feeling in England ; but you may depend upon it that my representation 
does not fall short of the truth, and you cannot do a more important 
service than communicate the same throughout the whole circle of your 
acquaintance. 

" ' You will have observed, thatin the debates in the House of Commons 
very few West Indians spoke. In the first — which indeed could scarcely 
be styled a debate — it was the general opinion that the best policy 
would be to leave the question as it stood after Mr. Canning's speech, 
which had embarrassed the Saints so much, as to make Brougham 
almost withdraw the notice of his bill. On the question of the trials, 
there was but one feeling in the House, that such a state of law was 
utterly indefensible. You can scarcely form a conception of the strong 
impression which these trials have made on the public mind, or of the 
force with which they have told on the rejection of the Evidence Bill, 
to the prejudice of the Assembly, and, I am sorry to add, of the cause 
of the West Indies generally. The two combined have done more in 
advancing the views of our enemies, than their own exertions had pre- 
viously done in the last ten years. — This opinion was expressed to me 
by an impartial spectator, very capable of judging, and much disposed 
to be our friend.' It is only wanting to complete their triumph, that 
the Assembly should pursue the same course in the next Session as in 
the last. But I trust, that, when they consider that the object of the 
Saints is to take all legislative controul over this question out of their 
hands, and the object of Government to leave it in their hands, on the 
condition of their carrying into effect what is the wish of the whole 
English nation, and that there is no middle alternative; they will not 
commit such an act of suicide, as to refuse their compliance,'" 



208 

It- must now, we apprehend, be evident that neither the public 
meetings which have taken place, nor the discussions which have been 
raised in the House of Commons, have had the effect attributed to 
them, of hindering and embarrassing his Majesty's ministers, instead 
of aiding them. Certainly the ungracious manner in which those 
petitions were spoken of surprised us not a little, firmly believing, as 
we do, that Mr. Canning is really desirous to put an end to Slavery. 
That distinguished Statesman is also a warm friend to the Catholic 
claims. Now let it be supposed that there had been, in the course of 
the last year, the same universal expression of public opinion in their 
favour which has been witnessed on the question of Slavery. In that 
case, would not Mr. Canning, and Mr. Wilmot Horton, and all who 
think with them on the subject, have felt their hands strengthened by 
such a demonstration, instead of deprecating it as injurious to the 
cause they espoused ? And would they not also in that case have com- 
paratively disregarded the clamours of their opponents, however loud ; 
and have looked forward with exultation to a safe, and happy, and 
early accomplishment of their favourite object, of Catholic Emancipa- 
tion ? We pronounce no opinion on that much agitated question ; 
but certainly no man, who knows how these Gentlemen feel upon it, 
would expect beforehand, that they would frown on the expression of a 
strong and general concurrence in their views, on the part of the 
country at large. 

One word, before we conclude, respecting the different motions 
which were brought forward in the House of Commons, by the 
abolitionists, during the last two Sessions, and which Mr. Canning is 
said to have thus reprehended : " They have been hazardous to adopt, 
not fit to be discussed, and calculated to retard not accelerate the 
purposes for which they are professedly brought forward. They are 
not judicious, as they disturb the temper. They are not fair, as 
they interrupt our course, and break down a large subject into mean 
and insignificant details. They divide into fractions what Parliament 
has resolved to treat and promote as a whole." 

To these observations, the letter of the West Indian gentleman in- 
serted above is perhaps a sufficient reply. But their inapplicability will 
further appear, by merely mentioning the subjects of the several motions 
thus condemned. 

1. Mr. Brougham's motion on the trial and sentence of the Mis- 
sionary Smith. 

2. Dr. Lushington's on the deportation of Lecesne and Escoffery. 

3. Mr, Buxton's on the expulsion of the Missionary Shrewsbury from 
Barbadoes, and the demolition of the Methodist Chapel there. 

4. Mr. Denman's on the trials of the alleged insurgents in Jamaica. 

5. Mr. Buxton's on the Mauritius Slave trade. 

6. Mr. Whitmore's on the Sugar duties and bounties. 

7. Mr. W. Smith's on the expediency of placing the administration 
of the Slave laws in the hands of men who are not slave holders. 

8. Mr. Brougham's motion expressive of the dissatisfaction of the 
House with the proceedings of the Colonial Assemblies, and pledging 
it to an early consideration of the subject in the next Session. 



209 

Of these eight motions, the first five were cases of flagrant outrage, 
and of violation of the law, which Mr. Canning himself admitted to 
call either for enquiry or reprehension ; which stood on grounds quite 
apart from any general measure of the Government; and which, in no 
view that can fairly be taken of them, deserve to be branded with the 
harsh terms that were applied to them. It was partly their object, 
and certainly it was their effect, to enlighten even his Majesty's ministers 
as to the real nature of the Colonial system, and of Colonial feeling. — 
Again, the question of the sugar duties and bounties, and of the effect of 
free and slave labour on the cost of productions, was surely a large and 
substantive question, which required a distinct and separate discussion. 
The motion of Mr, W. Smith went only to point out to the Government a 
provision which was indispensable to the efficiency of their own plans of 
reform, and without which those plans would be paralyzed and frus- 
trated; and it went in no degree to censure or disturb them. Mr. 
Brougham's motion which stands last, and which brought before the 
house a general view of the Trinidad and Demarara Orders in Council, 
and of the recent elusory enactments of the Colonial legislatures, was 
the only one which could be regarded as hostile ; and this Mr. Canning 
himself expressly excepted from his general censure. 

Besides these different motions, notices were given, but afterwards 
withdrawn, by Lord Nugent, for improving the administration of justice 
in the Colonies ; and by Dr. Lushington, for examining into the state 
of the free people of colour. These however were points not at all 
comprehended in the general outline of projected reforms, submitted 
to Parliament by his Majesty's ministers. 

It will not be denied that all these motions were important, while 
not one of them, excepting Mr. Brougham's, interfered with the declared 
purposes of Government. But then we are told, that " they disturb 
the temper." Whose temper do they disturb ? Are acts of cruelty and 
crime not to be exposed, lest the temper of the cruel and the criminal 
should be ruffled ? Or is a great question of national justice and policy, 
like that of the Sugar duties, not to be discussed, lest those who profit 
by those duties, though tending to aggravate alike the wretchedness of 
the Slaves and the distress of our manufacturers, should resent the 
discussion ? 

We regret that it should have fallen to our lot to make these remarks. 
Entertaining as we do a cordial respect for Mr. Canning, and firmly be- 
lieving him to have at heart the effectual mitigation, and the early and 
final extinction of Slavery, we feel real pain in ever differing from him ; 
but it seemed to be a duty absolutely mcumbent on us, to vindicate 
the abolitionists, whether in Parliament or out of it, from the opprobrium 
which the expressions attributed to that Gentleman, if uncontradicted, 
could not fail to attach to them and to their cause. 

BARBADOES. 

What has occurred in Barbadoes goes fully to confirm the above reason- 
ing. In March last, several new slave bills were introduced into the 
Assembly of that Island. Mr. Hinds, who brought forward one of them, 
introduced it as am attempt to 7'econcile their slave codeiuith their -practice. 



210 

He then spesdts of the mildness of the actual discipline in Barbadoes, and 
the happy condition of the slaves, who, he affirms, are better protected, 
have more comfort and enjoyment, and less of toil, exaction, and anxiety, 
than the same class of the population in perhaps any other portion 
of the universe. In Barbadoes, the evils of Slavery he states to be 
abstract, the blessings positive.* Still, he argues, the proposed amend- 
ments in tlie laws are necessary because Great Britain expects them. 
" Is there no danger, " he asks, " in irritating the Ministry, the Par- 
liament, and the people of Great Britain, by conceding nothing to the 
public voice so unequivocally expressed'^ I do not mean the mad cry 
of that reptile knot, which has been engendered by the coitus of saint 
and radical, but the voice solemnly pronounced of the reflecting classes 
of Great Britain ; of the West India Committee themselves." " I 
have heard the West Indian body in England," adds Mr. Hinds, 
" accused of ignorance of the circumstances here. They may retort 
the charge and accuse us of ignorance of the immense sensation caused 
by this question at home ; of ignorance of our peril and weakness, or, 
as Mr. Canning expressed it, the omnipotence of England, and the 
utter helplessness of the Colonies." " If we hesitate, Mr. Canning's 
financial punishments will infallibly be inflicted." " Let us then 
enable the King's Ministers to say from their places in Parliament, 
* the Colonial legislatures have complied with our suggestions as far 
AS LOCAL CIRCUMSTANCES WILL PERMIT. They have seriously set 
to work to ameliorate the condition of their slaves. We have confidence 
in their intentions. We are determined henceforth to allow of no 

FURTHER INTERFERENCE IN THEIR DOMESTIC POLICY. Satisfied 

that much has been done and done voluntarily, we leave to 

* The ears of the people of England, must have become by this time, suffi- 
ciently acquainted with this kind of cant, to appreciate its value. It is un- 
necessary to recur to the barbarous slave code which has always existed 
in this Colony, and some of the worst enactments of which were renewed 
in 1825 ; nor to the unpunished atrocities recorded by Lord Seaforth, in 1804 ; 
nor to the wholesale massacres of 1816; in order to disprove the statement 
of Mr. Hinds. We need only refer to the Reports of Mr. Dwarris, the Royal 
Commissioner, himself a West Indian, and of the Bishop of Barbadoes. 
Mr. Dwarris affirms that " the slaves in this Island, are without legal protection 
or redress for personal injuries." " The slave has no remedy, in case of the 
greatest oppression by the master or his delegate, or the grossest injury by 
third persons." Except for murder, " there is no legislative provision re- 
straining the absolute power of the master over the slave, or inflicting punishment 
on the owners or others, in cases of mayem, mutilation, dismemberment, or cruel 
treatment." " No tribunal is specially appointed for inquiring into their 
wrongs." The complaint of a slave " can no where be received." " No man 
or set of men, has legal power to call a master or delegate to account for 
working his slave as long as he likes ; for whipping him as much as he pleases ; 
for chaining — for starving him." " A master has uncontrolled, undefined and 
absolute power." Compare this statement, written in 1824, with that of 
Mr. Hinds. 

Again, the statement as to " toil" and " exaction," is most directly contra- 
dicted by the Right Reverend the Bishop, who gives us to know, that no time 
in the week days, can be spared by the planters for the instruction of the 
children, for though they have " the most sincere desire to afford the blessings of 
religious instruction to their slaves," they cannot consent to the requisite sub- 
traction of labour from the cultivation of their estates. See Reporter, No. 13. 



211 

THEM THE PROGRESS OF THE IMPROVEMENTS THEY HAVE SO 
WELL COMMENCED.'" 

This is precisely the kind of speech which we supposed that the 
Colonists would be desirous of putting into Mr. Canning's mouth; 
for what they have evidently at heart is not to raise the slave to a parti- 
cipation in the rights of his Majesty's other subjects, but to extract from 
him, to the confusion of saints and radicals, such a declaration as 
Mr. Hinds has kindly framed for him. The preceding part of this 
number, containing our anticipations to this effect, was written before 
we received the speech of Mr. Hinds, How pointedly it confirms those 
anticipations will be perceived without a comment. 

The measures proposed to the Barbadoes Legislature comprise, 1st, a 
Bill for the encouragement of Baptisms and Marriages among the 
slaves; 2nd, a Bill to afford increased facilities to the manumission of 
slaves ; and 3rd, a consolidated Slave Bill. This last Bill is intended, it is 
said, to abolish the whip in the field and the flogging of women, and 
to grant to those slaves who are qualified, and properly certified by the 
clergyman of the parish and the naaster, the right of bearing testimony 
in courts of justice. But it is not intended to prohibit the separation of 
families by sale ; and to the erection of saving banks for the slaves, 
says Mr. Hinds, " I never can consent," — and for this strange reason 
among others, that, " not only has it never been, but it never could be, 
practicable for a master to deprive his slave of his honestly-gained pecu- 
lium." This is also to be a valid reason, we presume for enacting no 
law for securing to the slave his property. Yet, what says Mr. Dwarris ? 
" For the punishment of general oppression there is no provision by any 
■law of Barbadoes." The master may sell him, may chain him, may 
starve him ; he possesses over him uncontrolled, undefined, and abso- 
lute power. And yet, says Mr. Hinds, it would be impracticable for a 
master to deprive a slave of his property. Is it possible, we ask, to put 
any faith whatever in such representations ? If there be any one truth 
more clearly ascertained than another, in respect to the condition of th^ 
Colonial bondsman, it is that his property is entirely and absolutely, by 
law, in the power of his master. This point may be proved by the most 
conclusive West Indian testimony, in one stream, from 1788 to 1826. 



TRINIDAD. 

We have been amused with tales of the cheerful acquiescence of the 
Planters of Trinidad in the Order in Council, which enacted, we were told, 
only what was before the practice. Such, too, was the language held to 
the Government by the West India body at home. With respect to 
them, indeed, it may only prove that they were themselves deceived by 
their agents, and were thus led unwittingly to deceive the Government. 
The clamours of the resident Planters, however, instead of diminishing, 
seem to become louder and louder every day ; and so they will continue 
to do, so long as there is the slightest hope of inducing Government to 
relax from its declared purposes, and to modify or abandon its solemn 
pledges. The success they have already had will encourage them to 



212 

persevere. Several points have already been given up, and a recent pro- 
clamation has so modified the law of evidence as greatly to diminish its 
value. The vphole efficacy of the Order in Council, the defects of v^^hich, 
a? compared with the meaures first proposed by his Majesty's Govern- 
ment, have always been considerable,* may thus be frittered away, 
and things may almost insensibly revert to their ancient state. 

St. VINCENTS. 

The following extract from the Gazette of St. Vincents of the 20th of 
May, 1826, contains an exposition of the actual progress of moral and 
religious culture in that island ; and will be found, if the truth were told 
in other places with equal frankness, to exhibit a faithful picture of its 
progress in every island from the Bahamas to Trinidad, as far, at least, 
as the efforts of the Planters in general, or of the local legislatures, are 
concerned. Let us not be amused, not to say deluded, by such un- 
meaning reports as were abstracted in our last number, and which, 
prove that the Bishops are as liable to be imposed upon as the West 
Indian body at home. The extract we allude to is as follows : — 

" We understand that the Lord Bishop has signified his intention of paying 
this island a second visit in two or three weeks, although we see no preparations 
making for his reception or accommodation. We cannot imagine to ourselves 
the surprise and disappointment that will be felt by his Lordship on his arrival, 
to find that of the various measures of improvement, or addition, to our clerical 
establishment suggested by him on his first visit, not one has yet been carried 
into effect; no additional place of worship provided; no school establishment 
provided, or means devised for giving additional impulse to the moral or religious 
feelings of the lower classes : in short, that we are precisely in the same state his 
Lordship left us, except, as one of our correspondents has lately suggested, con- 
siderably worse, no doubt, from the combined inroads of time and negligence." 

* See, for a full elucidation of these defects as compared with the originally de- 
clared intentions of Government, the pamphlet, entitled The Progress of Colonial 
Reform, p. 1 — 18. 

*^* Though we have doubled the size of the Reporter, 
we are under the necessity of deferring many important 
articles of information. — Our readers will be happy to learn 
that Anti-Slavery Associations, and particularly of Ladies, 
are multiplying, one of whose objects it is to discourage 
the use of slave-grown Sugar, (that is to say, of West 
Indian and Mauritius sugar,) and to promote the substi- 
tution of that grown by free labour. 



This, and all other publications of the Society, may he had at their office, 
18, Aldermanbury ; or at Messrs. Hatchard''s, 187, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill. 
They may also be procured, through any bookseller, or at the depdts of the Anti' 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 



London: Printed il^ Bagster and Thorns, 14, Bartholome-ji Cltse . 



London, 18, Alder manhur y , August 31, 1826. 

No. 15. 



MONTHLY REPORTER. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred. All pei-sons wishing 
to receive a regular supply, are requested to make application to the Secretary, 
at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the conveyance by 
which they may be most conveniently sent. 



COLONIAL OPINIONS ON THE PROPOSED REFORMS, 

EXEMPLIFIED BY MISCELLANEOUS EXTRACTS FROM TPIEIR OWN 
RECENT NEWSPAPERS. 

We propose to follow up the remarks in our last number, respecting 
the views and purposes of the Colonists, by extracts from their own 
publications during the months of May and June last. The first we 
shall give are drawn from a confidential communication of Mr. Mac- 
queen, the editor of the Glasgow Courier, to the editor of the Royal 
Gazette of Jamaica, which the latter has thought proper to publish 
to the world in his paper of the 27th May, 1826. (p. 18.) 

" I deeply regret to say," observes Mr. Macqueen, " that prospects are not 
mending for you ; Government, rest assured, are bent upon general and ultimate 
emancipation, and this they conceive they can accomplish by a train of mea- 
sures concocted by themselves without any advance of money on the part of 
this country. In these views they are certainly wrong, but in the present 
temper and feeling of the people, who is to point out to them their error?" " You 
cannot depend upon the Government, because it has adopted erroneous notions. 
You must not trust your friends here, because, besides their natural and invin- 
cible apathy, the leading men among them, I assure you, go into the views of 
Government above mentioned. The conduct of the West India members in 
Parliament is sickening and distressing ; it is to be regretted that your Legis- 
lature did not pass the Slave Evidence Bill in some shape or other. It would 
have satisfied Government, and withdrawn part of the venom of your adversa- 
ries. At the same time, I am aware that it matters little what laws you pass, 
as nothing but early and complete emancipation will satisfy the spirit which 
now animates a vast portion of the population of this country ; all the dissen- 
ters, and what is called the evangelical party of the clergymen of the Esta- 
blished Church are enlisted, and embarked in the cause against you. Their 
exertions and influence are very great, and the whole of this has been brought 
about by the activity of your enemies, and the inactivity and apathy of your 
friends. Even at this moment the latter will not look at or acknowledge the 
danger which so broadly assails them." " Your affairs are wretchedly managed 
in this country. The affections of the people are alienated from you, and Govern- 



214 

ment suri'ei- themselves to be misled and influenced by a parcel of idle theorists, 
all of whom are your determined enemies."* 

In the Jamaica Royal Gazette of the 3rd June, 1826, (p. 4.) the editor 
inserts, with apparent approbation, another comnmnication, which he 
tells us is from "'' a considerable holder of West India property, in 
London." 

" Our adversaries," says this correspondent, " lay great stress on the rejec- 
tion of the Slave Evidence Bill, as proving all their allegations against us." " I 
think that question might be tried on a limited scale, upon inferior cases in 
petty courts."t " V/ere the whole new light to burst upon them (the slaves) at 
once, it would do them no good, and us much harm ; and this is the object of 
the saints, who would rejoice to see the ruin and destruction of both the one and 
the other consummated at one blow." 

He then is at great pains to convey to his friends abroad some 
politic counsel : 

" As our adversaries are ever on the watch, to catch, as it were, from our own 
mouths evidence, nay, the very sentiments of our hearts, if they could, and 
torture them into some malignant form, it becomes us to be most careful against 
letting out any thing of our secret reflections of which they can take advantage. 
From our knowledge of negroes, and experience of their disposition and temper, 
aud readiness to break through their present bounds, tve all must have a secret 
feeling for confining their privileges as much as possible within the law of sub- 
ordination. But it won't do to expose our motives to their friends and our 
enemies."! " Our Legislature must act fearlessly," " and beware oi going great 
lengths in concession, as their former conduct icill then be imputed to contumacy ; 
ami the more they concede the more they will be required to do until they meet 
the 7-igid views of the Saints." 

This prudent and cautious writer next proceeds to give his opinion 
seriati7)i on the different heads of reform, proposed by Mr. Canning. 
To Slave Evidence he had already adverted, " Religious instruction, and 
the due observance of the sabbath, (meaning the abolition of Sunday 
markets) are points of no importance to give up." " Marriage: let the 
clergy celebrate it as they do baptism, that will be sufficient." Other 
points, as security of property, facilities of manumission, separation of 
tkmilies, and savings banks, are things to be cautiously adventured upon, 
and strictly guarded. On the abolition of the whip, as a stithulus to 
labour, and the flogging of females, he is more precise in his instruc- 
tions : — 



* Mr. Macqueeii, it seems, had made every effort in his power to establish a paper in 
London, but " such were the apathy and indifference of those in England, connected with 
the Colonies, and the disunion reigning among them on the West Indian cause," tliat he 
could not find any reasonable prospect of support : " The rancour of the leading sect," he 
says, " is dreadful against me." " But never mind," he adds, " truth will at last prevail, 
and the friendship and support of the Colonies will enable me to treat their vengeance 
with scorn " Is it with a view to enhance his merits with the Colonies, and to extract from 
them fresh largesses that he thus exhibits himself as a martyr to their cause? 

t Why in petty courts, except that they are not courts so open to observation as the 
great courts ? 

i Mr. Macqucen may well say that the affairs of the Colonists are wretchedly managed ; 
when such letters as his owji and those of this cunning planter, are permitted to come 
before the eye of the British public. At the same time we cite not these letters as cariy- 
ing any weight of authority with thoni, but as exhibiting senlinients which 'eem to 
buit the meridian of Jan\aita. 



215 

" Blending," lie says, "these two items, suppose, as llie whipoC o/i^; /oil seems 
to be such a terrible symbol of autliority, and the cat-o'nine-tails such a tolera- 
ble one, that the latter, as used in the ariay and navy, be substituted for the 
former, restricting the use of it in the field to six stripes for minor ojfences, under 
the sanction of the overseer or book-keeper; referring delinquencies of more 
serious character to the master or manager; at the same time, not withdrawing 
all the authority from the driver. Allow him the exercise of a rattan as I have 
seen sergeants in the army carry and use. Then, with regard to females, for 
offences requiring beyond the rattan, let thorn be referred as before ; and let them 
be punished according to their misconduct on the back with a rod, and in the 
presence of women only, or by nightly confinement in the stocks for a time pro- 
portionate to the misdeed."* 

Having- thus given a specimen of the sentiments which are confidentially 
transmitted to the Colonies by some at least of the Colonial partizans 
at home, v/e shall now suffer the Planters residing- abroad to delineate 
their OM?n views and feelings on the present crisis of their affairs. The 
following- violent observations of the Trinidad press, on the rejection of 
the Slave Evidence Bill in Jamaica, are transcribed with evident appro- 
bation into the newspapers of the other Colonies : 

" The spirited decision on the part of the .Jamaica Legislature will, if we mis- 
take not, bring at once to a crisis the important question, whether the British 
Colonies are in future to be dictated to in matters of internal legislation."' " If 
Jamaica possess the power to maintain the ground she has assumed, she has 
acted wisely and magnanimously. No man acquainted with the texture of our 
society, can, for a moment, suppose that such a law is required for the general 
protection of slaves. Laws deeply implanted in our breasts by the Divine 
Creator, afford them sure and ample protection as a body."t 

Let us next turn to Barbadoes, in the newspaper of which Island, of 
the 7th March, 1826, is given the speech of a Mr. Pile, on a Bill which 
had been brought into the Assembly for the abolition of Sunday 
markets. 

" My opposition," says this gentleman, " is chiefly levelled against the total 
abolition of the Sunday market. It is a well-known fact, that the places of 
worship in this country, were they well attended, are not more than sufficient 
for the reception of the free population ; and that there is no single place of wor- 
ship of the established religion set apart for the slaves. That such places tvill be 
built I cannot doubt." " But we shall retard and defeat, and not advance our 
object by closing the Sunday markets before the churches are opened. t The slave 
is now encouraged to industry by the certainty of a market where he can dispose 
of the produce of his garden, his stock, &c., and procure luxuries in return: the 
necessaries and comforts of life being furnished him in abundance.^ But if the 

* Need we go further than the rehictaiit propositions and expedients of this considerable 
proprietor for a confirmation of all that has ever been asserted of the driving system, and 
the flogging of women, as parts of the West Indian system? 

f It has been often remarked, that the statements and reasonings of many West Indians 
(such is the hardening and blinding effect of the possession of unlimited power), actually 
assume as their basis, that those who administer the system of Slavery in the Colonies are 
not men but angels. 

% Has any thing stronger and moi-e decisive been ever said by the most intemperate 
abolitionists than this Barbadian planter, in his uncontradicted statenient, has here 
affirmed, of the absolute destitution of religious instruction which lias hitherto generally 
prevailed among the slaves of Barbadoe s^ 

§ There are men, however, who pretend to an intimate knowledge of all the moral -And. 
physical circumstances of the negroes, who affirm that in the lowland: of the West Indies, ne- 
groes will not be " encouraged to industtry" by any motives beyond that of supplying 



216 

Sunday markets were closed, they would be dependent on masters and overseers 
for time to attend the market during the week, which would damp their industry, 
and change for the worse their present habits ; and Sunday would be passed in 
idleness, which might lead to indolence and vice, and even crime, to discontent 
and insubordination/' " In what manner too are the adults to pass the Sun- 
day ? They cannot employ it in their accustomed traffic, and we must not force 
them to attend our places of worship, lest we should stand charged with the sin 
of forcing them to act the part of hypocrites." " Even if Churches were erected, 
I contend, on the score of justice and right, we ought not totally to abolish the 
Sunday market. Ifive take from the slave that day, we ought, injustice, to grant 
him another.* But never could we consent to such a glaring violation of the 
right of property. Who is not either a debtor or creditor ? Who is not embar- 
rassed ? If we take from an estate a day for the slave to attend market instead 
of Sunday, we necessarily diminish the proceeds of that estate, or we must 
compel our slaves to do that labour in five days which they now do in^ix ; and if 
the proceeds be diminished, the security of the creditor is diminished ; and while 
the proceeds are lessened, the expenses are not lessened." 



the mere necessities of nature ; and that their indolence is so inveterate, that it cannot be 
overcome by any such motive as that of a desire to better their condition, or by any mo- 
tive in short but that of physical force. Such is one of the positions anxiously insisted 
upon through many av/eary folio page, by one who assumes to be a great authority in these 
matters, we mean Major Moody. (See his reports paj^m.) But what does Mr. Pile tell us 
in the sequel of his speech? The slaves in Barbadoes, according to him, work six days in 
the week for their masters ; who supply them abundantly with all the necessaries and 
comforts of life, (the only wants which can, according to Major Moody, stimulate the negro 
to the reluctant labour of even one or two hours in a day) ; and yet, though thus amply 
supplied, and thus compelled to labour for six days, they are so wrought upon, it seems, by 
the desire of bettering their condition, and of procuring even the luxuries of life, as volun- 
tarily to employ their brief intervals of rest with such industry and effect as to raise from 
their gardens the means of gratifying this desire. If this be true, can we credit those who 
tell us, that they will not work voluntarily even for liberal wages? Though worn with 
the labours of the ■week, they will work, in order, from the uncertain and distant return 
■which their gardens may yield them, to buy luxuries ; — and yet they will not work for 
money paid down, which will, with no less certaintj% and far more speedily, procure 
them the same luxuries ! Such are the inconsistencies into which men fall who think 
themselves bound to maintain, by a shew of argument, the cause of injustice and oppres- 
sion. 

« This is a perfectly correct view of the case, and is precisely what reason and justice 
call for. Sunday ought to be, and we trust will henceforward be a day of rest to the 
Barbadian slaves. For the purposes to which Sunday has hitherto been irreligiouslj'^ 
applied, namely, the cultivation of their gardens, and the attendance on market, tlie 
smallest reparation which can in common equitybe made them, is now to give them equiva- 
lent time during tlie week. And this is required, not bj- the spirit only, but by the very 
letter of Mr. Canning's original pledge on the subject, a pledge however, still unfulfilled 
even in Trinidad. And if this pledge be fulfilled, if this act of bare justice be performed, 
and a market day be appointed by law instead of Sunday, to which the slave shall have 
the same right as he now has to Sunday, then Mr. Pile's main objection to the abolition 
of Sunday markets will be obviated. But this act of justice to the slaves, Blr. Pile goes on lo 
affirm, will be a robbery of the master, " a glaring violation of the right of property ;" 
and the master, to do justice to himself and his creditors, (for who among the Barbadians, 
he asks, is not embarrassed?) must compel the slave to execute in five days the task of six. 
Thus the usurpation of the sabbath, that impious violation of the laws both of God and 
man, is unblushingly maintained as a legitimate possession, and is held up as a bar to pre- 
vent the Parliament and people of England from restoring to the wretched slave his ina- 
lienable right to the benefit of that merciful dispensation, which made the sabbath for man. 
Can any Act of Parliament be pleaded for this practice ! If not, it is an abuse, for which, 
even if Slavery were a lawful state of society, the Planters, instead of claiming indemnity 



217 

The Editor of the Barbadian newspaper of the 18th of April, 1826, 
thus reasons on the state of the Colonial question : 

" Ten years have passed away of an alarming and unprecedented inter- 
ference in our internal legislation on the part of the British Parliament and 
people." " The consequences which followed upon the agitation of the Registry 
question in 1816, we can none of us recollect without horror — yet the registra- 
tion has proved a useful measure.* In the expression of our opinions on the 
awful questions which have excited general alarm in the West Indies, and have 
almost given the death blow to all our affectionate predilections for the mother 
country, we have given way perhaps too much to our indignation." " Against 
the encroachments of a most extensive faclion in England, which it would be ri- 
diculous to deny has made a powerful impression on the minds of his Majesty's 
Ministers — we raised our warning voice — we lost no opportunity of exposing, 
their duplicity, their self-interestedness, iheix mischievous intentions" " We have 
vindicated our countrymen — we have endeavoured to hold up the Anti-colonial 
faction to that scorn and abhorrence, which their cruel hostility, their calumnies 
and falsehood so justly entitle them to. All this we have done, certes, not in a 
remarkably cool and temperate manner. "t Now, however, "we are deter- 
mined to be as cool as posible." " Government professes the most anxious de- 
sire that every measure of amelioration should proceed from the local legisla- 
tures. They point out what is the declared wish of themselves and of Parlia- 
ment should be done ; and they urge most earnestly that the slaves should 
receive the boon of amelioration from ourselves. This is the last trial : one only 
alternative is held out. ' Do it yourselves, and do it with a good grace, or in 
obedience to the declared sense of Parliament, in conformity with public opinion, 
which neither we, the ministers, nor yourselves, can safely despise, we must try 
the efficacy of an Act of Parliament. This last step we are most unwilling to 
resort to — it depends upon yourselves.' Injustice to his Majesty's Government, 
we are warranted in believing that they will never countenance the monstrous 
injustice of emancipation, j/"ever the slave population should be Jit for it, without 
fair remuneration. Can the Colonial legislatures then any longer safely resist 
the force of public opinion ? Do not their own interests now clearly point out 
the necessity of meeting the wishes of Government, which may annihilate their 
functions in a monnent ?" 

We now return to Jamaica, from the Royal Gazette of which (June 3, 
1826, p. 17,) we learn that at a public meeting held in Trelawney, with 
a view to the approaching dissolution of the Assembly, Mr. Stewart, 
the father of that house, and one of their present representatives, thus 
addressed his constituents : 

" He would take leave," he said, " briefly to state his views of the alterations 
which might be made in the next session, to meet the wishes of his Majesty's 

for its abolition, are bound to make reparation to the slave. They have been enjoying fov 
ages that to -which they have not the shadow of a title, even on any of tliose dubious 
grounds on which they assert a title to the slave himself; and now they claim to be paid 
for discontinuing this flagrant and lawless outrage. 

* Thus has it uniformly been. The abolition of the slave trade was vehemently opposed 
as hringing ruin with it to every West Indian interest. Now, all West Indians concur in- 
applauding that act. The registration of slaves, which was opposed with still more vio- 
lence, and with a clamour still more deafening, has proved, it seems, not a hurtful but a 
useful measure. May it not be fairly presumed that the present propositions for Colonial 
reform, wliich have proceeded from the very same parties, will, ten years hence, appear 
equally entitled to commendation, on the part of the West Indians, with those other mea- 
sures which, however obnoxious in the first instance, they have found, by expedience, to 
be not only not injurious but beneficial? 

+ They have repeated, that is to say, a second and third time, the same unfounded 
allegations, and the same furious invectives which they had already employed to prevent 
measures which they now pronounce good and useful. 



218 

Government. The Slave Evidence Bill, which, under certain restrictions, was in- 
troduced last session, was so guarded that no injury could possibly have arisen to the 
White Population by its enactment.* Different views were, however, taken of the 
question, and it was rejected. In respect to the instruction of the negroes in the 
principles of religion, it was not sufficient to build extra chapels for their accommo- 
dation ; it was also absolutely necessary, if we were sincere in our desire to im- 
prove the moral condition of the slaves, that Sunday markets should be abolished 
altogether, and another day in the week be allowed the negro for the cultivation 
of his land, and the sale of his provisions.! The mode of punishment of the 
female slave, he considered, might also be changed. In lieu of being punished 
with the whip, he thought that the cat or switches might, in many instances, be 
substituted. The women, by their tongues, often caused much mischief, and 
frequently led on to riot ; it might be well to punish some of their offences by so- 
litary confinement, where they could use their tongues ad libitum, but only to 
their own annoyance. Our enemies in Great Britain complained of the use of 
the whip in the field as an instrument of coercion. He would not propose to abo- 
lish it ; but as the smacking of it by the drivers was so hurtful to the sensitive 
feelings of the Anti-Colonists, who assimilated it to the use made by the wag- 
goner in England to excite his team to work, he was of opinion, that it would be 
prudent to take it from the hand of the driver to be hung up in the overseer's 
house, and only used on offenders in presence of the white people and a portion 
of the estate's negroes, and this not sooner than twenty-four hours from the com- 
mission of the offences to be punished. "t " The next subject was the separating 
parents from children, and selling them like cattle at a market, under writs 
of venditioni exponas. He would not blame our ancestors, for having, a hun- 
dred and iifty years ago, permitted this," while the slave trade lasted ; " but 
now the times are changed," and though " it would not be fair to make the ope- 
ration retrospective as to existing judgments, yet our legislature might, by a 
salutary and beneficial enactment, attach the negro to the soil." " To manumis- 
sion by purchase, when voluntary and agreed to by the owner, he did not see any 
objection ; but not to be made compulsory. i^ Any measure tending to general 
emancipation should be deprecated, because voluntary labour, we know, is not 
consistent with the negro character. His general character is that of idleness, 
and he cannot be kept to work but by continual superintendance.|| In the 

* He might have added with equal truth, " nor any good to the Black population." 
+ Here, again, observe how clear and decided Mr. Stewart is as to the obligation of 
allowing to the slave an entire day in the week, " for the cultivation of his land and the 
sale of his provisions," in lieu of the Sunday. And yet tluj equitable arrangement has 
as yet been adopted in no one Colony, not even in Trinidad, though placed under a law 
framed by the King's ministers, who had themselves previously recognised the expedi- 
ency and justice of such an arrangement. 

j We see how even this respectable Colonist clings to the corporal punishment of 
females, and to the driving whip, as indispensable, even though, to meet the wishes of 
his Majesty's Government, they may be subjected to certain restraints and modifications. 
Driving, however, be it remembered, is not the punishment of an offence, buttlie enforce- 
ment of labour. To confound the one with the other as Mr. Stewart does, (we do not in 
his case say purposely,) is one of the arts by which the more subtle advocates of Slavery 
try to disguise its abominations. 

§ If not made compulsory on the master, when the slave has the means of effecting his 
manumission by purchase, we may abandon all hope of any termination of Slavery, except 
hy a convulsion. In this view of the subject, we trust his Majesty's Ministers will 
remain firm. Much, however, is still wanting to give to this important principle its due 
and effectual operation. 

II Compare Mr. Stewart's statement with that of Mr. Pile, as given above. Is idleness 
then not the universal character of human nature till prompted by neccessity, or called 
into action by still nobler motives? Mr. Macqueen charges the masters of slaves with the 
same vice as natural to them. Is it fair in Mr. Stewart, and such reasoners as he, to have 
kept the negroes in bodily and mental degradation forsucessive generations; to have de- 
nied them all intellectual or moral culture ; to have allowed them not even the pretence of 



219 

United States, where negroes acquired their freedom to a gieat extent, they were 
at length ibund, from their vicious and dissolute course of living, to become a 
pest to society. The American Government have gone to great expense in fit- 
ting out vessels and conveying these free negroes to the coast of Africa. A set- 
tlement of them was formed at Cape Mesurado, but in the course of a few years 
they became the most abandoned vagabonds, and wandered about from place to 
place. Some have since gone to St. Domingo, where the wretched treatment 
they experienced was ten times worse than that of the slaves in this country.* 
The southern states of America possess an immense slave population for the cul- 
tivation of rice and tobacco, which, owing to the swamps and climates could not 
be carried on by Whites. No attempt has been made or hinted at to emanci- 
pate these slaves. If such a subject were touched upon it would occasion a 
breach of the union. t The negroes in St. Domingo acquired their liberty by 
rebellion. t We are informed, by persons lately arrived from that island, that in 
the short space of twenty years, the population has decreased 100,000.§ The 
people there, are in their manners and habits, depraved and vicious, and their 
government is most wretched. In lieu of the whip they are kept to their work 

a motive to exertion, except the base fear of the lash ; and to continue to bind them down 
without a hope of release in this state of brutal debasement ;— and then to turn round 
upon us, and contemplating their own work, say, " the character of the negro is a clia- 
ractei of idleness : he will not work but under the lash : he is incapable of voluntary 
labour: stripes may move him, wages will not?" , 

In the New Times of the 7th instant, a Grenada planter is very indignant that slaves 
should be thought not toijossess property, as the fruit of their own industry. They possess, 
he affirms, and so do the slaves generally, a large amount of property. Is not this pro- 
perty then the fruit of voluntary labour? — Of voluntary labour, too, under circumstances 
which prove the negro to be industrious, and to be susceptible of the force of other motives 
than those either of mere hunger, or of the fear of the lash, in at least an equal degree with 
any other portion of the human race? 

* Every syllable in this statement is incorrect. An examination of it will shew us the slight depend- 
ence to be placed on the representations even of such respectable men as Mr. Stewart, when they labour 
under the influence of prejudice, or have interests of tlieir own to serve. The American Government 
liave gone to no expense whatever for conveying the free negroes of the United States, those alleged 
pests of society, to the coast of Africa. A few benevolent individuals, pitying the state of degradation 
in which they saw the free people of colour held, in a country where, in the face of the constitutional 
assertion of the equal and indefeasible rightsof man, a community of social and civil prinleges is denied 
to all who are of African descent, formed a project for inducing some of them to migrate to tlieir original 
country. Several hundreds, out of hundreds of thousands, accepted the offer. They have encountered 
many hardships in endeavouring to effect a settlement, but they have succeeded ; and tlie settlers, instead 
of having abandoned it and become vagabonds, as Mr. Stewart asserts, are, according to the last accounts, 
in a fixed and prosperous state. A small body of free persons of colour also accepted an ofl'er to migrate 
to St. Domingo, where, instead of experiencing, as Mr. Stewart affirms, " wretched treatment ten times 
worse than that of the slaves of Jamaica," it is admitted by Major Moody Cin his last Report) that they 
were received with kindness artd hospitality; that every promise made to them was punctually fulfilled ; 
tliat their failure arose in no degree from the ill treatment they met with ; but from their own misconduct, 
or from their unreasonable and overweening expectations. 

That in the United States the emancipated slaves and their descendants are kept in a state of wretched 
depression and degradation is too true. But this is not t/ieirv/ork, but that of the dominant whites, who, 
in some states, have even constituted it a high crime to teach a slave to read, and who exclude the negro' 
and coloured races from participating in the common rights of citizenship. 

+ What does this prove, but that nothing in the way of effectual reform is to be hoped for from the 
masters of slaves? The legislators of the Southern American States, and the legislators of the Antilles 
are both of this class. In both, the whites alone legislate for the blacks and mulattoes. If therefore, 
unwarned by the example of America, our Government should persist in committing the work of reform, 
to Colonial legislators, what can we expect but that no sincere or effective attempt will be made, nor 
step taken, to emancipate their slaves? Indeed, Mr. Stewart tells us so in plain terms. 

t They acquired it, in the first instance, by a decree of the national convention. They won it after- 
wai'ds by their blood and valour, in fair conflict with one of the best appointed armies of Bonaparte. 

S Mr, Stewart lives in an island which is only twelve hours sail from St. Domingo ; and yet lie 
suffers himself to be deluded, and he deludes others, by such false representations. Instead of having 
decreased by 100,000 in the last twenty years, the population of St. Domingo has nearly doubled its 
numbers; and at the last census in 18S4 amounted to 935,000 souls ! 



220 

only by military authority.* If we look to this island (Jamaica,) we shall find 
that the Maroons who have been free for years, are sunk into the depth of idle- 
ness and debauchery. They have no desire to improve their condition, and they 
only labour sufficiently for their immediate subsistence. t Emancipation, even 
at the distance of twenty or thirty years, is a wild and visionary scheme.^ The 
slave has a hold on his master. If the master wishes to shake him off, he ex- 
claims, " Massa, you belong to me, and I wont leave you."§ What would be the 
effect of indiscriminate emancipation ? The lame, the diseased, and the blind, 
who are now provided for by their owners, would be abandoned as the poor 
Irish are to wretchedness and starvation. || If the ulterior views of the visionary 
philanthropists in Great Britain are to lead to general emancipation, let us atonce 
tell them that we will not proceed farther than we conceive can be done with 
safety to ourselves. Should the British Government carry its threat into execu- 
tion, and legislate for us, we must yield, but let us protest before God and the 
world against such an act of injustice. He pledged himself to support only such 
enactments as might be made with safety to the property and persons of his con- 
stituents." 

We have given the more space to Mr. Stewart's observations, on 
account of the weight which the respectability of his character will 
naturally give to them, and which has made it also the more necessary 
that they should be met by a refutation. What remains will occupy 
much less room. 

In the Royal Gazette of Jamaica, of June 3rd, 1826, are inserted 
several important communications. 

One writer remarks, that " as the mother country has the power, it is 
needless to question her right to force upon them her proposed measures 

* Even if tliis statement were true, which it is -not, being as directly the reverse of truth as the 
assertion last commented upon, how infinitely preferable would be the legitimate exercise of even military 
authority, to the impulse of the cart whip in the hands of private caprice, or sordid cupidity? 

t Have the legislators of Jamaica taken a single step to civilize the Maroons 1 On the contrarj', has 
not the whole current of their policy been directed to prevent their elevation? They are constituted the 
human blood-hounds of Jamaica. They are tempted by rewards to occupy themselves in tracking 
runaways. No means of education are afforded them. They are studiously insulated from the rest ol 
the community. And we might judge from the actual state of things, that the safety of Jamaica was 
considered as bound up in the ignorance, profligacy, and heathenism of the Maroons. And yet with all 
their incivilization, the Maroons increase rapidly, while the slaves around them decrease. 

i The redemption of the female slaves, according to a plan inserted in the Appendix to the second 
Report of the Anti-slavery Societj', would not put an end to slavery till after the latest of these periods. 
§ And yet what is the bribe held out on all occasions to tempt the negro either to gallant daring, or 
to any wished-for disclosure 1 It is emancipation. What is it that he thinks cheaply purchased by the 
earnings of a life of toil and self denial ? It is emancipation. Against what passion is it that the penal 
statutes of the Colonies point their sharpest vengeance? It is against the desire of libertj'. Au attempt 
to escape from the island is visited with death. Even a few montlis escape from the cart whip into the 
adjoining woods may be punished capitally. And yet the slave, Mr. Stewart would persuade us, shrinks 
from accepting the boon of freedom. 

II Does Mr. Stewart believe that even the poor, wretched, star\'ing Irish would change conditions witli 
his slaves ? Let him try the experiment. Let him subject the naked body of the Irish female to the 
cart whip, or the back of her husband to the driver's lash, and both to the brutal debasement of negro life , 
in the West Indies, and he would see how they would spurn his service, even if they were sure to wallow 
in the abundance of plantains, yams, aud salt herrings. But there are "the lame, the diseased, and the 
blind " to be provided for. In a climate and soil, however, where the West Indians tell us, as a reason 
for keeping man in slavery, that a week's labour in thd year- will supply all the necessaries of life, we are 
now told that they must be kept in slavery, lest " the lame, and the diseased, and the blind " should 
starve. Is there tlien no natural affecMon among negroes ? Or how are "the lame, aud the diseased 
and the blind" among the Mai-oons of Jamaica, or among tjie 40,000 emancipated slaves and their 
descendants in that island, now supported? It cannot be that there should be no " lame, and diseased, 
and blind " among them ; and yet do they not subsist without any compulsory provision, and without 
any burden on the community ? Let Mr. Stewart tell us how many of those 40,000 who really require 
aid are supported by a poor rate, or by any bounty, excepting that of their own class. And supposmg 
the case were otherwise; could not a wise and considerate government take care to make tlie due 
support of the infuni, a condition of emancipation? Such reasonings, therefore, only serve to expose 
the miserable weakness of a cause which is forced to employ them in its service. 



221 

of reform," v/hich also, he thinks,ought not to be rejected because pro- 
posed by her, but if proper in themselves, ought to be adopted. 

" Our labouring classes, it is true, are not now cajpable of appreciating the 
advantages of religion — they are happy, but they are ignorant ;* but the sooner 
the work of instruction is begun, the sooner will it be accomplished. The House 
of Assembly therefore ought not only to abolish Sunday markets, but oblige 
proprietors and overseers to see that the Negroes go regularly to a place of wor- 
ship on the Sabbath. Friday might be substituted for the market day, and every 
other Saturday given for the cultivation of provision grounds, and Sunday set 
apart exclusively for devotion and rest, t The JSegroes would feel this a great 
boon, and a few years would produce a great improvement in their moral character.''^ 

" Another measure I- should like to see carried into execution, if possible, is 
the abolition of the whip, in a certain degree.^ But such is the character of our 
labouring classes, that how repugnant soever it may be to the feelings of their 
masters to resort to this expedient, it is feared that it cannot be dispensed with 
entirely. {| Put a Negro in the stocks, or send him to the workhouse to be pu- 
nished, and you are deprived of his labour, while you are obliged to support him, 
and pay a fee (for the workhouse flogging) of 2s. 6d. ; and when he comes home 
he pretends he is unable to do any thing /or three or four days.^ On plantations, 
if the Sunday market is changed to Friday, the whip might be abolished as re- 
gards women, and confinement in the stocks on that day and their own Saturday 
substituted.** But in towns, where an allowance is given to domestics for their 
support, in lieu of cultivating their grounds, the abolition of the whip is scarcely 
practicable. It is manifest to every individual in the least acquainted with this 
Colony, JArti the dread of the whip is the only prevention of idleness and inso- 
lence." \\ " The Slave-evidence Bill I consider fraught with the greatest mischief: 
by its voluntary enactment our Colonial Legislature will lay the foundation of 
its own ruin." " Let opposition then be made to this Bill, not because it pro- 
ceeds from the mother country, but because our Assembly, being more competent 
judges, conceive it likely to subvert our institutions, and endanger our safety4t 
Let the mother country be told respectfully, but firmly, that it is impossible to 
adopt such a measure, unless a pledge be given to us for a full and ample com- 
pensation, not only for our Negroes but lands, in the event of her interference 
producing those results which the Colonies clearly foresee." " Let the West 
India motto be, ' Full and ample compensation.' Let the call for this be re- 
peated and loud. On this is our only hope ; with it, we will do every thing the 
mother country shall require — without it, woi/iing-."§§ 

The two succeeding extracts, and they are all we shall have room for, 
will evince the altered tone which begins generally to predominate in the 
West Indies, in consequence of the unequivocal display of public feel- 
ing which the last year has witnessed in Great Britain on the subject 
of Slavery. 
•" At this awful crisis," says the Royal Gazette of Jamaica, " it becomes the 

* Can they be indeed happy, if ignorant of what it most imports immortal beings to know 1 

t This writer concurs with Mr. Pile and Mr. Stewart in conceding the indispensable obligation, if 
Sunday is to be made a day of devotion and rest, of giving the slave, by larv, another entire day in lieu 
of it, for markets and the cultivation of his grounds. 

i This is most true ; they would feel it a far more important boon, than all that has been givea them 
besides. But the measure, though promised, has no where, not even in Trinidad, been brought into 
operation. 

§ See how they, one and all, cling to tlie whip. 

II Undoubtedly it cannot be dispensed with entirely, if men are to work for the benefit of others, and 
not for their own, unless another stimulus be substituted. If no reward be given for voluntary labour, 
how is it to be obtained for another's benefit, even in Great Britain, but by compulsion? 

IT We'may judge from this expression of the severity of these work-house floggings, inflicted by the 
desire, and at the caprice of, a master, or manager, without any reference to a magistrate. 

** In other words, punish them by starving instead of flogging. 

tj- While the whip continues the only spur to exertion, the dread of it will, of course, continue the only 
preventive of idleness and insolence. 

It How these Colonial doctors differ ! 

§§ We see from this specimen what we have to expect on the part of the Planters as to claims for com- 
pensation. The Council of Trinidad demand it in return for giving up the labour of the slave on 
Sunday, and prtwiding him with equivalent time, though not for conceding the right of evidence. Mr, 



222 

bouudeii duty of those to whom our interests are, or may be, confided, to look 
at the subject calmly and dispassionately, rejecting all angry or violent counsels, 
and regarding with contemptuous indilference every thing like menace or intimi- 
dation. Whatever communications are made to the House of Assemlily, should 
be received with the respect which is due to all subjects recommended by the 
Crown, and disposed of separately according to their respective merits ; and 
where it may not be expedient to accede to them, temperate and judicious rea- 
sons should be assigned for a non-compliance. At all events the question should 
be fairly met, and not postponed, from time to time, on various pretences, but 
proceeded in at once." May 27th, 1826. 

Another writes, " I will not take up your time in enquiries as to our just 
rigkts, but state the situation in which we stand with the mother country. A 
party there have used every exertion to draw the attention of all classes to us ; 
and I understand they have succeeded in a wonderful manner. The name of a 
West Indian is almost a reproach ; and the word Slavery is made use of to ex- 
cite every angry feeling against us. We all know the power of public opinion." 
" Yield to public opinion — by that means you will save yourselves from ruin. 
Let the people of England see that you elect men to represent you, who will 
fairly copsider every proposition made by His Majesty's Ministers, and accede 
to them when they can do so. Let every unkind feeling be banished ; and let us, 
by yielding to public opinion, allow the outcry of the party in England to pass over 
and he forgotten. Let our Legislature endeavour to improve our slave law, and suit 
it to our present mild discipline. While ice have a trial by jury, we need not fear 
to pass the Slave evidence Bill, and the time will come ivhen we shall wonder ivhy 
ive hesitated."^ 

C. N. PALLMER, Esq.— rights of negroes. 
The election of Mr. Pallmer for the county of Surry, has led to seve- 
ral insertions in the County Chronicle, by some able friend of our cause, 
who styles himself " a Surry freeholder." In that of the 18lh July, 
appears a letter addressed to Mr. P. bearing that signature, and which evi- 
dently proceeds from no weak or unskilful combatant. We transcribe as 
much of it into our pages as we can now find room for. After adverting 
to some points of merely local interest, this able writer thus proceeds : 
" I shall now give a sketch of those general principles, the value of which it 
is extremely probable that the obstinacy of the Colonists will cause, at no distant 
time, to be brought to the test of a competent tribunal. Of the negroes in the 
West Indies — some are unoffending helpless foreigners, carried thither by an 
act of piracy, and forcibly detained in a state of slavery, in violation of the 
general principles of the Law of Nations, v/hich we recognise as a civilized 
people. That is the only law by which the question of slavery, as it affects them, 

Pile prefers a similar claim. Mr. Stewart prefers no claim for compensation either for the day given 
in lieu of Sunday, or for admitting the slaves to the privilege of giving evidence ; and with him the 
West Indians in England concur. The present writer claims nothing for the day substituted for Sunday ; 
but for allowing slaves to give evidence, there must be " a full and ample compensation secured."— 
Another writer in the same paper says, " There appears to be one way of escape left— let the ameliora- 
tion bill be passed with as little alteration as the utmost degree of conciliating prudence can justify. 
But let there be a clause which shall fix its opera.tiori to commence one month after a pledge of indem- 
nity, made on the part of the British nation, shall be officially announced against all loss." A third 
writer in the Gazette of the preceding week writes thus:—" Compensation must precede emancipation, 
•or any other proposition from the British Government. Blr. Canning cannot forget that the Negro 
slaves are our own absolute property, axiA that we paid for them, as well as his honour paid /or his horses ; 
and that we expect a reimbursement of our money ; and that we will iiot conform to measures which may 
prove detrimental to our interests ; or, at least, if we are compelled to yield to these outrageous or e.\-- 
perimental laws, let it not be said that we have lent a hand to our own destruction." 

* In other words—" Avert the threatened interference of Parliament by soft words and apparent 
compliances. Mere enactments, unsupported by adequate sanctions, experience has proved to us, may 
be safely hazarded. Whatever the enactments be it matters not, while the administration rests \iith us. 
While we have our trial by Jury, (from which all but the Wliites are excluded,) and while our Judges 
are Planters, what have we to fear? What signify the mere terms of a law, when that law is subjected 
to the sure operation of the esprit du corps,hoi\i in Judge and Juiy ? Tlie more liberal these terms, the 
better secured shall we be from any efficient controul— and by thus yielding to public opinion, we shall 
surmount the present crisis, until the outcry of tlie pn.rty in England shall pass over and be forgotten." 



223 

can be tried with any sliew of justice. Whatever may have been their condition 
in Africa, we know Iheni only as innocent strangers, who, when they sailed on 
board British ships before the express abolition of the slave trade, passed neces- 
sarily through the jurisdiction of the British Court of Admiralty on the high seas, 
and from that moment, at all events, became as free as if they had arrived in the 
River Thames. During the voyage these unhappy human beings could be treated 
as slaves by no law but that of brutal force, for they were legally free ; and, if 
they were carried on and sold in the Islands, it was as to them an act of piracy, 
without requiring any declaratory law to make it so, as far as their inalienable 
rights were concerned. They were harmless aliens, pirated on the high seas, 
and the piracy and the pirate were continued in the person of the Colonist, who 
bought stolen human beings knov.'ing them to have been stolen. These helpless 
foreigners owe no allegiance to the authority which oppresses them ; they are 
still under the protection of the law of nations, a fact which would quickly be 
brought to our notice by the able and accomplished diplomatists of the Black 
republic of Hayti, if they should discover that any of their own people were so 
detained. Among civilized nations, the natural rights of unoffending aliens are 
not the less sacred and unextinguishable, because no powerful arm is stretched 
out to support them. If they are held in slavery, it can only be by a most cruel 
and violent usurpation, because they are weak, and not by any, law which can, 
by the remotest possibility, impose obligations on them. If they are put to deatli 
for asserting, or indeed for talking about asserting their natural rights, the act is 
as entirely an act of murder as when a pirate fires upon his prisoners because 
they are not willing to submit to his injustice. Those of the negroes who are 
not aliens are the born subjects of the British Crown, held in slavery, incredible 
as it might seem, by other British subjects ; and in many instances these op- 
pressed victims are also Christians. Born within the King's allegiance, whatever 
may be the colour of their skins, they possess, as their birthright, all the general 
rights of Englishmen ; they owe an allegiance to their King, with which a state 
of slavery is incompatible ; they are only British colonists of a darker com- 
plexion. If the strong hand of oppression has degraded and brutalized them to 
its purposes, the rapid progress in intellectual advancement made by the people 
of Hayti, within these few years, may serve to shew of what the negroes are 
capable in a state of liberty. The total loss of all mental and moral energy, 
whicli marks the condition of the enslaved captives of the piratical States of 
/Vfrica, may also shew that vtrhite men, reduced to the same deplorable situation, 
have little superiority to boast of, excepting those who may have had the advan- 
tages of previous education, or are buoyed up with the hope of a speedy deli- 
verance. But the rights of our Black fellow subjects are forcibly withheld from 
them, because our own Municipal Courts have no authority out of England ; and 
in the Colonial Courts justice is denied them by the law of the strongest. It was 
because the barbarians at Algiers acted on the same principle towards foreigners, 
that England laid their town in ruins, and raised to the dignity of a viscount the 
brave man who was made the minister of her wrath. That we should be equally 
alive to the suiferings of British subjects in our colonies is neither quackery nor 
hypocrisy. The Colonial Legislatures have not, and never could possess in their 
petty jurisdictions, a power to make laws extinguishing the civil existence of 
unoffending British subjects by thousands and hundreds of thousands^a ijower 
not within the competence of the Legislature of the mother country itself to 
exercise or to delegate to others. Such a power would at once annihilate the 
British Constitution, and scatter our social compact to the winds. Have the 
colonists yet to learn that their powers, like those of the States of Jersey and 
Guernsey, or indeed like those of every parish and corporation, are limited to 
regulations by which no paramount rights are invaded ? Bo the inhabitants of 
those colonies, which we possess by conquest, imagine that, in time of war, they 
could vote themselves the adherents of those countries to which they formerly 
belonged, on the ground that their ancient laws and privileges were guaranteed 
to them ? Have the conquered and the settled colonies yet to learn that their 
buccaneer pretension to make what laws they please, might with as much pro- 
priety extend itself to the right, founded on the old practice of holding- white 
men in slavery, of sending to labour in their fields as slaves the crews of French 
or American vessels driven by atress of w«ather into their ports, and of con- 
demning their ships as lawful prize ? This pretension has no limits ; it is not 



224 

allegiance, but independence; and when it consigns British subjects or unoffend- 
ing foreigners to a state of slavery, it is the independence of Algiers. But it is 
said that England has herself, by Acts of Parliament, created negro slavery: 
this, to the best of my recollection, is not a correct statement of the fact, though 
it is, I am afraid, too true that this country has in several of her Statutes, recog- 
nized the slavery of British subjects, as an existing state of things in our colonies, 
by a sort of indirect connivance. This does not vary the general question ; it 
only affords ground for a fair claim to compensation. Beyond this indirect con- 
nivance the Legislature of England could not go, and this strange anomaly of 
its having gone so far can only be explained by the supposition that, at the time, 
the House of Commons vras well stocked with slave owners, whose ideas of the 
true principles of the British Constitution were confused by conflicting princi- 
ples, imbibed during their residence in the West Indian Islands, and confirmed 
by the long habit of treating their fellow-subjects as mere goods and chattels. 
A custom has grown up among us, which permits persons who hold their fellow- 
subjects in slavery to become the Legislators of the freest country in the 
world ; but it is a custom liable to the most serious objections, and one which 
all men who take the principles of the British (Constitution for their guide will 
at all times view with jealousy and dissatisfaction. Of the virtual disqualifica- 
tion there can be no doubt ; but this is high matter, and will appear with more 
propriety in a general address to the Electors of England, on the great increase 
of slave-owners in the new Parliament." 

RESTRICTIONS ON TRADE, IN FAVOUR OF SLAVE-LABOUR. 

The following communication on the ruinous effect of the restrictions 
on trade, and especially of those intended to favour the produce of 
Slave-labour, is extracted from a late number of the Times. 

Sir, — I have read with deep interest your remarks on the distress of our 
labouring population. You have adverted to the evils of pauperism, which are 
continuing, without even an attempt at a remedy, to destroy the comforts and 
morals of our peasantry ; you have also dwelt on the evils arising from the mo- 
nopoly of corn enjoyed by the landholders. But you have overlooked another 
subject, highly worthy of your attention as connected with the existing distress : 
I mean the monopoly in the trade of tea, sugar, and coffee, — next to corn, the 
articles of most general consumption. If China were thrown open to our com- 
merce, and its immense tea trade were set at liberty, a powerful impulse would 
be given to our manufacturing industry. For this, however, we must probably 
wait till the expiration of the East India Company's charter; But can any ade- 
quate reason be assigned for continuing the protecting duties, in favour of colo- 
nial produce, of 10s. per cwt. on East India sugar, and 28s. per cwt. on East 
India Coffee — a tax equal to fifty per cent, on the prime cost of these articles, 
and therefore in reality a tax equal to fifty per cent, on the export of our manu-» 
factures to that country ? The export of our manufactures to India, since the 
partial renewing of the trade to that country, has already increased at a pro- 
digious rate, and it is obviously checked in its progress, only by the want of 
returns, in effect by the absurd restrictions which forbid us to receive and con- 
sume their sugar and coffee. Is it not absolute infatuation thus to shut against 
ourselves, to such an extent, the market of a hundred millions of consumers, 
who are also our fellow-subjects, in order to favour a handful of planters in our 
slave colonies, who have no claim upon us for such a costly sacrifice, except that it 
is required to repay to them the destruction of human life which slavery causes ? 
And this policy is the more to be deplored, because, while it serves to starve 
our manufacturers, and to depress our eastern empire, it aggravates the miseries 
and swells the mortality of the unhappy slaves in our colonies. The interests 
of humanity are here most clearly in unison with the dictates of that sound and 
enlightened policy which his Majesty's ministers, except when impeded by the 
parliamentary influence of colonial slave-holders are solicitous to pursue. Even 
if we were disposed to make light of the sufferings of the slaves, or of the claims 
of the Hindoos, we surely will not turn a deaf ear to the cries of our famished 
and perishing population. 



Zondaii.— 'BAOSTEli 4 I'HOMS, Printer'^, 14, Biirtho!o?new Close. 



Londo7i, 18, Altlermanhury , September 30, 1826. 

No. 16. 

ANTI-SLAVERY 
MONTHLY REPORTER. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons wish- 
ing to receive a regular supply, are requested to make application to the Secretary, 
at the Society's office, No. IS, Aldermanbury, and mention the conveyance by 
whicli they may be most conveniently sent. 



THE BERBICE FISCAL'S OFFICIAL VINDICATION OF HIS REPORT 
RESPECTING THE COMPLAINTS OF NEGROES. 

Many of our readers, without doubt, retain a lively recollection of 
the atrocities which the Report of the Fiscal of Berbice, printed last year 
by order of the House of Commons, shewed to have been perpetrated in 
that Colony. In the postscript to a pampiilet, entitled " The Slave 
Colonies of Great Britain, or a picture of Negro Slavery, drawn by the 
Colonists themselves," * a brief view was given of its details, which were 
described as admitting " us into the interior, the very penetralia of the 
slave system, there exhibited, in all its height, and length, and breadth, 
and depth of deformity." 

The exposure of these atrocities has powerfully excited the indigna- 
tion of the Colonists, not against the perpetrators of them, but against 
those who called to them the attention of the public. Even some 
Members of Parliament, while they expressed disgixst and horror at the 
revolting details contained in this Report, look pains to weaken their 
efFoct, by attempting to throw discredit on the motives of those who pub- 
lished the abstract of them just referred to. 

Since that time, a more formidable adversary has appeared in the per- 
son of the Fiscal of Berbice himself, the very officer on whose authority 
the whole statement rested. The Council of that Colony, at a meeting 
held on the 1 1th of January 1826, Resolved, on the motion of the HoOo 
Simon Frazer, " That, in consequence of the very injurious observations 
reflecting on the character and conduct of the inhabitants of this Colony, 
arising from certain reports of his Honour the Fiscal, relative to com- 
plaints made to him by the negroes, transmitted to his Majesty's 



* This postscript will he found entire in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, "No. 5, which will equally serve the 
purpose of reference witli the pamphlet. It is the second edition of the pamphlet which is alw.nys quoted. 



226 

Government in a most imperfect state, tliey thouglil it but just, tliat \he 
Colonists, who were not only disposed to court inquiiy, but anxious for 
the strictest scrutiny, should have every opportunity afforded them, to 
rebut the charges of their calumniators ;* and that, therefore, the 
Governor should be requested to call uj)on the Fiscal for a detailed 
report of the nature of the inquiry, instituted either by him, or the Court 
of Criminal Justice, into the complaints alluded to, as also of the final 
judgments in each case, in order to meet, fairly, the unqualified attacks, 
which there is too much reason to believe, will be levelled against the 
West India character, founded on garbled and imperfect documents." 

In obedience to this Resolution of Council, the Fiscal drew up a 
second report, which having been transmitted to Lord Bathursf, has 
been subsequently printed by order of the House of Commons. A copy 
of it is now before us, and we would say of it, in general, that in- 
stead of at all serving the purpose of its prompters, which was to rebut 
the charges against West Indian humanity and justice, founded on the 
original report of the Fiscal, it tends to confirm, and even to aggravate 
those charges. 

This report, thus produced with the view of whitewashing the Colo- 
nial System, is accompanied by a letter from the Fiscal to the Governor, 
which merits particular attention. It is dated the 21st January, 1826. 

" My Lord Bathiirst," he says, " was pleased to desire his Excellency, 
Lieutenant-Governor Beard, to direct me to forward, for the purpose of beins 
laid before the House of Commons, copies of the complaints of slaves, made at 
my office from the year 1814, to the date of his Lordship's dispatch. 

" It is v^'ith deep regret that I liave perceived from many of the public prints in 
Gi'eat Britain, that garbled statements of some of these complaints have been 
made public, t and from the inflammatory manner in which they are stated in tlie 
speeches at a meeting at Norfolk, cannot fail to excite indignation against tlie 
discharge of the duties of my office, as well as the most unfounded prejudice 
against individuals of respectability in this Colony. Together with some of the 
complaints of slaves transmitted by me, are the refutations ; but in all cases 
brought forward , such are carefully kept in the back gi'ouud.t 

" In cases where I found there was foundation for complaint, I deemed it my 
duty to bring it before the Court of Criminal Justice, the .supreme tribunal of the 
Colony, where his Excellency presided, and when once removed there, the com- 
plaint and decision upon it became a matter of public record, and consequently 
totally unnecessary to form any part of the private memorandums, which, as I 
stated in my letter to the Lieutenant-Governor, I merely kept, for my own satis- 
faction, my office not forming one of public record,^ nor were the slightest me- 
moranda handed to me of the proceedings of my predecessors. This, I hope, 
will account for the apparently imperfect state in which these complaints were 
transmitted. 

" In corroboration of these assertions, I now beg leave to hand your Excellency 
statements of the proceedings, and explanations on many cases quoted at the Nor- 

• The " charges of their calumniators" were neither more nor less than a few extracts from the Fiscal's 
official report of the complaints of the negroes. If, in making this report, circumstances were omitted 
by him which were necessary to his own vindication as a minister of justice, or, to the full understanding 
of the different cases brought before him, the fault was liis, not that of the Anti-Slavery Society. 

+ The Fiscal evidently alludes to the Society's pamphlet, the Slave Colonies, &c. lie ought, in fairness, 
to have specified the instances in which his statements have tliere been garbled. 

J We take it upon us to say, that this accusation is untrue. Being made, it ought to have been sub- 
stantiated ; but no instance is adduced by the Fiscal to support it. 

§ It is a heavy reflection on the administration of tlie Slave Laws, that their infraction should not be 
matter of record, 



227 

folk meeting. In rogard to the ussevtions of some of tlie speakers at this nieet- 
iiio-, that they had tlieir information from the Fiscal, I positively declare, I never 
directly or indirectly, lield any correspondence or communication with the gen- 
tlemen in question ;* and as to the unfounded assertion, that negroes, coming to 
my office to complain, were generally flogged by way of redress, I hesitate not to 
say, is a malicious falsehood. t I have sixteen years discharged the duties of my 
office in a conscientious manner, consistent with my duty to my Sovereign ; 
and I have great pleasure in stating, that in none of his Majesty's Colonies, are 
the slaves better treated than in this ;t every facility is afforded them to prefer 
their complaints, and when they are founded, the records will shew the exemplary 
manner in which transgressors are punished.^ It is unnecessary for me to ob- 
serve to your Excellency, how much negroes are in the habit of exaggerating 
their complaints, and, indeed, how very often they are unfounded; nine times in 
ten they proceed from the most indolent and worthless negroes on the estates, 
and are generally contradicted by the better behaved negroes. || I will only tres- 
pass further on your Excellency's time, by observing, that when complaints are 
once transferred by me to the superior tribunals, I am no longer a judge in sucli 
cases but merely the prosecutor; and, as I deem it my duty, in cases of im- 
portance, to resort to this mode of proceeding, it will further account to your Ex- 
cellency for my decisions not being noted in many cases. "5[ 

Let us now proceed to examine this pretended vindication of the 
inhabitants, and of the judicial administration, of Berbice, and see to 
what it amounts. 

1. Tiie case of Mrs. Sanders, (see Slave Colonies, p. 104, 105.) is 
stated in nearly the same terms as in the first Report, p. 5 ; any varia- 
tions being merely verbal. The only part that is new, is the result 
which is thus given : " From the foregoing examinations, it was 'proved 
by the evidence of the overseer, on oath, that Mrs. Sanders had not 
confined any of the negroes in shackles : the other charges appeared 
to be satisfactorily made out." Now the evidence of the overseer, 

* The Fiscal seems to have strangely supposed tliat Lord Suffield and Mr. Buxton, in saying they had 
their information exclusively from liim, meant to impute to him the uni)ardonable offence of privately 
corresponding: with them. They alluded entirely to his official report. 

+ The Fiscal does not tell us where or by whom this ivalicivus falsehood was uttered. On referring to 
the pamphlet above mentioned, we find five instances only specified out of thirty or forty, in which the 
Fiscal redressed the complaint by flogging the complainant. So far is it from being true, that any such 
charge was made generally against the Fiscal in that parnplilet, that it is theie expressly stated, Cp. 104.) that 
Ins decisions have not been given " except in a fe-D casea." 

i We are not at all disposed to question the truth of this stateinent. The slaves in tlie other Colonies 
are, we believe, no better oft' than those of Berbice ; and, in some, we have no doubt, that if like 
authentic details were given of tlie nature and result of their complaints, we should have a disclosure of 
at least a fair proportion of similar horrors. 

5 Why has he not given us those recori^i? They have been anxiously called for. The order of the 
House of Commons was to produce records oi all proceedings with their results, in cases of complaints 
of masters and slaves. The first return to this order is admitted by the Council of Berbice to have been 
imperfect. In fact, we had there nearly 200 cases of complaint in which no decision wliate\-er was 
notified. But the second Report which we are now considering, and which was intended expressly to 
supply the imperfections of the first, does not give us any additional information, except in ten of those 
two hundred cases ; and the information which it does give not only throws little additional light on the 
subject, but aggravates, in a high degree, some of those cases, and serves to illustrate still more strongly the 
inliereut cruelty and injustice of the whole system, as we shall shew by a careful induction of paiticulars. 

II All tills ought to have been matter of proof, not of assertion. Why is not the testimony of these 
better behaved negroes before us? If Mr. Bennett had given us facts as established in evidence, we 
should have been wholly independent of his opinion, which, whether we regard him as a Planter, or as 
a .judge whose own conduct is in question, is liable, in this instance, to be biassed by the circumstances 
in which he is placed. 

IT This forms no apology whatever for the imperfection of the returns. The decisions were called for, 
and ousht^to have been given, whether they were recorded in the office of the Fiscal, or in that of the 
Court of Criminal Justice. And why are tlicy not now given? _ 



228 

« 

yreves that he was regularly absent from home, attending the wood- 
cutters in the woods, from Monday morning to Saturday night; and 
was at home only from Saturday night to Monday morning. He says, 
that in Mr. Sanders' life-time, he had often seen the slaves confined in 
shackles, their ancles and wrists cross-ways ; but he had never 
seen it since. Again, he says, "I never saw it, or heard of it, since 
Mr. Sanders' death ;" and this statement, made by a man who admits 
that he had no opportunity of witnessing how Mrs. Sanders may have 
acted towards the negroes, except on the Sunday, is considered by the 
Fiscal, as proving that the concurrent testimony of nine negroes, who 
are found to have given correct evidence in every other particular, 
(their other charges having been satisfactorily made out) was untrue in 
this. It is absolutely impossible to read the consistent statements of 
these nine negroes on the subject, and compare it with the overseer's 
merely negative testimony as to one fact, and that under circumstances 
which made it impossible he should be cognisant of it, without astonish- 
ment at the Fiscal's conclusion. Whenever the overseer had any oppor- 
tunity of knowing the facts, he confirms the testimony of the slaves. In 
the only case, in which he had no such opportunity, his statement that 
he knew nothing of it is admitted as proof of the falsehood of the charge 

It is, however, satisfactory to find, that Mrs. Sanders did not escape 
on this occasion with impunity. She was convicted of starving and nc 
clothing her slaves, and of forcing them to work on Sundays; and was 
therefore made to pay a sum of 1,812 guilders, of penalty and costs, 
being nearly 140/. sterling. This is a fact now communicated for the 
first time : the money however, was paid, not as a reparation to the 
slaves, but as a fine to the public treasury. 

2. No attempt is made to explain the reason why various other atro- 
cities, perpetrated by the same lady, met with no punishment. (See Slave 
Colonies, p. 105, 106.) " The Fiscal," (p. 8, of his 2nd Report) says 
he, " can trace no minute of decision thereon, nor any charge of ex- 
pences incurred for investigation. He therefore concludes, that the 
complaint was groiandless, and was dismissed accordingly." This is 
certainly a very hasty conclusion, as his own minutes, contained in the 
first Report, will clearly testify. These exhibit internal evidence that 
his present hypothesis on the subject is directly opposed to fact. One 
of the complainants, the Fiscal himself admits (1st Report, p. 32,) to 
have the proof of his complaint " visible on his posteriors," and the 
charge of forcing the slaves to work on the Sundays is fully admitted 
by the son of their mistress, the manager of her estate. ( ib. p. 54.) In 
the Fiscal's anxiety to exculpate this lady, he suggests a very charitable, 
but untenable construction of a part of the evidence, given in the 1st 
Report, (p. 61.) Her son had said, tha| "^ David had been flogged 
under his feet with tamarind rods, on account of his back being cut 
up." Oh, says the Fiscal, " this does not imply that the negro's 
back was sore from any punishment he had received from Mrs. Sanders, 
but in order to shame David.'' He ought, however, to have told us 
why flogging on the feet should be regarded, by the poor slave in Ber- 
bice, as more shameful than flogging on those parts which, every where 
else, it is thought the most shameful to expose and lacerate. 



229 

3. The next case is that of four women, on Plantation Guilderland. 
(See Slave Colonies, p. 106, and the Fiscal's 1st Report, p. 13.) The 
result which was withheld in the first report is now given. " The Fiscal," 
we are told, " has a perfect recollection ;" (the occurrence, be it remem- 
bered, had taken place seven years before ; we may therefore fairly dis- 
trust the perfectness of his recollection, in a case where his own charac- 
ter is at stake, and where there can be no fear of contradiction.) " The 
Fiscal has a perfect recollection of having attended on Plantation Guil- 
derland, in consequence of these complaints, which were greatly exag- 
gerated." He does not state in what respect they were exaggerated, or 
what proof there was of exaggeration. " He examined the field work, and 
found that, on such of the cofFee-beds as were weeded by women having 
children, there was on each such bed additional hands." Now, though 
this may have been the case on the day on which the Fiscal visited the 
estate, how can he certainly infer from that circumstance, that on the 
previous days to which alone the complaint of the women related, it 
had not been otherwise? The only evidence he adduces, in answer to 
the heavy charges preferred by the four women, (namely, that they, 
though suckling or pregnant, had been drivefi to keep up with the gang, 
and punished for failing,) is that of the parties accused, — the driver and 
the overseer. After hearing this evidence, " the Fiscal interposed his 
authority, directing that the children, in future, be given in charge of 
careful nurses ; and the complaint was herewith dismissed." Nothing 
can be more unsatisfactory than such a result of such a case, even upon 
the Fiscal's own shewing. 

4. The case of Jane (Slave Colonies, p. 106, and 1st Report, p. 14.) 
is thus explained: On the 10th of February, 1826, (seven years after 
the transaction had occurred) Mr. Bourmester, the master of Jane, " is 
required to attend at the Fiscal's office, and inquired of," (there being 
evidently no record remaining) " if he had any remembrance of the 
result of this investigation, he having answered it on behalf of his 
house-keeper, Grace. He stated, that he perfectly recollected the case 
to have been exaggerated ;" (doubtless, that would be his impression,) 
" but not having been able to prove to the Fiscal's satisfaction, that 
the complaint of the negress Jane was unfounded,* the Fiscal had in- 
sisted on his paying a fine on behalf of Grace ;" — the amount of which 
fine is not mentioned. 

5. The next is tint shocking case of the negress Minkie. No one 
who has once read it L^^n have forgotten it. It will be found at p. 107, 
of the Slave Colonies, and p. 14, of the 1st Report of the Fiscal. 
This Minkie is the wretched creature of whom the Fiscal says, that she 
exhibited her posteriors, which were covered with a plaister, and lace- 
rated to that degree that the Court directed her not to uncover it. The 
residt of this case, which is now given us for the first time in the 2nd 

* This is a very peculiar mode of stating that a complaint was fully proved ; for if it had not been 
proved, Mr. Bourmester would not have been fined. Jane had been sick ; she had had a blister on her 
belly ; she was still ill ; she had been kicked and beat with pieces of crab-wood ; and in tliis state 
made to work. She produced two living witnesses to the truth of her complaint, besides the still less 
dubious evidence of her emaciated figure, and blistered and beaten body. No wonder then, that Mr. 
Bourmester'should fail in satisfying the Fiscal that the complaint was unfounded. 



230 

Report (p. 10,) furnishes another most striking illustralion of the cruel 
and oppressive nature of the West India system, and which alone was 
wanting to complete the picture of horror which the previous details of 
it had presented. " His Honour, the President, and the Court," we 
are told, " were highly indignant at the treatment of this female. No 
evidence, however, could be obtained to convict the proprietor (Mr. 
Jones) of having inflicted a severer punishment than that prescribed by 
laiv." It is added, " the Court are fully satisfied that the unfortu- 
nate female slave has been flogged in a viost severe and cruel manner, 
and to her sufferings, by her master's own confession" (wlio indeed, 
seemed to glory in his barbarity)" was added the breaking of her mouth 
in a most brutal manner." Her master vv-as then directed to take her 
from the custody of the under sheriff", on paymoit of the fees. She 
was returned, that is to say, into the power of this monster, by order of 
the Court. 

Now, consider all the horrors of this clear and unambiguous case of 
cruelty, and the impunity which has attended it, and then say, whether 
the detestable system of law which can screen such conduct (not denied, 
but avowed) from justice, is any longer to be endured. That we should 
have endured it so long, may well make us tremble when we recollect 
that God is the avenger of the desolate and oppressed. 

But the savage master was not proved, it seems, to have offended 
against the law, — this is true; nay, he had done nothing more than the 
law expressly authorises every master to do. At his own caprice, \'ot 
no earthly crime that even he himseif could specify, he lacerated " in 
a most severe and cruel manner," the naked body of this unprotected 
and unoffending female ; but so long as it could not be proved that the 
number of stripes exceeded thirty-nine, however " well they were laid 
on," to use his own brutal expression of triumph ; however deep they 
cut into the flesh, and though he broke her mouth besides ; — no punish- 
ment could reach him ; nay, the law, (what a disgusting mockery of 
law!) the law actually protected and sanctioned his crime. And yet, 
says Mr. Bennet, the Fiscal, and we believe him, "in none of his Ma- 
jesty's colonies are the slaves better treated than in this." Let the full 
import of these words be weighed. We have been told, by no mean 
authority in colonial matters,* as a palliation of these evils, that atroci- 
ties are perpetrated in England as well as in the West Indies ; but we 
challenge all the advocates of the colonial system, whether in or out of 
office, to produce any case, be it in law or practice, which will bear 
the remotest comparison to this transaction. It deserves to be well 
studied. It is an admirable illustration of the innate flagitiousness of 
that abominable institution, which still finds so many plausible and cold 
blooded advocates among us, and which, owing to their false and delu- 
sive statements, is still permitted to flourish in most mischievous vigour 
in one of the fairest portions of the British Dominions. 

6. Tommy's case is not adverted to in the pamphlet called the Slave 

* How deeply did we regret to hear Lord Batiiurst, himself, in liis reply to Lord SutTield, ou the 17th. 
nf April, 18C6, having recourse to such an argument as this ! See also, a paniplilet entitled. The West India. 
Question practically considered. 



231 

Colonies, but it will be found at p. 9, of the Fiscal's first report. 
Tommy, a cooper, had been flogged, not, it seems, in the opinion of the 
Fiscal who inspected him, with any peculiar seventy, though after the 
flogging, his buttocks had been washed with brine, and he locked up in 
this state of laceration every night in the stocks. Let any one but picture 
to himself the torture a poor wretch must endure confined in the stocks, 
night after night, with the very part of his body which a sitting posture 
must chiefly affect, lacerated with the cart-whip; and this torture in- 
flicted, not by any grave judicial sentence, but by the caprice of a 
certain Mr. William Fraser, himself accuser, judge, jailor, and execu- 
tioner. When Tommy, however, was flogged, a white man happened 
to be present, who had taken the pains, after a time, to count the lashes. 
His testimony is thus given : Tommy had appropriated to himself, in 
the boiling house, where he was at work, about half a pound oj" sugar. "^ 
" Mr. Fraser ordered the drivers. Tommy, and Acarra, to flog cooper 
Tommy. He was tied down to stakes and flogged. To the best of my 
knowledge he received forty-one lashes: I counted them. Reappeared 
much cut. I have seen negroes flogged before, but never with so much 
severity. / did not count the previous cracks of the whip" (Tommy 
had affirmed that a hundred lashes were given him,) ^^ but the forty-one 
lashes, ivhich I can correctly speak of, I counted as those luhich cut hint 
on the bottom." Thus far the Fiscal's first report went. In his present 
report, he gives us the result. Tliis result consists partly of a letter 
from the Fiscal, dated 10th February, 1826, {seven years after the 
investigation had taken place,) announcing to William Fraser, that, 
having punished his slave Tommy excessively, he must pay a fine of 
300 guilders, with sixty-nine guilders for costs. If there be no mistake 
in the date of the Fiscal's letter, it Avould appear as if the infliction of 
the fine had only been thought of in consequence of the clamour excited, 
in this country, by that gentleman's first report. But even supposing 
it to be otherwise, how strongly does the circumstance mark the capri- 
cious inequality of the law ! The master of Minkie receives no punish- 
ment, because, notwithstanding all the other aggravating circumstances 
of the case, it cannot be proved that he exceeded thirty-nine stripes. 
Mr. Fraser is fined because it is proved that lie inflicted two more than 
that number. But that this punishment should have been sustained by 
him not in 1819, but, as the Fiscal's letter would indicate, in 1826, i& 
not a little extraordinary. Notwithstanding however, the grossness of 
the case, and the very disproportionate severity of the punishment, had 
Mr. Fraser spared the two last strokes of the whip, he would not have 
had one guilder to pay. 

7. The case of Brutus is given at p. 108, of the Slave Colonies, and 
at p. 30, of the Fiscal's 1st Report. It is the case of a father, who 
alleged he had been flogged for having refused to subject a young girl, 
his daughter, to the manager's lust. The result o? this atrocious case is 
now given. The manager, Robert Macdermott, denied having flogged 

* The value of lialf a pound of sugar in Demerara is about one penny and one farthing. It is as if a 
person in this country, eiiipluyfd t ) galliei' apples or pears in an orchard had put two or three into his, 
pocket to give to hii children af home. Two drivers were recpiired to punish this enormous offence. 



232 

Brutus on any other account but the neglect of duty. The paiticuldr 
neglect however, is not specified for which he had flogged him. With this 
exception, he does not deny any one of the facts of the case. He does 
not deny, that is to say, that on the Friday he asked Brutus to prosti- 
tute his daughter to him ; that Brutus refused to do so ; and that on 
the next day, Saturday, he flogged Brutus. He does not deny this : he 
only says, the flogging was not for the refusal of his daughter's person, but 
for neglect of duty. The moral presumptions, however, were so strong 
against him on this point, and independently of this, his actual and 
admitted delinquencies had been so flagrant, that we might at least 
have expected he would have been removed from the estate. No such 
thing : the Fiscal refers the matter, it seems, to the attorney of the 
estate, Mr. Bethune. Mr. Bethune assures the Fiscal, as we are now 
told, " that he had been on the estate, and had used every endeavour to 
discover if Brutus had received punishment on account of his having 
refused his daughter to the manager, but had failed ; and on the 
assurance of the attorney, that, if this charge could have been brought 
home, he would ha\'e instantly discharged the manager from the estate, 
the Fiscal forbore inquiry, after admonishing die manager on his con- 
duct." Oh, most lame and impotent conclusion ! The Fiscal deputes 
the duty of investigation in this atrocious transaction to another, an 
extra-judicial person, perhaps a friend of the accused, and, on his 
neutral statement, he himself forbears all further inquiry He even 
takes no pains to ascertain the crime for which this poor old man had 
actually been flogged. In short, the only evidence produced in oppo- 
sition to the direct and consistent testimony of several witnesses on the 
other side, fully establishing the overt acts, and to all the probabilities 
of the case, is a mere negation, unsubstantiated by any one circumstance 
whatever, on the part of the accused, of the motive attributed to him ; 
while his statement on this point is divested of all claim to credit by the 
admitted profligacy of his whole conduct. And yet, on such grounds, 
does the official protector of the slaves forbear all further inquiry into 
this aggravated case of injury and outrage. 

8. The case of seven slaves, belonging to Mr. Elwes, will be found at 
p. 109, of the Slave Colonies, and p. 17, of the Fiscal's 1st Report. 
The case is one of very peculiar aggravaiion. The result is contained in 
a letter from the Fiscal to the President of the Court of Criminal 
Justice, in which he states that-he found the complaints of compulsory 
labour on the Sunday, and of harsh treatment, fully substantiated. " 1 
therefore, prohibited him," he says, '* from insisting on their doing work 
on Sunday." " I also prohibited the further use of the Carracarra, in 
the presence of the gang; and directed that if these orders were not 
punctually obeyed, they should cause the same to be represented to the 
next Burgher Officer." No penalty of any kind was exacted in this case 
of varied outrage, and of admitted violation of Colonial law. 

9. We now come to the case of the four negroes of Mr. Katz, which is 
stated in The Slave Colonies, p. 109, and in the Fiscal's Report, p. 19. 
In the Fiscal's second Report, the statement contained in the first 
is repeated without variation or addition; why, we know not. We 
raturally expected to find some good reason given for the Fiscal's hav- 



233 

ing punished the complainants, one with tifty, and three with seventy- 
five lashes each, in his own presence, in the market place. But no 
reason is given that is at all satisfactory. One of the complainants is 
said to hdive prevaricated, but even if seventy-five lashes were deemed an 
adequate infliction for an act of prevarication, (the particulars of which 
are not stated,) yet the four ought not to have been pnnished for the pre- 
varication of one. The testimony against them, and on which they were 
thus severely lacerated, was the testimony also of the accused parties, 
and that not given on oath. 

1 0. The case of seven negroes belonging to Rosehall, (Slave Colonies, 
p. 110, and 1st Report, p. 20.) is repeated verbatim. The only addi- 
tion is a note from the Fiscal to the Burgher Officer of the district, 
desiring him " to visit the plantation, and investigate the complaint, 
and if the grievance does exist, afford redress; or, if iinfounded, direct 
such ■punishment as the case may appear to require." We are left in the 
dark as to the result. From the tenor, however, of the Fiscal's com- 
munication to the Burgher Officer, he appears to have most unfairly 
prejudged the case. On the ground of a letter from the manager, the 
very man of whose oppression the slaves complained, the Fiscal deems it 
probable, that '' the complaint is unfounded" and refers the complainants, 
with the weight of this most uriwarranted prejudication hanging over 
them, to the decision of his delegate. 

11. The next case has made much noise in the world, and has led to 
much abuse of Lord Suffield and others, for having cited it precisely as 
it stands \n the Fiscal's first Report. It is the case of Rosa or Roosje, 
whom the manager, Mr. Grade, had ordered the driver to flog " till the 
blood should fly out." She was then far advanced in pregnancy; and 
was delivered three days after of a dead child. (Slave Colonies, p. 110, 
and first Report, p. 25-27.) In the second Report, which we expected 
would have explained away the whole affair, we have a mere repetition 
of the chief details contained in the first. As this case has been adduced 
as a proof of unfairness on the part of the abolitionists, we will give 
the whole of it as stated in the later and deliberately amended report of 
the Fiscal. The grossness of the details must be excused in consider- 
ation of their importance. 

" Roosje states, she was sent to pick coiFee in the logies, by order of the 
manager ; she represented to him she was too big (too far advanced in preg- 
nancy) to stoop. Manager directed her to comply with the order ; she went and 
picked coffee* on her knees. At eleven o'clock our work was examined, and the 
manager directed the driver, Sondag, to flog us ; it was done with the whip 
doubled. When Sondag, the driver, came to me, he said to the manager, this 
woman is rather big with child ; the manager leplied, give it to her till the blood 
flies out. I was flogged with the carracarras. This happened on Friday : I 
went to the field on Saturday. I told the driver I could not work as I had a 
pain in my loins : he directed me to go to the manager. I did go, and was sent 
to the hospital ; remained there a day ; the doctor examined me, and said there 
was nothing the matter with me, and that sitting down was not good. I went to 
the field, was put upon a row with another to help me ; on Sunday evening I 
miscarried ; 1 was five months gone with child ; the labour was heavy ; the mid- 



* " TIte picking here alluded to" the Fiscal observes, " is not in the fields, but sorting of tlie cured coffeev 
ill tlie logies, preparatory to its being shipped." 



234 

wife had to force the child from me; the child was dead, one eye was out, ihe 
arm broken, and a stripe visible over the head, which must have been done by 
tlie whip doubled. The doctor came to attend me on Monday morning; ; the 
child was not seen by him, it was buried ; he prescribed for mo ; tlie child was 
seen by Ariaanlje, Claartje, and Mary Anne; i was assisted by sister Claartje; 
the regular midwife, Mary Anne, did not attend me, as I was taken suddenly ; 
she was sent for, however, and savr the child. 

" The evidence of J. H. Eenhuys, assistant surpceon to Dr. Westerveld, prac- 
titioner and medical attendant of plantation L'Esperance, states, that he 
visited the woman Roosje, early in the morning of the )4th March : she informed 
me she had miscarried the evening before ; I examined, and prescribed for her. 
A few days previous to this occurrence, I saw Roosje in the sick house, she was 
complaining, and pregnant. I thought, between three and four months gone 
vvitli child. I experience that many women miscarry from not taking exercise, 
and contracting lazy habits: thinking tliis was the case with her, I directed her 
to take exercise, i did not see the child, I believe it was buried. I enquired if 
she had been delivered of the after birth, and being informed by the midwife and 
an old woman she had, I directed something for Roosje, and went away. 

" Evidence of Sovdug; driver of plantation L'Esperance, states, that the 
women were put to pick coffee, a certain quantity was required, which was not 
got. The overseer told me, by order of Mr. Grade, the manager, I was to 
range the women out on the plankier, and told me to begin and flog them from 
one to another ; I began, and went on till I came to the woman Roosje, I gave 
them about twelve or thirteen stripes with the whip doubled ; on coming to 
Roosje, I observed to tlie manager this woman was pregnant; tlie manager said, 
go on, that was not my business : I did so, she did not get more than the rest ; 
I did not flog her with a can'acarras, it had broken before I came to her : she 
received her punishment with the whip doubled. She miscarried a few nights 
after this punishment took place; it was iniiicted at bieakfast time, at eleven 

o'clock. I did not see the cliild. Claartje told me the child was in . 

The question being put to him, ' Whether the manager on his (the driver's) re- 
presentation, that Roosje was pregnant, had made use of the words, never mi7id, 
Jlog her till the blood comes ;' he replied, ' yes, he did.' 

" Evidence of Jonas, Mary Anne, Ariaantje, George, and Claartje, all belong- 
ing to L'Esperance, heard and corroboi'ated the circumstances in the statement 
made by Roosje."* 

* Tlie evidence which is here merely referred to, is too iiiiportHiit fo be omitted, especially ;is this case 
lias been made tlie occasion of so much acrimonious and illiberal attack on the abolitionists. It is as 
follows. (See Fiscal's tirst Report, p. 26 and e?.) 

" Evidence of the negro woman Mariana, states, I was sent for in the night to come to Rosa, who was 
taken in labour, (trouble had come I went. She was not yet delivered. I assisted auotlier woman to 
deliver her. The child's arm was broken ; one eye out, bruised, and suuk in the head. It was a line male 
child, quite formed, in every respect perfect- 'J'liinks tiie cliild was more tliau five months, from its per- 
fect form and appearance. Claartje and George reported it to the manas^er, that Roosje had miscarried, 
and he gave no directions respecting it. I buried it. The child was seen by the father and mother, and 
two other women, Claartje and Ariantje. Roosje told the doctor the state the child was in. He replied, 
" I suppose you have been eating green pines." Roosje denied it, saying, it was from the fioggiug 
she got. 

" Evidence of Ariantje; states, that Roosje is her sister; was called in the night to come to Roosje 
who was in labour : I went. I got there before Blariaua. When tlie child came, it was a male, perfect ; 
the arm broken, the eye out, the head broken, and bruised. After the miscarriage, I went away. Being 
asked why she had not mentioned it to the manager, the doctor, or the Eurglier officer, she said it was not 
her business : 

" Evidence of George ; states, he is husband to Roosje ; corroborates her evidence as to the flogging she 
received, and the expressions used by the manager to the driver about flogging her (till the blood came.:! 
This happened on Thursday. Sunday night she miscarried. 'I'he thild was a male, perfect : it was boir> 
dead; the arm was broken, one of tlie eyes out, and the head bruised. States this to have been occa- 
sioned by blows his wife received from the driver with the doubled whip. Reported this miscarriage to 
Mr. Grade, but did not mention to him the state it was in. Roosje told the doctor, who replied, ' You 
must tell a lie ; you have been eating green pines, I believe.' Inquired why he had not gone to com- 
plain either to the Burgher officer or Fiscal ; says, lie was cook, and, could not leave his work. Being 
re-examined, he said, he told j\lr. Grade the child's arm was broken ; and that it was iu conseuucnce oi 



235 

' Lord Suffield was charged over and over again with ir.isrepresenta' 
tion and exaggeration in his statement of this case : his representation 
of it, however, actualiy fell below that which stands recorded in the 
Fiscal's book. Besides, not one of the facts there detailed are at all 
questioned, whatever doubt may exist as to the causes assigned for the 
child's mutilation. These may have been incorrectly assigned : of that, 
we are no judges. We give the Fiscal's own report of the facts as 
they stand on the uncontradicted and consistent evidence of eight 
individuals. 

In his first Report the Fiscal left us in entire ignorance of the result 
of this investigation. The present report, to our surprise, is equally 
defective. AH he states respecting it is this : " The Fiscal deemed it 
his duty to bring the complaint before the Court of Criminal Justice, 
and after collecting all the evidence and information that could be 
obtained, he filed his criminal demand against C. J. Grade, v;hich with 
the Court's sentence in the above cause, is hereunto attached." (2nd 
Report, p. 16.) The fact is, however, that these documents are not 
given. We have searclied every line of this report for them in vain. 
We are still, therefore, left in utter ignorance of the punishment which 
Berbice justice may have inflicted on Mr. Grade; or v/hether he has 
received any measure of punishment whatever, for the enormities so 
clearly proved against him. 

12. Another case is that of two slaves on an estate of Mr. Katz. 
(Slave Colonies, p. 109, 110, and 1st Report, p. 46. and 58. j With 
respect to one of them, the defence of that gentleman is, that Amster- 
dam, the negro whom his manager had so heavily punished, that even 
the Fiscal, no novice in these matters, on inspecting his posteriors,* 
pronounced him to have had "a severe flogging," was not \\\(i property 
of Mr. Katz, but merely hired by him; as if this circumstance extenu- 
ated, and did not rather aggravate the cruelty. 

The defence set up with respect to the other slave, named Mur- 
phy, is a perfect juggle, well calculated to impose on the careless 
reader. Murphy's complaint to the Fiscal bears date the 7th July, 
1823. (Fiscal's 1st Report, p. 58.) For making some noise, he says, 
" I was locked up, both legs in the stocks, extended as far as they could 

the flogging: slie got. Mr. Grade said, ' It is a lie.' The overseer was present. Tlie manager asked liim 
how liis wife had miscarried, he replied, ' It was from the flogging you gave her,' Manager said, ' Von 
lie, I did not flog her.' Overseer said, ' I did not either.' I said, if nyither of you did, who did tiienl 
Says his wife l)a.s had seven children for him, and never miscarried before. 

" Evidence of Claartje ; states, that she is sister of Roosje, was sent for at night to Eoosje, who was 
taken in labour. The child was born dead. It was a male, perfect; the arm was broken, one eye 
bruised, and hurt ; it could be seen it was done with the whip, and the hand broken. The fatlier reported 
its death. Manager said, to bury it. The father dug the grave. Marianne took it out. 6'//e did not tell 
(he manager of the state of the child, thinking Marianne would do it. George mentioned it to Mr. 
Grade ; does not know what he said. 

" Justus Von Steiniss, overseer ; I was present when the women were ranged out in the drogery, tliey 
were flogged by Zondag. Mr. Grade said, if tliey did not pick coffee enough, he, the driver woulrUbe 
confined in the stocks. I saw him punish some of the women ; Mr. Grade was not present; did not hear 
Zondag say any thing to Mr. Grade as to tlie child having a broken arm : never said any tiling to him 
himself." 

* V/hat a sinp-ilar state of society is that of the West Indies, where one of the grand qualifications of a 
judge must be his skill in counting the number, and ascertaining tlie length and deptli of the incisions 
made on the posteriors of the men and women that come before him ! Is there not enough in this single 
circumstance, and in the careless, perfunctory, off-hand niamier, in which it is perpetually adverted to. 
to excite the unniingled disgust of every feeling mind, and to deepen the conviction of the necessity of aa 
early and radical relbi mation of the ?ystem ? 



236 

be. In this position, I was kept all Sunday and Monday, On that 
evening I made my escape, and came to complain," " Did you go to 
your master, Mr. Katz," asks the Fiscal, " to complain?" " No, I did 
not;" answers Murphy, " and my reason was, that three negroes had 
gone to complain to Mr, Katz, and without sending for the manager 
they were flogged and sent back, and the next day one of them was 
again flogged by the manager." The Fiscal, in his manifest anxiety to 
exculpate Mr. Katz from all imputation on his treatment of his slaves, 
brings against Murphy, as a justification of the above proceeding, a 
charge of mutiny, supported by the afiidavit of two of Mr. Katz's over- 
seers. It is somewhat singular, however, that he should not have taken 
care to produce an accordance in the dates, at least, of the different 
documents. Now the affidavit in question is dated on the 12th of 
August, 1823, and refers to a disturbance which the two deponents 
swear to have taken place on the 2nd of that month, nearly four weeks 
after the Fiscal had heard, and disposed of, that complaint of Murphy 
which alone was in question. The two cases, therefore, cannot be the 
same, but necessarily must be perfectly distinct, though the Fiscal 
strangely confounds them. The sentence he pronounced on Murphy, 
in the latest case of the two, will certainly not be blamed for its leniency. 
" He was punished with fifty lashes., and worked in chains attached to 
his ancles for three months." We shall be glad to learn after this, what 
was the punishment inflicted on Mr. Grade, in the case of Roosje. 

13. On the case of Laura, (Slave Colonies, p. Ill, and Fiscal's 1st 
Report, p. 24.) no new light is thrown. 

14. The complaint of Philip and Leander, (Slave Colonies, p. Ill, 
and 1st Report, p. 45.) that the manager of Bertingdigheid, Mr. 
Luyken, had killed all their hogs, stands uncontradicted. The Fiscal, 
however, while he professes to regret this harsh proceeding, is at great 
pains to extenuate, if not vindicate it. We hear much, from the West 
Indian party, of the right of property conceded to slaves, if not by law, 
yet by custom. Here, however, we have an instance of a manager 
destroying their whole stock of hogs by his own mere fiat ; and not 
only is he not called to indemnify them for the loss, but the official 
protector of the slaves vindicates the act. If, in this country, a man is 
guilty of any undue severity to animals trespassing on his grounds, the 
proprietor may bring his action for the injury. What remedy can a 
slave have against his master or manager? The law affords no redress 
whatsoever. We are told of the indolence of the slaves, and of their un- 
willingness to make any effort to better their condition, — can we wonder 
at the fact? Here great efforts had been made, and a valuable property 
had been accumulated, which, in one hour, is annihilated by the merci- 
less and irresistible act of the petty despot of the plantation, whose will 
in this case is law. 

15. The complaint of the negress Jenny, (Slave Colonies, p. 1 12, and 
1st Report, p. 45, 46.) detailing a most atrocious case, we are now told 
by the Fiscal, was referred by him to the Court of Criminal Justice. 
"His criminal demand and conclusion having been filed, the honour- 
able Court decreed the sentence hereunto annexed." Again, however, 
the Fiscal has disappointed us ; the documents which he professes to 
give are not annexed ; we are therefore still left in utter ignorance of 



237 

the result of this most aggravated case. Jenny was pregnant ; her 
mistress, Mrs. Elizabeth Atkinson, (her name deserves to be recorded) 
tied her up and beat her, then kicked her, and trampled on her belly, 
locked her hands and feet in the stocks, and beat her again. In half 
an'hour the poor creature miscarried. Her child, Philip, was also ex- 
tremely ill treated, and not allowed to come near her. The child was 
exhibited to the Fiscal, ^^ tvith marks of severe flog gi7ig over the whole 
body.'" We wish the Fiscal had told us what the punishment was which this 
inhuman mistress was made to undergo, or whether she received any. 

16. The Fiscal attempts to defend himself for his severe conduct 
towards one of Mr. Calmer's negroes, (See Slave Colonies, p. 113, and 
his 1st Report, p. 46, 47.) but he gives no proof in his defence but his 
own assertion, he himself being the party implicated. The complaints 
of the negro against Mr. Calmer, which were of a very revolting kind, 
are wholly unnoticed, and we conclude, therefore, that they led to the 
infliction of no fine on that gentleman. 

17. The complaints of General Murray's negroes (Slave Colonies, p. 
113, 114, and 1st Report, 49, 50,66.) are said to have been ^^ greatly 
exaggerated." These words run glibly from the pen, but no proof or 
even specification of the exaggeration is given. By way of exculpating 
General Murray, the Fiscal states that Hopkins, the manager, was dis- 
missed for his misconduct. (See 2nd R,eport, p. 28.) But if so, how 
will the Fiscal vindicate himself for having inflicted seventy -five lashes 
on two of the complainants against this man, merely because they failed 
to prove their complaints ; (See 1st Report, p. 50.) and although he 
had previously been obliged to reprimand Hopkins for his cruelty to the 
slaves placed under him. [ib. p. 49.) There is scarcely any one of 
the cases detailed in this remarkable report, which shews more strongly 
the oppressive and untractable nature of the slave system than this very 
case of Governor Murray, when it is carefully examined ; nor any in 
which the Fiscal appears to less advantage. 

18. The complaints against William Ross, (Slave Colonies, p. 114, 
116, and 1st Report, p. 60 and 58.) are dismissed in the same sum- 
mary, and most unsatisfactory manner, only that we now learn, for the 
first time, that the complainants were punished, we are not told how or 
wherefore. This might have been anticipated indeed, from the Fiscal's 
prejudicating instructions to his deputy ; instructions so framed (See 
Slave Colonies, p. 116.) as almost infallibly to ensure such a result. 

19. The complaint against Mr. Spangenburg, (Slave Colonies, p. Ill, 
and 1st Report, p. 37.) is met in the present Report, (p. 18.) merely by 
a statement of the accused, without any attempt at proof, lauding his 
own management, and denying the charge of over-working, of under- 
feeding a-nd clothing, and of cruelly treating his slaves, which had been 
preferred against him. 

20. The case of Scipio (1st Report, p. 11.) is repeated in the 2nd 
Report, (p. 19.) without the slightest variation ; why, is not very ob- 
vious. 

21. The complaints of the negroes on Plantation Berenstein, are 
simply said to have been " greatly exaggerated." 

22. The complaints of the negroes of Plantation Profit, (Slave Colo- 



238 

nies, p. 117, and 1st Report, p. 64.) are said lo liave been refuted. 
The medical practitioner denied that lie had neglected the sick ; and the 
result is, that the complainants having '■'■failed to "prove any part of 
their statements, two of them were flogged, by the Fiscal's order." 
This is West India justice ! And yet on the face of the very facts 
brought forward by the Fiscal, as exculpatory of the manager, Mr. 
Hutchinson, and the attorney, Mr. Munro, much of the complaints of 
the slaves is satisfactorily established. They complained, on the 27th 
of October, 1823, of a want of clothing. The refutation of this charge 
consists in a statement, that on the 22nd of March, 1822, more than nine- 
teen months before the date of the complnint, each man had had a jacket, 
a hat, one yard of Salampore, and four yards of Osnaburgh ; and each 
2voman a jacket, a hat, five yards checks, and five ytxrds of Osnaburgh. 
And this v.'as their clothing for nineteen months ! i Again their complaint 
of a want of salt fish, is answered by an evasive statement, that in forty- 
three weeks, 10181 lb. of fish had been purchased for the estate. How 
much of it was distributed is not stated, and yet the complaint was not 
that fish had not been purchased, but that, though it had been purchased, 
and there was fish on the estate, it was not distributed. But, even if 
the whole which was purchased had been distributed, it would only have 
afforded the regular allowance of three pounds a week to seventy-eight 
slaves. Now v/e imderstand, (if we are wrong in this fact, the Fiscal 
can set us right,) the number ol' slaves attached to the estate is at least 
double this amount. But clothing, it was said, was coming from Eng- 
land, and if the slaves had waited a little longer they would have been 
supplied. Still their complaint of an actual want of clothing is only the 
better established by this apology; and to flog them, therefore, for 
making that complaint, seems a most monstrous act of injustice. 

Flaving now gone through the various particulars of the Fiscal's at- 
tempted vindication, we would take a general view of the facts attend- 
ing it. 

A motion was made in the House of Commons for a return of the 
proceedings of the Fiscal of Berbice, in regard to the complaints of 
masters and slaves respectively, during the preceding ten years. 
The return embraced only four of those years, namely, from 1819 to 
1823. In by far the majority of the cases specified in this return, (in at 
least we may say three-fourths of them,) the Fiscal gave the facts as 
they stood in his minutes of evidence, without stating the decision to 
which he had come on a full consideration of those facts. Of about fifty 
cases to which his decision was annexed, it appears, that only nine 
were so far decided in favour of the complainants as that they escaped 
pimishment, for having failed to prove their allegations ; and, in forty- 
one cases, the complainants underwent severe punishment by the sen- 
tence of the Fiscal, on the ground that their complaints were either un- 
founded or exaggerated ; in short, that they had not been fully proved. 
Out of this immense number of cases, therefore, even with the aid of the 
Fiscal's second report, we, as yet, know certainly only of nine in which 
the complainants were not sentenced to punishment; and in which, 
therefore, the judgment of the Fiscal must, on the whole, be considered 
as favourable to them. But of these nine, we, as yet, know certainly of 



239 

only THREE where any punishment has been inflicted on the persons 
proved to have Leen guilty.* 

But this was not all. The Report contained avast variety of details, 
stated in evidence before the Fiscal, and minuted by him, to which no 
contradiction was given, or even doubt appended, but which it was 
utterly impossible to peruse without feeling, in common with Lord 
Seaford (late Mr. C. R. Ellis,) the most unmingled horror and disgust. 
It was to be presumed, and we conceive is still to be presumed, that 
these uncontradicted statements are substantially true ; especially as 
by far the most atrocious and horrific of them are incontestably proved, 
and also admitted to have been true. Taking, however, such only into 
account as have been thus established, they have not only confirmed all 
that the abohtionists had asserted of the nature and eflects of West 
India Slavery, but they have actually surpassed every thing which their 
fear of being charged with exaggeration had permitted them to attribute 
to that system. Those who doubt this have only to point out the single 
work of the Anti-Slavery Society, which can bear a moment's comparison 
with the Berbice FiscaVs official report, in exciting the abhorrence and in- 
dignation of the reader, as he peruses its unvarnished details. To the sick- 
ening influence of those details on the mindjiiodeclamationcanadd force. 
Tiiey beggar the most intense epithets; and produce an impression, 
which no description, however eloquent, could hope to rival in poign- 
ancy and effect. And it is the climax of these horrors that most of 
them are not only not judicially punished, butare not legally punishable. 

Then these transactions are recent. We had been accused of refer- 
ring for our facts only to obsolete times. And, when quitting details, we 
took our stand on those impregnable general principles, which are of ail 
times and countries, we v/ere met with hardy affirmations of such im- 
provements in the treatment of the slave, as placed him in point of eom- 

* It is impossible not to be struck witli this very suspicious disproportiou between tlie meiisures of 
punishment wherewith master and slave are visited ; although the slave is, in almost all the cases, not 
the accused, but the accuser ; nay, the voluntary accuser of his master or manager, under circumstances 
which might well deter him from complaint, unless driven to it by ilagraut and intolerable oppression. 
One would have thought that the known liability of the slave to be remanded in every case (we speak of 
Berbice,) even where the complaint had proved to be well founded, into the power of an irritated ov>-ner 
or overseer, would have operated with sufiicient force to deter him from rash or groundless charges; 
and that the fifty or seventy-five lashes, by which it appefbrs to be so much the ordinary practice of the 
riscal to visit the complainant, might be spared. Let us reflect wliat the case would be with appren- 
tices, or journeymen, or labourers, or servants in this country, if on every occasion of complaint, either 
of harsh usage, or of breach of contract, in which they might fail to make out their case in evidence, 
they were liable to the tread-mill, or to whipping, or to a heavy fine; and this too, not after -a regular 
charge, examination, and trial, with the usual formalities, and the usual opportunities of exculpation 
and defence ; but on the ground of the incidental discovery, by the magistrate, on the trial of another 
person, of some unexplained difference between the charge and the evidence adduced to support it. The 
prosecutor is thus placed in greater peril than the defendant. Such a principle is utterly unjust, and we 
shall never cease to lift our voices against it, whilst it continues to pollute and disgrace our Colonial 
Statute books. How deeply do we lament that His Majesty's Government should have so hastily given 
their sanction in the Trinidad Order in Council, to such a principle as this ! It is directly at war with 
those better principles which have been so clearly enounced by Lord Bathurst in various dispatches ; 
and by Mr. Canning, Mr. Peel, and the Attorney General, in their speeches on Mr. Denman's motion in 
the House of Commons, respecting tlie .Jamaica trials. These three agreed tliat, " it was indispensahle to 
the ends of justice that there should be, both in form and substance, an equal adnmiistratimi of it to blacTc 
and white." And Lord Bathurst, over and over again, marks it as gross injustice to inflict a severer 
punishment on a slave, " whose ignorance is an extenuation of his guilt," than on those " for whose guilt 
no such extenuation can be presumed." If slaves, indeed, prefer malicious complaints, let them be 
punished ; but then let it be after the same fair and regular trial and conviction which are required ia 
similar cases in this country. 



240 

fort above ihe British peasant, in our niisplaced philanthropy, we 
were told, that we were actually wresting from the happy negro the 
enviable state of repose and prosperity which his benevolent owner had 
been employing the plenitude of his power to secure to him. " Look at 
the facts of the case," said they, tauntingly, " Listen to the Governors, 
the Judges, the Magistrates. Hear their unqualified eulogies, in one 
accord, proclaiming the tender and sympathizing and sleepless huma- 
nity of the master; and the lively gratitude and confiding joyousness of 
the slave, who would not exchange his chains for freedom if he could." 
Alas! alas! that such an illusion could possibly, even for one moment, 
have influenced a single mind that is considerate enough to appreciate 
the necessary effects of despotic power both on master and slave ! In 
whatever degree the illusion prevailed, it must have vanished before the 
Berbice Fiscal's report. We feared, however, that when the sudden 
and palpable effect on the public mind, produced by that report became 
knov/n, we should look in vain for further reports of the same kind. 
But we did not sufficiently comprehend the obtuseness of feeling which 
a frjniliarity with such scenes is calculated to generate: for we have 
here a second Report from the same source, not drawn forth reluctantly 
like the first, by a mandate of the House of Commons, but spontaneously 
proposed by the Council of Berbice, and, in compliance with their re- 
quisition, furnished by the Fiscal, for the declared purpose of repelling 
the calumnies which some wicked persons in England had been so 
malignant as to vent against that pure, lovely, and beneficent system, 
denominated Negro Slavery. 

Of the success of the second report of the worthy Fiscal in accom- 
plishing its declared object, those who have accompanied us thus far are 
in a capacity to judge for themselves. But we do not anticipate one 
note of dissent, when we state that, for our own parts, we have risen 
from its perusal with every previous conviction of the enormity of the 
Colonial System deepened, and with every resolution to promote its 
early and final extinction strengthened. That vile system cannot last. 
The press may pour forth in the next year, as in the past, pamphlets 
rich in practical considerations. Voluminous reports, which no one 
reads, may again load the table of Parliament, and may again bring- 
forward the very strongest physical reasons for coercing the labour of 
Africans in tropical lowlands. The changes may continue to be rung 
on the increase of national wealth, to be derived from this coerced 
labour, which it nevertheless requires the sacrifice of an immense sum 
annually on the part of the public to maintain. In this course we may 
possibly persist for some time longer, notwithstanding the misery and 
waste of our slave popu lation , and the deep injury to our own manufacturers, 
which are its direct and inseparable conseqxiences ; — but the day must 
arrive, and it cannot be far distant, when these refuges of lies will be 
swept away, and, in despite of all opposition, the oppressed slave, in 
every corner of the British dominions, will,- at the persevering call of 
religion, humanity, and justice, be rescued from the yoke of his cruel 
bondage. May the Almighty hasten that happy period! 



London :— BAG STEtt * THOMS, Printers, 14, Bartholomejo Close. 



London^ 18, Aldermanhurij, Oct. 31, 1826. 

No. 17. 

ANTI-SLAVERY 
MONTHLY REPORTER. 



The '' Anti-Slavery Montfjly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
last day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons wish- 
ing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the Secretary, 
at the Society's office, No. 18, Alderraanbury, and mention the conveyance by 
which they may be most conveniently sent. 



ON THE BOUNTIES AND PROTECTING DUTIES, AND THE RE- 
STRICTIONS ON TRADE, INTENDED FOR THE SUPPORT OF 
THE SLAVE SYSTEM, 

After a struggle of nearly hventy years for the abolition of the 
Slave Trade, and tlie lapse of nearly as many since its abolition,- the 
hopes that this measure would lead to an amelioration in the conditioix 
of the slaves in our Colonies, and finally to the extinction of Slavery 
itself, are still unfulfilled. After persevering endeavours for fifteea 
years to induce other nations to abandon that infamous traffic, we have 
the mortification to see that it is still carried on to a greater extent than 
ever ; and that, even in one of our own Colonies (the Mauritius) the 
laws enacted for its suppression are violated with impunity. Again ; after 
nearly four years of exertion for the mitigation and abolition of British 
Slavery, httle has yet been done towards improving the condition of our 
miseralile fellow-subjects who are held in bondage ; and no plan has yet 
been adopted for putting a period to that cruel state. The Government have 
tried, in vain, the methods of recommendation and persuasion with the 
different Colonies. Equally in vain have they held out to them " an ex- 
ample" in Trinidad. Three years have thus been consumed to no pur- 
pose. In the fourth they have sent out propositions of reform to the 
Colonial legislatures for their adoption, rejection, or modification. These 
bodies will, doubtless, avail themselves of the accommodating alternative 
of modification, and, keeping within its large scope, they may make 
specious and delusive alterations in their laws, without bettering, in any 
material degree, the condition of the slaves, or forwarding the period of 
their enfranchisement. 

But even if our prospects of effectual reformation were much more 
flattering than they are, we ought to bear in mind that not one step has 
been taken, nor has any thing specific been proposed by the Govern- 
ment for putting a final date, however distant, to Slavery in the Britisli 
Colonies. For any thing which is yet in progress, or even distinctly and 
seriously propounded, Slavery may continue to pollute the national cha- 
racter for a century, or even for two centuries to come. 

It was, indeed, at one time, proposed by the friendsof emancipation, that 



242 

all children born after a certain day, should be entitled to their liberty; 
and it has also been proposed to purchase the women and make them 
free, their children, born afterwards, being, of course, free likewise.* 
The difficulties which might attend either of these plans, many very in- 
telligent persons believe might be easily obviated ; but little disposition 
has been evinced on the part of the Government and Parliament to sur- 
mount those difficulties, or resolutely to adopt any other definite plan 
for extinguishing Slavery in the British Colonies. Nor has the country 
at large, though strongly desiring the final abolition of this evil, earnestly 
or concurrently urged the adoption of any such plan. 

Some of the West Indian advocates say that the negroes would not 
labour, if made free, in situations where land is so abundant and cheap, 
and where so little labour is necessary to supply their wants, as in the 
Slave Colonies ; and that the lands of Demerara especially cannot be 
cultivated by freemen until there is a vast increase of labourers. If, 
however, the Blacks are unwilling to work for more, or for much more 
than an adequate supply of their wants, they only resemble^ in this 
respect, the bulk of mankind, few of whom, either White or Black, are 
disposed to work hard without a powerful motive. But by what means 
do these gentlemen propose to obtain this increase of labourers ? 
Not surely by a continuance of the present system of Slavery, under the 
operation of which, instead of an increase, there is a large annual 
decrease. Nor will they venture, it is presumed, to propose a renewal 
of the African or even of the intercolonial Slave Trade. On their plan, 
tkerefore, we can never hope to see an end of Skivery, until cruelty shall 
have inflicted its final stroke by the destruction of the last of its victims. 

If then the extensive and fertile soil of Demerara is ever to be cultivate^!, 
it must be by free labourers, and the only way to obtain these is by the 
adoption of those measures of amelioration and emancipation, which were 
expected to have followed the aboliuon of the Slave Trade, and which 
are now invoked by the friends of that cause. These measures would, it 
may be hoped, produce such an increase in the slave population of our 
Colonies, as is now taking place among the slaves in the United States, 
and in our own Bahama Islands, and among the free Blacks in Hayti 
and in Jamaica, and even among the slaves on a few estates in our own 
Colonies, where they are well and leniently treated. Such an increase 
would soon produce, in many of the smaller islands, a surplus of 
labourers. Enfranchisement would be the inevitable consequence, and 
the Blacks thus freed, like White men in thickly peopled countries, 
would emigrate in search of employment, which they would be sure to 
find in such an extensive and fertile region as that of Demerara. 

The abolitionists looked forward, at the period of the Abolition, to an 
extinction of " Slavery in the Colonies, to be accomplished by the same 
happy means which formerly put an end to it in England, — namely, by a 
benign, though insensible revolution in opinions and manners; by the 
encouragement of particular manumission's; and the progressive ame- 
lioration in the condition of the slaves, till it should glide insensibly into 
freedom; — they looked, in short, to an emancipation, of which not the 
slaves, but the masters, should be the wdling instruments or authors."^ 

* See Appettdix to the Second Report of the Aati-Slavery Society, p. 168, 



243 

DkappoinCmeiit has attended the past; and difficulties which tliere 
seems no sufficient disposition in either the Government, or the Parha- 
nient, or even perhaps in the country to surmount, seem to darken the 
future. It is time, then, to examine the causes of this disappointment. 
One of these causes may possibly have been an unwilhngness, on the 
part of the abohtionists, to investigate sufficiently the nature of the diffi- 
culties to be encountered. We need not be surprised that such an inves- 
tigation should not be immediately entered upon. We cannot wonder 
that a mind of any sensibility should rise from the perusal for example 
of such a detail as that of the Fiscal of Berbice, (commented upon in the 
last number of the Reporter,) with feelings of indignation, and should 
be struck with horror and disgust in the contemplation of the obduracy 
and blindness of persons who could exhibit such documents as a tri- 
umphant vindication of their conduct. We cannot wonder that bene- 
volent men contemplating such atrocities should say, " Away with all 
calculations of profit and loss, of policy and impolicy. Beings endued 
with reason, and especially Christian Britons, can never suffer any such 
cold calculations to enter their minds. A system so full of abominations 
must be extinguished forthwith. A British public and a British Parlia- 
ment must not, and will not, suffer such enormities to continue, but will 
sweep them away at once, and for ever." In coming to such a conclusion, 
however, we should not sufficiently consider that interest is a more 
powerful motive with multitudes than justice and humanity ; and that, 
therefore, whilst any considerable number of persons conceive a parti- 
cular system to be profitable to them, it is not likely, without much 
opposition, to be relinquished, because it is unjust. 

Is then the system of Colonial Slavery really a profitable system ? 
Abundant proof might easily be adduced to the contrary. But even 
were this wanting, we could not believe that the All-wise Creator and 
Governor of tlie world had, in this case, deviated from his general laws, 
and had made it the interest either of individuals or communities to 
oppress their fellow men, and to persevere in a course of cruelty and in- 
justice. If this were indeed the case, it would the less surprise us to see 
men clinging to such a system on account of its large gains, and 
refusing to renounce it. In the present case, however, the gains are all 
factitious, and they are obtained at our cost. It is we ourselves who create, 
by our misplaced and mischievous munificence, the powerful feeling of 
interest which here stands opposed to the claims of humanity and justice, 
and so strangely perverts that natural order of things which connects the 
general prosperity of any community, with the happiness and freedom of 
all its divisions. The bounties and protections which we ourselves pay 
to the Colonists, have alone supported their destructive system, which 
must have fallen if left to itself. Indeed, there is no evil which the 
arrangements of Providence tend more visibly to discourage and destroy 
than Slavery. The soils on v/hich slaves labour become barren under 
their culture ; and this deterioration of soil tends to make economy and a 
better treatment of the slaves necessary, and thus to increase their numbers, 
and, through that increase, to destroy Slavery itself. But all these be- 
neficent tendencies are frustrated, for a time at least, in the case of our 
Colonies, by the bounties and protections we afferd to the produce of 
slave labour. While we continue, therefore, these means of support, 



244 

thus encouraging and rewarding the perpetuation and aggravation of 
Slavery, we make the crime our own, and we set ourselves in direct 
opposition to the beneficent designs of the Almighty towards these 
his oppressed creatures. 

Can we wonder that disappointments and difficulties should continue 
to obstruct our efforts to abolish Slavery, while v;e ourselves continue 
effectually to counteract our own professed purposes and wishes, and to 
support, with our money, the very system we are associated to 
destroy? Let us clear our hands of this guilty participation; and when 
we have done this, a more solid foundation will be laid for future pro- 
gress, and we shall find that many of the obstacles to our success will 
be removed. 

It is obvious, for example, that few circumstances could tend more 
directly to improve the moral and social state of the West Indies than 
the residence of the Planters and their families on their own estates. 
But bounties and protections enable the Planters to pay for the waste of 
property and life occasioned by their own absence and neglect, and by 
the substitution of hired agents. Ptemove these bounties and pro- 
tections, and our Planters would be compelled, like other classes of 
men, to attend to their own concerns. In this, and a variety of other 
ways, the removal of bounties and protections would tend to the mitigation 
and extinction of Slavery,* and would obviate many of those obstacles, 
chiefly of our own creation, which now impede the progress of Reform. 

The direct pecuniary sacrifices which this nation is now making for 
the support of Slavery, are great and mischievous. But great and mis- 
chievous as they are, they probably fall far short, in their injurious effect, 
of those Hmitations and restrictions which our commerce is forced to bear 
for the maintenance of that criminal system. 

Our manufacturing population have lately been, and still are suffering 
most severely. Amongst the variety of causes which have been assigned 
for this reverse has been that of our having over-traded. If, however, 
our operative manufacturers have not had too much work, this over- 
trading could have had no reference to them. It must, most obviously;, 
have arisen from a want of demand ; in other words, from the want of a 
market for the produce of their labour. It is true, that extremely low 
wages of labour, and greatly depressed prices of goods, will tend, in 
some degree, to quicken demand; yet, a return to a sound and healthy 
state, to fair wages and fair profits, can only be effected by our having a 
market sufficiently extensive to give to our people that full em- 
ployment which they enjoyed when we were said to be over-trading. 
Wages, it is clear, can never be adequate whilst any considerable pro- 
portion of labourers is unemployed ; nor can the manfacturers be 
obtaining fair profits on their capital whilst any considerable proportion 
of their mills and machinery is standing still. Nothing therefore, is 
more manifest than that, if there was over-trading , it arose from this, 
that we had made too many goods for our present customers, and 
that, if we can find no more customers, fewer goods must be made, — 
unless, indeed, we should be induced to resort to the principle of our 

* See this subject fully discussed in a Paper, entitled "The Impolicy of 
Slcitery," j^n-d in the Second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society. 



245 

Colonial System, by giving bounties and protections for the support of 
worse systems of labour, of the hand-loom for instance, in preference to 
the steam engine. — And if it were allowable in any case, by such means, 
to check the progress of improvement, surely the distresses of the poor 
weavers in the hand-loom entitle them to it, at least as much as any 
other class of the community. But we hear nothing of any such extra- 
vagant proposition, as that of giving a bounty on the produce of the 
hand-loom, or of charging a protecting duty on the produce of the 
power-loom.'— If the weavers, however, are to have no share in the 
favour bestowed upon slave holders, their necessities, to say no more, 
call \on6.\Y for justice. If this reciprocity is denied them, they ought not 
at least to be taxed in the price of their sugar, or their coffee, (if either 
of these luxuries fall now to their lot); nor ought they to be excluded from 
extensive markets for the produce of their labour; for the sole purpose 
of supporting the slave system in our Colonies, and enriching the 
masters of slaves, at their expense. 

If the earth was incapable of supporting its inhabitants, or if our people 
■were unwilling to labour, then might their distress be without remedy ; 
but the case becomes one of aggravated hardship and cruelty, when this 
distress is the work of human legislation ; and when they are deprived 
of obvious and effectual means of relief, by regulations which cramp 
their industry by preventing the free interchange of commodities between 
different parts of the world, or even of our own empire. 

Of the nature of these regulations which thus prevent the interchange 
of commodities, in direct opposition to the general interests of mankind, 
and especially to those of our own population, we may form some idea 
from the following facts : 

1. For the express purpose of supporting slavery, we charge a pro- 
tecting duty of 10s. per cwt. on all Sugar, and of 28s. per cwt. on all 
Coffee, imported from our Indian dominions, and thus force our manu- 
facturers, for the sake of supplying the miserable allowance of clothing 
to 700,000 slaves in the West Indies,* to forego the supply of eighty 
or a hundred millions of people in India. 

2. Instead of encouraging that competition of free Iabour,which would 
as effectually destroy the trade in slaves for the cultivation of Sugar, as 
it has already done for that of Indigo, and thus remove the great 
barrier to our intercourse with 70,000,000 of people on the continent 
of Africa, we prohibit, by extravagant duties, the importation of any 
Sugars grown there, and we charge an extra duty of 28s. per cwt. on 
all Coffee produced in the Colony of Sierra Leone, which by discourag- 
ing cultivation must retard the progress of civilization also. 

3. A bounty was long paid on the exportation of refined sugar, the 
effect of which was. to raise the price of all Sugar in the British 
market 6s. per cwt., equal to 1,200,000/. per annum. At the close of 
the last session, this bounty was reduced about one half. Now it is clear, 

* The value of this trade may easily be imagined, when we find it stated in 
the vindication of the report of the Fiscal of Berbice, that a supply of clothing 
to each negro not worth more than 10s. once in nineteen months, was deemed 
sufficient, and the poor negroes who complained of it were punishM, as pre- 
ferring a groundless complaint. See Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter, No. I6j 
|)age 238, 



246 

tliat the efFect of this bounty is not to increase our trade but to lessen 
it; to make Sugar dear to the people of England, and cheap to the 
people of the Continent. And whilst it is on all hands acknowledged 
that the great expedient for extending our commerce, is to find con- 
sumption at home for the produce received in return for our manufac- 
tures, we actually are paying our money to transfer this advantage to 
foreigners, and to facilitate their consumption, while we abridge our 
own. In short, so far as Sugar now comes within the reach of our 
distressed manufacturers, we thus, in point of fact, are taxing them, in 
such a way also as to diminish their already too scanty employments! 

Let us take another view of the subject. Agriculture affords no ade- 
quate employment for the population of Ireland, and for want of such 
employment two thirds of that population are in a state of misery which 
is most opprobrious to the Government under which they live. Manu- 
factures seem their only resource, but where are they to find a market 
whilst the trade, even with a large portion of our own dominions, is 
restricted by the most impolitic regulations? We need not insist on the 
benefits India would derive from the removal of these restrictions. They 
are too obvious to require it. Independently of the direct benefits which 
must follow from a free trade, the idolatry, superstition, and ignorance, 
which still pervade our vast dominions in that quarter, could not 
fail to give way before a more liberal and extended commercial inter- 
course. The culture of Indigo by European settlers has already pro- 
duced the happiest efFectSj and these must be promoted by every increase 
of our commercial relations with them. 

That such an injurious policy as that which has been exposed above, 
should be pursued in an age and country so enlightened as this, would 
appear incredible, if the facts of the case were not so incontestable. And 
what is more surprising is, that this policy is not pursued from igno- 
rance on the part of those who administer the Government; for the 
King in his speech, at the opening of the session of 1825, recommends 
to his Parliament to persevere (as circumstances may allov/) in the re- 
moval of all restrictions on commerce, and assures them of his " cordial 
co-operation, in fostering and extending that commerce, Avhich whilst it 
is, under the blessing of Providence, a main source of strength and power 
to the country, contributes, in no less a degree, to the happiness and 
civilization of mankind." 

This is the speech of a monarch, whose government extends to nearly 
one-seventh part of the human race. It is the language of *. govern- 
ment possessing the power, beyond any other, of promoting the " hap- 
piness and civilization of mankind ;" and yet we have seen that this 
vast power, instead of being exerted to promote, is actually so em- 
ployed as to prevent, the happiness and civilization of its own subjects. 

Why are the obvious means of giving employment to our own sufler- 
ing manufacturers, and to the miserable people of Ireland, as well as of 
enlightening and civilizing India and Africa, to be still pertinaciously 
withheld from them ? For no other purpose that can be assigned, but 
to pay the expence of holding, in cruel and degrading bondage, 800,000 
of our fellow men ! 

Our Government speak of the removal of restrictions on commerce as 
the means of promoting " the happiness and civilization of mankind," and 



247 

yet they maintain laws and regulations which are directly at variance 
with these undeniable principles. They speak of " the blessing of Pro- 
vidence," while, in pursuing a course which goes to uphold slavery, 
they areactino indirect contradiction, notonly to their own acknowledged 
principles of policy, but to the laws oi Hinn whose favour they recognize 
as the source of national prosperity. But let it not be supposed that we 
charge the authors of this speech with any insincerity or inconsistency 
which is not still more attributable to the people at large, so long as 
they are content to acquiesce in this state of things, contrary to their 
own enlightened convictions of its pernicious tendencies. 

Let us then think chiefly of our own share in the guilt of upholding 
this system. Let us bring the matter seriously home to ourselves, and 
determine to do our own duty. We are now paying for the support 
of slavery. It is we, the nation, who do, in fact, support it. Do we v^ait 
till the Planters shall decline to receive our money before we manifest 
our unwillingness to pay it? The Government have avowed ^/jeiV prin- 
ciples, and they have begun cautiously to carry them into effect. They 
have already taken off about half the bounty on the exportation of Sugar, 
but they are obstructed on every side, in their progress, by the monopo- 
lists, who, (however those who suffer by their monopoly may be torpid,) 
are sure to be industrious, and at their posts. In this they set an example 
which the friends of suffering humanity would do well to imitate. Let 
these come zealously and actively forward, to give to the Government 
the support which is requisite to enable them to pursue, steadily and 
perse veringly, those liberal views of policy, the very annunciation of 
which has so much raised them in public estimation. Enough has 
already been done to encourage perseverance. Enough yet remains 
to be done, to require that our efforts, instead of being relaxed, should 
be greatly increased. 

And if we fail, by all our exertions, to obtain any national act for the 
ejctinction of slavery, there is surely no reason why we, as individuals, 
should continue participators in the crime. By their individual exer- 
tions the friends of humanity may still do much ; and if they can do 
nothing else, they may, at least, more generally than they yet have done, 
encourage the consumption of the produce of free labour. Many have 
already discontinued the use of the produce of slaves' labour, without 
any regard to its mere economical results, on the same conscientious 
principles, on which men abstain from the use of smuggled goods, or 
from giving encouragement to what is in itself morally wrong. Many 
more would doubtless be willing to substitute the use of the produce 
of free labour for that of slave labour, if they were aware of the good 
effects which such a substitution is capable of producing. To these, it 
may be said, that, if a tenth part of the people of this country were to 
use only Sugar or Coffee, the produce of" free labour, such a measure 
could not fail to give a great impulse to their cultivation, and they would 
thus become so important, as articles of return for the rapidly increasing 
shipments of our manufactured goods, that the protecting duty could not 
be much longer maintained ; and thus a fair trial, would ere long, be 
made between the produce of slave labour and that of free labour, 
of the beneficial result of which we can entertain no fears. 

However deeply men may fe^i interested in any cause, the hope of 



248 

success is requisite to encourage their exertions. The exertions which 
have been made to abolish slavery, compared with the little that has yet 
been effected, are doubtless discouraging ; but if" every individual 
among us would now make it his own work, we should feel that, 
though our progress might be small, we were still contributing some 
thing towards its final extinction. 

Let associations then be multiplied in every part of the country for 
raising permanent funds to promote Anti-Slavery objects, and for en- 
couraging the use of the produce of free labour. Those who abstain on 
conscientious principles from the use of slave produce will, of course, 
cordially join in these associations witli those who do so solely in the 
hope of producing a beneficial effect. And let it be borne in mind, that 
though the concurrence of a majority may be required to bring about 
any effectual reformation by means of Parliamentary enactments, yet 
much may be done, even by a small minority, in the way now suggested. 
And in pursuing this course, let it not be supposed that we are chang- 
ing our object: we are, on the contrary, removing the difficulties which 
stand in the way of those parliamentary enactments that are necessary 
to carry the wishes of the country, on the subject of slavery, into full 
accomplishment. Finally, we have all been witnesses of the recent and 
general alarms which have prevailed throughout all the walks of com- 
merce, and of the extreme sufferings of our manufacturers, which are* 
as yet but very partially relieved. If we continue to acquiesce in that 
system of bounties and protecting duties, and in those impolitic restric- 
tions on our commerce, to which we have now adverted, we shall thereby 
greatly aggravate the distress of our countrymen at home ; prevent at the 
same time the alleviation of the misery and oppression of hundreds of 
thousands of our fellow subjecis abroad; and instead of contributing 
to the general happiness and civilization of mankind, as we have 
the power of doing beyond any nation under heaven, we shall, in fact, 
be found impeding the progress of both. 

FREE LABOUR SUGAR. 

After the discussion in which we have been engaged, it seems not in- 
appropriate to remark, that we fear that many of our friends, who have 
been desirous of encouraging the produce of free labour, to the exclusion 
of that of slave labour, have been grossly imposed upon by those in 
whom they have confided to supply them with the former. We have 
now before us a Grocer's Bill, in which is the following item, viz.: — 
"One bag Mauritius sugar (free) 1 cwt.2 qrs.2l lbs. at 66s., £5. lis. 4|." 
Now be it known to all our readers, that Mauritius sugar is not only 
not free sugar, but that it is raised at a much larger expense of negro life 
than even the sugar of the West Indies. The Mauritius sugar is wholly- 
different in its appearance from that of the East Indies. It is also dif- 
ferently packed, the bags containing it being made of a kind of straw or 
rush, while those from India are made of cotton. It is further admitted 
at a lower duty, paying only 27s, per cwt., wliile that from India pays 
37s. To substitute the one for the other, therefore, must be an act of 
deliberate dishonesty. 



London: Printei hy Bagsier and Thorns, 14, Bartholomew Qlose, 



London, 18, Aldermanhury , Nov. 30, 1826. 

No. 18. 



ONTHLY REPORTER. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons wish- 
ing to receive a regular supply, are requested to make application to the Secretary, 
at the Society's office. No. IS, Aldermanhury, and mention the conveyance by 
which they may be most conveniently sent. 



WEST INDIAN CONTROVERSY. 

During the last two months considerable discussions have taken 
place in various newspapers, and particularly in the Morning Chroni- 
cle and New Times, on the subject of Negro Slavery. In the latter 
paper, the chief advocate of the slave system has been a gentleman who 
signs himself " a Dominica Planter," and who, in a series of ten let- 
ters, has laboured hard to reconcile the people of England to the 
slavery of the West Indies. He has been met by several writers, vv'ho 
have controverted his positions, and thus brought many of the leading 
points of the subject to issue. We leave it to the " Dominica Planter" 
to bring his own views of the question before the public. We mean to 
confine ourselves to the task of bringing together some of the most 
effective of the statements and arguments employed to refute his 
positions. 

The " Dominica Planter" had affirmed that in a vv'ork published by a 
Mr. Barclay, of Jamaica, all the positions contained in the 1st volume 
of Mr. Stephen's Delineation of Slavery, had been severally refuted, 
and he even affected to quote the pages in Mr. Barclay's book, in 
which these refutations severally occurred. One of his opponents call- 
ed upon him, deliberately to point out a single position of Mr. Stephen's 
which had been so refuted. After carefully examining every page in 
Barclay v/hich had been referred to, " I cannot discern," said this 
writer, " even the slightest approach to any thing like refutation. In 
the first place, Mr. Barclay has wholly mistaken the very drift and in- 
tention of Mr. Stephen's volume, which is exclusively a delineation of 
the state of slavery in point of law. Mr. Stephen, it is true, has an- 
nounced, in his title page, an intention of delineating that state, not 
only as it is in law, but in practice also. But hisj'zj'S^ volume, which 



250 

alone has appeared, is actually stated in that very title page, to be con- 
fined to an account of slavery, as it is, in point of law. The second 
volume, not yet published, is to relate to the practice of slavery. Now, 
throughout Mr. Barclay's work, he makes no attempt to shew that Mr. 
Stephen has given an erroneous view of the law of slavery, the only 
thing Mr. Stephen had professed to do in this volume ; but he attempts 
to refute Mr. Stephen's law by hardy assertions, resting either on his 
own authority or on that of some nameless informant, as to his experience 
of the "practice of slavery. It is idle therefore, for any man who ha& ac- 
cess to both the books, to say, that the one contains a refutation of the 
other. In the one, the law is given on the very best, that is to say, the 
Colonial authorities. In the other, an individual, without attempting to 
prove that the laio is untruly stated by Mr. Stephen, only affirms, on 
his own authority, that such and such, in his limited and partial expe- 
rience, was the practice ; and then he assumes that he has refuted 
Mr. Stephen. Mr. Barclay's assertions, however, are no proofs even of 
his facts, much less are they any proofs that Mr. Stephen's account of 
the law of slavery is incorrect. That account can only be refuted by 
an appeal to the law itself I will exemplify this in two or three in- 
stances cited by the ' Dominica Planter,' wherein he asserts, that Mr. 
Barclay has refuted Mr. Stephen's positions. 

" 1. ' Property of Negroes,' Mr. Stephen's position on this point 
will be found at page 58, and is as follows : — ' Slaves have no legal 
rights of property in things real or personal; and whatever property 
theij may acquire belongs, in point of law, to the master.' Now I ask 
the ' Dominica Planter,' if this be not a perfectly correct view of the 
law of the case. It is fully confirmed by Mr. Dwarris, to whom he re- 
fers as an authority-; and it is implied in the proposition of Mr. Can- 
ning, assented to by the whole body of the West Indians in Parhament, 
requiring the Colonial Legislatures to frame enactments which shall 
' protect the slaves by law in the acquisition and possession of property, 
and its transmission by bequest or otherwise.' Surely it is no answer 
at all to Mr. Stephen to say, that some slaves do acquire property — or 
that their masters seldom directly touch it. It is still no less true that 
the slaves have no legal right of property, not even in themselves, much 
less in any thing else. It is still no less true that a master or overseer 
may destroy his slave's property with impunity (see a recent instance in 
the Berbice Fiscal's report) on slight pretences. It is still no less true 
that a master may imprison his slave, and may sell him at- pleasure, and 
then what becomes of his property, his house, his garden ? This is a 
fair specimen of Mr. Barclay's refutation of Mr. Stephen. 

" 2. ' Sales of families and slaves, and choosing a master.' It 
would be easy to furnish from any one Jamaica gazette, sufficient proof 
that, in practice, slaves are now sold in Jamaica without regard to 
family ties.* But we are told that Mr-. Barclay has refuted Mr. 
Stephen's positions on this point also. What, then, are Mr. Stephen's 

* In a letter from the Duke of Manchester to Earl Bathurst, dated 4tli of 
March, 1826, is the following passage, which is quite decisive of this question. 
" I am not aware of any law" " by which the separation of husband and wife, or 
flf parents and children, by sale or otherwise, is rendered unlawful." 



251 

positions ? They are these (p. 62.) * The slave, in the British Colonies, 
is at all times liable to be sold, or otherwise alienated, at the will of 
the master, as absolutely, in all respects, as cattle or any other personal 
effects. He is also, at all times, liable to be sold by process of law, 
for satisfaction of the debts of a living, or the debts or bequests of a 
deceased master, at the suit of creditors or legatees. In consequence 
of a transfer in either of these ways, or by the authority of his imme- 
diate owner, the slave may be, at any time, exiled, in a moment, and 
for ever, from his home, his family, and the colony in which he was 
born, and in which he has long been settled.' 

** Such was the law prevailing in the British Colonies, when Mr. 
Stephen's book was published, in 1824; and such is 7iow the law, with 
one alteration. Thanks to the British Parliament, not to the Colonial 
Authorities — an Act, brought in by Dr. Lushington, and passed in 
1825, has prohibited that exile of slaves, from one colony to another, 
which had previously been permitted. In other respects, the law re- 
mains in its former opprobrious state. A master may still sell his 
slave when and how he pleases. The slave is still, at all times, liable 
to be seized, and sold for the debts of his master ; and he may still be as 
effectually exiled from his family and home, especially in such an island as 
Jamaica, as if the ocean rolled between them. He may be carried from 
St. Thomas in the East, to Westmorland. Is this, or is it not, the law 
of the case ? ' No,' says Mr. Barclay, ' a law was passed in the reign 
of George II., which forbids the separation of families, by sale.' A law, 
it is true, passed in 1735, numbered 105, for regulating sales of slaves 
by the Marshal, when taken in execution. It directs, that whenever 
husband, wife, and children, are taken together, they shall also be sold 
together in one lot, and the rest singly. Now this refers solely to 
MarshaVs sales, not at all to sales at the will of the master. It merely 
provides, that when certain members of the same family are levied upon 
together, for their master's debts, they shall be sold together ; ■ and, so 
far, it is well. But it is perfectly notorious, that, in the great majority 
of Marshal's sales, a single individual only of a family has been seized, 
a father, or a mother, or a child ; and it seldom happens that the whole 
of a family are taken together. In all other cases but this, of what avail is 
the law? It provides for a contingency which rarely occurs, and leaves 
all other sales to be regulated by individual cupidity or caprice. And 
at a public sale to the highest and best bidder, what can give to a slave 
the choice of a master ? Certainly the law does not give any such 
choice, neither does it prevent the separation of families, by sale, ex- 
cepting under judicial process, and even then, only in a case which, if 
the * Dominica Planter' will carefully peruse the Jamaica Gazettes, he 
will find to occur but rarely. 

" 3. The 'Dominica Planter' affirms that Mr. Barclay has refuted 
Mr. Stephen's position, relative to the education of slaves. Now, what 
is Mr. Stephen's position ? It is this (p. 200.) 'The education of slaves 
is shamefully neglected in the laws and institutions of our Colonies.' 
To this position, what is the reply of Mr. Barclay, at p. 116, to which 
the ' Dominica Planter ' so triumphantly refers in refutation of Mr. 
Stephen ? ' There would be a want of candour,' he says, ' in not ad- 



252 

mitting that school learning is yet but very little known in the Colonies.' 
This is evasive, indeed, but still it is decisive. Mr. Barclay cannot state 
that a single legislative measure has ever been adopted on the subject. 

" 4. I could take each head of the ' Dominica Planter's ' summary 
in the same manner, and shew how utterly unfounded is his boast re- 
specting Mr. Barclay, and how little claim Mr. Barclay has to be list- 
ened to as an authority in this controversy. But I will confine myself 
to one more example, his attempt to refute Mr. Stephen's position re- 
specting the neglect of giving Christian instruction to the slaves. Here 
the Report of the Bishop of Jamaica* completely disproves Mr. Bar- 
clay's attempted refutation, and amply confirms Mr. Stephen's position 
— a position which is not to be shaken by a splendid list of subscrip- 
tions for the erection of an additional place of worship. The Bishop's 
statement, made in October, 1825, is to this effect: That in the whole 
Island of Jamaica, containing about 400,000 inhabitants, there are not 
places of worship, belonging to the Established Church, capable of con- 
taining more than 1 1 or 12,000 persons; and, that the parishes in the 
interior are absolutely without the semblance of religious worship. 

" And here I would beg to recur to a statement of the ' Dominica 
Planter,' respecting the decorous observance of the Sabbath. The 
statement stands on his own authority. As far as that is entitled to 
credit, it might be met by any man's counter assertion. I have now be- 
fore me a letter, from a gentleman of Jamaica, of a recent date, which 
contains the following passage : — ' But I must not forget the state of 
the Sabbath-day ! I hope all the friends of true religion will urge this 
upon Government and upon Parliament. Let them consider nothing 
done in the West Indies so long as this is the market-day, or occupied, 
with the shadow of legal warrant, for any thing but a holy rest. It is 
my opinion this point will stand unredressed longer than any by our 
Planters; and there is nothing by which they are so much offended, as 
by an appeal to their conscience on this point.' I do not give this as 
evidence but as an assertion equivalent at least to that of your corres- 
pondent.i- 

" If the ' Dominica Planter ' insists upon it, I have no objection to 
go more fully into an exposure of his statement, that Mr. Barclay has 
refuted all Mr. Stephen's positions. I affirm, on the contrary, that he 
has not shaken one of them. If the ' Dominica Planter ' thinks other- 
wise, let him select his point, and he will find me ready to meet him." 

The answer of the Dominica Planter to this challenge, was, in sub- 
stance, that he had no intention to cavil with Mr. Stephen or his advo- 
cate, as to the laws quoted by the latter, but that the laws and facts 
were at variance, and like ipany laws in England, though not repealed 
by statute, they had becorne obsolete in practice. The Anti-Slavery 
Society, in having declared that Mr. Stephen's work would enlighten 
" the public mind as to the true condition "of the slaves," had " con- 
founded the Law of Slavery with the condition of the slaves." " Mr. 
Stephen's book, it had been said, contained only the Law of Slavery. 

* See Reporter, No. 13. t On this point, if proof were wanting, see 

Williamson, Cooper, Stewart, Bickell, De la Beche, &c. &c. 



253 

Mr. BarcIay^s book on the other hand, contained a fair statement of the 
actual condition of the Slaves, shelving them to be a verij happy popu- 
lation, tvith the power and practice of accumulating property, and pro- 
tected in their rights and privileges as the people are here. As the in- 
ference, however, drawn from Mr. Stephen's book, was, that it contained 
a statement of the condition of slaves, which Mr. Barclay's book also 
does, and which latter disproves all the infereiices drawn from Mr. 
Stephen's book, he considered that Mr. Barclay's work, as containing 
matter of fact, had completely refuted Mr. Stephen's work, as one of 
theory and inference." 

In a few days, a reply appeared to this statement of the Dominica 
Planter, which was to the following effect : 

" The ' Dominica Planter' asserted, that Mr. Barclay, in his 'in- 
valuable work,' had refuted all the positions contained in Mr. Stephen's 
delineation of slavery. I proved that this assertion was xmtrue, and I 
challenged him to produce even a single instance in which it could be 
verified. In reply to this challenge he declines to produce even the 
single instance I demanded of him, but he pleads that it is not neces- 
sary, for this reason, that the 'Anti-Slavery Society,' and by their 
means ' the public,' ' had confounded the Law of Slavery with the 
Condition of the Slaves.' Does he mean to say, that a principal point 
in ascertaining what is the true condition of the slaves is not their legal 
condition ? We may fairly, I think, assume, from his reluctance to 
enter on the subject, that he is conscious to himself that Mr. Stephen 
has correctly described all that he professed to describe, viz. the law 
of slavery; for he is forced virtually to admit that that gentleman's 
exposition of the law of slavery in the British West India Islands is un- 
assailable, and he declines to specify a single instance in which that law 
has been misrepresented by him. The ' Dominica Planter,' neverthe- 
less, blames the Anti-Slavery Society for having given it as their opi- 
nion, that Mr. Stephen's work ' Would essentially -promote the object 
of enlightening the public ?nind as to the true condition of the slaves.' 
He blames them, that is to say, for conceiving that a correct exposition 
of the legal rights, and the legal wrongs, of the slaves ; of the power 
over them which the law confides to others ; and of the kind and de- 
gree of protection which the law affords them, would throw much light 
on their true condition. 

" ' But,' says this gentleman, ' the laws and facts are at variance.* 
This may be very true in more senses than one. For example, the law, 
in some islands, limits the power of flogging to thirty-nine lashes. Mr. 
Dwarris tell us of cases in which that limit v/as greatly exceeded, and, 
owing to the state of the law of evidence, with impunity. This, how- 
ever, is not the sense of the ' Dominica Planter.' He means to say, 
what he has not at all proved, that the practice is much more lenient 
than the law. But this is a mere assumption, unsupported by any satis- 
factory evidence whatever. 

"Thelawaliows the manager of the' Dominica Planter's' estate to give 
a certain number of lashes to every negro under his charge, for any rea- 
son, or for no reason. Does he mean to say, that here the law and the 
practice are at variance, and that the manager never flogs a negro, at 



254 

his own caprice, and without the intervention of a magistrate? It is ob- 
viously impossible for him with any truth to assert this. He cannot 
know that at the very moment when he is giving so confident a report 
of the happiness of his slaves, some of them may not be writhing wnder 
the lash of his driver, for not having completed their tasks for his sole 
benefit. 

" But ' the laws and the facts,' he tells us, ' are at variance.' Has it 
then ceased to be the law, that a master may compel a slave to labour 
for his profit ? Or has it ceased to be the practice that the slaves are 
so compelled ? In this grand point, at least, the laws and the facts are 
not at variance. Both in law and in fact, the negroes are compellable, 
and are compelled, by brute force, by the power of the lash, to work for 
the sole benefit of their masters. Will he venture to deny this?" 

Some other of the "Dominica Planter's" statements were thus met; 

" I. He asserts that, 'it is not the p7~actice in the West Indies to sell 
slaves separately from their families — that they choose their own mas- 
ters,' &c. This assertion 1 deny, and that on no lower authority than 
that of the Royal Gazette of 3 amaLica, of the 5th of August, 1826. At 
the 8th page of that paper, I find no fewer than seventeen slaves, fifteen 
of them Creoles, who are advertized to be sold, from the workhouses, 
singly^ by public sale, ' to the highest and best bidder,' no one having 
claimed them. Some of the details are curious — ' James, an elderly 
Creole negro-man, grey beard.' 'James Thomas, an old grey-headed 
Creole.' ' Edward, a young creole negro-man, marked P C on left 
shoulder.' 'John Williams, a mulatto.' ' Mary Herbert, an old grey-head- 
ed Creole marked W O, on shoidders.' ' Robert Henry, a young creole 
negro-man marked M R, on shoulders.' Not one of these seventeen ap- 
pears to be connected by family ties with any of the others that are ad- 
vertised. Nay, they all belong to different owners. It is quite impossi- 
ble, however, being Creoles, that they should have no family connexions. 
Again, 1 find, at the bottom of p. 13, that on the 8th of August last, 
there would be put up for public sale, ' Henry Thaxter, a mulatto, a 
cooper, distrained on for taxes due from Snowhill ; and Smart, a sailor 
negro, distrained on for taxes due from B. Redman.' Are not these 
men sold separately from their families? At p. 14, in the same paper, 
I find eight more slaves who are advertised to be sold, singly and sepa- 
rately ; some of whom are thus announced : ' Take notice that I shall 
put for public sale,' &c. — ' the above negroes and horse, levied upon, 
under, and by virtue of, the foregoing writs of Venditioni exponas.' 
Here then we have twenty-seven separate sales of individuals, adver- 
tised in a single week ; and this practice there exists no law in Jamaica, 
as we are told by the Duke of Manchester, effectually to prevent.* 

" 2. Flogging, he tells us, ' is seldom applied ' to the slaves, and his 
proof is a vindicatory report of an assembly of St. Vincent's planters in 
1 823 ! Who ever heard (except, indeed, in the West India controversy) 
a plea of ?iot guilty adduced as a proof of innocence ? 

" 3. ' The slaves are not branded with a hot iron : when the offence 
occurs, it is punished by law.' In proof of this, the ' Dominica Plan- 

* Since the above was written, Gtill stronger and more revolting facts on this 
subject have appeared in Parliamentary documents. 



255 

ter ' boldly refers lo the Jamaica Slave Law of 1816. I have examined 
the law carefully, and can find no clause which prohibits branding ; and 
I take it upon me to affirm, that branding is not forbidden, or punisha- 
ble, by any law of Jamaica. If the branding, indeed, should be of a 
■crweZ kind, like that of the man who applied a red hot iron to the breasts 
of a female, so as to inflict on her a lasting injury, such an act may be 
punished as cruelty, but not as branding. No punishment of any kind 
is attached to branding, unaccompanied by what a West Indian jury 
would deem cruelty. Let the law to that effect, if any, be produced. 

" 4. 'Tortola has never cost the British Government a shilling for 
.protection.' This is obviously more than the ' Dominica Planter' can 
have a right to affirm. Tortola has, at least, cost its due proportion of 
the naval and military expenses incurred for the general defence and 
protection of the West Indies. 

" 5. The ' Dominica Planter ' objects to its being said, that ' A 
planter may brand, flog, and deUberately kill, a negro at his pleasure.' 
And may he not do so, wherever negro evidence is rejected ? See to 
this effect the report of Mr. Dwarris. 

" 6. ' The Governor s despatches laid before Parliament prove,' he 
tells us, that fanaticism was the cause of the insurrections in Barbadoes, 
&c. The Governor's despatches, respecting the Barbadoes insurrec- 
tion, have never, to this hour, been laid before Parliament. 

" 7. * The negroes/ he tells us, ' have wages in kind.' So have our 
horses and dogs." 

But, notwithstanding all this, we find the "Dominica Planter" strenu- 
ous in affirming that Mr. Barclay has satisfactorily proved to us that 
the negroes of Jamaica are a "very happy population, -protected 
in their rights and privileges as the people here are." He further 
maintains in substance respecting the slaves in Barbadoes, and in the 
other islands, that they are much more happy, better fed, better clothed, 
and enjoy more comforts — in short, are in all respects better off than 
the peasantry in this country; that there the slaves are a laughing, 
dancing, joyous race of beings, always cheerful ; and they are all well 
attended to in sickness, never treated with cruelty, and that their state 
has been gradually very much meliorated. 

To support these positions, he has adduced a long list of witnesses, 
some of them unconnected, he says, with colonial property, whose 
evidence, taken on oath, is annexed to a Report of the Council of Bar- 
badoes, dated 23rd July, 1823. These witnesses are Sir E. Williams, 
K.C.B., Lieutenant Colonels Popham and Berkeley, Dr. Teggart, Cap- 
tains C. Cruttenden and Spink ; Sir R. A. Alleyne, Bart, (owner of four 
estates), Foster Clark, Esq. and W. Sharpe, Esq. planters and at- 
torneys, Drs. Richards, Leacock and Thomas, and the Rev. S. Hinds, 
all of Barbadoes. On behalf of the other Islands, he cites Drs. 
Greenaway, Johnstone and Spalding, Mr. Cotts a Wesleyan Missionary, 
a Catholic Curfe, Sir C. Brisbane, and Major General Nicolay. 

To these large and sweeping affirmations of the " Dominica Planter's " 
witnesses a reply has appeared, the object of which is to shew that they 
are not deserving of the credit which he claims for them. Of that reply, 
we mean to quote nearly the whole, because it embraces in a brief 
space a large portion of this momentous question. 



256 

*' I ck) not mean," says the writer, "to deny that there are many 
humane masters of slaves, who, when they happen to reside on their 
own estates, may do much to correct the evils of slavery, and to alle- 
viate the sufferings of their slaves ; but I mean to deny the truth of the 
above statements as applying to the general condition of our colonial 
bondsmen, and to give some reasons for this denial, which even the 
* Dominica Planter,' will be compelled to allow to have some weight. 

" When the Privy Council first entered on an examination of the 
Slave Trade in 1788, testimonies as respectable and decisive were given 
in favour of the humanity of that trade as any now adduced by the 
' Dominica Planter ' in favour of the treatment of slaves in the West 
Indies, Let him look at Part II, of the Privy Conncil Report, and he 
will there find it stated; by one witness (Penny), that ' the slaves are 
comfortably lodged in rooms fitted up for them.' ' They are amused 
with instruments of music, and when tired of music and dancing they 
then go to games of chance,' * They are indulged in all their little 
humours.' ' Particular attention is paid them when sick.' — ' They 
are frequently seen perfectly reconciled to their condition, and as happy 
as any of the crew;' their treatment in general is 'proper and humane.' 
' no regulations are wanted to enforce kinder treatment, it being the in- 
terest of the captain and officers to take care of them.' Another wit- 
ness (Norris) confirms all this, and tells us ' that the slaves do not suf- 
fer from sleeping on boards,' he might have added, and in chains in a 
rolling vessel. 'The song and the dance are encouraged among them.' 
' Interest blended with humanity secures them every possible care, 
tenderness, and attention.' Similar evidence is given by various others^ 
and a British Admiral (Edwards) among the rest, tells us that, in a 
Guineaman, 'the negroes usually appeared cheerful and singing. The 
arrival of a Guineaman is known by the dancing and singing of the 
negroes on board.' Does any man now credit this evidence, or allow 
to it the very slightest force ? Or does any man think that it ought to 
have retarded for a moment the abolition of the Slave Trade ? And yet, 
is it not as decisive as that which the * Dominica Planter ' has quoted 
from the proceedings of the Barbadoes Council, of 1823? In truth 
there is no weight, at any time or in any circumstances, to be given to 
such evidence, when adduced for such a purpose. 

" In the same year, 1788, nearly forty years ago, various naval and 
military officers were examined by the Privy Council respecting the 
condition of the slaves in the West Indies. Their testimony in favour 
of the happiness of their condition, will be found to be even much 
stronger than that produced by the ' Dominica Planter,' (See Part 
III.) Lord Rodney, for example, said he knew all the islands, he never 
saw any other than humane and proper treatment of the slaves ; he 
never saw any instance of cruelty ; with respect to lodging they are bet- 
ter off than the poor at home; they are not overworked in any respect; 
he had often wished the poor in this country were in so happy a condi- 
tion ; they had all the appearance of happiness and vivacity, dancing 
and singing. Such was Lord Rodney's testimony to the condition of 
the slaves from 1761 to 1788 ; and Sir Peter Parker, Sir Joshua Row- 
ley, Admiral Hotham, Lord Barrington, &c. &c. entirely concur with 
Lord Rodney. Admiral Barrington goes so far as to say, that * the 



257 

slaves appeared to him so happy, that he often wished himself in their 
situation.' 

" Innumerable testimonies to the same effect, at the same period, 
might be produced, in favour both of the Slave Trade and the then ex- 
isting Slavery. If those respecting slavery were at all worthy of credit, 
they would go completely to disprove all that has been since said of 
amelioration ; for what could have been done to make happiness more 
perfect than it was then described to be ? Independently of this, we 
now know that, in the very period when the condition of the slaves was 
thus eulogised, the mortality among them was dreadful, and that both 
the law and practice of slavery were in the very worst imaginable state. 
And yet, what more credit is due to the statements that have been given 
on this subject in 1823, than to those which were given in 1788? They 
both use the same terms ; they are both branded with precisely the 
same characters of exaggeration ; and the more recent statements are 
as manifestly untrue, when they assert the blessedness of the lot of the 
slaves of Jamaica and Barbadoes, as those of 1788. I proceed to prove 
this. 

" And first, as to those of Jamaica, the ' Dominica Planter ' gives 
us, here, only the testimony of Mr. Barclay, the value of whose alleged 
refutation of Mr. Stephen's work has already been seen. Now if Mr. 
Barclay's testimony were of much value, I might oppose to him not only 
the Rev. Mr. Bickell, but Mr. Stewart and Mr. De la Beche, both 
planters and friends of the colonial system. I will refer, however, at 
present, only to a single statement of Doctor Williamson, who resided 
fourteen years in Jamaica, and is also a strenuous advocate of the 
colonists, but it is a statement big with meaning, and which stamps 
falsehood on many a vague and imposing eulogy. ' If, in a warm day, 
tvepass a gang,' says the Doctor, ' when they are uncovered behind, it 
is a reproach to every white rnan to observe on them the recently lace- 
rated sores, or the deep furrows which, though healed up, leave the 
marks of cruel punishment.' Vol. II. p. 225. But this, it may be 
objected, was twelve or fifteen years ago. Yes, it was — but I happen 
to have before me a letter from the same gentleman, on his return to 
Jamaica, on the Medical Staff", after an absence of ten years, dated at 
Stoney Hill, July 20, 1823. I quote from it, by permission of the per- 
son to whom it was addressed, the following passages : — ' The Sab- 
bath is still a day of trafiSc, marketing, revelHng, among negroes under 
the bond of slavery.' — ' I cannot understand, that in the interior any 
improvement has taken place among the planters.' 

"The 'Dominica Planter' has pressed the testimony of one Methodist 
Missionary, though uselessly to his object, into the service of the slave 
system. Let me avail myself of that of another for a directly opposite 
purpose. It is that of Mr. Gilgrass, then residing in Jamaica, and it 
will shew how little foundation my opponent had for. denying that 
family ties might be broken in that island by sale. ' A master of 
slaves,' he says, ' who lived near us in Kingston, exercised his bar- 
barities on a Sunday morning, while we were worshipping God in the 
chapel, and the cries of the female sufferers have frequently interrupted 
us in our devotions. But^ there was no redress for them or for us. 
This man wanted money, and one of the female slaves having two fine 



258 

children, he sold one of them, and the child was torn from her maternal 
affection. In the agony of her feelings, she made a hideous howling, 
and for that crime was flogged. Soon after he sold the other child. 
' This turned her heart within her,' and impelled her into a kind of 
madness. She howled day and night in the yard — tore her hair — ran 
up and down the streets rending the heavens with her cries, and 
literally watering the earth with her tears. Her constant cry was, 
* That wicked massa Jew ! he sell my children. Will no Buckra massa 
pitynegar? What me do? Me no have one child!' As she stood 
before the windows, she said, ' My massa, do, my massa minister, 
pity me ! My heart do so (shaking herself violently,) because I have 
no child. Me go to massa house, in massa yard, and in my hut, and 
me no see them;' and then her cry went up to God." — Watson's 
Defence of the Methodists, p. 26. 

" As to Barbadoes, it will be sufficient to quote the ' Dominica 
Planter's' own witness, Mr. Dwarris, a gentleman, himself also a planter, 
who was specially commissioned to inquire into the state of the law in 
some of the islands, and whose report is even now scarcely a year old. 
Amidst much of general and declamatory praise of the planters, he tells 
us, that in Barbadoes, ' Slaves, are without legal protection or redress for 
personal injuries.' — ' The slave has no remedy in case of the greatest 
oppression by the master or his delegate, or the grossest injury by third 
persons.' — ' A slave who is, or thinks himself, aggrieved, looks in vain, 
in this island, for a proper quarter in which to prefer his complaint. It 
can no where be received.' — ' For the punishment of general oppression 
and mal- treatment of a slave, there is no provision by any law of 
Barbadoes. If inflicted by the master, it would be dispunishable ; if 
perpetrated by a third person, the owner would have his remedy by 
civil action, but the slave would still be withont redress.' — ' A wicked 
or cruel master, or delegate, may inflict on him any degree of severity 
of punishment. No man, or set of men, has legal power to call him 
to account for working his slave so long as he likes — for whipping him 
as much as he pleases — for chaining — for starving him.' — ' A master 
has uncontrolled, undefined, and absolute power.' — ' In the case of 
even very grievous bodily injury, inflicted on a slave by a manager, the 
sufferer himself, or his slave brethren, who were present, cannot give 
evidence, even though all the free evidence should have been designedly 
sent out of the way. In such a case, a slave is not allowed to be a prose- 
cutor. Maimed, mutilated, disfigured, dismembered, his wounds must be 
the only tongues to relate his wrongs.' — Dwarris's first Report, p. 62, 66. 

" Now, it is in the face of these statements that the ' Dominica 
Planter ' asserts, and produces his respectable witnesses, by their 
voluntary and extra-judicial affidavits, to prove, that the [slaves in 
Barbadoes are happier than the peasantry in this country ! ! ! 
:v, " But the Council of Berbice are, to the full, as strong in repelling 
every imputation of inhumanity on the institutions and inhabitants of 
that colony, as the Council of Barbadoes. And yet take, as an illus- 
tration of the validity of their defence, the following case, furnished by 
the Fiscal of Berbice himself. 

" Complaint of the woman Minkie, belonging to Thomas C. Jones: 
says, ' Mr. Jones took me out of the barracks on Tuesday. He sent 



259 

me to Mr. Henery ; he would not buy me. He sent me to another 
gentleman. Both said my master asked too much money for me, and 
sent me back. I begged for a pass to look for an owner. He said no, 

he would put me down, and cut my . I was then laid down, and 

tied to three stakes, and Chance flogged me with a cart whip. I got 
a severe flogging. I have marks of severe punishment visible on me ; 
old and recent floggings, all inflicted by Jones.' She exhibits her pos- 
teriors, which are covered with a plaster by order of the doctor, and 
apparently lacerated to that degree, that the Court judged it ex- 
pedient not to uncover it. Mr. Jones being called upon, said he had 
flogged her, and also broken her mouth for her insolence. He had 
had thirty-nine laid on her, and they were well inflicted. When he 
sent for her he had no intention of flogging her, but, after sending her 
to three persons for sale and not succeeding, he told her she had often 
deserved a flogging. He then directed her to be flogged, and that 
it should be well laid on, which was done." — Berbice Fiscal's First 
Report, p. 14. 

" In his_ second Report, the Fiscal tells us, that * his Honour, the 
President, and the Court, were highly indignant at the treatment of 
this female. No evidence, however, could be obtained to convict 
Mr. Jones of having inflicted a severer pu7iish?nent than that prescribed 
by law, although the Court were fully satisfied that the unfortunate 
female slave had been flogged in a severe and cruel manner, and 
to her sufferings, by her master's own confession, was added 
the breaking of her mouth in a most brutal manner,' p. 10. 
And what was the result of all this accumulation of horrors? The 
punishntent of Jones? No. Jones was directed * to take her (Minkie) 
from the custody of the Under Sherift', on payment of the fees.' She 
was returned, that is to say, into the power of this ruffian, by order 
of the Court. Such is the law and practice of slavery in Berbice ! 
Cruelty of the worst and most revolting description, followed, not only 
by the entire impunity of the perpetrator of it, but by forcibly replacing 
in his power the wretched and lacerated victim of his barbarity ! 

" But it is unnecessary to multiply instances of this kind. If we 
wish to have an adequate view of the utter falsehood of the statement, 
that the Slaves are better off than the peasantry of Great Britain, let us 
only imagine, that the police and institutions of Jamaica, for example, 
were transferred to this country. Let us only suppose, that in England, 
every proprietor of land, or of manufactories ; every bailiff", or over- 
seer, or head of an establishment, having servants under him ; every 
attorney, guardian, executor, or administrator, connected with such an 
establishment ; every overseer of a workhouse, and every keeper of a 
gaol, might legally, at his own discretion, and without the necessity of 
assigning a reason for so doing, for any offence, real or imaginary, (a 
misconstrued word — a misunderstood look,) or from the mere wanton- 
ness of power, like Mr. Jones, cause to be stripped naked, and fixed 
prone to the earth, any or all of the men, women, or children, employed 
under him, and either publicly or privately, inflict, upon their bared 
posteriors, 12, 20, 25, or 39 (whatever the number may be) lacerations 
of the cart whip, and then subject the sufierers, with their bleeding 
wounds, to the stocks and hard labour at pleasure ; — let us suppose too, 



260 

that all these different proprietors and functionaries had the power of 
delegating to their underling-s, their foremen and turnkeys, the same 
privilege of flogging, though to a more limited extent ; — let us further 
suppose, that the whole of the labouring class were debarred, by law, 
from giving evidence in the case of any abuse of power committed by 
their superiors ; and though allowed, in such a case, to prefer a com- 
plaint before a magistrate, (the magistrate being liable himself to have 
similar complaints preferred against him before his brother magistrate,) 
yet, if they failed in proving the truth of their complaint, by evidence 
that v/as admissible, they might be punished with thirty-nine lashes at 
the discretion of the magistrate, for the very act of complaining; — 
suppose, moreover, a driver, armed with a whip, to be placed over our 
reapers in the field, or our spinners in the cotton-mill, which whip he 
might apply at his pleasure, to qmcken industry , or to punish neglect; 
and that neither their time, nor their rate of exertion, nor the choice of 
their employment, nor the kind or measure of their food, or of their 
clothing, nor their hours of rest, nor their hours of labour were their 
own, but under the absolute direction and control of their master or 
overseer, and for the sole benefit of others, without wages : — Suppose 
all this, and what should we think of the state of our peasantry ? — And 
what would they think of it ? 

It is obvious that such a state of things, if it could be supposed for 
one moment to exist in this country, must give birth to innumerable 
abuses, at least as many as in the West Indies; probably more. 
We do not beUeve that those who administer the West India system 
are guilty of greater cruelty and inhumanity, than would inevitably be 
practised by the generality of people among ourselves, were they to 
be cursed with the same system transferred to England. Even with 
all the protection which equal laws can afford — with an enlightened 
and disinterested Magistracy — with a press perfectly free — and with the 
control of public opinion, abuses are still to be found amongst us. 
But supposing these important guards to be taken away, and that only 
every fifteenth man in the community was capable of giving evidence 
of wrongs committed, would any man, in his senses, predicate of the 
people of this country, that they were a happy people? And do the 
West Indians so far exceed us in high moral principle; are they such 
superhuman and angelic beings, that, with them, such a constitution 
of things, instead of being pregnant, (as it ever must be when ad- 
ministered by men,) of misery to its subjects, should be productive only 
of happiness and enjoyment? And yet, this is what the ' Dominica 
Planter,\and his array of witnesses, on oath, would have us believe. 

" One word, however, about clothing. — The negroes of a Plantation 
in Berbice, called Profit, complained to the Fiscal, in October, 1823, 
of a v/ant of fish and clothing. I will not now go into the matter of 
the fish, though that, too, might well illustrate the comforts of West 
India Slavery, but confine myself to the other point. The answer of the 
Manager, to the complaint of a want of clothing, was, that nineteen 
months before, each man had had a jacket, a hat, one yard of Salampore, 
and four yards of Osnaburg. This was deemed so adequate a supply, 
by the Fiscal, that two of the complainants were selected by him and 
fioggsd, for ' having failed to prove' their complaints. And yet, it 



261 

would be diffictiU, for the most ingenious tailor in England to contrive 
to make even half a suit of clothes for the merest beggar who treads 
our streets, out of this entire supply of a man-slave for nineteen months, 
and for not being content with which the said man-slave was flogged. 

" And then let us look at the value of this nineteen months' clothing of 
a grown man! The four yards of Osnaburg two shillings, the yard of 
Salampore owe shilling^ the hat fifteen peyice — the jacket would be 
valued high zX five shillings; in all rjHze shillings and three pence. Why, 
it would do no more than pay for a single pair of shoes and stockings 
For one of our comparatively wretched peasants. 

" We may appreciate the value of the other comforts, so loudly 
vaunted by the ' Dominica Planter/ and his Barbadian witnesses on 
oath, from this last illustration, confirmed as it is by the ninth section of 
the Law of Barbadoes itself, passed in 1825, which fines an owner of an 
estate in the mighty sum of thirteen shillings sterling, who leaves his 
slave unclothed for a whole year. 

" But there is one important remark which applies to the whole of that 
imposing, but most fallacious catalogue of comforts which the ' Domi- 
nica Planter' has exhibited to us, and has supported by his long file of 
witnesses on oath; and it is this, that they are all precisely of the same 
description with those enjoyed by the hqrses he either rides, or drives 
in his carriage. At the very best, and supposing all his allegations, and 
those of his witnesses, to be true, universally, and to the very letter, 
they give us a view of nothing beyond the merest physical, the merest 
animal, enjoyments ; nothing beyond the comforts of the horse, the cow, 
or the dog. I will take the ' Dominica Planter's' horses as my 
example, and compare their state as to lodging, feeding, clothing, and 
medical treatment with his neg-roes, and shew, that even in these points, 
which constitute the alleged happpiness of the slaves, they fall below 
his horses. 

" 1st. As to lodging. — The quadrupeds, I will venture to say, are in- 
finitely better lodged than the bipeds. His four or six stall stable 
would pay for a dozen of his negro cabins ; is better protected than they 
are against the inclemency of the seasons : and is-infinitely more com- 
fortable; while the horse's bed of fresh straw far surpasses, in comfort, 
the board or mat of the slave. 

" 2nd. As to feeding. His horses, I doubt not, have their regular 
three or four feeds of corn daily provided for them, besides hay to 
satiety, without any trouble on their part, either in growing or preparing 
their food. His slaves (I speak of Dominica) grow their own food, by 
the labour of their Sundays, and a few days in the year besides ; and, 
with the exception of breakfast, which is cooked and eaten in the field, 
the cooking of it is thrown on themselves, in addition to the labours of 
the day. 

" 3rd. As to clothing. — Each of the horse cloths which covers his 
horses from head to tail, costs more, I will also venture to say, than the 
clothing for nineteen months, of the man, belonging to Plantation 
Profit, who was flogged for daring to complain of it as scanty: and 
the very shoes of one of his horses cost more in a twelvemonth than the 
shoes of his whole gang. 

" 4th. As to medical treatment. — I have before me the expence of a 



262 

plantation, containing 208 negroes, in Jamaica, for medical attendance 
and medicine for twelvemonths. It amounts to 63/. sterling, being at 
the rate of about six shillings for each slave, and this is above the 
average rate. I should like to knov^^ hov*r much each of the ' Dominica 
Planter's' horses has cost, during the last year, for farriery and 
physic, for bleeding and drenching. 

" But, notwithstanding all I have said, in support of my own views of 
this subject, 1 shall be thought to have treated very unceremoniously 
the solemn statements both of the ' Dominica Planter,' and of the 
various highly respectable witnesses who have testified, on their oaths, 
to the perfect happiness and comfort of the negroes. I think it neces- 
sary, therefore, to produce one more witness, in refutation of their testi- 
mony, to whom even the * Dominica Planter' will be disposed to defer. 
I mean Major Moody. The Major tells us, that he has profoundly 
studied this question. He had a full opportunity of understanding all 
its moral and physical relations during the years he had the task 
assigned him of ' coercing the steady labour' of Mr. Katz's 1,500, or 
1,800 slaves. His attachment to Colonial interests cannot be disputed. 
He is deemed by the Colonists one of their ablest, and most skilful, and 
most influential advocates. And what is his evidence ? It is this : — ' In the 
West Indies, the climate renders agricultural labour more disagreeable 
to the African than similar work is, in England, to the English labourer;' 
therefore, ' the African will not voluntarily exert himself, to the same 
extent,' for wages. (2d Report, p. 16.) Hence ' the formation of a code 
of laws, with a view to coerce the labour of the Africans,' (p. 17.) and 
hence, the necessity of this coerced labour to the creation of wealth, and 
to steady and productive industry, which the Major enforces through 
many a folio page ; for the free negro, he says, ' is almost invariably 
found recoiling from the pain of steady labour in the sun,' (p. 54.) 
Nay, 'the Black and Indian races, whose constitutions are most 
adapted to agricultural labour, recoil from it, beyond that moderate de- 
gree of exertion necessarv to procure their subsistence,' (p. 55.) In 
order to voluntary indnsti-y, the negro, he tells us, must not only ' en- 
counter the pain of labour in the sun,' but must also ' be able to resist 
firmly the seducing pleasure afforded by repose in the shade' — ' the 
enjoyment . sought for and prized by all around them.' ' By what 
motive then,' he asks very feelifigly, ' are these men to be withdrawn 
from the enjoyment of that pleasure of repose which has a value so 
much higher in the torrid zone than in Europe ? Any man,' he adds, 
' may convince himself, that this enjoyment of repose is a high plea- 
sure, by honestly examining his own inclination for any laborious exer- 
tion in the open air, when the sun in Europe radiates a heat measured 
by 80 degrees of the thermometer.' It appears to Major Moody, 
therefore, to be impossible to induce any free negro, ' to work eight 
hours in a day for another man, in return for ordinary wages, in a 
country where the labourer could more easily obtain the same value in 
subsistence, by working for himself only half an hour, or an hour, or two 
hours.' In warm climates, ' where repose is one of the most strong 
desires of men,' ' to obtain, without coercion,' the steady labour of 
uncivilized men, he conceives will, * in practice, be found to be most 
difficult/ (p. 60, 61.) In short, he deems it vain to " expect voluntary, 



2€3 

steady, continuous, and moderate industry in the low lands of the torricJ 
zone' without coercion; for, he adds, ' in the torrid zone, where steady 
labour in the sun is painful from the physical influence of heat, time 
cannot altogether remove the pain felf, though it prepares the bodies of 
some men to endure it. No dexterity in the use of tools can diminish 
the heat of the sun's rays, and, at the end of forty years, as at the end of 
four months, the pleasure of repose in the shade is found to be most 
powerful in diminishing voluntary steady industry.' (p. 77.)* 

" These physical facts, however, are not produced by Major Moody 
as a reason for sparing the negro the agony of intense labour in the sun ; 
or for giving him wages by way of compensating this pain, and tempt- 
ing him to labour ; but for coercing him, and for placing him under the 
power of that effective instrument, the cart-whip, which he seems to 
hold to be indispensable, not only for the slave population, but for all 
those African captives, on whom repeated acts of the British Parliament 
have conferred freedom. I am not now, however, considering the 
justice and humanity of Major Moody's inferences, (his 'Philosophy 
of Labour,' as he calls it) but merely the facts themselves, which, 
whatever I might say, I presume, the ' Dominica Planter' will admit 
to be true; and if true, what do they prove? Do they prove, with the 
' Dominica Planter,' and his array of witnesses on oath, that the slave 
population of the West Indies are happy ? Do they not prove the 
reverse ? The slaves, Major Moody gives us to understand, hate 
labour in a tropical sun, to such a degree, that wages cannot bribe 
them to undertake it. It is ' pain,' it is '■ painfuV thus to labour. To 
do so is to do violence to nature, which, in such a burning climate, in- 
tensely desires repose in the shade. And yet all the institutions of the 
West Indies, and particularly the driver with his cart-whip, and the 
overseer with his arbitrary power of thirty-nine lacerations, and confine- 
ment in the stocks, are ski!fully framed, so as to compel them to this 
painful labour by the means of a still more painful infliction, the torture 

* "A curious contrast to the views of Major Moody is to be found in the pages 
of another strenuous advocate of the Colonists, Mr. Macqueen, who, in the 
Glasgow Courier of the 12th of October, 1826, endeavours to prove, by the fol- 
lowing extract of a letter from Kingston, in Jamaica, of the 1st of August pre- 
ceding, that ' the genial warmth ' of a tropical sun is quite refreshing to the 
negro, and remarkably fits him for the performance of the work, which the Plan- 
ters require at his hands : — ' In England one hears such expressions as this — 
' the wretched negro toiling under a burning sun !' and this appears to describe 
a most pitiable case ; but how contrary to the fact ! The heat that would kill 
one of us, is but a genial warmth to the native of another latitude. You may 
often see a negro by sunrise, when, perhaps, the thermometer is at seventy-eight 
degrees, with his head and ears tied up in a handkerchief, and shivering with 
cold; but as the sun acquires force, the handkerchief, is thrown aside; he 
becomes more and more active, and at noon he seems a different being from that 
you saw in the morning. In fact, you frequently hear the negroes complain of 
cold, but seldom if ever, of heat.' 

" We have here exhibited to us, a specimen of most extraordinary advo- 
cacy on the part of these two champions of the Colonial System, who are inge- 
nious enough to make the most contradictory statements contribute equally to 
the support of their favourite cause. Major Moody grounds the necessity of 
Slavery on the pain arising from the very same facts, which Mr. Macqueen 
alleges to be sources of pleasure, and which he therefore adduces in proof of 
the humanity of the System. 



264 

of the lash well laid on, or the dread of that experienced torture. Ti>ey 
are forced, not by the sweetening influence of reward, or by any of the 
hopes which elsewhere stimulate man to labour, but by the application 
of a superior degree of physical pain, to do that, steadily and conti- 
nuously, which it is painful^ according to Major Moody, to do at all. 
To take the laws of Jamaica as a specimen of the rest. They authorise 
the master (see the law of 1816, sec. 20, 27) to compel, by brute force, 
this painful labour in the field, from five in the morning till seven io the 
evening of each day — I say in the field, for these hours do not include 
the time consumed in the morning in going to that field, and in the 
evening in returning from it, nor the time consumed in procuring, and 
bringing home grass for the cattle, after the labour of the field is over ; 
so that at least fifteen hours o{ painful labour in the day, with the in- 
terval of two hours and a half for meals, are regularly exacted by the 
superior pain of the cart-whip, or the dread of it; and during four 
months of the year, namely, in crop-time, four more hours must be 
added to this number, making in all nineteen hours out of the twenty- 
four, extracted from beings, to whom every such hour, according to 
Major Moody, is painful. And yet the slaves of Jamaica are happy ! ! ! 
What can so obliterate every trace of right feeling in the mind of any 
man, as to make him pronounce such a condition happy, or persuade 
him that he can make the public believe that it is so? I am aware that 
the labour of the slaves, -painful to them as Major Moody shews it to 
be, is to their masters at least, productive sometimes of very pleasant 
Results. To this they may owe their stately mansions, their gilded 
apartments, their elegant furniture, their dashing equipages, their beds 
of down, their sumptuous tables, and their rich and sparkling wines. 
But are these enjoyments never disturbed by such impressive facts as 
Major Moody has so laboriously established? — thepam, the lassitude of 
the poor negroes ; — the denial to them of that intensely desired repose 
in the shade, while the sun radiates not eighty only, but it maybe ninety 
or ninety-five degrees ; — that reluctance of outraged nature which even 
' forty years' of habit, according to the gallant Major, cannot subdue; 
and, above all, the coercion, the stripes, or the dread of stripes, by 
which alone all these obstacles to the master's power of obtaining his 
varied enjoyments, are to be overcome ? If they do not, what does it 
prove, but what has been over and over again affirmed, that there is 
something in the administration of the West Indian System, which 
produces a state of feeling akin to that which permits the negro to 
laugh, and sing, and dance, and revel, beneath the lash and the 
chain." 



This, and all other publications of the Society, may be had at their office, 
IH, Aldermnnbiirij ; or at Messrs. Hatchard's, 187, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill. 
They may also he procured, through any bookseller, or at the depdts of the Anti' 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 



London:— BAG, ^TERii, TIIOMS, Primers, \i, Bartholomew Close. 



London, 18, Aldermanhury , Dec. 30, 1826. 

No. 19. 

ANTI-SLAVERY 
MONTHLY REPORTER. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on tiie 
last day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons wish- 
ing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the Secretary, 
at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the conveyance by 
which they may be most conveniently sent. 



STATISTICS OF SLAVE COLONIES. 

Much important information has recently been laid before the House 
of Commons, in the shape of Returns from the Slave Colonies, ordered 
to be printed on the 9th of May 1826, and forming a volume of 760 folio 
pages, numbered 353. These Returns embrace a period of five years, 
from the 1st of January 1821, to the 31st of December 1825, and 
refer to a variety of particulars, such as the marriage of slaves ; the 
separation of families ; the value of slaves ; their manumission ; Colo- 
nial pauperism ; the general popidation, &c. From six of the Colonies 
indeed^ viz. Antigua, Bermuda, the Cape of Good Hope, Mauritius, 
Montserrat,and St. Lucia, there are as yet no Returns. The information 
that has been obtained therefore, and of which we propose to give 
a brief abstract, relates exclusively to the other fourteen Colonies. 

I. Marriages of Slaves. 

1. Bahamas. In these Islands seven marriages of slaves have taken 
place in the five years, from 1821 to 1825 inclusive, besides eight 
marriages, in which one of the parties was free and the other a slave. 
The slave population amounts to upwards of 9000. 

An Act of this Island, passed in 1824, authorizes the celebration 
of marriages between slaves, but not without the consent of their 
owner in writing, which consent he may withhold at pleasure, and 
without assigning a reason ; and it makes such marriages valid, always 
saving the authority and rigiits of owners. (Clauses 10- — 13.) 

2. Barbadoes. The slave population of this Island is about 80,000^ 
One marriage took place among them in these five years, none having 
been celebrated before. This marriage was solemnized, in the parish of 
St. Lucy, by the Rev. W. Harte. The singular boldness of this clergy- 
man, in committing such an act, deserves to be recorded, especially as 
we understand that it has brought upon him the censure of the Barba- 
dian public. The incumbents of the other ten parishes have escaped the 
reproach he has had to encounter. Their return is uniformly the same 



266 

viz. " Nil." What a state of domestic purity and blessedness, does the 
large slave population of Barbadoes exhibit, with only one marriage in 
five years! The new Bishop, on landing in this island, we are told by 
his relation and secretary, was hailed by a chorus of sable damsels, 
singing these enchanting lines, 

De Bishop is coming, de Bishop is coming, 
De Bishop is coming to raairy we ; 
De Bishop is coming to marry we all. 

We will not attempt to account for the failure of these fond hopes r 
for even the single marriage which has been celebrated, and which is 
said to have excited almost as great a commotion in Barbadoes as 
the appearance of a JMethodist missionary would have done, took place 
some weeks before the Bishop's first arrival there. 

Tlie President of the Island, in a letter dated March 14, 1826, tells 
Lord Bathurst, " that there is no law existing in Barbadoes, by which 
the marriage of slaves is authorized or sanctioned." 

3- Berbice. The return from this Colony, containing 22,000 slaves, 
is still more summary than that from Barbadoes. NO marriage of 
slaves has taken place there ; and the learned legists of Berbice are 
in doubt whether the marriage ordinance of the Colony, being " the 
Egt Reglement en de generaliteit of their high mightinesses of the 
States of Holland," has to do with slaves. 

4. Demerara. In this Colony, containing 75,000 slaves, no marriage 
has taken place among them. 

5. Dominica. This Colony contains about 15,000 slaves. NO 
marriage has been celebrated by any Protestant clergyman between 
slaves ; but three have been celebrated where one of the parties was 
free, and the other a slave. By the Catholic Cure, hovv'ever, M. Jean, 
de Lahos, 129 marriages of slaves have been solemnized in five years. 

The Dominica authorities were required to state what are the laws 
of that Island, " by which the marriage of slaves is authorized and 
sanctioned, and their connubial rights, recognized and secured." Their 
return to this requisition affords a curious and edifying specimen of 
the reliance that is to be placed on representations proceeding from 
parties interested in the maintenance of slavery. 

They cite, as their answer to the requisition, the following clauses 
of " an Act passed in 1788, for the Encouragement, Protection, and 
better Government of Slaves," viz. 

Clause 4. " And be it and it is hereby enacted and ordained, by the 
authority aforesaid, that all owners, renters, managers, or overseers 
of all the slaves who may be arrived at the years of maturity, and 
who may be desirous of entering into a connubial state, shall en- 
courage and exhort such slave or slaves, to receive the ceremony of 
marriage, as instituted under the forms of the Christian religion : and 
in neglect of doing so, the said owner, renter, manager, or overseer, 
shall 1)6 subject to a fine of five pounds." 

Clause 22, " And be it, and it is hereby further enacted and ordained, 
by the authority aforesaid. That any white person, or free person of 
colour whatever, who shall take away and cohabit with, the wife or 



267 

wives of any of the slaves oi this Island, shall, on conviction thereof 
before any three or more magistrates, be subject to a fine not exceeding 
the sum of fifty pounds." (£25 sterling.) 

This isoneof the most unblushing attempts wehave ever witnessed to 
impose on the people and Parliament of Greal Brilain. This Act, passed 
in 1788, was repealed in 182], and has therefore now no operation 
whatever. Nor in the Act which was then substituted for it, nor in any 
subsequent Act have those clauses been renewed, which are now brought 
forward for no other purpose that we can discover, but to blind the 
eyes of the Parliament and people of England. An Act passed in 
1818, it is true, permits Curates, meaning we presume, the Catholic 
Cures, to solemnize the marriages of slaves, receiving a fee of one 
pound for each ; but as for the above cited clauses, they have no 
existence. 

The Dominica Assembly has long signalized itself by a sort of 
legislative dexterity. In 1788, it outdid all the other Assemblies, in 
their pretended measures of reform ; witness the above clauses. But 
in 1804, sixteen years after, when Lord Camden required General 
Prevost the Governor of Dominica, to inform him, what had been done 
in consequence of the 4th and some other clauses of the meliorating 
act of 1788, the honest soldier bluntly answered, that the clauses had 
not been carried into effect. Not one slave had been married ; not one 
penalty had been enforced ; and the Act itself " appears," he tells us, 
" to have been considered, from the day it was passed until this hour, 
as a political measure to avert the interference of the mother country 
in the management of slaves." 

But though the above provisions were to all intents and purposes a 
dead letter, it was thought unsafe to retain them. Accordingly in 
1821, a new slave Act was passed, expressly to amend the former, in 
which not only were these and several other fair sounding clauses 
omitted without any other being substituted, but at the very close of the 
new Act, a brief and summary clause is introduced, (the 35th) entirely 
repealing the Act of 1788. And yet, when the House of Commons in 
1826, calls for " a copy of any law, by which the marriage of slaves 
is authorized and sanctioned, and their connubial rights secured," 
the Dominica authorities have the hardihood, we will not say the disin- 
genuousness to produce as such law, the clauses of an act which a sub- 
sequent act of their own had totally repealed ; thus taking credit for 
provisions, which, while they existed, were a dead letter; and which 
they themselves had deliberately abrogated and annulled five years 
before. 

6. Grenada. This Island contains 25,000 slaves. In the several 
parishes into which it is divided, fourteen marriages of slaves have 
taken place within the five years. One of the incumbents, the 
Rev. W. Nash, in reporting that not one marriage had taken place 
in his parish, subjoins some remarks of an exculpatory kind, which will 
be found to have an important general bearing. He praises two planters, 
who were solicitous to introduce something like religious instruction 
among their slaves; and he says, that if such plans were generally 
pursued, he should have happy presentiments of success, provided he 



268 

could prevail go the proprietors to attend to certain sugg-estions of his, 
such as " That every convenient attention be shown to the temporal 
welfare of the negroes. On this the success of the rest" (meaning the 
efforts made for their spiritual benefit) " will mainly depend. The 
negroes," dull as their understandings are, have sagacity sufficient to 
connect moral causes with physical effects. They will say, ' if our 
masters are really so desirous of promoting our happiness in the other 
world, why do they not give us an earnest of it, by attending to our 
comfort in this?' I trust they will do so, while they are sowing the 
• good seed ' for a future harvest. And although experience forbids 
me to be very sanguine in my expectations, yet I will believe that some 
of the seed will grow, and that there will be a harvest. At least 
if good principles fail to produce good practice, it must be allowed that 
without good principles good practice cannot be expected. At all 
events, this acquisition will arise from it, the adversaries of the 
system will be obliged to desist, or to recede to their citadel the 
abstract question." 

What are we to conclude from this last remark ? Is it not that 
Mr. Nash does not view with perfectly friendly eyes the adversaries of 
this system ? If so, his concessions are the more to be valued. 

The Grenada Slave Act of 1825, allows (see Clause 5) slaves to 
intermarry, provided the owner gives consent, and provided (a most 
unnecessary provision,) the Clergyman, Priest or other legally 
authorized person, shall consider such slaves to have a competent 
knowledge of the marriage vow. 

7. Honduras. In this Colony there has been only one intermarriage 
of slaves ; and three between slaves and free persons. There is no law 
authorizing marriage. 

8. Jamaica. In this Island, the Duke of Manchester states, in his 
letter of the 4th of March, 1826, that he is " not aware of any law by 
which the marriage of slaves is authorized or sanctioned.'' 

The following are the marriages of slaves, (marriages unauthorized 
and unsanctioned, and therefore unprotected, by law) which took place 
in the different parishes of this Island, during the years 1821 — 1825 
inclusive, the slave population being about 330,000. 



Manchester, 
Port Royal, 
St. Dorothy's, 
Hanover, 

St. Thomas in the 
St. Andrew's, 
Trelawney, 
Vere, 

Clarendon, 
'St. Mary's, 
St. John's, 
St. George's, 
St. David's, 



Vale 



Slave population. 
18000 

7000 

5000 
23000 
12000 
16000 
27000 

8000 
18000 
26000 

7000 
13000 

8000 



Marriages of Slaves. 

191 

24 

4 

4 

16 

no return. 

5 

1 

2 

14] 

3 

104 

101 



269 



Westmoreland, 


22000 


2 


St. Elizabeth's, 


J 9000 


2 


St. James's, 


25000 


- 89 


St. Thomas in the East, 


25000 


1085 


St. Ann's, 


25000 


5 


St. Catherine's, 


8000 


56 


Portland, 


8000 


57 


Kingston, . . 


7000 


601 



Some curious circumstances are to be remarked with respect to this 
list of marriages. 

In the first place, except in one instance, (that of Manchester) 
marriage prevails chiefly where the Methodist preachers have obtained 
a footing. In Kingston, and St. Thomas in the East, Methodist 
missions have been established for many years, and there marriages 
are frequent. In St. Mary's, St, George's, St. David's, St. James's, 
St. Catherine's, and Portland, M^here the Methodist missionaries have 
recendy made inroads, marriages are becoming less infrequent. In 
eleven other parishes, containing 173,000 slaves, there were only 68 
marriages in five years, or about 13 in each year. And here it appears 
to us of the utmost importance to remark, that in the various parishes 
of this Island, which are pre-eminently distinguished by the paucity of 
marriages; asVere, in which only one marriage has taken place in^ve 
years; Clarendon, where two marriages have taken place in five years; 
St. John's where, in five years, three marriages have been solemnized, 
and only one marriage had ever taken place before ; Westmoreland, 
where only two marriages have taken place in five years ; St. Dorothy's, 
where only four marriages have taken place in five years ; Hanover, 
where the same number of marriages has been solemnized ; Trelawney, 
where there have been only five marriages ; St. Elizabeth, where only two 
marriages have occurred ; and St. Ann's, where there have been only 
five marriages in five years ; — it is most important, we say, to remark, 
that in these various parishes, not a few of the most influential West 
Indian Proprietors, filling seats in both Houses of Parliament, who pro- 
fess their cordial attachment to measures of Reform, and prefer strong 
claims to the public confidence and respect, possess large plantations, 
crowded with slaves. We earnestly entreat their attention to the facts 
now brought before them, and of which they may not have been pre- 
viously aware, in the hope that they may apply a remedy to the evil. 

We now discover that 184, of the 187 marriages, which Mr. Bridges 
boasted of having solemnized in the parish of Manchester, but which 
in fact prove to have been only 140, were all celebrated by him, at 
one time, in or about the month of February, 1823, just as he must 
have received Mr. Wilberforce's Appeal, and, to furnish a reply to 
whom, he found thai he must have a batch of marriages got up. In the 
parish of St. Ann's, of which Mr. Bridges is now the incumbent, only 
five marriages have taken place in five years, though the population is 
25,000. 

9. Nevis. In a population of 9,500 slaves, five marriages have taken 
place between slaves, and three where oae party was a slave and the 



270 

other free. There is in this Island no law authorizing or sanctioning 
marriage. 

10. St. Christopher's. In this Island there is no law authorizing mar- 
riage. The slave population amounts to neeirly 20,000. Eighteen 
marriages have taken place among them in five years. 

11. St. Vincent's. The slave population amounts to 24,000. Four 
marriages have taken place among them in five years. Until the year 
1820, a law existed in this Island, actually prohibiting the marriage of a 
felave with a free person, under a penalty on the officiating clergyman of 
£50. and on the free person of £200. or slavery for four years. This 
strange and whimsical enactment, marking the hostility of the St. Vin- 
cent's legislators to all but illicit connections, was superseded by their 
Act of 1820; but it was not till December 1825, that the marriage of 
slaves received any legislative recognition. It was then authorized, btit 
under grievous restrictions. The marriage can only be solemnized by a 
Clergyman of the established Church, and he must be satisfied that the 
parties understand the marriage-vow. What nation is there so savage 
on the face of the earth, the English Slave Colonies excepted, where the 
population does not understand the nature of the marriage engagement? 
This is a proof of the same ill-concealed hostility to marriage, which 
formerly reduced to slavery a freeman who married a slave. 

The clergyman of St. Vincent's, Mr. Lansdovvn Gilding, apologizes 
for the small number of marriages on the ground of his previous want of 
authority to perform the ceremony. He complains too of interlopers. 
It seems a grievous offence in his eyes, that " vast numbers of slaves 
have been clandestinely married by Methodist preachers," and have not 
yet applied to him to be remarried. It would appear as if he actually 
regarded the Methodist preachers as offenders, because they had exerted 
themselves to check, among their converts, the prevailing habits of li- 
centiousness, by inducing them to form permanent connections under the 
imposing sanction of a religious ceremony. So far from meriting blame, 
they deserve for this the highest commendation ; and the St. Vincent's 
legislature owe it to the moral interests of their island to legalize these 
marriages, instead of leaving them to be thrown into doubt, by permit- 
ting Mr. Gilding to require the parties to be remarried by him before 
they are to be considered as man and wife, 

12. Tobago^ There is no law authorizing the marriage of slaves in 
this Island, and, in point of fact, no such marriage has ever taken place 
there. It-s slave population amounts to about 14,000. 

13 .Tortola. The return from this island is to precisely the same 
effect with that from Tobago. 

' 14. Trinidad. The slave population of this island amounts to 23,000. 
The Order in Council of 1824 legalized the marriage of slaves ; but the 
fruit of that order has hitherto been very small. Elevetst marriages have 
followed it, there having been only one previously. Of these eleven mar- 
riages, nine have been celebrated by the Methodist Missionary, two by 
the Catholic Cure, and not one by the Church of England clergyman. 

Is it necessary to add a word to this striking exemplification of the 
state of West Indian society and West Indian morals ? Is there in the 
known world any thing to be compared to the profligacy of manners 



27i 

which it discloses ? Nor is the absence of right feeling which these state- 
menls evince, notwithstanding the discussions of forty years' duration 
by which the Colonists have been compelled to consider the question, 
more remarkable than the absolute indifference they manifest to the be- 
nefits connected with an increase of the slave population. *' It is the 
interest of the Planters." we are told, " to treat their slaves well, and 
therefore they do treat them well." Such is the reasoning by which 
the people of England are deluded. Is it not then the interest of the 
Planters that their slaves should increase? If it be, is not marriage 
essential to that object? But, what has their all-powerful sense of 
interest, to which so much is attributed, done to promote marriage 
among their slaves ? With what extreme reluctance do they even now 
consent to enactments for that purpose, and what a multiplicity of 
restrictions do they impose upon it? What can more clearly shew 
the light in which the whites view the negro race, than this extra- 
ordinary, nay almost morbid repugnance to raise them from the de- 
basement of a sexual intercourse resembling that of brutes, (not- 
withstanding the depopulation produced by it,) to the enjoyment of 
the charities of domestic life ? And does not this very fact solve 
to us much of the mystery which would otherwise hang over the 
whole of the Slavery question ; while it proves the absolute hopeless- 
ness of any effectual reform proceeding from the Colonial autho- 
rities ? Among the White community of the West Indies ; and, we 
admit, it would be precisely the same with any community, placed in 
the same unfortunate circumstances with theirs; there exists an invincible 
dislike of every measure which goes to lessen the moral and intellectual 
distance between themselves and the dependent negro, or to produce 
an approximation in their social, civil, or political rights. This 
state of feeling is curiously illustrated in almost every page of the 
writings of that most zealous of all the advocates of the Slave System, 
Major Moody ; and with his usual inverted mode of reasoning, he em- 
ploys it to shew, not that Parliament should interfere to correct the evil, 
but that the negroes are doomed to remain for ever an inferior and de- 
graded caste ; in short to be for ever slaves. The prejudice he assumes to 
be invincible and its cure hopeless, so long as their colour and their smell 
are unchanged. And is not the very existence of this prejudice an un- 
answerable argument against entrusting to the men who entertain it, 
the reform of their own negro code? We do not deny that the Colo- 
4iists would be content to admit of many amehorations in the treatment 
•of the slave, of a kind similar to those which might take place in the 
treatment of their cattle. But from every measure which would tend 
to raise him in the scale of being to their own level ; which would give 
him equal legal rights ; which would confer on him a social and civil 
as well as a merely animal existence ; which would make him a partici- 
pator in their intellectual pursuits, and in their deathless hopes, they 
shrink (and in this view of the subject the report of Major Moody bears 
us out) with a kind of instinctive abhorrence, with a sensitiveness 
similar to that with which the inhabitant of the lordly mansion shrinks 
from intercommunion with wretchedness and rags, with filth and beg- 
gary. We here speak not of a few enlightened and humane proprietors, 



272 

but of the iiiasRi of Colonial residents. — But it may be said, " if you ad- 
mit that the mass of the Colonists are actuated, in these feehngs, just as 
all other men would be actuated (who at least are not influenced by 
Christian principle, and do not feel that the so^l of a negro is as valu- 
able as the soul of a white,) why load the Colonists with reproach 
and obloquy on that account? The censure ought to fall not on the 
Colonists but on the circumstances in which they are u»nhappily placed," 
— In reply, we will go still farther than the objector and say, that the Co- 
lonists are not half so much to blame, in the conduct they pursue to- 
wards the negro race, as the legislature of Great Britain is, who refuse 
to interfere to prevent by their irresistible fiat, what is, and without its 
interference ever must be, the natural and almost necessary result of the 
relative circumstances of the master and slave ; — who vainly expect 
that, in such circumstances, the former should discharge with fidelity 
and impartiality the high legislative functions assigned to him ; — who 
in short, confide the destinies of the slaves to those who, in the em- 
phatic language of Mr. Canning " cannot execute that trust fairly ;" 
" Whose laws can never reach, can never cure the evil; " there being 
something, as the same great statesman has well remarked, "m the very 
nature of absolute authority, in the relation between master and slave, 
which makes despofis?n, in all cases and under all circumstances, an 
incompetent and unsure executor even of its oivn provisions in favour of 
the objects of its power." 

II, Separation of Familxes. 

1, Bahama. The Slave Act of this island, passed in 1824, (clause 6) 
forbids the separation, by sale of any kind whether private or judicial, 
or by bequest, of husband and wife, or reputed husband and wife, and 
their children under fourteen years of age, provided they belong to the 
same owners. No means are given of tracing whether, in the exporta- 
tions which have taken place to other Colonies, or in the sales by the 
Marshal of slaves seized in execution, this law has been faithfully ob- 
served. 

2. Barbadoes. It is not stated whether there be in Barbadoes any law 
to prevent the separation of families. It is clear however, that there is 
not. 

In these papers is contained a Return of forty-four persons escheated 
to the Crown, in this Island, from 1821 to 1825 inclusive, which dis- 
closes some curious particulars. 

A negro of the name of John Thomas Atherley, had purchased his 
own freedom, and had also succeeded in redeeming his wife and four 
children from Slavery, by the fruits of his own industry; when he died. 
Though he had been able to pay their owner the price of their manu- 
mission, he had not been able, before his death, to pay the enormous 
tax, which, in Barbadoes, was imposed on manumissions ; and he had 
omitted to make a will. His wife and children, therefore, were regarded 
as his own slaves, and as such, he having no legal heirs, were escheated 
to the Crown. And they would infallibly have been sold for the benefit 
of the Crown, but for the interposition of a benevolent individual, who 
made such representations, on the subject, to his Majesty's Government 
at home, as produced, at first, a suspension of their sale, and afterwards, 



273 

their entire liberation. Tliese poor creatures, however, after all their fears 
and sufferings, were made to pay the heavy expenses attending the ces- 
sion of their liberty, as well as thejinding of his Majesty's title to them. 
Is it possible to conceive a more cruel case than this would have been, 
under the operation of the laws of Barbadoes, but for the intervention of 
the Government ? — There occurs one other case of manumission by an 
order of the Lords Commissioners of his Majesty's Treasury ; and in 
the case of eighteen more, their fate is suspended till his Majesty's plea- 
sure shall be taken. Surely it cannot be a matter of doubt, what that 
pleasure will be. — All, however, of these escheats have not been so for- 
tunate as to have their case made known to the Government; and the 
following statement of the sales of individuals, for the benefit of his 
Majesty y will be read with pain and disgust by every loyal mind. 

On the 7th of August, 1823, nineteen individuals became escheats of 
the Crown ; and in eleven days from that time, namely, on the 18th of 
August, 1823, they were all sold by public auction, with the exception 
of two who effected their escape, and the net proceeds of their sale were 
paid into the Treasury of Great Britain. The transaction, bad enough 
in itself, will be in no small degree aggravated, when we consider all 
the circumstances of it, and especially the cruel separation of famihes 
which was sanctioned by the agents of the Crown. The following are 
the particulars of this opprobrious sale, as they are given under the offi- 
cial signature of " Lionel Parke, Receiver General of his Majesty's 
Casual Revenue." 
' 1. Quow, aged 55, father of Csesar, sold to Thomas Louis, for £45. 

2. Cffisar, aged 27, son of Quow, to Samuel Henery, for £90. 

3. Orange, aged 67, mother of October, to B. T. Young, for £5. 

4. October, aged 44, son of Orange, to C. Crouch, for £46. 

5. Abel, aged 49, husband of Lubbah, and father of Thomas, Kitty, 
and Becky, sold to Henry Tudor, for £32, 10s. 

6. Lubbah, aged 40, wife of Abel, and mother of his children, sold 
also to Henry Tudor, for £38. She appears to have been put up sepa- 
rately, and Mr. Tudor appears to have bid high in order to obtain her. 

7. Thomas, aged 16, son of Abel and Lubbah, sold to H. Mozely, 
for £51. 

8. Kittv, aged 13, daughter of Abel and Lubbah, to Joshua Levi, 
for £46. 10s. 

9. Becky, aged 6, daughter of Abel and Lubbah, to Mr.Alsup, for £28. 
Again, Deborah, Sukey, Betsey, "Polly, and Thomas, are brothers 

and sisters. Sukey has one child, Betsey three, and Polly one. They 
are thus disposed of, 

10. Deborah, aged 28, is sold to W. Straker, for £15. 

11 o 1 J r.^ .1 c^ iiri?- rare sold, in one lot, 

11. Sukey, aged 26, m.other of Jas. William, | to Thomas Howell, 

12. James William, aged 1|, son oi Sukey, S £„„ £c] 

13. Betsey, aged 34, mother of Caroline, "J ^^,^ sold, in one lot, 
Grace, and Medorah . . . • I to James Lealted, 

14. Caroune, aged 4, daughter of Betsey, . i e £^0 

15. Grace, aged 2^, daughter of Betsey, .J 

16. Medorah, aged 9, daughter of Betsey, is sold to William Austin, 
for £51. 10s. 



274 

17. Thomas, aged 15, brother of Deborah, Sukey, &c. is sold to 
John Stvaker, for £52. 10s. 

The fate of the remaining two is the only part of the detail ■which is 
at all satisfactory. 

18. Polly, aged 39, mother of Richard, . . ^ absconded ^^ and can- 

19. Richard, aged 11, son of Polly, . • • 3 not be found. 

The price at whicii these persons were sold is stated in Barbadoes 
currency, and amounts to £602, or about £401 sterling. How much of 
this money, after passing through the hands of Escheators, Receivers, 
Marshals, Counsel, Attorneys, &c. came into the Royal Treasury of 
Great Britain, we should be curious to know. It is the price of blood, 
and we trust will not rest there without inquisition. What is it but a 
Slave Trade, more disgraceful than even that of Africa, by which the 
King of Great Britain has been made to enrich himself, at the rate of 
£10. or £15. a head, if so much, by the sale, into perpetual Slavery, of 
seventeen of his liege subjects, whose dearest ties have been burst 
asunder by the process? 

3. Berbice. There is no law prohibiting the separation of families ; 
but it is asserted to be the universal usage not to separate them, espe- 
cially in Marshal's sales. 

4. Demerara. The same return. 

5. Dominica. There is a clause (the 64th,) in an Act of May 5tb, 
1803, which directs the Marshal to put up and sell slaves, one by one, 
except where a child under the age of fifteen years is to be sold, which 
shall be sold with the mother of such child, if there be a mother to be 
sold. 

6. Grenada. A clause (the 50th,) in the Act of 1825, forbids the 
Marshal, but without attaching any penalty to his disobedience, to sell, 
in execution, any married slave, or any unmarried female slave, having a 
child under twelve, belonging to the same owner, unless they shall be 
sold to the same person, and if sold separate; the sale shall be null and 
void. This enactment excludes reputed hu&bands and wives, though 
having large families, from the benefits of its exemption ; and consi- 
dering that scarcely any marriages of slaves have taken place in Gre- 
nada, this does in fact exclude the whole slave population from those 
benefits. Besides, the exemption is wholly confined to sales in exe- 
cution, and leaves private sales to proceed according to the caprice of 
the owner. 

7. Honduras. No law exists rendering the separation of husband 
and wife, parents or children unlawful, but custom is said to prohibit 
the separation of mothers from children under the age of maturity. 

8. Jamaica. " I am not aware," says the Duke of Manchester, " of 
any law by which the separation of husband and wife, or of parents and 
children, by sale or otherwise, is rendered unlawful.'' Accordingly, 
innumerable intances occur of such separations. 

9. Nevis, . . . ."i There appears to be no law in these 

10. St. Christopher's, ^IsVdnds prohibiting the separation of fa- 
ll. Tortola, . . . J milies. 

12. Tobago. It is prohibited to sell children under fourteen years of 
age apart from their mothers. 

13. St. Vincent's. Thei^ appes^rs no law of this Island on the subject. 



275 

14. Trinidad. The Order in Council prohibits the separation of 
families only by judicial sale, leaving it to the caprice of the individual 
to regulate his private sales. 

In concluding this head, let us again carefully note the spirit of Colo- 
nial legislation, as exemplified, not only in the brutality of the sexual in- 
tercourse which has so long been preferred to the marriage tie, but in 
the reckless indifference with which, in the case of the negro, that legis- 
lation has left every tie to be burst asunder, and has assimilated human 
beings, born in the image of God, and possessing natural affections as 
ardent as our own, as mere chattels, to the beasts that perish. 

III. Pauperism. 

1. Bahamas. The only establishment in the Bahamas, for the relief 
of the poor, appears to be an hospital or poorhouse. The expense 
attending it amounts to from £1,400, to £1,600 a year, but the items 
of the expenditure are not given, and it is to be presumed, that the 
greatest part of it consists in salavies to the superintendants and ser- 
vants of the establishment; because an equal sum appears to be spent 
in 1825, when there were only ten patients in the hospital, and in 1823, 
when there were forty-eight. The number passing through the hos- 
pital in five years amounted to 141, viz. — Seventy-four free blacks 
and coloured persons, and S'xty-five whites ; being, on the average, 
fifteen free persons and thirteen Avbites. The number of free blacks and 
persons of colour is about 2400, of whites about half that number. 

2. Barbadoes. The following is the average annual number of pau- 
pers, supported in nine different parishes of this island, as given in the 
Returns from 1821 to 1825, inclusive, the Returns from St. James and 
St. Philip being wholly omitted, viz. 



St. Lucy, 


63. 


St. Peter, 


96. 


St. Thomas, 


77. 


St. Joseph, 


18. 


St. John, 


65. 


Christ Church, 


130. 


St. Andrew, 


86. 


St. Michael's, 


401. 


St. George, 


62. 







In all 998 paupers, all of whom, with a single exception, are white. 
The parish returns in general express that there are no free blacks or 
coloured persons who receive relief. The parish of St. Michael is the 
only exception, and there, relief is afforded to one woman of colour. 
From one parish, St. Peter's, the return is that " there are no free 
coloured paupers ;" from another, St. Joseph's, " (hat no instance of a 
free black or coloured person being relieved by the parish," has oc- 
curred. The return from Christ Church, states that, " at any time that 
free coloured persons require relief, it is granted from the parish ;" but 
no instance is recorded of its having been required or granted. In one 
parish, indeed, St. George's, an endeavour is made to represent the an- 
nuity paid, by law, as interest on the sums exacted as a tax on manumis- 
sions, in the light of parish relief; and thirty-six free black and coloured 
persons are named, who thus receive relief. But this is nothing more 
idian a clumsy attempt at imposition, the sums paid annually by the 



276 

parish in these cases being neither more nor less than the Life annuity, 
contracted to be given in consideration of the heavy imposts exacted for 
manumissions, viz. 8 per cent, (being £4 per annum,) when the tax 
was £50 — or 6 per cent, (being £12 and £18 per annum,) when the 
tax reached the enormous sum of £200 and £300. — Nothing can more 
forcibly shew that the object of the Barbadoes legislature was to dis- 
courage and retard manumissions than the facts now before us. Not 
a free black or coloured pauper, with one solitary exception, is to be 
found in the whole Island of Barbadoes. The pretence, therefore, for 
this tax, that it was to save the island from the pressure of the pau- 
perism, with which the insuperable indolence and profligacy of the 
enfranchised negro, on his deliverance from slavery and its cart- 
whip, must soon overspread the Island, was a pretence wholly un- 
founded, and which must have been known by those who employed it 
to be so. Nay, so far was this plan from being burdensome to the 
Island, that, calculating the average length of human life, it must have 
been a gainer by these payments, a most inadequate annuity being given 
in return. And yet, how remarkable is it that, with the exception of 
this annuity, an annuity which lasts only during the life of the first 
payee of it, and does not extend to his offspring who might be consi- 
dered as more likely to need it, there is, at this moment, in the whole 
Island, but one solitary free black or person of colour, who is a burden 
on the colonial funds for the relief of the poor ; while the number of 
white paupers (taking the two omitted parishes at fifty each) amounts 
to 1098. We wish that Major Moody would exert all the acuteness 
of his philosophy to reconcile this phenomenon with his theory of the 
indispensable necessity of slavery and its cartwhip, to the comfort and 
improvement of the African race in the low lands of tropical climates. 
Barbadoes is a tropical climate, and its land is low, and, what is still 
more to the point, its population is dense ; and yet its free black and 
coloured inhabitants, amounting to at least 4000 or 5000, maintain 
themselves by their own exertions, and are even growing in wealth and 
civilization, though placed under circumstances of extreme political and 
civil degradation. They pay, too, their fair share of the burdens of the 
state ; and they do not in any way add to those burdens. — A fact well 
authenticated is worth a thousand arguments. Here then is a fact, be 
it physical or be it moral, (we leave it to the logical skill ot Major 
Moody to settle the point,) which frowns fearfully in the face of his 
theory. It will be an effort worthy of his ingenuity to twist from it 
an inference which will prop up, even for a brief space, his system of 
the philosophy of labour ; a system, indeed, which is already falling by 
its own -native weight and tortuous construction, before one serious 
attack has as yet been made upon it. 

It has been found exceedingly difficult to obtain an accurate return, 
from all the parishes of Barbadoes, of the white and the free black and 
coloured population, but the probable estimate of these classes seems to 
be about 14,500 whites, and 4,500 free black and coloured persons. 

3. Berhice. The white population of this Colony appears to amount 
to about 600, the free black and coloured to 900. The funds for the relief 
of the poor arise, in great part, from taxes on manumission. In 1822 



277 

the expenditure appears to have^been as follows : for seventeen white 
persons, guilders 4,139. 10; for two free persons of colour, guilders 
534. 16; being for the whites above £300 sterling, and for the free 
persons of colour under £40. 

4. Demerara. The free black and coloured population of this Co- 
lony amounts to 4,727 ; the whites, it is supposed, to not above half 
that number. The number of the latter, who are pensioners on the 
poor fund, on the average of five years, appears to be fifty-one ; of free 
black and coloured persons twenty-six. Besides this, there is occa- 
sional relief given to both classes, in the proportion of about three to 
one ; that is to say, the white paupers receive, in this way, an aggregate 
amount, which is about three times as much as is paid to paupers of the 
other class. The accounts, however, are far from being clear and dis- 
tinct ; sufficiently so, however, to shew that, while the free black and 
coloured population is probably double that of the whites, the portion 
of relief they receive does not amount to more than one half — although 
in those five years the poor fund derived, from that most unjust and 
oppressive tax, ^ tax on manumissions, no less than 20,400 guilders, 
or nearly £l ,500 sterling. 

5. Dominica. The white population of Dominica is estimated at 
about 900 ; the free black and coloured population was ascertained in 
1825 to amount to 3122. During the five years, ending in Nov. 1825, 
thirty of the former class had received rehef from the poor fund, and only 
ten of the latter; the amount paid to the latter being £1110, to the 
former £3792 ; so that we find only one third of the number of paupers 
in a population of free black and coloured persons which is considera- 
bly more than three times as numerous as the whites; thus making the 
proportion about one to nine. 

6. Grenada. This Colony furnishes a still more striking exemplifica- 
tion of the independence of the free black and coloured population 
than even Dominica, They amounted in 1825 to 3486. The last 
census of the whites in 1820 gave their number 883, and there is rea- 
son to suppose that they may have diminished rather than increased 
since that time. During the five years in question, the expense of the 
Colony hospital, which alone appears to give relief to paupers, was 
about £2640 currency, or £1320 sterling, being at the average rate of 
£264 sterling per annum, and even this includes the salaries of officers, 
the treasurer having £50 sterling a year. But it does not appear that 
any part of this small sum was applied to the relief of free blacks 
or persons of colour. 

7. Honduras. This small Colony furnishes a further striking proof 
of the utter groundlessness of those allegations, which are sounded, 
from mouth to mouth, throughout the whole Colonial party with 
Major Moody at their head. The white population of Honduras is 
returned, in 1824, as amounting only to 150, the free black and 
coloured population, to 1750, (see letter cf Capt. M'Lean, House of 
Commons papers, 18th of June, 1824, No. 439) being about twelve 
times as numerous as the whites. The return of the Treasurer of the 
Colony is, that " there are no funds raised in Honduras, for the 
support of the poor, there being so very few persons who are literally 



278 

in distress from poverty ; but such as are so, are readily relieved by 
the Magistrates, and monies alloveed them from the pubUc funds of the 
settlement." The number of free persons thus relieved, has varied in 
five years, from 6 to 8, eight being the largest number, at an expense 
of about £100 sterling annually. There appear to have been only 
two white paupers in the Colony, with the exception of the Poyais 
emigrants, for whom, a sum of about £4000 currency was disbursed 
from the public treasury. 

8. Jamaica. This Island is supposed to contain about 20,000 
whites, and about double that number of free black and coloured 
persons. The return of paupers from eighteen of its parishes (those 
of Kingston, St. Thomas in the Vale, and St, Dorou)y's being omitted,) 
exhibit the average number of white paupers to be 295, of black and 
coloured paupers 148 ; the proportion of white paupers to those of 
the other class, according to tbe whole population of each, being as 
four to one. Tbe payments made to the whites are also very con- 
siderably larger in amount, in proportion to the number relieved, than 
those made to the black coloured paupers. 

9. Nevis. The white population of this Colony is estimated at about 
800, the free black and coloured population at about 1800. The 
number of white paupers receiving relief is stated to be 25, that of the 
other class 2 ; being in the proportion to that of the whites of one to 
twenty eight. 

10. St. Christopher s. We hscve no means of ascertaining' the white, 
and the free coloured population of this Island. The average number of 
white paupers appears to be 115, of black and coloured paupers, 14, 
although there is no doubt that the population of the latter class, 
greatly outnumbers that of the former. 

11. >SV. VincenCs. The white population of this Isltind is stated, in 
1825, to be 1301; the free black and coloured population 2824. 
" We have never had," says Sir C. Brisbane, the Governor, " ayii/ 
poor's rate or other taxes levied for the support of the poor. The few 
paupers (always white) who occasionally resort hither, are generally 
supported from the town funds." 

12. Tobago. Neither the white, nor the free black and coloured 
population of this Island is given. But the point i.s of small im- 
portance, as the Governor, Sir F. P. Robinson, informs Lord Bathurst, 
that " there is no fund for assisting paupers in this Colony, except 
that of the Church," (which does not amount to sixty dollars per 
annum) " and the reason is, that there are no other poor people who 
require that kind of relief." 

13. Tortola. In 1825, the free black and coloured population 
amounted to 607. The vphites are estimated at about 300. The number 
of white paupers relieved appears, to be 29 ; of black and coloured, 4; 
being in the proportion of fourteen to one. 

14. Trinidad. The white population of this Island is about 3500 ; 
that of free black and coloured persons amounts to about 15,000. 
The Treasurer of the Island reports, that no funds have been raised in 
this Colony for the support of the poor. 

In short, in a population of free blacks and people of colour, amount- 



279 

ing lo fi'om 80,000 to 90,000, only 229 persons have received any relief 
however small, as paupers, being about one in each 370 persons, 
exhibiting altogether an example of ease and independence, not to 
be paralleled in any other part of the British Dominions, or among 
any other class of his Majesty's subjects. And yet what says that 
veracious writer the Pi.ev. Mr. Bridges, on this subject? "The free 
negro and coloured population of these colonies are a slothful race, 
living without labour or means ;" they "■ merit your commiseration, and 
should elicit your sympathy." " In age or incapacity they are ex- 
posed " " without resource to all the want and misery, which close 
a life of unrestrained indolence, apathy, and vice." 

IV. Manumissions. 

In the five years from 1821 to 1825 inclusive, the following manu- 
missions have taken place, viz. — 

1. In the Bahamas, there have beeen 176 manumissions: — there 
is here no tax payable upon them. 

2. In Barbadoes, 408 manumissions have taken place ; on seventy 
two of which a tax of £50 was paid, and on 336 of which no tax was 
paid, the parties having evaded it by being manumitted in England 
at an expense of about seven pounds ; a conveyance of them to a 
person in England having been previously executed by their owners, for 
the express purpose of their being manumitted. The fee for those 
on whom the tax has been paid is 30s. ; on the others, 37s. 6d. 
Those for whom the tax has been paid, are entitled to an annuity of 
8 per cent, or £4. per annum for life ; the others to nothing. 

3. In Berbice, the manumissions have been only 49, for which 
taxes have been paid to the extent of 17,500 guilders, or £1250 
sterling, besides a fee on each of 186 guilders, or £13. 5s. sterling, 
being altogether a tax of about £39. 5s. on each manumission. 

4. In Demerara, tlie manumissions have been 142, the taxes on 
which have amounted to 20,396 guilders, or £1457 sterling, being at 
the rate of £11 sterling on each, besides the fees, which are large, 

5. In Dominica, the manumissions have amounted to 156, on which 
a tax has been paid of £2904 currency, besides fees amounting to 
£202. 10s. in all £3106. 10s. currency, or £1553. 5s. sterling, being at 
the rate of about £10. sterling each. 

6. In Grenada, the manumissions have been 407, a fee being paid 
on each of £3. 16s. and no tax. 

8. In Honduras, 141 manumissions have taken place, the charge 
on each being a fee of two dollars and a half, and no tax besides. 
One man pays £250 for his freedom, another £300, another, £225, 
The father of three children buys them for £280. A man continuing a 
slave himself, buys his wife for £100; another buys his son for the 
same sum : several women buy themselves at the rate of £100, and 
one pays for herself £200. 

8. In Jamaica, the record of manumissions is so confused, that it 
is difficult to ascertain the precise number. In many cases the par- 
ticulars of wills are given directing certain sums to be paid for manu- 
missions, but without specifying whether the provisions of these wills 



280 

have been carried into effect. It is therefore a matter of doubt, 
what the number of manumissions in this Island during the five years 
in question, actually has been. There is also great irregularity in 
the dates of the manumissions, many of them bearing that of almost 
every year from 1805 to 1820, and some even so distant a date as 
1796. In short, no account could be more ingeniously contrived to 
render all correct inference from it absolutely impossible. The num- 
ber in the five years may be 1500, or it may be 2900. A few curious 
facts may, nevertheless, be collected from it. One noble lord sells 
Charlotte and her six children for £700. Another noble lord sells 
Sarah for £180. ; Mary Ann, for £150.; and Eleanor and her child, 
for £100. A wealthy baronet sells a woman and her four children for 
£315. ; a man, for £200. ; four women, for £335. ; and two v/omen, for 
£330. Another baronet, a member of parliament, sells a mother and 
her daughter for £280. ; a mother and two children, for £420. ; a mo- 
ther and four children, for £360. ; and a mother and two children, 
for £185. One proprietor sells two women and a child for £400 ; and 
a woman, for £140. Another, a member of parliament, sells two 
Elizas, one for £100., the other for £!50., and John for £140. Ano- 
ther member of parliament sells Elizabeth Guy, for a " new slave," value 
£115. If the word " new slave," is to be understood in its ordinary 
acceptation, it seems fit that the Attorney-General should enquire 
where such a contraband article was obtained. 

Now, it is obvious, that in all these cases the vendors of the manu- 
mitted slaves, who are, probably for the most part, the mulatto concu- 
bines and children of white men, take advantage of the state of the 
law, to exact from their keeper or parent, a far higher price than the 
fair market value of the persons sold. It is plain that but for this, 
£280 never could have been obtained for a mother and her daughter, 
or £420 for a mother and her two daughters. And this will more 
clearly appear, when we come, under the next head, to see what is the 
fair average value of slaves, when brought into the market, and sold 
at the market price. The persons disposed of at these enormous 
rates, if sold by auction, or fairly appraised, vpould not have brought 
to their vendors, (we will not suppose the owners to be cognizant of 
the matter,) above one third of the money that has been exacted for 
them. And it might be shewn from this very Return, that the 
same course is pursued, not only where passion or affection may 
be effectually wrought upon to submit to such exorbitant demands, 
but where the earnest desire of the hard v/orking slave, to effect 
his emancipation, enables the master to exact for his freedom double 
or treble the sum he could procure for him by appraisement. On this 
principle, we find many male slaves paying for themselves £140, 
£200, and even £250 ; and female slaves paying like prices, and one 
even as much as £300 for liberty. Now if Lord Bathurst's plan of 
compelling manumissions to be executed at a fair appraisement were to 
be adopted, such cruel exactions would be no longer possible; and hence, 
we may presume, in part arises the violent opposition which has been 
excited to that measure, just and merciful as it. is, through the West 
Indies. We are confirmed in this view of the subject by a letter which 



281 

appeared in a late Jamaica newspaper, addressed to its Editor, by Mr, 
Grossett, the Member of Parliament, in which, while he recommends a 
prudent compliance with some of the propositions of Government, he 
condemns this particular provision as big with ruin to the owners of 
slaves; although Lord Bathurst most truly represents it as altogether in- 
dispensable to the hope of advancing a single step towards the ultimate 
extinction of Slavery. 

9. In Nevis fifty-seven manumissions have taken place. 

10. In ^^. Christopher s the number of manumissions furnished by 
John Tyson, the Registrar of Deeds, as occurring from 1821 to 1825, 
is 262. But there is an additional Return from the Registrar of Slaves^ 
W. Thomson, of 513 manumissions between 1817 and 1825, which 
are not recorded by the Registrar of Deeds, making together 775. The 
remark of the Governor upon the subject is to this effect. " As the en- 
tering of each manumission in the office of the Registrar of Deeds is 
necessary to the legality of the proceeding, many more persons are 
actually manumitted than appears on the face of the reiurn forwarded 
from that office ; and I therefore enclose a Return of manumissions as 
furnished by the Registrar of Slaves, by which it will appear that near 
double the number of slaves have been actually manumitted that are not 
considered so in the eye of the law." This, however, is a great grievance, 
and some remedy should be forthwith applied to it, otherwise these 513 
manumitted persons, may, hereafter, from the want of some required 
formality, be reduced again to their former cruel bondage. And the 
omission of this formality is the more remarkable, as the fee attending 
it does not appear to exceed 22s. 6d. currency, or lis. sterling. In this 
island also we find individual slaves forced to pay £100. £150. £200. 
and even £300. for their redemption, while the average rate at sales is 
only £48. 5s. There is now no tax in this island on manumissions. 

11. In St. Vincent's the manumissions amount to 389. The fee on 
manumission is £8. There is no tax. 

12. In Tobago the Return extends only from the 1st January to the 
19th November, 1825, omitting the preceding four years for which a Re- 
turn was demanded. The manumissions are only fifteen in number. 
There is neither tax nor fee in this Island. 

13. In Tortola there have been 101 slaves manumitted at a cost for 
fees of 39s. each, of whom at least eighty appear to have been redeemed 
by themselves or their parents. • 

14. In Trinidad 611 manumissions have taken place, about half of 
which appear to have been effected by themselves, or by their parents, 
at prices varying from £25. to £375. currency. The fee on each 
manumission is £1. sterling, and is paid by the Treasury of the Island, 
There is no tax. 

V. Value of Slaves. 

The volume before us contains, among other points of information, a 
return of the number of slaves taken and sold in execution for debt, or 
levied upon and sold for taxes, from the 1st January, 1821, to the 31st 
December, 1825, specifying age, sex, and price, and the names of 
vendors and purchasers. The inferences to be drawn from these details 
will be found to be impoptant. 



282 

1. Bahamas. The slaves sold in execution in this Island amount io 
67, and the gross proceeds of their sale to £2867. 10s. currency, being 
at the rate of £42. 16s. or at the exchange of 200, £21. 8s. sterling. 

2. Barbadoes. The sales in execution in this Island consist of 
1316slaves, and the proceeds of their sale amount to £53,188. 10s. 3d. 
currency, being at the average rate for each of £40. 8s. 4c?. currency, or 
at the exchange of 150, £27. sterling. Of the above 1316 slaves, only 
the life estate of ninety-one was sold. These, who, of course, were all 
females, brought £1697. 10s., or £18. 12s. 3c7. each, on the average. 
Laying these aside, the average of the remaining 1225 would rise to £42. 
currency, or £28. sterling. In many cases mothers and young children 
are sold together, and these appear to be the only cases in which re- 
gard is paid to consanguinity. In the majority of cases, the slaves, even 
young slaves, boys and girls, are sold singly. 

3. Berbice : 446 slaves, sold in execution, bring 561,860 guilders, 
or an average of 1260 guilders for each, being £90. sterling. 

4. Demerara : 2705 slaves, sold in execution, yield 3,254,006 
guilders, being for each 1203 guilders, or about £86. sterling. 

5. Dominica: 58 slaves, sold in execution, bring £3487. lis. cur- 
rency, being £60. 2s. 6c?. or £30. Is 3d. sterling for each. 

6. Grenada: 242 slaves are sold in execution for £14,889. 8s. cur- 
rency, being for each £61. 12s., or £30. 16s. sterling. 

7. Honduras. Here 151 slaves are sold in execution for £19,014. 13s. 
being for each £125. 10s. currency, which would make, if the rate of 
exchange be the same as in Jamaica, about £84. sterling ; or if the same 
as in the Leeward Islands, £62. 15s, sterling. Individual men were sold 
as high as £300. £370. and even £400., and women as high as £150. 
£180. and £205. and one even for £360. 

8. Jamaica. The Provost Marshal of this Island has given no Return 
of the sales in execution, and his reason is, that he cannot give it with 
all the particulars that are required. He might still have communi- 
cated as much information as he could, and at least have stated the 
aggregate number of slaves sold from year to year, with the gross pro- 
ceeds of their sale. But even this he has withheld. The defect, how- 
ever, is partly supplied from another source. A Return is given to us of 
the slaves levied upon and sold for taxes, in the different parishes of the 
Island. The general result of this return is, that the slaves so sold 
have amounted in five yl^rs to 550, chiefly persons in the prime of life, 
who have brought the gross sum of £37,630. 14s. 10c?. currency; being 
for each slave £68. 8s. 8c?., or, at the exchange of 150, (which, we be- 
lieve, is the present rate of exchange) £45. 12s. 6d. sterling. When 
mothers and their children are levied upon together, they appear to be 
always sold together, but the seizures in most instances are seizures of 
single slaves, either male or female, many of them young, who are of 
course sold singly and separately. 

9. Nevis: 47 slaves are sold in execution for £1630. steriing, or 
£35. each. 

10. St. Christopher's: 376 slaves are sold in execution for £17,742. 
17s. 9d. currency, being for each £48. 5s. currency, or £24. 2s. 60?. 
sterling. 

11. St. Vincent's : 848 slaves are sold, many of them with the land 



283 

attached, for £28,437. currency, being not more, on the average, for 
each, than £33. 10s. currency, or £16. 15s. sterling; and yet this price, 
low as it is, may be correct, for we find in the same Island, that three 
adults, sold for taxes, brought only £137. currency, being £45. 13s. 4rf. 
currency for each, or £22. 16s. 8c?. sterling. 

12. Tobago. No prices are attached to the thirty-one slaves, said to 
be sold in execution in this Island. 

13. Tortola: 159 slaves are sold in execution for £5638. 18s. Ad. 
currency, being for each £35, or £17. 10s. sterling. 

14. Trinidad. The number of slaves sold in execution has been 
1086, but no account is given of the prices at which they were sold. 

The result of the whole, as far as the materials before us go, is to 
exhibit the following as the average price in sterling money of slaves in 
the different colonies, viz. ' 





£. 


s. d. 




£. 


s. d. 


1 St. VincentV, 


. 16 


15 


7 Grenada, 


... 30 


16 


2 Tortola, . . . 


. 17 


10 


8 Nevis, 


... 35 





3 Bahamas, 


. 21 


8 


9 Jamaica, . 


... 45 


12 6 


4 St. Christopher's, 


. 24 


2 6 


10 Honduras, 


. 84 or 62 


15 


5 Barbadoes, . . 


. 28 





11 Demerara, 


... 86 





6 Dominica, . . 


. 30 


1 3 


12 Berbice, . 


... 90 






Whether any part of these discrepancies are to be ascribed to some 
inaccuracy in the Returns; or whether in some of the Marshal's sales, as 
in St. Vincent's or Tortola, the prices are collusively low, it is impossi- 
ble for us to say. We give the result as we find it. 

The cause of the high average in Jamaica, as compared with the 
other islands, is obviously, in great part, owing to this, that the persons 
levied upon for taxes are, with few exceptions, persons in the prime of 
life (from thirteen to thirty-five and forty years of age), while sales in 
execution embrace all ages from infancy to decrepitude. The market 
of Jamaica is also more extensive than that of the other islands. With 
respect to the enormous price given for slaves on the South American 
continent, nearly three times their price in the islands, it can only be 
resolved into the superior fertility of the soil of Guiana. 

There are men among us who argue that that superior fertility of soil 
is an advantage to the slave. On this principle it was that so many 
iniquitous transfers of slaves were permitted, in violation of the acts 
abolishing the slave trade, from the Bahamas* Dominica, &c. to Deme- 
rara. The mendacious allegation of the interested parties was, that, 
the slaves must starve and perish in the former, while they would enjoy 
abundance and prosperity in the latter ; and by this deliberate misre- 
presentation they succeeded in imposing on His Majesty's Government, 
and on some even of the warmest friends of the oppressed Africans. 
The rapid increase of the slaves in the Bahamas and Dominica, 
and their equally or still more rapid decrease in Demerara, points no 
longer disputable, sufficiently expose the impudent and cruel impos- 
ture. 

Observe also, not only the more deathful influence of rich fertile colonies 
^s compared with poor ones on the slaves — the planter's instruments of 
production ; but the increased facilities of manumission which they 
enjoy in the latter. A slave may obtain his freedom in Tortola, foi 



284 

example, at about a fit'tli part of the price for which he could purchase 
it in Guiana ; in Barbadoes, at one third ; and in Jamaica, at one half. 
It is no wonder that Mr. Pickering and other Tortola planters should 
have so eagerly sought permission to transport their slaves from that 
Island ; and that their slaves should have been so reluctant to quit it. 

And the fact is in exact agreement with the argument. The popu- 
lation of Demerara and Barbadoes are nearly equal, and both colonies 
impose taxes on manumission; but in Barbadoes, where slaves are £28. 
each, 408 manumissions have been effected, in the same time in which, 
in Demerara, where slaves cost tliree times as much, only 142 manu- 
missions have been effected. 

In the Bahamas, where there is no tax, and slaves cost on the aver- 
age only £21. 8s., 176 manumissions have taken place, in a population 
of 9500 slaves. At the same rate, the manumissions in Barbadoes and 
Demerara would have been about 1500, and 1400, instead of 408,and 142. 

Berbice contains 22000 slaves, whose average price appears to be 
about £90, while a heavy tax is miposed on manumissions. The ma- 
numissions there amount to 49 ; while in St. Christopher's, containing 
20,000 slaves, where there is no tax, and where slaves appear to average 
£24, the manumissions in the same time are at least ten times as nume- 
rous, and in Grenada and St. Vincent's, they are about seven times as 
numerous, in proportion to their population. Nay, in Grenada and in St. 
Vincent's, the populatioii of each of which do not amount to a third of 
that of Barbadoes, the number of manumissions is nearly as great as 
in that Island, where a tax of £50. has been continued. 

In Dominica, the effect of even an inferior tax is apparent. Its popu- 
lation is 15000 ; the manumissions 156. At the rate of Grenada and 
St. Vincent's, it ought to have been about y250, at that of the Bahamas 
280, and at that of Tortola 303. The manumissions in Barbadoes and 
Demerara, if they proceeded at the rate of Tortola, where there is no 
tax, and slaves average £17. 10s. would be 1616 for the former, and 
1515 for the latter, instead of 408, and 142, 

It is certainly a ground of serious regret, as respects the Colonial de- 
partment, that notwithstanding numerous representatations on the sub- 
ject, the tax on manumissions should have continued so long without 
modification or repeal, in the Colonies of Berbice and Demerara, where 
the crown is the sole legislator, and where nothing was wanting to put 
an end to the tax but an flrder of the Secretary of State. 

But if it be true that fertility of soil aggravates the evils of slavery, 
and multiplies the obstacles to enfranchisement, it follows as a corollary 
that bounties and protecting duties add greatly to its destructive in- 
fluence ; while they serve, pro ianto, to counteract the salutary effects 
of diminished fertility on the mitigation and final extinction of slavery. 
But at present we can only glance at this part of the subject. 

Another remarkable inference which seems deducible from the facts 
before us, but on which we cannot now enlarge, is this : that the dis- 
tress of the planter will be found to run parallel with the fertility of the 
soil he cultivates, and with the consequent high appreciation of his 
slaves. If we take the four colonies of Demerara, Berbice, Trinidad, 
and Honduras, where the average value of slaves is the highest, we 
shall find the pro^jortion of the slaves taken and sold in execution in 



•285- 

Sve years, to be as high as one in twenty-eight of the slave population; 
whereas, in the other eight colonies, from which we have Returns of the 
sales in execution, viz. St. Vincent's, Tortola, Bahamas, Nevis, St. 
Christopher's, Barbadoes, Dominica, and Grenada, and in which the 
prices are low, the proportion of slaves, so sold, is only one in sixty ; 
and leaving out St. Vincent's and Tortola, which seem to involve some 
doubt, it is only one in eighty ! 

Is there not somethmg in this singular fact, which unavoidably leads 
the reflecting mind to the presumption that, by the ordinations of a 
beneficent Providence, the rigorous exaction of servile labour, in des- 
pite of all the calculations of a sordid and heartless cupidity, may be 
expected to issue in the blasted hopes of the oppressor ? 

VI. Liability of free blacks and persons of colour to bb 

DEPRIVED OF THEIR FREEDOM. 

Barbadoes. The Deputy Provost Marshal, on the 30th of November, 
1825, states, that when slaves are apprehended as runaways, they are 
confined to the cage ; " and after they have been advertised in the 
public papers for ten days, they are sent to the common gaol and ad- 
vertised again ; and if no owner or claimant should appear, they are, 
at the expiration of three months, sold to defray expenses, and the 
surplus paid into the treasury, according to the act of the Island, but 
the latter very rarely occurs." In the case of persons who are really 
free, it is of course very unlikely that any owner or claimant should 
appear ; but this absence of claim, instead of being admitted as a proof 
of their freedom, which is the natural inference to be deduced from 
it, is made the ground for their being sold for the benefit of the 
Colonial treasury. The Deputy Provost Marshal adds, that he is 
*' not aware that any slaves so confined ever claimed or established 
their freedom." Did he ever give himself the trouble to inquire into 
the facts of their history, before he consigned them to interminable 
bondage? If he did, let him give us those facts. 

Jamaica. Many cases occur in this Island in which slaves, appre- 
hended as runaways but claiming to be free, were able to establish 
the claim to the satisfaction of the magistrates appointed to enquire 
into the truth of their allegations. The following is a specimen of 
these cases. 

CufFee, alias James Hannah, alias James Hamilton, was born in 
St. Mary's, belonged to Mr, Samuel Hannah, who raised him, and 
took him with him to Scotland. He was there four years and a half 
as a waiting man with Mr. Hannah, who, having no further occasion 
for his services, recommended him to Captain Hamilton Maxwell, 
with whom he remained two years and a half. He then went to 
Sir Robert Grierson, Rock Hall, Dumfrieshire, and stayed there two 
years and a half. He afterwards lived for some time in Edinburgh. 
He then engaged with Captain Simpson, of the ship Isabella Simpson, 
as steward, and arrived in Jamai<?a, in November 1821, when he was 
taken up as a runaway. The Justices very properly adjudged that this 
man was entitled to his freedom. 

Many other cases are decided with an equal regard to justice. 
But in what a fearful predicament is the man placed who thus, \Vithout 



2SC 

a crime, or tlie allegation of a crime, stands exposed, on failing- to prove 
himself free, though no one claims him as a slave, to the dreadful 
alternative of perpetual bondage ? 

But all are not thus leniently dealt with. Nancy Rider, a girl of six- 
teen, who appears to have had great personal attractions, was held in 
trust by a Mr.Johnston. A Mr.King offered to purchase her for his own 
gratification ; but Mr. Johnston, being unable himself to execute a legal 
deed of manumission, arranged with Mr. King that she should be levied 
upon for taxes and sold, and that Mr. King should become the pur- 
chaser, on an understanding that he was to manumit her after he had 
thus obtained, from the collector of taxes, a legal title to do so, Nancy 
accordingly became the property of Mr. King, with whom she lived 
several years. They then quarrelled, and she, thinking herself free, left 
him. But Mr. King having omitted to fulfil his promise of legally ma- 
numitting her, availed himself of the omission to sell her, — while living 
openly with her mother to whose home she had returned and with whom 
she continued for some time to reside, — to a Mr. Hansbrow, who had 
become fond of her person. She, however, disliking Mr. Hansbrow for a 
lover, refused to submit to his desires, and asserted her right to freedom, 
grounded on the original stipulation between Mr. Johnston and Mr. King. 
Mr. King, on his examination, denied the stipulation, but admitted that 
he had at one time promised to free her, though he had stipulated no 
precise time for doing so. Neither he nor Mr. Hansbrow denied the 
other facts of the case. The decision of three Justices of the Peace, 
and nine freeholders of the parish of St. Ann's, on this apparently 
profligate transaction, was, that the claim of Nancy Rider is " frivolous, 
and not warranted by the circumstances of the case; that she is legally 
the property of Mr. Hansbrow, (he having purchased her of Mr. King, 
jn whom the right of sale was exclusively vested,) and the Court, while 
it admonishes her to be obedient and submissive to, and scrupulously 
watchful of the interest of her master, as the safest and most likely way 
of ensuring his protection and kindness, trusts he will not permit 
his future treatment of the woman to be influenced by the occurrences 
of this day, but bury the same in oblivion." The Court which came to 
this extraordinary decision is called " a Council of Protection.'" 

In ths Parish of Westmoreland, on the 21st August, 1821, " John 
Williams, a negro man, a pretended Cura^oa. No evidence of freedom 
produced. Sold from workhouse in January." 

In the Parish of Port Royal, " Joseph Franks, a black, committed as 
a runaway 9th October, 1821 ; sold for payment of fees on 6th 
March, 1822, having no documents." 

In the Parish of St. David, " John Paterson committed on 5th De- 
cember, 1821. After due investigation he could not produce any do- 
cument of freedom to the magistrates." He was sold accordingly on the 
24th April, 1822. 

In the Parish of Manchester, " Eleanor Davison committed July 22d, 
\ 824', being able to produce no document whatever, or to adduce any 
kind of proof of her freedom, was ordered to be sold according to law." 

In the Parish of Clarendon, " Fanny committed May 31st, 1821. 
Sold out of the workhouse as a slave." " Allick Andrea committed 
December 27th, 1821. Sold out of the workhouse as a slave." 



267 

This opprobrious state of law, where the shghlest tinge of black blood" 
is made presumptive proof of Slavery, in tbe absence of direct and 
positive testimony of freedom, and which constitutes the State a prin- 
cipal partner in "this worst species of Slave Trade, is curiously illus- 
trated by two cases occurring in Triyiidad. We must reserve the de- 
tails of these cases, as well as the inferences deducible from them for 
another opportunity ; when we hope also to analyze the very important 
facts which are given in the same Returns on the subject of population ; 
and which shew that, in what may be called, from its fertility and 
beauty, the garden of the world, the lives of its inhabitants, made 
bitter by hard bondage, are wasting at a rate which threatens even- 
tual depopulation, and which converts that smiling land into little bet- 
ter than a charnel house. 



ANT[-SLAVERY PETITION. 

A Petition has been presented to Parliament from the Surrey Anti- 
Slavery Society, which is a model of force and eloquence, and not more 
distinguished by these qualities than by its truth and justice. We re- 
commend it to universal attention. It sets forth, 

" That the population of our West Indian Colonies consists chiefly of Negroes, who are 
either unoffending foreigners, carried thither by force, or British subjects, born -within 
ihe King's allegiance; that these unoffending foreigners possess rights under the Law of 
Nations which England is bound to recognize and uphold, as a civilized state, and for 
the violation of which, in the persons of other foreigners, a Biitish fleet was sent only a 
few years since to lay the port of Algiers in ruins ; that England on that occasion justly 
resented the barbarous practice adopted by the Algerines, of converting their enemies 
taken in war into slaves, as an uncivilized modification of the right assumed by savages 
of putting their prisoners to death; that British subjects.'born within the King's allegiance, 
and innocent of all crime, cannot be deprived of their civil existence, and reduced to a. 
state of slavery by any power known to the constitution of this country ; that such a. 
power necessarily supposes the annihilation of every principle on which the recipi-ocal 
claims of allegiance and protection are founded, and at once destroys the basis of the 
social compact; that such a power, if it could exist, might reduce to slavery all the 
born subjects of the king, as justly as any particular portion of them ; that while in Rus- 
sia civil death has been awarded as an appropriate punishment for high treason, and in 
Algiers slavery is substituted for the savage right of taking the life of a captured enemy, 
in the West Indian dominions of the British Crown unoffending aliens and unoffending 
British subjects are deprived of their civil existence by thousands, and hundreds of thou- 
sands, solely for the emolument of private individuals, who, for that purpose alone, by a 
monstrous and illegal usurpation, condemn their fellow subjects to a slate of irremediable 
slavery, and extend the dreadful curse to their children, and their children's children ; 
that the claim set up by the West Indian slave-masters to their fellow-subjects, and to 
helpless strangers, as their property, rests on no better basis than the claim of robbers 
and receivers to goods which they have stolen, or purchased knowing them to be stolen; 
tliat the crime of depriving an innocent man, whether a foreigner or a British subject, 
of his civil existence, immeasurably exceeds any one of those descriptions of theft for 
which the punishment of death is usually awarded in this country, as it includes them 
all; that it is one continued system of daily and hourly robbery, wresting from the mi- 
serable victim his natural liberty, his rights as aman, as a husband, as a father, his rights 
ai a British subject by the constitution of his country, or as an innocent foreigner by the 
Law of Nations ; that the crime is nothing less than that of robbing a human being of all 
his mental and moral energies, of keeping his mind in darkness lest he should become 
acquainted with his rights, and of reducing him for all civil purposes to the condition of 
a murdered man ; that the West Indian Negro, though born to all the privileges of a 
British subject, is allowed no inheritance but slavery ; that if he attempts to assert his 
just claims he is consigned to the gallows or the stake as a traitor, on the principle by 
which pirates put to death those who do not quietly submit to their injustice, and thus 
natural death is added to civil death, and judicial murder to robbery in its most com- 
pliccited form; to robbery momentarily repeated through alifeof terror, ofscourgings, and 
of mental and bodily degradation. The Petitioners beg leave to observe that these are 
no fancied horrors, but positive and admitted facts, and that they are here speaking of 
the sufferings of innocent aliens, whose privileges are consecrated by that Law of Nations 
which England has shed her bravest blood to maintain, and of British subjects born in the 
King's allegiance, whose rights huve the same foundation and are as inalienable as those 
of every Member of the House ; that the Petitioners, regarding the slavery of their fellow 
subjects in the West Indies as an outrage upon all jnfitice, and sensible of the duty of put- 



288' 

ling an end, willi as little delay as possible, to a system which is pregnant witli each com- 
plicated evils, confide in the wisdom of the House for the adoption of such ineaaures as 
may be necessary for the speedy attainment of that desirable object ; but at the same time 
they beg leave respectfully to submit, that there is one measure whicli, while it is un- 
questionably safe, would also prove a most efficacious corrective of many of tlie imme- 
diate evils of Colonial Slavery, and might be carried into effect without loss of time ; the 
Petitioners allude to the abrogation of the Bounties and Protecting Duties on Sugar ; that 
these Bounties and Protecting Duties prevent Sugar, now become one of the necessaries of 
life, from being imported from various parts of the world, at a price so much below the 
Sugar from the West Indies as to malic a difference to the British public of one penny per 
pound, or about one million and a half sterling on the aggregate annual consumption of 
the people of Great Britain and Ireland ; tliat these Protecting Duties have now been in 
force twelve years, many of them yeai-s of great distress to the agriculturists and manu- 
facturers of this country, during which the West Indian Sugar Farmers have received 
eighteen millions sterling for their Sugars over and above the price at which Sugars might 
have been purchased in the markets of England if tire West Indian Planter had not been 
protected from the effects of fair competition ; that it is from the forced and unremitted 
cultivation of Sugar in the comparatively inferior and exhausted soils of the British West 
Indian Islands, e.Kcited by the hope of high profits, that the sufferings of the Negroes 
chiefly arise, and that upon the showing of the planters themselves this forced culiivation 
is solely kept up by the artificial stimulus of Bounties and Protecting Duties, which im- 
pede tile Commerce of Great Britain and operate as an oppressive tax on the public ; that 
when the exhaustion of the soils, and the ruinous and expensive system of slave cultiva- 
tion and of non-residence, ijrevent the importation of Sugars from the West Indian Islands 
at the price for which they could be obtained from various parts of the world, the Peti- 
tioners humbly conceive that the West Indian Planters have no just claim to Bounties 
and Protecting Duties to enable them to continue an improvident speculation ; that the 
Petitioners humbly submit that the Bounties and protecting Duties on Sugar, for the benefit 
of a comparatively few individuals, who hold their fellow-subjects in Slavery, ought not, 
in justice to the agricultural and manufacturing interests of this country, to be continued ; 
that, next to British farming produce. Sugar is the chief article of domestic consumption, 
and ranks among the necessaries of life; that the effect of abrogating the Bounties and 
protecting Duties on Sugar would be, to transfer the cultivation of that article to the East 
Indies, and other places where it can be produced by the free labour of native farmers, 
and at little expense ; that this transfer would tend to increase the growth of the proper 
food of the Negro British subject in the West Indies, diminish his fatigues, his privations, 
and his sufferings, and, by rapidly increasing the Black population, would so reduce the 
price of Slaves, and facilitate manumissions, that the Sla\'e system would gradually be- 
come e-xtinct, without violence or commotion; that the Petitioners, therefore, on behalf 
of the thousands of innocent foreigners, and of hundreds of thousands of their fellow- 
subjects, forcibly held in Slavery ; on behalf of the people of England, whose rights and 
liberties are invaded in the persons of innocent Englishmen, denied that justice which 
ought to be extended with rigid impartiality to the powerful and to the helpless, to the 
black Colonist as to the white; on behalf of the King, nearly seven hundred thousand of 
whose natural-born subjects are wrested from the guardianship of His protecting hand 
within His own Dominions, by those who strip their Sovereign of the attributes of His 
Crown, and annihilate the Civil existence of a portion of His people equal in number to 
the population of a Principalitj'; on behalf of the consistency and tlie creditof the Nation, 
whose cannon so recently swept the ramparts of Algiers, and dealt death to thousands on 
the African shore, that a" barbarous people might be compelled to abstain in fufture from 
seducing into Slaves, not the subjects of this country merely, but those of all other Eu- 
ropean Powers, and to act on principles of Avhich Britain is the public chan\pion, and of 
■which her West Indian Slave-owners are as publicly the unpunished and daily \-iolators ; 
on behalf of the suffering manufacturers of England, whose trade with nearly- the whole 
of South America, with Mexico, with Hayti, with China, with New Holland, and above 
all with India and her one hundred millions of inhabitants, is checked and stunted in its 
growth, because Protecting Duties and Bounties prevent those Countries from sending to 
England their Sugars in exchange for the products of British industry, and this in order 
that the Slave cultivation of the West Indies may be exclusively encouraged ; on behalf 
of every virtue, and of every interest that is dear to Englishmen, the Petitioners implore 
the House to take into their earliest consideration the repeal of the Protecting Duties and 
Bounties granted to the cultivators of Sugar by Slave labour ; that whatever difficulties 
the Slave Question may present under other aspects, the people of England may at least 
be delivered from the bitter consciousness of maintaining by oppressive, and unne- 
cessary premiums, a system of iniquity degrading to the national character, criminal 
beyond all other modes of robbery and violence, subversive of every legal and every 
constitutional principle, and equally at A^ariance with the dictates of sound policy, hu- 
manity, and justice." 



This, and all other publications of the Society^, may he had at their' office 
18, Aldermanhury ; or at Messrs. Hatchards^lST, Piccadilly , and Arch's, Cornhill,. 
They may also he procured, through any bookseller, or at the depots af the Anti- 
Slarery Society throughout the kingdom. 



lAivdim : Tin'jiter anil Thom.^, 14. hartholomfre Clone. 



London, 18, Aldermanbury , Jan. 31, 1827. 

No. 20 

ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 



The "Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
lialf a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons 
wishing to receive a regular supply, are requested to make application to the 
Secretary, at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the con- 
veyance by which they may be most conveniently sent. 



SLAVERY AT THE CAPE OF GOOD HOPE. 

In the course of the last year an ordinance was promulgated in this 
colony, similar in its principle and provisions to that which has been 
established in Trinidad, for regulating the future treatment of slaves. 
It has generally been supposed in this country, that at the Cape of 
Good Hope the condition of the slaves was so mild as to call for no 
such interference on the part of Government. But it might have been 
assumed with certainty, that the accounts which led to such a conclu- 
sion were founded either in gross ignorance or in wilful misrepresenta- 
tion. Slavery is an institution which, wherever it exists, must produce 
misery and degradation to all concerned in it ; to the master as well as 
to the slave. Its effect in our West India colonies we are already 
familiar with. We shall hereafter be called to witness its still more 
horrid and revolting results as they are exhibited in the Mauritius. 
At present we confine ourselves to the Cape of Good Hope. Of the 
state of slavery in that colony, as it existed down to the month of 
January last, we are enabled to put our readers in possession of some 
authentic details which have been furnished by a colonist now in this 
country, on whose information we place implicit reliance. These de- 
tails first appeared in the New Monthly Magazine for November last : 
we have satisfied ourselves of their truth, and we give them with confi- 
dence to our readers, 

" Cape of Good Hope, Jan. 5, 1826. 

" The mildness of Slavery at the Cape has been much dwelt upon 
by certain travellers, whose opinions on this subject, being re-echoed 
by the Quarterly Review and similar publications, seem to be generally 
admitted in England as perfectly just and incontrovertible. I am now 
satisfied, however, that the term, except in a very restricted sense, is 
altogether inapplicable. The general condition of slaves in this colony, 
compared with some others, (such, for example, as the Isle of France,) 
may, indeed, be correctly described as less deplorable : but with all its 
boasted alleviations, and in spite of every sweetening ingredient, slavery 
at the Cape is assuredly still a bitter and baleful draught. 

" Should the comparative mildness of Cape slavery, however, be ad- 
mitted, what a powerful argument does not this admission make for the 



290 

speedy annihilation of human bondage throughout their colonies, by 
the powers of Christian Europe ? If slaves are such wretched beings 
as I shall soon prove them to be, even at the Cape, what must be their 
condition in other colonies ? What must be the condition of their 
masters ? 

" The slaves of this settlement can claim no respite from their 
masters' service, except on Sunday; and, as regards the household 
slaves, only partially on that day. They cannot legally marry, or legi- 
timate their offspring, without the concurrence of their owner — a con- 
currence which his interests or his prejudices induce him, in almost 
every instance, to refuse. They cannot claim their freedom on present- 
ing their purchase-money. They are frequently sold by public auction 
on the death or bankruptcy of their owners ; and they are liable at all 
times, from casualty or from caprice, to be irretrievably separated from 
their wives, children, and dearest connections. At public sales the dis- 
tressing spectacle of the wife torn from the husband, and the children 
from the parents, is so familiar as scarcely to interest the feelings of the 
spectators. Coarse jocularity and indecent merriment seldom fail, on 
such occasions, to be rudely bandied between the auctioneers and the 
rival bidders. Moreover, the slave is liable to be flogged whenever his 
owner's arrogant caprice may require it ; and should he suffer ill-treat- 
ment from his master or the magistrate, he possesses in the laws (at least 
as they are usually administered) no security for obtaining redress. 

*' Yet the slave-holders in this colony continually exclaim — ' Our 
slaves are as well fed and clothed as your English peasantry — infinitely 
better than your wretched Irish : in what respect, then, can they be 
considered objects of commiseration?' If such assertions were unde- 
niable, the deduction drawn from them is not, on that account, the less 
fallacious. A few facts will show the futility of such arguments. 

" In August, 1825, I was v/alking with a friend in the streets of 
GraafF-Reinett (a country town about five hundred miles from the 
capital), when we were accosted, in pretty good English, by a man of 
the Malay complexion. My companion, whom he addressed by name, 
asked how he came to know him. The man replied, that he had occa- 
sionally seen him at the house of his former master in Cape Town. Oii 
farther inquiry, he told us the following distressing story : — 

" He was a slave, and had a wife and several children also in slavery^ 
Being an expert waggon-driver, his master was offered a high price for 
him by a person from GraafF-Reinett. The offer was accepted, but the 
agreement concealed from the object of it. He was ordered to proceed 
with the waggon of his new purchaser into the interior, but given to 
understand that it was on his old master's business, and that he should 
return in a few months. On arriving at GraafF-Reinett, however, he 
was made acquainted with the transaction, and then found that he was 
for ever separated from all he cherished on earth. Even some little 
property in money and clothes, which he had hoarded and left behind 
him, he had never been able to recover, although two or three years 
had elapsed, and he had made repeated applications for it. The poor 
man appeared extremely dejected, and his melancholy tale was after- 
wards fully confirmed to me by other authority. 

" Another recent illustration I shall extract from the letter of a friend 



291 

(Mr. J. F. Thomas, of the East India Company's Civil Service) who re- 
cently spent some years at the Cape. 

" ' While I was residing in the vicinity of Algoa Bay, there came to the house, Jate at 
Hight, an old slave woman, who had fled from the ill nsage of her mistress. She bore on 
her body marks of previous ill-treatment, having had three of her ribs broken at an earlier 
period of lite, when she was in the possession of a former master. She was then in the 
family of an English resident, who had married a Dutch woman, and had been some 

years settled at , within a few miles of Algoa Bay. Her dress was a filthy untauned 

sheep-skin petticoat, with a tew old rays about lier head, and a dirty sheep-skin thrown 
over her shoulders. She had absconded from her master's house the preceding night; 
and after concealing heiself in the day-time, had made her way, the night following, to 
the house where we resided. 

" 'The next morning, the son of the owner caine to drive back the old woman before 
him. When I proposed to puixhase from him the freedom of the slave, and stated her 
advanced age, he said that the work the old creature did was very considerable ; and 
instanced her bringing daily to the house as much fire-wooil on her back as any man 
could carry; adding, that, though he was willing to let the unhappy wretch have rest in 
her latter years, he could not part with her services under five hundred rix-doUars. 
Ultimately, however, he agreed to reduce her price to four hundred.' 

" The poor creature, thus emancipated, by the generosity of a stranger, 
now enjoys liberty and repose at the Missionary Institution of Bethels- 
dorp ; but how seldom, among innumerable cases of equal hardship, 
can it happen that a solitary individual is thus relieved? 

" Examples, such as these, of the wretchedness of slavery at the 
Cape, might be adduced without end, for they are of familiar and fre- 
quent occurrence. But since the authority of distinguished writers is 
so often brought forward to prove that in South Africa slavery is little 
more than a name, let us now produce the evidence of a celebrated tra- 
veller on the subject. Dr. Sparrman, a man not less distinguished for 
his candour and integrity than for his eminence in science, and who, from 
the familiar footing on which his simple manners and mode of travelling 
placed him with every class of the inhabitants, was well qualified to 
form a correct judgment on this point, has given a very different picture 
of South African slavery from certain recent writers, who, in their 
slight and soothing descriptions of it, have either intentionally flattered 
the slave-holders, or their opportunities of observation had never ex- 
tended beyond the well-dressed and pampered domestic slaves of Cape 
Town. Sparrman, on mentioning the murder of a planter in the inte* 
rior by two of his slaves, makes the following just remarks: — 

" ' Yet whatever might be the real reason for committing this dreadful crime, I am con- 
vinced that it had its origin in the very essence and nature of the Slave Trade, in whatever 
manner and in whatever country it may be practised; a motive which I found had as 
much influence among the Christians, in many places, as among the Turks on the coast of 
Barbary, to induce the unhappy slaves, and still more their tyrannical masters, to behave 
very strangely ; nay, sometimes, to be guilty of the most horrid cruelties. I have known 
some colonists, not onlj' in the heat of their passion, but even deliberately and in cold 
blood, undertake themsel ves the low oflice (fit only for the executioner,) of not only flaying, 
for a trifling neglect, both the backs and limbs of their slaves by a peculiar slow lingering 
method, but likewise, outdoing the very tigers in cnielty, throw pepper and salt oyer the 
wounds. But what appeared to me more strange and horrid, was to hear a colonist, not 
only describe with great seeming satisfaction the whole process of this diabolical inven- 
tion, but even pride himself on the practice of it; and rack his brains, in order to find 
sophisms in defence of it, as well as of the Slave Trade; in which occupation the important 
post he enjoyed in the colony, and his own interest, had engaged him. He was, however, 
a European by birth; of a free and civilized nation ; and, indeed, gave evident proofs of 
possessing a kind and tender heart; so that, perha])H, it would be difficult to show any 
where a greater contradiction in the disposition of man, though in a world composed al- 
most entirely of contradictions.' 

" Strange and horrid as this anomaly of character appeared to the 
worthy Sparrman, it is to this day as common as ever among slave- 
holders, — who, though in other respects humane and good-natured, be- 
come, by long practice, altogether callous and cruel-hearted in punish- 
ing their slaves. I have myself witnessed many striking instances of 



292 

this. I have even known ladies, born and educated in England, chari- 
table and benevolent in their general character, yet capable of standing 
over their female slaves vphile they were flogged, and afterwards ordering 
salt and pepper to be rubbed into their lacerated flesh ! It is slavery^ 
corrupting, hardening, brutalizing slavery, that produces this deplorable 
change in human feelings ; and, while it degrades to the dust the 
wretched victim of oppression, vitiates, by a terrible re-action, the heart 
and character of the oppressor. — ' Never be kind, nor speak kindly to 
a slave,' said another English lady at the Cape, to a female relative of 
mine ; ' I have found,' added she, ' by experience in my own household, 
that nothing but hauteur and harshness will do with slaves.' 

" 'There is a law, indeed (says Sparrman) existing in this colony, which prohibits mas- 
ters from killing tlieir slaves, or from flogging or otherwise chastising them with too great 
severity ; but how is a slave to go to law with his master, who is, as it were, his sovereign ; 
and who, by the same laws, has a right (or at least may, by dint of bribes, purchase that 
right) to have him flogged at the public whipping-post, not absolutely to death, indeed, 
j'etnot far from it; and this merely on the strength of the master's own testimony, and 
without any farther inquisition into the merits of the case? The master has, besides, so 
far his slave's life in liis hands, that by rating and abusing him day by daj', as likewise 
by proper ' domestic discipline,' as it is called, such as heavy iron chains, liard work, and 
little meat, he may without control, by little and little, though soon enougli for his pur- 
pose, worry the poor fellow out of his life. In consequence of this, the unhappy slaves, 
who are frequently endued with finer feelings and nobler sentiments of liumanity, though 
for the most part actuated by stronger jiassions than their masters, often give themselves 
up totally to despondency, and commit various acts of desijeration and violence. Divers 
circumstances and considerations may, perhaps, concur to induce a wretch in this situa- 
tion to exempt his tyrant from the dagger which he plunges in his own bosom ; content 
with being thus able to put an end to his own misery, and at the same time to disappoint 
liis greedy master of the profits arising from the sweat of his brow. A female slave, who 
had been just bought at a high price, and rather prematurely treated with severity by her 
mistress, who lived in the Roode-zand district, hanged herself the same night out of re- 
venge and despair, just at the entrance of her new mistress's bedchamber. A young man 
and woman who were slaves at the Cape, and were passionately fond of each other, soli- 
cited their master, in conformity with the established custom, for his consent to their 
being united in wedlock, though all in vain, as from some whim or caprice he was in- 
duced absolutely to forbid it. The consequence was, that the lover was seized with a sin- 
gular fit of despair ; and having first plunged a dagger into the heart of the object of his 
dearest wishes, immediately afterwards put an end to his own life. But how many hun- 
dred Instances, not less dreadful than these, might be produced to this purpose.'* 

" How indeed can it be wondered at, that hatred and revenge on the 
part of the slave, and suspicion and dislike on the part of the master, 
should be so generally the result of this unnatural relationship. And 
amidst the continual eflfervescence of such feelings, is it surprising that 
instances of masters flogging their slaves to death, of shooting them in 
a passion, or cases of still more cool-blooded and revolting atrocity, 
should occasionally occur ? Or is it surprising, on the other hand, that 
desperate risings of the slaves to murder their masters, and their far 
more frequent attempts to destroy them secretly by poison, should be 
equally familiar at the Cape as in other slave colonies ? 

" That such occurrences are sufficiently frequent and familiar at the 
Cape, no one who has lived a few years in the colony will deny. It 
will be sufficient to refer merely to a few recent examples. In 1822, 
Mr. Gebhardt, the son of a country clergyman, was executed for flogging 
to death one of his father's slaves. At that time there were five cases 
of slave murder before the deputy fiscal, all of a more aggravated cha- 
racter than that of this unfortunate young man, though he alone was 
punished capitally. A far more atrocious case occurred a few years 
previously (though from some cause or other not brought to capital 



' Sparrmau's Voyage to the Cape of Good Hope," vol. ii. p. 341. 



293 

conviction) of a monster, who actually roasted one of his slaves alive 
in an oven. In 1824, a young gentleman of my own acquaintance (an 
Englishman) shot one of his slaves in a passion, and was for this crime 
condemned by the court of circuit to one year's imprisonment. 

" In October, 1824, two attempts of slaves to poison their mistresses 
occurred within my own circle of acquaintance. In the same year 
occurred the desperate outrage of a few slaves and Hottentots in the 
Bokkeveld, who being cruelly treated by their masters, and summarily 
flogged by the local magistracy, whenever they went to claim redress, 
at length rose with arms in their hands, and destroyed two or three of 
the colonists ; for which crime several of them were hanged, and others 
condemned to work in irons for life. In the same year, or in the close 
of 1823, a slave woman, in the district of GraafF-Reinett, was convicted 
of having murdered her own child, in order to revenge herself upon her 
mistress, by whom she had been harshly used. I am not aware 
whether or not this unhappy wretch was executed, but I read the evi- 
dence on her trial at the time in the hands of the Deputy Fiscal. 

" The following case occurred in 1822. The daughter of a respect- 
able burgher, residing in GraafF-Reinett, was suspected of having mur- 
dered her illegitimate child, in order to conceal her disgrace. The Land- 
drost. Captain Stockenstrom, (an active and impartial magistrate,) after 
due investigation of the facts, apprehended the girl, together with one 
of the female slaves of the colony, and] an old Hottentot woman who 
assisted at the accouchement. The prisoners were finally transmitted 
to Cape Town to be prosecuted by the Fiscal before the Court of Jus- 
lice. It appeared from the evidence elicited on the trial, that the mo- 
ther had either strangled the infant herself, or forced the slave by threats 
to do so ; and that the slave had afterwards carried away and concealed 
the body. The court condemned the mother of the infant and the 
slave to capital punishment for the murder, and the Hottentot woman 
to twelve months imprisonment. 

" From this sentence, the friends of the white woman appealed; and 
the governor, as judge of the Court of Appeals, reversed the sentence 
in her favour. She was consequently liberated ; re-appeared among 
her acquaintance, as if nothing had occurred, and in a few months was 
married. 

" But what became of the unhappy slave woman, who had been the 
accomplice of her young mistress in the crime ? Who appealed in her 
behalf? Who implored mercy for her? Not her master: he endea- 
voured to impute to her all the guilt, and willingly surrendered her life 
as a ransom for that of his daughter. Not the members of the Court 
of Justice : they had, as they deemed, duly performed their functions, 
and would not interfere beyond them. Not the Court of Appeals : it 
had saved the free woman ; it cared not for the slave. Not the public : 
there is no public voice heard at the Cape. 

"The poor slave remained in jail; and was about to be sacrificed 
alone for a crime, in which (if she assisted at all) it was evident she 
was not the principal, but merely the blind accomplice of her mistress, 
whether from obsequious attachment or from servile fear. At this crisis, 
a friend of humanity— a casual visitor from India, heard of her pitiful 
case with interest and indignation. He visited her in prison, drew up 



294 

a strong statement on the subject, and laid it before the governor. The 
governor, though he had previously passed it over unnoticed, was now 
moved ; and the poor creature was saved. 

"■ I have stated that mothers and children are often separated by being 
sold to different purchasers at the public sales. Examples of this are 
of daily occurrence ; but one or two will sufficiently illustrate this part 
of the subject. 

" Advertisement extracted from the Cape Gazette of Oct. 12, 1822 : — 

" ' To be sold by auction, to the highest bidder, on the IStli instant, by order of the 
board of Orphan Masters, in such condition as will then be specified, the buildings on the 
Loan Place, Brood Kraal, at Berg River, district of Stellenbosch. 

" 'There will also be sold a female slave, named Gandasa, of Mozambique, fifty-four 
yeais old, with her five children ; Saphira, aged thirteen years; Eva, ten ; Gandasa, nine ; 
Jannetje, seven; and Carlo, five; each to be put up separately.' 

" The following account of a scene of this kind, is extracted from the 
letter of a friend of the writer, while travelling in the interior of the 
Colony : — 

" ' Having learned that there was to be a sale of cattle, farm stock, &c. by auction, at a 
Veld-Cornet's in the vicinity, we halted our waggon one daj'^ for the purpose ol procuring 
a fresh Spann of oxen. Among the stock of the farm sold, was a female slave and her 
three children. The two eldest children were girls, the one about thirteen years of age, 
and the other about eleven; the youngest was a boy. The whole family were exhibited 
together, but they were sold separately, and to different purchasers. The farmers exa- 
mined them as if they had been so many head of cattle. While the sale was going on, 
the mother and her children were exhibited on a table, that they might be seen by the 
company, which was very large. There could not have been a finer subject for an able 
painter than this unhappy group. The tears, the anxiety, the anguish of the mother, 
while she met the gaze of the multitude, eyed the different countenances of the bidders, 
or cast a heart-rending look upon the children ; and the simplicity and touching sorrow 
of the poor young ones, while they clung to their distracted parent, wiping their eyes, 
and half concealing their faces, — contrasted with the marked insensibility and jocular 
countenances of the spectators and purchasers, — furnished a striking commentary on the 
miseries of slavery, and its debasing effects upon the hearts of its abettors. While the 
woman was in this distressed situation she was asked " Can j^ou feed sheep!" Her reply 
\yas so indistinct that it escaped me ; but it was probably in the negative, for her pur- 
chaser rejoined in a loud and harsh voice, "Then I will teach you with the sjamboe."* 
The mother and her three children were sold to three separate purchasers ; and they 
were literally torn from each other. How just the remark of Cowper, — 
' There is no flesh in man's obdurate heart — 
It does not feel for man !' 

"The following notices of cases between masters and slaves, are ex- 
tracted from the Annual Lists of trials before the Courts of Justice, and 
its Commissioners, inserted in the Cape Gazette ; and are only a small 
selection out of a multitude of such cases, in Cape Town and its vi- 
cinity, between the years 1817 and 1822. Brief as these notices are, 
they may suffice, without any comment, to exhibit, in a distinct light, 
the degraded condition of men in slavery, (even in its mildest state,) 
and the striking inequality of the Colonial laws and Courts of Justice, 
as they practically affect them and their masters: — 

Masters v. Slaves. Slaves v. Masters. 

" Jacob of Mozambique, slave of W. Ser- " Johannes J. Synders, for the cruel treat- 

vyntyn, for threatening the life of his master, ment of a slave, who was said to have died 

and making resistance against the Veld- in consequence : condemned to six months 

Cornet : condemned to be exposed to pub- imprisonment. 

lie view, made fast by a rope under the " C. Jansen, European servant of J. E. 

gallows ; thereupon to be flogged, branded, Lou w, on a charge of ill-treatment preferred 

and confined on Robben Island (to work in against him by Diedrik and Joseph, slaves 

irons) for life. of said Low: condemned in a penalty of 

" David, of Mozambique, slave of A. Laub- fifty rixdollars (31. iSs.) on behalf of the 

scher, for an armed and violent attack upon poor's box at the Paarl. 

his master: condemned to be hanged; which " G. A. Marais.on a charge of ill-treatment, 

sentence received the sanction of the go- preferred against him by his female slave" 

vernor : Remitted, and returned to said mas- Kaatje : defendant sentenced in a penalty of 

* A whip made of the Rhinoceros' hide. 



295 



Masters v. Slaves. 
tar, with information to prisoner, on his re- 
lease, that it is to his master's Itind interfe- 
rence he owes his Jife, as the law certainly 
demanded tlie forfeit of it. 

[" N. B. Had the slave been hanged, it 
would have been a loss to his master of 
about 2001.] 

" Louis, slave of D. Hugo, for wilfully 
wounding- his master: condemned to be 
hanged. Sentence remitted by the acting 
governor. 

" A pril. Slave of A. de Villiers, on a charge 
of murder : condemned to be hanged at the 
village of Stellenboscli, and his head and 
right hand to be cut off, and exposed to 
public view on a pole. 

" Hendrik, slave of P. S. Tesselaar, on a 
charge of grossly ill-treating his wife, in 
consequence of which she was delivered of 
a dead child : condemned to be exposed to 
public view, with a rope round his neck, 
under the gallows: then scourged and 
branded ; and afterwards to labour in irons, 
■without wages, on the public works at 
Robben Island for life. 

" Jasmyn, slave of Dirk Cloct^, on a charge 
of preferring a false complaint against the 
Xianddrost of Stellenboscli, to His Majesty's 
Fiscal ; condemned to be severely flogged. 

" Asia, slave of Isaac Coetzee, for having 
brought forward a false charge against his 
mistress for ill-treatment of the female slave 
Diana, which was alleged to be the cause of 
her death : condemned to be severely flogged . 

" Saptoe, (a convict slave,) on a charge of 
secretly entering a house, with the presumed 
intention of stealing ; prisoner condemned 
to be flogged, branded, and confined to la- 
bour ten years in irons. 



Slaves V. Masters, 
twenty -five rix-dollars, and severely repri- 
manded. 

" A. P. Zeeman and his wife, on a charge 
of serious ill-treatment, preferred against 
them by their female slave Theresa : by sen- 
tence said slave to be judicially sold, and 
never to come again into possession of de- 
fendants or their relatives. 

" O. C. Mostert, for cruel treatinent of a 
female slave, in consequence of which she 
died L condemned to be banished from this 
colony and its dependencies for twentj'-five 
years. 

" P. J. de Villiers, on a charge of ill-treat- 
ment of his slave April : condemned to a 
confinement of three months in the prison 
of Stellenbosch. Which sentence, however, 
his Excellency the Governor commuted to 
a pecuniary fine. 

" P. S. Bosman, on a charge of ill-treat- 
ment, preferred against him by his slave July. 
The complaint having been proved ground- 
less, the plaintiff condemned to be flogged. 
[This case exhibits the most usual result of 
complaints by slaves against their masters.] 

" D. Blalang, on a charge of excessive ill- 
treatment of one of his slaves, of which his 
death was the consequence. Defendant ac- 
quitted of said charge, and the plaintiff, 
Adam, condemned to be flogged. 

" Johannes Tobias Laubscher, on a charge 
of ill-treatment preferred against him by 
his slaves Stephen, Marthinus, and Solon: 
the first and second plaintiffs sentenced to 
receive each thirty lashes, and the confine- 
ment suffered by the third deemed an ade- 
quate punishment. The defendant was also 
sentenced, for reasons moving the Court, in 
a penalty of thirty rix-dollars. (ll. lOs.) 



" Sucli are a few — a very few specimens of the outrages continually 
recurring on the part either of the oppressor or the oppressed, in a coun- 
try where slavery is said to assume its mildest aspect. Yet, wretched 
as is this state of reciprocal enmity and suspicion, still more deplorable, 
if possible, is the dreadfully demoralizing influence of slavery upon the 
young, alike of the free and the enthralled population. Marriage and 
baptism, systematically discouraged by the masters in general, are rare 
among the slaves. Promiscuous intercourse is common. Illicit con- 
nections with the white rnen are encouraged among the young female, 
slaves — frequently even prescribed by their ' Christian' owners. In; 
Cape Town it is notorious as noon-day, that the rearing and educating 
of handsome female slaves, as objects of licentious traffic with the Eu- 
ropean, and especially with the rich Indian residents, is extensively 
practised among slave-holders. If such transactions are now managed 
with some greater regard to outward decorum than formerly, they are 
not on that account the less frequent ; and I feel no hesitation in assert- 
ing, in the face of the authoritative dicta of the ' Quarterly Review,' 
that the practice of this disgraceful traffic is still common in the colony.* 

" While the female slaves are thus bred up to prostitution, the reaction 
of their depravity upon the morals of the white population is equally 
obvious and frightful. Brought up from infancy in collision with a,; 

* " A writer in that Journal, in reviewing a little volume, entitled ' Notes on the Cape 
of Good Hope,' in 1821, endeavours to discredit the author's report of the state of morals, 
and the anecdotes he has given to illustrate the influence of slavery in destroying female 
delicacy. I inoa, however, that that author was correct both in his opinions and facts 
on this point; though I differ from him entirely in his estimate of the comparative hap- 
piness of the slave population.'' 



296 

brutalized race of beings, from whom all enjoyments but those of the 
senses are debarred, what can the youth of either sex learn earliest but 
the knowledge of evil — the language and the lessons of licentiousness ? 
Who that has resided at the Cape can be ignorant of the general and 
premature profligacy of manners among the young men ? Who, indeed, 
but must be sensible that the ruling classes in every slave colony, are 
(and must necessarily be) depraved to an appalling extent by the early 
and uncontrolled indulgence of almost all the worst propensities of our 
nature ?— by sensuality, unfeeling selfishness,* arrogance, rage, revenge ? 
If the African colonists, as a body, are, notwithstanding all this, less 
corrupted than the mass of slave-holders in some other countries, they 
owe it chiefly to the comparatively limited extent of their slave popula- 
tion, and to the early marriages, and simpler and purer manners, of the 
majority of the country inhabitants. I wish not to speak of them harshly. 
There are, I am well convinced, a great number of pious, humane, and 
truly worthy people at the Cape, to whom the above observations do 
not in any respect apply. I am also convinced, that in spite of all 
their defects and disadvantages, the Cape Dutch, regarded as a body 
of men, possess many estimable qualities. If they have acquired many 
of an opposite description, it is because they have been so long doubly 
debased by the curse of slavery, and the deprivation of a good constitu- 
tion of government. Let England remove that unspeakable curse, and 
govern them as she should do, — and then I will venture to say with 
confidence of my fellow Colonists, that there is no moral or intellectual 
excellence, of which they will not speedily be found capable." 

* " The influence of slavery, in hardtining (lie feelings, and in destroying even the most 
powerful of our natural affections, is almost incredible. Such facts as masters selling 
their own children by slave women, are at the Cape far from unfrequent. I shall men- 
tion only one which occurred a few months ago. The wife of an extensive farmer Ca 
person mentioned by Latrobe, and who resides about one hundred miles from Cape Town,) 
died in 1825, when, in conformity with the Dutch law of succession, the conjunct pro- 
perty was bx'ought to a public sale, iii order that the children might receive their respec- 
tive shares. The old woman had exacted a promise from her husband on her death-bed, 
that he would emancipate certain slave-children in the household, and not allow them 
to be sold, because they were known to be the children of one of their own sons, who was 
now settled on a neighbouring estate. The old man, desirous to keep his promise, was 
resolutely opposed Cincredible as it may seem) by his son, the very father of the chil- 
dren in question. The motive for this opposition to the dictates of nature — to his mother's 
dying request — and his father's solemn promise — was sordid avarice. If the children 
were not sold, he would lose his share of their price — of the price of his own flesh and 
blood ! He insisted that they should be produced at the public sale. The law was on his 
side, and the father could not refuse his demand. But the old man's regard to his last 
promise to his deceased wife, and his indignation at his son's inhuman conduct, induced 
him to stand up at the sale, and after mentioning the above details to the wliole assembly, 
to declare his determination to re-purchase the children himself at whatever price, and 
to grant them their freedom, as he had pledged himself to do. The old man's conduct 
was approved of, and no one offered to compete with him in bidding for the children; 
yet the relator of this anecdote, who was present on the occasion, heard neither surprise 
nor indignation expressed at the conduct of the son, nor any censure passed upon him, 
with the exception of a remark made by a Moravian missionary." 

%* We are obliged to defer our promised I'emarks on the population 
of our Colonies on account of the want of some necessary returns. 



London : Printed by Bagster and Thorns, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



London. IS, A Idermanbiiry, Feb, 28, 18S7. 

.21. 

ANTI-SLAVERY 
MONTHLY REPORTER. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
last day of every moath. Copies will be forwarded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons wish- 
ing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the Secretary, 
at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, .?.nd mention the conveyance by 
which they may be most conveniently sent. 



RECENT TRANSACTIONS IN THE SLAVE COLONIES. 

We propose to devote this number of the Reporter to a brief notice of 
some recent proceedings in the Colonies, chiefly those which have arisen 
out of the instructions transmitted during the last year by Earl Bathurst 
to tlie different Governors, on the subject of the reforms to be submitted 
to the Colonial Legislatures. We shall soon, without doulit, have a full 
and official detail of the result of these proceedings laid before the pub- 
lic by His Majesty. In the mean time, it may gratify the eager curi^- 
osity which our readers in all parts of the country feel on the subject, 
to furnish them with a few of our gleanings from the Colonial Journals. 

The following appear to have been the propositions of Lord 
Bathurst : — 

1. The establishment of a protector and guardian of slaves. 

2. The admission of the evidence of slaves in Courts of Justice. 

3. The giving to slaves a power, under certain regulations, of pur- 
chasing their freedom. 

4. The legal institution of- marriage among the slaves. 

5. The suppression of Sunday markets and Sunday labour. 

6. The conferring on slaves a legal right of acquiring, preserving, 
and transmitting property. 

7. The prohibition of the separation of famihes by legal process. 

8. The abolition of the driving-whip ; the regulation and record 
of punishments; and the abolition of female flogging. 

We will not now stop to inquire how far the propositions of Lord 
Bathurst, in the shape in which they were thus transmitted during the 
last year to the Colonies, fall short both of the promises originally held 
out to the public and to Parliament, by His Majesty's Government, 
and even of the model of the Trinidad Order, in which they were first 
embodied. That very important branch of the subject we must reserve 
for a future and separate discussion. We shall confine ourselves, at 



298 PROCEEDINGS IN JAMAlCA.^ — PROTECTOll. 

present, to a statement of the reception which the Colonial authoritiea 
appear to have given to His Majesty's recommendations. 

By most, if not all of the Assemblies, the Bills, founded on those 
recommendations, on being presented, were promptly and unceremo- 
niously rejected. They were rejected on the strange and absurd ground 
that it was an infringement of their constitutional liberties, for tlie 
Ministers of the Crown to propose measures for their deliberation and 
adoption. Even in the Imperial Parliament, where constitutional liberty 
is, at least, as well understood and as justly appreciated as in our Slave 
Colonies, we have never heard such an objection made to any measure, 
or set of measures, presented to the consideration of Parliament. The 
absolute folly and inanity of such an objection furnish a fresh proof of 
the incapacity of these Assemblies for the task of legislation. Who 
■would think of throwing out a bill, for the improvement of our criminal 
code in this country, because it had been prepared in the Cabinet with 
the aid of the law officers of the Crown, and introduced to Parliament 
by His Majesty's Secretary of State ? 

In thus rejecting, however, (without the slightest reserve, and with 
furious tirades about that constitutional liberty which they are daily 
outraging in the persons of others,) the whole of the propositions laid 
before them by His Majesty, the Assemblies appear to have been quite 
sensible, that there was peril in adhering to their former declarations 
against all improvement of their slave code. They accompany their 
rejection of Lord Bathurst's Bills with a resolution to revise their slave 
laws, in the view of introducing such ameliorating changes as might 
be compatible with their own dignity as independent legislators, and 
with the safety of the Colonies. We shall see presently how their pro- 
fessed purpose has been carried into eflPect. We shall select for our 
review the largest of the Colonies. 

JAMAICA. 

1 . The establishment of a protector and guardian of slaves. 

This proposition has been rejected, on the pretence that an adequate 
and much safer substitute already exists in the local magistracy, and 
the vestry of each parish, who now constitute by law a council of protec- 
lion. That is to say, the very persons against whom it is the purpose 
of the crown and parliament to protect the slaves, their owners and 
managers, are designated bv the Assembly of Jamaica as their sole 
protectors. This is like constituting the wolf the guardian and pro= 
tector of the lamb. 

All the colonial legislatures, we believe, have been equally unyielding 
on this point. 

2. The admission of the evidence of slaves in courts of justice. 

The proposition of Lord Bathurst on this "subject was, that all slaves 
of whom any clergyman, or catholic priest, or minister duly licensed, 
should certify that they understood the nature of an oath, should be 
recorded and received as competent witnesses in all courts, civil or 
criminal, with the exception of civil suits ia which the owner was in-- 
terested, and capital charges against /ree persons. 



SLAVE EVIDENCE. 299 

The objections to this last exception are obvious enough, and have 
often been pointed out in this publication, (see especially No. 11, 
p. 136 — 138.) But the proposition of Lord Bathurst, however defec- 
tive, is- a large advance in the progress of improvement, when con- 
trasted with the provisions which the Jamaica Assembly have adopted 
on this subject; and which, whatever be the intention of the framers, 
it is obvious, in practice must operate very inefficiently. 

In the first place, the testimony of slaves is to be admitted only in 
criminal cases; nor can it be received at all without a certificate of 
baptism. But no measure is adopted for keeping a record of those 
who are thus certificated, and the certificate must always be ready to 
be produced at the time of trial. 

The certificate being produced, the justice, or the coroner, or the 
court, is, by an examination of the slave, to ascertain, to the satisfac- 
tion of the said justice, coroner, or court, that he is so far instructed 
in religious knowledge as to comprehend the nature and obligations 
^f an oath ; such justice, &c. being, of course, empowered to de- 
termine whether he shall be received as a witness or not. And 
this process of examination and decision is to be only preliminary to, 
and independent of all those objections to competency which might be 
legally raised in the case of free persons. And after these obstacles 
are surmounted, no white or free person shall be convicted on the tes- 
timony of slaves, unless two slaves at least, clearly and consistently 
with each other, depose of the same fact or circumstance, such slaves 
being examined apart and out of the hearing of each other. Nor can 
any free person be convicted on the testimony of slaves, if not prose- 
cuted within twelve months after the crime has been committed. Ano- 
ther clause provides, that in order to remove all temptation to perjury, 
on the part of a slave required to give evidence, the court, in case of 
the owner being convicted on such evidence, shall not have a power to 
declare such slave free. 

Such is the new law of Jamaica, (the result of much prolonged dis- 
cussion, and of many high-raised expectations,) on the subject of the 
admissibility of slave evidence. And although, in one respect, it goes 
beyond Lord Bathurst's instructions, in not excepting capital cases, 
it must nevertheless prove very inoperative. Slaves are excluded 
entirely from giving evidence in civil suits. The individual slave, 
even in criminal cases, is never to be endowed with a legal compe- 
tency. On each fresh occasion of his being called to give evidence, he 
is to be cjuestioned anew, not as to any bias he may have with re- 
spect to the particular cause in band, but as to his religious know- 
ledge. He is to undergo a fresh inquisition on this subject on each new 
trial, and to be admitted or rejected without a reference to any previous 
admission, according to the varying judgment of each, new inquirer. 
What a door is here opened for every species of injustice, for the ope- 
ration of ignorance and caprice, and even of favour to the accused I 
And then the degree and soundness of the poor slave's religious know- 
ledge are to be appreciated, not by his pastor or teacher, whose atten- 
tion has been particularly directed to his intellectual and moral state, 
but by one or more Planters, men distinguished, as we all know, by 



300 POWER OF PURCHASING FREEDOM. 

tlieir moral tastes and theological discernment. Mark, too, the extreme 
harshness of that provision (a kind of parting blow at the slaves) which 
actually shuts out, from the discretion of the Court, llie question of eman- 
cipating a maimed and dismembered slave from the power of a master 
convicted of maiming or dismembering him, merely because the sluve, 
in exhibiting his mangled body, may have also borne conclusive testi- 
mony against his ruffian owner. 

Such appears to be the law of slave evidence which has at length 
^been enacted by the legislature of Jamaica.* 

3. The giving to slaves a -power ujider certain regulations of pur- 
chasing their freedom. 

This proposition is absolutely and entirely rejected in Jamaica, and, 
we believe, in all the other Colonies having legislatures of their own. 
The unbending resistance with which this fair, moderate, and reason- 
able proposition has been met by them all is a decisive proof cf the 
utter hopelessness of the willing adoption, by the Colonists, of any mea- 
sure which lends, however remotely, to the extinction of Slavery. It is 
impossible to conceive any measure leading to that end which would be 
attended with less possibility of any private loss or public inconvenience 
than that which makes manumission the effect of the steady industry of 
the slave. The experience of the Spanish Colonies has proved its per- 
fect safety ; while the provision which secures to the owner the full 
value of his slave takes away the very slightest ground of complaint on 
the score of uncompensated reform. And yet this is a measure to 
which an uniform and unqualified and most determined resistance has 
been made in all the Colonies. The Colonies, therefore, are here 
brought into direct conflict with his Majesty's Government. Lord 
Bathurst has pressed the measure upon them in the very strongest 
terms. " No system of measures," he observes, '' will satisfy the feel- 
ings of this country or execute the purposes of the House of Commons, 
which does not contain some direct provision, some acting principle, by 
which the termination of Slavery may be gradually accomplished." The 
giving to the slave the right of purchasing his freedom, his Lordship 
declares to be " a vital part of the question" which " cannot be dis- 
pensed with." H:s Majesty's Government, he tells the Colonists, 
*' stand pledged to take such measures as may ultimately, though gra- 
dually, work out the freedom of the slaves ;" and they may be assured 
" that, from the final accomplishment of that object this country will 

* 111 one of the clauses a provision is introduced for ensuring the attendance, 
in certain cases, of slave witnesses, by confining them in jail. While so confined, 
the slave is to be allowed one shilling- and eightpence a dayfov his maintenance. 
We call the attention of our readers to this circumstance, because it forms a 
curious contrast to the allowance provided by the consolidated Slave Law of 
Jamaica for the msiintenance of working slaves, namely, three shillings and 
fourpence a iveek ; being, as it were, their board wages in lieu of provision 
grounds and time to cultivate them. Now, at the rate of the jail allowance, 
this ought to be eleven shillings and eightpence instead of three shillings and 
fourpence. Ou the other hand, if one shilling and eightpence per day be not 
an excessive allowance, (and why should we presume that it is?) how very 
Scanty must the allowance of three shillings and fourpence per week be to a 
xvorking slave ! 



POWER OF PURCHASING FREEDOM. 301 

not be diverted." So decided is hii Lordship on this point, that lie as- 
sures the local authorities of Demerara, that if they should persist in 
declining to admit the proposed regulations respecting manumission, 
he shall have no other alternative than that of " submitting to his Ma- 
jesty the expediency ot enacting them by direct Royal authority." 

The contumacious resistance of Demerara, which called forth these 
observations, having been followed by all the Colonial legislatures 
without exception, there seems now to be no alternative but that of either 
yielding to the waywardness of the Colonists, and abandoning a mea- 
sure, the forlorn hope of humanity, to which the Government is so 
deeply pledged; or of " submitting to Parliament the expediency " of 
giving effect by a positive enactment to its own declared but contemned 
wishes. 

The absurd and exUavagant language which the colonists employ in 
justifying their opposition to this measure, is evidently dictated by 
mere prejudice and passion, and not by reason or sober calculation. 
" Compulsory manumission," say the legislators of Barbadoes, "is a 
direct invasion oC the right of property," nay, "absolutely destructive 
of that right, by investing slaves with the power at their own will, and 
against the will of their masters, of purchasing their freedom. If 
this were once admitted, there would be an end of all security to 
mortgagees and others ; " — as if the fair value of a slave in money were 
not a better security than the slave himself; — "Any attempt at com- 
pensation would only prove delusive." " Unless, therefore, it is in- 
tended to ruin the colonies, and to convert every plantation into a 
poorhouse, the plan of compulsory manumission must be abandoned," 
This blind and infatuated obstinacy, on the part of the colonists, we 
trust may lead Parliament to consider seriously the basis on which the 
whole system denominated Negro Slavery rests; and when they find it, 
as they must find it, to be bottomed in wrong and robbery, to be from 
first to last an outrage on every principle of justice, as well as a vio- 
lation of every principle of constitutional law, that they will determine 
to abate the nuisance by means far more prompt and effectual than had 
previously been contemplated. The colonists ought to remember that 
the question lies between them, a handful of planters, and 800,000 of 
our fellow-subjects, equally with them claiming our sympathy, and 
equally with them entitled to the protection of constitutional law, and 
to the privileges and immunities which appertain of right to every liege- 
man of the British crown. It is vain for them to think of long retain- 
ing their present monstrous usurpation over so large a portion of their 
fellow-creatures and fellow-subjects; and if, like Pharaoh, they harden 
their hearts against the claims of justice and mercy, and set even the 
commands of God at defiance ; — if they will reject all rational expedi- 
ents for putting an end to the evil, and " will not let the people go," 
even when their price is paid ; — what is to be expected but some such 
calamity, the operation of a mighty hand and outstretched arm, as, in 
the case of that tyrant, effected the emancipation of his bondmen by 
means which not only could not he control or resist, but which over- 
whelmed himself in a fearful destruction? It seems, ho\vever, as if they 
would take no warning either from ancient or modern history ; either from 



302 LEGALIZING MARRIAGES. 

Egypt, or from Hayti ; and as if they would, like Pharaoh, harden their 
hearts still more, until the consummation of their present resistance 
is rendered as fatal as was the termination of that oppressor's contest 
with Moses. 

4. The legalizing of the Marriage of Slaves. — A clause has been 
introduced into the Jamaica Act, requiring and authorizing any clergy- 
man only, (and not other ministers as in Lord Bathurst's draft) to 
solemnize the marriage of slaves who have been baptized, and who pro- 
duce (he permission of the owner in writing. If an owner refuses his 
consent, the slaves desirous of intermarrying may, if they both belong 
to the same owner, but not otherwise, appeal to the vestry, who are 
required to inquire into the cause of refusal, and decide whether such 
marriage shall take place or not. This law, without doubt, may enable 
slaves, belonging to the same owner, to intermarry ; but it makes no 
provision for slaves desirous of intermarrying, who belong to different 
owners. And as a considerable number of slaves in Jamaica already 
have wives, or at least reputed wives and children, on neighbouring 
estates belonging to different owners, the effect must be that such 
unions will not be legalized, however long they may have lasted. In- 
deed, it cannot strictly be said that any marriages of slaves are legalized 
by the mere permission or authority given to the clergyman to perform 
the marriage ceremony. Lord Bathurst seems to have thought so, for he 
had introduced a proviso into his draft, that all marriages of slaves, per- 
formed according to the rules laid down, should be declared legal and 
valid. The Jamaica Assembly, on bringing in the bill, omitted this pro- 
viso, and it does not appear whether the defect was afterwards supplied. 
But if not, it will be doubtful whether any connubial rights whatever 
are conferred on the parties, by the mere ■permissioji of the marriage 
ceremony. Besides this, the plan of referring cases of slave marriage, 
not to a Protector, as Lord Bathurst proposes, but to an assembly 
constituted as is a Jamaica parish vestry, is throwing such ridicule 
on the whole affair, and interposing such obstacles, as would render an 
appeal of this kind not only undesirable, but almost hopeless as to its 
result, and would also discourage slaves from making it. Some idea 
may be formed of the scenes likely to occur, on the occasion of such 
appeals, from the levity displayed, in the Assembly itself, on the dis- 
cussion of this subject. 

Lord Bathurst required that a record should be kept of the marriages 
of slaves ; and indeed, without such a record, the ceremony of mar- 
riage must be of little value. The Assembly of Jamaica have omitted 
this provision also ; an indication that the real object which they had in 
passing this law, was not to give a legal validity to marriage, but to 
ftirnish their friends at home with an argument in their favour, drawn 
from their apparent, but delusive compliance." 

5. The prohibition of Sunday markets and Sunday labour. 

No notice is taken of the subject of Sunday labour. A feeble 
attempt at compliance on the subject of Sunday markets is made by a 
clause which limits them to the hour of ten o'clock. But such a 



SUNDAY MARKETS AND LABOUR 303 

Jimitation is obviously wholly impossible, while slaves have no other 
day allotted to them by law, in lieu of Sunday, for their marketing's ; 
and for the other uses to which the Sunday is at present necessarily 
applied. The law, as it now stands, would be too oppressive to be 
enforced ; and therefore, we presume, it was enacted in its present 
form. It is necessarily, therefore, extinct before its operation com- 
mences, and must be felt to be so by every man in Jamaica. That slaves 
should travel with their heavy loads ten, fifteen, twenty miles to market, 
effect their sales, and make their purchases, by ten in the morning, 
is too absurd to be thought of, and if the law were enforced, would be 
one of the most severe and oppressive enactments in the Jamaica 
statute book. But it cannot be enforced, while Sunday continues to 
be desecrated as the only day fixed for the purposes of universal traffic, 
-among the slaves of the Island. It will not do to say that markets 
may be held on another day, unless that day is given to the slave as 
Sunday is now given to him, for the purpose of marketing. It was 
one of Mr. Canning's most distinct awd unambiguous pledges, to Par- 
liament and the public, that Sunday markets and Sunday labour 
should be abolished, and equivalent time in lieu of the Sunday be 
given to the slave. And the equity of this proceeding, even if we 
admit that Slavery, as an institution, may lawfully exist, is so manifest 
at first sight, that one stands astonished at the obstinate resistance 
almost every where made to its adoption. Lord Bathurst has stated 
the case with a clearness and force which are irresistible, even on "West 
Indian principles. 

" The master," His Lordship says, " is entitled to the labour of the 
slave for six days in the week, but he is not eirtitled to more ; and out 
of the profits of the six days' labour the slave must be supported. 
The seventh must belong to the slave entirely for his own profit and 
advantage. I can perceive no difference in principle between the 
practice of purchasing food for negroes, who are exclusively employed 
for six days in the service of their masters, for their support during the 
whole week ; and of appropriating an adequate portion of time, during 
the six days, for the cultivation of their grounds." The master, there- 
fore '* can have no possible claim for the service of his slave on the 
Sunday, whether those services be for the execution of work exclusively 
to be performed for himself; or for the cultivation of provision grounds, 
by the produce of which he is to be relieved from the support of his 
slaves. Nor can he be considered as entitled to compensation for that 
day, which he may permit his slave to appropriate duri?ig the six work- 
ing days : for he makes this arrangement to supersede the necessity of 
purchasing provisions for his slaves." Thus "The master is not de- 
prived of the service of his slave on any day except Sunday ; and it is ' 
to be hoped, that no christian master will so far forget himself, as to 
claim indemnity for that which his religion must have taught him he 
ought never to requi.re." 

To this hour, however, this able and unanswerable reasoning of 
Lord Bathurst has remained without its due effect in any one of the 
Colonies ; and in all but one it has hitherto had no effect at all. In 
none of them is one of the six working days given in lieu of that Sun- 



304 RIGHT OF PROPERTY — SEPARATION OF FAMILIES. 

day, which has hitherto been appropriated to marketing and to raising 
provisions for the slaves' subsistence. And yet abolitionists are charged 
with precipitation and unreasonable violence, when they complain of 
the slow progress of Colonial Reform. 

6. Granting to the slaves a legal right of property , and establishing 
banks for their savings. 

The regulations proposed by Lord Bathurst on this subject are sub- 
stantially the same with those which form a part of the Trinidad Order 
in Council; and the rights which they convey to the slaves, are pro- 
bably as large and as well secured, supposing slave evidence in civil cases 
to be admitted, as the untractable nature of slavery will permit. 

In the place of these regulations the Assembly of Jamaica have framed 
a clause which mentions, it is true, the property of slaves, but leaves 
out all the effective provisions for the security of that property which are 
contained in the Trinidad Order. The preamble is sufficiently imposing 
— " And whereas, hy the usage of thi<i Island, slaves have always been 
"permitted to possess personal property, free from the control or inter- 
ference of their owners ; and it is expedient that such laudable custom 
should be established by law, be it flierefore enacted, &c." And what is 
the enactment which follows 1 It is not that their right of property shall 
be established by law, but that any owner or other person taking from 
a slave any property, of which the slave is lawfully possessed, shall 
forfeit and pay ten pounds, over and above the value of such property, 
if the fact is proved before three justices of the peace. It is not even 
shewn what it is for a slave to be latofully possessed of property, or 
how he is to prove this preliminary condition. No means of suit are 
given him in the case of debt, or bequest; and, indeed, being debarred 
from giving evidence in any civil cause, to grant him a power of civil 
suit might seem an anomaly. And in the absence of this power, no 
one is appointed to sue on his behalf. There is no Protector to 
take up his cause. The very laivfulness of his possession of property 
is made to stand on some vague reference to the usage of the Island ; 
and even this indirect and ambiguous sanction is confined to personal 
property ; while no Savings' Banks are instituted where security may be 
given to what he may acquire. The robbing him of his property, how- 
ever valuable, is not made a larceny, or a felony, as the case may be, 
but a,-matter to be settled by a penalty of ten pounds, on the decision 
of three justices ; but no mode is pointed out of enabhng him to apply 
to them. In short, the clause is a mere apology for refusing to admit 
the proposition of Lord Bathurst on the subject, and the slave is left 
precisely in the same helpless and unprotected state, as to all essential 
rights of property, in which he was before the act was framed. 

7. Prohibiting the separation of families by sale. 

Lord Bathurst's requisition on this point is extremely moderate, far 
too much so to serve any substantial purpose of amelioration. He pro- 
poses that no slave having a husband, or v/ife, or child under a certain 
age; or reputed husband, or wife, or child, the property of the same 
owner, shall be levied on, or sold by legal process, unless together in 



MODIFICATION OF PUNISHMENT. 305 

one lot, and to the same purchaser. The obvious defect of this pro- 
vision is, that it is limited to slaves sold by legal process, and does not 
extend to voluntary sales by the master ; and that it excludes from its 
operation slaves married, but belonging to different owners. The 
Jamaica Assembly seemed at first sight inclined to go beyond this limi- 
tation, for it vpas proposed " that it shall not be lawful in cases of 
sale " (making no distinction between voluntary sale by the master, and 
sale by legal process) " to separate married people from each other, or 
their legitimate issue,* if under ten years of age, provided the parties 
belong to the same owner; and it shall not be lawful for any collecting 
constable, the Provost Marshal, or any of his deputies, to levy upon, or 
sell them separately." This clause, however, was rejected ; and the 
only provision that appears to have been made on the subject, is to ren- 
der more precise the old law of the 8th of George the 2nd., by which, 
when slaves are levied upon in execution, if mothers and children un- 
der ten years of age are seized together, they shall also be sold to- 
gether. Some of the arguments employed in discussing this question, 
will throw light on the state of feeling, among even the higher 
classes in Jamaica. Mr. Brown said it would be very hard upon a 
man who owed a small sum of £50., to have a whole famMy sold by 
the marshal. (The hardship inflicted on the slave is made no account 
of.) — Mr. Batty proposed that families should not be separated by vo- 
luntary sale. — Mr. Hilton objected to this, (and his opinion prevailed,) 
that it would be violating the rights of property to dictate to the master 
how he should dispose of it : he had a right to sell one, or more, of 
his slaves, according to his wants and inclinations, in the same way as 
he had to dispose of any other property. The proposed clause he con- 
sidered as an invasion of property. — Others argued that such an enact- 
ment would be hard on the slaves, as well as on the masters. One 
slave of a family might become dissatisfied with his master and wish to 
be sold ; one might prefer a town life, another a country life ; one 
might be a notorious rascal whom it was the desire of the rest of his 
family to get rid of. Such are the reasons which avail in Jamaica to 
perpetuate one of the worst evils of Slavery ! 

8. The abolition of the driving-whip and of the flogging of women, 
and the rnodification of punishment. 

It was not even proposed that driving in the field, or the flogging of 
females, should be abolished, but merely that the cat should be sub- 
stituted for the cart-whip, both to coerce labour and to inflict punishment ; 
and that, in the whipping of women, there should be no indecent ex- 
posure. Both these propositions however were rejected. If we adopt 
such an innovation, said Mr. Hilton, on the established usages of the 
Colony, now that the Duke of Manchester is about to leave the Island, 
the slaves will imagine that our conduct has been disapproved of by the 
King, and that we have been compelled to relinquish the whip, and 
with it every means of punishment and restraint. I disapprove of the 
law prohibiting the indecent exposure of women, because it is un- 

* How many legitimate cliildren of slaves are there io Jamaica ? 



DRIVING. _TH£ CAIIT-WHIP. 

necessary, and implies that we allow them to be indecently exposed. 
But the females require punishment, at least as often as the men. 
Flogging with the cat is an inhuman punishment, as practised in the 
army. God forbid that we should have recourse to it. — Mr. Mais de- 
clared, that the slaves preferred the cart-whip to every other instrument 
of punishment, as being more manly; switches, &c. being only fit for 
children. — Others confirmed the fact of the preference of the cart-whip 
to switches; but it was evident from the details that the real cause of the 
preference was, that the law affixed a limit to the number of lashes in- 
flicted with a cart-whip, namely, thirty-nine ; and that switches were 
administered without any such reserve. Now it may be possible that 
500, or 200, or even 150 strokes of the prickly ebony, the switch gene- 
rally used in flogging slaves, may draw more blood, and lacerate the 
flesh more, and cause severer suffering than thirty-nine lashes of the cart- 
whip ; and also that from the noiseless infliction of the former, much 
more lengthened flagellations may be given than in the case of the cart- 
whip which conveys the report of every stroke to the adjacent plantations, 
and to the traveller as he passes along the road. But what does all 
this say for the system ; a system which continues to place in the 
hands of individuals, many of them of the lowest description, this tre- 
mendous power of punishment? Think what would be the condition of 
the peasantry of this country if debates in our legislature were to turn on 
the question. Whether every farmer in the land should have the power 
of inflicting, on the naked posteriors of his labourers, whether male or 
female, either the lacerations of the cart-whip, or the sharp prickings 
of the ebony bush ? 

A speech of Mr. Barrel's embodies the arguments on the other side 
of the question. He observed that it was no reason for refusing to 
abolish the cart-whip that its abolition had been recommended by 
Government. That was no reason for rejecting a measure beneficial in 
itself. — " But I do deny that his Majesty's ministers alone, or that our 
countrymen in Great Britain alone, view the cart-whip as a base, cruel, 
debasing instrument of torture. Every person of humanity in the 
colony, every being whose heart is not callous, pants for the abolition 
of this detestable mode of punishment. You are told, that to abolish 
the use of the cart-whip is an innovation. It is indeed an innovation, 
so was the abolition of the rack and the thumb-screw, and such like 
instruments, the fellows of the cart-whip. But I have yet to learn 
that these innovations have undermined the civil institutions of Europe. 
I do not hesitate to say, I do not hesitate to declare to all who hear me, 
that the cart-whip is a horrible, detestable instrument, when used for the 
punishment and torture of slaves. I do say that 39 lashes with this 
horrid instrument can be made more grievous than 500 lashes with a 
cat. Honourable members may raise a clamour against me, but they 
will do so in vain. They are afraid to hear "the truth respecting this 
odious, this horrid, this detestable instrument. Clamour shall not put 
me down. The time, I hope, is not far distant when the cart-whip 
will be abohshed even as an emblem of authority. On my own estate 
I have entirely abolished it, and also the cat. I do not even allow the 
mfliction of the cart-whip on the cattle of my property, so abhorrent 



CART-WHiP FLOGGING OF FEMALES. 307 

is the instrument to me as an engine of cruelty. Honourable gentle- 
men contend that the cart-whip is an instrument of punishment less 
severe than the cat. I shall not determine how many stripes of the 
latter are equal to one of the former, but 1 will put the question thus, 
Whether a given number of lashes by the cart-whip are not more severe 
and more lacerating than the same number by the cat ? You say, a greater 
number of stripes are inflicted by tliecat inlhe army than are allowed to 
be given by the cart-whip. But how are the former inflicted? Not at 
the caprice, at the will, at the passion or rage of an individual, but 
after a solemn trial by a Court-Martial, where the offender's superiors, 
unbiassed, unprejudiced, and with calmness, deliberate upon the charge 
brought against him." He might have added that their sentence is also 
subject to the review of their superiors. " But the punishment of the 
cart-whip is inflicted at the pleasure of an individual, at his sole com- 
mand, as caprice or passion dictates. Sometimes one slave inflicts it 
at his discretion upon another slave. Sometimes it is ordered by the 
book-keeper or overseer, or proprietor of the lowest order, men too 
frequently most unfit to apportion punishment. To me, the predicted 
danger from abolishing the cart-whip seems totally imaginary. Its use 
has been abolished in many places, and having been accustomed to 
witness its spontaneous abolition in many places, there can be no 
fear, when the measure is made general, and passes into a law, that 
ihey will mistake our lenity, or suppose it was forced upon us." 

The clause for substituting the cat for the cart-whip, was negatived 
by a majority of 28 to 12, as was that for prohibiting the indecent ex- 
posure of women. 

A limitation of punishment, at the discretion of individuals, appears 
to have taken place in Jamaica. They are said to be pjohibited from 
giving more than twenty lashes at a time, or from confining a slave 
more than ten days in the workhouse, without the authority of a 
magistrate. 

The prohibition of the driving whip, and the flogging of females, 
and the record of punishments, have been rejected, not only by Ja- 
maica, but by Barbadoes and the Bahamas. " To forbid," says the 
Assembly of Barbadoes, " by legislative enactment, the flogging of 
female slaves, would be productive of the most injurious conse- 
quences." In the case, for instance, of domestic females, they argue; 
that it is quite apparent how objectionable it would be to forbid their 
being flogged. As for the driving whip, they consider it to be inse- 
parable from slavery. " The recording of punishment by whipping," 
they add, " being consequent on limiting it to a given number of lashes, 
and the Assembly being of opinion that in the hands of a relentless 
executioner, a given number of stripes may, under the sanction of the 
law, be so inflicted as to amount to an act of cruelty" — the Assembly 
seem to have thought, that the ends of humanity would be best an- 
swered, by leaving every man to give as many lashes as he pleased, 
and by not requiring him to record them; but to refer it to the Justices, 
on a complaint being made, to determine whether cruelty had been . 
committed or not. 

This is a view of the subject, altogether worthy of the Assembly of 



Sd8 NEW CLAUSES— PEOPLE OF COLOUR. 

Barbadoes ! It is a view, however, from which it is but just to say, that 

the Council of that Island have dissented. They passed a Bill for effecting 

the very objects which the Assembly think so unnecessary, but it was 

rejected in the lower house. 

The case in Jamaica was similar; and the Council there, desirous 

of deliverino- themselves from the discredit of having: concurred with the 

• • • 

Assembly in rejecting so many measures of amelioration, presented an 

address to the Duke of Manchester, at the close of the session, excul- 
pating themselves from being parties to that rejection, saying, that 
they had proposed a variety of amendments, to which the Assembly 
had disagreed. The Duke nevertheless lauds the Assembly. 

In the new slave law of Jamaica, in addition to the changes already 
noticed, is a clause for obliging owners, who manumize old or infirm 
slaves, to provide for them, by allowing them ten pounds a year. — The 
law for punishing cruelty, has also undergone some modification ; and 
to brand a slave is now, for the first time, subjected to a penalty not 
exceeding £100, (£70 sterling,) or a year's imprisonment. In other 
respects the new law does not differ substantially from the old, of 
which it retains with some slight change, we are sorry to say, the fol- 
lowing unjust provision — " and if it shall appear to the Council of Pro- 
tection that the complaint of the slave is frivolous or unfounded, it shall 
be lawful for them to dismiss the complaint, and to direct such slave to 
be delivered over to his master ; or to direct such punishment, by con- 
finement to hard labour, or whipping, or both, as to them may seem 
proper." — It is still made a capital crime in a slave to compass or ima- 
gine the death of a white person. This is indeed giving to each white 
the attributes of a despot. 

Some improvements are also introduced into the mode of conducting 
the trial of slaves, but we think it a monstrous provision which excepts, 
from the necessity of referring to the Governor all cases of capital pu- 
nishment for his revision prior to the execution of the sentence, the 
cases of rebellion and rebellious conspiracy ; the very cases, of all others, 
which the ends of justice require should be most calmly and dispas- 
sionately investigated. 

Two petitions having been presented from a few white persons in 
each of the two parishes of St. James's and St. Elizabeth's, in favour of 
the people of colour, an attempt was made, by one of the members 
of the Assembly, to obtain for them some extension of civil and political 
privileges, particularly the elective franchise, which it was proposed to 
confer only on such as should possess freeholds of the value of £100 
a year, (the qualification of a white being £10 a year); and also the 
power of saving deficiencies for estates belonging to whites, on which 
persons of colour serving in the militia might be engaged as book- 
keepers or overseers. The attempt however met with no support. The 
only point gained for them has been the repeal of an act of the 10th of 
Queen Anne, making it penal to employ a free black, an Indian, a per- 
son of colour, or a Jew, in any public oflSce. The heavy fees also 
which it had been customary to exact from those who, by private 
legislative acts, were raised to the privileges of the white class, have 
been abolished. 



BARCLAY, &C HAYTIAN PROCLAMATION. 309 

In former sessions, the House of Assembly signalized their liberality 
by their largesses to their advocates, the Editors of the John Bull, and 
the Glasgow Courier. Their late session produced a resolution of a 
similar kind, directing their agent, Mr. Hibbert, to circulate gratuitously, 
in such manner as he may consider most beneficial to the colonies, a 
thousand copies of " A practical view of die present state of slavery in 
the West Indies, by Alexander Barclay;" and of a pamphlet by 
A. H. Beaumont, entitled " Compensation to Slave Owners, fairly con- 
sidered in an appeal to the common sense of the People of England:" 
— two works which, whatever claims they may possess to the favour of 
this illustrious body, have certainly none to the public confidence on 
the ground of their fairness or truth. 

Another instruction given to their agent is still less creditable to their 
sagacity and ingenuousness. On the I4th of October, 1826, there ap- 
peared in the Royal Gazette of Jamaica, a proclamation pretended to 
be issued in Hayti, by the President Boyer in April or May, 1826; 
which, however, has proved to be a forged and fabricated document. 
It had in substance been issued by Toussaint Louverture in 1799, under 
widely different circumstances ; but it was now vamped up, and in a mu- 
tilated and garbled state palmed upon the public as a proof of the se- 
vere coercion which was requisite to obtain from the population of 
Hayti, in the present day, an adequate measure of industrious exertion. 

On the ninth of November the subject of this proclamation was 
brought before the House of Assembly by Mr. Atkinson. They had all 
seen, he said, a proclamation of the Haytian President, — a document 
which he considered of material assistance at the present period, 
when that house was called upon to adopt a parcel of nonsensical mea- 
sures for the regulation of our slave population, quite incompatible with 
their habits and customs. This proclamation was without date, but its 
contents specified that compulsory labour must be resorted to in the free 
state of Hayti, and this circumstance ought to be made known in En- 
gland. He then commented on the coercive measures resorted to in 
Hayti to enforce agricultural labour. The proclamation, he added, 
had certainly come in an unauthenticated shape, and the house there- 
fore could not treat it as an official document. He had, however, sub- 
sequently obtained a copy of a printed code of laws, dated in April last, 
which was in force there, and which embraced the regulations enter- 
tained in the proclamation.* In this code, it is enacted ihat free per- 
sons, wandering from the plantations on which they and their parents 
had been domiciled, shall, in the first instance, be subject to fine and 
imprisonment, and for a repetition of the offence, to corporal punish- 
ment by the military ; the extent of which, however, was not mentioned. 
Many of the minor regulations, he added, were analagous to the laws 
of Jamaica ; the hours of labour of these free men, being similar to those 
of this Island. — He moved that a copy of this code should be trans- 
mitted to the agent, for publication in England. — The course proposed 
by Mr. Atkinson was objected to by several members, and it was sug- 



* The fact is, as may be seen on an inspection of the two documents, there 
exists no relation whatever between them. 



310 HAYTlAN PliOCLAMATlON. 

gested to him to withdraw his motion, and to lay the documents before 
the Committee of Correspondence. This he accordingly did on the 
following' day, the 10th of November; when the Committee of Corre- 
spondence, apparently without having taken the slightest pains to en- 
quire into the authenticity of these documents, for the slightest pains 
would have at once discovered the utter spuriousness of the proclama- 
tion, did, on that very day, resolve to direct that the documents should 
be forvvarded to the agent, for the purpose of being published in several 
newspapers, both in England and Scotland, and a copy to be furnished 
to every member of the Lords and Commons. 

These orders were, in part, faithfully executed by the agent; and ac- 
cordingly the proclamation, and its attendant extracts from the Code 
Rural, made their appearance, in due time, in the newspapers of England 
and Scotland. Whether they have been transmitted to all the members of 
the Lords and Commons, we know not. That part of the order may have 
been suspended, by a discovery that the proclamation which formed the 
main, indeed the only material feature in the case, was not only spuri- 
ous, but an absolute forgery: Boyer's name having been fraudulently 
affixed to it, by some one of those through whose hands it had passed. 

With respect to the Code Rural, the parties possessing thatdocnment, 
if there be any such document in their possession, have chosen to give 
us only about 15 or 16 clauses out of at least 200, of which it is im- 
plied that the code consists ; so that if it be not, as is most probable, 
as spurious as the proclamation, it is sufficiently garbled and mutilated 
to render this fragment of it an object of grave suspicion. Even of 
these most suspicious extracts from an unproduced document, Mr. At- 
kinson, and the committee of the Jamaica Assembly, grossly misrepre- 
sent the purport. There is not the slightest allusion, in any one of them, 
to corporal punishment, or a single syllable which, fairly construed, im- 
plies more than the regulation of the hours of hired labour, and the re- 
pression of vagrancy — points which are no where more scrupulously 
provided for, than they are by the laws of Great Britain. That such a 
document, supposing it to be real, should be adduced as a proof of com- 
pulsory labour, shews the desperate weakness of the cause it is employ- 
ed to aid ; and that it should be appended to a false and forged docu- 
ment, by the very hands which have given it to the world, is a prima 
facie ground of utter discredit, until information can be obtained from 
some more direct and less polluted source. 

The above details respecting recent proceedings in the West Indies 
are as accurate as we have been able to make them. They are taken 
in every instance from the Colonial journals.* Still some variations, 
either for the better or the worse, may have taken place in the details 
of some of the enactments, by means of minyte and unnoticed amend- 
ments, before their being finally passed into a law ; of these we shall be 
anxious to apprise our readers, when the official documents shall be laid 



* Viz. Royal Gazettes of Jamaica of the 21st of October ; 11th and 25th of 
November ; and 2d, 9th, 16th, and 23d of December ; and the Barbadian of the 
8th of December, 1826, 



THE ORDINANCE FOR BERBICE. 31J 

before Parliament. In the mean time, we have done our best to give a 
faithful abstract of what has been done by the Colonial legislatures 
according to the information actually before us. The accounts from 
the smaller islands furnish no details that can be relied upon. 

There is, however, another branch of the subject which is perhaps 
still more important, namely, what Government have done in those Co- 
lonies where their power of legislating is unfettered by assemblies of 
planters. We say more important, because on the fidelity with which 
Government may have redeemed their own solemn pledges, in cases 
where they have had free scope for action, must mainly rest our hopes 
of such a result as shall satisfy the wishes of the nation, and the claims 
of humanity and justice. We are enabled to form som.e judgment on 
this point by the promulgation of their latest edition of the code of Co- 
lonial Reform; we mean " The Ordinance for promoting the religious 
instruction,* and bettering the state and condition of the slave popula- 
tion in his Majesty's Colony of Berbice," promulgated on the 25th day 
of September; and, to have efiect from the 1st of November, 1826. 

We must confess that we have read some parts of this paper with 
feelings of deep regret. It would have been much more gratifying to us 
on every account to praise than to blame the acts of his Majesty's 
Ministers; but it would be unjustifiable, in a case so deeply affect- 
ing the happiness of hundreds of thousands of our fellow-subjects, 
were we, from feelings of delicacy towards any individuals, however 
respected, to shrink from a frank exposure of the truth. 

We fully admit that the Ordinance which has been promulgated in 
Berbice, by the command of his Majesty, is a great improvement 
on the previous state of the law in that Colony, and thus far, therefore, 
we contemplate it with satisfaction and gratitude. We rejoice when any- 
thing is done even to abate, though in a slight degree, the malignant evils 
of the Slave System, and still more when, as in the present instance, 
much is done. But it is impossible for us to view, without sorrow and 
alarm, tlie progressive deviations which this document exhibits from the 
principles originally propounded, and the pledges originally given, by 
his Majesty's Ministers ; and the progressive concessions which it too 
plainly indicates to some of the worst prejudices, and the most unrea- 
sonable objections, of the Colonists. 

It would seem as if certain individuals had discovered that Mr. 
Canning, in his speech of the 15th of May, 1823, and Lord Bathurst, 
in his dispatches of the 28th of May and the 9th of July of that year, 
(although that speech and those dispatches were unequivocally sanc- 
tioned by the West Indian body in Parliament,) had gone too far; 
and that it therefore had become necessary gradually and cautiously 
to recede from the ground they had hastily and imprudently occupied. 
Accordingly no sooner was the Trinidad Order in Council promulgated 
•than it was found to fall short, of the pledges that had thus been 

* It is remarkable, that the only part of this Ordinance which has a religious 
bearing, is that which legalizes marriage ; while it also legalizes for a time th« 
desecration of the Sunday by markets. 



312 ORDINANCE FOR BERBICE. 

given to Parliament and the country, in some most material respects ; 
while some of the first provisions of that order have been further di- 
luted and weakened by subsequent modifications. The discussions 
with the authorities of Demerara, though occasionally manifesting 
considerable firmness of purpose in the Colonial Department, at least 
as far as this was to be inferred from the language of their dispatches, 
have led to the concession, one by one, of some most importantprinciples. 
And the final result of these previous omissions, modifications, and 
concessions, we have now embodied in the Ordinance for Berbice, which 
falls nearly as far below the Trinidad Order, as the Trinidad order 
fell below the pledges of Mr. Canning, and of the Colonial Department 
itself in May and July, 1823. 

In Number 11, of the Anti-Slavery Reporter* is contained a brief 
exposition of the defects of the Trinidad Order as compared with the 
pledges previously given by his Majesty's Ministers. The code for 
Berbice contains the defects of the former and some in addition. But 
our present Number having already swelled to an inordinate size we 
must defer, till another opportunity, our intended examination of this 
last ordinance. In the meantime it is very important that the Friends 
of our cause', both in and out of Parliament, should be aware that 
there exist objections, and strong objections too, to various particulars 
contained in it. 

Nor is this our opinion only. It is the opinion also of the colonists. 
We have before us at this moment a passage contained in a Trinidad 
Newspaper, which has been transcribed with approbation, and even 
with exultation, into most of the other West Indian journals. We can 
give only a few brief extracts from it. 

*' The Berbice Royal Gazette contains," they say, " the official pro- 
mulgation of the new slave code in that colony. In our next Number 
we shall give our readers an abstract of its contents, distinguishing the 
points in which it differs from the Trinidad order in council. At pre- 
sent, we shall merely state that several very important distinctions have 
been made, particularly under the head of compulsory manumission, 
respecting which the principles of Mr. Wilmot Horton's pamphlet have 
been adopted in their fullest extent." " Many of the most important 
suggestions of the Trinidad Committee, in the appeal which they made 
to Lord Bathurst, though ineffectual in procuring an alteration of their 
own code, have been adopted by His Majesty's Ministers in the Slave 
laws of Demerara and Berbice; a conclusive proof that they are con- 
vinced of their utility and necessity." Royal Gazette of Jamaica, of 
the 23d of December, 1826. p. 5. 

* This Number is, in fact, a transcript of the pamphlet entitled, " The Pro- 
gress of Colonial Reform," sold by Hatchard. 

This, and all other publications of the Society, may be had at their office, 
18, Aldermanbury ; or at Slessrs, Hatchard's, 187, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill, 
They may also be procured, through any bookseller, or at the dep6ts of the Anti- 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 

Lmidon : Baffiter and T/>om.t, 14. Bartholetntw Chse. 



London, 18, Aldermanhurij , March 31, 1827. 

No. 22. 

ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons wish- 
ing to receive a regular supply, are requested to make application to the Secretary, 
at the Society's office, No. IS, Aldermanbury, and mention the conveyance by 
which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be had of all 
booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION .—SUGAR MONOPOLY; EAST 
INDIA TRADE; MANUFACTURING DISTRESS; EFFECTS OF 
MONOPOLY ON PLANTERS AND SLAVES; HAYTI, CODE 
RURAL; OUTRAGE IN JAMAICA; MANCHESTER PETITION, &c. 

In the continued absence of all official information respecting what 
has been passing in our Colonies, on the subject of Reform, we cannot 
better employ the pages of this month's Reporter than in collecting 
together the substance of a variety of papers which have recently 
appeared on several important Colonial questions. And, first, with 
respect to 

THE MONOPOLY ENJOYED BY SLAVE-HOLDERS. 

The West Indians have embodied their arguments in favour of this 
monopoly, in a new periodical work, called " The West Indian 
Reporter," of which two numbers only have appeared. This work, 
evidently instituted to counteract the effect of our Reporter, furnishes 
a satisfactory proof of its efficiency. We will briefly state the argu- 
ments of this new advocate, accompanying them with the substance of 
the answers which those arguments have already received. 

I. The Corn-protecting Duties of this country are a precedent for 
the Protecting Duties on West Indian Produce ; and this Protection 
is still more necessary when the Americans refuse to permit the 
West Indian Islands to be supplied with provisions direct from tha 
country, and subject the Colonists to the heavy additional expense Oj 
obtaiyiing supplies from more distant places. 

Although all monopolies are liable to objection on principle, there is 
still a wide difference between those monopolies which are intended to 
uphold a useful and influential class of men in their proper station, and 
those monopolies which raise individuals above their natural condition, 
and remove them from their true sphere of usefulness. The corn-pro- 
tecting duties are intended to prevent the English land-owner, who can 
grow nothing else but produce for home consumption, from being 
crushed by competition with foreigners in the production, for his own 
home market, of the universal food of the people. These duties are in- 



314 SUGAR MONOPOLY EXAMINED. 

tended, also, by encouraging the home cultivation, to prevent England 
from being too much at the mercy of foreigners, especially in the event 
of a war ; and to retain upon their estates (by enabling them to live at 
home) those country gentlemen, whose absence abroad, from motives of 
economy, would be a public calamity. Whether the corn-protecting 
duties be right or wrong, it is clear that the sugar-protecting duties 
differ fundamentally from them, in all these respects : — The intention 
of the corn-protecting duties is to encourage the home growth by pro- 
tecting the English corn-grower against the foreign corn-grower in the 
home market. The sugar-protecting duties, by encouraging an exclu- 
sive eagerness for sugar cultivation, prevent the West Indian land- 
owners from growing the proper food of the inhabitants, and place 
those islands at the mercy of foreigners, especially in the event of a 
war. The cultivation of provisions for their own consumption, and the 
consequent diminution of sugar cultivation would enable the Colonial 
Proprietors, generally, to live as the inhabitants of the Bahamas or the 
Canadas live, in a moderate manner, conformably to their true condition 
as land-owners in countries purely agricultural ; and would place them, 
according to the different circumstances of the respective localities, on 
the same relative footing with resident English land -owners subsisting 
on the produce of their own estates. By the inducements which the 
sugar-protecting duties hold out to neglect the cultivation of the neces- 
saries of life, for the sake of the sugar-monopoly profits, the West 
Indian Islands are left at the discretion of the Americans, to starve or 
to supply them, as may best suit American policy; and this great poli- 
tical error is committed, in order that a few individuals, in and out of 
Parliament, may, at the expense of the mother country, be encouraged 
in the almost exclusive cultivation of an article for foreign exportation, 
and enjoy the profits of a monopoly, which costs the consumers in Great 
Britain, in the extra price of sugars, from one to two millions annually. 
This false and extravagant policy, instead of operating like the corn- 
protecting duties, and inducing West Indian land-owners to reside 
upon their estates, and promote the happiness of those who depend on 
them, has the reverse effect of enabling many of them to live at the 
distance of thousands of miles from their property ; to cultivate their 
lands by means of an expensive agency; to eclipse, even in England, the 
English land-owner possessing a similar number of -acres, in this great 
commercial, manufacturing, and rich country ; and to become Members 
of the House of Commons ; instead of occupying their proper places in 
the colonial assemblies, where their duty lies. Already the Americans 
boast, that they have the West Indians in their power, and consequently 
under their influence, because the improvident colonists cannot afford 
the expense of procuring the necessaries of life from Europe, and are 
induced not to raise them at home by the folly of England in granting 
bounties and protecting duties on their "export produce ; in other 
words, ill bribing them to run counter to their true interests. The Ame- 
ricans will only supply these colonies on condition of their being placed, 
in the colonial ports, on the same footing as English traders : in other 
words, on condition of the islands becoming American colonies, for all 
purposes excepting the expense of keeping them, which they willingly 



SUGAR MONOPOLY EXAMINED. 315 

leave to England. These are some of the fruits of the protecting duties 
and bounties in favour of West Indian produce. 

II. The Proprietors could no longer afford to ■purchase food for their 
Slaves if they were deprived of the monopoly ; and they would be 
obliged to throw their lands out of cultivation, as they only get a bare 
subsistence with the aid of the monopoly. 

The negroes do not starve in the Bahamas, from whence no sugar is 
exported : they do not starve in Hayti, which enjoys no such protecting 
duties. On the contrary, those are precisely the islands, where the 
negroes prosper and increase. The owners of lands do not throw them 
up in Hayti or in the Bahamas, but live upon them as other land- 
owners, in countries non-exporting and purely agricultural. They do 
not pretend to live in England, or to enjoy luxuries which belong only 
to land-owners in great commercial and manufacturing countries. 

III. The Proprietors must be indemnified for immense sums, expended 

on sugar houses and other buildings. 

They have been indemnified over and over again, by large monopoly 
profits, while their patent was in force ; it has now expired, and they 
must take their chance in fair competition. All that has been laid out 
is the result of monopoly profits already realized. 

IV. 25,000 British seamen are employed in the West Indian trade, and 
230,000 tons of shipping. England derives an annual revenue of 
6,000,000, in the form of duties : and 5,000,000/. value of manufac- 
tured goods are annually sent to the West Indies. 

The same number of seamen and the same tonnage would be requi- 
site, if the sugar were brought from other places ; and the same revenue 
would be collected by Government on the imported sugar. Only from 
three to four millions' value of goods are sent to the West Indies, of 
which a large part goes to South America. The profit on the re- 
mainder bears no proportion to the expense of keeping the islands, 
which amounts to about £1,600,000 annually, to which is to be added 
the loss to the people of England of a further immense sum annually, in 
the extra price created by the monopoly, without which the colonists 
declare that they carwiot afford to cultivate sugar. In other words, it is 
absolutely necessary that we should indemnify them for the annual 
waste of negro life caused by sugar cultivation and the cart-whip, both 
of which may cease, if we cease to support them by monopoly prices. 
The cost of keeping the West Indies, added to the effect of the 
bounties and protecting duties, imposes on this country a burden of not 
less than £3,300,000 annually. (See Note, in the following page.) 

V. Sugar is the staple production of the West Indies, and England 
ought not to transfer the cultivation, and ruin the West Indian colo- 
nies, for the sake of the East Indies. 

Sugar cannot be properly called the staple of a country, which can 
only afford to produce and sell it under the artificial aid of bounties and 
protecting duties. When this happens to a country, it loses its com- 



316 SUGAR MONOPOLY EXAMINED. 

mercial staple, and becomes agricultural for home consumption. This 
transfer would neither ruin the West Indies nor the proprietors, as is 
evident from the instances of the Bahamas and of Hayti, and indeed of 
all countries purely or chiefly agricultural. The only result would be, 
that West Indian land-owners must live upon their estates in a plain 
moderate style, instead of residing in England, and eclipsing the land- 
owners of a great commercial country. Suppose the islands were inde- 
pendent, they could have no staple of sugar, for no country would pay 
the extra price.' 

VI. South America, Mexico, Hayti, and China are not British posses- 
sions, and therefore no reasonable man would wish to destroy the 
trade of British proprietors to transfer it to them. 

If the traders of these countries take British manufactures in 
exchange, it is commercially quite immaterial where they reside, or 
where the goods are brought into use. The articles are paid for, and 
therefore the purchase money is spent in England. If the colonial 
ports are now free to the traders of other countries, the colonial com- 
mercial character is at an end ; and the colonists are not British pro- 
prietors commercially considered, but they are the inhabitants of a 
neutral country, trading to other countries and also to England. More- 
over a sugar trade which can only exist by means of bounties and pro- 
tecting duties, at the expense of the people of Great Britain and Ireland, 
is not a trade, but a contrivance for transferring money, from the pockets 
of the people of England, into those of West Indian proprietors. This 
dexterous transfer, and not the sugar trade, is their boasted staple. It 
is no more than a system of pauperism on a large and most extravagant 
scale.* 

VII. The East Indian Proprietors can exist without the production of 

Sugar ; the West Indian Proprietors cannot. 
The West Indian Proprietors, by demanding protecting duties and 
bounties, sufficiently shew that they do not exist by the production of 
sugar, but by the sums levied on the people of this country, in the 
form of bounties and protecting duties, to uphold their improvident 
speculation. Besides, the question is not between the two classes of pro- 
ducers only ; the consumers in England have an interest in the matter 
deserving of consideration. As well might the people of Malta insist on 
protecting duties to enable them to furnish England with oranges. As 

* The bounty on sugar, which amounts to about three shillings a cwt, (half having beeu 
taken off last year,) draws from the Exchequer, for an export of about 740,000 cwt., the sum of 
about 111,000/. The additional price levied on the public on account of ou- internal consumption, 
•which amounts to about 3,000,000 cwt. is about 450,000/., making together 550,000/. The effect of 
the protecting duty of 10s. against East India, and 36s. against foreign sugar cannot be very accu- 
rately ascertained. If we estimate ic at the low rate of 6s: a cwt. 900,000/. more is thus taken 
out of the pockets of the British consumers, making a grand total of upwards of 1,460,000/. or at the 
average rate of from 800 to QOO/. a year to each slave-holding sugar planter. This sum, indeed, 
is divided among them in very unequal proportions, some of them importing more largely thau 
others; but it may be estimated to yield to the sugar farmer at least eight pounds sterling for 
every ton of sugar he imports. Tliat is to say, the rich and the poor of this country are burdened 
to this enormous e.xtent, not only to supply luxuries to about 1800 sugar farmers, but to enable 
thera, with profit to themselves, to go on wasting the lives of their slaves, at a rate which would 
ultimately unpeople the world. 



SUGAR MONOPOLY EXAMINED. 317 

well might the corn of Yorkshire be excluded from the markets of 
London, lest the farmers of Surrey and Sussex should be thereby obliged 
to sell their corn at a lower rate. 

VIII. The East Indies were not colonized for the purpose of producing 

Sugar : the West Indies were. 

The West Indies were partly colonized with a view to sugar cultiva- 
tion; but that was in order that England might obtain it cheaper, not 
dearer, than from elsewhere. This argument, like all the rest of the 
arguments of the West Indians, proceeds upon the notion that the 
interests of the mother country are altogether undeserving of regard. 
Even the acquisition of the vast empire of the East is to avail England 
nothing, in order that a few owners of land in West Indian Islands, may 
not descend to their proper station as land-owners in countries non- 
exporting and purely agricultural. The idea of colonising, to purchase, 
at a dearer rate, the tropical productions, is quite new. 

IX. West Indian Protecting Duties were imposed because they were 
British Colonies, and cultivated by the aid of British capital : a?id 
also because the West Indians were not allowed to have their wants 
supplied from any other source but the mother country. 

And, is no British capital employed in the East Indies ? Is it not em- 
ployed, and most beneficially employed, in the production of indigo, and 
of every other article which the colonial monopoly allows East Indians to 
raise, or us to consume ? And, even, if it were not so, we must recollect 
that the real ends of beneficial commerce are attained if foreign coun- 
tries take our manufactured goods in exchange for their produce. As 
for the latter objection it does not now apply, as, with some few excep- 
tions, the colonists may obtain their supplies from whence they please. 
On the other hand, when the English land-owner is obliged to sell his 
corn at a minimum of profit, he can only be reinstated by the diminution 
in the price of those other necessaries of life, which he and his tradesmen 
and labourers must purchase. This he has a right to expect. 

X. One argument is employed by the West-Indians against the removal 
of the Bounty and extra duty, which stultifies all the preceding. They 
affirm, that the Bounty does not exist, and that the Protecting Duty 
produces no effect in raising the price of Sugar to the British consumer. 

If, however, the Protecting Duty produces no effect in raising prices, 
why do the West-Indians contend for its continuance ? Does not the 
very struggle they are making to retain it completely disprove their 
allegations on this point, even if the case were not otherwise as clear 
as the sun at noon-day? — As for the Bounty, it is true it has been re- 
duced to one half of its former amount in the last year. But that half 
still remains, and of itself adds somewhat more than 500,00OZ. an- 
nually to the cost of the sugar consumed in this country. This has 
been distinctly admitted in the House of Commons by Mr. Herries, the 
Secretary of the Treasury. Mr. Hibbert, also, the respectable agent of 
Jamaica, himself engaged in the sugar trade for the last fifty years, thus 



318 EAST INDIA TRADE. 

addressed his constituents, the Assembly of that island, in a letter dated 
the 11th of March, 1824: 

" In relation to the alleviation of our commercial distress, it will surprise you, 
perhaps, that when Mr. Hume stated in the House of Commons the subject of 
the reduction of the sugar duty, the members in our interest did not support him. 
This arose from a previous assurance from his Majesty's Ministers that a reduc- 
tion of the sugar duty could not possibly take place, without at once depriving 
U3 of all the advantage which we now enjoy, in the principle and produce of 
calculating the drawback upon the export of refined sugars, which, taken alto- 
gether, is little, if at all short of a gratuitous bounty of six shillings per hundred 
iveight : and without also denying us all that they were ready to concede, in 
regard both to the duty on rum, and to the regulations under which it is col- 
lected." * 

Since that time the drawback has been lessened by three shillings. 
Of course three shillings remain. This bounty affects the sugars of the 
East, as well as those of the West-Indies. 

EAST-INDIA TRADE. 

It may here, however, be of use to shew what are the probable capa- 
bilities of that East-India trade which is thus discouraged ; and what 
are the precise restrictions under which, with a view of favouring our 
slave colonies, it is at present laid, f 

First, as to Restrictions. 
A duty of £10 per ton more (being 50 per cent, on the prime cost,) 

is laid on East than on West India Sugar ; the duty on West being 

£27, on East India, £37 per ton. 
£28 per ton more is laid on East than on West India Coffee ; the duty 

on West being £5Q, on East India £84 per ton. 
£28 per ton more is laid on East than on West India Cocoa ; the duty 

on West being £5Q, on East India, £84 per ton, 
£7 per ton more is laid on East than on West India Turmeric ; the 

duty on West being £3, on East India, £10 per ton. 
lis. 6c?. per gallon more is laid on East than on West India Rum ; the 

duty on West being 8s. Qd. on East India, 20s. per gallon. 
£6 per cent, ad valorem, is laid on East India Cotton Wool, while West 

India is admitted free of duty ; being the same duty as on American 

Cotton ; although America imposes a large duty of 25 to 100 per 

cent, on the import of our manufactures ; while in India the duty 

is only 2J per cent. 
There are also higher duties on other articles, such as Dye-woods, 

Mahogany, Hides, &c. &c. than on similar articles from the West 

Indies. 



* It is remarVable, that though it appears that this matter was fully and clearly understood by 
the West-Indians in 1824 and 1825, yet they contended in the House of Commons, in opposition 
to Mr. Whitmore, that the effect of the bounty was confined to our trifling export of refined sugar, 
and that even on that quantity it amounted only to three shillings per Cwt. 

t We say nothing at present on the monopoly of the China trade, by which not only is the 
price of tea, now one of the necessaries of life, doubled or trebled to the population of this 
country, as compared with its price in the United States, but our traders and manufacturers are 
shut out from any commercial intercourse with three hundred millions of consumers. It is 
perfectly obvious how strongly that question bears on the existing distress throughout the 
United Kingdom. 



EAST INDIA TRADE. 319 

What aggravates the injustice is, that the Mauritius, a small island 
(ceded to us by France), and which is cultivated wholly by slaves, has 
lately been selected as the object of favour, and is the only spot in our 
Eastern empire put upon the footing of the West Indies, with regard to 
import duties ; while the free labour of India is loaded with imposts. 

It would seem as if our hearts were so much wedded to slavery, that 
we se^-ch it out in all parts of the world, as the object, not of repression 
and disfavour, but of countenance, encouragement, and reward. The 
calamitous effects produced by this strange pohcy in the case of the 
Mauritius, we shall have an opportunity hereafter of exposing. 

It is no feeble ^oof of the extension of which our trade with India is 
capable, that, since the partial opening of it with that country in 
1815, the whole amount of exports has been increased from £2,559,000 
in 1815, to £4,800,000 in 1822. And of the immense increase which 
may be expected in our export of manufactured goods, and especially 
of manufactured cottons, if by equalizing the duties on the products of 
India, we permit our manufacturers to lake freely these products in 
exchange, some idea may be formed by the following statement, drawn 
from authentic documents, of the increased export of our cottons to 
India since 1814. 



Tear ending 5th Jan. 


Yards Printed Cotton. 


Yards Plain Cotton. 


Total. 


1815 


604,800 


213,388 


818,188 


1816 


806,064 


489,384 


1,295,448 


1817 


991,144 


714,588 


1,705,732 


1818 


2,848,692 


2,468,004 


5,316,696 


1819 


4,227,664 


4,614,372 


8,842,036 


1820 


3,714,584 


3,414,040 


7,128.624 


1821 


7,602,252 


6,724,032 


14,326,284 


1822 


9,979,844 


9,940,728 


19,920,572 



We regret that we have not access to the means of continuing this 
striking exhibition of our rapidly increasing trade to the present time. 
We cannot doubt, however, that it would prove equally encouraging. 
But what might not this trade become, if all the existing restrictions in 
favour of the slave-holders were removed ; and if it did not continue 
cramped and shackled as it is, for no other purpose than that of 
propping up their vicious, immoral, and, to the country at large, most 
impolitic and injurious system? Such are our unquestionable facilities 
of supplying the hundred millions of our Asiatic subjects with manu- 
factured cottons, in return for their raw produce, that considerable 
quantities even of cotton twist have recently been shipped to India. 
Most justly, therefore, has it been observed in a recent publication, 
that — 

" Nothing connected with the policy of England is more remarkable, than the 
degree of apathy which her people generally appear to experience, with reference 
to the afiairs of the most important of all her dependencies, her Eastern Empire. 
At a moment when the influence of Great Britain is felt and acknowledged over 
the whole continent of India, where an hundred millions of people, directly 
under our own sway, and millions upon millions besides, who dwell under the 
nominal rule of their native princes, look to us as the arbiters of their destiny, 
and the guardians of their happiness ; and when it is avowed, that the loss of 
this influence would afi'ect us more materially than almost any other calamity, 



320 DISTRESS OF OUR MANUFACTURERS. 

it is surprising to behold the neglect with which every question relative to th« 
proper management of British India is treated. Nor is it less remarkable, that 
at a moment when the manufacturing districts in this country are suffering most 
heavily for want of a market for their goods, and when the manufacturers of 
other countries are treading closely upon our heels, we should not feel the deep 
injury the people of Great Britain are sustaining from the restrictions, which 
cramp our trade with our own Empire in the East Indies. If we were fully 
aware of the vast field which India opens for our relief; and of which we are 
only prevented from availing ourselves to an extent almost unlimited, by heavy 
duties upon imports from the East Indies, beyond what are laid on similar arti- 
cles from the West Indies, it is quite impossible that parliament and the public 
should not with one voice demand their removal." 

" We have witnessed, on former occasions," says another writer, " the beneficial 
eflects of fresh openings for our manufactures. A few years ago a new trade 
was opened with about twenty millions of people in South America, and the 
most extensive benefits were derived from it. Hence we may form some idea of 
what the effect would be of opening a free and unrestricted trade with more 
than one hundred millions of our own fellow subjects in Hindostan, and with 
upwards of five hundred millions, if we extend that trade to the whole 
population of Asia. 

" What was it which prevented us, until lately, from trading with South 
America ? What, but the restrictions imposed on that trade by the Governments 
of Spain and Portugal ? 

" And what now prevents our trading with the five hundred millions of China, 
Hindostan, and the rest of Asia ? What, but the restrictions imposed on that 
trade by our own Government? The removal of these restrictions is not only 
within the power of Parliament, but is in strict agreement with the very liberal 
principles of trade which have been avowed, and which, in a variety of other in- 
stances, have been acted upon both by them and by his Majesty's Government." 

While we have such means within our reach of alleviating the present 
distress among our manufacturers, it seems like fatuity to overlook them, 
and to have recourse, in their stead, to such an inordinately expensive 
palliative as emigration. How much more effective in that view would 
it be, while the measure would be attended with no expense, to throw 
open to the expansive power of our capital, and the energy of our mer- 
chants and manufacturers, the immense market of British India, con- 
taining a hundred millions of customers, and which is now barred 
against us for the sake of 1800 sugar planters in the West Indies! 
Every loom in the kingdom would then, probably, in no long time, be 
put to work ; wages would rise, and the effect would be felt in the com- 
forts of our population from one extremity of the empire to another. 
How much more powerful still would be the effect, if China, the largest 
associated population in the world, were also opened to our commerce ! 
And if the fetters of our trade were thus removed, we should not only 
give full employment to our population at home, but we should greatly 
mitigate the sufferings of our unhappy fellow subjects, the negro slaves 
in our Colonies abroad. But this part of the subject deserves to be 
more distinctly dwelt upon. 
EFFECTS OF THE RESTRICTIVE SYSTEM IN THE WEST INDIES. 

It is sufficiently obvious that the monopoly enjoyed by the slave colo- 
nies is most injurious to our own commercial interests, and most unjust 
and oppressive towards our Asiatic fellow subjects. It may be shewn, 
however, to be scarcely less injurious, unjust, and oppressive to the 
slave colonies themselves. 

VVe have already seen how the bounties and protecting duties operate 



EFFECTS OF MONOPOLY ON PLANTER AND SLAVE. 321 

to increase the culture of sugar, and to diminish that ot provisions, 
leaving our colonies dependent for their food on the United States, and 
thus incurring the risk of being starved ; and how they also serve 
to create a non-resident proprietary, whose slaves are left, in their ab- 
sence, to the care of hirelings. But these are not half the evils with 
which the protecting system is pregnant. Without this it would not 
have been possible "that the slave colonies should have continued to 
this hour in that low and wretched state which they now exhibit ; — that 
the miserable hoe, raised by the feeble hands of men and women 
driven forward by the cartwhip, should still be their main instrument in 
turning up the soil, to the neglect of cattle and machinery;* — that all 
modern improvements in husbandry should be almost unknown ; — that 
one unvarying course of exhausting crops should be pursued, without 
change or relief; — and that in a climate congenial to them the popula- 
tion should continue progressively and rapidly to decrease." 

These evils, we admit, do not originate in the bounties and protecting 
duties, though they are aggravated by them. They have their origin in 
Slavery itself, a more deadly enemy tenfold to all improvement than 
even the caste of Hindostan. A blight seems to follow its steps. 
The very soil which the slave tills seems cursed with progressive bar- 
renness. And while, under the judicious culture of freemen, soils are 
found to improve ; no soil, however fertile, can resist the deteriorating 
effects of slave cultivation. One obvious cause of this is, that slaves 
eat no beef, and wear no shoes. There is, therefore, no call for that 
quantity of cattle, which, both by their'manure, and by that change of 
crops which their due sustenance renders necessary, serves to renew 
the fertility of the soil.f 

However,^ it is the effect of this vicious system on the happiness of 
the slave, far more than on the interests of the master, which we are 
anxious to press on the public attention. Again and again have the 
West Indians endeavoured to persuade the public that the comfort and 
happiness of their slaves depend on the large profits of the masters; 
and statesmen of no mean name have allowed themselves to be imposed 
upon by such representations. No delusion can be more complete than 
this. The happiness and comfort of the slaves do indeed depend on 
the profitableness of their labour, but in an inverse ratio. The severity 

* We are aware that this statement has been controverted by no mean authority ; we mean that 
of Major Moody, who, with his usual plausibility, but with a singular infelicity in this case, endea- 
vours to prove it to be untrue that machinery for relieving negro labour has been neglected ; 
because, as he tells us, there are steam engines of great power erected in the West Indies 
for grinding the sugar cane ; and because there are waggons there for conveying the sugars 
to market. !Nowwe can easily conceive how the introduction of steam engines may increase the 
demand for slave labour in the cultivation of the cane, whicli the planters have thus acquired in- 
creased facilities of grinding ; but this, so far from lightening the toils of the field, is only calcu- 
lated to aggravate them. In Demerara, for example, there are steam engines enow, but no ploughs. 
, The laud is there universally dug by the hoe in the hands of men and women, It is, therefore, 
trifling with an important subject, to reply to sucli a statement by referring to the use of machi- 
nery, when the machinery which is used, instead of tending to abate the intensity of negro labour, 
tends only to a severer exaction of it. 

tXo be fully satisfied on this point, and to see how, of necessity, the value of land is deterio- 
rated by slavery, and advanced by freedom, the reader has only to consult two pamphlets ot Mr- 
Cropper, entitled. Relief for West Indian Distress, and the Injurious Effects of High Prices on the 
Condition of Slavery : and one on the Injurious Effects of Slave Labour, first published in America, 
and since re-published by the Anti-Slavery Society. 



322 EFFECTS OF THE MONOPOLY ON THE SLAVES. 

of exaction and the waste of life may be measured, indeed, in the case 
of the wretched slave, by the profitableness of the cultivation in which 
he is employed ; and from which the only advantage he derives, is that, 
like the loom for the produce of which there is an increased demand, he 
is worn out the sooner. Such indeed is the malignant nature of slavery, 
that it converts those very circumstances which are ordinarily the most 
beneficial into curses. The increased demand for the produce of his 
labour, which raises the wages of the freeman and enlarges his com- 
forts, serves only, in the case of the slave, to quicken the impulse of the 
cartwhip, and to grind him sooner to dust. The superior fertility of the 
soil he cultivates produces a like effect. Those who are desirous of 
satisfying themselves on this point may consult the Second Report of 
the Anti-Slavery Society, p. 16 to 33. Without, therefore, entering at 
large into the argument, it is clear that this view of the subject, and this 
alone, satisfactorily explains the facts of the case; explains, that is to 
say, why in the least productive of our slave colonies, and where no 
sugar is grown, and consequently no stimulus applied by bounties and 
protecting duties, the slaves increase most rapidly : while in Deraerara, 
the most productive of our slave colonies, which makes the largest re- 
turns to the labour of the slave, and receives therefore the largest pro- 
portion of the bounties and protecting duties, the slaves decrease more 
rapidly than they increase in the Bahamas. Nay, throughout the whole 
range of the sugar colonies, the rale of mortality may be measured by 
the productiveness of the soil, and the consequent share which the plan- 
ters receive of this great pauper fund, — this direct incentive to improvi- 
dence and waste of life, — this infallible stimulus to neglect and oppres- 
sion on the part of the slave holders.* 

On this ground then we make our firm and earnest appeal to the 
parliament and people of this country, against the monopoly of the 
slave holders. The existence of slavery, as it exists in our slave 
colonies, is a crime, in the guilt of which those who with their eyes 
open yield it their support, must be considered as mor« or less partici- 
pating. Now the most effective support given to slavery in the present 
day, is to be found in this monopoly, and in the protection thereby given 
to slave holders, against the competition of free labour. Can it be said 
that there is either reason or justice in compelling those who detest 
and reprobate this system, to continue to pay a heavy contribution, not 

* The effect of slavery in demoralizing both master and slave is well known. Its effect in im- 
poverishing the planter, in proportion to the largeness of his apparent profits, seems an anomaly 
somewhat more difficult of explanation. The late statistical returns from the West Indies, (see 
Reporter, No. IQ, p. 282, &c.) go to prove this fact, that not only the misery of the slave, but the 
distress of the planter, will be found to run parallel with the fertility of the soil he cultivates, and 
the consequent profits of his culture and high appreciation of his slaves. If we take the Colonies 
■which are the most fertile, and where the value of slaves is nearly three times as high as in many 
of the other Colonies, for example Demerara, Berbice, and Trinidad, there the number of slaves 
sold in execution is nearly three times as great as elsewhere. . The average price of slaves in 
Demerara and Berbice is 88/. sterling : what it is in Trinidad does not appear. The average 
price of slaves in the Islands of St. Vincent's, Tortola, Bahamas, St. Kitt's, Barbadoes, Dominica, 
Grenada, and Nevis, appears to be about 28^ sterling. The sales of slaves in execution in the 
three former Colonies, however, amount to one in twenty eight ; and in the eight latter to one 
in eighty. We repeat the reflection we have already made on this extraordinary fact, that it 
seems to afford " a presumption, that by the ordination of providence, the rigorous exaction of 
servile labour, in despite of the calculations of a sordid and heartless cupidity, may be expected 
to issue in the blasted hopes of the oppressor." 



A NEW REASON AGAINST THE MONOPOLY. 323 

for the privilege of putting an end to it, but with the certain effect 
of maintainiijg, nay, of aggravating and perpetuating its evils ? 

A NEW REASON FOR ABOLISHING THE MONOPOLY. 

It becomes the more incumbent on the friends of the negro race, 
to act on these views of the subject, so far, at least, as to deprive slavery 
of the factitious support which is given to it by means of bounties 
and protecting duties, because the hope of arriving at the extinction of 
slavery by other means we fear is daily lessening. The last number of 
the Reporter sufficiently proves the determination of the colonial legis- 
latures to adopt no effectual measures for bringing about that consumma- 
tion ; and the tendency of certain pamphlets, understood to be official, 
to lower down or fritter away the original propositions on the subject of 
reform, and especially that which gave to slaves a power of redeeming 
themselves at a fair appraisement, cannot but increase the apprehension 
of delay and disappointment. Emboldened by these apparent vacilla- 
tions on the part of some official men, the West Indians have come 
forward and published a manifesto under the name of Alexander 
Macdonnell, Esq., the purport of which is to represent this species of 
manumission, which he terms " compulsory manumission," as being 
contrary to the spirit of ike parliameritary resolutions of 1823; as an 
infringement of the rights of property ; Sls injurious to the well being of 
the slaves; and as endangering the safety of the colonies. It is suffi- 
cient to state these propositions, to prove their extravagance and their 
fallacy. That to give the slave the power, by the fruits of his own 
industry, of obtaining the manumission of himself, his wife, or children, 
should be injurious to his well being, and dangerous to the peace of the 
colonies, is a statement so absurd in itself, and so opposed to all expe- 
rience, not only in the Spanish and Portuguese colonies, but in our own, 
that we may safely leave it to the scorn it merits.* Then as to being an in- 
fringement on the rights of property; what bill for turnpikes, canals, or 
docks in this country, does not involve a greater and more direct infringe- 
ment on the rights of property, without the slightest imputation of 
illegality or injustice? Or what general measure of policy has ever been 
adopted less liable to such a charge, and in which loss and inconveni- 
ence to private individuals are more sedulously guarded against ? That 
it violates the spirit of Mr. Canning's resolutions, is a view of the sub- 
ject reserved for the ingenuity of Mr. Macdonnell to discover. We 
believe that Mr. Canning and Lord Bathurst understand the purpose 
and intent of their own resolutions better than Mr. Macdonnell; and 
so far have the great body of the colonists, at home and abroad, been 
from understanding them differently, that on no occasion, which we can 
recollect, of discussions either in parliament, or in the colonial assemblies, 
has it been intimated that the Gov^nment, in giving to the slave the 
power of redeeming himself and his family by the fruits of his industry, 

• In our own slave colonies in the West Indies there are about 100,000 emancipated slaves or 
their descendants. In this number it does not appear that there is above one in three or four 
hundred who receives the slightest relief as paupers. Their general respectability and their 
loyalty are admitted ; and the peace and safety of the colonies are in fact in their hands ; as 
they form the strength of the local militia. 



324 HAYTI CODE RURAL. 

had been guilty of the slightest deviation from the letter or spirit of 
their own resolutions of May 1823. 

If, however, such be the doctrine which, at this late hour, the Colo- 
nists mean to maintain ; if they mean to shut out all hope of manumis- 
sion from the slave independently of the will of his master ; and thus do 
their utmost to perpetuate the horrid institution of slavery for ages and 
generations to come, — how much more incumbent does it become upon 
the ParHament and people of this country to withdraw all those factitious 
props by which we have aggravated its malignity, while we have shared 
its guilt ? We have here, in short, the very strongest additional motives 
for labouring to put an end to bounties and protecting duties without a 
moment's delay ; being convinced, as has been well said : 

" That, whatever difficulties the Slave question may present' under other 
aspects, the people of England will thus at least be delivered from the bitter con- 
sciousness of maintaining, by oppressive and unnecessary premiums, a system 
of iniquity degrading to the national character, subversive of every legal and 
constitutional principle, and wholly at variance with the dictates of sound 
policy, humanity, and justice."* 

HAYTI.— CODE RURAL. 

In our last Number (pp. 309, 310) we gave a brief account of aa 
attempt that had been made to pass upon the public an old proclamation 
of Toussaint, of the year 1799, enforcing field labour by a kind of mili- 
tary discipline, as a new and genuine proclamation by Boyer in the 
year 1826. This was effected by the very simple process of omitting 
the beginning and the conclusion of the original proclamation, and 
substituting Boyer's name for that of Toussaint Louverture. The de- 
clared object of giving this document, thus fabricated, to the world, was 
to prove that labour was compulsory in Hayti as well as in Jamaica. 
That such a clumsy and fraudulent expedient should have been resorted 
to, in order to establish this point, may be accepted as a proof of the 
absence of all better evidence. — But it is pretended, and Mr. Hibbert, 
the agent of Jamaica, has published a letter in the newspapers to that 
effect, that though it cannot now be denied that this proclamation, on 
which so much undue stress had been laid, is false and fabricated; yet, 
there does exist a Code Rural, enacted in April or May, 1826, by the 
Legislature of Hayti, by which the same important truth, that negroes 
will not labour without compulsion, is fully established. — Mr. Hibbert 
avows, indeed, with a generous self-devotion, that the act of affixing 
Boyer's name to the previously truncated proclamation, was his act, 
and not that of his constituents in Jamaica. He adopts, however, and, 
after time for reflection, repeats their comment on the Code Rural, as 
exhibiting a system by which the " driver is made answerable for the 
labourer, the overseer for his drivers," &c. Mr. Hibbert says he is in 
possession of the code. He could therefore have ascertained the ac- 
curacy of this comment. But if we may judge of its accuracy by that 
part of the code which he has chosen to publish, nothing can be more 
unlike the truth. In the extracts which he has exhibited, (and we pre- 
sume he has given such as are best adapted to his purpose and that of 
his constituents), there is no mention made of the driver, nor the 

* Surrey Anti-Slavery Petition. 



HAYTI CODE RURAL. 325 

slightest allusion to such a personage. On the contrary, the whol 
system, as far as it is rendered intelligible by the few sentences which 
have been selected for the public eye, is absolutely inconsistent with any 
such idea. It seems to relate to the due fulfilment of contracts between 
farmers and their workmen ; — to the regulation of the periods and hours 
of work ; — to an equal distribution of the labour of repairing the high- 
ways ; — and to the repression of vagrancy. And in these respects it 
bears a close analogy to the laws on the same subject which exist in 
England. Every thing is decided by the law and by the magistrate; 
and the penalties consist in all cases either of a pecuniary fine or im- 
prisonment, or, as the gentlemen of the Jamaica Assembly tell us, in 
the forfeiture of wages.* 

Mr, Hibbert pretends to be very angry that a Mr. Henderson, a mer- 
chant of Hayti, and some other writer on the subject, should have attri- 
buted to the gentlemen of Jamaica, with whom these rash publications 
and incorrect statements originated, a malignity of purpose as respected 
the people of Hayti. We will not enter into the dispute between 
Mr. Hibbert and Mr. Henderson, especially as we understand the latter 
gentleman to have quitted England. But we cannot wonder that Mr. 
Henderson*, or any man of plain understanding, who finds before him a 
prima facie case of forgery as it respects one document, and of the 
grossest misrepresentation as it respects another — the whole accom- 
panied by the most injurious as well as unfounded inferences — should 
employ a somewhat ardent expression of feeling towards those whom 
he deemed the deliberate and wilful calumniators, by such means, of 
himself and his Haytian brethren. We hope soon to see the whole of 
this disputed code before the public. In the mean time, we would 
remark, that our impression of the probable state of the case is simply 
this ; an impression, however, for the accuracy of which we do not vouch. 
— The government of Hayti had contracted to make certain large pay- 
ments to France in consideration of the recognition by that country of 
its independence. Good faith required that these payments should be 
punctually made ; and justice required that the contributions necessary 
■to that end should be borne as fairly and equally as possible by the 
Haytian people. How could this be effected but by requiring every 
individual, whose freedom had been secured by the arrangement, to 
contribute his fair share of the cost of it ? To effect this object, the 
Legislature of Hayti, elected by the people of Hayti, appear to have pass- 
ed a law to prevent the whole burden of that contribution from falling, as it 
must otherwise do, on the industrious part of the population; and to 
oblige the most idle and worthless to lend their aid, A measure pro- 
ceeding on such a general principle as this would be beneficial in every 
state as well as in Hayti, and at all times equally with the present. 
Why it was adopted at this particular time, and not before, by the 
Haytian Legislature, is probably to be accounted for by the new and 

* It is a strong indication of the disingenuousness with which the particular clauses of this Code, 
given to the public, have been selected, that but for tjiis unguarded observation, we should not have 
known that wages had formed a part of the case at all. Every article in the Code which relates to 
wages has been carefully left out in these excerpta. The entire Code, however, will soon be 
tbrthcoming. 



326 MR. BRIDGES — ATTACK ON METHODISTS. 

peculiar exigencies of their situation. Whether all the regulations of 
the code, when they shall be made known, will prove to be such as sound 
political economists can approve, is another question. Judging, how- 
ever, from the brief specimen of it which we have been permitted to pe- 
ruse, we should say, that though exceptions may be taken to some of 
its regulations, yet, on the whole, it indicates a vast advance in freedom 
and civilization since the period of Toussaint's proclamation ; and fur- 
nishes abundant proof that the condition of the Haytian labourer is 
as remote from that of the colonial slave, as the condition of the slave 
diifers from that of the peasant of England or of France. 

OUTRAGEOUS ATTACK ON METHODISTS IN JAMAICA. 
On the 13th instant, Dr. Lushington brought to the knowledge of 
the House of Commons, the following act of lawless violence, almost 
equalling in atrocity the outrage committed, in Barbadoes, against Mr. 
Shrewsbury. — On Christmas day last, the militia regiment had been 
called out, in the parish of St. Ann, to keep watch and ward over the 
slave population ; and to protect the property, and preserve the safety of 
their masters. The regiment assisted at divine service, which was per- 
formed at the parish church, and was addressed in a sermon, by the 
Rev. Mr. Bridges, late Chaplain to the Bishop of Jamaica. That dis- 
course was replete with inflammatory language, directed against the 
Methodist Missionaries in the Island, and inciting to acts of outrage 
and bloodshed. The white company of the regiment was, in the course 
of the afternoon, left on guard in the vicinity of the house of Mr. Rad- 
clifFe, the Methodist Missionary. Towards midnight an attack was 
made on the missionary meeting-house, and on the house of Mr. Rad- 
clifFe the missionary, inhabited by himself, his wife, children, and ser- 
vants. The attack was made with muskets and horse-pistols, and 
fourteen musket balls were fired into the house, not hurriedly, but by 
word of command. The guard was all this time on duty in the close 
vicinity of Mr. RadclifFe's house, but no attempt at interference took 
place on their part ; and it was owing, not to the humanity of this 
white company, or to the Christian exhortations of the Reverend Mr. 
Bridges, but to the accident of the balls not having taken effect, that 
murder was not added to outrage and violence. Dr. L's object in moving 
for information on the subject, was to induce the House, by instituting 
an enquiry, not only to visit the guilty with punishment, but to prevent 
all encroachment on the principles of toleration and religious freedom. 
To the Wesleyan Missionaries this country was indebted for the small 
portion of instruction and religious knowledge at present to be found 
among the lower classes and slave population of the West la- 
dies. But for them, the whole of the black population of the West 
Indies would have continued in a state of idolatry and paganism. 
Government had most wisely determined to give a Bishop and addi- 
tional Clergy to the Island, but he should grieve, if the Church Esta- 
blishment there were to engage in the wicked attempt to exterminate 
all other sects. If such an attempt were made to oppress them, he 
would be the first to come forward to enable them to obtain that pro- 
tection to which, by thelaws of God and of the land, they were entitled. — 



ATTACK ON METHODISTS IN JAMAICA. 327 

What an example of subordination too did these white militia men set 
to their free black and coloured brethren in arms ; and to the slave po- 
pulation? — But the matter did not stop here. On the Sunday following, 
(two days only having elapsed from the commission of the outrage,) the 
same clergyman alluded to the act of violence which had been perpe- 
trated, and repeated the same sermon. It was right the House should 
know who this Rev. Mr. Bridges was. He was a Gentleman who had 
first rendered himself notorious by a libel on the character of Mr. Wil- 
berforce, whom he had thus designated : — " Mel in ore, Verba lactis, 
Fel in corde, Fraus in factis." For this mode of treating this venerated 
name, Mr. Bridges had been rewarded with a considerable sum of 
money, by the House of Assembly ; and the Bishop of Jamaica had 
further rewarded him, by appointing him his chaplain, though at the 
time of the outrage, the Rev. Gentleman no longer continued to hold 
this office. He hoped some way might be discovered to punish not only 
those who had fired the bullets, but the instigator to that act of violence. 
He was not surprised at the act, after the transaction which had 
occurred at Barbadoes, and the impunity with which it had been 
attended. True, he had a better opinion of Jamaica, than of Barbadoes. 
He understood, that soon after this occurrence, Col. Cox had endea- 
voured to investigate it. He did not know the result of the investiga- 
tion, but hoped it would be attended with better consequences than the 
inquiry at Barbadoes, He trusted, the colony would anticipate the 
mother country in' the adoption of a remedy for the evil. After what 
had occurred at Barbadoes, however, he was resolved not to allow one 
instance of intolerance in the West India Islands to pass, without imme- 
diately bringing it before the House. The Hon. and Learned Member 
concluded by moving for " Copies of all dispatches received, or which 
may be received from Jamaica, respecting an attack on the Wesleyan 
Missionary Meeting, and dwelling-houses, in the parish of St. Ann, in the 
month of December last." 

Government, it appears, has as yet received no official information 
on the subject. • 

PARLIAMENTARY PROCEEDINGS RELATIVE TO SUGAR DUTIES. 

The subject of the Sugar Duties has been fixed several times for discus- 
sion in the House of Commons, but owing to various accidental causes 
has hitherto been postponed. It is understood, however, that in the 
progress of the Annual Duties' Bill through the House, that part of it 
which respects Sugar will be fully canvassed. Besides this, Mr. Whit- 
more has given notice of a specific motion, in the ensuing month of 
May, on the subject of the restrictions which cramp our East India 
Trade. Several petitions have already been sent up from those com- 
mercial and manufacturing districts which are more immediately inte- 
rested in this question; — and who, indeed, is not interested in it? — 
A Petition from Manchester, signed by near 400 of the principal mer- 
chants and manufacturers of that important place, contains a statement, 
which is substantially, to the following effect, viz : 

That, in consequence of the restrictions imposed by this country upon the 
importation of the raw produce of other countries, and the general commercial 



328 MANCHESTER PETITION. 

policy heretofore adopted, Nations which were formerly our best customers, 
have been induced to lay heavy duties upon our manufactures, to obtain 
machinery or the means of making it from this neighbourhood, and to prevail 
upon our workmen to emigrate. By these means they have been enabled to pro- 
duce a considerable proportion of the goods with which we formerly supplied 
them, and, in some instances, to rival us in other markets. 

That these circumstances have largely contributed to the present state of 
extreme suffering and privation to which the labouring classes in this town and 
neighbourhood are subjected, and for which, if some remedy is not applied, by 
opening fresh markets for the produce of their industry, the Petitioners appre- 
hend they must see these sufferings and privation of their workmen still continue 
or increase ; the means of supplying them with employment daily diminish ; and 
their best artisans leave them to find a more ample subsistence by transferring 
their abilities to the services, and for the aggrandisement of rival nations. 

That this country has, within her own dominions, the means of accomplishing 
much, by facilitating the trade with our East Indian possessions — A trade 
which, though it has been progressively and rapidly increasing from this neigh- 
bourhood, and has become highly important, would have been much more ex- 
tended had it not been obstructed by the difficulty of obtaining profitable returns ; 
a difficulty caused in a great measure by many important articles of East Indian 
produce, being burthened with higher duties than similar articles imported from 
our West India Colonies. 

That the ground of reciprocal advantage on which the protection was 
granted to the West Indians, has now ceased by the removal of the restrictions 
imposed upon them as regarded the shipping of their produce to this country. 

That, although many European nations and the United States of America 
are allowed a free trade with our East Indian possessions, and by obtaining the 
produce of these countries in exchange for their own, become carriers of it to 
other parts of the world ; yet, still if the duties upon East Indian productions 
were only equal to those upon West Indian produce, this country might enter 
into a fair competition with them, and thereby be enabled to feed her famishing 
workmen, employ more largely her shipping, increase the revenue, and more 
firmly rivet, by the bonds of mutual interest and mutual benefits, the connection 
between Great Britain, and this most important of her dependencies. 

That, as the bounty paid upon the refined sugar raises the price of all sugar 
consumed in this country, and is not only a heavy burden upon the people, but 
limits the consumption of that article, and is, therefore, an obstacle in the way 
of a more extended sale of our manufactures, the Petitioners, therefore, 
earnestly pray, that the House will take these subjects into their serious 
consideration, and by removing the bounty now paid on the export of refined 
sugar, and reducing the duties upon the imports from our East Indian posses- 
sions to the same scale as those paid upon similar articles from the West Indian 
Colonies, allow the Petitioners that room for the employment of capital and ex- 
tension of industry to which, in accordance with the line of policy sanctioned 
by Parliament, they beg leave humbly to represent that they consider them- 
selves entitled. 



This, and all other publications of the Society^ may be had at their office 
18, Aldermanbury ; or at Messrs. Hat char ds, \^7 , Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill. 
They may also he procured, through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti- 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 



LojiJen.— BAGSTER ^ THOMS, Printers, U'_BanholomewCle5S. 



London, 18, Aldermanhury , April 30, 1827. 

No. 23. 

ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
last day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery, Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons wish- 
ing to receive a regular supply are requested to make application to the Secretary, 
at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury, and mention the conveyance by 
which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be had of all 
booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of 2d. per sheet of sixteen pages. 



CORRECTION OF A MISTAKE.— RURAL CODE OF HAYTI.— 
REMARKS UPON IT.— WEST INDIA REPORTER, &c. 



Correction of a mistake in the last Number. — An error'of some mag- 
nitude crept into a note at p. 316 of our last Number, which was dis- 
covered in time to be corrected only in a part of the impression. It arose 
from confounding, in the haste of preparation, the column which exhi- 
bited the whole export of sugar from this country, including both British 
plantation and Foreign, with the amount of raw sugar exported in a 
refined state. The Note ought to have stood as follows: 

The bounty on sugar, which amounts to about three shillings a cwt, (half having beeu 
taken off last year,) draws from the Exchequer, for an export of about 740,000 cwt., the sum of 
about 111,000^. The additional price levied on the public on account of our internal consumption, 
which amounts to about 3,000,000 cwt. is about 450,000/., making together 550,000'. The effect of 
the protecting duty of 10s. against East India, and 36s. against foreign sugar cannot be very accu- 
ratoiy ascertained. If we estimate it at the low rate of 63. a cwt. 900,000/. more is thus taken 
outof the pocketsof the British consumers, making a grand total of upwards of 1,460,000/. or atths 
average rate of from 800 to 9OO/. a year to each slave-holding sugar planter. This sum, indeed, 
is divided among them in very unequal proportions, some of them importing more largely than 
others; but it may be estimated to yield to the sugar farmer at least eight pounds sterling for 
every ton of sugar he imports. That is to say, the rich and the poor of this country are burdened 
tothis enormous extent, not only to supply luxuries to about 1800 sugar farmers, but to enable 
them, with profit to themselves, to gO on wasting the lives of their slaves, at a rate which would 
ultimately unpeople the world. 



RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 

It is a satisfaction to us to have it in our power to lay before the pub- 
lic a literal translation of the whole of this interesting and much misre- 
presented document. It is printed in a 12mo. form, and the title page 
runs thus — " Rural Code of Hayti. Port au Prince, from the printing 
press of the Government July, 1826." 



330 RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 

We shall give it as it stands, only adding a note or two where they 
may appear necessary for the purpose of elucidation. 



Liberty. REPUBLIC OF HAYTI. Equality. 

RURAL CODE. 

The Chamber of the Representatives of Communes, on the'proposition 
of the President of Hayti, and having heard the Report of its Committee 
of the Interior, has passed the six following laws, constituting the Rural 
Code of Hayti. 

LAW, No. I. 
ON THE GENERAL ARRANGEMENTS RELATIVE TO AGRICULTURE. 

Article I. Agriculture, being the main source of the prosperity of the 
state, shall enjoy the special protection and encouragement of the Civil 
and Military authorities. 

2. The citizens, of the profession of agriculture, cannot be taken off 
from their pursuits, except in the cases pointed out by law. 

3. All the citizens being bound to give their aid towards supporting 
the state, either by their services or their industry; those who shall not 
be employed in civil offices, or called out on military service ; those 
who shall not be engaged in any business subject to the patent ;* those 
who shall not be employed as working artificers, or as domestic servants; 
those who shall not be employed in the cutting of wood fit for exporta- 
tion ; and those, in fine, who shall not be able to shew that they possess 
the means cf subsistence, shall be bound to cultivate the earth. 

4. Citizens of the agricultural profession shall not be at liberty to quit 
the country, in order to reside in cities or towns, without the authoriza- 
tion of the Justice of Peace of the Commune they wish to quit, and of 
that of the Commune where they mean to fix themselves ; and the Justice 
of Peace shall not give his authorization, until he has assured himself 
that the applicant is a person of good behaviour, who has correctly 
conducted himself in the canton he desires to quit, and that he has the 
means of subsistence in the town where he wishes to reside. All who 
shall not conform to these rules, shall be considered and dealt with as 
vagrants. 

5. The children, of either sex, whom their parents (themselves en- 
gaged in agriculture) shall desire to send into the cities or towns to be 
apprenticed or educated, are not to be received either by master work- 
men, or by the teachers of public or private schools, without a certificate 
of the Justice of Peace, which certificate shall be granted at the request 
either of the proprietor or principal renter of the place, or of the officer 
of the rural police, or of the father or the mother of the .child. Every 
contravention of this rule shall be subject to a fine of 25 dollars, to 
be paid by the person who shall have received the child without author- 
ization. 

6. Recruiting for the army can only take place by order of the Pre- 

* A tax so named imposed on merchants, shopkeepers, tradesmen, &c. 



RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 331 

sldent, and it shall not extend to citizens engaged in agriculture, unless 
the Chief of the State, induced by a pressing danger, shall give orders to 
that effect. 

7. No shop, either wholesale or retail, shall be established, and no 
commerce in the produce of the Island shall be carried on in the coun- 
try parts on any pretext whatsoever. From this rule are excepted raw 
sugars delivered to the refineries, and molasses to the distilleries, and 
cotton in the seed when sent to the mill to be ginned. 

8. Nevertheless the pa^rai'ed travelling pedlars, residing in, and going 
from, cities or towns, may, while travelling over the country, sell provi- 
sions, foreign merchandize, and hardware.* 

9. The houses or cottages which private persons have already erected 
in the interior of the Communes, in situations where there is no regular 
township, but merely a collection of cottages, whether for their own 
accommodation or to let to others, shall be subject to the same tax, on 
the value of the rent of those houses, which is payable in cities and 
towns. In future, however, no cottage shall be erected in the country, 
where there is no recognized township, except when connected with a 
rural establishment. 

10. No proprietor of land bordering on the sea shall possess boats 
or vessels except for the transport of his produce to the neighbouring 
city or town ; and for this he shall have, from the Justice of Peace of the 
Commune, a licence which shall be delivered gratis ; and on no pretence 
shall these boats be at liberty to carry on the coasting trade of other 
ports, or of the adjacent little islands, nor the business of fishing, ex- 
cept for the exclusive use of the plantation. 

11. All the fines and forfeitures imposed by the Rural Code, shall be 
inflicted by the Justices of Peace, when not exceeding the value of 
100 dollars, and, when they exceed that sum, by the civil tribunals. 
The half of the said fines and forfeitures shall belong to the public trea- 
sury, the other half to the informer. 

12. On the day of the festival of agriculture, (the first of May) parties 
of cultivators from each section shall attend, at the place where the 
Council of Notables meets, with samples of their produce. The Council 
of Notables, in the presence of all the authorities, shall crown the culti- 
vator who shall have best cultivated his farm, in each Section, and in 
each kind of culture; and he shall receive a prize of encouragement . 
Exact details of these proceedings shall be drawn up and made public. 

13. Every year, on the first of September, the Councils of Notables 
shall address, to the President of Hayti, a circumstantial report respect- 
ing the state of agriculture in each Commune, accompanied by their ob- 
servations as to the best means of improving it. 

14. At the end of the year, the Commandants of Departments, shall, 
in like manner, render to the President of Hayti an account of the state 
of agriculture in their respective departments, and also of the state of 
the roads and high ways, 

* The articles 7 and 8 seem framed in the absurd spirit of many of our own old 
laws. They are probably intended to secure the revenue by confining the sale o£ 
taxable commodities and the residence of taxed (patented) traders to the towns« 



332 RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 

LAW, No. II. 

ON THE GENERAL ADMINISTRATION OF THE DIFFERENT AGRI- 
CULTURAL ESTABLISHMENTS. 

Chapter I. 

Rules relating to the administration of agricultural establishmeyits as 
respects the proprietors of the soil. 

Section I. — Of Landmarks, Boundaries, and Establishments. 

15. All the landed properties situated in the country, and proceeding 
from grants made by the State, whether under the title of national pro- 
perty, or under that of partial gift, which have not yet been surveyed 
and measured, must be so within the space of one year from the date of 
the promulgation of the present code, under the penalty of a fine of one 
dollar for every carreau of land, to be paid by the proprietor. With a 
view to the due execution of this regulation, the Justice of Peace of the 
Commune shall, after the lapse of the above interval, on a declaration 
being made to him of the facts, employ a surveyor duly commissioned, 
to measure and draw a plan of the unsurveyed grounds at the expense 
of the delinquent grantee ; when the amount of the fine shall be fixed, 
and levied together with the expense of the survey. 

16. From the date of the promulgation of this law, no sale of property, 
situated in the country, can be executed before a notary, if that proper- 
ty shall not have been previously surveyed, and the boundaries previously 
recognized by the title-deeds ; nor in any case can a partial sale take 
place unless the land shall have been previously surveyed. Notaries 
acting in contravention of this article shall incur the penalties of the 
law. 

17. All grants of land made previous to the promulgation of the 
present code, and on which, in a year from that time, no settlement 
shall have begun ; and all grants made subsequent to that time, on 
which, in a year from the date of the grant, no settlement shall have 
commenced, shall revert to the domain of the state ; and the title-deed 
shall be given up and sent back to the Government. 

18. To carry the last regulation into effect, the officer of Rural 
police, in conjunction with the Council of Agriculture, shall report to 
the Justice of Peace, and the military Commandant of the Commune, 
the uncultivated state of the grant : and these, after ascertaining the 
correctness of this Report, shall examine and subscribe it, and then 
address it to the Commandant of the Department, who, after having 
obtained proof of the fact, shall withdraw the title-deed, and send it to 
the Government. 

19. A settlement will be considered as begun, when there shall be 
a garden cultivated according to the rules established by law, and 
the extent of which shall be duly proportioned to the number of culti- 
vators attached to the property. 

20. The proprietors of cultivated lands, which are contiguous to 
each other, shall be bound, at their common expense, adequately to 
fence their properties. Any one refusing to do so shall be compellable 
by course of law. 



RURAL CODE OF HAYTF. 333 

^1. The proprietors of rural estates are bound to caus« to be 
fixed, during any surveys made at their requisition, solid landmarks 
in iron, or in masonry work, or in durable wood, under pain of a fine 
of five dollars for every landmark which may be wanting. 

22. The proprietors who shall have neglected to execute the pre- 
ceding regulation shall be bound, besides paying the fine, to pay the 
artificer who shall be employed, by the orders of the Justice of the 
Peace of the Commune, to fix the requisite landmark. 

Section II. — Of the obligations imposed on the proprietors ar ad- 
ministrators of rural property/. 

23. It is specially forbidden to cut down the wood on the crest of 
mountains and for a hundred paces of their descent, or at the head 
or in the environs of springs, or on the banks of rivers. The pro- 
prietors of lands watered by springs, or rivers, must surround the 
head of those springs, and plant the borders of the rivers, with plantain 
trees, bamboos, and other trees calculated to promote coolness. 

24. When a proprietor intends to set fire to new wood, or to a field 
of old canes, or to savannahs, or to any other kind of field, he shall 
be bound, twenty-four hours before, to apprize all the neighbours bor- 
dering upon him of his intention, under the penalty of paying for all 
the damage which the fire may occasion. 

25. As soon as a fire shall break out on an estate, the neighbouring 
proprietors and cultivators shall be bound to repair thither, in order to 
assist in arresting its progress. 

26. It is forbidden to kindle a fire in the savannahs, or in the fields 
or gardens of plantations, without the express permission of their pro- 
prietors, renters, managers, or conductors. 

27. There must not be kept on estates appropriated to cultivation, 
manufactures, or other establishments, any more cattle than are re- 
quired for carrying on the work of them, or for the use of the pro- 
prietors, managers, conductors, renters or cultivators ; and these 
animals must be kept during the day in herds, and at night in pens or 
inclosed fields. 

28. Animals of the horse kind, horned cattle, swine, &c. appropriated 
to breeding, cannot be kept except on breeding estabhshments according 
to the fourth law relating to such establishments. 

29. No proprietor, renter, or manager of a plantation can establish 
on his estate a system contrary to that established by law. 

30. No company or association of cultivators, fixed on the same 
plantation, shall be allowed to rent the whole of the estate on which 
they reside, in order to manage it by themselves as a partnership. 

31. The cottages or dwellings of the cultivators must be built on 
one and the same point of the plantation to which they are attached. - 

Chapter II. 
Of culizvatio7i generally. 

32. The principal branch of cultivation consists in the raising of 
plants' and trees yielding produce for exportation to foreign countries, 



334 RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 

grain of all descriptions, and all kinds of food and roots designed for 
the subsistence of the population. 

33. All who carry on this principal branch of culture, are not 
subject to the territorial and land tax, except on the gross produce fit 
for exportation which they shall have got in. 

34. The secondary branch of cultivation consists of the culture 
merely of pot herbs, of flowers, of fruit trees, of provisions, and of fodder, 
when the growth of these takes place on estates which are not esta- 
blished for carrying on the principal branch of cultivation. 

35. Those whose establishment is specially directed to the secondary 
branch of cultivation are subject to the territorial and land tax on the 
estimated value of their produce in each six months. 

36. On every rural establishment, they shall be bound to cultivate 
provisions, grain, fruit trees, such as the bread tree, &c., sufficient for 
the sustenance of the persons employed there. 

37. All the gardens, whether they produce provisions, or grain, 
must be carefully attended to, under the responsibility of the proprietor, 
renter or manager, who, in case of neglect, shall be condemned to a 
fine of from three to fifteen dollars. 

38. On every plantation the cultivators attached to it, and who work 
for a fourth of the produce, shall be bound to have, for their personal 
use, a garden of provisions, which they shall cultivate during their 
hours or days of repose. 

39. With this view the proprietors, renters, or managers shall be 
bound to place, at the disposal of the cultivators, the land necessary for 
the formation of their private gardens. 

40. The dikes, reservoirs, and conduits which serve to supply and 
distribute the water required for the inhabitants, both for irrigation, and 
for every other useful purpose, shall be kept in order by all the parties 
interested, who shall be bound to contribute to the labours necessary to 
that end. No one can refuse to share in these labours ; nor can he alie- 
nate his neighbour's share of the water without his consent. Every one 
acting contrary to these rules shall pay a fine of from ten to fifty dol- 
lars, and shall be bound to repair at his own charge the conduit which 
he shall have obstructed or destroyed. 

41. When on any rural property the produce of it shall be on the 
point of being packed in sacks, bales, casks, or other packages, the 
officer of the Rural Police of the Section, shall have the right of exam- 
ining it, to satisfy himself that there is no fraud ; and when there is, he 
shall stop the delivery, and immediately report the matter to the Jus- 
tice of Peace of the Commune. If the produce has only been badly 
prepared, he shall suspend its removal, and oblige the parties to clean 
it anew. 

42. The Justice of Peace, on receiving the report, shall appoint skil- 
ful persons to examine the produce, and if fraud should be proved, the 
produce shall be forfeited to the State. 

43. The produce, intended for exportation, cannot quit the plantation 
to be carried to the cities or towns, and delivered for sale, without 
a permit from the proprietor, when he resides on the estate, or, when 
he does not reside, from the officer of the Rural Police of the Section. 



RURAL CODE OF UAYTI. 335 

The permit shall be furnished gratis, on unstamped paper, by the 
officer of the Police, who shall be bound to register it. 

44. All produce removed in contravention of this regulation, shall 
be seized on the way, and taken to the Justice of Peace of the 
Commune, who shall ascertain whether the produce has not been 
stolen, in order that it may be sent back to the proprietor, and that 
the presumed offender may be prosecuted. If it should appear that 
the proprietor himself had failed to furnish the permit, he shall pay a 
fine of from three to five dollars. 



LAW, No. III. 

CONCERNING THE MUTUAL CONTRACTS BETVfEEN THE PRO- 
PRIETORS OR PRINCIPAL RENTERS, AND THE CULTIVATORS 
OR LABOURERS, AND THE RECIPROCAL OBLIGATIONS OF 
BOTH. 

Chapter I. 
General Regulations. 

45. Those persons who shall not be in the actual service of 
the state, as soldiers, mechanics, or otherwise, and whose profession 
it is to cultivate the ground, or to cut timber for exportation, shall be 
obliged, for their mutual security, to enter into a reciprocal engagement 
with the proprietor or chief renter of the rural property, or of the 
woodland, where they are to exercise their industry. The contract 
may be entered into either collectively or individually, at the pleasure 
of the contracting parties. 

46. The duration of these contracts cannot be for a shorter time than 
two years, nor for a longer than nine years, in the case of the secon- 
dary branch of cultivation and manufactures ; nor for a shorter time 
than three years, nor for a longer than nine, for the other branches of 
cultivation ; nor for less than six months, nor longer than a year, for 
the cutting of wood for exportation. 

47. The contract shall be made on stamped paper, before a Notary, 
who shall preserve a minute of it, ^and who must express clearly all 
the conditions entered into by the contracting parties, who shall be at 
liberty to make such stipulations as they shall judge suitable, pro- 
vided these do not contravene the regulations of the present code. 

48. Every proprietor, renter, or manager of a plantation, who shall 
there receive or admit any cultivators, without having made with them 
the contract required by the two preceding articles, shall be con- 
demned for the first offence, to a fine of ten dollars for every person 
so received without a contract, and to double that sum in case of a 
second offence ; and besides this, the proprietor, renter or manager, 
shall not be able to bring any action at law, against the cultivators 
who may have failed to fulfil their verbal agreements. The same rule 
will apply to wood cutters for exportation. 

49. Every contract entered into with a cultivator, whose former 
contract shall not have been terminated, shall be null and void; and the 
cultivator, who shall have entered into this second contract, shall be 
sent back, at his own expense, to the property on which he had en- 



336 RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 

gaged himself, and shall be subject to the fine fixed by the last Article. 

50. The headmen of parties contracting to work for half of the 
produce shall share, in an equal proportion of half, with the principal 
proprietor of the plantation, in all they shall reap on that particular 
estate, in the way of fruit, provisions, pulse, grain, and produce of 
every kind. 

51. Whenever, on sugar plantations, the labour shall be done for 
half of the produce, the proprietor, before the division is made, shall 
deduct a fifth part of the gross produce, as an equivalent for the hire 
of machinery, utensils, cattle, &c., employed in carrying on the 
work, and for the expense of repairs. In the culture of other articles 
the amount of the expenses caused by the rent, or by the charge of car- 
rying on the work, shall be deducted previous to the division. 

52. The Cultivators contracting to labour for a fourth part of the 
returns they produce, shall have for their share a fourth part of the 
gross of all they raise. They shall also enjoy the whole of what they 
raise on their own private gardens, cultivated by themselves durmg 
their hours or days of rest. 

53. Whenever, in the great plantations of sugar, coffee, cotton, 
and indigo, the season shall require that the labour should be pressed 
with activity, the different associations labouring for half, employed on 
the same plantation, shall mutually assist each other in their labours, 
giving and repaying to each other an equal number of days' labour. 
The administrator of the property shall regulate this kind of mutual 
aid. 

54. When the products or crops, whatever they be, shall be pre- 
pared and collected, whether they proceed from labourers working for 
a fourth, or associations labouring for a half, they cannot be removed 
from the property where they were grown, until a division shall have 
taken place between the proprietor or chief renter, and the cultivators 
labouring for a fourth, or associations for a half of the produce. 

55. Upon sugar plantations, the division of the shares coming to 
the cultivators shall be made after the grinding of each piece of 
canes. On the plantations where they only cultivate provisions or 
gram ; or cut wood for firewood or for charcoal, or for cabinet work 
or building ; or raise fodder ; or are engaged in other irregular works, 
the division shall be made to the workmen only every six months. On 
other plantations, as of coffee, cotton, cocoa, indigo, &c,, the division 
shall take place at the end of the respective crops. 

56. When the periods arrive for dividing the proceeds among the 
cultivators the officer of Rural Police of the Section in which the plan- 
tation is situated, shall be called by the proprietor, chief renter, or their 
manager, to witness the division. The accounts of the articles manu- 
factured, or other products reaped, shall be exhibited, with a certificate 
of the price current, and one from the purchaser of the commodities 
mentioned in the last article. The list of persons entitled to share 
shall be settled, and the proceeds shall be reckoned up. 

57. Each of the co-sharers shall be inscribed in the Distribution- 
List, according to their strength and activity and the time they have 
worked, either in the first, second, or third class And the money to be 



RURAL CODE OF HAYTI, 337 

shared shall be divided into quarter shares, half shares, and whole 
shares. The conductors of the labours contracted for at a fourth of 
the produce, and the headmen of the associations labouring for a half, 
shall each have three whole shares. The head sugar-boilers, the head- 
waggoners, and, in short, the head of each department of labour, shall 
have two shares. The good workers of the first class, whether men 
or women, shall have a share and a half; those of the second, one 
share; those of the third, three quarters of a share; children from 
twelve to sixteen years of age, who have made themselves serviceable 
according to their capacities, and the old people who can only work 
moderately, half a share ; and children from nine to eleven years who 
have been occupied according to their age and strength, and infirm 
persons, shall have a quarter share. The broken money, arising from 
the formation of the shares, shall go to augment the portion of those 
labourers who shall have displayed the greatest punctuality and perse- 
verance in their labours. 

58. There shall be furnished to the labourers daily tickets, to shew 
the days they were present at work. Every week these daily tickets 
shall be withdrawn and replaced by weekly tickets, which shall be 
brought into account when the division of the money, arising from the 
crops, takes place. 

59. In no case shall the officer of the Rural Police of the Section 
withdraw, from the sums to be divided, any part for himself. He shall 
prepare a written statement of the division that has been made, which 
shall be addressed, along with the documents in verification of it, to the 
council of Notables of the Commune, there to be referred to, if neces- 
sary. 

60. Proprietors, renters, or managers, cannot give a permit to a 
cultivator, or under-tenant, to travel in the same Commune, and to 
absent himself from his home and his labour for more than eight days, 
which permit shall be delivered gratis on unstamped paper, and ex- 
amined and subscribed by the officer of Rural Police. When a permit 
is required for a longer time, the proprietor, chief renter, or manager, 
shall refer the matter to the commandant of the Commune. 



Chapter II. 

Of the Obligations of Proprietors, Renters, or Managers, towards the 

Cultivators. 

61. Proprietors, renters, or managers, cannot employ, except in 
agricultural labour, and in such labour as is connected therewith, the 
cultivators who shall have contracted with them. They are bound to 
behave to them as good fathers of families. 

62. Proprietors, or chief renters, shall furnish, at their cost and 
charge, the tools or implements of husbandry for the cultivators con- 
tracting to work for a fourth of the produce. These tools cannot be 
renewed, unless it is shewn that they have been worn out or broken in 
the service of the proprietors. The cultivator, however, who shall lose 
the tools supplied to him, shall be bound to replace them ; and if he 



338 RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 

does not, others will be furnished to him^ the value of which shall be 
retained out of his portion of the income. 

63. The proprietor, or chief renter, shall be bound to furnish, with- 
out expense, to the cultivators working for a fourth, the means of con- 
veying their^hares of the produce to the place of sale. Those associ- 
ated for half shall convey it thither at their own charge. 

64. When the proprietor or chief renter undertakes to sell, or cause 
to be sold, the portion of the produce coming to the cultivators working 
for a fourth, or to the associations labouring for a half, he shall be bound 
to furnish clear, legal, proof of the price current of the articles at the 
time they are sold, and to produce, at the time of dividing the proceeds, 
the certificate^of the purchaser, as well as the attestation of the price 
current. 

65. When the part of the produce coming to the cultivators working 
for a fourth, or for a half, shall be sold by the conductors of the work- 
men, or the headmen of the associations, these shall be equally bound 
to furnish proof of the price current of the article at the moment of 
sale, and to exhibit the certificate of the purchaser, (as fixed in the last 
article,) in order to shew that the co-sharers receive fairly that part of 
the produce of their labour to which they are entided, 

66. In no case can the proprietors or chief renters deduct any part 
of the share coming to the cultivators working for a fourth, or to the 
associations working for a half, in order to pay the managers : their 
salaries shall be placed to the account of the proprietor or chief renter. 

67. Proprietors or renters shall be bound, under penalty of a fine of 
five to fifteen dollars, to agree beforehand with a medical practitioner, 
if there be one in the Commune, to look after their cultivators, and to 
furnish the necessary medicines; these medicines being furnished gratis 
to the cultivators contracting at a fourth ; but being paid for, at cost 
price, when furnished to associations working for half, or to under- 
tenants. 

68. Proprietors and chief renters of rural properties, must look to 
it that the infant children on the property shall be well taken care of. 
To this end one or more females shall be expressly appointed to this 
charge, the remuneration for whose attention shall be pcwd by the 
cultivators, in proportion to the number of their children. 

Chapter III. 

Of the obligations of the Cultivators towards the Proprietors, Renters, 

or Managers. 

69. The cultivators shall be obedient and respectful to the pro- 
prietors and renters with whom they have contracted, as well as to 
the managers. 

70. The cultivators are bound to execute, with zeal and punctuality, 
all the agricultural labours which shall be required of them by the pro- 
prietors, renters, or managers, with whom they shall have contracted. 

71. The cultivators, whatever be the nature of their contract, shall 
be bound to devote their whole time to the labours they have engaged 



RURAL CODE OV HAYTI. 33^ 

to perform, and on no account to leave them. They shall not be at liberty 
to absent themselves from their habitation, except from Saturday 
morning to Monday at sunrise, without the consent of the proprietors, 
chief renters, or managers. On all the other working days they shall 
be bound to have a permit from the proprietor, chief renter, or 
manager, if they are not going out of the Commune. But if they are, 
the permit shall be examined and subscribed by the officer of the Rural 
Police of the Section, and by the commandant of the Place. 

72. The cultivators working for a fourth, or associations for a half of 
the produce, shall be bound to prepare, and put in a state fit for deli- 
very, the portion of the produce belonging to the proprietor or chief 
renter, and to convey that produce to the place of delivery, the pro^- 
prietor or chief renter furnishing the means of transport. 

Chapter IV, 

Of the under-contracts between the farmers contracting for half, and 
the cultivators employed by them. 

73. The sub-tenants, and the headmen of associated parties upon the 
plantations, shall have the power of forming sub-contracts directly with 
the cultivators ; but they shall continue responsible to the proprietor or 
chief renter for the acts of the sub-contracting parties. 

74. The number sub-contracting cannot exceed ten for each sub- 
tenant or headman of an association. 

Chapter V. 

Of the rules relating to such as, being in the service of the republic, ' 
reside and labour on rural properties. 

15. Soldiers in active service or other persons, in the employment of 
the State, may make arrangements with proprietors or chief renters, 
and with headmen of associations working for half, or under tenants, to 
labour in cultivating the ground either for a fourth or a half, or as sub- 
tenants. In this case they shall be subject to all the obligations which 
they shall have contracted, and which shall be compatible with their 
public duties. 

76. When soldiers or others, in the service of the State, who have fixed 
their residence on a plantation, shall not have contracted with the pro- 
prietor or renter of that property, they may still make arrangements 
with him either verbally or in writing, to work by the week, by the 
month, or by the job, at such price and on such terms as shall be 
agreed between them. But these soldiers shall be bound to give their 
assistance, without any payment on that account, in all the labours 
connected with the conduits for irrigation, and with the other wells and 
cisterns as well as the fences and enclosures of the gardens and 
savannahs, and the general maintenance of good order on the property* 

77. When the soldiers or others, in the service of the State, shall not 
act agreeably to the two last articles, in regard to the proprietors or 
chief renters, they may be sent away from the property. 



340 RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 

' 78. The soldiers or others, in the service of the Stale, who shall con- 
tract with proprietors or renters to work for wages by the week or other- 
wise, must respect and obey the said proprietors, renters, or managers 
of the property on which they shall labour. 

79. When soldiers or others, in the service of the State, shall have 
been required by the proprietor, chief renter, or manager, to work by 
the day, by the week, or by the job, or otherwise, in a field cultivated 
by labourers for a fourth, or to assist in the manufacture, or gathering in 
of the crop of produce, the wages paid to this description of labourers 
shall be deducted from the mass of the proceeds of this labour before 
the fourth, coming to the cultivators, shall be deducted. 

80. When labourers, such as are spoken of in the preceding article, 
shall be required, by the headman of an association working for half, to 
assist them in their labours, the wages paid to them shall be deducted 
from the portion coming to the associated body, before the distribution 
of it to that body can be made. — If these labourers should quit, of their 
own accord, the work for which they have been engaged, before the end 
of the week, they shall have no claim for the lime they shall have 
worked during the former part of the same week. 



Chapteu VI. ••■ 

Of the 'method qf terminating difficulties between proprietors, renters, 
managers, cultivators, associated persons, sub-tenants, S^x. 

81. When differences shall arise between agricultural proprietors, 
principal renters, managers, and cultivators, associates for a half, or 
sub-tenants, the parties shall first carry their complaints or claims be- 
fore the officer of Rural Police of the Section, who, assisted, if need be, 
by the Council of Agriculture of the quarter, shall forthwith employ 
himself in amicably terminating the differences, as far as they may be 
within his province. 

82. In cases where the differences are of a nature not to be decided 
by the officer of Rural Police, assisted by the Council of Agriculture, 
he shall call upon the parties to choose arbiters, within the Section, to 
settle and decide their differences. 

83. In cases where the differences cannot thus be settled by arbitra- 
tion on the spot, or where the parties shall not have named arbiters, 
the officer of Rural Police shall wait till Saturday or Sunday in order to 
send the parties before the Justice of Peace of the Commune. The 
whole must be concluded within the space of six days at most, 

84. The Justice of Peace shall be bound to decide the difference, and 
shall not be at liberty, under pain of being punished for a denial' of jus- 
tice, to allege the silence of the law on the case brought before him for 
his decision. 

85. The Justice of Peace shall be bound to pronounce within twenty- 
four hours, at the utmost, after the appearance of the parties. 



RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 341 

LAW, No. IV. 

CONCERNING BREEDING FARMS. 

Chapter I. 

Of the establishment and administration of breeding farms. 

Article 86. Breeding farms cannot be established except in places 
sufficiently distant, not less at the least than a league, from the planta- 
tions cultivated for produce. 

87. In future, in order to establish a breeding farm for horned cattle, it 
is necessary to be a proprietor of at least fifty carreaux* of land, pro- 
vided with the necessary pasturage ; and for hogs twenty-five carreaux. 

88. The number of keepers on breeding farms cannot exceed five men, 
comprising the master keeper, they having with them their wives and 
children. 

89. Every keeper of a breeding farm, who shall find in the herds com- 
mitted to his care, or in the savannahs of the breeding farm on which he is 
employed, any strange animals, shall be bound to give notice of them 
forthwith to the neighbouring cattle keepers; and if these animals should 
not belong to their cattle pens, then notice of them shall be given to the 
officer of the Rural Police of the Section. 

90. After these strange animals shall have remained three months in 
the savannah of a breeding farm, without being reclaimed by their owners, 
they shall be taken by the cattle keeper before the Justice of Peace of the 
Commune, in order that they may be conducted to the pound. 

91. As soon as an animal in a breeding farm shall appear to be attacked 
by a contagious disorder, it must, under pain of a fine of ten to twenty 
dollars, payable by the cattle keeper, be separated and shut out from all 
communication with the other cattle, in order to be taken proper care of 
till its cure or death. 

92. Every animal dying in a breeding farm of a contagious disorder 
shall be burnt or buried. 

93. It is forbidden, on pain of a fine of ten to twenty dollars, payable 
by every offender, to set fire to the savannahs of breeding farms without 
the permission of the officer of the Rural Police of the Commune. 

94. When it shall happen that cattle die, on the plantations, of ordi- 
nary maladies, or by accident, if the proprietor or chief renter of the 
breeding farm is not present, the master keeper shall be bound to obtain 
an attestation of the death of the animal from the officer of the Rural 
Pohce, or from some of the neighbours ; and the skin, having the stamp 
or mark, shall be produced to the proprietor, otherwise the keeper shall 
be bound to replace the animal. 

95. The animals, not only those of the breeding farms, but those which 
are employed in the work of plantations, cannot be stamped except with 
cast stamps; and it is forbidden to make marks on these animals by the 
hand. 



* A carreau contains about three acres. 



342 RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 

Chapter II. 

Of the contracts between the proprietors or renters of breeding farms and 
those employed on them. 

96. The proprietors or renters of breeding farms cannot receive on their 
farms any keepers or other persons, unless they have previously con- 
tracted with them agreeably to the article 47, of Law III. 

97. The obligations imposed reciprocally on rural proprietors or 
renters, and the cultivators shall be common to the proprietors or 
renters of breeding farms, and all employed by them, in all that con- 
cerns good order and the general police. 

98. Neither the master cattle keeper or any other cattle keeper can 
receive, on the breeding farm where they are employed, animals or cattle 
belonging to other people, without the consent of the proprietors or 
renters of the farm. 

99. Neither the master cattle keeper nor the other keepers shall be 
at liberty to remove or sell any animal of the farm, without having, in 
writing, the consent of the proprietor or renter, and without a permit on 
stamped paper from the officer of the Rural Police of the Section, who 
shall be bound to register the permit with the stamp of the animals. 



LAW, No. V. 

ON THE CARE AND MANAGEMENT OF THE ANIMALS, AND THE 
DAMAGE THEY MAY DO IN THE FIELDS. 

100. Cattle belonging to cultivators, shall be kept in herds witk 
those of the proprietor; and the keepers shall be paid their salairy, half 
by the proprietor, and half by the cultivators. 

101. It is forbidden to mutilate, maim, or kill beasts of burden, or 
horned cattle, found in the cultivated land, or gardens, having leaped 
over or forced the fences. 

102. It is likewise forbidden to wound or kill sheep found in culti- 
vated gardens, or enclosures. 

103. Pigs and goats, found in cultivated gardens and enclosures, may 
be killed. 

104. The animals enumerated in Articles 101 and 102, which may be 
found in cultivated gardens, shall be conducted, within twenty- four 
hours after their seizure, before a Justice of Peace, to be sent to the 
pound of the Commune, if within that time the owner do not withdraw 
them from the pen of the plantation in the gardens of which they may 
be found. 

105. The officer of the Rural Police shall, within twenty-four hours 
after a declaration by the parties interested, be bound to draw up a 
written statement of the damage done by the animals, and send it to 
the Justice of Peace, unless the due compensation is voluntarily made 
to the owner of the damaged garden. 

106. The officer of Rural Police shall take care to send the written 
statement to the Justice of Peace, in due form as above, that the said 
Justice may decide according to law. 



RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 343 

107. The keepers who shall have suffered the animals mentioned in 
Article 27, to escape, when committed to their charge, shall be bound 
to pay the expences attending their capture, according to the tarif esta- 
blished by law. 

108. Proprietors, renters, or managers of plantations, are expressly 
forbidden to make use in any manner for themselves of the cattle, taken 
in their gardens, during the time they shall remain in their pens before 
being sent to the pound; any violation of this article shall be punished 
by a fine of five to fifteen dollars. 

109. The seizure of the animals mentioned in Articles 101 and 102, 
in gardens, when they are conducted to the pound of the Commune, shall 
be paid for as follows: — For each of the horse kind, one dollar; for each 
ass, seventy-five cents ; for each horned animal, one dollar and a half; 
and for each ram or sheep, twenty-five cents : one half to belong to the 
seizor, and one half to the rural guards. 

110. When the animals seized in gardens shall be Avithdrawn from 
the pen of the plantation, before being sent to the pound, there shall then 
be paid, and only to the persons who have taken them, half the penalty 
fixed by the last Article. 

111. When an animal seized in a garden, and sent to the pen of the 
plantation, happens to die by accident, or otherwise, during the short 
time it remains there, or while passing to the residence of the Justice of 
Peace of the Commune, the officer of the Police shall be bound, by wit- 
nesses, to ascertain the cause of the death of the animal. 

112. When the death of the animal shall have been caused by negli- 
gence, want of food, or violence, the proprietor, renter, or manager of 
the plantation shall pay its value, as estimated by arbitrators named 
by the Justice of the Peace of the Commune. The sum thus paid, shall 
be sent to the public administrator of the district, to be paid to the owner, 
should he appear, or, failing this, into the treasury. In all cases, the 
damage done by the animd shall be paid for out of these proceeds. 

113. When animals seized in gardens, by virtue of Article 104, shall 
be taken to the Justice of Peace of the Commune, to be sent to the 
pound, if the owner consents to pay the damage done, and the expenses 
of seizure, before they enter the pound, the Justice of Peace shall 
acquiesce. 

114. Persons conducting herds of cattle from one Commune to an- 
other, whether to market, or for agriculture, shall be bound to provide 
themselves with a permit, stating the kind and number of the animals 
they are conducting, their description and marks. 

115. The permits shall be delivered either by the Commandants of Com- 
munes ; or given by the owners and examined and signed by the Com- 
mandants ; or upon certificates furnished by the officer of the Rural 
Police of the Sections from whence the animals come. These permits 
shall be registered by those who delivered them, and seen and signed 
by the Commandants of all the Communes through v^^hich the herds may 
pass. 

116, The conductors of herds, when met by the Rural Police or the 
gend'armerie, shall be bound, on demand, to shew their permits ; and 
where the number of animals, or their description, s hall not agree with 



344 RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 

the statement in the permit, they may, should any cause of suspicion 
appear, be arrested, and conducted to the nearest post, with the ani- 
mals, in order to be brought before the Justice of Peace of the Consmune, 

117. If the parties brought before the Justice of Peace, cannot prove 
their right of property in the animals for which there is no permit, and 
if they cannot give good security for their bringing back the proof of 
property within a time to be allowed them, not exceeding fifteen days, 
they shall be sent to prison, and the animals to the pound. 

118. Within a month from the day of the arrest, the Justice of Peace 
shall be bound to write to the Justice of the Commune from which the 
person imprisoned may have come, or to the officer of the Rural Police 
of the Section, (if in the same Commune,) to obtain information both 
about the person, and the animals stopped : which information, on 
being received, shall be forwarded to the public administration, with 
the written statement of the Justice of Peace, to be used as the ground 
of charge against the suspected person, should cause appear for prose- 
cuting him. 



LAW, No. VI. 
CONCERNING THE RURAL POLICE. 

Title First. 
General Regulations, 

119. The Rural Police embraces all which belongs to the manage- 
ment and to the prosperity of rural property. 

120. The Rural Police is conducted, under the superintendance of 
the Commandants of Departments, and of the Commandants of Com- 
munes, by officers of Rural Police placed in the Sections of each Com- 
mune ; by the rural guards, by the gend'armerie, and, at need, by 
detachments of troops of the line. 

121. The Justices of Peace exercise also the rural police in the cases 
pointed out by law. 

122. The Councils of Notables of the Communes, and the Cotmcils of 
Agiiculture are to assist, at need, all the authorities in perfectly maintain- 
ing the superintendance of the Agricultural Police. 

Title Second. 

Of the Superintendance. 

Chapter I. — Of the high superintendance of the Commandants of 

Departments. 

123. The military Commandant of the Department having the general 
superintendance of the agriculture of the Department entrusted to him, 
unites the authority necessary for giving activity to agriculture, and is 
responsible, 1st. for the decay of cultivation within the extent of his 
command ; 2d. for the execution of the whole or part of the Rural Code 
■within the extent of his Department; 3d. for the negligence of the 
Commandants of Communes under his orders, relative to the superin- 
tendance of agriculture in the communes confided to them, provided 
he shall not have checked that negligence. 

124. The Commandant of the Department is bound to make, once in 
every year, a circuit through all the rural Sections of the difi'erent Com- 



RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 345 

nnines composing the Department, in order to satisfy himself personally 
of the execution of the laws, of the progress and state of industry, and 
to make a detailed report upon the subject to the President of Hayti. 

125. This annual report, which must be made by the Commandants 
of Departments to the President, shall state the number of plantations 
kept up in every Section, their kind of cultivation, their improvement or 
their decay, together with the condition of the roads and ways, both 
public and private, 

CflAPTER 11. 

Of the siiperintendance of the Commandants of Places and Communes. 

126. The commandant of the Place or the Commune has the cul- 
tivation of the Commune entrusted to him. If he has under his orders 
cantons or parishes which form military posts, the Commandants of these 
posts have the particular oversight of the cultivation of the district sub- 
ject to their command. 

127. The Commandant of the Commune is responsible for the de- 
crease of cultivation within the sphere of his command, if it proceeds 
from the neglect of any branch of the public service. 

128. The Commandants of Places and Communes are bound to make, 
three times in the year, the circuit of the different Sections under their 
command. 

129. The Commandant of the Commune, in his circuits, shall visit the 
gardens of produce and provisions, the fences, and the new plantations. 
He shall enter into all the details pointed out by the Rural Code, ascer- 
taining whether the officer of the Rural Police of the Section has fulfilled 
all the duties imposed upon him by the law. He shall repress whatever 
acts of negligence and irregularity he shall observe; and of the whole 
an account shall be drawn up in the prescribed form for each Section ; 
a duplicate of which shall be sent to the Commandant of the Department. 

Chapter III. 

Of the rural sections, of the officers of the Rural Police, of the rural 

guards, and of the managers and conductors of ■plantations. 

Sect. I. — Of the Rural Sections. 

130. The Communes shall, by an express regulation of the President 
of Hayti for each military Department, be divided into agricultural Sec- 
tions, of about four leagues each in the plains, and in the mountains 
according to the nature of the ground. 

131. Each Section shall have its proper name; and its limits and 
boundaries shall be fixed. ^ 

132. After the Sections are formed, the Commandant of the Commune, 
the Council of Notables, and one of the private surveyors, shall prepare 
in triplicate, upon sheets endorsed by the Justice of Peace, schedules of 
all the rural properties situated in each Section, with the names and 
designation of the proprietors, the extent of each property, and the kind 
of tillage carried on there. One of these schedules shall be deposited 
in the office of the Commandant of the Commune, one with the Council 
of Notables, and the other in the hands of the officer of the Rural Police 
of the Section. 

133. The Council of Notables shall furnish to the Justice of Peace of 
the Commune a collated copy of the schedule deposited with them. 



34G RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 

The Commandant of the Commune shall furnish to the Commandant of 
the Department a copy of the same schedule deposited in his office. 
The Commandant of theDepartment, after having collected the schedules 
of the plantations of all the Sections of the Communes forming his De- 
partment, shall draw up a catalogue of the whole, a certified copy of 
which he shall address to the President of Hayti. 

134. The officer of the Rural Police shall give notice to the Com- 
mandant of the Commune, of every change of property of a rural 
estate situated in the Section, and of every change of culuvation, who 
shall note it in the roll deposited in his office, and shall give notice of 
it to the Commandant of the Department, who shall likewise inscribe 
the change on the roll in his hands, and inform the Government of it. 

135. The Council of Agriculture of the Section, shall give the same 
notice to the Council of Notables of the Commune; and the' Council of 
Notables, after having noted it, shall inform the Justice of Peace, who 
shall cause the change to be inscribed on the copy of the roll in his 
office. 

136. Every year, between the first and fifteenth of February, the 
officers of the Rural Police of each Section, shall receive from the agents 
for the financial department of their Commune, a certain number of 
stamped lists of population in blank ; which they shall be bound to 
furnish to the proprietor, renter, or manager of each plantation of the 
Section, before the end of the month ; receiving the price of the stamp, 
which shall be paid over to the agent. This assessment shall be made 
as follows : — The stamped list of population for an estate containing ten 
carreaux of land, shall be twelve and a half cents ; for those having 
eleven to twenty carreaux, twenty-five cents ; for twenty-one carreaux, 
and upwards, fifty cents. 

137. The proprietors, i-enters, or managers of plantations, shall be 
bound to return the population list, filled up in the manner there pointed 
out, to the officer of the Rural Police, at the latest on the 20th of March 
following, under penalty of a fine of fifteen to fifty dollars for each 
neglect. 

138. The officer of the Rural Police of each section shall be bound, 
on the 5th of April at the latest, to send in all the population lists of his 
Section, or to note the names of the defaulters, to the Council of Nota- 
bles of each Commune, under penalty of suffering himself the fine im- 
posed by the preceding Article. 

1 39. On the first of May every year, the Councils of Notables of every 
Commune shall address to the Government the original population lists 
which they have received, in virtue of the preceding Article. 

Sect. II. — Of the officers of Rural Police, and of the rural guards. 

140. In every rural Section, a military officer of subaltern rank (from 
sub-lieutenant to captain) chosen by the President of Hayti, shall be 
stationed, who shall be charged with the superintendance of the Section, 
and its police. 

. 141. The "officers of the Rural Police of the different Sections, shall 
be independent of each other, and shall have no relation except 
with the Commandants of the Commune and of the Department 
under whose orders they are placed : they shall correspond moreove? 



RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 347 

with the civil authorities, and shall pay deference to their requisitions, 

142. The dwelling of the officer of the Rural Police shall he fixed iu 
the centre of his Section, and near' the public road which traverses it. 

143. The officer of the Rural Police is specially charged to cause 
agriculture to prosper in the Section confided to him, and to cause the 
law and property to be there respected. He is responsible, in the ex- 
tent of his Section, 1. for the due execution of the Rural Code in what 
is within his province, as well as of all other acts of the Government 
relative to agriculture, or the Rural Police. 2. For every neglect in 
the superintendance and manual labour of the plantations of the Sec- 
tion. 3. For all vagrancies, disorders, and breaches of police in the 
Section, when he has not repressed them, or reported them to the supe- 
rior authority. He shall take an oath before the Commandant of the 
District, previous to entering on the duties of his office. 

144. The officer of the Rural Police shall have under his orders, at 
a fixed station, three rural guards, one of whom shall be of the rank of 
quarter-master, and perform the functions of secretary; one of the 
rank of brigadier; and the other a simple dragoon. These rural 
guards shall be sworn ; the oath shall be taken before the Commandant 
of the Department. 

145. The officer of the Rural Police shall be bound to make the cir- 
cuit of his Section, and visit each plantation in it once a week. 

146. The officer of the Rural Police shall be ready to attend to the 
calls of the proprietors, renters, or managers of plantations, by day and 
by night, or to send rural guards there to enforce the law, and to main- 
tain order. 

147. One of the rural guards shall repeat every week, on each 
plantation of the Section, the visit of the officer of the Rural Police, 
so that the plantations shall be visited at the least twice every week. 

148. When the officer of the Rural Police, or the rural guards, in 
their ordinary rounds, shall arrive upon a plantation, they shall address 
themselves first to the proprietor, if present, or, in his absence, to the 
chief renter, or to the manager, and shall inquire if every thing is iu 
order : after this formality, they shall set themselves to inspect the 
labours, to satisfy themselves that these proceed properly ; thev shall 
also see whether all the labourers are at work; and they shall inquire 
the causes of the absence of such as are not at work, and shall act 
according to law. 

149. When an officer of the Rural Police of the Section, is prevented 
by any lawful cause from making the circuit and visit required by 
articles 145 and 146, he shall be bound to give notice thereof to the 
Commandant of the Commune, who shall replace him by an officer o 
gend'armerie, or of the troops of the line quartered in the Commune, 
while the impediment lasts, 

150. The officer of the Rural Police, who, without lawful hindrance, 
shall neglect to make the rounds and visits required by the articles 
145 and 146, shall suffer a punishment, to be inflicted by the Com- 
mandant of the Commune ; and in case of his repeating the neglect, 
he shall be reported to the Commandant of the Department, who shall 
be bound to bring him to the notice of the President of Hayti. 

151. Every Sunday morning, the officer of the Rural Police shall 



348 RURAL CODE OF IIAYTI. 

be bound to present himself in person, or send one of liis rural guards, 
with a written report, to the commandant of the Commune, to inform 
him of whatever remarkable may have occurred in his section. 

152. The officer of the Rural Police, and the rural guards, shall 
receive their pay and allowances, according to their ranks, whenever 
the troops of the line in active service shall be paid. 

153. The State shall supply to the rural guards arms, accoutrements, 
and clothing, as to the troops of the line. 

154. The uniform of officers of the Rural Police, shall be a green 
coat, with flaps turned back, collar, cuffs, and facings red, white lining, 
white buttons half arched, with a cornucopia surrounded by the cap 
of liberty, 'and for a legend, " Republique d'Hayti" and a cocked hat. 
They shall also bear in silver the epaulettes and fringes of their ranks, 
%vear white waistcoats and pantaloons, and horsemen's boots. That 
of the rural guards shall be a jacket of the same colour and make as 
the officers of the Rural Police, with the marks of their rank in lace of 
silver or white worsted, and plated helmets. The arms shall be the 
dragoon sabre, cartouche-box, and blunderbuss : they shall wear a red 
shoulder belt from right to left, with "force de la hi," written upon 
it in blue letters. 

Sect. 3. — Of Managers and Conductors of Plantations. 

155. Upon every plantation where the proprietor is not resident, and 
where there is no chief renter resident, there shall be a manager ap- 
pointed by the proprietor or chief renter. 

156. The proprietor or chief renter, after having chosen such manager 
as he pleases, shall enter into a mutual contract with him, before 
a notary, the terms being such as the parties may agree upon : after 
which the manager shall be made known to the officer of the Rural 
Police of the section. 

157. Every proprietor, or chief renter, of a rural property in culti- 
vation, not residing upon it, and who shall not have appointed a man- 
ager for the property, shall be subject, if the number of cultivators 
exceeds ten, to a fine of ten to fifty dollars, according to the extent 
of the property. When the number of labourers does not exceed ten, 
the management may be entrusted to a conductor. 

158. The duties of the manager are to superintend, in the interest 
of the proprietor who employs him, the labours of the plantation en- 
trusted to him. 

159. The managers of plantations are answerable to the proprietors, 
or chief renters, for every neglect or abandonment of labour where they 
are employed. They shall in such case be prosecuted by the parties 
entitled. 

160. The manager shall have the respect of all the labourers of the 
estate where he is employed. 

161. Upon an estate where the fields or gardens are divided among 
associations working for half, or among sub-tenants, each headman of 
such association, and each sub-tenant, becomes the conductor of his 
own working party, or of his association. He is answerable for the 
labour of his associates. 

162. The duties of the conductors are, to cause the work to be done 



RURAL CODE OF MAYTI. 349 

by the labouring parties entrusted to them, under the direction of the 
proprietor, chief renter, or manager. 

163. The conductors shall be answerable for all neglect of work ; 
for all absence, without lawful authority, of the labourers ; and for 
all disorders and vagrancies of the labourers ; when they shall not 
have reported the same to the competent authorities. 

164. The conductors shall be paid from the proceeds of the produce 
raised by the labourers they direct, according to article 57, of Law, 
No. 3. 

Chapter. IV. 

Of the Council of Agriculture in the Rural Sections. 

165. On the first of May in every year, being tlie day of the Festival 
of Agriculture, the Commandant of each Commune, the Justice of 
Peace, and the Council of Notables, shall conjointly select from each 
rural Section, three of the most respectable citizens, being proprietors, 
chief renters, or managers, to form the Council of Agriculture of the 
Section. 

166. The selection of the members of the Comicil of Agriculture 
shall be immediately communicated, by the Commandant of the Com- 
mune, to the Commandant of the Department, who shall communicate 
it to the Government. 

167. The members of the Councils of Agriculture shall be in office 
for one year only ; but they may be re-elected each year, if they have 
shewn zeal in the execution of their duties during the former year. 

168. The Councils of Agriculture being composed of persons culti- 
vating the soil, and interested in the preservation of good order in the 
rural administration, each of the members is bound, without essentially 
deranging his own affairs, to inquire into all that passes in his Section, 
in order to report to the Council of Notables. 

169. The business of the Councils of Agriculture is, 1. To see that 
the laws relating to cultivation, are not infringed in their execution, 
2. To endeavour, by new experiments, and by maintaining concord 
among all those interested in cultivation, to increase progressively its 
results ; 3. To communicate to the Council of Notables, and to the 
military authorities, every abuse or neglect which may occur in the 
Section which they inhabit. 

170. The members of the Council of Agriculture are to correspond, 
individually or collectively, with the functionaries or authorities with 
whom they are required to have relations. 

171. The office of a member of the Council of Agriculture is 
honorary. 

Third Title. 
Of the Rural Police. 

172. The Rural Police is to be specially administered by the officers 
charged with the rural Sections of the Communes, assisted by rural 
guards. 

173. The Rural Police has for its objects, 1. To repress vagrancy. 
2. Order and assiduity in the labours of the field. 3. The discipline 
of the labouring population. 4. The making and repairing public and 
private roads. 



350 RURAL CODE OF HAYTJ. 

CHAPTEll I. 

Of the Repression of Vagrancy. 

174. All persons who shall not be proprietors, or renters of the lantt 
on which they are fixed, or who shall not have contracted with some 
proprietor or chief" renter, shall be reputed vagrants, and shall be ar- 
rested by the rural police of the Section in which they may be found, 
and carried before the Justice of Peace of the Commune. 

175. The Justice of Peace, after interrogating and hearing the per- 
son brought before him, shall make known the lav/ which obliges him 
to employ himself in agricultural labour; and after that notice, he shall 
detain him in prison, until he shall have contracted according to the 
terms of the law. 

176. The Justice of Peace shall take care the person arrested shall 
make his own choice of the proprietor, or chief renter, or sub-tenant, 
or headman of an association, with whom he may contract. 

177. If after eight days detention, the detained has not taken mea- 
sures for engaging in agricultural employment, he shall be sent to the 
public works, for cleaning the city or town where the prison is situated, 
and there he shall be employed until he determines to contract to en- 
gage in rural labour. Any person who withdraws any of these detained 
persons from the public works, to employ them in private work, shall 
be subject to a fine of fifty dollars, of which a moiety shall be paid to 
the detained person complaining. 

178. If the person arrested be a minor, the Justice of Peace shall 
inquire for his parents, and send him to join them, to follow their con- 
dition of life. 

179. After three months from the publication of this Code, ri^-or 
shall be employed against delinquents. 

180. Every person fixed in the country as a cultivator, who shall on 
a working day, and during the hours of labour, be found unem- 
ployed, or running about, or lounging on the public roads, shall be 
considered as idle, and shall in consequence be arrested, and taken 
before the Justice of Peace, who shall send him to prison for twenty- 
four hours, for the first offence; and shall send him to public labour in 
the town on a repetition of it. 

181. The officers of the Rural Police, shall take care that vagrants 
and idlers do not conceal themselves under the garb of the soldiers of 
the different corps. When they discover, in the Sections under their 
superintendance, men whom they do not personally know to be in 
active service in the corps whose uniform they wear, they shall arrest 
them, and send them to the military commandant of the Commune, to 
ascertain if the individual arrested with the uniform of a corps really 
belongs to it. If the party prove not to be a soldier, he shall be put 
in prison, according to article 175, until he enter into a contract to 
labour in agriculture. 

182. The officers of the Rural Police, shall take care that in the 
respective Sections under their command, no person shall live in idle- 
ness. To this end, they have authority to oblige such persons as are 
employed in labour, to give account of the nature of their occupations; 



RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 351 

and if they cannot prove that they cultivate the soil, or are employed 
on breeding- farms, according to tlie Law, No. IV., they shall be consi- 
dered as without a living, and shall be arrested as vagrants. 

Chapter II. 
Of order and assiduity in rural labour. 

183. The labours of the field shall commence on Monday morning, 
not to cease until Friday evening, (legal holidays excepted). But in 
extraordinary cases, when the interest of the cultivators as well as of 
the proprietors requires it, w^ork shall be continued until Saturday. 

184. On working-days, the ordinary labour of the field shall com- 
mence at day-davi^n and continue until mid-day, with the interval of 
half an hour for breakfast, which shall be taken on the spot where 
they are at work. In the afternoon, the labour shall commence at two 
o'clock, to continue imtil sun-set. 

185. Pregnant females shall be employed on light work only; and 
after the fourth month of pregnancy, they shall not be liable to work in 
the field. 

186. Four months after delivery, they shall be bound to resume 
labour; but they shall not be at work until one hour after sun-rise 
to quit it at eleven o'clock, and from two o'clock until one hour before 
sun-set. 

187. No cultivator fixed on a rural property, shall absent himself 
from the labour assigned him, without the permission of the manager, 
in the absence of the proprietor or chief renter, who shall not give this 
permission unless the case be urgent. 

Chapter III. 
Of the discipline of the labourers. 

188. The labourers upon rural properties shall be obedient to the 
conductors of the works, to the headmen of associations, to the 
sub-tenants, chief renters, proprietors, and managers, whenever they 
are called upon to execute the labours for which they have contracted. 

189. Every act of disobedience or insult, on the part of a workman, 
commanded to do any work which he has engaged to do by a reci- 
procal contract or agreement, shall be punished by imprisonment, 
according to the exigency of the case, and according to the decision of 
the Justice of Peace of the Commune. 

190. Saturdays, Sundays, and Holidays, being at the disposal of 
the cultivators, they shall not be permitted, on working days, to quit 
their work, to indulge in dancing or feasting, neither by night nor 
by day. Offenders against this rule, shall be subject to three days 
imprisonment for the first offence, and to six days for a repetition of it. 

Chapter IV. 
On the ynaking and repairing the public roads. 

191. The public roads shall be kept up and repaired by the la- 
bourers, in turn, of the whole Section they pass through, whenever 
their state of injury may require repair. The private roads shall in 
like manner be kept in order by the cultivators of the estates of (he 
Section who are in the habit of using them. 



352 RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 

192. Whenever a public or private road needs repair, the officer of 
the Rural Police shall give notice of it to the Commandant of the 
Commune. 

193. If the repairs are of small importance, the Commandant of the 
Commune shall order them to be done. But if they require many 
hands, he shall give notice of it to the Commandant of the Department 
that it may be promptly accelerated. The Council of Agriculture 
of the Section shall inform the Council of Notables of the work which 
is to be done. 

194. The number of labourers necessary for any particular repair, 
shall be taken from the plantation rolls mentioned in article 132, in 
proportion to the labouring population of each, which is bound to assist 
in the work. 

195. Those proprietors who have not four labourers attached to 
their estate, shall in no case furnish more than one labourer for the 
repairs of roads. 

196. Every cultivator ordered to work in repairing the roads, who 
shall not come to that work, shall pay a fine of six quarter dollars 
a week, or be imprisoned for one week, and this shall not exempt him 
from working; the week folio wins:. 

197. Every proprietor, or chief renter of a plantation, who, having 
received a demand for labourers, shall not furnish them, shall be liable 
to a fine of three dollars for each labourer not furnished ; half the fine 
to be paid to the chest of fines, and half to be employed in replacing 
the labourers. 

198. Labourers called out to repair the roads, shall bring the tools 
and agricultural instruments used on the plantation, otheiwise the 
officer of the Rural Police shall furnish them with tools with which he 
is to be supplied by the administration, and upon the report of it being 
made to the Justice of Peace of the Commune, he shall sentence the 
proprietor of the plantation to which the defaulters may belong, or his 
representative, to reimburse to the administration double the value of 
the tools furnished. 

199. When means of transport are wanted for the repair of public 
or private roads, the estates having wains or carts shall send them ; 
in default of wains or carts, cattle shall be supplied. 

200. The supply of eight beasts of burden, shall be equal to the 
supply of one cart with its team. 

201. No person shall, for his private interests, take, from the repair 
of the roads, those who are sent to work upon them. Every one con- 
travening this order shall pay fifty dollars for each labourer so with- 
drawn, even for one day. The director of the work shall call over the 
labourers every morning, to ascertain their presence. 

202. The labourers ordered on the public roads, shall present them- 
selves on Monday morning, not to quit while the work shall last, until 
Friday evening. 

Passed in the Chamber of Commons, at Port-au-Prince, on the 
21st of April, 1826, 23d year of Independence. 

BluzAiNE, President of the Chamber. 
Pre. JuNCA, and Ardouin, Secretaries. 



REMARKS ON THE RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 353 

The Senate decrees the acceptance of the Rural Code of Hayti, 
which shall be sent, within twenty-four hours, to the President of Hayti, 
to have his execution, in the manner fixed by the Constitution. At 
the National House at Port-au-Prince, this 4th of May 1826, 23d year 
of Independence. 

P. RouATSTEz, President of the Senate. 
Gayot, and F. Dubreuil, Secretaries, 

__ In the Name of the Republic : 

The President of Hayti orders, that the above Laws, constituting 
the Rural Code of Hayti, be sealed with the Seal of the Republic, and 
be published and executed. 

Given at the National Palace of Port-au-Prince, this 6th of May, 
1826, 23d year of Independence. 

BOYEK. 

By the President, B. Inginac, Secretary-General. 



Such Js the Rural Code of Hayti. We shall be excused for exa- 
mining- its provisions at some length, in order that the dishonourable 
pains which have been taken to pervert its meaning may be frustrated, 
and its real nature and bearing fully understood. 

The West Indian party, not content with affirming that this law in- 
volves, to a certain degree and in certain cases, the principle of com- 
pelling agricultural labour, (a principle which, as we shall see, the laws 
of England itself do also involve,) have endeavoured to show that its 
principle is identically the same with that of the slave codes of our 
own Colonies, and especially v/ith the code of Jamaica. To prove this 
favourite -point, they set out with imposing on the public a forged 
and mangled document, as a proclamation of the Haytian Govern- 
ment; and instead of giving us the code itself, they gave us, in the 
first instance, their own comment upon it, which was to this efl-ect, 
that the driving system was in full operation in Hayti; — and when, by 
the arrival of the document itself in this country, the truth of the case 
could no longer be concealed, it became necessary to endeavour to 
make their manner of translating it, into English, afford some colour 
to such a representation. Within the whole range of this code, how- 
ever, they have been able to find only a single expression which 
could be bent to serve this dishonest purpose. The word " con- 
ducteur," they have been compelled to translate by the word " driver," 
that is to say, by a word which, to an English ear, represents a man 
wielding the cart-whip, and impelling the labour of his fellows by its 
infliction. And on this gross and wilful perversion is the whole of 
their hypothesis on the subject of driving founded. Compulsory 
labour by the cart-whip, we all know, is the main and leading and 
essential feature of our slave system ; with which indeed the express 
declarations of Trinidad and other Colonies, and the recent conduct 
of the Jamaica Assembly prove it to be essentially interwoven, nay, 
absolutely identified, in the minds of our Colonists generally. Now all 
idea of such compulsion is so completely and entirely excluded by the 
Haytian law, that even the far-fetched construction of a particular 



354 REMARKS ON THE RURAL CODE OF IIAYTI. 

phrase, could it be established, would not vary the undoubted cer- 
tainty of that exclusion. But the phrase itself will not bear the 
forced construction put upon it. The well known and universal 
term for driver, in all the French slave colonies, and in the works of 
all French writers on the subject, is not "■ conducteur'^ hnt^^ com- 
mandeur." We speak with perfect confidence on this point. The 
most common application of the term conducteur, in France, is to the 
man who accompanies the Diligences in that country, with functions 
corresponding to the guards of our mail coaches ; and it is also em- 
ployed to signify a foreman, such as is to be found in every large 
printing office, or workshop, and in every large collection of labourers 
in this country. That the word conducteur is sometimes applied to 
persons in charge of cattle is true, and then it corresponds to the well 
known term in this country of drover, the person employed to guide 
and conduct them on their way. 

But supposing the point to be yielded, and that conducteur may be 
rendered by the word driver ; yet we find him here, unhappily for our 
West Indian commentators, divested of the essential attributes of a 
Jamaica or a Barbadoes driver. He wants the driving instrument. 
He is without his cart-whip, 'i'hat execrable engine of exaction and 
oppression has no place in the Haytian code. And let it not be sup- 
posed that this is a trivial or unimportant point of difference. It is 
most vital. What, for example, has been one of the main causes 
why negro life has been wasting, and still is wasting, with a fearful 
rapidity, in our slave colonies ? It has been the presence of the cart- 
whip, in the hands of the driver, to which, even the Assembly of 
Jamaica still cling with a fond tenacity, refusing not only to abolish 
its use as the stimulus to labour, but as the instrument of inflicting 
torture on the delicate limbs even of the female slave. — And what has 
been the cause that in the last twenty-two years, while the British 
slave population has been wasting away, the negro population of Hayti 
has more than doubled its numbers ? It has been the absence of that 
torturing impulse. We want nothing but this one fact to satisfy us, to 
satisfy any man of common reflection, any man who is not blindly 
wedded to the West Indian system with all its murderous tendencies, 
or who does not feel that his own character is involved in discovering 
some plausible apology for defending it; — we want nothing but this 
to satisfy us of the wide, the infinite, distance there is between that 
system and the system prevailing in Hayti. Let ten times more fraud 
and imposture be practised, let fresh proclamations be forged, let fresh 
mistranslations be invented, and fresh misrepresentations multiplied ; — 
all will weigh as nothing, in the face of the impregnable fact, that 
the population of Hayti is most rapidly increasing, while that of our 
slave and sugar colonies continues, from year to year, and from day to 
day, to moulder away. This is enough to satisfy the statesman and 
the philanthropist, without any aid from the new lights of Major 
Moody's philosophy of labour, so happily and effectually extinguished 
in the last number of the' Edinburgh Review. 

And here let it not be supposed that all this is mere idle declama- 
tion, the hundredth repetition, even to nausea, of some stale, obsolete, 
and antiquated appendage of colonial slavery, which, a new era having 



REMARKS ON THE RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 355 

begun its course, we must blot from our memories; contemplating not 
what slavery was, but only what it has become under the mild and be- 
nignant reforms which the temperate and judicious philanthropy of the 
West-Indian legislatures has introduced. — Be it so. We will even take the 
very latest example of colonial reform and mitigation. It is now before 
us in the shape of an act of the legislature of Jamaica, passed only 
four months ago, and bearing date the 22d of December, 1826. Of 
this act the 37th clause runs thus. "And in order to restrain 
ARBITRARY PUNISHMENTS, be it further enacted, that no slave, on 
any plantation or settlement, or in any of the workhouses or gaols in 
this island, shall receive any more than ten lashes at one time 
and for one offence, unless the owner, attorney, guardian, executor, 
administrator, or overseer, of such plantation or settlement, having 
such slave in his care, or keeper of such workhouse, or keeper of such 
gaol shall be present; and that no such owner, attorney, guardian, 
executor, administrator, or overseer, workhouse-keeper, or gaol- 
keeper, shall, on any account, punish a slave with more than thirty- 
nine LASHES at one time and for one offence, nor inflict, nor suffer to 
be inflicted, such last-mentioned punishment, nor any other number of 
lashes on the same day, nor until the delinquent has recovered from 
the effect of any former punishment, under a penalty not less than ten 
pounds, nor more than twenty pounds, for every offence," &c. 

Such is the law passed, by the enhghtened legislature, of Jamaica, in 
December, 1826, and which is applicable to every slave, man, woman. 
Or child in that island. By that law the driver may inflict ten lashes ; — 
and the owner and overseer, nay, the gaol-keeper and workhouse- 
keeper, the attorney, guardian, and administrator may, each and every 
one of them, inflict thirty-nine lashes, on the bare posteriors of any 
and every slave, man, woman, or child in the island, without a trial, 
without the order of a magistrate, for no defined offence, but merely 
because he (the owner, &c.) is offended ; nor can he, 6y ant/ law, be 
called to answer for such conduct. Nay, the clause is framed for the 
express purpose of protecting him against all responsibility for so doing. 
And yet, in mockery, as it were, this clause is called a clause to re- 
strain ARBiTRAY PUNISHMENTS! It is a most singular fact, that in 
the new rural code of Jamaica, by which this arbitrary and uncon- 
trolled power of the cart-whip is established, the word driver does not 
once appear : it is studiedly withdrawn from view. And yet the in- 
genuity which has so dexterously suppressed it in the rural code of 
Jamaica, can find it in that of Hayti. 

Let our readers turn for a moment to our Reporter, No. 21, pp. 306, 
, 307, and there see the terms in which Mr. Barrett, himself a planter 
and a member of the Jamaica legislature, speaks of the torturing in- 
strument, whose universal predominance is thus, in the year 1827, re- 
newed and established on every plantation, and over every slave in 
Jamaica.^" It is," says he, " a base, cruel, debasing instrument of 
torture. Every being whose heart is not callous pants for its abolition. 
Its fellows are the rack and the thumb-screw. Thirty-nine lashes of 
this horrid instrument may be made more grievous than five hundred 
lashes with a cat.'' — And this torture, these lacerations are inflicted, 
continues Mr. Barrett, " at the pleasure of an individual, at his sole 



356 REMARKS ON THE RtTRAL CODE OF HAYTI. 

command, as caprice or passion dictates," sometimes by one slave " at 
his discretion on another slave," sometimes by the orders of "the 
book-keeper, or overseer, or proprietor of the lowest order." 

Only match this single enactment against all the severities of the 
Haytian code, "just and severe" as they are represented to be, and they 
all at once assume an aspect of lenity and indulgence. 

But to come to these "just" yet "severe" enactments, which have 
infused such joy into the minds of all the wielders and advocates of the 
cart-whip, and which they seem to flatter themselves are to establish 
its empire for ever ; the only comment we shall deem it necessary to 
make upon them, in the mass, will be taken from the "Commentaries 
on the Laws of England in Five Books, by Sir William Blackstone, 
one of the Justices of His Majesty's Court of Common Pleas, (the 
Eleventh Edition ;) " who, in the same breath that he declares that 
" the law of England abhors and will not endure the existence of 
slavery within this nation," (Book I. p. 424,) yet adds, " The first sort 
of servants acknowledged by the law of England are menial servants ; 
so called from being intra mcenia, or domestics. The contract between 
them and their masters arises upon the hiring. If the hiring be general, 
without any particular time limited, the law construes it to be hiring for 
a year, upon a principle of natural equity that the servant shall serve, 
and the master maintain him, throughout all the revolutions of the 
respective seasons, as well when there is work to be done as when there 
is not ; but the contract may /be made for any larger or smaller term. 
All single men between twelve years old and sixty, and married ones 
under thirty years of age, and all single women between twelve and 
forty, not having any visible livelihood, are compellable, by tivo Jus- 
tices, to go out to service in husbandry, or certain specific trades, 
for the promotion of honest industry ; and no master can put away his 
servaiit, or servant leave his master, after being so retained, either 
before or at the end of his term, without a quarter's warning, unless 
upon reasonable cause, to be allowed by a Justice of the Peace ; but 
they may part by consent, or make a special bargain." Book I. p. 425. 

Again : " A third species of servants are labourers, who are only 
hired by the day or the week, and do not live intra mmiia, as part of 
the family ; concerning whom the statutes before cited, (5 Eliz. c. 4. 
and 6 Geo. III. c. 26,) have made many very good regidatio7is : 
1, Directing that all persons who have no visible effects may be com- 
pelled to work: 2, Defining iioav long they 7nust contviue at ivork 
in summer and in winter: 3, Punishing such as leave or desert their 
work : 4, Empoivering the Justices at Sessions, or the Shei^iff of the 
county to settle their wages : and, 5, Inflicting penalties on such as 
either give or exact more ivages than are so settled.^' Book I. p. 427. 

The parallelism between the "very good regulations" of Mr. Justice 
Blackstone, and the provisions of llie Haytian Code, is certainly not a 
little remarkable. We are not bound, neither are we disposed, to be- 
stow any laudatory epithets either on the laws of Elizabeth or of George 
the Third, to which Sir WiUiam Blackstone has referred us ; or on the 
corresponding clauses of the Haytian Code. We merely maintain, and 
it is all that our purpose requires us to maintain, that, be the policy 
or the humanity of those clauses what it may, they are to the full 



REMARKS ON THE RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 357 

as good, nay, in some material respects better, than the laws on which 
the learned and liberal Judge has bestowed his commendation. In the 
case of Hayti also, those parts of Major Moody's now demolished 
philosophy of labour which were founded on the offensive smell, the 
colour, the hair, and the features, and other peculiarities of the negro 
race, can have no application ; because the framers and executors of 
the law are of the same flesh, and blood, and colour, and smell, with the 
subjects of them, these being the common inheritance of all ranks. — 
Further, the lowest Haytian has just the same prospect of seeing his 
descendant rise to distinction in his native island, as the meanest Briton 
has of seeing his children attain to eminence in the various walks of 
life, — in commerce and literature, in arts and arms, in the judicial, le- 
gislative and ecclesiastical departments of this great and civilized 
empire. The chain, therefore, which, in our colonies, still binds the 
negro and tethers him to the earth ; in Hayti is broken. He stands 
there erect in all the dignity of man. He is emancipated from the 
fetters which, in our colonies, are wound around both his body and his 
soul. That corporeal degradation and intellectual debasement, which 
Major Moody concurs with experience in teaching us to be inseparable 
from the condition of the white man's negro slave, are no longer, in 
Hayti, the necessary adjuncts of a negro skin, or even of a remote 
negro descent. Were the provisions of the Rural Code infinitely more 
objectionable than we admit a few of them to be, the work of the 
actual emancipation, and of the future moral and intellectual elevation 
of the negro race, would not be the less certain in its progress and 
consummation ; nay, we are not sure that it may not be accelerated 
by the very circumstances which excite the virtuous indignation of the 
advocates of slavery. With all its defects, therefore, we must and 
will rejoice in the Haytian code, the result of Haytian intelligence, the 
proof of Haytian freedom, and the pledge of Haytian improvement. 
It is quite enough to satisfy the warmest wishes of the best friends of 
the African race, to have seen them arrive, in so short a space of time, 
even at that pitch of regulated freedom which this code exhibits ; and 
if our sincerity oh that point be doubted by the West Indians, we would 
only ask them in reply. Will you take us at our word? Will you adopt 
the Haytian code, in its principle, as yours ? Will you admit its "just 
and severe" regulations to be transferred, in all their rigour, to your 
plantations? Only assent to this, and our controversy with you is at 
an end for ever. 

It is made a great objection to the Haytian code that the adminis- 
tration of it is entrusted chiefly to the military authorities. We enter- 
tain, without doubt, — many of us at least, — no strong love for military 
authority, and we would gladly see it dispensed with both there and else- 
where. But, unquestionably, if the military array of a people admits 
of defence at all, there could hardly arise a stronger justification of it, 
than when it was called for to avert the dominion of the cart-whip. 
The alternative with the Haytian has been, " War to the knife " or 
" the cart-whip," All therefore that there was among them of talent, 
of courage, of intelligence, of bodily or of mental endowment, became 
necessarily identified with the armed force. They have, it is true, 
achieved their independence, and are admitted into the commonwealth 



358 REMARKS ON THE RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 

of humanity; but the newness of its acquisition; the luriiing jealousy 
they must feel of their ancient and sordid oppressors, who are still, 
in thought, guaging and spanning the Haytian stature and strength ; 
and the not unfounded distrust of the possible effects of the ignorance 
and the unruly habits which thirty years of civil alarm and contention, 
and of fierce exterminatory warfare, may have served to generate among 
many of their population ; seem to require that the military force should, 
for a time at least, be maintained. And if its heavy expense must still, 
for the sake of their liberties, be incurred, is it not wise to turn it to 
account for the purposes not only of external defence but of internal 
security ? The cost-of a new machinery for this last important object 
would add greatly to the public burdens. Having already organized 
the means of an effective magistracy and an effective police, trained by 
discipline to habits of regularity and prompt obedience, and restrained 
by the same discipline from the abuse of power, they have judiciously 
employed those means, mixing with them, however, as opportunity 
offers, the appointment of those civil magistrates, into whose hands the 
superintendance of the police may gradually be transferred/'as circum- 
stances may favour such a transfer. 

And then, be it remembered, the police is exercised, not over the 
labourers alone, but equally over those who employ them. All are 
alike subject to the rigid revision and inspection of these responsible 
superintendants. And well would it be for our wretched slaves, if, in 
every parish of our colonies, and in each section of them, there were 
stationed an officer of His Majesty's troops, with proper assistants, 
to visit every plantation, twice or thrice a week, in order to secure 
effectual and prompt redress for all injustice ; to hear and receive all com- 
plaints; to adjust all differences; to repress all disorders and irregu- 
larities ; to suggest and promote improvements ; and to report to his 
superior officers, and through them to the State, the whole of what 
was passing within his circle. (See on this point the Articles 119 to 151.) 
This view of the subject has not been suggested to us, for the first time, 
by the Haytian Code. If the reader will turn to the pamphlet called 
"The Progress of Colonial Reform,^' (p. 17,) or to our Monthly Re- 
porter, No. 11, (p. 143,) he will perceive that the deplorable account 
which Mr. Dwarris had given, in his Reports, of the unprotected state 
of the slave population, and of the diflficulty v/hich existed^ to find, 
among the planters, persons who could safely be entrusted to fill the 
situation of their guardians or protectors, led us, more than a year ago, 
to enquire whether, " with our immense list of naval and military officers 
on half pay, it was impossible to apply any effectual remedy to this 
evil ? And whether there was not to be found, in that list, a sufficient 
number of highly respectable and meritorious individuals who, at a 
small expense, might be beneficially employed in filling these im- 
portant offices, and whose remuneration might be made to depend 
on the regularity of their returns, and the propriety of their conduct ? " 
Most heartily therefore should we rejoice, if such means of protection 
could be transferred, from the Haytian, to the West Indian Code. 

But let us say a few words on the actual state of the Haytian 
labourer. 

Every Haytian parent, though himself attached to agriculture, has it 



REMARKS ON THE RURAL CODE OF HAYTI. 359 

in his power to send his children to towns to be educated, or to be 
taught a profession, or trade, on his simple request to a Justice of the 
Peace. (See Article 5.) This single regulation, of itself, seems almost 
sufficient to secure the moral and intellectual progress of this interest- 
ing people. 

It is true that all, who have no other visible means of subsistence, 
must, in Hayti as in England, devote themselves, whether they be men 
or women, to agricultural labour. But see what advantages the 
Haytian labourer enjoys under this necessity. Even if reduced to it, 
by his having no other means of subsistence, he may choose his em- 
ployment and his employer. He may engage as a keeper of cattle, or 
as a cutter of wood, or as a grower of provisions, or of cotton, or of 
coffee, or of sugar, or in any one of the various subsidiary offices 
connected with the culture and manipulation of these articles. He 
may engage for a shorter or longer time as suits his taste or his con- 
venience ; for six months in one line of occupation, for two years in 
another, or for three years in a third ; and these periods may, if he 
thinks proper, be still further extended even to nine years. (Articles 
45 and 106.) He may contract to receive a fourth part, or a half, of 
all the produce he raises ; and in the first of these cases, which is the 
most frequent, he is not only lodged, but fed, on the plantation, from 
the produce of his own labour, not during his own time, but during 
five days in the week which alone he has contracted to give to his 
employer. Observe the force of the regulation on this point, Art. 36. 
" On every rural establishment tliey " (viz. the proprietors or renters) 
"shall be bound to cu\i\v Site provisio7is Sfc, siifficient for the sustenance 
of the persons employed there." This to be their first care, (Article 19.) 
The labourer for a fourth is also to be furnished, gratuitously, with all 
his tools, (Article 62.) and with medical attendance and medicine, 
(Article 67.) and has the benefit, without any diminution of his share of the 
produce, of all the cattle and machinery on the estate, and of the expense 
of its management, (Articles 51, 65, and 66.) And, possessing all these 
advantages, he receives, besides, his fair share of the fourth part of the 
gross produce raised by him and his follow labourers, (Article 52.) 
But this is not all. The proprietor is also bound to furnish the 
labourer with land for his own use, to be cultivated by himself, and for 
himself, during his frequently recurring holidays, and his regular day in 
in the week of rest, beside Sunday, from plantation labour, (Art. 38, 39.) 

On the five days of the week he works for his employer and himself 
in common: he has his full subsistence from the labour of these days, 
besides his share of all marketable produce grown on the plantation. 
And he has, moreover, land, and abundant time in the week for its 
cultivation, whereby to increase his comforts or to add to his capital. 
Such also is the consideration which the law bestows on the formation 
and promotion of industrious habits, by their only eiFectual spring, a 
sense of self-interest, that even the infirm, and the children of early 
age, while fed by the provisions of the plantation, are encouraged to ex- 
ertion, by shares of all the other produce of it, proportioned to the eflTorts, 
however feeble, which they are able to make. And even the women 
who have contracted to labour, for a terra of years, in return for 
their provisions and their share of the other produce, are not de- 



360 WEST-INDIAN REPORTER— PETITIONS. 

prived of the benefit of this contract, by the incapacities of a pregnant 
state, but, though relieved on that account, for a time, from their share 
of the labour, are still allowed to share in the proceeds of that labour. 

One of the grand securities of Haytian happiness and freedom, how- 
ever, is to be found in the absence of all those invidious distinctions, 
arising from the colour of the skin as being the livery of slavery, 
which proves the curse of the African and his descendants in our slave 
colonies. In the Haytian Courts of Justice, the evidence of no man 
or woman whatever is precluded. There all, of all ranks, stand on an 
equal fooling ; and this circumstance, especially when superadded to 
the absence of the cartwhip ; and to the substitution, for its stimulus, 
of self-interest as the spring of action, and of industrious effort; makes 
a difference in the two states of being so large, as scarcely to admit 
of calculation or comparison. 



THE WEST INDIAN REPORTER. 

This Work has chosen to give a representation of the New Jamaica 
Slave Act, against which we are obliged to warn our readers as unfair 
and fallacious. In our Reporter, No. 21, 2ve also gave an account of 
it; but the error of that account is, that we attributed to the Jamaica 
Assembly more credit for improvement than the Act, now that we have 
it before us, justifies. — But of this more hereafter. 

The West Indian Reporter chooses also to be mightily indignant be- 
cause we have dared to represent Colonial slavery as a crime, and to 
affirm that, as a crime, it is.liable to the divine displeasure. Notwith- 
standing, however, all his hard phrases, we must still maintain that 
Colonial slavery is a crime of a very deep dye— that it involves injus- 
tice, cruelty, oppression, unbounded profligacy of manners, robbery, 
murder, — all which various properties of this unnatural, and unchristian, 
state of being, we must also take the liberty of designating as crimes — 
as crimes, which if not repented of and forsaken, must, if there be truth 
in the word of God, ensure, to those who live in the practice of them, 
punishment, either here or hereafter. 

PETITIONS AGAINST COLONIAL MONOPOLY. 

We inserted, in our last Number, the substance of the very able pe- 
tition of the merchants and manufacturers of Manchester, against the 
continuance of the present restrictions on our trade. The Chambers 
of Commerce of Manchester and Birmingham, and the merchants and 
manufacturers of Leeds and other places, have followed the example, 
and have called earnestly on parliament to apply a remedy to the wide 
spread distress, in the manufacturing districts, by adopting those 
measures Avhich " the considerations of justice and of consistent 
policy suggest, for equalizing the duties on" the productions of our 
East and West Indian possessions ; and for thus indefinitely extend- 
ing the range of our commercial and manufacturing industry, skill, 
and capital." 

Mr. Whitmore is to bring forward the whole subject on the 3rd of 
May. 

London : Bagster and T/ioms, 14, Barthviomi,:c Close, 



No. 24. London, IS, Alder manbury. May '31, 1827. 

ANTI-SLAVERY 
MONTHLY REPORTER. 



The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be ready for delivery on the 
first day of every month. Copies will be forwarded, at the request of any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity. All persons wish- 
ing to receive a regular supply, are requested to make application to the Secretary, 
at the Society's office, No. IS, Aldermanbury, and mention the conveyance by 
which they may be most conveniently sent. Single Copies may be had of all 
booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of 2d, per sheet of sixteen pages. 



DISCUSSIONS IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS ON THE 15TH OF 
MAY, 1827, RESPECTING THE RESTRICTIONS ON THE TRADE 
WITH INDIA; — REMARKS ON THE SAME ;— CASE OF MISS 
THRELFALL'S SLAVES. 

A VARIETY of Petitions from Leeds, Halifax, Manchester, Birmingham, 
Blackburn, Hull, &c. &c. for the Equalization of the Duties on commo- 
dities imported from the East and West Indies having been presented, 
Mr. W. Whitmore rose, pursuant to notice, to move for the ap- 
pointment of a Select Committee, to consider the state of the trade 
betv?een this country and India. When the House considered the 
distress which was on all hands acknowledged to exist among the 
manufacturing population ; the decline of the revenue, which, since 
last year, was not less than four or five millions ; and the decline of 
our export trade, which in the same time amounted to an equal ex- 
lent ; it surely became important in the highest degree to inquire how 
these evils could be remedied ; and he trusted, if he could shew that 
a great increase of employment would result, from extending the trade 
with India, to the weavers of Scotland and Lancashire, that Govern- 
ment would lend a favourable ear to his proposition. But it was 
not on the actual existence of this distress that he rested the question. 
That distress might be, and he hoped was, of a temporary nature. 
The resources of the country could not be so much reduced as to 
prevent the return of the prosperity it had heretofore enjoyed. He 
wished the subject to be viewed in a much more comprehensive light. 
Whoever considered the heavy burden of debt that weighed down the 
energy of the country, and the part she was destined to act among the 
nations of the world in the wars in which, in all probability, she would 
be again engaged, must see how exceedingly desirable it was to ex- 
tend, by all practicable means, the resources of the country, and 
to avail ourselves of this opportunity of peace to lighten the springs of 
our industry, and restore their elasticity. With regard to Ireland, it 
\yas evident that every thing should be done that was possible to 
promote the growth of the manufactures which he trusted had com- 
menced there. The friends of that country, who did not seek to serve 
it by that course, took a very limited and far from an enlightened view 
of her interests. Much might be done, no doubt, by settling the 
religious differences that unhappily existed ; but the mere removal of 
those dissensions would be no panacea for the ills of Ireland, which 
eould be eradicated only by giving employment to the people. When 



362 Debate on Free Trade with India. 

habits of industry were formed, and began generally to take root, the 
most favourable hopes might be entertained of the deliverance of that 
country from the worst evils that oppressed it. After adverting to 
the mode in which the Corn Laws had operated to deprive our manu- 
facturers of a large portion of their foreign trade, the Honourable Gen- 
tleman called the attention of the House to the increase that had taken 
place in our commerce with India, since the renewal of the Charter 
of the East India Company in 1814. At that time, the whole of the 
Continent of India, and the Islands in the Indian Archipelago, were 
thrown open, though still under restrictions, to the private trader. 
What had been the result? No man could have anticipated it. It 
was said by the advocates for the continuance of the Company's mono- 
poly, that the only effect would be, to increase to a small extent the 
demand for woollens or a few articles of luxury- Nobody supposed 
that the Cotton Trade was one that would benefit largely by this new 
market. Yet, this trade had increased to an extent the most extraor- 
dinary. The Cotton Trade had its origin in India. This country had 
borrowed its patterns, and adopted its very names. The price of labour 
was here seven or eight times as much as in India, and we drew from 
that country a portion of the raw material, which, when manufactured, 
we exported back to it. Yet, with all these disadvantages, we had 
established a beneficial and growing trade in cotton goods with India. 
The term calico was derived, according to Dr. Johnson, in his Dictionary, 
from Calicut, " a town in India, where cotton goods were manufac- 
tured, and sometimes stained with gay and beautiful colours." Calicos 
were now exported in great quantities from this country to that part 
of the world where they were originally manufactured. It was, therefore, 
he contended, the duty of the House to give the fullest encouragement 
to the trade with India. He lamented that he had not the official re- 
turns lower than 1824. But from those previous to that year, he could 
shew that there had been a considerable increase of the trade with India 
since the opening in 1814. In the first instance, he would state the 
exports from this country to India from the Parliamentary Papers. 
The Honourable Gentleman stated the annual average of glass and 
earthenware to amount to 61,526^. from 1801 to 1810; and to 
171,452Z. from 1814 to 1822. Of iron in bars, from 1801 to 1810,. 
68,43n.; from 1814 to 1822, 193,164/. In woollen goods, the average 
value from 1801 to 1810, was 273,414/.; from 1214 to 1822, it had 
increased to 376,399/. ; and during 1823 and 1824, the yearly value 
was 962,061/. In cotton goods, the increase was" still more astonish- 
ing. From 1801 to 1810, the average was 55,461/.; from 1814 to 
1822, 568,358/.; and during the two years 1823 and 1824, the 
average was, 1,155,512/. He would next state the imports from India, 
and shew their corresponding increase- First, as to indigo, the average 
quantity imported from 1801 to 1810, was 3,513,053 lbs. ; and from 
1814 to 1822, 5,023,187 lbs. In cotton wool, the average quantity 
from 1801 to 1810, was 5,896,365 lbs.; and from 1814 to 1822, 
23,535,365 lbs. In Bengal silks the average was, from 1801 to 1810, 
438,792 lbs.; and from 1814 to 1822, 899,570 lbs. In sugar, the 
average from 1801 to 1810, was 77,325 lbs.; from 1814 to 1822, 
174,379 lbs.; tind, during the two years 1823 and 1824, the average 



Speech of Mr. Whitmore, 363 

was 224,658 lbs. These returns manifested an equally great increase 
in the export trade as in the way of importation. No trade could be 
more important than that which we thus enjoyed with a population not 
less in number than eighty millions. The extent to which it might be 
carried no man could at present foresee. The prospect might literally 
be said to be boundless. — He would next refer to the duties levied upon 
commodities imported from India. He believed that these duties were 
originally intended to be prohibitory. Let the House look at the 
amount of duties levied upon East India produce, as compared with the 
amount of duties demanded upon the produce of other parts of our 
colonies. On turmerick, for instance, the duty is seven pounds per ton 
more on East than West India ; on East India rum the duty is I Is. Qd. a 
gallon more than on West India, the duty on the latter being 8s. 6d. on 
the former 20s. a gallon ; and on East India cotton the duty demanded is 
six per cent, ad valorem, while cotton from the West Indies is admitted 
altogether free of duty. On sugar the duty is 1 0^. per ton more on 
East than West India, being 50 per cent, on the prime cost of the 
article ; on coffee it is 28Z. per ton more, West Indian paying 5QI. 
per ton, while East Indian pays 84/. The same disproportion exists in 
the duty on cocoa. The cotton manufactures of the East Indies pay a 
duty of TO per cent., and the silk manufactures 30 per cent., while 
English manufactures are admitted into India on paying a duty of 2J 
per cent. These, and such things as these, shewed the utter indif- 
ference to the prosperity of our trade, or to the welfare either of 
the mother country or the colonies, which characterised the whole 
system of our legislation with respect to our possessions in the East 
Indies ; as well as the utter indifference to all the principles not only 
of sound commercial policy, but even of reason and justice, which the 
legislature manifested in all its regulations of the trade of those colo- 
nies. The whole system was most unfair and most unjust; and if ever 
the people of India begin to feel it as they ought ; if ever the vast po- 
pulation of our possessions in the East come to feel their importance, 
and the degree of injustice with which they have been treated, the 
House might rest assured that the day of reckoning would then come, 
and we should be made to suffer as we deserved for the course we were 
pursuing. What was it which lost to this country the colonies of North 
America ? Why precisely the same principle : we endeavoured to keep 
to ourselves all the advantages of their trade, and gave them none in 
return ; and the consequence was, that they freed themselves, on the 
first opportunity, from the power which exercised over them its autho- 
rity in a manner so utterly repugnant to all the principles of honour, 
justice, or policy. It was not enouoh for this country to say it had the 
power to do these things. It must shew that the course of its policy 
was founded in something like justice, or expect that those who are 
subjected to its influence will only continue to obey until an opportunity 
may present itself to oppose. Such a system was not only contrary to 
the principles of commerce and of justice, but even to that principle of 
reciprocity which the Right Honourable Gentleman (Mr. Huskisson) 
had advocated with so much ardour, and which he for one felt delighted 
in saying with so much success. — He would now turn to another part of 
the same subject, and beg the attention of the House to the amount of 



364 Debate on Free Trade with India. 

' the imports and exports to those colonies, as the trade was at present 
carried on. In the year 1 824, the total amount of the exports to the 
East Indies and China was 4,355,437/. In the year 1826, the amount 
was 4;394,380Z. Now, he must take the liberty of begging them to 
attend to a most important subject arising out of one of those exports ; 
he alluded to the article of East India sugar — the dead weight, as it 
might be called, of what we were able to draw from the East Indies at 
this moment. He did not take that article because it was the only im- 
portant one ; but because it was that which might be the most in- 
creased. He was aware of the state in which the sugar trade was 
placed at this moment, and that there was more imported from the British 
plantations than sufficed at present for the general consumption of the 
country. He was aware, too, that in such a state of things, when there 
was an excess of production beyond consumption, the price must in the 
main be regulated, not by the monopoly at home, but the price which 
that sugar could procure in the market abroad. Granting that, how- 
ever, he still contended that although tlie price might not be much 
lowered by the admission of East India sugar at the same duty as the 
West India, the consumption might be much increased. He admitted 
for the sake of argument, though he had great doubts of its being true, 
that with the same duty East India could not be sold at a lower price 
than that now obtained for sugars of similar quality. He found, at least, 
that with this extra duty of lOl a ton. East India sugar was selling in this 
country, if not at a profit, still without loss. He was aware that it 
might at first appear, from the supply being so much greater than the 
demand, that an increase of quantity without a diminution of price 
could bring no increase of consumption ; but did the House take into 
its consideration the very great increase of demand for our manufac- 
tures, the great consequent rise of wages, and increase of population 
and production, which must follow the opening of such a market for 
the produce of this country ? It might, he admitted, be asked, If the 
produce of sugar by the West India islands is so much greater than 
your demand, how can you make any increase of consumption ? He 
took it, however, to be quite clear, that the people of this country 
did not consume anything like what they might be able to take if a new 
market was opened to our manufactures. Let the House reflect for a 
moment upon what was the amount of the quantity of sugar consumed 
by the inhabitants of the United Kingdoms. In England, the average 
quantity consumed by each individual is, annually, according to the 
best calculation, about twenty-three pounds per head. In Ireland, the 
quantity consumed by each individual is about six pounds per head. 
Now, he would ask, if Ireland became a manufacturing country by the 
opening of a new market, and the encouragement of a trade with India, 
what was there to prevent her people from becoming consumers to the 
extent of twelve or eighteen, or even more, pounds a head, while the 
consumption of England also increased ? In that way he was convinced 
that the Right Honourable Gentleman ought to look for the ultimate im- 
provement and happiness of that country ; in that way he must look for 
the means of her prosperity and tranquillity. Let him, by opening the 
market of our extensive East India possessions, give employment to 
lier people, and encouragement to her manufactures; and he would 



Mr. Whitmore? Speech. 365 

jfind Ireland, instead of being, as at present, a source of endless alarm, 
and disquiet, and discontent, become to England and her possessions a 
mine of wealth and a tower of strength. There would be no occasion 
then for Emigration Committees to consider the best means of tians- 
plantingher people to other countries. Lethim give but her manufactures 
encouragement by opening a market, and he would soon see, by its 
effect upon wages and labour, the people prosperous, and the nation 
tranquiilised. He was told that in a part of that country, Belfast and 
its vicinity, cotton manufactories had been erected to some extent, and 
that on that account the town of Belfast afforded a most pleasing con- 
trast in its aspect to the general appearance of the other parts of Ireland. 
And he understood that when the manufacturers of England had large 
orders for cotton goods, they frequently sent quantities of yarn to 
Ireland to be wove up, in order to supply their orders in proper time. 
Between India and Ireland there were some features of similitude. 
Both countries were oppressed by a redundancy of population. Both 
suffered from the low rate of wages ; and both were constantly placed 
in a state of alarm and agitation. White-boyism exjsted in Ireland ; 
Deceits in India, arising from the same cause, a discontented and 
starving people. The evils of both were to be remedied in the same 
manner. Give them employment. Lay open a market to their several 
productions, and you at once strike at the root of the diseases under 
which they labour. It was by following up that principle of reci- 
procity, with regard to our own colonies, which had already been recog^ 
nised and acted upon with regard to foreigners, that the Right Honour- 
able Gentleman would be enabled to relieve the miseries of Ireland 
and India, and promote the prosperity and security of the empire. — His 
object at present was to move for the appointment of a Committee^ 
before which that information might be given under which the mea- 
sures he wished were to be carried into execution. There was one 
subject, however, to which he must allude, although it was somewhat 
different from any to which he had yet drawn their attention, he meant 
the state of the free trade with India. He held in his hand a letter 
addressed to the East India Company's Directors, from some persons 
engaged to a great extent in that trade, in which they complained of 
the very great impediments thrown in the way of their intercourse with 
those places to which they were permitted to trade. The Company. 
derived some of their most considerable benefits from what was called 
the right of pre-emption. They had commercial residents at each of the 
ports and settlements where the free trade was carried on. Those resi- 
dents made advances to the factors who bought up beforehand the 
productions of the country, and by that means contrived so to keep 
them in dependence as to confine the whole trade, or nearly the whole 
trade, to the Company. This was one of the consequences arising from 
that junction of sovereignty and trade in this Company ; a junction 
which never ought to take place, and which never could take place, 
without exhibiting consequences prejudicial to the freedom and pros- 
perity of commerce.' — The Indian Archipelago was one of those places 
where the trade of this country could be most beneficially extended. 
Those islands abounded with all the various Oriental productions most 
in request in this country. More than one-eighth part of all the gold. 



366 Debate on Free Trade with India. 

introduced into Europe was derived from them, in addition to great 
quantities of diamonds, spices, and pearls. There, too, a vast proportion 
of the manufactures of this country might find a market, more especi- 
ally if the ports of Cliina viexe. open to the enterprise of the free trader. 
At this moment, unfortunately, this was not the case ; but, he trusted, 
the time was not far distant when the abolition of this monopoly, which 
must expire in the year 1833, would enable the manufacturers and 
traders of the United Kingdom to derive the full and unrestricted 
benefit of the almost boundless prospect of commerce which this 
part of the world presented. The duties upon East India sugar 
were ZIL a ton; but the duties on that produced in the Archi- 
pelago was 63^. a ton ; or, in other words, the sugar of those islands 
was totally prohibited, for the effect was nothing less. It was worth 
while, in considering the advantages we might derive from a free 
trade with those islands, to look at the evidence given on the sub- 
ject by Mr. Crawford, a gentleman whose accuracy of statement 
was as unquestioned as his means of information had been extensive. 
He says, in speaking of the possibility of extending our trade in that 
part of India, " That previous to the free trade, British manufactures, 
especially of cotton goods, were hardly known to the Indian islands. 
Since that period the quantity has been yearly increasing; and I can 
answer, as far as the population of Java is concerned, that it is rare now 
to see a native of the country, above the rank of a mere peasant, or a 
Chinese of any description, who has not some portion of his dress of 
British cotton manufacture, and very often he has a considerable por- 
tion of his dress of the woollen fabric of this country." In the year 
1814, 1000 pieces of chintz of British manufacture overstocked the 
market of Samarang, in Java; but in 1818, the price having fallen 25 
percent. 15,000 pieces were sold there. Such would be the benefit 
likely to arise from an opening of the trade. Give the people but a 
means of payment, and you may dispose of the productions of this 
country to an almost unlimited extent. No man, he apprehended, 
would be so insane as to propose that no more than a certain quantity 
of our manufactures were to be exported, and yet the effect, by the 
continuance of the system of prohibition, was precisely the same. — 
Another subject to which he wished to direct the attention of a Com- 
mittee, if he succeeded in procuring its appointment, was the state of 
what are called the emporia for our India trade. The emporium of 
Sincapore, he believed to have been established on sound commercial 
principles ; but at the same time he wished the state of that and other 
places to be submitted to the attention of a Committee, because he 
thought it would be found, that without some such places of traffic, the 
trade could not be beneficially carried on. The House might probably 
not be aware, that there were sereral productions of the East, in which 
the trade was under particular restrictions. The trade in "spice, for in- 
stance, was locked up under one of the most extraordinary systems of 
monopoly the world ever saw, by the Dutch East India Company. ' That 
Company having got possession of all those islands in which the spices 
grow, and in which they are indigenous, resolved upon preserving their 
monopoly from all chance even of attack, by confining the production 
of particular spices to particular islands. For that purpose they se- 



Mr. Whitmores Speech. ' , 367 

lected the island of Amboyna as the place to grow cloves, and prevailed 
upon the chiefs or princes of the other neighbouring islands^to root up 
all the clove trees to be found in their possession. In the same manner 
they made the Banda islands the place of growth for nutmegs, and 
sent yearly a fleet round the coasts of the whole of the islands, in order 
to secure the execution of their orders and the perfection of their mo- 
nopoly. It was true that this proceeding did them no good, and 
reduced the islands to a state of poverty — but they succeeded in fully 
securing the monopoly they desired. It was obvious how much benefit 
would accrue by establishing the free principles of trade, through the 
means of these emporia, in the seas of the Eastern Archipelago. In 
truth, the only trade which ever was beneficial there, or which greatly 
recompensed those engaged in it, was the free trade, before the mono- 
polies established by the India Companies of England and Holland. At 
that time a trade of immense extent and importance v^as carried on 
Avith all the islands, and even with China and Japan ; and it was only 
the fatal effects of the restrictive system which brought it to a termina- 
tion. It was the opinion of Mr. Crawfurd, that the trade with China 
even could be carried on best by means of an emporium. — He hoped he 
might not be considered as trespassing too much upon the patience of 
the House, after it had heard him with so much indulgence, if he said 
a few words as to the trade now carried on with China through the 
means of the city of Canton. It was a very singular fact, that although 
all the purchases and sale of teas were made in Canton, there was not 
a leaf of the plant grown in that province of which Canton is the 
capital. The black teas, it was well understood, were grown in a pro- 
vince three or four hundred miles from that city, and the green teas 
were brought from another province, seven or eight hundred miles up 
the country. The teas were brought to Canton by land carriage, or 
inland navigation, and there was an increase of cost of 50 per cent, in 
consequence. The provinces, however, from which the teas are taken, 
are maritime provinces, and it was proved that the articles of their pro- 
duce could be conveyed by sea to an emporium, with nearly the same 
facility as if sent by sea to Canton. Mr. Crawfurd, who makes these 
statements, argues with great truth and justice upon the benefits which 
must therefore accrue from such emporia, and upon the advantages 
which such a market must oflTer to the consumption, without restriction, 
of the manufactures and productions of this country. To details such 
as these, continued the Honourable Gentleman, the House must turn, 
when it is called upon to consider the propriety of dissolving that mo- 
nopoly, which has existence, by law, to the year 1833. With such 
information collected by a Committee, must the House be provided, 
when it is required to determine upon the great question which will 
then be submitted to its consideration ; and therefore, if there was no 
better and stronger reason, he would contend, that a Committee ought 
in good time to prepare that information, which will thus be necessary, 
in order to decide rightly and fairly between the East India Company 
and the public. For that decision, a thorough knowledge, by inquiry 
before a Committee, on the state and resources of the Indian Archi- 
pelago, was, he repeated, indispensably requisite. He had thus endea- 
voured to put the House in possession, within as small a compass as 



368 Debate on Free Trade with India. 

possible, of a general outline of the commercial advantages which must 
result to this country, from an extension of our trade with India; and 
proved.; he hoped, enough to satisfy Honourable Members, that a trade 
of boundless extent might be carried on, by a removal of restrictions 
under which our commerce at present labours. The policy had been 
too long pursued of endeavouring to derive wealth from India by means 
of revenue ; far better would it be to seek to derive wealth by improving 
our commercial relations with India — by promoting those liberal insti- 
tutions that create wealth — and by aiding her advancement through the 
application of those principles which we called into action in our inter- 
course with the other nations of the world. A change was called for 
by justice ; it was rendered requisite by what was owing to the interests 
of India ; and it was demanded by a due regard to the promotion of the 
commercial connexion between Great Britain and India. He would not 
further trespass on the attention of the House than to move, " That a 
Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the State of the Trade 
between Great Britain and India." 

Mr. Slaney, in seconding the motion, hoped that the House would 
excuse any hesitation or difficulty he might betray in addressing the 
House, almost for the first time. He considered that the nature of the 
trade which had subsisted between this country and India, ever since 
our connexion with that vast and important country, was of that restric- 
tive character which denied to India the fair developement of her re- 
sources, and the commercial advantages to which she was entitled. The 
present motion was adapted to pave the way for a subject they must soon 
discuss, involving the future government of a hundred millions of our 
fellow creatures subjected to our sway. A change in our system ought 
to take place, and other principles for the amelioration and improve- 
ment of India ought to be introduced, which, by their practical appli- 
cation, might remove the many blots from our legislative and commer- 
cial policy towards India. Mr. Gibbon had said, in reference to India, 
that " the richest and most extensive provinces of the conqueror of the 
Great Mogul now belonged to a company of Christian merchants in a 
small island in the Northern Sea." He wished to see that commercial 
connexion accompanied by those improvements, and by the extension 
of those privileges and favours, which were so essential to promote the 
prosperity of ngitions, and which would show that we were yet governed 
by great principles ; and he hoped that the period would soon arrive, 
when the seeds of freedom, sown in India, as they had formerly been 
in America, by the hand of England, would — and at no distant day — 
bloom and flourish in the very heart of Asia. 

Me. Leycesteu said there were many reasons whicli induced him 
to support the motion for a repeal of the high duty on East India 
sugar. First, he felt bound to support it from a regard to consistency; 
for what could be more inconsistent than to adopt principles of free 
trade, in our commercial relations with all other nations, and to deny 
the extension of them to a country with which we were so closely con- 
nected, — to be forging fetters and raising barriers against it in our 
Indian possessions ? Secondly, justice induced him to support the 
motion ; for what, he would ask, could be more unjust than to cut 
down the English landlord to the lowest point, while he was bound to 



Speeches of Mr. Slaney, and Mr. Leycester.' 369 

pay high prices to support partial interests? It was also called for by 
policy: for what could be more impolitic than, when the heresy of 
emigration found advocates, owing to the prevailing want of employ- 
ment, to shut out the means of extending our commerce, and thus 
securing new employment ? The motion ought to be supported also 
on the ground of humanity ; for where was the humanity of seeing the 
working manufacturers reduced to the lowest wages, and by enhancing 
the prices of sugar and tea, by means of the high duties imposed on 
them, deprive them of the power of purchasing these, and of mixing 
one drop of sweet in the bitter cup which they were doomed to drink? 
Besides, the present high rate of duty on East India sugar tended to 
aggravate the dreadful tax imposed upon us by the maintenance of the 
slave system, the countenance and support of which were not only 
shocking to humanity, but injurious to the West Indians themselves. 
All these monopolies ought to be swept away. It was a grievance, an 
injury, an insult to prolong them. Lastly, he hoped the measure might 
be carried for the sake of Ireland ; and he would take this opportunity 
of saying, that he was favourable to the present Administration, and he 
was sure that nothing could contribute more to their popularity than 
their support of this motion; for there was no motion the acquiescence 
in which could be more in conformity with public opinion. la con- 
cluding, he alluded to the danger of a non-consumption agreement of 
West India sugar among the people, if the measure were refused. 

Mr. Huskissoi^ commenced by adverting to what had fallen from 
the last speaker. With respect to a non-consumption agreement of 
West Indian produce, there was no novelty in that suggestion. It had 
been talked of for several years, without producing any results. Much 
as had been said upon it, the fact was, the consumption of British 
plantation sugar had increased in the last year; the amount paid in as 
duty upon it, covering drawbacks and other charges, was 5,000,000^. 
being more than had been ever paid in one year. — He fully agreed with 
his Honourable Friend in all the principles he had laid down in his able 
and luminous speech ; and he fully admitted that it was the interest 
and duty of a country like this, to endeavour to open new channels of 
trade, and to afford increased facilities to those that were already open. 
But it was its duty, likewise, in giving encouragement to new commer- 
cial speculations, to be cautious not to sanction any measure which may 
endanger or destroy established interests and subsisting institutions, 
especially institutions of our own creation, which had grown up under 
our fostering care, and were specially entitled to our protection. And 
here he would remark, as to the low wages of the manufacturing 
classes, that after suffering great and long privations, which they bore 
with exemplary patience, there was an increased demand at present, 
which enabled the master manufacturers to give better wages, and to 
enable a greater number of workmen to obtain employment. But to 
return to the principles of free trade and the extension of commercial 
intercourse, dwelt upon by his Honourable Friend, he need not say, 
that as far as they could be made beneficially applicable, he concurred 
in the application of them ; but it would be allowed, that all great and 
extensive changes were attended with difficulty, and should be pro- 
ceeded in with circumspection, and a due regard to other interests al- 



370 Debate on Free Trade with India. 

ready established ; and that, therefore, whatever new measures or new 
systems were introduced, they should be so regulated as to involve no 
sacrifice of essential import from others. In reference to the remark 
upon this being a tax to support slavery, he (Mr. Huskisson) was no 
more partial to slavery than the Honourable Gentleman. No man, 
indeed, could be favourable to a system which was so pregnant with 
evils; but legislators must remember, that the existing system in the - 
colonies could not be speedily extinguished, without the ruin of both 
masters and slaves. His Honourable Friend had said, that the East 
Indies were rich in every kind of tropical produce : he admitted this ; 
but he wished to call the attention of the House to the relative circum- 
stances of our trade with India. It first opened under a strict mono- 
poly of a Company of Merchants. We then received from them, under 
this monopoly, silk and cotton manufactures, for which we exchanged 
the precious metals, which we obtained by the disposal of our own 
manufactured goods in other parts of the world. This limited course 
of commerce was long continued. Meanwhile, in another part of our 
dominions, the West Indies, large interests had been formed, and British 
property to a large amount invested. It was our duty to attend to and 
secure those interests. In 1814, when the East India charter was 
renewed, the trade, which had hitherto been restrained, was opened to 
a certain extent, and new encouragements were given to individual en- 
terprise. In the situation which he unworthily filled, he, and those 
who co-operated with him, had taken every opportunity of giving faci- 
lities that might advance and improve that trade, and they would con- 
tinue to do so. But, in all these encouragements and relaxations, it was 
incumbent on them to take care not to create just alarm in the minds 
of West India Proprietors, to whose interests they were strongly bound ; 
but rather to seek to reconcile those interests with those of the East 
Indies, by satisfying them that both may be augmented and maintained, 
without unduly interfering or clashing with each other. It was his 
opinion, that the equalization of the rate of duties on sugar would not 
produce the great advantages which some contemplated from it. He 
would offer a few remarks upon this part of the subject. The British 
plantations grew fifty or sixty thousand hogsheads of sugar more than 
could find consumption in this country ; and which must find vent in 
foreign markets. And it was as possible for East India sugar to find 
a vent in these markets, as the sugar of any other country. If the 
East India sugar could be manufactured at so much cheaper a rate 
than British Plantation sugar, why did it not enter the competition that 
was open at any of the foreign markets? A vessel might sail from 
Calcutta, or from any part of the East Indies, and enter into com- 
petition at Hamburgh or Dantzic, or any other European port, with the 
sugar of Cuba or Brazil, or any other country ; and if this superior 
cheapness was possessed in the manufacture, why was it not found to 
be preferred abroad to the sugar of every other country ? He there- 
fore apprehended that the advantages derivable to the East Indies from 
an equalization of duties would be by no means so great as they had 
been described by some. But although he did not anticipate such im- 
portant results as some did from the proposed equalization of sugar 
duties, yet he was ready to admit that there were many topics touched 



Mr. Huskisson's Speech. 371 

upon by his Honourable Friend which required attention, and which he 
assured him had engaged much of his time. Some difficulties had 
recently been removed ; some facilities had been recently afforded j the 
removal of some further difficulties, and the granting of further faci- 
lities, were under consideration ; and he thought the result would be 
more satisfactory if they were left in their present course, than if placed 
under the direction of such a Committee as his Honourable Friend 
moved for. Many alterations in other respects, relating to trade, 
which the country approved of, had been introduced without such a 
Committee, and the same might be done in this case. He contem- 
plated, indeed, several changes which might be made beneficially for 
the trade of India ; for example, the removal of the difference of duty 
between the raw material of cotton and other articles imported from the 
East Indies and other countries. This was a subject that required re- 
consideration, and one in which the trade of India laboured under a 
disadvantage. He would propose, that these articles should be sub- 
jected only to the same duty as similar articles imported from all other 
places. The knowledge and information best calculated to effect these 
alterations with advantage, v/ere to be procured more easily through 
the official means of intelligence which he possessed, than through the 
Committee proposed by the Honourable Member. The changes which 
it was expedient to introduce into the principles of our trade with India, 
were changes which circumstances had now rendered necessary. The 
relative circumstances of this country and of India, commercially con- 
sidered, had undergone a most material alteration. Instead of being a 
country importing manufactures extensively from that part of the world, 
we had become a country exporting extensively to it. In that part of 
the Honourable Gentleman's speech which related to the making of 
free ports in India, there was much in which he entirely concurred ; 
and it was with a feeling of great personal satisfaction that he did so, 
for he had done all that he could to place the ports of Sincapore, 
Penang, and Malacca, on the most perfect footing of free ports. In 
those places there did not at present exist any obstacle to perfect free- 
dom of trade. It was infinitely better to look to the future for financial 
benefits to be derived from those sources, and to trust to the increased 
revenue which the growth of their prosperity would necessarily occa- 
sion, than to seek for a trifling temporary advantage by the imposition 
of duties which, however small, might have the effect of driving away 
commerce altogether. The effect of the system which had been intro- 
duced, as far as it could at present be judged of, was most satisfactory ; 
and what might be its ultimate results upon the trade with China, and 
with the immense population in other parts of the Indian seas, no one 
could anticipate. For his own part, he confessed that he was exceed- 
ingly sanguine upon the subject ; and that he looked forward to the 
most extensive commercial intercourse, under the British flag, throughout 
the whole range from the western parts of America and the eastern 
parts of Asia. It was the duty of the British Government to prepare 
the ground, to lay the highway for such an intercourse ; and he could 
assure the Honourable Member for Bridgenorth, that it was a duty of 
which his Majesty's present Government never for a moment lost sight. 
He agreed in almost all the general principles concerning trade which 



372 Debate on Free Trade with India, 

the Honourable Mover had propounded, and as far as they could be 
fairly and justly brought into practice, he was anxious to see tliem pro- 
moted. He admitted that if any impost were proved to be unjust, it 
was the duty of Parliament to consider how it could be repealed. He 
■was calmly and deliberately bent upon doing; justice to the commercial 
relations of the country : they constituted a subject to which he looked 
with the deepest and most anxious interest, and which he hoped to 
bring into a gradual improvement. He wished in every respect to im- 
prove the trade in the East, without at the same time sicrificing that of 
the West. He thought he could see his way through alterations for 
the benefit of both ; but if they were hurried or forced, their advantage 
would be risked, and his ultimate object defeated. The only suggestion 
which he wished to throw out to the Honourable Gentleman, was the 
expediency of postponing an inquiry into this subject until the result of 
the experiments which were at present trying had more distinctly ma- 
nifested themselves. He had not the slightest inclination to throw any 
impediment in the way of inquiry; on the contrary, he was solicitous 
it might take place ; but it certainly appeared to him that it was de- 
sirable to defer it until the success of the measures which had already 
been adopted, and the expediency of extending them, should be more 
fully ascertained. He was quite prepared to admit, that the regulations 
respecting the refining of sugar were not of the most satisfactory kind; 
but that was a subject of difficulty, open to conflicting opinions ; still 
he hoped to effect an improvement in it, so as to satisfy all parties. He 
preferred, as a general plan of action, to move gradually and progres- 
sively, without giving a sudden shock to subsisting institutions, opinions, 
and prejudices ; and he was quite persuaded that, by following that 
system, he should best remedy the existing grievances. By modifying 
the laws for the refining of sugar, he believed he should best promote 
this essential manufacture ; but at the present period of the session, he 
must object to embark in the large inquiry which his Honourable 
Friend's motion comprehended. It was not that he differed from him 
on any of the principles which he had advanced. So far from that, as 
was well known, he was a warm advocate for the application of those 
principles as extensively and as promptly as they could be applied, con- 
sistently with what was due to existing interests ; but it was because 
he was persuaded that the present was not the fittest moment for the 
inquiry, and that, when they were in possession of the result of what 
was now going on, they would proceed to that inquiry with a much 
greater probability of an advantageous issue. The appointment of a 
Committee at present might create alarm and excite exasperation, at a 
moment when he was anxious to show the parties interested that the 
alarm was unfounded, and the exasperation uncalled for. There was 
only one point on which he differed in opinion from the Honourable 
Gentleman. He seemed to consider, that to throw open the trade to 
India would have the effect of increasing the manufacturing industry of 
Ireland. He was at a loss to see how that effect could be produced. 
The probability of the increase of manufactures in Ireland must depend 
materially and principally on the protection experienced by properly in 
that country, and the advantages thereby secured to those whose in- 
terests were connected with manufacturing prosperity. He was happy 



Speeches of Mr. Hiishsson, Lord Milton, and Mr. Philhps. 373 

to say that manufactures had begun in Ireland. He sincerely trusted 
that they would increase^ Many circumstances induced him to believe 
that they would do so ; but he did not believe that any alteration of 
the law for regulating the duty on sugar would have the effect of 
affording employment to the population of Ireland — an object which 
depended on very different circumstances. He would not take up any 
more of the time of the House. He had sketched an outline of what 
appeared to him to be some of the most important considerations on 
this most important subject. He hoped he had shown that he did not 
entertain the slightest wish to interfere with the progress of improve- 
ment, or to prevent the extension of sound commercial principles ; but 
he repeated his conviction that those objects would be best attained by 
abstaining at present from an inquiry which would be more beneficial 
hereafter. The time must come when the subject would be more ripe 
for consideration, and then it would be imperative to enter into a full 
investigation of all the circumstances connected with it. 

Lord Milton expressed his satisfaction with what had fallen from 
the Right Honourable Gentleman. He had felt exceedingly anxious 
to support his Honourable Friend's motion; and if the Right Honoura- 
ble the President of the Board of Trade had opposed it, he (Lord Mil- 
ton) should have felt himself bound to support it. But after the fair 
and candid manner in which the Right Honourable Gentleman had 
treated the subject, he really thought that a postponement of the in- 
quiry would be more conducive to the object which his Honourable 
Friend had in view, than its immediate adoption. He thought that the 
laws which related to the trade with India, ought to be taken into 
consideration as early as it would be advisable to do so, with a view 
to such an alteration in them as might be advantageous to the general 
interests. Upon the whole, however, it appeared to him to be better to 
leave the subject in the hands of a Government entertaining just views 
respecting it, rather than at present to appoint a Committee, in which 
the proceedings might be calculated to produce irritation. 

Mr. Phillips said he had the satisfaction to state that the manu- 
factures of Lancashire were experiencing a considerable revival. Al- 
though this revival had been tardy, he had always regarded it as 
certain. He did not attach the same importance which many did to 
the lowering of the duties on East India sugar. The effect of such a 
measure would be comparatively trifling; but with regard to the trade 
to India, it was a subject on which he felt great interest. He recol- 
lected the time when he had anticipated many events connected with that 
trade which had since come to pass, and that even cotton piece-goods 
would be sent from this country to the East Indies. At that period, 
he had been treated as an enthusiast and a visionary. What had since 
occurred, however, had proved the justness of his anticipations, and had 
proved the advantages consequent on an adherence to the principles of 
free trade. He firmly believed that the exports from this country to 
India would be much greater than they were, if the existing obstacles 
were removed and the Company were to pursue a liberal policy. If, in- 
stead of deterring, they would encourage his Majesty's subjects to go 
and settle in India, they would at the same time increase their own re- 
venue, and materially contribute to the improvement ar\d extension of 



374 Speeches of Sir. C. Forbes, and Mr. Sykes, 

commerce. Was it not evident, that if intelligent persons were en- 
couraged to go out and settle in India, that the manufactures of that 
country and its culture too of cotton, silk, &c. would soon be greatly im- 
proved ? But such obstacles were thrown in the way by the Company, 
that these persons were obliged to abandon their plans in despair. 

Sir Charles For,bes thanked the Honourable Mover for the very 
powerful statement which he had made of his opinions ; and congra- 
tulated the country and India on the unusual attention which the 
question had now experienced in the House of Commons. He would 
not say a single word word further than to declare, that feeling, as he 
did, the greatest attachment to India, he trusted that the great question 
of its commercial interests would be left in the hands of the Right Hon- 
ourable Gentleman, who, he had no doubt, would deal with it as he 
was dealing with all other questions of a similar nature. He had 
the greatest confidence in the Right Honourable Gentleman, and in 
the principles upon which he was acting. 

Mr. Sykes was greatly satisfied with the tone of the Right Honoura- 
ble the President of the Board of Trade's speech, and perfectly coin- 
cided with him in his general commercial principles. He was anxious 
that some measures should be adopted with less delay than he seemed 
to contemplate for the improving and extending the trade with India. 
He had not heard from that Right Honourable Gentleman a 
single reason which to him appeared to have the very slightest co- 
gency for continuing the protecting dutie's on East India sugar. He 
wished he could have heard from his intelligent mind, even the 
colour of a reason why an impost should be continued, which he 
affirmed was no benefit to the West Indies, and which he could not 
deny was a detriment to India and to England. He would take this op- 
portunity of stating that though he was not present at the time, he entirely 
concurred in the sentiments contained in the luminous speech made by 
the Right Honourable the President of the Board of Trade on 
shipping ; at the same time that he felt deeply for the depressed situation 
of that interest. Circumstanced as he was, he had ample opportuni- 
ties of knowing the extent of the evils which they were enduring ; 
although he believed that those evils were not owing to the relaxation 
of the Navigation Laws, or the introduction of the reciprocity system. 
And yet, knowing as he did the distressed state of the shipping in- 
terest, he felt that it behoved Parliament and his Majesty's Government 
to look out for quarters where that interest might obtain employment ; 
and he could not see any opening so likely to be advantageous to the 
shipping interest as the encouragement of trade with the East Indies. 
If the duty were taken off East India sugar, a larger quantity of 
sugar would necessarily be imported into tjiis country, which, added 
to the distance from which it would be brought, must greatly increase 
the amount of tonnage that would be employed. It was principally 
on that ground that he was disposed to press the speedy consideration 
of this important subject. He did not see any way in which the 
shipping interest could be relieved from their present depression, except 
by increasing the commerce of the country ; and he did not see any 
way by which the commerce of the country could be so effectually 
increased as by opening and cultivating the trade with the East Indies. 



Speeches of Mr. . Ross, and Mr. W, Smith. 375 

Nor did he believe that the repeal of the duty on East India sugar 
would eventually be injurious to the West India planter, vpho was now 
placed in that factitious and unnatural state that all his profits were 
at present derived, not from the fair results of the investment of capital 
in sugar planting, but from the mere effect of the drawbacks and profits 
allowed him at the heavy charge of this country. 

Mr, Ross observed, that the whole of the bounties to which the 
Honourable Gentleman had just alluded, were abolished last year. 
It ought to be remembered that we ourselves had encouraged the West 
Indies to look for a monopoly, by the monopoly, in supplying them with 
the articles they wanted, which we had established for a long time 
against them in our own favour. How far it might be proper to con- 
tinue the protecting duties in favour of the West India Colonies, he 
would not undertake to say ; but he thought that the best mode would 
be for the Honourable Member to withdraw his motion for the present, 
and leave the matter to his Majesty's Government. 

Mr. W, Smith. Whether his Honourable Friend chose to withdraw 
his motion or not, it was obvious that the argument of the Right 
Honourable Gentleman, that the duties on East India sugar did no 
good, and that their abolition could do no harm to the West India 
sugar growers, was one which cut its own throat ; for, if that was the 
case, why retain the duty on the East India sugar, or why indeed call 
for an inquiry at all ? This was a proof that the argument was not 
confided in even by those who used it, or, at least, that they laboured 
under a very great delusion on the subject. If the argument, however, 
was good for any thing, and if the West India sugar-growers would 
really not be injured by the reduction of the duty on East India sugar, 
then let the people of England at least have that satisfaction which 
they had implored in at least 500 Petitions. If the continuance did no 
good and the reduction would do no harm to the West India growers, 
that was an irrefragable reason why the reduction should immediately 
take place. — The Right Honourable Gentleman had said, that it would 
be more convenient to enter upon the full examination of the subject 
at another period. In this way the matter might be postponed for 
five or six years, till the East India Company came again for a re- 
newal of their Charter. Such a postponement would be a great 
disadvantage indeed, and he could not see why the matter should be 
so long delayed. — He had also talked of the five millions sterling of 
revenue which the country derived from West India sugars ; but would 
not sugar pay the same revenue when brought from any other 
quarter? — It had been argued that the East Indies were best adapted 
to the cultivation of cotton, and the West Indies to the cultivation 
of sugar. But it had been long the impression of his mind, produced 
by the fullest consideration he had been able to give the subject, that 
the cultivation of cotton would be much preferable, even for the West 
Indies themselves. It was well known, that the slave population of 
the West Indies decreased in proportion to the cultivation of sugar, 
and increased in proportion to the cultivation of other articles. A 
greater service, therefore, could not be done to the West Indies than 
to make it the interest of the planters to decrease the cultivation of 
sugar, and increase the cultivation of other articles. It had been said, 



376 Speeches of Mr. Bernal, and Mr. Brougham. 

that we ought to allow the West India planters a monopoly in favour 
of their sugar, since we had taken to ourselves the monopoly of 
supplying them with necessaries. But we had now given up the greater 
part if not the whole of that monopoly. — If his Honourable Friend 
should think it proper to withdraw his motion, he trusted the Right 
Honourable Gentleman would follow up the views which he seemed 
disposed to adopt with as little delay as possible. 

Mr. Bernal regretted that the Member for Norwich had permitted 
himself to make the remarks he did on the West Indies. He denied 
that the decrease of the West India slave population was caused by the 
cultivation of sugar ; and he had expected more candour from his 
Honourable Friend than appeared in his encouraging the clamour out 
of doors on this subject against the West India body. It might pos- 
sibly be that the country would derive equal duties from sugar if 
brought from other quarters ; but at least they ought not to give up 
a valuable revenue without inquiry. He, by no means meant to deny 
that at present the West Indians were considerable gainers by the 
manner in which the drawback on refined sugar was regulated, though 
he did not think that, with the excess of production above our own con- 
sumption, they were gainers by the protecting duty. 

Mr. Brougham expressed his high satisfaction at the tone in which 
this discussion had been generally conducted, and particularly at the 
way in which the Right Hon. Gentleman on the floor had displayed his 
own views, and that of the Government, on the most important subject 
involved in it. He was a warm friend to the inquiry proposed by the 
Honourable Member for Bridgenorth — an inquiry which would have a 
strong tendency to give new life to our commerce and manufactures, 
and afford a most seasonable relief to our artizans and labourers. He, 
therefore, would be the last man to tender his advice to his Honourable 
Friend to withdraw his motion, had it not been for the candid and 
liberal views expressed by the Right Honourable Gentleman, and the 
admirable temper which he had evinced when speaking on this topic. 
He hoped, therefore, that, under the present circumstances, his Ho- 
nourable Friend would feel himself justified in not pressing his propo- 
sition. If his Honourable Friend and the House should agree to that, 
he would merely notice one or two things which appeared to him 
to be erroneous, and which he wished might not go forth to the 
public uncontradicted. He certainly could not agree Avith the Right 
Honourable Gentleman below, that the West Indies derived no benefit 
from the discriminating duties imposed on East India sugars. If 
that proposition were sound it would put an end to the discussion at 
once. If it were clear that the West Indies derived no benefit from 
this duty on East India sugars, that duty ought to be taken off at once, 
without any further inquiry. The very reason for inquiry was, on that 
hypothesis, completely done away ; and, therefore, there could be no 
need for it; since everything which could be object of inquiry was 
attained by the admission. It would be the very height of absurdity 
to continue it for a single day longer, because it would be to inflict 
serious injury on some parties without the slightest corresponding advan- 
to any other. They were told that we ought not to compel the East 
Indies to raise sugar. We did not propose to force them to raise any 



Speeches of Mr. Brougham and Mr. Wynn. 377 

thing ; but only said, " Withdraw your unjust restrictions, and let 
them raise' Avhat they like." Indeed, if there was any forcing in the 
case, it was in the effect of the present system of heavy duties on East 
India sugars, to force the West Indies, by such an unnatural stimulus, 
to produce them. His Honourable Friend (Mr. Bernal, to whose can- 
dour he was always happy to bear testimony,) admitted that our present 
regulations operated as a bounty on West India sugars ; and, therefore, 
the evil of a forced production, was apphcable, if anywhere, to the 
West, and not to the East Indies. And from our having extended 
this preference to the Mauritius alone, the only slave colony of all our 
Asiatic dominions, it appeared as if our system were to give bounty and. 
protection to the masters of slaves, and to withhold it from the 
employers of free men.* He hoped that they might live to see the 
dawn of a better day in the management of our colonies ; and looking 
to what had been said by the Right Honourable Gentleman on the floor, 
it might be expected that that day was not very distant ; and therefore 
he refrained from resorting, on the present occasion, to any of those 
harsher arguments which might be employed on the occasion. With 
respect to the East Indies, he could not help looking, with eager antici- 
pation, and very high expectations, to the results of a full and complete 
inquiry into the commerce and the capabilities of that country, and the 
improvement in our own trade and manufactures which must follow. He 
could not help exulting in the brilliant prospects which such an inquiry 
presented, and to which, in his opinion, it must almost necessarily lead. 
He was cnDuvinced that, upon a full revision of the condition of oui' 
Asiatic territories, it would appear that we did not at present at all un- 
derstand the extent to which the East India traffic might be carried, 
and that the ultimate effects would be beyond everything of which we 
had at present any conception. He would perhaps be permitted to 
mention one simple fact in illustration of what he meant: when he M?as 
lately at Lancaster, a commercial gentleman of that place showed him 
orders which he had received for a vast number of pieces of calico for 
the East India market, and he desired him to look at Johnson's Dicti- 
onary, and there he would find the word " Calico" mentioned as the 
name of a fine fabric imported from Calicut, in the East Indies. In 
India, at that time, they manufactured largely of this article for their 
own use, and exported it largely to us. But now the process was 
reversed, and we imported the raw material from them, and exported to 
them the same fabric, but more highly finished, and of a better quality. 
This was only a small sample of what might be made of this trade, if 
it were left perfectly free and unfettered. Looking at the matter in this 
point of view, he was convinced that the investigation would enable the 
Government to do its duty towards the countless millions of India; 
while the process would be attended with the double advantage of pro- 
moting the interests of the people of India, while it afforded the very 
best and most effectual relief to our population at home. 

Mr. Wynn observed, that as British manufactures had superseded 
those of India, we were absolutely bound, in justice to our subjects 
there, and in sound policy, to extend the trade with that country as much 

* Some warm discussion had taken place as to the Mauritius, which we omit 
as irrelevant. 

No. 24. 



378 Remarks on the West Indian Monopoly. 

as possible The attention due to the commerce of India, as well as to 
its arts and literature, had been much too long delayed; but measures 
had latterly been taken, with relation to them, which he trusted would 
redeem them from the neglect they had experienced. Under all the 
circumstances of the case, he hoped that his Honourable Friend 
(Mr. Whitmore) would postpone his motion. 

Mr. W. Whitmoke, in reply, said that he yielded to the recom- 
mendation of his Honourable Friends, and would withdraw his motion, 
and leave the subject in the hands of the Right Honourable Gentleman, 
who had assured them that he intended to institute inquiries, with a 
view to remedy what was objectionable in the existing system. He 
felt confident that he would see it right not to delay those inquiries; 
and above all, not to think of postponing them till the expiration of the 
Charter of the East India Company. If, however, he was disappointed 
in this hope, he should feel justified and even bound again to call the 
attention of the House to this important question. 

The motion was then withdrawn. 



REMARKS ON WEST INDIAN MONOPOLY. 

We trust we shall be excused if we venture to subjoin to the above 
interesting and in the main most satisfactory discussion, a few expla- 
natory observations on some of the statements made in the course of it. 

It was asserted, by Mr. Huskisson, that no benefit whatever was derived 
to the West Indians from their monopoly of the British sugar market. 
Now, if this position were deemed to be correct, it does seem extraor- 
dinary that that monopoly should be prolonged. It cannot be denied 
that the desire of its abolition is very general throughout the kingdom, 
and has been expressed in innumerable petitions to Parliament. 
Neither can it be denied that this monopoly is felt, and that it unques- 
tionably operates, as a grievance in the case of large classes, both in 
this country and in British India, who complain of its pressure, and 
who call for its extinction. Under these circumstances, nothing can 
be conceived more ungracious, than to reject a prayer so consonant to 
all the recognized principles of our commercial policy, and to retain 
restrictions offensive and injurious, as well as unjust to multitudes, 
while it is admitted that they yield no advantage to any other party. 
It is perfectly obvious, that if this statement were believed to be true, 
there could be no ground for caution or hesitation as to the course to 
be taken : it would be both unreasonable and absurd to continue the 
monopoly in question for a single hour. If it is to be maintained in spite 
of all the strong reasons which exist for abolishing it, this must arise from 
a conviction the very opposite to that which has been expressed, namely, 
that considerable benefit is in some way or other derived from it by the 
,^West Indians. And it is some presumption, at least, in favour of this 
opinion that they and their partizans (among whom we should be sorry 
to number the Right Honourable Gentleman,) are alone eager to defend 
and protect this monopoly. 

One ground assigned for believing that the monopoly is of no real 
benefit to the West Indians, is that as more of their sugar is imported 
into this country than is consumed there, the surplus being exported 
to the continent, its price cannot be enhanced in consequence of 



Remarks on the West Indian Mo7iopoly. 379 

the monopoly; because the price on the continent must necessarily regu- 
late the price in England. Admitting this as a general principle, yet, 
we would ask, how it happens, that though the West Indians are now 
at liberty to export their surplus directly from their plantations to the 
continent, they prefer sending it first to England, and then from Eng- 
land to the continent, though it thus becomes loaded with double 
freight, insurance, commission, and shipping and landing charges? 
This otherwise strange proceeding is to be explained, only on the 
principle of their deriving, in some way, a very great advantage from 
their monopoly of the British market. And the fact is, that the drawback 
on the refined sugar exported from this country is so regulated, as not 
only to compensate to the West Indian planter the heavy extra charges 
just mentioned, but to afford him a considerable profit besides, all 
which must obviously come out of tlie pockets of the people of this 
country. 

It is a further proof of the correctness of this view of the subject, not 
only that no raw sugar is shipped directly from the West Indies to the 
continent, (except in a case to which we shall presently advert,) though 
the continental ports are open to receive it ; but that the whole quan- 
tity exported thither from this country in a raw state in 1825, for 
example, did not exceed 200 tons, and was probably not even intended 
for sale there, being evidently not more than might be required for the 
use of the crews of the ships engaged in the trade between Great 
Britain and the continent. Besides this, there were, in that year, 
320,971 cwt., or 16,049 tons of refined sugar exported to the continent, 
which, reckoning (as it is reckoned in the custom-house returns) 
at the rate of 34 cwt. of raw for each 20 cwt. of refined, would seem to 
exhibit an export of 545,652 cwt. of raw, or 27,283 tons. 

The law at that time allowed to the exporter of one ton of refined 
sugar a drawback of 46/. And if it had required 34 cwt. of raw to 
produce a ton of refined sugar, this would have been an equitable 
arrangement. But, in truth, 30 cwt. of raw sugar is equal, or more 
than equal to the production of 20 cwt. of refined, besides leaving a con- 
siderable residuum, after refinement, of both bastards and molasses. 

The calculation may be thus made : — 
30 cwt. of raw sugar yield about 75lbs. per cwt. or about 
20 cwt. in all, of refined ; on which, previous to July, 
1826, a drawback was allowed on exportation of . . £46 
Besides the refined sugar, 30 cwt. of raw yield about 
392 lbs. or 3| cwt. of bastards : these come into the 
home market nearly on the same footing with raw, which 
pays a duty of 27s. per cwt. being therefore equal to . 4 14 6 
They also yield about 504 lb. or4| cwt. of molasses, which 
coming into the market on the same footing with that 
paying a duty of 10s. per cwt. are equal to . . 2 5 

Making in all £52 19 6 
Now the whole duty actually paid on the raw sugar which 

produced all this was, on 30 cwt. at 27s. . . • 40 10 

Leaving a gain of £12 9 6 
Or nearly 8s. 4c?, on each cwt. of the raw sugar so manufactured, and 



380 Remarks on the West Indian Monopoly. 

making therefore a profit to the West Indians, on the whole of our 
imports from the British dominions (180,000 tons) of about a million 
and a half, instead of the 1,200,000Z. at which it was usually reckoned. 

Such was the state of things before the recent change in the mode of 
regulating the drawback. 
Now, instead of 46/. there is drawn back on each ton of 

refined sugar exported a sum of . . . . £41 8 4 

The other advantages of bastards and molasses remaining 

the same, amount to . . . . . . . 6 19 6 

aiakinginall £48 7 10 
Now the duty paid on 30 cwt. is still only . . . 40 10 
So that there is left on this transaction, even now, a gain, on 
every 30 cwt. of raw sugar, exported in a refined state, £7 17 10, being 
equal to a little more than 5s. 3c?. per cwt. 

In having stated, therefore, the bounty to have been Qs. per cwt. 
before the recent alteration, and only 3s. since, we have been consider- 
ably below the mark ; that bounty appearing to have been 8s. Ad. be- 
fore its reduction, and being still, as it appears to us, 5s. 3d. 

VVe admit it to be open to the West Indians to say, that we have 
estimated the quantity of refined sugar obtained from a cwt. of raw too 
high, when we state it at 741b. to 751b. : but we ihink not ; and if an 
investigation were only allowed, we are confident it would be shown 
that even this estimate is below the truth. Indeed, the arrangement of 
the drawback, which allows All. 8s. Ad. to the exporter, seems to as- 
sume that only 30f cwt. of raw are required for the production of a ton 
of refined; and even if that calculation were correct, the gain would stili 
be Ql. 19s. Qd. per ton, or 4s. T\d. per cwt. of raw sugar. 

The yielding of 30 cwt. of raw sugar is, on the above calculation, 
nearly as follows : — 

Refined sugar 
Bastards 
Molasses 
Waste 

~ 30^ 

If the operation of this bounty extended only to the quantity actually 
exported, its effects would be comparatively trifling. We should be 
paying to the West Indians from 120,000?. to 140,000/. in order that 
so much of their sugar as went abroad might be sold at a cheaper rate 
to our neighbours than we ourselves can obtain it for ; but precisely 
in the same degree as the price of the sugar we export is thus lowered 
to them, is the price of our v^hole consumption enhanced to us. This 
effect is inevitable ; and the enormous extent to which it operates upon 
«s as a tax, for the benefit of the West Indies, has been already shewn. 

If it be said, in reply to all this, that in stating the West India 
monopoly to be productive of no advantage to the West Indians, it 
was intended not to speak of the bounty, which is a matter that does 
not injure the East Indies, and only concerns the people of England, 

• We do not vouch for the perfect accuracy of these statements. We proceed 
necessarily on data more or less uncertain. This veiy uncertainty, howevei', 
orms a strong reason for a Committee. 




~ Remarks on the West Indian Monopoly. 381 

but of the PROTECTING DUTY aloue. " If the people of England," we 
presume it will be argued, " choose, in their extreme liberality, to give 
the poor West Indian planter eight or nine, or any other number of 
hundred thousand pounds annually, wherewith to pay for his drivers 
and his overseers, his stocks and his whips, his workhouses and 
his gibbets abroad ; or for his splendid establishments, and seats 
in parliament at home ; is it not most unreasonable in you abohtionists 
factiously to find fault with them on that score ? Why should you in- 
tervene, to stop the free course of their eleemosynary contributions ? It 
is not above a sixth part of what they raise, without a murmur, to feed 
the pauperism of England. The planters indeed are paupers of another 
grade, but still they are paupers. Let us not grudge them this trifling 
boon. It would be cruel to drive them to lay down their equipages ; 
and to abandon their seats in parliament ; and to go over to a burning 
climate, in order to look after their slaves, and to arrest the waste of life 
which is going on among them. Let us have pity upon them ! Let 
us do as we would be done by !" 

Leaving this appeal in favour of the bounty to produce its due effect, 
we will next turn to the protecting duty. Here we freely admit, that 
it is of the nature of all impolitic restrictions on trade to do little or no 
good to those in whose favour they are enacted, compared with the evil 
they inflict on all besides. Thus it may possibly be with the pro- 
tecting duty in favour of West India produce. If, however, we were 
willing to admit that it did no good to the West Indians, the tenacity 
with which they cling to it, and which we cannot do them the injustice 
to believe springs from pure, disinterested malevolence, would convince 
us we were wrong in our admission. They never could contend for it 
with the warmth and bitterness which they sometimes display, unless 
there were some advantage to be derived from it. The amount of that 
advantage we have never pretended to be able accurately to appreciate. 
But whatever it be, it is at least sufficient, in their estimation, to be 
worth a violent struggle to retain it; and, in that of the President of 
the Board of Trade, to be worth the sacrifice of part of his high and 
well earned reputation for candour and consistency, in order to preserve 
it to them for a somewhat longer period. Generally speaking, it 
cannot be doubted, that the removal of this protecting duty, would 
have the effect of materially cheapening one of the necessaries of life. 
If, at this moment the East Indian merchant can import, without loss, 
ten thousand tons of sugar annually, though loaded with an "extra 
duty of iOZ. a ton, it is not to be believed that, if the impost were re- 
moved, we should not have that sugar both cheaper and in greater 
quantities. But independently of this circumstance, which may pro- 
bably explain the nature of the gain which the West Indians derive 
from the protecting duty, and the cause of the alarm with which they 
contemplate its removal, we ground ourselves upon the principle, so fully 
admitted by the President of the Board of Controul on this occasion, that 
its imposition is an act of absolute injustice towards the inhabitants 
of India — and we will add to that, an act of cruel injustice towards our 
starving manufacturers in the north, and towards the starving popula- 
tion of Ireland. It is a singular instance of partiality in the laws 
which regulate our commercial policy, that while, with such a lavish 



382 Remarks on the West Indian Monopoly. 

hand, we dispense our bounties to a few hundreds of West Indian 
planters; we refuse to the myriads of our Indian subjects, and to the 
swarming and starving population of Great Britain and Ireland, the 
fair use of their energies, by removing the obstacles we have ourselves 
raised to it and which are declared to be a benefit to no party, merely 
because those planters object to this exercise of our justice and 
humanity. And it is no less singular an instance of inconsistency on 
the part of one of our most enlightened statesmen and political econo- 
mists, that he should be found throwing the broad shield of his re- 
putation and influence over such a system. 

It was ingeniously stated in the course of the discussion, that if it were 
true that the removal of the protecting duty, on East India sugar for 
example, would produce all the results anticipated from it, then it must 
have happened that that sugar would have found its way to the con- 
tinent, and there have come into competition with the surplus sugar 
of the West Indies. — Now even if we could not discover any satisfac- 
tory way of escape from this dilemma, we should not the less believe 
that, if free scope were given to this trade, and if tlie galling re- 
strictions which fetter the British capitalist in India, and load with 
imposts the British merchant at home, were removed, the result itself 
would furnish the best solution of the difficulty. No one understands 
better than the President of the Board of Trade, the powerful effect 
produced, by the mere absence of restrictions, upon any particular 
branch of commerce. This was one of his main arguments in favour 
of his much maligned measures in respect to silk and shipping ; 
and the result has proved it to be perfectly conclusive. He cannot 
doubt that it would prove equally so in this instance. 

But independently of this general and irrefragable ground of confidence, 
we would ask, whether it be not true that there exist a variety of impedi- 
ments to the kind of commerce, the absence of which is so strenuously 
alleged to be prima facie evidence against the probability of a large 
sugar trade with the East Indies ? If so, all we need say in reply is, 
" Remove your restrictions ; set free our energies ; and then if we do 
not succeed, abjure your own principles and revert to the exploded 
dogmas of other days." Unquestionably no great trade can be esta- 
blished all at once. It must have its beginning, and its gradual pro- 
gress. Thus was it with East Indian indigo. At present, the culti- 
vation of sugar, by British capital, has not even commenced in that 
quarter. The discouragements both there and in this country are so 
great, as wholly to prevent the application of capital in that direction ; 
and until these discouragements are obviated, the trade must remain 
in its present state of depression and insignificance. The necessities 
indeed of the merchant, not his own will, oblige him from time to 
time to bring sugar to this country as dead weight ; but if he were 
relieved from the burdensome tax he has to pay upon it, he would bring 
it freely and regularly, and its growth would increase to the full extent 
of his demand. It is not enough to say to him, you may carry the 
sugar of India to the continent. His answer is, "My voyage is to London. 
If I send it to the continent direct I shall have no dead weight for my 
ship ; and if I send it to the continent, after having made the voyage 
to England, I shall send it under every possible disadvantage, and 



Remarks on the West Indian Monopoly. 383 

loaded with double charges, tliere also to meet, in some oilier countries, 
at least, of Europe, as well as in England, with protecting duties 
in favour of their own colonial produce. Besides, my transactions are 
with England, It is there I wish to form my establishments and to 
realize not only my profits, but my commissions, instead of transferring 
those commissions to foreigners ; — and, if I must submit to send 
my heavy goods, (my sugar, for instance,) to the continent, I must 
change my vphole plan of trade, and send my light goods thither direct, 
as well as my heavy goods, form my establishments there, and abandon 
England entirely." Many other reasons might be assigned to shew 
that the real escape from the dilemma on the horns of which it has 
been attempted to place us, is to be found in the removal of the absurd 
restrictions which prevent the due developement of British capital and 
native industry in India ; and which most unjustly load with imposts, 
in this country, the produce of that capital and of that industry. 

We have said that there is one exception to the statement that no 
sugars go direct from the colonies of Great Britain to the continental 
market. It is the case of some estates in that part of Dutch Guiana, 
which, in 1814, was ceded to Great Britain, and in favour of which a 
stipulation was then obtained that their produce should not be brought 
hither, but carried to Holland. This was thought at the time to be a 
great boon to the proprietors. At this very moment, however, we un- 
derstand that those proprietors are earnestly pressing the Government 
of this country to relieve them from this injurious distinction, and to 
permit them to send their sugars to the British market, the loss to 
them of not being allowed to pass through that market, notwithstand- 
ing tiie double voyage, being considerable. We have here an addi- 
tional proof of the heavy burden to which this country is subjected 
for the support of slavery. 

It is a farther confirmation of it, that a practice has recently grown 
up of extracting from the molasses imported from the West Indies the 
sugar contained in it, and either bringing that sugar into consumption 
at home, or exporting it in a refined state to the Continent. It seems 
right to warn the Government of the extensive frauds which may 
thus be practised. It is obviously easy so to manage the manufacture 
of sugar in the West Indies, as that a very large proportion of 
saccharine matter shall be held suspended in the molasses ; and as the 
duty on molasses is only 10s. per cwt. it is further obvious, that on all the 
sugar that may be extracted from it, and brought into consumption at 
home, there might be a clear gain to the importer of 175. per cwt. being 
the difference between the duty on sugar and that on molasses. And 
supposing the sugar so produced to pass through the process of refine- 
ment, the gain would be materially greater. Thirty hundred v/eight 
of such raw sugar will have paid of duty on importation only the sum 
of 15/.; and yet, when refined and exported, it may yield the same 
amount of drawback, &c. on its exportation, as we have shown to be 
derived from the same quantity of Muscovado, when refined and ex- 
ported, though 30 cwt. of Muscovado pay a duty of AQl. 10s. on im- 
portation. What is to hinder a sugar baker in this country, having a 
sugar estate in the West Indies, to import all his sugar, in the state of 



384 Case of Miss ThrelfalVs Slaves. 

a thick syrup, at the low rate of duty of 101. a ton, and to receive on its 
exportation, in a refined state, an amount of drawback which shall aftbrd 
him a most enormous profit ? 



THE CASE OF MISS THRELFALL AND HER SLAVES. 

Being an Appeal to the Justice and Humanity of the British Parlia- 
ment, in behalf of One Hundred and Tiventy Black Men, Women, 

[ and Children, whom it is proposed, for the profit of this Lady, to 
transport from a British to a Danish Colony. 

Miss Threlfall, an English lady, is the proprietor of 120 
negroes, now residing in Tortola, one of the Virgin Islands. Con- 
ceiving that she can employ them more profitably in the Danish island 
of St. Jan, where she also possesses land and slaves, than on the com- 
paratively exhausted soil of Tortola, she desires the British Parliament 
to enable her to transport these 120 negroes from the latter to the 
former colony. 

Mr. Wilmot Horton having given notice of his intention to propose 
some amendments in the Consolidated Slave Trade Abolition Act, 
Miss Threlfall has announced her purpose of taking that opportunity 
to introduce, by means of certain friends she has obtained in the House 
of Commons, a clause to the above effect. 

This project cannot but appear most extraordinary, to those who are 
aware that the removal of negroes from any British possession to that 
of any foreign power, for the purpose of being treated as slaves, has 
been ranked by statute with crimes of the deepest die : it is classed and 
punished as piracy. 

The statement of this lady indeed assumes, that the prohibition of 
such a transfer as she contemplates is of a recent date, " arising," she 
asserts, " from the operation of the late act for consolidating the laws 
against the slave trade ;" and she complains of that act on this ground 
especially, as " affecting" her interests as the " proprietor of an estate 
in Tortola," and affecting also " the welfare of the slaves employed 
upon it." 

This, however, is an entire misrepresentation of the facts of the case. 
In the year 1806, twenty-one years ago, the removal of slaves from a 
British to a foreign possession was made, by the act of Geo. III. chap. 
52. a highly penal offence; and in 1811, it was made a felony, punish- 
able by transportation or the hulks. And the only new feature which 
has been introduced into the more recent act, of which Miss Threlfall 
complains, is, that the crime which she now asks the licence of Par- 
liament to perpetrate, instead of being punishable with transportation, 
may be punished with death. 

It is, therefore, not true that the difficulty which Miss Threlfall seeks 
to obviate is of recent creation. It has existed in full force for twenty- 
one years ; and the only real difference is, that now the offender, in- 
stead of being subjected to fine and forfeiture, or to exile or the hulks, 
may be consigned to the gallows. 

Miss Threlfall, indeed, very ingenuously confesses, that she has for 
years been committing with impunity the very felony described and 



Case of Miss Thr elf airs Slaves. 385 

pimislied by llie act of 1811. She may not be aware, otherwise she 
would hardly have made this rash confession, that by such conduct she 
has not only made herself liable to very heavy forfeitures, but to the 
pains and penalties of felony. 

But whatever may be Miss Threlfall's liabilities in this respect, it is 
obvious that her plea, drawn from the recent date of this prohibition, is 
altogether unfounded. And it is equally unfounded, that there are in her 
case any new circumstances, any circumstances which have not existed 
in full force for the last twenty years. 

It would not have been a very modest request, to have asked the 
British Parliament to violate its own deliberate enactments, even if the 
object were only to escape pecimiary penalties, and if the subjects of 
the prohibition were not human beings, but bales of goods. But in the 
present case, the boldness of the applicant extends to the request that 
Parliament would grant to her its licence to perpetrate an act which it 
has solemnly denounced, in the face of the country and of the world, 
as a crime worthy of death ; and to grant this licence, regardless of 
the feelings and the future destiny of 120 human beings, who are to be 
the innocent and unoffending victims of its compliance. 

Suppose a smuggler, or even a highwayman, were to approach the 
bar of Parliament, applying for a statutory licence to defraud the 
revenue, or to plunder a certain number of his Majesty's subjects, and 
should enforce his application by a plea ad misericordiam in behalf of 
his wife and children, whom with his diminished means he was no 
longer able to maintain; would there, in such an application, be any 
thing more directly opposed to justice, than in the application of this 
lady. Indeed her proposition is infinitely more revolting to humanity, for 
it sacrifices the happiness of 120 men, women, and children, for the sole 
purpose of adding to Miss Threlfall's income. 

But we are told, (for it obviously would not have been decent to 
place the proposed measure on its real ground, the pecuniary profit of 
Miss Threlfall,) we are told that this removal is called for by a regard 
to the welfare of the slaves themselves, as well as to the interests of 
their proprietor. 

We will not affirm that this is known to be, but it most unquestion- 
ably is, an unfounded pretence. 

These negroes are to be taken from Tortola to St. Jan, because the 
soil of the latter colony, it is said, is more productive than that of the 
former. This, however, will be found to constitute one of the strongest 
reasons which humanity has to urge against the proposal. 

Putting the consideration of general principle wholly out of the 
question, it now stands proved by the most unquestionable statistical 
facts, furnished by the colonists themselves, that, throughout all the 
slave "colonies, the duration of life, and the amount of comfort among 
the slaves, increases in proportion, not to the productiveness, but the 
unproductiveness of the soils they cultivate for their masters benefit ; 
and also that the hope of deliverance from the bitter yoke of their bon- 
dage, is increased in the same relative proportion. 

If in Demarara the slaves decrease rapidly, while in the Bahamas 
they increase as fast as they decrease in Demarara, what is the grand 



386 Case of Miss ThrelfaWs Skives. 

cause of tliis difference ? It is that the soil of Demarara is so rich as 
not only to be capable of sugar culture, with all its attendant op- 
pression, but to make that culture a source of large comparative profit 
to the planter; while the soil of the Bahamas is only fit for the growth 
of pasture and of provisions, and perhaps of a little cotton. 

Again, why does the population even of Barbadoes increase as 
compared with that of Grenada, St. Vincents and Trinidad, but because 
the soil of these three islands is more productive than that of Barba- 
does, and therefore aftbrds a stronger stimulus to the rigid exaction 
of slave labour, and to the adoption of that species of cultivation, 
Avhich in rich soils is most profitable to the master, while it is the most 
destructive to the life and comfort of the slave ? 

Every proprietor of a cotton mill, and every post horse master in the 
kingdom, fully understands the principle on which this apparent 
anomaly proceeds. — A high profit on the manufacture of cotton goods, 
will infallibly abridge the duration of the machinery which produces 
them. — A contested county election will probably kill or injure more 
horses in a month, than at another time would be killed or injured in 
a year. The profits indeed of the weaver, in the one case, and of the 
post boy in the other, might and probably would increase with the 
profits of their respective masters. So also would those of the negro 
labourer, if he were a free man, receiving wages in proportion to his 
exertions. But the negro labourer is a slave, and receives no wages. 
He is the machine worn down by friction ; or he is the post horse 
excited to undue and prolonged muscular exertion, by the whip and 
the spur, in order to swell the gains of his owner. 

By transporting slaves therefore from a less to a more productive 
soil, we insure for them, independently of a variety of other evils, an 
aggravation of the miseries of their lot, and an acceleration of debility 
and death. 

The poverty of the soil of Tortola, is a main reason assigned by 
Miss Threlfall, for desiring the expatriation of her slaves. The poverty 
of soil, however, of which she complains, is not the incapability of 
producing provisions fit for the sustenance of the slaves, but of raising 
articles affording a profit to the owner. This is evidently no ground of 
complaint to her slaves, as we shall see presently. But if it were, 
wherein does her case difter from that of every other planter in Tortola ? 
Major Moody, whose authority may be relied upon as to this fact, states 
the deterioration of the soil, and its incapacity of profitably producing 
sugar, to be the universally and well-founded complaint of every 
owner of land in that island. If this reason should be admitted as 
valid for decreeing the exile of Miss Threlfall's slaves, it may be 
pleaded with precisely the same force for dooming the whole servile 
population of Tortola to a similar exile. 

If we may rely on the same authority, however, we mean that of 
Major Moody, such a measure, notwithstanding the poverty of the 
soil of Tortola, would infallibly prove a calamity and not a blessing to 
the slaves. 

The Major in one of his parliamentary reports, has given us, on the 
authority of a Dr. Stobo, whose conclusions he adopts as entitled to 



4690 





1002 


10 


604 





2484 





115 





123 


10 


700 





4968 





£15,032 






Case of Mm ThrelfalVs Slaves. 387 

credit, the following statement of visible property poesessod by the 
slaves of Tortola, consisting of about 5000 men, women, and children, 
or about 1200 to 1500 families, viz. — 

Sterling. 
38 Horses at 71. 10s. each . . . £285 

938 Head of horned cattle, at 5Z. 

2125 Goats at 10s 

1208 Pigs at 10s. 
33,120 Poultry at Is. 6d. 

23 Boats at 5Z 

Fish pots and fishing tackle . 
Buildings, chiefly in town 
Furniture, utensils, &c. 



'* In the above," it is added, " I have not estimated the disposable 
portion of esculents and fruits ; and of cotton, raised by slaves. They 
cultivate on their own account, about 1675 acres of land, which is 
estimated to yield annually, 31. 1 Os. sterling per acre, in total, 5862Z. 1 Os. 
After supporting themselves, the surplus they dispose of at market, 
which amounts to a very considerable sum. The industrious also 
possess, in cash, considerable sums. I am fully satisfied they are 
possessed of capital, arising from the sale of stock and crop, to fully 
the amount of 5000/. sterling." — Parliamentary papers of 16th of 
March, 1825, No. 115, p. 152. 

The truth of this representation of the state of things, among the 
slaves in Tortola, rests on the authority of Dr. Stobo, sanctioned and 
substantiated by Major Moody. Assuming it to be true, it affords a 
fresh proof of the fact already established, that the unproductiveness 
of the soil, to the master, is not only compatible with the welfare of the 
slave, but a direct cause of his comparative comfort and prosperity ; 
the efi^ect of such a circumstance being that he has both more land to 
cultivate, and more time for its cultivation, as well as for looking after his 
fruits and his esculents; his pigs and his poultry; his goats and his 
cattle ; his horses and his fishpots. 

No such estimate as the above can, we venture to say, be truly exhi- 
bited in those colonies which are comparatively fertile and productive. 

And it is from this state of comparative ease and comfort, and, ac- 
cording to Major Moody, of considerable capital, and even surplusage 
of enjoyment, that Miss Threlfall would doom her unoffending slaves 
to an exile necessarily involving the sacrifice of much of their little pe- 
culium, and introducing them into a new situation where the soil is 
more productive, and therefore too good to be freely given to the slaves 
for their own use as in Tortola ; where indeed it may be of a fertility 
which renders their time and their muscular exertion too beneficial to 
their owner to be left at their own disposal, without the compelling and 
stimulating power of the cartwhip. 

Of the cruelty which must ever attend such removals, for such objects, 
we have a most striking illustration in an occurrence which took place 
in the very same Island so recently as 1823 and 1824. 



3S8 Case of Miss ThrelfalVs Slaves. 

In order to anticipate the passing of Dr. Lushington's bill, prohibiting 
the intercolonial slave trade, a planter of Tortola, of the name of Picker- 
ing, determined to remove thence a gang of Slaves amounting to 
300 or 400 individuals. He first wished to obtain from Parlia- 
ment a hcence to remove them to Demerara. Defeated in this object, 
and fearful that Dr. Lushington's bill would effectually bar the door 
against any similar transfer, he hurried them off to Trinidad, where it is 
known that, from the fertility of the soil, slaves yield about three times 
as much to the planter, while they die almost three times as fast, as in 
Tortola. 

There lies on the table of the House of Commons a paper giving some 
account of this transaction. It is of the year 1825, and is numbered 
235. We there learn that the slaves of Mr. Pickering manifested the 
very strongest reluctance to this measure, though at first it was pretend- 
ed to be merely for their benefit and entirely with their consent. This 
reluctance was not to be wondered at. They were all, like Miss Threl- 
fall's negroes, Creoles of the Island. They had, like hers, near con- 
nexions in all the neighbouring estates ; and they had acquired, as it may 
be presumed hers also have done, a considerable peculium. They were 
now to be torn from their country and relations ; to be driven to sacrifice 
their gardens and their live stock; and to be transported to a new and 
untried situation, where they might have to open new lands subjected to 
a variety of privations, and to treatment infinitely more severe than they 
had yet experienced. Such at least appears to have been their well 
grounded impression of the fate that awaited them ; and to avoid it, if 
possible, a number of them, in October, 1823, adopted the desperate ex- 
pedient of abandoning the plantation and endeavouring to effect their 
escape. They, of course, did not succeed in this rash attempt, and a 
body of slave hunters being sent in pursuit of them, they were seized 
and confined in jail. On the 17th of November, 1823, six of them were 
brought to trial, for rebellion, before Mr. Porter (the gentleman who 
signs Miss Threlfall's certificate) and three other Justices. They Avere 
found guilty, and three of them vi^ere sentenced to receive, and did re- 
ceive, 63 lashes each on the bare back ; and three others 39 lashes each 
in like manner. It was moreover ordered "that after the infliction of 
this punishment they should be remanded to jail, there to be kept in 
close confinement in irons until they could be transported from this 
Colony; and that they should be banished from these Islands for ever, 
as soon as possible, to such place as F. J. Pickering should think proper ; 
and that if they, or any of them should be ever found voluntarily at 
large again, within any part of these Islands, they, or either of them, 
should suffer death." 

Mr. Porter, the President and Judge (Miss Threlfall's friend and 
voucher) states that he expected to have been called to assist in forcing 
Mr. Pickering's slaves on board the vessels that were to convey them to 
Trinidad ; but that after this trial, he says, " I found that happily there 
v/as no occasion to perplex myself; for the negroes went voluntarily !" 
"At least," he adds, "I heard nothing to the contrary!" Doubtless not. 

The account of this transaction is bad enough as it stands on the face 
of the parliamentary record. But a private letter from Tortola, written 
shortly afler the deportation took place, adds to it some fresh horrors. 



Case of Miss Threlfalis Slaves. 389 

After giving the particulars of the trial as they appear in the above ac- 
count, the writer observes, — " The last scene was to see the master going 
to the jail," (where it seems 24 of the men who had absconded were 
confined) "lashing them together, two and two, to be transported on 
board of a sloop for Trinidad; and I understand they were put in irons 
on board. The next morning it was shocking to hear the screams of 
their mothers, wives, (some of them pregnant) brothers, children, &c., 
who came to town on the Sunday morning to take their last farewell of 
the imprisoned party, when, to their surprise, they' had been all trans- 
ported the evening before, " " The consternation among the negroes is 
shocking to relate. All George's and Martin's slaves, it is expected, 
will be sold and sent to the same place." 

In another letter the same gentleman observes, — " I am told that it is 
said in the English papers that the negroes are glad of the change, and 
even dancing for joy. I wish it was in the power of my pen to describe 
those painful separations which have been witnessed in this colony 
during the last 12 months. From first to last there have been ten or 
twelve vessels cleared for Trinidad with slaves. God only knows what 
would have been the result of these removals, if it had not been for the 
Methodist preachers, who preached submission and obedience to the 
slaves, and who attended and prayed with them to the last, and as the 
slaves were Methodists, they bowed to their pastors with gratitude. — An 
old negro, belonging to Todman's estate, parting from his wife and 
children on the beach, fell Ufeless. He v/as taken up and medical aid 
was called." 

A variety of further details might be given of the miseries produced 
by these removals, and particularly of the large sacrifices of property 
and comfort incurred by these expatriated negroes, thus subjected to 
exile without even the imputation of a crime. But the above extracts 
must suffice for the present. 

Now the precise object of Miss Threlfall's application to Parliament 
is to renew, in the case of her slaves, the various horrors above de- 
tailed, and the recurrence of which, it might have been hoped, the Bill 
of Dr. Lushington vi'ould have for ever prevented. 

These evils, however, dreadful as they are, are but a part of those in- 
volved in the application of Miss Threlfall. 

The negroes of Mr. Pickering were removed, not to a foreign, but to 
a British colony, where some regulations at least are in force for the 
amelioration of their condition and for the ultimate extinction of slavery 
itself. The negroes of Miss Threlfall are to be removed to a colony 
which no British regulations can reach ; and in which no similar mea- 
sures for the mitigation and extinction of slavery are contemplated. 

The negroes of Mr. Pickering, after being landed in Trinidad, are 
protected, by Dr. Lushington's bill, from the possibility of any subse- 
quent removal or separation. The negroes of Miss Threlfall, if removed 
to St. Jan, \y'i\[ be placed beyond the control of a British Act of Parlia- 
ment. They may be sold singly to the highest bidder, and may be dis- 
persed, without ceremony, to the ends of the earth ; while, even in St. 
Jan itself, they will continue subject to that cart -whip, of the early abo- 
lition of which, at Tortola, some hope at least may be entertained; and 



390 Cme of Mm Threlf all's Slaves. 

also to a slavery, of the termination of which there is not in St. Jan, as 
there now is in the British possessions, even a distant prospect. 

But, independently of the measures adopted by the British Govern- 
ment and Parliament for the eventual extinction of slavery, and to 
which no parallel is to be found in the proceedings of Denmark, the 
probabilities of manumission from other causes are infinitely diminished 
by the proposed removal. The very circumstance of the poverty of the 
soil ofTortola, while it has added, as Major Moody's statements shew, 
to the ease and comfort of the slaves, has also most materially tended to 
facilitate their enfranchisement by diminishing their value. By recent 
statistical returns, it appears that the present average value of slaves in 
Tortola does not exceed £17. 10s. sterling each. In the foreign colony 
to which it is proposed to remove them in the first instance, as well as 
in those to which, when placed beyond British jurisdiction, they will 
become liable to be removed, at the pleasure and for the profit of their 
owner, the value of slaves is probably three times as much. Thus the 
obstacles to their enfranchisement will be greatly increased, while their 
means of overcoming those obstacles will, of necessity, be abridged. 

When we have calmly considered all these consequences of the pro- 
posed measure, — nay, even if we were to suppose that the poignant 
anguish of a separation was the only evil attending it, — may we not ask 
how can the British legislature reconcile itself to the infliction of such 
sufi^erings without even the imputation of a crime ? We shrink from the 
severity of punishing even felons by transportation for life, which also, 
in the West Indian codes, is the punishment ranking next to death ; 
and yet Parliament is, in this instance, desired to repeal one of its own 
most solemn enactments, in order to enable Miss Threlfall to impose, 
for her own profit, perpetual exile on 120 innocent fellow-beings. 

The negroes belonging to Miss Threlfall, in Tortola, appear to have 
increased in number. By the Registry of 1818, they amounted to 115. 
In 1822, their number was the same. It is now said to be 120. This 
increase, though very small, is still a proof that the circumstances in 
which her slaves have been placed, (among which we reckon as the 
chief the poverty of the soil,) and the treatment to which they have been 
subjected, have not been so destructive of human hfe as is usual in 
most of our other colonies, and especially on sugar estates. If this fact 
speaks in favour of Miss Threlfall's treatment of her slaves, as compared 
with many of her neighbours, it also furnishes an additional argument 
against putting to hazard even this commencing course of slow pro- 
gression, by tearing these poor creatures from the soil where they have 
taken root, aqd transplanting them to one which may prove far less 
genial, and where, at least, they will be placed wholly out of the reach 
of British control or inspection. 

Miss Threlfall, indeed, asserts that many of her Tortola slaves have 
family connections in St. Jan. This may be possible, and from the vici- 
nity of the two islands, the same thing might be affirmed, either truly or 
falsely, by every planter in Tortola, without any means of ascertaining 
whether the statement were true or false. But even if true to a certain 
extent, it is quite impossible that the slaves of Miss Threlfall can have as 
many family connections in St. Jan, a foreign possession, separated by 



Case of Miss ThrelfalVs Slaves. 39 1 

two miles of sea, and still more by the legal and fiscal obstacles to free 
intercourse, as on the estates immediately adjoining her own in Tor- 
tola, and where the intercourse has been constant, easy, and liable to 
no obstructions. It cannot be, therefore, that many more ties would not 
be severed by granting than by refusing her request. Besides, sup- 
posing there are ten of her slaves in Tortola, who are nearly connected 
in St. Jan, it would only, according to the average price of slaves in the 
former island, cost her £175. sterling to enfranchise those ten, and thus 
leave them at liberty to join their relations. 

And here let it not be forgotten, that while Miss Threlfall evidently 
possesses abundant means of pleading her own cause, and of setting 
at work various powerful engines of influence among Members of Par- 
liament, and may state the case in the way most favourable to herself; 
the unfortunate objects of her cruel project cannot be heard. They can- 
not canvass on the other side. Though their entire human destiny is 
involved in the issue, yet they have no private influence to bring for- 
ward on their behalf. They have no access to the aunts and cousins of 
public men to exert for them the utmost importunity of solicitation ; and 
though it cannot be doubted that tliey will find friends in the British Par- 
liament, yet they are such friends as are so on public grounds alone, and 
are not stimulated to the requisite activity and exertion in their favour 
by those powerful personal motives which actuate the other side. 

It becomes Parliament also to contemplate the effect of their com- 
pliance with such an application as that of Miss Threlfall, as it may 
form a precedent for similar applications. There is no one ground, 
as we have shewn, on which her request is urged, which would 
not furnish as strong and available a plea for a similar parliamen- 
tary interposition to scores and even hundreds of West India planters. 
But what in truth is Miss ThrelfaD's real plea? — It is that her private 
interests require an Act of Parliament for the exile of her slaves. 

If this plea should succeed, it will amount to a virtual repeal of the 
Abolition Act. It will amount also to a parliamentary adoption of the 
cruel principle that in whatever part of the British colonies land shall be 
deteriorated, thence the proprietor ought to be allowed to transport his 
slaves. And what could be more fatal to the hopes of the philan- 
thropist than to admit, as a principle of legislation, that the multiplica- 
tion of slaves in any one colony is never to lighten their common labour, 
nor to improve their condition, nor to favour their enfranchisement^ but 
that when, from v.'hatever cause, their marketable value becomes so far 
lessened, that the master may, without any great sacrifice, convert them 
by manumission into free servants, a new exile shall be their lot, and 
new colonies shall be formed for their reception, till all the cultivable land 
between the tropics shall be saturated with slaves. 

Is it probable then that the British Parliament can lend its legislative 
aid to enable this lady to perpetrate a capital felony, attended by all 
the circumstances of injury and oppression detailed above, and which 
give, to the character of this particular act, a more than ordinary degree 
of culpability ? 

An attempt, indeed, has been made to create a feeling in favour of 
the equity of the proposed measure, by a purposely obscure, and therefore 



392 Case of Miss Threl fall's Slaves. 

most insidious reference to a late decision of Lord Stowell, the nature 
and effect of which the framers of Miss Threlfall's statement have as 
much misrepresented as they have the nature and objects of the aboli- 
.tion laws. Their arguments on these points are as unfounded as the act 
they are intended to varnish over is criminal. The decision in question 
has no more bearing on the case of Miss Threlfal), than the case of 
Miss Threlfall has on the squaring of the circle. * 

In short, the more this case is examined, the more will it appear to be 
a case founded in misrepresentation and falsehood, and marked with 
cruelty and crime. And it would indeed be a singular blot on the cha- 
racter of our public men, if that which is matter of current report, but 
which we cannot believe, should prove true, namely, that Miss Threlfall 
had succeeded in exciting a powerful interest among members of the 
British Parliament in favour of her application ; and that at least one 
hundred of these members have promised to vote for giving effect to 
her selfish and unwarrantable pretensions. 

To those among that number who, after perusing this exposition of 
the real nature of the transaction, can still look upon it with favour, 
we have nothing to urge. To those who, with just views and humane 
feelings, have by unfounded statements and selfish appeals tp their 
commiseration, been beguiled into any rash pledge, we would suggest, 
that if the measure they have promised to promote has been proved to 
be criminal, and if that promise has been drawn from them by untrue 
representations, then their course is clear; they are absolved from their 
engagement, arid are bound to give their zealous and decided opposition 
to the unjust and cruel proposal, into the support of which they have 
been entrapped. 

* The case was this : Eight slaves belonging to the estate of Abraham Chal- 
raill Hill, of Tortola, lately deceased, were seized, on the 26th of February 
1824, at Tortola, as forfeited, on the ground of their having been carried from 
Tortola to St. John's, and there employed as slaves. — The prosecutor, however, 
laid his information under a wrong Act of Parliament, which did not apply 
to the case ; and on that ground, the ground of the deficiency and informality 
in the pr*oceedings, the slaves were ordered to be restored. An Appeal was 
presented from this sentence, but it M'as confirmed by Lord Stowell, in 1826. 
On that occasion, it was admitted on all sides that, to export slaves from 
Tortola to a foreign Colony, except in cases provided for by Act of Parlia- 
ment, was illegal. But it was contended, that besides the defectiveness of the 
proceedings, this particular case was provided for, being that of domestic slaves 
accompanying their master from Tortola to St. Jan, and returning with him again. 

Lord Stowell said, If slaves were seized proceeding from Tortola to St. John's 
he should then know how to deal with the case, but this was a case of a very 
different description : the proceedings did not properly seize the legal point, 
and the facts proved led to the conclusion, that the slaves were domestic 
slaves, legally accompanying their masters, and returning with them. — The law 
was not disputed on either side. No lawyer could have entertained a doubt 
as to the illegality of exporting slaves from a British to a foreign Colony: the 
whole discussion turned on the proceedings and the proofs. 



Condon : Bnester and Tliom;, rrinters, 1), rartliolomcw Close 



