HARE 
BOOK 
DEPT 



JU^^ 



^B- 






t 






f/^ 







G-iN/EN By 



^^wiui G-LuUflt. 



5J 



Digitized by tlie Internet Arcliive 

in 2010 witli funding from 

Associates of tlie Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/antislaverymonth2930maca 



MONTHLY liEPORTER 

No. 49.] For: JTJ]SfE,'lB28lJ -,•' - [[No- i.''^ol. iii. 

Parliamentary Proceedings. 

1. SLAVE EVIDENCE. 

2. SLAVE TRADE AND SLAVERY OF THE MAURITIUS, FOL- 

LOWED BY A DEFENCE OF THE REPORTER FROM THE 
CHARGES MADE AGAINST IT. 

3. EMANCIPATION OF NEGRO CHILDREN. 

4. FREEDOM OF TRADE, AND SUGAR DUTIES. 

5. CIVIL RIGHTS OF FREE BLACK AND COLOURED IN- 

HABITANTS OF OUR COLONIES. 



So much space has recently been occupied in discussing the question 
of a want of a Sunday for the slaves ; and in pointing out the misera- 
bly defective nature of that education and religious instruction they are 
said to be receiving that we fear lest our readers should begin to imagine 
that these constitute the exclusive evils of colonial slavery, and that, if 
these were but obviated, the work of reformation would be accomplished. 
This were a fatal misconception. The prevailing want of a Sunday is, 
indeed, most adverse to the hope of christianizing the slave population, 
and it reveals, at the same time, the insincerity of those, who, while they 
either conceal the fact of this compulsory desecration of the Sabbath, or 
resist or postpone the measures necessary for its prevention, are never- 
theless loud, both in the profession of their zeal for the religious in- 
struction of the slaves, and in the boast of the religious improvement 
that has been effected among them. But, even if a Sabbath were at 
length given to the slaves, and more efficient plans of instruction were 
adopted, little benefit would accrue, even from these improvements, under 
a system so debasing and brutalizing in its character and effects, and so 
incompatible with the purity and elevation of Christianity, as is that 
species of personal bondage which exists in the slave colonies of Europe. 
For be it remembered, that even the British Critic has not scrupled to 
describe that system as one by which *' the whole order of nature is re- 
versed ; the labourer being excited to labour, not by hope, but by fear; 
punishments inflicted in England by the magistrate for crimes, being in- 
flicted there by the master for idleness or impertinence ; the supply of 
daily food, and the maintenance of wife and children not being 
dependent on the exertion, self-denial, skill, or good character of the 
individual ; christian marriage being almost unknown ; the human form 
divine being treated as if it were no better than a brute or a machine ; 
degraded to a chattel, seized by the creditor, sold in the market-place, 
and exposed to eve^y indignity which tyranny or caprice may dictate." 



Tliis nnd all other publicalions of the Society, may be hud at their office, 
18, Aldermanbury ; or at Messrs. Hatchard's, 187, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhdu 
They may also be procured, through any bookseller, or at the dcootn o'' the Aati' 
Slarery Society throughout the kingdom. 

B i_ 



Aatj^ 



3 \ \- : P.ardiaw^nifary Prcfeediic^S'—r^Jave Evideme. 

And, A'h'eu "we" ■&({(? to *tWs Sad pieiiire, the excess of labour to which 
men and women* are subjected by the most brutal coercion ; the scanti- 
ness of their food'; .the frequssit. and forcible disruption of their dearest 
domestic, tips;., the tremendous severity of the punishments which may 
be inffiefed orfthein', b^fndiyidua'i, caprice, for any offence or for no 
offence-^ w'e may well abandon the hope of seeing Christianity flourish 
in such a population, continuing bereft, as it is by its present actual 
circumstances, even of that first principle of moral and spiritual life, 
the power of voluntary agency. Is it possible to contemplate the 
whole of this system, in all its length and breadth of oppression and 
enormity, without coming to the conclusion of the same British Critic, 
that it MUST BE RADICALLY REFORMED; in Other words, it must 
be extinguished, root and branch. 

Having made these general remarks with a view of guarding against 
misconception, we shall now proceed to notice, as succinctly as we can, 
what has recerttly passed in parliament on the subject of slavery. 

1. Slave Evidence. 

On the 25th of May, Mr. Brougham, who had given notice of his in- 
tention to bring forward a Bill for the purpose of making the evidence 
of slaves admissible in all cases, subject only to those exceptions to 
which the evidence of all other parties is liable, begged to ask the 
Secretary of State for the Colonies, whether his Majesty's Government 
had not a similar plan in contemplation. He felt it to be so important 
that the measure should originate with them, that, if such was their in- 
tention, he would gladly resign it into their hands. — Sir George Murray 
entirely concurred with Mr. Brougham in his sense of the extreme im- 
portance of the subject, and also in his view of the propriety and safety 
of making the evidence of slaves admissible without any other than the 
ordinary reserves and exceptions. He did not even see the necessity of 
those records of baptism, or certificates of character from religious 
instructors, which it had been thought, by some persons, expedient to 
require. To require preliminary tests of religious belief and information 
did not appear to him a course well adapted to advance the ends of 
justice, or even to promote the interests of religion itself. He had 
always been of the opinion, that the holding out a temptation of a 
secular kind to any one, to adopt a particular set of religious senti- 
ments, was injurious and degrading to religion itself. The session was 
now too far advanced to do any thing in this matter with effect ; but, it 
was his intention, in the next session, to propose a bill for the reform of 
the Colonial Judicatures, founded on the reports of the Commissioners 
of Judicial Inquiry in the West Indies ; and he purposed to introduce into 
that Bill a clause for admitting, universally, the evidence of slaves on 
the same footing as that of other persons. He saw no reason for clog- 
ging the measure with distinctions to the slave's disadvantage. 

In reply to a question from Mr. Bernal, Sir George Murray ob- 
served, that the measure he meant to propose to parliament would apply 
to the Slave Colonies generally, and not to the Crown Colonies alone. 
Indeed, one of the chartered colonies, Grenada, had already, he be- 
lieved, anticipated the measure which the Government contemplated. 



Mauritius — &V R. Farquhar — Mr. Buxton. t 

The utmost satisfaction was expressed by Mr. Brougham, Mr. Hus- 
kisson, Lord Nugent, and Sir James Mackintosh, with the pledge 
which Sir George Murray had now given on this momentous subject. 
And, indeed, with reason, for when it shall have been fulfilled by a parlia- 
mentary enactment, it may be regarded as the first effective step to- 
wards any real reform of our colonial system ; in fact, the first practical 
result of the hitherto fruitless and unproductive resolutions of 1823 ; 
npt indeed, we lament, to say, as the completion of the work of reform ; 
but as the commencement of that series of measures which, we trust, 
may lead to its completion, by the entire extinction of that foulest 
l^lot on our national character, the negro slavery of our colonies. 

2. — The Slave Trade and Slavery of the Mauritius. 

An important conversation took place on this subject in the House of 
Commons on the 3rd of June, to which we are induced to give a larger 
space than we usually allot to similar occurrences, on account of the 
prominent manner in which we ourselves were, on that occasion, drag- 
ged, before the bar of the house and of the public, by more than one indivi- 
dual, and there, not charged merely, but absolutely condemned, as base 
and malignant calumniators, without the specification of a single fact 
to justify the sentence. The conversation arose out of a question 
which was addressed by Sir Robert Farquhar to Mr. Buxton. Sir 
Robert asked him whether it was his intention to proceed with the 
charges preferred on the subject of the Mauritius, which were first 
brought forward in 1826, and which had been postponed on one plea 
or another to the present period. Mr. Buxton must ere now have 
formed a deliberate opinion on the truth or falsehood of those charges. 
If he had discovered that they were false, and that he had slandered the 
innocent by accusations which could not be supported, he was bound 
now to rise in his place and candidly to acknowledge his error. If he 
believed them to be true, he ought to prosecute the investigation. He 
was bound either to retract his accusations, or to proceed with the in- 
quiry into their truth. 

Mr. Buxton shewed that the delay was in no degree to be attributed 
to him. The Committee was originally granted to him in 1826, but so 
near the close of the session that it was found impossible to bring for- 
ward more than a very small portion of the evidence which he had col- 
lected. The honourable Baronet indeed had chosen to say that the 
evidence against him had broken down. He was completely at issue 
with the honourable Baronet on that point. So far from having broken 
down, it had scarcely been opened. Early in the session of 1827 he 
had endeavoured to renew the Committee, but was prevented from 
doing so by the interposition of Mr. W. Horton, at the express and 
earnest request of Mr. Canning. He was a second time in the same 
session about to move for the reappointment of the Committee, and had 
actually fixed a day for the purpose, when he was seized with an illness, 
which, it was well known, had endangered his life, and from which he 
was even now, notwithstanding his occasional attendance in that House, 
but too imperfectly recovered to justify his undertaking the laborious 
conduct of any great public cause. Here Mr. Buxton read two letters 



4 Parliamentary Proceedings — Mauritius — Dr, Lushing ton. 

from his physician, Dr. Farre, one dated February 28, 1828, and the 
other so late as April 9, 1 829, stating, in strong and express terms, as. 
his clear opinion, that he, Mr. Buxton, could not, without the utmost 
risk of life, place himself in a situation of public responsibility, requiring 
much serious attention or mental exertion of any kind. Under these 
circumstances he had urged the successive Colonial Secretaries of State, 
Mr. Huskisson and Sir George Murray, to undertake the prosecution 
of the inquiry, offering to place in the hands of the Government the 
whole of the evidence in his possession. Mr. Huskisson had declined 
the proposal. He had been led, however, to expect from Sir George 
Murray, that the Crown would forthwith institute a Royal Commission 
for thoroughly investigating the facts of the case, and if this expecta- 
tion were realized, he should gladly transfer to the Government all the 
evidence he had collected. But if no such inquiry should be instituted 
as he hoped for, he now pledged himself, at whatever personal incon- 
venience, or even hazard, to bring the whole subject imder the consi- 
deration of the House at the earliest period of the next session, so as to 
afford the honourable Baronet the opportunity he desired of fully re- 
futing every charge made against him while Governor of the Mauritius. 
The honourable Baronet had put to him the alternative of either retract- 
ing his charges, or proceeding with the inquiry. He chose the latter. 
It was quite impossible for him to retract the charges he had brought 
against the administration of the honourable Baronet. It was impossi- 
ble that, in opposition to his full and firm conviction, he should deny 
his belief that a slave trade had existed to an enormous extent under 
that administration. There was another person also, who had an in- 
terest in this inquiry, he meant General Hall, who had acted as Go- 
vernor of the Mauritius during Sir R. Farquhar's absence, and who had 
pledged himself, on the faith of a man, and the honour and reputation 
of an officer, to prove, if publicly called upon, that during the govern- 
ment of the honourable Baronet, the slave trade was carried on, with 
remarkable impunity, to the full extent he had asserted. While, there- 
fore, he could not retract one iota of his former statements, he must do 
the honourable Baronet the justice to admit, that there was no stronger 
prima facie proof of innocence than that which is afforded by a dispo- 
sition to court inquiry. He admitted, in its widest sense, the doctrine 
that all accusations must be received without prejudice until they are 
proved ; but at the same time he must now warn the honourable Ba- 
ronet, that the inquiry which he demanded would disclose scenes of 
cruelty, violations of public law, and a toleration, if not encouragement, 
of slave trading, unexampled in any other part of his Majesty's domri- 
nions, or perhaps in any other part of the world. 

Dr. Lushing ton bore his personal testimony to Mr. Buxton's absolute 
inability, on account of the state of his health, of having proceeded with 
the inquiry, (as did also Mr. Hudson Gurney, Mr. Brougham, Sir J. 
Mackintosh, and Mr. Wodehouse.) He contended, however, that a full 
inquiry was indispensable, considering that the uninterrupted continu- 
ance of the slave trade, for the first nine or ten years of the honourable 
Baronet's administration, was not only asserted by his honourable friend, 
but admitted on all hands, and even by the honourable Baronet himself. 



Mr. Hndson Gurney — Mr. Brougham. 5 

who only dated its cessation in 1821. It was also a notorious fact, 
which he defied any one to disprove, that it had gone on with impunity ; 
not a man ever having been imprisoned for this crime who had not been 
allowed to escape; to walk, in fact, out of the prison, the doors or the 
walls of which were always so insecure, in the case of persons implicated 
in slave trading, as never to oppose any hindrance to their escape. He 
did not assert that the honourable Baronet had used no exertions to pre- 
vent and punish the slave trade ; but those exertions had certainly been 
most unsuccessful, and it was fit that the cause of their failure should 
be ascertained. 

Mr. Hudson Gurney regretted the personality of this discussion. 
He confessed he did not know much of the charges brought against the 
Hon. Baronet, but he must say he was not disposed to give much credit 
to them. He had read, indeed, the statements circulated by the Anti- 
Slavery Society, and he really thought they bore on the face of them a 
want of that due scrutiny which justice to the colonists demanded. 
They seemed to be the work of hot-headed enthusiasts. It was impos- 
sible tor any person to believe the details of horrors and cruelties occa- 
sionally contained in those publications : they appeared to him untrue and 
inflammatory, and ought not to be received without strict previous 
inquiry. They seemed to be stories taken up at random, on the infor- 
mation of interested and discontented parties, and were not to be 
depended upon. Sir R. Farquhar, he always understood, had exerted 
himself to suppress the slave trade ; but the task he had to perform was 
difficult. He was the first Governor of a conquered colony in which 
the slave trade had always been permitted. He ought, therefore, to be 
held irresponsible for any slave trading that might have taken place there, 
until the charge of not having done his duty were proved against him. 

Mr. Brougham hoped that no prejudice would be infused into the 
discussions on this subject, and that no premature judgment would be 
formed on the conduct of the Hon. Baronet. He agreed with Mr. 
Buxton that the readiness to meet these charges bore the appearance of 
innocence, and he trusted, therefore, that the Hon. Baronet would come 
clear out of the ordeal. He hoped, at the same time, that the Hon. 
Baronet, when the inquiry did come on, would be prepared with a better 
witness to support his cause than Mr. Gurney, Avho had taken occasion 
to draw a conclusion unfavourable to the views of Mr. Buxton, and to 
stigmatize the publications of the Anti-Slavery Society as rash and un- 
founded, for no other reason than that he was ignorant of the subject, 
and did not know whether the charge against the Hon. Baronet was 
right or wrong. He did hope that the Hon. Baronet would be provided 
with better compurgators than the Hon. Member. — He could understand 
A'ery well why that Member considered the publications to which he 
alluded as a mass of exaggeration. He naturally could not believe it 
possible — ^he could not bring his mind to the belief, that such atrocities 
could be perpetrated by any human being as were detailed in the Anti- 
Slavery Reporters. It was not surprising that such cases, for instance, 
as that of the Mosses,* should be supposed to be mere fictions of the 

* See Reporter, No. 47, p. 462 to 468. 



6 Parliamentary Proceedings — Mauritius — Mr. Irving. 

brain, the inventions of fancy, the result of flimsy rumours collected in 
all quarters, and dressed out in all the fantastic and extravagant colours 
which a morbid imagination could bestow upon them. But were these 
details untrue ? Was the story of the Mosses a fabrication ? Was 
all that revolting statement an idle tale ? The Hon. Member could not 
suppose it possible that such stories could be true ; or that human nature 
could be guilty of such atrocities. He did not suppose it possible that 
any man or woman, that any creature in human shape, and especially 
a lady in respectable life, could be found capable of treating a helpless 
and unprotected female, in the brutal manner there described, exco- 
riating her body with the lash, rubbing Cayenne pepper into the lace- 
rated flesh and even into the eyes of the sufferer, and repeating these 
dreadful operations again and again, until the unfortunate creature was 
thrown into a fever, the intervention of which alone prevented the per- 
petrators of these atrocities, which terminated in death, from being tried 
and hung for murder, a crime of which they were morally, if not legally, 
guilty. Such a case was, indeed, incredible, but nevertheless it had 
happened. What the Hon. Member, what the House could not be- 
lieve, was nevertheless recorded in the proceedings of Courts of Justice ; 
was nevertheless made the subject of communication from the Colonial 
Government to his Majesty's Government at home. It was also made 
the subject of a despatch from the Right Hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hus- 
kisson,) who then held the situation of Secretary of State for the Colo- 
nial Department, and who expressed in a tone of manly indignation, 
the feelings upon the subject which an English Statesman must ever feel, 
and which, he trusted, no English Minister would ever be unwilling to 
use on such an occasion, or, if unwilling, would ever dare not to use. 
It was the imperative duty of the House not only not to shut their ears to 
statements of facts, such as those now alluded to, (as the Hon. Member 
would have them to do as unworthy of credit, and as the mere creatures 
of the heated brain of the enthusiast,) but to listen patiently to them ; to 
investigate them ; and after the fullest investigation, and coming to a 
just and safe conclusion, fearlessly to do their duty, whatever that 
might be. 

Mr. Irving observed, that he had regularly attended the Mauritius 
Committee; and he was bound to say, as a man of truth and honour, 
that he had formed, from the evidence which had been adduced before 
that Committee, a conclusion very different from that at which Mr. 
Buxton had arrived. He did not impute any improper motives to those 
by whom that evidence had been collected, but he had never heard, be- 
fore a Committee of that House, evidence which appeared to him to be 
so little entitled to credit; or which, doubtful as it was, was so de- 
cidedly contradicted by evidence on the other side which it was impos- 
sible to impugn. The Hon. Member for Weymouth had spoken of the 
readiness of General Hall to support the charges against the Honourable 
Baronet. What the evidence of General Hall might be he could not 
say ; but he must give the most decided contradiction to the assertion, 
that, in the evidence which had been brought before the Committee, there 
was any thing criminatory of the Hon. Baronet. When it was con- 
sidered that the Hon. Baronet had been three years labouring under the 



Mr. Brougham — Mr. Fergusson — Mr. Wodehouse. 7 

accusation of a great public crime, stigmatised by public feeling, was it 
surprising that he should come forward and insist, either that the case 
should be immediately investigated, or that he should stand acquitted of 
the imputation cast upon him ? The Member for Weymouth, had, un- 
doubtedly, given sufficient reasons for not having himself proceeded 
with the investigation. It was unfortunate for him to have laboured 
under such indisposition, which no man regretted more sincerely than 
himself ; but it was still more unfortunate for the Hon. Baronet, for, if the 
investigation had been proceeded with, he would have been completely 
cleared in the opinion of the House and of the public. He had seen 
enough in the Committee not to entertain the least apprehension for the 
character of his Hon. Friend. — He blamed Mr. Brougham for mixing up 
stories of cruelty with the present case. He might as well exhibit Mrs. 
Hibner, lately executed at Newgate, as a specimen of English conduct, 
as Mr. and Mrs. Moss, of colonial conduct. The course of the discus- 
sion, however, had given him an opportunity of expressing his opinion of 
the publications of the Anti-Slavery Society. He did not know whether 
the Learned Gentleman was a Member of that Society, or if he was 
aware of the tone and manner in which the Anti-Slavery Reporter was 
got up. Its object appeared to be to degrade and stigmatise, in the 
public estimation, every man who had any property or interest in the 
West Indies. A more false, libellous, scandalous, and disgraceful pub- 
lication never issued from the British press. It was by this publication, 
after the public had been satisfied that the charges against the Hon. 
Baronet were unfounded, that the accusation against him had been 
revived, and the Hon. Baronet had again been dragged forward to 
answer imputations which no attempt was made to establish. So far 
was his Hon. Friend, from having favoured the Slave Trade, that there 
was not a despatch from him to his Majesty's Government in which he 
did not represent the prevalence of the traffic, and complain that his 
Majesty's Government had not given him sufficient power to put it 
down. At length, in 1821, a squadron and other means were furnished 
him ; and from that time the Slave Trade had ceased to exist in the 
Island of Mauritius. 

Mr. Brougham, in explanation, said that he believed he was a mem- 
ber, in common with many thousands, of the Anti-Slavery Society. His 
allusion to the Mosses had been forced from him by the remarks of Mr. 
Gurney on the exaggerated statements of the publications of that So- 
ciety ; he wished he could say with the Hon. Gentleman, that he dis- 
believed those statements. 

Mr. Fergusson defended Sir Robert Farquhar, who, he asserted, was 
most anxious to meet this inquiry. No man in his situation could have 
done more to suppress, and no man from feeling had a greater horror 
of, the slave trade than the Hon. Baronet. 

Mr. Wodehouse observed, that he also had been a member of the 
Committee, and the impression of the evidence, as far as it went, had 
not been favourable. A great mass of evidence was still to be pro- 
duced on the subject ; and General Hall had certainly declared himself 
ready at any time to substantiate the charges which had been preferred 
bv his Hon. Friend. 



8 Parliamentary Proceedings — Mauritius — Sir J. Mackintosh. 

Sir James Mackintosh agreed, that the Hon. Baronet, besides the 
general presumption in favour of any man whose guilt had not been 
proved, had the additional presumption in his favour which resulted 
from an eagerness to meet investigation. Besides his wish that any man 
in the same situation might clear himself from all imputation, he had 
particular reasons for wishing the Hon. Baronet to clear himself on the 
present occasion. Although some warmth had entered into the present 
conversation, no substantial difference of opinion had been manifested 
in it. They were all agreed that the Hon. Baronet had earned a pre- 
sumption in his favour by courting inquiry ; and they were all agreed that 
the delay in the investigation had been not the fault, but the misfortune 
of the Hon. Member for Weymouth. Here he should have ended his 
remarks, had not the Hon. Member (Mr. H. Gurney) introduced into the 
discussion topics altogether different, in tone and temper, from the judicial 
subject before them, and which had drawn down upon him a just chas- 
tisement from his Hon. and Learned Friend. With that censorial 
gravity which so well became him, that Honourable Member con- 
demned the levity of rash accusation against others, while at the same 
time he had himself furnished an example of considerable levity — not of 
accusation, for his proceeding had not been of so fair a character; (ac- 
cusation having reference to some individual, and particularizing the 
how, and the where, and the when) but of broad and indefinite and 
undistinguishing assertions against large bodies of men; assertions 
which came with great weight from the Hon. Gentleman, because he 
had an opportunity of knowing well the character of many of those on 
whom he had heaped reproach, and whom he had charged with being 
calumniators. He would not retaliate by applying that term to the Hon. 
Gentleman ; for that would be neither just to him nor consistent with 
his own feelings towards him. But the fact was, that the Hon. Member 
for Newton had thought fit to condemn a body of respectable persons, 
the same who for forty years had laboured to abolish what — although 
he remembered the time when it was considered Jacobinical to make the 
assertion — -was now allowed by every one to be a most atrocious crime 
and the greatest stain on human nature, the slave trade. That same 
body had for forty years persevered, under every variety of circum- 
stances, through good and through bad report, in their endeavours to 
wipe out this stain. Having succeeded in abolishing the slave trade, 
they were now turning their attention to the wisest and best mode of 
raising the slaves into circumstances which would admitof their being re- 
lieved from their present unhappy condition. When he heard therefore 
such accusations against the Society, he called upon those who pre- 
ferred them (just as the Hon. Baronet had very fairly called upon 
the Member for Weymouth) either to substantiate their charges or 
to silence their obloquy. For the warmth shewn by another Hon. 
Member (Mr. Irving) he was willing to make great allowance. But 
the only specific charge even he brought against the Anti-Slavery Society 
was, that it had renewed the subject of the horrible traffic which had so 
long been carried on at the Mauritius. But how was that a charge ? 
Was not silence on the subject the very circumstance of which the Hon. 
Baronet and his friends complained? — The Hon Member had had re- 



Mauritius — Sir J. Mackintosh. 9 

course to a species of argument respecting the case of the Mosses, v/hich 
he remembered was used at the beginning of the debates on the pro- 
posed abolition of the slave trade. A great West India proprietor said, 
on the occasion to which he had alluded, that the House might as well 
judge of the morals of England by the records of the Old Bailey, as to 
judge of the character of the West India planters from a few occur-, 
rences selected for the purpose of making an unfavourable impression 
on the public. To this Mr. Fox replied — " I do not wonder that the 
slave trade should remind the Hon. Gentleman of the Old Bailey. No- 
thing can be so congenial as the two subjects. Nevertheless I will 
point out to the Hon. Gentleman a contrast between them. At the Old 
Bailey we hear of crimes which shock our moral feelings ; but we are 
consoled by the punishment of the criminals. We read of crimes as 
atrocious in the West India islands, but our moral feelings are shocked 
at hearing not only of the impunity of the criminals, but of their tri- 
umph." In adverting to the case of the Mosses, the Hon. Member 
had, most unfortunately for his argument, alluded to the case of Mrs. 
Hibner. The contrast which these cases presented between the moral 
feeling of the Bahamas and the moral feehng of this country was much 
more striking than the contrast to which Mr. Fox had formerly called 
the attention of the House. The offenders in the Bahamas having not 
only committed a murder, but committed it in the most barbarous man- 
ner possible, had been condemned to five months' imprisonment. What 
followed ? A memorial had been presented to the Colonial Secretary, 
signed by what were called the most respectable persons in the colony, 
attesting that the character of these cruel murderers was generally one 
of great humanity, and praying for a remission of their punishment. 
That was the manner in which this atrocious crime was viewed in an 
island, the inhabitants of which were in no other way demoralized than as 
the possession of unbounded and irresponsible power always corrupted 
the heart of man. Nay more, a public dinner, as a matter of triumph, 
was actually given, by the chief persons in the colony, to the criminals 
who had barely escaped the most condign punishment for their offences. 
What was, on the other hand, the case in London when a criminal of 
the lowest order, this same Mrs. Hibner, whose crime was not aggra- 
vated by the consideration that she was possessed of information which 
ought to have taught her better, committed a similar offence ? He was 
not the apologist of the vindictive feeling exhibited by the populace on 
the occasion ; but it was well known that they departed from the hu- 
manity which they usually exhibited towards the unfortunate persons 
who underwent the last sentence of the law. They could not conceal 
their horror at a crime, which, however, was far less atrocious than 
that which had been committed by the respectable Mosses ; and even 
rent the air with shouts of triumph when they witnessed the payment 
of the dreadful penalty. In justice however, to the people of London, 
he must observe, that he remembered only three instances in which 
they had thus deviated from their usual feelings of commiseration for 
suffering criminals ; and those were all cases in which the punishment 
of death had been inflicted for the crime of murder, accompanied with 
circumstances of peculiar cruelty. Thus, even in their errors, the ge= 

c 



.10 Mauritius — Sir G. Murray — Mr. Sykes — Sir R. Farquhar. 

nerosity which belonged to their general character was strongly 
evinced.* 

Sir George Murray was not surprised, when the subject was slavery 
and the cruelties which proceeded from it, that the just indignation 
which all must feel upon it should seduce Honourable Members into 
a greater warmth of expression than perhaps the immediate occasion 
justified. He did not, however, rise to pursue the same course, or to 
protract the discussion, but to bring the attention of the House back 
to the original question ; and that he did in consequence of the allusion 
to himself by the Hon. Member for Weymouth, who said he had inti- 
mated to him his willingness to pursue the inquiry, and his being pre- 
pared with convincing evidence on the subject. The Hon. Member was 
perfectly correct in that statement. But it was only just to add, that 
the Hon. Baronet had expressed with equal confidence his conviction, 
• that he could rebut the imputations cast upon him. He himself could 
have no other feeling than an anxiety, if guilt existed, that that guilt 
should be clearly established ; or the still greater anxiety, if possible, 
that if no guilt existed, that fact should be made equally clear. In the 
mean time he perfectly agreed, that where guilt had not been established, 
it ought not to be presumed. As to the continuation of the slave trade 
at the Mauritius, there was that in the geographical situation of the 
island which was extremely favourable to the prosecution of that trade; 
and to that circumstance he imputed a great part of the difficulty which 
had been found in putting it down. He had the satisfaction, however, 
of saying most confidently, that the difficulty had been overcome, and 
that the slave trade at the Mauritius no longer existed. 

Mr. Sykes, as a Member of the Committee which had been appointed 
to inquire into this subject, observed, that he had gone into the investi- 
gation with the most unprejudiced mind ; that he had given the greatest 
attention to the proceedings ; and that he deeply lamented they had 
been terminated before any satisfactory conclusion had been arrived at. 
At the same time he must say, that the evidence adduced was not such 
as to entitle the Hon. Baronet or his friends to express any confidence 
as to what might have been the result. Three or four witnesses only 
had been examined out of a much larger number. 

Sir Robert Farquhar defended himself by reading extracts from the 
evidence taken before the Committee, in 1826, which went, he said, to 
prove that he had taken the most judicious steps to put an end to the 
slave trade at the Mauritius. He read also an extract from a letter he 
had addressed to the Colonial Office, in reply to the Anti-Slavery 
Reporter, No. 42, and which had been since laid on the table of the 
House of Commons. In common with Mr. Irving, he charged the 
Anti-Slavery Reporter, and especially No. 42, with gross falsehood. 
Several instances of cruelty therein cited against him, he said, were un- 
true, as would be seen when his answer came to be printed. 

Such was, in substance, the conversation which passed on this occa- 
sion. We trust we shall be excused if we detain our readers with a 
few remarks upon it. 

The vague and general charges of Mr. H. Gurney and Mr. Irving, 

* The whole of this remarkable case of the Mosses> a case of recent occur- 
rence, will be foand in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 47, p. 462, 



Defence of Reporter, from Charges of Mr. H. Gurney\ ^c. 11 

we consider as scarcely meriting a reply. We might, with equal 
justice, retort upon them a heap of offensive epithets ; ignorance, pre- 
judice, falsehood; calumny, malignity, &c. &c. &c., on much better 
grounds than they have produced, or are able to produce, for similar 
imputations upon us. But, what would the cause of truth gain by thus 
following their example ? We call, however, upon Mr. Gurney espe- 
cially, if he values his character for truth and fair dealing, to specify 
the misrepresentations and exaggerations, with which he declares us to be 
chargeable, or at least to select, from the whole series of our numbers, 
a single statement which he has discovered to be unsupported by evi- 
dence. — With respect to Mr. Irving, we are disposed to make larger 
allowances. He is a West Indian merchant, and is, in some measure, 
entitled to feel galled by our writings, and to resent them. But, we 
desire to say to him, as we have already said to his predecessors in the 
same line of general and vague invective, that we totally deny the truth 
of his criminations, and that we boldly challenge him to the proof. For 
the answers we have already given to similar charges, preferred with 
equal vagueness, though with less coarseness, by Mr. Dwarris and Lord 
Seaford, we refer him to the Reporters, No. 37 and 40. Again, we 
challenge him to the proof. We call upon him to specify the particular 
statements on which he rests his charge. If he refuses to do so, will 
not his own epithets recoil upon himself? * 

* A long and laboured article has lately appeared in the Monthly Magazine 
in defence of slavery, and in pretended refutation of the statements of the aboli- 
tionists. It is, in fact, an epitome of Alexander Barclay's exploded work. We 
beg to refer those who are disposed to attribute the slightest weight to this 
renewed attempt to reconcile the national conscience to the foul crime of retain- 
ing our fellow men in a cruel and degrading slavery, to the different pages of our 
own work, and more particularly to the two numbers of it mentioned above, and 
to Nos. 18, 19, 35, &c. 

We have been struck, in perusing this article, with the audacious falsification 
of fact, of which the framer of it has been guilty. We know nothing which goes 
beyond, or even equals it, except in the pages of Blackwood. " The indisputable 
evidence of authenticated facts, proves," he says, " that the slaves of Jamaica 
are in the actual enjoyment of all the comforts and advantages which are the 
fair rewards of their labour," that is to say, of their forced and uncompensated 
labour. But, where is that evidence to be found ? The mere assertion of this 
writer will hardly pass for proof; and he has given us no other. He has fortu- 
nately ventured, however, to quit the safe ground of such vagu« generalities, 
and to favour us with some specification of the particulars which, he afiQrms, go 
to constitute this imposing aggregate of comforts and advantages actually 
enjoyed by the slaves of Jamaica ; and has thus given us an opportunity of 
weighing the value of his testimony, and of fixing upon it the undoubted cha- 
racters, either of gross or stupid ignorance, or of wilful and deliberate falsehood. 
We select two or three instances, by way of exemplification, and we pledge our- 
selves that they form a fair specimen of this impudent attempt to impose upon 
the British public. 

1. " The hours during which the slaves work," he says, " are not more — we 
believe, not so many — as those which are devoted to the same purpose by the 
agricultural labourers of Great Britain." Now, Mr. Huskisson, in commenting 
on the very latest legislative attempt at amelioration of the Jamaica Assembly, 
the disallowed act of December, 1826, observes on that clause of the act, which 
affects to limit the exaction of the labour of slaves, " out of crop," to eleven 
hours and a half, (namely, from five in the morning till seven at night, the 
intervals for meals being two hours and a half,) the tJlle of labour during crop 
having no limit, that such excess of toil is inconsistent with the health of the 
clave, (see his letter of 22d September, 1827, and the act to which it refers, also 



12 Defence, of Reporter, and Exposure of Monthly Magazine, 

Notwithstanding the grave charges Mr. Irving has permitted himself 
to make against the Anti-Slavery Reporter, it is evident he has not read 

Reporter, No. 33, p. 180.) But even the eleven hours and a half of field labour, 
vphich Mr. Huskisson thinks in such a climate (and, indeed, in any climate) is 
most excessive, are exclusive of the night labour of crop, which, for four or 
five months of the year, adds five hours more of labour during the twenty-four ; 
exclusive too of the time consumed in going to and returning from the field, pro- 
curing grass for the cattle at night, collecting fuel to dress their food, and 
cooking it, with a variety of other domestic offices. And yet, though the very 
laws authorize this enormous and destructive excess of labour, we are to be told, 
by this writer, they do not work so many hours as labourers in this country. 

2 " That baneful practice," (enforcement of labour by the whip) this writer 
tells us, " has been almost, if not wholly discontinued, in Jamaica." Now, 
it is utterly false, that any restraint is put on this practice by the law of 
Jamaica. The abolition of the driving whip was proposed, indeed, to the 
Assembly, by Lord Bathurst, in 1836, but rejected. It was then proposed by a 
Member, at least to substitute the cat for the cart-whip, but even this modifica- 
tion of the driving system was also rejected ; and the very reason given in the 
Assembly by Mr. Hilton, for refusing a compliance with Lord Bathurst's wish, 
was the danger to be apprehended from such an innovation of established usage 
as that of relinquishing the driving-whip. As for " the driving-whip," the 
Barbadoes Assembly " consider it to be inseparable from slavery." (See Reporter, 
. No. 21 , p. 305 and 307, and the Parliamentary Papers, and the Jamaica Journals 
of the day, there referred to. Even so late as the 22d March, 1828, we find Mr. 
Huskisson, in a despatch to the Governor of Jamaica, remarking that " his 
Majesty's Government cannot acquiesce in the defence which is made by the 
Assembly for retaining the use of the whip in the field, and the punishment of 
females by whipping." And yet, in the face of such evidence, this advocate of 
slavery has the^hardihood to affirm, that the baneful practice, as he terms it, of 
driving the human team with the cart-whip, is almost, if not wholly, discontinued 
in Jamaica. Can any untruth be more gross than this ? 

3. " Save, as the punishment of crime, the use of the whip in the West Indies," 
he further tells us, " is discontinued." Discontinued! by what law? By that 
of Jamaica, most certainly, its use is undiminished. At this very hour it may 
there be used, for any offence or for no offence, to the number of thirty-nine 
stripes, (and in Barbadoes there is not even this wretched limit) on the bare 
body of any man, woman, or child, without the slightest liability to question, 
by any master or overseer of slaves. The terms of the Jamaica law are, " and in 
order to restrain arbitrary punishments, no slave shall receive anij more than 
ten lashes, unless the owner, &c. or overseer is present; and no such owner, 
&c. or overseer, shall punish a slave with more than thirty-nine lashes at one 
time, and for one offence." To this extent then every man is at liberty, without 
being obliged to prove that any offence has been committed, to inflict the torturing 
punishment of the' cart-whip. A look, a gesture, construed into insolence; a 
suspicion of feigning illness ; an involuntary omission ; the langour of weari- 
ness; incapacity of exertion — rail may be punished, and are legally punished, as 
crimes under this mild system. (See also. No. 45, p. 424.) 

4. If asked " why we have left out of the picture the tortures to which slaves 
are put at the mere caprice of their masters, the dismemberments, the chainings, 
the wanton floggings, the separate selling of slaves who are united in families, 
the cruel severing of nature's sweetest and holiest ties, the answer is, that if such 
atrocities ever existed, they have for many years past ceased to disgrace the co- 
lonies : and that to assert that they now exist, in any degree, is a foul, gross, 
malignant calumny, the falsehood of which is notorious to every one who has 
taken the trouble to read and examine the evidence on the subject, and more 
notorious to none than to the crafty forgers of these monstrous lies." This un- 
blushing assertion is the very reverse of truth — the very climax of audacious im- 
posture. In reply to it, look only at the Jamaica law, last quoted, for the tortures 
which a master or overseer may legally inflict, at his caprice, on any slave; 
and next look to the official returns from the West Indies for the tortures 
actually inflicted, as these are detailed, not by abolitionists, but by Colonial 
functionaries, and in the recorded decrees of Colonial Courts of Justice. 
See, for pregnant examples, the returns of the Fiscal of Berbice, (Reporter, 



Defence of Reporter, ayid Exposure of Monthly Magazine. 13 

that work with common attention. He charges it with having revived 
the abortive accusations of Mr. Buxton. Now, Mr. Buxton's accusa- 
tions referred, exclusively, to the slave trade. The Anti-Slavery Re- 
porters, Nos. 42 and 44, refer to a new and perfectly different subject, 
namely, the state of slavery in the Mauritius ; a subject on which Mr, 
Buxton had not entered. With respect to the Reporter, No. 42 in par- 
ticular, against which the displeasure of the Baronet and his friends 
seems to be chiefly directed, we are quite at a loss to conceive to what 
part of it they mean to apply tlieir severe and vituperative remarks. 
The charge we bring against Sir R. Farquhar, in that number, is con- 
fined to a single point, and, if it be untrue, is capable of the easiest 
confutation. It is chiefly drawn from a comparison of his own official 
correspondence, while Governor, with the ofiicial returns from the 
Mauritius, recently laid on the table of parliament. Have we quoted 
that correspondence or those returns unfairly ? If not, wherein can we 
have calumniated or maligned the Hon. Baronet? Is it true, or is it 
not, for example, that, on the 1st of February, 1812, he wrote to Lord 
Bathurst, to say that it had been in his power, "6?/ a series of measures, 
to ameliorate the condition of the slaves?" And, is it also true, or is 
it not, that a return having been obtained from the Mauritius to an 
order of the House of Commons, calling for all regulations of this 
description during his administration, not one such has been forth- 

Nos. 5 and 16); the returns of the Protector of Berbice, (No. 43); the 
case of the Mosses, (No. 47); also No. 40, p. 305, No. 44, passim, &c. — Then 
as to the cruel separation of families, the utter falsehood of the assertion that it 
has ceased, will be proved by referring to the Reporter, No. 18, p. 251, and No. 
19, p. 272 — 275, which last contains the law and practice on this subject as offi- 
cially announced. Nay, so recently as the 14th of March, 1826, the Duke of 
Manchester, in a despatch of that date, expressly states that he is not aware of 
any law in Jamaica to prevent the separation of husband and wife, of parents 
and children ; and, indeed, it is impossible to open a Jamaica Gazette, even the 
most recent, without seeing that, in accordance with the power of separating 
families, which the state of the law enables the master to exercise at his discre- 
tion, is the constant weekly practice. — And yet, says this veracious writer, " if 
such atrocities ever existed, they have for many years ceased," adding, " that to as- 
sert that they exist in any degree, is a foul, gross, malignant calumny," — " mon- 
strous lies," the work of " crafty forgers." And all these facts too, to which we 
have adverted, and which will be found more fully detailed in our preceding 
pages, are taken not from any dubious, or concealed, or suspicious source, but 
from authentic and official public documents, laid before Parliament by the Mi- 
nisters of the Crown, and drawn by them from colonial records, which have 
been prepared and kept, and are verified, either by colonial slave holders them- 
selves, or by functionaries acting under their eye and with their privity. Such 
are fair specimens of the daring impostures with which we have to contend ! 
And let it never be forgotten (see Reporter, No. 18, p. 255) that thirty years ago, 
writers equally unprincipled, and witnesses equally mendacious, came forward, 
on behalf of the slave traders and slave holders of this country, to eulogize the 
loveliness of the slave trade itself, and to load with the foulest reproach and oblo- 
quy those who ventured to unveil its hideous lineaments to public view. The 
present writer is a worthy inheritor of their principles as well as imitator 
of their practices, and he will shortly, we trust, experience their fate. His at- 
tempts to sanctify crime and varnish guilt, and to hide out from our view, and 
from our hearing, the sighs, and groans, and tears, and blood, of our fellow- 
men, will, like theirs, be consigned in no long time to the universal execi-ation of 
mankind ; while the abominations which he and his fellows now so zealously 
patronize, and even hold up to public veneration, will take their place, as the 
slave trade has already done, in the list of the felonies, and murders, and 
piracies which are deemed worthy of the cxtreniest penalties of the law. 



1 4 Parliamentary Proceedings — Emancipation of Children, ^d 

coming ? Our observations, therefore, in that number, as far as they 
were inculpatory, had no connection with Mr. Buxton's charges, or with 
the slave trade. They referred to the variance between his oflficial 
communications respecting the condition of the slave population, and 
the facts of the case as indicated by the subsequent returns. If these 
observations are unfounded, nothing is easier than to refute them. 
The " measures" said to have been taken, have only to be produced. 
They have been called for, and have not been produced. If they exist, 
let Sir Robert now produce them, and then let him visit, with his severest 
animadversions, not those who have noted the fact of their non-pro- 
duction, but those who have violated their duty in suppressing them 
when called for. 

Sir Robert Farquhar, and his friends, have fallen into another mis- 
take. They have chosen to consider the Reporter, No. 44, with all its 
horrid detail of cruelties, as intended to inculpate him. That may, 
possibly, be its effect, but certainly was not its intention. Its sole pur- 
pose was, what it professes to be, to give " a picture of negro slavery 
existing in the Mauritius," not under the administration of Sir Roberi 
Farquhar alone, but under that of General Hall, General Darling, Sir 
Lowry Cole, and General Colvilie, in short, the general condition o 
the slaves in the Mauritius, independently of all governors and all admi- 
nistrations. This also is a new question, distinct from that hitherto 
brought before parliament by Mr. Buxton. It is a question also, not 
personal to Sir Robert Farquhar, but which respects the whole servile 
system, the general state of the law and the practice, with regard to the 
treatment of slaves in the Mauritius. And the Duke of Manchester, or 
Sir Benjamin D'Urban, might as well regard our expositions of the evils 
of slavery in Jamaica or Demerara, as a personal attack on themselves, 
as Sir R. Farquhar regard in this light our attack on the slavery of the 
Mauritius. We do not wonder at the excitement he has manifested, if 
he~ conceives himself personally implicated in every act of cruelty or 
oppression, which is stated to have taken place during his government. 
We defer any further observations till we have seen his reply. 

3. — Emancipation of Negro Children. 

At one o'clock of the morning of the 5th instant, in a very thin 
House, Mr. Otway Cave moved the following resolutions, which were 
negatived without a division, and, indeed, v/ithout a debate, if we except 
some weighty preparatory observations of the Honourable Mover. 

" Resolved, 1st. That no human Legislature has any lawful power 
to abridge or destroy the natural rights of life and liberty, unless the 
owner shall himself commit some criminal act that amounts to a for- 
feiture. 

" 2. That although neither the Government nor the Legislature of 
this country have arrogated to themselves the power of destroying the 
natural rights of innocent British subjects, or of delegating any such 
power to other authorities, it is a notorious fact, that in many British 
Colonies lying remote from the immediate observation of the Govern-, 
ment, innocent British born subjects are, from the time of their birth, 
robbed of their natural rights, and converted into slaves. 

" 3. That it is the especial duty of this House, as the representatives 



Parliamentary Proceedings — Sugar Duties — Free Blacks. 15 

of the people, to take effectual measures for protecting all British sub- 
jects, that shall be born henceforward in the West Indian Colonies, 
from similar violations of their natural, inherent, and paramount rights 
as human beings." 

We respect the motives v?hich have influenced Mr, Otway Cave on 
this occasion. We must still, however, think the course he has pursued 
unfortunate, and the time ill chosen. Who could ever have supposed 
it possible, that after a session of four months' duration, a motion of 
which formal notice had been given in the preceding session, a motion 
too of such vital importance, and big with so many vital interests, would 
at last have been shuffled into a corner ; that at the unseasonable hour 
of one o'clock in the morning, on almost the last day of the session, 
when no rational hope could be entertained of a beneficial discussion 
or a favourable result, when the House had been nearly emptied, reso- 
lutions so momentous, and so sure to be opposed, should have been 
brought forward and attempted to be passed ? Such a course was 
hardly fair either to the friends or the opponents of our cause ; and not 
even dreaming that such a thing was within the verge of possibility, 
almost every individual who felt an interest in the question had with- 
drawn ; though, had they remained, they could only have used their 
influence to induce the mover to select a fitter time for his propositions, 
to which, independently of this circumstance, we ourselves could not 
but be favourable. 

4. — Freedom of Trade. — Sugar Unties. 

Several discussions have taken place on these important questions, 
and with a better prospect of favourable results than we have hitherto 
been permitted to entertain. The approaching termination of the East 
India Company's charter has given a stronger impulse to the desires 
that had been awakened in the country of throwing open the trade of 
India and China; of permitting the unrestrained introduction of British 
capital and skill into our Eastern empire ; and of removing the inju- 
rious and immoral protection now given to the productions of slave la- 
bour as compared with those of free labour. We look forward with 
increasing hope to the consummation of our wishes on these points, 
and intend, during the recess, to advert to the subject more at large, 
Avith a view to the extended examinations and discussions which will 
certainly take place in the ensuing session. 

5. — Civil Rights of the free black and coloured Inhabitants of our 

Colonies. 
On the 1st of June, Dr. Lushing ton presented a petition on behalf 
of this class, imploring the Imperial Parliament to take their case into 
consideration, and to extend to them the common rights and privileges 
of British subjects, of which they are now unjustly deprived ; which he 
accompanied with some appropriate observations. Sir George Murray 
said he was pleased to see petitions, from any individual or class of per- 
sons in the colonies, addressed to the Imperial Parliament, as it marked 
the confidence of such persons in its wisdom and justice, a confidence 
extremely desirable, considering the relations which existed between a 
colony and a parent state, comprehending dependence on the one side, and 
protection on the other. With respect to the people of colour, he was 



16 Rights of free black and coloured Persons. 

of opinion that in any colony, and especially in those where the dis- 
tinction existed of freemen and slaves, it was a most desirable policy, 
that all the members of the former should participate in all the advan- 
tages of the superior class, notwithstanding differences of colour. An 
opinion, however, existed in the colonies, that changes in this respect 
should be made with caution. It was in this spirit that the local legis- 
lature of Jamaica had passed acts in favour of the coloured inhabitants, 
and within the last few years had further conceded, to particular in- 
dividuals belonging to the class of the free people of colour, special 
enactments, giving them the same rights as his Majesty's white subjects 
in that colony enjoyed. The Government, however, so little shared in 
this opinion, that in an Order in Council recently issued, they had at 
once removed all the various disabilities of the coloured inhabitants of Tri- 
nidad, and they had made similar concessions in the colony of Berbice, 
thus giving to the colonial legislatures an example of perfect liberality, 
in legislating for the equal claims of this class to civil and political 
liberty. He trusted the example would produce the most salutary 
effect on the other colonies. A spirit of liberality was gaining ground, 
and he looked with confident hopes to increased progress in the cause 
of the petitioners. 

Dr. Lushington agreed with the Secretary of State for the Colonies, 
that the Assembly for Jamaica had improved within the last fifteen or 
twenty years in their dispositions towards the people of colour ; but 
he could not view the concession of political privileges, by special acts 
made to particular individuals, during the last seven years, which had 
been mentioned, as an evidence of increasing liberality. For among 
all these private enactments, there were only seven, in all that space of 
time, which gave to coloured persons the same rights as the whites en- 
joyed. In every other instance the concessions were much restricted. 
He therefore hoped that some more general and effectual measure might 
be adopted, so as to save him the necessity of pressing the subject on 
the attention of Parliament in its next session. 

The valuable enactment to which Sir George Murray referred, for the 
removal of all civil disabilities from this class of persons in Trinidad, is 
dated the 13th of March, 1829, and purports that Whereas by cer- 
tain laws and ordinances heretofore made by the authority of the King 
of Spain before the cession of Trinidad to His Majesty, and by certain 
laws, ordinances, and proclamations since issued, his Majesty's subjects 
of free condition, but of African birth or descent, are subject to various 
civil or military disabilities in the said island, to which His Majesty's 
subjects of European birth or descent are not subject ; and it is expe- 
dient that all such distinctions should be abolished and annulled : — 
His Majesty therefore is pleased to order that every law, ordinance,or 
proclamation in force, within the said island, whereby His Majesty's sub- 
jects of African birth or descent, being of free condition, are subject to 
any disability, civil or military, to which His Majesty's subjects of Euro- 
pean birth or descent are not subject, shall be, and the sa T.e and each 
of them are and is for ever repealed and annulled. 



Loiitiou; Printed by Bagster and Thonis, 14, Bartholome-vv Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 50.] For JULY, 1829. [No. 2. Vol. iii. 

I.— SIR ROBERT FARQUHAR'S ATTACK EXAMINED. 
II.— WEST INDIA REPORTER, viz. 1. Sectaries of Jamaica. 2. Condition of 
Slaves. 3. Consolidated Slave Law. 4. West India Committee and its 
BJercenaries, and, 5. Challenge of Anti- Slavery Reporter. 
Ill— THE COMPULSORY MANUMISSION CLAUSE. 
IV.— NATIVES OF SOUTH AFRICA. 

V — FREE BLACKS AND COLOURED. 
VI.— CULTURE OF SUGAR BY FREE LABOUR. 
VII.— FRENCH SLAVE TRADE. 



I. — Sir Robert Farquhar's Attack. 

The last Reporter will have prepared our readers to expect the reply 
of Sir Robert Farquhar to the statements made in our former numbers, 
Nos, 42 and 44, on the subject of slavery in the Mauritius. Sir Robert 
indeed professes to confine his reply to the former, but it does, in point 
of fact, embrace both. Of this reply we wish to speak with all due 
forbearance and respect ; and yet it would be vain for us to attempt to 
conceal that we have read it without the slightest alarm for the integrity 
of the statements which it affects to expose. We must first throw en- 
tirely aside the Baronet's angry vituperations against the Reporter, such 
as " wanton attack of wicked and designing persons;" " a tissue of atro- 
cious calumnies ;" " the illiberality and falsehood of the narrow- 
minded, grovelling, and paltry charlatans of the present day," their 
"incautious enthusiasm;" their "dangerous spirit and blind fanaticism;" 
their " venom ;" their " wild" and " visionary experiments;" their " gra 
tuitous, wicked, barefaced falsehoods" — " basest falsehoods" of men 
who, " like inquisitors, work in the dark, and stab men's reputations bo 
hind their back," and that, " from motives of private pique and per- 
sonal interest or malice;" of men pursuing a " system of perjury and 
subornation of perjury," " debauching soldiers for purposes the most 
v/ick^d and diabolical," and whose conduct is *' without a parallel since 
the infamous days of the star chamber." 

These hard words are gleaned from less than five pages of letter- 
press, two-thirds of which consist moreover of mere unsupported asser- 
tions, remarks laudatory of his own administration, vague speculations 
on colonial policy, and random denunciations of the designs of the abo- 
litionists as tending to ruin the colonies and to enrich themselves. 

To no part of these fruitful topics, whether laudatory of himself or 
accusatory of us, is it necessary to say one syllable in reply. Valeat 
quantum ! We will confine our observations strictly and exclusively 
to what is precise and tangible in his affirmations. 

We had asserted in the Reporter, No. 42, p. 337, that, during Sir 
Robert Farquhar's administration, we could not discover that either 



18 »S'^V Robert Farquhars Attack 07i the 

any" series of measures," or even " any one measure," had been adopted 
by him " for the defence and protection of the slaves," " for restraining 
the oppressions of the master, or protecting the persons, or improving 
the condition of the slaves." This assertion Sir Robert describes as " a 
gratuitous, wicked, and barefaced falsehood." — Now we think the Ho- 
nourable Baronet is hardly justified in the use of such strong language. 
— In consequence of an address voted by the House of Commons on the 
24th of November, 1826, there were made to that House, on the 1 0th 
of July, 1828, the following returns, viz. 1. " A return of the laws, with 
copies or extracts thereof, in force at the Mauritius, regulating the pti- 
nishmetit of slaves by their masters, and which have been registered 
in the courts." 2. " A return of orders made from time to time by the 
several authorities at the Mauritius, regulating the punishment of slaves 
by their masters." 

These returns are perfectly silent as to any measures, nay, as to any 
single regulation, adopted, during Sir R. Farquhar's administration, 
" for restraining the oppressions of the masters, or protecting the per- 
sons or improving the condition of the slaves." Surely, then, we have, 
in these returns, at least good prima facie evidence of the truth of our 
averment. Still Sir Robert speaks of" my numerous measures" upon 
this subject, and affirms that he can " cite numberless regulations made 
for the benefit, ease, and comfort of the slaves since the conquest;" and 
he refers, in proof, to a certain report made to him by the Attorney 
General of the colony, in 1814, in compliance with certain orders he 
had issued to that officer. He produces, however, neither his own 
orders nor the Attorney General's report ; nor does he tell us where 
either the one or the other may be found. But while he declines to 
particularize all his numerous measures of amelioration, he condescends 
to specify a few, and these we presume the most important and pro- 
minent of the whole. From among " the proclamations and orders 
issued by himself and the British Government, for ameliorating the 
condition of the slaves since the conquest," he selects four, on which 
to rest his vindication. These we shall consider separately : 

L " Modifications, in the year 1814, for facilitating the liberation of 
slaves." We have already reiferred to these modifications, (No. 42, p. 
335.) We there speak of them as forming the single edict of Governor 
Farquhar, which appeared to modify in any way the slave law of the Mau- 
ritius, and thus describe it : " Besides requiring many onerous formali- 
ties, and renewing the old law that no slave shall be manumitted without 
the permission of the Governor, who alone is to decide whether the 
proposed manumission may be carried into eflfect without injury to the 
community;" this edict " actually imposes a fine of 150 to 300 dollars 
on each act of manumission. By this edict the Governor further em- 
powers himself to employ on the highways all freed persons having no 
visible means of support." 

It seems a misnomer, therefore, to designate this particular act 
as calculated to " ameliorate the condition of the slaves." Its proper 
designation is an act to deteriorate their condition. And so thought 
and still thinks His Majesty's Government. Not only is it opposed to 
the spirit of all Lord Bathurst's instructions on the subject of slave 



Anti-Slavery Reporter examined. \Q 

reform, and to the spirit of all Sir George Murray's practical measures 
with respect to the freed ; but its whole tenor is expressly condemned 
and reprobated by Mr. Huskisson, in his despatch of the 1 0th of Octo- 
ber, 1827. " I do not perceive in it," he says, " any provision which 
tendst o facilitate manumission. The tendency of every part of it, on 
the contrary, is to create obstacles which render it almost nugatory as a 
meliorating measure." These words indeed apply more immediately to 
Sir Lo wry Cole's amended edition of Sir Robert Farquhar's law on the 
subject : but they apply with infinitely greater force and appositeness to 
the latter. Sir R.'s proclamation never received, says Mr. Huskisson, 
His Majesty's sanction ; and he directs that it should be made " known 
to the public, in the most authentic manner, that his Majesty is pleased 
to disallow" both it and the proclamation of Sir Lowry Cole. Indeed 
it is only necessary to read the boasted act, to be convinced of its tyran- 
nous and oppressive nature, (see Papers by command, of 1828, p. 277. 
Sir R. Farquhar seems to rely chiefly on this edict of his, respecting 
manumission, as proving the falsehood of our assertions as to the 
absence of all measures for improving the condition of the slave. He 
clings to it with fondness, and returns to it again and again. It is 
certainly, however, rather unfortunate that this very measure must be 
viewed, in the judgment of every man in this country capable of dis- 
cerning right from wrong, no less than in that of His Majesty's Go- 
vernment, as in reality an act for deteriorating and not for ame- 
liorating the condition of the slaves. 

2. "In March, 1811," says Sir Robert, "the public orders issued 
by me at Mauritius, and republished at Bourbon in April of the same 
year, diminished the weight of chains one half in all cases of simple 
police when applied to men, and altogether abolished them when ap- 
plied to women and children." It is further true, that in a letter 
of Sir Robert Farquhar, dated February 15, 1811, he stated that he 
had " judged it proper to order that when slaves are to be chained for 
security or punishment, these chains shall not be heavier than are in- 
dispensably necessary to secure the person of the slave ; and in the 
event of proprietors transgressing this order, the slaves are to become 
forfeited to the use of government." — Now after this official statement 
of the 15th of Feuruary, 1811, addressed to the Earl of Liverpool, and 
the extract which precedes it from the Baronet's letter of the 3rd of 
February, 1829, we shall perhaps be thought hazarding too much when 
Ave say that we believe Sir R. Farquhar to be mistaken in supposing such 
an order to have been actually issued by him. That on the 15th of 
February, 1811, when he affirms he had already issued his order re- 
specting chains, he had not actually issued but only contemplated 
issuing it, we may infer from his saying in his last letter that it was 
issued not in February but in March. But, putting this perhaps acci- 
dental discrepancy out of view, the probability, on the whole, still seems 
to us to be, that no such order, having the force of law, was ever issued. 
Our reasons for this opinion we will now shortly state. 

In the first place no such order has been produced. It has been 
called for, but has not been returned. 

in the second place, when, on the 1 3th December, 1826, Sir Lowry 



20 Sir Robert Farqiihars Alttxck'on the 

Cole issued an Act for fixing '' the weight of the chains and fetters, or 
iron rings, which the inhabitants are authorized by the existing laws to 
put upon their slaves," (see paper of i 0th July, 1828, No. 526, p. 27), 
he introduces it by the following preamble : " Whereas th<; laws of the 
colony, particularly the 37th article of the letters patent of the month of 
December, 1723, in permitting to the inhabitants to pitt their slaves in 
chains whenever they shall think these latter shall have merited if, 
have determined nothing with respect to the weight of the chains and 
fetters;'' and then he proceeds (as is stated in the Reporter, No. 42, 
p. 335,) to define the weight of chains and fetters which may thence- 
forward lawfully be put, not only on men, but on women and children 
also. — But how could Sir Lowry Cole affirm that no previous law af 
the colony had determined any thing as to the weight of chains and 
fetters, if Sir R, Farquhar's order of 1811 had previously had any legal 
existence ? Had such an order existed, it must of necessity have been 
known to Mr. Blane, the Secretary of the Government, who, along with 
Sir Lowry Cole, signed the law of December, 1826, and who had filled 
the office of Chief Commissary of Police, under Sir R. Farquhar, at so 
early a period as 1813, (see papers of 1828, No. 295, p. 28). Mr, 
Blane, we think, could not have been ignorant of such a law, if it had 
been enacted in 1811 ; at least, if he, the Chief Commissary of Police, 
knew nothing of it, it might as well not have been enacted : it must 
have been a dead letter from the first. The very signature of Mr. 
Blane to such a preamble as we have cited seems decisive of the 
question. 

It is no less extraordinary, if the alleged order by which Sir Robert 
says he aboUshed, in 1811, chains altogether as respected women and 
children, ever had a legal and efficient existence, that, in 1826, Sir 
Lowry Cole and Sir Robert's own Commissary of Police, Mr. Blane, 
should be jointly occupied, under pretence of lightening the chains of 
the slave women and children, in framing a law, which actually went 
to reimpo&e those chains, after they had been previously altogether 
struck off by Sir Robert Farquhar in 1811. 

But we have a third and still stronger reason for doubting the cor- 
rectness of Sir Robert Farquhar's memory with respect to the promul- 
gation of this alleged law of 1811. We mean the conduct of Sir 
Robert himself, and of the Magistrates acting under his immediate 
observation and control in the town of Port Louis, in the month of 
October, 1821. Two cases were in that month tried in the public 
courts, which involved this very question of the weight of chains ; the 
cases of Virginia and Azor. They are both detailed in the Reporter, 
No. 44, p. 382, and p, 383 ; and, though a communication was addressed 
to Sir Robert himself on the occasion, yet no reference appears to have 
been made to this law which, had it existed, must have ensured the 
conviction and punishment of the parties accused ; one of whom had 
imposed, on a male slave, chains of 30lbs. weight, six times heavier than 
the heaviest allowed by Sir Lowry Cole's subsequent act ; and another 
had imposed, on a slave girl, irons weighing 761bs., besides " martyring" 
her flesh with the rattan. — Now, in these two cases, the judges decided 
that yih^i tlie accused persons had done was allowed by law, and that 



Anti-Slavery JReporter exaviined. 21 

the weight of the chains they had imposed was not excessive. We can- 
not, therefore, beheve that there could have been any law of Sir R. 
Farquhar's with which such a sentence would have been compatible ; 
or that, if there were any law of his with which it was incompatible, he 
himself, being on the spot at the time, would have calmly permitted it 
to be so grossly and flagrantly violated without one word of remon- 
strance, or a single note of dissatisfaction. 

We may, therefore, fairly put aside this alleged law of 1811, as well 
as that of 1814, as securing any amelioration of the condition of the 
slaves. 

3. "In the year 1817," Sir Robert further affirms, "the public 
"whipping of women was totally prohibited by my orders, as well as the 
public working in chains of female maroons." Now we will tell Sir 
Robert, that if the whipping of women is permitted at all, it were better 
to be public than private. But, be that as it may, this order of Sir 
Robert, (whatever may have been its terms and its tenor, for it has not 
been produced, and we have only his account of it,) could evidently 
have had nothing to do with the relation of master and slave, but must 
have been confined to police inflictions, and to the chain or convict 
gang which was placed under the police officers. It is not fair, there- 
fore, to cite as an order for " ameliorating the condition of the slaves," 
one which must have been intended, not for the regulation or control of 
masters, but for the regulation of his own police 

That we have given a probable account of this matter will still more 
clearly appear by referrir.f, to a letter of Sir Lowry Cole, of the 15lh 
December, 1826, addressed as a circular to the Commandants and 
Civil Commissaries of Districts, (paper of 1828, No. 526, p. 32,) in 
which he says, "" I also think it necessary to dwell on the various 
punishments inflicted on negro women. Up to this moment, there has 
not existed any difference in the corrections ordered, by the masters, in 
respect to them, and those in use in regard to the men. Rest assured, 
gentlemen, that his Majesty's Government will suppress the punishmeyit 
of flogging for negro women," &c. &c. — If it had been true that Sir R. 
Farquhar had passed any law on this subject, in 1817, how could Sir 
Lowry Cole have used such language as this in 1826? — Again, there- 
fore, we say, if we have misrepresented the matter, it will not be enough 
for Sir Robert to brand what we have said with the terms, " gratuitous, 
wicked, barefaced falsehood :" such terms will not avail him. He must 
produce those orders of 1811 and of 1817, a bare reference to Avhich 
he now would make his shield of defence, and then let the public judge 
between us. 

4. The only remaining measure which Sir Robert specifies is one, he 
says, which " / made on the 25th January, 1813, by which the barba- 
rous practice of paying to the owner the price of a maroon, in the event 
of his being killed in pursuit, when flying /ro»i the officers, or resisting 
them, was totally abolished; and, by the same law, the reward to the 
officer seizing the maroon, was greatly augmented when the maroon 
was taken alive." Again, we say, if there be such a law, why is it not 
produced ? But, even if there be such a law, and it shall be found to 
bear out all that Sir R. Farquhar predicates of it, it is still a law which 



22 Sir Robert Farquhars Attack oh the 

has respect to the officers of police alone, and has nothing to do with 
the relation of master and slave. It cannot, therefore, invalidate, in the 
very slightest degree, our abused, and calumniated statement, that we 
had not discovered, in the records of Sir R. Farquhar's administration, 
a single trace of any one measure for restraining the oppressions of the 
master, or for protecting from those oppressions the person of the slave. 

If there be any such measure, we say again, and again, let it be pro- 
duced. It has not yet been produced ; and the defence of Sir Robert 
Farquhar only strengthens our doubt of its existence. 

But Sir Robert Farquhar has not only thus egregiously failed in 
proving the incorrectness of our statement, with respect to his legis- 
lative measures for the amelioration of the condition of the slaves; he 
has equally failed in shewing the incorrectness of the facts we adduced, 
in confirmation of the total inefficiency of the existing laws to protect 
the slaves from cruelty of the most revolting description. — Of all those 
facts he has selected for contradiction only three, the cases of Prevot, 
Cotry, and Madame Nayle. (See our No. 44, p. 390, and 391.) 

With respect to the facts of Prevot's case, there is no difference be- 
tween us that we can discover. Sir Robert does not deny the horrid 
cruelties of which Prevot had been guilty, and we had ourselves stated 
that this ruffian alone had met with the fate he merited. 

With respect to Cotry, the Honourable Baronet does not controvert 
our statement of the revolting enormities which that man is said to 
have committed, though the account we gave of them is, we suppose, 
one of the impure statements which he so squeamishly reprehends. — 
(Let our readers turn to it !) But then the Baronet says, Cotry, who was 
to have been hanged for his crimes, hanged himself, and, so only, 
escaped the gallows. We, on the other hand, have said, on authority 
we believe to be good, that Cotry did not hang himself, though that 
was most certainly reported, but escaped from prison, and two years 
afterwards reappeared in the Mauritius. We do not ourselves, of 
course, vouch for the correctness of this statement. But is it not just 
possible, that Sir Robert may have been deceived by an untrue report of 
Cotry 's suicide, circulated to cover his escape; and that, quitting the 
island in the following year, he may not have known of Cotry's subse- 
quent reappearance ? If, however, Cotry really did kill himself in prison^ 
as the Baronet affirms, let the " proces verbal" connected with the act 
of suicide be produced, and that will at once place the matter beyond 
question. 

And now for Madame Nayle ; we do not understand that Sir Robert 
means to deny the unspeakable atrocities we have attributed to that 
wretched female, or the attentions stated, nevertheless, to have been 
lavished upon her, by many of the Colonists, as in the case of the Mosses 
of Bahama, while she lay in prison. He says something, however, of " a 
stretch of the law in her case," which ive would have" clamoured against 
as an unpardonable excess if Madame Nayle had been black instead of 
white." We do not at all understand to what the Hon. Baronet here 
alludes. We will only say, that that man must have a mind very singu- 
larly constituted indeed, who, after having read the detail of Madame 
Nayle's crimes, could be moved to commiseration, for any thing she is 



Anti-Slavery Reporter examined. 23 

stated to have suffered, on account of any variety of complexion she 
may have received from nature. 

Had v/e known the fact which Sir Robert communicates, of his hav- 
ing cashiered a magistrate for his culpable want of promptitude in ar- 
resting Madame Nayle, we should certainly have mentioned it, as a 
fact highly creditable to him ; but also as a fact illustrative of the enor- 
mity of the transaction which led to this act of just retribution. 

We purposely omit to combat the unsatisfactory defence of Sir Ro- 
bert Farquhar with respect to the slave population returns, as it would 
not be quite decorous to anticipate an inquiry which will necessarily be 
brought forward in the ensuing session of Parliament. We will merely 
remark that no explanations on the subject, which he either cites from a 
letter of the 7th of November, 1822, or brings forward for the first time 
in his letter of the 3rd of February 1829, can form a justification of, 
what alone we have censured, the silence he maintained upon the sub- 
ject in the year 1815, when the completion of the first registration of 
slaves, under the new Act, discovered to him that a population which, 
on the 8th of January 1811, he had stated to consist of only 60,000, 
namely, 39,415 males and 20,585 females, and which, on the 28th of 
July 1812, he further stated to be yearly diminishing at the rate of 5 
per cent, per annum, was found to have grown, during the intervening 
period, to the enormous amount of 87,352, viz, 56,684 males and 
30,668 females.* 

One word more. Sir Robert Farquhar states it to be untrue that the 
Mauritius law of slavery, as contained in the French Ordinances of 
1723 and 1767, " arm the master with such absolute power over the 
slave," as we have represented. We have given a faithful abstract of 
them in the Reporter, No. 42, p. 332 — 334, and we must leave our 
readers to judge between us. There is no disputing about tastes, but 
we should have thought, with all due deference to the superior discern- 
ment of Sir R. Farquhar, that we were not sinning violently against 
good taste when we characterized as " arming- the master with absolute 
power over the slave, and affording to the slave no effectual protection 
against its abuse," a law which prescribes, among other things, that 
slaves can possess no property whatever; that they cannot be witnesses 
or suitors; that if they strike a master or his child they shall suffer 
death ; that their first absence for a month shall be followed by their 
being branded and having their ears cut off, the second by being 
branded and having their hamstrings cut, and the third by death ; and 
that, when deemed deserving of it, they may be put in chains and 
flogged by the masters, at their discretion, to the amount of thirty lashes ; 
&c. &c. &c. 

Such then is Sir Robert's defence of an administration, by which he 
boasts to have done as much for the cause of humanity " as the whole 
party (of abolitionists) put together, and even their great patriarch him- 
self," (meaning, we suppose, Mr. Wilberforce) ; and this defence, he 

* Sir R. Farquhar has addressed another letter to the Colonial Office, on the 
Report made by the Commissioners of Inquiry, on the slave trade of the Mauri- 
tius, which is scarcely less accusatory of their motives than the letter now before 
us of those of the Anti-Slavery Reporter, 



24 West India Reporter. — Sectaries in Jamaica. 

trusts, " will at length open the eyes of the public to the dehision at- 
tempted to be practised upon them, by persons whose statements he has 
shown to be utterly unworthy of credit, and whose incessant labours 
militate against the best interests of the country." We can only hope 
with Mr. Brougham, that when the promised inquiry takes place, he 
will be furnished with better witnesses and better compurgators than the 
attempted vindication of his conduct, contained in the letter now before 
us, will be found to supply. 

II. — West Indian Reporter. 

The West-Indian Reporter has so long been silent, that we concluded 
it had ceased to exist, when towards the close of the last month it burst 
upon us with five successive numbers in one day, viz. Nos. 16 to 20. 
The two first bear the date of April, the others have no date assigned to 
them. We propose adverting briefly to a few of the topics of which they 
treat ; for by far the largest proportion of their contents is a dull un- 
interesting mass, composed of West-Indian documents, of no value 
whatever; of the eternal mouthing of such Jamaica speechifyers as 
Messrs. Berry and Barrett and Mitchel ; of a tiresome history of the 
double duty question, for which, out of Jamaica, nothwithstanding all 
the noise it makes there, no one here cares one farthing ; and of the 
worthless evidence of anonymous writers, or of such a discredited par- 
tizan as Alexander Barclay, varied by stupid extracts from the colo- 
nial journals, and enlivened only by foul abuse of the Missionaries- 
and of the Anti-Slavery Reporter ; the whole more resembling a spent 
bullet, hot, heavy, and dusky, than any thing we remember lately to 
have seen in the way of authorship. 

1. — Sectaries of Jamaica. 

No. XVI. contains eight very closely printed pages relating to the 
Sectarians, in which the proceedings of the Jamaica Assembly respect- 
ing them are partially detailed. The evidence procured by a Select Com- 
mittee of that body was avowedly taken, so says the West-India Reporter, 
in order " to be laid before the King in Council and his Majesty's 
Ministers, and to be distributed and circulated generally in this coun- 
try;" and he draws, as we shall see, from this fact, the most triumphant 
proof of the integrity of the Jamaica Assembly, and the irresistible force 
of the testimony by which its committee has reported that they had 
established, beyond all possibility of question, the following charges. 

First, " That the principal object of the Sectarians in Jamaica is to 
extort 7noney from their congregations by every possible pretext; to ob- 
tain which, recourse has been had to the most indecent expedients. 

Second, " That in order to further this object, and to gain an 
ascendancy over the negro mind, they inculcate the doctrines of 
equality and the rights of man ; they preach and teach sedition even 
from the pulpit, and by misrepresentations and falsehood endeavour to 
cast odium upon all the public authorities of the island, not even ex- 
cepting the representative of Majesty itself. 

Third, " That the consequences have been abject poverty, loss of 
comfort, and discontent, among the slaves frequenting their chapels, and 
deterioration of property to their masters. 



fVest India Reporter — Sectaries in Jamaica. 25 

Fourth, " That therefore the interference of the Missionaries between 
the master and the slave is dangerous, and incompatible with the politi- 
cal state of society in this island, and recommend to the house to 
adopt the most positive and exemplary enactments to restrain them." 

This extraordinary report was adopted by the House of Assembly, 
and it was resolved " that a copy of the report of the committee ap- 
pointed to inquire into the establishment and proceedings of the Sec- 
tarians, and the examinations taken before them, be forwarded to the 
agent, with instructions to lay the same before his Majesty's Ministers, 
together with a copy of the 83rd, 84th, and 85th clauses of the slave 
law, disallowed in 1827 ; and that the said report, and examination and 
clauses be printed and distributed by the agent." 

Let us now hear what the West-Indian Reporter, the organ of the 
West-Indian committee, says on this subject. 

" It is scarcely necessary," he says, " to remind the public that the measure of 
appointing this committee was adopted /or t lie purpose of producing evidence in 
support of the three clauses of the slave law of 1826, which occasioned its disallow- 
ance by Mr.Huskisson; and which being re-enacted in 1828, recently occasioned 
its rejection by Sir John Keane. This evidence is of course most important. If the 
Jamaica House of Assembly have resorted to any unfair means to procure that 
evidence, or if it be not sufficiently strong to support these clauses, then are they 
the most foolhardy set of men who ever sat on a bench of legislature ; since they 
have directed copies of it to be transmitted to their agent, to be laid before the 
King in Council, and before His Majesty's Ministers, and to be distributed and 
circulated generally in this country. They have done this too with the perfect 
knowledge that there is a strong body of Dissenters in this country, who will 
make common cause with the Missionaries in Jamaica, and who will spare 
neither time, nor trouble, nor expense in investigating the truth of that evi- 
dence ; and if it be liable to imputation, holding up its authors and suborners to 
the ridicule and detestation of the multitude, and the just vengeance of His 
Majesty's Ministers. They know too that there is another organized body of 
inveterate enemies, who damn with disbelief every document, of whatever na- 
ture, or of whatever testimony, that bears the semblance of defence of colonial 
justice, or a vindication of colonial policy. They knew that ere a word of that 
evidence was printed, the Anti-Slavery Society was prepared to deny its truth ; 
and if they doubted, the last packet that sailed from England will have proved 
it to them when it came in the last number of the Anti-Slavery Reporter.* 
They must know it will be attacked in Parliament by the united body of saints, 
sectarians, and all whom the love of mob popularity, and political and commercial 
rivalship enlist under the banners of the anti-colonists. They cannot overlook 
the vantage ground which they would thereby have afforded to their keen-eyed 
antagonists, if it be liable even to a justifiable suspicion of subornation of per- 
jury. It is the design of Mr. Brougham to annihilate, if he can, through Parlia- 
ment, the legislatures of all the colonies ; and they cannot but be conscious of 
the tremendous accession of influence he will have gained, if he can show by 
any means that one of these legislative assemblies has procured and sanctioned 
an act restrictive of religious liberty, by means of the disgraceful testimony of 
perjured witnesses. He, and other leaders of that party, the Lushingtons, the 
Denmans, and the Buxtons, are unscrupulous enough as to the means they use 
in producing excitement in the House of Commons against the West-Indians 

* No. 46, p. 433. The obnoxious Words are, " We shall, of course, have an 
opportunity of soon seeing the evidence which is to establish the immoral and 
destructive tendency of the labours of the Missionaries. In the mean time, it is 
plain from what has transpired of it in the columns of the Jamaica newspa- 
pers, that it bears the character of fabrication on its very front." Such is still 
our conviction, only strengthened by the subsequent suppression of this evidence 
with which we were at first so boldly menaced. 

K 



26 West India Reporter- —Sectaries in Jamaica. 

and to the statements they bring forward. No matter to them whether a charge 
be true or false ; it is made ; and they mind not the contradiction, or have in- 
genuity enough to avert its effect. By these arts they almost annually add to 
the number of the anti-colonists : but it is really avcfol to think how great that 
folly must be, which would put into Mr. Brougham's hands such a report. 
What could they suppose it would be in the power of even the staunchest ad- 
herents of West-Indian interests to urge in reply to Mr. Brougham, should the 
legislature of Jamaica have based their cause on such a rotten foundation? 
They must feel to have acted dishonourably here, is to have given themselves up, 
bound hand and foot, into the hands of a persevering and implacable enemy, 
who will follow up his advantage to the death." " We would put it to the 
common sense of the indifferent public, whether it is probable that the Jamai- 
cans can have such a set of madmen at the head of their councils? And yet the 
Anti-Slavery Reporter has already, with his customary insolence, pronounced 
them guilty of this absurdity of crime, while common sense gives the lie to their 
calumnious accusation ;" " but the characters of these revilers is now too low 
for them to have much fear of their libels having much effect." p. 18, 19. 

This elaborate, and, to their own apprehension, triumphant argu- 
ment of the West India Committee, or whoever else superintend the 
West Indian Reporter, by which they seem to have hoped to silence 
for ever the whole host of abolitionists, it will now be perceived, has not 
only failed of its intended effect, but has recoiled with double force on 
themselves. On former occasions, the arts have been exposed by which 
the colonists abroad have laboured too successfully to delude the people 
of Great Britain, by means of testimony prepared to suit some present 
purpose. We have seen how easily, by such means, obnoxious individuals 
may be overwhelmed, like Smith, or like Lecesne, with unfounded ob- 
loquy, and even crushed under masses of suborned and perjured evi- 
dence ; how easily also, in times of excitement, crowds of affidavit-men 
may be raised to support any proposition however untrue ; and how 
even insurrections may be got up or provoked, and, to give them a 
colour, innocent blood poured out like water, if the reforms so much 
dreaded may thereby be averted. We have seen all this ; but we have 
never before seen so undisguised an effort as the present, for effecting, 
by means of their usual machinery, their favourite object of maligning 
the Christian missionary, and extinguishing the light of Christianity 
among the slaves. The plot, however, has been too clumsily framed 
not to betray its true character to every eye but that of th^ heated and 
prejudiced artists of the imposture ; for it appears that the moment these 
examinations, which, in Jamaica, were expected to perform such mira- 
cles of conviction in this country, and which were deemed of so irre- 
sistible a character by the excited colonists, came to be viewed more 
calmly by their friends at home, the danger of giving them publicity 
was at once seen ; and though the force of this evidence had been so 
much vaunted in anticipation, even by the West Indian Reporter, yet it 
has been unsparingly stifled, and seems now doomed, if possible, to 
utter oblivion. Not a copy of it, we believe, has been suffered to escape ; 
and all that is known of it is from the scanty notices of the Jamaica 
journals. 

But how came the West Indian Reporter to have disturbed this pru- 
dent silence? Whence the strange folly oi publishing , as well as print- 
ing its misplaced eulogy on evidence, only partially known, and which 
it has been now found necessary to suppress ? It will be for its con- 
ductors to explain this. We suspect, but we do not vouch for the correct- 



West India Reporter — Condition oj" Slaves. 27 

ness of the suspicion, that the editors deceived by the strong representa- 
tions of their angry and over-zealous friends abroad, and, to use their own 
phrase, not believing it possible " that the Jamaicans could have such 
a set of madmen at the head of their councils" as it now appears they 
have; proceeded in that belief to frame the 16th number of their Re- 
porter, before they had yet received and weighed the examinations 
from which so much was ^expected ; but that when, having seen and 
weighed them, they discovered their error, and how egregiously they 
had been misled, it was then probably too late to prevent all the effects 
of their hasty confidence, as many copies of the work had prematurely 
been permitted to circulate. They could not have expected so sad a 
reverse as has since taken place ; and, admiring the energy of their 
own production, were naturally eager to give it effect, by circulating it 
even before they had seen the whole of the evidence. At present, we 
doubt not, they regret their precipitancy, as the subsequent suppression 
of the evidence only converts their argument into a confirmation of our 
view of the nature and tendency of the whole of this abortive con- 
trivance for vindicating the cruel and persecuting clauses of the act of 
1826, and expeUing the missionaries from Jamaica. 

2. Condition of the Slaves in the West Indies. 

Number XVIII of the West India Reporter, containing twelve closely 
printed pages, is occupied with a feeble attempt to prove that the present 
condition of the negroes in the West Indies is a state of unexampled 
enjoyment. It commences with a reference to the testimony " of im- 
partial witnesses, the governors, naval and military officers, visitors," 
&c, the same parties who, in 1 790, proved, with equal clearness, the innate 
humanity and loveliness of the African slave trade. This is followed by 
an anonymous letter from Jamaica, (dated July 30, 1795 ! !) which de- 
monstrates that the slaves " are in a far better situation than the 
labourers at home." This letter we leave to be refuted by the pam- 
phlet of Mr. Dwarris and the speeches of Lord Seaford, the burden of 
whose song is, in concert with the great body of West Indian writers of 
the present day and with Mr. Barclay among the rest, that all the 
improvements which now render the state of the colonial slave the just 
envy of the British peasant, are the growth of the last twenty years. — The 
next witnesses produced are more modern, but they are also anonymous, 
and cannot weigh one feather's weight in this controversy, viz. an obscure 
periodical work called " The Spectator," * and a publication entitled 
" Sketches and Recollections of the West Indies." And this array is 
brought up by the discredited and exploded work of Mr. Barclay, re- 
specting which we have only to reiterate our oft repeated and as often 
declined challenge to the West India Committee, (see No. 44, p. 396.) 
" to point out any one of the propositions advanced in Mr. Stephen's 
Delineation of the Law of West India Slavery as it existed in 1823, 
when he penned his invaluable production," which has been refuted, or 

* Credit is claimed for this work on tlie ground of its avowed impartiality. 
And yet, when a paper was transmitted to its Editor, disproving every assertion 
it had made in favour of West Indian slavery, the paper was rejected. Such is 
its impartiality ! 



^8 W. I. Reporter.— Consolidated Slave Law— Mauritius. 

in any degree invalidated by Mr. Barclay. That challenge being still 
declined, we leave this fresh attempt of those vpho bolster up their des- 
perate cause by again producing Mr. Barclay as their champion to its 
fate. In the mean time we again refer those who desire information on 
the subject, to Nos. 18, 19, 37, and 40 of the Anti-Slavery Reporter. 

3. Consolidated Slave Law. 

A great part of the West India Reporter, No. 19, is occupied by 
a discussion of the Consolidated Slave Law of 1825, many of the most 
salutary clauses of which are attacked with no small degree of zeal and 
perverted ingenuity. We leave its defence to its parliamentary framer. 
Dr. Lushington, whenever it shall be deemed expedient to propose its 
alteration. In the mean time we rejoice that Sir George Murray has 
added to his other claims on public gratitude, that of having permitted 
the clauses of this act, which gave to His Majesty's Government the 
power of licensing the removal of slaves from one colony to another, to 
expire, as they did at the close of the last Session. The door is thus 
shut against the recurrence of those abuses, to which the continuance 
of such a power might have given birth. 

4. The West India Committee and its Mercenaries. 

An article bearing this title, which appeared in our No. 45, p. 427, 
has excited the ire of the West Indian Reporter. He does not deny 
our general statements, but only retorts them. — If the West India 
Committee has its pro-slavery rent levied on all colonial imports,* the 
Anti-Slavery Committee has also its contributions from all parts of the 
kingdom. If the advocates of the colonial cause are largely remune- 
rated by the West India Committee, so, the writers of the Anti- 
Slavery Reporter, and the authors of the Anti-Slavery articles which 
appear in the Edinburgh Review, are remunerated from the funds of the 
Anti-Slavery Society. And as we called upon the West India Com- 
mittee for a detail of their expenditure, so does he call on the Anti- 
Slavery Committee for a similar disclosure. This last request, we beg 
to inform him, has been complied with ; a full and explicit statement 
of all the Anti-Slavery Society's receipts and payments has been regu- 
larly printed and extensively circulated, and is open to his inspection. 
And although we never intended to affirm or even to insinuate that the 
mere circumstance of receiving a fair remuneration for work done, is at 
all discreditable, either to those who pay or to those who receive it, 
yet it is due to truth that we should state, most distinctly and unequi- 
vocally, that no writer, either in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, or on colo- 
nial subjects in the Edinburgh Review, has ever received, directly 

* The West Indian Reporter afifects to deny the extent of the sum thus raised, 
and which we had conjectured might amount to £20,000. He can easily set us 
right in this respect. Our conjecture rests on a circular, signed Alexander 
Macdonnell, Secretary, and dated West India Dock House, 15th July, 1825, 
announcing an impost of sixpence on every cask of sugar, coffee, or rum, brought 
to this country, and on other articles in like proportion. Now, at this rate, the 
three articles which are particularly specified, viz. sugar, coffee, and rum, ought 
to yield, on the whole amount of their annual import into Great Britain and 
Ireland, at least £12,500. What may be the amount of all the other articles of 
import cannot be calculated with any thing like the same approximation to 
accuracy ; but it must be very considerable; 



W. /. Reporter. — Answer to Challenge of W. I. Reporter. 29 

or indirectly, from the Anti-Slavery Committee, or from any other per- 
son in their behalf, a single sixpence for any thing which has ever ap- 
peared in either of these v?orks. This we assert solemnly, deliberately, 
and most confidently, without the slightest qualification or reservation 
whatsoever; and we include in this formal, and absolute, and sweep- 
ing denial, all that is said of " hired orators," and " mercenary author- 
lings," and " offers of remuneration to authors if they will write against 
the West India colonies." 

5. Challenge of the Anti-Slavery Reporter. 

In our two last numbers, in commenting on the language of crimi- 
nation employed respecting us by the British Critic, (No. 48, p. 488.) 
and by Mr. Irving in the House of Commons, (No. 49, p. il.) we use 
words to this effect. " We totally deny the truth of their criminations, 
and we boldly challenge them to the proof. We call upon them to 
specify the particular statements on which they rest their charges — the 
particular and specific instances, either of a charge which we have made 
and not substantiated, or of an existing abuse which we have exagge- 
rated ; and if they refuse to do so, will not their harsh epithets recoil 
upon themselves?" " We accept this challenge," gallantly replies the 
West India Reporter. But how does he accept it? " We accept the 
challenge," he says, " observing, that we do not feel ourselves bound to 
point out ONE DIRECT CALUMNY distinctly asserted." In other words, we 
accept the challenge, but wholly decline its terms. But they add, " we 
could shew page after page in which the libel is conveyed to the mind 
through the medium of the hint, the sneer, the base insinuation, which 
wound more frequently and penetrate more deeply than perhaps the 
most violent direct charge." And then he produces, as his illustration, 
our comments on the case of the Mosses, and of the returns from the 
Fiscal of Berbice, (see No. 47, p. 468,) which comments, we maintain, 
convey neither hint, nor sneer, nor base insinuation, but the direct 
affirmation of our firm belief, that the occurrences brought to light, in 
colonies where we have had access to authentic returns, exemplify what 
may be reasonably apprehended to have occurred, in colonies similarly 
circumstanced, governed by similar laws, and marked by similar man- 
ners, habits, and feelings, but from which we have had no returns, 
either because no records are kept, or because, if they are kept, they 
are withheld from us. Besides, can any one have forgotten the pre-, 
sumptions furnished to this effect by the mock trials and massacres of 
Barbadoes in 1816, and of Demerara and Jamaica in 1824? But, says 
the West India Reporter, these things are the exception, not the rule, 
and to ground on them a sweeping censure is a libel which has been 
over and over again refuted by unexceptionable testimony. Our 
charge, however, is against the system, which we are no more afraid 
of being found to libel than we should have feared to be deemed guilty of 
libelling the slave trade in 1789, by describing it as a system of cruelty 
■and blood, though Governors, and Generals, and Admirals, and plant- 
ers, and merchants concurred in extolling its beauty and humanity, 
and though we were charged on their testimony, then as now, with 
malignantly substituting the exception for the rule. We deny the 
charge. The particular instances we at any time cite are merely illus- 



30 Compulsory Manumission. — Natives of South Africa. 

trative and corroborative of the innate and incurable iniquity of any 
system which subsists by making man the slave and chattel of his 
fellow man. 

So much for the five contemporaneous numbers of the West India 
Reporter. 

III. — ^The Compulsory Manumission Clause. 

A PAPER printed by the House of Commons, June 2, 1829, and 
numbered 301, contains the " Copy of an Order in Council respecting 
the Manumission of Slaves in Demerara and Berbice, which has been 
issued since the examination of evidence upon that subject before the 
Privy Council." After reciting the substance of the petitions presented 
to the Privy Council, their Lordships state, that having considered those 
petitions, and heard evidence upon them, they did, on the 18th March, 
1829, 

"Agree humbly to Report, as their opinion, to your Majesty, that no sufficient 
cause hath been shewn why your Majesty should rescind so much of the Berbice 
Ordinance, as enables the slaves within the said colony to effect the purchase of 
their freedom upon an appraisement, in cases where the owners of any such 
slaves may not be consenting, or, by reason of some legal disability, may be un- 
able to give any valid consent to such purchase ; and they have further agreed 
humbly to report as their opinion, to your Majesty, that it may be expedient 
that your Majesty in your Privy Council, should issue an Order, confirming and 
giving effect to the said Ordinance, with such modifications, with a view to the 
more effectual execution thereof, as may appear advisable ; regard being had 
to the laws of the said colony, which laws your Majesty has been graciously 
pleased to preserve and maintain. And his Majesty having taken the said 
Report 'into consideration, was pleased, by, and with the advice of his Privy 
Council, to approve thereof." 

We are most anxious to know the result of this important decision. 
The clause on manumission, as it now stands in the Berbice Order, is so 
framed as to defeat, instead of accomplishing its own professed ob- 
ject, and the intentions of his Majesty. An account of its many 
defects may be found in our 28th Number, p. 93, and thither we refer 
those whom it concerns. We sincerely trust that those defects will now 
be remedied, as otherwise the order will be unavailing to any very bene- 
ficial purpose. 

IV. — Natives of South Africa. 

Another gratifying proof of the effective liberality and just and 
enlightened views of his Majesty's Government is afforded us by another 
document, laid before Parliament on the 12th June, 1829, numbered 
339, being " an Ordinance for improving the condition of the Hot- 
tentots, and other free persons of colour, at the Cape of Good Hope, 
and for consolidating and amending the laws affecting these persons." 

The provisions of this Ordinance, which first emanated from the local 
Government at the Cape, on the 17th July, 1828, appear to be excel- 
lently adapted to their professed object of effectually securing the rights 
and liberties of the native Africans, and other free persons of colour, 
from the dreadful oppressions and spoliations to which they have so 
long been subjected. In giving to those provisions the Royal sanction, 
which was done on the 15th January, 1829, the following clear, unam- 
biguous, and decisive terms are employed. 



Natives of South Africa — Free blacks and coloured. 31 

" His Majesty is graciously pleased, by and with the advice and consent of 
His Privy Council, to order, and it is hereby ordered, That the said Ordinance 
shall be, and is hereby ratified, confirmed and allowed, and finally enacted : 
And for the prevention of any doubt which might arise upon the construction of 
the said Ordinance, His Majesty is further pleased, with the advice aforesaid, 
to declare and it is hereby ordered and declared. That all Hottentots and other 
free persons of colour, lawfully residing within the said Colony, are and shall 
be, in the most full and ample manner, entitled to all and every the rights, 
privileges and benefits of the law, to which any other His Majesty's subjects, 
lawfully residing within the said Colony, are or can be entitled : Provided 
always. That nothing herein contained shall be construed to abrogate or annul 
the provisions made by the said Ordinance, for the good government of such 
Hottentots or other such free persons of colour, or any of those provisions : And 
it is hereby further ordered, That it shall not be lawful for any person within 
the said Colony, to whom any Hottentot or free person of colour hath been 
apprenticed, or to whom any such Hottentot or free person of colour hath 
entered into any contract of service, to detain or take in execution the person of 
any such Hottentot, or of any such free person of colour, for or. by reason of any 
debt due and owing, or alleged to be due and owing to any such master or 
employer, by any such Hottentot or free person of colour : And it is hereby 
further ordered, That this present Order and the Ordinance hereby confirmed, 
shall not in anywise be altered, repealed or amended, by any law or ordinance 
to be hereafter made by the Governor or the Officer administering the govern- 
ment of the said colony, with the advice of the Legislative Council thereof, un- 
less such Ordinance shall have been first expressly ratified, confirmed and 
allowed by His Majesty, with the advice of his Privy Council ; and that CA'ery 
such Ordinance or pretended Ordinance, until so ratified, confirmed and 
allowed, shall be void and of no effect, and shall not be enforced or carried into 
execution by any of His Majesty's Courts, Judges, Justices, Officers and others, 
within the said Colony." 

V. — Fkee Blacks and People of Colour. 

We noticed in our last number the spirit of justice and liberality 
which characterized the order, issued by the King in Council, relative 
to his Majesty's subjects of free condition, but of African descent, in 
Trinidad. A similar Order has been issued for the island of St. Lucia. 
It is to the following effect: 

" Whereas his Majesty, taking into his gracious consideration the loyalty and 
good conduct of persons of free condition of African birth and descent, inhabit- 
ing the island of St. Lucia, and having considered the restrictions under which 
they laboured, by virtue of laws passed previous to the cession of the island, 
has been pleased, by his Order in Council, issued at the court at Windsor on 
the 15th of January last, to order that all laws, edicts, and ordinances having 
the force and effect of law at any time heretofore made or promulgated within 
the island, whereby free persons of African birth or descent were subjected to 
any disabilities or restrictions to which other free persons inhabiting the said 
island were not subject, should be, and the same were, thereby repealed, and 
for ever annulled and cancelled. 

" The Governor doth hereby announce and promulgate such his Majesty's 
gracious pleasure ; and therefore all such laws, and all such edicts and ordi- 
nances whatever, are declared to have been by the said Order in Council re- 
pealed, and for ever annulled and cancelled. 

" The Governor is assured that the parties in whose favour this Order has 
been issued, will show by their future conduct, and by their readiness and zeal 
in coming forward, without distinction of class, for the maintenance of order, as 
they have hitherto done, that they entertain a due sense of the King's gracious 
regard for them. 

" Given at the Government House, Castries, 6th of April, 1829." 

We cordially rejoice in the progressive extension of such just and 



32 Free Labour Sugar — French Slave Trade. 

beneficent principles, principles which are every way worthy of British 
statesmen, and more truly honourable to them than the laurels that 
shade their brows; and which, afford to suffering humanity a dawning 
hope of brighter and better days. And it is most cheering also to per- 
ceive that the operation of these principles is not confined to the British 
empire. We have been assured by Mr. Rocafuerte, the Mexican am- 
bassador, that in the great and populous province which he represents, 
those illiberal distinctions of colour, which the fastidiousness of Castilian 
pride had created and so long cherished in that soil, have nearly 
vanished ; and this, not only as they respect civil and political rights, 
but as they respect the feelings, associations, and habits of social and 
domestic life ; rank, property, talents, and education, unaffected by 
mere colour, forming the grand passports to eminence and respect. 
Nothing could prove this more clearly than the recent elevation of 
Guerrero, by the free suffrages of his countrymen, to the first office in 
the state, although he is the son of a negress by a mulatto, or what in 
our West-India colonies is known by the name of a Sambo. 

VI. — Culture or Sugar by Free Labour. 

In a former number of our work. No. 37, p. 251, we quoted the au- 
thority of Mr. Ward, our envoy to Mexico, in proof of the possibility of 
profitably cultivating sugar, even in gangs, by free labour. This im- 
portant fact is now officially notified to us by the production, on the 
table of Parliament, of a despatch from Mr. Ward, addressed to Mr. 
Canning from Mexico, on the 13th of March, 1826. We should have 
inserted this document at length had we had room. We must at present 
postpone it. 

VII. — French Slave Trade. 

We extract the following passage from the last number (that for June, 
1 829,) of the Journal of the Society de la morale Chretienne, at Paris. 

" A letter from Martinique, of the 9th of February, informs us that 
seven slave ships have landed their cargoes in that colony. The 
first on the 4th of November, 1828, in the parish of Fran9ois, con- 
tained 385 slaves, who were publicly sold on the plantation Hardy ; 
the second, on the 12th of November, 500 slaves, in the parish of the 
Trinity, on the plantation Beausejour; the third, (a brig called I'En- 
trepreneur,) on the 24th of November, 1828, 212 slaves, in the parish 
of Franfois, on the plantation Blampres; the fourth on the 4th of De- 
cember, having 130 slaves, in the same parish, on the plantation Hardy; 
the fifth, 200 slaves, on the 10th of December, on the plantation Mou- 
lin-a-vent, in the same parish ; the sixth on the 13th of December, 180 
slaves, on the plantation La Pointe ; and the seventh on the 5th of Ja- 
nuary, 1829, on the plantation Hardy, by the schooner la Folic, 114 
slaves. It appears that these slave ships belonged to Martinique, and 
had taken out their clearances for the island of St. Thomas, (on the 
coast of Africa). Twenty- five or thirty of the wretched slaves were ill, 
and have died since their arrival, and the pains were not taken even to 
bury them." 

Thus do the French observe their solenin treaties on this subject ! 



London: Bagster and Thorns, Printers, 14, Bartholomew Close 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 51.] For AUGUST, 1829. [No. 3. Vol. iii. 

The "■ Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be forwarded to any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity, on application 
at the Society's office. No. 18, Aldennanbury. Single Copies may be had of 
all booksellers and nevpsmen, at the rate of Id, per half-sheet of eight pages. 



I. REVELATION OF COLONIAL SECRETS. 
II. CULTURE OF SUGAR BY FREE LABOUR ; III. MAURITIUS. 



I. Revelation of Colonial Secuets. 

In our last Number (p. 24) we adverted to the language of exultation 
used by the West India Committee in Loiidon, (assuming them to be 
virtually the authors of the West India Reporter) in speaking of the 
evidence taken by the Jamaica House of Assembly, in order to justify 
their persecuting enactments against the sectarian Missionaries ; and we 
stated (hat, notwithstanding the important ends which it was most 
unhesitatingly affirmed that it would answer, it had since been prudently 
suppressed by this same Committee. The inferences we drew from the 
rash eulogy on that evidence which, prior to its reaching their hands, they 
pronounced upon it ; and from the large expectation of benefits by its 
general diffusion which they then indulged ; combined with its total 
suppression since the whole of it has been before them ; have been cu- 
riously confirmed by a recent publication in a Jamaica newspaper, the 
postscript to the Royal Gazette of the 23rd of May last. In that paper 
is inserted the " Extract of a letter from a respectable West India 
Proprietor, (in London) dated the 2nd April," 1829, the greater part 
of which extract we shall transcribe for the edification of our readers. ■ 

" The Session of Parliament," says this respectable proprietor, " has natu- 
rally renewed the interest which you take in the advices from England, and the 
extraordinary circumstances which have distinguished the proceedings of the 
legislature this year, must inspire you with the utmost wonder and alarm. I 
am not now about to weary you with my sentiments on the approaching emanci- 
pation of the Catholics, but to remark on the situation in which the West India 
Colonies will be placed as soon as that measure is accomplished. So long as it 
remains in dispute, so long the West Indians are safe, if not from attack, at least 
from danger. But I tremble to think of the consequences when the British 
ministry and the British public are at leisure to turn their eyes to the islands 
so much farther west from Ireland. The Morning Journal of the 26th March 
did not hesitate to declare, that the Duke of Wellington intended to introduce a 
bill for full uncompensated Emancipation of the negroes, as soon as the Catholic 
relief bill had received the Royal Assent. This assertion was contradicted the 
same evening by the Courier, and there can be no doubt that the contradiction 
may fairly be believed to come from authority. So far so good. But the Morn- 
ing Journal of the next day returns to the charge, and reaffirms his assertion. 
I am no believer in the Morning Journal, nor is it of any importance whether the 
Duke made any such declaration or denies it. His denial, it is evident from 

F 



34 Revelation of Colonial Secrets. 

experience, will not retard him from adopting any course that may occur to him ; 
and therefore it is necessary to look at what the ordinary course of events must 
produce. That will and must be a renewed agitation of the Slavery Question 
by our opponents, with increased means of annoyance, arising from the compa- 
rative leisure of Government and the tranquillity of the people. The latter will 
have nothing to excite them, and the English seem unable to live without exci- 
tation ; and the curtain having dropped over the scene exhibiting Mr. O'Con- 
nell's entrance into Parliament, will have to be drawn up again to the first scene 
of the first act of the West Indies in an Uproar — a Comedy, I hope, it will prove, 
but it may turn out a terrible Tragedy.* 

" Never, therefore, was a crisis when the union of all West India interests 
required a stricter consolidation ; and it is lamentable to observe that discord 
seems so prevalent. The planters abroad find fault with the planters at home 
for not defending their interests better, and the discontent is shared by many 
members of the general body even at home. I am persuaded this feeling arises 
partly from ignorance and partly from prejudice. You abroad will not consider 
that we have an up-hill battle to fight, and overlook the circumstance that the 
success of the exertions of the West India body here is to be estimated, not by 
the victories we gain, but by the possessions we preserve. Our line is the de- 
fensive : we cannot advance without almost the certainty of defeat and ruin. 
We press for a repeal of the sugar duties, or a reduction. The minister refuses. 
Appeal to the public, cry the agitators, muster your parliamentary interests and 
insist upon it. Why, in an instant, the minister would let loose upon us, the 
saints and the East Indians. We may force a reduction of the sugar duties, 
but if it is so obtained, it will be accompanied with an admission of foreign 
sugars on equal terms, or at least, on very low protecting duties. Nevertheless, 
it would be most prudent to strengthen the West India body, and to allay the 
discontents and to unite all parties in one common bond. It is intended to re-or- 
ganize the Committee, which, perhaps, may infuse into it fresh vigour. 
^ "In the meantime, you residents in the West Indies, cut out plenty of work 
for us. What is to be done with the case of Jamaica is difficult to advise : 
you are fairly committed to hostilities with ministers on three distinct points ; 
the double duties, the sectarians, and the slave question. Mr. Brougham h s 
given notice of his intention to move for leave to bring in a bill to force the 
adoption of the slave evidence measure in the Colonies, and if he should be 
supported by the government, it is not the fifty or sixty West India members who 
will be able to resist his motion. I firmly believe, that as much ignorance, 
haste, and imprudence, have been exhibited in the management of the Colonies 
recently, as were evinced by the ministers who produced the American war. 
But as government cannot now consistently recede, however much they may 
deplore the infatuation of their predecessors, from the line marked out for them, 
it is but too much to be dreaded, that they should yield to the united clamours 
of the Saints, the Liberals, and the Methodists. 

" Never could there have been a worse time than that unluckily chosen for a dis- 
pute with the latter mentioned class of persons. In England, the idea of oppres- 
sion in religious matters will not be tolerated for an instant. The people at large 
are quite aware of the grasping propensities of the sectarians, and are adverse to 
their ambitious schemes ; but they are not yet prepared for any interference 
with their preachers, such as you have adopted. You have united against you 
a body comprising about three million of members, and clear indeed ought to 
be the evidence by which you shall justify your proceedings. The Anti-Slavery 
Reporter boldly proclaims the whole evidence to be printed, respecting the 
report on the sectarians, to be procured by subornation of perjury. t You must 
prepare, therefore, for its being most strictly investigated. / rely upon its truth ; 
but true or false, your fellow Colonists may be assured it will be treated as 
false. If it be not well supported, those who framed it may rest satisfied with 
the assurance that they have done more to ruin the West India cause than could 
have been accomplished by the united labour of years. I have no inclination to 

* It can do so only through the blind folly and intemperance of the West 
Indians themselves. 

t We challenge its ungarbled production. 



Revelation of Colonial Secrets. 35 

criticise the conduct of the Assembly ; but it is rather an awful increase of 
difficulty on the West Indians here, to have extraneous subjects of dispute with 
the government, arising from your proceedings, mixed up with the already suf- 
ficiently embarrassing question of Slavery. It will be difficult also for ministers 
in deciding on the part they will adopt, to avoid taking into consideration the 
resistance on the double duty question, and the sectarian clauses in the Slave 
Bill, as subjects of annoyance against you. 

" The most useful study that could be recommended to your legislators would be 
the pages of the Anti-Slavery Reporter, in ivhich they will regularly find all the 
evidence and information concentrated which are to be used against you in the House 
of Commons, and ivhich have consideralle effect on the people.* It is not much 
known except among a particular sect, but the misfortune is that it serves as a 
guide to the Parliamentary orators, and contains most elaborate references to 
all parliamentary papers which bear on the subject, and presents in one view 
those extracts which are most susceptible of being turned to our disadvantage. 
To answer this work, therefore, to have a counter-work of a similar nature is 
most desirable ; and if your journalists would occasionally comment on its 
pages, it would be rendering essential service. Whatever can be done by way 
of counteraction will be done here ; but any information that can be furnished 
by you will greatly assist. The Anti-Slavery Reporter may independently, be 
of little consequence, but it is very dangerous as supplying materials for debate. 
I remember one of Mr. Brougham's tirades, and another of Lord Suffield's, which 
were taken almost word for word from this work.f We here feel the difficulties 
arising from the pertinacious and persevering attacks of our adversaries, which 
you abroad affect to despise. 

" A meeting has lately, I understand, been held of the West India Committee, 
at which it has been resolved to give fresh strength to its proceedings, by in- 
viting the assistance of a number of individuals connected with the West Indies. 
The difficulty of proceeding in this respect has arisen from wishing to exclude 
all persons who are not really West Indian proprietors interested in the soil, as 
the attempts to introduce spies among them by the saints prove tVie necessity of 
doing. t I cannot help anticipating from this renovation that considerable vigour 
will be added to the body, and at all events its strength will be more consolidated 
and united. It is determined to prosecute with all their energies the reduction 
of the sugar duties, and to appeal to the people,^ in case of a failure with 
ministers, by another petition to parliament similar to that so ably introduced 
by Mr. Pallmer last year. By the bye, where was Mr. Barry's recollection in 
reproaching the supineness of the West Indians, when he omitted to notice Mr. 
Pallmer's exertions, and the speeches of Lord Seaford in the House of Lords 
last year, speeches which have brought down on his lordship the accumulated 
wrath of the saints ?"|| 

* How different an estimate do the West Indians in reality form of this 
publication, from that which the British Critic has affected to form of it? We 
have here, in this private communication, not a word of its falsehood. 

t How is it possible that there should not be a coincidence between the 
statements of these distinguished individuals and the Anti-Slavery Reporter, 
when both draw their facts from the same unquestionable official sources ? 

X There is something supremely absurd in this affected fear of espionage on 
the part of the saints. While the West India body contains such members as 
the writer of this letter and his sage correspondent in Jamaica, and above all, 
while their own authenticated records are accessible, the saints need be driven 
to no such base expedient, even if they could stoop to its use. 

§ The idea is not a little amusing of an appeal to the people of England to 
support, by bounties and protecting duties, the system of abomination which 
they have resolved to extinguish root and branch. 

II This tremendous infliction of wrath on poor Lord Seaford consists simply 
in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 40, which, in point of fact, is nothing more 
than a calm, temperate, and decisive refutation of every position in the two 
famous speeches of his Lordship. We now know who form the strength of the 
West Indian cause, in this country, even in the judgment of the West ludiaji 
party— viz. Mr. Pallmer and Lord Seaford. 



36 

II. Culture of Sugaii by Free Labour. 
In our last number we promised to lay before our readers the official 
Report of Mr. Ward, our Mexican Envoy, on the important subject of 
the culture of Sugar by free labour. It is as follows : 

« Sir, Mexico, March 13, 1826. 

" The possibility of introducing a system of free labour into the West 
India Islands having been so much discussed in England, I conceived that it 
might not be uninteresting to His Majesty's Government to receive some details 
respecting the result of the experiment in this country, where it certainly has 
had a fair trial. 

" I accordingly took advantage of Mr. Morier's prolonged stay here to visit 
the Valley of Cuernavaca, and Cuantla Amilpas, which supplies a great part of 
the federation with sugar and coffee, although not a single slave is at present 
employed in their cultivation. 

" I have the honour to inclose a sketch of the observations which I was ena- 
bled to make upon this journey, together with such details as I have thought 
best calculated to show both the scale upon which these estates are worked, and 
the complete success with which the abolition of slavery has, in this instance, 
been attended. 

"The valley which extends almost uninterruptedly from Cuernavaca to Cuantla 
Amilpas, and Jyncar, (covering a space of about forty miles,) is situated on the 
road to Acapulco, at the foot of the first range of mountains by which the descent 
from the Table Land towards the south-west commences, about fifty miles from 
the Capital. 

" It is about 2,000 feet lower than the Table Land of Mexico. The difference 
of temperature is proportionably great, so that two days are sufficient to trans- 
port the traveller into the very midst of Tierra Caliente. 

" The vicinity to the capital was probably one of the circumstances which in- 
duced the first planters to establish themselves in this district. The richness of 
the soil, and the abundance of water which they found throughout the plain, 
convinced them that they could not have made a better choice. 

" It is believed that the sugar-cane was first planted there about one hundred 
years ago ; from that time the number of sugar-estates has gone on increasing, 
until there is now hardly an acre of ground on the whole plain which is not 
turned to account. 

" The cultivation was originally carried on entirely by slaves, who were pur- 
chased at Vera Cruz, at from 300 to 400 dollars each. 

" It was found, however, that this system was attended with considerable in- 
convenience, it being impossible to secure a sufficient supply of slaves during a 
war. The losses likewise, at all times, were great, as many of the slaves were 
unable to support the fatigue and changes of temperature, to which they were 
exposed on the journey from Vera Cruz to Cuernavaca, and perished, either on 
the road, or soon after their arrival. 

Several of the great proprietors were induced by these circumstances to give 
liberty to a certain number of their slaves annually, and by encouraging mar- 
riages between them and the Indians of the country, to propagate a race of free 
labourers, who might be employed when a supply of slaves was no longer to be 
obtained. 

This plan proved so eminently successful that on some of the largest estates 
there was not a single slave in the year 1808. 

The policy of the measure became still more apparent on the breaking out of 
the revolution in 1810. 

The planters who had not adopted the system of gradual emancipation before 
that period saw themselves abandoned, and were forced, in many instances, to 
give up working their estates, as their slaves took advantage of the approach of 
the insurgents to join them en masse ; while those who had provided themselves 
with a mixed cast of free labourers, retained, even during the worst times, a 
sufficient number of men to enable them to continue to cultivate their lands, 
cilthough upon a smaller scale. 

The insurrection, however, proved highly injurious to the proprietors in 



Culture of Sugar by Free Labour, 37 

general. Most of them were Europeans, and as such, particularly obnoxious to 
the insurgents ; and, although by coalescing amongst themselves, and maintain- 
ing a considerable armed force for their defence, they prevented the enemy on 
several occasions from entering the valley, they found it impossible to secure 
their communication with the capital, and were thus often deprived of the only 
market for their goods. In the year 1814 too, the siege of Cuantla, which 
Monelos had occupied, and which he defended for three whole months against 
the vice-regal army under General Calleja, spread destruction throughout the 
district. 

" Several of the Haciendas have not even yet recovered the losses which they 
then sustained, and some, which were quite ruined, have never been rebuilt. In 
general, however*, the last eight years of comparative tranquillity have been 
sufficient to restore things to their ancient state, and I could not learn that the 
produce of the different estates about Cuernavaca had ever greatly exceeded 
that of the last twelve months. 

" The scale upon which these estates are worked is enormous. From a sup- 
position that the ground is exhausted by two successive crops, the Mexican 
planters run into the contrary extreme, and divide their sugar-lands into four 
equal parts, one only of which is taken annually into cultivation. The remaining 
three are turned to no account, so that an idea may be formed of the extent of 
an estate upon which so enormous a quantity of land is allowed to remain 
unemployed. 

" The largest Haciendas in the neighbourhood of Cuernavaca are those of 
Yemisco and San Gabriel, (botlr of which belong to the family of Don Gabriel 
Yermo, an old Spaniard, famous for the arrest of the viceroy Sturrigaray in 1808, 
with which the Mexican revolution may be said to have commenced), Treinta 
Pesos, El Puente, Meacatlan, San Easpar, and San Vicente Chicouquac, Each 
of these estates produces annually from 25,000 to 40,000 arrobas of sugar, of 
25lbs. weight each, (about 5,250,000 lbs,, taking 30,000 arrobas as the average 
produce,) and to this at least another million may be added, for a number of 
other smaller estates not included in this list. 

" The crops are usually most abundant, the cane being planted much thicker 
than is customaiy in Jamaica, and the machinery, in the opinion of Dr. Wilson, 
who accompanied me, and who has been much in the West India Islands, is 
fully equal to any used in the British colonies. 

" The number of workmen generally employed upon an estate capable of pro- 
ducing 40,000 arrobas of sugar amounts to 150, with occasional additions when 
the season is late, or the work has been retarded by any accidental cause. 

" The labourers are mostly paid by the piece, and many of them can earn, if 
industrious, from six to seven rials per diem, (3s. 3d. or 3s. 9^d. English money, 
reckoning the dollar at 4s. id.) 

" Fifty men are employed in watering the canes, twenty in cutting, ten in 
bringing the cut canes from the field, (each with six mules,) twenty-five (mostly 
boys) in separating the green tops, which they use for fodder, and binding up 
the remainder for the muleteers. Twenty men, divided into gangs of four each, 
in feeding the engine day and night ; fourteen attend the boilers ; twelve keep 
up the fires ; four turn the cane in the sun, after the juice has been expressed, 
and dry it for fuel ; and ten are constantly at work in the warehouse clarifying 
the sugar, and removing it afterwards to the general store-room, from whence 
it is sent to the market. 

" The art of refining, though well understood, is seldom or never carried 
beyond the first degree of the process, there being no demand for double-refined 
sugar in the market ; and the consequence is, that though abounding in saccha- 
rine matter, the article is for the most part coarse in appearance, and of a bad 
colour. 

" The arroba of 25 lbs. sells in Mexico for about three dollars, or two dollars 
and a half, if not of the best quality. The great Haciendas expend in wages to 
the workmen, and other current charges, from 800 to 1,200 dollars a week. 

" It often happens, however, that in a good year the sale of the molasses 
alone is sufficient to defray this expense, so that the sugar remains a clear profit. 

" For every arroba of sugar an equal quantity of molasses is produced, which 
sells, at the door of the Hacienda, for five rials and a half the arroba. It is 
bought up by the proprietors of the small distilleries, which abound to such a 



38 Culture of Sugar by Free Labour. 

degree, that in the neighbourhood of Cuernavaca alone from 23,000 to 30,000 
barrels of Chingarito (a sort of rum) are made annually. 

" The distance from Cuernavaca to Cuantla is about twenty-five miles ; and, 
with the exception of a ridge of mountains which separates the two valleys, the 
whole intervening space is richly cultivated. 

" After passing through the village of Yantepec, which lies at the foot of the 
mountain, there is a constant succession of Haciendas, most of which appear 
admirably kept up. 

" The most remarkable in the district of Cuantla are San Carlos, Pantitlan^ 
Cocoy6c, Calcleron, Casasano, Santa Ines, Cohahuistla, Napastlan, and Yenes- 
tepango, none of which produce less than 30,000 arrobas of sugar annually, 
while the annual produce of some (Cohahuistla and Yenestepango) may be 
estimated at from 40,000 to 50,000. 

" The Haciendas of Cocoy6c and Pantitlau enjoy the additional advantage 
of being not only sugar but coffee-estates. 

" Their owner, Don Antonio Velasco, introduced, at a great expense, from 
Cordova, the cultivation of this plant, which has succeeded perfectly. He has 
now upon his two estates upwards of 500,000 plants, 50,000 of which are 
already in full vigour. The produce of the last year amounted to 5,000 arro- 
bas, or 125,000 lbs. of coffee, and as a great number of the young plants will 
begin to bear this year, it is supposed that the amount will be more than 
doubled. 

" Coffee is now selling at seven dollars the arroba in Mexico. Its cultivation 
would therefore prove indefinitely more advantageous than that of the cane, if 
the demand were equally great. But coffee is by no means in general use in 
this country, nor is Cuantla the only place from whence this demand can be 
supplied. 

" There are immense coffee plantations in the vicinity of Cordova, and the 
whole of the Eastern coast is of course supplied by the nearest market. Were 
this not the case the speculation would prove a very lucrative one, as a coffee- 
estate of 200,000 plants does not require the constant attendance of above 
twenty men, (to weed and water,) and consequently entails upon the proprietor 
bnt little expense. 

" The average produce of each tree may be estimated at two pounds and a half. 

" The young plants require great care and attention, and must be protected 
from the sun for two whole years. For this purpose a large piece of ground is 
covered in, which is called the semillero. The third year the young trees are 
transplanted to the open field, where they begin almost immediately to produce 
something, and the fourth they may be reckoned in full vigour. They last 
from five and twenty to thirty years. 

" I saw most of the Haciendas enumerated in the preceding list ; but was 
struck with none so much as with Santa Ines, which is beautifully kept up. 
It is almost the only estate which possesses a large distillery, which produces 
from 4,000 to 5,000 barrels of Chingarito yearly. 

" The barrel in Mexico is worth twenty-four dollars, with duties and carriage 
deducted ; an idea may be formed by this of the immense annual value of the 
estate. 

" Cohahuistlan might be still more productive, as it is much more extensive, 
and commands a greater supply of water, but it is not done justice to. The 
estate belongs to the convent of Dominican Friars ; and as the abbot is changed 
by the rules of the order every three years, the overseers of the Hacienda are 
usually changed with him, and they consequently allow every thing to go to 
luin. 

" In general, the fertility of an estate depends entirely upon the supply of 
water: the produce of those which have only enough for irrigation, and are 
forced to work their wheels by mules, will seldom be found, whatever may be 
the quality of the soil, to amount to one third of those which can command a 
sufficient supply for both purposes. 

" In the quality of the soil there is but little' difference. 

" The average annual produce of all the estates it would hardly be possible 
to compute. 

" The greatest part of it is sent to the capital, from whence it is distributed to 
the difierent provinces; muleteers, however, often come direct from the interior. 



Mauritius. 39 

" It is a curious fact, that an immense quantity of sugar is yearly remitted 
to Vera Cruz, not for exportation, but for the liome consumption of a province 
which might produce sugar enough to supply all Europe if it chose to turn to 
account the advantages v\'ith which nature has so richly endowed it. 

" The most remarkable circumstance, however, is the total abolition of slavery 
in a district where such a mass of colonial fruits is produced, and the success 
with which the introduction of free labour has been attended ; it is this which 
has induced me to lay these observations before His Majesty's Government, and to 
hope that they may be esteemed not wholly umcorthy of its attention. 

Right Hon. G. Canning, &c. &c. (signed) " H. G. Ward." 



III. Mauritius. 

Since the publication of our last number two very important papers, 
printed by order of the House of Commons, have reached us. One (of 
1st June 1829, No. 292), is a Report of the Commissioners of Inquiry, 
Messrs. Colebrooke and Blair, on the Slave Trade of the Mauritius ; 
the other (of 12th June 1829, No. 338, being also a Report from the 
same gentlemen,) refers to the law and state of Slavery in that colony. 
The evidence on which these reports proceed is so very voluminous, 
that the printing of it has been delayed until a selection of such parts 
as may be material to the questions at issue shall have been made ; and 
in the mean time it is open at the Colonial Office to the inspection of 
any member of Parliament who may choose to examine it. The whole 
will, of course, be accessible to the Parliamentary Committee which is 
to be appointed in the ensuing session, for the investigation of the 
Mauritius Slave trade. Under these circumstances, we shall abstain 
from entering minutely into a consideration of the Report of the Com- 
missioners on that subject, only remarking that, as far as we can judge 
from the rapid outline there given of the bearing of the evidence, it goes 
substantially to establish the statements made to the House of Com- 
mons by Mr. Buxton, in the session of 1826, in respect to the pre- 
valence and extent of the Mauritius Slave trade, the frauds and evasions 
as well as the atrocities to which that trade gave birth, and the re- 
markable impunity which has attended all classes of its criminal agents 
and abettors. But on that wide field it would be premature to enter. 
We shall confine ourselves at present to some collateral points, which 
seem to us of high importance, and to deserve the attentive considera- 
tion, not of the public only, but of his Majesty's government and of 
Parliament. 

1. We have often been thought to deal unfairly by the owners of 
Slaves in our colonies, when we have refused to admit their testimony 
in favour of their own system, (although such testimony amounts to no 
more at best than the substitution of the plea of Not Guilty in the place 
of legal evidence ;) or when we have ventured, as in our last number 
(p. 26,) and on many former occasions, to warn our readers against the 
effects of that sympathy of interest and fellow feeling among them which 
tends to produce a general and firm combination of all the members of 
the dominant class, not only in defending per fas et nefas the worst 
abuses of their system, but in oppressing and persecuting every indivi- 
dual of their body who may dare to assist in exposing its incurable 
wickedness. But have we really merited the charge of unfairness on 



40 Mauritius. 

this account? We think not. In addition to the innumerable proofs 
which have been exhibited of such combinations from the year 1787 to 
the present day, we have it now in our power to corroborate what have 
been deemed our harsh and groundless imputations, by the testimony 
of his Majesty's Commissioners, whose report is now before us. 
" Although the investigation of such a subject as the Slave trade," 
these gentlemen observe, " would at any time have been unpopular 
with the inhabitants (of the Mauritius,) it was apparent to us on our 
arrival that circumstances had caused a strong repugnance to prevail 
against it." " As it might be supposed that many individuals were 
deeply interested in evading the retrospect into their former proceedings, 
they would take advantage of their influence and of the situation of 
the community, to awaken a general apprehension of the consequences 
of such an investigation as that with which we were charged, and of the 
risk attending any admission of the extent to which the Slave trade had 
been carried on and encouraged." And it has even appeared to the 
Commissioners " that the community had tacitly, if not expressly," 
" entered into a general resolution to make no admission that the Slave 
trade had been encouraged by the inhabitants, or carried on to any 
extent in the colony." They therefore have felt themselves bound to 
state, " that the difficulties of the inquiry, from the general unpopu- 
larity attending it have been considerable ;" nor have they " deemed it 
proper at this stage of the inquiry, and in the present temper of the 
community, to disclose to parties the names of their accusers," because 
as there is a *' prevalent impression of the hostility of the community 
against persons making accusations of Slave trading," and examples of 
"prosecutions sustained" by those persons; such disclosures would have 
been construed into an intention, on the part of the Commissioners, " to 
discourage persons from coming forward" to give evidence on the sub- 
ject. In the mean time the witnesses were made to subscribe their 
statements, and were warned that they should be held responsible for 
them, and would be liable to be called on to confirm them judicially. 
The Commissioners farther intimate that they had every reason given 
to them to apprehend that " the extensive powers of the police depart- 
ment had been unjustly exercised to the prejudice" of persons who had 
given information respecting the Slave trade and had thereby incurred 
the hostility of the community ; and they express their solicitude, par- 
ticularly in the case of one individual who had made a frank confes- 
sion of his own delinquencies, that " in giving publicity to his infor- 
mation, care may be taken that he shall not be made to suiFer from the 
consequences of the voluntary avowal of his past conduct." The 
danger, however, appears to be still more imminent in the case of slaves 
or of liberated captives who may be instrumental in making known 
infractions of the abolition law; and it is manifest both from the pre- 
sent report and from a variety of past occurrences, (see for examples 
the case of Pedro, vol. ii. p. 384, and that of Troptard, 14th Report of 
the African Institution, p. 23,) that nothing but the most energetic and 
determined interference of the government can save such persons so 
informing from the effects of a cruel and remorseless vengeance. Now 
what does all this indicate but a community made up of confederates 



Mauritius. 41 

in crime, hardened, by the kindred employments of Slave trading and 
Slave driving and by mutual countenance and support in evil, to de- 
liberate combinations for purposes the most foul and lawless, and to 
the perpetration of whatever deeds of ferocity may be necessary for 
securing their fraudulent or blood-stained acquisitions ? And such 
confederacies belong not to the Mauritius alone ; they belong essen- 
tially and inherently to every community on which Slavery exercises 
the same withering and demoralizing influence. 

But in thus adverting to some of the characteristic peculiarities which 
attach more or less to the holders and drivers of Slaves in our 
colonial possessions, we have no intention of instituting any com- 
plimentary distinction in favour of those in this country, who, though 
removed from any actual manipulation in these guilty transactions, yet 
derive thence the wealth and influence which enable them to uphold 
so nefarious a system. On the contrary, we would call on such to con- 
sider whether their share of the guilt be not at least as great as that of 
the agents by whose services they are enriched. Even the splendour 
and luxurious profusion of a dinner at the Albion, with all its costly 
viands, and rich wines, and delicious fruits, and dulcet strains, and 
soothing speeches, cannot wholly veil, even from the view of those who 
share in these festivities, the unhallowed and polluted sources of this 
lavish expenditure, or the sordid and selfish purposes which it is vainly 
hoped and intended to promote — We say vainly ; for we believe the decree 
is gone forth, and is stamped deep in the heart of every true friend of 
his country and his kind, whether in the administration or out of it, 
>vhich shall sweep away root and branch the abominations of colonial 
despotism, and all those " refuges of lies" by which alone that despotisni 
has been upheld ; nor can its final success be prevented, however it 
may be retarded, by the most exquisite refinements of the culinary 
art, or by healths five fathoms deep, even though a scion of the highest 
ranks of the peerage should condescend to be the master of the feast. 

2. But there is another and if possible a still more important con- 
sideration arising out of this report, to which we are anxious to direct 
the attention of the public, and still more of his Majesty's Government; 
and that is, the numerous acts of gross injustice under which multitudes 
of our fellow subjects are at this moment suffering the severest of ail 
penalties which human beings can endure, the loss of personal liberty, 
inflicted upon them by the barefaced violation of solemn parliamentary 
enactments; an infliction, from which we are bound, by every obligation 
divine and human, to see that they are relieved. Here is an object for 
prosecuting, to its complete termination, the inquiry entered into by Mr. 
Buxton, and now further developed in the Report before us, which far 
surpasses in importance any consideration of personal delinquency or 
personal punishment. Even if that inquiry should issue in the legal 
acquittal and impunity of every individual who has been charged as 
participating in the crime of Slave trading, or as aiding and abetting it 
by his neglect or connivance, it would not be the less incumbent upon us 
to prosecute the investigation for the sake of redressing the wrongs 
which have been illegally inflicted upon, and are at this moment en- 
during by, thousands of our fellow subjects, equally entitled to the 



42 Mauritius. 

effectual protection of British law as any one of ourselves, or as any 
member of his Majesty's Government, or of the British Parliament. 
The momentous case to which we solemnly invoke the public attention 
will be best understood by some extracts from the Report before us. 

The Commissioners, after entering into a great variety of details to 
shew not only the extent of the illegal importations into the Mau- 
ritius, but the gross frauds that have been continually practising with 
respect to the registration of slaves, state, (p. 33,) that they had adopted 
the course of bringing to the knowledge of the Governor (Sir Lowry 
Cole,) " any infraction of the law which became known to them in the 
course of their inquiry, and which had not been prosecuted," — compre- 
hending either direct charges of slave trading, or frauds in violation of 
the Orders for the registration of slaves — and that in this course they 
had persevered, " although informed by the Governor of the objection 
he entertained to the prosecution of parties for former offences," and 
that it was not his intention " to originate any proceedings." — They 
then go on to remark: " In respectfully calling your attention "(namely, 
that of the Secretary of state,) " to the correspondence which has passed 
between the Governor and ourselves, and especially to the expression 
of the injustice of proceeding against past offences, even in cases where 
the liberty of so many persons, who may he found to be illegally held 
in slavery, is involved; while we differ entirely from this opinion, as 
well as from that on which General Darling grounded his objection to 
carry into effect the orders conveyed in Lord Bathurst's despatch of the 
20th July, 1819, for taking charge of the unregistered negroes; we shall 
only say that, for the sake of our inquiries, we have had reason to regret 
that the Governor should not have taken a different view of a question 
involving the conduct of public servants, the interests of public justice, 
and THE RIGHTS or persons who are entitled to the protec- 
tion OF the laws. 

" If the parties formerly condemned in penalties were, for the most 
part, persons who were without the means of paying them, it is only to 
be regretted that men of property who promoted the slave trade within the 
colony, should so generally have been allowed to escape ; and in the 
cases where the owners of the slaves are themselves charged with having 
illegally imported them, we cannot conceive that the rights of the 
negroes can justly be affected by any question, as to the period when 
the law was violated ; nor can the individuals who may be proved to 
have fraudulently registered them as their slaves, plead the injustice of 
being made to forfeit the advantages they had acquired in direct viola- 
tion of the law," p. 35. 

Some very gross cases are then stated, in which Sir Lowry Cole had 
refused to enforce the penalties of the law against the guilty parties ; 
although for the desire which has been evinced by him to prevent future 
acts of slave trading, and future frauds in the registration of slaves, 
the Commissioners give him the fullest credit. " But," they add, 
" with whatever integrity the laws may have lately been upheld, we 
cannot but perceive very unfavourable effects likely to arise from the 
reluctance evinced to bring to justice persons implicated in past offences 
against the laws, and from the unsatisfactory proceedings in the courts 



Mauritius. 43 

in some cases. Considering the large amount of penalties in which 
parties have been condemned, the trivial instances in which these 
penalties have been enforced, and the unsatisfactory result of the few 
prosecutions for the felony which have taken place in the colony, the 
inhabitants must naturally have become confident in their belief that if 
violations of the law are concealed for a time, and the parties can elude 
the immediate vigilance of the authorities, some casual change, by re- 
moving those who are responsible for neglect, may absolve them from 
the consequences ; nor could the zeal and activity of some public offi- 
cers counteract the general want of energy on the part of the colonial 
functionaries in the enforcement of laws which must be still charac- 
terized as unpopular. 

'' Notwithstanding the motives now operating with the inhabitants 
in restraining them from any daring violations of the law, and from 
their former clamorous opposition to it, we can discover no essential 
change in the public opinion on the subject which would more justify a 
general indemnity for past offences, than a relaxed execution of the law 
at the present moment, when the temptation to practise frauds and 
evasions is so greatly facilitated, by the situation of these islands, and 
their vicinity to countries subject to imperfect regulation, and over 
which no control can be exercised. 

" We have taken occasion to notice some of the frauds and "per- 
juries which have been traced in the registry ; hut notwithstanding 
their admitted existence, we are not aware of a single instance'in which 
the right of a negro to his freedom has been declared or recognized by 
the inhabitants, or the least hesitation evinced in placing indiscrimi- 
nately, on the new registers, those whom the parties must have known 
to have been illegally imported. This has been done in cases where 
they have not previously been registered, or where the registers contain- 
ing the names had been marked by the court on account of the frauds 
they contained, and in some instances where the individuals registering 
the slaves had stolen them after they were landed by the slave traders, 
and even when they had been seized' and condemned to the crown. 

" Considering the extent to which these crimes and others have been 
committed, we can neither subscribe to the justice nor the policy of op- 
posing any obstacle to the vindication of the rights of those whose free- 
dom has thus been compromised," p. 36. 

" With regard to the penalties already adjudged in the Vice Ad- 
miralty Court, amounting to £124,000, we think it will be expedient in 
the first instance to direct their impartial enforcement ; and as to 
several of the parties who were not tried for the felony, and who with 
others absconded to Bourbon, and have resided in the foreign settle- 
ments where they continue to carry on the slave trade, their apprehen- 
sion might be accomplished by direct application to the foreign govern- 
ments in whose settlements they have taken refuge, and also by the 
publication of rewards. With exception of those who have coritinued 
to violate the laws, we think that a remission of the penalties might be 
accorded to the parties making a full acknowledgment of their proceed- 
ings and connections in the colony, and thus facilitating the redemption 
from slavery of the negroes they had imported. In the same view w© 



44 Mauritius, 

recommend that the law officers of the crown, as well as the guardian 
of slaves, may have full access (at present withheld !!) to the 
original records of the Slave Register Office whenever they may require 
to refer to them." p. 37. 

The Commissioners recommend a variety of other expedients, both 
for detecting the frauds and the felonies already committed, and thus 
restoring the unhappy victims of these crimes to the freedom to which 
they are legally entitled; and for preventing the renewal of such atro- 
cities in future. Most of these suggestions seem to deserve the favour^ 
able consideration and early adoption of Government ; and we cannot 
but hope that if adopted they will prove effectual to their end. 

We lay our account indeed with a great clamour being raised by the 
colonists against this righteous proceeding. And yet upon what plea 
or even pretence can they dare to oppose it ? Our ears, it is true, have 
been long familiarized to hear British Acts of Parliament pleaded as the 
warrant, formerly even for the Slave Trade itself, and now for the re- 
taining of men, women, and children, born under the king's allegiance, 
in a state of cruel, hopeless, and interminable bondage. And grieved 
are we to admit that there exists, in the unchristian and unconstitutional 
enactments of the British statute book, even the shadow of a ground for 
such a plea. May the foul blot be speedily effaced ! — But in the pre- 
sent case even this humiliating plea is wanting. The enactments of the 
British parliament are here most decidedly and unequivocally in favour 
of the rights of the pretended slave, in opposition to the usurpation of 
the master. The slave, in this case, is free by express and special 
statute; and by the same statute he who holds him in bondage is 
branded as a felon of the worst description. And can it be permitted, 
that, in this case alone, the felon should be allowed to enjoy his plunder 
undisturbed, and quietly to reap the fruit of his crime, when by such a 
permission we entail, on the victims of that crime and on their descen- 
dants for ever, the curse of slavery with all its tremendous appurte- 
nances of unceasing and uncompensated toil, of stripes and chains, of 
degradation and torture. Of such " a decision" the British Govern- 
ment are wholly incapable. But if they could hesitate as to the 
course incumbent on them, the voice of the country would speak too 
plainly to be resisted. Even Europe, nay, the world at large, would 
cry shame upon us, if after our zealous diplomatic efforts to induce 
other nations to abolish the Slave Trade, we were ourselves thus, to 
palter with our plain and obvious, our often admitted and solemnly 
professed obhgations. Every slave illegally introduced into the 
Mauritius, as well as every slave fraudulently entered in the Registry, is 
free in law, and is as much entitled to the possession and protection of 
his liberty as any one inhabitant of this favoured land. Can a single 
doubt be entertained on this subject ? — Let then the felon planter, who 
will be affected by this act of justice, clamour as he may. Our path is 
plain; and greatly must we have mistaken the character of him who 
now holds the seals of the Colonial Department, as well as of him who 
BOW stands at the head of the British government, if either fear or fa- 
vour should induce them to swerve from their obvious line of duty, or to 
omit any means of vindicating the legal title of these otherwise helpless 



Maui'iHm. 45 

claimants on their humanity and justice, to the full, free, and uncondi- 
tional enjoyment of the rights and immunities of British subjects. 

3. During the conversation which took place in the House of Com- 
mons on the 3rd of June respecting the Mauritius, Sir George Murray 
is reported to have said, " As to the continuation of the Slave Trade 
there was that in the geographical situation of the island which was ex- 
tremely favourable to the prosecution of that traffic; and to that cir- 
cumstance he imputed a great part of the difficulty which had been 
found in putting it down. He had the satisfaction however of saying, 
most confidently, that the difficulty had been overcome, and that the 
slave trade of the Mauritius no longer existed." 

Disposed as we are to rely implicitly on the statements of Sir George 
Murray, we nevertheless cannot help entertaining some doubt of the 
perfect accuracy of the information on v/hich he, probably, relies, in 
making this unqualified declaration as to the extinction of the Mau- 
ritius slave trade. We have been so long accustomed to similar state- 
ments, on the part of the local authorities of this island, which subse- 
quent events have proved to be groundless, that we cannot divest our- 
selves of all apprehension that the assurances now given may partake 
of the incorrectness which has marked so many former assurances of like 
import. To some of these it may be useful to recur. 

On the 5th of October, 1812, Sir R, Farquhar thus addresses Mr. Peel, 
who had written, suggesting certain inquiries on the subject. *' I have 
made every effort on the part of my government to secure the due exe- 
cution of the laws on the abolition of the slave trade, and have every 
reason to think that these efforts have been completeli/ successful 
through the whole extent of my government. There is therefore no 
point at present for me to direct my inquiries upon." 

And yet at that moment the abolition laws had not been even regis- 
tered in the Colonial Courts, and therefore had no operation there what- 
ever. In fact they were not registered till 1814. 

The above letter, however, seems to have obtained for Sir Robert the 
Regent's approbation, as (September 20, 1813,) we find him saying, " I 
am highly gratified that my exertions and vigilance in support of the 
abohtion acts have met with the approbation of the Prince Regent." 

On the 17th of May, 1814, Sir Robert thus writes to Lord Bathurst, 
" I can, with great truth, assure your Lordship, that I have found the 
current of popular feeling in this island decidedly against the Slave 
Trade, and that the inhabitants have almost universally begun to enter 
cordially into the considerations of humanity and justice which tri- 
umphed in its abolition," &c. &c. 

During Sir Robert's absence from the colony, in 1818 and 1819, we 
find his successors denouncing, in strong terms, to Lord Bathurst, the ex- 
tensive prevalence of slave trading, and the universal combination of the 
inhabitants of all classes in its support; and urging the adoption of the 
most vigorous measures of internal police as indispensable to its sup- 
pression. Sir Robert returned in July 1820, and, on the 9th of Octo- 
ber following, he transmits to Lord Bathurst an address from the 
inhabitants of the colony collectively, " declaring their obedience to the 
abolition laws, devoting to public opprobrium those who should attempt 



46 Mauritius. 

to infringe them, and expressing their determination to bring to justice 
and to remove from among them, by every legal means in their power^, 
such as might still be wicked enough to engage in such nefarious prac- 
tices." And to this piece of miserable persiflage, this hypocritical 
mockery of his Majesty's Government, the Governor seems to have 
given his authoritative credence, observing, that " it is a great satisfac- 
tion to me to be able to add, that since my arrival here there has been 
no attempt to renew this traffic at Mauritius," and expressing his trust 
that he shall have " the unanimous cooperation of the inhabitants" to 
enable him " to wipe off that stain from this part of the world." 

Again, on the 28th of February, 1821, Sir Robert refers to "the 
tinanimous determination" he had announced in his letter of the 9th of 
October, 1820, " of all the respectable inhabitants to concur, by every 
means in their power, to repress and extinguish the slave trade ;" and 
then says, *' it is with the most heartfelt satisfaction I can declare, 
that no instance of it has been detected, or even suspected to have oc- 
curred, since my arrival in the colony," (viz. in July, 1820.) 

These assurances are renewed on the 2nd of May, 1821, when it is 
added, that " the inhabitants themselves feel their true interests to con- 
sist in repelling any attempts" to import slaves. Nay, on the 14th of 
July, 1821, he tells his Lordship, that " the public indignation was now 
strongly directed against the low and desperate persons whose criminal 
enterprises had contributed to throw a stain on the colony." 

On the 12th of July, 1822, he again assures Lord Bathurst, that with 
one exception since July, 1820, "this island coutinues free from the 
stigma of slave trading." And on the very eve of his final departure 
from the island, on the 16th of May, 1823, he renews the expression of 
the great satisfaction it was to him, "to leave this island freed from the 
stigma of the slave traffic." And on the 20th of that month he trans- 
mits a petition of the colonists, which he vouches to be correct, and 
in which they assert, that " notwithstanding the aspersions thrown on 
them, as participating largely in the slave trade," they " challenge the 
testimony of the local government in asserting, that /or many years past 
that trade has been reprobated by all respectable classes ; and that for 
the last two or three years, through the effectual and sincere coopera- 
tion of the inhabitants, it has entirely ceased." No. 236 of 1825, p. 19. 

Such also is substantially the language of Sir Lowry Cole. On the 
24th of November, 1824, he assures Lord Bathurst — "I have every 
reason to think that the introduction of slaves into the Mauritius has 
entirely ceased ; and it is but justice to the inhabitants to say that, as 
far as I can judge, I perceive no disposition whatever on their parts to 
renew the trade in slaves, but rather a feeling of condemnation of the 
horrors incident to this trade seems to be gaining ground." Again, on 
the 25th of August, 1825, he asserts " the extinctioji of the traffic in 
slaves, as far as the Mauritius and its dependencies are concerned." 
And yet almost at the same moment, on the 28th of July, 1825, he tells 
Lord Bathurst — " Every day seems to convince me more and more of 
the absolute nullity of the present slave registration." 

Could assurances be more solemn than were thus received at diffe- 
rent times, during the course of twelve years, of the extinction of the 



Mauritius. 47 

slave trade, and of the fixed determination of the inhabitants to discoun- 
tenance it ? During the whole of that time, however, and even to a later 
period, it now appears unquestionable, looking at the report of the Com- 
missioners, that multitudes of slaves had continued to be illegally im- 
ported ; and that the inhabitants were as much attached to the slave 
trade as ever. The government therefore during the whole of that time 
have been labouring under a delusion on this subject, produced by the 
positive statements of Sir Robert Farquhar and Sir Lowry Cole, and for 
aught we know of General Colville also, for we presume it is on the 
strength of his representations that Sir George Murray stated, so confi- 
dently, in his place the entire actual suppression, at the present time, of 
the Mauritius slave trade. Now that Sir Robert Farquhar and Sir 
Lowry Cole laboured under some delusion themselves, and were them- 
selves deceived by those in whom they confided, may be their apology, 
and is certainly the supposition most favourable to them which can be 
made on the subject. And yet must they not have been aware, at the 
time they made these statements, of the strong motives which existed, 
in the whole body of the colonists, and even among some of their own 
confidential advisers, to lull their suspicions, to conceal from them or 
to palliate every adverse circumstance, and to obtain credit for, what 
was in itself wholly incredible, their own zeal for the extinction of the 
slave trade. We put entirely out of view any apathy in the cause 
of abolition which may seem to mark the conduct of these functionaries, 
in the almost universal impunity of detected delinquencies, and in the 
determined refusal to inquire into and relieve the wrongs of persons 
known to have been illegally enslaved ; although, if we suppose the 
same supineness to have pervaded their exertions and inquiries in other 
directions, then their necessary ignorance, or their easy credulity would 
solve the whole difficulty. But putting this out of view, must they not 
have been aware, with Sir George Murray, that " the geographical situa- 
tion of the island was extremely favourable to the prosecution of that 
traffic;" and with the Commissioners, (p. 19), that there v/ere some 
months in the year during which, from the state of the periodical winds, 
while his Majesty's ships must necessarily be absent from their station, 
" the slave traders were usually most active," because then " the land- 
ing and concealment of cargoes might readily be accomplished?" And 
must they not therefore have been aware, considering the irresistible 
temptations to carry on the slave trade existing in the island, that, under 
these circumstances, it would to an absolute certainty be carried on, pro- 
vided the internal regulations of the island Vt^ere wholly unavailing to 
detect illegal importations when once effected ? But that these regula- 
tions were unavailing was and is admitted on all hands ; and such being 
the case, must it not have been obvious, that the want of direct proof of 
importation did not of itself furnish any ground to presume on the 
cessation of the slave trade ? — It was under a complete conviction, on the 
part of his Majesty's Government, that it was impossible to prevent slave 
trading at the Mauritius, except by a complete registration of the slaves, 
that a slave registry was ordained. But that indispensable check was, 
from the first, rendered wholly inoperative, either by frauds on the part 
of the colonists, or by gross neglect on the part of the public functiona- 



48, Mauritius. 

ries. In 1825 Sir Lowry Cole is forced to declare that the slave regis- 
tration law, after ten or twelve years of nominal operation, was an abso- 
lute nullity ; and the more recent report of the Commissioners, bearing 
the date of March 1 828, shews clearly that, even down to that period, the 
defects of its administration were still so great as materially to lessen 
its effectiveness as a check on the importation of slaves. But besides 
the continued absence of this essential check, without which all other 
means of suppression must prove unavailing, we learn from the whole 
history of this island, as well as from the present report, that the local 
laws instead of being so framed as to facilitate detection, are actually so 
framed as to secure criminals of this description from all risk of immedi- 
ate detection and punishment; while, at the same time, the extraordipiiry 
determination of the local government, not to employ any of the njigans 
in its power for vindicating the rights of those who have been illegally 
enslaved, gives the assurance of future and complete security to the 
lawless inhabitant. Under these circumstances it was something like 
fatuity to indulge or to hold out the hope, for a single moment, that 
treaties with Radama, or with the Imaum of Muscat, even if religiously ; 
observed by them, could shut out importations of slaves from the Mauri- j 
tins. In fact, the risk of such importations was actually increased by 
the false confidence with the exaggerated representations made on the 
subject tended to produce, especially in this country. We were here 
led to suppose that such treaties necessarily closed the door against 
slave trading. In fact, they only changed its direction, and suggested 
new expedients of evasion and concealment. Neither these treaties, nor 
the occasional activity of our naval force, nor the mere parade of legis- 
lation, nor the empty threats issued from time to time in proclama- 
tions of the local government, could have the effect of preventing im- 
portations, while the registry continued in a state of absolute disorder 
and inefficiency, serving, through the reliictance shewn to all retrospec- 
tive investigation, rather as a cover for crime than a check upon it. 

Now, if to the glaring defects in the registry, and in the internal laws 
of the colony, an effectual remedy has not yet been applied ; and if^ the 
various measures of detection and prevention recommended by the 
Commissioners as indispensable, have not yet been adopted and en- 
forced ; we cannot but greatly fear that the assurances which Sir 
George Murray has recently received, of the actual extinction of the 
slave trade at this moment, will prove as unfounded and delusive as 
these which, in the preceding years, were communicated, with at least 
equal confidence, to his predecessors. It is with no unfriendly purpose 
that we state this apprehension, but from a conviction of its justice, and 
a desire to save his Majesty's government the pain of finding that they 
have again been deceived. 

The same view of the subject was earnestly pressed on the attention 
of his Majesty's government in the year 1825, but we fear with little 
effect. The representation then made has since received abundant con- 
firmation, and it may not be unseasonable, after a lapse of more than 
four years, to refer to it. It is inserted as a note at tke close of this 
article. (See the succeeding page.) 

Both this report and that on the state of slavery in the Mauritius, 



Mdiiritius, 49 

contain a few opinions, in the~consistency of which with the facts the 
Commissioners have there so well developed we hesitate to acquiesce, 
at least without some qualifications. We may resume the subject 
in a future number. In the mean time we feel that we cannot express 
in too strong terms our sense of the services they have rendered to the 
cause of humanity and justice by their truly able and luminous reports. 
To one of their suggestions we trust that immediate attention will be 
paid, we mean that of promptly and effectually prosecuting, in this 
country, the investigation which the Commissioners have commenced. 
This, we apprehend, would be done much more completely and satis- 
factorily by a royal commission, than even by a parliamentary com- 
mittee ; and we had hoped that that course would have been adopted ; 
but no steps appearing to have been taken for that purpose, we presume 
that some valid objections to its adoption may have occurred. 



Observations made in May 1825, on the Mauritius Slave Trade during 
1822, 1823 and 1824, referred to in the preceding "page. 

Respecting the state of the Slave Trade in the Mauritius, during the years 1822, 
1823, and 1824, the substance of what has been communicated officially is con- 
tained in a letter from Sir Robert Farquhar, and one from his successor. Sir 
Lowry Cole, both addressed to Earl Bathurst ; — The first dated the 23d January 
1823 : and the second, 18th November 1824, (see extracts from them above, p. 45.) 
The fair inference from these communications would seem to be, that in those 
years the Slave Trade had been reduced to a very low ebb in the Mauritius. It 
is impossible, however, under all the circumstances of the case, not to entertain 
very considerable doubts of the accuracy of that information, and a suspicion 
that the Governors may have been deceived upon the subject. Sir Lowry Cole 
indeed affirms, that not only has the introduction of slaves ceased at the Mauri- 
tius, but that, on the part of the inhabitants, there is no disposition to renew 
the Slave Trade, but rather a feeling of indignation at its horrors : and this ap- 
pears to have been also the opinion of Sir Robert Farquhar. The planters of the 
Mauritius have, without doubt, professed to renounce and to detest the Slave 
Trade, but it is very difficult to give them credit for the sincerity of those pro- 
fessions. They had long been familiar with this trade, and they had evinced, 
even to a recent period, an attachment to it so rooted as to lead even some of 
the higher classes to brave, for the sake of its profits, all the infamy of a felo- 
nious conviction. What then could have wrought this extraordinary conversion 
in so short a time? An external difference of conduct, indeed, might fairly be 
expected. The increased vigilance of our cruizers increased the risks of trans- 
gression, while the extremely low price of colonial produce, during the period 
in question, diminished the temptation to transgress. But to infer from this 
temporary cessation of the trade, even if such cessation had actually taken 
place, that the planters of the Mauritius had become, in principle, adverse to 
that trade, is not consistent with the character of those planters, or with what 
we know of human nature itself. Besides, it is notorious, that, during this pe- 
riod, the planters of the Mauritius were making great efforts to obtain the re- 
moval of the protecting duty on their sugars; and they must have felt, that a 
decent external compliance with the Abolition Laws was essential to their suc- 
cess. If a reference be made to the official testimonies already adduced, as dis- 
proving this suspicion, it may be said in reply, that the papers laid before Par- 
liament in the late session furnish numerous proofs of similar representations, in 
favour of the conduct and dispositions of the colonists, on the part of the colonial 
authorities in the West Indies, at the very moment when the whole course of 
proceeding pursued by those colonists was furnishing a direct and palpable con- 
tradiction to the official eulogy. 

One of the strongest presumptions against the alleged purity of the planters 



50 Mauritius. 

of the Mauritius, is drawn from the records of Parliament. Had they been as 
sincere in their abhorrence of the Slave Trade as they are represented to be — 
and we may add, had the colonial functionaries been as earnest and vigilant in 
repressing it as they were bound to be — some proof of this would have been 
found in the regularity with which the Order in Council for the Registration of 
Slaves had been complied with by the slave-holders, and in the strictness with 
which the salutary provisions of that order had been enforced by those charged 
with its execution. It was felt by all enlightened abolitionists, and by none more 
than by his Majesty's ministers, that the only eflFectual security against the con- 
tinuance of the Slave Trade, to any extent which the planters of the Mauritius 
might desire, was in the establishment of a perfect system of slave-registration. 
Both in Mauritius and Bourbon, experience had shewn, that, for the due repres- 
sion of the Slave Trade, no reliance could be placed on the fidelity of courts and 
juries composed of planters, themselves participating, or desiring to participate, 
in its ciiminal gains. And as for our navy, what could one or two cruizers, 
however vigilant, effect to prevent small and fast-sailing vessels from throwing 
slaves ashore during the night, without the cognizance of any persons except the 
inhabitants, who were also the parties interested in concealing the transaction.* 
The slave market, be it remembered, was distant only a few hours' sail : Slaves 
could there be bought for only a few dollars. That they were eagerly desired by 
the planters, no one doubts. What, under these circumstances, could prevent 
an active Slave Trade, but a well-regulated registry? But in the Mauritius the 
registry has not been well regulated. The proof of this is now on the table of the 
House of Commons. A registry of the slave population, regularly kept, it was 
admitted, could alone eflfectually prevent the illicit importation of slaves ; but it 
now tnrns out that that registry has been suffered to fall into inextricable con- 
fusion. It is not only wholly and absolutely inefficient to its purpose, but, 
there is even reasou to fear, may have been converted into a convenient instru- 
ment of giving facilities to the illicit importation of slaves. t And here it is re- 
markable, that, although the due establishment and the vigilant superintendance 
of the Slave Registry was one of the first and most essential duties of the local 
government, and although it was recognised by the supreme authorities of the 
state as the most effectual means of preventing the Slave Trade, yet the imper- 
fection, not to say the perfect nullity, J of the Mauritius registry, appears to 
have excited no attention till a recent period. It is obvious, however, that, in 
the peculiar circumstances of the Mauritius, the very course which the best 
friends of the Slave Trade would be disposed to pursue, in order to secure its 
■undisturbed continuance, would be to declaim against that trade, and to 
threaten punishment on those who should engage in it, and yet to allow the slave 
registry to fall into complete disorder. 

The Order in Council which established a slave registry in the Mauritius was 
promulgated there in the year 1815. From that time, had the provisions of the 
registry act been fulfilled, the introduction of slaves, if not entirely prevented, 
must have been rendered difficult and hazardous. If any one object, therefore, 
more than another deserved the vigilant inspection of the colonial government, 
it was this. 

A strong suspicion that this essential instrument of preventing the Slave Trade 
had become wholly inoperative, was excited by an examination of the returns 
made to the House of Commons, and printed by order of that House on the 23d 
March, 1823 (No. 89, p. 122), and which appeared to be in so unsatisfactory a state 
as not even to afford any accurate information with respect to the slave popula- 
tion, much less to prove an effective check on the illicit importation of slaves. 
The suspicion thus excited has since been abundantly confirmed by a return made 
to the House of Commons, so recently as the 27th June 1825, by Mr. Amyot, the 
registrar of colonial slaves in Great Britain. It is entitled, " Return of the 
Amount of the Slave Population in the Mauritius, as received in the Office of the 

* For some months in the year this process, from the course of the winds, was 
greatly facilitated ; while the same winds made it impossible for the naval force 
to maintain its station. 

t The recent report of the commissioners fully proves this. 

i. The very words used by Sir L.Cole on the 28th July 1825. (See above, p. 46.) 



Mauritius. 51 

Registrar of Colonial Slaves since its first Establishment," and is as follows : — 

"1816. Males, 55,717; females, 29,706; total, 85,423. 

" The duplicate slave returns in the Mauritius, for the year 1819, are so imper- 
fect as not to afford any means whatever of ascertaining the amount of the slave po- 
pulation at that period, and have therefore been sent back to the colony for cor- 
rection. Those for 1822 are supposed to have been lost in the ship George the 
Fourth, wrecked on her voyage from the Mauritius, in June last." 

And this neglect is the more remarkable, as it is in defiance of the provisions 
and penalties of an Act of Parliament, passed in the session of 1819, for securing 
the regularity of such returns. To whom the neglect is to be attributed does not 
appear. It is, however, so criminal in itself, and so ruinous in its effects, that 
it is to be hoped that one of the first measures of the next session of Parliament 
will be the appointment of a Committee to investigate the subject of the Mauri- 
tius registry, as well as some other matters connected with Slavery and the 
Slave trade in that quarter. 

Until the existing state of things, as to the registration of slaves, has under- 
gone a radical change, all general statements as to the non-introduction of slaves 
into the Mauritius must be regarded as illusory. It is known, too, in this case, 
that a Governor is surrounded on all sides by functionaries, and judges, and 
juries, who are almost one and all holders of slaves, and who are therefore 
deeply interested, not only in keeping open the channels of supply, but also in 
concealing every act of delinquency : so that, without the infallible means of 
information which a perfect system of registration alone can afford, it would be 
impossible for him to pronounce with confidence as to the execution of tiiC Abo- 
lition Laws. 

And if this reasoning is applicable to the Mauritius, even under the circum- 
stances of depression, arising from low prices and protecting duties, which pre- 
vailed there in 1822, 1823, and 1824, how much more strongly does it apply at 
the present moment, when the removal of the protecting duties, and the general 
rise in the price of colonial produce, must have given an increased stimulus to 
cultivation, and rendered the temptation of the adjacent slave market still more 
irresistible ? 

It would be easy to shew, in addition to this, in how open and barefaced a 
manner new Negroes have been introduced from the Seychelles, by means of 
certain " formalities," which, under all the known imperfections of the system 
of registration, can be of no use in checking, but may be of great use in facili- 
tating, an illicit slave trade. It were idle to suppose that the slave registration 
system is more perfect in the Seychelles, than it is in the Mauritius, and yet the 
certificate of the officer commanding at the former has been sufficient to secure 
the admission into the latter of any number of slaves he may accurately describe, 
and certify as coming from those islands; and yet, for any thing that appears, 
or can appear, to the contrary, he himself may have first imported these slaves 
from Mozambique or Zanzebar, and then transferred them to the Mauritius. 

The whole of this state of things is an outrage on the honour and character 
of the British nation. Our own Government has been strenuously urging 
France, and other powers, to adopt our plan of registration, for the effectual 
prevention of the Slave Trade. How justly may they charge us with hypocrisy 
and insincerity, when they contemplate the administration of that system in the 
Mauritius ! 

But it will be alleged, in reply to all this, that, the Slave Trade being 
abolished by Radama in Madagascar, and by the Imaum of Muscat, there is 
now no source from which slaves may be easily drawn to the Mauritius; and, 
moreover, that slave trading being now declared to be piracy by statute, none 
but a few desperate characters will venture to engage in it. 

As for the treaty with Radama, supposing it to be religiously observed on his 
part, (and, in consideration of the very large annual payment made to him by 
the Britisii Government, which be would otherwise forfeit, this is possible), it 
furnishes no security against the Slave Trade in those parts of Madagascar 
which are not subject to his dominion, and especially in those which are under 
French jurisdiction. The treaty with Radama cannot, in the slightest degree, 
interfere to prevent a vessel which may have cleared out at Port Louis in the 
Mauritius, with a destination to any place whatsoever (or " to sea" generally, 



52 Mauritius. 

which there is a very usual destination), from calling at Fort Dauphin, one of 
the French establishments in Madagascar ; taking slaves on board there : 
landing them in the night at some inlet in the Mauritius ; and appearing the 
next day at Port Louis, and entering at the custom-house there as returned 
from her voyage in ballast. 

With respect also to the treaty with the Imaum of Muscat, it presents no 
eflfectual barrier to the introduction of slaves into the Mauritius by British sub- 
jects, VFhich, in the present instance, is the crime to be especially provided 
against. 

As for the peril which is incurred by British subjects who engage in the 
Slave Trade, and which, it may be argued, will of itself be sufficient to prevent 
any attempts at the illicit introduction of slaves, that risk, it is to be feared, is 
estimated in the Mauritius at a very low rate. It is perhaps not known in this 
country, that, notwithstanding the numerous and notorious infractions of the 
Abolition laws which have taken place in that colony, since it came into the 
possession of his Majesty, not one offender has hitherto been convicted and 
punished for slave-trading, A few individuals, who were sent over to England 
for trial, were here convicted and punished ; but no individual brought to trial 
for slave-trading in the colonial courts, it is believed, has hitherto met the 
reward of his crimes. To suppose, therefore, that the dealers in human flesh at 
the Mauritius should entertain any very lively fears with respect to the future, 
would be to accuse them of a strange inaptitude to profit by the lessons of expe- 
rience. If it were credible that importations had ceased during the years 1822, 
1823, and 1824, yet credulity itself can hardly suppose that they will not now be 
renewed. It is not to be hoped, that, in the absence of all effectual check from 
registration, as well as of all disposition in the colonial courts to convict slave- 
traders, either the fear of the gibbet, or the treaty with Radama, or the conven- 
tion with the Imaum of Muscat, will prevent the revival of the Slave Trade 
(even supposing it to have ceased for a time,) now, more especially, since the 
abolition of the protecting duties on sugar, and tlie enhancement of the price of 
that article, have combined to give a new and powerful stimulus to the extension 
of sugar-planting. It were folly to expect it. 

This general, but, as it appears, most conclusive reasoning on the subject, de- 
rives additional force from the amazing disparity in the sexes existing among 
the slaves of the Mauritius, which does not appear to have been lessened since 
the capture of the colony, but which would have been greatly lessened in the 
intervening period, had importations really ceased. The inference fairly dedu- 
cible from this fact is corroborated by the late progressive increase of the sugar 
cultivation of the Mauritius — a cultivation not only more destructive to human 
life than any other, but requiring a greater number of hands to carry it on. 
Connected with this fact, it is further necessary to bear in mind the known pre- 
judices of the Mauritius planters in favour of the buying, as compared with the 
breeding, system ; the contiguity of the slave markets ; the extraordinary cheap- 
ness of the slaves ; the known partiality of the courts of justice in favour of 
slave-traders ; and the eminently harsh and destructive nature of the bondage 
which prevails in this island. These things considered, it is impossible to 
acquiesce in the opinion, so confidently announced, of the cessation of the Slave 
Trade in the Mauritius. 

But, independently of all the strong presumptions adduced above, and which 
are sufficient to justify the refusal of an implicit assent to the statements that 
represent the illicit importation of slaves into the Mauritius as having ceased, a 
variety of details on the subject have recently reached this country, which go 
far to convert these presumptions into proof, and which at least call for in- 
creased vigilance in enforcing the laws, and for increased attention to the due 
registration of the slaves. But neither into these details, nor into an exposition 
of the cruel nature of the slavery prevailing in the Mauritius, aggravated as it 
is by the facility of importations and the cheapness of the imported slaves, is it 
possible now to enter : they are unavoidably deferred to a future occasion. 

Nineteenth Report of the African Institution, {May 1825) p. 235 — 245. 



London ; Bagster and Thorns, Printers, 14, Bartlioloniesv Close. 



ANTl-SLAVERt 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 52.] For SEPTEMBER, 1829. [No, 4. Vol. iii. 

I. PROGRESS OF COLONIAL REFORM— Circulars of Sir G. Murray; 

General Remarks; Slave Legislation of Colonies, viz. Antigua, Ba- 
hamas, Barbadoes, Berbice, Bermuda, Cape, Demerara, Dominica, Gre- 
nada, Honduras, Jamaica, Mauritius, Montserrat, Nevis, St. Ritt's, 
St. Lucia, St. Vincent, Tobago, Tortola, Trinidad. 

II, CULTURE OF SUGAR BY FREE LABOUR, 



I. Progress of Colonial Reform, &c. 

A coisfTiNUATiosr of those documents on the Progress of Colonial Re^ 
form which in each successive year since 1823 have been " presented to 
parliament by his Majesty's command," bearing the date of 12th June, 
1829, and numbered 333, has recently reached us. It bears the title 
of " Papers in explanation of the measures adopted by his Majesty's 
Government for the amelioration of the condition of the slave population 
in his Majesty's possessions in the West Indies, on the continent of South 
America, and at Mauritius, (in continuation of the papers presented in 
the year 1828.") We regret to say that, speaking of these papers gene- 
rally, they will be found equally disappointing to the hopes and wishes 
of the nation with those which have gone before. That we may not 
however be supposed to be merely following a habit we have acquired of 
carping at colonial legislation, we shall pursue the same course which 
we have followed on former occasions of going through the different 
slave colonies in alphabetical order, and shewing what has been done 
in each, since we exhibited our last complete but meagre view of 
colonial ameliorations, and for which we refer our readers to volume ii. 
of the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 28 to No. 31 inclusive, some further 
notices being added in the Nos. 33, 38, and 43. 

We do not feel it to be necessary to repeat our statement of the 
defectiveness, when set against the paramount demands of justice, 
of the measures to which Government and Parliament have pledged 
themselves ; nor how far these measures, as exemplified even in the 
Orders in Council for Trinidad, Demerara, &c., fall short of that 
pledge; nor how very much farther still the enactments of the colonial 
legislatures fall below those even of the defective Trinidad Order. 
These points will be found fully stated in the numbers of our Reporter 
already referred to, and also in vol. i. No. 11, and vol. ii. No. 34, and 
in some of the earlier publications of the Society. 

To the Governors of each of the chartered colonies Sir George 
Murray has addressed two circular letters, one dated the 3rd and the 
other the 15th September, 1828. He begins the former with making 
known the interest he himself feels in the improvement of the condition 
of the slaves, and " the settled purpose of his Majesty's Government," 
as expressed during the last session of parliament, by the ministers of 
the crown, in their places, to adhere strictly to the unanimous resolutions 



54 Circulars of Sir George Murray. 

of parliament on the subject, and he states it to be " the object of this 
despatch to convey to your Excellency the strong sense which, in com- 
mon with all my colleagues in office, I entertain of the obligations 
imposed on his Majesty's Government by this solemn and reiterated 
engagement, and to call upon you assiduously to employ your endea- 
vours to convey the like impression to the colonial legislature." Sir 
George then refers to the specific measures of improvement which had 
been already so pointedly brought before them by his predecessors, and 
adds that it would almost appear a needless work were he again to re- 
commend " each of them separately to particular attention." He 
therefore rather confines himself to calling that attention to the resolu- 
tions of parliament and the principles there laid down, *' which must 
form the basis of all wise legislation upon the subject, and which reason 
and humanity equally recommend." 

" There are two objects for the attainment of which it is necessary 
that effectual provision should be made. The first is the gradual eleva- 
tion of the moral character of the slave population, and the second is 
the due protection of all the just rights of property which existing laws 
have vested in the owners of the slaves." These two objects, he is 
aware, many from prejudice or other causes think to be " wholly in- 
compatible, and that a choice must at once be made between a positive 
sacrifice of the rights of property on the one hand, or a positive denial 
on the other of the advantages which humanity has sought to obtain for 
the slaves." The steps however already taken in several colonies, and 
the progress happily made in some of them in ameliorating the condition 
of the slaves lead him to expect " that the example of those which have 
advanced the furthest, without any detriment having resulted from their 
liberal line of policy, will persuade others that it is possible to imitate, 
without risk, these laudable proceedings." But though he believes that 
*' motives of sound and enlightened policy as well as those of a more 
sacred and elevated character will induce local legislatures and other 
colonists of influence to lend an ear to the appeals made to their judg- 
ment and their feelings on this subject," " there are also other calls upon 
them, which render every day more and more ui'gent, as a measure of 
necessary policy, the ameliorating the condition of the slave population, 
for of the two alternatives, that of withholding amelioration, or that of 
effectually improving the condition and character of the slaves, the 
latter is the one which holds out by far the best prospect, under the 
existing circumstances of the world, for general tranquillity and for the 
security of property in the colonies." 

While Sir George declines to enter into a detailed review of each 
of the measures so often and so urgently pressed on the colonies, he 
must nevertheless, he says, advert to a few which he deems of peculiar 
importance. " The first of these is the religious instruction of the 
slaves." " Independently of the sacredness of the obligation which 
requires that no impediments should be placed in the way of their ac- 
quiring a knowledge of the great truths of religion, there is no more 
certain mode of advancing their civilization, without detriment or danger 
to society at large, than by religious instruction. It is necessary, how- 
,ever, that this important object should not be intrusted solely to indi- 



Circulars of Sir George Murray. 65 

viduals, but that provision should likewise be made for it by law, in 
order to guard against the injury which society would sustain by the 
want, in any one, of a just sense of its importance. Amongst the enact- 
ments which will suggest themselves upon this subject, there is none 
which appears more proper, more becoming in itself, or which it is more 
incumbent on the legislature of every Christian country to enforce, than 
the due observance of Sunday. It is most desirable therefore that 
Sunday should be to the slave population in all the colonies a day of 
entire relaxation from compulsory labour, and open to be devoted to 
religious duties and to moral instruction. I am aware, however, that 
while provision is thus made for securing to the slave sufficient time and 
opportunity for religious instruction, and every latitude is allowed with 
respect to the mode of his instruction which the spirit of moderation 
demands, it is very fit, notwithstanding, that certain local regulations 
should be established to guard against those abuses, and that misappli- 
cation to which the best institutions are liable, and to obviate those dis- 
orders which might be occasioned, or the apprehension of which might 
be reasonably entertained, if an unrestricted liberty were permitted to 
assemble considerable bodies of the slave population, at unseasonable 
hours, or without the previous sanction of their owners." 

The next object to which Sir George calls the attention of the colonial 
legislatures is, " the admission of the evidence of slaves." This, he 
says, " may appear to some of the colonies to be too great a step to be 
at once taken, but the concessions already made on this point by others," 
induce him to hope that " the principle is gradually gaining ground in 
the West Indies, and that it will ere long be generally felt, that by 
elevating the slave to the rank of a person whose evidence is admitted 
under the same restrictions only under which that of free men is re- 
ceived, and by teaching him and his fellow- subjects that the avenues of 
justice are not closed against his testimony in any case whatsoever, an 
important improvement will be effected, as well in the character of the 
slaves themselves, as in the general feeling and conduct of the popula- 
tion at large." 

The only other object adverted to by Sir George, is the situation of 
the free blacks and people of colour. It appears to him " that it would 
be wise to act with much liberality towards this class of individuals," and 
he therefore directs each Governor " strongly to recommend their in- 
terests to the favourable consideration of the local legislature." 

Such is the substance of Sir George Murray's circular despatch of 
the 3rd September, omitting only a sentence at the close which has a 
special reference to the varying circumstances of the different colonies. 
This despatch is followed, on the 15th of September 1828, by another 
to the different Governors, in which he explains himself more fully and 
confidentially on some of the topics adverted to in his previous circular. 

*' In legislating," he observes, " as is recommended in that despatch, 
for the observance of Sunday, the principle which it will be essential 
to keep in view, is, that the labour of the six days shall not be so ex- 
clusively and rigidly allotted to the master's profit, as to leave the seventh 
day alone for the slave to labour for himself. The object is, that Sun- 
day shall be a day wholly clear both from the demands of the master 



o6 Circulars of Sir George Murray. 

and from the necessities of the slave. The property of a master in his 
slave is a property, qualified, of course, by many conditions, amongst 
which is the obligation of fully maintaining him ; and if, instead of his 
maintenance being provided for out of the labour of six days (which is all 
that, in any Christian country, a master can claim on the score of law, 
and of recognised property), that maintenance is to be provided for out 
oi the labour of the seventh day, then the master, in effect, escapes from 
the performance of the condition, upon which alone society has permitted 
him to hold the slave as property. 

" It is in vain to say that the slave is not compelled to labour on the 
Sunday, if without the Sunday's labour, the necessary support and rea- 
sonable comforts of his situation must be wanting to him. If the slave, 
when left a free agent on Sunday, shall choose to occupy a part of that 
day, after its proper duties shall have been performed, in agricultural 
or in other business, for his own benefit, and that of his family, in order 
to procure for himself or them such additional comforts as his master 
would not be bound to provide, that occupation, of course, will not fall 
within the description of labour which my despatch of the 3rd instant 
purposes to exclude. 

" The other main topic to which I shall here advert, the admission of 
slave evidence, is one to which his Majesty's government attach the ut- 
most consequence ; it is, in fact, one of the most important and in- 
fluential steps which can be taken towards a system of improvement ; 
it removes a general stigma from the whole body of the slaves, and must 
tend to raise them, not only in their own estimation, but even in that of 
the masters themselves. 

" While the courts of law exclude the slave from all participation in 
the means resorted to for the ends of justice, not scrutinizing his evidence 
to make sure of its truth, but rejecting it at once, on the presumption 
that it must be false, the local prejudices that exist against this class of 
men are fortified by a judicial sanction, and the law is made not merely 
to authorise their condition of slavery, but to acknowledge and even to 
certify their moral degradation. 

" 'This is the first consideration. The next is that of the safety with 
which this privilege, if it can be so called, may be conferred. It is a 
privilege which, though it raises the character of the whole class, will 
be actually exercised by comparatively very few ; that exercise too will 
be occasional, and dependent on accident. It is a boon that bestows 
no power ; it merely removes a universal brand of falsehood. 

" I am not insensible to the objection arising from the chances of per- 
jury, but those are chances which accompany all trials by the testimony 
of witnesses ; and interests as near, and prejudices as strong as any 
which can be supposed to influence the slave, either on behalf of his 
master or against him, have always existed in every society, without 
being found to endanger the general probabilities of truth. The evidence 
of the child is admitted in the cause of the parent, and the prosecutor 
is often the only witness on the trial of a quarrelsome neighbour by 
whom he has been assaulted. Nor are the peculiarities of West 
Indian society to be urged as a ground of exception from this general 
argument ; on the contrary, they add reasons why the principle may be 



Circulars of Sir George Murray. 57 

applied with especial safety. The courts, the judges, and the juries, are 
of a different class and colour from the proposed witnesses ; acquainted, 
for the most part, with the habits and tendencies of the slave ; accus- 
tomed to measure his understanding, his moral sense, and the accuracy 
of his perceptions ; and protected by all these advantages against the 
danger of any undue influence or impression from his testimony. The 
proposed alteration goes only to make that testimony admissible, not to 
make it conclusive. The law when this change shall have been intro- 
duced, will only have rendered the witness competent ; it will still have 
left to the particular tribunal to deterrnine whether he be credible. 
Perjury, to be mischievous, must be consistent in all the circumstances 
of its fiction ; and the lower the rate of the intellect employed in the 
contrivance, the less is that consistency to be apprehended. It will 
hardly be maintained, that the negroes, such as are found in the West 
Indian communities, are of so ingenious a turn of mind, so adroit in the 
fabrication of falsehoods, and so fertile in resources for repairing it under 
the pressure of a public examination, as to baffle the search of truth 
more effectually than the practitioners of fraud in the great societies of 
Europe. 

" There is yet another reason which makes me peculiarly anxious for 
some colonial measure recognizing the competency of slaves as witnesses. 
A voluntary act of the local legislatures to this effect, would go far to 
satisfy the Parliament of this country, who, as well as the Government, 
are pledged to the resolutions of 1823, that the principles announced 
by those resolutions are really at work and in progress in the colonies. 
Unless the local legislatures shall furnish their friends in this country 
with some such practical proof of their sincere concurrence in the prin- 
ciple of amelioration, it will soon become difficult and inadvisable, if 
not impossible, to stem the impatience of the people of these kingdoms, 
for some efficient and authoritatiVe interference. 

*' There are few circumstances which could occasion more regret to 
His Majesty's Government, than that the neglect of the colonists to 
exercise their rights of legislating for the slave population, should at 
length induce the necessity of a legislative interposition from home. 

" These are the principal topics and considerations of which I am 
desirous to put you in possession, in order that you may urge them in 
those quarters where such a communication may appear to you likely 
to be advantageous. That any change in the habits and constitution 
of any part of the community may, in some instances be resisted, or 
very reluctantly admitted. His Majesty's Government are, of course, 
prepared to expect ; but they trust that, as these discussions become 
more familiar, the colonists will perceive, what indeed it is very ma- 
terial that you should take every convenient opportunity of impressing 
upon them in your private communications, that their own interests 
are very deeply involved in the proposed improvements. Upon a 
considerate view of the general progress which free institutions and 
opinions are making throughout the world, it must be clearly per- 
ceived that the present condition of society in the West Indies, is 
one which can scarcely be expected to endure much longer, without 
material modifications. It seems, therefore, to be the dictate of pru- 



58 General Remarks on the State of the Question. 

dence, as it is also the desire and expectation of the British people, 
very generally and very strongly expressed, that such relaxation as can 
be granted, consistently with the acknowledged rights of property, 
should not be withheld. 

" In portions of the empire, isolated as our West India colonies are, 
where the free inhabitants form but a small proportion of the popula- 
tion, the minority might find themselves, at no distant period, in a very 
precarious position, unless their voluntary endeavours to comply with 
the just expectations of the mother country, with regard to the irnprove- 
znent of the condition of the slaves, should have founded for them such 
a claim to our approbation and support, as would incline her, in any 
season of difficulty, to furnish a prompt and effectual assistance. 

*' This despatch, as your Excellency will perceive, from its title, is a 
circular, and certain passages of it will therefore, in some of the colo- 
nies, he inapplicable, or applicable only in part, or with modifications ; 
but I have thought it best, for many reasons, and especially as it is not 
intended that the Governor should lay this despatch before the local 
assemblies, to put you in the fullest possession of the general principles 
which His Majesty's Government are most anxious at this juncture to 
promote, throughout the colonial system of the empire." 

It is impossible not to admire the kind and amiable spirit which 
breathes through these letters, or to refuse to Sir George Murray the 
very amplest credit for his anxious desire to alleviate the oppressions, 
and to improve the state of the slave population. We have brought 
them before the public, both that the views of His Majesty's Govern- 
ment on the subject of colonial slavery may be fully and clearly under- 
stood, and that we ourselves may have the opportunity of marking 
some of the points on which those views differ from our own. 

The resolutions of 1823, especially as these resolutions have since 
been sometimes not a little unfairly interpreted, have been made to 
exhibit colonial slavery in the light, not of a crime to be renounced and 
got rid of, at whatever cost, but of an inexpedient and impolitic, yet 
legally authorized investment of property, liable indeed to great abuses, 
and some hazards, but to be treated and modified, and eventually abo- 
lished, only as the measures for that purpose can be made to coincide, 
not with the clear rights of those unjustly held as slaves, but with the 
prejudices and pecuniary interests of those who claim such slaves as 
their legal property. 

It is a consideration of these alleged proprietory rights of the planters, 
which has formed apparently the guiding principle in every step taken 
since 1823, with respect to slavery, to the exclusion of every idea of any 
conflicting rights on the part of the King's subjects held as slaves. 

So far has this partial, and, may we not add, iniquitous view of the 
subject been carried, that the only advance made towards even a dis- 
tant glimmering of hope of restoring the slave to his rights, even to his 
right of property in his own person, has been what is called the com- 
pulsory manumission clause, a clause, however, which, as yet, operates 
only in one or two colonies. This clause permits him, if he would 
recover his unalienable right to the use of his own liberty, while he 
si ill continues to employ his strength for the sole benefit of the man 



General Remarks on the State of the Question. ^59 

who is called his master, to labour, also, if he can, during his scattered 
fragments of repose, till he amass as much as shall be equivalent to his 
assumed value in the slave market, in order to satisfy the claim of him 
who lives by the forced exaction of his labour. 

Against this injustice, both in its principle, and in its proposed prac- 
tical application, we have again, and again protested. No claim of the 
colonists, founded on any alleged dicta of law, can justly be allowed to 
interfere with the clear and indubitable rights of the slaves. Whatever 
be the colonist's claim, it can only attach to the British Nation, who 
sanctioned his unwarrantable usurpation : it cannot by any possibility 
attach to the human being, the black British subject, who is the inno- 
cent and unconsenting victim of it. And it would, therefore, be utterly 
repugnant to every principle of equity, that we, the British Nation 
should discharge any debt we may have incurred to the colonist, not 
from our own resources, but with the toil, and sweat, and blood of our 
dark coloured fellow subjects. Again, " the obligation to indemnify the 
planter for the liberation of those he calls his slaves, whatever that 
claim may be, evidently does not, and cannot attach to the alleged 
slaves themselves. On the contrary, if there be any one of the parties 
more clearly entitled to indemnity than another, it is the man who has 
been iniquitously robbed of his liberty, and who, even by the proposed 
manumission clause, whatever improvement that may be on the former 
system," " has this injury added to all his other wrongs, that he is 
thereby condemned to pay the penalty of the criminal conduct of his 
oppressors." See Brief View ; also vol. ii. No. 27, p. 72, &c. &c. &c. 

On these clear and undeniable principles, when Government thought 
proper to institute an inquiry, in 1827, before the Privy Council, re- 
specting the objections made by the colonists of Berbice, to an imperfect 
and rhutilated version of the Trinidad manumission clause, and applied 
to obtain evidence in its favour, the reply was in substance as follows : 
" We do not deny, that the manumission clause, as it stands in the 
Trinidad Order, though it falls far below the Spanish law on the sub^ 
ject, is still an improvement of our colonial system. The Berbice clause, 
however, is no improvement at all. But if it were otherwise ; if it were 
all that the Trinidad Order is, still we could not undertake to plead for 
it, or to bear testimony in its favour, as if it were consistent with jus- 
tice, or reconcileable with the plain and paramount moral obligations of 
this great nation. Slavery as it exists in our colonies is a crime of the 
deepest dye; and it is, therefore, in itself, a monstrous injustice to 
enact, and to require, that the party suflFering from it should be made to 
indemnify the criminal for the benefits which he alleges he is entitled 
to derive from that crime, before the victim of it shall cease to suffer : 
in short, that the suffering negro shall not only yield day by day, to the 
man who holds him in slavery, his coerced and uncompensated toil, but 
shall be driven, as his only and almost hopeless means of deliverance 
from this cruel and abject state, to employ the minute and scanty por- 
tions of his leisure, his breathing moments of broken repose, to make up 
the price of his hberty to the usurper of it. We cannot believe this 
to be just ; nor can we come forward in support of such a principle." 

Such were the sentiments expressed by the abolitionists on that oc- 



ftO General Rmnarks on the State of the Question. 

casion, and such are the sentiments we have uniformly held and still 
hold on this subject, and which the reader who desires to satisfy him- 
self, may find expressed in different, but equally strong terms, in our 
second volume, No. 40, p. 301. 

It was under the influence of the same principles that soon after the 
resolutions of 1823 had received the sanction of Parliament ; (resolutions 
in which the idea of the rights of private property had been allowed to 
maintain an undue degree of prominence, while the dangers of sudden 
change, or even of public discussion were erroneously and mis- 
chievously magnified in the well framed address of Mr. Canning on that 
occasion,) a scheme was laid before that minister, so simple in its 
structure, and yet so certainly and infallibly efficacious in its operation, 
while it guarded against the alleged but unwarranted dangers of sudden 
change, and provided also for the alleged claims of the colonial planters, 
that it was hoped it would have reconciled every varying and conflicting 
opinion on the subject, and have fulfilled the most sanguine wishes at 
that time indulged by the nation. This scheme will be found detailed, 
with all its economical advantages, and with an answer to the various 
economical objections which even its enemies had been able to raise to 
it, in the appendix to the second Report of the Anti-Slavery Society, 
pp. 168 — 187, Its sole object was the immediate redemption of all 
female slaves, an object which, it was demonstrated, might be effected, 
on a most liberal scale of indemnity, at an annual cost which would not 
have amounted to one-half of what the nation was then paying in 
bounties and protecting duties to support this cruel and unchristian sys- 
tem, independently of all the other enormous charges brought upon it 
by the slave colonies. Its express and prominent object therefore was 
not that all slave children should thenceforward be free, though that result 
was necessarily involved in it ; but its infallible effect would obviously 
have been, that no more slave children could thenceforward have been 
born. The mothers having been emancipated, the children born of 
them (whether male or female) must have been born free likewise. 

It is doing no more than justice to Mr. Canning and to Lord Liverpool 
to say, that they expressed their approbation of the principle, and gene- 
rally of the details of this scheme ; and, for this fact, we are ready to 
refer to living witnesses of the very first respectability. It was strongly 
objected to, however, by Earl Bathurst, who was then the Colonial 
Minister. The well known events, the deaths and the various other 
changes, which followed this period (1825,) in rapid succession, extin- 
guished for a time the hopes which had thus been raised. The same 
scheme, was again submitted to Sir George Murray, after his accession 
to the colonial office, though it is not known with what effect ; and we 
still think that it affords perhaps the best practical solution which has 
yet been offered of the difficulties which still encumber this question. 

That the colonial legislatures, or the colonists, will take one effectual 
step to forward any such scheme ; or even any single measure, however 
in itself desirable, and however enforced by the strongest considerations, 
either of religious obligation, or of natural justice, or of constitutional 
law, which shall tend directly and obviously to the extinction of slavery, 
we do not believe. Experience has left not one doubt remaining on this 



General Remarks on the state of the Question, 61 

point, already sufficiently established by those unerring general prin- 
ciples which govern human conduct. Our own pages furnish most 
abundant illustrations in proof of this position ; and it seems to us to 
acquire additional confirmation, if any were needed, from the tenor of 
the despatches from which we have made such copious extracts. Those 
despatches appear to avoid (whether designedly or not) any direct re- 
ference to that part of the parliamentary pledge, which contemplates the 
" participation" by the slaves " in those civil rights and privileges, 
which are enjoyed by other classes of his Majesty's subjects," — and 
which binds Parliament " to the accomplishjnent of this purpose," this 
essential, and indispensable and primary purpose, " at the earliest 
period compatible," with all the great interests involved in it. We are 
very far from meaning to imply, that the framer of those despatches is 
not also anxious for as early an accomplishment as he deems practicable 
of this purpose. But his object in writing them was conciliation ; and 
he probably well understood how little that object was likely to be 
gained, if the ultimate end of the measures proposed were held up pro- 
minently to the view of those whom he addressed. He may continue to 
reason with them, and to flatter them for years to come, as others have 
done for years past ; he may repeat the laudatory notices, which, year 
after year, have been bestowed on every vain semblance of a salutary 
approximation to the measures proposed by Government, which the 
delusive enactments of the colonial legislatures may exhibit ; but, in 
the end, he will find that nothing effectual has been done ; and that no- 
thing effectual will or can be done to extinguish slavery, but by the 
direct and authoritative interference of Parliament. To this we must 
come at last; and the sooner we come to it the better for all parties. 

There are still two points in these letters, to which we would advert. 

The first is Sir George's urgent recommendation to admit the slaves 
to the full, free, and unfettered right of giving evidence in all cases, 
civil and criminal, and which, we are glad to see, is accompanied by an 
intimation, that if not carried into effect by the colonists, it will be effec- 
tually done by Parliament. Nothing can be more just and luminous 
than Sir George's views and reasonings on this subject ; nor more satis- 
factory than the line he proposes to take. 

The other is the recommendation that " the Sunday shall be a day 
wholly clear, both from the demands of the master, and the necessities 
of the slaves." But this object, it is obvious, is unattainable, unless, out 
of the other six days, the law shall expressly allot, to the slave, time 
equivalent to the Sunday which it is thus proposed to abstract from all 
necessity of labour ; — shall give him, that is to say, another day in the 
week, in lieu of Sunday, and in addition to the time yiozo allowed him. 
Nothing short of this will fulfil the pledge given by Mr. Canning, as 
the organ of the Government, both to Parliament and the public on 
this subject. 

But we would here suggest, that it is vain to hope even for a qualified 
compliance, on the part of the chartered colonies, with such a recom- 
mendation, while so defective an example has been set them in the colo- 
nies subject to the direct legislation of the crown. We refer our readers 
to the case of Trinidad, the model colony, as it will be found exhibited 



62 General Remarks. — Observance of Sunday. 

in our second volume, No. 30, p. 124 — 133. They will there find that, 
on the subject of the observance of Sunday, and time in lieu of it, and 
also on the admissibility of slave evidence, the legislation of Trinidad 
is in a miserably defective state, falling even below^ that of one or two 
chartered colonies. How can this be reconciled with the tone and 
tenor of the present despatches ? We heartily hope, that the weight of 
a correct example in the legislation of the crown will now be added to 
the precept. 

But we would exemplify in another remarkable instance, that of Ber- 
bice, the painful deviation from its own principles which occurs in the 
legislation of the crown. The instruction of Sir George Murray, to the 
chartered colonies, is that " the Sunday should be wholly clear from 
the demands of the master, and the necessities of the slave." But, 
what is the example held out in Berbice, where the Crown alone legis- 
lates; and where nothing is wanting to the enactment of any reform, 
but a clear and distinct order of the Secretary of state? 

In Berbice, the slaves cannot, on Sunday, quit the plantation to 
which they belong, without a written licence, and they may therefore 
be shut out from public worship and instruction by the mere caprice of 
the master or manager. 

In Berbice, masters are expressly permitted, by law, to occupy the 
morning hours of Sunday in distributing to the slaves their weekly 
allowances. The two or three best hours of the day are thus most un^ 
justly taken from the slave and given to the master, while the day itself 
is desecrated by this secular and also fatiguing employment. 

In Berbice, Sunday markets, which ought not to exist in any colony, 
are prolonged, hy laiv, till eleven o'clock, thus occupying nearly half 
of each Sunday. 

In Berbice, not a single day is, by law, allowed to the slave during 
the week, for any purpose whatsoever, whether for marketing, or for his 
garden, or for his grounds, or for repairing his cabin, or for obtaining 
and conveying home, from the plantain walk to his house, his bulky 
allowance for the week of plantains for himself and family. All these 
operations must be crowded into the Sabbath, in addition to a variety of 
other domestic matters necessary to be attended to ; for the law, the 
new laiv, the ?noclel law, does not give him one hour except Sunday for 
any of these purposes. 

Now, is it to be supposed that the chartered colonies will be induced 
to comply with the recommendations made to them on this subject, 
while such is the example of legislation set by the Crown itself? Why 
have the slaves of Berbice no Sunday clear from all such demands of 
their masters, and all such necessities of their own ; and why is not 
other time given them for such purposes ? 

But it may be asked, why we take so much pains in exposing these 
minor evils of the colonial system, and do not attack rather the system 
in the gross ; — why, when we have to complain that the whole of the 
slave's time is unjustly taken from him, we should make so much ado 
about restoring to him a mere fragment of it? We reply, that we admit 
the injustice of the whole system, and the right the slave has to the 
whole of his time ; and if we could destroy that system, root and 



Slave Legislation of Colonies — Antigua. 63 

branch, or restore to the slave the whole of that time of which he is ini- 
quitously deprived ; or if we could prevail with those who have the 
power (the Parliament and Government of this country,) to perform 
this righteous work, we should most cordially rejoice to see it done. 
But until it is done, we do not think we err, either as moralists or as 
Christians, in labouring to lessen the actual amount of suffering endured 
by the slave ; and especially in labouring to promote, as far as our re- 
presentations can serve that end, the fulfilment of whatever pledge to 
that effect may have been given by the Government. We heartily wish 
that the negro had all his time to himself; but until he has, we shall 
still most anxiously desire and strive that he may not be deprived of 
that portion of it to which the pledge of the Government, as well as the 
justice of the case, has given him a claim. We would gladly strike off 
every link of the chain which binds him to the earth; but. if we cannot 
do this, we would, at least, not decline any opportunity of lightening 
its pressure. — Keeping in constant view these general principles, we 
proceed to a more particular analysis of the information which has now 
been communicated to Parliament. 

I. — Antigua, p. 40 — 47. 

Sir George Murray states it to be his " painful duty to express to 
Sir Patrick Ross," the Governor, " the regret which has been felt by 
His Majesty at the extreme backwardness shewn by the islands of 
Antigua and Montserrat, in the adoption of those measures for the ame- 
lioration of the condition of the slave population, which have been at 
different times suggested to them, under the pressing recommendation 
of the Crown, supported by the imanimous opinion of both Houses of 
Parliament, and enforced by the general expression of the public opinion 
in the mother country." In point of fact they have not, since May, 
1823, adopted a single shred or patch of an ameliorating provision.: 
Their statute book still bristles with its ancient horrors, and, instead 
of even pretending to amend it, they seem to have done little, during the 
last six years, but rail at abolitionists and free negroes ; praise their own 
humanity ; and listen to flattering compliments from the Governor; occa- 
sionally varying the scene by vehement quarrels among themselves, 
and by furiously abusing and persecuting a poor Quaker.* 

And yet, in the face of all this, we have their Governor gravely telling 
the Secretary of state, in a letter dated the 3rd of June 1828, " I may 
be permitted, in justice to the island, to observe, that its existing code 
of laws are considered to contain a greater number of enactments in 



* This worthy man was employed by some benevolent persons in this coun- 
try to distribute little donations of money to any poor slaves, or others, whom 
he might think to need such relief. For this heinous offence he was cited before 
the Assembly, subjected to a rigid examination, and, because he refused to de- 
liver up to them his private correspondence with his friends in England, he has 
been thrown, as guilty of a contempt, into a loathsome gaol,where he has already 
lain for many months, and where lie may probably continue for many more, if 
death do not relieve him. Can Antigua be a British colony ? Has the King no 
power to interfere in so atrocious a case of oppression ? The Assembly actually 
continues, by merely adjourning instead of proroguing its sessions, to keep this 
man in gaol without any opportunity of release. 



64 Slave Legislation. — Bahamas, Barbadoes. 

favour of the slave population than that of any other legislative colony, 
with the exception of St. Christophers." Can Sir Patrick Ross have 
read the code which he thus rashly eulogizes ? We cannot believe it. 
He must have been imposed upon by some artful informant. But he 
ought not to have permitted himself to have been so imposed upon. 
He ought to have ascertained for himself the real contents of that cruel 
code before he undertook its defence. 

Again, he tells Sir George Murray, in a letter of Dec. 27th, 1828, 
that " the statute books of Antigua have long contained many humane 
and liberal enactments in favour of her slave population." Those sta- 
tutes are now before us, and we cannot repress the astonishment we 
feel, as we cast our eyes over their enactments, that such a judgment 
should have been formed of them by Sir Patrick Ross. 

II. — Bahamas, p. 10 — 15, 

In our 2nd volume. No. 28, p. 80 — 87, we have reviewed the 
proceedings of the Bahama legislature, and pronounced them to be 
" mere unmeaning verbiage ; enactments which enact nothing ; appa- 
rent concessions which are drawn back by the multiplicity and largeness 
of the exceptions ; and pretended reforms which leave every evil of 
slavery untouched." On the 3rd of March, 1828, Mr. Huskisson ad- 
dressed a letter to the Governor of that colony, which is little more 
than an amplification, certainly a most able one, of this brief descrip- 
tion of what its legislature had done. The only thing it has since done 
has been to pass an act for " fixing the mode of trying questions rela- 
tive to the freedom of negroes," and a second act to amend this act ; 
both of which have been very properly disallowed by the King. They 
are worthy of the colony that was the scene of the tragedy recently en- 
acted by the there highly-respected Henry and Helen Moss. In dis- 
allowing those acts. Sir G. Murray observes, that they impose restraints 
on persons asserting a title to freedom, for which no good cause can be 
suggested. In such cases, instead of restraint, there is a peculiar call 
for indulgence to suitors. But these acts subject them to many diffi- 
culties. They must first obtain permission of the court to sue; they 
must then sue by a guardian ; they must then be kept in custody pend- 
ing the process ; and, at last, they can only obtain nominal damages. 
" A suitor so fettered," as Sir George Murray well observes, " is but 
too likely to conduct his cause amiss." We have here a beautiful spe- 
cimen of colonial legislation ! 

III. — Barbadoes, pp. 16 — 18. 

The state of the slave code of Barbadoes may be collected from our 
2nd vol. No. 28, pp. 87—91 , and No. 43, pp. 345—350. 

In reply to Sir George Murray's circular, the Barbadian legislators 
plainly tell their governor that they have already gone the utmost 
length that prudence will allow in giving effect to the wishes of his Ma- 
jesty's ministers. This is at least plain dealing. It is well worth while 
to look back to the pages just referred to, in order to see to what this 
boasted perfection of Barbadian reform amounts. 



Slave Legislation, — Berbice, Bermuda, Cape, Deuierara. 65 

IV.— Berbice, pp. 80—84. 

We have already adverted to the state of the slave law in this colony 
as respects Sunday. Some of its other defects may be seen by turning; 
to our 2nd Vol., No. 28, pp. 92 and 93. But if the state of the law be 
bad, its administration is infinitely worse. In proof of this we have 
only to refer to our 1st Vol., No. 5 and No. 16; and to our 2nd Vol., 
No. 43, pp. 359 — 367. And yet this colony is directly subject to the 
legislation of the Crown ; and the execution of its laws is in the hands 
of functionaries appointed by the Crown. How is this to be satisfac- 
torily accounted for ? 

We see, by the papers before us, that means have been taken to faci- 
litate the recovery of small debts owing to slaves, by passing an act for 
that purpose ; but the act has not yet been produced. Confinement in 
the stocks is also forbidden, and simple confinement alone permitted, in 
the case of slaves sentenced to be flogged by their masters, between the 
period of sentence and that of punishment. 

V. — Bermuda, pp. 85 — 92. 

The first eflTort of Bermudian legislation, on the subject of slavery, 
that has been made for many years, is contained in an act which bears 
the date of July 30, 1827. The laws which previously existed were of 
the most oppressive and sanguinary description. (See second Report 
of the Anti-slavery Society, Appendix, pp. 144 — 146.) That which is 
now presented to us would seem to indicate that the legislators of Ber- 
muda had been little accustomed to the idea either of justice or mercy 
in their dealings either with slaves or with free persons of colour. Even 
the free people of colour, instead of being raised to their proper level, 
are pressed down, by this handful of proud and petty islanders, to the 
legal abjectness and debasement, and the utter destitution of civil rights 
of the slave population. It is altogether a harsh and cruel code. 
What judgment the Government may have formed of it we have no 
means of knowing, but we conclude it must have been disallowed. Its 
provisions are marked throughout by an utter disregard of every prin- 
ciple recommended by his Majesty's Government, and especially in the 
recent despatches of Sir George Murray. 

VI. — Cape of Good Hope. 

Of this colony not one word is said in these papers. The state of 
its slave code may be seen by turning to our 2nd Vol., No. 28, p. 94. 
A great and salutary change has since taken place in the condition of 
theyVee classes of African descent inhabiting this colony. See No. 50, 
p. 30. 

VII. — Demerara. 

Of Demerara also nothing is said in these papers. Its slave laws may 
be classed nearly with those of Berbice ; and being subject to the di- 
rect legislation of the Crown, their defects are of course removable at 
the pleasure of the Crown. We will therefore only again remark, that 



66 Slave Legislation. — Dominica. 

while the laws of Dernerara and Berbice remain in their present imper- 
fect state — imperfect even as compared with the pledges and recom- 
mendations of the Government — much cannot be expected from the 
chartered colonies. The reader may further consult, with respect to 
Demerara, our 1st Vol., No. II, pp. 145— 151; and our 2nd Vol., 
No, 27, p. 26; No. 29, p. 99; and No. 43, pp. 355—359. 

VIIL— Dominica, pp. 20—22. 

A pretty clear view of the Dominica slave code may be obtained by 
referring to our 2nd Vol., No. 29, pp. 98- — 102, where an account is 
given of the defects of its act of January, 1826. But notwithstanding 
the strong representations of those defects made by Earl Bathurst, in his 
despatch of April 3, 1827, and the anxious desire he there expressed 
that the act might be reviewed and amended, no step whatever appears 
to have been since taken by the Dominica legislature. 

In reply to Sir George Murray's circular despatches of the 3rd and 
15th of September, 1828, General Nicolay, the governor, observes, 
" On one subject of very great importance, that of extending religious 
instruction, your wishes have been anticipated by an act of the legisla- 
ture, Avhich I lately transmitted to you, establishing a rector for the pa- 
rish of St. Andrew's. A school for the gratuitous education of children 
of all classes is also in fair progress." 

Now the despatch of Sir George Murray went to this — to impress upon 
Governor Nicolay that it was " necessary" that " the important object" 
of "religious instruction" "should not be intrusted solely to indivi- 
duals, but that provision should likewise be made for it by law." The 
wishes of Sir George Murray, however, says the governor, on the im- 
portant point of religious instruction, have been anticipated. But this 
anticipation proves to be, not an act of the legislature establishing and 
enforcing the religious instruction of the slaves by law, but an act for 
establishing a rector for St. Andrew's. Is it possible that the governor 
can deem this to be a fulfilment by anticipation of the wishes of Govern- 
ment? If so, he is certainly not qualified to be the interpreter of those 
wishes to the colonists. Sir George Murray expressly delegates to the 
governor the task of explaining to the colonists, and urging upon them, 
by suitable arguments, the plans and purposes of his Majesty's Govern-' 
ment. Now let us only conceive a dialogue to take place between him 
and a party of colonial legislators. " How," they say, " are we to ful- 
fil the recommendations of Sir George Murray as to making provision 
for the religious instruction of the slaves by law?" " O, you need give 
yourself no farther trouble on that point. The thing is done. You 
passed an act last year which anticipates those recommendations ; that, I 
mean, which appoints a rector for St. Andrew's. Besides, a free school 
is in fair progress." All this would appear only extremely ridiculous 
were it not that it was also so supremely mischievous — so fatal to all 
hope of colonial improvement through such media. As for the free 
school spoken of by the governor, and said to be in fair progress on the 
3rd of November, 1828, we can shew him that it was equally so in June, 
1823. Whoever wishes to understand the kind of legerdemain, the 



Slave Legislation, — Greyiada. 67 

charlatanerie practised by colonial authorities, on subjects like these, has 
only to turn to the first series of papers on Colonial Amelioration, laid 
by his Majesty's command before parliament, in 1824. There, at p. 28 
to p. 34, he will find given at length the first act of this farce of a free 
school, which is still exhibiting, when occasion calls for it, even in 1828. 
It was originally played oflT in 1823, to meet the first circular of Lord 
Bathurst on Colonial Reform ; and it served its purpose. For a time 
our ears were dinned with the zeal exhibited by Dominica in the work 
of religious instruction, and we were reproached with our distrust of 
men who had, by their exertions, even anticipated our wishes. The free 
school, however, so ostentatiously projected in June, 1823, and then so 
boldly sketched, having already its master nominated, with a salary of 
£150., is as yet only in its embryo state. In 1827 it appears from the 
Conversion Society's Report for that year, that a schoolmaster had been 
very recently appointed (p. 126), and it was hoped, therefore, that the 
arrangements already in great forwardness " have been carried into 
effect." But no such thing; — for now at length, at the close of 1828, 
comes the governor, and tells us that this school, so vaunted of in 1823, 
and the subject of hope in 1827, was only then " in fair progress," 
that is to say, was still a subject of preparation and arrangement, and 
not of operation and efficiency. How is it that public men can be so 
duped as to lend themselves to such palpable delusions? 

IX. Grenada, p. 23 — 39. 

For a brief notice of the past legislative proceedings 'of this colony, 
on the subject of slavery, we refer our readers to our 1st volume, No. 
11, p. 155—162, and to our 2nd volume. No. 29, p. 102, We had 
heard much of the great advances since made by the Grenada legisla- 
ture in the work of Reform, and we therefore opened the present volume 
with an eager desire to ascertain how far these rumours were realized 
by the enactments on the subject. We proceed to examine them. 

1, The first is an act to 'prevent the holding of markets on Sunday, 
and appointing Thursdays and Saturdays to be public market days. 
This act, dated the 24th of November 1828, was to take effect on the 1st 
of January 1829, and from that day forward, as its title indicates, it 
certainly does prohibit the holding of markets on the Sundays, and also 
appoints Thursdays and Saturdays as public market days. But it con- 
tains no provision whatever by which the act is to be made to contribute, 
in the very slightest degree, to the amelioration of the condition of the 
slaves. They can no longer, it is true, attend Sunday markets. But 
no legal provision whatever is made for their being permitted to attend 
on any other day. Neither Thursday nor Saturday is given to them by 
this or any other law. Nor are they, by this or any other law, protected, 
on either of these days, from arrests for their master's debts, which, in a 
vast majority of instances, would be the inevitable consequence of their 
travelling to the market place on any day but Sunday, To the slave, 
therefore, without some law which shall appropriate Thursday or 
Saturday to his use, and which shall protect him from arrest for the 



6S Slave Legislation, — Grenada. 

debts of his master on that day, the pretended boon is a positive injury, 
and not a benefit. Is it possible then to conceive a more solemn mockery 
of the high functions of legislation than this act exhibits ? It is framed 
with all the technical verbiage of such instruments. It passes the 
Assembly and the Council after being read three times in each ; it 
then receives the sanction of the Governor, the representative of his Ma- 
jesty ; and is then transmitted to the Secretary of state as a triumphant 
proof of the general desire which animates all ranks in Grenada to meet 
the wishes of the mother country, with respect to the improvement of 
the condition of the slave population. And yet, after all, it has not, 
nor can it have, any operation whatever, as respects the slave popula- 
tion, but one of injury and not of benefit. What an exemplification of 
the genius of colonial legislation, on matters connected vf'xth slavery, 
does not this boasted act afford ! 

2. The next is an act " for the admission of the testimony of slaves 
in all cases without restriction." And we hail it with unfeigned satis- 
faction as the first instance we recollect to have met with, among the 
professedly ameliorating provisions of colonial slave codes, which 
marches straitly and fairly to its object. It is plain, intelligible, and 
practical. The enacting clause is to the following effect : — " And be 
it enacted, that in all trials and examinations whatsoever, whether in 
civil or criminal cases, it shall and may be lawful to examine, as a wit- 
ness on oath, any slave within the island of Grenada and its dependencies, 
in any court, and before any judge, justice of the peace, grand jury or 
petit jury, or other tribunal or authority whatever having cognizance of 
such cases, in the same manner, in every respect, as free persons are by 
law admitted and received as witnesses by and before any such courts, 
judges, justices, jurors, or other tribunals aforesaid, without any restric- 
tion whatever arising from their being slaves ; any law, usage, or custom 
to the contrary in any wise notwithstanding." Even to the provisoes, 
which guard this sweeping enactment, we have no objection to make, 
except that we see not why they should be confined to the case of trials 
and convictions on slave evidence, and not extended to all trials and 
convictions ; namely, that on all capital convictions the sentence should 
be laid before the Governor, and receive his approval before its execu- 
tion ; and that on every trial for a capital offence, a list of the witnesses 
should be furnished to the accused four days before the bill of indict- 
ment against him is presented to the grand jury. 

Here then we have at last met with a legislative enactment, proceed- 
ing from a Colonial Assembly, which we can approve ex animo, with 
scarcely a single reservation. We cordially rejoice in it as the first 
effectual step, in any one of our chartered colonies, towards a reform 
of the slave code. 

3. The third act will probably divide the sentiments of many of our 
friends. It is an act ibr granting a salary of £500 currency a year, or 
about £225 sterling, to a Roman Catholic Clergyman, the Rev. Anthony 
O'Hannan, as Rector of the Roman Catholic church in Grenada; who 
shall be bound, in consideration of this salary, to take, from no Roman 
Catholic slaves within this government, any fee or remuneration what- 
soever for any baptismal, marriage, qi' burial rites, or for any other 



Slave Legislation. — Grenada. 69 

sacrament or thing administered in his spiritual capacity to such slaves ; 
the said Anthony O'Hannan being bound not to refuse, on account of 
the non-payment of any such fee, to perform all sacramental and other 
rites for the slaves. 

4. The fourth act respects the free people of colour. As early as the 
month of June 1823, (see vol. ii. No. 27, p. 5 1 ,) the Assembly of Grenada 
admitted, and recorded the admission, that the enfranchised black and 
coloured population of that island, which exceeded the white popula- 
tion in the proportion of four to one (the respective numbers in 1825 
were 3486 and 883,) possessed no small proportion of the property in 
the colony, two-thirds of the chief town actually belonging to them ; 
and that they were a respectable well behaved class of the community, 
and fairly entitled to the elective and certain other franchises which they 
then claimed. It was not however until the month of November 1828, 
that any effect was given to these admissions. An act was then passed 
relieving a part of them from one of the many disabilities of which they 
complained. The act provides that thenceforward " all the freeborn," 
not enfranchised but freeborn " coloured," not black also but coloured only 
— that *' all the freeborn coloured male British subjects within these 
islands, being freeholders, merchants, traders, managers, or chief owners 
of plantations, or lessees of estates, shall be liable to serve as petty 
jurors in criminal cases, and as jurors in all causes between party and 
party in the supreme courts of judicature and coroner's inquests," and 
are to be summoned in the same manner as other jurors. Now small 
and fractional as is this concession, especially when compared with the 
course pursued by Government in the crown colonies, (see No. 49, p. 
16, and No. 50, pp. 30 and 31,) yet we hail it as a first step, however 
tardy in the march of liberality, with respect to the coloured free. 

These four enactments are followed by two reports on the progress of 
religious instruction in Grenada, by the Rev. J. C. Barker, Rector of 
St. George's, and Rural Dean of the island, and the Rev. Mr. O'Hannan, 
the Roman Catholic Rector. Mr. O'Hannan's duties seem to be of the 
most laborious kind. His flock comprises four-fifths of the slaves, about 
20,000, and two-thirds of the free black and coloured. He preaches 
both in French and English to large congregations of 1500 to 2000 
slaves, and catechises besides ; and he has instituted both Sunday and 
other schools in St. George's, at which 147 slaves of both sexes attend. 
The Report of Mr. Barker is less favourable, three of the five parishes 
being without a catechist, and the education given to the slaves consist- 
ing almost entirely of a Sunday school held for an hour or two for 
ninety-six children in St. George's, and another similar school in St. 
David's, it is not said by how many attended. Mr. Barker complains 
of the difficulties in the way of the efficient instruction of the slaves, 
arising from the prevalence of the Roman Catholic religion, and the 
general use of the French language. This is the same Mr. Barker 
mentioned in our 2nd volume. No. 47, p. 446, &c., as having denounced, 
in a sermon preached by him in 1827, " the general neglect of the 
Sabbath day, and its perversion to secular employments," as the grand 
sources *' of ignorance, vice, and mental degradation" — adding, that 
" until we amend this evil all attempts to promote Christian knowledge 

K 



70 Slave Legislation. — Honduras, Jamaica, Mauritius. 

will be vain and fruitless." To this evil, however, neither he nor Mr. 
O'Hannan makes any allusion in the official reports before us. 

X. — Honduras. 
From this colony there is no return. 

XI. — Jamaica, p. 5 — 10 

To the circular of the 3rd of September, 1826, addressed to the 
Governor of Jamaica, was added a sentence to express the opinion of 
Sir George Murray, that although some objectionable clauses in the act 
of 1826 had induced His Majesty to disallow it, yet the principle of 
amelioration pervaded that act to such a degree, as raised the gratifying 
expectation, that the measures urged upon the legislature, for bettering 
the condition of the slaves, would ere long be adopted. Sir George, 
we fear, has greatly overrated the desire of reform, in the Assembly of 
Jamaica ; as Mr. Huskisson appears to us, to have overrated the amount 
of improvements in the act of 1826, as compared with that of 1816, 
and which really is very trivial. The result of the urgent intreaties of 
the Government, is thus given by Sir John Keane, in a despatch of the 
11th of Dec. 1828 : " The slave law of 1826, after a violent and con- 
tinued opposition, passed the House of Assembly precisely in the same 
words as the old law, with the difference of dates. The Council 
amended the bill," but " the House have refused to adopt any amend- 
ment." " 1 need not add, that I shall refuse my assent to it, expressing 
in strong terms, my concern that the two leading objects which I had 
submitted to them, by the direction of His Majesty's Government, had 
completely failed." 

Xn.— Mauritius, p. 93—101. 

In a preceding number, No. 42, p. 335, and 336, vol. ii. we brought 
before our readers three documents, on which we commented, one an 
Ordinance of Sir Lowry Cole, of the 13th Dec. 1826, for regulating the 
imposition of chains by the master, not only on male but on female 
slaves, and on slave children also ; another, a circular letter to the 
Commissaries of Districts, recommending a cessation of Sunday labour, 
a more moderate use of the whip, the abstaining from female flogging, 
and some other matters ; the third a law of Sir Lowry Cole of 27th of 
Jan. 1827, regulating the manumission of Slaves, being a great improve- 
ment on a former law of Sir R. Farquhar, of the 30th of Dec. 1814. 
By reading the above two pages of No. 42, the reader will be in pos- 
session of the subject matter of these documents. 

In apparent contradiction, both to the ordinance respecting chains, 
and the circular to the Commissaries, Sir Lov/ry Cole says he is much 
gratified in assuring the Secretary of state, both from the information he 
has received and his own observation, that the treatment of the slave 
population has materially improved, and that the inhabitants at large, 
seem quite disposed to attend to the suggestions and recommendations 
of Government on this subject." 

The general reasoning which follows, is in the best, and most ap- 
proved style of colonial logic. " It has seemed to me," he says, " de- 



Slave Legislation. — Mauritius. 71 

sirable, as well on account of the slave, as the master, that the improve- 
ments in the situation of the former, should rather appear to proceed 
from the free-will of the master, than from any compulsive measure." 
(Hence his preference of persuasive circulars to laws !) " For thus," he 
adds, " not only are the inhabitants gratified in their feelings, and gra- 
dually brought into the views and measures of Government, but the 
alarm and apprehension which the promulgation of legal enactments 
would have created in their minds, would be avoided." (And what 
offender would not prefer his own choice, to a compulsory law ?) And 
then he dreams, that being thus prepared, when the laws shall at length 
be published for improving the condition of the slaves, they will all have 
been anticipated by the " premature and voluntary compliance of the 
inhabitants." — Notwithstanding his tirade against female flogging, in his 
letter to the Commissaries, Sir L. Cole whispers into the ear of the Se- 
cretary of state, that " in many instances, the conduct of the women 
slaves is, in every respect, fully as bad as that of the worst of the male 
slaves;" and therefore, " though I admit that the abolishing of corporeal 
punishment in the case of female slaves is highly desirable,'" yet, " I con- 
ceive that bad consequences might result from its immediate prohibi- 
tion." Such are the minds employed to govern our colonies ! ! 

The following extract from a letter of the Secretary of state, dated 
8th of May 1829, on the subject of the wretched ordinance about 
chains, &c. will be read with pleasure. " It would have been made," 
he says, " the subject of much earlier communication, but for an im- 
pression that it had been superseded by the recent ordinance for im- 
proving the condition of the slaves." He has learnt, however, from the 
Commissioners of Inquiry, that this ordinance is still law in the Island, 
and that " the practice of chains, which it professes to regulate, still 
prevails there." " It is not without much surprise and concern," he 
adds, " that His Majesty's Government have observed the provisions of 
this ordinance. The use of chains, as an ordinary instrument of 
domestic punishment, in a tropical climate, must be deprecated on 
every principle of humanity and sound policy. In the West India 
Islands, long before the commencement of the recent discussions re- 
specting slavery, the use of chains for this purpose had been very gene- 
rally, if not universally, prohibited under severe penalties.* But this 
enactment not merely tolerates them, but subjects even women and 
children of the most tender years to the same description of punish- 
ment. It even permits the use of what are termed, branches, attached 
to the collars borne on the neck of the sufferer. It assigns no limit to 
the duration of this species of punishment ; and wlien the sanction of 
the Civil Commissary can be obtained, imposes no limit even on the 
weight of the chain. It cannot, unfortunately, be suggested, that the 



* This, we fear, is incorrect. In several islands there is no prohibition of 
chains that we can discover, e. g. Antigua, Tortola, Nevis, Montserrat, Grenada, 
Tobago, 8cc. &c. In some their use is partially restricted. See Bahamas Act of 
1824, sec. 20 ; Barbadoes Act of Oct. 1826, sec. 47 ; Dominica Act of 1826, See. 
34; Jamaica Act of 1816, sec. 29, &c, ; find St. Kitt's Act of 1798, sec. 18. 



72 Slave Legislation. — Mauritius. 

instruments the owners are permitted to employ are formidable only in 
name. The Commissioners of Inquiry thought it their duty to trans- 
mit to this department specimens of the various chains and collars, 
with or without spokes, which are used at Mauritius in the punishment 
of slaves, and they appear to be nothing less than instruments of tor- 
ture. I deeply regret that your predecessor did not at once adopt the 
measure of abolishing and prohibiting them altogether," — " You will, 
therefore, with the least possible delay, after the receipt of this despatch, 
propose to the Council a law for the total and immediate prohibition of 
the use of chains, collars, fetters, &c. &c., in the punishment of slaves, 
either with or without the sanction of the Civil Commissary. The use 
of chains and similar instruments of punishment cannot be permitted at 
all, except when necessary to prevent the escape of persons committed 
for trial on heinous charges. And even in this case the practice should 
be carefully regulated, so as to prevent any abuse of the power intrusted 
to the gaoler. The protector of slaves should be specially charged 
with the execution of this law. 

" It has been stated, that in the streets of Port Louis, the slaves em- 
ployed as scavengers, are yoked together to carts, and exhibit a very 
offensive and humiliating spectacle. If any such practice really prevails, 
immediate measures must be taken for the suppression of it. In the 
improvement of the general condition of the slaves, nothing can be 
more essential than to cultivate a sense of self respect among the slaves, 
and to abolish all practices destructive of it." 

Sir George Murray further condemns the total inefficiency of the re- 
gulations for preventing the vindictive punishment by the master of 
complaining slaves. 

We have already noted, No. 50, p. 19, the pointed condemnation by 
Mr. Huskisson, of the ordinances, both of Sir Robert Farquhar and Sir 
Lowry Cole, on manumission. In consequence of this. Sir Lowry pub- 
lished a fresh ordinance on the subject, dated 14th May, 1828, but in 
this ordinance also he seems to have failed to meet the wishes of 
Government. In a letter of Sir George Murray, of 3rd January, 1829, 
addressed to General Colville, he directs him to frame a new order, 
embodying the suggestions contained in his present despatch. — 
The ordinance of May, 1828, he says, actually prevents the enfran- 
chisement of an unregistered slave ; whereas, to secure the observance 
of the registry laws, " the penalty should fall, not on the innocent 
slave, but on the negligent owner.'' — " It still renders necessary to the 
valid manumission of a slave, that a petition should be addressed to the 
Governor," whereas the interference of Government appears to be need- 
less, and therefore improper ; there is no good cause " why the grant of 
freedom should be fettered with this species of restraint from which all 
other legal grants between private persons are exempt." One or two 
other less material defects are noticed. 

On the whole, it is quite consolatory to mark the zeal and vigilance 
manifested in this correspondence to repress abuses ; and the honest in- 
dignation which is excited in the breast of the Secretary of State by the 
view of injustice and oppression. 



Slave Legislation. — Montserrat, Nevis. 73 

XIII. — Montserrat. 
The only mention made of this colony will be found above, (p. 63) 
under the head of Antigua. 

XIV,— Nevis, pp. 49—65 

Several acts, professed to be in compliance with tne wishes of His 
Majesty's Government, have been passed in this island. 

1. An act for the protection and guardianship of slaves. This act 
instead of appointing an independent protector, appoints the justices, — 
the planters and slave owners, — protectors ; and, if any of these shall 
wilfully and maliciously refuse to do their duty as protectors, they shall 
t)e liable to a penalty of £200, currency, (about £80. sterhng) to be 
recovered by indictment in the Court of King's Bench. Suits, how- 
ever, must be brought within twelve months, and the plaintiff, if he fail, 
shall be liable to treble costs. Can a greater mockery be imagined than 
such protection ? 

2. An act for admitting the evidence of slaves. No persons shall 
hereafter be rejected as witnesses, by reason of slavery, in any civil or 
criminal court, but their evidence shall be received in the same manner 
as that of white or free persons ; but with this important exception, " that 
no slave shall be competent to give evidence in any matter or thing in 
any case where the master, mistress, owner, renter, manager, of director 
of any such slave, or where any other person having the immediate 
authority or control over such slave, may be charged with or prose- 
cuted for any capital offence without benefit of clergy, or a second time 
after a former conviction, for a chargeable felony." These are the very 
parties against whom slave evidence is chiefly wanted to guard. 

3. An act for regulating slave marriages. It is declared lawful for 
slaves to marry, provided the marriage is solemnized by a minister of 
the church of England, or of the church of Scotland ; and provided the 
owners consent to it, or not consenting, and not shewing just cause for 
refusing, the ordinary shall authorize it. Such marriage, however, is 
not to alter in any way the relation of master and slave, or to affect the 
rights of masters, or to give any authority to the husband over the wife 
or her children, or to endoiv the wife with any property of her hus- 
band, or to confer any rights inconsistent or at variance with the duties 
of slaves to masters, &c. &c. 

4. An act to regulate Sunday markets and prevent Sunday labour. 
Sunday markets are, in fact, legalized until eleven o'clock. No day is 
given to the slave in lieu of Sunday. Masters are not to employ slaves 
to labour on Sunday except in cases of emergency, but no provision 
is made for paying them in such cases. This, we need hardly say, is 
a perfectly worthless and nugatory act. 

5. An act to enable slaves to acquire property. This is not only a 
worthless but an oppressive law. It professes to give the slave a right 
of property, but expressly debars him from purchasing, acquiring, pos- 
sessing, or holding, directly or indirectly, any lands, chattels real, lease- 
hold property, houses, tenements, or hereditaments, slaves, boats or 
vessels of any description, or from becoming a juror in any case what- 
ever. Nay, if on the passing of this act, any slave shall be found pos- 



74 Slave Legislation. — St. Christopher's, St. Lucia. 

sessed of such property as has been enumerated, it shall be absolutely 
sold and conveyed from such slave, and the amount paid to him ; and 
whatever property of that kind he may become hereafter possessed of 
shall be disposed of in like manner. There is also a provision, that all 
civil wrongs or criminal offences against a slave by his owner, shall be 
tried and punished in the same way as in the case of indifferent per- 
sons, except ivhere the means of redress or punishment are already 
provided by any positive law in force in the island. This exception 
may entirely nullify the provision, for any thing that appears to the 
contrary. And this is an act for enabling slaves to acquire property 
and for securing it to them ! 

6. An act to prevent the separation of slaves by sale, in certain cases, 
without their own consent. This act professes to prevent the separation 
by sale of husband and wife, parents and children, without their own 
consent ; and it affects to guard the enactment by a number of provi- 
sions. But its whole effect seems to us to be rendered nugatory by the 
introduction of a single word into the enactment. It provides, that no 
slaves, being lawful husband and wife, shall be so separated. In the 
Trinidad Order, and in all other acts where there is a bona fide desire to 
prevent the separation of families, the word reputed is used. In the 
present act that word is used with respect to children, but changed into 
lawful in the case of husband and wife. This act is dated October 10, 
1828. The act which has for the first time made any marriage of 
slaves valid, that is lawful, in Nevis, is dated the 9th of October, 1828. 
Do we then unjustly charge the colonists with delusive legislation ? 
In Nevis too, it is to be remembered, that many marriages of slaves have 
been solemnized, as far as a religious ceremony could solemnize them, 
by the Methodist ministers. These are wholly left out of the contem- 
plation of the new act. They are not among the lawful marriages. Is 
this right ? 

7. An act to facilitate manumissions. This act proceeds on the prin- 
ciple that no owner is to be compelled against his free will to manumit 
a slave. It relates wholly therefore to voluntary manumission by the 
master, which it loads with unnecessary restrictions for securing the 
future maintenance of the manumitted slave, in a colony where there 
are already about 1 800 manumitted persons, and only two paupers 
among them : it obviates, however, some legal difficulties where there 
are litigated interests, &c. 

It will be allowed, we think, that Nevis has but very imperfectly 
answered the call of his Majesty. 

XV. — St. Christopher's. 

A full view of the very defective legislation of this island has been 
given in our 2nd Vol., No. 38, pp. 270 — 276. The only notice taken 
of it in these papers is in a letter of Sir George Murray, of the 8th of 
June, 1829, in which he signifies that he leaves the act to its operation. 

XVI.— St. Lucia. 

Nothing is said on this island. We refer for a view of its legislation 
to our 2nd Vol., No. 29, pp. 113—117, and No. 43, p. 354. 



Slave Legislation. — St. Vincent^. 75 

XVII. — St. Vincent's, pp. 66—72. 

For the St. Vincent's slave code we refer to our 1st Vol., No. 11, 
p. 163, and 2nd Vol., No. 29, pp. 116, 117. Since then no progress 
has been made in legislating on the subject, if we except an act em- 
powering slaves to give evidence against slaves, (not^br them,) though 
they have no certificate of baptism or of character. 

The remainder of the correspondence respecting this island consists 
in some not very luminous speculations, and some not very accurate 
statements of Sir Charles Brisbane, who is the governor. We pity Sir 
George Murray that he should be doomed to endure such a commen- 
tator on the text of his despatches. — He sets out with exposing the 
importance of the questions at issue, in their various bearings, both to 
master and slave ; and then bespeaks the confidence of Government as 
being himself equally free from the precipitation and zeal manifest on. 
the one hand; and the prejudice, and perhaps needless fears entertained 
on the other. He then gives his clear opinion, and there we believe 
him to be right, that the legislature of St. Vincent's will not advance a 
single step in the way of reform beyond the act passed by them in 1825. 
Now, when we refer to Lord Bathurst's comment, of the 3rd of April, 1 827, 
on that act, (the substance of which will be found in No. 29, p. 116,) 
we may well concur with Sir G. Murray in regretting the little compa- 
rative progress made in this island in improving the condition of the 
slaves. 

Sir C. Brisbane, however, seems disposed, notwithstanding the com- 
ment of Lord Bathurst, and the regret of Sir G. Murray, to undertake 
the apology of the legislators of St. Vincent. 

As to Sunday, Sir C. Brisbane says, " I can safely and truly declare, 
that Sunday is, in the fullest sense of the expression, a day of rest, and 
that the slaves are as exempt as they can be from compulsory labour on 
that day." He refers in proof of this to the 13th section of the act of 
1825. Again he says, " To return to the Sunday, I repeat that it is 
really a day of rest and relaxation from labour; and it is expressly pro- 
vided by law that it should be so, under a heavy penalty." Now, with 
all due deference to Sir Charles Brisbane, we venture to say, that he 
has been led to mistate both the law and the practice in this instance. 
The 13th section of the act, to which he refers, does not contain a single 
syllable as to preventing compulsory labour on the Sunday, nor does it 
make the Sunday a day of rest and relaxation, but the contrary. The 
penalty it imposes is not for compulsory labour on the Sunday, nor for 
applying Sunday to other purposes than rest and relaxation. It simply 
enacts that if any person does not allow his slaves twenty-six days, over 
and above the Sundays, for the purpose of working their grounds, he 
shall forfeit £50. currency. Now this clause is so far from enjoining 
rest on the Sundays that it assumes the Sundays to be employed by the 
slaves in cultivating their grounds. The additional days for that pur- 
pose are over and above the Sundays. The 7th and 9th clauses regulate 
shops and markets; and the 11th forbids putting mills about, on Sun- 
day : and this forms the whole of the laws on the subject of Sunday. No 



76 Slave Legislation. — St. Vincent's. 

statement therefore can be more incorrect than that of Sir Charles 
Brisbane as to the law on this subject. 

This mistatement of the law, which law he must have had before his 
eyes, is rather a presumption against the correctness of his representa- 
tion of the practice, which he must have collected chiefly from the 
information of others ; and unquestionably, that information has mis- 
led him. We could produce many proofs to this effect, indepen- 
dently of the manifest intent of the law as contained in the 13th section : 
but our limits oblige us to confine ourselves to one, but that one is quite 
decisive. — The Society for the Conversion and Rehgious Instruction of 
negro slaves, gave, in their last Report (p. 132, and Appendix, No. viii.) 
a detailed account of the proceedings of an excellent and zealous cler- 
gyman, the Rev. Mr. Holberton, in St. Vincent's. This gentleman, 
writing in 1827, informs the Society, that there was then " reason to 
believe, that the congregation of slaves will increase in number, and 
particularly when the obligation to cultivate their lands on the sabbath 
day ceases. On one or two estates in the district, this obligation does 
not exist, one day in the week throughout the year being allowed 
them.'' From this unimpeachable testimony of a zealous minister of 
the Church of England, labouring among the slaves, and who must 
have known the facts, it appears that, in 1827, the obligation of the 
slaves to cultivate their lands on the sabbath day was general. On one 
or two, out of thirty-three estates in a particular district, Mr. Holberton 
says, the slaves were relieved from this obligation, their masters giving 
them a day throughout the year in lieu of it ; but on the other thirty- 
one estates, the obligation continued, evidently because the masters 
did not give their slaves a day in the week in lieu of Sunday, Mr. 
Holberton seemed to indulge a hope, that the obligation to work on the 
Sunday would cease generally ; but that could only be effected by a le- 
gislative act. Since 1827, however, no such legislative act has been 
passed. On the whole, therefore, we think we are fully borne out in 
believing that Sir C. Brisbane's statement of the -practice, as to Sunday 
labour, is as incorrect as it most manifestly is, in respect to the law. 

But Sir Charles Brisbane proceeds, " The rights of property are 
recognized, and property itself secured and protected to the slaves, by 
the fifth and sixth sections of the act of 1825, and marriage is en- 
couraged by the tenth section." 

Now Sir Charles Brisbane seems, both on these points and on that 
of the Sunday, to have entirely overlooked, what he was bound to have 
respected, the clear and deliberate opinions of Lord Bathurst, on the 
very clauses he cites, as contained in his Lordship's letter to him of the 
3rd April, 1827. Speaking of the 5th and 6th clauses, his Lordship 
observes, " With respect to the possession of property, I remark, that 
the slave is not enabled to maintain an action, whether in his own name 
or that of any other person ; neither is any provison made for the 
securing the payment of money lent by a slave, or of any legacy be- 
queathed to him. If the property of a slave be sold to his owner or 
manager, there is no provision for enforcing the payment of the pur- 
chase money : and even in the case where the slave is unlawfully 
deprived of property, the law is silent respecting the manner in which". 



Slave Legislation. — Tobago, Tortola, Tritiidad. 77 

or the person by whom the complaint is to be advanced and proved, if 
the owner or manager should be the party offending. I observe also, 
that the slave is prohibited from holding land, even in the smallest 
quantity. In all these respects" " the provisions respecting the property 
of slaves are defective and inadequate, and will require an early and 
careful revision." 

Lord Bathurst might have added, that by the 81st, and following 
clauses of this very act, slaves are debarred from selling or trading for 
any articles, or merchandize of any sort, except firewood, fish, poultry, 
goats, hogs, grass, fruit, and vegetables ! 

With respect to the tenth section, of which Sir Charles also boasts. 
Lord Bathurst observes, regarding marriage, that no provision is made 
against the capricious refusal of owners to permit it ; that the right of 
celebrating it is improperly confined to the established clergy ; that no 
marriage registry is provided for ; that the clause is omitted making 
marriages of slaves binding, valid, and effectual ; besides other imper- 
fections, noticed by his Lordship. 

But we have done with Sir Charles Brisbane for the present. He 
pleads for the Colonists thus, " What can we expect from men who 
apprehend they are walking on a precipice ? Can we wonder they 
should be hesitating and slow ? " We reply, certainly not ; and espe- 
cially if they have, in their Governor, an interpreter of the views of 
Government, disposed to palliate the defects of the system which it is 
their object to reform, and to present to the planters motives to resist- 
ance, rather than motives to compliance with their wishes. 

XVIIL— Tobago, pp. 73—78. 

A view of the slave legislation of this colony may be seen in Vol. li. 
No. 29, pp. 117 — 119. The legislature refuse, on the usual pleas of 
having done enough already, to do any more ; and they are backed by 
General Blackwell, the Governor. But we will go no further into their 
statements than to notice one inaccuracy of considerable importance, 
into which both have fallen. It is asserted, that not only have Sunday 
markets been abolished, and Thursday markets substituted, but that 
both days are now wholly given up to the slave for his own employ- 
ment. Now it is not true that the law of Tobago gives Thursday to 
the slaves. The 40th clause appointing Thursday markets, does not 
give it to them. And from the 41st clause, even the contrary may be 
inferred. — See our remarks on this important subject above, (p. 67) 
under the head of Grenada. 

XIX.— ToRTOLA. 

The return is nothing. Indeed, the idea of a representative body 
for such a paltry white population as this and some other colonies 
contain, is highly absurd. 

XX.— Trinidad, pp. 78, 79. 

These papers contain only an attempt to explain certain discrepancies 
in the statements from Trinidad, on the subject of the price of slaves, 
which is not very intelligible to the general reader. The progress of 
Reform in Trinidad, if progress it can be called, may be found in our 



75 Slave Legislation. — Culture of Sugar by Free Labour. 

first volume, No. 11 — and in our second volunie, No. 30, pp. 121 — 133, 
and No. 43, pp. 351—354. 

^e will defer, for the present, any general observations on the 
ab'o^ve' abstract of colonial proceedings ; which goes irrefragably to 
establish the point for which we have so strenuously contended during 
the last six years, that no remedy is to be expected for the enormities 
of the slave system, except by the intervention of parliament. We 
repeat, slavery is a national crime to be renounced and extinguished, 
and not merely an evil to be palliated. And to expect from those who 
profit by that crime, a voluntary renunciation of it, shews an extra- 
ordinary inacquaintance, both with human nature, and with the lessons 
of experience. 

While employed in preparing the above analysis, we received a par- 
liamentary volume, containing the " Protectors of Slaves' Reports." 
Our limits will not now permit us to enter upon it. Indeed it deserves a 
more prominent place, than the closing pages of one of our numbers. 
The West Indian writers have been endeavouring, in their usual way, to 
extract from it a defence of their system ; with how little success it can 
be pressed into that service, we shall take an early opportunity of 
shewing. In the mean time we have to thank the Editor of the Time& 
for some acute and conclusive observations on the light thrown by this 
document on the real nature and bearings of colonial slavery. But 
then it ought always to be kept in view, that the main practical evils of 
the system are not even touched by such details as these ; we mean, the 
overivorking and the underfeeding of the slaves ; evils less liable to 
detection, but which, being unceasing in operation, far exceed, in their 
malignant, and deathful influence on the slaves, all the other physical 
evils of slavery put together. 



II. Culture of Sugar by Free Labour. 

We are anxious, before we close this number, to advert to another 
topic, on which the colonial pamphleteers and journalists have laboured 
hard during the last month, to work on the public mind. We allude to 
the culture of sugar by free labour, A writer of the name of Saintsbury, 
has stept forward among the rest, and repeated the exploded fallacies 
of the late Mr. Marryat, as well as those of Mr. Macqueen, on the sub- 
ject of the sugar imported hither from the East Indies, which they hardily 
affirm to be the produce of slave labour, and not the produce of free 
labour. Our readers of the present day are, perhaps, not aware, that 
this controversy was conclusively settled in 1823. The late Mr. Mar- 
ryat then employed his able pen in endeavouring to establish this 
point; and the present race of writers have, in fact, done little more 
than, with far less of talent and acuteness, to produce again his refuted 
arguments, and to fortify them with his disproved statements. The 
refutation and disproof may both be found in a pamphlet published by 
Hatchard, entitled, " A letter to W. W. Whitmore, Esq. M.P." This 
pamphlet was deemed decisive at the time. The facts of the case are 
precisely the same now as they were then, and the Letter to Mr. Whit- 



' Culture of Sugar by Free Labour. 79 

more is just as complete a reply to Mr. Saintsbury's positions as it was 
to those of Mr. Marryat. A sheet, extracted from this pamphlet, has 
been published by the Anti-Slavery Society, and to that we must refer 
our readers. It will there be seen that, not only is there no instance in 
which the husbandry of the Bengal provinces, from which alone we 
derive our sugar, is conducted by slaves ; but we have it pointed out to 
us clearly, and in every instance, by whom the labour is performed, 
namely, by the family of the Ryot or farmer, and by labourers hired by 
him as they are wanted, and whose rates of wages are distinctly given 
in the official documents on the subject. 

The whole effect on the public mind produced by Mr. Saintsbury and 
others, proceeds from their wilful and deliberate misrepresentation of 
the documents to which they refer. They quote, as applicable to Ben- 
gal, passages which have a reference . only to the Malabar coast. The 
existence of slavery, for instance, in some recently ceded district on the 
Malabar side of India, is made to prove that sugar is cultivated by slaves 
in Bengal. The voluminous collection of documents, printed by the 
East India Company in 1823, furnishes the most decisive and irrefra- 
gable proofs — (every page is full of them) — that the whole of the agri- 
culture of the Bengal provinces is conducted by free labour. On this 
fact there can be no controversy with an honest reader of these docu- 
ments. But, in order to overthrow this mass of testimony, what do 
such writers as Mr. Saintsbury do? They resort to statements which 
refer to quite another part of the world, and apply them to Bengal ; 
and they hope to evade detection, because Malabar and Bengal are both 
in Asia or in India. They might with equal conclusiveness prove that 
corn is grown in Great Britain by slave labour, because there happen to 
be slaves in Russia. The only sugar, however, which we receive from 
India comes from Bengal. Malabar imports sugar from abroad for its 
own consumption. The proof of all this may be seen in the pamphlet 
to which we have referred, and which points in every case to the page 
of the authentic work which it cites. 

There is also another pamphlet, published in 1824, which is equally 
conclusive on this point as the letter to Mr. Whitmore. It is entitled, 
" East India Sugar, or an Inquiry respecting the means of iraprovino- 
the quality and reducing the cost of sugar raised by free labour in the 
East Indies." 

But if there were no such pamphlets in existence, the statements of 
Sir Edward Hyde East and Mr. Hume in the House of Commons on 
the 1st of March, 1826, would of themselves be sufficient to refute every 
syllable published by Mr. Saintsbury or a thousand such writers. Sir 
E. H. East is a large Jamaica proprietor, who had filled for years the 
situation of Chief Justice in Bengal. He denied, in the most explicit 
terms, that slavery was recognized by law as a condition of society in 
Bengal ; and Mr. Hume added, that he had been much in Bengal, and 
from what he knew of society there, he would undertake confidently to 
say, that there were no agricultural slaves there. (See Vol. i. No. 10, 
p. 105.) 

Let a single extract more on this subject suffice for the present. It 
is taken from the letter to Mr. Whitmore already referred to. The 
letter writer quotes the testimony of the Bengal Board of Trade, of the 



80 Culture of Sugar by Free Labour. 

7th of August, 1792, to the following effect, as contained in the first 
Appendix to the East India Company's great volume, printed in 1823, 
pp. 51 to 60. " In this country (Bengal) the cultivator is either the im- 
mediate proprietor of the ground, or he hires it, as in Europe, of the 
proprietor, and uses his discretion in cultivating what he thinks best 
adapted to the nature of the soil or the demand of the market. One 
field produces sugar, the next wheat, rice, or cotton. The husband-^ 
man is nourished and clothed from his own ground ; or, if he thinks it 
more his interest to sell the whole of his own produce, supplies himself 
and family with the necessaries of life from his neighbours on the liext 
public market." Contrasting their state with that of slaves in the West 
Indies, it is added, " The Bengal peasantry are freemen." *• The Ben- 
gal peasant is actuated by the ordinary wants and desires of mankind. 
His family assist his labour and soothe his toil, and the sharp eye of 
personal interest guides his judgment." This statement is followed by 
a great variety of Reports from the presidents and collectors in the dif- 
ferent provinces of Bengal, and extending through more than 200 closely 
printed folio pages. The existence of slavery as a condition of society 
in Bengal is not once alluded to in any one of these Reports, although 
they give us a variety of minute and detailed calculations of the cost of 
raising sugar. In short, there is no more allusion to slave labour, as 
forming a constituent part of the charge of cultivating sugar, than there 
would be to slave labour in an estimate of the cost of growing corn in the 
county of York. Slaves are never mentioned ; and the only substitute 
for hired labour ever hinted at, is the labour of the farmer's household. 

But we may spare ourselves the trouble of confuting the elaborate 
mistatements of our adversaries on this question. The controversy is 
fast tending to its termination. The march of events will scarcely leave 
room much longer, either for misrepresentation or misappreliension. 
The facilities already given in Bengal by Lord W. Bentinck, to the 
investment of British capital and the developement of British skill in the 
cultivation of the soil ; the almost certainty that those fiscal regulations 
which have hitherto depressed the growth of sugar in Bengal, and pre- 
vented the large increase of its imports into this country, will soon be 
repealed ; the prospect of an early removal of the other restrictions 
which still fetter the commerce of our Eastern possessions; the rapidly 
increasing population and prosperity of Hayti ; the official statements 
of Mr. Ward, as to the profitable culture of sugar by free labour 
in Mexico; and the rapid extension of the manufacture of beet root 
sugar in France ; a prelude, as we conceive, to its introduction into 
this country, and especially into Ireland; all these circumstances com- 
bined, afford a promise which can scarcely fail of seeing a death-blow 
inflicted on the culture of sugar by slave-labour, which all the misre- 
presentations of all the slave holders in the world, with all their clamo- 
rous partizans in this country cannot avert, or even long retard. We 
mean, however, shortly to recur to the subject. 

AN INDEX for the \st and 2d volumes of the Anti-Slavery Reporter has been 
printed, and may be procured at the Society's Office, 18, Aldermanbury, either 
separately, or bound up with the 2d volume. Price of the volume, half-bound in 
calf, Five Shillings. Title-pages and Contents for both volumes may also be pro- 
cured separately. 

X^ndon: Bagster aud Thorns, Printers, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 53.] For OCTOBER, 1829. [No. 5. Vol. iii. 

I. DUBLIN ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING. 
II. CORK ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING. 
III. LIVERPOOL MEETING FOR FREE TRADE TO INDIA AND 

CHINA. 
IV. WESTMINSTER REVIEW. 



It was our intention to have analysed in the present Number the 
Reports of the Protectors of Slaves which have recently been laid be- 
fore Parliament; but circumstances, which it is unnecessary to explain, 
have obliged us to postpone our purpose, and to confine ourselves 
to the domestic occurrences mentioned above.* 

I. — Dublin Anti-Slaveky Society. 

We ought to have taken an earlier opportunity of noticing the pro- 
gress which the cause of liberty and humanity has made in Ireland. 
The Dublin Morning Post of the 22d of April, contains an interesting 
account of the transactions which took place at the last meeting of the 
Anti-Slavery Society for that city. A report clearly enouncing and for- 
cibly inculcating the principles which this publication maintains, was 
read and approved; and several animated speeches were delivered. One 
of the gentlemen who addressed the meeting, most truly remarked, that 
the labouring population of Ireland have a deep interest in the question. 

" There has been a Committee," said he, " in existence for a consi- 
derable time, for the improvement of Ireland, which is better known by 
the name of the Mansion-house Committee. This society consists of 
gentlemen, at whose head is the Lord Mayor, of patriotism, talent, and 
influence, and their object was to improve the country. But I will tell 
those gentlemen, that with the incubus which presses down upon us, you 
can do nothing ; you may meet daily instead of monthly, you may pay 

* An error has crept into our last Number, which we are anxious to take the 
earliest opportunity of correcting. It occurs at p. 6.S. We there stated that the 
benevolent individual who had been honoured by the persecution of the Antigua 
Assembly, because he had administered some pecuniary relief to certain needy 
slaves in that island, was a Quaker. In this we were mistaken. He is not a 
member of the Society of Friends, though he possesses sufficient philanthropy 
and firmness of character to account for the mistake. 

In our account of the legislation of Nevis, in the same Number, (p. 73,) we 
stated that the Justices of the Peace of that island, (in fact the planters and 
slave-owners of that island,) had, by the new law, (in mockery, as it were, 
of the Royal Recommendation to appoint an independent Protector of Slaves,) 
appointed themselves Protectors ; and these Protectors being so appointed, 
have enacted that, should they wilftdly and maliciously, refuse to do their duty, 
they may be indicted in the Court of Ring's Bench, and fined £80. sterling. We 
omitted, however, to mention, that the Judges and the Jurors of this Court are 
all composed of the very individuals who are thus to be controlled and punished 
by themselves. 

At p, 77, line 25, for — to their tmshes, read iviih their wishes. 

M 



82 Dublin and Cork Anti-Slavery Meetings. — Report of the latter. 

down your pounds where you have heretofore paid your shillings, and 
the links of the civic chain may be kept bright by the movements of 
charity, and there may be additional lustre flung around it from the 
patriotism of him who wears it, and the plans may be as good as human 
intellect can devise, and their execution may be intrusted to men of the 
highest moral principles, and the highest intellectual attainments, and 
all will avail, I was going to say, nothing, towards the completion of 
their objects, because the load is too mighty for them to raise. It has 
been asserted by the philosopher, that every violation of the physical 
and moral law is visited back with due and measured punishment, and 
that the assessor is made inevitably to feel the weight of its infringement 
— and in no case is this more clearly exemplified than in the punish- 
ment of our ruined manufactures, and consequently the threatened 
starvation with which we are now surrounded — a consequence naturally 
resulting from the violation of justice, in robbing the slave of the price 
of his labour and detaining him in slavery." 



II. — Cork Anti-Slavery Society. 

On the 2d of September, was held the Annual Meeting of the Cork 
Anti-Slavery Society. The transactions were so interesting that we 
cannot, we think, gratify our readers more than by transferring the 
whole account from the columns of the Southern Reporter to our pages. 

Charles Beamish, Esq. having taken the chair, said that he accepted 
that honourable post with gratitude. It afforded him unqualified gra- 
tification to see such a distinguished meeting assembled, as it was, for 
furthering the glorious work of ameliorating and emancipating the 
millions of wretched beings at that moment suffering bondage the most 
appalling that could be imagined. The object of the meeting was to 
petition the legislature to interfere for the liberation of the wretched West 
Indian captive, but it would first be necessary the Secretary should 
read the Report for the last year. Thomas Wilson Newsom, Esq. then 
read the following Report : — 

" In presenting their Annual Report, the Committee deem it unne- 
cessary to lay before the Society any details on the progress of the 
cause, or its present state, as such information is amply supplied to our 
members by the " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter," which so vigilantly 
watches, and ably advocates the great cause we are associated to pro- 
mote. Yet the Committee feel it gratifying briefly to advert to the 
recent acts of the executive government, by which some measures of 
improvement have been already introduced, and others of a more decided 
nature contemplated, especially that highly important project now in 
preparation, a general reform of the Colonial Judicatures, and the uni- 
versal admission of the evidence of Slaves, on the same footing as that 
of other persons : this measure must produce very salutary results, not 
only by raising the moral condition of the slave, but also protecting 
him in a great degree from the wanton inflictions of that cruel despotism 
which has so long been exercised with impunity. 

" Much, however, remains to be accomplished; but the improve- 
ments already introduced, together with the measures in contemplation 



Cork Anti-Slavery Meeting. — Rev. Mr. Hort. 83 

of Government, should encourage the friends of the injured Africans to 
persevere in their philanthropic exertions, confiding in the ultimate suc- 
cess which cannot fail to crown a cause founded on the immutable prin- 
ciples of justice, humanity, and religion, 

" The exertions of the Ladies' Association, acting in concert with 
ours, have tended materially to promote the cause in this neighbour- 
hood ; by diffusing a knowledge of the debased and suffering state in 
which the hapless victims of colonial slavery continue to be held, and 
thus exciting a feeling of compassion towards these oppressed bonds- 
men. 

" In referring to the annexed statement of accounts, the Committee 
have to regret that their funds are still insufficient, although but a very 
limited sum is requisite for defraying incidental expenses, and procuring 
the necessary supply of the Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter, and other 
means of circulating correct information ; the Committee, therefore, ap- 
peal to the public, and to the individual exertions of their members, for 
the trifling aid required to prosecute an object, involving as well as their 
own pecuniary interests as the best feelings of human nature." 

The Rev. Mr. Hort presented himself to the meeting, and said it was 
with peculiar pleasure he rose to address so interesting an assembly — 
one composed of those of different religious and political opinions, but 
all combining in one great and philanthropic object — namely, the pre- 
sent amelioration and future abolition of slavery. — (Hear, hear.) The 
subject was one well befitting the splendid eloquence of a Demosthenes 
or a Cicero. Though old in years, his heart beat warm when he saw 
slavery, the worst of slavery, still existing in the world, and in no part 
of the world, with more dreadful and appalling cruelty than in that por- 
tion of the British Dominions — the West Indies. It was a slur upon 
the British character and name that, notwithstanding the thundering 
eloquence of Pitt and Fox and Wilberforce, and the efforts of Gran- 
ville Sharpe, in the cause of suffering humanity, still slavery was per- 
mitted to exist. (Cheers.) Was it not repulsive to the finest feelings 
of human nature— was it not derogatory to the human race, that one 
man, by any code of policy should be allowed to exercise unlimited and 
brutal sway over the actions, person, and life of another. Yet so it was 
in the West Indies, and for the putting an end to that dreadful state of 
thraldom, the present important meeting had assembled. The glorious 
work of the abolition of the Slave Trade was not regularly attempted 
until the year 1765, when Granville Sharpe, the illustrious friend of hu- 
manity, began to show himself as the public advocate of the oppressed 
Africans, after having spent whole years in bringing to light the cruelty 
and wretchedness of that detestable traffic. The estimable Society of 
Friends, ever ready for every exertion in favour of the miserable, had, 
indeed, passed their censure upon the Slave Trade, at their yearly meet- 
ing in London, 1727. This they followed up with other resolutions, as 
a body, in the years 1751—1761—1763, and 1772, In the year fol- 
lowing they petitioned Parliament against its continuance, and in the 
same year several members of their communion deemed it their duty to 
acquaint their countrymen at large with its horrible nature and practice ; 
for which purpose they wrote and circulated pamphlets, and conveyed 



84 Cork Anti-Slavery Meeting. — Rev. Mr. Hort. 

information on the subject, by means of the London and country news- 
papers. In 1785, Dr. Pickard, master of Magdalen College, Cambridge, 
having previously most severely condemned the infamous trade, in a 
sermon preached before that learned and liberal university, gave out, as 
a subject for a Prize Poem, the question, vphether it be lawful to make 
slaves of others against their will. — This excited the attention of Clark- 
son, at that time a young man of one and twenty. He wrote for, and 
gained, the premium, which circumstance gave an impulse to his mind 
that finally induced him to devote his time and industry to this interest- 
ing object. The impulse which thus bore him forward, Clarkson com- 
municated to Wilberforce, Member for the county of York. In 1787, 
a Committee was formed, consisting of Granville Sharpe, Clarkson, 
Dillwyn, and some others of the Society of Friends, which, labouring 
under Wilberforce, as its parliamentary head, became the instrument of 
Providence, for the final overthrow of a trade, which, measuring its 
magnitude by the crimes and sufferings it produced, was, perhaps, the 
most fearful evil that ever afflicted the human race. (Hear, hear.) 
Clarkson was indefatigable in his labours for procuring information con- 
cerning this odious traffic, for which purpose he repeatedly took up his 
abode in Bristol, Liverpool, and other Slave Ports — the very seats and 
high places in which this dreadful, iniquitous worship was paid to the 
Golden Idol, before which mankind has ever been too ready to bow. 
(Hear, hear.) In the mean time, the Committee made known its ex- 
istence by public advertisement, and unfolded the great object which it 
had in view. Its seal was engraven for its correspondence, the device 
of which was, a Negro in chains, kneeling with hands uplifted towards 
Heaven, and exclaiming " am I not a man and a brother ?" The com- 
munity of Friends came forward first, as a body, to acknowledge and 
approve this Committee. The general Baptists followed next. Then 
poured in letters of encouragement and promises of support from per- 
sons of every religious denomination ; Price, Wesley, Roscoe ; Bishops 
Porteus, Woodward, Home, and Bathurst; Paley, the celebrated La 
Fayette, Brissot and Claviere, noble friends of freedom, who lost their 
lives under the sanguinary tyranny of the monster Robespierre, joined 
their efforts. The good feeling now spread far and fast among all ranks 
and orders; so that in 1788, thirty-five petitions against the Slave 
Trade were presented to Parliament from different places. These pro- 
ceedings, together with the evident diminution of revenue occasioned by 
the abstinence from all West Indian products, to which multitudes had 
mutually pledged themselves, produced such an effect upon Govern- 
ment, that a Committee of the Privy Council was appointed to inquire 
into the nature of the Slave Trade. This inquiry continued through 
February, March, April, and part of May, of that year, when on 9th 
May, 1788, Wilberforce, who had prepared himself to bring the subject 
before Parliament, being so ill that his life was despaired of, Mr. Pitt, 
then Prime Minister, opened the business in the House of Commons, 
the effect of which was the passing of a motion to take the matter into 
consideration early in the next Session. On the 12th of May, 1789, 
Mr. Wilberforce addressed the House on this topic, with zealous and 
pathetic eloquence ; but such was the opposition offered by slave-dealers 



Cork Anti-Slavery Meeting. — Rev. Mr. Townsend. 85 

and proprietors, that the discussion was deferred to the next Session. 
In April of the year 1791, Mr. Wilberforce again exerted his strength 
and talents in this glorious cause, in the House of Commons, yet though 
supported by the splendid abilities of Pitt, Fox, Burke, Grey, Wind- 
ham, and Whitbread, his motion was lost, such was the opposition and 
influence exerted by ambition and self-interest. This disappointment 
did not, however, quell the spirit of the nation; for, in March, 1792, 
no fewer than 517 petitions lay on the table of the House of Commons, 
praying for the abolition of the Slave Trade. Year after year, Wilber- 
force renewed the glorious struggle, 'till in March, 1806, the great 
question was ushered again into Parliament, under the auspices of 
Grenville and Fox, who supported it with unrivalled powers of elo- 
quence; a modification of the original motion was then carried by a 
vast majority, — In the Session of 1807, the contest was renewed, and 
though death had carried oflf one of its ablest supporters — Fox — yet 
sustained by Grenville, Wilberforce, Romilly, Roscoe, and others, in 
the House of Commons; and by the Duke of Gloucester, Barrington, 
Bishop of Durham ; Lords Moira, Holland, and King, in the House of 
Lords, the question was at length triumphantly carried. On the 24th 
of March, 1807, it passed both Houses, and on the 25th it received the 
Royal Assent. Thus, after twenty years of hard struggle, during which 
the field had been disputed, inch by inch, and was at last by the arms of 
reason won, passed this important bill, the triumph of humanity over 
interest and ignorance. The Rev, Gentleman concluded by proposing 
the first resolution. 

Thei?ei;. Mr. Townsend seconded the'resolution, and addressed the 
meeting at some length — in the course of which he took occasion to 
say, that the foulest blot on the British Constitution was allowing 
slavery to exist in their dominions. He said their object was a christian 
object, and the Lord came on earth to abolish slavery; and though it 
might be said it was the chain of sin the Lord had broken, yet that ob- 
ject they could not attain unless they raised the slaves from their 
prostrate condition — gave them the benefit of education and particularly 
a scriptural education. The unfortunate slaves were even deprived of 
the right of the sabbath — Christianity could not shed her holy light 
upon them — every ray of hope was shut out, and they were kept down 
in gloomy darkness. The Reverend Gentleman said, in conclusion, 
there was a strong prejudice against them because persons mingled party 
feelings and their angry passions in the discussion of this subject. He 
hoped that for the future such would not be the case, and that they 
would remember the object in which they were engaged. 

Rev. James Daly,* in proposing the second resolution said,The honour 
of proposing this resolution has been conferred upon me; and I must 
say, I feel quite inadequate to the task of doing justice to its merits. 
We are met this day in a glorious cause — a cause in which all persons 
of every political and religious creed are engaged —namely the abolition 
of slavery. Every thing in my humble power shall be given to further 



* A Roman Catholic. 



86 Cork Anti-Slavery Meeting. — Rev^ J. Daly — Rev. Mr. Burnett. 

this great measure — (Hear, hear.) I shall not detahi you long, as you 
will hear other speakers of great and popular talents. But, Sir, I have 
one observation to make, and it arises from the resolution I hold in my 
hand ; it suggests to me that any laws enacted against liberty are both 
oppressive and arbitrary. We have authenticated evidence of the 
existence of a system of horrible slavery in our colonies — a system not 
justified, revolting to human nature, and against the well being of so- 
ciety. (Hear, hear.) Therefore, as a Christian Minister, I am happy 
to bear testimony to the zeal and alacrity manifested by this Society in 
such a cause. Our first exertions should be to free them. That done, 
to impart to them the blessings of religious instruction. As freemen 
they will better know how to appreciate the value of such a heavenly 
boon. If the proprietory in the colonies conceive right, they would 
perceive the benefits their interests would derive from free labour. 
Lately rescued from a state of political slavery, I feel its benefits, and 
though my chains were less galling than those of the African, I would 
wish to extend the blessings I enjoy, to every human being. (Cheers.) 
The Rev. Mr. Burnett* rose, and in a speech, of which the following 
is a faint outline, seconded the resolution. — Sir, in seconding this re- 
solution, I cannot say with others, that I have not been accustomed to 
address public meetings: for I have addressed other meetings from 
which many who have now joined us, have staid away. But, Sir, this 
is a meeting of a different description — a meeting of all churches, of 
different creeds, political antagonists of all descriptions and non- 
descriptions ; radicals and anti-radicals, (Laughter, and loud cries of 
hear, hear) — those glad of emancipation, and those who are sorry for 
it; and to see you. Sir, presiding in that chair gives me infinite plea- 
sure. {Hear, hear.) We are looking for emancipation — the emanci- 
pation of our fellow-beings from the fangs of ruthless oppressors ; and 
when I recollect the strange character of this assemblage, I observe a 
feature in it, which is, that in the limits of a free empire, and in the 19th 
century, we are assembled to inquire whether men are to be oppressed, 
or whether they are to be stolen ? (Hear, hear.) Shall such be allowed 
to continue ? (No, no.) The question was forgot to have been put 
sooner. Why not make the request with nations of common power to 
enable us to compel oppressors to surrender to the unfortunate Africans 
their rights and privileges, (Hear, hear.) Men may and do act with 
injustice towards each other ; all the world's history furnishes us with 
the fact. Like the waves of the ocean, agitated with tumultuous heav- 
ings, lifting some monster to the surface, and giving him power over 
others of the same species. (Loud cheers.) But the storm soon be- 
comes a settled calm. Restore to the planters their feelings, and com- 
pel them to sympathize with their fellow-men. Some of them are giddy 
with their elevation. If unjust power be necessary to support them, it 
may flow for a season with its own peculiar attribute ; but its potency 
will not last, and their own thunder will be sufficient to consume them. 
(Hear, hear.) I know of no moral right connected with oppression — 



A Presbyterian. 



Cork Anti-Slavery Meeting. — Rev. Mr. Burnett. 87 

climes or circumstances considered — such a right Heaven's moral ad- 
ministration denounces. Those raised even by the Deity itself to power 
have abused the trust. M^n has no moral right to oppress his brethren. 
The Planters talk of vested rights, and say you cannot touch them. If 
persons have investments, originally acquired by fraud, murder, and 
robbery, why they can boast of their association with banditti. We do 
not hear them talk of vested wrongs. — (No, no.) — Let the negro but 
speak his sentiments upon his wrongs, and troops are sent amongst 
them ; the whip and tortures applied ; and is it to such men we are to 
apply for the relief of the persecuted African. Speak to them, and they 
will say our slaves are well treated. — We are kind, tender, and affec- 
tionate to them. — They would despise the idea of leaving us. But when 
you refer to the state of the negro, and say he is unhappy — oh, no, he is 
sullen and vindictive, is the answer; they even go further, and tell you 
that by Revelation they are entitled to keep slaves. The Jews had slaves. 
Well, I shall meet them upon that, by saying that the Jews were the 
chosen people of the Lord, called for a particular purpose, instruments 
in his hands to punish and root out an idolatrous people, and the 
remnants of them were made slaves. (Hear, hear.) Can they pretend 
that they have a divine right for their tyranny upon these unfortunate 
people ? If we take the law of slavery as it existed amongst the Jews, 
we find it in the 21st Exodus, chap. 16 : — " And he that stealeth a 
man and selleth him, or if he be found in his pound, he shall surely 
be put to death." The moral law of Heaven is for all. {Hear, hear.) 
Having now shewn by the law of Moses, that they have no right to act, 
I give them the benefit of this characteristic of the New Testament — " Do 
unto others as you would be done by." — {Hear, hear.) But, in answer, 
they say if we give the slaves liberty, and send them home, they will be 
destroyed by cannibals. I, for myself, would, if in a state of slavery, 
prefer even the chance of being eat by cannibals, to dying by inches 
with tortures too horrible to dilate ■a^on.—( Cheers.) Why, then, 
should we apply to the colonists ? If we look for the manumission of 
the slaves, they say we affect their happiness. But we throw light upon 
them, and if the lightning should flash, and the thunder roll, we tell 
them to take the helm and steer the vessel. Let the planters abandon 
her, and she will find her way to port. (Cheers.) Sad and degraded 
must the slave be, who hugs his chains, and bends his obsequious knee 
to his oppressor. (Hear, hear.) We like to see the eagle chained 
upon a pedestal in a gentleman's garden, but I like to see him — the 
bird of Jove — wing his way to heaven, with all the ardour of his cha- 
racter, worthy of the emblem he was destined to represent. (Loud 
cheers.) There is something splendid about him. Pitt, Fox, Burke, 
Sheridan, Wilberforce, and Windham, have been arrayed in vain to ob- 
tain full and equal redress for the slaves. Shall we look to the Legisla- 
ture ? They will not interfere. No, they have sunk the Majesty of the 
British Senate. (Loud cheers.) Leaving the legislature, we turn to the 
great body of the people, to join us, and by their common energies, and 
with their assistance, the legislature will become strong; if the people 
withhold their cooperation, it becomes weak. (Hear, hear.) Africa 
looks to us. The people are the wheel by which the smaller springs are 



88 Cork Anti-Slavery Meeting. — Mr. Lane. 

moved ; and therefore let all the wheels of the gigantic machine be set 
in motion, and liberty to the captive is certain. (Cheers.) We have 
received promises, but promises will not do. — Spread your canvass to 
the wind, and whilst the breeze is stiff, make for the destined haven, 
(cheers,) our common triumph will be to achieve. (Loud cheers.) 

James Lane, Esq. was aware that it was not a little presumptuous in 
him to offer himself to the notice of the meeting, after the extraordinary 
display of eloquence with which they had been dehghted. The few 
words he should say would be more of a pecuniary or calculating nature 
than of a character to excite the feelings. The monopoly of the West 
India Planter was at present supported by a bounty of 5s. per cwt. on 
the exportation of refined sugar, which raised the price, in the whole 
consumption, £750,000 to £900,000 per annum ; (hear,) nearly £500 
to each of the 1800 planters, who form the proprietorship of the sugar 
estates in the West Indies. In order, avowedly, to encourage this dreadful 
system of wholesale murder, a large duty of 10s. a cwt. is also levied on 
sugars from all other parts of the world, from India, for instance — so that, 
in the whole, the consumer was taxed with a duty of more than Id. a lb.— 
imposed as premium on slave production, and in order to enable slave pro- 
prietors to reside in England in splendour and ease— fAear, hear,) — 
delegating to hirelings the care of their wretched slaves. (Applause.) 
What was the result of this policy ? Why, that in the very article of 
cotton, the nineteen- twentieths of the consumption of England was ob- 
tained from America — while, not 30 years ago, the one-tenth part of the 
cotton grown in Jamaica was not produced in the whole of the United 
States. (Hear, hear.) The American Planter resided on his planta- 
tions, and looked well to the condition and prosperity of his labourers ; 
not so the West India Planter — he delegated the superintendence of his 
estates to a merciless underling, and hence one cause of the almost 
annihilation of the produce of cotton in the West Indies. The mass of 
the West India population having no personal interest in the present 
state of things, rendered a large standing army necessary, at an expense 
to this country of two millions per annum, and the loss of 2000 soldiers, 
from the pestilence of the climate, while the East Indies paid the ex- 
pense of their own establishments, civil and military. (Hear, hear.) 
Indeed the inhabitants of the East Indies could not take our manufac- 
tures, as we could not import their raw material at a fair price ; and 
any one taking the trouble to calculate the extent of the negative evil 
alone, would best find it elucidated by reference to population. — Hin- 
doostan contained 70,000,000, and China 134,000,000; making 
204,000,000 human beings whom England was more or less shut out 
from commercial intercourse with, in consequence of the present state of 
policy regarding the produce of the West Indies. (Hear, hear.) Under 
a system of free trade Great Britain and Ireland may import all her 
cotton from India, in British ships, and on better terms than those on 
which it was now received. This would necessarily lead to the esta- 
blishment of a better system in the West, and be the immediate and 
obvious cause of extinguishing slavery there. O yes, a free trade with 
those countries would give full employment to our own wretched popu- 
lation — would exchange idleness, want and discontent, for industry, 



Cork Anti-Slavery Meeting.— Mr. J. Dabj—Rev. Mr. Beilly. 89 

comfort, and happiness. Our fine mill-streams, no\y wasting their 
efficacy, would give motion to numerous manufactories, and the produce 
of our soil would find ample demand from our unemployed population. 
It, therefore, only remains for me to lay before you, in the resolution 
I now submit, the impolicy, as regards our pecuniary interests, of this 
disgraceful and detestable system. (Cheers.) 

Mr. James Daly rose to second the resolution. He should not say 
a word if he were not satisfied that there were still sceptics as to the 
doctrine of free trade. Some time ago England was fearful, in the 
event of the removal of restrictions from the article of wool, that the ex- 
istence of the trade would be at an end. But look at the result : the 
restrictions are removed, and the operations in the trade have become 
tripled— aye, quadrupled. Some West India Planters argue that the 
removal of slavery in those islands would be peculiarly injurious to Ire- 
land, inasmuch as the provision trade therewith would be destroyed. 
Granted ; and if the West Indies were sunk in the ocean, England 
would be infinitely bettered ; the protecting duty of 1 Os. per cwt. on sugar 
would be at an end ; the new and vast — unlimited — sources would be 
opened in the East. An interchange of our manufactures and produc- 
tions for Iheir commodities would be effected, and Ireland be once more 
in a position to consume her own beef and butter. (Cheers.) Mr-. 
Daly concluded by expressing a hope that, ere long, he should see 
England and Ireland concentrated in one general effort for the manu- 
mission of the wretched slaves in the West Indies. 

Reuben Harvey, Esq. moved the fourth resolution. He professed 
himself to be unaccustomed to address public assemblies. However, in. 
a few words he should say that he abhorred slavery in any shape, and 
that it was high time for the colonists (it was for their interests,) that 
free labour was substituted far slavery. (Applause.) 

The Rev. Mr. Reilly spoke as follows — Mr. Chairman — It is not 
necessary for me to read this resolution, which I have been called upon 
to second, as you have just heard it from the excellent and respected 
friend who has proposed it. It is, I conceive, a subject of uncommoii 
weight and magnitude, and demands our particular attention. The un- 
usual interest which has been excited on this great occasion by the elo- 
quent appeal of the learned and Rev. Gentleman who has preceded me, 
renders it unnecessary for me to occupy your attention by any lengthened 
observations. But it were not justice to my own feelings to give this 
subject my mere silent support. We need not. Sir, view the question^ 
whether there can be any right by which one part of the human family 
may enslave another — whether the body, the mind and liberties of men 
should be matters of traffic. There is an instinctive resistance in the 
mind of man to slavery, as a violation of common rights. But to those 
who have been accustomed to cherish principles of liberty it must be 
viewed as a crime of the greatest enormity. The minds of the unhappy 
slaves are enthralled and debased, and they are debarred of every oppor- 
tunity of illumination and improvement by their heartless and cruel 
tyrants. Every thing connected with man's soul is inconceivably im- 
portant by its alliance with immortality and a future world. What is 
even the eagle's flight, rising from his native rock, and soaring in that 



90 Cork Anti-Slavery Meeting. — Rev. Mr. Reilly — Rev. T. England, 

flight till lost in the clouds of heaven? (Cheers.) What is this to the 
mind of man ? It can wing' a bolder flight and rise above creation itself, 
and contemplate the nature and perfections of him who made us, 
(Cheers.) The resolution tells me that it is in vain to look to the 
colonist for ameliorating the treatment of their slaves. No, Sir, interest 
and avarice are against our cherishing such an expectation. I am glad 
to find that there is a Ladies' Society connected with us — for they are 
capable of great things — their hearts are full of the milk of human kind- 
ness. {Hear.) They never hear a tale of woe that it does not wring 
their bosoms, and cause the tear of pity to flow from the eye. Where is 
the mother and daughter who are not affected at such tales of woe as 
those to which we have adverted ? A doubt has been thrown out by 
some speaker as to the probability of succeeding with the British legis- 
lature at present. To the British public we look for this ; they must 
express their sentiments of horror at this abominable system, and they 
will be heard, and will ultimately wipe this foul reproach fro-m the Bri- 
tish nation. Some think it a hopeless, enthusiastic attempt. So 
thought many as to the abolition of the slave trade, when Clarkson ex- 
hibited the materials of this system, and Wilberforce and his coadjutors 
brought the claims of injured Africa before the British Senate. Con- 
tinue to petition and you will succeed. Enthusiasm! be it so, No 
great or good purpose was ever effected without enthusiasm. The 
Rev. Gentleman here read extracts of the manner in which slaves were 
cruelly and ruthlessly dealt with, and concluded by seconding the re- 
solution. 

Rev. Thomas R. England begged to claim attention for a moment. 
Frequently as he had addressed public assemblies, it never fell to his 
happy lot to speak before so peculiarly interesting a meeting as the pre- 
sent. {Hear, hear.) Here there was a commingling of all creeds and 
politics, having for their grand object the freedom of their fellow man. 
{Hear, hear.) They were told that all partaking of, and subject to, the 
British Constituiion, were free and unshackled; — yet was there one spot 
within the dominion of England, where bloody slavery, attended with 
all its frightful train of evils, was permitted to lift its monster head. 
{Cheers.) To cfi'ect the abolition of that which made his blood boil — 
of that which made masters tyrants — of that which subjected the un- 
happy, uncomplaining negro to the hot burning sun of a tropical climate, 
rendered him subject to the capricious cruelties of hirelings^debased 
his mind — and bound down his body — the extinction of that hell-born 
system would be a more glorious triumph than even that at the Nile or 
Waterloo. {Cheers.) Any attempt at information was repressed by 
the planter. To speak of religion — of a better world — of a glorious 
futurity, the slave understood not the terms — or if he did yield willing 
ears, his hard task-master prevented the good work from being pursued. 
A gentleman who travelled through part of the West Indies a few 
months since, overtook, one day, a pair of slaves apparently of more 
than ordinary interest. They were chained together. Who are these ? 
inquired the gentleman. Father and son, was the reply. Why chain 
them? — Because, said the keeper, they were sold yesterday, and if I 
I oose them, the young man, who is only just married, and has to be sent 



Gork Anti-Slavery Meeting. — Rev. T. England —Mr. R. Doivden. 91 

500 miles to his new purchctser, would escape to his family ! — Oh ! yes, 
continued the Rev. Gentleman, they chained the body, but could not 
the affections. (Cheej^s.) It has been often my lot to visit the wretched 
criminal, just sentenced, for the murder of his fellow-man, in order to 
afford religious consolation to him; he who was on the morrow to ex- 
piate his life on the scaffold. But I once witnessed a scene that will 
UBver be effaced from my memory. One day, I was sent for to visit a 
sailor who was approaching fast to his eternal account. On my speak- 
ing to him of repentance, he looked sullen, and turned from me in the 
bed; — of a great God, he was silent; — of the mercy of that God, and 
he burst into tears. Oh, said he, I can never expect mercy from God. 
I was ten years on board a slave ship, and there superintended the cruel 
death of many a sick slave. Many a time amid the screams of kindred, 
has the sick mother — father — and new born babe, been wound up in 
canvass and remorselessly thrown overboard. Now their screams haunt 
me, night and day, and I have no peace, and expect no mercy. He 
soon died, I hope pardoned, but he afforded me little evidence of it. 
Mr, Richard Dowden in rising to second the resolution, was deeply 
affected by the impressive speech of Mr. England ; after a few moments 
pause, he thus proceeded. Rising under the strong influence of a 
feeling, which I share in common with this large and respectable as- 
sembly, 1 feel incapable of adding to the force of the reasoning, or of 
increasing the universality of the sympathy which has already con- 
vinced and moved the auditory present. Yet, Sir, having spoken 
in public on other subjects, 1 should almost feel myself a traitor to this 
great cause — this cause of good policy, liberty, and humanity, if I did 
not, even at the risk of exciting but little additional interest, give at least 
my good-will and voice, however feeble, on this day — This resolution. 
Sir, pledges the meeting to petition the legislature to use its constitu- 
tional power of interference to redeem the British name of tolerating the 
the system of Slavery. (Hear, hear) Sir, we believe that what we 
ask the legislature to do is constitutional, if, indeed, we have any notion 
of what constitutional acts imply ; they are acts which tend to the bene- 
fit of the constitution, of the greater proportion of the persons governed 
by the laws which are the foundation of our constitution. Now, it has 
been clearly proved here to day, that the legislatures of the West India 
Islands make laws, not for the benefit of the many, but for what they, 
in their stupidity, deem the interest of the few. This, Sir, is in direct 
and flagrant opposition to every theory of good government; and as 
these Islanders hold a delegated authority under the British Govern- 
ment, it is not to be endured that these provinces of Great Britain should 
be allowed to exert a tyranny, which the legislature of the parent coun- 
try, the fountain of provincial power, would not dare to inflict. The 
legislature of Great Britain is called on, therefore, to come between 
the oppressor and the oppressed. What, if it were true that the slave 
was unconscious of his chains ; yet we are conscious of them, and we 
are participators in the tyranny, if we tamely endure it. (Cheers.) — 
Mr. Chairman, nearly all the sophisms which interested ingenuity has 
invented to blind the eyes of justice have been answered, and never more 
perfectly than to day ; but, Sir, one which was omitted, has occurred 



92 Cork Anti-Slavery Meeting. — Mr. R. Dowden. 

lo me, and it has been used to prevent the humane man from feeling his 
fellow-creature's sufferings ; it is this, that the slave-owner M'ill be kind 
to his slave for his own interest. This is a false argument among our- 
selves. We know that a wise self-interest would save us from a thou- 
sand crimes ; yet have we not often seen passion too much for self-in- 
terest ? Any one who has seen a proprietor of horses maim a noble 
animal for faihng in the race, or baulking at a leap, can judge how in- 
efficient a safe-guard for the slaves must be even the base selfishness of 
the planters. Sir, even the wretched security of cupidity is ineffectual, 
and every day's intelligence from the West Indies proves that the love of 
power holds a bad and barbarous superiority over the love of riches,. 
We cannot believe then in the guarantee of the apologist for the planters; 
but must secure the black inhabitants of the islands from the ferocity of 
their masters, and the masters themselves from the excesses which a 
depraved state of society sanctions and countenances. It is our duty, 
and our interest to teach those ignorant and obdurate men their duty to 
themselves and their fellow men. The legislature of the empire must 
act on them as on an outward conscience, and force justice by a noble 
violence upon those who would resist it. (Cheers.) This resolution 
calls on you to petition. In proceeding to perform any work, it is 
proper to look to the materials for working; it is quite consistent con- 
sequently to look to the pecuniary capabilities of this society. It ap- 
pears that there is a balance due to the Treasurer. The proceedings on 
this day will be attended with some expense. Come forward, then, in 
aid of our exertions ; do not be mere listeners to speeches ; but be as- 
sisting our work ; the subscription of 5s. per annum is small ; yet it is 
all we require from the friends of our cause. Do you want a motive for 
laying out this trifle in procuring justice for the negro ? Has the corn* 
mercial interest of your country no claim on you ? Has the great prin- 
ciple of justice no demand for your countenance? I asked a respectable 
merchant the other day to subscribe to this society ; he said he rejoiced 
to do so " for he was zealous to abolish from the world every nest of 
slavery to be hatched in, and tyranny, petty or great, to plume itself 
on." Will you emulate Wilberforce ? Would yoa bear the honours of 
Buxton and of Romilly? Do your best in this cause; it was all they 
did, and every hearer of their names may imitate their virtues. Have 
you all heard of Howard in vain ? Where is his name embalmed that 
all society may honour it ? Amidst the mild glories of benevolence it is 
held up to our view; and what is the mere warrior's fame or the more po- 
litician's honours to those of him who broke in upon the darkness and 
terror of the dungeon, who visited the prisoner, and mitigated the misery 
of him who had none to help him ? Would you emulate Howard? I tell 
you the West Indies are one great prison house, and that not for the 
criminal but the innocent. (Cheers.) Be Howards, every one of you in 
this cause, and if this virtue be so general as to divide your fame it will 
as universally attend the happy feeling which doing good can ever bestow. 
(Applause.) Mr, Chairman, far be it from me to drag the female name 
from its natural retirement, or to call up the blushes of the softer sex, by 
fixing the public attention on them too strongly in this crowded meet- 
ing ; yet if I may appeal for aid to thai throne of all the sympathies — a 



Cork Anti-Slavery Meeting. — Mr. R. Dowden — Mr. O'Connell. 93 

woman's heart — let me here tell them that the fair hand of charity will 
never be more white while the damning spot of slavery remains to stain 
it. {Cheers.) To that sex then, who are alive to all the charities of life, 
1 appeal, and call on them to come forward and hold up the arms of the 
warriors in this fight, and they may be assured that among their sweetest 
recollections will be found the memory of what they have done to relieve 
their fellow creatures; nay, it is not too much to say that such deeds 
will not be the least bright among the gems which we hope will one day 
adorn the crown of those who obtain mercy, because they were merciful. 
{Great cheering.) Mr. Chairman, it is needless tO detain you much 
longer. It is not necessary to enforce the avowed convictions of the 
meeting, and all I arose to ask was, that they should not be inefficient 
convictions ; that you should enable us to petition, and thus to express 
your sentiments and your anxieties. Shew that you are sensitive under 
your responsibility, that the crime of neutrality is your scorn, that you 
fear to know what is right and not to do it ; that you are bold enough 
to encounter with generous feelings and generous deeds, the scowl of the 
selfish and the sneer of the heartless, and to secure to yourself a praise 
which they can neither know nor understand. I conclude by seconding 
the fifth resolution ; {Reiterated cheers.) and the Petition having been 
read, 

Mr. O'Connell, M. P. rose, and was received with loud applause. 
— Mr. Chairman, I move that the petition now read be adopted by the 
meeting, and if they agree to adopt it, they shall not want a person to 
present it. — (Loud cries of hear, hear.) — I solicit the high honour of 
receiving it. In the estimate of my own pretensions and abilities, I shall 
say I bring zeal and perseverance to the cause. I may have some per- 
sonal vanity in saying so, but you must not take my partial estimate. If 
you intrust me with this petition to present, I cannot be temperate upon 
it. I must be intemperate ; it is for liberty or slavery ; therefore, I have 
but one choice, and must be intemperate for liberty. — (Laughter, and 
hear, hear.) — I cannot adopt a partial abolition, for tyranny is a crime. 
Slavery is an offence, and therefore I shall offer no compromise upon 
the subject. The West India slaves are men, sprung from the hands of 
the Great Creator of the universe as well as we are — have the same 
helplessness of infancy — the same wants, and redeemed by the same 
precious blood that was shed for us. — (Loud cries of hear, hear.) — The 
man who debars another from his rights, and deprives him of his 
liberty, is an atrocious criminal. — (Loud cheers.) But I shall take any 
instalment that may be offered ; ours is a just demand ; like a man to 
whom a debt is due, and who is offered 5s. in the pound, and who takes 
the offer, and then demands the remainder. The surest way to get a 
part is to demand the whole at first. — I will call upon the House to put 
an end to slavery ; but, though we wish for the abolition of slavery, still 
it should take place by degrees, not instantaneously. The sudden tran- 
sition from the rack to the enjoyment of liberty, may be shuddered at; 
for liberty is sometimes licentious. — Our object is utility not annihila- 
tion ; but, if in the general regeneration of the blacks, a resistance may 
be made by the few whites, who would still wish to lord it over the re- 
generated slave — why, painful as would be the alternative to me if blood 
should be shed, I would prefer the happiness and freedom of the many 



94 Cork Anti'Slavery Society. — Mr. O'Connell. 

to the lives of the few. It is an awful choice to make; but under such 
circumstances I would make it. Give me the blacks. (Loud cheers.) 
To expect any thing from West India Planters is absurd. To this hour, 
in their courts of justice, composed of whites, they would not take the 
oath of a black; would not allow him as a witness ; what horrible in- 
justice! I would confide nothing, nor expect any thing from their feel- 
ings. The Legislature must act. We can carry it only by the British 
Parliament. Let them refuse but for one Session to vote money for the 
subsistence of an army there ; let them refuse to send the youthful and 
the brave soldiers from the heaths of Ireland — from its hills and valleys 
— to an early and an unhonoured grave in the mephitic dews and 
swamps of the West Indies ; refuse a tax upon other sugar, and then 
slavery will be at an end, and the blood-stained tyrant becomes impo- 
tent. (Loud cheers.) The West Indies is a source of national poverty 
and wealth. We are at an immeasurable expense in its support. It is 
a horrible cancer in the side of Great Britain — (hear, hear) — horrible 
in the sight of Man and God — the destruction of all moral and religious 
ties. If the Legislature does not act, are we not citizens of the world ? 
Have we not duties to perform ? — What we say, the Press, that mighty 
engine, will convey with the winds of Heaven, beyond these narrow 
walls, and the sea-girt limits of our Island. (Loud cheers.) — The 
English language is spoken every where. It is understood from the 
banks of the Ganges to the Western Hemisphere ; to the banks of the 
Missouri and the Mississipi. It shall convey a moral lesson to the 
world. I speak of liberty in commendation. Patriotism is a virtue, but 
it can be selfish. Give me the great and immortal Bolivar, the saviour 
and regenerator of his country ; he found her a province, and he has 
made her a nation ; the first act of his was to give freedom to the slaves 
upon his own estate. — (Hear, hear.) — In Columbia, all casts, and all 
colours are free and unshackled ; but how I like to contrast him with 
the far-famed Northern heroes. George Washington ! that great and 
enlightened character — the soldier and the statesman, had but one blot 
upon his character. He had slaves, and he gave them liberty when he 
wanted them no longer — (loud cheers.) — Let America, in the fulness of 
her pride, wave on high her banner of freedom and its blazing stars. I 
point to her, and say, there is one foul blot upon it — " You have Negro 
Slavery." — They may compare their struggles for freedom to Marathon 
and Leuctra, and point to the rifleman with his gun, amidst her woods 
and forests, shouting for liberty and America. In the midst of their 
laughter and their pride, I point to them the negro children, screaming 
for the mother, from whose bosom they have been torn. America, it is 
a foul stain upon your character. — (Cheers.) — Certainly, the Northern 
States have washed away the stain in the tears of charity. Vermont, 
Pennsylvania, and several of the other States, have abolished Slavery.— 
But in Maryland, Georgia, and Virginia, the horrible system is still 
kept up. (Hear, hear.) This conduct, kept up by men who had 
themselves to struggle for freedom, is doubly unjust. Let them hoist 
the flag of liberty with the whip and rack on one side, and the star of 
freedom upon the other. The Americans are a sensitive people ; in 
fifty-four years they have increased their population from three millions 
to twenty millions; they have many glories that surround them, but 



Cork Anti- Slavery Society. — Mr. O'Corinell. 95 

their beams are partly shorn, for they have slaves. (Cheers.) Their 
hearts do not beat so strong for liberty as mine. She excuses her con- 
duct, and refers to the British and West India Islands. Nothing-, they 
say, can be wrong, because it is British. (Cries of hear, hear.) When 
I was a boy the gentlemen had a habit of flogging the peasants in Ire- 
land. But they have now given up the practice ! (Hear and laughter.) 
I recollect an argument being urged that the slaves in the West Indies 
were better treated and fed than the peasants in Ireland. With that I 
cannot agree. The peasant has the heath to recline upon ; he has the 
mountain, with its lively stream, and he returns to his humble hut as to 
some genial clime, and indulges his filial and paternal affections amidst 
his family, not the le?s concentrated, for being poor — (hear, hear.) I 
have this day listened with delight, and with heartfelt pleasure, to the 
Rev. Gentleman (Mr. Burnett) who addressed you. His lion genius, 
superior to all — the mild language of the Gospel flowing from his lips 
— will be echoed by many. (Loud cheers.) We meet no more on 
points of repulsion ; but meet now in better feelings, those of kindness 
and christian charity. (Loud and repeated cheering.) Men in this 
lovely island shall no longer be opposed to each other, but union and 
harmony shall blaze over our mountains and our glens. (Repeated 
cheers.) The struggle is forgotten ; the advantages are manifest. In 
the cause for which we are met I consider myself not the representative 
of one but of all. — (Hear.) — I will call for justice, in the name of the 
living God, and I shall find an echo in the breast of every human being. 
(Cheers.) If we cannot obtain all, we must v/atch the current that wafts 
the bark to the harbour of liberty and universal freedom. (Hear, hear.) 
You cannot restrain the cupidity of the West India planter. He is ex- 
travagant — but when he wants money, or the market may be hurried on 
any emergency, the lash is applied, and, if necessary, he increases his 
wealth by killing the negro with hard labour. (Hear, hear.) The 
state of the West Indies is miserable. Human cupidity gives way to 
human passion. — Man is not fit for unshackled and uncontrolled power. 
It corrupts the human heart ; it is the wild inebriation of passion; and 
the poor slave must be the victim. The day, I trust, is about to 
come. I Vt'ill call the star of New York, in 1825, to my recollection ; 
and, in 1830, I trust that all born within the allegiance of the British 
King, shall be free — (cheers.) — not by a revolution. A revolution is a 
volcano, which though some salutary effects may result from it, sweeps 
in its destructive progress, arts, sciences, beauty, and strength, old age 
and helplessness. Give me, continued the Honourable and Learned 
Gentleman, with considerable feeling, give me no revolution any where; 
the extent of improvement is abroad, and let us ask like men — 
religious improvement amongst all classes is rapidly advancing. — 
(Cheers.) That cannot be in the West Indies; — where the Missionary 
of the Gospel — the martyr to his duty — (Mr. Smith) fell a victim to 
their tyranny, and for what ? Why, because he endeavoured to in- 
culcate the principles of religion and morality amongst the benighted 
negroes — His blood remaining upon the earth, unrequited and unre- 
venged. I see you anticipate whom I mean ; the colonists treat the 
communications of government with contempt; look to the official 
correspondence between the Colonial Secretary and their Executive, 



96 Cork Anti-Slavery Society. — Mr. O'Connell, Sfc. 

and you will see the fact. On the continent of South America, Mr. 
Power, a gentleman from this city, has a portion of property, and inha- 
bited by descendants from the old possessors, he has made them free 
and happy. Let us then struggle for these unhappy beings, and I shall 
be ever ready to obey your call in advocating their claims. You have 
made me ambitious of your approbation, but I must say that for myself 
I have no ambition. I trust that we shall all deserve well from 
humanity by this day's work. {Loud and long continued applause.') 

Francis B. Beamish, Esq. seconded the motion, which passed. 

Mr. Burnett again rose and said, the learned Gentleman who had 
so eloquently addressed them has said it will be his first act in parlia- 
ment to present our petition, if it be intrusted to him ; and without 
disrespect to our city or county members, I say we ought to intrust 
the petition to the Hon. Gentleman. No other member of parliament 
had come amongst us — and, as Mr. O'Connell offers his services, we 
will accept them. Mr. O'Connell stated his sentiments upon the sub- 
ject, and said that the principles contained in the petition are his ; let 
us then trust him and if he deserts those principles, we know how to 
deal with him. 

The motion was carried by acclamation. 

Mr. O'Connell said he was greatly honoured, and would make the 
Cork Petition the occasion of his first effort in Parliament. 

Mr. Beale, said he never heard any thing go so far to satisfy him 
that his principles were correct as this day's proceedings. 

Mr. Boyle, then moved a resolution of thanks to the Chairman, 
which received a unanimous shout of concurrence. 



III. — Free Trade to India and China. 

On the 15th of September last, a meeting took place at Liverpool, 
Mr. Cropper in the Chair, at which Mr. Whitmore the member for 
Bridgenorth attended, and made a most able, luminous, and convincing 
speech, which was followed by several others, including Messrs. Cropper, 
Alston, RadclifFe, Lytham, Ralhbone, Grant, Rushton, E. Roscoe, D. 
Hodgson, and Garnet, and we only regret we cannot report them as 
fully as those which a fortnight before were delivered at Cork. 

IV. — Westminster Review. 

We have great pleasure in mentioning that the Westminster Review 
has taken a decided part on the question of Slavery ; and that, in the 
October Number of that Work, the West Indian System is attacked 
with great force of reasoning and vivacity of style. With the ready 
concurrence of the conductors of that able work, the article will in a 
few days be published, separately, in a cheap form. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be forwarded to any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity, on application 
at the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury. Single Copies may be had of 
all booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Irf. per half-sheet of eight pages. 



A Supplement to the present Number will appear in a few days. 
London : Basster and Thonis, Pi inters, 14, Bartliolomew Close, 



SUPPLEMENT 

TO THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY MONTHLY REPORTER, 

FOR OCTOBER, 1829, No. 53. 



I. OBSERVATIONS ON THE PRESENT STATE OF THE ANTI- 
SLAVERY CAUSE. 
II. EXTRACT FROM THE EDINBURGH REVIEW OF OCTOBER 

1824, p. 464-. 
111. EXTRACT FROM THE WESTMINSTER REVIEW OF OCTOBER 
1829. 

(Being a transcript of a Pamphlet just published, entitled, " The Death Warrant 
of Negro Slavery throughout the British Dominions.") 



I. Observations on the present State of the Anti-Slavery 

Cause. 

The title we have given to the present pamphlet will possibly sur- 
prise some of our readers, departing as it does from the mea- 
sured tone we have usually employed. But let them not sup- 
pose that this altered tone indicates any change of character or 
purpose. The change is not in us, but in the circumstances in 
which we stand ; and the eflPect of these circumstances a very 
few words will suffice to explain. 

A year ago, we were far from sanguine in our expectations of 
an early extinction of Slavery. On the contrary, our hopes were 
low. They have risen since that time ; and therefore we feel it 
incumbent on us, as honest men, to avow the change without 
reserve or hesitation. We are looking forward, we admit, at the 
present moment, to a much earlier, and, through the Divine 
favour, a more auspicious, termination of our labours, than we 
ventured to anticipate twelve months ago. 

Do any of our readers wish to know the grounds of this revo- 
lution in our views? We will give them without reserve. The 
change has been slow, gradual, and progressive. But the result 
is, that, instead of our previous despondency (the fruit of those 
blighted hopes that sicken the heart); we now entertain a con- 
fidence, — which, we trust to shew, is sober, rational, and justi- 
fiable, — of early, final, and complete success. 

1. To those who take an interest in the question, and who 
have followed its progress for some years past, as it may be traced 
in the pages of the Anti-Slavery Reporter — (and it is only such 
whom we can expect either to ask, or to listen to our reasons) — 
we would say, in the first place ; Look back to the following 

o 



98 Observations on the present State of the Anti-Slavery Cause. 

Numbers of that work : namely, No. XL., XLL, XLII., XLIIL, 
XLIV. and its Supplement, No. XLV., XLVL, XLVII., 
XLVIIL, XLIX., L., LI., Ln.,and LIIL ; making in all about 
twenty Numbers. — Of these, however, it would be necessary to 
read not more than about two hundred pages of letter-press, at 
the expense of about five or six hours of time at the utmost ; — 
a sacrifice which, on such a subject, those who feel an interest in 
it will not be unwilling to incur. They will then be in a capacity 
to understand the indications to which we shall now point. 

By referring, in the first place, on the subject of Sugar Duties, to 
No. XLIX. p. 15; No. LI. pp. 36—38 ; No. LII. pp. 78—80; and 
to the whole of No. LII I. it will be seen that the state of our 
prospects, and the concurrent improvement of public feeling and 
effort, are most materially, and even radically, altered on that vital 
part of our whole case ; we mean, the Slave-holders' monopoly; the 
paupers' fund for sugar planters ; and the absolute and universal 
freedom of trade, which, of itself, must prove the death of Slavery. 

By referring, in the second place, to No. XLIIL pp. 341, 350, 
354, 362, 367—370 ; to No. XLVII. pp. 462—468 ; to No. XLIX. 
pp. 1, 10, 15, 30, 31 ; to No. LII. pp. 53—58, 61,r 64, and 70—74, 
no one can fail to perceive such an altered tone in those whose 
Jiat would of itself, even if public opinion were silent, decide 
the question ; that he must feel that, when they shall be duly 
aided and supported and urged forward by it, no more doubt 
can be entertained of their success, than we can doubt, that six 
months ago — in the face of difficulties infinitely more insur- 
mountable ; and an opposition very far more formidable, than 
can now be apprehended — an emancipation was achieved of ten 
times the extent and difficulty of that now sought for. 

Out of Parliament at least, the numerical amount of the op- 
ponents in the former case, as compared with the present, must 
have been ten thousand to one ; while the object to be gained, 
involved interests at least twenty times more important and vital ; 
big, in the apprehensions of milhons, with the most dangerous 
and disastrous consequences ; and yet presenting to the eye of 
the national conscience not half the heart-stirring obligations to 
prompt and energetic decision, which the present case involves. 

Government and Parliament are called, not to expunge from 
the statute-book some enactments of dubious policy, about which 
good men have differed, and do now differ. But they are called 
to put down a crime, which has lost nothing of its original 
malignity by the lapse of ages ; but has become more highly 
aggravated in its guilt by the light recently poured upon it. A 
crime, did we say ? — Nay, a series, and complication of crimes — 
proceeding daily and hourly before our eyes, — in the name and 
under the authority of the British Sovereign ; supported by his 
troops, and paid for by the money of his people ; — a series of 



Observations on the present State oj the Anti-Slavery Cause. 99 

crimes, any one of which, if perpetrated in this country, would 
call for the gibbet and the executioner to do their duty on the 
felons and murderers whom we are at this very moment pro- 
tecting and cherishing. 

But, thirdly, we would refer our readers to another series of 
passages in the same Reporter, which seem, in the actual infatu- 
ation of the defenders of this bloody and atrocious system, suffi- 
ciently to prove our position. The precursor of dissolution has 
already appeared. 

Quem Deus vult perdere prius dementat. 
The throes of approaching death are already on its victim, 
whose faltering speech and erring intellect seem to mark him 
as no longer an efficient and living member of the body politic. 

What are the symptoms ? Look only at the documents which 
the upholders and defenders of this mass of abomination have 
themselves supplied to the public, in their own unhappy case. 
Look back only for twelve or fifteen months. We will take no 
wider retrospect. 

First, let us take individuals. 

There is Lord Seaford ; in all other points a man of sense and 
discernment; see him approach this subject !* Look next at 
Sir R. Farquharf ; Sir R. Woodford;];; Governor Grant §; 
General Nicolay || ; Sir C. Brisbane^; Sir Lowry Cole**; 
Mr. Irving; and Mr. H. Gurney; MM.P.ff; and, lastly, at 
Col. Young of Demerara, Protector of Slaves \%% 

Look next at larger bodies of men : — at legislatures — nay, 
at whole communities of slave-holders. A few examples will 
suffice. 

Look at the island of Jamaica, with Mr. Barret as their organ §§ ; 
— at the Bahamas, with their governor at their head |{|| ; — at Ber- 
muda^^ ; at Nevis*** ; at Grenada fff. Look, again, at the 
planters of St. Lucia %%% ; of Berbice §§§ ; of the Mauritius |||||| : — 
Nay, look at the collective wisdom of the whole West-India body, 
as exemplified in its writings which have recently appeared in 

* Anti-Slavery Reporter, vol. ii. No. XL. pp. 291—308. 
t Ibid. Nos. XLII. XLIX. L. and LI. % Ibid. No. XLITI. pp. 353, 354. 
§ Ibid. p. 345 ; and No. XLVII. p. 462—468. 
II Ibid. vol. iii. No. LII. pp. 66, 67. 
^ Ibid. pp. 75—77. 

** Ibid. No. XLIII. p. 367 ; and vol. iii. No. LI. pp. 45—49. 
tt Ibid. No. XLIX. pp. 5, 7. W Ibid. vol. ii. No. XLIII. pp. 355—358. 

§§ Ibid. vol. li. No. XLIII. pp. 341—345 ; and p. 370. 
nil Ibid. vol. iii. No. LII. p. 64. HH Ibid. vol. iii. No. LII. p. 65. 

*** Ibid. vol. iii. No. LII. p. 73. ttt Ibid. p. 67. 

X\X Ibid. vol. ii. No. XLIII. p. 354. 
§§§ Ibid. pp. 359—367. 

mill Ibid. No. XLII. ; and No. XLIII. p. 367 ; and No. XLIV.; and vol. iii. 
No. LI. pp.39— 52, 



loo Observations on the present State of the Anti- Slavery Cause. 

this very city*. And, as if there were no exception to the in- 
fluence of this contagious infatuation, wherever slavery enters 
as an element; look, in the last place, to the many excellent 
men who compose the governors of the Christian societies for 
converting the Negro Slaves, and for propagating the Gospel 
in Foreijrn Parts. And we shall see even these venerated indi- 
viduals, when they come m contact with the Antilles, at once 
yielding up, to their Creole or Creolized agents, the keeping, as 
it were, of their consciences, and the guidance and controul of 
their reason ; and ranging themselves unwittingly on the side of 
falsehood, imposture, irreligion, and impiety -f. 

What can we say to all this ? Only what we have said. Of 
a system so supported, and producing such fruits, what can any 
man in his senses say, — who has read the book either of common 
sense, or of experience, or of Scripture ; — but that, in the lan- 
guage of an ancient writer, it " decayeth and waxeth old, and 
is ready to vanish away?" (Heb. viii. 13). 

This is our first reason. Our remaining reasons will not 
occupy an equal space. 

2. The second reason is, the manifest and unquestionable 
change which has taken place in the feelings and sympathies of 
the community. We will not look back with recollections which 
might tend to check the nascent zeal of the day, or to prevent 
those from joining us of whom we had long hoped better things; 
and who, though they ought to have been the first, have been 
among the last, (the most lukewarm and sluggish), in a cause 
where the duty of all who profess to love their Saviour, and to 
love their fellow-men without distinction of chme or colour as 
his and their brethren, and for his sake, yet have not done what 
they could or ought — to prove the sincerity of that profession. — 
But better times, we trust, are approaching ; and we perceive, 
among some to whom we now allude, (of every name), a growing 
desire to redeem the time they have wasted in listening to vain and 
groundless fears and scruples and objections, wholly forgetful of 
their allegiance to Him of whom they boast as their rightful 
Lord ; but whose cause they have hitherto deserted. 

3. At length, however, — after the endurance of two centuries 
of crime and blood ; of torture inflicted under British authority; 
of broken hearts ; of wasted lives ; of coldness and indiiference 
to every claim of humanity and justice ; — we are now, as it were, 
starting from the sleep, or rather dream, of our own fancied good- 
ness, and are reminded by conscience, that we have been wanting 
to the strongest obligations of heaven and earth, and are our- 

* Anti-Slavery Reporter, vol. ii. No. XLV. p. 432 ; and No. XLVI. p. 441— 
444; andvol.iii. No.L. pp. 24— 30; and No. LI. pp. 33— 35. 

t Ibid. vol. ii. No. XLI.; Supplement to No. XLIV. ; No. XLV." pp. 420— 
427 ; No. XLVII. pp. 455—462 ; and No. XLVIII. pp. 469—438. 



Observations on the present State of' the Anil- Slavery Cause. 101 

selves partakers in the foul crimes that have novf been denounced ; 
while we have been cherishing the idea of our spotless innocence 
and exemplary benevolence; of our religious light and of Christian 
perfection. The delusion, we trust, is at an end, and is dis- 
sipated for ever. In fact, we are, ourselves, as a nation, now on 
our defence, at a higher bar than that of man or of public 
opinion. — This is felt, and we trust will be felt, more and more 
every day that God spares us to prepare for our own great audit ; 
and to account to him for our wasted opportunities of good. 

4. But, in the fourth place, Ireland is now alive to her obliga- 
tions, and has added seven millions to our ranks. They claim for 
the Negro race an emancipation, to which they shew themselves 
to be well entitled, by considering it as the first duty of grateful 
hearts to labour to impart to others the blessings of which they 
themselves have newly tasted. Ireland has not shared in our guilt ; 
but she desires to assist in delivering us from its pollution and its 
punishment ; and has begun the work of petitioning, which, we 
may hope, will, in this case, soon produce similar effects to those 
which have now enabled her to buckle on her armour, and to raise 
her voice, (without one dissenting or discordant note fro-m Epi- 
scopalians, Catholics, Presbyterians, Emancipatists, and Non- 
emancipatists), in favour of mercy, and humanity, and equal 
justice. 

5. Nor is England without its parallel on a smaller scale. All, 
who know any thing of the subject, know, that one of the most 
effective and mischievous props of the system of West-India 
Slavery, was the Quarterly Review. It had attained a demi- 
official character ; and knew how, with an unhappy dexterity, 
to convert the influence thence derived to the purposes of the 
party to which it belonged. For two or three years, it carried 
on a too successful warfare against truth and justice and human- 
ity and honour ; cheered on by the shouts of the Colonial Club. 

In February 1823 (No. LV. p. 178), it commenced its war 
against the whole race of Abolitionists. In the following De- 
cember (No. LVIII. p. 476), appeared its first grand attack upon 
the Anti-slavery Society; and from that hour it became, for three 
or four years, the favourite text-book of the West-Indian party at 
home, and of the more ferocious of the Colonial journals abroad. 

Its first gallant effort was to attempt to degrade Mr. Wilberforce 
(p. 479) in the pubhc opinion, at a time when that revered and 
cherished individual could no longer (as they well knew) use the 
eloquence from which they would have shrunk, to reduce their 
pitiful sneers and base taunts to their due insignificance. 

This was followed by an article no less bitter, but still more 
disingenuous; and, what is more remarkable, no less faithless 
and injurious to the Government they professed to serve, than to 
the slaves, to whom they also professed to wish well. 



/ 



102 Observations on the present State of the Anti- Slavery Cause. 

This article put an end to the forbearance of those whom these 
hangers-on at the public offices had combined, with the Colonial 
Club, to make marks for the finger of scorn to point at. And, in 
two months, there appeared "a Review of this Quarterly Review ; " 
or "an Exposure of the erroneous Opinions promulgated in that 
Work on the Subject of Colonial Slavery." Since that time, we 
do not recollect to have had our bile excited by one sentence from 
the pen of this writer. — Indeed, we should scarcely have known 
that he retained any vitality as to this question for four long 
years ; had he not, in January last, given some signs of life and 
malignity (No. LXXVII.p. 181), by one of his savage growls at 
Sierra Leone. This colony had once been patronized by the 
Abolitionists. But for twenty-two long years it had been in 
the hands of the friends of these Reviewers, who, during that 
time (we speak before those who know the fact), had not only 
neither asked nor taken counsel as to its management, but 
had contrived to ruin it by their neglect, and then to throw the 
blame on those, whom they had declined to consult, and who 
had no more to do with its failure than the Great Mogul. 

This, we say, was our erroneous conception of the state of 
this able, but uncandid and insidious, work; when, in April last, 
we were surprised by an incidental observation occurring, without 
rhyme or reason, at p. 343 of No. LXXVIII. The passage has 
been already quoted, but we will here quote it again. 

" With regard to Jamaica, and some other of the West India 
Islands, which have their houses of assembly ; their systematic 
opposition to every measure proposed by the King's government, 
considering the precarious situation in which they stand, appears 
to us to be little short of insanity. They seem not to know that 
they are tottering on the very brink of a volcano, which the first 
blast of a trumpet from St. Domingo would cause to explodey 
and bury in one common ruin, man, woman, and child. As it is, 
nothing but the King's armed force preserves them from destruc- 
tion. And yet these silly people have been so unwise as to refuse 
to continue the supplies which they are bound to furnish to the 
troops who protect them ; nay, even to throw out something of a 
threat to sever themselves from the mother country, and seek 
for protection elsewhere. Is it possible that these people can 
for a moment forget that England protects them and their sugars 
at the expense of her other colonies ? Do they not know, that, if 
she were to admit the sugars of the East Indies and the Mau- 
ritius" [Here we have a proof of ignorance, which makes us re- 
joice that their advocacy of our cause is confined to twenty lines] 
" on the payment of equal duties ; or, still more effectually, if 
she were to levy a discriminating duty on West India sugar, the 
sun of their prosperity would immediately set ? Let the House 
of Assembly look at these things, and desist in time from using 



Observations on the present State of the Anti-Slavery Cause. 103 

or abusing its authority, hy a vexatious opposition to his 
Majesty's Government ." 

Here, then, we have another sign of the times, and one which 
speaks volumes to those who are initiated. 

6. But still more satisfactory is it to us to perceive an union 
of sentiment and of feeling in two other publications of the 
same description, the Edinburgh and the Westminster Reviews ; 
which, though they have mutual collisions and complaints of 
their own, yet have waived them all, like the Catholics and 
Anti-Catholics of Ireland, in their overwhelming attachment to 
the interests of their common humanity. 

Of this last position more directly ; — but incidentally of every 
other to which we have adverted ; we now proceed to furnish 
some proof. 

Our FIRST proof is an article extracted from the Edinburgh 
Review, of Oct. 1824, (No. LXXXII. p. 464, &c.), containing a 
review of Mr. Stephen's Delineation of Slavery in the West Indies, 
and which has already been five years before the public. That in 
that time it has produced, (notwithstanding the zealous activity of 
the Aberdeen Anti-Slavery Society,) so little fruit ; we pretend not 
to explain, except by the torpor which, for a time, seemed to have 
seized, with a few rare exceptions, on all classes — in Parliament 
and out of Parliament ; Churchmen and Dissenters ; Whigs, 
Tories, and Radicals ; — until the present day of brighter promise 
and of quickened energy has begun to dawn upon us. 

Wejtrust that the re-appearance of this article, at this moment, 
will make an impression more proportionate to its fair claims on 
the public attention. 

The only material change it has undergone, has been to 
suppress some compliments to the West Indians resident in 
Great Britain; which, though in 1824 they might not have 
appeared unreasonable, we cannot republish under our sanction, 
since the added experience of five years has proved them to be 
utterly undeserved. 

The NEXT is an extract from the last Number of the West- 
minster Review. And this is an article not only of rare and 
singular merit, but one which is most seasonably adapted to 
meet the exigencies of the present moment. Its clear, plain, and 
intelligible statements are only to be outdone by the force and 
luminousness of its arguments. If we could indulge the base 
passion of envy, especially in such a cause, we should envy the 
writer's power of producing on the public mind the effects 
which the popular talents, wherewith the great Author of those 
talents has endowed him, enable him to produce ; — were it not 
that we should almost shrink from the heavy responsibility, both 
to God and man, which they impose upon their possessor. 



104 Extract Jrom Edinburgh Review. 

II. — Extract from the Edinburgh Review of October 1824, 

p. 464, &c. 

Of the numerous excellent works in which this important subject has 
lately been discussed, that of Mr. Stephen is the most comprehensive, 
and, in many respects, the most valuable. We are not aware that any 
opponent has appeared, sufficiently intrepid to deny his statements, or 
to dispute their results. The more decent and cautious advocates of 
Slavery carefully avoid all allusion to a publication which they feel to 
be unanswerable; and the boldest content themselves with misrepre- 
senting and reviling what they cannot even pretend to confute. In 
truth, it is not too much to assert, that, on the part of the slave-drivers 
and their supporters, this controversy has, for the most part, been 
conducted with a disingenuousness and a bitterness to which literary 
history furnishes no parallel. The warfare has been carried on by a 
race of scribblers, who, hke the mercenary Mohawks, so often our 
auxiliaries in Transatlantic campaigns, unite the indifference of the 
hireling to the ferocity of the cannibal ; who take aim from an ambush; 
and who desire victory only that they may have the pleasure of 
scalping and torturing the vanquished. 

The friends of humanity and freedom have often boasted, with 
honest pride, that the wise and good of hostile sects and factions 
seemed, when Slavery or the Slave-trade were in question, to forget 
their mutual antipathies; — that the introduction of this subject was to 
such men, what the proclamation of a Crusade was to the warriors of 
the dark ages, — a signal to suspend their petty disputes, and to array 
themselves under the same holy banner, against the same accursed 
enemy. — In this respect the slave-drivers are now even with us. They, 
too, may boast, that, if our cause has received support from honest 
men of all religious and political parties, theirs has tended, in as great 
a degree, to combine and conciliate every form of violence and illibe- 
rality. Tories and radicals, prebendaries and field-preachers, are to 
be found in their ranks. The only requisites for one who aspires to 
enlist, are a front of brass and a tongue of venom. 

' Omnigenumque Deum monstra, et latrator Anubis 
Contra Neptunum et Venerem, contraque Minervam 
Tela tenent.' 

But it is neither on facts nor on arguments that Slavery seems now 
to depend for protection. It neither doubles, nor stands at bay. It 
has neither the ingenuity of the hare, nor the intrepidity of the lion. 
It defends itself, like a hunted polecat, by the loathsomeness with 
which it taints the atmosphere around it ; and hopes to escape by 
disgusting those whom it can neither weary nor subdue. We could 
say much on this subject. But the sum is, that ' the worm will do 
his kind ' — and we have a more important task to perform. It is our 
intention to analyze, very concisely, the valuable work of Mr. 
Stephen ; and afterwards to offer to our readers some remarks which 
the perusal of it has suggested. 

Mr. Stephen begins by inquiring into the origin and authority of the i 



Extract from Edinburgh Review. 105 

Colonial Slave-laws. It has been commonly supposed in England, that 
there exists some known local law in the Colonies, distinct from the law 
o? England, by which the bondage of the Negro has been introduced 
and defined. There is, however, no such law. The Colonists could, 
at no time, venture to present an act for such a purpose to an English 
Sovereign. The Spanish conquerors and the roving pirates of the 
Antilles had established that state: and the English settlers considered 
themselves as succeeding to the rights of the original despoilers of 
America. Those rights, as they at that time existed, may be summed 
up in one short and terrible maxim, that the slave is the absolute pro- 
fcrtij of the master. It is desirable that this should be known ; because, 
although a ^evr restraining statutes have of late years been passed, this 
odious principle is still the basis of all West-Indian legislation. It is 
pre-supposed in all meliorating acts. It is the rule, and the restraints 
are exceptions. In the benefits which every other English subject de- 
rives from the common law, the Negro has no share. His master may 
lawfully treat him as he pleases, except in points regulated by express 
enactment. 

Mr. Stephen proceeds to analyze the legal nature of the relation 
between the master and the slave. Throughout the West Indies, 
Slavery is a constrained service; a service without wages. In some 
of the Colonies, indeed, there are acts which affect to regulate the 
time of labour, and the amount of the subsistence which shall be given 
in return. But, from causes to which we shall hereafter advert, these 
acts are nugatory. In other islands, even these ostensible reforms 
have not taken place ; and the owner may legally give his slaves as 
much to do^ and as little to eat, as he thinks fit. 

In all the islands, the master may legally imprison his slave. In 
all the islands he may legally flog him ; and in some of the islands he 
ttiay legally flog him at his discretion. The best of the meliorating 
acts promise little, and perform less. By some of them it is enacted, 
that the slave shall not be flogged, till recovered from the effects of his 
last flogging ; by others, that he shall rot receive more than a certain 
number of lashes in one day. These laws, useless as they are, have 
a meaning. But there are others which add insult to cruelty. In 
some of the Colonial codes there are facetious provisions, that the 
slave shall not receive more than a certain number of lashes at one 
time, or for one fault. What is the legal definition of a time? Or 
who are the legal judges of a fault ? If the master should choose to 
say that it is a fault in his slave to have woolly hair, whom does the 
law authorize to contradict him ? 

It is just to say, that the murder of a slave is now a capital crime. 
But the West-Indian rules of evidence render the execution of the 
laws on this subject almost impossible. The most atrocious kinds of 
mutilation — even those which in England are punished with death — 
when committed upon the person of a slave, subject ihe offender only 
to a fine, or to a short imprisonment. In Dominica, for instance, ' to 
maim, deface, mutilate, or cruelly torture ' a slave, is a crime which is 
to be expiated by a tine, not exceeding one hundred pounds currency 
j(40/. sterling), or by imprisonment, not exceeding the term of three 

p 



106 Extract from Edinburgh Review. 

months. By the law of Jamaica, a master who perpetrates any outrage 
short of murder on the person of his slave, is subject to a fine, not 
exceeding one hundred pounds currency (70/. sterling), or to impri- 
sonment, not exceeding the term of twelve months. In very atrocious 
cases, the court may direct the enfranchisement of the slave. But 
this, though a benefit, as far as it goes, to the Negro, is a very slight 
aggravation of the punishment of the master : at most, it is only an 
addition of a few pounds to the fine : and as the possession of a slave 
who has been maimed in such a manner as to render him helpless, is 
rather burdensome than profitable, it would, in many cases, be really 
an advantage to the criminal. 

If these terrible prerogatives were confined to the master alone, the 
condition of the slave would be sufficiently wretched. Yet it would 
not be without alleviations. The proprietor might sometimes be re- 
strained by a sense of his pecuniary interest, if not by higher conside- 
rations, from those extreme outrages, against which the law affords so 
scanty a protection. At all events, during his absence his Negroes 
would enjoy an interval of security. Unhappily, the Colonial codes 
permit all the representatives and agents of the master — black and 
white, bond and free — to exercise most of his despotic powers. 

We have seen that the slave has no legal property in his own body. 
It is almost unnecessary to say, that he has no property in any thing 
else ; that all his acquisitions belong, like himself, to his master. He 
is, in fact, a chattel. We should rather say, that, to serve the purpose 
of rapacity and tyranny, he is alternately considered as real and as 
personal property. He may be sold or bequeathed at the pleasure of 
his master. He may be put up to auction, by process of law, for the 
benefit of the creditors or legatees of his master. In either of these 
ways he may be, in a moment, torn for ever from his home, his asso- 
ciates, his own children. He is, in addition to this, legally a subject 
of mortgages, demises, leases, settlements in tail, in remainder, and in 
reversion. The practice of raising money on this species of property, 
is favoured by the laws of all the Colonies, and has been equally fatal 
to thQ owner and to the slave. It is fatal to the owner, because it 
enables him to risk capital not his own in the precarious lottery of the 
West-Indian sugar trade. It is fatal to the slave, because, in the first 
place, while it leaves to the master all his power to oppress, it deprives 
him of his power to manumit; and secondly, because it leads the 
master to keep possession of his Negroes, and to compel them to 
labour, when he has no prospect of holdhig them long, and is therefore 
naturally inclined to make as much by them, and to spend as little 
upon them, as possible; a fact amply proved by the miserable state in 
which the gang is generally found, when transferred from the ruined 
planter to the half- ruined mortgagee. 

Such is the legal condition of the Negro, considered with reference 
to his master. We shall proceed to examine into the nature of the 
relation in which he stands towards free persons in general. 

He is not competent to be a party to any civil action, either as 
plaintiff or defendant ; nor can he be received as informant or prose- 
cutor against any person of free condition. He is protected only as a 



Extract from Edinburgh Review. 107 

horse is protected in this country. His owner may bring an action 
against any person who may have occasioned the loss of his services. 
But it is plain that the slave may sustain many civil injuries, to which 
this circuitous mode of obtaining redress is not applicable ; and even 
when it is applicable, the damages are awarded, not to the injured 
party, but to his master. The protection which indictments and 
criminal informations afford, is also of very narrow extent. Many 
crimes which, when committed against a White man, are considered as 
most atrocious, may be committed by any White man against a slave 
with perfect impunity. To rob a slave, for instance, is, in most of the 
islands, not even a misdemeanor. In this case, the grand principle of 
Colonial law is suspended. The property of a slave, it seems, is con- 
sidered as belonging to his owner for the purpose of oppression, but 
not for the purpose of protection. By the meliorating laws of some 
of the Colonies, the crime of highway robbery upon a Negro is punished 
by a fine, which in no case exceeds thirty pounds currency. 

But this is not all. The natural right of self-defence is denied to 
the slave. By the laws of almost all the islands, a slave who should 
defend himself from murder or torture, to the injury of a White person, 
though such White person should possess no authority whatever over 
him, might be punished with death. 

We now come to the laws respecting the evidence of slaves — laws 
which the Colonists stoutly defend — and v/ith reason ; for, while these 
remain unaltered, the meliorating acts, feeble at best, must always be 
utterly inefficient. The testimony of these unfortunate beings is not 
admissible in any cause, civil or criminal, against a White person. To 
this general rule there are, in one or two Colonies, some trivial and 
worthless exceptions. It is needless to say, that every crime may be 
easily perpetrated in a community of which only one member in ten 
or fifteen is a competent witness. The only excuse we ever heard 
made for so disgraceful a state of law is this, that the Negroes are 
ignorant of the nature and obligations of an oath, and, in fact, are 
scarcely responsible beings. But from this excuse the legislators of 
the Antilles have excluded themselves, by enacting, that a slave who 
commits perjury, in a criminal cause, against another slave, shall 
suffer the same punishment as the prisoner, if convicted, would have 
suffered. If a slave be ignorant of the nature of an oath, why is he 
admitted as a witness against any human being? Why is he punished, 
in some cases, with death, for an offence which subjects his more en- 
lightened, and therefore more guilty, master, only to transportation ? 
If, on the other hand, he possesses the moral and intellectual qualifi- 
cations which are required in a witness, why is he not suffered to ap- 
pear against a European ? 

But we must proceed. The slave, thus excluded from the protec- 
tion of the law, is subject to all its restraints. He undergoes the 
miseries of a beast of burden, without enjoying its immunities. He 
is bound, notwithstanding that alleged inferiority of his understanding, 
which is admitted as a reason for curtailing his rights but not for 
lightening his responsibility, by the whole of the Criminal code which 
- 18 in force against free persons. And, in addition to this, he is sub- 



108 Extract from Edinburgh Revieiv. 

jected to another most unjust and cruel code, made for his class 
alone. If he flies from the Colony, he is put to death. If he goes 
beyond the limits of the plantation to which he is attached, without 
a written permission, he is liable to be severely punished. Actions in 
themselves perfectly innocent — buying or selling certain goods in a 
market, raising certain descriptions of produce, possessing certain 
species of live stock — are crimes for which the Negro is punished, 
unless he can produce a written authority from his owner. To beat a 
drum, to blow a horn, to dance, to play at quoits, to throw squibs, 
to make fire- works, are all offences when committed by a slave, and sub- 
ject him to the cruel chastisement of the whip. When things merely 
indifferent are visited with such severe penalties, it may be easily 
imagined that real delinquencies are not very mercifully dealt with. 
In fact, many actions for which a White man is only imprisoned, or 
otherwise slightly punished, if punished at all, are capital crimes when 
committed by a slave. Such are, stealing, or attempting to steal, to 
the value of i2d. currency ; killing any animal of the value of 6s. ; 
uttering mutinous words ; and a long list of equall}'^ heinous crimes. 
W^e have already mentioned the infamous law on the subject of perjury. 
Another of a most kingly character is in force in the same islands. 
To ' compass or imagine the death ' of any of the White inhabitants 
(God bless their majesties !) is an enormity for which a slave is punish- 
ed with death. It is contrary to the duty of their allegiance ! 

Such is the penal code to which the slaves are subject. The 
manner in which they are tried is, if possible, still more disgraceful. On 
charges which do not affect their lives, a single Justice, or two at most, 
are competent to decide. In capital cases, several Justices must at- 
tend, and, in most of the colonies, a Jury is summoned — if that name 
can be applied where there is neither parity of condition nor right of 
challenge. No previous investigation takes place before a Grand 
Jury. In most of the islands no record is drawn up: in some, it is 
enacted that the execution shall immediately follow the sentence. 
The prisoner is norv sufficiently lucky to be hanged ; but formerly it 
was not unusual to inflict what the Colonial codes styled ' exemplary 
punishment.' When it was thought expedient to exercise this right, 
the offender was roasted alive, hung up in irons to perish by thirst, or 
shut up in a cage and starved to death ! These punishments were 
commonly reserved for wretches who had committed the diabolical 
crime of insurrection against the just and paternal government, of 
which we have feebly attempted to delineate the excellence. 

The bondage, of which we have given this description, is hereditary. 
It is entailed on the posterity of the slave to the remotest generations. 
The law does not compel his master to enfranchise him, on receiving 
a fair price : on the contrary, it has actually interfered to prevent 
the master, even when so inclined, from giving him his liberty. In 
some of the islands, a direct tax was imposed on manumission ; and 
in all, the encouragement which is given to the practice of raising 
money on Negroes by mortgage, tended to obstruct their liberation. 

Slavery in the West Indies is confined to Negroes and People of 
Colour. This circumstance is peculiar to the slavery of the New 



Extract Jjom Edinburgh Review. 109 

World ; and its effects are most calamitous. The external peculiari- 
ties of the African race are thus associated in the minds of the Co- 
lonists with every thing degrading, and are considered as the disgust- 
ing livery of the most abject servitude. Hence it is, that the Free 
Negroes and Mulattoes lie under so many legal disabilities, and ex- 
perience such contemptuous treatment, that their condition can be 
esteemed desirable only when compared with the bondage to which it 
has succeeded. Of the rules to which this class is subjected, we shall 
notice only one of the most odious. We speak of the presumption 
against liberty, which is a recognised principle of Colonial law. The 
West-Indian maxim is, that every Negro and Mulatto is to be con- 
sidered as a slave, till, by documentary evidence, he can be proved 
to be otherwise. It may be notorious, that he has been free since he 
first resided in the colony — that he has lived twenty years in England 
— that he is a citizen of Hayti, or Columbia. All this is immaterial. 
If he cannot produce a deed of manumission, he is liable to be put 
up to sale by public auction ! On this subject remarks would be 
superfluous. Thank God, we are writing for a free people ! 

We have not alluded to that part of Mr. Stephen's work in which 
the lamentable state of the law on the subject of religious instruction 
is described ; because the evil has been universally acknowledged, and 
something intended for a remedy has at last been provided. The 
imagined specific, as our readers are aware, is an Ecclesiastical Esta- 
blishment. This measure, vve doubt not, is well intended ; but we 
feel convinced, that, unless combined with other reforms, it will prove 
almost wholly useless. The immorality awd irreligion of the slaves 
are the necessary consequences of their political and personal degra- 
dation. They are not considered by the law as human beings ; and 
they have therefore, in some measure, ceased to be human beings. 
They must become men before they can become Christians, A great 
effect may, under fortunate circumstances, have been wrought on par- 
ticular individuals : but those who believe that any extensive effect 
can be produced by religious instruction on this miserable race, may 
believe in the famous conversion wrought by St. Antony on the fish. 
Can a preacher prevail on his hearers strictly to fulfil their conjugal 
duties, in a country where no protection is given to their conjugal 
rights; in a country where the husband and wife may, at the pleasure 
of the master, or by a process of law, be, in an instant, separated 
for ever ? Can he persuade them to rest on the Sunday, in colonies 
where the law appoints that time for the markets ? Is there any lesson 
which a Christian minister is more solemnly bound to teach ; is there 
any lesson which it is, in a religious point of view, more important 
for a convert to learn, than that it is a duty to refuse obedience to the 
unlawful commands of superiors ? Are the new pastors of the slaves 
to inculcate this principle, or not ? In other words, are the slaves to 
remain uninstructed in the fundamental laws of Christian morality, or 
are their teachers to be hanged ? This is the alternative. We all re- 
member, that it was made a charge against Mr, Smith that he had 
read an inflammatory chapter of the Bible to his congregation ! Ex- 
cellent encouragement for their future teachers •' to declare unto them," 



110 Extract Jrom Edinburgh Review. 

according to the expression of an old divine, far too Methodistical to 
be considered as an authority in the West Indies, " the whole counsel 
of God!" 

The great body of the Colonists have resolutely opposed religious 
instruction ; and they are in the right. They know, though their mis- 
informed friends in England do not know, that Christianity and slavery 
cannot long exist together. At every step which the Negro makes in 
the knowledge and discrimination of right and wrong, he will learn to 
reprobate more and more the system under which he lives. He will 
not indeed be so prone to engage in rash and foolish tumults ; but he 
will be as willing as he now is to struggle for liberty, and far more 
capable of struggling with effect. The forms in which Christianity 
has been at different times disguised, have been often hostile to liberty; 
but wherever the spirit has surmounted the forms — in France, during 
the wars of the Huguenots ; in Holland, during the reign of Philip 
n.; in Scotland, at the time of the Reformation; in England, 
through the whole contest against the Stuarts, from their accession to 
their expulsion ; in New-England, through its whole history — in every 
place, in every age, it has inspired a hatred of oppression, and a 
love of freedom ! It would be thus in the West Indies. The attempts 
which have been made to press a few detached texts into the cause of 
tyranny, have never produced any extensive effect. Those who cannot 
refute them by reasoning and comparison, will be hurried forward by 
the sense of intolerable wrongs, and the madness of wounded affection. 
All this the Colonists have discovered ; and we feel assured that they 
will never suffer religious instruction to be unreservedly given to the 
slaves. In that case, the Establishment will degenerate into a job. 
This is no chimerical apprehension. There have been clergymen in 
the West Indies for many years past ; and what have they done for 
the Negroes ? In what have they conduced, either to their temporal 
or to their spiritual welfare ? Doubtless, there have been respectable 
men among them. But is it not notorious, that the benefices of the 
Colonies have been repeatedly given to the outcasts of English so- 
ciety — men whom the inhabitants would not venture to employ as 
book-keepers, yet whom they desired to retain as boon companions? 
Any person, who will look over the Parliamentary papers which contain 
the answers returned by the Colonial Clergy to certain queries sent 
out a few years ago by Lord Bathurst, will see some curious instances 
of the ignorance, the idleness, and the levity of that body. Why 
should the new Establishment be less corrupt than the old ? The 
dangers to which it is exposed are the same ; we do not see that its 
securities are much greater. It has Bishops, no doubt ; and when we 
observe that bishops are more active than their inferiors, on this side 
of the Atlantic, we shall begin to hope that they may be useful on 
the other*. 

Those reforms have begun at the wrong end. ' God,' says old Hooker 
(no enemy to Episcopal Establishments), ' first assigned Adam main- 

* See Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. il, No. 44), Supplement to No. 46, No. 47, and 
No. 48. 



Extract from Edinburgh Review. Ill 

* tenance for life, and then appointed him a law to observe.' Our 
rulers would have done well to imitate the example, — to give some 
security to the hearth and to the back of the slave, before they sent 
him Bishops, Archdeacons, Chancellors, and Chapters. 

The work of Mr. Stephen has, we think, disposed for ever of some 
of the principal arguments which are urged by the Colonists *. If those 
who conscientiously support slavery be open to conviction, if its dis- 
honest advocates be susceptible of shame, they can surely never again 
resort to that mode of defence, which they have so often employed 
when hard pressed by some particular case of oppression. On such 
occasions their cry has been, ' These are individual instances : you 
' must not deduce general conclusions from them. What would you 
' say, if we were to form our estimate of English society from the 
< Police Reports, or the Newgate Calendar? Look at the rules, 
' and not at the exceptions.' Here, then, we have those boasted 
rules. And what are they ? We find that the actions which other so- 
cieties punish as crimes, are in the West Indies sanctioned by law ; — 
that practices of which England affords no example but in the records 
of the jail and the gibbet, are there suffered to exist unpunished ; — 
that atrocities may there be perpetrated in the drawing-room or in the 
market-place, on the persons of untried and unconvicted individuals, 
which here would scarcely find an asylum in the vaults of the Blood- 
bowl House. 

Is it any answer to this charge, now most fully established, to say 
that we too have our crimes ? Unquestionably, under all systems, 
however wise; under all circumstances, however fortunate; the passions 
of men will incite them to evil. The most vigilant police, the most 
rigid tribunals, the severest penalties, are but imperfect restraints upon 
avarice and revenge. What, then, must be the case where these re- 
straints are withdrawn ? In England, there is a legal remedy for every 
injury. If the first Prince of the Blood were to treat the poorest 
pauper in St. Giles's, as the best code in the West Indies authorizes a 
master to treat his slave, it would be better for him that he had never 
been born. Yet even here we find, that, wherever power is given, it 
is occasionally abused ; that magistrates, not having the fear of the 
Court of King's Bench before their eyes, will sometimes be guilty of 
injustice and tyranny; that even parents will sometimes starve, torture, 
and murder the helpless beings to whom they have given life. And is 
it not evident, that where there are fewer checks there will be more 
cruelty ? 

But we are told, the manners of a people, the state of public 
opinion, are of more real consequence than any written code. Many 
things, it is confessed, in the Colonial laws, are cruel and un- 
just in theory : but we are assured that the feeling of the Colonists 
renders the practical operation of the system lenient and liberal. We 

* Mr. Stephen's work was published in 182.3, and reviewed in 1824. Si.x years 
have passed, and Mr. Stephen's delineation is still an accurate representation of 
the Slave laws in our colonies. The slight variations which have taken place in 
colonies having legislatures of their own, have effected no real change in the law. 
— See Anti-Slavery Reporter No. .52, and the authorities there referred to. 



112 Extract Jrom Edinburgh Review. 

answer, that public feeling, though an excellent auxiliary to laws, 
always has been, and always must be, a miserable and inefficient sub- 
stitute for them. The rules of evidence on which public opinion pro- 
ceeds are defective, and its decisions are capricious. Its condemnation 
frequently spares the guilty, and falls on the innocent. It is terrible 
to sensitive and generous minds ; but it is disregarded by those whose 
hardened depravity most requires restraint. Hence its decrees, how- 
ever salutary, unless supported by the clearer definitions and stronger 
sanctions of legislation, will be daily and hourly infringed ; and, with 
principles which rest only on public opinion, frequent infraction amounts 
to a repeal. Nothing that is very common can be very digraceful. 
Thus public opinion, when not strengthened by positive enactment, is 
first defied, and then vitiated. At best it is a feeble check to wicked- 
ness ; at last is become its most powerful auxiliary. 

As a remedy for the evils of a system of slavery, public opinion 
must be utterly inefficacious ; and that for this simple reason, that the 
opinion of the slaves themselves goes for nothing. The desire which 
we feel to obtain the approbation, and to avoid the censure, of our neigh- 
bours, is no innate or universal sentiment. It always springs, directly 
or indirectly, from consideration of the power which others possess to 
serve or to injure us. The good- will of the lower orders is courted 
only in countries where they possess political privileges, and where 
there is much that they can give, and much that they can take away. 
Their opinion is important or unimportant, in proportion as their legal 
rights are great or small. It can, therefore, never be a substitute for 
legal rights. Does a Smithfield drover care for the love or hatred 
of his oxen ? And yet his oxen, since the passing of Mr. Martin's me- 
liorating act, are scarcely in a more unprotected condition than the 
slaves in our islands. 

The opinion, then, which is to guard the slaves from the oppressions 
of the privileged order, is the opinion of the privileged order itself. 
A vast authority is entrusted to the master — the law imposes scarcely 
any restraints upon him — and we are required to believe, that the place 
of all other checks will be fully supplied by the general sense of those 
who participate in his power and his temptations. This may be reason 
at Kingston ; but will it pass at Westminster ? We are not inveighing 
against the White inhabitants of the West Indies. We do not say 
that they are naturally more cruel or more sensual than ourselves. 
But we say that they are men : and they desire to be considered as 
angels I We say, as angels ; for to no human being, however generous 
and beneficent, to no philanthropist, to no fathers of the church, could 
powers like theirs be safely entrusted. Such authority a parent ought 
not to have over his children. — They ask very complacently, ' Are 
we men of a different species from yourselves ? We come among 
you ; we mingle with you in all kinds of business and pleasure ; we 
buy and sell with you on 'Change in the morning; we dance wich 
your daughters in the evening. Are not our manners civil ? Are not 
our dinners good? Are we not kind friends, fair dealers, generous 
benefactors ? Are not our names in the subscription list of all your 
charities? And can you believe that we are such monsters as the 



Extract from Edinburgh Reviexv. 113 

Saints represent us to be ? Can you imagine, that by merely crossing 
the Atlantic we acquire a new nature ?' We reply, You are not men 
of a difFerent species from ourselves; and therefore we will not give 
you powers with which we would not dare to trust ourselves. We 
know that your passions are like ours ; we know that your restraints 
are fewer ; and therefore we know that your crimes must be greater. 
Are despotic sovereigns men of harder hearts by nature than their 
subjects? are they born with an hereditary thirst for blood, with a 
natural incapacity for friendship ? Surely not. Yet what is their 
general character? False — cruel — licentious— ungrateful. Many of 
them have performed single acts of splendid generosity and heroism ; 
a few may be named whose general administration has been salutary; 
but scarcely one has passed through life without committing at least 
some one atrocious act, from the guilt and infamy of which restricting 
laws would have saved him. If our own king Henry VIII. had been 
a private man, he might have torn his wife's ruff, and kicked her lap- 
dog ; he was a king, and he cut off her head — not that his passions 
were more brutal than those of many other men, but that they 
were less restrained. How many of the West-Indian overseers can 
boast of the piety and magnanimity of Theodosius ? Yet, in a single 
moment of anger, that prince destroyed more innocent people than all 
the ruffians of Europe stab in fifty years. Thus it is with a master in 
the colonies. We will suppose him to be a good-natured man, but 
subject, like other men, to occasional fits of passion. He gives an 
order : it is slowly or negligently executed. In England, he would 
grumble, perhaps swear a little : in the West Indies, the law- 
empowers him to inflict a severe flogging on the loiterer. Are we 
very uncharitable in supposing that he will sometimes exercise his 
privilege ? 

It by no means follows that a person who is humane in England 
will be humane to his Negroes in the West Indies. Nothing is so 
capricious and inconsistent as the compassion of men. The Romans 
were people of the same flesh and blood with ourselves — they loved 
their friends, they cried at tragedies, they gave money to beggars — 
yet we know their fondness for gladiatorial shows. When, by order 
of Pompey, some elephants were tortured in the amphitheatre, the 
audience was so shocked at the yells and contortions by which the 
poor creatures expressed their agony, that they burst forth into execra- 
tions against their favourite general. The same people, in the same 
place, had probably often given the fatal twirl of the thumb which 
condemned some gallant barbarian to receive the sword. In our own 
time, many a man shoots partridges in such numbers that he is com- 
pelled to bury them, who would chastise his son for amusing himself 
with the equally interesting, and not more cruel diversion, of catching 
flies and tearing them to pieces. The drover goads oxen — the fish- 
monger crimps cod — the dragoon sabres a Frenchman — the Spanish 
Inquisition burns a Jew — the Irish gentleman torments a Catholic. 
These persons are not necessarily destitute of feeling. Each of them 
would shrink from any cruel employment, except that to which his 
situation has familiarized him. 



114 Extract Jroni Edinhnrgh Revietv. 

There is only one wa)'^ in which the West Indians will ever convince 
the people of England that their practice is merciful, and that is, by 
making their laws merciful. We cannot understand why men should 
so tenaciously fight for powers which they do not mean to exercise. 
If the oppressive privileges of the master be nominal, and not real, let 
him cede them, and silence calumny at once and for ever. Let him 
cede them for his own honour ; let him cede them in compliance 
with the desire — the vain and superfluous desire, we will suppose — of the 
people of England. Is the repeal of laws which have become obso- 
lete, is the prohibition of crimes which are never committed, too 
great a return for a bounty of twelve hundred thousand pounds — for 
a protecting duty most injurious to the manufacturers of England and 
the cultivators of Hindostan — for an army, which alone protects from 
inevitable ruin the lives and possessions of the Colonists? 

The fact notoriously is, that West-Indian manners give protection 
even to those extreme enormities against which the West-Indian laws 
provide. We have already adverted to one of the most ordinary 
sophisms of our opponents. ' Why,' they exclaim, ' is our whole body 
to be censured for the depravity of a few ? Every society has its mis- 
creants. If we had our Hodge, you had your Thurtell : if we had 
our Huggins, you had your Wall. No candid reasoner will ground 
general charges on individual cases.' The refutation is simple. When 
a community does nothing to prevent guilt, it ought to bear the blame 
of it. Wickedness, when punished, is disgraceful only to the offender : 
unpunished, it is disgraceful to the whole society. Our charge 
against the Colonists is, not that crimes are perpetrated among them, 
but that they arelolerated. We vvill give a single instance. Since 
the West Indians are fond of referring to our Newgate Calendar, we 
will place side by side a leaf from that melancholy register, and 
another from the West-Indian annals. 

Mr. Wall was governor at Goree. In that situation he flogged a 
man to death, on pretence of mutiny. On his return to England, he 
was indicted for murder. He escaped to the Continent, for twenty 
years he remained in exile ; for twenty years the English people 
retained the impression of his crime unefFaced within their hearts. He 
shifted his residence — he disguised his person — he changed his name — 
still their eyes were upon him, for evil, and not for good. At length, 
conceiving that all danger was at an end, he returned. He was 
tried, convicted, and hanged, amidst the huzzas of an innumerable 
multitude*. 

Edward Huggins of Nevis, about fifteen years ago, flogged upwards 
of twenty slaves, in the public market-place, with such severity as to 
produce the death of one, and to ruin the constitutions of many. He 
had grossly violated the law of the Colony, which prescribes a limit to 
such inflictions. He had violated it in open day, and in the presence 



* We should be far, indeed, from applauding those shouts, if they were the 
exultation of cruelty ; but they arose fiom the apprehension that Court favour was 
about to save the criminal ; and the feehng expressed was for the triumph of 
justice. 



Extract fiom Edinburgh Review. 115 

of a magistrate. He was indicted by the law officer of the Crown. 
His advocate acknowledged the facts, but argued that the act on which 
he was tried was passed only to silence the zealots in England, and 
was never intended to be enforced. Huggins was acquitted ! — But 
that was a trifle. Some members of the House of Assembly lost 
their seats at the next election, for taking part against him. A printer 
of a neighbouring island was convicted of a libel, merely for publishing- 
an official report of the evidence transmitted to him by authority. In 
a word, Huggins was considered as a martyr to the common cause, and 
grew in influence and popularity ; while a most respectable planter, 
an enlightened and accomplished gentleman, Mr. Tobin, who, nobly 
despising the prejudices of his class, had called the attention of the 
Government to these diabolical outrages, was menaced with prosecu- 
tions, assailed with slanders, and preserved only by blindness from 
challenges. 

Let these cases be compared. We do not say that Wall was not 
as bad a man as Huggins ; but we do say that the English people 
have nothing to do with the crime of Wall, and that the public cha- 
racter of the people of Nevis suffers seriously by the crime of Huggins. 
They have adopted the guilt, and they must share in the infamy. We 
know that the advocates of Slavery aiFect to deride this and similar 
narratives as old and threadbare. They sneer at them in conversation, 
and cough them down in the House of Commons, But it is in vain. 
They are written on th-e hearts of the people ; and they will be re- 
membered when all the smooth nothings of all the official defenders of 
such transactions are forgotten. 

The truth is simply this. Bad laws and bad customs, reciprocally 
producing and produced by each other, have given to the Whites in 
all the slave islands — Dutch, Spanish, French, and English — a pecu- 
liar character, in which almost all the traits, which in this quarter of 
the world distinguish the different nations, are lost. We think we de- 
scribe that character sufficiently, when we call it the despotic character. 
In nothing does this temper more strongly appear than in the rage and 
contempt with which the Colonists receive every command, and, 
indeed, every admonition, from the authorities of the mother country. 
When the territorial power and the commei'cial monopoly of the East- 
India Company have been at stake, has that great body conducted 
itself thus? Do even foreign powers treat us in this manner? 
We have often remonstrated with the greatest sovereigns of the Con- 
tinent on the subject of the slave trade. We have been repulsed; we 
have been deluded ; but by whom have we been insulted ? The 
representations of the King and People of England have never been 
met with outrageous scorn and anger, except by the men who owe 
their food to our bounties, and their lives to our troops. To the most 
gentle and moderate advice, to the suggestions of the most respectable 
of the West-India proprietors resident in England, they reply only in 
ravings of absurd slander, or impotent defiance. The essays in their 
newspapers, the speeches of their legislators, the resolutions of their 
vestries, are, almost without exception, mere collections of rancorous 
abuse, unmixed with argument. If the Anti-Slavery Society would 



lit) Extract Jrom Edinburgh Review. 

publish a small tract, containing simply the leading articles of five or 
six numbers of the Jamaica Gazette, without note or comment, they 
would, we believe, do more to illustrate the character of their adver- 
saries, than by any other means which can be devised. Such a collec- 
tion would exhibit to the country the real nature of that malignant 
spirit which banished Salisbury, which destroyed Smith, and which 
broke the honest heart of Ramsay. 

It is remarkable, that most of these zealots of slavery have little or 
no pecuniary interest in the question. If the colonies should be ruined, 
the loss will fall, not upon the book-keepers, the overseers, the herd 
of needy emigrants, who make up the noisy circles of Jamaica; but 
upon the Chandoses, the Ellises, the Hibberts, the Mannings, the 
Pallmers, &c. &c. &c., in this country. Thei/ might have been excused, 
if any persons could be excused, for employing violent and abusive 
language. And why have they not done so ? Simply because they 
live in England, and understand and participate in English feelings. 
The Colonists, on. the other hand^ are degraded by familiarity with 
oppression. They do not merely live by oppression ; they practise; 
they inflict it. Let us not be deceived. The cry which resounds 
from the West Indies is raised by men who are trembling less for their 
property than for the privileges of their caste. These are the persons 
who love slavery for its own sake. The declarations so often made by 
the Parliament, by the Ministers, by the deadliest enemies of slavery, 
that the interests of all parties will be fairly considered, bring no com- 
fort to them. They may have no possessions — but they have white 
faces. Should compensation be given, few of them will receive a 
sixpence ; but they will lose the power of oppressing, with impunity, 
every man who has a black skin. And it is to these men, who have 
scarcely any interest in the value of colonial property, but who have 
a deep interest — the interest of a petty tyrant, and a despicable pride 
— in the maintenance of colonial injustice, that the British Parliament 
is required to give up its unquestionable right of superintendance over 
every part of our empire. If this were requested as a matter of indul- 
gence, or recommended as a matter of expediency, we might well be 
surprised. But it is demanded as a constitutional right.— On what 
does this right rest ? On what statute ? On what charter ? On 
what precedent ? On what analogy ? That the uniform practice of 
past ages has been against their claim, they themselves do not venture 
to deny. Do they mean to assert, that a Parliament in which they 
are not represented ought not to legislate for them ? That question 
we leave them to settle with their friends of the Quarterly Review and 
the John Bull newspaper, who, we hope, will enlighten them on the 
subject of virtual representation. If ever that expression could be justly 
used, it would be in the present case ; for probably there is no interest 
more fully represented in both Houses of Parliament, than that of the 
Colonial Proprietors. — But for ourselves we answer. What have you to 
do with such doctrines ? If you will adopt the principles of liberty, 
adopt them altogether. Every argument which you can urge in 
support of your own claims, might be employed, with far greater 
justice, in favour of the emancipation of your bondsmen. When that 



Extract from Edinburgh Revieiv. 117 

event shall have taken place, your demand will deserve consideration. 
At present, what you require under the name of freedom is nothing 
but unlimited power to oppress. It is the freedom of Nero. 

* But we will rebel ! ' Who can refrain from thinking of Captain 
Lemuel Gulliver, who, while raised sixty feet from the ground on the 
hand of the King of Brobdignag, claps his hand on his sword and tells 
his Majesty that he knows how to defend himself? You will rebel ! 
Bravely resolved, most magnanimous Grildrig ? But remember the 
wise remark of Lord Beefington — ' Courage without power,' said that 
illustrious exile, ' is like a consumptive running footman.' What are 
your means of resistance ? Are there, in all the islands put together, 
ten thousand White men capable of bearing arms ? Are not your 
forces, such as they are, divided into small portions which can never 
act in concert ? But this is mere trifling. Are you, in point of fact, 
at this moment able to protect yourselves against your slaves, without 
our assistance? If you can still rise up and lie down in security — if 
you can still eat the bread of the fatherless, and grind the faces of the 
poor — if you can still hold your petty parliament's, and say your little 
speeches, and make your little motions — if you can still outrage and 
insult the Parliament and People of England, to what do you owe it ? 
To nothing but to our contemptuous mercy. If we suspend our pro- 
tection, if we recal our troops, in a week the knife is at your throats! 

Look to it, that we do not take you at your word. What are you 
to us, that we should pamper and defend you ? If the Atlantic Ocean 
should pass over you, and your place know you no more, what should 
tve lose ? Could we find no other cultivators to accept of our enormous 
bounties on sugar ? no other pestilential region to which we might 
send our soldiers to catch the yellow-fever ? no other community for 
which we might pour forth our blood and lavish our money, to purchase 
nothing but injuries and insults ? What do we make by you ? If 
England is no longer to be the mistress of her Colonies ; if she is to 
be only the handmaid of their pleasures, or the accomplice of their 
crimes; she may at least venture to ask, as a handmaid, what are to be 
the wages of her service; as an accomplice, what is to be her portion 
of the spoil ? If justice, and mercy, and liberty, and the law of God, 
and the happiness of man, be words without a meaning, we at least 
talk to the purpose when we talk of pounds, shillings, and pence. 

Let us count our gains. Let us bring to the test the lofty phrases 
of Colonial declamation. ' The West Indies,' we are told, ' are a source 
of vast wealth and revenue to the country. They are a nursery of 
seamen. They take great quantities of our manufactures. They add 
to our political importance. They are useful posts in time of war.' — 
These absurdities have been repeated, till they have begun to impose 
upon the impostors who invented them. Let us examine them briefly. 

Our commercial connexion with the West Indies is simply this. We 
buy our sugar from them at a higher price than is given for it in any 
other part of the world. The surplus they export to the Continent, 
where the price is lower ; and we pay them the difference out of our 
own pockets. Our trade with the West Indies is saddled with almost 
all the expense of their civil and military establishments ; and with a 



118 Extract Jrom Edinburgh Review. 

bounty of 1,200,000/. Let these be deducted from the proHts of 
which we hear so much, and their amount will shrink indeed. Let us 
then deduct from the residue the advantages which we relinquish in 
order to obtain it — that is to say, the profits of a free sugar-trade all 
over the world — and then we shall be able to estimate the boasted 
gains of a connexion to which we have sacriliced the Negroes in one 
hemisphere, and the Hindoos in the other. 

But the West Indians take great quantities of our manufactures ! — They 
can take only a return for the commodities which they send us. And 
from whatever country we may import the same commodities, to that 
country must we send out the same returns. What is it that now limits 
the demands of our Eastern empire? Absolutely nothing but the want of 
an adequate return. From that immense market, from the custom of 
one hundred millions of consumers, our manufactui-ers are in a great 
measure excluded, by the protecting duties on East-Indian sugar. 

But a great revenue is derived from the West-Indian trade! — Here, 
again, we have the same fallacy. As long as the present quantity of 
sugar is imported into England, no matter from what country, the 
revenue will not suffer, and, in proportion as the price of sugar is dimi- 
nished, the consumption, and consequently the revenue, must increase. 

But the West-Indian trade affords extensive employment to 
British shipping and seamen ! — Why more than any equally exten- 
sive trade with any other part of the world ? The more active our 
trade, the more demand there will be for shipping and seamen ; and 
every one, who has learnt the alphabet of Political Economy, knows 
that trade is active in proportion only as it is free. 

There are some who assert, that, in a military and political point of 
view, the West Indies are of great importance to this country. This 
is a common, but a monstrous, misrepresentation. We venture to say, 
that Colonial empire has been one of the greatest curses of modern 
Europe. What nation has it ever strengthened? What nation has it 
ever enriched? What have been its fruits? Wars of frequent oc- 
currence and immense cost, fettered trade, lavish expenditure, clash- 
ing jurisdiction, -corruption in governments, and indigence among the 
people. What have Mexico and Peru done for Spain; the Brazils, for 
Portugal ; Batavia, for Holland ? Or, if the experience of others is 
lost upon us, shall we not profit by our own ? What have we not sa- 
crificed to our infatuated passion for Transatlantic dominion ? This it 
is that has so often led us to risk our own smiling gardens and dear fire- 
sides for some snowy desert or infectious morass on the other side of 
the globe. This inspired us with the project of conquering America in 
Germany. This induced us to resign all the advantages of our insular 
situation ; to embroil ourselves in the intrigues and fight the battles of 
half the Continent ; to form coalitions which were instantly broken, 
and to give subsidies which were never earned. This gave birth to the 
fratricidal war against American liberty, with all its digraceful defeats, 
and all its barren victories, and all the massacres of the Indian hatchet, 
and all the bloody contracts of the Hessian slaughter-house. This it 
was which, in the war against the French Republic, induced us to 
send thousands and tens of thousands of our bravest troops to die 



Extract from Edinburgh Preview. 119 

in West Indian hospitals, while the armies of our enemies were pour- 
ing over the lihine and the Alps. When a colonial acquisition has 
been in prospect, we have thought no expenditure extravagant, no in- 
terference perilous: gold has been to us as dust, and blood as water. 
Shall we never learn wisdom ? Shall we never cease to prosecute a 
pursuit wilder than the wildest dream of alchymy, with all the credulity 
and all the profusion of Sir Epicure Mammon ? 

Those who maintain that settlements so remote conduce to the 
military or maritime power of nations, fly in the face of history. The 
Colonies of Spain were far more extensive and populous than ours. 
Has Spain, at any time within the last two centuries, been a match for 
England, either by land or by sea ? Fifty years ago, oyr colonial do- 
minions in America were far larger and more prosperous than those 
which we at present possess. Have we since that time experienced any 
decay in our political influence, in our opulence, or in our security ? 
Or shall vve say that Virginia was a less valuable possession than 
Jamaica, or Massachusetts than Barbadoes ? 

The fact is, that ail the evils of our Colonial system are immensely 
aggravated in the West Indies, by the peculiar character of the state 
of slavery which exists there. Our other settlements we have to defend 
only against foreign invasion : these we must protect against the 
constant enrait}'^ of the miserable bondsmen, who are always waiting 
for the moment of deliverance, if not of revenge. With our other esta- 
blishments we may form commercial relations advantageous to both 
parties: but these are in a state of absolute pauperism ; for, what are 
bounties and forced prices but an enormous poor-rate in disguise? 

These are the benefits for which we are to be thankful ; these are 
the benefits, in return for which we are to suffer a handful of managers 
and attorneys to insult the King, Lords, and Commons of England, in 
the exercise of rights as old and sacred as any part of our Constitution. 
If the proudest potentate in Europe, if the King of France or the 
Emperor of all the Russias, had treated our government as these 
creatures of our own have dared to do, should we not have taken such 
satisfaction as would have made the ears of all who heard of it to 
tingle ? Would not there have been a stately manifesto, and a warlike 
message to both Houses, and vehement speeches from all parties, and 
unanimous addresses abounding in offers of lives and fortunes? If any 
English mob, composed of the disciples of Paine and Carlile, should 
dare to pull down a place of religious worship, to drive the minister 
from his residence, to threaten with destruction any other who should 
dare to take his place, would not the yeomanry be called out ? Would 
not Parliament be summoned before the appointed time? Would 
there not be sealed bags and secret committees, and suspensions of 
the Habeas Corpus Act ? In Barbadoes, all this has been done. It 
has been done openly. It has not been punished. It is at this hour 
a theme of boasting; and merriment. And what is the language of 
our rulers? ' We must not irritate them ? We must try lenient mea- 
sures. It is better that such unfortunate occurrences should not be 
brought before the Parliament ! ' Surely the mantle, or rather the 
cassock, of Sir Hugh Evans, has descended on these gentlemen : — ' It 



120 Extract ffom Edinburgh Review. 

is not meet the council hear a riot. There is no fear of Got in a riot. 
The council, look you, shall desire to have the fear of Got, and not 
to hear a riot.' We have outdone all the most memorable examples 
of patience. The Job of Holy Writ, the Griselda of profane romance, 
were but types of our philosophy. Surely our endurance must be 
drawing to a close. 

We do not wish that England should drive forth her prodigal 
offspring to wear the rags and feed on the husks which they have de- 
sired. The Colonists have deserved such a punishment. But for the 
sake of the slaves, at least, and such as with them might innocently 
suffer, we should grieve to see it inflicted. That the slaves, when no 
longer restrained by our troops, would, in no very long time, achieve 
their own liberation, cannot be doubted. As little do we doubt that 
such a revolution, violent as it would doubtless be, would be desirable, 
if it were the only possible means of subverting the present system. 
The horrors of a battle or a massacre force themselves upon our 
senses. The effects of protracted tyranny, the terror, the degradation, 
the blighted affections, the stunted intellects, the pining of the heart, 
the premature decay of the frame, are evils less obvious, but equally 
certain ; and, when continued through successive generations, make 
up a greater sum of human misery than was ever inflicted in the 
paroxysm of any revolution. Still we cannot doubt that savages, 
rude in understanding, exasperated by injuries, intoxicated by recent 
freedom, would be much benefited by the wise and merciful controul 
of an enlightened people. 

With respect to the West Indians in this country, we are convinced 
that there is not, in any quarter, a feeling unfriendly to them, or an 
indisposition to give a fair consideration to all the circumstances of 
their case. We call, therefore, for their support : they are our natural 
allies against the ruffians who wield the whip. The former class con- 
sists of men naturally solicitous to preserve the source from which they 
derive a part of their revenue : the latter is composed, in a great 
measure, of hungry adventurers, who are too poor to buy the pleasure 
of tyranny, and are therefore attached to the only system under which 
they can enjoy it gratis. The former wish to secure their possessions : 
the latter are mainly desirous to perpetuate the oppressive privileges of 
the White skin. Against those privileges we declare interminable war 
— war for ourselves, and for our children, and for our grand-children — 
war without peace — war without truce — war without quarter ! But we 
respect the just rights of property as much as we detest the prero- 
gatives of colour. 

We entreat these persons to reflect on the precarious nature of the 
tenure by which they hold their property. Even if it were in their 
power to put a stop to this controversy — if the subject of slavery were 
no longer to occupy the attention of the British public — could they 
think themselves secure from ruin ? Are no ominous signs visible in 
the political horizon ? How is it that they do not discern this time ? 
All the ancient fabrics of colonial empire are falling to pieces. The 
old equilibrium of power has been disturbed by the introduction of a 
crowd of new states into the system. Our West-India possessions 



Extract J'rom Edinburgh Review. 121 

are not now surrounded, as they formerly were, by the oppressed and 
impoverished colonies of a superannuated monarchy, in the last stage 
of dotage and debility; but by young, and vigorous, and warlike re- 
publics. We have defended our colonies against Spain : does it 
therefore follow that we shall be able to defend them against Mexico 
or Hayti ? 

We are told that a pamphlet of Mr. Stephen, or a speech of Mr. 
Brougham, is enough to excite all the slaves in our colonies to rebel. 
What, then, would be the effect produced in Jamaica by the ap- 
pearance of three or four black regiments, with thirty or forty thou- 
sand stands of arms? The colony vvould be lost. Would it ever be 
recovered ? Would England engage in a contest for that object, at so 
vast a distance, and in so deadly a climate ? Would she not take 
warning by the fate of that mighty expedition which perished in St. 
Domingo? Let us suppose, however, that a force were sent, and that, 
in the field, it were successful. Have we forgotten how long a few 
Maroons defended the central mountains of the island against all the 
efforts of disciplined valour? A similar contest on a larger scale 
might be protracted for half a century, keeping our forces in continual 
em.ployment, and depriving property of all its security. The country 
might spend fifty millions of pounds, and bury fifty thousand men, 
before the contest could be terminated. Nor is this ail. In a servile 
war, the master must be the loser — for his enemies are his chattels. 
Whether the slave conquer or fall, he is alike lost to the owner. In 
the mean time, the soil lies uncultivated ; the machinery "is destroyed ; 
and when the possessions of the planter are restored to him, they have 
been changed into a desert. 

Our policy is clear. If we wish to keep the Colonies, we must 
take prompt and effectual measures for raising the condition of the 
slaves. We must give them institutions which they may have no 
temptation to change. This is the only safeguard. You may renew- 
all the atrocities of Barbadoes and Deraerara. You may inflict all 
the most hateful punishments authorized by the insular codes. You 
may massacre by the thousand, and hang by the score. You may 
even once more roast your captives on slow fires, and starve them in 
iron cages, or flay them alive with the cart-whip. You will only 
hasten the day of retribution. Therefore we say, ' Let them go forth 
from the house of bondage. For wo unto you, if you wait for the 
plagues and the signs, the wonders and the war, the mighty hand and 
the out-stretched arm ! ' 

If the great West-Indian proprietors shall persist in a different line 
of conduct, and ally themselves with the petty tyrants of the Antilles, 
it matters little. We should gladly accept of their assistance : but 
we feel assured that their opposition cannot affect, or now materially 
retard, the ultimate result of the controversy. It is not to any par- 
ticular party in the church or in the state ; it is not to the right or to 
the left hand of the Speaker ; it is not to the cathedral or to the 
meeting, that we look exclusively for support. We believe that on 
this subject the hearts of the English people burn within them. 

R 



122 Extract from Westminster Revieic. 

They hate slavery. They have hated it for ages. It has, indeed, 
hidden itself for a time in a remote nook of their dominions ; but it is 
now discovered and dragged to light. That is sufficient. Its sentence 
is pronounced ; and it never can escape ! Never, though all the efforts 
of its supporters should be redoubled— never, though sophistry, and 
falsehood, and slander, and the jests of the pot-house, the ribaldry of 
the brothel, and the slang of the ring or fives' court, should do their 
utmost in its defence — never, though fresh insurrections should be 
got up to frighten the people out of their judgment, and fresh com- 
panies to bubble them out of their money — never, though it should 
find in the highest ranks of the peerage, or on the steps* of the throne 
itself, the purveyors of its slander, and the mercenaries of its defence ! 



in. — From the Westminster Review for October 1829, 

History tells of an individual, who believed he had travelled for 
seven years in foreign countries and there done many notable acts, 
when the truth was that he had dipped his head into a pail of water 
and taken it out again. Very much like this is the history of that 
metaphorical personage, the type of all that is foolish and deceivable 
in nations, in whom under one bestial appellation is concentrated the 
description of the ignorance and gullibility of the British community. 
Puffed up with the idea that he was something and somebody, he 
winked and ran his head quietly into the endurance of such frauds as 
could never have befallen any body that was in the habit of walking 
with his eyes open, or was humble enough to conceive that he might 
possibly be made a dupe. 

Not that the man positively would not take his fingers out of the 
fire when they were burning. On the contrary, nobody made more 
turmoil when he knew that he was hurt. But his coat might be taken 
off his back, by any body that would tell him a long story. He was 
a man of one idea, or at most oVtfoo ; but it was only necessary to go 
as far as three, to leave him in utter bewilderment. For example, he 
knew well enough, that he did not like to be robbed and murdered 
himself. This was idea number one ; and it is supposed that he had 
as clear a comprehension of it, as mathematicians have of Euclid. He 
had a glimmering too, that it was not for his interest, that people 
should be robbed and murdered somewhere else ; provided it was in 
a neighbouring parish, or at all events in some parish where he 
apprehended a distant possibility that he might be murdered himself. 
But if it was further off than this, the question was too much for him. 
It was the triple idea, which he could never comprehend, that he 
could have any thing to do with felony where he never intended to 
adventure his own person. If an injury was done to himself, or to 



* Tills, we trust, is only matter now of past fiistory. After the brigfit examples 
recently given to us of devotion to the cause of liberty by the illustrious House 
of Brunswick, we are unwilling to believe that any member of it should ever dis- 
grace himself by becoming the advocate of Slavery or the Slave-trade. 



Extractjrom. Westminster Review. 123 

any person within the degree of third cousin, there was nobody that 
made a more exemplary bawling for the constable. When a woman 
in his own neighbourhood had ' whipt two female 'prentices to death, 
and hid them in the coal hole,' he thought hanging was too good for 
her ; and there he stood, when the miserable wretch was brought out 
to just and necessary punishment, trying to overwhelm her sinful 
soul with more than dying horror, by adding at that fearful moment 
the expression of his unforgiveness aRd his hate. But when the same 
thing was done in a parish a little further off — and that not by acci- 
dent, but as part and parcel of a system which the whole parish, with 
their overseers at their head, had risen up to defend— he quietly went 
home, and paid a tax to enable the like to he done again. He grumbled 
much of the hardness of times, and the difficulty an honest man had to 
live; but not one word did he say against the imposition of a poll-tax to 
enable the Esther Hibners * of the West Indies to ride, not in a cart, 
but in their coaches. On the contrary, he went home, and called his wife 
and children, and after asking if they had said their prayers, he said 
to them, ' I have seen a woman hanged this morning. I was never so 
pleased in my life. And now send for some sugar for breakfast ; and 
when you pay eleven-pence for the sugar, take care that you pay the 
penny for the West Indians.' It never occurred to him or his gaping 
brood — though, to say the truth, they were well-intentioned persona 
enough in their way — that their representatives and every body's 
representatives, were taxing them and every body, not for any benefit 
that was to arise to them or the community, but simply that the 
proceeds of this taxation might find their way into the pockets of such 
persons as, in their own parish, they thought hanging was too good 
for. It was quite certain that these persons, and all the mischief and 
misery attendant on their system, existed solely because the people of 
Great Britain were taxed to pay for it, and could not exist without it. 
They were as clearly raised, supported, and kept in existence, by a rate 
laid upon the people of Great Britain, as a poor-house or a county 
hospital. They could not pay for their whip-leather, unless an extra 
tax was laid on the produce of other British possessions, for the purpose 
of obliging the British consumer to put the difference into the pockets 
of the West Indians. The people of Great Britain, in fact — the same 
people who give themselves airs when they get into foreign parts, by 
reason of their freedom — pay a poll-tax tor the support of slavery and 
slave-owners in the West Indies. But all this, the simple man and his 
brood would never have found out to their dying day. He would have 
been shocked if he had been asked to contribute to the maintenance 
of a receiver of stolen goods in his own street. If the parish-officer 
had come to intimate to him, that his wife and daughters were to be 
rated, to rebuild the houses of ill fame that were lately burnt at 
Temple Bar, all his reverence for the authorities would not have 
prevented him from knocking him down. But when he was to pay 
for the same kind of thing by instalnients upon every piece of sugar 



' See Auti-Slavery Reporter, vol. iii p. 9. 



124i Extract from Wedminster Review. 

the same wife and daughters put into their mouths, it was quite beyond 
him to find out, of his own pure brain, that there was any thing de- 
grading in the affair. In short, he would have paid for a fire to roast 
his own father, and salt to eat him with, if it had only been put to him 
in the shape of a duty on faggots, or an exciseman in the salt-box. 

There is not one word of jest or exaggeration in all this. It is a 
plain unadorned statement of what is taking place with every English- 
man at every hour. The English people, high and low, hate slavery 
and injustice as much as any body does. They have had their hours 
of struggle, which have taught them tvliy they hate them ; and the 
issue of the contest has left them, in many respects, the foremost of 
the world in the general march of liberty and civilization. But they 
pay a poll-tax for no reason on earth but that the abettors of slavery 
in their Colonies may have whips instead of no whips. They suffer 
themselves to be basely bullied — or, more properly, past ministries, 
from inward affection to the bad cause, have suffered themselves to 
be basely bullied as their representatives — by men whom they are at 
the very moment paying to support. They allow the slave-drivers in 
the West Indies to shake their hardened fists in every British face ; 
and their agents in this country to cover with ribald abuse every honest 
man and woman who raises a voice in opposition : and all the while 
they are positively paying a penny in the sliilling on all the sugar they 
eat, for no reason on earth but that the thing they hate may be carried 
on, and because it could not be carried on without it. If the West- 
Indian islands, with all their abominations, were to sink into the sea to- 
morrow, the British people, instead of being losers, would be immense 
gainers. They would be the gainers of all they now pay in the shape of 
taxation for their support; which only goes to keep coaches for the agents 
of the injustice, and buy boroughs to enable them to support their cause 
in parliament. The whole ' West-Indian body," as they call themselves, 
is nothing but one large fraud. Everything is a fraud which supports one 
set of men upon the earnings of another. It is a robbery on a large 
scale upon the people of England ; who are plundered of the earnings 
of their labour, and in return have the pleasure of seeing the ' West- 
Indian body ' living upon their money. That this is true, is proved 
by the fact, that the whole West Indian system together cannot be 
carried on without being supported by a tax. Whip as he will, the 
slave-driver does not make both ends meet, till the people of England 
are taxed to pay the difference. They must be made to pay ten shillings 
a cwt. more for sugar than it can be got for in the East Indies or other 
places ; and then ten shillings find their way into the West-Indian's 
pocket. It is clearly all a cheat, as much as ring-dropping. Out of 
nothing, nothing can come and where men cannot get rich unless 
the people of England raise it for them by subscription, it is mere 
trick and legerdemain to point to their riches as increasing wealth. If 
part of tlie money finds its way into the hands of Government in 
the shape of further taxation, the real nature of the transaction is 
only like a government's proposing to" get rich by levying a contribu- 
tion on the gains of higliwaymen. The tax and the unjust gain of 
which it is a part, can only be taken from some honest man to begin 



Extract from Westminster Bevietv. 125 

with ; which can make no gain in the aggregate. If ships and sailors 
are employed in the dishonest trade, they would also be employed in 
the honest trade as much. There would be just as much shipping 
employed in bringing home honest sugar, as sugar which the people 
is robbed to pay for. No man denies, or pretends to deny, the truth 
of all this. No man, with common regard for his own cause, will put 
down an assertion to the contrary on paper, which shall give an op- 
portunity of displaying its fallacy piecemeal. 

The colonists are in the habit of blustering about their " property," 
and their " vested rights." It were difficult to say what term of 
possession may give these men a right to a sanguinary wrong. But 
fortunately we have a much nearer way to the solution of the 
question. Do the West Indians set up any claim to om?- property ? 
Do they advance any right to make us subscribe for the flogging of 
women in Jamaica? Is the House of Commons bound to impose 
such taxes for the support of slavery, ' as the planters ivill sanctioit ?* ' 
If not, then the West Indians have overshot their mark. They have 
bullied and insulted an honest and a generous people ; where their 
only chance for existence lay in conciliation and submission. They 
have talked loud of what they would do, and what they would not 
do ; forgetting that all the time they hung by the mere thread of the 
volition of the English people, for doing any thing or being any thing. 
Ministers, too, have existed, mean enough to play into tlie hands of 
the originators of the fraud, and to speak as if there really was some 
difficulty in making the colonists accede to any terms the British go- 
vernment should intimate ; knowing all the time that they exist but 
by the fiat of the government operating in the shape of exactions on 
the people. If the West Indians are unmanageable, stop their rations. 
If they can keep themselves, let them take their own wa}'^, like other 
people that can keep themselves. But if they cannot, then let them, 
like other paupers, submit to the directions of those that pay for them ; 
and do not let us be troubled with the insolence and bad propensities 
of the great poor-house in the Antilles. If Helen Moss is to be sup- 
ported by a rate upon the parish, Helen Moss shall be quiet, and liave 
neither slaves nor apprentices to flog ; or else*Helen Moss shall be 
put on low diet, till she finds the difference between rubbing pepper 
into girls' eyes in the West Indies, and being insolent to honest men 
in England who are paying for her keepf . 

* ' With regard to the Sugar Colonies, settle the slave question in such a man- 
ner as the planters will sanction. '—i?/actoood';s Ed. Mag. July 1829, p. 115. 

f See Anti-Slavery Beporter, vol. ii. p. 462. See also Extract from the SpeecJi 
of Sir James Macintos/i in the House of Commojis, June 3, 1829: from the Anti- 
Slavery Monthly Reporter for June 1829. — ' The Hon. Member [Mr. H. Gurney] 
had had recourse to a species of argument respecting the case of the Pdosscs, 
which he remembered was used at the beginning of the debates on the piojjosed 
abolition of the slave trade. A great West-India proprietor said, on the occasion 
to which he had alluded, that the House might as well judge of the morals of 
England by the records of the Old Bailey, as judge of the character of the West- 
India planters from a few occurrences selected for the purpose of making an unfa- 
vourable impression on the public. To this Mr. Fox replied — " 1 do not wonder 
that the slave trade should remind the Hon. Gentleman of the Old Hailcy. No- 



126 Exlractfrom Westminster Hevietv. 

The pretext might, have done for the days of ignorance ; but no 
minister in the present time would risk his credit, by intimating the 
existence of a difficulty in bringing the West Indians to any terms 
which the government, acting on behalf of the British community, 
should be pleased to propose. A minister who should do so now, 
would be hooted down — out of the House, if not in the House — as a 
man that had voluntarily come forward with a fraud in his hand and a 
falsehood in his mouth. If any minister has a reason to offer why 
the people of England should continue to pay a duty of 10s. a hun- 
dred-weight on sugar from their East-Indian colonies in order that 
slavery may be paid for in the West, let him produce it ; but if he 
loves his credit for common penetration and ordinary prudence, let 
him not risk the assertion that there is any difficulty in the removal of 
the slavery. 

What a minister desirous to do justice to the people of England 
would manifestly do, M'ould be to remove the extra duties in favour of 
West -Indian sugar, by a prospective act, to take effect six months after 
date; and then intimate to tlie blustering paupers of the West Indies, 
that when the Colonial legislatures had enacted, and effectually put 

thing can be so congenial as the two subjects. Nevertheless I will point out to 
the Hon. Gentleman a contrast between them. At the Old Bailey we hear of 
crimes which shock our moral feelings ; but we are consoled by the punishment of 
the criminals. We read of crimes as atrocious in the West-India islands, but our 
moral feelings are shocked at hearing not only of the impunity of the criminals, 
but of their triumph." In adverting to the case of the Mosses, the Hon. Member 
had, most unfortunately for his argument, alluded to the case of Mrs. Hibner. 
The contrast which these cases presented between the moral feeling of the Ba- 
hamas and the moral feeling of this country was much more striking than the con- 
trast to which Mr. Fox had formerly called the attention of the House. The of- 
fenders in the Bahamas having not only committed a murder, but committed it in 
the most barbarous manner possible, had been condemned to five months' impri'- 
sonment. What followed ? A memorial had been presented to the Colonial Se- 
cretary, signed by what were called the most respectable persons in the colony, 
attesting that the character of these cruel murderers was generally one of great 
humanity, and praying for a remission of their punishment. That was the maimer 
in which this atrocious crime was viewed in an island, the inhabitants of which were 
in no other way demoralized than as the possession of unltounded and irresponsible 
power always corrupted the heart of man. Nay more, a public dinner, as a 
matter of triumph, was actually given, by the chief persons in the colony, to the 
criminals who had barely escaped the most condign punishment for their offences. 
What was, on the other hand, the case in London, when a criminal of the lowest 
order, this same Mrs. Hibner, whose crime was not aggravated by the considera- 
tion that she was possessed of information which ought to have taught her better, 
committed a similar, offence ? He was not the apologist of the vindictive 
feeling exhibited by the populace on the occasion ; but it was well known 
that they depai'ted from the humanity which they usually exhibited towards 
the unfortunate persons who underwent the last sentence of the law. They 
could not conceal their horror at a crime, which, however, was far less atrocious 
than that which had been committed by the respectable Mosses; and even rent 
the air with shouts of triumph when they witnessed the payment of the dreadful 
penalty. In justice, however, to the people of London, he must observe, that he 
remembered only three instances in which they had thus deviated from their usual 
feelings of commiseration for suffering criminals ; and those were all cases in vt'hich 
the punishment of death had been inflicted for the crime of murder, accompanied 
with circumstances of peculiar cruelty. Thus, even in their errors, the generosity 
which belonged to their general character was strongly evinced.' 



Extract from Westminster Eevietv, 127 

into execution, every jot and tittle of what should be intimated to them 
from the government at home, the government at home would con- 
sider how far they would propose to the people of England the taking 
them again upon the pauper's list, and what portion of the labour of 
Englishmen should, upon sincere repentance and most abject and un- 
reserved submission for past misconduct, be permitted to dribble into 
the pockets of the penitents. This is what every minister knows to be 
common sense and common honour ; and there is nothing in the con- 
stitution of the present leaders of the country, to make it probable that 
they have any disinclination to act upon the knowledge. 

In the present state of public information, it would be absurd for a 
minister to attempt to put forward the occupation of the West-Indian 
islands as a source of national wealth, when it is notorious that the 
whole establishment is maintained only by an impost on the public. 
There may have been a time when the wealth, the glories, the military 
and naval power, which make their appearance on certain points in 
consequence of the retention of the West Indies, might have been 
advanced, and nobody have found out that they were all paid for by a 
greater diminution of wealth and power somewhere else. But ' the 
people are over- educated' for such an imposition now. The friends of 
slavery in the House of Commons should have stopped the progress 
of A, B, C, long ago; and as they did not, they must take the conse- 
quences. The West Indians have sometimes threatened to transfer 
their allegiance to America. If the Americans would take them on 
such terms, it v/ould be policy for Great Britain to oiFer the Americans 
a million sterling a-year to consent to the arrangement, and she would 
be a great gainer by the bargain after all. A collection of paupers 
who should utter a threat that they would quit the parish, would not 
be half so welcome to put their threats in execution. The people of 
England are tired of the West Indians. They are tired, in the first 
place, of keeping them by public contribution ; and they are tired of 
the insolence with which their misplaced charity has been returned. 

Suppose the owner of a beast of burden were to disgust the public 
by the exhibition of base and malignant cruelty — as, for instance, that 
he were seen beating it to death, and rubbing pepper into its eyes, 
as the ladies who are kept out of our money in the West Indies do 
to their slaves ; — and that, on being interfered with by the Society for 
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, or by any body else, he should 
harangue upon his right of property, and turn upon the interferers with 
injury and insult; — and suppose that after all it should be found 
out, that the very people whom he was bespattering were subscribing 
to find him the means by v/hich he possessed himself of the animal in 
question ; that, in fact, he had not the means of livelihood, except by 
the contributions of the people he was insulting. How small would 
be the chance of such a ruffian, for the continuation of his nuisance ; 
and how crawling and utterly contemptible would be the advisers, 
who should suggest the slightest difficulty in putting down his mal- 
practices. Perhaps such a man might threaten, that if he was interfered 
with, he would starve his victim altogether. Try liim. Depend upon 
it there will be no danger. He wilt be as supple as a glove. The 



1 2S Exiractffom Westminster Review. 

moment lie is touched on the right place — the instant he perceives 
that he is understood and over-matched — his subserviency will be equal 
to his former violence. He vv'ill be your poor industrious jackass- 
driver — he will turn Methodist, go to week-day prayers, sing psalms 
till his voice cracks, do any thing that he thinks will tend to effect the 
prolongation of his pittance. Be assured that he will be the most 
pathetic and obliging personage in the creation : his ass shall eat 
with him, sleep with him, if the gentlemen will be so kind as to think 
about continuing his half-a-crown a week. Just such will be the con- 
duct of the people who have insulted us in the West Indies, if we can 
only pluck up heart to say a word about the stoppage of the parish 
pay. They will send a deputation to make an apology to every honest 
man that has been insulted by their hired press, and to give every 
honest woman a shaddock and a mamee-apple for her little boys, the 
moment they find themselves threatened with the stoppage of the 
allowance. Why are the people of England to support men they dis- 
like, and be insulted in return ? Why is every man and woman in this 
country to pay a poll-tax, amounting in the whole, in bounties and 
protecting duties, to not less than a million and a half a-year; with 
no earthly return but the pleasure of reading the advertisements in the 
West-Indian gazettes, and now and then the murder of a missionary 
by way of sauce piqucuUe? 

If the slave-owners pretend to deny the character of their 
system, there would be just as much chance for Esther Hibner to have 
persuaded the public of the non-entity of her crimes. Putting all in- 
dividual testimony on one side, their own public acts afford a mass of 
evidence, which nobody that is not hired pretends to misunderstand. 
If there has been any softening in their practice, it is only as it has 
been forced upon them by the humanity of the British community : and 
ihe same humanity will force them to an end. If they have aban- 
doned any particular cruelty, they grinned and scowled like Smithfield 
drovers forbidden to strike below the hock ; and when a British minister 
proposed the abolition of the indecent whipping of women upon the 
field, they rose with one consent to say that this was their birth-right, 
and they would die by it ; — they could have submitted to any moderate 
interference from British tyranny, but this was a necessary of life, which 
if Englishmen would not pay for, the allegiance of the West Indies 
must be at an end, and ' Old England ' take the risk of ' doing with- 
out Barbadoes !' It is as clear as the day, that their system altogether 
is one which every Englishman, in his own person, knows it would be 
honour and glory to demolish by the bayonet. Every Englishman 
knows that the right of resistance to personal slavery is as clear and 
distinct a right, as that of resistance to the wild beasts of the forest. 
If this is not law, there is no law, — it is time for every man to take 
his musquet if he has one, and be a law unto himself. It is not men 
meeting together with certain forms, and calling themselves the Ho- 
nourable t/tis, or the Worshipful that., — that can legalize what in its 
own nature is contrary to the purposes for which human society is 
formed. It is true enough that the tiger'raay make laws, and define 
what punishments he will execute on those who shall resist him and 



Extract f torn Wedmhuter Revierv. 129 

fail. But it is not the less true that he and liis laws are the enemies of 
the human race ; r.nd that no man is bound to obey them longer than 
he finds himself beneath the paw. If the West Indians were omnipo- 
tent in England to-morrov/, they could not make one Englishman ac- 
knowledge that their rule, when applied to himself, was to be endured 
an hour longer than a bayonet could be got to point in opposition to it. 
If every man in England could be made hypocrite enough to deny this 
truth in words, he would not the less believe it in his heart. All 
honest men, in spirit, drink the great moralist's toast every day of 
their existence ; and if every member of the House of Commons could 
be induced to exclaim against the impropriety, they would not do it 
less. Not a soldier or officer is sent to the colonies who does not 
know, that the only way of reconciling his service with the duty of an 
honest man or the honour of a gentleman, is by considering himself as 
the guardian of the great acts of justice which must speedily take 
place. In any other light, he might as well be invited to patrole Houns- 
low in aid of the knights of the road, or form a cordon round the 
houses of the Marrs and the Williamsons, while the man with a 
hammer did his office inside. There is no use in a government, or any 
portion of the members of a government, setting themselves up against 
the acknowledged rules of justice and right on which all the submission 
of the community to them is dependent. The only consequence is, 
that so far as they succeed in impressing the public with this opinion of 
their acts, so far do they lose the benefit of every principle of obe- 
dience but fear. It may be necessary to obey a government that sup- 
ports slavery by law ; but it can never be desi?-able, longer than it is 
necessary. There is not one rule of right for a man here, and another 
somewhere else. The robbery that is detestable at Hounslow, does not 
become sanctified by degrees of west longitude. And so long as it is 
authorized any where, the direct inference is, that if men in other 
places are not subjected to the same treatment, it is only because their 
own physical force stands between them and the infliction. A govern- 
ment where the people can be taxed to support slavery abroad, and a 
part of the plunder expended in buying rotten boroughs to support 
the iniquity at home, is clearly one that needs a root-and-branch re- 
formation, on the naked principle of self-defence in the community. 
If governments do not like root-and-branch reformations, they should 
cut off the gratuitous iniquities which induce the danger ; and not give 
food to the cry for radical reform, for the sake of a dinner to ministers 
from the ' West- Indian body.' 

The Colonists have tried to frighten the Government and the country, 
by holding out the necessity that, in the event of the emancipation of 
their slaves, they should be paid for them ; and some of the friends of 
emancipation have been weak enough to shew an inclination to admit 
the principle. Suppose now, that an Irish pauper, in the days when 
Irishmen worked their horses by the tails, had been interfered with by 
the parish officers with a view to put an end to his barbarous practice, 
and had answered, ' If your honours stop my allowance till I give over 
working my horse by the tail, I hope you mean to pay me what I gave 
for him, and alloto me to ivork him in harness besides.' This is a fair 



^^^ Extract from Westmiiister Remeia. 

statement of the West-Indian proposition. Every body knows, that 
what they demand to be paid for, is the mere pleasure of working by 
the tail ; it is simply the gratification of those evil lusts and passions, 
which can be gratified under a system of slavery, and cannot be grati- 
fied so well under a sj^stem of free labour. What we pay a poll-tax 
for, is simply that the West Indians may have the luxury of the whip. 
We pay for the pleasurable titillation excited in colonial nerves by 
the exercise of the constitutional right of the flogging of women. And 
if we decline paying for this, we are invited, as a point of justice, to 
lay down the sum that was given for the thing flogged ; upon the prin- 
ciple, apparently, that, if not flogged, the use intended from it is at an 
end. The people of England are undeniably very weak upon some 
points ; but it is to be hoped they will never be so weak, as to think 
of paying for the horse, as the price of working him in harness instead 
of by the tail. 

The claim for payment being demonstrably a fraud, it is plain that 
an honest minister would have nothing to do but to stop the disgraceful 
tax endured by the people of this country, till the West-Indian 
governments comply in the fullest manner with every intimation that 
should be made to them. Nobody is afraid of ministers going too 
far : the only difficulty is in raising a force of opinion to make them 
go far enough. And nobody doubts the desirableness of the altera- ' 
tions being made by the Colonial governments, or their superior aptitude 
for executing them. When, therefore, they have emancipated, or put 
in a direct course of emancipation within such period as the Govern- 
ment should suggest, the whole of their Negro population, it would 
be quite time enough to think of returning to the poll-tax. By all 
means let them do it with the deliberation they shall find necessary. 
Let them reflect well upon the difficulties that are in the way, and do 
nothing hastily, rashly, or unadvisedly ; but, in the mean time, let the 
people of England be free from the poll-tax. 

It would be an insult at this time of day to ask the English people 
whether slavery is an evil or not ; they might just as well be asked the 
question, of house-breaking. Even the poor peasant and manufacturer, 
who are trodden down by the effect of bad laws till their actual mess 
of pottage is of smaller dimensions than that of the slave in the West 
Indies, are capable of appreciating the injury of the plea, which tells 
them that their condition would be improved if they and their children 
were made saleable like beasts. This is what ijiiould be done, if their 
own physical force did not prevent it ; so far, at least, as depends on 
those who support the remoter evil. The same hired press that takes 
the side of slavery in the Colonies, would take the side of reducing 
the working population of England to the same slavery, if any body 
saw chance enough of effecting the object to make it worth while to 
pay. Esther Hibner might have had it on her side, if she could have 
taken two hundred copies of a Sunday paper weekly. As it is, the 
slave-owners are content with levying about two shillings annually 
from every individual of the starving labourer's family. A good meal 
once a quarter, is taken from the haggard wife and the starving child ; 
Jbecause, without it, there would be no possibility of carrying on the 



Extract Jrom Westminster Revieiv. 131 

flogging of women in the Colonies. The object is not to debate whether 
this is an evil, but to excite men to union and perseverance in abating 
the nuisance. When suffering men are taxed, the ordinary assumption 
is, that it is for some benefit that is to arise to the community. But 
here the object is simply and solely, that bad men may riot in the 
pleasures of injustice, and that the sixpences abstracted quarterly from 
the industrious and the poor may be clubbed together, in the shape 
of carriages and good dinners, for the owners of slaves in the West 
Indies. 

There must be an end of the system of robbing one man to keep 
another ; and in no place can it so properly begin, as where, in addition 
to the simple robbery, the whole thing supported is hateful in itself. 
The time is past when men could be deterred from pursuing such an 
object, by the apprehension of insult from the defenders of the wrong. 
Such insults are honours; and there is no individual so mean, as to 
be unable to aspire to a portion of the credit. The poorest man in 
England can raise a voice somewhere, against the system which taxes 
his family by the head, in support of the injustice he has learnt from 
his forefathers to hate. The pith and marrow of the whole system 
lie in the convenience of the higher classes taking the work of the 
lower without paying for it. The higher classes find it the pleasantest 
thing in the world, to be worked for and not to pay, or to pay only as 
much as they choose ; and the poor man is to be taxed in his basket 
and in his store, that what cannot be wrung from the Black slave 
abroad, may be made up by the Wliite one at home. 

The people of the West Indies seem to labour under an utter igno- 
rance of the light in which their system altogether is viewed in England. 
When West-Indian magistrates apply the term ' wretch' to a Negro 
who is put to death for having failed in an attempt at resistance, the 
people of England do not consider him as a ' wretch,' but as a good 
and gallant man, dying in the best of causes, — the resistance to op- 
pression, by which themselves hold all the good that they enjoy. 
They consider him as a soldier fallen in the advance-guard of that 
combat, which is only kept from themselves, because somebody else 
is exposed to it further off. If the murdered Negro is a ' wretch,' then 
an Englishman is a ' wretch,' for not bowing his head to slavery when- 
ever it invites him. The same reason that makes the white English- 
man's resistance virtuous and honourable, makes the black one's too; — 
it is only a regiment with different facings, fighting in the same cause. 
Will these men never know the ground on which they stand ? Can 
nothing make them find out, that the universal British people would 
stand by and cheer on their dusky brethren to the assault, if it was 
not for the solitary hope that the end may be obtained more effectually 
by other means? It is not true that the people of England believe 
that any set of men, here or any where, can by any act of theirs alter 
the nature of slavery, or make that not robbery which was robbery 
before. They can make it robbery according to law — the more is the 
pity that the power of law-making should be in such hands ; but this 
is the only inference. All moral respect for such laws — all submission 
of the mind, as to a rule which it is desirable to obey and honourable to 



132 Extract Jrom Westminster Review. 

support — is as much out of the question, as if a freebooter were to lay 
down a scale of punishment for those who should be found guilty of 
having lifted a hand against his power. 

When tiie question, with what the West Indians have to answer, 
has been so long and amply debated by the press in various forms, 
it would be superfluous to enter into an examination of all the ar- 
guments which have been advanced to shew that Englishmen with 
dark faces should be slaves. The principal ones now insisted on, are 
two; First, that all the opponents to slavery are hypocrites; and, 
Secondly, that the produce of the other distant possessions of Great 
Britain (as, for instance, East-Indian sugar) is equally raised by the 
labour of slaves. 

Now supposing it were actually true, that every man who takes a 
prominent part in opposition to the continuance of slavery in the 
West Indies was a hypocrite at heart ; — that it was the real and ve- 
ritable fact, that every such man had a colony of his own, where he 
was only waiting for the abolition of slavery in the West Indies, to 
see the "removal of many objections to that system" in his own pe- 
culiar establishment ; — in tohat manner would that make it desirable 
that E?iglishme7i should pay a poll-tax for the support of slavery in the 
West Indies ? And suppose, again, it was actually true— which it is not 
— that the produce of the East Indies was raised by the labour of 
slaves, as well as of the West ; — in what manner would that make it de- 
sirable that the people of England shoidd pay a poll-tax to support the 
produce of the West? Supposing they were both villanies alike, what 
reason would there be for the people of England paying a poll-tax for 
the sake of supporting one villany in preference to another villany ? 
There is nothing like this at the Old Bailey. Nobody pays a poll-tax 
in order that the receiver of stolen goods in the Minories may flourish 
in preference to him of Houndsditch. The arguments are no argu- 
ments, even when the facts assumed are admitted in their fullest ex- 
tent ; still less when they are utterly false and unfounded. Nobody 
believes that the dislike to keeping a carriage for Esther Hibner pro- 
ceeds from hypocrisy. Nobody believes that cultivation is carried on 
by slaves in the East, as it is in the West. If so, where are the slave- 
laws, and where are the advertisements in the gazettes? The natives 
of India, in their own extraordinary English, advertise every thing 
else that can possibly be bought or sold : how is it that they never 
advertise slaves ? There is not a common soldier that arrives from 
India, that is not capable of bearing testimony to the flagrant falsehood 
of the assertion that India is cultivated by slaves. If it was, the East- 
India Company would not hold possession long enough to send a 
despatch to the Governor-Geiieral. It is true, that among the innu- 
merable tribes and castes that compose the immense population of 
India, vestiges of slavery may be found. The writer of this has been 
eight years in India, and once saw a girl, who was said to have been 
sold by her parents in her infancy, as the means of escaping from 
famine. But there was no law that enforced any results from such a 
fact. To have gone before a British magistrate with any plea founded 
on such a claim, would have been as absurd in India, as it would six 



Extratl/rom Westmhister Review. 133 

years afterwards, when the same girl was in England. This is what 
the West Indians trust to. It would not be much trouble to the 
governors of India at home, to send out five lines in a despatch, dis- 
avowing all recognition of the state of personal slavery throughout 
their vast domains ; and they have as manifest an interest in doing it, 
as in sending to inquire the price of cotton. 

After these, come the counsellors, who advise the postponing of the 
attempt to remove the West-Indian nuisance, till it can be clearly 
proved that there are no nuisances elsewhere ; being, in point of wisdom 
and excellent judgment, on a par with him who should recommend 
the not killing a flea in Grosvenor Square, till it can be ascertained 
that there are none in Monmouth Street. It may be quite true, that 
the people of England are suffering in countless ways ; that no man 
can look out of his window without seeing urgent calls for his inter- 
ference and his charity ; — but how does this make it desirable that the 
West Indians should be supported by a poll-tax ? Has any body de- 
monstrated what balance there is between the community's being op- 
pressed (for instance) by the Corn Laws, and being indulged with the 
privilege of supporting the West-Indian body ? how one tends to 
remedy the other ; or why, if one cannot be got rid of for the present, 
the other should not, if it can ? Men never make such arguments as 
this for nothing. Some portion of the plunder drains into their mouths; 
or they live in hope that it may drain hereafter. They are the warier 
confederates in the fraud ; not bold enough to be put forward as the 
prime agents themselves, but anxious to deserve well of their com- 
munity by exerting their small talents to confound the right. 

The upshot and conclusion is, to call upon men of all classes to lay 
aside for a moment their differences in politics and in religion, and 
join in removing from us and ours this foul disgrace upon a nation 
calling itself free. To-morrow, tug at each other's throats, if it must 
be so ; but to-day let there be a ' truce of God,' — a suspension of 
arms, like that under which the besiegers and besieged meet, to remove 
the carcase that is spreading plague on both. There are certain things 
on which, it would appear, mankind were made to differ ; but there 
are also certain things on which, it is sure, that they were made to 
agree. In such a cause, let the Church-of-England-man follow his 
bishops, and the Sectary remember only the murder of his missionary 
in Demerara. Let the emancipated Catholic reflect, how closely 
allied have been the principles of the present question and of his own, 
and well consider the sound policy there would be in driving his 
enemies from the position they have occupied beyond. All creatures 
of ill omen — every odious and foul bird, that has threatened any body 
or tormented any body — take roost and harbour in the question of 
West-Indian slavery, and sit there in readiness to pounce on the first 
exposed member of liberty at home. All that is good and distin- 
guished in the country, is against them ; and waits only to be joined 
by the momentum of a united community, to give the one cheer more, 
which will be the last. Never mind a little obloquy: nobody cares 
for the reviling of the individuals on whom society is putting force, 
nor of those who back them. It is part of their unhappy state and 



134 Extract from Westminster Revieto. 

condition ; you would not be an honest man, if they had nothing to 
say against you. Reject with utter scorn all requests that you will 
abstain from letting the sufferers know what you think of their op- 
pressors. You are not part of the plot ; you are on the other side : 
there is no fairness in telling you, that you must hold your tongue, or 
else your adversaries will be ' exceedingly uncomfortable.' Say boldly, 
that you act with the express design to spread the information, that 
you and your countrymen are in motion on the other side of the 
Atlantic. All these things, in one way or another, go to your suffer- 
ing comrades in Jamaica in the end; and tend to increase the pressure 
which will finally remove your wrong and theirs. There is not an old 
woman that gives sixpence to the cause of Negro freedom in England, 
that does not make the heart of a slave-owner sink within him. If 
the slave-owners can be kept upon old women's sixpences, they can be 
pulled down by old women's sixpences. The contributions of the 
people are never despised, except when they are to be made an honest 
use of. Omit no means, however trivial, that may evince your sense 
of wrong, and tend to multiply it. When a comedian makes a lucky 
hit, his grotesque figure in cheap clay displays itself on the chimney- 
piece of half the working men in England. Make a figure of a Negro 
woman, and write under it, " We still pay a poll-tax to support the 
flogging of women in Jamaica." And when j'ou can add to it the date 
of the removal of the evil, leave it to your posterity, as a proof that 
their fathers, though humble, were not mean ; that, though poor, they 
were much too good to be worked in their own country, for the sake of 
enabling the rich to work slaves in another. 



Ellerton and Henderson, PrintetSj 
Gough Square, London. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 54.] For NOVEMBER, 1829. [No. 6. Vol. iii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" -will be forwarded to any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four Shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity, on application at 
the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury. Single Copies may be had of all 
booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight pages. 



I.— PROTECTORS OF SLAVES' REPORTS, viz. from, 1. Berbice; 2. Tri- 
nidad; 3. St. Lucia; 4. Cape of Good Hope; 5. Demerara. 
II.— PRO-SLAVERY WRITINGS— JAMAICA. 



I. — Protectors of Slaves' Reports. 

Such is the title of a volume which was laid on the table of the 
House of Commons in the last session of parliament. It bears the date 
of June 12th, 1829, and is numbered 335. 

When, in the year 1825, a return was first made of the judicial pro- 
ceedings of the Fiscal of Berbice, in cases of complaint between master 
and slave, we hailed it as admitting the public, too long deluded by co~ 
lonial misrepresentation, into the interior, the very penetralia of the slave 
system,which was there exhibited in all its deformity. (Vol. i. No. 5, p. 33.) 
When called, soon after, to review the Fiscal's defence and vindication 
of his memorable return, as well as some further proceedings of the 
judicial authorities of Berbice, and to remark on their peculiar atrocity, 
we ventured to inquire whether, after all, the state of slavery, as there 
exhibited, " differed from that of our slave colonies generally, except in 
our having happily obtained, from Berbice, those details which had 
been carefully withheld from us in almost every other instance ? " 
" Let us only obtain," we added, " similar details from the other colo- 
nies, and we shall then witness the same state of legal oppression, the 
same accumulation of actual suffering, as exists in Berbice, and also in 
the Mauritius." (Vol. i. No. 16, and Vol. ii. No. 46, p. 441.) 

We further took occasion, after detailing the recent cruelties exhi- 
bited in the Bahamas by Mr. and Mrs. Moss, to remark, " that if we 
would duly estimate the unexampled wretchedness of slavery, we must 
view, in connection with this transaction at one extremity of the 
Antilles, the no less revolting scenes passing at Berbice, their other ex- 
tremity, and the picture of slavery in the Mauritius ; and then we must 
supply all that we can presume to have occurred contemporaneously in 
the rest of our slave colonies similarly circumstanced, governed by 
similar laws, and characterized by similar manners, habits, and feelings; 
but, from which we have had no returns, either because no records have 
been kept, or if they have been kept, they have been studiously withheld 
from us ; bearing always in mind that this accumulated mass of suffer- 
ing has been inflicted, and is now inflicting under British authority, and 

T 



136 Protectors of Slaves' Reports — Berbice. 

that we, as a nation, are answerable for all its guilt before Him who 
claims the prerogative of being the avenger of the oppressed." (Vol. ii. 
No. 47, p. 468, and Vol. iii. No. 50, p. 29.) 

The papers we are now about to analyze, will be found very remark- 
ably to confirm this anticipation. They drag from their obscurity some 
further details of the iniquities of colonial b'.very, not only in Berbice, 
(a part of which had been already revealec',) but from Trinidad, St. 
Lucia, the Cape of Good Hope, and Deme.ara. We will first dispose 
of Berbice. 

1. Bekbice. 

The report from this colony, contained in the present volume, com- 
mences with one of those hoaxes by which the planters, in combination 
with the public functionaries of the West Indies, have so often succeeded 
in blinding and deceiving the good people of England. The Deputy 
Protector of Slaves, Mr. Bird, who seems a well-meaning man, but 
strangely ignorant of the whole economy of West Indian plantations, 
(Mr. Power, the Protector, had he been present, would have known 
better,) appears to have learned, for the first time, in December, 1827, 
that slaves, in the time of crop, were made to work during the night as 
well as during the day. He is informed, he says, that on a plantation, 
called Canefield, the process of boiling sugar had been going on during 
the night, and he immediately sets on foot a laborious inquiry, and 
places the result before the King's Advocate, and Mr. Bennet the 
Fiscal, formally requiring from them, and they formally delivering, opi- 
nions upon it, as if the case of Canefield were peculiar, and as if the 
practice which so alarms Mr. Bird did not regularly prevail on every 
plantation throughout the colony. Nay, the Fiscal himself, Mr. Bennet, 
in his capacity of a sugar planter, and every other sugar and coffee 
planter in the colony, knew well, and could not but know, that their 
slaves are in the constant habit of working, in crop time, for a consider- 
able portion of the night, as well as during the whole of the day ; and yet 
he, and the King's Advocate unite, not in frankly saying that the prac- 
tice in question is universal, but in transmitting to the Colonial Office, 
through the Governor, a set of documents, the effect of which, on all in 
this country who are ignorant of local circumstances, will probably be, to 
produce an impression that it was only on one solitary estate in Berbice 
that, through the caprice of a manager, night-work, (the common prac- 
tice, during crop, not only in Berbice, but in all the sugar colonies,) had 
been exacted. It would be endless to expose the mystification of the 
statements on this subject. 

Mr. Bird's half-yearly report, from 1st September, 1827, to 1st 
March, 1828, gives a return of sixty-one persons, six of them civil 
magistrates, who have either failed to make any return whatever of 
punishments inflicted by them on their slaves, or whose returns are in- 
formal, or who have exceeded the limit of the law, in the punishments 
they inflicted. It is not said whether any and what penalties have been 
imposed on these defaulters. — Two marriages of slaves are reported to 
have taken place, and forty-one manumissions. The deposits in the 
Savings' Bank amount to 2106 guilders, chiefly by hegroes belonging 
to the crown. 



Protectors of Slaves' Reports — Berbice. 137 

A second report from Mr. Power, the Protector, embraces the half 
year, from 1st March to 3lst August, 1828. It appears from it that 
the Colonial Council had actually consumed nearly twelve months 
in endeavouring to frame a law, in conformity with the repeated desire 
of the Secretary of state, to enable slaves, cheaply and expeditiously, 
to recover small debts due to them ; and at the end of that period the 
Council request still further time to consider the subject. This is per- 
fectly ludicrous. 

Mr. Power's report contains a return of the number of offences for 
which slaves were punished in the colony of Berbice, from the 1st of 
July, 1827, to the 30th of June, 1828. It amounts to the extraordinary 
sum of 9,112; 5,939 of the offenders being males, and 3,173 females. 
Now the whole slave population of Berbice, including all ages, does not 
exceed 21,500, If we suppose a third or fourth part of these to be 
too old or too young to be the subjects of such regular punishment, as 
would be made matter of record, we have the extraordinary spectacle 
exhibited to us of considerably more than every second individual in the 
community, becoming the subjects of punishment, in the course of a 
single year, and that year, the year 1827 — 1828. But, even this is too 
favourable a view of the case, for there is no record of punishments, nor 
any return made of them to the Protector, except where the proprietor 
is possessed of six slaves or upwards. The number thus excluded from 
the purview of the Protector must greatly raise the proportion borne by 
the persons punished to the whole population, so that the 9,112 punish- 
ments are distributed among a number of slaves, not exceeding, pro- 
bably, from 13,000 to 14,000 in all. This is quite frightful. But as we 
shall have occasion to recur to this subject when we come to speak of 
Demerara, we will confine ourselves at present to quoting a remark of 
Mr. Power's, which will be found to throw no small light on the slave 
system. — The offences of the slaves are, he says, in " great proportion, 
to be attributed to their condition, and are almost inseparable from that 
system of coerced labour which slavery was introduced to sustain." He 
might have added that the punishments for those offences are inflicted 
without trial, by the hand, or at least at the bidding, of any ruffian who 
may be employed to direct slave labour. 

The average price of slaves sold in Berbice, during the year ending 
August 3, 1828, was about £98 sterling. — The manumissions in the 
half year preceding that date were twenty, the marriages five ; the de- 
posits, 2668 guilders, chiefly as before, by the slaves of the crown. 

Among the judicial proceedings we observe, that one planter is fined 
500 guilders, about £36 sterling, for not clothing his slaves. If his 
slaves are numerous, the fine will prove a gain, instead of a loss, unless 
the law obliges him to repair his omission, which is not stated to be the 
case. 

We are happy to perceive that the Court of Justice has awarded free- 
dom to an alleged slave, merely on proof that his mother was an 
Indian. 

In the course of the trial of a complaint by a woman, named Julia, a 
slave of Plantation Augsburgh, belonging to the Lutheran Church — that 
the manager oppressed her with labour, though she was six months 



J 38 Protectors of Slaves Reports — Trinidad. 

gone with child — it came out that this poor creature had been born ou 
the estate of this religious body, but had received no religious instruc- 
tion whatsoever, nor had ever been in church; and, it further appeared, 
that this was the case with the slaves in general attached to a planta- 
tion, the sole property of the Lutheran Consistory. Mr. Power feelingly 
remarks, that " it will scarcely be believed, out of the range of this 
colony, that such a state of things could exist, as a christian community, 
having a minister and a schoolmaster, with a vestry controlling both, and 
both receiving salaries out of funds supplied by the toil of the negroes, 
neither imparting spiritual instruction, nor the most simple elementary 
exercise of their intellectual powers to those unhappy beings who hold 
such strong obligations on their justice and humanity. Is it to be won- 
dered at," he exclaims, " that our punishment records exhibit such a 
tissue of violence, intoxication, and all that degrading class of vices 
which are inseparable from uninstructed mortality ? " 

Renewing his complaint of the continued want of a law to recover, 
summarily and cheaply, small debts due to slaves, Mr. Power re- 
marks on the hopelessness of seeing even the emancipated negro indus- 
trious, unless he has a " certainty of being paid for his labour," while 
he is well assured, that if " the certainty of remuneration is secured, the 
supply of free labour will be always commensurate with the demand." 
This opinion he illustrates by a reference to facts that had passed, and 
were passing under his own observation, (p. 30.) 

2. Trustidad. 

In the half year ending the 24th of June, 1828, the manumissions 
amounted to sixty-eight, of which twenty-five were voluntary and gra- 
tuitous, and forty-three were purchased for the sum of £2814 sterling, 
or at an average of about £70. The prices paid, in some cases, were 
enormously high. One young woman, of twenty-three years of age, is 
made to pay, to Messrs. Protheroe, £108 sterling; another woman, of 
the age of forty-four, the same price, to Mr. Edward Jackson; two 
other women pay, one £130, and the other £141, — and a girl twenty- 
three years of age, sold by Messrs. Rucker and Co., is made to pay the 
enormous sum of £216. 13s. — One poor woman fails to obtain her 
freedom, because the excessive amount of her appraisement, £173. 6s. 8c?. 
sterling, is beyond her means. 

One woman, Eliza Jane, laid claim to her freedom, on the ground of 
having been a liberated and apprenticed African, Her claim was re 
jected on the alleged ground, that she had been legally imported into Tri- 
nidad by Mr. Pteed, a baker, of Port of Spain, in March, 1827. Now, by 
what possibility this poor creature could have been legally imported in 
1827, in direct violation of the Abolition Act of 1825, it will be for the 
guardian of slaves to explain to the Secretary of state, who, we cannot 
doubt, will cause an immediate investigation to take place respecting 
this barefaced infraction of the law of the land. But, even if the very 
date of her importation had not been decisive of the criminality of the 
transaction, yet, surely it became the Protector of slaves to have taken 
measures for ascertaining the truth of the statement as to her having 
been one of the liberated Africans, and consequently as much entitled 



Protectors of Slaves' Reports — St. Lucia — Cape of Good Hope. 139 

to her liberty as the Protector himself. How was it possible for this 
wretched female, placed as she was under the constraint of slavery, to 
procure, from Barbadoes, the evidence necessary to establish her claim? 
It surely was the Protector's clear and imperative duty to have done 
this, and the failure to do so seems not only to call for an investigation 
of the facts of this particular case, but for a careful retrospect into the 
conduct of Protectors generally, in the high and responsible office they 
hold. 

3. St. Lucia. 

The returns from this colony embrace the period of one year, from 
the 30th of June 1826, to the 30th of June 1827. 

The number of punishments inflicted during that period, as extracted 
from the returns made to the Protector, was 2876 ; the whole popula- 
tion, of all ages, being only about 14,000. The number of marriages was 
three, and the number of manumissions sixty-three, thirty-two being 
gratuitous, and thirty-one by purchase, besides nine children baptized 
free, on payment of the usual sum for each. 

4. Cape of Good Hope. 

So strong an impression had been produced in the public mind in fa- 
vour of the lenity of the system of slavery prevailing at the Cape of 
Good Hope, that its real state, until very recently, had scarcely been 
made a subject of serious inquiry. This unfounded impression we ap- 
prehend, was to be attributed, in a great measure, to the hasty and 
incorrect statements of Mr. Barrow, in the account he published of his 
visit to that colony, and currency and added weight v/ere afterwards 
given to it by the Quarterly Review. This misconception necessarily 
had the mischievous eifect of comparatively withdrawing the regards of 
the philanthropist from that portion of our dominions, as if it were a 
colony where humanity had much to rejoice in and little to regret. 

As respected the native inhabitants, the Hottentots, CafFres, &c. the 
fatal illusion thus created was completely dispelled by the publication 
of Dr. Philip's Researches in South Africa, a work to which we may 
ascribe that eminent act of justice, on the part of the present Colonial 
Secretary of state. Sir George Murray, by which the long-oppressed, 
and illegally enslaved, and cruelly wasted natives of that region were, 
by one sweeping and conclusive decree, restored to the plenitude of 
those civil rights of which they had been iniquitously deprived, and in- 
vested with the privileges and immunities of British subjects. (See 
No. 50, pp. 30, 31.) 

On the condition of the Cape slaves also, the invaluable work of Dr. 
Philip threw considerable light, and the notices given of it by Mr. 
Pringle, in a distinguished periodical work, as well as in the Anti-Sla- 
very Reporter, vol. i. No. 20, and vol. ii. No. 32, served to shew that 
slavery must of necessity be the same cruel system wherever it is suf- 
fered to prevail, and can not be divested of its savage, ferocious, and 
demoralizing nature, either by changing its parallel of latitude, or by 
varying the objects of its gainful culture. The brutalizing influence 
both on master and slave mav be equally witnessed in the corn-fields 

T 2 



140 Protectors of Slaves Reports — Cape of Good Hope. 

of the Cape as in the sugar plantations of Jamaica, or in the rice- 
grounds of South Carolina. 

Owing chiefly to the circumstances to which we have alluded, little 
official information respecting the slavery of the Cape has hitherto been 
called for. That which is now before us is the first which has been 
laid before Parliament, and contains a report of the proceedings of the 
Registrar and Guardian of slaves, Mr. C. J. Rogers, from the 1st of 
August 1826, to the 24th of June 1827. 

Only one marriage of slaves is stated to have taken place in that 
time. 

The number of manumissions is stated to have been 210, being four 
times as many as the previous average. The increase is attributed by 
Mr. Rogers to the abolition of the tax on manumission, and the discon- 
tinuance of the bond formerly required to guarantee the public against 
being burdened by the emancipated slave. Of those now emancipated, 
about one half appear to have been redeemed at an average cost of about 
£50. sterling ; the rest have been voluntarily and gratuitously manu- 
mitted by their masters. 

The Return of prosecutions, for and against slaves, exhibits a most 
unusual severity of infliction on some offenders of the servile class. For 
thefts and burglaries, in the case even of women, we find punishments 
awarded of scourging, and branding, and working in irons, for periods 
extending to five, ten, and even fifteen years. But, besides this, we 
perceive, that in the case of complaints preferred by slaves against their 
masters, not only are the complaints generally dismissed as frivolous, 
but severe punishments are frequently awarded to the complainants, 
(without even the form of a trial) because they have failed to prove their 
allegations.* This monstrous injustice, we are sorry to perceive that 
Mr. Huskisson, in the comments he makes on the report in his de- 
spatches to the Governor of the Cape, has overlooked, although it is 
directly in the teeth of the principles he himself has repeatedly laid 
down on the subject, that " no slave should be punished for preferring 
a complaint, unless he be distinctly convicted of the offence of having 
preferred a calumnious charge from improper motives, that conviction 
proceeding upon adequate and legal evidence." (Vol. ii. No. 43, p. 369.) 
Indeed only one such charge appears to have been preferred, and the 
result affords a further illustration of the severity with which the delin- 
quencies of slaves are visited at the Cape. The convicted slave is con- 
demned to receive 125 lashes, and to work in irons for two months. 
Mr. Huskisson justly complains that the nature of the calumny thus 
severely punished is not stated. " I desire therefore," he says, " to 
have a full explanation of the particulars of this transaction." 

* The following are specimens of these iniquitous proceedings, differing in no 
respect from numerous cases of a similar description. In one case, " the charges 
not having been sufficiently proved, the plaintiff" (the slave) " was condemned 
to receive twenty-five lashes," (p. 146.) In another, " The court condemned 
the plaintiff" (a female slave) " for her groundless complaints, to work in irons 
for three months," (p. 142.) In a third, a complaint that his wife had been dri- 
ven from him, by his mistress, being found " groundless," " the plaintiff was 
sentenced to receive thirty-nine lashes," (p. 140.) &c. &c. &c. 



Protectors of Slaves' Reports — Cape of Good Hope. 141 

The portion of the Protector's report, however, which shews the ad- 
ministration of justice, in this colony, in its least favourable light, is that 
■which contains " a return of complaints, and applications for freedom, 
and of the proceedings and results." Of the persons so complaining, 
upwards of thirty affirm that they were either clandestinely imported, 
contrary to law, or were Africans, liberated by courts of admiralty, and 
entitled to their freedom under the abolition acts. Many of them appear 
to be cases of excessive hardship, especially as the burden of proof 
seems most unjustly to be thrown on the claimants of freedom, and that 
under circumstances which make it most obviously incumbent on those 
who hold them in slavery to establish their pioprietary title. The Pro- 
tector of slaves seems not to have dreamt that it belonged to him to call 
on the parties charged with retaining their fellow-men in illegal bondage 
for any proof of their right, even according to colonial law, to hold them 
as their slaves. Mr. Huskisson adverts to this neglect in his despatch 
of the 28th of September 1827. " It is taken for granted," he observes, 
" that the legal presumption is in favour of slavery, and that a black 
man claiming to be free must sustain the whole burden of proof. The 
policy of the lav/ is manifestly questionable, because it tends to perpe- 
tuate the state of slavery; and not consistent with justice, because it 
throws the burden of proof on the weaker and more ignorant party, and 
requires him to prove the negative, that neither he nor any of his ma- 
ternal ancestors were ever lawfully reduced into slavery. Of such a fact 
it might, in the nature of things, be scarcely possible to adduce proper 
evidence. This principle is peculiarly dangerous in a continental co- 
lony, within the limits of which the natives may be continually enter- 
ing." In a subsequent despatch, (22d of April 1828,) he repeats the 
same just and important observation ; " It seems," he says, " to be as- 
sumed, as a settled principle of law, that a person held in slavery, 
but claiming to be free, must sustain the whole burden of proving the 
validity of the asserted right to freedom. Such an assumption is open to 
very serious objections, &c." And yet, with an obvious inconsistency, 
he, almost in the same breath, recognises " the difficulty of admitting 
a contrary assumption in favour of freedom." Mr. Huskisson, could not 
have recollected that one of the principles of the measure of registration, 
that favourite measure of British policy, is, that the burden of proof 
should be thrown, not on the asserted slave, but on the claimant of a pro- 
perty in his person ; and that this principle has been adopted in its full 
extent by the legislature even of one of our chartered slave colonies, 
Grenada. 

But we have to complain, not only of the monstrous perversion of jus- 
tice in throwing the burden of proof on the helpless and unfriended 
slave,who is debarred, by the illegal act which holds him in bondage, from 
pursuing the means necessary for vindicating his liberty; but we have to 
complain also of the intolerable delays which appear to impede the 
course of law and justice in eases of this kind. Nearly a hundred indi- 
viduals have had their claims for freedom in suspense for upwards of a 
year, without any apparent approach to a decision ; some for a much 
longer time ; and a whole family, (Amilie and others, p. 131,) are still in 
slavery, who, on the 1 1th of March 1821, were declared by the scntenc(> 
of the court of justice to be entitled to their freedom. We trust that the 



142 Protectors of Slaves' Reports — Demerara. 

next report received from this officer will shew that he has attained a 
more correct view of his duties as Protector of slaves. 

5. — Demerara. 

Perhaps there is no British colony from whence it has been so diffi- 
cult to obtain clear information, respecting the state of slavery as from 
Demerara. It would almost seem as if a regular compact had 
been entered into between the planters and the public functionaries of 
this colony, to throw an impenetrable veil over every transaction judi- 
cial or otherwise, which could serve to elucidate the real condition of 
its slave population ; and to withhold every document which might 
serve to prove the truth or to expose the falsehood of their own highly 
favourable statements on the subject. Not only the planters generally, 
but the constituted guardians of the slaves of Demerara, we mean the 
Fiscals, and even some Governors, have shewn themselves, from an early 
period, preeminently hostile, we need not say to the religious instruction 
of the slaves, that being a fact too notorious to be questioned, but to all 
inquiry into their temporal condition, and to any interference with the 
despotic power of the master. One of the Fiscals of Demerara, (Mr. 
.Jennings,) the very persons to whom the law commits the delicate and 
important task of protecting the slave from the oppression of the master, 
took it upon him, so long ago as November, 1815, to publish, in the 
Colonial Gazette, an address to the planters, which was hailed by them 
with general acclamation, and which contained, among much of 
the same tenor, the following remarkable passages. " I will venture to 
state it as my humble opinion, that the authority of the master over his 
negroes, being constantly employed in minute details, and being in its 
nature prompt and of hourly application, is not to be encumbered with 
official formalities. The sudden exercise of it is indispensably neces- 
sary to keep them to obedience and their duty." " It is a power to be 
exercised by the proprietor as sole chief and magistrate." " It would 
become utterly impracticable to check and restrain the disorders which 
would ripen into serious evils, if masters were not armed with a power- 
ful coercive force suddenly to apply the remedy. His power cannot 
without danger be brought into doubt or discussion. It should never 
be opposed or thwarted by any intermediate authority " He then goes 
on to deprecate, in the strongest terms, the interference of public func- 
tionaries between master and slave, declaring that the honour of the 
planter is a sufficient security for the wellbeing of the slave. 

Be it remembered, that it was the Fiscal, the criminal judge of the 
colony, who penned these lines ; the very man to whom the protection 
of the slaves from the master's oppression was specially and officially 
committed by his Majesty's Government. And if the appointed guar- 
dian of the slaves dared thus to express himself, in a deliberate address 
to a community of slave owners, which was received by them too with 
the most unequivocal marks of approbation, what might we not reason- 
ably expect to be the views and feelings of the mass of those whose 
more immediate business it is to coerce the slaves ; — the masters, ma- 
nagers, and overseers of the colony ? 

The mantle of Mr. Jennings appears to have fallen on the shoulders 
of bis siirfpssnrs in office. Accordingly, v/hcn, in the Session of 1823, 



Protectors of Slaves' Reports — Demerara. 143 

Parliament called for " a copy of the record of the proceedings of the 
Fiscals of Demerara in their capacity of guardians and protectors of 
slaves, with their decisions in all cases of complaint of masters and 
slaves respectively against each other, and the punishments inflicted or 
redress given in consequence of such complaints, from the first of Janu- 
ary, 1814, to this time;" Mr. Herbert, then the first Fiscal, coolly re- 
plied, " There is no record of such proceedings at this office." Nay, 
" Until the month of April, 1824, there does not appear," he adds, " to 
have been even a memorandum of the proceedings held before the 
Fiscal as a magistrate." (House of Commons, papers of 1825, No. 
66, p. 17.) 

Such was the miserably unprotected condition of nearly 80,000 of 
his Majesty's subjects prior to the year 1824. Such too was the lament- 
able state of ignorance in which his Majesty's Government had allowed 
itself to remain, all that time, as to the manner in which justice was 
administered to this wretched and defenceless population. 

It does not appear that, for the years 1824 and 1825, any return of 
judicial proceedings on complaints of slaves was made from Demerara, 
except for a period of three months, namely, " from June 16 to Sept. 
18, 1824." But even that return, meagre and defective as it was, served 
to exche very strong suspicions of the harsh and oppressive manner 
in which the slave laws were administered in this colony. In four- 
teen cases out of seventeen where negroes had complained to the Fiscal 
of severe treatment, (in seven of the cases the whole gangs seem to have 
joined in the complaint) not only had the complainants no redress, but 
they were punished for having failed to prove their allegations. No 
particulars are given either of the nature and extent of these summary 
and most irregular punishments, or of the evidence on which they were 
inflicted. Had we had the same details in these cases, which were given 
us in his report by the less cautious Fiscal of Berbice, we should pro- 
bably have had similar discoveries of injustice, oppression, and cruelty to 
those which his returns so remarkably exhibited. 

In 1826 the new Order in Council was promulgated in Demerara, 
and Colonel Young was appointed Protector of slaves. We had hoped 
that from that period we might have been able to date a marked im- 
provement in the condition of the slaves of this colony; our disappoint- 
ment, however, proved unspeakably great, when Colonel Young's first 
reports of his proceedings made their appearance. From the brief ab- 
stract of those reports which is given in our second volume, No. 43, 
pp. 355 — 359, it will be seen that this gentleman, from whom certainly 
much had been expected, has shewn himself to be as deeply imbued, with 
some of the worst of those colonial prejudices which it was the declared 
and special object of his appointment to counteract, as the planters 
themselves. Our reasons for this serious imputation will be found at the 
pages of a former Number which have just been referred to; and 
they are very considerably strengthened by those subsequent Reports 
of his, which we are now called more particularly to examine. 

The first point to which we shall advert is a General Return, which 
he has transmitted, " of offences committed by male and female planta- 
tion slaves in the colony of Demerara and Essequibo, made up from 



144 Protectors of Slaves' Reports — Demerara. 

the returns of punishments, forwarded to the Protector of slaves by the 
assistant Protectors." This general return embraces the period of a 
year, from the 1st of July, 1827, to the 30th of June, 1828. It is con- 
fined to plantation slaves, as the personal slaves, amounting, we presume, 
to about ten or eleven thousand, are, it appears, wholly excluded from 
the purview of the Protector. The number of plantation slaves returned, 
amounted in the first half year to 61,453, and in the second to 62,352; 
many personal slaves probably having in the interim been absorbed into 
the plantation gangs. The average is 61,852. Among this population 
the number of offences recorded as punished, in the course of the year, 
amounts to the enormous sum of 20,567 ; of which 12,106 were com- 
mitted by men, and 8,461 by women, forming one-third of the° whole 
mass of plantation slaves, and probably nearly one-half of the whole of 
the labouring part of them, excluding all who were either too young or 
too old to be likely to incur regular punishment. Now let us only con- 
template a community in which, as in that of Demerara and Berbice, 
every second or third individual has been subjected to punishment in the 
course of a single year, and then let us ask ourselves what estimate we 
should form of the man specially delegated by his Sovereign to protect 
this community from oppression and wrong, who should close his report, 
to that Sovereign, of this mass of crime and infliction, with the follow- 
ing sentence : — " The Protector cannot refrain from remarking on the 
contented appearance of the negroes, and, from opportunities of judg- 
ing, thinks that generally they have every reason to be so!" 
Such is the testimony borne on oath by Aretas William Young, to the 
happy and enviable condition of this coerced and driven and punished 
population ! 

" Contented !" and " generally having every reason to be so !" What 
explanation can possibly be given of so extraordinary an estimate of 
the materials of content and comfort, except that either the subjects 
of these 20,000 inflictions are reduced, by their cruel bondage, to the 
very level of the brute, or that the Protector (who we believe, is himself 
a Creole, and habituated to negro slavery from his infancy) has come at 
length to forget that the negro is a fellow being, endowed with every 
attribute of humanity of which he himself is possessed ! 

A list is given of forty-five establishments (the greater part task and 
wood cutting gangs) on which no punishment had been inflicted during 
the year. But the whole number of slaves on these forty-five establish 
ments is only 1038, or less than a seventieth part of the whole slave po- 
pulation, each establishment averaging about twenty-three slaves. Task 
and wood-cutting establishments are less subject to the driving system 
than plantation slaves generally, and in this respect are placed in 
more favourable circumstances. We observe too that more than three- 
fourths of the gangs, which have enjoyed this extraordinary immunity 
from punishment, are superintended by their proprietors and not by 
managers. 

But let us look for a moment at the nature of the crimes which have 
drawn down these 20,000 inflictions in the course of the year. Of such 
offences as in this country we should regard as crimes, including murder, 
rape, burglary, assaults, killing stock, &c., and attempts at these various 



Protectors of Slaves' Reports — Demerara. 145 

crimes, the number is about 200 ; and of petty thefts about 1000. The 
remaining 19,000 cases are made up of such heinous offences as the 
following, viz, insubordination, refusing to work, mutinous and seditious 
conduct to manager or driver, refractory behaviour and neglect of duty, 
not doing the day's work, absenting from work, not coming to work ia 
time, bad work, laziness and idleness, absconding, abusive and con- 
temptuous language, disobedience, &c. These constitute a mass of 
17,500 crimes and punishments. Then come fighting and quarrelling 
and rioting, about 700 ; drunkenness and some kindred vices, about 
450 ; lying 60 ; sins of impurity 25 ; eating clay 1 ; false complaints 4 ; 
Obeah 1 ; riding horses at night 8, &c. &c. &c. So that we have here 
from 17,000 to 18,000 recorded punishments, in a single year, among 
these 61,000 plantation slaves, all more or less arising out of that horrid 
system of compulsory labour by which the health is broken, and the 
frame worn down, and the life extinguished, in order to extract from 
these miserable victims of oppression the means of swelling the income 
and ministering to the enjoyments of their owners. And yet, says Colonel 
Young, the appointed Protector and Guardian of these unhappy beings — 

" I CANNOT REFRAIN FROM REMARKING ON THEIR CONTENTED AP- 
PEARANCE, AND THINK. THAT GENERALLY THEY HAVE EVERY REASON 
TO BE SO." 

Colonel Young informs the Secretary of state that the rate of wages 
to slaves, for picking coffee on Sundays, remains as first established by 
the Protector, there appearing no reason to alter the same. We do not 
know whether this is intended as a return to the call made by the House 
of Commons in the last session, for the grounds on which he had fixed 
the Sunday's task for the slaves, who pick coffee at 60 pounds weight, 
being double the ordinary task of an able negro ; but if it be, it certainly 
is any thing but satisfactory. We have already shewn, (Vol. ii. No. 43, 
p. 358) that Colonel Young, in assigning such a task to the negro, be- 
came his oppressor instead of his protector, and it will therefore be ne- 
cessary for him to assign some more substantial reason for his regula- 
tion than he has yet given. 

Two slaves are reported as understanding the nature and obligations 
of an oath in the half year ending in June, 1828. 

The marriages of slaves from Nov. 13, 1827, to June 29, 1828, are 
93, viz. 22 by ministers of the Church of England ; 40 by a Roman 
Catholic priest, and 31 by Wesleyan missionaries. 

The manumissions reported to have taken place gratuitously between 
May 1 and Oct. 31, 1828, are 149, being chiefly the wives or children 
of the parties manumitting them. Besides these, 36 more were pur- 
chased by themselves between Jan. 1, 1826 and Oct. 31, 1828, at a 
cost of 43,548 guilders, or 1210 guilders or about £86. 10s. sterling 
each. 

Is it necessary to add one word to these details? They refer, be it 
remembered, not to the chartered, but to the Crown Colonies, where the 
British Government is the sole Legislator, and alone appoints the public 
functionaries. What then may we expect in colonies where the sole legis- 
lators are planters, and where planters also are the sole administrators of 



146 



Pro-Slavery Meetings — Jamaica Mortality. 



the law ? Surely, surely, Great Britain will not suffer this system of 
cruelty and crime to proceed much longer. 



II. — Pro-Slavery Writings — Jamaica Mortality. 

1. The periodical advocates of slavery have been busily employed during the 
past month in tearing to tatters, as a forgery, a letter from Jamaica, dated in 
May last, first published in the Dublin Evening Mail, and afterwards iu some 
English Journals, in which the writer paints the slavery of that Island in true, 
but certainly in very revolting colours ; in colours however which, we believe, 
are quite as applicable to its present as to its past state ; being the colours in 
which it has been exhibited by recent as well as remote writers on both sides of 
the question, during a period of forty years. The extraordinary whoop raised 
about this unfortunate letter has led to inquiries which we should not otherwise 
have thought of making, and the result is a complete conviction of its genuineness. 

2. " A Jamaica Proprietor" has just addressed a letter to the Duke of Wel- 
lington, the object of which (besides abusing the Anti-Slavery Society and the 
Westminster Review,) is to assert the indisputable right of himself and his 
brother planters to perpetuate the crime of slavery, while, at the same time, he 
admits it to be in principle indefensible. — He has, however, wholly overlooked 
two points, very essential to a due appreciation of this claim of his. The first 
is, that the planters have not only refused to listen to the resolutions of their 
own co-proprietors, Lord Seaford in 1797, and Mr. Pallmer in 1816, urging reform 
upon them ; but that they have insolently and contumaciously rejected the 
strongest recommendations of the Government and Parliament to the same effect, 
for the last six years. The other essential point overlooked by this Jamaica 
Proprietor, is the frightful waste of human life, which is, at this moment, pro- 
ceeding among the slaves, even on the best regulated sugar estates in Jamaica, 
and that at a rate which must end in killing off the race. Will the letter wri- 
ter deny this ? If he does, we shall have only to confront him with the annual 
returns of the managers of those estates. — We have already stated the progress 
of population among Lord Seaford's slaves, (No. 40, p. 296). Most of the other 
sugar estates in the island, we venture to affirm, will be found to exhibit 
an equal or even still more appalling decrease of their overdriven bondmen 
and bondwomen ; while the free blacks and people of colour, as well as the 
Maroons around them, are increasing rapidly. Our limits will not now admit 
of full details ; but we will give as many as we can find room for in this page, 
by way of sample, and in order to shew, in defiance of the deceptive statements 
of the Jamaica Proprietor and the whole pro-slavery press, with Mr. Barclay at 
their head, that the malignant effects of slavery are not materially diminished 
in Jamaica. 



PROPRIETORS' NAMES. 



Return of Slaves, 
March, 1824. 



John G. Campbell 

John Wedderburn 

J. F. Barham 

Sir S. H. Clark, Bart. 

John Fuller 

Sir Rose Price, Bart. 

Marquis of Sligo 

James Dawkins 

C. N. Bailey . 

Joseph Marryat 

Fortunatus Dwarris . 



1118 

1795 

763 

2320 

223 

487 

237 

1759 

1060 

218 

221 



Return of Slaves, 
March, 1826. 



1059 

1767 

739 

2246 

204 

409 

227 

1696 

1013 

207 

215 



Apparent de- 
crease in two 
years. 



59 
28 
24 
74 
19 
18 
10 
63 
47 
11 
6 



Apparent rate of de- 
crease iu two 
years. 



5i per cent. 

n 



9 

4i 
H 

5 

n 



The Names we have selected will be allowed to be of the first respectability, 
and on the Estates of all of them the number of women is equal to, or more than, 
that of the men. 



Bagster and Thorns, Printers, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 



No. 55.] For DECEMBER, 1829. [No. 7. Vol. iii. 

The "Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be forwarded to any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four Shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity, on application at 
the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury. Single copies may be had of all 
booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Irf. per half-sheet of eight pages. 



I. HAYTI; — Mr. Mackenzie's Account of it, as to Population; Compul- 

sory Labour ; Government; Marriage; Trade; and Civilization. 

II. RECENT NEWS FROM JAMAICA;— viz. 1. The Watchman and Free 
Press; 2. Defence of Missionaries; 3. Colonial Reform ; 4. Transfer 
OF Allegiance to United States; 5. Instances of Judicial Partiality; 
6. Mendicant Slaves. 



I. — Hayti. 

We have too long delayed to notice a paper laid on the table of the 
House of Commons in the last session of Parliament, entitled " Com- 
munications received at the Foreign Office, relative to Hayti." The 
whole of these communications have come from Consul-general Mac- 
kenzie. They were ordered to be printed on the ] 7th of February, 1 829, 
and are numbered 18. 

For many years the British Government, under the powerful spell of 
colonial influence, refused to recognize the rising republic of Hayti, nor was 
the slightest political relation formed with her until the year 1826, when 
a British consul was sent thither to watch over our commercial interests. 
One of the objects of Mr. Canning, in this appointment, we may presume 
to have been to procure authentic and impartial information respecting 
the state of society and the progress of civilization in this new and inte- 
resting community of emancipated negroes. And yet, with a view to 
that object, his choice of a consul for Hayti appears to have been far 
from judicious. 

The gentleman selected for this mission, however high may be his 
pretensions in other respects, is the son of a West India planter, 
deeply interested, of course, in the perpetuation of colonial bondage. 
The consul's prepossessions, therefore, were likely to be in favour of 
slavery and against freedom. Besides which, he appears to have im- 
bibed some of those preposterous views promulgated by Major Moody, 
on what he calls the " Philosophy of Labour," but which we believe are 
now fast sinking into merited oblivion. 

Mr. Mackenzie entered upon the discharge of his official duties at 
Port-au-Prince in the month of April or May 1 826. The period of his 
actual stay in Hayti must have been about fifteen months, as his last 
letter thence bears date in July 1827, and before the end of the year he 
appears to have returned to London. Fifteen months, however, to a 
diligent, accurate, and unbiassed inquirer, might have afforded the 
means of obtaining much useful information. He might have given the 



148 Hayti— Population. 

fruits of his own personal observation. He might have communicated 
important facts, with the authorities on which they rested ; and lie might 
have collected all the authentic public documents that were calculated 
to throw light on the history and circumstances of Hayti. Some of these 
documents are to be found in the present volume, although the series is 
very incomplete. They are important, however, in many points of view ; 
and, among others, as affording a test for appreciating the correctness 
of the consul's general statements. As for the facts he has brought 
forward on the testimony of others, he has given us no means whatever 
of judging of their probable value. He has scarcely, in any case, dis- 
closed the source of his information ; and if his chief associates at Port- 
au-Prince, and consequently his informants, were like himself, persons 
previously connected with the English slave islands, we may conjecture 
in what degree the facts were liable to be discoloured in passing through 
such a medium. 

But whether we are right or not in tracing Mr. Mackenzie's second- 
hand information to this source, we can have no doubt as to the unfair 
bias of his own mind, shewn in his official correspondence. He ap- 
pears to have approached Hayti with a disposition to find little to com- 
mend, and much to blame, in the odious spectacle of a community con- 
sisting almost entirely of emancipated negroes, governed by themselves, 
and subsisting in comfort by their own free labour, without the compel- 
ling power of the cart-whip; the sole spring, according to " the Philoso- 
phy of Labour," which can be relied on for promoting the steady indus- 
try of blacks, in tropical climates. 

The first proof we shall give of this unfair bias in the mind of the 
consul-general, shall be taken from his official communications respect- 
ing the progress of population in Hayti. 

1 . — Population. 

Mr. Mackenzie was doubtless well aware of the important inferences 
in favour of freedom, which might be drawn from a rapid increase in the 
black population of Hayti, as contrasted with its rapid decrease in the 
neighbouring slave islands, and in Hayti itself while still enslaved. It 
might have been expected therefore, in a colonial partizan, that his efforts 
would be employed to deprive the enemies of slavery of the advantage 
arising to them from this contrast ; which could not fail to be regarded 
as a decisive test of the comparative comfort of the two conditions of 
society — negro slavery and negro freedom. 

Let us see hoAv Mr. Mackenzie has treated this important subject. 

All the authorities seem to be agreed, that about the year 1804, when 
Dessalines became Emperor of Hayti, the population of the island had 
been reduced by the previous civil commotions, and by the exterminating 
warfare waged by the armies of Buonaparte, to about 400,000 persons 
of all descriptions. Mr. Mackenzie concurs expressly in admitting this 
to be a fair estimate of the population of that period. He goes on, how- 
ever, to remark, that the present (he speaks in 1826) amount of the 
population of the whole island " is very differently estimated by different 
persons. It is consequently impossible to do. more than attain an ap- 
proximation to the truth. By the official statements furnished by the 



Hayti. — Population . 149 

government (of Hayti) it is raised to 930,000 souls. By some it is esti- 
mated at nearly 700,000 ; while others assert, with confidence, that the 
entire population amounts only to 423,042 persons of all ages and 
classes. Of these, the best informed people calculate one-tenth to be 
white and coloured people, and that 351,819 are in French, and 
71,223 in Spanish St. Domingo. It is stated," he adds, " that at the 
commencement of the revolution in Hayti, the population amounted to 
about 534,500 souls in the French, and 108,500 in the Spanish part of 
the island, making a total of about 643,000. The decrease, according 
to this statement," (he seems to assume this lowest estimate to be the 
true one,) " in thirty-three years," (from 1793 to 1826,) " has been very 
nearly one-third of the whole population of 1793." (p. 22.) 

This state of the case Mr. Mackenzie evidently wishes to impress on 
the mind of Mr. Canning as the most correct, and he even reasons upon 
it, as if it had been proved to be so. In a subsequent part of his corre- 
spondence (p. 86,) the " fact" " of the very small amount of population, 
423,000," (this is in 1827,) is brought forward to prove that it is 
" scarcely possible for the import or export trade of Hayti to increase 
very much." 

Now it is somewhat singular, that although Mr. Mackenzie must have 
had before him the official returns of the Haytian government, (giving a 
detailed enumeration of the population of the thirty-three arrondisse- 
ments into which the entire island of Hayti is divided,) which profess to 
be the result of an actual census, instituted in 1824, only two years be- 
fore, and which fix the total amount of the Haytian population at 935,335,* 
he should assume as probable, but without stating his reasons for so 
doing, that the whole population amounted only to 423,042, being con- 
siderably less than one half of the amount specified in the official re- 
turns. The curious precision too with which the enumeration is given, 
would seem to indicate that it was not a conjectural but an actual census, 
unless, indeed, it was brought out by the short arbitrary process of de- 



* The following 


is a 


copy 


of the general census of the populat 


ion of the dif- 


fereut arrondissements and districts of the republic of Hayti, taken in 1824. 








No. of 




No. of 


AnoDdisseraents 




Inha- 


Arrondissements. 


Inha- 








bitants. 




bitants. 


Port-au-Prince 


- 


- 


- 89,164 


Limbe - 


- 33,475 


Cap Haitien - 


- 


- 


- 38,566 


Grande Riviere 


- 35,372 


Cayes - 


- 


- 


- 63,536 


Marmelade - 


- 32,852 


Santo Domingo 


. 


. 


- 20,076 


Saint lago 


- 10,419 


J^remie 


- 


- 


- 37,652 


Borgne - 


- 29,162 


Aquin - 


. 


. 


- 58,587 


Samana 


- 2,209 


Gonaives 


- 


- 


- 33,542 


Neybe - 


- 2,581 


Tiburon 


. ■ 


- 


- 37,927 


Azua 


- 3,500 


Port de Paix 


. 


- 


- 26,058 


Saint Jean 


- 2,745 


Saint Marc - 


. 


- 


- 37,628 


Lamatte 


- 1,026 


Porte Plate - 


. 


- 


- 10,622 


Arcdhaie 


- 4,805 


Jacmel - 


. 


. 


- 99,108 


Croix des Bouquets 


- 13,833 


Nipper - 


. 


- 


- 44,478 


Grands Bois - 


- 6,199 


Fort Liberte - 


. 


- 


- 21,530 


La Vega 


- 6,178 


Leogane 


. 


. 


- 55,662 


Le Trou 


- 3,932 


Mnntp Phrist 






- 2 112 






Mole 


. 


. 


- 17,'l50 


Total - 


935,336 


Mirebalais 


- 


- 


- 53,649 







150 Hayti. — Population. 

ducting about a third from 643,000, the estimated enumeration of 1793. 
If it were an actual census, by whom was it taken ? If it were not, on 
what data has it been framed, and by what authority supported, so as 
to justify this pubHc functionary in giving it as the most probable esti- 
mate, and thus affixing to the government of Hayti the imputation of 
deliberately publishing, as the result of an actual census, a number con- 
siderably more than double the real population of the island. This im- 
putation appears to us to be wholly unwarranted. At least it is not 
supported by the slightest shadow of proof; and would seem therefore 
to originate in a desire to throw discredit on a fact which, if true, would 
militate very powerfully against colonial partialities and preconceptions. 
The official returns may be incorrect, but certainly Mr. Mackenzie has 
not given one reason for his having represented them in that light. 

Mr. Mackenzie, however, at the very time he is thus discrediting the 
official returns of 1824, makes an incidental statement, the effect of 
which, as far as it goes, is rather to indicate their general correctness. 
In the last letter which he addressed to Mr. Canning, (p. 89,) he takes 
occasion to correct a mistake, he says he had fallen into, respecting the 
population of the Spanish part of St. Domingo, and which he had in a 
former letter represented as decreasing ; whereas he now finds it to be 
increasing at a ratio even exceeding all ordinary proportions. " Thus," 
he says, " in the district of St. lago, where the whole population does 
not exceed 12,000 souls, on an average of the last five years, the deaths 
have been below 100 per annum, while the births have exceeded 500." 
This is quite an incredible statement. That, for five years, there should be 
only one annual death, in each 120 of a population, is of the nature of a 
miracle, and would require a far stronger voucher than Mr. Mackenzie's 
assertion. And yet, it is singular, that even in relating this incredible 
fact, he should have given something of confirmation to the accuracy of 
those returns of the Haytian population in 1824, which he had so unce- 
remoniously laboured to falsify. 

In the official census of 1824, the population of the arrondissement 
of St. lago, stands enumerated at 10,419. In 1827, from three to four 
years later, Mr. Mackenzie states it to be 12,000, very nearly the 
number to which we should expect to find that it had grown at the rate 
of progression, which it is not improbable may have prevailed, through- 
out Hayti generally, during the twenty years preceding the census of 
1824, In the case of the arrondissement of St. lago, therefore, if we 
are safe in admitting Mr. Mackenzie's own testimony, there is evidently 
no exaggeration in the official return of its population. And yet, what 
ground had he for supposing, that although, in this individual case, it 
proved, on inquiry, to have been correct, in the case of any or all 
of the other arrondissements it was so monstrously exaggerated, as he 
would represent it to have been ; diflfering from the real population, 
according to his estimate, in the proportion of ninety-three to forty- 
two. 

It is certainly somewhat curious, and not a little instructive to 
observe, in this instance, (whatever be the real value of the Haytian re- 
turns,) how rash and prejudiced witnesses are often led to supply an 
antidote to the malignant influence of their own mistatements. Be the 



Hayti, — Compulsory Labour. ISl 

fact what it may with respect to the accuracy of the Haytian returns, 
certainly Mr. Mackenzie has wholly failed in his attempt to convict 
thera of dishonesty, and has even contributed to strengthen the pre- 
sumption of their truth. 

If, in the absence of any proof except the vague and unsupported 
insinuations of Mr, Mackenzie, we assume the accuracy of the census 
of 1824, we shall find it to exhibit an increase, of the Haytian popula- 
tion, during the preceding twenty years, almost unexampled in the 
rapidity of its progression. In 1804, it is estimated not to have ex- 
ceeded 400,000 (p. 18). In 1824, the official census raises its number 
to 935,335. Had the population of Jamaica proceeded at the same rate, 
during the same period, it would now have approached to something of 
a like amount. The actual amount, at the present moment, does not 
exceed 325,000, a little more than one- third of what, as in the case of 
Hayti, it might have attained, but for the curse of slavery, by which the 
very principle of animal life has been withered and blasted among its 
unhappy victims. 

2. — Compulsory Labour. 

In the month of September 1 826, certain queries were addressed to Mr. 
Mackenzie, from the Foreign Office, his answers to which will afford 
us a farther opportunity of estimating the reliance that may be placed 
on his official reports. Three of them were to the following effect : — 

1. " Whether in Hayti labour be voluntary or compulsory ?" 

2. " If the latter, whether the whip be used to compel labour ?" 

3. " And whether, if it be employed, females are equally subject to it?" 
Mr, Mackenzie's answers to these questions are as follows : — 

1 . " Most distinctly compulsory, as will be seen by the tenor of the 
accompanying copy of the Code Rural." 

2. " By the law, the use of the whip has been long abolished, but 
military men have the privilege of using a thick stick ; and, as all_ are 
military proprietors, / apprehend that at present, as it was certainly the 
case under Toussaint, DessalineSj and Christophe, corporal punishment 
of that kind is very often inflicted, though in opposition to the law ; an 
opposition of practice to theory not very uncommon in Hayti." 

3. " I have no evidence that women are ever punished with a whip ; 
but, were I to judge from the general conduct of the men to the women, 
I should be inclined to infer that the latter may suffer from the same 
violation of law with the men to which I have just adverted." (p. 81.) 

Can any thing be conceived more vague, flippant, and unsatisfactory ? 

He tells us further, (p. 17) that Toussaint's enactments, affecting 
agricultural industry, were decidedly coercive. So he says were those 
of Dessalines, (p. 18). Again, under Christophe, " the law regulating 
agriculture was as rigorous as those which preceded it," (p, 19). " He 
(Christophe,) even enforced labour as rigidly as under the French pro- 
prietors," (p. 20.) The provisions also of Boyer's Code Rural, Mr. 
Mackenzie describes to be " as despotic as those of any slave system 
that can be conceived." Nay, he even ventures to affirm, that the laws 
of Toussaint were " a mere modification of the old colonial laws of 
France;" and that the Code Rural of 1826, is " but a modification of the 



152 Hayti. — Compulsory Labour. 

old French regulations, sanctioned by the Code Noir, with additional 
restrictions,'"* {^.l^.) With respect to the affirmation that labour in Hayti 
is compulsory according to the tenor of the Code Rural, and that the 
provisions of that code are as despotic as those of any slave system that 
can be conceived, we say distinctly that it is most completely falsified 
by the code itself. (See Reporter, No. 23.) On the Haytian, no pu- 
nishment can be inflicted but by due course of law, of a law which lie 
knows ; and he is liable to no one for labour which he has not volunta- 
rily contracted to give at a stipulated price. He is no more compelled 
to labour than the Spitalfields weaver is compelled to finish the web 
which he has contracted to weave ; or the servant whom the farmer hires 
for a year is forced, on pain of fine and imprisonment, to fulfil his en- 
gagement ; or the idle and vagrant are compelled in this country to 
have recourse to some mode of honest employment. If, however, we 
were at a loss for a full and direct refutation of all Mr. Mackenzie's 
insinuations on this point, we should find it under his own hand in the 
very volume before us. 

For example, he tells us " The system of dividing the land into small 
allotments, in every part that I have visited, has certairUy had the effect 

* It is impossible to conceive any statement more untrue than this, and if it 
be not a wilful misrepresentation, which we are unwilling to term it, it is at 
least a proof of the most profound ignorance, on the part of Mr. Mackenzie, of 
the old colonial laws of France. The Code Noir is an ordinance imposing on 
the negro cultivators in the colonies of France the merciless yoke of slavery ; 
depriving them expressly of all rights of property, and indeed of all civil rights 
whatever ; excluding them from all offices ; subjecting them to chains and stripes 
at the will of the master or manager ; punishing even the slightest assault upon 
either of these, though in self defence, with death ; and reducing the whole race 
from the rank of men to that of chattels, of brutes that perish. — Now look at the 
Haytian laws, even as Mr. Mackenzie has described them. They abolish slavery, 
(p. 17). They proscribe the use of the whip, (p. 18). They give to the whole 
body of the people the same equal rights ; and to the meanest cultivator a direct 
interest in the produce of the soil he cultivates, and the entire property in the 
fruits of his own industry or skill. Compare with the Code Noir or any of 
the old colonial laws of France the following extracts from the Haytian Codes, 
as given by Mr. Mackenzie himself ; — take that of Toussaint for an exeunple, 
(p. 123) : 

" No slaves can exist in this territory. Slavery is therefore for ever a,bolished. 
There all men are born, live, and die, free." 

" Every man, whatever be his colour, is admissible to all offices." 

" The law is the same for all, whether it punish or protect." 

The same principles, formed the basis of the Code of Christophe, and of that 
also which now constitutes the actual and universal law of Hayti, the amended 
code of 1816. It thus speaks: 

" II ne peut exister d'esclaves sur le territoire de la republique. L'esclavage 
y est a jamais aboli." " La loi est la meme pour tous, soit qu'elle protege, ou 
qu'elle punisse. La proprifetfe est inviolable et sacr^e. Toute personne a Ja 
libre disposition de ce qui est reconnu lui appartenir." " Tous les devoirs de 
I'homme et du citoyen derivent de ces deux principes : ' Ne faites pas a autrui 
ce que vous ne voudriez pas qu'on vous fit :' ' Faites constamment aux autres tout 
le bien que vous voudriez en recevoir.' " (p. 148) 

And yet this public functionary, in his official communications, has been hardy 
enough to affirm to His Majesty's Secretary of State, that laws founded on such 
principles, and with which no part, even of the Code Rural is inconsistent, are 
but modifications of the Code Noir, and the old colonial laws of France ! What 
misrepresentation could be more gross than this ? 



Hayti. — Compulsory Labour. 153 

of rendering it exceedingly difficult to collect bodies of labourers, as each 
individual can either find or pretend to find abundant occupation at 
home." (p. 93.) How does Mr. Mackenzie reconcile this fact, of which he 
was himself the eye-witness, with the sweeping assertion that in Hayti, 
labour is not voluntary, but compulsory, (p. 81.) and that the labourer 
may be considered as " adscriptus glebce." * (p. 22.) Again, " No 
measures of the government can induce the young Creoles to labour. 
The whole body of proprietors constantly lament the total incapacity of 
the government to enforce labour." (p. 105.) — But does he not account for 
this, when he says they prefer cultivating their own allotments ? We are 
not assuming this statement to be correct, because it is an unauthenticated 
statement of Mr. Mackenzie ; but still, how does that gentleman recon- 
cile it with the assertion that, the provisions of the Code Rural are as 
despotic as those of any slave system that can be conceived ? No such 
difficulties of enforcing labour, as Mr. Mackenzie well knows, exist on 
estates, either in Jamaica, or Grenada, or Demerara. 

" Provisions, however, he admits, (p. 105.) are cultivated, and poul- 
try and cattle are reared for home use;" and as it would seem, 
without compulsion. But this, and every other form of industry, except 
what is bestowed in gangs, on the culture of sugar, is deemed of no 
moment by Mr. Mackenzie. " I shall confine," he says, " my state- 
ments to sugar, which is the most important of all." This, it must be 
allowed, is sufficiently preposterous, since sugar, according to him, is 
the article which is least attended to in Hayti. — But we need hardly 
pursue this part of the subject any farther. It is the happy fate of those 
who have to refute the absurd positions of such inveterate partisans and 
professors of the new philosophy of labour as Mr. Mackenzie, to find 
their work already done for them by their opponents. " The labour of 
the Haytians," he affirms, " is not voluntary, but compulsory ; " — it is 
as despotic as the worst system of slavery. And yet his main efforts are 
employed to shew that the Haytians are idle ; that they do not work at 
all ; and that they raise little of that exportable produce for which com- 
pulsory measures are usually resorted to ; these silly people thinking, it 
seems, " chiefly, of rearing provisions, poultry, and cattle for their own 
use;" (p. 105.) thinking, that is to say, in the first instance, of their 
own subsistence ! 

Now our Consul must make his election. He cannot maintain two 
contradictory propositions. He must either admit that labour in Hayti 
is voluntary, and not compulsory ; or he must admit that his favourite 
cartwhip has so far lost its power in Hayti, as compared with Jamaica, 
that it cannot prevail with the Haytians to pass their weary days in dig- 
ging cane holes, and their sleepless nights in manufacturing sugar. 
What, indeed, is the compulsion or the despotism good for, if it does 
not swell the exports ? 

* The only passage in the Code Rural which can give even a colour to this 
assertion is that which states, that all who shall not be able to shew that they 
possess some other means of subsistence, shall be bound to cultivate the earth ; 
and that they shall not be relieved from this necessity until they have satisfied 
the magistrate that they possess such other means; surely a very salutary and 
even humane provision. (See Law, No. 1, article 3, and 4.) 



154 Hayti, — Compulsory Labour. 

But, now for the cartwhip itself, to which Mr. Mackenzie so fondly 
clings, and which he is so unwilling to admit to be no longer in use at 
Hayti ; it is amusing to observe the pains he takes to prove that the 
Haytians are not wholly bereft of its blessings. He apprehends it is 
still inflicted on the men, as it certainly was, (who told him so ?) under 
Toussaint, Dessalines, Christophe, &c. And, though he has no evidence, 
not even a second-hand rumour, to shew that women are ever punished 
with the whip, yet he is inclined (no doubt he is !) to infer that women 
are Jiogged as well as men; though even the flogging of the men is only 
something which he apprehends, may still be practised — flippantly re- 
marking, that the common variance, in Hayti, of practice from theory is 
the ground of his apprehension. What wretched drivelling have we 
here, in the shape of a report, from a public functionary to his Govern- 
ment, on a grave and serious subject ! And yet this very Report was 
produced, as evidence, before the Privy Council, during the examina- 
tions which took place respecting the manumission clause in the Order in 
Council for Berbice. 

But besides the law, which, as will be seen below,* is quite decisive 
on the subject ; this whimsically inconsistent functionary gives us the 
following counter evidence. A gentleman belonging to Jacmel tells 
the consul: " All labour is voluntary. Men are hired by the week; 
and on Saturday the labourers are paid. Corporal punishments are 
abolished, and are held in horror by the negroes, (sont en horreur aux 
n^gres.) Every blow struck, it signifies not on whom, either is returned 
in kind, or goes before the tribunal. Women are also in the habit of 
working ; but, no one can strike them with impunity, except their hus- 
bands. Men and women labour together without distinction, but the 



* The detailed code of agricultural regulations, first published as early as 
1794, and which Mr. Mackenzie has inserted, (p. Ill, &c.) contains the follow- 
ing decisive enactments : — " If a conductor (or foreman,) shall strike one of 
those under him, or place him, by his own authority, in the stocks, or in prison, 
he shall be deprived of his office, and declared incapable of commanding free- 
men. If wounds or injuries follow the blow, he shall be arrested, prosecut- 
ed, and punished according to the provisions of the criminal code." — p. 114. 

The words of the law of 1812, are, " except in the case of lawful defence, he 
who shall voluntarily wound, or even strike any one, shall be condemned to a 
fine of 100 dollars, and eight months' imprisonment: and this penalty will be 
doubled where the assault has been committed on women, or aged persons above 
sixty, or children under fourteen, and even this will be increased if the violence 
has been committed by a master on his apprentices or hired labourer." — Loi de 
Police, Titre premier, chapitre ii. articles 12 et 13. 

We do not wonder that, with such severity of enactment, Mr. Mackenzie 
could only apprehend or conjecture as to the probable infliction of blows or 
stripes on men and women, and that he should know of no actual inflictions. 

He is bolder, however, when he speaks of times more remote, and where de- 
tection is more diflBcult. In the times of Toussaint and Dessalines, he admits 
the cartwhip was abolished ; but, then " thick sticks, &c., were used without 
scruple, and not unfrequently, the sabre, the musket, and even burying alive 
were resorted to as punishments for refractory gangs." We could trace these 
words to the colonial newsmongers of 1800 to 1805. But, after all, what 
would be the punishment, in Jamaica, for a refractory gang ? Would it not be 
that of rebellion— death ? Let us remember, in this view, the sad stories of 
St. Mary's and Hanover, and St. George's in 1824. (See Reporter, No. 10.) 



Hayti. — Compulsory Labour. 155 

men in a greater proportion than the women, as the women are gene- 
rally charged with the duties of the kitchen. All the large estates are 
generally let on lease, the proprietors receiving a certain share of the 
produce ; but the lessee has always the largest share, it being a rare 
thing for a lessee to account for more than half of the produce, and from 
that half the proprietor receives his portion ;" (p. 93.) the rest of the half, 
or rather, a fourth of the whole, going, as appears from other state- 
ments, to the labourers, (p. 93, 102, and the Code Rural passim.) 

Mr. Mackenzie has given us the above statement on what he seems 
to regard as respectable authority. But if it be a true statement, how 
will he account for the glaring discrepancy between it and his own an- 
swers to Mr. Canning's questions ? The former is the evidence of one 
whom he represents as a respectable witness ; the latter the vague ap- 
prehensions, and the random conjectures, not only without evidence but 
against evidence, of the Consul-general himself. — And here again, let it be 
recollected, that the persons who had to prepare the evidence laid before 
the Privy Council on the Berbice petition, with the whole of Mr. Mac- 
kenzie's correspondence open before them, chose to give these vague ap- 
prehensions and random conjectures, as evidence to be relied on, while 
they withheld what alone was evidence, and which went to falsify all that 
the consul was adduced to prove. By such and such like proceedings, 
whether designed or inadvertent, are error and imposture propagated 
on this subject, with the apparent sanction of official authority, until the 
plainest principles of sound sense and humanity and justice are made to 
give way to the false statements and sophistical glosses of interested 
parties or of wildered economists. 

It were endless to go through all the proofs which these papers ex- 
hibit of Mr. Mackenzie's determination to find slavery in Hayti. We 
will confine ourselves to a very few additional examples. 

" The cultivators were compelled," he says, " under the same planta- 
tion regulations, to work as before," (By before does he mean under 
the old regime ? Then they worked under the whip and without pay.) 
" with this difference, that, instead of having every thing provided, 
they received (as I am told) nominally a fourth of the produce of their 
labour, but in reality much less."* Not to advert again tc the sub- 
stantial contradiction already given to these most untrue and insidious 
statements, — by whom, we ask, has Mr. Mackenzie been told all this? 
And what evidence has he, or can he have, to shew that the whole body 
of the cultivators, who know they are entitled to a fourth of the pro- 
duce, and who must also know how much they have themselves actually 
produced, will tamely submit to be thus defrauded ? Are there no courts 



* And yet the Code Rural, that cruelly compulsory and despotic code, not 
only provides that the workmen shall have a fourth of the produce, the proprie- 
tor or renter paying all the out-goings excepting labour ; but that they shall have 
Saturday and Sunday entirely to themselves ; and shall have garden grounds 
to cultivate on those days if they think proper to do so, besides being fed by 
provisions cultivated by the gang of the estate ; and shall also have medical 
attendance and medicines gratis, the care of infant children being furllier pro- 
vided for by the proprietor or renter. (See Law, No. ii. articles 36, 38, 39 ; Law, 
No. iii. art. .52, 62, 63, 60, 67, 68. Reporter, No. 23.) 

X 



156 Hayti. — Compulsory Labour. 

or magistrates to apply to ? Besides, he tells us of the difficulty of 
collecting labourers, which he himself witnessed, the people preferring 
to fix themselves on small allotments of land, where they can find more 
profitable occupation than that of working as hirelings, and where, of 
course, their time is at their own disposal, and the whole fruit of their^la- 
bour is their own, (see p. 94.) And again, (p. 35,) he informs us, that the 
persons who formerly laboured in gangs, have been induced " to cultivate 
their own properties, upon which their first care will naturally be the 
articles of primary necessity ; after that, whatever will bear the highest 
price in the market ;" which is certainly neither the coffee nor the sugar 
of which he makes so great and almost exclusive an account. — Now, 
besides completely stultifying his own statement, what a view has Mr. 
Mackenzie here unconsciously conveyed, both of the progressive im- 
provement of Haytian society, and of the good sense which guides the 
operations of individuals in leading them to prefer becoming indepen- 
dent proprietors and cultivators of their own allotments, rather than 
continuing to be labourers in gangs for hire. And even with respect 
to the labourers for hire, Mr. Mackenzie is forced to admit, that " at 
■present" (according to the provisions of the Code Rural,) " they con- 
tract at so much a week, or for a certain proportion of the profits. 
Formerly" (does he mean under the old regime ?) " labour was enforced 
by the severest discipline. At present fme and imprisonment are the 
legal" (he might have said the only legal) " punishments for offenders ; 
though," he adds, with his characteristic hostility to free labour and at- 
tachment to the whip as the true spring of industry, that " there is no 
doubt that personal correction is sometimes employed," (p. 91). He might 
as well have said that there is no doubt that in England personal violence 
is sometimes employed by overseers of work towards the persons under 
them. — He cannot deny, however, that it is expressly provided, not only 
by Toussaint's agricultural code of 1798, signed by the Director He- 
douville, but by all subsequent codes, that all disputes, occurring on 
plantations, shall be referred to the magistrate. And in the code of 
1798 it is provided that, on the responsibility of the authorities, the 
whole of the regulations shall be read, once every month, to the assem- 
bled cultivators. 

By way of shewing the despotism of the Code Rural of 1826, (equal 
in despotism, he says, to any slave system that can be conceived,) he 
affirms, that the labourer " is deemed a vagabond, and liable to punish- 
ment if he ventures to move from his dwelling or farm without leave ;" 
and that " he is prohibited from keeping a shop." Now observe what 
the law actually is, which this functionary so represents. As in Eng- 
land, no man can open a gin-shop, or become a hawker or pedlar, with- 
uot a licence, for which he pays a tax ; so, in Hayti, no man can keep a 
shop of any kind, or indeed exercise any trade or profession, except that 
of agriculture, without obtaining a licence and paying the cost of it ; 
and this is what he represents as being " prohibited from keeping a 
shop." It is true that shops are only licensed in towns or villages, 
(bourgades,) or parishes, (paroisses,) according to the law of patents, 
inserted in this volume, (pp. 6 — 16). But then this restriction, which 
seens to have a view merely to the security of the revenue^ applies to 



Hayti. — Its Trade. 157 

all classes as well as to agriculturists. There is nothing to prevent an 
agriculturist from setting up a shop in the next bourgade if he can pay 
the cost of a patent, and if he goes through the forms necessary for ob- 
taining a passport to change his domicile. These forms are, that he 
shall make known his wish to the justice of the peace, both of the com- 
mune he is about to quit and of that into which he is about to remove, 
and shall satisfy them that he has the means of subsisting in his new 
situation. See Code Rural, Reporter No. 23, pp. 330, 331. 

3. Trade of Hayti. 

But we must turn to Mr. Mackenzie's statements on the subject of 
Haytian commerce. Here he sets out with complaining grievously of 
restrictions on foreign merchants, as being most oppressive, (p. 6.) We 
are enemies to all restrictions which are not called for by a regard to 
the safety of the state ; but we see in those of Hayti nothing which will 
not find its example at least, if not its justification, in the course pur- 
sued by some of the most civilized nations in Europe, and which pro- 
bably are called for, in the former, by the just jealousy entertained, by 
the negroes generally, respecting whites. 

Mr. Mackenzie takes immense pains to depreciate the amount of the 
trade of Hayti. He affirms it to be diminishing; and as an example, tells 
us that the produce exported from Hayti in 1825, had " fallen /ar short 
of that of the preceding years." (p. 26.) But this statement is contra- 
dicted by the custom-house returns he afterwards inserts, (p. 41 ,) by which 
the export of 1825 is made to exceed that, both of 1822, and 1823; 
and is only surpassed by that of 1824. Then he labours through many 
a weary page, to reduce the amount of the actual imports and exports 
of Hayti ; and he utters confident predictions of further diminutions, 
notwithstanding the despotic severity of the compulsory process attri- 
buted by him to the Code Rural. In short, the unpression he is anxious 
to produce is, that the trade of Hayti is nearly valueless ; and yet, by 
his own account, with only an ad valorem duty of 12 per cent., it seems 
to yield a revenue of about two millions of dollars annually. 

But this is not all he gives in the way of self-refutation. He goes on 
to say, that so much are the strict fiscal regulations evaded, that " in- 
deed, in no country that I know, is smuggling carried on with so much 
effrontery and success." (p. 37.) Now if this be true, the real trade of 
Hayti must be far beyond the amount indicated by the custom-house 
returns. Even smugglers will not bring goods to Hayti without being 
paid the full value both of their goods and of their risk ; and for what- 
ever is imported, at least, an equal value must be exported ; so that by 
this single stroke of Mr. Mackenzie's pen, he has demolished the fabric 
of commercial poverty and wretchedness he had been at such pains to 
construct, and has raised to an undefined extent the commercial capabili- 
ties, and consequently the agricultural productions of Hayti. If the sum to 
be placed to this account be a mere fraction of the whole, Mr. Macken- 
zie would not be justified in saying, that " in no country that he knew, 
was smuggling carried on with so much effrontery and success." 

What may be the real state and amount of Haytian commerce, we 
pretend not to know : but whatever they are, Mr. Mackenzie's labours are 



158 Hay ti.— Government — Marriage. 

so far from throwing light upon them, that they serve only to mistify and 
perplex the whole subject. His own observations as well as the va- 
rious details he has given us, are vague, partial, and unsatisfactory ; 
and certainly reflect no credit on the commercial skill of the Consul- 
general. 

4. Government — Marriage. 

In the same rash and contradictory manner does Mr. Mackenzie pro- 
ceed throughout his correspondence. An example or two must suffice. 

" The form of Government," he says, " as well as the constitution of 
society in Hayti, render the country, in no shght degree, liable to civil 
onvulsions." — He assigns no one reason for this hazardous assertion. 
The form of government does not seem to us to differ from those of the 
United States, except in being somewhat less democratical than some 
of them ; and as for the constitution of society, we know nothing very 
particular in it, except that there the Blacks, and not the Whites, are the 
dominant party. 

Again, in speaking of the bad moral state of Hayti, which we doubt 
not is nearly as bad as that in our own islands, he adds, with his usual 
and characteristic hostility of exaggeration, ■' The firmest foundation of 
society, marriage, is scarcely thought of, and all the ties consequent 
on it, have not even the shadow of existence." That is to say, there are 
in Hayti, neither conjugal nor parental ties : they have not there even 
the shadow of existence. Can this be true? It requires only to be an- 
nounced, to prove it otherwise; but, as usual, he contradicts it himself. 
At p. 32, he tells us of Marchandes, who are high in credit, and fulfil 
their engagements with the most scrupulous integrity ; and he then 
alludes to th?ir husbands, as if the relation of husband were not quite 
unknown in Hayti. Nay, the law of patents, articles 19 and 28, (p. 7, 8.) 
give peculiar advantages to persons legally married. Besides, have the 
laws of Hayti overlooked and even repressed marriage, as, till recently, 
has been the case in our West Indian Colonies? The law of 1798, un^ 
der Toussaint, already referred to, contains the following rules : " That 
the proprietors, renters, or managers shall engage the cultivators to 
form legitimate marriages, pointing out to them that it is the best means 
of ensuring to themselves the enjoyment of every social advantage ; — of 
obtaining consolation from domestic care and assistance in their dis- 
tresses and sickness ; — of extending the reign of that purity of conduct, 
so essential to happiness and to health ; — and of increasing th^ popula- 
tion, and extending the culture, and enlarging the produce of every 
estate. The parents who shall have the largest number of children, the 
oflTspring of legitimate marriages, shall be distinguished by the govern- 
ment, and shall have rewards, and even grants of land, and shall enjoy 
the other advantages promised to them by the proclamation of the 29 th 
of August, 1793;" which proclamation Mr. Mackenzie has not given us. 

Then we have also Toussaint's amended code of 1801, containing the 
following law, (p. 124,) " As marriage tends to purity of manners, a 
married person who lives in the exercise of the conjugal virtues shall 
always be distinguished, and specially protected by the Government." 

" The rights of illegitimate children shall be so fixed as to diffuse and 
encourage the social virtues, and to cement domestic ties." 



Hayti. — Progress of Civilization. 159 

Similar regulations are introduced into Christophe's code; (p. 138,) 
and the amended code of 1 8 1 6, the actual law of the Republic, repeats, in 
their identical words,Toussaint's regulations of 1 80 1 , justquoted. (p. 149.) 

And yet, says Mr. Mackenzie, in Hayti, " marriage, the firmest 
foundation of society, is scarcely thought of, and the ties consequent 
upon it have not even the shadow of existence." What would he say of 
our own colonies ? 

In the same style are the whole of Mr. Mackenzie's observations from 
the beginning to the end of the volume before us, proving to their full 
amount all the charges we have ventured to fasten upon him, of rash- 
ness, vagueness, partiahty, prejudice, inaccuracy, and contradiction. 
In these respects, the communications of this gentleman stand pre-emi- 
nent above the reach of rivalry. Instead of illustrating Hayti, he has 
rendered its state and circumstances more obscure than they were before, 
and has only proved, in fact, his own incompetency for the task. 

5. Progress of Civilization. 

One thing, however, it has not been in the power of Mr. Mackenzie 
to conceal from us, by any tortuousness of statement or hostility of 
feeling, and that is the actual advance made by this negro state, this 
community of emancipated slaves, in some of those improvements, both 
civil and political, which infallibly indicate great progress in civilization, 
but to which Mr. Mackenzie makes not the slightest reference as afford- 
ing any such indication. In spite of all the disingenuous and depre- 
ciatory observations of our Consul, Hayti possesses, (and his own com- 
munications shew it,) a regular, and in the main, a good constitution of 
Government ; a code of laws which are founded in good sense and 
justice; an administrative system of jurisprudence which seems well 
adapted to its purpose ; a fiscal establishment and fiscal regulations, 
which appear calculated to ensure regularity and precision in matters of 
finance ; an efficient and well disciplined military force ; and a police, 
which may be presumed to give, to person and property, all the security 
which is, perhaps, attainable. Had Mr. Mackenzie had it in his power 
to controvert the existence of any one of these advantages, we may be 
assured he would not have omitted to do so.* 

Then, in the laws and regulations which have created, and which 
guide the movements of these different institutions, we find little which 
is left vague and undetermined. The rights no less than the obliga- 
tions of all, and the sanctions which secure the non-violation of the one, 
and the due performance of the other, are clearly and intelligibly 
expressed, and with a brevity and precision which render the know- 
ledge of them accessible to the meanest capacity, to the least educated 

* Mr. Mackenzie, anxious to deprive the Haytians of all merit in the construc- 
tion of their laws, assigns those of Toussaint in 1801, (p. 17,) to certain French and 
Italian ecclesiastics. We do not believe there is one word of truth in this state- 
ment. It is merely the reverberation of a report, circulated from Jamaica at the 
time, to prevent, if possible, the impression in favour of the capacity of the 
blacks, which the appearance of this wise code produced. He admits the ability 
with which Christophe's code was framed, (p. 19,) although it is known that do 
ecclesiastics could have been concerned in it ; and the same praise he cannot 
refuse to the present code, which is but an amended version of the former. 

x 2 



160 Hayti. — Progress of Civilization. 

and most ignorant of the people. The constitution of this maligned re- 
public, its laws, the regulations of its courts of justice and its police, 
the precise amount of its exaction in the way of revenue, and therefore 
the amount of contribution to the exigencies of the state to which 
every man is liable — all are printed and universally diffused. Not only,, 
therefore, has every Haytian ample means of becoming acquainted, and 
that with very little labour, with all relating to his social, civil, and 
political state which it imports him to know, but the whole is open also 
to the examination and criticism of strangers, and especially of such 
hostile strangers as Mr. Mackenzie and his colonial associates. 

We do not, of course, mean to defend every article in these various 
enactments. To some, objections may he fairly urged ; but, thus much 
we will say, without hesitation, that we have met with no regulation, 
however objectionable it be, which may not find both its example, and 
its justification so far as what is in itself impolitic may be justified, in 
the institutions of one or more af the most civilized nations of the 
earth; and, taking the Haytian institutions as a whole, we believe it 
would be veiy difficult to name any other community whose institutions 
are less liable to just exception ; or better adapted to their professed 
ends; or which bear stronger proofs of wisdom, and discriminationy 
and impartiality, than are exhibited in those of Hayti. 

Nor, as far as Mr. Mackenzie has put it into our power to form an 
opinion^ does it appear that it is only the framework^ the theory as it 
were, of the internal policy of this negro republic, which has been judi- 
ciously constructed ; but we cannot discover from him that it does not 
also work well. Mr, Mackenzie, it is true^ does not give his testimony 
to this effect ; that were more than could reasonably be expected from 
him; hut eager, as he has shewn himself, to decry all that is Haytian, 
we may assume, in the absence of all proof — nay, of all assertion to the 
contrary, that in operation, its institutions are not found very palpably 
defective. 

Let us take for an example, that very part of the Haytian institutions 
which was most likely to fall under the observation, and to require the 
interposition of the British Consul-general, and Vi^hich is also more com- 
plicated thaij any other, we mean the fiscal, and particularly the 
CBstom-hoiise regulations. Now, there are in Hayti various seaports, 
with a custom-house in each, where ships are entered arid cleared,. 
daties levied, and fees exacted, both on imports and exports, under 
rafe wliich are definitely prescribed, and uniformly enforced. Now, in 
all these iransactionSy the functionaries charged with the execution of 
theffiy and who have' to calcnslate, demand, an^ enforce the duties, and 
to watch over the violations of the law, and regularly to- report their 
proceedings t© tlie Goversmesit ftom day t© day, are not whites, but 
jJHlive' Haytiass^ black or brown;, descended from the emancipated 
slav^ of St, DoBBJBgo, if some of them be mot the very emancipated 
sSaves therasekes,* 



* Mr, Maekerazae reiweseBte edseaSiois as beiii^ at a very low ebb Ira Hayli ; 
aBs3 3f«t, we thinh. Ms own ?ol«Jiae ftraasslies TallieT a sSr^Bg' coatradjetion to- this 
sgs&?r\\um aJs©. T&e 25i%h aslide ©f lite law of pateBt& conii'nes the enipioyment! 
©f aseiffasSite def^F to raaSsve Hajiians, so tfeat 4foe ufaiufeer of tfaeuj wlbs' 



Hayti. 161 

Now it does not appear, that, during Mr. Mackenzie's stay at Hayti, 
he had a single complaint of any undue exaction by the officers of the 
customs on British merchants, or of any deviation, to the injury of those 
merchants, from any of the custom-house regulations, which have been 
promulgated by the Government. In short, he says not one word to 
lead us to suppose, that this complicated department of the state is not 
conducted with as much regularity and efficiency as the custom-houses 
of London or Liverpool. The same test may be applied to all the 
other institutions of Hayti, of which we have from Mr. Mackenzie, 
no information whatever to shew that they do not very well answer 
their purpose ; and considering the spirit which pervades this volume, 
a spirit as remote as possible from any candid or kindly feeling, this is 
no mean presumption in their favour. 

Upon the whole, we have been greatly comforted by the appearance 
of this volume. The manifest hostility of our Consul, to Hayti and 
every thing Haytian ; his ever-wakeful anxiety to discover grounds for 
depreciating her progress, and his reluctance to say one word which 
can redound to her credit, (whatever is really to her credit seeming to 
drop from him unconsciously of its bearing,) lead us to hope, that 
her advance in the arts of civilized life may be far greater than even we, 
with all our prepossessions in her favour, could venture to anticipate. 
Be that as it may, we think we have at least shewn, that no reliance is 
to be placed on the correctness of Mr. Mackenzie's communications re- 
specting her condition. His tone and language are those of hatred 
and ill will ; and their effect is aggravated, if possible, by the circum- 
stance that he himself is of African origin, and has employed the edu- 
cation and consideration he has acquired from his European parentage, 
to prolong, by his representations, the misery and to aggravate the 
degradation of his whole maternal race.* 

The fairest accounts we have seen of Hayti are contained in the 
French works of La Croix and Malenfant ; in a History of St. Domingo, 
published by Constable, of Edinburgh, and Fenner, of London, in 
1818 ; and in Sketches of Hayti, by W. W. Harvey, of Queen's Col- 
lege, Cambridge, published by Seeley in 1827. As for Franklin's 

can write must be very considerable, independently of the number of persons 
who must be required to furnish all the returns, reports, and accounts, and to 
carry on the correspondence connected with these, which are rendered imperative 
by the laws, not only of trade and revenue, of agriculture and police, but of all 
their various civil and military institutions. Mr. Mackenzie, indeed, says the 
returns are still very defective, though more regular than formerly ; but we have 
learnt not to confide very implicitly in his statements. 

* It will be evident from the following article, which appeared in the Post- 
script to the Royal Gazette of Jamaica, of September 19, 1829, and which reach- 
ed us after the above was written, that we have not incorrectly estimated the 
bias on Mr. Mackenzie's mind. It professes to be an extract of a letter from 
London, dated 4th July, 1829. 

" The communications of Mr. Mackenzie, which have been laid before Par- 
liament, have tended very considerably to this result," (viz. that of making the 
public better informed on the slave question.) "A paper, written by him with 
considerable care and some labour, for the purpose of shewing that the freedom 
of the negroes was absolutely inconsistent with the cultivation of the West 
Indies, and which was intended for publication in the Quarterly Review, has 
been refused to be inserted by the editor of that work." 



162 Jamaica. — Watchman ^ Free Press — Defence of Missionaries. 

work, it was prepared at the suggestion and paid for with the money 
of the West India Committee in London. 



II.— Recent News fiiom Jamaica. 
1. The Watchman and Free Press. 
We are happy to perceive that a newspaper has recently been esta- 
blished in this island, under the title of " The Watchman, and Jamaica 
Free Press." It has been set on foot and is conducted by free persons 
of colour. The main object of it, doubtless, is to afford them the means 
of repelling the slander by which the colonial writers have laboured 
to degrade them, and to vindicate before the public their full title to 
those civil and political rights of British subjects, of which they are 
at present unjustly deprived. It exhibits a fair portion of talent, and 
much good sense and moderation in those who edit it. It may be con- 
sidered as the organ of the sentiments of a body of individuals in Ja- 
maica, amounting to about 40,000, nearly three times the number of the 
whites, and probably holding in their hands property equal, if not su- 
perior, in its amount, to that possessed by the whites actually resident 
in the island. Until now, this large and growing body, increasing 
every day, not only in numbers, but in wealth, intelligence, industry, 
and general respectability, have had no channel by which to make their 
opinions and feelings known, either in their own island or in this coun- 
try. They have now erected for this purpose an engine of immense 
power ; and if they but know how to wield it with judgment, it cannot 
fail to produce the most beneficial results to them and their posterity. 

2. Defence of Missionaries. 

■ It is with satisfaction we perceive that some of the first efforts of 
the Watchman are consecrated to the support of religion and good 
morals. In the cultivation of these lies the real strength of the people 
of colour. And if they exhibit, in the consistency of their private con- 
duct with their public professions, the influence of the principles their 
organ so unshrinkingly advocates, they will find, under the divine bless- 
ing, in the sympathy of every well regulated mind in the mother 
country, no less than in their growing prosperity as a body, the surest 
pledge of their own security and elevation, and of the gradual advance- 
inent to freedom and social happiness of the whole of that still more 
depressed class, to which they are so closely allied both by blood and 
by community of interest. 

We beg our readers to look back to the observations in oiir 50th 
and 51st Nos. (p. 24 and 34.) on the conduct of the Jamaica Assembly 
and its Committee, with respect to the sectaries in that island. Let us 
now hear what the Jamaica Watchman says of it, in the very hearin<»- 
of the agents in that discreditable transaction. "Let us see," he says, 
" the nature of the Report of the Committee. To maintain (as the 
Report does) that ' the principal object of the Missionaries in this 
island is to extort money from their congregations by every possible 
pretext,' would be as futile as to attempt to prevent the beams of the 
sun appearing on a cloudless day. This part of the Report is so re- 



Jamaica. — ^Defence of Missionaries. 163 

pugnant to common sense and ordinary observation, that we are ai a 
loss to conceive why it was inserted in the minutes of the House; but 
there it is to be seen ; and so long as the ink and paper last, will it be 
a stigma on the justice of the House. Evidence of the most reputable 
kind was, and can be readily produced to rebut the extraordinary and 
abominable charge of ' the missionaries having had recourse to the 
most indecent expedients to extort money.' But were money extorted, 
to what purpose is it applied? Nobody in his senses will say it is 
used for personal purposes : for this is flatly denied by the members of 
their several congregations. And if applied to personal purposes, where 
are the gay equipages, liveried servants, magnificent mansions, sump- 
tuous tables, of the Missionaries? And how do they continue to erect 
the neat and spacious places of worship, which, besides their sacred use, 
serve to ornament this city and several towns in the island ? 

" The next egregious mis-statement in the Report is, that ' the 
Missionaries teach and preach sedition, even from the pulpit ; and, by 
misrepresentation and falsehood, endeavour to cast odium on all the 
public authorities of the island, not even excepting the representative of 
Majesty itself.' The accusation is so ridiculously absurd, as to carry 
with it its own refutation. The writer of the Report is perfectly con- 
vinced that the charge is without foundation; and how could our legisla- 
ture so far forget the dignity of their station, as to descend to countenance 
so shameful and contradictory a subterfuge — to charge men eminent for 
loyalty and circumspection, with falsehood and sedition, for the pur- 
pose of exciting popular clamour against these disinterested teachers 
of Christianity? The Committee must have known, that there are 
thousands of individuals, among whom are persons of the first respec- 
tability, who, had they been required, would cheerfully have appeared 
either at the bar of the House, or before ten thousand sectarian Com- 
mittees, and by their testimony have fearlessly rebutted the unfounded, 
malicious, and despicable charges. To charge these persons with 
teaching and prea,ching sedition is easy ; but where are the proofs to 
establish the charge? Assertion is not proof; and until it be pro- 
duced, the Missionaries must be regarded as innocent, and the charge 
as a base and detestable fabrication. The reception Mr. Hibbert re- 
ceived from the Colonial Secretary,* shewed in what light that Report 
was regarded, and prevented that gentleman from tendering the exa- 
minations that accompanied it, examinations that stamped the whole 
proceeding with infamy. The shallow subterfuge, unwisely resorted to 
for imposing on the credulity of the public, did not take," &c. &c. — 
Watchman for Oct. 14, 1829. 

A correspondent in the same paper thus addresses the editor of the 
Watchman : — " I am pleased to find you occasionally advocating the 
cause of these persecuted men, who are so zealously engaged in endea- 
vouring to improve the moral condition of our slave population. Is it 
not strange, that at this period of enlightenment there should be found 
individuals actually engaged in opposing the spread of gospel truth ; — 



This piece of secret hiatory is new to us. 



164 Colonial Reform. — Transfer of Allegiance: 

but so it is. It is said, that in a certain northern parish, (the reverend 
rector of which, has never been proverbially humane,) persecution has 
covertly existed ; and that an individual, a slave, is at this moment, and 
has been for a considerable time past, in limbo, for having attended, on 
the sabbath, the ministration of one of those clergymen, vphose only ob- 
ject seems to be the spiritual improvement of their hearers. As this 
case has already excited considerable interest, will you tell me if it is in 
the power of an attorney to send a negro to a workhouse in u parish 
distant from that to which he belongs, for no other offence than that of 
attending a dissenting place of worship : and if the negro become se- 
riously ill, to remove him from one workhouse to another, without being 
brought to trial ?" The reply of the editor is, that there is nothing in 
the existing law of Jamaica to prevent this: still he advises the attorney, 
who seems a person sufficiently known in the island, either to cease from 
this cruel persecution of the slave of an absent proprietor, or to resign 
the management of the estate; and he warns the rector of the parish, 
Saint Ann's, and who is alluded to as if he had been in some way 
accessary to the outrage, to beware of the precipice on which he stands. 
During the week after this allusion appears, Lord Belmore is stated, in 
the Royal Gazette, to have been on a visit to this rector, (P. S. to Royal 
Gazette of 12—19 Sept. 1829. 

3. Colonial Reform, 

The Watchman is a strenuous advocate for the reforms proposed by 
His Majesty's Government in the law and practice of slavery. He 
argues on the extreme impolicy of continuing to reject recommendations 
sanctioned by the three estates of the empire, through absurd adherence 
to ancient prejudices. What, he says, must be the consequence of 
acting on unnatural prejudices, chimerical fears, and obstinate attach- 
ment to near-sighted and hollow prerogatives, but defeat, and compelled 
concession, instead of the grace of cheerful compliance and co-opera- 
tion ? — And there is a kind of intimation that, at least, the great body of 
the free coloured population will not be found among those who will 
resist the fiat of the Imperial Parliament on this point. 

4. Transfer of allegiance to the United States. 

On a third point, the Watchman is still more explicit, and that is, as 
to the absurd threat of the Jamaica whites to separate from the mother 
country, should she prosecute her plans of reform ; and to seek the pro- 
tection of the United States. He laughs this idea to merited scorn, and 
well he may; for what can be more quixotic, and impracticable than 
such an attempt in the actual circumstances of Jamaica? It is to sup- 
pose, that a handful of diseased and extenuated whites should be able, 
successfully, to set themselves in array, not only against the king's 
troops, but against the hardy and disciplined free blacks and people 
of colour, who are twice or thrice their own number, backed by the 
whole body of the slaves, and this for the purpose of transferring the 
allegiance of the island from Great Britain to America. The editors of 
the Watchman understand full as well as we do, (putting out of view 
their steady and loyal attachment to their king and country) that, frona 



Jamaica^ — Instances of Judicial Partiality, 16.5 

an adherence to England alone, can the coloured class Tiope to attain 
their rank in the scale of being, and that a transfer beneath the yoke of 
the United States would at once crush every nascent hope, for them and 
for the slaves, of rising to their proper level. Let not Jamaica planters 
then, be so wild as to dream for a moment of success in any such pro- 
ject, considering the adverse feeling which it must encounter in the 
island, and that there are about a million of Haytians, only from twelve 
to fifteen hours sail to windward of them. 

5. Instances of judicial partiality . 

Some striking examples occur in the recent Jamaica newspapers, of 
the perversion of justice, arising from the distinctions of caste and co- 
lour, and particularly from the exclusion of the evidence of slaves in 
courts of justice. 

1st. A white merchant in Kingston, Mr. Ivers, buys certain articles 
of a negro, for about an eighth part of their value. His mistress disco- 
vers the property in Mr. Ivers's premises, and proves the theft by the 
evidence of Mr. Ivers himself. The negro is flogged, and Mr. Ivers 
the receiver of the stolen goods and the person who had invited the 
negro to commit the crime, marches off with impunity. {Watchman 
of Oct. 14, 1829.) 

2nd. The premises of a Mr. Edie are entered for burglarious purposes 
by two thieves. He desires his slave Thomas to take his loaded gun 
and scare them away. The slave fires, and kills one of them, He is 
tried for the act, found guilty of manslaughter, and sentenced to hard 
labour in the workhouse for twelve months, and to be flogged with thir- 
ty-nine lashes, at going in, and at coming out. The master who had 
ordered his own slave to take his loaded gun to scare the burglars 
away, is the witness whose evidence convicts him. It was quite dark 
when the shot was fired, and it seemed to have been fired at random, 
though it produced such fatal effects. " The court, before passing sen- 
tence took occasion to observe, that they considered the owner as much 
to blame in directing a slave to use a gun for the purpose of driving 
away others, on which account they would endeavour to make Jmn 
suffer by the sentence to be pronounced on the slave." That is to say, 
the court punishes the master, by inflicting a year's hard labour in the 
workhouse on the slave ; thus depriving him of the slave's services for 
that time ; and also by lacerating the slave's flesh with the cart whip, 
so as to prolong the period of his unprofitableness to his master. Such 
are the notions of justice which prevail in this British Colony. {Watch- 
man of the lOth Oct. 1829.) 

3. The remaining instance appears in the postscript to the Royal 
Gazette of the 3rd of October 1829. In June 1827, a Mr. Graham had 
been found drowned in a small stream in the parish of St. George, and 
an inquest had brought in their verdict, " drowned himself in a fit of 
insanity." The man, however, it was lately discovered, had been mur- 
dered by his slaves, at the instigation of his own wife and some of her 
relations, who stood by and witnessed the deed of strangling him, and 
saw him afterwards thrown into the stream where he was found the next 
morning. These facts are said to have come out on the trial, and it is 



1G6 Jamaica. — Mendicant Slaves. 

added, that Mrs. Graham had repeatedly laboured to incite the negroes 
to murder her husband, their master, and, after much importunity, she 
had succeeded in inducing them to undertake the task. One of them, 
two years afterwards, stung with remorse, is said to have confessed the 
fact, and thus to have led to an investigation, which ended in the trial 
and execution of the four slaves who were regarded as the most active 
in the murder. They were all hanged at Buff Bay in St. George's, on 
the 24th of last September. Mrs. Graham and her relations who, it 
seems, are free persons of colour, have not been brought to trial, there 
being probably none but slaves who could testify against them. It was 
thought perhaps, as in the last instance, that by hanging four of her 
slaves, she would thus, at least, be punished by the loss of property. 
We conclude that in this instance the general practice of paying to the 
owner the value of his slaves that are hanged, was dispensed with. 

6. Mendicant Slaves. 

Our readers will probably recollect the persecution which a poor 
gentleman of the name of Phillips lately underwent in Antigua, for 
daring to relieve some mendicant slaves, and to report his having done 
so to a benevolent society in England, whose agent he was. (See Nos. 
52 and 53, pp. 63 and 81.) 

It will be some corroboration of Mr. Phillips's statements, that the 
Watchman of the 16th of September contains a communication headed 
" Diseased Mendicant Slaves," in which it is affirmed, and there appears 
no contradiction of the fact, that an increasing number of diseased men- 
dicant slaves may be daily seen in the streets of Kingston ; and that 
they more particularly infest the vicinity of places of worship on the 
Sabbath-day. He describes them as " loathsome beings, who, perhaps, 
after having spent their youth and strength faithfully in their humble 
situation, are now totally abandoned, and left to wander about as a cor- 
rupting pestilence ;" some blind and lame, and some covered with the 
most infectious diseases. He calls on the magistrates of Kingston to 
enforce the laws, which he quotes as subjecting the owners in this case 
to severe penalties for their neglect, and as obliging them also to defray 
the expence of providing a refuge and subsistence for the wretched 
and abandoned outcasts. 

We perceive, with very great satisfaction, that the character of the 
injured and oppressed Mr. Phillips, of Antigua, to whom we have just 
alluded, and who has suffered, and still suffers so much from his having 
administered, relief to some perishing slaves in that island, has received, 
in the Antigua Weekly Register of September last, a full, complete, and 
most triumphant vindication, from all the foul, mendacious, and utterly 
unfounded charges, heaped upon him by Mr. Macqueen, in the Glasgow 
Courier, and copied thence into various English newspapers. The 
\vhole proves to be mere fiction from beginning to end. 



London; Bagster and Thorns, Printers, 14, Bartliolomew Close, 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 



No. 56.] For JANUARY, 1830. [No. 8. Vol. iii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be forwarded to any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four Shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity, on application at 
the Society's office. No. 18, Aldermanbury. Single Copies may be had of all 
booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight pages. 



I.— RELIGIOUS INTELLIGENCE FROM THE WEST INDIES : 

1. — Society for the Conversion of Negro Slaves. 
2. — Coddrington Estates. 
II.— M'DONNELL'S ADDRESS ON THE WEST INDIA QUESTION. 
III.— THE JAMAICA WATCHMAN. 



I. — ^Religious Intellige^^ce from the West Indies. 

Having entered so largely in our last volume, Nos. 41, 44, (supple- 
ment,) 45, 46, 47, and 48, into the question of the rehgious state of 
the slave population in the West Indies, and the existing hindrances to 
its improvement ; and having thereby rendered ourselves obnoxious to 
no inconsiderable clamour and objurgation, which, however, we trust, 
we were not unsuccessful in calming ; it may be expected that we should 
notice the Reports which have subsequently been published by the two 
societies with which at that time we were so unfortunate as to be brought 
into collision. We shall proceed to do so, as briefly as possible. 

1. Society for the Conversion and religious Instruction and Edtica- 
tion of the Negro Slaves in the West Indies. 
Our readers will not have forgotten our review of this Society's Report 
for 1827. Some months ago, a fresh Report, namely for 1828, appeared, 
which we have been hitherto unable to notice. Its general tone, we are 
happy to perceive, is much more moderate and measured than that of 
the preceding year. Some of the subsidiary Reports, however, fur- 
nished from the West Indies, and which are of a date anterior to any 
possible knowledge of the intermediate controversy occurring in Eng- 
land, still partake of the imperfections we had ventured to charge on 
former statements of the same kind, and among which vagueness con- 
tinues to be a prominent characteristic. This defect, we trust, will be ob- 
viated in another year; it being still exceedingly difficult, indeed almost 
impossible, to ascertain what is actually doing among the slave popula- 
tion, (whose case alone it is that we have meddled with,) in the way of 
education and religious instruction. We wish our readers here to bear 
in mind that it has never been our object, nor are we now disposed to 
blame the Society for not having done more good among the slaves, but 
for having raised our hopes higher than the circumstances of the case 
fairly warranted ; and for not having more frankly told the public, in 
clear and distinct terms, the actual amount of what has been done or is 
doing for the slave, and what are the real obstacles to their own greater 

Y 



168 Society for- the Conversion of Negro Slaves. 

efficiency. On these points we admit that the language of this Report 
is more explicit than the preceding ; and we hail the improvement as 
a token for good. The Society's report of its progress in Jamaica, is 
to this effect. 

" The Society perceives with deep regret, that the education and re- 
ligious instruction of the negroes in the diocese of Jamaica, have not 
materially advanced in the course of the year 1828. The formation of 
a Branch Association for the parish of St. David, was announced by 
the Lord Bishop of the diocese in the spring of that year, and the pros- 
pect appeared encouraging ; but subsequent accounts state that there 
is no probability of a catechist being employed on the estates in that 
part of the island, and 7io other new association has been established. 
The Bishop, in a recent communication, informs the Society, that very 
little progress has been made by the negroes in reading, except in the 
principal towns; and his Lordship further states, that the planters 
are not disposed topermit more than oral instruction to be given to the 
slaves on their estates. Even this," (that is, even oral instruction,) 
" it seems," say the Governors, " is still far from ge7ieral. For the 
Bishop finds much difficulty in meeting with persons properly qualified 
for the office of catechists, and the planters are not willing to accept 
the services of those persons whom he has been enabled to engage." 
(Is it because they are not white, but coloured ?) " His Lordship is, 
therefore, too often compelled to limit their employment to teaching in 
Sunday schools under the immediate eye of the parochial Clergyman." 

The results of the Society's operations in the parish of St. Thomas in 
the East, are then adverted to as having " led the Society to expect an 
early and general extension of the system throughout the diocese of 
Jamaica."* And although these expectations have not been realized, 
it still sees, in the circumstances just mentioned, satisfactory proof 
that the undertaking, however difficult, is not impracticable. As long 
as catechists are not freely and generally admitted on estates, the in- 
struction of the negroes is still to be commenced. But there is nothing 
in this undisputed fact to justify diminished exertion ; on the contrary, 
since the obstacles are now clearly perceived, more active endeavours 
must be made to surmount them, until that which has been well begun 
in difevj favoured spots, shall be gradually introduced into every plan- 
tation upon the island." (p. 3.) This sober statement gives us more 
satisfaction, as well as better hopes, than the early and sanguine re- 
ports of the Bishop.f 

The obstacles, it is said, " are now clearly perceived." If so, we 
have still to complain that they are not clearly and distinctly pointed 
out to us by the framers of the Report. In Jamaica especially, Sunday 
continues, by law, a day of marketing. It is also for the slaves a day 

* Certainly more has been done in St. Thomas in the East to instruct the 
slaves, than in all the other country parishes of the island together. Yet we 
are bound in truth to say, that the extent of the benefit there effected appears 
to us to have been greatly and injuriously exag-gerated, while the formidable 
impediments, existing there as elsewhere, to the free course of education and 
instruction, have been studiously kept out of public view. 

t See vol. i. No. 13, p. 189, and vol. ii. No. 30, p. 132. 



Society for the Conversion of Negro Slaves. 169 

of necessary labour in raising their provisions ; for, though not followed 
in their own grounds by the driving-whip, as they are in the field, they 
must, nevertheless, until another day shall be given in lieu of Sunday, 
work on that day, or starve. We have, it is true, an occasional allusion 
in this Report to Sunday markets as an evil, but no distinct mention of 
the far more cruel and opprobrious necessity which, in most islands, is 
laid on the slaves, by the cupidity of the masters, to raise on that day 
the food required for themselves and their families. What can be the 
cause of the silence so systematically maintained on this point by a 
body of men, who at the same time manifest so laudable a zeal for the 
improvement of the poor degraded slaves ? A few feeble and indistinct 
allusions to the subject occur indeed in the subsidiary Reports from 
the diocese of Barbadoes, but still in a vi^ay wholly inadequate to give a 
due impression of the extent and potency of this obstacle. The Report 
itself contains only a single incidental allusion, and that in the petty 
island of Bequia, (scarcely ever heard of before,) to Sunday labour in 
the provision grounds, as a prevailing practice ; while in other places, 
expressions continue to be used, which are inconsistent with the known 
and admitted facts of the case.* 

But we will not dwell at present on this very pregnant topic, of 
which so much was said in the closing numbers of our last volume, 
though hitherto with little effect, but advert to a second obstacle to 
the religious improvement of the slaves, which is wholly unnoticed in 
this Report. We mean that which is so clearly enounced in the 
circular despatch of Sir George Murray, of the 3d of September, 1829, 
viz. the entire absence in the West Indies, of any legislative provision for 
promoting the religious instruction of the slaves. (See No. 52, pp. 54, 
55.) Without such provision, and especially when the absence of it is 
coupled with the prevailing want of a Sabbath for the slaves, it is ob- 
viously and utterly vain to hope for any material improvement in their 
moral and religious condition. The Report might have pointed at once, 
as the sufficient excuse and explanation of all those inefficiencies of its 

* Of St. Kilt's, e. g-. it is said, that Sunday markets "are not completely abo- 
lished," (p. 14.) The Report of 1827, had said something of the same extenuat- 
ory tendency, implying that the grievance arising from the want of a Sabbath 
was but trivial in St. Kitt's, where, in that respect, things had improved. We 
then feltit our duty to remark, (vol. ii. No. 41, p. 321.) that if the Society declined 
to contend for a Sabbath to the slaves, they ought not, at least, to impede that 
object by representing it as already effected when it was not effected. And 
we proceeded to shew, that by the law of St. Kitt's, which the Report spoke 
of as an improvement, " Sunday markets, instead of being abolished, had been 
continued, and," for the first time, " legalized ; and that neither by that or by 
any other law of St. Kitt's was any time, no, not an hour in the week, given to 
the slave, for marketing, or to labouring/or himself" (as it is unfairly and insi- 
diously called,) " besides Sunday. In St. Kitt's the legislature, instead of re- 
cognising the sacredness of the Sabbath, have legalized its desecration !" They 
make it lawful to hold and continue Sunday markets till eleven in the forenoon, 
occupying thus nearly half of the day, even if we make no account of all the 
adjustments of bargains, the transfer and transport of purchases, and the jour- 
neying homewards of the sellers and buyers, which must follow this legal limit 
for keeping open the market-place. And this is the act which the Society exhi- 
bited as an improvement, and to which, we are sorry to say, they now again 
allude in a similar straiu. 



170 Co)iversion Society — Coddrington Estates. 

episcopal, clerical, and catechetical array, of which it so justly com- 
plains, to these two obstacles, and have added, in the words of one of 
its agents, " Until you amend these evils, all attempts to promote 
Christian knowledge will be vain and fruitless." And yet the Report, 
overlooking these, affirms that " the chief obstacle to religious instruc- 
tion is to be found in the want of funds." p. 8. 

Of the contents of that part of the present Report which respects the 
diocese of Barbadoes, we have already given a specimen in our last 
volume, No. 48, p. 473 — 475. On the whole, there appears to be more 
of activity, and, in some cases, less of prejudice and active resistance 
than in Jamaica; but it cannot be denied, that the operation of the 
obstacles to improvement to which we have already adverted, aided by 
the deep-rooted prejudices, and, may we not justly add, the cupidity 
of individuals, are not to be surmounted by any human means short of 
the direct interference of the British legislature. And to this point, the 
Society, and all who feel for either the temporal misery or the spiritual 
degradation of their negro brethren in the colonies, should direct their 
efforts and their prayers, as affording, under the divine blessing, the 
only rational hope of success.* 

2. The Coddrington Estates. 
In a report of the >Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in 
Foreign Parts, for the year 1828, are contained some scanty and un- 
satisfactory details respecting its slave plantations in Barbadoes. The 
greater part of these details consists of a kind of apologetical and 
somewhat egotistical retrospect of his labours, among the slaves belong- 
ing to them, by Mr. Pinder, their late chaplain. The account he now 
gives of his past pastoral labours, feelings, and experience, when read 
in connection with his former reports, and with what is known of the 
actual state of things on these estates, is not a little puzzling. It does 
not, indeed, profess to be a defence against the attacks levelled at the 
religious administration of the estates, but its whole structure shews it to 
have been framed for that particular purpose. If so, it is a lame and 
inadequate defence, and serves, when carefully examined, only to shew 
in stronger colours the great evils of the system in which this venerable 
Society has for so long a time been unhappily involved. We have, it is 
true, from Mr. Pinder, statements, that are almost dramatically impos- 

* Let us not be supposed to bear too hard upon the planters in ascribing 
the difficulties experienced in the way of educating tlie slaves in part to their 
cupidity. Had we entertained any doubt on that point, the incidental notices 
contained in this report and its appendixes would have obviated them. We find 
that even in Antigua, standing above most of the colonies in the tolerant spirit 
it has shewn to missions and missionaries, many, nay, if we read aright, most 
of the planters refuse to the very children on their estates any time for instruc- 
tion, during the week, but their own leisure time from twelve to two. " The 
children and such adults as please to devote their leisure time at noon to that 
purpose may then be instructed." (p. 53, &c.) So that the only time, from early 
dawn till night-fall, in which young or old can obtain instruction, during the week, 
seems to be the brief space allowed for repose and refreshment after seven hours 
toil in a tropical sun, and before renewing that toil for at least five hours more. 
In this point of view, the whole of the report from Antigua ought to be read with 
care. If many slaves obtain instruction under circumstances so adverse, who 
shall say one word in future of the inferiority of the negro character ? 



The Coddrington Estates. 171 

ing, both of his own efforts as a pastor, and of tlie moral influence of 
those efibrts on the slaves. We hear of preaching- and teaching, and 
pious speeches, and baptisms, and churchings, and confirmations, and 
fair professions, and participation in the sacrament, but in the midst of 
all this we hear of no marriage. All these partakers of baptism, of con- 
firmation, of the Lord's Supper, seem to be living in the known and 
deliberate violation of the seventh commandment. Not one among them, 
young or old, not one even of the sixteen confirmed by the Bishop last 
year, appears to be an exception from this general and mournful de- 
scription. 

" Although," says Mr. Pinder, " the marriage of slaves was a point 
"which 1 had at heart from the first, and formed one of the early regula- 
tions, still none could be prevailed on to marry, according to the rites 
of the church. No argument, no inducements were left untried.'' 
" This circumstance frequently occasioned me deep and heartfelt 
regret." And yet, in the very year of this reminiscence, 1824, we have 
in a statement published in 1829, by the Society, relative to Coddrington 
College, (p. 19), an extract from one of its reports containing a com- 
munication, dated the very same year 1824, from the very same gentle- 
man, which seems to us like a laboured apology for the non-existence of 
marriage among the slaves. But after what we have already written on 
this subject, (see our Second Volume, No. 45, p. 422, No. 47, p. 459, 
and No. 48, p. 479,) we need not now enlarge upon it. Only we must 
say that there is something incongruous in the circumstance, that a So- 
ciety like this should publish a grave report of persons receiving bap- 
tism, confirmation, and the Lord's Supper, and professing all which those 
ceremonies imply, that is to say, professing to be christians, and spoken 
of as such ; who, nevertheless, deliberately refuse to live in any other 
state than that of lawless and unchristian concubinage. We cannot 
comprehend what the standard is by which the claim to Christianity 
is measured in Barbadoes, when those are received into its pale, and 
admitted and even invited to partake of its highest ordinances, who 
openly and deliberately set at nought its plainest injunctions. They 
will submit, it seems, to every mere rite or ceremony ; they will repeat 
and assent to every article in the creed ; they will utter any form of 
sound words, which is prescribed to them ; — for these require no great 
sacrifice of any kind, not even the pains of understanding their meaning. 
But marriage seems, at least, to require some curb on sensuality, some 
restraint on animal appetite. And even this degree of restraint, to 
which the lowest heathens are found to submit, seems too much l*or 
these christians so called. 

The Society itself, indeed, seem at length to have taken some such 
view of the subject. They say " they are sensible that it has ever (viz. 
since 1819,) formed a subject of urgent remonstrance with the Chaplain 
to point out the sin of continuing to form, connexions without the 
sanction of matrimony, but they have observed with sorrow how little 
effect those remonstrances have produced either public or private. 
They have again entered on their journals a strong expression of their 
regret, that the efforts of the chaplain, to promote marriage among the 
negroes have been attended with so little success ; and, considering it 



1 72 Coddrington Estates — Mi\ Macdojmell. 

to be of the utmost importance, that no practicable method of effecting 
this desirable object should be spared, the Society have requested the 
Bishop of Barbadoes to consult with the attorney of the estates," (Mr. 
Clarke, see Vol. ii. No. 45, p. 420,) " as to the most efficient means of 
encouraging marriage among the negroes, assuring his Lordship of their 
readiness to co-operate with him to the very utmost of their means, 
even if it should be found necessary, at considerable pecuniary sacrifice 
in the prosecution of so pious and charitable a design." (p. 65.) — We 
are glad to witness even this step towards improvement; but the hope of 
its issuing in any m.aterial good proceeds, as it appears to us, on a mis- 
apprehension of the evil to be remedied. It is not the reluctance to 
marry, merely, which is to be overcome. The money of the Society, if 
they pay high enough, may effect marriages, such marriages, at least, 
as the laws of Barbadoes will alone sanction. It is the degraded, de- 
humanized, brutalized state of the animal, with whom they have to 
deal, which calls for a cure. It is the pressure of that yoke under 
which they hold him bowed down, which requires to be relieved. It is 
the law and the practice of slavery, that monstrous invasion of every 
divine and human right, which are in fault. And unless the Society 
set themselves, in the fear of God, to renounce their share in its 
guilt, they must not hope to succeed by such mere palliatives as these. 

Mexico, in the last year, a year too for her of distress and difficulty, 
has issued a decree proclaiming every slave within her territory to be 
actually freed from bondage. This is an example worthy of the 
Society's imitation. Let them, therefore, in the same spirit, cleanse 
their hands from this stain. Let them say to these, their bondmen and 
bondwomen, "go forth from the house of your bondage;" and then 
may they confidently look for a blessing on their labours. 

The Society details a new plan on which they are about to enter for 
enlarging their college in Barbadoes, for the theological education 
of an increased number of white students, the expense of which is to be 
defrayed from the produce of the labour of the black slaves. Now, 
would it not be a proceeding, both more just, and also more " lovely, 
and of good report," to provide first for the temporal and spiritual well- 
being of the blacks themselves, by delivering them from that state of 
bodily and mental degradation to which they are confessedly reduced, 
and in which they have been held by the Society for more than 120 
years ? The trust deed, if it stand in the way, can always be made to 
yield to an Act of Parliament.— No new measure is indicated in this 
Report for the improvement of the slaves, with the exception of the 
above resolution about marriage. 



II. — Mr. Macdonnell's Pamphlet on the West India 
Question. 

Mr. Alexander Blacdonnell, formerly secretary of the committee of Demerara 
planters, and subsequently, we believe, of the West India Dock Company, has 
recently produced his periodical pamphlet on the West Indian question ; which 
he addresses to the members of both Houses of Parliament. It does not ap- 
pear to -us to deserve any elaborate refutation, at least at onr hands, because to 
the readers of our work it will carry with it its own refutation. The very prin- 



Mr. Macdonnell on the Wt.st India Question. 173 

ciple on which he sets out, and whicli is implied in the whole work, namely, 
that commercial gain is to be preferred to every other consideration, will 
scarcely find admission into any mind which places a due value on justice, 
mercy, and truth, even if our actual loss instead of gain, from the slave system, 
had not been proved beyond the possibility of reasonable question. (See Reports 
of the A. S. Society, 1 and 2, and A. S. Reporters, Vol. 1. Nos. 17, 22, and 24.) 
AV^e shall merely glance at a few of the subsidiary topics. 

1. He opens again the question of free labour, after the mode, and according 
to the exploded theory, of Major Moody. In his discussion however, we can 
only find a single argument which does not stand fully refuted in the Edinburgh 
Review, and in the numbers of this Reporter, 27 and 31. 

2. The single argument which is new is drawn from Mr. Mackenzie's official 
representation of the state of Hayti, Mr. Macdonnell's pamphlet, and our ex- 
posure of the great unfairness of that representation, (in our last number. No. 55.) 
were probably passing through the press at the same time. Had Mr. Macdonnell 
previously seen that exposure, he might not have been so forward in resting his 
case on so very weak and insufficient a proof. He relies upon it, however, as 
a veracious and irrefutable document. We have shewn it, we are bold to say, 
to be utterly unworthy of reliance. " It is impossible to doubt," says our author, 
" that this report of Mr. Mackenzie must produce a great sensation. It touches 
upon all the contested points," (we had divined this to have been its object!) 
" and it is so impartially and perspicuously drawn as to produce immediate con- 
viction," p. 49.) The very slightest examination might have satisfied even Mr. 
Macdonnell of the absolute ridicule attaching to expressions of commendation so 
very wide of all resemblance, nay so ironically unlike. 

3. We have next a proof fp. 21.) drawn from some statement of the late 
Lord Liverpool, (where to be found we know not) that it is calumnious to ques- 
tion the willingness, nay the zeal of the colonists to promote education and reli- 
gious instruction among the slaves. The preceding pages of this number (167 — 
172,) anticipate the answer to this extraordinary plea. 

4. Then " the crime of slavery belongs to the mother country." Be it so ; — 
then let the mother country forthwith cease from it, and make her children to 
cease from it also. 

5. The object of all this stir about abolition on the part of the agitators, 'it 
seems, is patronage. If this charge is intended to inform the Duke of Welling- 
ton, Sir George Murray, and the other administrators of places, employments, 
and pensions, they will know best how to value it. It is untrue, and if Mr. 
Blacdonnell does not know that it is so, he must be wilfully ignorant. 

6. Then comes a long discussion about compulsory manumission, being tlie 
pivot on which he seems to turn. (See Vol. i. No. 22, p. 323). We leave it to 
its native effect, without offering to disturb it. 

7. As to all his lovely pictures of what Jamaica and the other colonies have 
done to make the slaves as happy as the day is long, we need only point (o 
the abstracts of their statute books in our own pages. Almost every assertion 
he makes on the subject is substantially untrue. 

8. He speaks of our slave colonies being tyrannically governed by the motlier 
country, (p. 49.) This is really too ridiculous ! 

9. As for " spoliation of the rights of property," (p. 53.) Does the case of the 
West Indies differ from the case of the East Indies, or of the London Bridge ? 

10. Mr. Macdonnell further labours to prove that the feelings of proprietors 
resident in England and of the colonists are identical. So much the worse for 
the proprietors resident in England ! We have always suspected it, notwith- 
standing their repeated disclaimers of any such identity. 

11. He triumphs over the abolitionists for refusing to take part in the discus- 
sion before the Privy Council in 1827, on the compulsory manumission clause. 
He will find all he has said completely answered, by anticipation, in the Re- 
porter, No. 31, p. 153, and No. 52, p. 59. 

We shall no longer interrupt the passage of this work to its proper place.' 



III. — ^The Jamaica Watchman. 
A further series of this newspaper to the 14th of November has reached us, 
and it continues to maintain the novel ground, for a journal in a slnve colony tv 



174 The Jamaica Watchman. 

occupy, of free discussion. Among other things, it has made large extracts from 
Dr. Lushington's powerful exposition, in his unpublished letter to Mr. Court- 
ney, of the iniquity of the proceedings of the Jamaica authorities, in the case of 
those oppressed iudividuals, Lecesne and Escoffery.* 

The assembly of Jamaica had met, and had caught eagerly at an expression 
in the opening speech of Lord Belmore, in which they slily assumed him to have 
taught them to expect, that His Majesty's Government would cease from further 
interference with their measures respecting the slave population. His Lord- 
ship's reply quickly dissipated this delusion. " I regret," he says, " that any 
expressions in my speech should have conveyed to your minds an expectation 
that His Majesty's Government had ceased any further interference in those 
measures which your local knowledge and experience may consider expedient 
for the improvement of the slave population. I should be wanting in candour 
to you and justice to myself, did I not distinctly disavow any such pledge." 

"The rejected slave bill of 1826 had again been introduced to the assembly, 
and notice had also been given, by Mr. Barrett, of a bill for enlarging the fran- 
chises of the free black and coloured population, which was supported by peti- 
tions from the whites in one or two parishes. 

On the subject of the desecration of the Sabbath, there occur some spirited 
and judicious remarks. " This island," they say, " has been termed with em- 
phasis a Christian country," — but how, they ask, can this arrogated title be 
justified in the view of Kingston on a Sunday? Looking there, " the boast 
will vanish like the mist in a morning." Again, says a correspondent, " The 
Sabbath is in this country most awfully violated, I have witnessed its violation 
even from my youth in many ways, but more especially in the article of traffic." 
And then, arguing against those who maintain that tiieir temporal interests 
would suffer, if by setting apart "Sunday as a day of religious instruction for the 
slaves," one day's labour were thus withdrawn " out of the general and accus- 
tomed aggregate of work ;" he adds, that when he beholds that one day out of the 
seven, which should be set apart for higher objects, " so openly and so legally 
profaned;" when he beholds " the multitudes of subordinate individuals" (a 
periphery for slaves) " for whom we stand accountable at the awful day of 
reckoning, debarred of the means of grace and salvation, he confesses that he is 
tempted to doubt whether our legislature possess any religion at all." 

We are glad to see, by a circular addressed by the Jamaica government to 
the senior magistrate of each parish, that Sir George Murray has conveyed " the 
commands of His Majesty that, in the colony of Jamaica, the presiding judge 
should take down in writing a complete note of all the proceedings at every 
criminal trial, (of slaves as well as persons of free condition,) and especially of 
all evidence given vita voce in open court;" and it is added, " I am now fur- 
ther to signify to you His Majesty's pleasure, that in every case of capital con- 
viction, you do respite the execution of the sentence until you shall have re- 
ceived and perused the judge's notes ; and whenever a capital sentence shall 
have been carried into eifect, you will report the case to me, transmitting at the 
same time a copy of the judge's notes and report." 

* It seems hardly necessai-y to apprize our readers, that these suffering and 
meritorious individuals, the objects of an unjust and inveterate persecution, 
have lately prosecuted to conviction, in the Court of King's Bench, the pub- 
lisher of a false, foul, and infamous attack on their characters, contained in a 
work of the noted but Reverend G. W. Bridges, entitled the " Annals of Ja- 
maica," and which the charge of Lord Tenterden and the verdict of a jury have 
pronounced to be a wicked and malicious libel. 



This, and all other publications of the Society, may be had at their office 
18, Aldermanhury ; oral Messrs. Hatchards, 187, Piccadilly , and Arch's, CornhilL 
They may also be procured, through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti- 
Slavery tiocieiy throughout the kingdom. 



London.— BAGSTER 4 'iUOMii, Printers, 14, BarlJwlomem Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 57.] For FEBRUARY, 1830. [No. 9. Vol. iii. 

The "Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be forwarded to any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of Four Shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity, on application at 
the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury. Single copies may be had of all 
booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight pages. 



I. THE COST OF NEGRO SLAVERY. 
II. SLAVE TRADE IN THE WEST INDIES. 

III. DISLOYAL SPIRIT OF THE JAMAICA ASSEMBLY 

IV. TRADE OF HAYTI. 



L — The Cost of Negro Slavery. 

We have thought it right, especially at the present season offinancia 
pressure and national distress, to take a brief view of the cost of Slaver v. 
We have adopted as our basis a statement which appeared about two 
years ago in the public newspapers, and which was then put into the 
hands of a leading Member of the Finance Committee. In now giving 
it a place in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, we have been at pains to correct 
and verify its details by an inspection of the parliamentary documents 
on which it professes to be founded; and have modified such of the 
proportional estimates as appeared to us to be erroneous. The result 
is a reduction on the whole of about £70,000, of the amount of the 
former estimate. We need not specify the particulars of this variation ; 
since in order that the pubUc may be able to judge of the fairness of the 
account as it now stands, we have assigned, in most cases, the grounds 
of our calculations. The precise time to which the statement more 
particularly refers, is the year 1827. What alterations may have since 
taken place we have no satisfactory means of knowing. It may, however, 
be assumed, that the expenditure of 1828 and 1829 cannot have varied 
very materially from that of 1827. On all those points, however, which 
are matter of mere calculation and inference, our readers will formi 
their own conclusions. No one will deny, that at least the subject is 
one, at this time especially, which is well worthy of a more careful inves- 
tigation than we have the means of bestowing upon it. 

1. — Army. " 

One great difficulty which we have found in accurately ascertaining the 
expense incurred by this country on account of our Slave Colonies, has 
arisen from uncertainty respecting the exact amount of the military and 
naval force stationed there. We know of no official documents to which 
access can be had by the public, and which convey clear information as to 
the distribution of our land and sea forces. The facts of the case, must, 
therefore, often be collected from a variety of sources, and must often be 
matters of inference rather than of statement. The only intimation wc 

z 



176 The Cost of Negro Slavery — Army. 

can find respecting the number of troops stationed in the West Indies, 
appears in a speech of Lord Palmerston, on the 7th of March, 1826, 
in which he thus states the distribution of our military force, viz. — 83 
regiments of the line, of which 9 were stationed in Great Britain, 
(exclusive of cavalry, the foot-guards, artillery, &c. &c.) 23 in Ireland, 
31 on foreign stations, and 20 in the West Indian Colonies. 

Assuming this statement to be correct, we may ascertam pretty nearly 
the military expense of these Colonies, — We learn from the estimates 
printed for the use of the House of Commons, on the 22d February, 
1827, No. 58, that each regiment of the line costs, for pay, daily allow- 
ance, clothing, Q.r\di agency, vj'ii^i certain small allowances to Hae Jield- 
officers, about £25,100 per annum. 

Twenty regiments, at 25,100Z. each, is 502,000Z.; — making 
nearly two-elevenths of the whole expense of the army, 
under the above heads of pay, allowance, clothing, agency, 
and allowance to the field-officers ; that whole expense being 
stated in the above estimates (p. 5) to be 2,794,000Z. . . £502,000 
Certain other West Indian expenses, connected with the army, 
may be assumed to stand in the same relative proportion, viz. 
The whole army pay of general officers was, by the estimates 
of 1826, 156,862Z. ; two-elevenths of this sum amounts 

to nearly 28,000 

The whole expense of medicines by the same estimate, was 

1 7,5 18Z., of which two-elevenths is 3,100 

The whole expense of the general and hospital staff, by the 
same estimate, was 120,472/., two-elevenths of which would 
be 21,904Z. In this instance, however, we happen to have 
access to know what proportion of the sum is applicable to 
the West Indies. At page 16 of the army estimates for 
1827, (No. 58) we have it thus stated, as drawn from the 
expenditure of previous years : — 
Windward and Leeward Islands .... 18,181 11 3 

Bahamas and Bermuda 793 17 6 

Jamaica and Honduras 6729 13 9 

25,765 



This shews the moderation of our mode of estimation, this 
sum being more than a fifth of the whole expense under this 
head, instead of two-elevenths. 

The next items to be noticed, are those which occur under 
the following heads, as taken from the estimates of 1826 : — 
The Royal Military College and Asylum . . . £38,700 
Full-pay to retired officers, and half-pay . . . 894,030 

In and out-pensioners of Chelsea 1,334,837 

Widows' pensions and Compassionate fund . . . 322,837 
Exchequer fees 33,000 

Making a sum of £2,623,404 

Now, although it is evident that of these different burdens 
the West Indies, considering their unhealthiness, ought to 
bear even more than the equal proportion of two-elevenths ; 



The Cost of Negro Slavery — Ordnance. 177 

yet, as in time of war, the proportion of force in the West 
Indies, to the whole force, was not so great as now, we will 
take for the West Indies only an eighth of the whole; and 
we seem to be justified in taking not less than this proportion, 
by a consideration of the multitudes who die, leaving widows 
and children, or who irreparably ruin their health by West 
Indian service. Sir Henry Hardinge is reported to have 
stated that, of three regiments in Jamaica containing about 
2700 men, a third part had died in one season ; the very ex- 
pense of replacing whom, independently of all the other effects 
of climate, disease, &c. could not be attended with a loss of 
less than from 501. to lOOZ. per man. — Taking then an eighth 
of the above sum, we have an expenditure under this head of 327,925 » 

The amount of miscellaneous charges for the whole army, 
including the recruiting service and various contingencies, as 
passage money, &c. is 361,570/. Of this sum, considering 
how largely West Indian sickness and mortality draw both on 
the recruiting service and on the charge for transporting 
officers and men, we may fairly take the same proportion of 
an eighth part, viz 45,196- 

The expense of the various public departments connected 
with the army, stands in the estimate of 1826, at 115,523/. 
and the allowances for superannuation and retirement at 
48,236/., together 163,759/. Of this sum, however, we will 
charge to the West Indies only a twentieth part, say . . . 8,188 

But besides this, there is a large annual expense incurred 
under the head of army extraordinaries. We have, in a paper 
printed by the House of Commons on the 23d of Feb. 1827, 
(No. 87), a distinct account of the expense incurred under 
this head in the West Indies, in the year ending 5th January, 
] 825 ; and we may assume that year's expenditure not to 
differ materially from what may have been incurred in the 
succeeding years. It was as follows : 

Bermuda £5,938 

Bahama 4,688 

Jamaica and Honduras ......... 34,891 

Windward and Leeward Islands 146,421-191,938: 



£1,132,112 

2. — Ordnance. 

It does not clearly appear how many companies of the artil- 
lery regiments were stationed in the West Indies. In 1824 
there were four companies in Jamaica alone. We cannot, 
therefore, allow less in 1826 for the whole West Indies than 
ten companies. The expense of the entire regiment, con- 
sisting in all of seventy-two companies, for pay, clothing, 
allowances, agency, &c. is 284,154/. or 3,946/. per company , 
this for ten companies, is 39,460'^ 



178 The Cost of Negro Slavery — Commissariat — Miscellaneous. 

The extraordinary ordnance expenses appear to be a§ fol- 
lows, as stated in the paper, No. 87, of February 23, 1827, 
for Bermuda, Bahama, Jamaica, Honduras, and the Wind- 
ward and Leeward Islands 100,674 

The amount of superannuations, half-pay pensions, &c. be- 
longing to this branch of service is 377,706/. In the case of 
the land forces we took only an eighth for the West Indies. 
Here we shall take only a tenth, a small part of the sum being 
for civil superannuations 37,770 

The civil establishments at home, and the medical esta- 
blishments, amount together to 65,6551. Of this we will only 
take one-twentieth 3,282 

Besides the above, there is a charge for the repair and erec- 
tion of barracks in the West Indies, and for the salaries of 
barrack-masters, (No. 49, of 9th February, 1827, page 43 to 
46) amounting to ............. , 79,624 

3. — COMMISSAHIAT. 

The whole expense of the commissariat department for 
Great Britain and Ireland, is (per No. 84, of 23rd February, 
1827) 449,840/. Of this amount a sum of about 28,000/. is 
specifically West Indian, to which, if one tenth part of the half- 
pay and widows' pensions, 5,500/. be added, it will make in all 33,500 

Total military expense .£1,426,422 

4. MlSCELLANEOtJS. 

Expense of colonial department, one fourth of 21,000/. £5250 
Civil establishments of Bahama and Bermuda . . , 7221 
Salaries to governors ........... 2442 

Passages to the West Indies (No. 151 of March 9, 1 827, 

page 10 and 11), 1655 

West Indian Commissioners ...,..,,. 9472 

Major Moody and Clerk 911 ■ 

Mail boat, seals, &c. ........... 750 

Crown negroes ............. 2222 

Commission to Anguilla 400 

New churches 8000 

House rent for bishops, &c. ........ 700 

39,023 

5. — Navy. 

There remains the naval expense of the West Indies. 
The whole expense of our navy in 1827 was 6,125,850/. (esti- 
mates of 1827, No. 47, p. 27). What part of this sum is 
chargeable to the West Indies, it is difficult to ascertain, 
chiefly from the want of correct data. — The force stationed 
there is no where given officially. On reference to Steel's i 
'navy list, it appears that there were about 4300 guns in com- 



The Cost of Negro Slavery — Navy, Sfc. 179 

mission altogether at this period, and that about 450 of these 
were in the West Indies, making more than a tenth of the 
whole. This proportion, however, will apply only to a part 
of the navy estimates, viz. : 1st. the wages and victuals for the 

seamen amounting (p. 3), to £1,579,000 

And 2d, the cost of army provisions and charges 
of transport ............ 479,000 

Making together , 2,058,000 



One tenth of this sum is ...... . 205,800 

Of the half-pay and pensions, &c. a similar 
proportion will be taken, though in the case of 
the West Indies it ought to be more. The whole 
sum is 1,547, 360Z., of which a tenth is . . . 154,736 

The expense of the public departments of the 
navy is 184,107/. We here take only one-fiftieth 3,682 

The expense of the yards at home, of the la- 
bourers employed there, and of timber and stores 
for building and repairing ships is about 1 ,645,000/, 
Here we take only one twenty-fifth, though, 
considering the injurious effects of a West India 
climate on ships as well as men, it ought to be 
much more 65,800 

Besides this, there are certain specific charges 
incurred in the West Indies, and paid for by this 
country, v/hich are as follows : 

Naval department for Bermuda, the Leeward 
Islands, and Jamaica, (see No. 87, of Feb. 23, 
1827, p. 17,21, and 23) . ....... 66,340 

Naval Hospital Establishment for the West 
Indies, (see No. 47, of 8th of Feb. 1827, p. 19) 11,905 

Victualling Establishment, Stores, Keepers, 
Clerks, &c. (see No. 47, of 8th of Feb. 1827, p. 
14, 15, 16) ........... , 12,478 



530,741 

£1,996,186 
Here then, if our estimate be correct, we have an actual outlay on 
the West Indian Colonies of nearly tv?o millions chiefly for the sup- 
port of slavery. But besides this, we have to add the expense of the 
Mauritius.— The Cape of Good Hope, indeed, is also a slave colony, 
but its circumstances and the sources of its expenditure are so peculiar, 
that we have thought it expedient to omit it entirely. With respect to 
the Mauritius, as far as we are enabled to judge, by an examination of 
parliamentary documents, and by a view of its comparative popu- 
lation, and other circumstances, we are disposed to think that its cost 
amounts to about one eighth part of that of the whole of the West 
Indies. But that we may not exceed the truth, we will estimate it at 
only a tenth part, or a farther sum of £199,618, making the actual 



180 The Cost of Negro Slavery — Bounties and Protection. 

amount wrung in taxes from our distressed population for the direct 
maintenance of slavery £2,195,804. 

Even that enormous amount, however, is but a part of what it costs 
to maintain this cruel and criminal system. On all sugar exported 
from this country, we are made, by our fiscal arrangements, to pay, 
under the name of drawback, what is, in fact, a bounty, to the extent of 
at least 5s. 3d. per cwt,, or £5. 5s. a ton. The grounds of this estimate 
may be seen in our First Volume, No. 24, and we believe it to be below 
the truth, in consequence of the farther improvements which have been 
recently introduced into the process of sugar refining. The effect of 
this bounty, however, whatever be its precise amount, has been often 
shewn, and is now, indeed, universally admitted to be, an enhancement 
to the same extent of the price paid by the British consumers on all the 
sugar they consume, in short, a rise in the price of all sugar brought 
into this country from British possessions (all other sugar being excluded 
from home consumption) of five guineas a ton. Estimating the quantity 
so imported at 225,000 tons, (in 1829, it was no less than 236,000,) the 
enhancement of price thus produced would amount to no less a sum 
than £1,181,250, drawn annually from the pockets of our suffering 
population. 

If the correctness of this calculation be questioned by the sugar 
planters, all we ask is a Committee to investigate the facts of the case. 
This has been repeatedly demanded in Parliament, and as often refused ; 
the whole of the West Indian influence having always been exerted, 
and for very obvious reasons, to prevent such inquiry. 

Here then, we appear to have an aggregate amount of £3,377,054, 
levied upon the people of this country, in the way either of direct tax, 
or of factitious enhancement of price, for the support of slavery. But 
even this is not all which they are forced to endure for the purpose of 
maintaining this system of crime and cruelty. Besides the bounty of 
five guineas a ton, and the consequent enhancement of price to that 
extent of all the sugar we consume, the sugars of the West Indies and 
the Mauritius are protected against the sugar of British India, indeed 
against that of all other British possessions, by an extra duty levied 
upon it of £10. a ton, being about 50 per cent, on the prime cost; 
and by a prohibitory duty on all foreign sugars. Nor is it sugar alone, 
grown by slaves, which is thus protected from the competition of free 
labour in our own dominions, but the duties on various other articles of 
general consumption, as coffee, cocoa, rum, cotton-wool, turmeric, dye- 
woods, mahogany, hides, &c., are so regulated as greatly to favour the 
slave-owner. (See Vol. I. No. 22, p. 318). To what extent these pro- 
tecting duties may directly operate in advancing the price of the various 
slave-grown articles, which it is the policy of our Government to encou- 
rage in preference to the same articles when produced by free labour, 
it would be difficult, perhaps impossible, to determine ; but no one will 
think that we estimate the whole at a very extravagant rate, when we 
estimate it at half a million of money, thus swelling the absolute drain 
on the resources of this country, for the purpose of supporting slavery, 
to £3,877,054 annually. 

But even this enormous sum, of nearly four millions, exacted from the 



Slave Trade in the West Indies. 181 

people of this country for a purpose so odious, is probably not more 
injurious to the general interests of the British empire, than are the less 
direct effects of this most unwise and mischievous policy, which, at the 
same time, cramps the commerce of Great Britain, and paralyses the pro- 
ductive industry of the 90 or 100 milhons of our Asiatic fellow-subjects. 
The heavy imposts laid on their raw products, (the only returns they 
can make for our exports,) are, to them, most unjust and oppressive; 
while they abridge our suffering manufacturers of a ready and extensive 
market, and thus contribute to keep them in their present state of 
depression and poverty. And for what is it that we thus sacrifice their 
comfort and happiness, and the just claims of our fellow-subjects in the 
East ? Is it not to satisfy the cupidity of a few thousand rapacious slave- 
owners, and to indemnify them for the waste of human life which their 
exactions occasion ? But we will not now dwell on the ruinous policy 
of such a system. We have already done so at great length, and our 
readers have only to refer to our second volume, No. 32, p. 176, for a 
list of the works which they may consult on the subject. We should be 
still more anxious, indeed, to press upon them the moral than even the 
financial and political evils, which are the result of the present system ; 
but on this part of the subject also Ave have so often expatiated, that 
it seems superfluous to enlarge upon it now. Suffice it to remind our 
readers, that the colonial slavery, which we uphold at a cost so enor- 
mous, is a crime of the very deepest dye, of which we, the British nation, 
thus permit ourselves to be made the guilty participators. It is a crime 
too of which the miseries, while they only exist by our authority, are 
perpetuated and aggravated by the direct support and encouragement 
which slavery receives from our blind and infatuated policy, adopted and 
pursued in opposition to the clearest dictates of humanity and justice, 
and in the conscious infringement of every obligation which we owe both 
to God and man. 



II. — Slave Trade in the West Indies. 

An active slave trade appears to have been carried on of late for sup- 
plying the enormous waste of negro life in Trinidad. The growing 
population of Barbadoes has supplied the victims of this nefarious and. 
piratical traffic. On the 30th of November last, a Barbadian, of the 
name of Franklin, who had been detected in carrying it on, was brought 
to trial in BarbadoeSj on an indictment for the felony. The law of the 
case was unquestionable. The evidence for the prosecution (we have seen 
an abstract of it), appeared decisive. But the Grand Jury, to whom 
it was submitted, refused to find the Bill of Indictment, and the accused, 
has therefore been discharged. Some of the slaves, imported by him 
into Trinidad, had been prosecuted to conviction there by the officers of 
the customs, and condemned to the Crown, for the purpose of being set 
at liberty, the penalty of £100 sterling for each of the slaves so con- 
demned, being inflicted on the importer, a fact, which, with many 
others, equally conclusive, was laid before the Grand Jury. The 
Grand Jury, nevertheless, ignored the Bill, thus refusing even to refer 
to judicial investigation, a case of such prima facie criminality. We 



182 Disloyalty of Jamaica Assembly — Hayti. 

have reason to believe, that our Government have been made acquainted 
with this extraordinary transaction, and we conclude that they will 
order a strict inquiry to be instituted into all the particulars of it with- 
out delay. We abstain, therefore, in the mean time from any further 
details or comments, until the result of the inquiry shall be known. 
The conduct of the custom-house officers of Barbadoes appears to have 
been marked by culpable negligence in this instance, and, we trust, that 
it will be reviewed by their superiors. 



III.— Disloyal Spirit or the Jamaica Assembly. 

In a debate, which occurred in the Assembly of Jamaica, in the 
month of December last, on the subject of a dispute, which has arisen 
between them and the Secretary of State, respecting certain custom- 
house regulations, the most violent language was employed by some of 
the speakers, who even went so far as to threaten a disruption of their 
ties with Great Britain, intimating their persuasion that the United 
States of America would gladly take Jamaica under their protection. 
The Editor of the Watchman, (the paper of the people of colour,) in 
commentingpn this line of argument, thus vehemently expresses himself, 

" We can tell Mr. Barret, and every contumacious Member of the 
House of Assembly, that if America had ten times the population she 
possesses, she would find herself incapable of wresting this or any other 
of the colonies from the mighty grasp of the parent state." " Jamaica 
would rise in mass." " Before the tocsin of war is sounded, the House 
of Assembly would do well to commence the system of exterminating 
the coloured population, who are loyal to a man." 

" Is the Assembly of Jamaica aware," he adds, " that if they dared 
to unfurl the flag of rebellion, every man of them would be hanged in 
twenty-four hours, without reference to judge or jury ? England has a 
standing army in her loyal and devoted subjects of Jamaica, so that the 
puny threat of a seditious Assembly, excites only a return of ridicule 
and contempt." 



IV. ^ — Trade of Hayti. 
In a bulky parliamentary document of last Session, numbered 578, and 
entitled, *' Papers relating to the American Tariff/' we have discovered 
the following facts respecting the trade of Hayti with the United States. 
The exports from the United States to Hayti appear to consist of fish, 
oil, naval stores, cheese, flour, lumber, carriages, hats, saddlery, beer, 
shoes, iron, copper and brass ware, gunpowder, &c. ; and the paper to 
which we refer, (p. 178,) states, that in the last year, (1826,) " the ex- 
port trade with Hayti, despised Hayti, in domestic products, amounted 
to 1,251,910 dollars, equal to the whole of our exports to Russia, 
Prussia, Sweden and Norway, Denmark, Spain and Portugal." And 
yet this is but a portion of that Haytian trade which Mr. Mackenzie 
has laboured so assiduously to depreciate. 



London : Bajjster snid Thoms, Printers, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 58.] For MARCH, 1830. [No. 10. Vol. iii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be forwarded to any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of Four Shillings per hundred when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity, on application at 
the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury. Single copies may be had of all 
booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight pages. 



I. NEW SLAVE CODE OF CROWN COLONIES, with Observations. 
II. ANTI-SLAVERY ASSOCIATIONS— 

1. Yorkshire Protestant Dissenters. 2. Hull and East Riding. 



I. — New Slave Code of Crown Colonies, with Observations. 
Seven years have now elapsed since, on the motion of His Majesty's 
Ministers, Resolutions were unanimously adopted in Parliament for 
taking early, effectual, and decisive measures lo raise the slave popula- 
tion of the British colonies to a participation in the rights of His 
Majesty's other subjects; in other words, for wholly abolishing the 
condition of slavery throughout the dominions of His Majesty. Our 
readers are aware that even at this late period, little, or rather nothing 
effectual or decisive has yet been done towards the promised end. If 
any fresh proof were required of this painful fact, in addition to those 
which the Anti-Slavery Reporter has furnished from month to month, 
it would be found in " An Order of the King in Council," laid before 
Parliament on the 8th of February last, "for consolidating the several 
laws for improving the condition of the slaves in His Majesty's Colonies 
of Trinidad, Berbice, Demerara, St. Lucia, the Cape of Good Hope, 
and Mauritius." When we first heard of this Order, we indulged a 
sanguine hope that at length, after seven years of patient expectation, 
and of protracted deliberation and discussion, the solemn pledges of 
the Government were about to be redeemed, at least as regarded those 
colonies where the Crown possessed the power of legislating without 
control. It would be difficult to express the feelings of disappointment 
with which we have perused it. Before we venture, however, to indulge 
in those reflections which the occasion seems to call for, we shall lay 
before our readers a faithful abstract of the Order, which, we may 
presume, embodies the latest and most matured views of His Majesty's 
Government on the subject of Colonial Reform. It is so obvious that 
an accurate knowledge of those views is necessary both to ascertain and 
to justify any new line of effort, which this crisis in the progress of our 
cause may require, that we need to offer no apology for the space we 
may allot to it. Without farther preface, therefore, we proceed to 
exhibit an accurate analysis of this important document. 

Section 1 repeals all the laws for improving the condition of the slaves in 
the crown colonies of Trinidad, Berbice, Demerara, St. Lucia, the Cape of Good 
Hope, and the Mauritius, passed since March 1824. 

§. 2 — 4 provide that his Majesty shall appoint in each of these colonies a 
protector of slaves, who shall take an oath faithfully to perform tlie duties of 
his office, without fear, favour, or partiality, and shall keep and preserve all re- 
cords, books and papers connected with those duties. 



130 New Slave Code of Crown Colonies. 

§. o enacts liiat no protector of slaves shall himself be the owner of any 
slaves, nor have any share or interest in, or any mortgage or security upon any 
slave ; nor be the proprietor of, nor have any interest in any land cultivated by 
slaves ; nor be competent to act as manager, or agent of any plantation or estate 
in the colony to which he is appointed. And if he shall acquire or possess in his 
own or his wife's right, or as guardian, trustee, or executor of others, any slave 
or any land cultivated by slaves, or any share or interest in such land or slaves, 
or shall act as manager, agent, or attorney for such property, he shall thence- 
forth de facto cease to be such protector, and some other fit person shall be forth- 
with appointed in his place. The protector, however, may hire, slaves for domes- 
tic purposes, provided he shall first make it appear to the satisfaction of the 
Governor that he cannot hire free persons to perform such services. 

§. 6 — 8 empower the Governor to provide temporarily for the necessary 
absence from ill health, or for the removal, resignation, or death of the protec- 
tor; and also to appoint assistant protectors in each district into which the 
colony may be divided, to aid under the protector's instructions in executing the 
duties of his office. 

§.9 — 11 prohibit protectors or their assistants from acting " as magistrates 
or otherwise," in deciding any complaint made by or against a slave, or in 
punishing any offence committed by or against a slave ; and require that in the 
case of all prosecutions of slaves for capital or transportable offences, or of other 
personsfor the murder of a slave, or for any offence against the person of a slave; 
and in the case of all suits affecting the freedom of any alleged slave, or the rights 
of property of any slave ; the same notices shall be given to the protector or his 
assistant as by law are given to persons of free condition. It is further required 
that the protector or his assistant shall be present, on behalf of the slave, at the 
trial and other proceedings in such suits and prosecutions; and also that if any 
complaint is made to the protector or any of his assistants, of any injury done to 
a slave, or if the protector or his assistant shall know of such injury, it shall be 
their duty to inquire into the case, and, if he shall see it expedient so to do, 
to bring a civil action or institute a prosecution, as the case may be, and shall 
conduct such proceeding to its close by himself or by an advocate or solicitor. 

§. 12 — 20 respect Sunday markets and Sunday labour. Sunday markets are 
henceforth abolished, and are absolutely to cease and determine, and persons 
holding such markets or exposing goods for sale on Sunday, shall be fined from 
five shillings to twenty. Another day in each week shall be appointed by the 
Governor for the market, on which day slaves shall be free from arrest on any 
civil process whatever. 

No slave shall be liable to labour for the benefit of his owner or of any other 
person on a Sunday, and any one compelling, hiring or inducing him to do so 
may be fined from one to three pounds. From this prohibition are excepted 
domestic labour, and labour in tending cattle, and "works of necessity ;" such 
" works of necessity " to be previously defined and regulated by the Governor's 
proclamation, and not to be required of the slave without previous notice to the 
protector or his assistant. If, however, the necessity be so urgent as not to ad- 
mit of notice previously, it must be given within forty-eight hours after, otherwise 
the fine will be levied ; it being always provided that the necessity shall be such 
as had been defined and specified beforehand in the Governor's proclamation. 

§. 21 makes it "henceforth illegal" for any person "while superintending 
the labour of a slave or slaves in any agricultural or manufacturing operation, 
to carry any whip, cat, or other instrument usually employed in the punishment 
of slaves," or to " exhibit it as an emblem of authority," or to strike, beat, or 
scourge a slave with any such whip, &c., except for the punishment of some 
fault previously committed ; and any person offending in any of these instances, 
or who shall direct, authorise, or procure, or assist in, the commission of such 
offence, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanour. 

§. 22 — 24 prohibit entirely the flogging of females, except under ten years of 
age, and in the manner and degree in which children of that age are punished 
at school; and, leaving the infliction of severer punishments to competent 
courts, permit owners to flog males to the extent of twenty-five stripes for 
any offence and on the same day, provided no unhealed laceration from 
former punishment shall remain on the person of the slave, and provided also 
that one free person, or, if no free person can be procured, six adult slaves, be- 



New Slave Code of Crown Colonies. 131 

sides the person inflicting or authorising the punishment, shall be present to wit- 
ness it. The violation of this clause is punishable as a misdemeanour. 

§, 25 authorises the Governor by proclamation to prescribe, with all practi- 
cable precision, the mode in which offences of female slaves, heretofore punish- 
able by whipping, shall thenceforward be punished, either by imprisonment or 
the stocks, or in such other mode as may be specially authorised in the proclama- 
tion, which shall also contain rules for preventing and punishing abuses in the 
infliction of such substituted modes of punishment. 

§. 26 — 36 require masters and managers to keep, in a prescribed form, a re- 
gular record of all arbitrary punishments inflicted by them on slaves employed 
in any agricultural or manufacturing labour, and to make a half-yearly return 
of such record to the protector, in wluch every required particular shall be speci- 
fied, the neglect or non-performance being punishable as a misdemeanour. 

§. 37 — 41 regulate the marriages of slaves and require them to be recorded, 
and declare them, when solemnized, under the protector's licence, by any 
clergyman, or other religious teacher not carrying on any secular trade except 
that of schoolmaster, to be valid and efl['ectual in law. A proviso is added that 
marriage shall not invest slaves or their progeny with any rights at variance with 
the legal title of the owners to the service of such slaves or their progeny, or 
with the duties slaves are bound to render to their owners. 

§. 42 — 44 declare that no slave shall be incompetent to purchase, acquire, 
possess, enjoy, alienate, or bequeath property of any amount or description 
whatsoever ( excepting slaves, boats or vessels, gunpowder and military weapons ;) 
or to bring, prosecute and defend any action in any court of justice, in respect to 
such property, in the same manner as if he were free ; it being provided, how- 
ever, that no slave shall be liable to be taken in execution in any civil suit or 
process to which he is himself a party. 

§. 45 — 51 proliibit the separation of husband and wife, parent and child 
under sixteen years of age, or such relations by repute, either by judicial sale, or 
by private contract, or by conveyance, or by will ; and prescribe the measures to 
be taken, in doubtful cases, to ascertain the relationship by repute of husband and 
wife, parent and child. All sales whatever in violation of this law shall be null 
and void ; it being provided, however, that if persons in the relation of parent 
and child shall fully and freely consent to a separation, and the protector is 
satisfied as to such consent, and also that the separation will not be injurious to 
the parties, then he may authorise such separation. 

§. 52 abolishes all fees of office and all duties on acts of manumission, except a 
fee of twenty shillings, to be paid from the public revenue, for the enrolment of 
each of such acts. 

■§,. 53 — 56. The manumission of slaves with the master's consent may be 
effected either by will or by deed at pleasure. When done gratuitously by deed, 
if the slave be under six or above fifty years of age, or infirm or diseased in 
mind or body, the owner shall enter into a bond for £200. to secure that such 
child shall be properly maintained till the age of fourteen, and such adult for 
life ; but when done gratuitously by will, no bond shall be required, but instead 
thereof the testator's estate shall continue chargeable for maintenance as afore- 
said. When owners are willing to contract with a slave for his freedom, at a 
price to be agreed upon between them through the agency of the protector, the 
protector is required to take certain measures, and to give certain public notices, 
in order to ascertain the right of the alleged owner to manumit the slave, and 
having done so, he shall proceed to prepare, and execute, and enrol the deed of 
manumission. 

§. 67 — 69. When the owner or other person interested in a slave is unwilling, 
when applied to, to manumit him, or unable from mortgage, minority, idiotcy, 
absence or other cause to do so ; or when the slave seeking to be manumitted is 
the subject of a pending suit ; or when a higher price is demanded for the slave's 
freedom than to the protector appears just; then and in all these eases, after 
certain prescribed notices, the protector and owner or manager shall be required 
by the chief civil judge to nominate each an appraiser, the judge himself nomi- 
nating an umpire, and also the appraiser on behalf of the owner or manager if 
he shall refuse or omit to do so ; and the persons so named, being duly sworn, 
shall make a fair and impartial appraisement of the slave within seven days, and 



1 32 New Slave Code of Crown Colonies. 

within seven days more shall certify the same to the chief judge ; and the award 
so made shall be conclusive ; it being provided, however, that should it be made 
to appear to the judge within one month that the valuation had been unjustly or 
fraudulently, or improperly made, then he may set it aside, and appoint new 
appraisers and a new umpire, and so on toties quoties, while there remains any 
just ground to complain of injustice or fraud ; and it being also provided that if 
the price of the slave to be manumitted is not paid within three months after 
enrolment, the enrolment shall be cancelled, and no proceedings for the manu- 
mission of the same slave shall be again instituted till after twelve months. 
AVhen the enrolment shall have been made and the money paid into the hands 
of the treasurer of the colony, the slave shall be declared and adjudged free, 
and the. money shall either remain in the hands of the treasurer, bearing an in- 
terest of 5 per cent, or be laid out in purchasing another slave, or be invested 
in the public funds of Great Britain, subject to all the uses, trusts and claims 
to which the manumitted slave was liable. The Governor shall frame a moderate 
table of fees on these proceedings, to be paid in certain specified cases by the 
slave, and in certain others by the owner; and the chief judge shall make rules 
for the due exercise of his jurisdiction in these matters. — The following three 
rules are prescribed in the Order itself. 1. The appraisers shall consider the 
qualities of the slave proposed to be manumitted, and bis skill in domestic ser- 
vice or in other labour whatsoever, with any other facts or circumstances which 
ought to influence their judgment as to the price to be paid by such slave. 
2nd. If it shall be alleged by or on behalf of the master, that the money to be 
paid for the freedom of a slave, or any part of it has been acquired, by such 
slave, by means of a donation inter vivos made to enable such slave to purchase 
freedom, the chief judge may stay the enrolment till he shall have inquired into 
the truth of the allegation, and if found true, then the judge shall stay further 
proceedings, but without prejudice to the future renewal of them ; but if not 
proved, the chief judge shall proceed to record the slave's freedom. 3d. If the 
owner or manager of a slave proposed to be manumitted, shall allege that such 
slave had, within the five preceding years, committed any robbery or theft, and 
the allegation be proved, the judge is required to order all further proceedings, 
with a view to the manumission of the slave, to be stayed till the expiration of 
five years from the date of such theft or robbery. 

§. 70 enacts that no person shall henceforth be deemed incompetent to give 
evidence in any civil or criminal court, or in any proceeding whatever, by 
reason that such person is in a state of slavery ; but that the evidence of slaves 
shall, in all courts and for all purposes, be received in the same manner as the 
evidence of free persons ; Provided that this shall not prevent any court or jury, 
judge or magistrate, from adverting to the servile condition of any witness, or 
to the relation in which he may stand to any other person, in estimating the 
credit due to his testimony. 

§. 71. If any person shall be convicted, of having inflicted or authorised an 
illegal and cruel punishment, or of any cruelty towards his slave, it shall be in 
the discretion of the court to declare the interest of the person so convicted in 
such slave forfeited to His Majesty, in addition to any other punishment that 
maybe pronounced on the offender; it being provided that no other person than 
the party offending shall be deprived of any right or interest he may have in 
such slave. 

'^. 72. No slave shall be liable to be punished for preferring, and failing to 
establish, any complaint against his owner or manager, unless such complaint 
shall have originated in some malevolent or culpable motive ; and in any such 
case, such slave shall be liable to be punished, under the authority of any court 
or magistrate, upon proof being made in a summary way before such court or 
magistrate, that the complaint was without foundation, and originated in a 
malevolent and culpable motive. 

§. 73. Erasures, interlineations, falsifications, or the destruction of books or 
records connected with this Order, are punishable as misdemeanours. 

§. 74. Misdemeanours are punishable by tine of from £10 to £500, or by im- 
prisonment from one to twelve months, or by both fine and imprisonment. 

§. 75. Perjuries are punishable as other perjuries are punishable by the law« 
of the particular colony. 



New Slave Code of Croivn Colonies — Protectors. 133 

§. 76. The protector is to prosecute for fines and forfeitures, one third of which 
shall go to himself, and two thirds to His Majesty. 

§. 77. The courts, judges, and magistrates, who are to have jurisdiction in 
the matters contained in this Order ; and the manner in which penalties shall be 
sued for, and the protector shall execute the duties of his office ; shall be pointed 
out in a proclamation of the Governor conformably to the laws and usages 
existing in the colonies respectively. 

§. 78. The fines, &c., shall be taken to be sterling money. 

|. 79. All proclamations of Governors, and all rules of court, authorised by this 
Order, shall be consistent with and not repugnant to it, and, till disallowed by 
His Majesty, shall have the force of law. 

§. 80. The protectors are, on the first Mondays after the 24th of June and 
25th of December in each year, to make a written report, on oath, to the Go- 
vernor, of the manner in which their various duties have been performed, and 
then and not before shall be paid their salary ; such report to be transmitted to 
the Colonial Secretary of State by the first opportunity. 

§. 81. Explains the meaning to be affixed to various terras in this Order. 

§. 82. The Governor of each colony shall make known this Order, by procla- 
mation, within one month after it shall be received by him ; and it shall be in 
force in fourteen days after the date of such proclamation, and not before. 

We shall now proceed to review the different provisions of this enact- 
ment in the order in which they stand, concluding the whole with some 
general observations. 

1. Protectors and Assistayit Protectors, § 2 — 4. 

By the. former Order for Trinidad, a Protector was debarred from 
possessing, or being interested in, plantations cultivated by slaves, in 
the particular colony to which he was appointed ; but he might there pos- 
sess any number of slaves not attached to plantations, and might also 
possess plantations worked by slaves in any other colony. He is now 
prohibited from holding a slave himself, or being in any way interested 
in slaves, as property ; he may not even hire slaves as domestics, 
unless driven by necessity to do so. — This is unquestionably a great 
practical improvement. It recognises also a principle of the very high- 
est importance — the total unfitness, in the view of unprejudiced men, 
of the owners of slaves to be intrusted with the task of either legislating 
for them, or of administering the laws for their protection. And yet 
this principle is strangely violated in the case of the Assistant Protec- 
tors. These may possess plantations and slaves, whether domestic or 
predial, in any number, and to any extent. They may be not only the 
owners, but the managers and overseers, of plantations worked by slaves ; 
and yet to them is confided the delicate and difficult task, which of all 
others must be the most alien to their interests, prejudices,- and feel- 
ings, the task of asserting and vindicating the rights of the slave, from 
the oppressions, and exactions of their own privileged class, the slave 
owners. This evil is the more serious when we consider, that in these 
six colonies many important duties of the Protector's office must, of 
necessity, devolve on the Assistant Protectors. The injustice of this 
arrangement we have frequently pointed out, and it may seem super- 
fluous to repeat our former observations ; and yet we are unwilling, on 
the present occasion and on a point so vital, to trust to the vague recol- 
lections of the reader. The account given by Mr. Commissioner Dvvarris, 
himself a West Indian planter, in one of his reports, of the working of 
a similar arranaement in the island of Grenada, called " the Guardian 



134 New Slave Code — Sunday. 

Act," is of universal application. "Tliat act," says the Attorney Gene- 
ral of that island, "is not a dead letter, but the misfortune is, that 
proper persons cannot be found to carry it into effect. They are those 
■who may be liable to it themselves who are the guardians. Perhaps a 
man may be a guardian one year, and his neighbour the next, which 
would prevent his acting strictly according to the act." The Governor 
of Grenada testifies to the same effect. " There are no persons to he 
found to Jill the situation of guardian, such as must have been contem- 
plated by the act, who are, as they ought to be, independent. They 
are chief y overseers or managers. Can they be expected to say, that 
the clothing or food furnished by their employers is insufficient ? Or 
if they do, may they not be afraid of the charge being retaliated?" 

And is this state of things to continue ? Is it impossible to apply a 
remedy ? In tlie immense list of naval and military officers, on half 
pay, might easily be found the requisite number of highly respectable 
and meritorious men, who, at a small annual cost, might be most bene- 
ficially employed in filling the important office of Assistant Protector 
in these colonies, and whose remuneration might be made to depend, 
as in the case of the Protector, on the regularity of their returns, and 
the punctual performance of their duties. Lord Bathurst, in a des- 
patch addressed to Sir R.Woodford, on the 25th March, 1824, makes 
the following just observations on this subject : — " Much," he says, 
*' will unquestionably depend on the degree of co-operation which the 
Commandants of Districts" (who had been appointed Assistant Protec- 
tors) " may give to the Protectors of slaves ; and in order to give you 
facility in procuring individuals willing to perform this duty, I am to 
authorize you to annex a salary of £150. a year to each" of the As- 
sistant Protectors. Now, instead of thus paying planters for the 
discharge of duties, which it is morally impossible they should ade- 
quately perform, it would obviously be a much wiser plan to employ 
functionaries of a different description, and wholly free from colonial 
interests and prepossessions. The Protector himself may not indeed 
be subject to these ; but still, as things are now ordered, he must see 
through the eyes, and hear through the ears, of hose who are subject 
to them. 

2. Sunday Markets and Sunday Labour. § 12 — 20. 

In the regulations on this subject there are some most material defects. 
Sunday markets, it is true, are wholly and absolutely prohibited ; and on 
the market day to be substituted for Sunday, slaves are protected from 
arrest on account of their master's debts. So far well : and yet from 
this arrangement the slave may derive no benefit whatever. It is not 
provided, that the day appointed for the market shall be secured to the 
slave. If the master chooses to keep him at work in the field during 
that day, from dawn to dusk, there is nothing in this Order to prevent 
his doing so. He is not required to leave his slave at liberty to attend 
the market on that day, or to exempt him on that day from any part of 
his daily task. 

But the new Order is not only defective in this respect, but it fails in 
a point which is far more essential. It prohibits the master to compel 



New Slave Code — Sunday. 135 

his slave to labour for him on the Sunday, and yet it appropriates no 
time, in lieu of Sunday, for the purposes to which Sunday has hitherto 
been devoted. The indispensable necessity of such an arrangement has 
been often demonstrated, and has been fully and explicitly acknow- 
ledged by every successive Secretary of State for the colonies. Still the 
arrangement has not been adopted ; so that it is impossible to imagine a 
more direct contrariety of principle to practice, than the Despatches 
of these Right Honourable persbns exhibit when compared with this 
Order. The point is of such vital importance, that we shall deem no 
apology necessary for going at some length into the subject. 

Sunday, it is well known, has hitherto been the day on which, 
chiefly, in most of the colonies, the slaves raise the provisions required 
for their own support and that of th%ir families. It was therefore ne- 
cessary, if Sunday were applied to its propef uses, to allow the slaves 
equivalent time during* the week. And the necessity of such an arrange- 
ment was explicitly acknowledged by His Majesty's Government, as 
clearly appears from the correspondence of Earl Bathurst with the local 
authorities of the colonies. " The master," says his Lordship, in a des- 
patch dated 11th September, 1824, " is entitled to the labour of his 
slave for six days in the week ;" (in what chapter of constitutional law 
is this title to be found ?) — " but he is not entitled to more, and out 
of the profits of his six days the slave must be supported. The seventh 
day must belong to the slave for his own profit and advantage. I can 
perceive no difference, in point of principle, between the practice of pur- 
chasing food for negroes, who are exclusively employed for six days in 
the week in the service of their masters, during the whole week ; and of 
appropriating an adequate portion of time, during the six days, for the 
cultivation of their grounds." It is therefore evident, adds his Lord- 
ship, that the master who adopts the system of provision grounds, as 
in Trinidad, " can have no possible claim for the services of his slave 
on the Sunday, either for work to be performed exclusively for his 
master, or which is intended to relieve the master from the charge of 
supporting his slave." He denies also the master's claim to compen- 
sation for the day he may allot to him in lieu of Sunday, expressing his 
hope that " no Christian master will so far forget himself as to claim 
indemnity for the loss of that which his religion must have taught him 
he ought never to require." (Papers for 1825, p. 171, and p. 124.) 

The intention of the Government, therefore, clearly was this, that the 
slave should be exempted from the necessity of labouring on Sunday in 
his provision grounds, which was, in fact, to labour for his master's 
benefit ; and that equivalent time should be allowed him for that pur- 
pose on some other day.'-. 

Such had also been the humane principle of the Spanish Slave Code, 
by which the slaves were entitled to all the Sundays, and about thirty 
holidays in the year as their own, and were allowed one day in each 
week besides, to be employed in cultivating their provision grounds — 
the whole of the time thus assigned to them, amounting to about one 
hundred and thirty-four days in the year.* 

* See Anti-Slavery Reporter, Vol. ii. Supplement to No. 37, p. 253, &c. for a 
full and authentic exposition of the facts of this case. 



1 36 New Slave Code — Sunday. 

This salutary law appears to have fallen into disuse on the capture of 
Trinidad by Great Britain; and General Picton, on the 30th June, 
1800, issued an ordinance on the subject, which is stated to be still the 
law of the island, requiring the master to give to the slave land on 
which to cultivate provisions for himself and his family, and twenty-six 
afternoons in the year for its cultivation, besides his Sundays and four 
holidays. The fifty-two week-days allowed by the Spanish law were 
thus reduced to thirteen, and the thirty holidays to four. (Paper of 
June 12, 1827, No. 465.) 

Thus stood the law when the Order in Council of March, 1824, was 
promulgated. That Order, which was to have put an end to Sunday- 
markets, instead of abolishing them, actually enacted their continu- 
ance for an indefinite period, and gave to them, for the first time, 
a legal sanction. It prohibited, undoubtedly, all compulsory labour 
on the Sunday, and forbade the hiring of slaves to work on that day, ex- 
cept in certain prescribed cases. It nevertheless gave to the slave no 
time, in lieu of Sunday, either for cultivating his grounds or for going to 
market. Sunday labour was, indeed, prohibited, but nothing was done to 
make that prohibition effectual or even practicable. Accordingly, Sir 
Ralph Woodford, in his latest despatches, informed the Secretary of 
State, that the prohibition of Sunday labour had not been carried into 
effect; (indeed, how was it possible?) and he added, that, " working on 
their grounds is common to all industrious negroes on Sunday," and 
that, " the restriction on slaves working for hire," is" generally evaded." 
(Papers for 1827, Part II. p. 258.) 

And what other result could have been expected from the defective 
legislation adopted on this subject ? If equivalent time be not secured to 
the slave in lieu of Sunday, he must of necessity cultivate his provisions 
on that day or starve. A law, prohibitory of Sunday labour, under 
such circumstances, is a mere mockery ; and in this most opprobrious 
state are things left, even by the present Order, which it was hoped 
would have corrected the glaring defects repeatedly pointed out in 
ihe former Orders. (See Anti-Slavery Reporter, Vol. I. No. xi. p. 134; 
Vol. II. No. XXX. p. 131; No. xxxiv. p. 187; andNo. xl. p. 315, «&c. &c.) 

Nothing, indeed, can meet the bare justice of the case, or prevent the 
condition of the slaves from being permanently deteriorated by the pro- 
visions even of the new Order in Council, or redeem the pledges of the 
Government and satisfy the expectations of the country, but to add, to 
the prohibition of compulsory labour on the Sunday, the grant of a day 
in the week, in the lieu of Sunday, for going to market, and for raising 
their food. And if such a regulation be not adopted, many, if not all 
the other improvements will be deprived of much of their value, and 
even sink into comparative unimportance. Without it, religious in- 
struction will be impossible, while the perpetual toil of the slave, thus 
compelled to labour during the seven days in the week, must continue, 
as at present, to wear down his physical powers, and to consign him to 
a premature grave. The want of such a regulation, joined to the 
general intensity and continuity of labour, is obviously one cause why, 
in Trinidad for example, the rate of decrease among the slaves is so 
enormous, while the free negroes around them are rapidly increasing. 
(Anti-Slavery Reporter, Vol. II. No. 31, p. 155). 



New Slave Code — Sunday. 137 

*' In legislating'," observes Sir G. Murray, in his despatch of the 1 5th 
of September, 1829, "for the observance of Sunday, the principle which 
it will be essential to keep in view, is, that the labour of the six days 
shall not be so exclusively and rigidly allotted to the master's profit, as 
to leave the seventh day alone for the slave to labour for himself. The 
object is, that Sunday shall be a day wholly clear both from the de- 
mands of the master and from the necessities of the slave. The pro- 
perty of a master in his slave is a property, qualified, of course, by 
many conditions, amongst which is the obligation of fully maintaining 
him ; and if, instead of his maintenance being provided for out of the 
labour of six days (which is all that, in any Christian country, a master 
can claim on the score of law, and of recognised property), that main- 
tenance is to be provided for out of the labour of the seventh day, then 
the master, in effect, escapes from the performance of the condition, 
upon v^hich alone society has permitted him to hold the slave as 
property.* 

" It is in vain to say that the slave is not compelled to labour on the 
Sunday, if, without the Sunday's labour, the necessary support and rea- 
sonable comforts of his situation must be wanting to him. If the slave, 
when left a free agent on Sunday, shall choose to occupy a part of that 
day, after its proper duties shall have been performed, in agricultural 
or in other business, for his own benefit and that of his family, in order 
to procure for himself or them such additional comforts as his master 
would not be bound to provide, that occupation, of course, will not fall 
within the description of labour which my despatch of the 3rd instant 
purposes to exclude." 

But the object of Sir G. Murray in this recommendation that " the 
Sunday shall be a day wholly clear, both from the demands of the master, 
and the necessities of the slaves," it is obvious, is unattainable, unless, 
out of the other six days, the law shall expressly allot, to the slave, time 
equivalent to the Sunday which it is thus proposed to abstract from all 
necessity of labour ;— shall assign to him, that is to say, another day in 
the week, in lieu of Sunday, and in addition to the time 7iovj allowed 
him. Nothing short of this will fulfil the pledge of the Government to 
Parliament and the public on this subject, or even carry into effect the 
views of Sir G. Murray himself. 

The despatch just quoted is addressed to the Governors of the 
chartered colonies ; but we would suggest, that it is vain to hope even 
for a qualified compliance, on the part of the chartered colonies, with 
such recommendations, while so defective an example is set them in the 
latest, matured, and deliberate enactment of Government on the subject, 
in the case of the colonies for which the crown alone legislates. 

Take, for an example, the case of Trinidad. By the existing law 
of Trinidad, a part only of 26 days in the year, besides Sunday, 
and four holidays, is given to the slave for the purpose of main- 

* Certainly if this were, indeed, the object of the Government, that object has 
been strangely missed in the present Order. — By quoting Sir G. Murray's 
despatch, we shall not be considered as for one moment concurring in his view 
of the relative rights of master and slave. We deem them to be altogether un- 
founded and unjust. Slavery is at war with every maxim of constitutional law. 

2 B 



138 Neio Slave Code — Sunday. 

taining himself and his family. After working in the cane or 
coffee field from five in the morning till noon on Saturday, he is then 
dismissed to his grounds. And if the usual interval of two hours' rest 
at noon is allowed him, Avhich, after seven hours' continuous labour in 
the sun, seems indispensable, the time which he can employ in his 
grounds will not exceed five hours at the utmost. So that the 
whole amount of time allowed to the slave in order to obtain food for 
himself and his family, is 130 hours' labour in the year, being not equal 
to more than ten or twelve of those days which his master takes from 
him for his own profit. 

Can any thing be more oppressive than such a state of law, espe- 
cially when contrasted with the Spanish law, which gives to the slaves 
eighty-two days in the year, exclusive of Sundays. 

Well might Sir Ralph Woodford specify as one of the first practical 
difficulties attending the Order in Council, " the prohibition of Sunday 
labour." And, as might be expected under the circumstances of the 
case, he states, that " working in their grounds is common to all indus- 
ti'ious negroes on the Sunday;" and that even "the restriction on 
slaves working on Sundays for hire" is "generally evaded." He 
therefore proposes that the restriction should be wholly done away. 
To these iVank admissions. Sir Ralph Woodford ought, in fairness, to 
have added another ; — that, under the existing regulations, if the slave 
did not employ the Sunday in his grounds, he mijst starve ; and that 
so long as no other time is allovi'ed him, he will be compelled to 
labour on that day, if not, as form.erly, by the flogging which awaited 
his neglect, yet by the gnawings of hunger, and the cries of his famished 
children.* 

, And even in^the cases where the slaves, instjead of subsisting them- 
selves and their children, by cultivating provision-grounds, are fed by 
an allowance from the master, it cannot be affirmed, that the present 
Order has made any approximation to that principle so clearly enounced 
by Sir George Murray, that " the Sunday should be wholly clear from 
the demands of the master, and the necessities of the slaves," for not a 
single day or hour is allowed, by law, to the slave, in the week, for 
any purpose whatsoever, whether for marketing, or for his garden, or 
for his grounds, or for repairing his cabin, or for obtaining and con- 
veying home, from the provisioi:i-grounds to his house, the bulky 
articles, whether plantains, or yanns, or eddoes, which are required for 
the week's supply for himself and family, whether these articles be 
supplied from his own provision-grounds, or from those of his master. 
All these operations must be crowded into the Sunday, in addition to a 
variety of other domestic matters necessary to be attended to; since 
even this new Order does not assign him one hour except Sunday, for 
any of these purposes. 

Again we ask, can it be supposed that the chartered colonies will be 
induced to comply with the recommendations made to them on this 
subject, while such is the example of legislation set by the crown itself; 

* In Trinidad, Jamaica, and the other colonies, where the slaves are fed from 
their own provision grounds, the children, till of an age to labour for themselves, 
depend foir food on the parent. 



New Slave Code — the Driving Whip. 139 

and while the slaves of the crown colonies have not their Sunday 
clear from all demands of their masters, and from their own necessi- 
ties, having; no other time secured to them in lieu of it? 

By the former Trinidad Order (see proclamation of the 29th of 
October, 1824) as well as by the orders issued in other crown colonies, 
it was made an indispensable condition of the exaction of the labour of 
slaves on a Sunday, even in cases of alleged necessity, both that the 
slave should engage voluntarily in such work, and that for the labour he 
might perform, he should be paid wages at a rate to be previously fixed 
and publicly notified by the Protector, and which should be the lowest 
rate at which such labour should be remunerated. In the present order, 
however, no option is left to the slave as to Sunday labour in certain 
cases. Whatever be his conscientious scruples, or however urgent his 
own avocations, masters, if the necessity be alleged, are not forbidden 
to compel him to work on the Supday, whether he be willing or re- 
luctant. Besides this, the new Order is totally silent on the subject of 
wages being paid to the slaves in such cases, though this was made. in 
the former Order an indispensable condidon of Sunday labour, when re- 
quired of slaves. Here, then, is a positive deterioration of the condition 
of the slave, enacted by the very Order which His Majesty in Council 
has issued as an improvement of it. 

There is nothing more extraordinary and inexplicable in the conduct 
of his Majesty's Government, with respect to colonial reform, than the 
course they have pursued with respect to Sunday. That the West 
Indian legislatures and "West Indian planters, while professing, in 
deference to public opinion, to desire the religious instruction of the 
slaves, should nevertheless deprive them of Sunday, and thus shut them 
out effectually from the means of Christian instruction, is precisely what 
^vas to be expected. But believing as we do, that Lord Bathurst, 
Mr. Huskisson, and Sir George Murray, are sincere in their wishes 
for the improvement of the slaves, it is a matter of perfect astonishment 
to see them apparently insensible, in their practice, to the indispensable 
importance, with a view to this end, of securing time to the slave in lieu 
of Sunday, equally " free from the demands of his master and his own 
necessities." We can account for it in no way which is creditable to 
their consistency but by supposing that they have acted under the in- 
fluence of the misrepresentations of interested parties, who dread 
nothing so much as that allotment of adequate time, in lieu of Sunday, 
to the slave, which, besides its many other advantages, would give to 
him his only certain means of effective improvement. We shall have to 
recur to this subject again before we close our observations. 

3. The Driving Whip. §21. 

We might appear fastidious were we to find fault with the terms of 
this enactment. We could have wished, however, that it had varied 
less than it does from the terms of the corresponding clause, in the 
former Order for Trinidad. That Order forbade the use of " any whip, 
cat, or other instrument of the like nature," "for the purpose of im- 
pelling or coercing any slave to perform labour of any kind or nature 
whatever." The new Order omits entirely this last stringent clause, 



140 New Slave Code — Flogging, S^-c. 

(why we cannot imagine,) and it substitutes for the words, " other instru- 
ments of the like nature" — " other instrument usually employed in the 
■punishment of slaves." These variations may be immaterial, but we 
dread the ingenuity of colonial special pleading, in the case of a pro-" 
hibitory law which stands so opposed to their prejudices and habits, 
and which therefore requires to be most anxiously guarded from evasion 
or abuse. Is it not possible, for example, that an instrument may be 
contrived for coercing labour, not usually employed in the punishment 
of slaves ? 

4. Arbitrary Punishments hy flogging. § 22 — 24. 

An important provision of the old Order is here omitted, which pro- 
hibited masters or managers from inflicting any punishment on a slave, 
until twenty-four hours, at the least, should have elapsed from the time 
of committing the offence for which the punishment was inflicted. 
Now, when the violent and impetuous habits of some owners and ma- 
nagers are adverted to, — nay, when the effect even of ordinary excite- 
ment, or of intoxication, on the members of a community not distin- 
guished for gentleness and temperance, is duly considered, it will be 
admitted that Lord Bathurst did not require any undue forbearance on 
the part of slave owners, in obliging them to suspend, for twenty-four 
hours, the execution of their arbitrary powers of punishment ; and we 
fear that Sir George Murray, in removing this curb on the impetuosity of 
these wilful and irritable persons may have judged of them too much 
by the blandness of his own placid and kindly temperament. 

Another omission in the present Order is that clause, numbered 21 
in the former Order for Trinidad, which, in order to escape conviction, 
threw on an owner or manager the onus probandi, when a slave, ex- 
hibiting in open court recent lacerations of his person, and making a 
consistent and probable statement of his sufferings, charged that owner 
or manager with having illegally or cruelly punished him. The omis- 
sion is probably to be ascribed to the great improvement introduced by 
the present Order into the law of slave evidence. 

But is it possible not to feel, in reading this part of the Order, which 
regulates arlDitrary punishment by the master or manager, that dread- 
ful must that state of things be which can be considered as ame- 
liorated by such regulations as these ? Is it not humiliating to the last 
degree, to contemplate the Government of this great and Christian 
country reduced, or rather voluntarily submitting, to the abject necessity 
of assigning the number of lacerations of the cart-whip which, not by 
any judicial sentence, but by private passion, vindictiveness, or caprice, 
may be inflicted on the bared bodies of human beings like themselves, 
and that without even defining or specifying the offence for which such 
shocking punishment may be inflicted. It may be for any offence, or 
for no offence ; for a word, a look, construed by pride, or anger, or 
intoxication, to indicate insolence, or even disrespect. Is it right and 
fitting, is it consistent with British law or Christian charity, that the 
King of England and his Council should authorise such punishment, 
such torture in fact, to be inflicted on any of the King's subjects, ex- 
cept for a defined crime, and by a judicial sentence ? According to this 



New Slave Code — Record of Punishments -Marriage. 141 

ameliorated law, this edict of mitigation and mercy, twenty-five lashes 
of the cart-whip may be inflicted by any owner or manager, in the six 
colonies for which the Crown alone legislates, merely as an expression 
of that owner's or manager's dissatisfaction with his slave, — Twenty-five 
lashes ! Let only the weight of the whip, the length of the lever which 
it forms, and the strength of the arm which wields it, be increased, and 
what degree of laceration may not twenty-five lashes of a cart-whip be 
made to produce ? Every stroke may leave its deep incision, and its 
ineffaceable trace. Ought any system to be permitted by a British 
Parliament to exist for a day, which can require that such a tremendous 
discretion should be placed in the hands of any individual, who is him- 
self at the same time accuser, jury, judge, and, if he will, executioner 
also ? And this is the ameliorated law of the Crown colonies ! What 
must be the state of things in the chartered colonies, which have re- 
sisted even so low a measure of amelioration ? Let this be kept in mind ; 
and if Parliament shall continue to endure such iniquity, it is quite 
impossible that the public voice should not be roused, ere long, to active 
and energetic interference. 

5. Record of Punishments. § 26 — 36. 

In the former Orders, no record was required of punishment exceeding 
three lashes at a time ; an exception which might have led to great 
abuses. In the present Order there is no such exception. All punish- 
ments, even of a single stripe, must be recorded. This is doubtless an 
improvement. — The necessity, however, of keeping and returning any 
record of punishments at all, is still confined to the case of slaves em- 
ployed in agricultural or manufacturing labour. But what is the ground 
of this arbitrary limitation? Why is the owner of mechanics, boat- 
men, fishermen, or domestics, to be exempted from the obligation to 
record and report the punishments he may inflict ? Are the numerous 
slaves of these classes to be abandoned to the tender mercies of their 
owners, although they are more under the eye, and more exposed to the 
excesses of passion and caprice, than even the slaves of plantations ? 
At least, if owners of these classes of slaves are not required to record 
and report their inflictions, the power of punishment should be taken 
out of their hands, and placed in that of the magistrates. A very large 
proportion of the slaves in some colonies are of these descriptions, and 
by this exemption of their owner from the necessity of keeping and 
returning a record of his punishments, they are in fact deprived of the 
protection which this salutary regulation was intended and calculated 
to afford them. Is this just ? 

6. Marriages of Slaves. § 37 — 41. 
To the satisfactory enactments of the former Trinidad Order on this 
subject, is superadded a proviso which bears the impress, not merely of 
deference to colonial prejudice, but of the sinister suggestion of colonial 
influence, and which, in conformity with the rooted antipathy which 
has been always evinced among the colonists to the introduction of 
valid marriages among their slaves, seems calculated, and was perhaps 
meant, by the dextrous suggester of it, to deprive that sacred institution 



142 New Slave Code — Rights of Property. 

of much bf its beneficial efficacy, and to abridge it of its proper and legiti- 
mate rights and sanctions, by the vague and sweeping abrogation of 
all rights " at variance with the legal title of the owners of such 
slaves " as may be married, " to their services, or that of their progeny, 
or with the duties which they and their progeny are bound to render to 
their owners or managers." This looks almost like an artful attempt, 
by a sort of side wind, to give a perpetuity, from generation to genera- 
tion, to that condition of slavery which the unanimous resolutions of 
the British Parliament have marked for extinction, and which vpe con- 
fidently believe that neither the Parliament nor the people of England 
will permit to exist even for a single generation more. 

7. Rights of Property^ § 42 — 44. 

The terms of this clause seem to be sufficiently comprehensive tb 
include the right of acquiring every species of property, both real and 
personal; yet land is not specifically named as in the former Trinidad 
Order. Considering the inveterate prejudice entertained, in some 
colonies, against granting to slaves the right of holding land, it is impos- 
sible to feel quite at ease on seeing the term land omitted, though we 
trust the omission is immaterial. 

The present Order repeals, in order to consolidate, all former Orders 
on the same subject issued since March, 1824. But from the corre- 
spondence which took place between Earl Bathurst and the Colonial 
Authorities subsequently to that period, it is clear that there exist 
colonial laws, yet unrepealed, which may contract, if not greatly frus- 
trate, this apparently unexceptionable provision. On the 26th of 
May, 1824, Sir R. Woodford thus wrote to his Lordship, " By the 
24th clause, slaves are allowed to acquire land ; but by the colonial 
law, a slave cannot plant any of the staple commodities." " And it 
having been asked of" me if the colonial law was to be considered as 
repealed, I have stated, that such was not, as I believed, your Lord- 
ship's intention." The reply of Earl Bathurst, dated the 14th of July, 
1824, was to the following effect : — " It appears to be doubted whether 
the permission conveyed to slaves, by the Order in Council, to purchase 
and hold land, does not indirectly revoke the existing law of Trinidad, 
whereby slaves are prohibited from cultivating, for their own profit, any 
of the staple commodities of the island. In granting to the slaves the 
power of acquiring land, the Order does not, of course, exempt them 
from any existing restrictions as to the mode in which land might be 
cultivated by persons of their class and condition." 

Now, as a similar law exists in all the slave colonies, aS well as 'in 
Trinidad, of which the following is a specimen from the statute book 
of Demerara, it is obvious that the slave's apparently extensive rights of 
property must be confined, within narrow limits indeed, by such a restric- 
tion. The law of Demerara, substantially agreeing with that of the other 
slave colonies, is — " All slaves, as well males as females, are prohi- 
bited from selling or bartering with any one whatever, any produce, 
sugar, coffee, cocoa, indigo, cotton, rokow, syrup, rum, bottles, flasks, 
or any thing else, (being permitted to sell only vegetables, or ground 
provisions, the produce of their garden or stock which they are per- 



New Slave Code — Rights of Property. 143 

mitted to rear,) on pain of their being severely flogged on the planta- 
tion to which they belong, for the first offence; and for the second to be 
punished by sentence of tlie Court, according to the exigency of the case." 

It is obviously a farce to parade about rights of property, while all 
efforts of voluntary industry, and all means of accumulation, on the part 
of the slave, are thus paralised. Theconcessionof rights of property under 
such circumstances becomes nearly valueless, however it may tend to 
throw dust in the eyes of the people of England, And then, while no 
time is given to the slave in lieu of Sunday, what means has he, but in 
toiling through the whole of that day, to raise in his grounds even the 
bare food required for himself and his family ? The Sunday will still, 
of sheer necessity, be devoted to labour, for only on that day can he, 
not to say acquire and look after property, but procure the food to 
keep him and his children from starving. 

But it is not only the want of time, in lieu of Sunday, by which the 
slave is shut out from all possibility of acquiring property, except by 
the entire appropriation of that day to labour, in contravention of all 
the professed intentions of the Government; but there is a further 
defect in this consolidated Order, which has, if possible, a still 
more important bearing on the power of acquiring property, namely, 
the omission of any regulation restricting the hours of labour 
of the slaves. If we assume their hours of labour in the field not 
to exceed the limit affixed to them by the law of Jamaica, still they 
extend to full eleven hours and a half, namely, from five in the morn- 
ing till seven in the evening, with intervals amounting together to two 
hours and a half. And these eleven hours and a half of labour, in the 
field, are exclusive of the time required for going to and returning from 
it, and for the different domestic offices which, of necessity, are daily 
recurring. Besides which, after the field labour is over, the slaves have 
to undergo the heavy and oppressive task of collecting and carrying to 
the homestall a load of fodder for the cattle and horses, and there wait- 
ing till the whole gang is again collected, and the roll called over; a task 
which, after a fatiguing day's labour in the field, is of a most vexatious 
and harassing kind, while it gives occasion to frequent punishments. 
(See Papers of 1825, p. 73—213.) But this is not all. In the time of 
crop, which lasts from a third to a half of the whole year, the regular 
hours of occupation in the master's service extend to about six hours 
more, that is to say, to half the night ; so that in the time of crop, nearly 
eighteen hours at least are directly consumed in the master's work, 
independently of all the other objects which must necessarily occupy 
the slaves, and abridge their hours of rest. 

That such is a fair account of the excessive continuity of labour ex- 
acted from slaves in these colonies, might be shewn from the most un- 
questionable colonial evidence. In an important paper printed by the 
House of Commons, in 1827, No. 479, we have the testimony of 
Mr. Mitchell, a sugar planter, who had resided in Trinidad for 
twenty-seven years, and who distinctly states, as a reason why free 
negroes cannot be induced to carry on the lohole of the labours of sugar 
estates in Trinidad, that the present manner of conducting them, 
REVipely, "making large quantities of sugar in a given time; in many 



144 New Slave Code — Non-separation of Families. 

instances working eighteen out of twenty-four hours^'' (alluding', of 
course, to the four or five, or six months of the crop,) is such " con- 
stant labour as the free labourers will not submit to." (p. 33.) Similar 
testimony will be found in the official correspondence with the 
authorities in Berbice, St. Lucia, and other colonies, and this 
testimony is fully confirmed by the slave code of Jamaica. Mr. 
Huskisson, in his despatch of the 22nd of September, 1827, thus re- 
marks upon it, " The provisions for the prevention of excessive labour 
contemplate the working the slaves," (the law says ^^ field work") 
" eleven hours and a half daily out of crop, and place no limit to the 
continuance of their work in crop time. Considering the climate in 
which the labour is to be performed, and that after the work of the 
field is over, there will yet remain many offices not falling within the 
term " (field) " labour, I should fear that the exertions of the slaves, if 
exacted up to the limits allowed by this law, would be scarcely con- 
sistent with a due regard to the health of the labourer." 

What would Mr. Huskisson have said if he had known the whole of 
the case, the collecting and carrying of fodder, the labour of full half 
of every night in crop time, and all the other items which unite to 
harass and overload the slave, and to render additional inflictions of the 
whip necessary to stimulate his wearied and exhausted frame ? 

This system of excessive exaction, with scarce a breathing time during 
eighteen hours of the twenty-four, and without the intervention of a day 
of rest, joined to all the other disadvantages which have been ad- ' 
verted to, sufficiently accounts, indeed, for the continued decrease of 
the slave population ; but the purpose for which it is now adduced, is 
rather to shew how perfectly nominal their rights of property must be 
under such circumstances. No slave so situated can, without a miracle, 
acquire and accumulate property, or if he has acquired, be assured of 
being able to retain and preserve it. It is obviously in the power of a 
master or manager so to engross his time, and harass him with labour, 
as to render attention to his property impossible ; — he may sell his 
slave, or permit him to be levied on for debt or taxes — he may drive him 
by severity to run away — he may take from him his provision-grounds, 
or may kill his stock if found trespassing ; and for all these things no 
redress is provided by this Order. 

Let the powerful operation of all the disadvantages we have enume- 
rated, as attaching to the slave in respect to property, be fairly weighed, 
and the reader will then see how little, even such a clause as this, so 
plausible and promising in its terms, can do for him. Slavery must be 
extinguished before the unhappy victim of it can be invested with avail- 
able rights of this description. There will be, without doubt, numerous 
exceptions, but still such must be the general effect resulting from the 
harsh and oppressive system under which he is placed. 

8. No7i'Separation of Families by Sale, § 45 — 51. 

The provisions under this head are a considerable improvement on 
the former Orders, which had confined the prohibition to separate hus- 
band and wife, parent and child, whether by repute, or otherwise, to 
judicial sales alone, whereas it is now extended to transfers of every 



New Slave Code — Manumission. 145 

description. Still no measures are taken foriiscertaining and recording 
reputed relationships. 

If we forbear making any remarks on the revolting nature of such 
regulations, for the sale and transfer of human beings, and on the out- 
rageous violation of all sound moral and political principles which they 
involve, it is merely because we are persuaded we shall have credit for 
all we feel and have often expressed on that subject, without occupying 
the time of our readers with the repetition of the same obvious truths. 
Can anything be more opprobrious to us as a Christian nation, than 
that, at this period of the world, and with our high pretensions to reli- 
gious, moral and intellectual superiority, our Government should be 
assuming credit for the humanity of enactments which regulate the sale 
of men, women, and children, subjects of the British Crown ? 
9. Manumission of Slaves. § 52 — 69. 

The present Order has substantially adopted, and extended to all the 
Crown Colonies, the provisions of the former Order in Council for 
Trinidad, respecting both the voluntary and the compulsory manumis- 
sion of slaves. How far these fall below the provisions of the Spanish 
law, which, with respect to Trinidad at least, the Government seem bound 
to follow, has often been demonstrated, and maybe clearly seen by a re- 
ference to the Anti-Slavery Reporter,Vol. II. pp. 254 — 258, (Supplement 
to No. 37). Still considering the extension of the compulsory clause to five 
other colonies, we should have less ground of complaint on that score, 
were it not for three new j^rovisos which have now, for the first time, 
been superadded to the former enactment. (See above p. 4). 

The first of these provisos might have been spared, but for the de- 
ference which seems to have been thought due to the prejudices of slave 
owners. In the slave market, while men, women, and children, subjects 
of the British crown, shall continue to be objects of barter and sale, 
under the sanction of the King of Great Britain and his Council, no fear 
need be entertained that both the vendor and the purchaser will not much 
better know, than any law can instruct them, how to appreciate the 
qualities and the skill of the human cattle that are exposed to sale. Those 

" Who drive this loathsome traffic, guage and span. 
And buy the muscles and the bones of man," 

are too well acquainted with their trade to be the dupes of mere words ; 
and the King in Council might safely have left them to their own de- 
vices in calculating the profit to be gained by the purchase or the sale. 
It would seem as if when one of the parties has in view, not sordid 
profit, but the attainment of the blessing of liberty, means of enhancing 
the costliness of the purchase may be resorted to, against which in- 
dependent parties meeting in open market and pursuing their gain 
merely, are protected. It is humiliating to witness such proofs of 
our subjection to slave holders. 

The second and third provisos are still more opprobrious, and betray a 
disposition in the structure of them, which we by no means impute to 
their official framers, but which seems to us to be utterly detestable. The 
redemption of captives has long been deemed, in the Christian world, 
one of the highest descriptions of that charity which is the glory of the 

2 c 



146 New Slave Code — Slave Evidence. 

Gospel ; but here we have the King in Council induced, by some 
means or other, to stamp the mark of his reprobation on this exercise 
of Christian benevolence. If a man, anxious to emancipate a fellow- 
creature and fellow-subject from a cruel and hopeless bondage, shall 
spontaneously aid him with a donation, not only shall his liberality be, 
by this odious and cold-blooded enactment, rendered fruitless, but 
the object of that liberality shall have his bondage prolonged, and his 
fetters more closely rivetted, because his claims for commiseration and 
sympathy have found a response in some Christian breast. This 
unjust and cruel clause cannot fail to excite the universal indignation 
of the country, as one which stamps disgrace on the national character, 
and which, for its iniquity, should alarm every man who fears God, and 
loves his brother. 

And then, what comes next ? If a slave, seeking to be manumitted, 
shall be alleged to have "committed" a robbery or a theft during the 
five preceding years, his manumission shall be stayed till he shall have 
undergone an ordeal of five years more. Can such an enactment be 
possible? If he shall have '^' committed a robbery or a theft!" — not 
shall have been convicted of it in a Court of Justice, the verdict re- 
corded, and the sentence pronounced, (though it would be sufficiently 
hard, even in that case to superadd so severe a punishment to that which 
the law had already inflicted), — but shall have committed it, he shall 
be condemned to five long years of bondage. And what may be the con- 
struction of this most loose and unprecedented enactment? A slave may 
have, the year before, after toiling all night in the sugar-mill, or theboiUng- 
house, or the still-house, taken home with him a pound or two of the sugar, 
or a quart or two of the rum, which he had been employed in manipu- 
lating ; or, pinched with hunger, he may have appropriated to himself 
some of the food which he had been exhausting his strength to produce ; 
the fact is proved : he has committed a theft on his master ; and he is 
doomed for this to pass five years more under stripes and chains ! 
What can any language, however strong, add to the palpable injustice 
and cruelty of such a law ? We knew that West Indians had proposed 
such a principle of legislation, but that the King of England and his 
Council should have been led to adopt it, was certainly not within 
the reach of our anticipations. 

10. Admissibility of Slave Testimony. § 70. 

We should have had nothing but unqualified commendation to be- 
stow on this clause, but for the concluding proviso of it. Could the King 
in Council feel it to be necessary to give a sanction to the deep-rooted 
prejudices of slave owners, by reminding them of what is never absent 
from their thoughts — " the servile condition of the witness, and the 
relation in which he stands to other parties," as affecting the credit of 
his testimony ? Is not this one of the rules which affect the credit of 
all witnesses, whether slave or free, aud which is fully comprehended in 
the preceding part of the clause ? Surely then, as the tendency, is already 
sufficiently strong in white courts and white juries to undervalue negro 
testimony, there needed not this gratuitous aggravation of the evil. 



New Slave Code — Pwmhment of Complaining Slaves. 147 

11. Complaining Slaves. § 72. 

There remains only one more clause of the new Order on which we 
shall offer any comment. It very properly prohibits the punishing of a 
slave, for merely failing to establish by evidence the truth of any com- 
plaint he may bring against his master or manager. But then if it shall 
be proved to have originated in some malevolent or culpable motive, 
the slave shall be liable to be punished, under the authority of any 
court, or any magistrate, on proof, in a summary way, before such 
court or magistrate, that the complaint was without foundation, and 
originated in a malevolent, or culpable motive. 

Now, in the first place, we have here no limit assigned to the punish- 
ment which any court, or any magistrate may inflict, for this new 
species of constructive crime. Shall it be death, or transportation, or 
chains for life; or a thousand, or a hundred, or any other number of 
lashes of the cart-whip ? 

Again : what is meant by proof in a summary way ? Does it mean 
that the magistrate, before whom the complaint is made, shall proceed, 
on dismissing the complaint, to arraign and try the complainant, without 
any previous notice of the charge against him, without time to prepare his 
defence and his witnesses, and without any of those preparatory steps 
which are deemed indispensable in the case of free persons who are 
charged with offences ? Then we hesitate not to say, that this would 
be the very grossest injustice, under the colour of law. 

Then a single magistrate, it would appear, is made quite competent 
to the exercise of this tremendous jurisdiction. Let us only consider, 
for a single moment, the fellow feeling existing among slave owners, of 
which class magistrates generally consist, and how deeply interested 
they all are in discouraging troublesome complainants, and how essen- 
tial it may be, with a view to their own future immunity, to set an 
example of favour tov/ards those who may have to judge their own de- 
linquencies in turn, — and we shall be able to form some faint conception 
of the atrocities to which such a regulation may give birth. 

The crime too thus created is of the loosest description. It is not 
merely a malevolent motive of complaint which may be brought under 
the cognizance of this one magistrate, and punished ; but a culpable 
motive of complaint. What may be the definition of this novel crime of 
culpability, which shall protect any slave who may fail in proving his 
complaint, from coming under the lash of this harsh statute, we know 
not. 

But how inconsistent, after all, is such a clause, in its spirit 
and tendency, not only with the fundamental principles of British 
law, but with the sentiments which have already proceeded from his 
Majesty's Government ! What is the language they have repeatedly 
used on this subject? It is to this effect : — " It will be necessary to 
provide that no slave shall be punished for preferring a complaint, un- 
less he be distinctly convicted of the offence of having preferred a 
calumnious charge, from improper motives, that conviction proceeding 
upon adequate and legal evidence." Letter of Mr. Huskisson to Sir 
L. Cole, of 19th March, 1828. See also Lord Bathurst's Letter to the 



143 New Slave Code — Education and RelUjiom Instruction. 

Governor of St, Vincent's, of 3d April, 1827 ; and Mr. Huskisson's to 
the Governor of Jamaica, of 22d Sept. 1827. 

In the course of our review of the provisions of this new Order, we 
have incidentally touched upon some defects with which it is chargeable. 
There is in it one great defect to which we have not yet adverted. The 
Trinidad Order in Council, of March, 1824, was termed an Order " for 
promoting the Religious Instruction of the Slaves," as well as for im- 
proving their temporal condition. It did not, however, contain a 
single clause which had for its object to secure or to promote the 
education or religious instruction of slaves, whether young or old. la 
the present Order, indeed, the barren profession of its being intended to 
promote religious instruction, is not retained to reproach the incon- 
sistency of its framers : but it is equally guiltless as the former Order 
of any attempt to legislate on this supremely important point. It contains 
no provision whatever on the subject either of education or of religious 
instruction. We were the more surprised at this omission, because in 
the circular despatches of Sir George Murray, of September, 1828, of 
which so full an account has already been given, (No. 52.) that right 
honourable gentleman, in calling the attention of the colonial autho- 
rities to the principles " which must form the basis of all wise legislation, 
and which reason and humanity equally recommend," specifies as the 
first and principal object of attainment, " the gradual elevation of the 
moral character of the slave population." In this view, what he repre- 
sents as the point of primary importance, is " the religious instruction 
of the slaves." " Independently," he observes, " of the sacredness of 
the obligation, which requires that no impediments should be placed in 
the way of their acquiring a knowledge of the great truths of religion, 
there is no more certain mode of advancing their civilization, without 
detriment or danger to society, than by religious instruction. It is im- 
portant, however, that this important object should not be intrusted 
solely to individuals ; but that provision should likewise be made for it 
by law, in order to guard against the injury which society would sus- 
tain by the want, in any one, of a just sense of its importancCo" 

Perfectly concurring with Sir George Murray in every word he has 
here uttered on the subject, and admiring the force with which he presses 
on the Legislatures of the Chartered Colonies their obligations respecting 
it; we, nevertheless, must be allowed to deplore, that in the model of 
legislation which he has himself now held up to their imitation, not a 
single provision is introduced with a view to this paramount object. 
We deny, indeed, that religious instruction is a necessary preliminary 
to emancipation, as many maintain. On the contrary, we hold most 
firmly that emancipation is the proper prelude to effective religious 
instruction. We, nevertheless, concur with Sir G. Murray, as to the 
absolute and imperative obligation of the legislatures of the chartered 
colonies, (and in the crown colonies of the King in council) to provide 
for the education and religious instruction of the servile population. 
Such indeed has heenthe prof essed view of the Government, as well as of 
the colonial proprietors in Parliament, from the year 1823, to the 
present hour. And yet, does it not almost seem as if both had put forth 



State of Reform in the Chartered Colonies. 149 

this profession of their high value for preliminary religious instruction, 
and of their zeal to promote the moral culture of the slave as a pre- 
liminary to civilization and ultimate emancipation, rather as a ground 
for delay, in effecting that object, than as a sure and necessary means of 
accomplishing it? For what is the fact? At the end of seven years, 
not a single colonial legislature has adopted a single measure for secur- 
ing to the slaves either education or religious instruction. And the 
government itself, when, at the end of the same period, it has to illus- 
trate its own recommendations by a practical example of legislation, 
wholly omits all allusion to the subject. After seven years of deli- 
beration and discussion, of recommendation and remonstrance, of pro- 
fession and promise ; after zealously, and importunately urging on the 
colonists their obligations in this respect as Christians, they wind up 
the v/hole with an act embodying their views of legislative reform, 
which passes over this supremely important object of legislation, this 
indispensable preliminary to improvement, in absolute silence. 

Again, we say, what ground can the Government have to reproach 
the chartered colonies with supineness and indifference on this subject, 
when they themselves have thus acted, when their own practice has 
thus violated their professed principles, and their example is in direct 
contradiction of their recommendations? 

And if such be the progress (the downward progress shall we call 
it?) of reform in the colonies directly subject to the legislation of the 
Crown, is it necessary to dwell at any length on its state and progress in 
those colonies, whose legislatures are corriposed of the owners of slaves? 
For besides the evils common to both, such as the want of any legal 
provision for education or religious instruction ; or of time, in lieu of 
Sunday; or of any due limit to the duration or intensity of labour; 
or such as the prohibition to cultivate or possess any staple productions ; 
the subjection to severe arbitrary punishment, &c. &c. ; scarcely one of 
those regulations which have been introduced into the crown colonies, 
with the view of mitigating the condition of slavery, has been adopted 
in the chartered colonies. There, Sunday markets, with two exceptions, 
still prevail ; there, the stimulus of the driving-whip maintains its undi- 
minished potency ; there, females, as well as males, are still subjected to 
the indecent and torturing inflictions of the lash, at the will of master 
or manager ; while no records are kept, or returns made, of these arbi- 
trary punishments. There also, the dearest ties of kindred may still be 
torn asunder by sales ; while the slaves are denied all power of self- 
redemption. There, with one exception, they are still incompetent to give 
evidence ; their marriages are still without any adequate sanction ; and 
their property without its requisite safe-guards. We need not occupy 
further time in proving the undiminished prevalence of these various 
evils. This has been done, over and over again, in the Anti-Slavery 
Reporter ; we will confine ourselves to the elucidation of a single point, 
the last we have mentioned, — -the slaves' rights of property. 

On this point it is impossible to refer to any more decisive testimony 
than thui of Mr. Dwarris, himself a West Inditui Proprietor, in his 
official reports to the Governmen las a Commissioner of Legal Enquiry 

2c 2 



150 General Remarks o?i Reform in the Slave Colonies. 

in the West Indies. (See his First Report, pp. 67, 90, 222, 223. 
Second Report, 250, 251, 252. Third Report, pp. 13, 87.) He there 
tells us, that neither in Barbadoes, Grenada, Tobago, St. Vincent, Domi- 
nica, Antigua, St. Christopher, Nevis, or Tortola, the nine islands he 
visited, can slaves acquire any property by law, except for the benefit of 
their masters, nor claim any redress for injuries of this kind done 
either by their master, or his delegate, or even by third parties, except 
through the master. And when in the last of his Reports, the Third, p. 
106, he comes to sum up the whole of the evidence, respecting the slave's 
legal rights of property, be thus expresses himself, " The slaves now la- 
bour under prodigious disadvantages. A slave is under a personal dis- 
ability, and cannot sue in any court of law or equity, not even in respect 
of injuries done to him by other slaves. A slave cannot prosecute in the 
criminal courts. A slave cannot enter into a recognizance." " Slave 
evidence is not admitted against freemen, white or black, even against 
wrong doers. In those cases," (viz. against fellow slaves) " where slave 
evidence is admitted, it very often is not upon oath." " If the property 
of a slave is taken from him, he cannot personally seek redress. His 
master, it is said, may bring trespass. This, however, is very insuffi- 
cient; for he also may not; and if he does, and none but slaves are 
present at the infliction of the injury, as is likely to be the case, there is 
no satisfactory proof of the fact. The owner, suing for his slave, must 
establish his ease by competent evidence, and cannot prove the fact by 
persons under legal disabilities." Mr. Dwarris then goes on to prove, 
by other considerations, that from the non-admissibility of slave evidence, 
" the slave is left defenceless," and concludes the whole with this me- 
morable sentence, " From all we saw in all the Islands, it was the Jirm, 
conviction of His Majesty's Commissioners, that the foundation of every 
improvement, both as regards the white and black population of these 
Colonies, must be laid in an improved administration of justice, and in 
the admission of slave evidence." p. 107. 

Here then, let us pause, and take a review of the whole of our 
progress, during the seven years that we have been in possession of 
the solemn pledges of Government on this subject. That, at the 
time those pledges were given, no delay was contemplated in car- 
rying the whole of their measures into immediate and contempora- 
neous effect, is manifest both from their having been forthwith em- 
bodied into an Order for Trinidad, and from the tenor of Lord 
Bathurst's despatches to the governors of the different slave colo- 
nies as early as the 9th July, 1823. — " I have most earnestly to impress 
upon you," says his lordship, in his circular letter of that date, " the 
NECESSITY of proceeding to carry these improvements into effect, not 
only WITH ALL POSSIBLE DISPATCH, but in the spirit of perfect and 
cordial co-operation with the efforts of His Majesty's Government." " If 
you should meet with any serious opposition, you will lose no time in 
transmitting tome the necessary communication, in order that I may 
take the earliest opportunity of laying the matter before Parlia- 
ment, and submitting for their consideration such measures as it may 
heft to adopt in consequence." - :. 



General Remarks on Reform in the Slave Colonies, 151 

Nor was the language of Mr. Canning less clear and unambiguous. 
" I must declare," was his language on the 15th of May, 1823, in a 
speech, the printed report of which, published by the Anti-Slavery So- 
ciety, was corrected by his own hand, " I must declare that we have a 
right to expect from the colonial legislatures a full and fair co-opera- 
tion," and " I must add, that any resistance which may be manifested 
to the express and declared wishes of Parliament ; any resistance, I 
mean, which should partake, not of reason, but of contumacy, would 
create a case upon which His Majesty's Government would not hesitate 
to come down to Parliament for counsel." 

Similar language was held by Mr. Canning on different occasions, 
and particularly in the Session of 1826, when in the House of Com- 
mons (Lord Bathurst speaking to a similar effect in the House of 
Lords) he entreated that eome farther space should be given to the 
colonial legislatures for another trial ; and that if due advantage was 
not taken by them of that space, " it might then become the duty, if 
not of Parliament to take the matter out of the hands of Government, 
at least of Government to call upon the Parliament to arm them with 
additional power." 

That in the four long years which have elapsed since these last words 
were uttered, nothing effective has been done by the colonial legisla- 
tures to fulfil the wishes of Government and Parliament, and little even 
in the Crown Colonies, is plain from the foregoing statement. 

For the defects in the laws of the Crown Colonies, there is an easy 
and obvious remedy. The Crown can at once supply them, and we 
trust will supply them, without an hour's delay ; and it can also render 
the laws effectual by such sanctions, and by such a selection of func- 
tionaries, and by such reforms in the administration of justice, as shall 
ensure their due execution. 

With the Chartered Colonies Parliament alone can deal effectually. 
Surely the time has at length arrived, when Government may, accord- 
ing to its pledges, come to Parliament for fresh powers to execute its 
purposes. If not, in what circumstances, short of actual rebellion, can 
parliamentary interference ever be justified ? 

But it has been argued, that such interference would be inexpedient 
in any circumstances, as nothing is to be accomplished in the way of re- 
form in the slave colonies, except with the concurrence of the colonists. 

But if this view of the subject were correct, how has it happened 
that Government should have deemed it expedient to impose an entire 
slave code on six of these colonies, not only without requiring or 
waiting for the concurrence of the colonists, but even against their 
open and declared opinions ; and that Parliament should approve and 
sanction such a course ? What are the peculiar circumstances which 
make it wise and beneficial in the Government to legislate for Trinidad, 
or Demerara, without the consent, and even in opposition to the will of 
their inhabitants, which would make it unwise and injurious for Parlia- 
ment to legislate in like manner for Jamaica or Barbadoes ? The power 
of Parliament is as unquestionable in the case of Jamaica as that of the 
Government is in the case of Trinidad ; and why should the exercise of 
the power of Parliament be more ineffectual in the one case than the ex- 



152 General Remarks on Reform in the Slave Colonies. 

exercise of the power of the Government in the other ? Or are the proposed 
enactments less necessary in the one case than in the other? Are there not 
in all the colonies great and admitted evils to be redressed, which their 
legislatures have refused to redress ? Or are these evils to remain unre- 
dressed until those who are interested in maintaining them shall be 
pleased to pass laws for that purpose ? But what rational hope is there 
that the legislatures of Jamaica or Barbadoes, or of the other colonies, 
will pass such laws as shall enable His Majesty, for example, to appoint 
independent protectors of their slaves, or to reform and purify the ad- 
ministration of justice in all that respects the relation of master and 
slave ? Or that they will concurrently adopt into their code all the other 
reforms which His Majesty has recommended, and which have been 
declared by the Government and the Parliament, in perfect accordance 
with the universal voice of the nation, and with the assent even of the 
West Indian body in this country, to be imperatively demanded by 
justice, humanity, and sound policy ? The reality and the magnitude 
of the evils to be redressed stand fully admitted in the recorded resolu- 
tions and reiterated votes of Parliament ; in the very provisions of the 
new Order in Council, however incomplete ; in the recommendations of 
His Majesty's Government during the last six years ; and still more 
clearly, if possible, in the resistance of the colonies to their removal. 

If there is to be any legislation at all for the purpose of removing the 
existing evils, it will be admitted that good laws, honestly framed with 
a view to their removal, and armed with adequate sanctions, must be 
more eifectual to that object than bad laws, guarded by feeble or by no 
sanctions, framed by men who profess to see the ruin of their own in- 
terests in the ends to be attained by their enactment, and whose inge- 
nuity, therefore, will be directed to render them as inoperative as is 
consistent with an apparent compliance. So far, at least, as the colo- 
nial statutes are justly chargeable with a want of uniformity and con- 
sistency, with inequality and injustice, and with the absence of adequate 
executory provisions, (and the reports of the legal commissioners fully 
establish the existence of such defects,) it would clearly be in the 
power of Parliament to apply a remedy. The object of Parliament in 
making laws would be to give effect to its own purposes. The object 
of the colonists in all the colonies, it is perfectly evident, would be, if 
they cannot resist, yet to elude their fulfilment. Besides, when it is 
considered how very contracted is the white population of the colonies, 
how many of them are in low and servile situations, and how few are 
qualified by their habits, intelligence, and capacity, to form wise and 
enlightened legislators, in points immediately affecting their pride, their 
passions, and their interests, it can hardly admit of a question, whether 
the task of legislating for the eight or nine hundred thousand black 
and coloured subjects of His Majesty in our slave colonies, shall be 
exercised by their own petty legislatures, or by the Imperial Parliament. 

We admit, indeed, that the best laws which it would be possible to 
frame, might be attended with little benefit, if the administration of 
justice in the colonies should remain as it is. But its reform is an es- 
sential ingredient in the whole plan of improvement ; and governors, 
judges, attorney-generals, and protectors, instead of being planters. 



General Remarks on Reform in the Slave Colonies. 15$ 

dependent on assemblies of planters, must be men duly qualified for 
their offices, unconnected with colonial interests, receiving their ap- 
pointments from the Crown, and responsible to it for their conduct. 

But though such a reform in the judicial and executive departments 
of the colonies would undoubtedly do something towards correcting the 
evils of the slave system, it may be argued that as juries must still be 
composed of men imbued with colonial prejudices, they will contrive to 
frustrate the operation of every law that may be obnoxious to them. This, 
to a certain degree, is true. There is, however, a large share of the 
administration of courts of justice, which is in the hands of judges, 
independently of juries; and even where it is not, the presence and 
directions of an enlightened and unbiassed judge, and the estabhshment 
of a proper system of record, revision, and publicity, could not fail to 
be attended with a powerful and salutary influence. 

May not, also, some part of the evil which is contemplated be effec- 
tually obviated by admitting into the list of jurors such free blacks and 
persons of colour as are duly qualified by their property and intelli- 
gence ? Aliens are entitled in our courts to have a moiety of their 
peers, aliens like themselves. It seems to be inconsistent with justice 
that native-born subjects of the King, qualified by their property, intel- 
ligence, and loyalty to act as jurors, should be excluded, merely on 
account of their complexion, from the exercise of one of the dearest 
rights of the British constitution. 

In British India the principle now contended for has been adopted 
with advantage; and one of the last pledges given by Mr. Canning in 
the name of His Majesty's Government, was, that if the colonial legis- 
latures should refuse to do justice to the free people of colour by admit- 
ting them to a fair participation in the civil and political rights to which, 
as British subjects, they were entitled, he should regard it as the duty 
of Parliament to interfere in their behalf. 

Little, it has been further argued, can be effected in the way of re- 
form in the slave colonies without the concurrence of the colonists. 
The very statement of such a proposition, when sanctioned by autho- 
rity, tends to take away the hope of any such concurrence. 

May not ihe West Indians, in fact, understand it as saying to them, 
" so long as you persist in refusing your concurrence, you are safe from 
those innovations which you so much dread ?" It seems, indeed, to 
take away the only motive which ever has produced, or perhaps ever 
will produce, any even seeming compliance, on the part of the colonial 
legislatures, with the wishes of the mother-country — the dread of par- 
liamentary interference ; while it goes to vacate at once the pledges 
of Government, to Parliament and the public, respecting the course 
to be taken in case of continued disappointment. 

It is quite a new maxim in legislation, that the concurrence of 
the parties who are to be restrained from wrong, shall be required 
to render the laws, imposing the restraint, effectual. What would 
have been said to such a proposition in the case of the Luddites, or of 
any other set of evil-doers in this country ? 

Let the memorable words of Mr. Canning, in 1799, be kept in reraem- 



154 General Remarks on Reform in the Slave Colonies. 

brance: — " Trust not the masters of slaves in what concerns legis- 
lation for slavery. However specious their laws may appear, depend 
upon it they must be ineffectual in their operation. It is in the nature 
of things that they should be so." " Let then the British House of 
Commons do their part themselves. Let them not delegate the trust of 
doing it to those who cannot execute that trust fairly. Let the evil be 
remedied by an assembly of freemen, by the government of a free people 
and not by the masters of slaves. Their laws can never reach, could 
never cure the evil." " There is something in the nature of absolute 
authority, in the relation between master and slave, which makes des- 
potism in all cases, and under all circumstances, an incompetent and 
unsure executor even of its own provisions in favour of the objects of its 
pov/er." The truth of these maxims, applied at the time to the slave 
trade, loses none of its force when applied to slavery ; and it has been 
abundantly confirmed by the fatal experience of nearly thirty years, 
which have since elapsed, of protracted misery and oppression to the 
slave, and of unceasing resistance on the part of the master to every 
effort to alleviate that misery or to terminate that oppression. What 
then now remains to us, but to act on the wise and salutary counsel 
given to us so long ago as 1799; and our past neglect of which has 
entailed so many evils on the wretched African race ? 

But even all the proposed measures, if carried into full effect, could only 
be regarded as steps in the progress towards the final extinction of slavery 
throughout the British dominions, and as it is only as such that we 
have ever pressed, or continue to press them. By what further means 
this consummation shall be attained ; whether by fixing a period after 
which no British slaves shall be born ; — or by redeeming all female 
slaves from slavery ; — or by measures still more prompt and immediate, 
the time seems now to have arrived for determining. Certain it is that, 
from the steady pursuit of emancipation, the people of this country will not 
be diverted by any mere alleviations of the condition of the slave. Having 
become acquainted with the real nature of the slave system, they regard 
it as so incurably vicious ; so radically criminal ; so repugnant to the 
obligations of humanity and justice; such a deliberate violation of the 
principles and precepts of our holy religion, that it ought not to be tole- 
rated for a single day beyond the absolute necessity of the case. They 
feel a growing conviction that to continue to uphold it by law, as well 
as by our naval and military forces ; and still more to foster and encou- 
rage it by bounties and protecting duties, is to involve the nation in the 
awful responsibility of deep and conscious guilt. Some, it is true, are 
disposed to regard with alarm any reference whatever to an emancipa- 
tion of the slaves. It will be well for such to recollect that in the year 
1792, Mr. Dundas, afterwards Lord Melville, at that very time a Minister 
of the Crown, and who, throughout the whole of his political life, was 
recognized as the zealous friend and advocate of West Indian interests, 
did not hesitate formally to propose to Parliament a series of resolutions, 
one of which was that from and after the 1st of January 1800, no 
slaves should be born within the dominions of his Majesty. No one has 
ever thought of imputing to that distinguished individual either enthu- 



Anti-Slavery Associations — Yorkshire Dissenters. 155 

siasm or precipitation in his views of reform, or any excess of philan- 
thropic zeal ; and yet, had his resolutions been adopted, British slavery 
would now have been extinct. 



11- — Associations for tjie Abolition of Slavery. 

] . Yorkshire Protestant Dissenters. 

It is with sincere pleasure we lay before our readers the following 
resolutions, unanimously adopted at a meeting held in Leeds on the 
28th of September last — John Clapham, Esq. in the Chair. 

" That slavery is an evil of fearful magnitude, directly opposed to the well- 
being and happiness of man, the law of God, and the religion of Christ, — the 
existence of which, especially in any part of the British dominions, we, as 
Christians, do most seriously deplore, and the entire extinction of which we feel 
ourselves called upon most strenuously to seek and promote, by all those means 
which the providence of God, and the laws and constitution of our own favoured 
and happy country have put into our power, 

" That to us it does appear, that the various religious denominations of this 
country, with, perhaps, one exception, have not yet applied themselves to the 
destruction of this great evil, in that determined manner, and with those syste- 
matic and energetic measures, which the magnitude of the evil itself, and of the 
powers banded together for its continuance, obviously and most imperatively 
demand. 

" That, for the most part, the question of negro slavery has been approached 
as a political one, and assailed by arguments drawn from policy and mere expe- 
diency, and not opposed with those stronger and less equivocal principles and 
arguments which are to be derived from the word of God, and the supreme and 
immutable laws of revealed religion. 

" That, too long have we, in common mth the friends of humanity around us, 
wasted our time and eiforts in vain attempts to ameliorate the condition of our 
fellow-creatures who are in bondage, with a view to their gradual emancipation ; 
— but deeply feeling, that to maintain such a system, under any modifications 
whatever, is to oppose and counteract the spirit and principles of our holy reli- 
gion, Ave pledge ourselves henceforth to seek, in every legitimate and practicable 
way, and by onr united and strenuous exertions, its immediate and entire 
destruction, and to remove from ourselves, and from our beloved country, the 
guilt of fostering this flagrant injustice, or even permitting its continuance, for 
any period, however limited, beyond the time that may be absolutely requisite 
to pass the act for its complete abolition, and to frame and apply those provi- 
sional regulations and restraints, which shall establish the authority of law in 
the British colonies. 

" That while we unequivocally maintain the right of the slaves to the full par- 
ticipation of freedom, without any compensation on their parts to the persons 
who hold them in bondage, we have no wish to prejudice those claims which the 
planters may have upon the government of our country to a fair and equitable 
indemnification against such losses as may be necessarily consequent upon the 
change of system ; and we declare our readiness to bear our full pi-oportion of 
the burdens which the legislature, in its wisdom, may find it requisite to impose, 
for the accomplishment of this 2,reat measure. 

" That a Society be now formed, to consist of Protestant Dissenting Ministers, 
and the members of their respective congregations, whose object shall be the 
immediate and total abolition of slavery, and that it be called "The Yorkshire 
Protestant Dissenters' Association for the Abolition of Slavery." 

" That a committee be formed, to consist of the minister and two or more 
members of each Protestant Dissenting congregation in the county, which shall 
unite itself with this association." 

We trust this example will be followed by every county in the kingdom. 



i§6 Hull Anti-Slavery Association. 

2. Hull and East Ridijig Association. 

A meeting of this Association was held on the 2d of February last — ■ 
D. Sykes, Esq. M.P. in the Chair. We subjoin a few extracts from 
the very able address, printed and circulated by it. 

" Seven long years having now elapsed since both Houses of Parliament 
pledged the national faith that the condition of the slave should be revised and 
amended in various important particulars ; and that, finally, slavery should be 
abolished ; and when it is seen that in the legislating colonies little or nothing 
has been done to eifect this purpose, and that the improvement in the crown 
colonies is imperfect and inadequate to the professed object, it is to be feared 
that thei'e is some obstacle in the way, which nothing but the temperate, yet 
firm and united voice of the people, can remove." 

" The time, however, now seems te be arrived when something must be done, 
if those to whom the longest life appears to be promised, expect to witness the 
consummation of their wishes." " When it is seen that in the chartered colo- 
nies all the prominent evils of slavery still exist ; that the negroes are still driven 
to and at their daily task by the whip ; that they are, male and female, liable to 
arbitrary, cruel, and indecent punishments ; that they are bought and sold like 
beasts of burden; that the pleasures and duties of social life are withheld, and 
almost unknown ; that religious instruction is most scantily communicated ; and 
that the term of their natural life is shortened, by excessive compulsory labour ; 
and that all this is justified by a claim of property by man in his fellow-man ; — 
it would seem that not an instant should be lost in calling on the proper autho- 
rities to carry into effect their own purpose, and to put an end to this mass of 
cruelty and injustice. And the more so when all attempts by the parent Govern- 
ment, to induce the colonial legislatures to amend these evils by their own acts, 
have been met only by contumacious resistance, or illusory compliance." 

" In the last session of Parliament, the Secretary of State for the Colonies, 
whose honour it is impossible to doubt, and on whose good principles the friends 
of humanity may rely, gave a promise that he would in this, introduce a bill for 
the admission of the evidcDce of slaves in all causes civil or criminal. Though 
the incapacity of being a witness is by no means the most prominent evil of 
slavery, yet, as it is part and parcel of the brutish condition in which these poor 
creatures are held, the prospect of its removal must be hailed with joy. It 
therefore, seemed prudent to wait for the Right Hon. Secretary's redemption of 
his pledge, not doubting that it would be followed by the introduction of other 
bills for carrying into effect the whole Parliamentary resolutions of 1823." 
" Should, however, any disappointment take place, and should Government, 
under that baleful influence, which for more than twenty years frustrated the 
benevolence of our venerated townsman, in stopping, as far as Britain is con- 
cerned, the African slave trade, depart from its pledge or relax its efforts, it 
cannot be doubted, that the same national spirit will be roused in favour of the 
extinction of British slavery, and that Mr. "Wilberforce will live to see the com- 
plete execution of all his plans, for the happiness of this degraded race, whose 
only crime is the colour of their skin." 

In the mean time the Committee urge all who wish to be informed on the 
law and practice of negro slavery, to read the Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter, 
in which not only its evils are delineated, and the arguments in favour of it 
confuted, but the folly and injustice of giving large bounties and protecting 
duties in favour of slave-grown produce, are fully exposed : the manifest evils 
and glaring absurdity of which system have also been pointedly set forth in the 
Westminster Review. 

The Committee close their address by adverting to the useful labours of the 
Ladies' Association, through whose active exertions a large quantity of infor- 
mation has been distributed, and after paying all expenses, seventy pounds had 
been remitted to the Parent Society ; by gratefully acknowledging the services 
of the Society of Friends; and by expressing a confident hope, that their joint 
labours will ultimately be crowned with complete success. 



London : Printed by Bagster and Tlioms, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 59.] For APRIL, 1830. [No. 11. Vol. iii. 

I. AUTHENTIC ACCOUNT OF SIERRA LEONE, with reasons for 

NOT ABANDONING IT. 

II. WEST INDIA COMMITTEE. 
III. GENERAL MEETING OF ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

I. — Authentic Account of Sierra Leone. 

The colony of Sierra Leone, since the hour of its commencement, 
has experienced no small degree of hostility from a certain party in 
this country. Had it been founded with a view to commercial advan- 
tages merely, it would, probably, have been permitted to proceed with 
as little opposition as any other of our foreign establishments ; but, un- 
fortunately for its tranquil progress, the founders of it professed to have 
higher purposes in prospect. They professed to hate the slave trade and 
slavery. They professed to believe, that the oppressed and degraded 
African was a human being, a member of the same great family with 
themselves, and a fellow-heir of the same blessings of redemption. 
They professed to believe, that he was capable of being elevated from the 
hrutal condition to which he had been reduced, and of exhibiting to the 
world the same mental and moral endowments which were to be found 
in his enslavers. And they not only professed to believe all these offen- 
sive doctrines, but they had ihe courage, in the face of slander and con- 
tumely, to attempt to act upon them. They aimed, both by exertions 
and by sacrifices, to promote the civilization and moral improvement of 
the African race. 

Such an attempt to counteract the evils of the slave trade, and to 
repair, in any measure, the disastrous effects it had produced on the 
character and well-being of this unfortunate part of our species, we 
might have hoped, would, at least, have been treated with indulgence, 
if not with respect, however unfortunate may have been its issue. So 
far from it, it appears to have been this very circumstance of its phi- 
lanthrophic motive which has served to imbitter hostility, to sharpen 
every arrow of detraction, and to give increased weight to every malig- 
nant suggestion, and to every false representation respecting this colony. 
And even, at this moment,after so many sinister predictions of its enemies 
have been falsified ; after it has surmounted its early dangers and diffi- 
culties, aggravated by a bitterness of enmity peculiar to itself; after it 
has gone on for years, notwithstanding very great mismanagement, 
increasing in prosperity, while not a slave breathes on its soil, and 
while it has been made the instrument of imparting to thousands of 
Africans, raised from the lowest depths of misery and debasement, the 
blessings of British freedom, and of christian light ; — there are still to 
be found men whose delight seems to consist in reiterating, with fresh 
exaggerations, the often refuted calumnies against it, and in labouring 

2 D 



158 Latest Official Accounts of Sierra Leone. 

not only to bring it into discredit with the public, but to sweep it, if 
it were possible, from the face of the earth. 

We will not stop to investigate the causes which have led to this ex- 
clusive selection of Sierra Leone, from among the multitude of our 
colonial possessions, as the object of that uniform, persevering, and 
almost infuriated hostility, on the part of a certain class of persons, 
"which has marked its progress from the year 1791 to the present hour. 
They are sufficiently pbvious to all who have paid any attention to 
the great controversy which has been carrying on, during that period, 
between the enemies and the friends of slavery ; — between those who 
thrive by the violation, in the person of the kidnapped or enslaved Afri- 
can, of every divine and human obligation; and those who feel that the 
very existence of slavery within the British dominions is a national 
crime of the deepest dye, and that it ought to be, and must be, extin- 
guished root and branch. 

These reflections have been, in some measure, drawn from us by 
a volume which has just come to our hands, bearing the following 
title, " Papers relating to the Colony of Sierra Leone, ordered by the 
House of Commons to be printed, 17th February, 1830," and numbered 
57. We shall best illustrate the preceding observations, as well as best 
satisfy our readers, by proceeding at once to lay before them the sub- 
stance of this important document. 

The first part of it consists of the correspondence of the local Go- 
vernment with the Colonial Office, from the 25th January, 1826, to the 
month of September, 1829, respecting the hberated Africans, settled 
in the colony of Sierra Leone. 

The following statement, taken from a despatch of General Turner, 
dated January 25, 1826, will afford some, though still an inadequate, 
idea, both of the importance of the subject, and of the improvident, 
and absurd system which had, till that time, with the best intentions 
we admit, been pursued by the predecessors of that officer. 

" Amongst the many objects which in this colony lay claim to my 
attention, there are very few which require to be considered more than 
that which is called the ' Liberated African Department.' However 
adequate the arrangements might have been to the early state of this 
establishment, it is very evident that they have not been so for some 
time past; and equally evident, that from the numbers of captured 
slaves brought into the colony, they become every day less so. There 
have been more than 20,000 slaves landed in this colony ; and during 
the last year alone upwards of 2,400 have been emancipated: should 
the trade in slaves continue to increase in the manner in which it has 
done for the last two years, there is no doubt, from the activity of our 
cruisers, that the numbers brought in here will increase also, and will 
very shortly become a very large and unwieldy mass of people — indeed 
they are so already, and it becomes a matter of very serious considera- 
tion how they are to be disposed of, or how they are to maintain them- 
selves. Under the arrangements hitherto prevailing they have been 
distributed amongst the villages, where they have been for years sup- 
ported in idleness by the government ; but the villages, and the poor 
land of the mountains where they are situated, already begin to refuse 



General Turner, Sir Neil Campbell, ^c. 159 

to them a scanty subsistence, and they have begun to wander in search 
of better soil and easier sustenance ; and the evident tendency of this 
is, that they will retrograde in the woods into a state of nature and bar- 
barism, or become vagrants about Freetown and the more populous 
villages. I in some degree meet this evil at present, by employing them 
on the pubhc works, carrying bricks and other materials, giving them 
food, lodging, and some clothing, at the public expense ; and I have 
given them in small numbers, and under registry, to respectable people 
to cultivate land, and for domestic purposes ; and it is found, under 
this system of putting them to easy and regular labour, such as they 
have been used to, on their landing from the slave ships, that they be- 
come very orderly good labourers ; but in the cases where they have 
been located in the villages, and have received gratuitous maintenance, 
they can with difficulty be induced to give a day's labour even for good 
wages. The expense of this establishment has been very great ; I 
believe that the regulations under which I have reduced it during the 
last year, to the amounc shown in the accompanying schedule of five 
years, may be safely persevered in, and a still greater reduction made; 
but as the whole system is defective, I cannot persuade myself that I 
can do more than alleviate the evil. 

" It would but lead to disappointment to imagine, that a large mass 
of poor ignorant people, without capital, skill or industry, could be 
brought to maintain themselves, and to raise articles of export, with- 
out the assistance of labour -wages. Cotdd such a system succeed even 
in England, the poors rates might soon be abolished. 

" There are twelve villages established for the purpose of civilizing, 
instructing and keeping together these people, and with establishments 
apparently very suitable, although practically very inefficient : a clergy- 
man, a school-master, and a superintendent to each village, has the 
appearanceof meeting every possible purpose; but unfortunately the un- 
towardness of the climate, the privations, and fatigues, the uncongeniality 
of the situations with the former habits of the people who hold them, 
and the absence of personal interest or hope of progressive advancement, 
soon cause a decrease of numbers. At present there are in the colony 
but one church missionary (Mr. Raban) and three Lutheran clergymen. 
Jive schoolmasters, and /bwr superintendents; amongst these there is 
not one person who has the slightest knov;ledge of agriculture, nor can 
I learn that there ever has been any person employed in the colony who 
had any acquaintance either with European or Tropical agriculture. 
Under such disadvan-tages it is not to be wondered that cultivation has 
not made much progress," 

Soon after this letter was written. General Turner fell a victim to the 
combined influence of the climate, and of excessive personal exertion 
in prosecuting his plans of African improvement. The reforms pro- 
jected by that able and zealous functionary were resumed and carried 
forward by his successor. Sir Neil Campbell, powerfully seconded by 
Lieut.-Colonel Denham, so well known by his successful expedition, 
along with Captain Clapperton, into the interior of Africa. 

The following extracts from their communications will give a clear 



160 Latest Official Accounts of Sierra Leone. 

view of the nature and the effect of those judicious changes which 
these two officers had concurred to introduce. 

On the 19th of January, 1827, vSir Neil Campbell thus writes: — 

" I have the honour to acquaint your Lordship, that Lieut.-CoL 
Denham, General Superintendent of liberated Africans, arrived here in 
His Majesty's ship Cadmus, on the 9th instant, which will be a great 
aid to me in this very important duty. 

" I think that by the system which commenced upon the 1st of this 
month, and which Itrust will meet with your Lordship's approval, the 
duties which will devolve upon Lieut.-Col, Denham will not be very 
arduous ; but I have no doubt that if they were much more so, he 
possesses talent, zeal, and good will to fulfil my directions, and to dis- 
charge them well." 

" 1 soon discovered that the whole system of issuing rations, which 
had hitherto been followed, was decidedly bad, and should be put an 
end to. From the 1st January 1827, no rations are to be issued to 
liberated Africans, either in Freetown or in the villages, but instead 
thereof the sum of 'dd. per day" (this sum has since been reduced to 
Id. for adults and \^d. for children) "is to be paid into their own hands 
upon the spot, or if they have not been sufficiently long in the colony 
for this confidence, it will be paid in their own presence, and in that of 
the superintendents, who are furnished with regular forms of monthly 
pay lists, with the names of every man or woman, and the sum paid to each. 
The period of being upon rations is now greatly reduced ; the adults 
will be adopted and taken care of by some of the most respectable of 
the pensioners or liberated Africans in the villages, without any pay. 
The women who are marriageable will receive pay for three months, the 
men for six months. Although the latter are limited to this period, 
which is the very shortest, yet there will be many instances where from 
weakly constitutions, injured by the bad treatment on board of ship, 
and the tedious voyage from leeward, this pay must necessarily be con- 
tinued for even twelve months. But these liberated Africans shall not 
be idle, and will be employed in improving roads and making new 
ones, in building their own houses, and in cultivating their lots of 
ground." 

The following is an extract from Sir Neil Campbell's instructions, 
dated 1st Dee. 1826:— 

" Where liberated Africans were formerly upon rations, the sum of 
3c?. sterling per day will in future be paid to each person by His Ma- 
jesty's Government, through the managers, who will receive this from 
the superintendent, and pay it weekly in advance. 

" This arrangement will save the trouble and expense of purchasing 
stores at Freetown and sending them to the villages, while at the same 
time it will be more satisfactory to the working parties, and will circu- 
late cash in the interior, with a ready purchase of the food on the spot, 
which will encourage the industrious settlers. Forms of pay-lists will 
be given. 

'* This allovvance will be paid on the spot to the old settlers who 
have taken charge of the new ones, from their disembarkation until 



Sir Neil Campbell — Colonel De?iha7n. 161 

they provide for themselves by the settlements which they have formed. 
The period for women is three months, and for men six, unless in ex- 
traordinary cases approved of by the superintendent. 

" All boys and girls under fifteen, and who may until after that age 
be considered unable to clear and settle a piece of land, will be distri- 
buted to old settlers appointed by the managers, until they attain the 
above age ; they will then be released from the charge of their adopted 
parent ; a lot of land will be given them, and the allowance will cease 
to be paid." 

The clothing and utensils to be distributed to them for the first year, 
having then been specified, the instructions proceed : — 

" It is desirable to acquaint the public, that the road from Freetown 
to Wellington is perfectly safe for carriages, and for horses from that to 
Hastings and to Waterloo through the new village of Allentown, which 
is half way between Wellington and Hastings, and the same distance 
from Charlotte. 

" In the course of next week there will be hotels in the villages of 
Wellington, Hastings, and Waterloo, under the direction of the super- 
intendents, to insure accommodation ; and a table of fixed charges 
will be established by them to prevent imposition, a list of which, with 
their signatures, will be aflfixed in the dining-hall. 

" The school at Hastings will be immediately re-established, and a 
teacher appointed from one of the monitors of any other school, by 
Mr. M'Foy. 

" A committee will assemble as soon as convenient, for the members 
to examine into the operations of Mr. Cailla, appointed to the situation 
of Experimental Agriculturist, and they will have the goodness to 
frame a short report, in writing, as to the success generally of Mr. 
Cailla's practice, with any improvements which may occur to the 
members. 

" The Governor expects, that when he makes the tour of the villages 
he will find a register in each, with the names of every liberated African, 
and the period of his arrival, so that no man will be kept on rations, 
or pay from Government, who has been six months in the colony; no 
woman who has been three months, and no boy or girl above fifteen 
years of age ; all this to be clearly shewn by the register, and what 
became of every liberated African no longer in the village. 

" Mr. Pyne, the Crown Surveyor, will shortly proceed to the libe- 
rated African villages, to fulfil the following very important duties, in 
order to give the liberated Africans an inducement to cultivate fixed 
portions of land, and to inspire them with security of property ; points 
ivhich have been hitherto totally neglected, but which are indispensable 
in order to give them due encouragement, and fair scope to their indi- 
vidual exertions* 

" First, to survey a lot of land for every liberated African in each 
village. 

" Second, to survey a lot for every manager and sub-manager. 

"The managers will communicate to the sub-managers, that the 

* Can any one wonder that in this colony agriculture had hitherto languislied? 



163 Latest Official Accounts of Sierra Leone. 

following hoMrs are to be strictly adhered to for field labours and for 
school instruction, by those liberated Africans who are under his in- 
struction. 

" Hours for instruction for those above fifteen years of age : on 
week-days from eleven o'clock until twelve, and from one till three. 

" Considering their age, it is useless to appropriate to them a greater 
number of hours, as they are composed either of persons who arrive at 
an early age, and only require to keep up the recollection of their in- 
struction at school ; or those who have arrived at a much later period 
of life, and to whom the additional instruction could be of very little 
use. With either class compulsion is of no avail. 

" Hours for instruction for those under fifteen years of age : on 
week days from nine o'clock until twelve, and from one imtil three 
o'clock in the afternoon. 

" No mention has been made in these instructions, of any particular 
hours of labour for the immense majority of liberated Africans, who 
arrived in the colony at a mature age, who do not speak one word of 
English, and have not attended school. Coercion has tsever been 
EMPLOYED IN THIS COLONY *; and it is expected, from the security 
(alluding to the grants of property in land) now given them, ivhich they 
never enjoyed before, that it will be less necessary than ever." 

In a subsequent letter dated 14th July 1827, Sir Neil Campbell vin- 
dicates his plan from some objections which Lord Bathurst had. not un- 
reasonably urged against it in the first instance, he says : — 

" The system of giving money to those adults in the villages who 
have been recently landed, and to the scholars, is, in ray opinion as 
well as in that of the chief superintendent, greatly superior to giving ra- 
tions. It is more satisfactory to the Africans themselves. The money 
is of great benefit in the villages, instead of rice, &c., supplied by mer- 
chants in Freetown, and sent to them, and provisions issued by the 
managers (chiefly missionaries), on the quantity and price of which 
it was impossible for the governor or chief superintendent to exercise a 
correct control ; the proof of which is, the great decrease in this branch 
of expenditure since money was issued. There cannot be any abuse 
or irregularity in paying money to the adults, as each of them know the 
sum due to them ; it is issued weekly (in presence of pensioners, con- 
stables and others, who would expose it) by the manager; and his no- 
minal list is paid to him every month by the chief superintendent. 
With respect to scholars, the money is issued in the same manner by 
the chief superintendent ; and the manager buys provisions for them in 
the villages, which are cooked and distributed under his immediate 
superintendence, as they are too young to receive it, and must be 
lodged and fed by him as formerly. The only difference with the 
scholars is, that no part of their allowance is provided by contract, but 
is paid entirely in money to the manager, so that all the provisions are 
purchased in the village. 

" The expenses in the Liberated African Department (not including 

* What a flat contradiction dobs this statement give to all the calumnious, 
assertions of Mr. M'Queen and his party ? 



Sir Nea Campbell — Colonel Denham. 163 

the salaries for the chief superintendent and others in Freetown) for 
1826, amounted to £14,862. 16s. 2^d. 

" A return estimated upon the expenses from 1st January to 30th 
June 1827, amounts to £7,897. 10s. 6d. 

" The saving per year will be £6,965. 5s. 8^d." 

And in another letter dated on the 7th March 1827, he says — 

" I think I may venture, without being too sanguine, to do myself 
the honour of assuring your Lordship, that this colony possesses within 
itself very considerable resources, which time will develope gradually, 
and which are now in a progress, much more rapid, I hope, than they 
have been hitherto." 

Colonel Denham's first report after he had been five months in the 
colony is highly interesting, and serves to disprove innumerable ca- 
lumnies invented by malignity and propagated with a zeal and assiduity 
worthy of a better cause. It is dated May 21, 1827. 

" I fear, from the very short period during which I have had the 
charge of the liberated Africans, I shall not be enabled to state that 
progress which I trust, after the very important and long -called- for 
alterations that have been made in every brayich of this department 
since the arrival of the present Governor, Sir Neil Campbell, will be 
apparent from the reports which I shall have the honour to lay before 
your Lordship at some future though not very distant period. 

" What this colony or rather the liberated Africans have felt the most 
want of, is instruction, capital and example. With the very little they 
have had of either conveyed in a manner likely to benefit them gene- 
rally, IT IS TO ME DAILY AN INCREASING SUBJECT OF ASTONISH- 
MENT that the liberated Africans settled here have dorie so much for 
themselves as they have. 

" Since the gentlemen of the Church Missionary Society have ceased 
to have the superintendence of the villages intrusted to them, except as 
far as the religious duties were concerned, industrious habits have been 
very successfully encouraged. 

" The propensities of the people located in the different settlements, 
are very generally in favour of agriculture." 

"/ have not observed any disinclination for voluntary labour; it 
appears to be a system perfectly understood and practised by the 
liberated Africans here, and strengthens with their strength, as they 
become more sensible of the sweets of labour, by enjoying the profits 
of it, and the comforts those profits enable them to purchase. Indeed 
to the many hundreds of liberated Africans that have been employed as 
labourers on the different Government works, as well as on the build- 
ings erected by private individuals during the last few years, may in 
some measure be attributed the comparatively small number of agri- 
cultural labourers in the villages. Labourers wages have varied from 
one shilling to sixpence per day, yet has there never been a deficiency 
of liberated Africans who were willing to labour for hire. On the naval 
stores now erecting by contract on King Tom's Point, are nearly two 
hundred liberated African labourers, who work well and steadily at 
twenty shillings per month, one half paid in money and the remainder in 
goods taken from the stores of the merchants who have the contract. 



164 Latest Official Accounts of Sierra Leone. 

" The period of labour also forms a longer portion of the day here 
than even in the south of Europe, where for several hours when the sun 
has most power, a general cessation of labour, or indeed employment, 
takes place. Labourers in this colony work from six in the morning 
till five in the afternoon constantly, with the exception of the hour from 
nine till ten which they are allowed for breakfast. 

" Husbandry and practical agriculture should be encouraged by every 
possible means ; but yet I am inclined to think, the kind of labour in 
which so many of the liberated Africans have been and still are em- 
ployed, has been upon the whole beneficial to them ; they must acquire 
intelligence, habits of regularity and steady labour, with much general 
knowledge, by being employed with artificers, and watching the pro- 
gress of the public buildings from the foundation to the roof, the roof 
to be finished whole, as in the case of the extensive barracks and a very 
handsome building intended for the naval stores, which are both nearly 
completed. 

" They are already sensible of the rewards of industry, by being in 
possession of the profits ; and the advantage of property is becoming 
daily an increased object of interest. 

" Already thirty of the liberated Africans who have been employed 
on these and other public and private works, and who were never lo- 
cated, have applied to me for lots of ground at Campbell Town on the 
Calmont Creek, where the soil is most fertile, ' to sit down quiet ' as 
they say. These men have all saved (for them) considerable sums of 
money, and will build more perfect houses, be enabled to purchase 
necessaries and even some luxuries, and thereby set an example to their 
brethren, who were lofpated there immediately on their arrival in this 
colony only a few months ago. 

" An anxious desire to obtain and enjoy the luxuries of life, is ap- 
parent in every village, from the oldest settler to the liberated African 
of yesterday. European articles of dress are the first objects of 
their desire, and for the means of acquiring these, both sexes will 
cheerfully labour ; and a gradual improvement has taken place in 
their dwellings, 'as they became possessed of the necessary means for 
that purpose. 

" Of the practicability of introducing free labour amongst the 
liberated Africans settled here / have not the slightest doubt ; nor do 
I believe they would work half as well in any other way, unless the 

GREATEST CRUELTY SHOULD BE EXERCISED TOWARDS THEM. 

" My opinion on this subject, is formed from facts collected during 
an actual residence in each of the settlements of liberated Africans, of 
from one to three weeks ; and I shall merely state those facts, as I 
consider them better than any reasoning. 

" The number of frame houses with stone foundations, and also 
stone houses, has increased in all the villages^ particularly the mountain 
ones of Gloucester and Regent, three sold during the last three years. 
At Wellington, there are seven stone houses nearly finished, all begun 
during the last two years. The owners of these habitations, which 
cost them from one hundred to two hundred dollars, have all acquired 
the means of so permanently establishing themselves by free labour 



Colonel Denham. \6S 

mid industry. They were all, with the exception of a few discharged 
soldiers from the fourth West India regiment, landed from the ships 
here after capture, and merely given a lot of ground and rations for a 
time, and they became masons, carpenters, coopers, smiths and farmers. 
One liberated African, who has an excellent stone house at Wellington, 
made, by [selling] ochroes, (a vegetable much esteemed here, and very 
scarce in the drys,) nearly twenty pounds, and the following year as 
much. Another is indebted, for his improved habitation, to successful 
crops of Indian corn; and another to a laborious though profitable spe- 
culation in lime burning. 

" Regent and Wellington are the most populous and the richest of 
any of the settlements. Regent consists entirely of liberated Africans, 
no discharged soldiers ever having been located there. Mr. Johnston, 
the manager, pointed out to me, after church one Sunday morning, 
nearly thirty people who possessed upwards of a hundred pounds each. 
The population of Regent exceeds thirteen hundred, and they have from 
three to four hundred communicants ; the congregations are well con- 
ducted, and particularly neatly dressed in the European fashion. 

" The markets at Freetown are supplied with fruit and vegetables 
almost exclusively by the mountain villages ; and from eighty to a hun- 
dred men, women, boys and girls are to be seen daily on the hill lead- 
ing to Gloucester town, with the produce of their farms and gardens. 
This is also entirely the reward of their own industry and perseverance, 
for not the least instruction on this important branch of labour have ihey 
ever received. 

" In the low lands to the eastward along the sides of the Bunce River, 
and the different creeks from Allen's Town to Waterloo, and from 
thence to the Calmont Creek, rice might be grown in any quantity, had 
the inhabitants capital and a certain market for their produce. The 
cultivation of rice in any quantity requires continual attention and 
labour; a few of the most productive rice grounds that I have seen, 
the best of them upon a very small scale, were generally partnership 
farms, 

" African rice has been considered the best in the world: the con- 
sumption here is enormous, probably exceeding six hundred tons an- 
nually. The profits arising from this, are obtained by the traders from 
Mandingo, Sherbro', Rio Pongos and Porto Logo, which the merchant 
at Freetown finds wonderfully profitable, as they carry off the greater 
part of the value in all kinds of merchandize from their stores. 

" Cotton might also be cultivated with less labour than rice: it grows 
wild, of three kinds, white, brown and pink ; the first is excellent. 

" Indigo cannot be kept under without difficulty; it grows sponta- 
neously and in great quantities ; the quality is proverbially good, 

" Ginger has been tried with great success, and large crops may next 
year be expected ; it yields about sixty for one, and is particularly fine 
and highly flavoured, but for want of instruction they have not yet 
acquired the art of peeling and preparing it for European markets. All 
these articles might with encouragement be raised by liberated Africans, 
to any extent. 

" I trust it will appear to the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury, 

2e 



](i6 Latest Official Accounts of Sierra Leone. 

that by measures now in operation, the advantages arising from which 
cannot yet be fully developed, a very considerable decrease will be found 
in the expenses of the Africans liberated on this coast ; while at the 
same time their comforts and general improvement will be in the inverse 
ratio. By substituting money instead of rations, according to a plan 
adopted by the present Governor, by which every liberated African 
above the age of fifteen receives threepence per day in money, a circu- 
lation of specie will be created in the villages, which never before 
existed, and which must be very beneficial to the inhabitants, and excite 
competition by encouraging industry. 

" The Government allowance, however, is never to be extended beyond 
six months, except in very particular cases of sickness or inability to 
labour. 

" Rewards are intended to be given to the different managers or other 
cultivators, who shall produce at the ensuing crop-gathering the largest 
quantity of coffee or ginger of good quality ; and minor rewards will 
also be given for the best crop of articles in more general cultivation. 

" Markets are established in every village ; and the schoolmasters 
and managers attend with the hberated Africans on government allow- 
ance, when their purchases are made of the smaller cultivators, whose 
wives attend with the several productions of their farms, and receive 
payment on the spot in money, when it afterwards circulates in the 
village, where there is generally from one to four shops. Formerly all 
the necessaries were supplied by some merchants in Freetown, and 
often by those who were not merchants, who collected their stock from 
small farmers, and paid for it in goods and merchandize ; they then 
sold to the liberated African department wholesale, with a considerable 
profit, and the money paid in Freetown in a government bill or other- 
wise was sent out of the colony. 

" Specie during the last year was scarcely ever seen in circulation in 
liberated African villages ; now it is abundant, and a regular medium 
for the exchange of property." 

Again, says Col. Denham, writing, on the 15th Nov. 1827, from the 
village of Kent : — 

" i write this from Kent, our western settlement on Cape Shilling, 
where I have been, and at the Banana Islands, for the last twenty days. 

" The western villages have always laboured under considerable 
disadvantages, from their distance from Freetown, hitherto the only 
market where they could find purchasers for their produce; they have 
therefore grown little more than was requisite for their own support. 
But by trading with the Sherbro', and by the money circulated during 
the erection of the Government buildings, they have nevertheless ac- 
quired the means of purchasing clothing and other comforts, which 
enable them to make a very creditable appearance. During the time I 
remained at Kent, we had an abundance of every thing at a small ex- 
pense, milk, eggs, fowls, fish and mutton daily; and a wild bullock 
from the Bananas gave us the finest beef imaginable. Yams, sweet 
potatoes, ochroes and cocoa roots are in abundance, and it is difficult 
to say what the people located here are in want of. I never saw any 



Colonel Denham. 167 

village in either Spain or Portugal where every requisite for an English- 
man's comfort could be so easily obtained. 

" George's Town of which I laid the foundation stone, or rather clay, 
when I first visited Cape Shilling, is rising fast. 

" The people appeared highly pleased at the prospect of a regular 
communication with Waterloo by land ; and in two months I expect 
the road from Kent to that now bustling town of business, will be open 
and passable for horses, which it never yet has been. The Kent 
people promise to supply the market there with goats, sheep and dried 
fish ; articles the Waterloo people procure from Freetown at a high 
price. This road will, with a wooden bridge twenty-eight feet wide, be 
made entirely by liberated Africans, receiving Government allowance, 
and be no additional expense to the public. 

" The produce of the Banana Islands has much increased this year, 
the north side is covered with rice farms nearly fit to cut ; and it is 
estimated that from twenty to twenty-five ton will be housed after the 
harvest. Dublin, at present the only village, is on the south side of 
the largest island. At the extreme west is a small and very fertile 
island with many palm trees growing thereon; it has two very safe 
bays, and good anchorage for canoes and boats or even small vessels. 
On the north side of this island is the best fishing all along the coast ; 
and here I found a few Sherbro' people who were in the habit of visiting 
it, and after remaining sufficient time to catch and dry as much fish as 
their canoes would hold, of starting for Freetown to sell their cargoes. 
A Frenchman of the name of ' Mieux ' it seems, resided for three 
years on this island, but finding he had no chance of prosecuting his 
trade in slaves, he suddenly departed with his few followers, not one of 
whom ever suffered a day's illness, and his goats have become a formi- 
dable flock and enjoy the whole range of the island. Here I have de- 
termined on making a settlement with forty liberated Africans and six 
discharged soldiers, with one serjeant, and I have no doubt it will 
prosper; their trade in dried fish, palm and nut oil, will the first year 
furnish them with sufficient to stock their farms. The Carolina rice, 
after three years' growth, has yielded seven or eight to one ; in these 
islands the quality is superior to any thing I can purchase in Freetown, 
and as my principal food is rice, I may be allowed some judgment in 
estimating its value. Carolina rice is not now to be procured in the 
colony, and if two or three ton could be sent here, it would be very ac- 
ceptable as seed. This island is divided from the larger one by a deep 
channel, through which vessels of two hundred tons can at all times 
pass ; and, with your permission, I have named it ' Hays Island.' " 

" It is difficult at the present moment, to form any opinion of the 
expectation of His Majesty's Government with respect to this colony ; 
the produce of the soil, however encumbered it may be with rock, will 
certainly furnish the present population with an abundance of food, 
and as they increase in intelligence they will improve the quality as well as 
the quantity of their crops. This, time will effect, as it is natural they 
should cultivate those articles they find out by experience to be the most 
profitable. The population of the peninsula will, in addition to the trade 



168 Latest Official Accounts of Sierra Leone. 

with the interior, always cause a very great demand for English goods, 
and all articles of general merchandize. 

" / krtow nothing of what may be the capabilities of the negro 
vassal, but I am sure the free negro, either in his own country or in 
any other where boiidage has never existed, is as sensible uf rights and 
privileges and as ready to defend them as any white man in existence, 
and I defy any man to show any instance among negroes in this state, 
of that natural dislike to whites which has been reported and acknow- 
ledged as a fact by theorists and West Indians; on the contrary, the 
white man is always looked up to as their superior, their protector and 
their friend, whenever he will allow himself to be so considered. 

" These settlements v^ere, from what cause it is difficult to imagine, 
always considered unhealthy, and the quarterly visit often neglected, or 
when performed, hurried over in forty-eight hours. By setting the 
example, and by taking clerks with me, sending a few articles of furni- 
ture and cool light eatables and drinkables to the managers' houses, I 
now always find my table as full as I wish it, one or two days during 
my stay. Soldiers and senators from Freetown now visit the moun- 
tains with great pleasure, and will put up with a mattrass at the hotel, 
in order to enjoy the cool breeze for twenty-four hours." 

In another letter to Mr. Hay, dated from Charlotte, in the Mountain 
District, December 3, 1827, Colonel Denham thus writes : 

" I have now taken up my abode here, for a few days, in order 
to see what improvement we have in the crops, which are fast ripening, 
in consequence of the additional number of acres which were cleared 
and settled on in the spring of last year during my stay in these moun- 
tains. The persons there located have all their houses built, and their 
lots fenced in, with a farm sufficiently stocked with vegetables to sup- 
port themselves ; and in very few instances has the Government allow- 
ance of threepence per day been continued beyond the six months from 
the day of their arrival. The old settlers have considerably improved 
the appearance of their habitations as well as the value of their farms ; 
and the money circulated in the villages, in consequence of the Govern- 
ment allowance being paid on the spot, as well as the money allowed 
for the support of the schools, has done infinite good ; more than two 
hundred persons attended the market, on Saturday, at Regent; both 
beef and mutton were to be bought, and almost every necessary article 
of consumption for a decent family in any country. 

" By the means now pursued the inhabitants will, in time, acquire 
capital, which I conceive they would readily embark in any plausible 
speculation ; and they would now be more inclined to make trial of agri- 
culture, from the losses many of them (particularly the discharged 
soldiers) have met with in attempting to trade with the natives at Port 
Logo and other places on the rivers. 

" The whole of the mountain district is particularly adapted for 
coffee plantations. We have, probably, within two miles of where I am 
now writing, in small plantations, four thousand plants, two thousand of 
which bear coffee. 

" Notwithstanding the belief among the Maroons and settlers, that 



Colonel Denham. 169 

Great Britain was about to abandon the colony, many applications have 
been made to me for advice as to the purchase of the diiFerent parcels 
of land and houses vphich were offered for sale ; and three of the most 
monied Maroons in the colony wished to make a trial of preparing in- 
digo, could sutficient information have been collected from the men 
employed by Mr. Giles, whose indigo was exceedingly good, as to the 
mode of preparing it. It would bring here from the merchants five 
shillings per pound, so good an opinion have they of the quality of that 
which Mr. Giles produced as a sample, 

" The attendance of free children born here (a most interesting part 
of the population) at daily instruction, has of late greatly increased. 
The very striking superiority of intellect possessed by the children born 
in the colony, when compared with those landed from the slave ships, 
is as unaccountable as it is manifest to every the most common observer 
on entering a school. The parents are for the most part from the same 
country ; and it can only be explained by the advantages enjoyed by 
the former in having received something of that early instruction, both 
moral and religious, which is so necessary to predispose the mind to 
profit by a more extended education. Trifling indeed as that instruction 
has been, the happy results are clearly to be observed. This class of 
children are daily increasing in numbers and in age, many having also 
reached their tenth year, and with proper cultivation may be reckoned 
on as likely to become useful members of society; for we must not for- 
get that the infants of the present race will be the workmen of the next. 

" A plan of instruction has been commenced by the Reverend Mr. 
Davy, a very respectable, unaffected and benevolent servant of the 
Church Missionary Society, which is, I think, particularly adapted to 
the nature of African dispositions. I have remained in his school 
during the hours of instruction, with infinite satisfaction ; and the pro- 
gress he has made with the free children in the settlement where he 
resides, (Bathurst,) in less than three months, is really surprising. So 
much do I approve of the system, and so indefatigable is Mr. Davy in 
all works of usefulness, that I have placed the two senior classes of the 
schools of Regent and Charlotte, neither of them more than one mile 
distant, under his charge ; and I should be very much pleased if six 
sets of the apparatus for instructing children on the plan of Mr. Wil~ 
dirspin, which is now practised in the infant schools in London and its 
neighbourhood, could be sent out here with as little delay as possible. 
No better plan could, in my opinion, be devised for the improvement 
and comfort of the rising generation, in this as well as others of His 
Majesty's colonies, than teaching generally upon this principle. I am 
from observation convinced, that children, after they can speak, are 
never too young to learn. Vice will fructify early in the infant mind, 
and it is not too much to expect virtue will do the same. 

" This system of education would be so particularly acceptable to 
the tastes of African children, combining as it does amusement with in- 
struction, that with, or even without a few respectable English teachers, 
I have no doubt it's adoption here would considerably lessen the number 
of those lamented cases of early depravity which have of late appeared 
in this colony." 



170 Latest Official Accounts of Sierra Leone. 

Again, on the 31st December, 1827, he says : — 
" I hope there is as little doubt of our improved state, as there is of 
the very great diminution in our expense. Underneath you will see the 
annual expenditure for liberated Africans since the beginning of the 
year 1824, and the number landed in each year from the prizes : — 
Number Landed. Expenditure. 

1824:— 1,530 - - - - £.31,179 18 - 
1825:— 2,337 - - - - 18,201 12 6 
1826: -2,727 - - - - 17,755 16 5 
1827:— 2,857 - - - - 10,983 7 - 

" The accompanying letter from Mr. Campbell, manager of the 
western district, vpill make you acquainted with the increase of produce 
this year on the Banana Islands." 

Colonel Denham's latest communication is dated 14th May, 1828. 
He had just then returned from a visit to the Gold Coast and Fernando 
Po, where he appears to have caught the disease which cut him off in 
the midst of his benevolent and useful career, 

" It is my intention, that the inhabitants of every village shall have a 
town and country lot of their own, granted to them by the end of next 
spring, upon the same plan that has been pursued at York and the 
Bananas. This work has been completed by Mr. Pyne and Mr. White, 
during my absence, in consequence of directions left by me with the 
former gentleman previous to my departure." 

" Numbers of the liberated Africans have been hitherto, and probably 
will always remain, labourers, and although not the least useful members 
of the community, yet their land remains neglected and uncleared, pro- 
bably encircled by well-cultivated, productive plantations, whilst they 
are residing in Freetown or working at the timber factories in the river. 
This is an evil which I shall find it difficult to remedy, for a time, as 
these men have already received the land in perpetuity. Our present 
mode of proceeding is, to grant country lots according to the following 
scale : — three acres to a single man, four and a half for a married man, 
and half an acre additional for each child above two years of age. And 
these grants are only to be made to such of the inhabitants of the dif- 
ferent villages, as have already built habitations on their town lots, 
where they also reside ; and as a mark of distinction, the persons on 
the list of communicants, obtained from the resident missionary clergy- 
man, are to be first put in possession of land, henceforth to be consi- 
dered as their own. You will please to observe, that all the comforts of 
the liberated African's cottage, (and his shelves give proof of a desire 
for them,) are only to be obtained by the sale of his yams, cassada, 
cocoa root, sugar-cane, and such articles as his farm will produce ; he 
has as yet no idea of manuring the land, or in any way improving the 
soil, beyond turning over the straw of his produce and letting it lie fal- 
low, when the crops fail him, for a while. 

" On my first visiting their locations, I found the industrious African, 
a creature not so rare as you may have been led to imagine, with two 
and sometimes three pieees of land, of from two to three acres, cleared 
by himself, in the immediate neighbourhood of his village, which he 



Mr. Smart — Major Kicketts. 171 

cultivated alternately. This I did not discourage ; but, with a caution 
that such land could only be held by him on sufferance, promised the 
temporary occupation of any portion that he might clear of the bush. 
The number of acres that have been cleared by this means in the im- 
mediate neighbourhood of Freetown, and some other of the nearest 
villages, has, I have no doubt, contributed greatly to the improvement 
in the general health of the inhabitants during the last twelve months."^ 

After the death of Colonel Denham, the task of reporting, on the state 
of the liberated Africans, devolved first on Mr. Smart, and subse- 
quently on Major Ricketts. Mr. Smart on the 10th September 1828, 
speaks of those recently landed as " well taken care of," and that they 
"seem to work cheerfully and willingly," and on the 11th October 
1828, adds " I do feel confident that if the measures adopted by 
the late Colonel Denham were strictly followed up, great advancement 
in the grand objects of the government would be the result ; as nothing' 
can be done without strict adherence to his suggestions as to making 
the liberated Africans feel the benefits to be derived from industry and 
labour in clearing and cultivating land." In these views Major Ricketts 
concurs. On the 27th March 1 829 the Major thus addresses Mr. Hay : — 

" — I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of 
the 15th November last, which I received while on a visit of inspection 
of the distant villages where I had gone for a few weeks, in order to 
encourage and instruct the liberated Africans in the culture of exportable 
produce, and to endeavour to impress upon them the advantages that 
would result from it; and 1 have great hopes, from the disposition 
.already evinced, that a large quantity will be brought to market this 
year by those who have it in their power to procure seeds and plants. 

" The liberated Africans at the different villages appear happy ; Wel- 
lington and Waterloo are improving fast in respectability. At the for- 
mer place, they are building by subscription among the inhabitants, a 
good sized church and market-house of stone, and a number of private 
stone buildings are springing up. Waterloo and Hastings labour under 
great disadvantages, from the bridges on the road to Freetown having 
been carried away by the last rains. This, however, must be remedied, 
if possible, in some manner, before the ensuing rains, for the safety of 
the lives of the passengers, many of whom are strangers from the 
interior of the country trading to the colony. The manager at Has- 
tings is endeavouring to erect new bridges, with the workmen and 
others of the village, who give labour and furnish materials gratis : but 
this object cannot be accomplished without some little expense to go- 
vernment for the necessary iron work and nails. 

" I have not long returned from York and the Bananas. At the for- 
mer place, a few stone houses have been completed, and others in 
progress of building by the disbanded soldiers located there. I am at 
a loss to imagine why the Bananas, the finest land in this part of Africa, 
should have been so long overlooked, I have located 150 liberated 
Africans on them, and intend to settle there as many more." 

Again on the 30th June 1829, he thus writes: — 

" As the liberated Africans are delivered over to the department by 
the Mixed Commission Courts, the boys and girls above a certain age 



172 Latest Official Accounts of Sierra Leone. 

are apprenticed out, and the men are sent to the diiferent villages and 
located on the sides of the road ; each man receiving a chain and a half 
in front and about seven in the rear. He is first instructed in the method 
of building his house, and afterwards in preparing and cultivating the 
ground, so that he may be provided with sufficient sustenance at the 
period when the allowance granted by government ceases. The system 
which is now pursued, of requiring the newly imported Africans to com- 
bine and assist each other, during the time they are supported, in com-- 
pleting their houses and cultivating the grounds, is conducive to much 
good, as they are enabled more speedily to provide for themselves ; and 
thus the two pence per diem" (it was at first three pence a day but ap- 
pears to have been reduced to two pence) "for six months, with the 
clothing, cooking utensils and agricultural implements, given to them 
when first located, are found as yet quite adequate to their wants, and 
no further pecuniary assistance is afterwards required by them from 
government. 

" The country on each side of the road between the villages, by its 
being cleared and cultivated as before described, assumes a cheerful 
appearance and affords means of judging of the improvements the peo- 
ple are making in habits of industry. 

" The difficulty which has presented itself in augmenting the popula- 
tion of some of the old established villages, owing to the sterility of the 
lands in their immediate vicinity, has induced me to make a selection of 
two pieces of unoccupied ground near Cape Sierra Leone, and about 
three miles distant from Freetown, where I have formed two villages 
capable of settling eight hundred families. Their situation being so 
contiguous to the capital, and consequently v/ithin range of frequent 
inspection, I have reason to hope, from the means afforded the new 
settlers by the capabilities of the soil, and the advantage which they 
possess of fishing in two deep bays on each side of the points of land 
upon which the villages are formed, that great progress will be made by 
them in industry. Although these places have been but recently 
formed, a7id the individuals composing the inhabitants rescued from 
the holds of slave ships but a few months back, many of t-hem are in 
the possession of goats, pigs, and poultry, and on Sundays appear 
cleanly attired. 

" In those villages where the disbanded soldiers of the West India 
regiments and Royal African corps are settled, the inhabitants generally 
derive eminent benefit from the pensions being paid on the spot, and by 
the constant circulation of money : several have established shops for 
retailing merchandize, and others who have been provident have built 
comfortable stone and frame houses. This disposition and spirit for 
improvement is most apparent at Wellington, York, Hastings and 
Waterloo. 

" Several of the liberated Africans, who have obtained lots of land in 
Freetown, have built, and are now in progress of building, good houses. 
These are principally mechanics and hawkers of merchandize. Many 
of the liberated Africans and disbanded soldiers employ themselves in 
the burning of lime, sawing of boards, cutting shingles and clap boards, 
all of which are carried for miles from the spot where they are prepared 



Major Ricketts. 173 

to their villages, and from thence either brought to Freetown by land, or 
by water in canoes which are kept and hired out, for that purpose, by 
the liberated Africans residing in the villages situated on the banks of 
the river, or on the sea coast. In return for these articles they gene- 
rally receive cash Avhich is not kept dormant, for with that they pur- 
chase cattle from the natives trading to the colony, and taking them to 
the country villages where there is excellent pasture, they are fattened 
and afterwards sent to the market, and a profit of nearly one hundred 
per cent is realized by this species of industry. Pigs and poultry are 
raised in the villages, and the market of Freetown receives from them 
an ample supply daily of this kind of stock, as well as of eggs and 
country vegetables, consisting of ochra, yavas, spinnage and cocoa-tops, 
also yams, cassada, cocoa, Indian-corn, ground-nuts, pine-apples, 
sugar-cane, fire wood, salt, grass, &c.; the value of these articles may 
be estimated by the well-known fact, that a labouring man can go into 
the market and purchase as much food for a penny halfpenny as will 
suffice for tv/o meals. Soine of the persons supplying the market are 
known to travel from Waterloo and Hastings, the former being twentv- 
two and the latter sixteen miles from Freetown, carrying their produce 
in baskets on their heads; this kind of industry clearly manifests the 
desire the liberated Africans have to labour voluntarily, to enable them, 
by honest means, to become possessed of those luxuries which thev see 
their more wealthy brethren enjoying. 

" The police of the villages is administered by the liberated Africans, 
each settlement being allowed from eight to ten special constables and 
two constables paid by the government. The managers, and the gen- 
tlemen attached to the Church Missionary society perform the duties of 
magistrate, commissioner of the court for the recovery of small debts, 
and coroner, and one day in the week is set apart for hearing of cases 
of a trifling nature ; those of serious consequence are investigated im- 
mediately on their coming to the knowledge of the individuals autho- 
rized to take cognizance of them. 

" The liberated Africans have given evident proof of their affection 
for the laivs as they are administered, by the interest they shew in im- 
plicitly obeying them; and when it has been found requisite to adopt 
local regulations particularly affecting them, they have cheerfully con- 
formed to them. By an act for keeping in repair the roads and bridges, 
every adult male in the colony is bound to give six days labour gra- 
tuitously, and the provisions of the said act are enforced about the 
latter end of November, when the liberated Africans come forward, 
leaving probably their daily work, at the risk of incurring their employ- 
er's displeasure, to give the assistance which they are called upon for. 

" The numerous factories established by the merchants up this and 
the adjacent riveis, for the purchase of the teak timber cut by the 
natives, are partly worked by the liberated Africans apprenticed to those 
persons ; and so very useful are they found in the rafting and cutting 
the timber, and sawing boards and scantling, that many of them are 
■ receiving from four to five dollars per month with food and clothing. 
At the expiration of the period of their apprenticeship (three years) they 
are delivered over to the department and settled, without anv expense to 

2 V 



174 Latest Official Accoiaits of Sierra Leone. 

government, in the villages ; but many prefer remaining at the factories 
to labour for wages, 

" In the large villages, where the liberated Africans have the advan- 
tage of a resident clergyman, tlte beneficial influence of the Christian 
religion has been eminently displayed, and by the exertion and as- 
siduity of the Church missionaries, numbers of unfortunate beings, 
labouring under the grossest ignorance and barbarism luhen landed in 
this colony, have been converted to Christianity, and are noiv rendered 
comfortable and happy in the circumstaiices in ivhich they are placed. 

" The schools for the admission of children born in the colony are 
still progressively improving, and the parents evince an anxious desire 
to avail themselves of the opportunity afforded them of obtaining useful 
instruction for their children. 

" The whole of the newly imported Africans (males) above the age of 
fourteen years, are supplied with the following articles from the stores of 
the department, on their being located." 

Then after enumerating the articles, the cost of which is about thirty 
shillings, he adds, 

" The above estimated amount, wiih the six months or one hundred 
and eighty days allowance of twopence per diem, includes, at the pre- 
sent time, the entire expense each male adult is to His Majesty's 
Government; making, altogether, the sum of two pounds nineteen 
shillings and tenpence farthing. It has not been found requisite, since 
I assumed the government, to extend the allowance to men beyond the 
period befofe mentioned, except in a few instances where the indi- 
viduals have been either from age or infirmity incapable of maintaining 
themselves," 

The number of invalids in all the villages who received 2d. per day, 
at the time of this last despatch, (June 30, 1829,) was only fifty-three, 
being, for the most part, persons blinded by ophthalmia on board the 
slave ships from which they had been rescued. In the various hos- 
pitals were seventy-three sick, receiving 3d. per day. About 800 
adults, recently landed, were receiving 2d, a day each, till the period of 
six months in the case of men, and three months in the case of women, 
should expire ; and for 500 children at school, l^d. per day was paid. 

But if such be a fair representation of the willing industry of the 
liberated Africans at Sierra Leone, it may be asked whence has the im- 
pression arisen of their inaptitude to voluntary labour, and of the neces- 
sity of introducing among them some compulsory process for enforcing 
industry ? The question admits of an easy and satisfactory answer. It 
has arisen partly from the gross misrepresentations of hostile partizans, 
and partly from a somewhat unfair report, on this particular point, of the 
Commissioners appointed in 1825, to inquire into thjf state of the libe- 
rated captives at Sierra Leone. In this report (printed for the House of 
Commons 7th May, 1827, No. 312,) an opinion is expressed by the 
Commissioners in favour of" a mild and well regulated system of coerced 
labour," as being the most effectual mode of inducing among the libe- 
rated Africans steady habits of industry in agricultural pursuits," (p, 55,) 
and they add, (p. 56,) that, " without some such system, it is much to 



Aptitude of Africans for voluntary Labour. 175 

be feared that it will be found impracticable to induce any considerable 
number of the adult liberated Africans, by the cultivation of the soil, to 
improve their condition beyond what they are at present led to do by 
their own idea of comfort, which includes little more than an abundance 
of food and sufficient shelter from the vjeather. Even if the habits or 
inclinations of this class were such as to incite them to more extensive 
cultivation, it should be remembered that, for this purpose, some capital 
is requisite, and this they have had no means of acquiring." 

It is hardly necessary to point out the extreme unfairness of such a 
statement. The Commissioners assume that the liberated Africans require 
coercion; and yet they admit, that without such coercion, they have 
already fulfilled their own ideas of comfort in the abundance of food, 
and in shelter from the weather, including, we presume, a comfortable 
dwelling and adequate clothing. Now, supposing that it could be truly 
affirmed of the peasantry of England, that by their labour, they were in the 
regular enjoyment of abundance of food and of shelter from the wea- 
ther, what should we say to the statesman who should recommend as a 
measure of just, humane, and warrantable policy, that they should be 
placed under a system of coercion in order both " to induce artificial 
wants," and " to stimulate them to that degree of agricultural industry 
which may supply the means of gratifying such wants by the produc- 
tion of articles having exchangeable value in other countries?" (p. 56). 
What, we ask, would be said to such a proposal? Should we not revolt 
from it as utterly repugnant to every principle of just and politic legisla- 
tion ; nay, as a cruel and unjustifiable interference with the rights of 
private judgment and individual conduct; as no better than a slightly 
modified system of actual slavery ? What, all the members of any com- 
munity '' having food," nay " abundance" of food and " raiment," and 
shelter too, may they not be allowed " therewith to be content" ? In 
Europe, nay, in England, wesnould say, that if this could be truly pre- 
dicated of our peasantry, their lot would be an enviable one. But this 
Avill not do for Sierra Leone, The inhabitants of the former, however, are 
white, of the latter, unfortunately, black. These last must not be tried by 
the same standard of prosperity and comfort as the labouring classes in 
Europe, with whom the political economist is satisfied, if they feed and 
clothe themselves by their labour. No, the negroes must be driven to 
do more : they must be coerced, first, that they may feel wants, and 
then that they may gratify wants thus artificially and compulsorily 
created, in order to consume more of our manufactures. They are 
happy, it is true, and contented with their present lot ; they have enough 
to satisfy every craving of nature, without compulsion. But for the 
disciples of the new " philosophy of labour " this is not sufficient : they 
must be taught, by coercion, the luxury of digging cane-holes, of manu- 
facturing sugar, of pulping coffee, in order to arrive at that true point of 
felicity, which is icnown only by the genuine subjects of coerced labour, 
the whip-galled slaves of our plantations. 

It is hardly necessary to dv/ell on the utter absurdity, as well as the 
unreasonableness and gross partiality of such views, as they appear in 
this report. And they are the more reprehensible, because the Com- 
missioners admit that the effect of the ordinary inducements to voluntary 



176 Latest Official Accounts of Sierra Leone. 

exertion had not been fairly tried with the liberated Africans at Sierra 
Leone. A single fact, mentioned by them at p. 71, is sufficient to 
account for the absence of any material efforts of agricultural industry 
among the liberated Africans, and throws the blame of that absence 
wholly on the Government. Down to the year 1825, only six grants of 
land for cultivation had been made to the liberated Africans. They had 
been permitted, it is true, to cultivate unoccupied land, but beyond the 
grants to these six individuals, not an acre of land, in 1825, had yet 
been put into the possession, as his property, of any- liberated African. 
" In no instance," it is further stated, at p. 28, " does it appear that 
lands have been allotted to them as farms." What inducement could 
there have been therefore for these poor creatures to expend time in cul- 
tivation, beyond the necessities of the moment, under such a wretched 
and improvident system of administration, as allowed to them no pro- 
perty in the soil, no specific location, nor any tenure beyond the present 
moment of occupancy 1 

But this was not all. Not only were no lands located to them until 
1827, but they were absolutely deprived of all motive to exertion, if we 
may believe the statement of General Turner, by the improvidence and 
profusion of the Government. He tells us, that they had been receiving, 
in most cases, " a gratuitous maintenance," that " they had been for 
years supported in idleness by the Government." — Only imagine such a 
course as this to have been pursued with the civilized peasantry of this 
country, and what might we expect to be its general effect ? Would it 
not be the absence of all exertion? And is it reasonable to expect a 
different result in the case of the African just liberated from the hold of 
a slave-ship, and whose new state of enjoyment into which he has been 
suddenly transferred, is as a paradise when compared with the charnel- 
house from which he has been rescued. 

Take the account of their state as given by two medical officers to the 
Commissioners. One says, 

" The principal contagious diseases slaves bring with them is, small- 
pox and craw craw, an inveterate itch, and not long ago a vessel arrived 
here with a very bad ophthalmia among the slaves, which had some 
appearance of a contagious character, consequently the establishment of 
a lazaretto for the reception of such cases would be exceedingly 
beneficial." 

" In such of the slave vessels as I have visited, the unfortunate slaves 
were so crowded they had not space to lie down, nor any sort of bed- 
ding or covering whatsoever ; the height betwixt decks was barely suf- 
ficient to allow a very moderate sized man to sit erect; they would 
appear to be embarked in the proportion of four or five (adults and 
children) to every ton the vessel registers ; from their exposure to all 
sorts of weather, their crowded condition, scanty fare, bad water, and 
confined air, diseases make great inroads among tliem, particularly 
bowel complaints and a hectic marasmus." 

Another states, 

" During the years 1822 and 1823, prior to the appointment of an 
officer for that particular duty, I visited most of the slave vessels on 
their arrival, and found the slaves in general in a most miserable condi- 



Aptitude of Africans for voluntary Labour, 177 

tion, in a very crowded state, and from unavoidable circumstances badly 
supplied with provisions and water, particularly as the voyage from lee- 
ward generally exceeded six weeks. The average of the sick might be 
about one in five, but the whole of them much emaciated and unfit for 
immediate employment ; — the diseases, bowel complaints and afflictions 
of the lungs; — in the children, irremediable debility attended with 
general anasarca. Occasionally the small pox has made its appearance 
during the voyage ; the scene in those instances becomes too horrible 
for description. I cannot however pass over without notice, the kind- 
ness with which these poor wretches have been invariably treated by the 
naval officers in charge, whose attention to them, as far as their means 
would allow, has been unremitting under the most appalling cir- 
cumstances." Papers of 1830, No. 57, p. 87 and 67. 

To this testimony the Commissioners add with much feeling, " It is, 
indeed, truly gratifying to witness the joy sometimes manifested by the 
Africans upon meeting with an officer under whose charge they had 
been brought to the colony." Report, p. 22. 

Now such are the wretched materials, out of which the colony of 
Sierra Leone has been constructed ; nor does the description which has been 
given, horrifying as it is, convey an adequate impression of one half of the 
disadvantages under which they labour. They arrive not only debilitated, 
diseased, and emaciated, but desponding, dejected, and destitute, naked 
with not even a rag to cover them, wholly ignorant of the English lan- 
guage, and without power or inclination for exertion. And yet of these 
wretched beings, what is the report which is given us in the official docu- 
ments from which we have made such copious extracts ? The change 
passed upon them would require the strongest language duly to depict. It 
is like a resurrection from the dead ; a translation from chains and dark- 
ness to light and liberty ; from a depth of wretchedness of which those 
whose eyes have not witnessed it can form no adequate conception, to a 
state of comparative ease and enjoyment, of comfort and happiness ; and 
from barbarism and degradation the most complete, to civilization and 
christian improvement. Nor is it only Colonel Denham and Major 
Ricketts who bear their unequivocal testimony to this gratifying change ; 
the Commissioners themselves afford their reluctant suffrage to the 
same general results, although the system under which the liberated 
Africans had been previously placed was peculiarly wasteful and 
defective, and they were, therefore, seen by those Commissioners, under 
very unfavourable circumstances. 

But notwithstanding the extent and consolatory nature of this change, 
which the Commissioners could not but acknowledge, they were still 
dissatisfied. They seem to have expected and required of these poor 
creatures absolute impossibilities. They seem to have looked for the 
fruits of industry, intelligence, and capital, from men who brought no- 
thing with them into the colony but their unnerved and tottering limbs ; 
and their naked and emaciated bodies; and their depressed and abject 
spirits ; — and not finding those fruits, they pronounce the cruel sentence, 
that for them " some mild coercive power is necessary." (p. 55.) And 
in the very breath in which they enunciate this monstrous proposition, 
and condemn these rescued captives to the experimental process, recom- 



178 Latest Official Accounts of Sierra Leone. 

mended by the stern and unnatural dogmas of the founders of the new 
school of "The Philosophy of Labour," we are calmly told, that the 
more natural and rational inducement of wages had not even yet been 
tried to excite their industry. The words of the Commissioners are 
that, perhaps, " the necessity of this coercion might, however, in some 
degree, be avoided, by giving to the negroes daily wages, even of a 
trifling amount! " — In this way may the happiness of millions of our 
fellow-men be sacrificed to some hard-hearted abstraction ; and of such 
stuff are Commissioners sometimes made ! But let us return from this 
digression to their Report. 

The Commissioners admit that there is much good soil in the valleys 
of the Peninsula, though the more sterile land of the mountains had been 
injudiciously selected for the liberated African villages, thus subjecting 
these poor people to additional and unnecessary difficulties, p. 6, &c. 

They admit also, that the harbour of Sierra Leone is of the most 
Secure and commodious description, and " gives to Freetown a great faci- 
lity for trade, possessed by few situations upon the coast, and probably 
by none, in an equal degree," (p. 7.) ; and that " Freetown, as well as 
the rest of the Peninsula, enjoys an advantage which none of the other 
settlements possess, in a constant and plentiful supply of excellent 
water," (p. 105,) and has, besides,'' some important advantages over the 
other settlements." (p. 108.) 

They farther admit a very visible improvement in various classes of 
the negro population. 

" The general appearance," they observe, " of the Nova Scotian set- 
tlers, differs but little from that of the free people of colour in the West 
Indies. On Sundays their dress is neat and clean, and their general 
deportment very respectable. This remark is equally applicable to all 
the other coloured classes which compose the resident population of 
Freetown, where great external respect is paid to the Sabbath." ib. p. 13. 

Again : — 

" From their previous habits and manner of life, it was not to be ex- 
pected that the Maroons " (exiled from Jamaica, and in 1800 brought to 
Sierra Leone,) " would bring with them to the colony a knowledge of the 
arts of civilized society, or a taste for pursuits requiring industry and 
application. To religion they seem to have been utter strangers, and 
polygamy was prevalent amongst them.* Under these circumstances it 
is not surprising that their accession should have been looked forward 
to with considerable doubt and apprehension ; but these feelings towards 
them soon subsided, as they happened to arrive at a time when their 
services were much required to repel a hostile attack, on which occa- 
sion they appear to have conducted themselves well; and they have 
since maintained, pretty generally, the good opinion then formed of 
them. 

" The laws, under the restraint of which they found themselves 

* This is still the state of their fellow Maroons who remain in Jamaica. No 
stronger proof of the improvement which has been proceeding at Sierra Leone 
can be given, than to compare the actual state of those now resident in that 
colony with those whom they have left behind in Jamaica. The latter are not even 
now allowed to give evidence.in courts of justice against other free persons. 



Aptitude of Africans to voluntary Labour. 179 

placed, must in some cases have been irksome to them. To that by 
which polygamy was abolished they seem to have submitted quietly, 
but many of them opposed a decided resistance to the colonial militia 
laws, which led to the temporary removal of some of them from their 
homes. Although the attempt to introduce a taste for agricultural pur- 
suits would seem entirely to have failed, still in the occupations to 
which they applied themselves, they have shown an aptness which gives 
them the first place in the colony as tradesmen ; and in point of in- 
dustry they are equal, if not superior, to any other class of the popu- 
lation." Report, p. 14. 

" But although they have as yet made little progress in agriculture, 
it may be hoped that eventually their example will be productive of good. 
Several of the Maroons have been successful in trade, by which they 
have acquired a comfortable livelihood ; and a few of them who are 
more extensively engaged in mercantile transactions, are supposed to 
have attained to considerable affluence, at the same time that they have 
maintained a character of great respectability. 

" It has been already stated, that the Maroons were Avithout religion 
when they arrived in the colony. At present, they are almost univer- 
sally sectarians ; for the most part Wesieyan Methodists. 

" From the character and circumstances of these people, they must 
be expected hereafter to maintain a leading influence in this part of 
Africa ; and although it may excite surprise that few, if any of them, 
have been induced to become members of the Established Church of 
that nation to which they owe the enjoyment of present, and the pros- 
pect of future advantages, it would seem unjust to deny to the respect- 
able sectarians, whose zeal and assiduity are best attested by their 
success, the praise which on that account they are entitled to claim. 

" The dress and general appearance of the Maroons is very respect- 
able, particularly on Sunday, when a peculiar neatness is observable ; 
and their deportment not only in chapel, but, as far as opportunities 
have offered of observing it elsewhere during that day, is very creditable. 

" It will be seen by the Document, No. 2. (A.) that of 636 Maroons, 
368 are youths of both sexes. Many of these display at school consi- 
derable aptitude for acquirement, and hold out the promise of becoming 
one day useful auxiliaries in the advancement of civilization, if by a more 
extended scale of education the talents which they possess be culti- 
vated, so as to enable them gradually to rise to situations of trust in the 
colony." Report, p. 1.5. 

The next accession to the colony (independent of the liberated Afri- 
cans,) consisted of eighty-five slaves, banished from Barbadoes on 
account of an insurrection in that island. They were employed in 
public works for two or three years. 

" At the expiration of this time they were permitted to employ them- 
selves for their own benefit; and their conduct since has proved that 
this lenity was not ill judged, for, since the restrictions were removed, 
they have in general shown themselves to be industrious and useful. 

" It is understood that after their dismissal from the public works, 
the great majority of them settled in or about Freetown. Many being 
tradesmen readily found employment, and those who had a knowledge 



180 Latest Official Accounts of Sierm Leone. 

of tropical agriculture have latterly been sought after by merchants and 
other individuals, who have small farms or gardens for their amusement 
in the vicinity. In some of these the Barbadoes negroes have a few 
liberated Africans under their instruction, and thus occupied for their 
own benefit, render themselves really useful to the colony."* ibid. p. 15. 

Another accession to the colony at this time consisted of about 1,000 
black soldiers of the African corps, disbanded in the colony, and settled 
there with their families, some in Freetown, some on farms. 

" Many of them appear industrious." " They have generally main- 
tained a respectable character, and have, by their own exertions, (aided 
by some liberal residents) and under the zealous superintendence of the 
Reverend Mr. Raban, erected a chapel in the distant part of the town, 
where they reside. That gentleman officiates there two days in the week 
to a congregation, averaging, perhaps, one hundred persons, whose 
appearance and deportment are very creditable," ibid. p. 16. 

Now with respect to the liberated Africans, what is their report ? 

" Many liberated Africans reside in Freetown, where they are inter- 
mixed with the other inhabitants ; and no means exist of ascertaining 
the particulars of their condition as a separate class. 

" A small proportion are understood to be engaged in petty trade, 
on their own account, or employed in the shops of the more wealthy 
classes ; but the great majority of them are mechanics, labourers, and 
domestics. 

" The mechanics are chiefly those who had been instructed in trades 
by the engineer department in Freetown, or by the African department 
in the villages. The former have generally resided for a considerable 
time in Freetown, and many of them have so far improved their condi- 
tion as to possess houses much superior to those usually occupied by 
the villagers. Several of them are of stone, and in some instances, of a 
description much above the circumstances of the proprietors. But their 
situation as mechanics afforded facilities, and the wages which they 
form.erly obtained as such, far exceeded the very limited expenditure for 
their clothing and food." ib. p. 32. 

" Independently of Freetown, but including the Isles de Los and 
Bananas, the number of settlements which have at different times been 
made is fourteen." ib. p. 33. 

The Commissioners then proceed to describe the different villages in 
terms of mixed blame and praise ; but as their statements have been 
superseded by subsequent reports, we need not at this late hour enter 
upon them. Speaking of the schools, after some length of detail in 
shewing their very varying progress, the incompetency of many of the 
teachers, and the immense difficulties to be surmounted in teaching 
these ignorant savages, the Commissioners observe as follows : 

" The most serious of these difficulties are, the uncertainty as to the 

* These were the men whom the authorities of Barbadoes had hunted like 
wild beasts, and massacred by hundreds, till their course was stayed by the 
interference of Sir James Leith ; and of whom about 130 were afterwards de- 
ported under circumstances of cruelty which destroyed more than a third of 
their number. The survivors, after two years' confinement on shipboard, were 
landed at Sierra Leone in 1829. 



Indications of General Improvement. I'Sl 

number of children to be provided for in any given period, the wretched 
state of many of them when received, their entire ignorance of the lan- 
guage through the medium of which they are to be instructed, and, for 
a long time, the want of all incitement to exertions, the motives for 
which they cannot sufficiently comprehend. If to these considerations 
be added the very limited number and frequent sickness or change of 
the European teachers, and the incompetency of the native assistants, 
they will account, in some measure, for the little progress that has 
hitherto been made. 

" In the three liberated African schools which were found to be so 
superior to the others, the teachers, besides possessing zeal and ability, 
enjoyed comparatively good healih, and were thereby enabled to con- 
tinue in charge for several successive years." 

" The great increase of Freetown, and the circumstances of its inha- 
bitants, seem to require the establishment of a seminary where a limited 
number of youth might receive a more liberal education than is at pre- 
sent afforded. A few of the more wealthy persons of colour have 
already sent their children to Europe for instruction.* It may therefore 
be inferred that such individuals would readily contribute to the main- 
tenance of a school which should render so expensive a measure unne- 
cessary, and would be joined by others whose circumstances place an 
European education beyond their reach." Report, p. 70. 

" The trial by jury is a part of the law which seems to be duly appre- 
ciated in the colony, and is stated to have been advantageous in prac- 
tice." " We did not, while resident in Freetown, see a single juryman 
objected to, although we attended all the courts that were held during 
that time." 

" The coloured men whom we have had opportunities of observing 
on juries, may be stated as being the most respectable of their class. 
They appeared attentive, and anxious to ascertain the merits of the 
case, and, as far as we could judge from their verdict, seemed to be 
possessed of sufficient intelligence to insure the ends of justice ; though 
a subtle advocate might no doubt occasionally perplex them by techni- 
calities, to which they are at present unaccustomed. It is true, that the 
number which there were opportunities of seeing in the capacity of 
jurors was not considerable, as two pannels only attended the sessions. 
These tried the cases alternately ; and, generally speaking, the same 
individuals acted in jury cases at the court of the recorder. They are 
selected principally from the older settlers, (Nova Scotians and Mti- 
roons), and, in some few instances, from the liberated Africans." — 
Ibid. p. 92. 

" The coroner of Freetown is stated, by the chief justice, to have been 
sometimes appointed by the governor, and sometimes electe 1 by the 
freeholders. The individual at present holding the situation is a Maroon. 

* The Commissioners in tliis and other places, use the term " persons of 
colour," " coloured men"' inaccuralely. Thr-y include under it the Blacks, who 
form the great bulk of the population, and who, in fact, are the persons who 
chiedy send their children to Enp;ian\I for education, and wlio sit on juries. The 
Nova Scotians, IMaroons, Barbadians, discharged Soldiers, and liberated Afri- 
cans, with few exceptions, ave Plack. 

2 G 



182 Proposal for abandoning Sierra Leotie. 

" Neither of the two individuals practising as solicitors and attornies, 
has been professionally educated. One is a European, who acts also as 
King's advocate and registrar of the Vice Admiralty Court ; the other, 
a person of colour, born and educated in England, and actually engaged 
in mercantile pursuits. 

" Of the seven justices in the commission of the peace for the colony, 
one is a military officer, and the other six hold civil situations under the 
government. 

" The mayor and aldermen of Freetown are appointed by the governor 
and council. The present mayor is one of the early Nova Scotian 
settlers ; the senior alderman, one of the early Maroon settlers ; the 
second, a person of colour, born in the West Indies ; and the third, a 
young European, clerk in a mercantile house. 

" Of the commissioners of requests, three are magistrates, and five are 
engaged in trade ; and of these, two are persons of colour." ibid. p. 95. 

If any thing farther were necessary to elucidate this subject, a refe- 
rence might be made to a great variety of high and unexceptionable 
testimonies; — to the records of the African Institution, and to those of 
the Church Missionary Society ; to official reports of Naval Officers, 
both British and American, (particularly to those of the late Sir George 
Collier, and of Captain Trenchard of the United States Navy); and to 
various intelligent and disinterested travellers, of whose evidence a con- 
densed view may be found in a pamphlet, by the late Mr. Kenneth 
Macau lay, published for Hatchard in 1827, entitled " The Colony of 
Sierra Leone Vindicated." See, particularly, pages 23, 32, 38, 39, 61, 
92, &c., and 121— 127. 

We must abstain however from farther details, and even from al- 
luding to the growing trade of the colony, which, with some other 
matters, we must reserve for another occasion. — In the mean time, we 
would ask, what there is in the circumstances of this particular colony 
which renders it so peculiarly the subject of obloquy, condemnation, and 
abandonment ? It has been seriously proposed that Government should 
abandon it. Is this possible ? And if possible, is it consistent with 
good faith or with the dictates of the commonest justice and humanity? 
The great mass of the individuals who compose the colony are Afri- 
cans liberated by our cruizers from the holds of slave ships. Putting 
out of view the strong claims of some other classes of the colonists 
this country has incurred an obligation to the liberated Africans, as 
solemn and imperious as it is possible for a nation to contract ; an obli- 
gation as binding as that which insures the payment of his dividend to 
the fundholder, or of his pension to the wounded and disabled soldier. 
The abolition of the slave-trade, both British and Foreign, is a national, 
not a colonial concern. On this subject, we have contracted engage- 
ments, and incurred responsibilities, in the face of Europe and of ihe 
world, from which, by no sophistry however ingenious, nor by any con- 
siderations of economy however rigid and imfeelihg, can we escape. 
Are the wretched beings, whom our humane and Christian policy has 
led us to rescue from chains and death, to be thrown into the sea, or to 
be cast ashore again on the barbarous coast from which they had been 
torn? Or, if landed at some given point, as Sierra Leone, are they to 



' Proposal for abandoning Sierra Leo7ie. 183 

be left to the risk of again becoming the prey of the ferocious kid- 
napper, and of again undergoing all the horrors of the middle passage ? 
Are they to be abandoned to brutal ignorance, to misrule, to treachery, to 
lawless violence, without protection, v.'ithout the benign control of civil 
government,without instruction, without Christian sympathy, or Christian 
light? It is utterly impossible that such a violation of every just prin- 
ciple, of every moral obligation, which ought to guide the conduct of 
nations as of individuals, can be seriously contemplated by any man of 
reflection, imbued with one spark of humanity. 

But independently of all this, on the 26th of June 1829, the Under-Se- 
cretary of State, Mr. Hay, addressed a letter to Major Ricketts in the 
following terms : — " I have had much pleasure in receiving your letter 
of the 27th March. The disposition to build, which is manifesting itself 
in the villages, affords a strong proof of the improving habits of the 
people; and and it loill be wise to afford every encouragement to that 
disposition, which, as it springs from a due appreciation of the comforts 
of civilized life, must operate as an incentive to industry." Abandon- 
ment after such a despatch ! The thing, we repeat, is absolutely impos- 
sible, at least without either such a flagrant breach of good faith as 
would be in the highest degree opprobrious; or such an overwhelming- 
necessity as would dispense witVi the observance of all ordinary rules of 
moral conduct ; or such an expenditure in the way of indemnity for 
all the labour and all the capital which such a despatch may have in- 
cited individuals to lay out at Sierra Leone, as would far exceed any 
pecuniary sacrifice the nation can now be reasonably required to make, 
in conformity to its plain obligations, for the maintenance of that colony. 

And what is to compensate us for this gross violation of our duties ? 
A saving of expense, we shall be told. Now, no man can fairly 
object to our fulfilling our clear obligations, at the smallest cost which 
is called for by the circumstances of the case. We freely and fully 
admit that the expenditure at Sierra Leone was, for a lime, of a very 
lavish description. It has been such as not only improvidently to 
waste the public money, but needlessly to injure, it seems, by its unsea- 
sonable and reckless profusion, the very persons for whose benefit it was 
issued. All this we admit ; and we admit also, that the case called for 
the strictest investigation, and the most rigid control ; — that the whole 
system required a thorough revision; — that in place of the confusion, 
disorder, and vacillation; the absenceof established regulations; and the 
uncertain and changeful plans which, till a recent period, had marked the 
conduct of this settlement, since it was transferred, in 1808, by the 
Sierra Leone Company to the Crown ; it became incumbent on Parliament 
to see that an effective remedy was applied to these evils, and that by 
clear, precise, and judicious rules steadily enforced, the national bounty 
should not only not be squandered, but should be rendered effective to 
the civilization, improvement, and comfort of the population who are 
its objects. 

But looking at the statements contained in the official documents now 
submitted to Parliament, where, we confidently ask, could the same re- 
sults be produced at so cheap a rate as at Sierra Leone ? If we examine 



184 Insalubrity of Sierra Leone. 

the present scale of expense for the mamtenance of the liberated Afri^ 
cans, we shall find it difficult to specify a single spot, on either side of 
the Atlantic, where similar advantages could be enjoyed by them, and 
where similar benefits could be conferred upon them, for more than 
double the expense that is now incurred. 

But we shall be told of the deadliness of the climate, of the dreadful 
waste of human life which it causes, and of the still more dreadful 
waste which it must hereafter occasion. — Now v/e have no hesitation 
to admit, that as respecls Europeans, and more especially European 
troops, this objection would have a force which could not be resisted, 
if the mortality which it justly depicts were necessary and unavoidable, 
instead of being as it is, so uncalled for and gratuitous, as actually to 
involve a cruel and wanton sacrifice of human life. We maintain that 
there does not now exist, and that there never did exist, any satis- 
factory reason for exposing the lives of British soldiers, and especially 
soldiers of the description selected for Sierra Leone, to the risks of a 
climate where intemperance is to such a sure warrant of death, and 
where black soldiers would have been both infinitely more safe and in- 
finitely more serviceable than whites. 

The bad character of those soldiers may be inferred from the following 
communication of Mr. Hay, the Under-Secretary of State to Mr. Suli- 
van of the War-Office, respecting the reduction of the African corps, 
dated 23d January 1829. 

" No difficulty, it is conceived, can exist in disposing of the native 
men: they may be located among the liberated Africans. But Sir 
George Murray is not enabled to suggest what measures should be taken 
for disposing of those European soldiers who are serving in the corps 
on terms of commuted punishment, for offences of the nature of which 
the Secretary of State has not been apprised. From all the informa- 
tion, however, which has from time to time been received at this de- 
partment, respecting the general bad conduct of the European soldiers 
of the Royal African Corps, Sir George Murray is compelled to think 
that it would be inexpedient and even dangerous to set them at large; 
and if they cannot be drafted into West India regiments, or it should 
not be deemed convenient to bring them home, there would seem to be 
no alternative but to continue them embodied in the two companies of 
the African corps which it is proposed to retain, and to supply the 
casualties among them by Africans." 

In other words, they are such bad subjects that they must be allowed 
to remain in that deathful climate as the shortest and cheapest way of 
getting rid of them. — And yet these are the men with whose presence 
and example Sierra Leone has been afflicted, and of the eftect of whose 
crimes, and of whose profligate habits that colony must bear the re- 
proach. On this subject let the official documents before us speak. 

" These soldiers," says Mr. Surgeon Bell, " were of the worst de- 
scription ; men who drank to the greatest excess ; and, when in town, 
it was a very common occurrence, of a morning, to find half a dozen of 
white soldiers lying- about the streets beastly intoxicated. 

" It is an undoubted fact, in my own mind, that drunkenness more 



Insalubrity of Sierra Leone. 18& 

strongly predisposes the constitutions of people in this country to fevers, 
(and I may say excites them) than almost any other habits." Papers 
of 1830, p. 31. 

Mr. Ferguson, Surgeon of the Royal African Corps, states as 
follows : — 

" The climate of Sierra Leone shews little or no morbid peculiarity 
of efliect on persons born in Africa." " On Europeans it is productive of 
fevers of the intermittent, bilious, remittent and continued types, of 
dysentery and diarrhcea, and of the numerous train of complaints called 
organic visceral diseases and visceral obstructions, which last are rarely 
found idiopathic, and generally occur as the sequelae of febrile diseases." 
(ibid. p. 77.) He then enters into a detail of mortality among the 
European troops, and closes it with " remarking, that from the very 
dissolute lives led by the soldiers, they do not afford the surest criterion 
for judging of the influence of the climate on European constitutions, 
as I am convinced that a great part of the foregoing melancholy detail 
may be directly ascribed to causes which were entirely within their own 
control." (ibid. p. 79.) 

We add the testimony of Dr. Sweeney, Surgeon to the forces : — 

" The colony of Sierra Leone has some important -advantages 
over the other settlements ; a greater extent of cleared country, a steady 
range of temperature, and a plentiful supply of excellent water. The 
Gambia has not that regularity of temperature, and the water is bad ; 
and at Cape Coast the water is not only bad, but deficient in supply, 
and a great source of guinea worm, at least such was the case the year 
I was there." 

" Bad as the climate is^ and though it is too frequent that the local 
causes are not under one's control, still there are many of the exciting 
that are ; and from a disregard of them, disease and death are often 
brought on by the thoughtless Europeans ; such as the heedless exposure 
to the sun, night dews, cold and wet, and intemperance. Nothing is 
more common than for the troops to be so intoxicated that many cannot 
walk home to their barracks ; they sleep among the grass all night, and, 
very likely, when they awake they find themselves drenched to the 
skin with rain. Others who may have reached their quarters, after being 
a short time in bed get heated from the stimulus of the liquor ; 
they then turn out for the cool air, perhaps with their bodies covered 
with perspiration ; here the damp of the night will give a sudden check 
to perspiration ; and what is more likely than fever to follow ? Not- 
withstanding the generality of the men are of loose moral characters, I 
think many of their irregularities proceed from the forlorn state they 
are placed in, removed for ever from their country, families, and friends, 
and possibly their own earthly existence short. To dispel such distressing- 
reflections they generally fly to the rum bottle for relief, as their usual 
expression is, ' A short life and a merry one.' The present ration is not 
adequate to keep up health ; the beef is always bad, and almost desti- 
tute of nourishment ; a return to the small rations they had last year 
would contribute both to their health and comfort." (ibid. pp. 83 and 84.) 

Will it be credited, that without the fair ground of any necessity, nay, 
with a vast preponderance of evil over good, we should have continued 



186 Insalubrity of Sierra Leone and the West Indies. 

to send European officers and soldiers in such numbers to the African 
coast ? It was an inconsiderate and wanton expenditure of British 
life for purposes which would have been infinitely better answered by 
native troops ; than whom no troops have proved themselves more 
worthy of confidence ; and on whom, as Mr. Ferguson observes, the 
" climate of Sierra Leone shews no morbid peculiarity of effect." Why 
indeed might not these troops be also officered by individuals of the 
black or coloured classes ? Nay, why might not all (or nearly all) 
the civil offices of the colony be filled from the same classes ? 

This objection to retaining Sierra Leone, therefore, has no foundation, 
except in the infatuation, for in this light we must regard it, which 
permitted such a needless sacrifice of European life. 

But after all, this objection comes with an ill grace from those who, 
with their eyes open to the facts of the case, have clamoured incessantly 
respecting the sacrifice of European life at Sierra Leone, and have 
maintained an uniform and studied silence respecting the far more 
costly sacrifice of such life, which our West Indian Colonies entail 
upon us. That incurred for Africa has been transient and of short 
duration, and we trust has ceased for ever, at least when the requisite 
casualties for sweeping off the existing number shall have taken effect. 
But the sacrifice incurred for the West Indies is very far more ex- 
tensive; it has endured for generations ; and it is now proceeding, and 
promises, if Parliament do not interfere, to be permanent. — We have 
long wished to see exhibited to the British public the dreadful roll of 
disease and death, which, since the year 1790, the military annals of the 
West Indies would unfold to view. It would sicken them still more 
of the slavery which this mortality has been incurred to uphold. The 
account has often been called for, but as often refused by those who 
best know the ghastly character of the suppressed record. In the 
last session of parliament, (2d of June 1829,) a motion to that effect 
v\?as made and actually assented to by the House of Commons, as 
appears by the following entry in the votes of that house. " West 
Indies' mortality in the navy and army. Return ordered, ' shewing 
the number of troops stationed in the different colonies of the West 
Indies, and the number of deaths which have occurred in each year 
since June 1810, distinguishing European from colonial corps.'" &c. 

Now, not only has this return, though ordered, not been produced, 
but the Secretary at War, we understand, actually refuses to produce 
it, and the reason we believe to be that the account is too horrifying for 
the public eye. We trust, however, that the House of Commons 
will feel it to be their duty to enforce a compliance with so just and 
reasonable and necessary a requisition. Let us, at least, know what 
we pay for the crime of slavery, not only in treasure, but in blood. 

We will add no more, at present, except to state, as a proof that Sierra 
Leone is not unfavourable to the health of the black and coloured classes, 
that the Maroons have increased there, and that in 1828, the births 
among the liberated Africans, in the villages, are stated to have been 
461, viz. 234 males and 227 females; and the deaths, 390, viz. 213 
males and 177 females. The whole population of the liberated Afri- 
cans, in the villages, in that year, exclusive of 2562 persons resident 



Insalubrity of Sierra Leone and the West Indies. 187 

in Freetown, or at the timber factories, or elsewhere employed, was as 
follows : — 

Males — above fourteen years of age . 6294 
under that age . . . 2813 

9107 

Females — above fourteen years of age . 3702 
under that age . . . 2195 

5897 



15004 ■ 
What makes this result the more remarkable is, that in the course of 
the preceding year, 2458 liberated captives, in a state of disease and 
emaciation such as has been already described, had been added to the 
population ; and that the proportion of adult males to females is nearly 
two to one. 



After the above sheets had passed through the press, we met with 
the West Indian Reporter, No. XXVIII, which professes to give a 
view of the present state of Sierra Leone. It will be found curiously 
to illustrate the observations with which we commenced the present 
article. It has received, however, unconsciously to us, so full and 
complete an answer in the preceding pages, as to render one additional 
word, for the purpose of refutation, unnecessary. 

By way of set-off to our statement of the cost of slavery, (No. 57), 
the Editors have given us what they call " an unpublished official docu- 
ment," made up to the end of 1826, of the cost of Sierra Leone. This 
" unpublished official document," we believe to be nothing more than 
such a modification of those mendacious statements of Blackwood, 
which have been already so efTectually exposed, as they think the, 
public will swallow. If the document they spsak of be in existence, 
■why do they not produce it? We do not believe that any such docu- 
ment exists. Indeed it bears on its front the characters of forgery. 
And yet it is issued as an official document, under the sanction of the 
West India Committee. A farther presumption of the fabricated 
character of this pretended document may be drawn from the last 
number of the Quarterly Review, (No. LXXXIV, p. 524) a work 
which has shewn itself almost as bitterly hostile to Sierra Leone as 
Mr. Macqueen himself. Its words are, " The whole sum expended 
upon it at present, is ridiculously small, compared with the statements 
which have been put forth on the subject." Quere by Mr. Macqueen 
and the West India Reporter ? 

One word more: the authors of the West Indian Reporter wish it to 
be understood, that the original founders of Sierra Leone have conti- 
nued to conduct it since it was transferred to the Crown in 1808, and 
that it is their plans which have been followed by the colonial minister. 
Now the fact is, and it is well known to each successive colonial 
minister, that since the year 1808, their adVice, respecting the colony, 
has never been asked, nor have their suggestions respecting it been 
attended to, when given unasked ; and moreover, that since then no 
appointment has taken place to the offices of governor or judge on 
their recommendation : nor hns anv individual been appointed to (hose 



1S8 We si India Commitlee — Anti-Slavery General Meeting. 

offices who was even personally known to them beforehand. They are 
perfectly guiltless, therefore, either of the success or the failure which, 
during the last twenty years, may have attended the progress of the 
colony. 

II. — West India Committee. 

At a meeting of this body on the 24th of February last, the Marquis 
of Chandos in the chair, it was resolved, " That this body, identified 
in interest with the colonial legislatures, and placing implicit confidence 
in their proceeding:, recognize in those measures, which they have 
adopted for the improvement of the slave population, that humane dis- 
position, as well as that local experience and practical observation, 
without which any plans of amelioration would be no less injurious to 
the slaves themselves than to the proprietors. 

"That the West India body repeat the declaration, that they have 
never directly or indirectly authorized or concurred in any measure, 
having for its object compulsory manumission of the slaves in the 
West India colonies ; and they continue of opinion that such a mea- 
sure would be highly inexpedient, and that it is even inconsistent with 
the resolutions of Parliament of 1823, being in their opinion opposed 
both to the civilization and welfare of the slaves, and to the interests 
and rights of property of the colonists. 

" That by the policy which has been unhappily pursued towards the 
West India colonies, the tenure by which those possessions, with all 
their advantages, political and commercial, are held by the mother 
country, is becoming more and more precarious ; and it is therefore 
essential that measures should be adopted by this body, both collec- 
tively and individually, to bring the real situation of the West India 
colonies before members of the legislature and the country at large, in 
order to prevent the loss or destruction of so valuable a portion of the 
empire, which a longer perseverance in a mistaken policy must inevitably 
occasion." 

To these resolutions they subjoin an abstract of the existing sluve 
codes, in order to make known what has been actually done by the 
colonial legislatures towards the amelioration of slavery. 

Wc undertake io shew, in a future Number, that this abstract, though 
thus sanctioned, is a gross imposition on the public. 



III. — Anti-Slaveky General Meeting. 

A General Meeting of the Society for the Abolition of 
Slavery throughout the British Dominions, will be held at 
Freemasons' Hall, Great Queen Street, Lincohis-lnn-Fields, on 
Saturday the Fifteenth of May 1830. 

The doors will be opened at Twelve o'clock, and the Chair taken at 
One precisely. Thomas Pringle, 5'ec. 

Tickets of admission may be had on application after the 1st of 
May, at the Society's Office, 18, Aldermanbury ; Messrs. Hatchard 
and Sons, 187, Piccadilly ; Mr. Nisbet's, 21, Berner's Street ; Messrs. 
Seeley's, Fleet Street ; and Messrs. Arch's, 61,Cornhi!l. 

Lojiilon : Bagster aiul Tlioms, Printers, 14. r.arthol'iintw Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

?^o. 60.] For MAY, 1830. [No. 12. Vol. rii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be forwarded to any Anti^ 
Slavej*y Society, at the rate of four Shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity, on application at 
the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury. Single Copies may be had' of all 
booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Irf. per half-sheet of eight pages. 



I. ANTI-SLAVERY GENERAL MEETING; ITS OBJECT. 
II. WEST INDIA COMMITTEE; ITS HOSTILITY TO REFORM, 
And its MISREPRESENTATIONS. 

III. ftAYTl, AND MR. MACKENZIE. ^ 

IV. JAMAICA WATCHMAN AND PEOPLE OF COLOUR. 
V. ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN MEXICO. 



I. Anti-Slavery General Meeting ; its Object. 

A General Meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society and its Friends w^ill 
beheld at Freemasons' Hall, Great Queen Street, Lincoln's-Inn Fiddk, 
on Saturday the 15th Instant. The doors will be opened at Twelve, 
and the Cliair will be taken by William Wilberfbrce, Esq., at One 
o'clock precisely. Tickets of admission may be had at the Society's 
Office, 18, Aldermanbury; Messrs. Hatchard and Son, 187, Piccadilly ; 
Mr. Nisbet, 2t, Berner's Street; Messrs. Seeley's, Fleet Street; and 
Messrs. Arch, 61, Cornhill. 

The main object for which this meeting has been called by the Com- 
mittee, is to afltiounce to their'constituents that, at the end of seven years 
of vain and illusory expectation, they have reluctantly come to the 
conclusion, that the only hope of success which rlow remains to them 
must proceed, under the blessing of God, from the earnest, concurrent, 
and persevering efforts of the British nation, to induce the Government 
and Parliament to carry at length into effect their solemn pledge, 
given in 1823, for the extinction of slavery throughout the dominions 
of His Majesty. 

Ih the successive numbers of the Monthly Anti'-SIavery Reporter, 
the circumstances which have led to this conclusion have been fully 
detailed; but a condensed view of them will be found in that for 
March last, (No. 58,) and in the following pages of the present num- 
ber. To these sources of information we beg to refer the friends of 
Our cause. 



I'I» West In&ia Committee; its avoaved hostility to reform, 
AND its Misrepresentations. 
In our last number (p. 188) we inserted the resolutions adopted, on 
the 24th February, by the committee of the West India body, the Mar- 
quis of Chandos in the chair. In these they boldly avow the identity 
of their own interests and feelings with those of the colonial legislatures, 
in whom they profess to place "implicit confidence," and in whose 

2 H 



190 Conduct of the West India Committee. 

recent measures of amelioration they recognise the combined influence 
of humanity and practical wisdom. The Committee disclaim, at the same 
time, having ever authorized, or concurred in, any proposition for what is 
called " compulsory manumission," in other words, for giving to the 
slave a right to purchase his own freedom or that of his offspring at a 
fair appraisement. They disclaim, that is to say, any measure however 
slow and progressive, which can afford the feeblest hope of terminating 
slavery at a period however distant. 

Such is the unqualified avowal in 1830 of the existing Committee 
of the West India planters and merchants in London. 

In the face, however, of this declaration, we are enabled to quote the 
repeated affirmations of Earl Bathurst, that the measures which, in his 
circular despatch of the 9th of July, 1823, he recommended to the 
adoption of the colonial legislatures, and afterwards embodied in the 
Trinidad order in council, (of which measures compulsory manumission 
formed a prominent part,) " had received the concurrence and appro- 
bation of the majority of the individuals in England most deeply in- 
terested in the prosperity of the West Indies.''''* In the conference 
also to which on the 6lh of July, 1829, a large deputation from the 
West India body, with the Marquis of Chandos at their head, was 
admitted by the Duke of Wellington, his Grace is stated to have re- 
minded them that the measures of colonial reform recommended by 
Government in 1823, "had had the concurrence of a considerable por- 
tion of the West India body, including most of those he saw around 
him." This, we understand, was not denied by the deputation. They 
admitted that a majority of the standing committee of that period had, 
at the late Mr. Canning's request, agreed to furnish him with an enu- 
meration of the particular measures of amelioration to which they could, 
without danger, consent, being those afterwards brought forward by 
him in the House of Commons on the 15th of May, 1823.t This 
statement derives ample confirmation from other circumstances. 

When on the 1 5th of May, 1823, Mr. Canning explained to the 
House of Commons the intentions of Government on the subject of 
colonial reform, (prompted, as it now appears, by the West Indian 
Committee,) the whole of the West Indian gentlemen who spoke on that 
occasion expressed their concurrence. Mr. Ellis, now Lord Seaford, 
declared that to many of the proposed regulations, and particularly 
to the abolition of the driving-whip, of the flogging of females, of 
Sunday markets, and of Sunday labour ; and to the allotment of equiva- 
lent time to the slaves in lieu of Sunday ; as well as to the grant to 
them of legal rights of property, " no objection would be offered on the 
part of the planters in the West Indies." % Mr. Mafryat, at that time 

* See official despatches of Lord Bathurst, of July 23d, 1824, to the Goverijor 
of Berbice ; of July 24th, 1824, to the Governor of St. Lucia ; and of 22d 
August, 1825, to the Governor of Tobago ; contained in the papers laid by His 
Majesty's command before Parliament, viz. Papers for 1825, p. 229, and 254, 
and Papers for 1826, p. 99. 

t We state this on the authority of letters said to be from members of the 
deputation, vehich have appeared in colonial newspapers. 

X And yet to this hour, as we shall presently see, these measures are still 
rejected by the wisdom and humanity of the colonial legislatures, notwith- 



Conduct of the Conunitiee and of the Colonial Legislatures. 191 

the g:reat champion of West Indian interests, expressed his approbation 
of Mr. Canning's proposals, in still more unqualified terms. " I am 
bound," he said, " to express viy most hearty concurrence in the reso- 
lutions of the right honourable gentleman." (See substance of debate 
of 15th of May, 1823, printed for Hatchard, pp. 55 and 82.) 

On a subsequent occasion, namely, on the 16th of March, 1824, when 
Mr. Canning laid on the table of the House of Commons a copy of the 
order in council for Trinidad, and explained at some length its leading 
provisions, and among them that for compulsory manumission, adding, 
that the Government held out this order as the model according to 
which they expected the colonial legislatures to frame their slave codes ; 
Mr. Ellis alone, (now Lord Seaford) of all the West Indians then in 
the house, expressed any doubt as to the expediency of the manumis- 
sion clause. By every other West Indian, who took part in that dis- 
cussion, an unqualified approbation of the whole plan of the Govern- 
ment, without one specified exception, was either implied or distinctly 
expressed. Mr. Watson Taylor declared, "that the propositions of 
Mr. Canning had his most hearty concurrence : he concurred in the 
large and liberal views taken by Government." Mr. Manning thought 
" that the views of the Government were temperate and moderate. He 
was most anxious that the House should give effect to them." Mr. 
Thomas Wilson was of opinion that " the measures proposed by His 
Majesty'^s ministers were the best that could be devised to meet all dif- 
ficulties." Mr. Baring also approved of them, (See the Times newspaper 
of the 17th of March, 1824.)* 

It invalidates in no degree the effect of these statements, that the 
abolitionists should always have regarded the Trinidad order in council 
as essentially defective in its provisions. (See No. 58.) 

But notwithstanding this general acquiescence of the West India 
body in England in the propriety of the reforms recommended by the 
Government, the colonial legislatures have, as if with one consent, 
and with scarcely an exception, rejected them. They have refused to 
adopt not the manumission clause alone, but almost every other melio- 
rating provision of the Trinidad order, though thus unequivocally sanc- 
tioned at the time by the majority of the West India planters resident 
in this country. — They have made no legal provision for the education 
and religious instruction of the slave population by obliging masters to 
grant the requisite time and means for that purpose. With two excep- 
tions, (Grenada and Tobago,) they have not prohibited Sunday mar- 



standing this unhesitating promise of ready compliance given by the then 
Chairman of the West India Committee. 

* If farther proof were necessary, it might be found in the fact, that the 
West India committee of 1826 adopted, on their list of publications for general 
circulation, two works which had it in view to vindicate the provisions of the Tri- 
nidad order from the objections of anti-slavery writers ; one by IMajor Moody, 
entitled, " Considerations in defence of the Order in Council for the melioration 
of Slaves in Trinidad," being a series of letters which appeared in the Star 
newspaper, under the signature of Vindex ; the other, a pamphlet professing the 
same general object, by Mr. Wilmot Horton, entitled, " The West India Ques- 
tion practically Considered." 



192 Inconsistency of West India Body in England. 

kets, and even in these two excepted eases, the prohibition has been 
rendered nugatory by the refusal, (comipon to them with all the other 
colonial legislatures), to grant equivalent tifne to the slave during the 
week, in lieu of Sunday, either for the purpose of marketing, or for 
that of raising, for themselves and their families, the necessary food 
\vhich they are now compelled to employ the Sunday in cultivating. 
Only by one of the legislatures (Grenada) has the testimony of slaves 
been admitted without restrictions which render the admission nugatory. 
By none has the marriage of slaves been duly facilitated and legalized, 
or the separation of families by sale been effectually prohibited, or their 
legal rights of property been adequately secured. By none has a 
proper record and return been required of those arbitrary punishments, 
whether by the cart-whip, the cat, or the stocks, which the master is stilj 
perrnitted by law to retain the tremendous power of inflicting, without 
revision or responsibility, for any offence, or for no offence. By none 
hjas the flogging of females, or the brutifying practice of driving the 
slaves to their work in the field been prohibited. By none have indepen-i 
dent protectors of the slaves been appointed ; and by none but one has 
the iniquitous law been altered by which black or coloured persons are 
presumed to be slaves, and, under the penalty of being reduced to 
slavery, may be put to the perilous proof of their freedom. 

To the justice and expediency of these various measures of reform, 
the West India body at home had, from the year 1823 to the year 1826, 
either by their organs in Parliament, or by their standing committee, 
professed their assent. The colonial legislatures, however, have to this 
hour steadily refused, with a few rare exceptions, to adopt them. And 
yet, in 1830, the standing committee of this body have come forward to 
announce to the public their identity in interest and feeling with those 
very legislatures ; to avow implicit confidence in their purposes and 
proceedings ; and to laud the wisdom and the humanity which have 
guided their deliberations. 

How is this singular inconsistency, on the part of the noblemen and 
gentlemen composing the standing Committee of the West India body, 
to be accounted for ? Its composition may have somewhat varied. 
Lord Seaford has relinquished the chair to the Marquis of Chandos, 
and some names have been added to the Committee. Still it is diflficult 
to understand the grounds of this complete revolution in the system of 
colonial tactics — this complete departure in 1830 from the pledges and 
assurances of 1823, 1824, and 1826, — this complete stultification of the 
professed views of the old Committee, by the recent annunciations and 
resolutions of the new. 

It is in the view doubtless of obviating this objection, that the standi 
ing Committee have annexed to their resolutions, '* An Abstract of the 
British West India Statutes for the Protection and Government of 
Slaves," which have been enacted subsequently to the resolutions of 
May 1823, and which they say, will shew " what the Colonial Legis-r 
latures have actually done towards the amelioration of slavery," p. v. 

We hail the appearance of this abstract, thus lauded and thus authen- 
ticated; and we now. proceed to shew, according to the pledge given 
in our last number, that it is " a gross impositioa.en the public;" 9 



Wesi India Cwnmittees Abstract of Ameliorations examined. 193 

most unfair thou^ feeble attempt to pass off as genuine the spurious 
reforms of colonial legislation. 

The Committee rest their cause first on the Jamaica Slave Code of 
1826, which they represent as a greatly improved version of that of 
1816. This last, they affirm, had "received unqualified approbation 
from many of His Majesty's Ministers." And the plain inference there- 
fore is, that the Act of 1826 would have obtained still higher appro- 
bation in the same quarter but for " certain clauses limiting the opera- 
tions of sectarian preachers," on account of which it was " disallowed 
by His Majesty's Government." Abstract, p. 1, 

Now surely this, in the very outset, is a most unwarrantable represent 
tation of the facts of the case. So far was the Act of 1826, though 
affirmed to be an improved version of that of 1816, from obtaining, in- 
dependently of its persecuting clauses, the unqualified approbation of 
His Majesty's Ministers, that, as the Committee are well aware, a great 
part of Mr, Huskisson's despatch, of the 22d September, 1827, is occu- 
pied in pointing out the gross and palpable defects of its most material 
provisions. Almost every sentence in that long and able despatch con- 
veys a censure on the legislature of Jamaica, and convicts them of dis- 
positions the very reverse of those for which the West India Committee 
are now giving them credit; nor can the force of that censure be weak- 
ened, or its point blunted, by a few complimentary phrases Mr. Hus- 
kisson may have used in the hope of allaying the irritation which the 
general tenor of his communication could not fail to produce. 

" The following Abstract," say the standing Committee of the West 
India body, " of the ameliorating clauses of the act, as passed in 1826, 
sufficiently evinces the disposition of the Assembly of Jamaica to en- 
large the privileges and to protect the persons of their slaves.'' — - 
Abstract, p. 2. 

Now, in opposition to this statement, we undertake to shew that this 
act might be more truly characterised by the injustice and inhumanity of 
many of its provisions, and by the designed inefficiency and inopera- 
tiveness of its pretended ameliorations ; while nearly all the clauses 
of which Mr. Huskisson inadvertently praises the humane tendency 
are transcripts from old statutes, without any additional sanctions to 
render them operative, or to make them cease to be, what it is notorious 
they had ever been, a mere dead letter. But let us come to particulars. 
We shall first take in their order the six clauses which the Committee 
have classed under the head of " Religious Observances." 

Isti " §. 3, Provides that the clergyman of each parish shall, on applica- 
tion, without fee or reward, baptize all slaves who can be made sensible of 
a duty to God and the Christian faith, in the which owners are to instruct 
them." Abstract, p. 2. 

The clause of which this is the abstract, enacts as follows, " That all 
owners, &c., and in their absence overseers of slaves shall, as much as 
in them lies, endeavour the instruction of their slaves, in the principles 
of the Christian religion, whereby to facilitate their conversion, and 
shall do their utmost endeavour to fit them for baptism, and, as soon as 
conveniently can be, cause to be baptized all such as they can make 
sensible of the duty- to God and the Christian faith, which ceremony the 



194 ComTfiittees Abstract examined — Religion. 

clergymen of the respective parishes are to perform, when required, 
without fee or reward." Act of 1826, §. 3. 

Any one who reads this clause in connection with the Committee's 
prefatory comment, would naturally suppose it to be one of the amelio- 
rating measures by which the privileges of the slaves had been enlarged 
in compliance with the resolutions of May 1823. Instead of this, it is 
nearly a transcript of a clause in the slave law of 1696, which has 
been copied, with slight verbal variations, into every subsequent conso- 
lidated slave act, from that time to the present. See Act of 1696, ?;. 45; 
of ] 788, §. 5 ; of 1816, §. 2 ; and of 1826, §. 3 ; the only material difFer- 
ence in all these versions of the clause being ihe addition, in the case of 
the last, of the words, " without fee or reward," 

This clause therefore of the Act of 1826, for the framers of which the 
West India Committee would claim the credit of wisdom and humanity, 
has actually stood a dead letter in the Jamaica statute book for one 
hundred and thirty years. But by what magic power a clause which 
for so long a period had been wholly inoperative was to be endowed 
with efficiency on being re-enacted totidem verbis in 1826, they have 
not told us. They ought at least to have had to shew that in transfer- 
ring the hitherto dead letter of this enactment from the old to the new 
statute, the legislature had evinced their humane purpose of ameliora- 
tion by adopting some means for at length giving it vitality. But this 
was not their object. The clause was re-enacted with a view to its effect 
not in Jamaica but in Great Britain. Consequently not a single penalty 
was annexed to the neglect of its provisions, nor were any means pre- 
scribed, or any periods allotted, for their execution. — During the inquiry 
before the Privy Council in 1789, this clause was adverted to as standing 
on the Jamaica statute book ; but the living witnesses who were questioned 
on the subject, namely the council of the island, Mr. Fuller the agent, 
Mr. Long, and Mr. Chisholm, all admitted that it had led to no results, 
and that no institutions whatever existed in that island by law for the 
instruction of the slaves. And to this very hour, the law remains in 
the same miserably defective state. It has provided no means for 
securing to the slave either education or religious instruction ; the 
matter, though admitted in terms to be of the highest importance, being 
still left wholly to the hostile discretion of owners or overseers. 

In his circular despatch of the 3d September 1828, Sir George Murray 
pointedly refers to this unsatisfactory state of things, and presses upon 
the colonial legislatures the necessity of a change in that respect. It 
is, he says, " necessary that this important object should not be in- 
trusted solely to individuals," (as is done in the above clause) " but that 
provision should likewise be made for it by law." No such provision 
however has yet been made in Jamaica, or indeed in any of our slave 
colonies. To exhibit such a clause as this therefore as fulfilling the obli- 
gations of the colonial legislatures, in respect to education and religious 
instruction, — what is it but " an imposition on the public ?" 

We have dwelt at greater length on this clause, in order fully to 
develope the studied delusion which will be found too often to charac- 
terise colonial legislation, especially in what relates to slavery. Even 
the grgive and solemn enactment before us is so contrived as to delude 



Committee's Abstract examined— Marriage. 195 

tlie ignorant into a belief of the humane and pious purposes of it& 
framers. And yet they must have been conscious at the time that it 
could not but prove utterly inoperative, being left in its state of naked 
abstraction, without a single executory provision or a single sanction of 
any description. — In order to form a just estimate of the humane dis- 
positions of colonial legislators, and of the encomiums lavished upon 
them by the standing committee of the West India body, we ought 
to contrast with the feebleness and inefficiency of their ameliorating en- 
actments, the tremendous penal sanctions, and the prompt and energetic 
executory provisions, which await the delinquencies of the slave. 

2d. "§4, That the said clergyman shall also, without fee,marry, with their 
owner's consent, any slaves who have been baptized and are desirous of con- 
tracting matrimony, if such clergyman shall, upon examination of the par- 
ties, consider them to have a proper and adequate knowledge of the obliga- 
tion of such a contract." Abstract, p. 2. 

Such is the substance of the tardy and reluctant enactment which 
the legislature of Jamaica condescended, for the first time, in 1826, to 
frame in respect to the marriage of slaves. Mr. Huskisson in his 
despatch of the 22d of September 1827, justly remarks upon it, 1st, that 
it provides no remedy against the capricious refusal of the owner's con- 
sent ; 2d. that by confining the power of celebrating marriages to the 
clergy of the established church, every other class of religious teachers 
are deprived of the means of exercising a salutary influence on the minds 
of their disciples, and Roman Catholic priests of a right they enjoy by 
the common law ; 3d, that the necessity of undergoing an examination 
by a clergyman as to their sense of the nature and obligations of the 
marriage contract is not apparent, and might prove a serious impedi- 
ment to the formation of such connections, while the range of such an 
inquiry, embracing a large variety of considerations, can with difficulty 
be limited ; and 4th, that no provision is made for any registry of slave 
marriages, or for a periodical return of them. 

But even these objections of Mr. Huskisson to this illusory enactment 
are not all which may fairly be made to it. 

What shall we say of the absurd and unprecedented provision which 
makes baptism a necessary preliminary to marriage ? This is not re- 
quired even in England. The marriages of Quakers, of the unbaptized 
children of Baptists, of Jews, &c. are as valid as any other. And why 
not ? Or is it the humane and moral purpose of the Jamaica legislature 
that all who are not baptized shall be compelled to live in lawless con- 
cubinage ; and that no marriages shall be valid but those of Church of 
England Christians? 

Again, the legislature of Jamaica have entirely omitted that part of 
the recommendation of the Secretary of State which proposes to give 
legal validity to the marriages of slaves. The words of the Trinidad order 
are, that such marriages " shall to all intents and purposes be binding, 
valid, and effectual in the law." These words are omitted in the 
Jamaica act, and no words of equivalent force are substituted for them, 

Mr. Huskisson, in his despatch, seems to assume that the Jamaica 
Assembly had really and honestly intended to facilitate, and to render 
legally valid, the marriages of slaves, but that they had blundered as to 



196 Cormmttees Abstract exaihined — Sunday Markets. 

the means of catrying their mteraHicrtis into effect. But when all the ci*- 
cumstances of the case are attentively considered, it seems impossible 
to give them credit for any such intention. Whatever may bg the' pro- 
Zested aim of the clause, its real aim seems to have been not to en- 
courage marriage, but to throw impediments in its way, and certainly 
in that aim it has succeeded : it has made the impediments sufficiienlily 
formidable. Another aim was doubtless to lead the Engfeh public to 
suppose that the colonists were at length disposed to give due encoi*- 
ragement and legal validity to slave marriages. We trust that what we 
have now said will dissipate this delusion^ 

3d'. "§ 6>. Abolishes Sunday markets and s-Aops' after elEV€!tf in tliemOrniDg, 
excepting druggists and a few other cases in oonformitf with the ■practice of 
Englandrelative to the Sabbath." Abstract, p. 3. 

This statement appears to us to involve another gross atteilipt to im- 
pose on the creduUty of the public. The real effect of the clause, 
instead of being to abolish Sunday markets and shops,, is in truth to 
establish and legalize them for nearly half the day. It actually con^ 
stitutes and selects Sunday as the market day for the slaves, it being the 
only day allowed them by law for that purpose. And this, in West 
India phrase, is called aftoZesAiwgr Sunday markets ! And this immoral 
and unchristian enactment is said, with a singular disregard of truth, 
t® be " m conformity with the practice of England relative to the 
sabbath." Its sanctity we admit, is too often violated ; but surely it 
cannot be said that it is either the law or the practice of England that 
Smithfield or any other market,, with all the shops around it, should 
be not only open on Sunday for all transactions of buying and selling, 
but that Sunday should be selected and specially fixed for that object, 
and" should be the only day on which, from the state of the law, the 
Ikilk of the population possess the power of attending a market at all. 
And yet this is done by the ameliorated law of the Jamaica legislature, 
here held up to our admiration as a proof both of their humanity 
and of their wisdom. — The view we have taken of the subject seems 
in strict accordance with that of Mr. Huskisson. He says, in the 
despatch already referred to, " In the provisions for the due observance 
of Sunday, I remark, that the continuance of the market on that day. 
till the hour of eleven, is contemplated as a permanent regulation. It 
i& impossible,, however, to sanction this systematic violation of the law 
prevailing in every other Christian country." Yet such, we repeat, is 
the ameliorating provision which the humane dispositions of the Ja- 
maica legislature have led them to enact, and which theChristian feelings 
of iJie standing committee of the West India bodyi have led them to 
applaud. 

4thi " § 7. Prohibits levies on slaves on Saturdays, in order to enable them' 
to attend religious duties on Sundays." Abstract, p. 3. 

These words convey a strange, and apparently deliberate mystification 
and perversion of the facts of the case. To understand it properly^ 
die reader ought to be aware that previous to 1824^ on all days but 
Sunday, by the law of Jamaica, the slave, if found beyond the enclo- 
sures of his master's estate, might be seized and sold inex^cutitjn for 



Abstract of Ameliorations exaniined — Stmday labour, Sfc. 197 

the debts of his master — (another proof of the humanity of colonial 
legislation !) but the law since that time has been so far modified, that the 
exemption from arrest, formerly confined to Sunday, is now extended 
to Saturday also. This would, without doubt, have been both a ne- 
cessary and a salutary measure, if the Saturday had been substituted 
for the Sunday as the market day ; and if the law had secured the use 
and enjoyment of that day as a market day to the slave. But this has 
not been done. The exemption of the slave, therefore, from arrest on 
the Saturday, is no benefit to him, but solely to the insolvent master, 
so long as Sunday and not Saturday stands fixed by law as, the market 
day ; and so long as the master is under no legal obligation whatever 
to allot that day to the slave, but is left at full liberty to continue, as 
before, to compel him to labour in the field on that day as on other 
days, under the lash, from five in the morning till seven at night. 

Here then we have another example of that studied and systematic 
deceptiveness in the work of legislation with which we have ventured 
to charge the colonial assemblies. This enactment, while it is attended 
with no inconvenience to the master, but may be productive of consi- 
derable benefit to him, enlarging at least his privileges though not those 
of the slave, may also serve the great object of all such pretended im- 
provements, that of misleading the English public by its apparently bene- 
ficial tendency, and furnishing a topic of laudatory remark to the standing 
committee of the West India body. But it is perfectly obvious that, 
without further legislative provisions, it can yield no benefit to the 
slave, for whose advantage we are untruly told that it was designed, 
ft was framed, say the West India committee, " in order to enable the 
slaves to attend religious duties on Sundays." Undoubtedly, if besides 
exempting them from arrest on Saturday, that day had been given 
to them, and had been also selected and fixed by law as the market 
day, such would have been its effect. But, like almost all the other pre- 
tended ameliorations of colonial law on the subject of slavery, it stops 
short at that point where the deception of the English public may be 
made compatible with the absence of all real improvement as respects 
the slave. 

5th. " § 9. Prohibits persons from employing the slaves of others on negro 
days or Sundays." Abstract, p. 3. 

This prohibition, so far from being an ameliorating measure, inflicts a 
cruel hardship on the slave, preventing him from occupying his spare 
time in the service of such as will pay for it. It is a plan for enabling 
the owner to engross the time of the slave wholly for his own use, by 
putting it out of his power to carry his labour, his only possession, 
during the time nominally his own, to the best market. That it pro- 
ceeds from no regard for the sanctity of the sabbath, and from no humane 
disposition to relieve the slave, will appear when we come to consider 
the next head of pretended amelioration. 

6th. " § 10. Directs that slaves shall not be compelled to work on Sun- 
days even in crop time, and prohibits the mill being put about between 
7 r. M., on Saturday, and 5 p. m. on Monday." Abstract, p. 3. 

This is another gross misrepresentation of the clause of which the 
Committee profess to give an abstract. The clause is as follows: 

2 I 



198 Committee s Abstract examined — Sunday labour. 

" And be it enacied, that during the crop, not only shall the slaves, 
as heretofore, be exempted from the labour of the estate or plantation 
on Sundays, but that no mills shall be put about or worked between 
the hours of seven on Saturday night and five on Monday morning, 
under the penalty of twenty pounds." Act of 1826, § 10. 

This, in the first place, is no nexv law, but a literal transcript of the 
5th clause of the Act of 1816, and therefore cannot be considered as 
enlarging the privileges, or adding any further protection to the person 
of the slave. 

The committee incorrectly represent the clause as prohibiting all com- 
pulsory labour on Sundays ; whereas the prohibition extends only to the 
labour of the estate or plantation. In other words, the slaves are not 
to be compelled to perform field or plantation labour on that day. The 
noble and honourable members of the standing committee of the West 
India body, however, attempt to convey to the British public the unfair 
impression that this clause secures to the slave a complete exemption 
from compulsory labour of every kind on the Sunday, an impression, if 
it should be produced, which would be most unfounded. The Sunday 
is necessarily consumed by the slaves, in most of the colonies, in 
raising for themselves and their famihes the food with which the 
master, but for this cruel necessity which he imposes oh the slaves, 
would be forced to supply them. The Sunday, therefore, is gene- 
rally employed by the slaves in their provision grounds, and must, 
of necessity, be so employed if they would escape starvation. The 
proof of this fact will be found amply detailed in a note at p. 315 of 
our 2d volume, (No. 41,) — but for the sake of those who may not have 
ready access to that publication, we shall here extract one or two pas- 
sages which will place the point beyond all legitimate doubt. We will 
not dwell on the testimony of persons unfavourable to the cause of 
slavery, such as the Rev. Mr. Bickell, the Rev. Mr, Cooper, and the 
Rev. Richard Watson in his admirable defence of the Methodist Mis- 
sions.* We will refer to authorities wholly and properly West Indian. 

Dr. Williamson resided fourteen years in Jamaica, a part of the time 
on an estate of Lord Harewood's, and shews himself, in his work on that 
island, a strenuous advocate for slavery ; and yet, he there tells us, 
over and over again, that in Jamaica, Sunday is " a day of marketing and 
labour for the slaves, and of excess and brutal debauchery for the 
whites." See Vol. i. pp. 42, 108, and 331, and Vol. ii, pp. 235, and 
287. Dr. William.son returned to Jamaica, on the Medical Staff", in 
1823, and in a letter of his now before us, written shortly before his 
death, in 1824, he confirms his former testimony respecting the Sunday 
as equally applicable to the latter period. 

* " Sunday," say the missionaries, " is chiefly spent by the field negroes, in 
working their own grounds, which is the source whence tliey derive their food, or 
in bringing what little produce they may have to market : for Sunday is the 
grand public tnarket day." " On the sabbath," they add, " a driver with an 
overseer accompanies the slaves to the negro grounds given to them in lieu of 
allowance from their masters. Here they spend tlie blessed sabbath toiling all 
day. This is their rest ! " Watson's Defence, published by Blanshard, pp. 59, 
69. But even this testimony, decisive and unexceptionable as it is, we do not 
insist upon. 



Committee s Abstract examined — Sunday labour. 199 

Mr, Stewart quitted Jamaica in 1821, after a residence of twenty 
\ears. He is the author of a " View of the past and present state of 
Jamaica," a work quoted as of authority by the colonists whose cause 
he zealously supports. In that work he thus apologises for the alleged 
inattention of the Jamaica clergy to the religious instruction of the 
slaves. " The truth is, that however willing they may be to perform 
their duty, very feio of the slaves have it in their power to attend 
Church. They are either in attendance on their owners, or their time 
is occiipied in a necessary attention to their own affairs; for Sun- 
day is not a day of rest or relaxation to the plantation slave: he 

MUST WORK ON THAT DAY OR STARVE." p. 157. 

The Hon. James Stewart, Member for Trelawney, the Father of the 
Jamaica Assembly, and himself a planter, is represented, in the Royal 
Gazette of that island, of the 3rd of June 1826, as thus addressing his 
constituents. " In respect to the instruction of the negroes in religion, 
it is not sufficient to build extra chapels for their accommodation. It is 
absolutely necessary, if we are sincere in our desire to improve their 
moral condition, that Sunday markets should be abolished altogether, 
and another day in the week allowed the negro /or the cultivation of 
his land, and the sale of his provisions." 

The only other witnesses we shall now adduce consist of the noble- 
men and gentlemen composing the standing West India Committee in 
London, from 1823 to 1828. They not only assented to the measures 
of putting an end to marketing and labouring in their grounds on the 
Sunday, and of giving equivalent time to the slaves on other days for 
that purpose; but they themselves, in 1823, actually proposed these 
measures to the Government as fit to be adopted ; and in recommending 
them to the colonial legislatures, Mr. Canning and Lord Bathurst 
professed to follow, and did, in fact, follow their suggestions And yet, 
in 1830, the same Committee, with the Marquis of Chandos as their 
chairman in the room of Lord Seaford ; seven years having passed with- 
out one effective effort on the part of the colonial legislatures to apply 
a remedy to the admitted evil ; are now found conspiring with those 
refractory legislatures to delude the people of England into a belief that 
their humanity had really accomplished its cure. The people of Eng- 
land, however, will now see, that notwithstanding this disingenuous 
attempt, to give it no harsher name, the slaves of these very persons, the 
Noble, and Honourable, and Right Honourable Members of the West 
India Committee, are still left by law without a Sabbath, no equivalent 
time being get given to them in lieu of it ; are still left, after a week of 
forced labour in the cane piece under the cart-whip, to toil, throughout 
the whole of that sacred day, in raising for themselves and their families 
the food which the masters ought to supply, or in carrying the surplus 
produce so raised to the next market. 

Have we not, we confidently ask, in these statements, established an 
aggravated case of " imposition on the public," against this body of 
slaveholders ? 

We have now gone through the whole of the alleged ameliorations in 
Jamaica, which are classed under the head of " Religious Observances ;" 
and we think we must have satisfied every candid man who has accom- 



200 Committee s Abstract examined — Female Flogging, 

panied us thus far, that we have made good our charge. The reader 
will see, by turning to a preceding page, (190,) that there were certain 
proposed reforms, to which Lord Seaford pledged himself that " no ob- 
jection would be offered, on the part of the planters in the West Indies." 
Of some of these, namely, the abolition of Sunday markets and Sunday 
labour, and the grant to the slave of additional time for these purposes 
in lieu of Sunday, the fate has been already seen. Three others remain 
to be noticed, namely, 1st, the abolition of the cruel and indecent prac- 
tice of arbitrarily flogging females ; 2nd, the disuse of the driving whip 
in the field ; and 3rd, the granting to the slaves legal rights of property. 
Let us inquire whether, on the shewing of the Committee itself, the 
Noble Lord's pledge as to each of these measures has been redeemed. 

1st. As to the abolition of female flogging, nothing has been done^ 
nor do the West India Committee state that any thing has been done, by 
the legislature of Jamaica. A proposal, indeed, was made in the 
House of Assembly, to introduce a clause into the Act of 1826, not for 
prohibiting the flogging of women, that would have been too daring a pro- 
position, but that in flogging them there should be no indecent expo- 
sure ; but even this was rejected by a large majority of 28 to 12.* 

2nd. The disuse of the driving-whip in the field was a measure too 
bold to be even proposed to the Jamaica Assembly in 1826. The ut- 
most length to which the most sensitive humanity dared to go, was to 
move that the cat should be substituted for the cart-whip, both in the 
coercion of labour in the field, and in the infliction of regular punish- 
ments. But even this motion, by a similar majority to that last men- 
tioned was rejected. '* If we adopt such an innovation/' said one 
Member, " on the established usages of the colony, the slaves will 
imagine that our conduct has been disapproved of by the King^ and 
that we have been compelled to relinquish the cart-virhip, and v/ith it 
every means of punishment and restraint." To this it was replied by 
Mr. Barrett, whose speech excited much indignant clamour in the 
House, " You are told, that to abolish the cart-whip is an innovation. 
It is, indeed, an innovation ; so was the abolition of the rack and the 
thumb screw, and such like instruments, the fellows of the cart-whip. 
But I have yet to learn that these innovations have undermined the 
civil institutions of Europe. I do not hesitate to declare, that the cart- 
whip is a base, cruel, debasing instrument of torture, a horrible, detest™ 
able instrument, when used for the punishment of slaves. I do say that 
thirty-nine lashes with this horrid instrument can be made more griev- 
ous thany?we hundred lashes with the cat." Again, " You say that a 
greater number of lashes are inflicted by the cat in the army than are 
allowed to be given by the cart-whip. But how are the former inflicted? 

* The flogging of females has been prohibited by none pf the colonial legisla- 
tures. In three or four of the colonies their indecent exposure, when undergoing 
punishment, is forbidden ; but what indecent exposure may mean, in the vocabu- 
lary of negro drivers, it may be diflScult to say. The account given by the West 
India Committee of the Barbadoes law is as follows. " Female slaves to be 
punished in a private and decent manner, and when pregnant to be punished by 
confinement only," in the stocks we presume. The idea of subjecting pregnant 
i'emales to plantation discipline is quite peculiar, we presume, to slave colonies. 



Committees Abstract examined — Rights of Property. 201 

Not at the caprice, at the will, at the passion or rage of an individual ; 
but after a solemn trial by a court-martial, where the members with 
calmness deliberate on the charge brought against the offender. But 
the punishment of the cart-whip is inflicted at the pleasure of an indivi- 
dual, at his sole command, as caprice or passion dictates. Sometimes 
one slave inflicts it upon another. Sometimes it is ordered by the 
bookkeeper, or overseer, or proprietor of the lowest order, men too fre- 
quently most unfit to apportion punishment." 

This striking extract refers more immediately to the use of the cart 
whip as an instrument of punishment than as used to stimulate labour 
in the field. Still even in this latter capacity it is a tremendous instru- 
ment of torture, tending also completely to debase the human gang to 
the level of the brute team.* 

3d. We now come to the last point on which Lord Seaford ventured 
to assure parliament that no objection would be offered by the planters 
in the West Indies, namely granting to the slaves legal rights of pro- 
perty. On this point the attempts of the West Indian committee to 
delude the public are at least as remarkable as any we have yet spe- 
cified. Their statement as respects Jamaica is in the following terms. 

" § 15, (it ought to be § 16) Recognizes the right of slaves to personal 
property, and gives to it a farther protection than that of free persons, by 
inflicting a penalty of 10/. on the person trespassing on it, in addition to the 
value to be summarily recovered." — Abstract, p. 4. 

To understand all the deliberate unfairness of this pretended abstract, 
it will be necessary to quote the clause as it stands in the act. It is as 
folio v/s : — 

" § 16. And whereas by the usage of this island, slaves have always 
been permitted to possess personal property, and it is expedient that 
such laudable custom should be established by law, be it therefore en- 
acted that if any owner, possessor, or any other person whatsoever, shall 
wilfully or unlawfully take away from any slave or slaves, or in any 
way deprive or cause to be deprived, any slave or slaves of any species 
of personal property by him, her, or them lawfully possessed, such per- 
son or persons shall forfeit and pay the sum of ten pounds over and 

* Some of the evasive enactments of the smaller colonies on'the subject of the 
driving whip would be amusing, if the subject were not of so serious a descrip- 
tion; and yet the West India Committee holds them out as proofs of the humanity 
of the colonial legislatures. For example, Nevis, St. Kitts, Dominica, and St. 
"Vincent prohibit only the cart whip in the field, but allow the use of the cat or 
any other instrument. Grenada prohibits it only in the hand of a slave, leaving 
it free to be used by all who are not slaves. The conduct of the Barbadoes legis- 
lature is at least more open and manly. On the 23d of October 1826, they in- 
formed the Governor, Sir Henry Warde, that " they found they could not yield 
to Lord Bathurst's recommendation to prohibit the punishment of women by 
flogging and the use of the whip in the field." The former, they say, " would in 
the judgment of the Assembly, be productive of the most injurious consequences" 
—and " considerations not less powerful have prevailed with them respecting 
the disuse of the whip in the field," w^hich they add, " is considered by them to 
be inseparable i'rom a state of slavery." — On the conduct of Barbadoes in tliis 
respect the Committee say nothing. The gross evasions in tlie other colo- 
nies are actually brought fovxvard as proofs of the humane dispositions of their 
legislatures. 



202 Committee'' s Abstract examined — Rights 0/ Property. 

above the value of such property taken away as aforesaid, the same to 
be recovered under the hands and seals of any three justices of the 
peace before whom the complaint shall be laid and the facts proved," 

In Great Britain theft and robbery are crimes in the eye of the law, 
and are punished either as larceny or felony, as the case may be. The 
law of Great Britain on this point is also the law of Jamaica in what 
respects free persons. If they are plundered of their property the per- 
petrator of the theft or robbery is criminally prosecuted, and, if found 
guilty, is visited with an infamous punishment. But this clause, while 
it falsely pretends to recognise a right of property in slaves, and to 
grant even further protection to their property than is allowed to that of 
free persons, does in fact deprive them of their only sure protection by 
converting the infamous punishment with which theft or robbery 
is visited in all other cases, into a trifling pecuniary mulct of six or 
seven pounds sterling. By this insidious clause therefore we have a 
revolution effected in the laws of theft and robbery as they respect the 
slave's property, which would be utterly fatal to the security of his 
rights, if he possessed any. But he possesses none, and this clause, we 
affirm, gives him none. The preamble indeed is sufficiently imposing. 
It recognizes the laudable custom of permitting slaves to possess one 
species of property, and admits the expediency of establishing such cus- 
tom by law. And what is the lame and impotent enactment which fol- 
lows ? Not, as was recommended by Lord Bathurst, and prescribed 
in the Orders of Council for the Crown Colonies, that " slaves shall be 
competent to purchase, acquire, enjoy, alienate, or bequeath property to 
any amount, or of any descricption, (except slaves, boats, arms and 
ammunition) or to bring, prosecute, or defend any action in any court 
of justice, in respect to such property, in the same manner as if he 
were free." No ! Nothing of this kind follows. The legal right of 
property which the legislature profess to deem it expedient to confer 011 
the slave is not given to him. It is said to be expedient to give it — but 
still it is not given. The only enactment which follows this imposing 
and deceptions preamble, is one affixing a small pecuniary penalty 
to the infamous and criminal act of robbing a slave of his property. 
But then it must be property which a slave lawfully possesses. But 
how is a slave to be lawfully possessed of property ? The report re- 
cently made by Mr. Henry and iVlr. Coneys, on the state of the law in 
Jamaica (dated June 29, 1827,) tells us that " slaves are not entitled 
to sue or subject to be sued in any civil action" — and that in case of a 
proprietor interfering with the property of a slave, " the slave has no 
legal remedy" — "a sufficient reason," observes the attorney-general of 
the island, " for sanctioning by law his undisturbed possession," p. 82. 
The evidence of Mr. Dwarris as repects the other islands is to the same 
effect, (see vol. ii. p. 242, No. 37,) namely, that a slave possesses no 
property in the eye of the law, nor any rights connected with property. 
Now certainly the clause before us confers no such rights upon him. 
Therefore the qualification here introduced, that the property to which 
the penalty is to attach must be property lawfully possessed, is only 
another illustration of the vvorthlessness of these pretended ameliora- 
tions, as well as a proof of the care taken by their framers to render 



Committees Abstract examined — Property — Hours of Labour. 203 

them worthless. It is not at all shewn what it i& for a slave to be 
lawfully possessed of property, or how he is to prove this preliminary 
condition. No means of suit are given him, even in the case against 
which alone the clause pretends to provide, or for the recovery of debts 
owing to him ; and he is debarred, be it remembered too, in Jamaica by 
this very act, from giving evidence in any civil matters whatever. In 
short the whole provision is worse than nugatory ; it is a mere mockery, 
a fraud on the poor slave, and a gross imposition on the British public. 
And such seems to have been the clear opinion of Mr. Huskisson in his 
letter of 22d September 1827. " The property of slaves," he says, " is 
left by this law in an unprotected state. No action is given to them, or 
to any person on their behalf, for the defence or recovery of it. The 
single case in which any remedy is provided, is that in which the pro- 
perty of the slave is taken away. No mention is made of that much 
more important class of cases in which property is withheld. The 
slave could not under this law recover a debt, nor obtain damages for 
the breach of a contract. The mode of proceeding for penalties before 
three justices of the peace, is a remedy to which hardly* any one would 
resort, for the act does not give the amount of the penalty, if recovered, 
to the injured party; and the slave himself could not make the com- 
plaint, except upon the condition of receiving a punishment if the jus- 
tices should deem it groundless. The slaves are also excluded by the 
terms of this law from acquiring any interest in land ; a restriction 
which would appear at once impolitic and unnecessary." 

Again, the committee tell the public that clause 16 (it ought to be 17) 
of this act " Recognises the right of slaves to receive bequests of per- 
sonal property," Abstract, p. 5. It would have been but common 
honesty to have added the proviso annexed to the clause, and which 
goes to nullify this pretended right. The words are, " Provided always 
that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorise the institu- 
tion of any action or suit at law or in equity, for the recovery of such 
legacy, or to render it necessary to make any slave a defendant in a 
suit of equity."* 

Having now disposed of the various particulars of Lord Seaford's 
abortive pledge on behalf of the planters in the West Indies, we shall 
advert to one or two other clauses in this imposing abstract, which are 
exhibited by the committee as ameliorating provisions, and which will 
farther assist the public in judging of the views and feelings of that 
body. 

" § 26. (it stands 27 in the Act) Slaves to have half an hour for breakfast, 
and two hours for dinner ; nor to be compelled to field labour before five 
in the morning, or after seven at night, except during crop, under pe- 
nalty of £50." Abstract, p. 3. 

This clause, as it stands in the Act of 1826, is a literal transcript of 
the 20th clause of the Act of 1816, and of the 18th clause of the Act of 
1788 ; so that in this important point of the c :tent and continuity of 

* The same general remarks which have been suggested by the Jamaica clause, 
on the subject of property, will be found to apply with slight variations to the 
enactments of almost all the other Colonial legislatures. 



204 Committee's Abstract examined — Houi's of Labour. 

labour, there has no alteration been made in favour of the slave during 
upwards of forty years, though the West India committee would exhibit 
it as the fruit of the humanity of the actual colonial legislatures ; as a 
proof, to use their own words, of their disposition to expunge all harsh 
and unnecessary " enactments, which the policy of an earlier period 
rendered imperative," and " to enlarge the privileges and protect the 
person of the slave." And yet the law of 1 826 exacts from the slave 
the same continuity of toil which was exacted from him in 1788. 

Of this vaunted meliorating provision, however, which the com- 
mittee untruly tells us had, among others, received the unqualified 
approbation of many of His Majesty's ministers, Mr. Huskisson finds 
himself compelled, on the 22d September, 1827, thus to write : — 

" The provisions for the prevention of excessive labour," (the words 
seem almost ironical !) " contemplate the working of the slaves for 
eleven hours and a half daily out of crop, and place no limit to the 
continuance of their work during crop time. Considering the climate 
in which this labour is to be performed, and that after the work of the 
field is over, there will yet remain to be done many offices, not falling 
within the proper meaning of the term labour, I should fear that the 
exertion of the slaves, if exacted up to the limits allowed by this law, 
would be scarcely consistent with a due regard for the health of the 
labourer." 

But Mr. Huskisson, though he wrote under an impression of the 
very great severity of this enactment, evidently did not know the whole 
of the case, or he would hardly have expressed himself so feebly re- 
specting its enormity. To these eleven hours and a half of daily 
labour in the field, under a tropical sun, and the lash of the driver, which 
so justly shocked the Secretary of State, is to be added half the night 
for from four to six months of the year during crop. There is also 
to be added the time required for preparing for the field in the morning ; 
for going thither and returning thence at noon ; for going again in the 
afternoon and returning home at night; and for the different do- 
mestic offices which, of necessity, are daily recurring, such as pre- 
paring and cooking food, collecting fuel, care of children, washing, &c. 
&c. Besides all this, on most of the plantations, after the field 
labour is over, the slaves, before they can repair to their own homes, 
have to undergo the heavy and oppressive task of collecting a large 
bundle of fodder for the cattle or horses, and waiting with it at the pen 
or stables till the whole gang is again collected and the roll called 
over ; a task which, after a fatiguing day's labour in the field, is of a 
most vexatious and harassing kind, materially injuring their health, and 
giving occasion to frequent punishments. So that in the time of crop, 
upwards of eighteen hours, and, on the average of the year, not less 
than from fifteen to sixteen hours a day are necessarily consumed 
either in the master's immediate service, or in necessary labour con- 
nected with it. And this excessive continuity of labour which is exacted 
alike from the women as from the men, we have proved, and are again 
ready to prove, from unquestionable official documents, to be the pre- 
vailing practice in the British sugar colonies. (See vol. ii. pp. 157 and 
212, and No. 58, p. 143 and 144.) 



Committee s Abstract examined— Corporal Punishment. 205 

Under such a sysLem of oppressive exaction, can we wonder at the con- 
tinued waste of the slave population which is taking place in our sugar 
colonies ; so that while the free blacks and people of colour, and among 
them the Maroons of Jamaica, are rapidly increasing; while in the 
United States the very slaves double their numbers in less than thirty 
years, and the free blacks of Hayti in a considerably shorter period; 
among the British slaves employed in growing sugar, there should not 
only be no increase, but on the contrary, a very considerable annual di- 
minution. Nor ought the misery thus occasioned, to be measured merely 
by the excess of deaths over births, but by the constant pressure on the 
animal frame, arising not only from the intensity of the labour exacted, 
under a tropical sun, by the stimulating power of the cartwhip, but 
from its continuity for a number of hours in each day which in no cli- 
mate could be endured without suffering and exhaustion, disease and 
death. But neither on this grand source of mortality, nor on another 
scarcely less fatal, the scantiness of the supply of food, can we, at present, 
enlarge. We must hasten to another topic. 

The West India Committee produce, as a further proof of the huma- 
nity of the colonial legislatures, a clause, which they number 36, (instead 
of 37,) and which they have thus abstracted. 

" Slaves not to receive more than ten lashes, except in presence of owner 
or overseer, <&c., nor in such presence more than thirty-nine, nor until reco- 
vered from former punishment, under penalty of £20." Abstract, p. 5. 

But let us give the clause as it appears in the Act of 1826, being in no 
respect diflPerent from the corresponding clauses in the Acts of 1788 and 
1816 : " §. 37. And in order to restrain arbitrary punish- 
ments, be it further enacted, that no slave, on any plantation or set- 
tlement, or in any of the workhouses or gaols in this island, shall 
receive any more than ten lashes at one time and for one offence, 
unless the owner, attorney, guardian, executor, administrator, or over- 
seer, of such plantation or settlement, having such slave in his care, or 
keeper of such workhouse, or keeper of such gaol shall be present; and 
that no such owner, attorney, guardian, executor, administrator, or 
overseer, workhouse-keeper, or gaol-keeper, shall, on any account, 
punish a slave with more than thirty-nine lashes at one time and 
for one oifence, nor inflict, nor sutler to be inflicted, such last-mentioned 
punishment, nor any other number of lashes on the same day, nor until 
the delinquent has recovered from the effect of any former punishment, 
under a penalty not less than ten pounds, nor more than twenty pounds, 
for every offence," &c. 

Such is the law passed by the humane and enlightened legislature 
of Jamaica, in December, 1826, and which is applicable to every slave, 
man, woman, or child in that island. By that law the driver, ov any 
quasi driver, may inflict ten lashes ; — and the owner and overseer, nay, 
the gaol-keeper and workhouse-keeper, the attorney, guardian, and 
administrator may, each and every one of them, inflict thirty-nine 
lashes of the cart-whip, on the bure posteriors of any and every slave, 
man, woman, or child he has charge of, without a trial, wilhout the 
order of a magistrate, for no defined offence, but merely because he (the 

2 K 



206 Committees Abstract exmnined — Corporal Punishment. 

owner, &c.) is offended ; nor can he, by any law, be called to answer 
for such conduct. Nay, the clause is so framed as to protect him effec- 
tually against all responsibility for so doing. And yet, in mockery, 
as it were, the object of this clause is said to be to restrain arbi- 
trary punishments! 

Let the reader now turn to Mr. Barrett's description of the horrid cart- 
whip, as given above, (p. 200,) and then learn to do homage to the 
humanity which dictated to the legislators of Jamaica the re-enactment 
of such a clause ; and to the Marquis of Chandos, and his associates 
of the West Indian Committee, their approbation of it as " salutary 
and humane," as calculated " to enlarge the privileges and to protect 
the persons of their slaves." Abstract, p. 1 and 2. 

We shall not think it necessary to tire our readers by going further 
into an analysis of this Abstract at present. If circumstances should 
require it, we shall not shrink from the task of resuming it, and we 
pledge ourselves before hand, that if we should be compelled to do so, 
we shall find no more difficulty in exposing the illusory and deceptive 
nature of all the other alleged ameliorations, than we have had in the 
case of those which, on this occasion, we have been led more particu- 
larly to notice ; for with respect to the whole of this Abstract, though 
promulgated and sanctioned by such high authority, we repeat, unhe- 
sitatingly and confidently, that it is " a gross imposition on the public." 

We could have wished, before we closed this article, to have adverted 
to the persecuting clauses of the Act of 1826, which, we understand, 
have been re-enacted, with aggravations, in a new edition of it which 
has recently received the sanction of the Governor of Jamaica ; as well 
as to the cruel persecutions, which, during the last two years, the Mis- 
sionaries, especially those of the Wesleyan Methodists, have been en- 
during in that island. But we must defer to another opportunity this 
pregnant topic, a topic not inferior in interest even to the case of the 
martyred Smith. But a time is coming when these deeds of darkness 
will be dragged into light, and assist in more firmly fixing the public 
determination to put a final period to a system so fruitful of crime, so 
alien from the genius of our constitution, and so utterly repugnant to the 
benign spirit of the Religion of Christ, as that which now unhappily 
prevails in the slave colonies of Great Britain. 

" In conclusion, let us remember," as we ventured to observe on a 
former occasion, " that the laws of which we have been giving an ac- 
count, are not obsolete statutes, the relics of a barbarous age, but they 
are laws recently framed by men calling themselves Britons, and who, 
instead of feeling that such laws outrage every principle of justice and 
every feeling of humanity, actually hold them forth as instances of en- 
lightened and beneficent legislation. And if the laws themselves be, as 
they are, a crime, what must be their administration in the hands of 
the men who framed them, and who do not blush to boast of them." 

How long shall such abominations be endured by a nation calling 
itself Christian ? 



207 



III. Hayti and Mr. Mackenzie. 

Mr. Consul General Mackenzie has published two volumes of 
Notes on Hayti, made during his residence in that Republic ; and he 
has prefaced them by a vehement attack on the Anti-Slavery Reporter, 
No. 55; against which he brings very heavy charges, such as, " coarse 
vulgarity and impudent falsity," " dishonesty," " flagrant misrepresen- 
tations of facts," " garbled quotations," " much passion and little 
reason," — calling forth alternately, his " pity and contempt," and evinc- 
ing the " sordid mendacity" of " the skulking libeller" that framed it, who 
shews himself superior " to all sense of shame," and on whom " refu- 
tation on refutation vpould be perfectly unavailing." He declines, there- 
fore, under such circumstances, to engage in a contest with "an an- 
nonymous assailant," fearing also, as he says he does, lest, " by the 
warmth into which he might be betrayed in repelling ungentlemanly 
impertinence," he should expose himself to be suspected of being a 
partisan. 

To this refined, modest, calm, gentlemanly, and pertinent vindication, 
all we have now to say in reply is, that having carefully perused his 
" Notes on Hayti," we can find nothing in them which requires that we 
should retract a single syllable of the remarks on his official report, in 
our 55th number, which have roused the ire of Mr. Mackenzie. On 
the contrary, we find those remarks confirmed and substantiated by his 
more recent communication, as we may take an early opportunity of 
shewing. In the mean time we would merely observe, that Mr. Mac- 
kerreie has adopted a very prudent and safe method of repelling what 
he calls our imputations. After ransacking the English vocabulary for 
vituperative expressions which prove nothing except his " much pas- 
sion and little reason," he omits to specify a single point in which we 
have misrepresented either his statements or his opinions. From this 
necessity, it is true, he endeavours to release himself by pleading that 
the imputations are anonymous. But though the imputations are 
anonymous, yet the testimony on which they rest is not anonymous. 
Their whole force depends on that testimony, and could not have been 
either strengthened or weakened by the name of the collator of it. 
Now to that testimony Mr. Mackenzie, at least, is bound to defer ; for 
it is the testimony of Mr. Mackenzie himself. It is from his own com- 
munications alone, accurately quoted, that the statements are drawn 
which appear to us to convict him of unfairness, prejudice, and incon- 
sistency ; and though he may not condescend to reply to the anony- 
mous commentator on those statements, he may, at least, without 
any sacrifice of consular dignity, condescend to reconcile, if they caii 
be reconciled, his own apparent contradictions, and the extraordinary 
discrepancies occasionally existing between his own premises and his 
own conclusions. This is the task to which we challenge him. It is 
one which he owes it to his own fame not to decline, and from the ne- 
cessity of which no vehemence of unsupported accusation, which he 
may employ, can possibly exempt him, however it may enhance that 
necessity. We decline to contend with Mr. Mackenzie in the war of 
abusive epithets, but shall there leave him to enjoy his superiority. If, 



2D8.- Jamaica Watchman — -People of Colour. 

however, he will point out any one instance of misrepresentation, 
either of the facts he has stated, or of the opinions he has hazarded, 
of wiiich he thinks he has reason to complain, we pledge ourselves that 
it shall be either vindicated or retracted. One thing, indeed, we will 
not promise, and that is, to part with the conviction which his Report 
first forced upon us, and which his Notes have since abundantly con- 
firhied, that he is the cordial and determined enemy of Haytian, or to 
speak more properly, of negro freedom.* 



IV. — The Jamaica Watchman. 

The recent conduct of the Jamaica Legislature, respecting the claims 
of the free coloured classes in that island, will serve to illustrate the 
governing principle which dictates all their measures of professed re- 
form, namely, to find the mininum of real and effective concession which 
can be made compatible with an apparent deference to pubUc opinion in 
this country. On this principle they have passed an Act, which pro- 
fesses, that " it is expedient to grant additional privileges to coloured 
and black persons of free condition." The Act commences with granting 
the elective franchise to all of these classes who shall possess freeholds ■ 
in towns of the annual value of £100. or out of towns of the annual 
value of £50., or a rent charge of £100. a year, and shall also pay taxes 
to the amount of £10. a year; and those who become entitled, by such 
a qualification, to the elective franchise, shall enjoy the rights and pri- 
vileges of whites. It is provided, however, that no such coloured or 
black persons shall be capable of filling offices for which they were be- 
fore incapacitated, unless thus qualified to vote at elections ; and that 
none of them shall have " any power, capacity, or ability, of sitting or 
voting either in the Council or the Assembly of the island." The hard- 
ship of this Act consists in not merely this last exclusion of all free 

* The above is only one of several attacks on the Anti-Slavery Reporter, which 
the last month has produced. It would be endless to notice them all ; but ano- 
ther, entitled. " A Letter to the Marquis of Chandos, by a West India Planter," 
deserves to be distinguished for the ludicrous variety of its topics, and the 
recklessness of its misrepresentations. It ranges through a controversy of 
forty years duration, and in the space of 70 or 80 pages touches on almost every 
subject which, in that time, has had the remotest connexion with it. But like 
Mr. Mackenzie, he wisely avoids, in his statements, all tangible specification. 
At p. 30, for example, he accuses the Anti-Slavery Reporter of the unprin- 
cipled artifice of promulgating stories of great cruelty and atrocity, which nine 
times out of ten, turn out to be mere fabrications of its conductors, who, when 
detected, care not for the exposure, but only proceed to get up other stories 
equally false and fabricated. He might at least have named from the mass, some 
one story, or some one page of the Anti-Slavery Reporter, in support of this 
vague statement. We can discover no stories to have been promulgated there 
which do not rest either on official or West Indian authority. If there be, let 
them be pointed out, and the chapter and verse be given.— This writer also care- 
fully withholds from his readers the means of ascertaining the fidelity of liis 
quotations. We can find, for example, no such words in Mr. Mackenzie's 
Report as he has formally professed to quote from it in a note at p. 19; and 
there is, throughout the pamphlet, the same defect, so as to bid defiance to all 
attempt at examination, or collation. 



Janiuica Walchmau — People of Colour. 209 

coloured and black persons, whatever be their property and their capa- 
cities in other respects, but the requiring of them a quahfication of ten 
times the amount which is required of white persons, (the freehold quali- 
fication of a white being £10. a year), and also the excluding them 
from a variety of civil offices and ordinary employments, unless they 
possess this high qualification. They exclude, that is to say, from offices 
and employments, the very persons who stand most in need of them. 

The people for whose benefit this Act professes to be passed, exclaim 
loudly against its injustice. They complain of it as insidiously and 
deceptively affecting liberality, while, in fact, it involves the same prin- 
ciple of exclusion and degradation which has hitherto characterised the 
treatment of their class by the dominant party. The following extracts 
from the Watchman will shew the feelings with which it has been 
received by them. 

" The people of colour," they say, " have too long been made the 
dupes of an inhuman policy. Their expectations have been raised 
merely, it would appear, to afford the gratification of disappointing 
them, and they have been taunted, tantalized, and insulted into a spirit 
which, if not met by measures of a different kind, must produce serious 
consequences." " If the Jamaica legislature is determined to perpe- 
tuate their bondage, let them" (the people of colour,) *' come forward at 
once and give the pledge,'' (meaning a pledge to aid the British Mi- 
nistry and nation in their views respecting the extinction of slavery,) 
" and thus the question of their disabilities will not only be for ever set 
at rest, but a period be decided upon when the odious and brutalizing 
system of slavery shall also be brought to a close. It is to this they" 
(the people of colour,) " must come at last, and the man who would 
refuse to purchase the privileges of a Briton at so cheap a rate, is un- 
worthy of the name, and undeserving of the immunities he now claims." 
Watchman of 10th Feb. 1830. 
Again : — 

" The system of slavery is a deplorable one. It debases, demoralizes, 
and sinks man to a level with the brute. The abject wretchedness of 
the unfortunate slave is only contrasted by the petulant tyranny of his 
master ; — this petulance and this tyranny he fancies himself entitled to 
manifest to, and exercise over, every man whose complexion is not 
white. Accustomed as he is to lord it with a high hand over his black 
and coloured slaves, he considers himself equally entitled to domineer 
over the black and the coloured freemen ; hence, has arisen the con- 
tempt and contumely with which they have been, and will continue to 
be treated, so long as slavery exists. 

" The people of colour, then, if they really wish to rise in the scale 
of society, must lend their assistance to the British Ministry and Nation, 
in putting an end to this crying evil. To the Legislature" (of Jamaica) 
" they need not look ; a thousand instances of political treachery on their 
part must, ere this, have satisfied the most sceptical on this head. Do 
the people of colour generally, or any portion of them, consider the re- 
cent measures as having originated from a conviction of the justness of 
their claims, or from an opinion that they are deserving of the immuni- 
ties nominally said to be extended to them ' We know they do not. 



210 Jamaica Watchman — People of Colour. 

They are, every one of them, aware that expediency alone has induced' 
the appearance of liberality ; and that they have on\y pretended to give; 
in order to prevent its being granted more freely and fully by another 
and a higher pov^'er. Is not the gross and disgusting abuse, heaped 
upon them by some of the very men who pretended to advocate their 
claims, a strong proof that although, for a time, their prejudices were 
compelled to yield to necessity, still, like oil, it floated upon the surface, 
whilst every sentence uttered to shew the necessity of such a measure, 
was accompanied by another indicative of their dislike and mortification. 

" We are aware that the expression of sentiments such as these will 
draw down upon us the envy, hatred, and malice of the greater portion' 
of the Jamaica aristocracy . It is too well known that to entertain, but 
particularly to express, liberal sentiments, or to denounce, however 
mildly, the abominable system to which we have alluded, is considered; 
by the generality of the white inhabitants, as a crime never to be for- 
given either here or hereafter. But we care not what opinion such 
men entertain. Our object is to do justly and act uprightly, determined 
to judge every man, not by his complexion or by his creed, but by his 
conduct ! ' By his fruit ye shall know him,' is the declaration of one who 
was too wise to err ; and by this touchstone shall be tried every one with 
whom we may have to do. 

" That every good man is entitled to a participation in civil rights, i^ 
a dogma few will dispute ; that any man, on account of complexional or 
religious differences, ought to be excluded from those rights, none but 
the most narrow-minded and illiberal will contend ; nor can we ever hope 
to become thoroughly united and happy till every good subject enjoys 
equal civil privileges, without any regard to complexion or religious 
opinions. If a man be a peaceable, industrious, moral and religious 
person, and an obedient subject to the Civil Government under which 
he lives, let his religious views of things be what they may, he seems to 
have a just claim to the enjoyment of every office, privilege, and emolu- 
-ment of that government ; and, till this is the case, there never can be a 
settled state of things. There will be an eternal enmity between the 
governing and the governed, an everlasting struggle for superiority. 
But when every member of the State enjoys equal privileges with its 
other members, the bone of contention is removed, and there is nothing 
for which they should any longer be at enmity." 

" The conduct of the Legislature with regard to the coloured Bill has 
been of a piece with their usual short-sighted policy, and is perfectly 
well understood by the persons of colour generally." — " They perceive 
that while the Bill nominally extends to them every franchise, it actit- 
ally gives them none ; and under that conviction they have determined 
to petition His Majesty to withhold his sanction from an Act which, 
if brought into operation, could only be viewed as calculated to add 
insult to injury." Watchman of 17th July, 1830. 

In the succeeding Watchman, that of the 20th February, " a co- 
loured slaveholder" addresses his fellow-slaveholders in the following 
energetic terms. 

" We are called upon by the Government and united people of a 
mighty nation — by the voice of justice and humanity — by the Law of 



Jamaica Watchman — People of Colour. 211 

God ! to raise our dependants from a level with the brute to the station 
of men — to dissipate, by the stimulating influence of hope, the gloomy, 
half- despairing recklessness which characterises the reflecting portion of 
the class, and to induce them to employ, in pursuits beneficial to them- 
selves and society, talents and energies which, in their present moral and 
political condition, are, like sharp weapons in unskilful hands, injurious 
to themselves and dangerous to those about them. 

" Remember that upon your present conduct depends the security of 
your property and the safety of your families ! Obtain, then, the good 
opinion of Government; express your willingness to join in measures, 
which may emanate from them, having for their object the welfare of 
the island. Place your dependance on the British Parliament, and rest 
assured that you will not be disappoin'^s^d, and that you will have no 
cause to regret having done so. Prove, by your readiness to meet the 
views of Ministers, that loyalty the most undeviating, and attachment 
the most sincere, to the illustrious House of Hanover is not, within the 
pale of his Majesty's dominions, to be found so predominant as in the 
bosom of the coloured slaveholder." 

We will extract only one more passage. It is taken from a news- 
paper, published at Montego Bay, called The Struggler, which, it also 
appears, is conducted by persons of colour. 

" It has been intimated to us, that a meeting of the Coloured Free- 
holders of this parish will be convened for Monday next, to take into 
their consideration the expediency of petitioning the King in Council, 
to withhold the Royal Assent from the ' Brown Privilege Bill,' as well 
as to consider of the propriety of giving a distinct pledge of their wil- 
lingness to promote the views of His Majesty's Ministers, in the adop- 
tion of some system for the gradual abolition of slavery, as the best 
mode of obtaining the confidence and support of the British Govern- 
ment, and securing their admission to the rights of British subjects. 

" We understand that several of the wiseacres of this parish ridiculed 
the intention we adverted to on Tuesday, as entertained by the free 
persons of colour, through the medium of county meetings, to make 
known their grievances to the government of the mother country, and 
to petition His Majesty in council against giving the royal assent to the 
' Privilege Bill,' which now has received the sanction of his represen- 
tative in Jamaica. Will they admit they have been deceived in the dis- 
position of the people they would continue to legislate for and oppress ? 
Or will the meeting, held, on Tuesday last, in Kingston, and those 
about to be convened in this and other parishes, satisfy them of the ab- 
rogation of all confidence in the justice of the Colonial Government in 
the minds of the people of colour? Or will they need further manifesta- 
tions to convince them and all those who have hitherto disputed it, that 
tjie seeming inertness of this numerous class of the population, was but 
the precursor of a more determined resistance to aggressive exclusion ? 
The reiterated goadings of the people of colour — the disappointments 
heaped upon them, from time to time, by their oppressors, may at last 
induce them to reflect, that when ' the hereditary bondsman would be 
free, it is he himself must strike the blow;' — may lead them to compare 
their own condition, and that of their Haytian and Colombian fellows ; 



212 • Abolition of Slavery in Mexico, 

and oace too often aslc of themselves, if they possess less moral cou- 
rage, or are curtailed of those requisites, by which the coloured popula- 
tion of Hayti and Colombia burst the yoke that at one time bore as 
heavily upon them, as it now miserably enthrals the persons of colour 
in Jamaica." 

Without pretending to justify the fervour of some of these expres- 
sions, we nevertheless give them, as clearly marking the signs of the 
times* 



V. — Abolition of Slavery in Mexico. 

We are happy to be able to make known to our readers the following- 
decree of the President of the Mexican United Slates, abolishing 
slavery in the whole extent of that Republic, which has recently been 
promulgated, viz. 

" His Excellency the President of the Mexican United States to the 
inhabitants of the Republic, greeting, 

• " Desiring to signalise, in the year 1829, the anniversary of ouv Independence, 
by an act of national justice and beneficence that may turn to the benefit and 
support of such a valuable good — that may consolidate more and more public 
tranquillity — that may co-operate to the aggrandisement of the Republic, and 
return to an unfortunate portion of its inhabitants those rights which they hold 
from Nature, and that the people be protected by wise and equitable laws, in 
conformity with the 30th Article of the Constitutive Act — 

" Making use of the extraordinary faculties which have been granted to the 
Executive, I thus decree : — 

" 1. Slavery is for ever abolished in the Republic. 

" 2. Consequently all those individuals who, until this day, looked upon 
themselves as slaves, are free. 

" 3. When the financial situation of the Republic admits, the proprietors of 
slaves shall be indemnified, and the indemnification regulated by a law. 

" 4. And, in order that the present Decree may have its full and entire execu- 
cution, I order it to be printed, published, and circulated to all those whose 
obligation it is to have it fulfilled. 

" Given in the Federal Palace of Mexico, on the Idth of September 1829. 

" VICENTO GUERRERO. 
" LAURENCE DE ZAVALA." 

* In one place, alluding to tlie threat of the whites of Jamaica, to transfer 
their allegiance to the United States, the Watchman intimates that in such ;i 
case the free coloured and black population would resist. But supposing Ja- 
maica to cease to be British, then, it is asked, whether " with Colombia on the 
one side, St. Domingo, (at whose name the Colonists shudder,) on the other, and 
Cuba, which, but for the interference of Great Britain, would have been as Co 
lombia now is, it can be supposed that Jamaica would be long in following their 
example." Watchman of 0th February, 1830. 



%* In a few days it is intended to publish, as a supplement to the 
present number, the proceedings of a recent general meeting of the 
Anti-Siavery Society of Dublin, as well as those of some friends of our 



Bagster ami Tlioins, Printers, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



SUPPLEMENT 

TO THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY MONTHLY REPORTER, 

For May, 1830, No. 60. 



I. ANTI SLAVERY MEETING AT DUBLIN. 
II. ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING AT SOUTHAMPTON 

III. MEETINGS AT BRADFORD, STROUD, &c. &c 

IV. MR. GODWIN'S LECTURES ON SLAVERY. 
V. LIEUTENANT SMITH, OF JAMAICA. 

VI. JAMAICA ADVERTISEMENTS. 



I. — Anti-Slavery Meeting at Dublin. 

The Dublin Anti-Slavery Society held its third annual meeting on 
Thursday evening, the 8th of April last, in the great room of the Ro- 
tunda. The admission was regulated by tickets, and notwithstanding 
that about 2000 were issued, such was the number of applicants, that 
even treble that quantity would have proved, apparently, scarcely 
sufficient to gratify the desire of all the individuals who evinced an 
eager anxiety to be present at the proceedings. In the absence of the 
Lord Mayor, who was to have presided, but was prevented from at- 
tending by official business, Joseph Robinson Pirn, Esq., was unani- 
mously called to the chair. 

The Annual Report, of which the following are brief specimens, was 
read by the secretary : — 

" The committee of the Dublin Anti-Slavery Society, in returning the trust re- 
posed in their hands for the past year, cannot reflect, without indignation and 
disappointment, on the failure of those hopes which they had reason to expect 
would be realised by those to whom they naturally looked for justice to their 
enslaved brethren of the African race; but they are cheered by the conviction, 
that the people generally are beginning to perceive the absolute necessity of in- 
dividual exertion in purifying our country from the pollution of this deep and 
deadly sin, and of bringing to a close this determined opposition to the ordinances 
of God and the claims of humanity, by detaining in bondage those who owe to 
England no tribute or service, either by the laws of war or peace — whose rio-hts 
have been wrested from them by the power of the strongest, and whose per- 
sonal liberty is still basely bartered for gain. 

" We need not unveil to you the features of slavery : who is now ignorant of 
them? We need not depict to you our brethren of the African race, deprived 
of their liberty, of their conjugal rights — driven to market in herds by the cart- 
whip, and sold without any regard to the ties of relationship, at the will of 
their owners ; debarred from religious instruction ; dismissed without redress 
when they apply for justice ; and if they venture to raise their voices in re- 
monstrance, subjected to tremendous punishment. Need we remind you of the 
thousands slaughtered by the sword of jealous authority? of the multitudes 
doomed to suffer the infliction of torturing and lingering cruelties, and their 
mangled remains gibbeted in chains, to appease the blind terrors or glut the 
savage rage of brutified avarice? It is time that the details of West Indian 
jurisprudence should be dragged to the light; it is time that the ramparts of 
falsehood, 'the refuges of lies,' behind which the West Indian body has 
entrenched itself, should be overthrown ; it is time that things should be 
called by their proper names ; that the taking that which does not belong to 
us should l)e called robbery ; that the destruction of our fellow-men, by unjus 

2 L 



214 Dublin Anti-Slavery Meeting — Rev. W. Urivick. 

ifiable means, should be called murder; and that nothing should be permitted 
in the British colonies, which is punishable by English law." 

After illustrating the character of Colonial Slavery, by details from the flagrant 
case of the Mosses and other recent enormities, the Report concluded as 
follows : — 

" But the hour of deception has passed away. Let the universal British 
people demand the rights of the slave, which will be securing their own rights ; 
let them echo the assurance of our own patriotic sovereign, that he holds his 
crown for the good of his people. Let them reject with indignation the reason- 
ing which maintains, that an Act of Parliament can enable men to buy and sell, 
and deprive of their personal rights, British subjects, living under British protec- 
tion. Let them abstain from the consumption of every thing which has been pro- 
duced by slave labour, and by so doing they will, in the like proportion, lower the 
price of the same articles from Asia. But, more than all, let them remember the 
just vengeance of Him who walketh amidst the whirlwind, and treadeth upon the 
storm, who maketh the clouds his chariot, and walketh upon the wings of the wind, 
who ruleth in the dominions of heaven, and giveth the kingdoms of this earth to 
whomsoever he will, who hath swept from the face of this globe every empire 
which hath founded its policy upon the principle that men may do evil that good 
may come." 

The Rev. Wm. Urwick rose to propose the adoption by the meeting of the 
Report which had just been read. After some introductory remarks, he pro- 
ceeded to argue on the irreligious tendency of slavery, and its brutalizing eiFects 
on the human mind. He denied that sacred writ sanctioned the principle 
of the debasement of any class of human beings— or the possession of a right 
of property in those who were, by the ordinance of their common Creator, 
born their fellow-creatures; and demanded why it was that the Legisla- 
ture of Great Britain did not imitate the Jewish law, by which it was laid 
down, that " he that stealeth a man and selleth him, or if he be found in 
his hand, he shall surely be put to death." By what principle, he would 
ask, of right — he would not put it even upon the principle of humanity — 
had any individual in the world a privilege to sell those beings around him, who 
possessed equally with himself all the attributes of mind, of intellect, and of 
person, with, perhaps, the adventitious difference of the colour of the skin? 
Why should there not be on the statutes of the British law, a law denouncing, if 
not the penalty set forth in the text above quoted, the severest penalty short of 
that, against a man buying and selling his neighbour ? Asa minister of religion 
he stood there in the proper exercise of his duty, the advocate for liberty — and 
he denounced the system of men amassing wealth, for the purpose of creating to 
themselves pleasures, at the expense of the freedom of other human beings, 
equally regarded in the eyes of their common Creator, and differing from them in 
nought but colour. " Woe unto him that buildeth his house by unrighteousness, 
and his chambers by wrong — that useth his neighbour's service without wages, 
and giveth him not for his work." Why was it — on what ground or principle of 
right could it be defended, that one class of men should perpetrate on others, 
that against which they would rise with irresistible indignation if attempted 
against themselves ? 

In the words of another text — " Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that 
men should do to you, do ye even so to them." From men who were guilty of 
the gross injustice of which he complained, he would call on all to withhold 
their support. Let every individual possessing the feelings of humanity and 
kindness to his fellow-beings, discountenance the slavery system personally, 
by the total disuse of every commodity the produce of slave labour. (Cheers.) 
He would give very little, indeed, for that man who professed himself an 
advocate in the cause of liberty, and who, at the same time, was, day after 
day, really supporting the cause of slavery by the consumption of those articles 
derived from his sufferings. 

The Rev. Gentleman read several extracts from a work lately published, en- 
titled " Notices of Brazil, by the Rev. Dr. Walsh," descriptive of Slavery and 
the Slave Trade in that country, and exhibiting the tendency it had to brutalize 
not only the enslaved but the enslaver. He alluded forcibly to the opposition 
on the part of slave owners to the introduction of religious instruction amongst 



Dublin Anti-Slavery Meetitig — Mr. Abell. 215 

the unhappy victims, lest they shotild, through its medium, obtain a knowledge 
of their rights ; also to the deplorable fate of the late missionary Smith, who was 
martyred for his attempts to improve their morals and religion. The Rev. 
Speaker concluded by moving the question on the Report, and sat down amid 
general cheering. 

The Rev. Mr. Cross on seconding the resolution, entered into a most in- 
teresting detail of the revolting effects of the slave system which had fallen under 
his own observation in the West Indies, and which pervaded equally all classes 
there, not excepting even the female sex of the higher ranks in society. The 
Rev. Gentleman described, in very affecting terms, the appalling and odious 
characteristics it possessed in all its features— the scourge, the excruciating- 
torture, the merciless unrelenting oppression, and even the degrading jockey 
phrases that were familiarly used in the sale and purchase of the wretched 
creatures, which marked more strongly than any language he could possibly 
use the degrading nature of that most inhuman of all trafficking, the trade 
in human flesh. The slave system, he could maintain, debased even the very 
best that had the misfortune to come within the reach of its contaminating 
influence, and a man might possess the philanthropy of a Howard, or the 
energetic love of liberty of an O'Connell, and yet be unable to resist the 
baneful infection. He adjured the meeting, in the name of all that was 
liberal, in the name of the Most High God, the father of mercy and the vin- 
dicator of the oppressed, to attend to the cry, and exert themselves in behalf 
of 800,000 innocent victims, whose welfare temporal and eternal, was sacrificed 
to increase the wealth and gratify the passions of those who usurped a power 
the most unjust over the freedom of their fellow beings. (Cheers.) 

Mr. CuRRAN,in along and eloquent speech, moved the second resolution, viz. 
" That no human Legislature has any lawful power to abridge or destroy the 
natural rights of life or liberty, unless the owner shall himself commit, or be 
charged with the commission of some criminal act that amounts to a forfeiture 
thereof, or becomes amenable to the laws through liability for debt." 

Mr. Joshua Abell, on seconding the resolution, spoke to the commercial 
advantages of the abolition of West Indian Slavery, in the following terms ; 
— " I shall take advantage of this opportunity to explain a few of the im- 
mense advantages of the opening of the ports of Asia to our starving ma- 
nufacturers. Even if the Charter of the East India Company be not re- 
newed, we shall derive much less advantage than ought to be the case, whilst 
the West India interest continues to keep the East India productions almost 
out of our reach. There are about sixty-three Members of both Houses of 
Parliament who own West India property, and maintain that they have de- 
rived, from an Act of Parliament, authority to buy and sell the bodies of 
their fellow-men. These, by a strange anomaly, are sitting amongst the re- 
presentatives of the free people of Great Britain, and are the very cause of 
our manufacturers being excluded from the markets of Asia. They have 
managed to keep a duty of ten per cent, on East India sugar more than on 
West, and the consequence is, that we are obliged to take their sugar at a 
higher price than it is worth ; or, in other words, we pay about £800 per an- 
num to the West India planter, as a poors' rate, to support a system which 
would infallibly fall without this bounty. 

" It is vain to hope for improvement from the planters. I remember the words 
of the late Secretary Canning, which are so very appropriate, that, I am sure, 
I shall need no apology for quoting them. They were uttered in 1799 ; and an 
experience of thirty years has proved their truth :-—' Trust not,' said that 
enlightened Statesman, ' the masters of slaves in what concerns legislation for 
slavery.— However specious their laws may appear, depend upon it, they must 
be ineffectual in their operation. It is in the nature of things that they should 
be so. Let then the British House of Commons do their part themselves. Let 
them not delegate the trust of doing it to those icho cannot execute that trust 
fairly. Let the evil be remedied by an assembly of freemen, by the govern- 
ment of a free people, and not by the masters of slaves. Their laws can never 
reach, could never cure the evil. There is something in the nature of absolute 
authority, in the relation between master and slave, which makes despotism in 



2 ! 6 Dublin Anti-Slavery Meeting — Mr. A bell. 

all cases, and under all circumstances, an incompetent and unsure executor, 
■even of its own provisions, in favour of the objects of its power.' (Cheers.) 

" It is said that the slaves would not work if tliey were emancipated ; but let 
the emancipated blacks of the colonies answer that question. There are 90,000 
free blacks in the West India islands, and half the property in some of the 
islands belongs to them. Many of their sons are educated in European colleges, 
and the arms of the colonies are mostly in their hands. The whites amount to 
6.5,000; they, as well as the slaves, decrease in number, owing to the demora- 
lizing and unnatural system under which they live. The proportion of pau- 
pers among the whites is forty times as great as amongst the blacks. — 
If, therefore, the argument of using the whip for idleness be a valid one, it 
should change hands, and the black should hereafter be the master, and the 
white man the slave.— (Cheers.) 

" It is usual for gentlemen to come to these Anti-Slavery meetings, shelter 
themselves behind, and when the meetings are over, say that we tell falsehoods, 
for that they have been in the West Indies, and have seen no such things. I 
challenge those gentlemen to disprove one single statement of what we assert. 
If we speak falsehoods, they are bound, as gentlemen, as men of honour, to 
come forward and undeceive the public. But they have not done so, because 
they could not. If any gentleman again ventures to make such statements, let 
his hearers request him to commit the proofs of his ignorance to paper, sign his 
name to the document, and transmit it to any member of the Anti-Slavery com- 
mittee, and it will meet a full refutation. They have demanded your suffrages 
for the most extraordinary of all reasons, namely, that they did not see the deed, 
that they were not witnesses of the fact. On other occasions this disqualifies a 
man from giving evidence, but so little modesty have these gentlemen who have 
travelled in, or touched at the West Indies, that they seem to think themselves 
like Madeira, which has gone round the tropics, qualified to assume that there 
is nothing doubtful in their character remaining, and that their quality needs no 
shadow of proof. 

" The West India planter possesses so great an interest in the House of Com- 
mons, that he keeps 101. per ton more duty on East India than on West India 
sugar ; 28L per ton more on East India than on West India coffee ; lis. 6rf. per 
gallon more on East than on West India rum, and such like duties on various 
other articles. Yet, notwithstanding this restrictive system, the imports to Asia 
(so great is the desire for our cotton and other manufactures) have increased 
beyond all example. It appears, from official returns, that in the year 1814, 
there were exported to India 604,800 yards of printed calicoes, and 213,408 
yards of plain calicoes; while, in 1827, the export of printed calicoes was 
14,362,551 yards, and of plain, 19,932,580 ; the increase in the export of plain 
calicoes, the description commonly worn by the natives, being ninety-three fold. 
That of cotton twist, so late as 1823, the export to India was only 121,500 lbs. 
weight ; while, in 1827, the export was 3,063,968 lbs. weight, and has since been 
progressively increasing. That in metals, hardware, earthenware, and many 
other goods, an immense increase of our export has also taken place. That in 
the year 1819, the settlement of Singapore, at that time resorted to chiefly by 
pirates, was taken possession of by the British Government, and made a free 
port; and, in 1827, its import trade amounted to 13,387,185 Sicca rupees, with 
a corresponding export ; thus showing the extensive benefits to be derived from 
a free commercial intercourse, and altogether affording a greatly increased and 
increasing field of employment for British shipping. 

" There are at this moment West India planters in the room who can disprove 
what I say if it is false. Their boasted improvements amount to nothing. As 
well might we say, that the Irish landlords live at home, and attend to the 
wants and comforts of their people, because Lord Cloncurry and the Marquis of 
Downshire, and a few others, live on their estates, and attend to their tenantry, 
as to say that the West India planters have improved the condition of their 
slaves ; and as well might you make a law, that the produce of the resident 
landlords should be taxed for the benefit of the produce of absentee estates, as 
to declare that the produce of free labour should be taxed for the benefit of 
iSlave labour,— (Cheers.) The planters have endeavoured to deceive the Eng- 



Dublin Anti-Slavery Meeting — Mr. O'ConnelL 217 

lisb people on many points, such as abolishing labour and markets on the Sab- 
bath, the only day which they left to the slave to support himself, and yet they 
have not given him any other day for the purpose, so that they must still work 
or lie down and die. There are seven crown and thirteen chartered colonies, 
every one of which has refused to provide religious education for the slave ; 
seventeen have refused to put an end to Sabbath markets and labour ; eighteen 
have refused to make the Sabbath a day of religious observance ; nineteen to 
allow the slave any other day than the Sabbath to support themselves ; eight to 
admit slave evidence under any circumstances ; ten to permit slave marriages 
or protect their connubial rights ; nine to prevent the separation of families by 
sale ; nineteen to prevent the forcible sale of negroes from the estates to which 
they belong ; nine to protect the slaves in the acquirement of property ; fourteen 
to establish saving banks ; eleven to abolish the enormous taxes on manumis- 
sion ; fifteen to permit the negro to purchase his own freedom at any price ; six- 
teen to prevent the abuse of arbitrary punishment; fifteen to permit a record to 
be kept of arbitrary punishment ; fifteen to abolish the flogging of females ; 
twelve to abolish the cart-whip as an instrument to excite negro labour ; fifteen 
to appoint protectors of slaves ; fifteen to prevent protectors of slaves from 
holding slaves ; seventeen to permit the principles of law to be in favour of 
freedom ; and the entire twenty have refused to purify the administration of 
justice. So stands the history of the present state of the negro slave in the 
West Indies." After some cogent observations on the expense of the West 
Indian colonies to the empire, and upon the misrepresentations of Messrs. 
Macqueen, Mackenzie, and other advocates of slavery, Mr. Abell concluded a, 
comprehensive and impressive speech, which was loudly cheered by the audience. 

The Rev. J. M'Crea proposed the next resolution, viz. " That the Com- 
mittee be authorized to petition the Imperial Parliament, at the first convenient 
day of the present Session, and to request all other Anti-Slavery Societies to 
petition, that in their wisdom and justice they may be pleased to decree, that all 
children of slaves, in the British possessions, born after a day hereafter to be 
named, shall be free to all intents and purposes, as clearly as if they were the 
children of British parents, and born upon British soil." The Rev. Gentleman 
observed, that Mr. O'Connell was to follow him, and he preceded him merely 
for the purpose of that Gentleman being introduced to the meeting with greater 
efiect. And, though he, Mr. M'Crea, had been opposed to Mr. O'Connell here- 
tofore in feelings, religious and political, he now felt the most sincere and grati- 
fying pleasure in this juxta-position with the Learned Gentleman. 

Mr. O'Connell then rose to address the meeting. The Learned Gentleman 
was received with long continued and enthusiastic cheering. He commenced by 
observing, that in the profession to which he belonged, it was not, by any 
means, usual to solicit practice, but in the business to which he now belonged, 
and as a representative of the people, he solicited from the present meeting the 
high honour of presenting their petition to Parliament. (Cheers.) He felt proud 
and gratified at the occasion wrach presented him with the opportunity of thus 
soliciting their suffrages. It was to be sure a pleasure, and he certainly felt it 
as such, to meet there the Rev. Gentleman who had preceded him, and acted as 
master of the ceremonies — (a laugh) — in introducing him (Mr. O'C.) to the 
meeting, a gentleman who had differed with him in opinion, but he Was quite 
satisfied had done so honestly and conscientiously. The present was however a 
question upon which they were all, as men and christians, engaged, and each 
was equally zealous to strike from his fellow-creature the chains that disgraced 
and degraded him. (Cheers.) Could it be borne, much less could it be defended, 
that man was found degraded because he differed in colour from him who pre- 
sumed to call him his slave ? (Cries of HO.' no/ and hear!) But if they looked 
to the heart, they would find the heart of the master more black than the skin of 
him whom he arrogantly called his slave. He denied, totally denied and scouted 
the inhuman and absurd principle, that property could be claimed in human 
beings — those who were created by an eternal and just God for an eternity here- 
after, and redeemed by the precious blood of a Divine Redeemer— (Cheers.) — 
To him it was a source of very considerable consolation indeed, to reflect, that 
amongst the various portions of the earth that had been disgraced by the accursed 
and abhorrent negro slavery system, the stain had never yet rested upon Ireland, 



218 Dublin Anti-Slavery Meeting — Mr. O'Connell. 

their own country. Ireland and Irishmen should therefore be foremost in seek- 
ing to effect the emancipation of human kind— (Cheers.) But Britain, haughty 
Britain, had much to answer for in this respect — (Hear, hear.) Britain had not 
only the crime to be proved against her in her own colonies at present, but in 
the colonies which had once belonged to her ; and where the excuse now for 
slavery, was the influence set by British example. The Americans alleged that 
they had not perpetrated the crime, but inherited it from England. This, however, 
fact as it was, was still but a paltry apology for America, who, asserting liberty 
for herself, still used the brand and the lash against others. (Hear.) He taunted 
America with the continuance of slavery, and the voice with which he there 
littered the taunt, would be wafted on the wings of the Press, until it would be 
heard in the remote wilds of America ; it would be wafted over the waters of the 
Missouri and those of the Mississipi ; and even the slaves upon the distant banks 
of the Ohio would make his words resound in the ears of their heartless masters, 
and tell them to their face that they were the victims of cruelty, injustice, and. 
foul oppression. (Cheers.) Bright as was the page of American history, and 
brilliant as was the emblazonment of her deeds, yet still negro slavery was a 
black, a " damning spot " upon it. Glorious and splendid as was the star- 
spangled banner of Republican America, still, still it was stained with the deep 
foul blot of human blood. (Hear.) In nine of the Republics of America, negro 
slavery, the horrid and abominable traffic in human flesh, was countenanced and 
tolerated. Again he proclaimed that America was degraded by human slavery, 
and even the greatest of her heroes, Washington himself, had been a slave- 
ownen In his will, to be sure, that great man paid a tribute to the genius of 
his country, by giving freedom to his slaves ; but so long as they could be useful 
to him in this life, so long did he retain them ; and at his death he gave them 
freedom against the rest of the world. This was not, however, an excuse for 
Britain, and the plain, the undisguised truth should be told. The British Go- 
vernment possessed, if it chose to use it, the power of at once putting an end to 
slavery. In the colonies the slaves were guarded by soldiers, paid with their 
money; the Governor was paid with their money ; for the commodities brought 
from the West Indies, a bounty price was given ; and the fact was, that with 
every morsel of sugar that melted in their cups they bought negro blood, 
(hear, hear.) The British Government had but to say the word, and that moment 
negro slavery was at an end. The negro was not even allowed to be heard in a 
Court of Justice. The Judge, the Jury, the respective ofiicers were all white 
men, and why was it they would not even listen to the unfortunate negro ? This 
served to prove that wherever the negro was excluded from a court of law, there 
justice was but a name, and nothing prevailed but permanent injustice to them. 
And yet it was to perpetuate this wretched system of slavery that the Irish agri- 
culturists were to be sacrificed. If a law could be carried into efiect to prevent 
the drinking of spirituous liquors, he would use all means in his power to support 
that law. But what was the Government now about doing? Not at all to pre- 
vent the consumption of spirituous liquors, but on the contrary to increase that 
consumption, by holding out encouragement to the importation of rum from the 
West Indies {hear! and shame! shame!) at the expense of the grower of corn 
and the distiller of this country. Here then was an encouragement to the system 
of slave labour, and a prevention to the trade of freemen. Why, he would ask, 
was it that they were threatened with this ? because in this country they had 
been divided ; because instead of attending, as they ought, to their common inte- 
rests, they were engaged in beating each other about the head. His excellent friend, 
the Rev. Mr. Crea, and himself, had been engaged something in the same way, 
but that was passed, and now they went on together, heart and hand. (Here 
the Hon. and Learned Member, turning to the Rev. Mr. M'Crea, shook hands 
with him, to the evident delight of the meeting, which testified its satisfaction 
by hearty acclamations.) They should now combine their struggles, not only in 
what more immediately regarded the interests of their own country, but they 
should Ignite their best energies to put an end to the odious monopoly of those, 
who flogged the aged, and the young, as they flogged the brute beast, and who 
even raised the lash against woman. (Shame ! shame !) Let us petition. There was 
not a village, a town, a parish, or a city throughout Ireland that should not unite 
and send forward petitions against negro slavery. Let this but be done and the 



Southampton Anti-Slavery Meeting — Rev. J. Davies. 219 

result would be, that Government would not, could not, should not reject their 
prayer for the freedom and happiness of others. The speaker sat down amid 
loud and long-continued cheering. 

The resolution to petition both Houses of Parliament was unanimously 
agreed to. . 

The Rev. Mr. Creigkton proposed the next resolution, viz. "That the most 
certain means of overcoming the system of slave-holding, by which the po- 
pulation of these countries is so severely oppressed, is by refraining from 
the use of slave-grown produce, and purchasing the production of free labour." 
The Reverend Gentleman observed, that though formerly a Brunswicker, and 
opposed to Mr. O'Connell, he felt grateful to him for the honourable sentiments 
which he had expressed that evening, and in which he most cordially concurred. 
He trusted the period would soon arrive when he should see the dearest wish 
of his heart realized, by their efforts being crowned with complete success. — 
(Cheers.) 

Mr. FiTzsiMON begged, as one who had been a violent agitator, to second the 
motion proposed by one who had been a Brunswicker. He hailed with joy this 
proud era of the union of Irish feeling, when burying in oblivion past dissen- 
sions and petty prejudices, they now saw their own interests; and in discerning 
their own interests, they at the same time savr and felt what would advance the 
interests of humanity at lagar. — (Cheers.) When he entered that room, he 
was not prepared to deliver a single sentiment; but he gladly and proudly 
obeyed the call of those around him, and he did so the more gladly as it af- 
orded him the gratifying opportunity of uniting the former Brunswicker with 
the former Agitator. — (Tremendous cheering.) 

The fourth resolution was then adopted, and a committee for the ensuing 
year having been appointed, Mr. O'Connell was called to the chair, thanks 
voted to Mr. Pim, and the meeting separated. 



II. — Anti-Slavery Meeting at Southampton. 

On Tuesday the 6th of April, a very numerous and respectable 
Meeting of the Friends of Negro Emancipation was held at Southamp- 
ton. After an appropriate address from the Chairman, Dr. Lindoe, the 
fo lowing Resolutions were proposed and unanimously approved of: — 

" 1. That a state of Personal Slavery appears to this Meeting to be repugnant 
to the clearest dictates of Justice, to the genius of the British Constitution, and 
to the spirit of the Christian Religion. 

" 2. That it is the imperative duty of the British Nation, to give a strong and 
unequivocal expression of its feelings, by urgent and respectful appeals to the 
Legislature, in support of those measures of Government which may appear cal- 
culated to ameliorate the present condition, and to promote the speedy Emanci- 
pation of the Slaves. 

'* 3. That while we do not deny the claims of the Planters to be entitled to the 
deliberate and equitable attention of Parliament, we regard the prior and inde- 
feasible claims of the Slaves to their liberty, as paramount to all pecuniary con- 
siderations ; and that prompt and immediate steps should be taken to prepare 
them, by an efficient course of education and religious instruction, for the enjoy- 
ment of all the privileges and immunities of British subjects. 

" 4. That we are of opinion, that all children under ten years of age, and such 
as may be born after this time, should be at once declared free ; that all charges 
on manumission should be abolished ; and that, at the earliest period consistent 
with the general welfare of the Community, Slavery should cease in any form to 
exist within the limits of the British Dominions. 

" 5. That a Petition, embodying these Resolutions, be forthwith addressed 
to both Houses of Parliament." 

In proposing these resolutions several very impressive speeches were 
delivered. From that of the Rev. J. Davies, who moved the first reso- 
lution, we extract the following passage : — 

" That we may not be charged with indulging in the extravagance of sweep- 



220 Southampton Anti-Slavery Meeting — Rev. J. Davies. 

ins; representations, and in the vagueness of abstract notions, I will take tli^) 
liberty of stating a few facts, not less appalling than they are unquestionabl«?j.<i. 
as the basis of my subsequent remarks. As preliminary to all others, I lay ' 
down the broad, primary, and comprehensive fact, that at this moment there 
are in our West Indian islands alone, not less, at the lowest calculation, than 
seven hundred thousand human beings — bone of our bone, and flesh of our 
flesh — who are legally recognised, and are fiercely and resolutely claimed, as 
the absolute property of other men — of men, many of whom they have never seen* 
— some, whose names probably they have never heard— of men, between a largef 
proportion of whom and them the Atlantic rolls its waves ; and this, not under 
the capricious sway of Turkish despotism — not within the narrow boundaries 
of some obscure petty sovereignty, which hides its deeds of tyranny in the 
shades of its insignificance — not in a region of Pagan darkness or Mahometan 
imposture — not in the semi-civilized epoch of feudal laws and baronial tenures, 
but in the conspicuous empire of Great Britain, in the 19th century of the 
Christian era — in an age remarkable for the universal diffusion of light and 
knowledge, and for the extension and confirmation of civil and religious liberty 
—within the dependencies of a country which holds a commanding and influen- 
tial position among the nations of the earth — a country, whose charter of equal 
rights and political immunities has been delineated by the pen of its legislators, 
and sealed with the blood of its patriots — a country, which nearly 150 years 
ago indignantly hurled a legitimate monarch from his throne, because he exhi- 
bited a disposition to encroach upon the freedom and independence of his 
subjects. It is a fact, however anomalous and incredible, that in the range 
of colonial dependencies, governed by this country, there are 800,000 human 
beings — a number equalling, perhaps, the whole amount of the population 
of the principality of Wales — living in a state of abject, personal slavery. 
It is a fact, that after the repeated and continued eiforts of philanthropic 
individuals to effect a change — after the loud and reiterated expression of the 
nation's feeling, through the medium of public resolutions, declarations, and 
petitions — after an unequivocal decision of Parliament, and definitive orders of 
the King in council, the system in all its substantial features, still remains, for 
the most part, unmitigated and the same. It is a fact, that in most of the islands 
the slaves have scarce any other time to cultivate their grounds, in order to 
raise provisions for themselves and families, except the Sunday. It is a fact, 
that in none of those islands which have legislatures of their own, has any 
efficient law been passed for the education and religious instruction of the 
slaves. It is a fact, that with very few exceptions, Sunday markets are still 
openly and legally held throughout the West Indian islands, and that the 
slaves can be arrested and imprisoned as felons, for the debts of their improvi- 
dent masters. It is a fact, that during crop time, wliich forms nearly half the 
year, the slaves are forced to work, with scarcely any intermission, about 
eighteen hours out of every twenty-four — that in Jamaica, and many of the 
other islands, any master or overseer may inflict thirty-nine lashes with a cart- 
whip upon any negro slave, man, or woman, or child, without being obliged to 
give any reason for his conduct — that families, parents and children, brothers 
and sisters, are liable to be rudely torn asunder by the chances of public sales, 
in which they are exhibited, and the soundness of their several limbs examined, 
g,s if they were so many beasts of burden. But not to accumulate modes and 
instances of injustice and oppression, which would be too monstrous and appall- 
ing to admit of belief, if they were not fully authenticated and acknowledged, 
it is one fact decisive of the maltreatment, amounting to a slow and gradual 
murder, to which this numerous class of His Majesty's subjects are exposed — • 
that in almost all the places where unmitigated slavery reigns, the negro popu- 
lation decreases at an enormous and unparalleled rate, while the free-born or 
emancipated negroes, by whom they are surrounded, are found to multiply in a 
proportionate ratio. These are facts, not fictions — realities, not hypotheses. 
They are attested by documents of unimpeachable authority. They are there- 
fore too stubborn and absolute to be brushed away by one sweeping and some- 
what unceremonious charge of ignorance and misrepresentation. And, if true, 
they prove beyond contradiction that the slave, in every important capacity and 
relation which belongs to him, is subject to intolerable injury and oppression — 



Southampton Anti-Slavery Meeting — Rev. J, Davies. 221 

that as a physical being he is worn by excessive labour, until he prematurely 
sinks into the grave — that as an intellectual being, he is kept almost upon a 
level vFith the beast, — and that as an immortal being, by far the most important 
of all other considerations, he is abandoned, so far as any provision of law- 
is concerned, to all the ignorance, depravity, and vice, which are calculated to 
effect his ruin. I appeal to this meeting, whether these things ought so to be. 
I would ask whether, under the sanction of the British legislature, 800,000 ra- 
tional and immortal beings ought any longer to remain in this condition, merely 
because a few hundreds or even thousands of our fellow-countrymen may suffer 
some pecuniary loss, which is however in most cases very doubtful, as the con- 
sequence of some attempt to elevate them to the rank of humanity." 

After a very eloquent and argumentative address, in which the slave- 
holder's right of property, and claims for compensation, were ably dis- 
cussed, and the state of personal bondage shewn to be opposed equally 
to natural right and divine revelation — and to be not less impolitic than 
inhuman, the speaker concluded as follows : 

"To those who are convinced of the injustice and enormity of the slave 
system, but who are afraid to meddle with it, for fear of the dangers with which 
any general movement on the part of the negroes is apprehended as likely to be 
attended, it is only necessary to point out the numerous instances, upon every 
scale of magnitude, which have already taken place, without any such disasters 
being realized. The conduct of these persons is a continual compromise betweeu 
duty and fear, for the benefit of oppression, and the irreparable injury of its 
objects. They employ themselves in soliloquizing upon the comparative eligi- 
bility of bearing those ills we have, rather than 'flying to others that we know 
not of.' And while they are thus conjuringup scenes of imaginary terror upon the 
remote verge of the skies, they completely overlook the numerous facts by 
which they are surrounded, and which prove beyond a possibility of doubt that 
the danger is by no means such as they apprehend it to be, even if immediate 
emancipation were to take place. They have the spacious island of Hayti 
before their eyes, with its half million of emancipated negroes, whose jubilee 
was announced by one shrill note of the trumpet of liberty, without being fol- 
lowed by any disastrous result. In the colony of Trinidad they have more thaa 
15,000 free blacks, and persons of colour — being a proportion of more thaa 
four to one above the whites — living in peace, industry, and comfort. In St. 
Lucia the emancipated slaves are in a proportion of three to one more than the 
whites, and, by the testimony of the Chief Justice of the island, remarkable 
for their activity and good behaviour. In Grenada, the enfranchised populatioa 
is four times the number of the whiter, and there is not one pauper among 
them. In Jamaica, they have it officially stated in a return printed by order of 
the House of Commons, that the criminal prosecutions of the whites and the 
enfranchised blacks, were as 24 to 8, though the latter population is consider- 
ably larger than the former. And are these facts, and others equally striking, I 
would ask, to go for nothing in estimating the danger of admitting the negroes, 
under suitable regulations, to the enjoyment of civil liberty ? Is it in reference 
to this question alone, that the evidence of experience is to be overborne by 
hypothesis, and that a system of crooked, barbarous, and cowardly policy is to 
supersede the dictates of justice and humanity, and the principles of enlightened 
legislation ? I do not say indeed, that the question of negro slavery is without 
its dangers, but the real peril is from its continuance, not from its judicious and 
timely annihilation. 

" Upon those, who think it too great an effort to bestow one serious and con- 
vsiderate thought upon the condition of their fellow beings, who are separated 
from them by so many leagues of water, I fear that all argument would be lost. 
This is not a subject for the triflers of the day, who flit from flower to flower in 
quest of some pleasurable sweet, and care not who sutlers, if they enjoy — who is 
manacled, if they are free. Such persons must learn to think, before they know 
how to pity. But, before they presume to treat with levity and scorn the interr 
niinable captivity and wrong of 800,000 human beings, let diem try by one efljorj. 

2 M 



'222 Anti-Slaverif Meetings at Bradford, Stroud, 8^c. Sfc. 

of the imagination, by one hour of pensive reflection, to realise what it would be 
to spend a single day in their own persons in the same humiliating condition. 

" To those who are sincere and strenuous in their endeavours to procure the 
removal of this foul stain from the escutcheon of our country, I would only pre- 
sume to say, that the most effectual means of attaining our object, is to combine 
moderation with firmness — perseverance with energy — discretion with zeal — 
qualities of which, I trust, the resolutions to be pi-oposed this evening will afford 
a specimen. Let us ask nothing but what the legislature may safely and wisely 
yield. Let us be resolute in our purpose, but yet temperate in our appeals. 
Let this principle regulate the conduct of the friends and advocates of negro 
emancipation, and success, though difficult, and impeded by many obstacles, 
cannot be far distant. Every indication is in favour, indeed, of the speedy 
termination of this degrading system. And how would it cheer the hearts of 
the venerated champions of this glorious cause, those who have spent their 
strength in the service — our Clarkson and our Wilberforce, and their worthy 
associates, to behold this happy consummation of their philanthropic la- 
bours. I can imagine that after such a vision of earthly blessedness, their 
ascending spirits would clap their wings with gladder triumph as they hastened 
to join the company of the celestials, who have been gathered out of every 
kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation, and to bear their part in that new 
song, which ascribeth blessing, and honour, and glory, and power, unto him that 
sitteth upon the throne and to the Lamb for ever and ever." 

Excellent speeches were also delivered on this occasion by Dr. 
Nicholl, Sir Matthew Blakiston, the Rev. Robert Adkins, and various 
other gentlemen present. From several of these we would willingly 
have given appropriate extracts; but our limits for the present are 
exhausted. 

Petitions to both Houses of Parliament, founded upon the above 
Resolutions, and numerously signed, have subsequently been sent up 
for presentation. 



III. — Anti-Slavery Meetings at Bradford, Stroud, &c, &c. 

Meetings of a description similar to those above noticed, have 
also been held in the course of last month at Bradford, in Yorkshire, 
at Stroud, in Gloucestershire, and at several other towns throughout 
the country ; at all of which very strong resolutions were passed. 
From a petition to Parliament adopted at the Bradford Meeting, we 
select the following specimen : — 

" That in attempting to carry those resolutions [the Parliamentary resolutions 
of 1823] into effect, his Majesty's Government has met with such opposition 
from most, and with such insult from some of the Colonial Governments, as 
sufficiently evince their general determination to obstruct, or by other means to 
nullify every provision tending to final abolition, and to preclude all reasonable 
hope of any effective co-operation from that quarter. 

" That any considerable improvement in the moral and religious character of 
the slaves is rendered unattainable by the incessant, grievous, and unremune- 
rated labours in which they are engaged, and that while a profession of anxiety 
or willingness to have the slaves instructed in Christianity, is held out by the 
colonial legislatures, their practice generally, and that of Jamaica particu- 
larly, shows the utter insincerity of such professions. 

" That from these facts it appears plain to your Petitioners, that as long as 
the negroes continue the absolute property of their masters, there can be no 
reasonable hope of any religious or moral improvement in their character to any 
extensive degree. 

" That your Petitioners are of opinion, and beg leave humbly to suggest to 



Mr. Godwin's Lectures. ^23 

your Right Honourable House, that immediate, decisive, and effectual steps 
should be taken to secure the absolute and unconditional freedom of the whole 
slave population ; and that a definite and early period ought to be fixed forth- 
with for the accomplishment of this act of humanity and justice." 



IV. Mr. Godwin's Lectures on Negro Slavery. 

The following' account of a series of interesting lectures on Slavery, 
is extracted from the Leeds Mercury, of March 27, 1830. 

" The Rev. Benjamin Godwin, baptist minister, of Bradford, has delivered 
four lectures last week, and the week before, at the Commercial Buildings, in 
that town, on this interesting subject. 

" Admission was had by tickets at one shilling each, and the large room was 
well filled with a respectable company, who listened with deep attention and 
interest to the clear, able, and convincing arguments and statements of this zea- 
lous advocate of the cause of abolition. As a general outline of these lectures 
may be interesting, and may suggest similar exertions in other large towns, the 
public are presented with the following statement: — 

"In the first lecture, the reasons which had induced Mr. Godwin to enter on 
the subject, and his design and plan in treating it, were referred to. 

" He stated his desire to treat the subject with the utmost fairness, and to 
produce the arguments advanced on both sides of the question, and to establish 
his statements by reference to undisputed facts and unexceptionable documents. 
A Historical and Geographical sketch of Ancient and Modern Africa, and of the 
West Indies was then given, and also an account of the discovery, produce, po- 
pulation, colonization, and conquest of those islands. — This was followed by a 
general view of the system of Slavery ; the manner in which the greater part of 
the population was formerly supplied by the Slave Trade from the western coast 
of Africa ; the various employments of the slaves ; a description of a sugar plan- 
tation ; of the working gangs ; the driver and his whip. The monstrous features 
of the system; the perpetuity of bondage; and a comparative view of the con- 
ditions of the English and the West Indian labourer closed this lecture. 

" The second lecture pointed out more particularly the evils of Slavery, natural, 
moral, and political. — Under the first head, the internal wars which the Slave 
Trade originated in Africa — the capture — the journeys, embarkation — and last 
farewell of the captives to their native shores — the horrors of the middle pas- 
sage, and their disposal when arrived in the West Indies, were affectingly de- 
scribed. 

" The abolition of this horrid traffic by Great Britain was alluded to as a sub». 
ject of congratulation, and as an argument for proceeding to the extinction of 
the system oi slavery, — slavery, the parent of the African Slave Trade, which is 
still carried on clandestinely to a very shocking extent by the vessels of several 
of the European and South American states. 

"The general treatment, as regards labour, food, and punishment of the 
slaves was particularized ; and their relation to society, as liable to oppression 
and injustice from their masters (who were their legislators, and would take 
care not to abridge their own usurped and despotic authority) was stated. Also, 
the difficulty of obtaining redress, by the almost universal non-admission of 
slave evidence ; the liability of families to be torn asunder in sales of slaves, 
who were in the eye of the law the mere goods and chattels of the master; the 
whole presenting a frightful mass of evil, and a state of complete degradation, 
were forcibly explained. 

" Some very striking remarks were made on the perpetuated ignorance of 
the slaves, and the general unwillingness of the masters to have it removed ; 
the almost universal disregard of the institution of marriage ; the branding, ad- 
vertising, and sale of slaves, and the unjust and cruel obligation imposed on the 
free black to prove his freedom, (whilst the claimant is not bound to prove his 
right,) which, if he fails to do, he again becomes a slave. 

" The moral evils accruing from the system to the slaves and to their masters 
— tending to inflame the passions, to harden the heart — to extinguish all sense 



524 Mr. Godwin s Lectures. 

of justice, and to induce the most unbounded licentiousness, were afely ex- 
pounded : and the political evils, as affecting our finances, and our commerce, 
in the defence and maintenance of such a monopoly, were also laid open. This 
lecture closed with some very forcible observations upon our national guilt, in 
perpetuating a system which must be inexpressibly offensive to the righteous 
and holy God. 

" The third lecture was a closely argumentative exposure of the unlawfulness 
of slavery, and of the sophisms which were used to justify it. Some preliminary 
remarks were made in answer to the usual defence and objections of the advo- 
cates of slavery, such as the alleged exaggeration of statements — the interest 
which the masters have in treating their slaves well — the contentedness of the 
slaves if let alone, and the alleged preferableness of the state of West Indian 
slaves to that of English paupers ; whicli last allegation was very particularly 
disproved and exposed. 

" The unlawfulness of slavery was shown as a violation of the natural rights 
of man — of the principles of the British constitution — and the more sacred prin- 
(Jiples of the religion of the Divine Redeemer. 

" The opinions of Paley and Blackstone on the natural rights of man were 
quoted, and it was shown that none can possess nor acquire these rights either 
by gift, purchase, force, or human enactments. The common and hackneyed 
refinements to which the Macqueenites resort, such as — that though the Slave 
Trade may be unjust, slavery is not, or that it is an act of charity to take them 
from their country, ^ — were treated, especially the latter, with deserved severity. 
It was also shown how unfounded is the allegation of their being an inferior 
race. 

" In stating slavery to be opposed to the British constitution, the glaring in- 
consistency of our sending a fleet to Algiers to liberate Christian slaves, and our 
exertions to emancipate the Greeks from Turkish thraldom was forcibly pointed 
out. The principles of the constitution were also stated as founded upon the 
Magna Charta extorted from John, and as exercised in the resistance and ex- 
pulsion of such despotic monarchs as James II. Its opposition to the law of 
nations was also shown. The sophisn^s and objections grounded on prescrip- 
tion, on antiquity, on the sanction of British laws, and on the slavery of the 
Jewish Dispensation, were exposed and refuted. This lecture closed with an 
impressive exposition of the principles of Christianity as opposed to slavery, and 
of the futility of the justification which some attempt to ground upon the state of 
society, and the exhortations of the Apostolic writers to the slaves, in the com- 
mencement of the Christian era. 

"In showing the opposition of Slavery to the spirit and tendency of Chris- 
tianity, the lecturer conceded that there was no distinct precept literally forbid- 
ding it, — that there were slaves {SovXoi) when Christianity commenced, — that 
such persons, on being converted, were exhorted to submission and obedience: 
but no sanction to such a system could be fairly inferred from these premises. — 
St. Paul, in 1 Cor. vii. 21, &c. evidently censures the system in very forcible 
terms. It was sufiicient to observe, that the Apostles did not interfere with the 
political institutions of the day ; but, says Paley, ' does it follow from this, that 
all civil institutions which prevailed were right, or that the bad should not be 
exchanged for the better?' If we proceed on this principle, how shall we justify 
the struggles of our ancestors for freedom ? Was the attempt at arbitrary rule by 
any of our monarchs at all to be compared to the despotism of that period? and 
yet the Apostles did not denounce it. It was also observed, that those who 
attempted to justify Slavery from the apostolical injunctions to obedience, would 
do well to be admonished from the same quarter, that ' men-stealers' are classed 
with 'murderers of fathers, and murderers of mothers, and men-slayers;" and 
are they who perpetuate the act less guilty than they who originated it? 

"The views which Christianity imparts of God, as 'our Father in Heaven,' 
the common and gracious benefactor of all our race, without respect of persons, 
nations, language, or complexion ; as the universal Lawgiver or Judge, from 
whom neither the high nor low, the Planter nor Slave, can appeal : the fact that 
all mankind are naturally the same, and, more particularly, that the blessed 
promises of the Gospel extend to the black as well as to the white, that there is 
not one Divine Redeemer for the African and another for the European — that 



'Lieutenant Smith. 225 

the same atoning blood is efficacious to cleanse the Negro from his sins, and that 
the same Divine Spirit dwells in the heart of the Ethiopian — was happily urged, 
proving that, in Christ Jesus, there is neither bond nor free, and that the law of 
mutual love and good-will must for ever remain at variance with chains, and 
brands, and whips, and interminable bondage. 

" The fourth lecture treated of the Abolition of Slavery, reference being firS't 
made to the history of colonial slavery, and the history of the cause of abolition 
as divided into four periods, viz. from its commencement to 1787, when Wilber- 
force first moved the House on behalf of the slaves. The next period extended 
to 1807, when the Slave Trade was abolished under the Administration of 
Grenville and Fox ; the next to 1823, when Mr. Canning's resolutions passed ; 
and the last from that year to the present time, during which next to nothing 
has been done to carry them into eflect. The questions, whether amelioration or 
abolition, and whether gradual or immediate abolition should be adopted, were 
also argued. 

" The subject of Equitable Compensation was also examined, and the results 
were stated in substance to this effect: — 

" 1. That justice demanded positive abolition. 

" 2. That compensation (for which the slave had the first claim) could only 
be pleaded by the planters, not as of right, but in the nature of a penalty for 
national delinquency, and that the extravagant claims of the West India advo- 
cates as to indemnity could never be justly conceded. 

" That the dangers anticipated from immediate abolition, which justice de- 
manded, and sound policy dictated, were in most cases visionary and exag- 
gerated, that any real danger might be guarded against, and that the case of 
Hayti would prove the feasibility of a bloodless manumission, if no efforts were 
made (as in that case) to enthral them again. 

" The other objections to their emancipation, such as their proneness to inac- 
tivity, and ignorance, were taken up, and several facts cited to prove, that they 
were unfounded in experience, ivhere the blacks were free. The circumstance of 
the great disproportion of white paupers to blacks was also adduced to show the 
futility of this objection. 

" This lecture closed with examining the question ' Hoiv shall this end be 
attained ?' The desirableness of discouraging slave produce was discussed. 
The duty of firm, temperate, and unceasing appeals to Parliament was shewn ; 
and the power of the Legislature to effect that which the planters themselves 
never would effect, was compared to that of the steam engine, which required 
only the steam of public opinion, strongly expressed, to enable it to annihilate 
Colonial Slavery at one majestic stroke. 

"These lectures, of which the above is but an imperfect outline, were attended 
by numerous, respectable, and attentive audiences, and have doubtless produced 
an effect upon the judgment as well as the sympathy of many influential persons, 
which will be permanent, and productive of well-directed exertion in this righte- 
ous cause." 



v.— Lieutenant Smith, of Jamaica. 

The West India Reporter, No. XXX, attacks us with great velie- 
mence for having asserted the genuineness of a letter written by Mr. 
Smith, and dated from Jamaica, which first appeared in the Dubhn 
Evening Mail of Sept. 30, 1829. When that letter first appeared, its 
vf3int 0^ authentication induced us to pay it comparatively little attention. 
But when it was asserted by the Morning Journal and the West Indian 
Reporter, and other pro-slavery works, that it was fabricated by the 
Anti-Slavery Society, we deemed it right so far to investigate the sub- 
ject as to ascertain that such a letter had been written in Jamaica, and 
had been received in Ireland. On this point we were satisfied. We 
ascertained it to be a genuine letter written by Lieut. Smith, and re- 
ceived and published by his brother, and not a home fabrication, as 
was alleged. The Editor of the West India Reporter supposes that 



■226 Lieutenant Smith, 

in expressing oui conviction of its genuineness, we meant to vouch for 
its truth. But this is not to understand the import of the English lan- 
rguage. We merely meant to say, that we had ascertained that it was 
written at the place whence it was dated, and by the person who was 
alleged to be its author, leaving to our readers the inference that the 
imputations must be false which attributed its fabrication to us, or to 
any one in England. The letter being proved to be a genuine Jamaica 
letter could not, of course, be an English forgery.* 

But it is alleged, on the testimony of Mr, Smith, that his letter had 
t)een altered. Mr. Smith has admitted that he had been guilty of 
misrepresentations in that letter. He may, therefore, have been mis- 
taken in this assertion also. But if so, the matter may be put to the 
proof. His letter is still, we understand, in existence, and in the hands 
of his brother. It may be compared with the Dublin Evening Mail. 
It has been so compared by a friend who has been permitted to see it^ 
and he affirms that it has not been altered except by the omission of 
the names of persons and places. 

That the letter was genuine we felt convinced, and if we could have 
-doubted it, the proceedings in Jamaica, and the insertions in the West 
India Reporter, would have set all doubt on that point at rest. It is 
evidently the real, unprompted, unconcerted letter of Mr. Smith him.= 
self. Its truth is quite another question, on which we did not pretend 
to decide. And not being satisfied on that point, we did not insert one 
word of it in our pages. We knew that its truth as well as its genu- 
ineness would hereafter come to be investigated, and we waited that 
issue. 

But though we admit that the letter is not entitled to the credit it 
assumes, and that, by the writer's own admission, some of its state- 
ments are unfounded, yet we still think that " it paints colonial slavery 
in true, though revolting colours." The descriptions of Greece by the 
author of Anacharsis are accurate, though the incidents are not real. 
And a man may give a true picture of Jamaica and its manners, 
while the particular facts are supposititious ; as in the case of " Marly, 
or a Planter's life inJam.aica;" "The Memoirs of a West India 
Planter; " " The Tour of Cynric Williams," &c. In all these works 
there are many exact and graphic descriptions. And so in the letter of 
Mr. Smith, if there be not truth, there may be at least great verisimi- 
litude. And that this is not our opinion merely, is evident from what 
has passed in Jamaica.f The following is an extract from The Watch- 
man of the 16th of December, 1829 : — 

" We have read with surprise in the Courant of this morning, the 
copy of a letter from Mr. Smith, the comptroller of the customs at 
Savannah la Mar, on the subject of the article entitled, ' Cruelties of 

* The West India Repoi-ter seems so little aware of the meaning of the 
word genuineness tliat he changes our terms " complete conviction of its genu- 
ineness" into "conviction of its complete genuineness." (p. 264.) Our con- 
viction of its genuineness was certainly complete, and is abundantly justified by 
all the details given in the West India Reporter. 

t If any one will compare Mr. Smith's account of the cart-whip with that 
given above (p. 200) by Mr. Barrett, himself a planter, and at this moment a 
member of the Assembly of Jamaica, he will see that the latter is quite as re- 
volting as the former. , 



Lieutenafit Smith. S27 

West India Slavery,' &c. Our surprise is not' that Mr. Smith owns 
himself the author of the letter, ' expunging some sentences and al- 
lusions,' but that he should give such a colouring to the avowal as to 
stamp his epistle with the character of a deliberate fabrication. Why' 
does he not come forward boldly and state what he has said on the 
subject, and substantiate the allegation, if it can be substantiated? That 
such atrocities do exist as represented, we have not the shadow of a 
doubt, and were the artillery of Jamaica planted in murderous array 
against our bosom, we should fearlessly express our opinions." "Who 
that has witnessed the persecution and martyrdom of the missionaries of 
St. Ann's, the Golgotha of Jamaica, can doubt of the existence of such 
unparalleled enormities ? None. But Jamaica humanity can be 
traced even to the House of Assembly. How long is it since a young 
Creole slave, a native of Jamaica, a subject of His Majesty, the property 
of Curtis Philip Berry, the honourable member for Manchester, was 
branded on both shoulders and breast with the letters C. P. B. ? Well 
may colonial policy cavil and shiver at the admissibility of slave evi- 
dence." 

The Struggler, of Dec. 12, expresses himself to much the same 
effect. (But this was before he heard of Mr. Smith's retractations.) 
" It has, too long," he says, been the practice of " the public of 
Jamaica, to stigmatize many truths as calumnies, and thereby prevent 
the exposure of improper acts. The time has, however, now arrived, at 
which all such fallacies must explode, and we rejoice" " that a sense 
of justice will trumpet forth the good or evil acts of the slave-owner." 
" The use of the whip has been too unrestricted : it cannot be denied." 
" We do not defend the imputations cast on the characters of the inha- 
bitants of Westmorland by Mr. Smith," " but there appears no reason 
for concluding that Mr. Smith has exceeded the bounds of veracity in 
the detail of the disgusting severities he became a witness of, and there- 
fore we see no just ground of complaint against his expressing that 
horror he no doubt felt whilst witnessing such inflictions." — " The 
Editor trusts he possesses sufficient moral courage to defy and scorn 
those animadversions which, he may lay his account, will be heaped 
upon him by the illiberal portion of the community, and the venal hire- 
lings of a corrupt press." 

Without doubt all this does not prove that Mr. Smith was actually, 
as he professed to be, the eye witness of what he related ; but it indicates 
as we said before, at least the verisimilitude of his narration ; and that, 
in the estimation of persons residing on the spot, and dependent on the 
favour of the public for the sale of their paper, the particulars detailed 
were not at all unlikely to have happened ; and that there was nothing 
in the state of the law and of manners to prevent their happening. — It 
may be necessary either to prove or to disprove particular acts of 
atrocity. These may affect individuals, or they may serve to illus- 
trate the state of society. But while the Jamaica statute-book stands 
as it does, a monument of inhumanity and injustice ; while the laws 
professing to secure the well being of the slave are in the deplorable 
state of inefficiency in which we have shewn them to be in the preceding 
pages ; what security can the slave, man, woman, or child, have either 
for person or for property, for back, or for limbs, or for life ? 



228 Jamaica Advertisements. 

We must reserve for the next number our reply to the attack of the 
West India Reporter respecting Sierra Leone, which however admits of 
a very sufficient and satisfactory reply. 



VI. — Jamaica Advektisements. 

Extracts from the Royal Gazette of Jamaica, of 13th March 1830, 
being descriptions of apprehended runaway slaves. 

" George, a Mungola, 5 feet 5 inches ; marked apparently TA on 
shoulders, wears whiskers, has country marks down his belly, and large 
sores on the right foot; to Thomas Tate, Esq. Shaftston plantation, 
Westmorland. 

" Lizzy, alias Lizzy Thomas, an old grey-headed creole negro woman, 
5 feet 2 inches; some of her teeth are lost and others are decayed; to 
York estate, St. Thomas' in the East. 

" George Robert, a young creole negro man, 5 feet 7| inches ; marked 
apparently PM on left, and WP on right shoulder, and has two scars on 
left breast; to a Mr. Stewart, now off the island. 

" Elizabeth Baker Cooper, alias Mary Munro, a yellow skin creole 
negro woman, 4 feet Hi inches, marked MI on shoulders ; having stated 
to the magistrates that she was free, she was therefore ordered to be de- 
tained until she produces documents thereof. 

" George, alias John Brown, a young creole negro man, 5 feet 5J 
inches, marked PL (in one), diamond on top, twice on left and once on 
right shoulder, and the same marks on his breasts, to the estate of the 
late Purchas Lumley, Esq. dec. Richmond-Lodge, Westmorland. 

" Hamlet, alias William Maxwell, a creole, 5 feet 3 inches; the first 
joint of the fourth right finger is lost ; has scars on forehead, and old 
bruises on shins ; to Tileston estate, Trelawny. 

" Eliza Carr, a fair sambo, 5 feet 5 inches, stout made, marked appa- 
rently YP on right shoulder; has marks of a public flogging on shoulders, 
a scar under her chin, one above her upper lip on the left side, and one 
on her left inner ancle, and wears her hair thick and plaited. 

" George Temple, a smart-looking creole man boy, 5 feet 4 inches, 
marked IS on shoulders; to a Mr. J. Thompson, May-Day, Manchester. 

" Susanna, a creole, 5 feet 5 inches, marked apparently SM on left 
shoulder; lost the sight of her right eye; to a Miss Manjoe, Clarendon. 

" Robert Smith, a creole, 5 feet 9| inches, respectable appearance; 
formerly to Friendship Pen, Manchester, but paid the purchase-money 
of his freedom to a Mr. Morris, at the Bog estate, St. Elizabeth's. 

" Edward EUis, a creole, 5 feet 8| inches, sambo complexion; has 
blister marks on his back, two moles on the right side of his lower lip, 
and a scar on left foot; says he is free, but can produce no document 
thereof, 

" Alexander Fillington, a quadroon boy, about 16 years old; his toes 
are much distorted from the yaws ; says he is free, is a iiative of Kingston. 

" John Thomas, a Coromantee, 3 feet 4 inches, marked VIGW on 
right breast ; says he is free, but has no documents thereof." 



Londoti : Printed by Bagster and Thorns, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 61.] For JUNE, 1830. [No. 13. Vol. iii. 

The " Anti-Slavery Montfily Reporter" will be forwarded to any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four Shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity, on application at 
the Society's office, No. 18, Aldermanbury. Single Copies may be had of all 
booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight pages. 



, PROCEEDINGS OF A GENERAL MEETING OF THE ANTI-SLA- 
VERY SOCIETY AND ITS FRIENDS, HELD AT THE FREEMASONS 
HALL, ON SATURDAY, THE loth OF MAY, 1830, MR. WILBERFORCE 
IN THE CHAIR, CONTAINING THE SUBSTANCE OF THE 
SPEECHES DELIVERED, AND THE RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED ON 
THAT OCCASION. 



II. CONCLUDING REMARKS. 

III. LIST OF THE ANTI -SLAVERY COMMITTEE. 



I. Proceedings of a General Meeting of the Anti-Slavery 
Society and its Friends, held at the Freemasons' Hall, 
ON Saturday the 15th of May 1830. 

This meeting was one of the most numerous that ever assembled at 
this place on any occasion. Long before the hour fixed for opening 
the business of the day had arrived, the hall was completely filled in 
every part, so that even the passage to the platform was choked up, 
and some gentlemen who were to have taken part in the proceedings of 
the day were forced to retire. It has been estimated that about two 
thousand persons must have been actually present ; and certainly a very 
considerable number, probably 1,000 or 1,500 went away, without being 
able to obtain admission. Among those present we observed the fol- 
lowing noblemen and gentlemen, viz. Lords Milton and Calthorpe ; the 
Bishop of Bath and Wells, Hon. and Rev, G. Noel, Hon. and Rev. B. 
Noel, and Hon, C. J. Shore, Drs. Lushington and Milner, Messrs. 
Wilberforce, Clarkson, Brougham, Denman, Buxton, W. Smith, Sykes, 
Spring Rice, O'Connell, Brownlow, W. Whitmore, Pendarves, Z. and 
T. B. Macaulay, H. Drummond, Evans, Garratt, Pownall, Allen, Forster, 
Gurney, Rev. D. Wilson, Captain Gordon, and many others of high 
respectability. 

Mr. Clarkson came forward to make a proposition, which he be- 
lieved would be agreeable to all present, — that his old and beloved 
friend and fellow-labourer, Mr. Wilberforce, should be called to the 
Chair. (Great and continued cheering.) That chair was, indeed, his 
natural and proper right in this assembly. He was entitled to it by 
long and unwearied services as the leader of our cause. And he sin- 

2n 



230 General Meeting — Mr. Wilbcrforce. 

cerely hoped he might live till, under his auspices, the great object of 
this clay's meeting might be brought to a speedy and a happy issue. 

Mr. WiLBERFOiiCE having taken the chair, observed that if 
he were at all placed in that chair, he could undoubtedly be called 
to it by no one with more propriety than by his old and faithful friend 
and fellow-labourer, Mr. Clarkson. — He conceived it could not be 
necessary for him to detain the meeting long with any prehminary obser- 
vations, because he trusted that the purpose for which they had met 
had sunk so deep into the heart and feelings, the conscience and prin- 
ciples of all who were present, that it was not necessary to say much 
either to explain its nature or to justify its propriety, — feeling con- 
vinced that he rather ought to apologize for having been so tardy in again 
bringing the subject before them, than for having done so now. The 
purpose for which they had assembled was, indeed, most urgent ; and 
it was impossible for him to have met with his old friend Mr. Clarkson 
on this day, after a long interval of absence, without finding his mind 
occupied in looking back to the early period of that warfare, in which he 
was preceded by his friend, and which they prosecuted together until 
they at length effected in Parliament the abolition of the slave trade, 
that first step towards the completion of the object for which they were 
now assembled. And here he would remind the meeting of a most im- 
portant lesson which they were taught at the very outset of their under- 
taking. When the proposition was first made for abolishing the slave 
trade ; when light was first thrown on that den of darkness, and the 
atrocities connected with it were fully exposed to public view ; it pro- 
duced a sentiment of universal horror; and the British House of Com- 
mons declared almost with one concurrent voice that it should at once 
and for ever be abolished. But the result shewed how dangerous it was to 
trifle with conscience, and to resist the first impulse of an honest mind. 
Fatal was the consequence of doing so in this instance. When the hor- 
rors of the slave trade were fully laid before Parliament, its first impulse 
was to tolerate it no longer. But by degrees, the early fervour began to 
cool, and self-interest began to assert its claims, and to urge motives for 
delay. And under the patronage of Mr, Dundas, (the late Lord Mel- 
ville) it was proposed that a gradual, instead of an immediate, abolition 
should be adopted. He and his friends saw at once the danger of such 
a proposal, and immediately rejected it. Every possible method 
which determined hostility, goaded by self-interest, could suggest, was 
now taken to oppose them, and their principles and motives were syste- 
matically and grossly misrepresented. It was imputed to them among 
other thmgs that they acted on false principles ; they neglected the 
slaves in the West Indies; and that to the improvement of their condi- 
tion, and not to the abolition of the African slave trade, ought the at- 
tention of Parliament to be directed. This view of the subject was 
strenuously maintained in 1792. In that year the House of Commons 
resolved that the slave trade should be forthwith abolished. But Mr. 
Dundas contended for its continuance for eight years longer. He plead- 
ed for its respite only for that period, and then he was willing that its 
death-warrant should be signed — and it should be doomed thenceforward 
to destruction. And to reconcile us to the idea of thus prolonging, for 



General Meeting — Mr. Wilberforce. 231 

eight years, the horrors of the slave trade, he proposed that when these 
eight years should have expired — namely, on the first of January 1800, 
then not only should the slave trade be abolished entirely, and for ever, 
but that every negro child that should be born in the West Indies, after 
that day, should be born free. Had we accepted that compromise, sup- 
posing it to have been faithfully executed, there would now scarcely 
have been left a single slave in the whole extent of the West Indies, 
Now it will be asked, why we did not accede to this proposal? But 
may it not be asked in reply, how we could possibly have acceded 
to it? Should we have been justified in sanctioning the con- 
tinuance of this horrible trade for eight years longer, or for any period 
however short, if it was in our power to prevent it? Let the meeting 
only consider what Mr, Dundas's proposition was, and then they could not 
be of opinion that we should have done right in acceding to it. It 
was, that after we had been distinctly assured that Parliament would 
abolish the slave trade for ever, we should give our consent to its con- 
tinuance for eight years longer — that we should give our willing consent 
that 70,000 or 80,000 human beings should every year, for eight years, 
be torn from their country by every method that rapine and cruelty 
could suggest, should be immured in floating dungeons, carried across 
the Atlantic, and there condemned they and their descendants to a state 
of slavery. What right had we to stipulate thus for the liberty, the life 
and death of so many of our fellow beings ? We were all accountable 
to a higher tribunal, and why should we have presumed to consent, that 
a crime so shocking to humanity should be dehberately committed, for 
the miserable hope it afforded that any thing good would or could flow 
from it ? For was it not plain, that if, with our eyes open to its enormity, 
we had acceded to such a proposition as that ; if we had so far in- 
fringed upon right principles as to consent to enter into so unhallowed a 
compromise as that of seeking a good end by bad means ; we could not 
have hoped for the divine blessing, and might have seen our object 
wholly defeated, or, at least, still further deferred. Recent experience 
had proved how little confidence we could place on such insidious con- 
cessions. In 1823 the West Indians came forward with ^Aez'r proposi- 
tions, which were substituted for ours ; but, having thus obtained the 
means of delay, they now, in 1830, even when we were pursuing the 
very course they themselves had suggested, retracted their concessions 
and opposed the carrying of them into effect. We might depend upon it, 
therefore, that if the abolitionists had assented to Mr. Dundas's propo- 
sition, some expedient would have been found to prevent its accomplish- 
ment. They did not accede to that proposition, and they were wise, he 
(Mr. Wilberforce) was convinced, in not having done so. They experi- 
enced, indeed, afterwards, much opposition during their long struggle 
to effect their object, but his faithful friend and himself had been 
cheered and animated throughout by the continued sympathy and sup- 
port of the public, not less than by the consciousness of a good cause ; 
and he firmly trusted, that the Almighty would not allow the evils, 
for the extinction of which they now laboured, to exist much longer. One 
victory had already been achieved, and he hoped, that old as he was, 
he should live to see another. There was no longer, indeed, any time 



232 General Meeting — Mr. Wilberforce. 

for delay, or for half measures. We must all be in earnest, and we 
must shew our earnestness by the vigour of our efforts. — Let us consider 
what was the state of things in which we now stood as compared with 
1792; and this question would assume a still stronger emphasis when 
we considered who Mr. Dundas was, and what was the situation which 
he occupied. Was he some wild reformer, who following every visionary 
fancy and rash political scheme, was disposed to rush precipitately into 
plans of improvement? No: he was no such person; he was, on the 
contrary, a man, though generous and liberal in private life, who yet 
shewed the greatest enmity to every thing that savoured of wild project, 
and the most disposed to take the part of a cool and calculating policy 
against any thing that could be termed extravagant. Such was the 
character of Mr. Dundas, who yet in 1792 considered it not premature 
to begin to put an end to the system of slavery within eight years. In 
1800, according to his plan, its death blow was to have been given, 
and yet now, thirty years after that period, were we only endeavouring to 
begin to effect a similar purpose, to the issue of which, it was to be feared, 
we had yet to look forward through a long vista of determined opposi- 
tion. Now this was in 1792, and yet the system had been continued 
ever since with little or no variation. In the years, however, which had 
intervened, there was one period so marked, so important, and teaching 
such lessons of wisdom as to the future, that he could not forbear re- 
ferring to it ; and when he looked back upon it, it was with pain he re- 
collected that the individual who bore the chief part in the transaction 
to which he alluded was now no more. In the year 1823, Mr. Canning 
entered into a negotiation with the West India planters in this country, 
for the purpose of effecting some alterations in the state of things in the 
West Indies. He brought forward his measures, which it was not now 
necessary to detail, at the suggestion and with the general concurrence of 
the West India proprietors in this country. He proposed them with 
the approbation of these West Indians, who recommended them in the 
strongest manner to the colonies; and what was the consequence? We 
should have expected that measures, thus suggested and recommended 
by their own friends, would have been received with forbearance, at 
least, if not v/ith favour, and acceded to, if not from a conviction of 
their propriety, at least from a sense of interest. But what had they 
done? They had pertinaciously refused, one and all, to adopt these 
proposals. And what had been the result ? The same West India 
Committee, who, in 1823, had suggested and recommended these mea- 
sures, came forward in 1830, to abet the colonial legislatures in rejecting 
them, and in opposing us who required their fulfilment. He had lived 
long enough, however, not to be surprised by such v/ant of principle in 
public bodies of men. Many of them, doubtless, were men of education 
and of respectability in private life, who v/ould shrink with shame and 
hide their faces if they were supposed to be capable, individually, of 
conduct so repugnant to common honesty, and even common decency ; 
v.'ho yet, when they acted in a collective capacity, were apt to act very 
differently, lending their countenances to each other in proceedings, 
v/hich could not fail to compromise private character. Thus had 
these West India proprietors, on finding that the colonists refused 



General Meeting — Mr. Wilberforce. 233 

to adopt the proposed reforms, at length changed their tone, and 
coincided in their rejection ; and although, when Mr. Canning proposed 
these measures to the House of Commons, they declared them to be not 
only wise and prudent, but moderate also, and such as ought to be ac- 
ceded to, yet they had now retracted this opinion, and had declared that 
the colonial legislatures, who rejected them, had, in so doing, acted 
wisely and prudently, and humanely too. Notwithstanding their former 
assent, their object now manifestly was, to have the work of reform 
committed wholly to themselves, and that for the very purpose of 
mocking our hopes, and frustrating our designs. And the Government 
of this country, he feared, was too much disposed to yield to their wish, 
and to leave the interests of the slaves in the hands of the Colonial As- 
semblies ; and yet no man who had at all attended to their past conduct 
could suppose that these Assemblies had any other purpose in view than 
that assigned to them — delay. For it was not that they agreed with us, 
as to the object we had in view, but only differed as to the means of 
carrying it into effect. But they now plainly told us, that they disap- 
proved alike both of the end at which we aimed, and of the way by which 
we sought to attain it. That end, they affirmed, would be ruinous to their 
interests. Could we then hope that they would be willing to adopt the 
means by which that end was to be accomplished ? Could any course 
be more opposed to common sense, than our continuing thus to com- 
mit the matter to their management? This would be the height of 
folly. Let us no longer than transfer to them a task which is properly 
our own. And let us engage in that task, not as a matter of feeling 
merely, but of duty and of conscience. Feeling was but a weak power 
when opposed by self-interest. Let us then not trust to that feeling 
which, arising from the mere sensibilities of our nature, might evaporate 
into indifference ; especially when the objects of it were at a distance 
of three or four thousand miles, and when every pains were taken to 
deceive and delude as to the reality of those circumstances which con- 
stituted the oppression, degradation, and wretchedness of their state. 
We must act then not from feeling merely but upon principle, and a 
deep consciousness of the duty we owed to God and to man, while we 
used all the powers we possessed to accomplish an object recommended 
to us alike by every right feeling of the heart, and forced upon us by 
every act of our reason and understanding. — But it had been said that 
the negroes were a happy people, and that there was no ground either 
for commiserating their condition or desiring their emancipation ; we 
were even told that they were happier than our own English peasantry. 
Tt was truly disgusting to listen to such assertions ; — to hear men alive 
to the value of that liberty which they themselves possessed, and which 
they deemed their own noblest possession, yet conceiving that they are 
guilty of no crime in refusing to impart it to others ! And when he 
found persons in high stations, possessing wealth and rank and every 
outward distinction, maintaining such propositions, he could not but 
feel that, however high their station, they wanted that true nobility of 
soul which even the poor negro had often shewn himself to be possessed 
of; — for he had often given the slow, and gradual, and laborious 
earnings of a long life to obtain, for himself or those dear to him, even 



234 General Meeting — Mr. Buxton. 

the qualified liberty that was enjoyed by the free coloured people of that 
country — in short to give all he possessed to purchase for himself, 
his child or his wife, the freedom some affected so lightly to prize; 
thus manifesting a far greater elevation of mind, and a truer estimate of 
the value of liberty than the greatest West India planter who, prizing ihe 
liberty which he himself possessed, yet denied it to the wretched beings 
of whom he claimed to be the master. He would conclude with this 
single observation, that should England proceed as she had hitherto 
done — making free with the rights and liberties of those whom Provi- 
dence had placed under her protection — the time of retribution could 
not be far distant; for she could not expect in that case that a great 
and just God would continue to her her own abused blessings which 
she had so long enjoyed with so little gratitude. Let us all then 
exert ourselves to the utmost in this cause, with a deep impression 
that it was our paramount duty to do so, and that in this way alone 
could we expect to attain our object. Thus acting, however, we might 
humbly hope to live to witness the successful issue of our labours, 
and to rejoice together in the final accomplishment of the great work 
of mercy which we had undertaken. 

The speech of the venerable Chairman was received throughout with 
great applause, and he §at down amid the loud acclamations of the 
audience. 

Mr. F. Buxton said, that when he saw what numbers were here col- 
lected, and by what persons he was surrounded, and particularly by his 
hon. and learned friends Mr. Brougham and Mr. Denman, he could not 
help thinking that it was in some degree presumptuous in him to step 
forward to move the first resolution. But his apology was that he did 
so in obedience to the commands of his friends around him, the mem- 
bers of the committee, who having certain statements to communicate 
had selected him as their organ. But he would first turn to the meet- 
ing at large for one moment and congratulate them that he who had so 
long been the leader and chieftain of our cause still continued to cheer 
us with his presence and to aid us with his counsel. And that this day, 
from those lips which had so frequently and so powerfully pleaded the 
cause of afflicted Africa, we had heard a noble, urgent, and he was sure, 
welcome exhortation to proceed forward with energy, and manfully and 
resolutely to encounter and resist all opposition, as the sure and only 
means of final success in the glorious cause in which we were engaged. 
But if there was eloquence in the language he employed, there was 
eloquence of a higher order still, eloquence more heart-stirring ^ and 
emphatic, in the recollection, that we saw him presiding among us who for 
twenty years had fought that battle of humanity and justice which had 
ended at last in the deliverance of Africa from British rapine, and in the 
deliverance of England from the foulest stain — the blackest crime that 
had ever tarnished the reputation of any country. Now then, let us 
under his auspices proceed with confidence, trusting that our worthy 
Chairman might yet live to complete what he had begun. The time 
had now arrived in which it had become necessary to speak and act 
with energy and decision. We had hitherto been restrained, perhaps 
too much restrained, by the hope — slender and forlorn as that hope had 



General Meeting — Mr. Buxton. 235 

always been in his mind, — that the planters would awaken, if not to a 
sense of justice and of the equal rights of the negroes, at least that they 
would awaken to a sense of their own interest as connected with this 
subject. On the 15th of May, in the year 1823, just that day seven 
years, this question had come under discussion, and Government on 
that occasion, chose to take tlie matter into its own hands, and to give a 
solemn pledge that such measures would be pursued as should ensure to 
the negro population a participation in the civil rights and privileges 
which were enjoyed by other classes of his Majesty's subjects. This 
purpose was submitted to the House of Commons and there it was ap- 
proved — to the House of Lords and there it was approved — to the West 
India Interest in this country and by them also it was approved — to the 
English nation in general, and it was superfluous to say with what joy it 
was hailed by them. Was it too much then to have expected that a plan 
so just, so reasonable, and so moderate that the West Indians them- 
selves did not venture to advance any objection to it — was it too 
much to expect that it should have been received with decent 
compliance, if not with cordiality, on the part of the colonists ? But 
what had been done, and what answer had been returned by the 
Colonial Assemblies ? They told us from Jamaica, " we have already 
done the utmost that is possible for our slaves — we have made 
them the happiest and the most comfortable peasantry in the world, 
and we can do no more." And even the little Island of Tobago, ad- 
dressing the imperial power of Great Britain, scrupled not to declare, 
" here is our ultimatum, nothing shall induce us to proceed one step 
further.'' Such was the general tenor of the answers in words which 
the colonies conveyed to England on this subject. But they had sent a 
more intelligible answer in their actions — in what they had done and in 
what they had refused to do. Let us look for example to what Mr. 
Canning said should be done in the Colonies. — In the first place it was 
directed that the shocking and unseemly practice of chastising females 
with the whip should be entirely abolished, and this Mr. Canning 
designated as a first step from barbarism to civilization. But had 
that first step been taken by the Colonial assemblies ? Look at that 
of Jamaica and what was its answer ? No man was there found so 
wild and. enthusiastic as even to dream of making such a proposition 
in the Colonial Assembly ; but at last one member, less timid or more 
humane than his associates, did venture to propose, not the abolition 
of the punishment of females by flogging, but that when inflicted it 
should be inflicted decently. And upon this strange proposition that 
females should henceforward be flogged with the cart-whip not 
indecently but decently, the votes being taken, it was in effect resolved 
by two to one (28 to 12) that they should continue to be flogged 
indecently. — Another of the material propositions which Mr. Canning 
recommended was to abolish the use of the whip when applied to the 
slaves generally as a stimulus to labour in the field, a practice which 
Mr. Canning called a wanton and degrading act of cruelty that 
placed the Negro on a level with the beasts of the field. This too was 
refused by the Jamaica and other Colonial Assemblies. — It was further 
proposed to restrict the arbitrary power of the master as to the extent 



236 General Meeting — Mr. Buxton. 

of punishment he should have the power of inflicting. But wViat at 
this very hour was the law of Jamaica on that subject ? It was this, 
that it should be in the power of he knew not how many parties — 
owners, attorneys, managers, overseers, workhouse-keepers, gaolers and 
others, to inflict on any slave, man, woman or child, 39 lashes of that 
cart-whip of which vi^e were told by Mr. Barrett a planter, and one of 
their own body, on that very occasion, that 39 lashes of it were equal 
in severity to 500 lashes with the cat-o'-nine tails. — Another point 
urged on the Assemblies was the instruction of the Negroes in the Chris- 
tian religion. They professed to accede to its expediency. But then 
time was necessary in order to instruction being communicated, and 
here arose the difficulty; for from the earliest dawn of day on Monday 
morning to the last ray of light on Saturday evening it was alleged 
that the slave's time belonged to his master, and it was impossible any 
of that time could be given to instrudtion. But still it might be given 
after the close of the day, and after the master's work was finished. 
No, that, it was alleged, would be an undue encroachment on the time 
of the slave, and a law was passed to forbid any one from conveying 
instruction after the night fell. But then it might be given on the Sab- 
bath. The Sabbath however was the market day, and the day for 
cultivating their provision grounds. Mr. Canning had proposed to 
obviate this difficulty by giving the slaves a day in lieu of the Sabbath 
for these purposes. This proposition had not been acceded to, but on 
the contrary a law had been passed actually fixing the forenoon of the 
Sunday as the legal public market day of the Island. — Another point 
urged upon them was, that the Negro should be entitled to purchase 
his own freedom or that of his family by paying the full market price 
for it. This also had been refused, though it was, it might be thought, 
a most reasonable and moderate proposition. Was it possible, indeed, 
to devise any scheme of enfranchisement, the progress of which should 
be more slow and gradual than a scheme which depended on the ability 
of these poor creatures to save out of their small earnings, by denying 
themselves every gratification, a sum adequate to the honourable and 
elevated object of emancipating themselves, or their wives, or their 
children. But even this moderate proposition had proved too much for 
the planters, and against it more than against any other, had their 
voice been raised. — He had now shewn what their answer had been 
in words ; he had also shewn the still more explicit and intelligible 
answer — that which more truly and certainly disclosed the real inten- 
tions of the West Indians— which had been conveyed in their actions. 
Demerara had sent a very explicit answer to the recommendations of 
the Crown in the murder of the Christian Missionary Smith ; — Bar- 
badoes, in the demolition of the Methodist chapel ; — Berbice, in the 
well known and harrowing Reports of the Fiscal of the Colony ; — and 
the Bahamas, in that most atrocious act of cruelty and outrage perpe- 
trated by the Mosses. Not that we find this last answer merely in the 
circumstance that a wretched female slave was punished with a cruel 
imprisonment in the stocks for seventeen days successively, and re- 
peatedly flogged during that period ; nor that Cayenne pepper was 
rubbed into her eyes to increase her torments ; nor even in the further 



General Meeting — Mr. Buxton. 237 

fact that this poor sufferer had died in consequence of these inhuman 
inflictions ; but we find it above all in the petition presented to His 
Majesty's Government, sanctioned and recommended by the Governor, 
and signed by all the respectable inhabitants of the Colony, entreating 
xhat the penalty of fine and imprisonment imposed on Mr. and Mrs, 
Moss, by whom this outrage had been committed, should be remitted 
as a manifestation of the sympathy of the Government with the feelings 
of the white community. — From Jamaica we have also had a very clear 
and intelligible answer in those pretended plots and fabricated re- 
bellions which had been brought to light and denounced in Parlia- 
ment by his excellent friend Mr. Denman then present, and who had 
extorted from an unwilling Parliament a unanimous sentence, repro- 
bating the conduct of the local authorities. Another answer we had 
had in their unjust and oppressive deportation of free people of colour. 
And at this moment they were supplying another answer in the perse- 
cutions raised against the Christian teachers of the Negroes, to which 
one of them had already fallen a victim, while another had returned 
to this country with his constitution shattered by the severities he 
had endured. But we had cause to thank God that these atrocities 
had not quenched the zeal either of the Missionary bodies in this 
country, who were determined to persevere ; or of the Missionaries 
themselves who were also resolutely determined to go on, and if it must 
be so, to become martyrs in the cause. — Such then were some of the 
answers that had been received both in words and in actions from the 
Colonists, and now therefore we were brought not voluntarily but of 
necessity to this point — Shall we abandon the cause of the helpless 
Negroes ; shall we, bound as we are to extend protection to them, 
shall we leave them to the well tried mercy of the planters ; — or shall 
we strike at slavery itself, the root of all these evils? But it had been 
said and frequently repeated, that little attention was to be paid to our 
representations ; first, because we did not understand the true state of 
things in the West Indies ; — and secondly, because we were enthusiasts. 
Enthusiasts undoubtedly we were, in so far as we regarded the Negro 
as a man, and being a man felt that he ought not to be treated as a 
beast. Enthusiasts too we were, in so far as we were incapable of per- 
ceiving that because he wore the complexion which nature had given 
him, he ought therefore to be deprived of his liberty and doomed to be 
the slave of a tyrant of a different complexion. But before we 
proceeded farther in this question it did seem important that we 
should cautiously ascertain whether the right to the disposal of his 
own person was with the planter or with the Negro himself; in 
other words, whether in point of fact the negro were a man or a thing ? 
If he were a thing, to which the planters had a rightful title, we should 
at once go all lengths in asserting their claims. But if we came to the 
conclusion that he was not a thing but a man, a man endowed by the 
Almighty with the unalienable,;rights of human nature, then must we 
endeavour, to the utmost of our power, to restore to him those rights 
which God had granted to him, and which only the cruelty and injus- 
tice of his fellow man had taken from him. Whence then, might 
it not be asked, did the West Indians derive their title ? Was it from 

•2 o 



238 General Meeting — Mr. Buxton. 

nature ? No man would say that white men had a natural or inhe- 
rent right to the bodies of black men. Such a pretension had, indeed, 
been formerly set up, and it had even been asserted, that the slavery of 
the negroes was a part, an imprescriptible part of the birth-right of 
West Indians ; but such a doctrine, he believed, would not be pro- 
pounded now. Was it then, from religion that they derived their right? 
Some forty years ago, indeed, there was a body of theologians who 
made the strange discovery, that slavery was recommended, and even 
enjoined in scripture ; and assuming, moreover, that the negroes were 
the descendants of Ham, they deemed it an act of impiety to interfere 
with the arrangements of Providence. But this opinion also was too 
absurd and extravagant to find many advocates now. Still it must be 
admitted, that there was a foundation for the right claimed by the 
planters, but it was to be found only in the slave trade. Thence, and 
thence alone, was the title under which they claimed to be derived. 
And what was this slave trade ? Mr. Pitt supplied the proper answer 
when he declared, that " it was the most atrocious of all human crimes, 
— that there was something in it, which to the imagination of man was 
absolutely revolting." And this was all that could be said in favour of 
the claim of the planters. They might plead, it was true, — we ravaged 
your country — we fired your village — we murdered your relatives — we 
captured you — we brought you to the West Indies, amid the unnum- 
bered horrors of the middle passage — and there we have kept you in 
utter darkness, and ignorance, and wretchedness ; and therefore, ye are 
ours. Such then, were the grounds of their vaunted rights and titles : — 
robbery, massacre, and murder. — Yes, these were the titles, the only 
titles on which the claim of the West Indian was founded. He should 
be sorry, in pursuing this line of argument, to say any thing which would 
give unnecessary offence to the West Indians; but, at the same time, it 
was desirable that we should see upon what their claim rested, as other- 
wise, we might not be able to decide whether we were entitled to break 
the fetters of the poor negro or not. Now it appeared to him quite ridi- 
culous and absurd to argue that they had or could have any title what- 
ever, except the title which they had derived from the horrors and 
barbarities of the slave trade. — Upon one occasion, an argument had 
been used so happily and appropriately upon this point, by a negro, 
that, with the permission of the meeting, he would just state the case; 
as the question was thus brought within a short compass, and an 
answer given in a few words, to the pretensions of the West Indians. 
In Philadelphia a free man of colour was suspected of having stolen 
goods in his possession, and when cited and brought before a magistrate, 
he candidly confessed it. " Indeed I have got the knife and corkscrew," 
said he, "I bought them from Tom knowing that he stole them ; but I 
paid him honestly for them." " Indeed !" said the magistrate, " you 
buy stolen goods, knowing them to be stolen, and yet you say, you pay 
for them honestly ; we will teach you .better justice than that: — you 
must be flogged. Do you not know that the purchaser of stolen pro- 
perty, knowing it to be stolen, is just as criminal as the thief himself?" 
" But do you flog every hnyex of stolen goods?" said the accused. 
•** Undoubtedly, if he is convicted," answered the judge. " There is 



General Meeting — Mr. Buxton. 230 

Tom's master! catch him constable! he bought Tom, knowing him to 
be stolen, as I bought the knife and the corkscrew ; and the only 
difference between his purchase and mine is, that Tom was stolen from 
his father and mother, whereas the knife and corkscrew that Tom stole 
had no father and mother," 

And now as to the question what we ought to do. — We ought, he 
thought, to aim at the extinction of slavery. He did not wish to dis- 
parage any efforts that might be made for its mitigation, though 
he had never expected much from them. But now when we saw what 
the West Indians had done, or rather, what they had not done, was not 
the dictum of Mr. Burke perfectly verified, " It is all arrant trifling, it is 
destitute of any executory principle." And even if it were otherwise, 
and if the West Indians had proceeded with zeal and efficiency, in ame- 
liorating slavery, still that state of being in its fairest forms must be a 
system full of horror, and full of evil. We might prescribe the quantity 
of the slave's food, or of his labour ; we might limit the number of his 
lashes, and adopt other fair-seeming regulations ; but when we had 
passed laws, and when those laws being infringed, the negro applying 
for redress had convicted his master of the crime of violating them, yet 
that negro would nevertheless, be restored to his convicted master, 
exasperated by the very appeal made to the law, and holding in his 
hands, . in that cartwhip which constituted the essence of slavery, a 
tremendous power of retaliation. So little, indeed, was he disposed 
to rely upon mere ameliorations to any extent which might be proposed 
by those who wished to uphold the system, that were they even to 
adopt all the measures suggested by Mr. Canning, and yet to strike 
out that clause in his Resolutions which engaged to raise the slaves 
to a participation in those civil rights and privileges which were enjoyed 
by other classes of His Majesty's subjects, he should be prepared to 
reject the scheme without reserve or hesitation. The West Indians, 
indeed, had asserted again and again that the negro was in such a state 
of moral and mental darkness that he was unfit for freedom. But 
granting this to be so, what could be so decisive, what reproach 
against slavery could be so pointed as this, that its victims were thereby 
unfitted for the common rights, and duties, and enjoyments of huma- 
nity ? Granting it to be so, and that the parents were unfit for immediate 
liberation, yet the infant or unborn children were not as yet so contami- 
nated by slavery; they were not yet so under the influence of that fell 
destroyer, as that we should be compelled to inflict upon them the penal- 
ties of that horrid system, a system which never failed to pollute and cor- 
rupt its victims, and to destroy the energies and faculties of all who 
were subjected to its malign dominion. One of the first things, therefore, 
that we had to do was to aim at the extinction of slavery, by cutting off 
that supply of fresh subjects which it was continually receiving. We 
ought, therefore, this day, ere we separated, to give some pledge that 
we Avould strike a blow towards the extinction of slavery, by at least ar- 
resting its further progress. Nothing less than this ought, and he was 
certain, that nothing less than this would satisfy the minds of those he 
was addressing. It was true there were difficulties in such a measure ; 
but it was much less difficult to prepare the infant for freedom than for 



240 General Meeting — Mr. Buxton. 

slavery. Even if left to nature and. providence, much would be gained. 
There were multitudes in this wide world who had no advantages but 
that they were free born, and were free men. But if besides this, you 
gave them instruction, you prepared them for society — and if you gave 
them religion, you laid the foundation of their happiness and of your 
security. But the process by which children were matured into slaves 
was much more difficult and laborious. Blows, and stripes, and hard 
usage must be inflicted and repeated year after year, ere the spirit of a 
man was sufficiently depressed within him, and before that unnatural 
and shameful tameness was formed, which was the character and quality 
of the slave. The infant, then, could be prepared for freedom much 
more easily than he could for slavery. And if it were asked how we 
were to deal with the planters ? he should say, that we should deal with 
them honestly and justly. But then they could have no claim upon the 
negro, and if compensation were to be made, the compensation was 
due from them to the negro — compensation for evils without number, 
and for years of unrewarded toil. But it was said, the planters had 
a just claim upon their accomplice in iniquity, the British Govern- 
ment : be it so. And if the happy day were to arrive when we should, 
in conjunction with them enter into the consideration of plans for the 
extinction of slavery, we should all be found, he was persuaded, hardly 
more anxious for giving liberty to the slave, than that a full and liberal 
measure of justice should be aiTorded to his master. This speech was 
received throughout with great applause. At, the close of it, Mr. 
Buxton moved the following resolution : — 

" That on the 15th of May, 1823, Parliament, by its unanimous Re- 
solutions, recognised the evils of slavery, and the duty of providing for 
its ultimate extinction ; and that His Majesty's Ministers then undertook 
to carry those Resolutions into effect. 

" That although during the seven years which have since elapsed, the 
Colonial Legislatures have persisted iii refusing to comply with the Re- 
solutions of Parliament, and the recommendations of the Government, 
supported by the voice of the British nation, yet hitherto, the measures 
proper for giving effect to them have not been adopted. 

" That even in the Colonies subject to the legislation of the Crown, the 
orders in Council issued on the subject, including the late revised and 
consolidated order of the 2d of February last, fall far short of the Official 
and Parliamentary pledges of 1823; and though containing several 
important and salutary provisions, yet afford no adequate means for the 
final extinction of Slavery, or even for its effectual mitigation. 

" That while those pledges have thus remained unfulfilled, the West 
India body in this country, setting at nought the wishes of the British 
people, have not scrupled to declare by their standing Committee, that 
they make common cause with the local legislatures in the course they 
have pursued, and more particularly in rejecting all idea of compulsory 
manumission ; thus plainly avowing that it is their purpose and intention 
that Slavery shall be perpetual, and thus also confirming the Colonial 
Assemblies in their contumacy, and making any effective reform on their 
part still more hopeless than before. 

"That under these circumstances of disappointment, and recognising 



General Meeting — Lord Milton. 241 

the incurable injustice, as well as the inhumanity and impolicy of Sla- 
very ; its direct hostility to every cherished principle of the British Con- 
stitution, and its utter repugnance to the spirit and to the precepts of 
the Christian religion, the Meeting take this occasion to declare anew 
their unalterable determination to leave ho proper and practicable means 
unattempted for effecting, at the earliest period, its entire abolition 
throughout the British dominions." 

Lord Milton on rising to second this resolution was received with 
great applause. It gave him, he said, the greatest satisfaction to have 
been requested to second the resolution which had been moved by his 
honourable friend, inasmuch as it appeared to him to contain proposi- 
tions consistent with truth ; and to declare objects, the furtherance of 
which it was the bounden duty of every citizen of this empire to for- 
ward to the utmost of his power. It stated the utter repugnance of 
slavery to the spirit and precepts of the Christian religion. And he 
would beg those present to ask themselves, whether it could be sup- 
posed that while slavery chained down the minds of so large a portion 
of those who inhabited our West Indian colonies, it was to be sup- 
posed that Christianity could make progress among them. Christianity 
was a religion of liberty. It was a religion which inculcated upon those 
who had power in their hands, to use that power in a manner which 
was consistent with the rights of all who were subject to their sway. 
And therefore it was, that we should take effectual measures that every 
man, in whatever situaticm he might be placed, should not be prevented 
from making use of those mental faculties with which his Creator had 
endowed him for the noblest purposes. But could it be supposed that 
when men were in a state of slavery, and while their bodies were chained to 
the earth, they could erect their minds to heaven, and take those high 
and elevating views of things which it was the duty of man to take. 
But slavery was not only inconsistent with the true principles of Chris- 
tianity in those who were the possessors of slaves, but it was incon- 
sistent with the reception of Christianity by those who were placed in 
that abject state. And it was because he took this view of the matter, 
that, without enlarging upon the subject — for, indeed, it was not his 
intention when he came here, to have taken any part in the discussions 
of the day — he had the greatest pleasure in seconding such a pro- 
position as this, which looked to the utter extinction of slavery as the 
consummation of those measures which his hon. and excellent friend in 
the chair had commenced by making an attack upon the slave trade ; 
and the final accomplishment of which, notwithstanding what had been 
alleged to the contrary, he was quite sure was the ultimate object he 
always had in view. He did not allude to this for the purpose of de- 
fending his honourable friend, Mr. Wilberforce, from the imputation of 
inconsistency, because now, at a more advanced period of life, he urged 
and claimed the extinction of slavery; as if that were inconsistent with 
his having urged and successfully claimed, at an earlier period of his 
life — the destruction of the slave trade. His honourable friend needed 
no defence on that ground — but he Avas induced, while speaking, to al- 
lude to it in consequence of an attack to that effect which had this 



242 General Meeting— Mr. T. B. Macaulay. 

very (Jay appeared in the Times Newspaper, and which he deemed to 
Ibe as futile as it was unjust. 

The resolution moved by Mr. Buxton was then put and carried una- 
nimously. 

Mr. T. B. Macaulay. Before he adverted to the motion he was 
about to propose, he thought it but fair, in reference to the article in 
the Times alluded to by the noble Lord who had just sat down — to 
say that it was inserted as an advertisement, with the word " advertise- 
ment" prefixed to it. — With respect to the resolution which he held in 
his hand, it was a resolution upon which it would be necessary to say 
but little in the way either of exposition or defence. It was a resolu- 
tion that expressed disapprobation of those laws by which peculiar 
protection was given to the produce of slave labour. And whatever 
arguments the West Indians might have had recourse to with respect 
to other parts of their case, here they had nothing of argument to pro- 
duce. All their ordinary topics must fail them here. A claim, indeed, had 
been set up by the West Indians, and it had been repeated by some of 
their hireling writers in this country, to exemption from the supreme 
legislative control of the British empire. Their revered Chairman, who 
entered into pubUc life in opposition to that policy which deprived us 
of America, would confirm him in the assertion, that none of those 
eminent men who objected to the principle of taxing the colonies, ever 
extended that principle further, or considered the English legislature 
to be excluded from making laws for their government on points distinct 
from taxation. Neither Chatham, nor Burke, nor Fox, nor any of those 
eminent men who were opposed to the principle of taxing the colonies ; 
not even the American legislators themselves ; not even Dr. Franklin ; 
ever questioned the power of parliament to enact laws for their general 
government. But fortunately this pretension, absurd and untenable as 
it was, could not be pleaded against the resolution which he should 
have now the honour of proposing ; for even those colonies which had 
denied to Britain the general right of legislating for them, had never 
denied her power to fix the duties which should be paid in British 
ports. In respect to their claims of vested rights and property, as well 
as to the principle of compensation, his opinion fully agreed with that of 
his honourable friend Mr. Buxton, who opened the discussion. But in 
whatever sense and with whatever modifications he might be inclined to 
admit the claim of the West Indian planters as just, that claim, whe- 
ther admitted or denied, could not, in the slightest degree, tell against 
the resolution which he held in his hand. Property in a peculiar 
commercial protection was an absurdity which no one would ever dream 
of advancing. A protection like this could be recognised merely as 
a matter of favour. And on what principle of sound policy could it 
be contended that we were under any obligation to extend peculiar 
favour to those dependencies which had been distinguished by peculiar 
insolence and insubordination ? — or that a species of protection, which, 
according to the opinion of the most enlightened statesmen, ought 
scarcely ever to be vouchsafed even for objects unquestionably good- 
should be extended to a system which exceeded all others in its gross vio- 



General Meeting— Mr. T. B. Macaulay. 243 

lation of the rights of humanity and the obhgations of morality ? The 
only objection, worthy of an answer, he had ever heard of, to the placing 
of colonial produce on the same footing as the produce of free labour, 
was this — that by diminishing the demand for the produce of slave 
labour, we should injure the slaves ; — because the proprietor being 
less able to afford the slave the comforts of life, his condition, instead 
of being bettered, would be made worse. Now the fact told distinctly 
against this reasoning. We saw in every part of the West Indies that 
there was an inverse proportion between the productiveness of the cul- 
tivation which was carried on, and the comforts enjoyed by the slave. 
It was too well known, indeed, that even in the parts of the West In- 
dies most favourable to the slave, the state of things was bad enough. 
But in the Bahamas, by much the poorest of all our colonies, and from 
which there was no export of sugar, the slaves nevertheless did much 
more than keep up their population ; — a sure proof that, however 
bad the state of slavery in those islands might be, it still stopped far 
short of what it appeared to be in some of the other colonies. In 
Trinidad and Demerara where the export of sugar, (that article of 
colonial produce which enjoyed most of peculiar advantage,) was great- 
est in proportion to the slave population, that population was 
decreasing with a frightful rapidity. And thi^ principle which was 
thus proved true by experience, was one which was coincident with the 
nature of the case. Those who held an opposite opinion were misled 
by an obvious fallacy. They reasoned from the phenomena of a state 
of liberty to the phenomena of a state of slavery. There could be 
no doubt that in this country, and in every other well-governed coun- 
try, the same causes which tended to enrich the capitalist tended to 
raise the condition of the labourer. A great increase in the demand for 
manufactures would better the condition of the people at Manchester 
— an increased demand for cutlery would benefit those at Sheffield. And 
the false inference was, that a great increase in the demand for sugar 
would necessarily raise the condition of the working classes in the 
West Indies. To illustrate this point, he would refer the meeting, 
although it might appear a homely illustration, to the case of a general 
election. All who ever witnessed such an event, knew that it produced 
a great demand for the means of conveyance along all the great roads ; 
and the effects of this demand were very clearly discernible. It was 
beneficial to the innkeeper, and to all whom he employed — to the post- 
boys — the stable-boys — the coachmaker and the harness-maker, and all 
who worked for them. Every person who was at liberty to make his 
own terms ; every person who could say, " I will work if you pay me at 
such a rate," profited largely. But, was the post-horse a gainer? It 
was clear that the post-horse would be a gainer if he were in the same 
condition with the parties capable of contracting ; and, if when he 
found that the labour imposed on him was too much, he could lie down 
on his straw, and positively refuse to move. But the post-horse was 
called out, without any inquiry as to his willingness; and just in pro- 
portion to the increased demand for conveyances, and the consequent 
increase in the master's profits, was the toil and misery of the post-horse. 
This reasoning which applied so accurately to the post-horse, applied 



244 General Meeting— Mr. T. B. Macaulay. 

with the same force to the equally miserable drudge of the West; to 
the human beast of burden — to a beast of burden formed after the image 
of God ! This, this had been the curse of slavery from the beginning, 
and it would be so to the end ; — to convert to poison all that served 
for enjoyment ; to draw pain out of every thing which should yield 
pleasure ; to draw death out of what should sustain life ; and to turn 
into plagues those sources of human happiness and comfort, the exu- 
berance of nature, the benignity of the climate, and the fertility of the 
soil ! — There was another subject connected with this, although at first 
sight it might appear remote from it, and to which, for a few moments, 
he wished to call the attention of the meeting. He meant the condi- 
tion of the free black and coloured population in the West Indies. This 
point resembled that of which he had been already speaking, in that 
neither in the one, nor in the other case, could any of those arguments 
about vested rights and rights of property, be brought forward against us 
which were so currently used by our opponents. The whites had no vested 
right in the degradation of the free black. The free black was not his 
property ; the colour of his skin, the only difference between them, 
did not constitute him such ! — He was no friend to religious distinc- 
tions, though for these there were well-meaning advocates ; but that 
one man should be placed in a situation inferior to another, solely for 
the colour of his skin, was indeed the very height of absurdity, and 
could not find, he was sure, an advocate in a London assembly. Now 
the condition of the free blacks was far worse in the West Indies than 
in any other part of his Majesty's dominions. It was, in short, in the 
very place, where it was most desirable that he should be admitted to 
the exercise of equal rights, that he was excluded from them. In Eng- 
land, a free black, or man of colour, might be a Member of Parliament, 
or be made a Peer, or a Privy Councillor, or a Secretary of State for 
the Colonies, if it pleased his Majesty so to appoint him. But, in the 
West Indies, where it was of the greatest importance that they should 
be admitted- to the possession of equal rights, they were entirely ex- 
cluded. Of late, the free blacks had conducted themselves in a manner 
which was very encouraging. They had shewn a generous sympathy 
with their enslaved brethren, whose rights to freedom they had asserted 
with great spirit and intelligence ; and they had evinced also strong^ 
feelings of attachment towards this country, and that at the very period 
when some of the colonies were threatening, that if we persisted in 
pressing our present measures in regard to the slaves, they would put 
themselves under the protection of another power. But it was not 
principally for the sake of the colonial empire of England, that he 
wished to see her free coloured and black subjects placed on an equal 
footing with the whites : such a change could not take place without a 
great alleviation in the lot of the slave. The great difficulty hitherto 
found in legislating for a state of slavery had been to provide some 
security for the due execution of mitigating and meliorating laws. As 
his hon. friend (Mr. Buxton), had stated in the words of Mr. Burke; at 
present, laws made for the benefit of the slave in the West Indies, were 
wholly destitute of any " executoiry principle." Now this " executory 
principle" might at once be fouaid in the free coloured and black 



General Meeting —Mr. T. B. Macmday. 24.0 

population. Belonging to the class of the master by situation, and 
to the class of the slave by birth, he could not but believe, that 
we might find in them a guarantee for those who were trembling 
for the rights of property on the one hand, and for those who 
were zealous in the cause of humanity on the other ; and that in 
various ways we should find their services a great assistance in executing 
the task we had undertaken. — He had spoken on these two subjects, on 
the protecting duties by which the colonial slavery was upheld and en- 
couraged, and the condition of the free coloured and black population in 
the slave colonies, because, as he had said, they were topics in one 
respect different from many of the views under which the subject might 
be regarded. They were topics, in discussing which the arguments 
arising from considerations of property, by which the West Indians 
endeavoured to support their cause, could have no weight whatever. 
But much as he should certainly rejoice, by these or any other means, 
to see mitigating measures carried into effect, it was still impossible for 
him to regard slavery, even in its fairest and most mitigated form, as any 
thing else than a great moral and political evil. He was aware that it 
might often he necessary for the practical statesman to consider how far 
he was likely to obtain support in carrying his theoretical views into full 
effect, and often to bring forward that plan, not which he might think 
the best, but that which he might think most likely to be successful. It 
was only, perhaps, in speculation, that a great principle could be at once 
followed out to the whole length to which it would lead us. A life of 
action, to be of any practical benefit to mankind, must often be a life of 
compromise. But on that very account was it the more necessary, that 
we should have our ^es fixed on some great definite end, to which, if 
we could not immediately attain, we might at least constantly approxi- 
mate. And if we were to select any principle on which the eye should 
always be fixed, he thought it should be this, that the evils of slavery 
were not accidental, but essential! We might, indeed, succeed in 
making some difference between the condition of one slave and that of 
another. The condition of the serf might be milder than that of the 
Helot; the condition of the Helot than that of the field negro o^' 
Jamaica, and the condition of the field negro of Jamaica mighc 
possibly be milder than that of the field negro of Demerara or the 
Mauritius. But even if mild laws and ameliorating measures could, to a 
certain degree, remove some of the accessary evils of slavery; if the 
slave could enjoy education, and protection from the law, and could 
enter with security into those relations upon which the virtue, and 
order, and happiness of society mainly depended ; if his rights of 
conscience should run no danger of being invaded with mobs like 
those of Barbadoes; — if his life should not be at the mercy of 
such tribunals as those of Jamaica and -Demerara; — yet, if all this 
were done, he should still say that slavery, even where thus mi- 
tigated, was still a great and terrible curse, of which society would 
act wisely to ];id itself at any cost whatever. How long it might be 
before the people and the legislature took up the question in the 
manner in which alone they could take it up successfully, he could not 
<i€cide. Little, indeed, of happy augury could be drawn from the pastj 

•2 p 



246 General Meeting —Lord Calthorpe. 

and thick darkness was still upon the future. Seven years had passed 
since the pubhc mind was high in expectation that the evil would be termi- 
nated, but we had hitherto obtained nothing but a barren recognition of 
an abstract principle. It was difficult for any friend of humanity to 
think over the events of those seven years — the high hopes that had 
been disappointed — the solemn pledges that lay still unredeemed — ■ 
without feeling his heart sink within him. But be the end of these 
things what it might — this, at least, was in our power; — to preserve in- 
violate our personal fidelity to those principles of humanity, liberty, and 
honour on which alone a public man should desire to stand, and with 
which he should be content to fall. He then moved the following re- 
solution : 

" That this meeting cannot forbear to express their deep regret, that a 
system productive of so much misery and crime as Slavery is now ad- 
mitted to be, should not only be tolerated by this Christian land, but 
should, by means of our fiscal regulations, and in despite of the con- 
tumacy of the colonies, even find favour and encouragement at our 
hands ; such a policy, it appears to this meeting, not only being most 
injurious to our national interests, but tending directly to aggravate and 
prolong the sufferings of the slaves, and to involve this nation in the 
guilt and shame of maintaining, at a heavy expense, a system which it 
has recognised as inhuman, immoral, and unjust." 

Lord Calthorpe in seconding the motion said — that his honourable 
friend who had preceded him, had really left him so little to adduce in 
the way of proof of the inexpediency of the course that had been pur- 
sued with regard to the West Indian colonies, that he should say but 
little upon the immediate object of the resolution. But he thought, 
that no man could have heard the powerful and convincing arguments 
that were brought forward by him, without being fully satisfied that we 
had committed a serious and egregious mistake in applying to the course 
of conduct likely to be pursued by the West Indian planters towards 
their slaves, those principles, and those rules, and those feelings which 
happily pervaded this highly favoured land. The mistake we had com- 
mitted in this way was not certainly so much our underrating the miseries 
of slavery, or conceiving that any system of slavery such as existed in the 
West Indies could fail to bring with it oppression and degradation, as 
our having ever suffered ourselves to imagine that those who were the 
owners of slaves, or who had been engaged in administering that sys- 
tem ; who had long been living under its influence and enjoying its 
gains, and were still existing in an atmosphere tainted and vitiated by 
slavery, ever could cordially, and with sincerity and truth, carry into 
effect those rrieasures of amelioration which were determined upon by 
the legislature of this country, pervaded and enforced by the feelings, 
by the united feelings of the empire at large; — that they ever would, with 
the requisite zeal and diligence, introduce and execute a set of measures 
the direct aim and tendency of which were to elevate the negro slave in 
the scale of being, to prepare him not only for the full possession of 
civil privileges, but for those higher and better privileges, from which, 
by the mercy of God, his colour and his physical disabilities, whatever 
they might be, did not exclude him. And when we referred to those 



General Meeting — Lord Calthorpe. 247 

resolutions that were passed unanimously by both Houses of Parlia- 
ment, and of which the West India proprietors themselves professed 
cordially to approve, and which were responded to by the universal 
concurrence of the country ; and compared what had been done with 
virhat Parliament determined should be done ; we might not unrea- 
sonably have expected that the West Indian proprietors themselves who 
had given a pledge on the part of the West India legislatures for the 
fulfilment of the proposed measures of reform, if they were to speak their 
sentiments, could not but express their disappointment at the result, and 
admit that they had greatly overrated, in giving that pledge, the state of 
feeling, as to humanity and justice, which was to be found among these 
legislatures. Indeed he could scarcely conceive that any one, residing in 
this country, should compare the statement of what was to have been 
done by the West India legislatures with the authentic reports of what 
had been done, v/ithoutconfessing that he had been miserably disappointed. 
And if it were otherwise — if there should be found any persons among 
us who could persuade themselves that the West India legislatures had 
acted up to what Parliament required them to do — what would this 
shew ? — If it were possible for persons living in the knowledge and en- 
joyment of those blessed privileges which were ours, to be satisfied 
with what had been done, how could we hope that those who still lived 
in a land of slavery ; how could we hope that those who still clung to 
the cruelties and abominations which accompany slavery, with almost the 
same sort of fondness with which we adhere to our social, domestic and 
national advantages ; how could we hope they would really be induced 
to carry into effect those resolutions which were chiefly valuable because 
they contained the spirit and the genius which were inspired by the pos- 
session and enjoyment of our various civil and religious blessings? 
What then, he would ask, was to be our resource ? And here he turned 
from that painful and afflicting spectacle, which the non-performance 
of what was promised on the part of the West Indian legislatures pre- 
sented to us, with great satisfaction and hope and confidence, to that 
resource which we still possessed. That resource he felt assured was 
to be found in the feelings of the English people ! He never could 
persuade himself that they (the West Indians in this country) who in fact 
had dictated these resolutions ; who had professed cordially to assent 
to them, and had gone along with Parliament in every proposal of 
amelioration that Parliament had recommended and approved ; that 
they could be satisfied with such a state of things as now existed, or 
that the disappointment we felt and proclaimed, would not also be 
shared by them. But though grievously disappointed, there was no ground 
for despondence. He well knew that the power of public opinion, if 
fairly and fully called into play upon such a question as this, must be 
irresistible. He was no advocate for mob-law, nor was he for making 
any appeals to popular feelings, however honest, which were not sanc- 
tioned and enforced by reason, and by judgment. And in appealing 
to the people of this country, he knew he appealed to a power that was 
irresistible, for this reason, especially, that it possessed not only a great 
numerical, not only a great political, but moreover a predominating 
moral force. He believed there were few individuals who would be 



248 General Meeting — Lord Calthorpe. 

more willing to acknowledge the assistance they had derived from that 
powerful auxiliary than his honourable friend, who now filled the chair. 
For unceasing and powerful as his own exertions had been — unceasing 
as had been the exertions of his honourable friend, (Mr, Clarkson) 
whom he was glad to see this day at the chairman's right hand, 
and sharing in that inconsistency with which he stood accused ; he 
well knew that they would be willing to acknowledge, that, great 
as their own exertions had been, powerful as was the assistance 
which they had received from highly gifted individuals, yet that that 
which gave authority and success to their exertions was this, that they 
carried with them the force of public opinion ; that the cause they 
advocated in the British House of Parliament, went along with the very 
elements of constitutional and civil and religious feeling in the mass of 
the community. And he felt that we might appeal to that power with 
even greater confidence now, than at the time when his honourable 
friend first denounced in parliament the abominable traffic of the slave 
trade ; because, happily, in the interval, the progress of religious and 
moral feeling had not been in this country what it was found to have 
been in our West India colonies. If it were true, that the advance that 
had been made, in every sentiment that was most honourable and most 
valuable, had been immense since the period when his hon. friend 
first came forward to denounce the slave trade, he feared that in 
comparing our state with that of the West India colonies, the difference 
between the condition of the slave, and that of the British subject, 
living in this happy and highly favoured land, would be found far 
greater and more immeasurable than ever. And if this were so, then 
surely, the possession of the immense advantages which we enjoyed, did 
lay us under a solemn debt of obligatioii to communicate those blessings, 
which we so amply experienced, to the world at large, but especially to 
our own colonial possessions ; and above all, to those of our fellow sub- 
jects who were in a condition the most degraded and most miserable 
of any. He therefore felt persuaded, that the painful disappoint- 
ment of which we had reason to complain in the failure of those mea- 
sures of improvement, to the adoption and success of which Parliament 
had pledged itself, did afibrd us ground to believe that the appeal which 
was now meditated, would be attended with a complete and most gra- 
tifying result. It was under the influence of these sentiments and 
feelings that he seconded the resolution which had been read to them 
by his honourable friend. (Great applause.) 

Before the resolution was put from the chair, the business of the day 
experienced some interruption from Mr. Hunt, who came forward to 
address the meeting, but was received with loud marks of disapprobation. 

Mr. Hunt's observations were directed to a contrast of the state of 
slavery in the colonies, with the still greater slavery of portions of the 
white population of this country : and he considered that to be a left- 
eyed humanity, which, overlooking the misery existing among ourselves, 
could only find its objects in the slaves of the West Indies. He was 
proceeding, when it was moved, that it should be put to the sense qf the 
meeting, whether Mr. Hunt should be allowed to continue his inter- 
ruption ; and the sense of the meeting having been unequivocally 



General Meeting — Rev. D. Wilson. 249 

expressed against it, Mr, Hunt resumed his seat, and order v;as again 
restored. 

The resohition moved by Mr. Macaulay was then put;, and carried 
unanimously. 

The Rev. Daniel Wilson observed, that the motion intrusted to 
him referred to the moral and religious bearings of the great question 
which we had assembled to consider. It recognised in the first place, 
the commiseration to which the moral and spiritual condition of the 
slaves in our West India colonies was entitled. It then adverted to the 
intolerant acts of the legislature of Jamaica, and the persecutions which 
christian missionaries and their negro converts had had to endure, and 
are still enduring in that island ; and it concluded by charging on 
christians of every denomination, and especially upon all christian 
ministers, to manifest the grateful sense they entertained of their own 
religious blessings, by uniting their efforts to vindicate, to the unhappy 
negro, his equal right to the unobstructed enjoyment of the light and 
liberty of the gospel. He desired to place this great question of the 
abolition of colonial slavery upon what he conceived to be its true 
footing, namely ; — the obligation under which every one professing the 
Christian religion was placed to use every lawful means for putting 
an end to a state of crime, and of disobedience to the Supreme 
and Divine Legislator, — and therefore to that state of misery, vice, 
degradation, and ignorance which had been for so many years 
pressing down the black population in the West Indies. He agreed 
in all the other considerations of policy, humanity, and justice which 
affected this question, — but he believed that the strongest hold that 
could be taken of the popular mind in a Christian country, was to 
place it distinctly and boldly upon this grand principle — that to pro~ 
fess the religion of light and of purity and not to act upon the prin- 
ciples of it, was wholly inconsistent with the faith which we professed. 
The Christian religion was founded in love. The great features of it 
were the love of God to man in Christ Jesus, and the love of man to 
his fellow men without distinction of sect, or caste, or kindred, or 
tongue, or people, — so that now in Christ Jesus there was but one 
great family of man all entitled to our fraternal regards and to a par- 
ticipation with us in the advantages we possessed. But our black 
population in the West Indies were peculiarly the objects of Christian 
commiseration, in as much as we violated in their case the first prin- 
ciples of religion, not only by neglecting to introduce, but by even 
hindering the introduction of, Christianity among them. He would not 
dwell on the intolerance and the persecutions which Christian Mis- 
sionaries and their converts had experienced at the hand of the Jamaica 
legislature and of some of the planters of that Island. The details on 
that subject he would leave to a gentleman intimately acquainted with 
them.* To labour for the abolition of West India slavery he conceived 
had now become the conscientious duty of every minister of religion, — 
not only of the clergy of our established church, but of all others, and 

* Mr. AVilson here alluded to the Rev. Richard Watson, who was to have 
seconded the motion, but was unable to make his way through the crowd. 



250 Gejieral Meeting — Rev. D. Wilson. 

he called upon them to awake from the comparative apathy with which 
they had too long regarded this most important subject — an apathy for 
which he could not well account, but which, he was persuaded, if the 
case were fairly brought before their minds, could not long continue. 
The state of the question at the present moment, as it had been ex- 
plained by those who had gone before, took from us all hope of seeing 
any thing effectual done unless we should unite in communicating to 
Parliament and the Throne the expression of our sentiments on this 
subject; and in doing so he conceived that the ministers of religion 
might fairly take their station among the other classes of society, — not 
meddling indeed with points that might be foreign to their professional 
functions, or too much mixed with the views of mere worldly policy; — 
and that it became them boldly and plainly to demonstrate the immoral 
and unchristian nature of the system, addressing themselves to the 
plain common sense of Englishmen, to their christian feelings, their 
sympathy, their love and gratitude, and to all the best affections of 
their minds. The ministers of religion he therefore conceived were 
bound (and he would pledge himself, individually, to such a discharge 
of the duty as was in his power) — The ministers of religion were bound 
(and he was sure that the great body of the clergy, and ministers 
of every denomination, Vt^ould be prompt to answer the call) to direct 
the public sentiments in forming a just view of the subject, — and 
were called upon, as the ministers of that blessed Saviour whose 
characteristics were love and mercy, — whose compassions extended 
to the slave no less than to the free, — temperately but firmly — 
standing on the great and uncontested principles of eternal truth and 
justice, and on the relations in which we stand to God ; to do what 
they could to assist in forming and guiding the sentiments of their people, 
and in directing the public mind to the great point at which we aimed — 
the extinction by every fair and proper means of a system of slavery 
which, he believed, the world had never known to be paralleled for 
enormity : he meant the degrading and oppressive slavery existing in 
so many of our Colonies. And he felt assured, that in proportion as 
religion gained greater ascendancy in the public mind, there would be 
a more vigorous effort to wipe away this foul blot on our national 
character, and to rectify this flagrant inconsistency with our professed 
principles. Another reason why clergymen should take a more pro- 
minent part in this question, consistently with that moderation and 
reserve which became their characters as ministers of religion, arose 
from the statements that had appeared in connection with the great re- 
hgious societies of the church of England, and especially in reference 
to the Codrington estates in Barbadoes, which, though in the hands of 
the ' Society for Propagating the Gospel in Foreign Parts,' for 120 
years past, were still worked by slaves, whose condition for a great part 
of that time differed little from that of the slave population around 
them, and was still a reproach to the church of England. It was there- 
fore, the duty of the clergy of the church of England especially, as 
well as of all other denominations, to unite themselves with one heart 
and mind, with all the friends of humanity in the country, in pro- 
moting such measures as should effectually put a stop to such a 



General Meeting — Mr. G. Bennett. 251 

system. Silence on such a question, compromise in such a cause was 
treachery, — was cowardice, — was a breach of one of the prime duties 
of a minister of religion — that of fairly warning his people against 
declining to join their fellow Christians in doing all that they 
could to remove from us the shame and the guilt of slavery, which, if 
not removed, must tend to bring down upon us the displeasure of the 
Supreme Governor of the universe. Where was the man who refused 
to acknowledge that the Divine hand swayed and controuled the for- 
tunes of empires, as well as of individuals, raising them up and casting 
them down according to their use or abuse of the privileges He had con- 
ferred upon them? And he could conceive no single point in the moral 
and religious character of a Christian nation, that was more likely to 
bring down the Divine displeasure upon our counsels and measures, 
than that of closing our eyes and hardening our hearts to scenes like 
those which our slave colonies exhibited when they were fairly brought 
before us. Mr. Wilson concluded with remarking, that if philosophy- 
made it her boast that she raised man above the present to contemplate 
and act upon the future, and if this effect could only be attained in the 
degree in which man was elevated in his moral and rational nature, then 
Christianity, in his view the truest philosophy, would lead us to con- 
sider how we might best act so as to bring about a result so important 
to our national prosperity as involving our religious character. Let us, 
then, look forward to the future, disregarding, in the angry conflict of 
passion, the misrepresentations, the taunts, the difficulties that might 
assail us — remembering, that every negro was a being capable of being 
raised, perhaps, to as high degrees of moral and religious culture as 
ourselves. Let us go forward boldly, anticipating the time, he trusted not 
far distant, when the lessons of Christian instruction should be heard in 
every negro cabin; when the West Indies should flourish in comfort and 
happiness — when the claims of humanity should be there freely recog- 
nised — the cruelties now practised be forgotten or abhorred, and freedom 
and religious knowledge, and peace, and purity, and joy should univer- 
sally prevail. (Great applause.) Mr. Wilson then moved, 

" That in addition to the physical evils of slavery, the moral and re- 
ligious condition of the slave population in the British colonies has long 
claimed the commiseration of every benevolent mind, a claim which is 
greatly strengthened by recent occurrences, and particularly by the in- 
tolerant acts of the legislature of Jamaica, and by the persecution which 
Christian missionaries and their negro converts have had to endure, and 
are still enduring in that island ; and this meeting desire to urge it upon 
Christians of every denomination, and especially upon all Christian 
ministers, to manifest the grateful sense they entertain of their own re- 
ligious blessings, by uniting their efforts to vindicate to the unhappy 
negro his equal right to the unobstructed enjoyment of the light and 
liberty of the Gospel." 

Mr. George Bennett seconded the motion, which he did, he said, 
with great cordiality. Tiie cause was so important, that he felt it a 
high honour to be permitted to take any part in promoting it. He had 
himself been in some of the regions of slavery, and having seen it in va- 
rious forms in the Mauritius, in Madagascar, and at the Cape of Good 



252 Qeyveral Meeting — Mr. Brownlow. 

Hope, lie felt himself called upon to give his humble, unprejudiced tes- 
timony in support of the motion which had just been read. Of the 
modes of slavery in the West Indies he was ignorant, except from the 
testimony of others. But he was so convinced by those testimonies, 
the testimony of men who had actually been in the slave countries, and 
of the official documents that had been given to the public through the 
press, that he had no hesitation in seconding that part of the resolution 
which referred to the West Indies. But although the modes of slavery 
might differ in different parts of the world— as, for example, in the 
Cape of Good Hope, where it assumed a milder aspect, and in the Mau- 
ritius, where it existed in its most horrid and disgusting forms ; yet still, 
"vvhether in its mild or more appalling exhibitions, it had really and 
essentially a cruelly demoralizing effect, not only on the poor slaves, 
but on all who were the owners of slaves — on all who even employed 
slaves in their families, from governors downwards, through all grades, 
civil and military, to the lowest — wherever it existed, there the moral 
sense soon became blunted, and it was impossible to estimate the exten- 
siveness of its influence. Numerous examples of the demoralizing in- 
fluence of slavery might easily have been adduced ; while many of them 
were of such a nature, that it should seem almost impossible to find 
language sufficiently emphatic, by which to pourtray their enormity. — 
After relating some instances in proof of this statement, Mr. Bennett 
concluded with seconding the motion. 

The Resolution proposed by Mr, Wilson was then put and unani- 
mously carried. 

Mr. Brownlow, M. P. did not feel that in addressing this meet- 
ing, it would be necessary for him to offer any apology for ex- 
pressing the desire he had, according to his ability, to forward their 
common object. Indeed, if any excuses were to be offered by him upon 
this occasion, he felt that these excuses were rather due for its being 
the first time he had presented himself in this society, — for its being the 
first time, with shame he confessed it, — he was engaging in duties 
which every man was bound to discharge. He could not admit that 
Ave were guilty of any overstrained feelings, as was often alleged against 
us, because we came forward to plead this cause. He could not admit 
that he was chargeable with any intemperance, or any enthusiastic ex- 
cess of feeling upon this subject. And if any such charge were to be 
made against our proceedings upon this day, and on the resolutions we 
had already passed, he wished it to be recollected that so long ago as 
the year 1800, Mr. Dundas, a man not liable to be very much carried 
away by his feelings, or to act from hasty emotions, moved a series of 
resolutions in Parliament, one of which resolutions was, that after the 
first of January in that year, slavery should cease through all parts 
of His Majesty's dominions. Therefore, had these resolutions been 
passed — had the policy which Mr. Dundas had recommended been 
Jiappily carried into effect, slavery would have been now entirely at an 
end; nor should we have been called to meet upon this occasion, actually 
to condole with each other, that from that period to this, next to nothing- 
had been accomplished for the cure of the evil. He did not wish to 
exaggerate on this subject, but he believed he was not over-stating 



General Meeting — Mr. Brougham. 253 

when he. asserted, that in that period nothing, or next to nothing, had 
been accomplished in furtherance of this great work of putting an end 
to slavery. In the crown colonies there had been some improvements, 
some partial ameliorations in the state of the law. But when it was 
recollected how the laws were administered in the West Indies ; Avhen 
it was recollected who those were who filled high offices — planters, as 
assistant-protectors, and planters, as law-officers, and planters as 
judges — it was not exaggerating to state that the ameliorations in the 
letter of the law had not been carried into practical effect. And 
when we came to the parts of the question relating to those colonies 
which had legislatures of their own, it was a fact which all must admit 
with grief and indignation, that with respect to this evil, so opposed to the 
happiness of man, and so repugnant to the spirit of our religion, nothing 
effectual had yet been done for the improvement of those slaves whom 
we had handed over from the legislation of Parliament, which alone was 
competent to the task, to be dealt with by the colonial legislatures, who 
were utterly disinclined and incom-petent to it. In these colonies slavery 
remained, therefore, unmitigated. The evils of the system remained 
the same as they had been many years ago. Such being the state of 
the case, nothing having yet been done, and the work being still before 
us, it was incumbent upon this meeting, and upon the empire at large, 
to implore Parliament to take this matter under its immediate control 
and superintendence. The experiment had been long enough tried with, 
all the colonial legislatures ; and up to the present moment, it had entirely 
failed. On these grounds he begged to move the following resolution ; 

" That deeply deploring the continued prevalence of the unnumbered 
evils of the colonial system, and among them the affecting circumstance 
that under the allegiance of a British Monarch, and within the legislative 
jurisdiction of a British Parliament, thousands of children continue 
yearly to be born to no inheritance but that of a hopeless and intermin- 
able bondage — a bondage now admitted to have been imposed on their 
parents by the most flagitious means, — this meeting feel it to be their 
imperative duty again to address their most urgent representations to 
both Houses of Parliament, imploring them no longer to postpone the 
consideration of this momentous subject, but to proceed forthwith to 
devise the best and wisest means of insuring the early and universal 
extinction of slavery in all the possessions of the British Crown." 

Mr. Brougham rose amid great applause, to second the motion, 
and said, he Avas sure that he had had the satisfaction of meeting them 
too often in that place, upon occasions like the present, to make it neces- 
sary that he should anew profess his most cordial zeal in behalf of the 
great cause which assembled them together. But it was fit that he 
should remind them, which he should do very briefly, of the position in 
which the question at present stood. Seven years had elapsed since 
resolutions were passed, as they had heard from his friend Mr. Buxton, 
with the unanimous consent of Parliament, and with theunanimous appro- 
bation of the people, who, if they objected to them at all, only dissented 
from them in this, that they did not go far enough. By those resolu- 
tions, much had been promised us. During the interval of seven years 
that had elapsed since, nothing, or next to nothing, had been performed. 

2 Q 



254 General Meeting — Mr. Brougham. 

The year after, he had himself been forced to bring before Parliament the 
murder of a peaceful minister of the gospel, one of the late, but not 
the worst fruits, horrible though it was, of the degradation in which 
that system kept the slave, but not more the slave than the slave-owner. 
It was said sometimes, with more regard to antithesis in the form of the 
expression, than regard for truth in the substance of the proposition, 
that while that system tended to degrade the slave, it tended to pervert 
the nature of him who exercised the tyranny. But it was far nearer 
the truth to say, that it degraded the master even still more than the 
slave, unless it was meant to affirm that cruelty was less degrading than 
suffering — or that the man was more exalted who inflicted wrong, than 
his victim who suffered under it. When the result of that degradation 
had led to the murder of a missionary of the gospel ; and when he 
brought forward that atrocious case before the Commons House of 
Parliament, a second warning was given to the legislators of the West 
Indies ; and they were then distinctly warned that, for our dignity and 
for our honour and for our country's sake, if they did not improve the 
space which had been granted them, they might expect to be crushed 
in that common ruin which, sooner or later, must destroy that great 
evil ; that if they did not lay the axe to the root of that accursed system 
of which both hemispheres so loudly complained, Parharaent would arise 
in its might, and redeem its pledge to the people of England, and put 
down that enormous mischief, which we had in vain hoped that the 
colonial legislatures would proceed to get rid of. Six years more had 
now elapsed ; and were we still to delay ? Were we still to be put off 
with false promises and hollow professions ? Were we still to suffer 
ourselves to be deluded with vain hopes ? The meeting he saw before 
him this day was an answer to these questions. For often as he had 
here met the friends of this cause, and great as had been the concourse 
upon former occasions, he must say, that the present was by far, by 
very, very far indeed, the most numerous and respectable public 
assembly which he had ever yet seen convened together, to further 
the great objects of justice, humanity, and sound policy, and to influence 
our legislature in proceeding to the accomphshment of any one great 
measure of public interest. He was told that above two thousand per- 
sons were within these walls, and that many hundreds more had de- 
parted , hopeless of obtaining admission ; and with the exception of a slight 
and momentary interruption, he had never yet seen on any other occa- 
sion more unanimity, more zeal and more perfect determination than on 
the present. This was the course by which they would insure success. 
It was by labouring in this place and out of it ; by unwearied exertions 
together and apart; as members of this body, or as members of every 
separate sect, class, profession, and community, standing by one ano- 
ther and resolutely urging forward the great cause of humanity ; or as 
individuals, each acting within the sphere of his own proper influence, 
devoting himself, heart and hand, to the promotion of it; that we should 
and must finally triumph. No man could tell of what paramount im- 
portance the single voice of every individual in the country might be in 
the decision of this question. No man could tell how important each 
man's single efforts might become ; and in brinsjino: this matter to a 



General Meeting — Mr. Brougham. 255 

happy issue, he trusted, therefore, that at no time, whetlier early or 
late, would any one of those whom he addressed, when called upon to 
exert his influence, ever forget the pledge he had given this day. — He 
would beg, before he sat down, to advert to the remark of Mr. Hunt, 
that that was a one-eyed or a left-eyed humanity which looked only 
towards distant evils, and neglected nearer and more pressing claims. 
He fully agreed that the conduct of those would be grossly inconsistent, 
and deserving, if not of ridicule, at least of high reprehension, who 
should neglect the misery that was near their own door, while they were 
holding out, or were calling upon us to hold out, a helping hand to the 
wretchedness that was beyond the Atlantic. Thus far, then, we were 
entirely agreed as to the principle, but with no disrespect towards him, 
he took leave very confidently, nevertheless, to dispute its application 
to those who stood forward on this occasion. When he looked around 
him on the very various demands which were urged, from time to time, 
upon the attention of the benevolent, by the v/ants and distresses of 
some portions of the community, or by the abuses which had arisen 
from some parts of our political system — he should wish to know who 
they were that did most constantly and zealously exert themselves to 
attempt the relief of the distress, or to seek for the downfall of the 
abuse ? If there existed any object of charitable effort, either general 
or local, what were the names that we saw most frequently to grace the 
lists of those who came forward as public benefactors? Delicacy 
towards those who now surrounded him, prevented him from reciting 
their names. They were too well known to have dropt from the 
memory of those who were now present, and who could hardly hear this 
matter alluded to without being reminded that the names which appeared 
in the Anti-Slavery Society were to be found also in a large proportion 
among the best benefactors of the distressed. Was not ignorance one 
of the greatest causes of poverty itself? at all events, one of the great 
exacerbators of that condition ? And was the ignorance of the poor no 
object of care with those who, this very day, had presented themselves 
before us, and taken a lead in these proceedings ? Had any man here 
never heard — was there any man here who had not heard of the name 
of William Allen ? Could he be impeached with disproportioned activity 
for the emancipation of the slaves, whose days and nights had been de- 
voted to the education of the British peasantry ? A Right Rev. Prelate too 
who sat on the right hand of the chair, whose piety and learning were or- 
naments to our hierarchy, was not more distinguished for his zeal that 
slavery might be made to cease, than he was known for his zeal to pro- 
mote that great public benefit — the diffusion of wholesome education 
among the poor of the land. Prison discipline had been alluded to, 
and he would take upon him to say, in perfect consistency with the fact, 
that no one could name prison discipline without bringing Mr. Buxton 
to his remembrance. In the abuse of charities, which it will be admitted 
concerned the people of England, their honourable and worthy Chair- 
man had laboured for years and years in Parliament, in conjunction 
with the humble individual who had now the honour to address them — 
the abuse of charities applicable, not to negroes — not to foreigners, but 
to our fellow-subjects — Englishmen. And yet he, too, must be charged 



256 General Meeting — Mr. Pownall. 

with neglecting the interests of his own countrymen, because he had 
toiled so unremittingly and so zealously to emancipate the slave — the 
master as well as the slave, from the deepest degradation. He had now 
repelled a charge which might not have been invidiously brought for- 
ward to-day — but which he had heard elsewhere urged, not by a friend 
— but by our enemies; by those who, being the enemies of freedom in 
the West Indies and every where else, twitted us with undue anxiety 
about those evils which were remote; — men who had the words " liberty" 
and the '^ English constitution" upon their lips, but whose hearts were 
far away from both ; — men who, if they knew aught of liberty, only acted 
with it as monopolists did with their trade, and whose language was — 
'' we must not let others interfere — we must keep it strictly at home, 
and to make it more secure we must keep it at home in the fewest pos- 
sible hands." — :In short, the liberty of which they prated, was a liberty 
which they desired to retain within the narrowest conceivable compass. 
— He had once more to express his hope and his confidence, that a pro- 
gress had been made this day, which, before long, would be felt in the 
proper quarter; and that we should be found urging and supporting the 
legislature of the country by all wise and lawful and just means to 
seek the eradication of this monstrous evil. We had talked, indeed, of 
making a gradual and a safe progress towards our object — but let it 
never be forgotten that the progress our adversaries would have us 
make, was that, which in order not to be too rapid, consisted in stand- 
ing still, and sometimes, as of late, in going backward. But even in 
consenting to be discreet and prudent in our measures, it was upon this 
one condition only — that we should hold that course which must extin- 
guish the evil ; and that we should never deviate from it, not even by 
tacking, though, as they would pretend, by tacking we got on the quicker. 
He was for going on prudently and cautiously indeed, with a due regard 
to all interests, and disregarding none — but go on we must, and go on 
we shall — and if it were known that that was our fixed determinationj 
we should find abettors in abundance, and either no adversaries, or 
none whose opposition we needed to regard. (Much applause). 

Mr. PoAVNALL then rose and observed, that the resolution which had 
just been moved fell so far short of the expectations he had formed, 
that he begged to move an amendment upon it. He took encourage- 
ment, when he looked at this numerous assembly before him, and he 
took further encouragement from the many ministers of the gospel, and 
the many men of talent, and zeal, by whom he was surrounded, to be- 
lieve that the time v/as now come when we should no longer temporize 
with this subject, but speak out, and speak boldly, our determination, 
that slavery should exist no longer. We had waited seven years in 
the hope that Parliament would devise and enforce some effectual and 
decisive measures which should meet the evil of negro slavery. Parlia- 
ment had not done it. The colonies having legislatures of their own 
had not done it. The colonies that were under the jurisdiction of the 
Crown had not been compelled to do it. It was time, therefore, that 
the people of England should stand up and at length vindicate the 
rights of their fellow-subjects in the West Indies. The negroes there 
were subjects of the British dominions^ — they had as much right to free- 



General Meeting — Mr. Pomiail. 257' 

dom as ourselves, and that law which had violated their rights was not 
law but tyranny. And whatever Acts of Parliament sanctioning 
such violation could be brought forward, it was clear that the legis- 
lature of Great Britain, in enacting them, itself violated the very com- 
pact by which it was constituted. If this was the feeling of the meeting, 
why not express it ? why not tell the Honourable Gentlemen that were 
around us, when in their places in the House of Commons, boldly to 
stand forward for the rights of Englishmen, and no longer year after 
year to dwell on the subject of petty details, a little less labour, and a 
little more food. Good or bad treatment had nothing to do with the 
subject. He must be allowed to say, that as human beings, they had as 
much right to the liberty of the body as to the air they breathed. And 
that those who had taken them over the seas in order to profit by the 
sugar-cane, committed a most egregious mistake — they should have 
taken the canes to the negroes, and not the negroes to the canes. He 
knew that the time of this meeting was valuable — but the point to 
which he wished to call their attention, was to pass some strong resolu- 
tion which should go to Parliament, desiring that they would immediately 
take such measures as should put a stop to the present nefarious and 
degrading system, and that until such measures were adopted that 
they should pass a law preventing any subjects of His Majesty from 
being born into a state of slavery after a given period. He knew very 
well that we might have gone on with our present proceedings ; we 
might have felt much ; we might have been delighted with speeches 
and gone home abhorring slavery, but what had been the result? Why, 
our petitions it may be, had gone to Parliament, they had been received, 
and nothing more was heard of them. What was the value of our 
petitions unless they were supported by the unanimous voice of the 
people? And therefore, he now called upon every minister of religion 
that he would, without the counsel, without the sanction or approval of 
any other person, give a pledge this day that so long as British subjects 
were held in slavery, so long would he use his influence that petitions 
might come up from every part of England testifying against that 
monstrous outrage. Let them take it home to their parishes, — let the 
remotest districts of the kingdom hear of it — that British, subjects 
when born, were doomed to perpetual bondage, and that to satisfy the 
avarice of their fellow-men and fellow-subjects. He was encouraged 
by the cheers around him to excite this meeting to try to fix a period 
to this system ; and he trusted that this meeting would shew by its 
voice that the country was of the same opinion. And therefore, as an 
amendment to the resolution, he would propose at the close of the 
resolution now moved, to add the following words, 

" And to provide that from and after the 1st of January, 1830, every 
child born within the King's dominions shall be free." 

Now he was inclined to do this, because he remembered that in the 
speech of Mr. Buxton, made in the House of Commons in the year 
1823, this proposition was recommended ; and that on the same oc- 
casion also Mr. Brougham declared that it seemed to him to be the 
imperative duty of the legislature to pass some act with respect to the 
unborn children. He thought therefore, we should be wanting in our 



258 General Meeting— Mr. H. Drummond, Mr. Rutt. 

duty to that part of our fellow subjects, if we did not immediateiy 
announce our determination to take up this part of the subject. Diffi- 
culties might arise — and who that contemplated a great achievement 
could expect not to encounter difficulties ? But was a christian to be 
dissuaded from his duty merely because difficuties met him in the way? 
They might have difficulties to encounter as great as those had, who 
refused to bow down to the molten image set up by Nebuchadnezzar ; 
but God could deliver us as he did them even from the fiery furnace. 
They must not be overcome by difficulties. And he confidently trusted 
that a resolution would be passed this day fixing definitely the time, 
when it should be declared that every child born in the British dominions 
should be free. Let us persist in that course, trusting to the majesty 
of our cause. Let us take a pledge from our representatives that they 
would fearlessly support it. Then would they gain for themselves the 
blessings of the negro no longer enslaved, while they would be cheered 
by the congratulations of a grateful community at home. (Great 
applause.) 

Mr. H. Drummond could not stand up to second the amendment 
which had just been proposed, without, at the same time, expressing the 
deep regret he should feel if any thing should fall from him that might 
be construed into the smallest disrespect of the venerable chairman 
who presided over them, or of those gentlemen who had already ad- 
dressed the meeting. Whatever were the duties of our representatives 
in Parliament — our duties were totally distinct. We had nothing to do 
but with simple abstract principles. Whatever difficulties might occur 
must be left with those who had to conduct the business. It was for 
the government and not for us to overcome them. But when he saw 
in this day's newspapers the Society accused of inconsistency, and of 
holding opposite sentiments now to those which they held half a century 
ago, — he would beg leave to state that half a century ago he held no 
sentiments whatever. — He could not trust himself to speak upon this 
great question. There were subjects on which it was disgraceful to 
speak coolly. He could not come to this question under any point of 
view, or look at it as a system even upon the dry rules of heathen ethics, 
without detesting and condemning it. And if he controuled himself 
now, and if he conjured those who heard him to control themselves 
also, it was that they might keep smothered within them a more intense 
fire, — it was that they might keep from dissipating in idle speeches in a 
tavern, what was yet to be called into action in a more efficient place. 
In his conscience, however, he believed and feared, that this question 
would never be carried until some black O'Connell, or some swarthy 
Bolivar was found to take it up. 

Mr. Rutt in reference to the advertisement alluded to, and which 
charged the Society and their hon. chairman with inconsistency, de- 
clared, that they had not forfeited any pledge. He had taken the pains 
of examining the proceedings of Parliament during the time alluded 
to, and he had found the opinion now entertained of slavery to have 
been the general opinion of every speaker in favour of the abolition 
of the slave-trade, 

Mr, BuxTOK said he should detain the meeting but a single 



General Meeting — Mr. Buxton, Mr. Brougham, Mr. Pownall. ^9 

moment. — He perfectly agreed with Mr, Pownall's amendment; and he 
would again say, that there was no part of this great subject in which 
he felt so deej) and intense an interest, as on tliis very point — the 
emancipation of the children. It was provided for in his original pro- 
positions; and it was therefore proved, that the Society had then enter- 
tained the same principles which this amendment proposed to adopt. 
It was upon this point therefore, that he recommended that we should 
state in the words Mr. Pownall had suggested, that we looked to Par- 
liament to enact a law, by which every slave-child born after the 1st of 
January, 1831, should be free. 

Mr. Brougham entreated the meeting not to act under the influence 
of any sudden emotion, arising from the impatience which had very 
naturally been begotten by the delay we had met with, so as to adopt 
a resolution which might give rise to an impression that we had acted 
rashly. If we should pass a resolution calling upon the legislature to 
pass a bill at this late period of the Session, which was to have its 
operation in January next, there would be various hindrances which 
he specified, both in the House of Commons and the House of Lords 
before such a bill could pass. These observations, which he made wilh 
the utmost respect for the meeting, and the utmost deference for those 
gentlemen who had moved and seconded the amendment, were not 
intended to oppose the passing of some such resolution, but only against 
the resolution in its present shape. 

Mr. Pownall was sorry he had been misunderstood. He was not 
bigotedly attached to a particular day. But he conceived that un- 
less we fixed a definite period, the subject might pass by as it had 
before done. The recommendation could not be considered a precipi- 
tate measure, since the chairman had told us that 30 years ago the very 
same proposition was made to the British Parliament. And it could 
not be regarded as too soon for the people of England to take measures 
for inducing the legislature no longer to trifle Avith the question. 

Mr. S. Rice said he took the liberty of suggesting a method of gain- 
ing the one object, which he took upon himself to say they all had in 
view. We were all agreed, that it was expedient upon this subject, 
that a definite time should be fixed when slavery should exist no longer. 
If then we were to admit the principle that a definite time should be ap- 
pointed, and stop there, leaving for the present the consideration of the 
precise time to the good sense of those who should have hereafter to 
deliberate upon it, the object of all who had spoken upon the point, 
would, he was convinced be gained, and the business of the meeting 
would go on much more satisfactorily. (Cheers.) 

Mr. O'CoNNELL said that it seemed to him that this was really a 
question free from all difficulty; and instead of regretting that a difference 
should have arisen among us, it only shewed, that in the variety of our 
zeal, we had different ways of attaining the same object. What diffi- 
culty was there that this meeting should announce its opinion, that the 
slavery should cease of persons born from and after the 1st of Jan. 
1831, or even from some earlier day or year ? It seemed to him that 
there was not the least difficulty in it, nor did he know there would be 
any in bringing the matter before Parliament this session. If any one 



260 General Meeting— Mr. O'Conncll. 

thought we should carry such a question at the first onset he could 
not agree with him. The blow must be repeated again and again — and 
if we were to go to battle, the sooner we began the fight the better. 
He had never, he said, felt so gratified as he did, by a compliment paid 
to him to-day (by Mr. Drummond). He felt very proud of that com- 
pliment ; for if the sound of his humble name should ever serve to fan 
the flame of freedom in the heart of any human being, he had got his 
great reward, and he desired no other recompence. He asserted it 
as an eternal truth, that a created human being, who had an immortal 
soul, redeemed by the blood of the only Redeemer, could not become 
the property of his fellow-creature. Man could not have property in 
man. Slavery was a nuisance to be put down, not to be compromised 
with; and to be assailed without cessation, and without mercy, by 
every blow that could be levelled at the monster. He had served three 
apprenticeships to agitation. He had seen the cause of national liber- 
ty, and the sacred principle of freedom of conscience struck at, and time 
after time he had heard that it was too soon in the session to talk of 
such and such a measure ; then, in the middle, that parliament was too 
much occupied with more pressing affairs ; and when the middle had 
passed away and the end was approaching, then he was told to wait till 
the next meeting of parliament; and these endless postponements, which 
made the hearts of others sick, only roused him to redouble his exertions 
until the enemy was at length tired out, and conscience had achieved her 
triumph. The very same course he proposed, as a member of par- 
liament, to be adopted in this cause. He could not help feeling sur- 
prised at being so long in the house and having seen so few petitions 
presented on this subject ; while at the same time he saw such a large 
and powerful party devoted to what had been called the West India 
interest. They had noble lords and right honorable gentlemen at their 
command, and came in regular phalanx, and nobody seemed to sleep 
but the friends of justice and humanity. Was this as it ought to be? 
Let us imitate the example of West India activity. Let our call be 
heard throughout the land, until every town and parish in England was 
roused into action. Let the present state of slavery in our Colonies be 
exposed in detail. Let general principle be asserted. And as it was 
the cause of religion and liberty, all that it wanted was the unwearied 
repetition of zealous advocacy to make it certainly triumphant. Let 
every man then, in whatever position he might be placed, do his duty, 
in crushing that hideous tyranny, which rent the husband from his 
wife, the children from their parents — which enabled one human being, 
at his uncontrouled will, to apply the lash to the back of his fellow-man. 
At no period of human history had slavery assumed a form so abomina- 
ble as in our slave colonies. Anciently the state of slavery was only a 
few degrees worse than the domestic servitude of the present day. In 
the early ages the slave shared with his owner, in the food which 
he procured for the common benefit of both. But what was the 
fact in our Colonies? Human beings were converted into machinery, 
with which to make a fortune.— And we had not only to answer for 
the slavery of our own West Indies, but for slavery all over the face 
of the earth. Ought the mistress nation of the world to give the 



General Meeting— Mr. 0'Co?mell. 261 

sanction of her palmy glory to such a system ? Were we to go 
to the free states of America — they would tell us that England left, as 
an inheritance, this crime to them, and that to this day England con- 
tinued that crime; and they found their excuse for the enormity of their 
conduct in quoting the example of England, and sheltering themselves 
behind the crimes of Great Britain. When we pointed out to them 
the contrast between the privileges they asserted for themselves and their 
practice towards the negroes — they most justly retorted upon us. Ought 
this to last? We owed it therefore to America, as well as to our- 
selves, to put an end to slavery. — And to return to the amendment : he 
thought the first proposition we should come to was, that England 
should determine on a period when it should be declared thai the chil- 
dren of slaves should be free born. He could see no reason why a day 
should not be fixed, even antecedent to the passing of the Act ; why for 
example the 14th of April, 1829, might not be fixed ; a day of which he 
had so many pleasing recollections. The children born after that period 
would not be so old as to incapacitate them for receiving an education 
suited to freemen. — But it was said that in giving freedom to the blacks we 
should destroy the whites. We must, he admitted, proceed with caution 
— but beyond this he would make no concession. And if any said it ought 
to be done gradually, he would reply that at least it must be done deci- 
dedly. There was a principle pervading this nation of cold calculating 
prudence — but oh ! the greatest prudence of all was the assertion of the 
eternal principles of justice, and the enforcing of them perpetually and 
unremittingly. — Let us therefore begin — let the day be fixed to which 
we should be solemnly pledged. Let the voice of indignant remon- 
strance resound across the rich plains of England — let it be heard from 
the remotest mountains of Scotland, — and he would answer for its being 
echoed from the glens and valleys of his native land in a voice of 
thunder — a voice that had made itself heard already and should ere 
long be heard again. Let this voice of indignant remonstrance be only 
heard from every quarter of the land, and then, but not till then would 
the black be free and the white man saved, — human beings be no longer 
degraded to the rank of brute beasts, and Christianity be no longer 
blasphemed. True liberality did not consist in giving up one's own reli- 
gious opinions, but in allowing that freedom to others which we claimed 
for ourselves. — How could any one preach to ihe negro respecting the 
value of Christian morality v.'hen he saw his master selling his own child 
to the neighbouring planter, violating alike every precept of the gospel — 
every dictate of reason — every feeling of humanity ? He conceived that 
while such a system lasted every Englishman was degraded, and the 
religion of Christ was blasphemed. The cauise we were engaged in 
was a great and noble cause. We had formidable opposition to en- 
counter — but what was great should at least be attempted. The drop 
was soft and the rock was hard, but by perpetually falling on it, it im- 
pressed it at last. He did feel it his duty to make these statements to 
this respectable meeting. He should not longer detain them, but would 
only say, let the sentiments which had this day been expressed, be 
cautiously, distinctly, perpetually inculcated ; let its echo be heard in 
the House of Commons, and moderation and truth would ultimately 

2 R 



26^ General Meeting — Mr. Buckingham, Mr. Denman. 

prevail. We should at least have the consolation that we had the honour 
to struggle for the interests of liberty and of true religion. (Cheers.) 

Mr. Buckingham in speaking to this amendment, begged leave tO 
state two facts relating to the state of things in reference to the im- 
mediate abolition of slavery generally, but more especially as it applied 
to the infant race. It had been his fortune to have been in the West 
and East Indies — but it was from the latter he would take his examples. 
In Ceylon when Alexander Johnstone was chief justice of the island, 
he succeeded in having a period fixed for the abolition of slavery by the 
emancipation of the children, and the whole of the infants born of slaved 
after that period were declared free. The other case was that of Sir 
Stamford Raffles, he introduced the emancipation of slaves at Ben^ 
coolen. A Mahomedan who was proprietor of an immense number of 
slaves, thanked him on that occasion for the good he had done, and 
declared he had often felt compunction that such a system should s6 
long have been carried on, and pledged himself to forsake it. He men- 
tioned these facts to encourage the Society — and before sitting down he 
would beg leave to suggest a single word of advice, which did not de^ 
pend upon the people of England, nor upon the votes of this assembly, 
but upon the counsel that every man and every woman should find in 
their own bosom, and that was — to regard the produce of slave labour as 
accursed and poisoned — and, to speak in the emphatic language of 
scripture, he would say of it, " Touch not, taste not, handle not the 
unclean thing." And he would have every lady in this assembly when 
dealing out the meal to her household, to remember that there was a 
large country, India — our own country — where the same article was 
produced by free labour. Every man and every woman is interested in 
that country — and he held it to be the duty of every one to rouse him- 
self to exertion on its behalf, and thus to procure the abolition of 
slavery in the West. 

Mr. Pownall's amendment was then put and carried, in a modified 
form. To the resolution moved by Mr. Brownlow were added the 
words " and to fix the day upon which all children born in the British 
dominions shall be free." 

Mr. Denman begged to congratulate the meeting in the first place 
on what had just now occurred, because on all former occasions the 
Society had run before the public, and had in some degree been called 
upon to excite it — but in this instance the public had shewn that it 
would take the matter into its own hands, and had thus given the 
Society a warning by which he was sure it would endeavour to 
profit. The public felt the deepest gratitude to their respected Chair- 
man in the first place, and to all who had followed in his footsteps upon 
this great subject. But it felt that its own character would not be safe 
if slavery were any longer to exist, and if it were not put down at the 
earliest possible opportunity. In the first place his hon. friend was 
charged with never having contemplated the abohtion of slavery when 
the slave-trade was put an end to. It was a contemptible and ground- 
less falsehood. It required only to be mentioned in order to be dis- 
credited. So far were the abolitionists from pledging themselves to be 
content with that, that they distinctly announced the abolition of slavery 



General Meeting — Dr. Lushmgton. 263 

as their ulterior object. The public had now been aroused from its 
dormant state ; and that meeting had shewn that in the breast of every 
man there was a voice which cried, " sleep no more ;" and it would 
continue, he was sure, to give us the full benefit of its future efforts. 
With regard to the amendment, he must own that the experience of 
many years, and the observations he had made on the subject, did not 
lead him to believe that Parliament would proceed too rapidly. But the 
members of the legislature were undoubtedly to receive their instruc- 
tions from the public ; and this day he hoped those instructions would 
be given. It might indeed be said that this was a political question which 
from the state of society involved difficulties of no ordinary description. 
In his judgment we had nothing to do with any such considerations. 
If there were any inconvenience arising from a change in the state of 
society, it was for the legislatures of the colonies — it was for the par- 
liament of this country — it was for the proprietors of slaves themselves 
to devise the means by which these inconveniences might be avoided, 
and to take care that no evil should result from the restoration of 
liberty to those who had unjustly been deprived of it. He rejoiced to 
hear the voice of the people of England proclaiming in this room, that 
what Mr. Dundas proposed probably only for the purpose of delay ; 
and which every friend of the cause had all along anxiously been looking 
forward to; should at length be resolved upon, and that slavery should 
exist no longer. He did not much regret the interruption which had 
taken place in consequence of what Mr. Hunt had said, as the speech 
of his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Brougham) had so well superseded 
all necessity of further arguments upon that subject. He should not 
enter into the various topics that tempted him; but he would take the 
liberty of saying, in addition to what he had said, that every step we 
took towards emancipating the negroes, was a step gained for the whole 
people of England, by enabling them to rid themselves of that foul 
reproach — the spots on the sun of the fair face of England's reputa- 
tion. He then moved the following resolution. 

" That this meeting most earnestly invite all Anti-Slavery Associa- 
tions, and all who are friendly to the Society's objects, in every part of 
the United Kingdom, to join in persevering and concurrent exertions to 
induce Parliament to take effectual measures for freeing their country 
from the foul reproach and the deep moral guilt attendant on our con- 
tinued toleration and encouragement of slavery ; and to this end they 
are entreated to employ such means of public discussion, or such other 
expedients as they may deem advisable, for diffusing, in their respective 
vicinages, a more complete knowledge of the nature and baneful efiects 
of that criminal system, and for uniting every heart and hand in Peti- 
tions to Parliament for its early and universal abolition.'' 

Dr. LusHiNGTON rose to second the motion, and observed that at 
this late hour he should address but a very few words to that numerous 
assembly which he had the happiness to see before him, and only for 
the purpose of endeavouring to add a little to the strong impression 
which the eloquence and sound sense of his hon. friend (Mr. Denman) 
who had preceded him, must have made upon the minds of all who 
heard him. Without the assistance of the people out of doors — without 



264 General Meeting — Dr. Lushingtoji. 

the exertions of all those who had influence in different parts of the 
country, it was in vain that the few members of the House of Commons 
who had the courage and the perseverance to advocate this cause there, 
made the attempt which this assembly were desirous should no longer 
be delayed. Into the hands indeed of no man living — so powerful — so 
able — so zealous — as into the hands of his hon. friend Mr. Brougham 
could this task be confided — {Great applause. ) He spoke the truth, 
lamentable in itself as it was, that scarcely a decent hearing could be 
obtained in that house by any other member on this subject. He alone 
was possessed of that power and that influence which Parliament did 
not seem capable of resisting — and to him must we look to penetrate 
the prejudice which prevailed, and the reluctance we had to encounter. 
Now he entreated the meeting to mark him. The present hour was not 
to be lost. The time of a general election was fast approaching. That 
was the hour when the people could effectually aid us. If they went 
with us heart and hand — if in their very souls they were convinced of the 
necessity that existed for abolishing the degrading system which pre- 
vailed in the slave colonies — now was the time by their exertions to aid 
its extinction and abolition. Let every man who had a vote either in any 
single town which had the privilege of sending a representative to Par- 
liament, or in any county; let every such man remember that it was 
his sacred duty to see that neither his influence nor his vote should 
be given to any one who would not pledge himself to the cause of 
abolition. And let the meeting again mark this one word of further 
advice. Let them give their vote to no lukewarm friend — to no stickler 
about indemnities — to no putter-off of the question to a day that was 
never to come — to no advocate for vested interests as paramount to the 
claims of justice and humanity; but to one who would pledge himself to 
say — "this iniquity has been committed by those who have legislated 
before me, here and in the West : my soul sinks under that sin, and 
with the blessing of God, every effort shall be made by me to remove 
the load from my country and my conscience" — to one who would rise 
early and go to bed late to carry his point — to one who had the firmness 
to disregard the sneers of the interested, and who would not mind the 
disgrace of being named a " Philanthropist." He was persuaded that 
if once this spirit could be roused into activity, if those possessed of it 
were to exert their influence honestly and fearlessly, not giving their 
vote or influence out of friendship to any one, or from regard to any 
other object ; were we thus to go straight forward to the end in view 
then would our efforts be crowned with success, and that guilt which 
had stained this country more deeply than any other upon the face of 
the globe would be removed from us ; and not merely guilt but all the 
consequences of guilt that certainly follow it — misery and suffering to 
all. Before he sat down, he wished to advert to another point. He 
had intended to have made a motion upon the subject of the state of 
the people of colour in the West Indies, but at that late hour that pur- 
pose must now be dispensed with. Few who heard him could have 
any idea of their condition. Though emancipated from actual bondage, 
instead of standing on a footing of equality with their fellow-citizens, 
they were degraded to a condition in which justice was impossible to be 



Generai Meeting — Mr. W. Whitmore, Mr. S. Rice. 265 

obtained, and where oppression was the lot of all. Now who were these 
people of colour ? When he had first asked himself that question, the 
answer trembled on his lips, — " they are the children of white men, of 
the very men who had inflicted on their own offspring the galling yoke 
of oppression — who had been the authors of the degrading disabili- 
ties by which they had suffered, and were still suffering." In short, 
in whatever light slavery was viewed, we should find that it overcame all 
the feelings and sympathies of nature, broke all those domestic bonds 
which were most near and dear to us, and invested its unhappy associa- 
tions with the certain consequences of misery and guilt. He had the 
pleasure however, of assuring the meeting, that on that subject at least, 
the government of this country had imbibed a better feeling ; and that 
in some of our own colonies measures had already been taken for putting 
these children of Britons on the same footing with their fathers ; and 
that on the part of the supreme authority of the state, a determination 
existed to recommend a similar course in the other colonies. He had 
only to say in conclusion, that he believed that upon their individual 
exertions would depend our ultimate success. — (Great applause.) 

Mr. W. Whitmore, M. P. read to the meeting a letter from His 
Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester, the Patron of the Society, 
enclosing his annual subscription, and expressing his regret that he was 
prevented from attending personally, by the lamented indisposition of 
His Majesty. He then moved, 

" That the cordial acknowledgments of this meeting be most 
respectfully presented to His Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester, 
for the undeviating support he has uniformly given to the principles 
on which this society is founded." 

And the motion having been seconded by Mr. Macaulay, was carried 
unanimously, and with loud acclamation. 

Mr. S. Rice said that the resolution he had to move was one to 
which every heart in this assembly would at once respond, and to 
which moreover, there was not a friend of humanity all over the world 
who would not be ready to give his acquiescence — it was a vote of 
thanks to his hon. and venerable friend Mr. Wilberforce — (Great 
applause.) — Whose character as a man, nay whose very name, was an 
argument; andwhoselifewas an example — (Great applause.) Heshould 
indeed ill deserve any portion of their attention if he occupied them 
one moment more than to read the words in which the resolution was 
drawn up, in order to recommend it to them. Some one had said that 
the most glorious of all spectacles was a good man struggling against 
adversity. He thought there was one more glorious, — it was to see the 
closing years of a virtuous life, spent in great and disinterested exertions, 
reaping from his countrymen the reward of those exertions, in their 
heartfelt approval, and thus handing down to posterity one of the most 
glorious incentives to the imitation of such an example. His hon. 
friend had presided over them to-day, — he trusted he would be present 
with them when they next met, — not to claim from Parliament further 
concessions, but to express to Parliament their thanks for having freed 
this country from the foul reproach of slavery. He then moved, 

" That this meeting are anxious to express their heartfelt satisfaction 



266 General Meeting — Mr. Si/kes, The Chairman. 

in seeing the chair occupied this day by WiUiam Wilberforce, Esq., 
the revered champion of injured and outraged Africa, and they desire 
to offer to him the tribute of their grateful acknowledgments for his un- 
ceasing efforts in the vindication and relief of suffering humanity ; and 
to testify their strong sense of the many services he has rendered to his 
gpuntry and to the world at large." 

^j Mr. SvKES, M. P. believed he had the honour to boast of a longer 
acquaintance with his revered friend Mr. Wilberforce, than any of the 
gentlemen that sat around him. He had derived much benefit, he did not 
need to assure them, from that intercourse ; and he esteemed it the 
greatest of all benefits, that he had learned from him to detest slavery. 
He therefore seconded the resolution with the utmost cordiality, — and 
he took the opportunity of testifying his complete approbation of the 
course which the Society had this day pursued, and of telling them 
again from that platform, that during the remainder of his days he 
should as he had hitherto done, devote himself to the pursuit and ac- 
complishment of the great object of their common solicitude and 
united exertions — the final extinction of slavery. (Cheering.) 

The vote was carried by acclamation, and 

The Chaihman in acknowledging it, said he felt deeply grateful for 
the kindness of the meeting, and it was not the least gratifying circum- 
stance to him that this vote had been moved by a gentleman whom he 
admired as a public man, and seconded by one whom he esteemed 
as a private friend. (Great applause.) 



11. — Concluding Remarks. 

Thus closed the business of a meeting, distinguished by its number 
and respectability, by the zeal which animated it, and by the impression 
which it has produced, not only on those who were present, but on the 
public at large. Already are the good effects of it visible in the 
increasing interest which the condition of our enslaved fellow-subjects, 
the negro bondsmen of our colonies, has excited throughout the land, 
and in the more strenuous and combined exertions which that increased 
interest is calling forth into action. It has confirmed the Synod of the 
Scotch secession in its determination previously announced to aid the 
Anti-Slavery cause, not only by its own prayer to Parliament, but by 
that of its three hundred congregations. The Deputies of the three 
denominations of Protestant Dissenters in London, representing the 
dissenting body throughout the land, have already addressed to Parlia- 
ment their strong protest against the continuance of slavery, and have 
called upon their numerous constituents in all parts of the kingdom to 
unite heart and hand in promoting its early extinction. The zeal even 
of those early and tried and consistent friends of the oppressed African, 
the Society of Friends, seems to burn with a more intense flame. The 
numerous and influential body of the Methodists have manifested a 
stronger and deeper feeling than ever of the duty of concurrent and un- 
ceasing exertion to remove the barriers which slavery presents to the 
diffusion of Christianity. And, we feel assured by our past experience, 
<af the effective co-operation which is to be expected from a great ma- 



Concluding Remarks. 267 

jority of the ministers and members of the Church of Scotland, as well 
as of the united Churches of England and Ireland. Nor can we 
doubt that the Catholics in both kingdoms will shew their gratitude for 
the success of their recent efforts, in achieving their own liberation 
from restraint, by aiding to break the oppressive yoke which weighs 
down our negro fellow-subjects. — To all these various classes of 
Christians we would earnestly address ourselves, — and not to them 
only, but to all of every class and party, whether religious or political, in 
the United Kingdom, who feel any concern for the honour of God, or 
any desire to vindicate our national character from infamy and re- 
proach, or any sympathy with suffering humanity ; — to them we would 
address our earnest entreaties to join cordially, concurrently, and per- 
severingly, in the promotion of this sacred cause, until the unhappy 
slave shall be relieved from his fetters, and Great Britain shall be deli- 
vered from the guilt and shame of holding him in bondage. 

Those who are disposed to respond to this call will find, in the 
speeches delivered, and the resolutions adopted at the meeting, of whose 
proceedings we have given an account, ample information both of the 
present state of the slavery question, and of the means by which it is 
proposed to influence Parliament to abolish it. We, therefore, conclude 
with recommending the foregoing details to their attentive perusal and 
conscientious consideration ; and with urging them to admit of no 
delay in taking the measures necessary for carrying into effect the 
various suggestions which they contain. The present session of Par- 
liament may cease before much can be accomplished. But ere long 
there will be another session, if not, perhaps another parliament. And 
in this last case we trust that no one who has pledged himself to this 
cause will employ his vote or his influence without maturely consider- 
ing, what his duty to God, to his country, and to his fellow men, no Ifess 
than fidelity to his engagements, requires at his hands. 

A petition founded on the resolutions adopted by the meeting has 
since been prepared for both Houses of Parliament. It represents 
Slavery as an evil which requires not merely to be palliated or amended, 
but to be eradicated ; not as a practice capable of being made tolerable 
by regulation, but as a crime to be suppressed, an outrage on our pro- 
fessed principles as Christians to be renounced, and a foul stain on our 
national character to be wholly and for ever effaced. And it Prays 
that Parliament would no longer postpone to take this momentous sub- 
ject into its early and earnest consideration, and that in order effectually 
to relieve the country from the guilt and ignominy of such a system, it 
would proceed forthwith to devise, and adopt, and enforce the best and 
wisest means of ensuring its universal extinction throughout the British 
Empire; and that, until this most desirable consummation shall have 
been attained, immediate measures may be taken, at least to arrest the 
progress of the evil, and to prevent any farther addition being made to 
the present number of enslaved British subjects, by fixing a day after 
which all children who shall be born within the dominions of His Ma- 
jesty, whatever be their class, condition, or complexion, shall thencefor- 
ward be absolutely and to all intents and purposes /ree. 

A copy of this petition with some notices on Sierra Leone and'lHfe' 
Mauritius will appear in a Supplement. 



268 Officers Names. 

III. — LtsT OF THE Committee of the Anti-Slavery Society, 



His Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester. 
William Wilberforce, Esq. 

His Grace the Duke of Devon- Thomas Clarkson, Esq. 

SHIRE, ' Thomas Denmak, Esq. 

The Most Hon. the Marquis of Henry Drummond, Esq. 



Bristol, 
The Right Hon. Lord Suffield, 
Lord Nugent, 

LordCALTHORPE 

Lord Milton, 

Sir Jas. Mackin- 



tosh, 
The Hon. Geo. Agar Ellis, M. P. 
Thomas Babington, Esq. 
Henry Brougham, Esq. M. P. 
James Browne, Esq. M. P. 
Thos. Fowel Buxton, Esq. M. P. 

Crea0wrer* 

Samuel Hoare, Esq. 



A.R.Barclay, Esq. 
Richard Barrett, Esq. 
Joseph Beldam, Esq. 
Rev. J. Bunting, 
Edward Carrol, Esq. 
Joseph Dimsdale, Esq. 
Charles Elliott, Esq. 
William Empson, Esq. 
Thomas Fisher, Esq. 
Rev. Joseph Fletcher, 
Edward Forster, Esq. 
Josiah Forster, Esq. 
Robert Forster, Esq. 
W. A, Garratt, Esq. 
Samuel Gurney, Esq. 
W. S. Hathaavay, Esq. 
Rev. Joseph Ivimey, 



William Evans, Esq. 
Dr. Lushington, M. P. 
W. T. Money, Esq. 
Richard Phillips, Esq. 
T. Spring Rice, Esq. M. P. 
C. E. Rumbold, Esq. M. P. 
William Smith, Esq. M. P, 
James Stephen, Esq. 
Daniel Sykes, Esq. M. P. 
S. C. Whitbread, Esq. M. P. 
W. W. Whitmore, Esq. M. P. 



Z. MACAULAY,Esq. 

T. B. Macaulay, Esq. M. P. 
William Malton, Esq. 
Richard Matthews, Esq. 
Hon. and Rev. B. Noel, 
Henry Pownall, Esq. 
Rev. M. M. Preston, 
W. F. Reynolds, Esq. 
George Stacey, Esq. 
Thomas St urge, Esq. 
Samuel Thorowgood, Esq. 
Rev, Dr. Walsh, 
Rev. R. Watson, 
Henry Waymouth, Esq. 
Rev. Daniel Wilson, 
Joseph Wilson, Esq. 
Joshua Wilson, Esq.- 



William Allen, Esq. _ James Cropper, Esq. 

Robert Benson, Esq. Henry Newman, Esq. 



London :— Eagster and I'homs, Printers, 14, Bartholomew-Close. 



SUPPLEMENT 

TO THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY MONTHLY REPORTER, 

No. 61, FOR JUNE 1830. 



I. PETITION OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE ANTI-SLAVERY 
SOCIETY TO PARLIAMENT. 
II. THE CASE OF THE WEST INDIA PLANTERS, OR PAUPE- 
RISM ON A GREAT SCALE. 
III. THE WEST INDIA REPORTER'S VIEW OF THE EXPENDITURE 

OF SIERRA LEONE. 
IV. Dr. WALSH'S VIEW OF SLAVERY IN THE BRAZILS. 

1. The Negro Race Enslaved and Free. 

2. Instance of Savage Cruelty. 

3. Slave Market. 

4. Crdel and Unjust Treatment of the aboriginal Indians. 



I. Petition of the Committee of the Anti-Slavery Society, 
TO THE House of Commons. 

Humbly siieweth, 

That your petitioners beg leave to remind your honourable house, 
that on the 15th day of May, 1823, your honourable house, by its 
unanimous resolutions, recognised the evil of slavery, and the duty of 
providing for its ultimate extinction ; and that His Majesty's Ministers 
then undertook to carry those resolutions into effect. 

That though seven years have since elapsed, during which the Co- 
lonial Assemblies have persisted in either evading, or refusing to com- 
ply with, the resolutions of Parliament and the recommendations of 
His Majesty's Government, supported by the voice of the British 
nation ; yet hitherto no adequate means of giving them effect have 
been adopted by your honourable house. 

That your petitioners regret to find that, even iu the colonies subject 
to the legislation of the Crown, the Orders in council, including the 
revised and consolidated order of the 2d of February last, though con- 
taining some important and salutary enactments, fall, nevertheless, far 
short of those official and parliamentary pledges of 1823 which they 
professed to fulfil, and have provided no sufficient means either for the 
final extinction of slavery, or for its effectual mitigation. 

2 s 



270 Petition of the Committee of the 

That while these pledges have thus remained for seven years unful- 
filled, the committee of the West India planters and merchants in this 
country, who, at the commencement of that period, had fully assented 
to their propriety, have recently withdrawn their concurrence, and have 
not scrupled to express their approbation of the conduct of the local 
legislatures in the course which they have pursued, and which has been, 
in fact, a rejection of the measures recommended by the Crown, and of 
that measure especially which proposed to facilitate the manumission 
of the slave. 

That this conduct of the West India committee may be considered as 
a plain avowal, notwithstanding their previous professed adhesion to the 
resolutions of 1823, that it is their fixed purpose and intention that 
slavery shall be perpetual ; and it is manifestly calculated to confirm 
the Colonial Assemblies in their contumacy, and to render any effective 
reform, by their means, still more hopeless than your petitioners have 
always deemed it to be. 

That under these circumstances of disappointment, and utterly de- 
spairing of any aid towards the abolition of slavery- from the colonial 
legislatures or from the holders of slaves generally, your petitioners 
feel themselves compelled again to press on the attention of your ho- 
nourable house the recognised and admitted evils of that system ; — 
its injustice, inhumanity, and impolicy; its hostility to the principles of 
the British constitution ; and its utter repugnance to the spirit and pre- 
cepts of the Christian religion ; and to declare their firm conviction that 
it is only by the direct legislation of Parliament that a remedy can be 
applied to these evils, and their unalterable determination (which they 
believe to be that also of the public at large) to leave no lawful means 
unattempted for eft^ecting, by parliamentary enactment, and at the ear- 
liest possible period, the entire abolition of slavery throughout the 
dominions of His Majesty. 

That contemplating slavery in this light, your petitioners cannot 
withhold the strong expression of their concern and regret, that a system 
so productive of misery and crime should not only be tolerated by this 
Christian nation, but should be directly upheld by its naval and military 
force at a frightful cost of European life, and should also, by means of 
the bounties and protection granted to the produce of slave labour in 
our colonies, be even favoured and encouraged, to the injury and disad- 
vantage of the produce of free labour in the other tropical possessions 
of the Crown. 

That such a policy as this, while it is most unjust towards multitudes 
of our fellow-subjects, and most injurious to the general commercial 
interests of the empire, tends directly to aggravate the sufferings and 
prolong the bondage of unoffending British subjects, and to involve this 
country in the guilt and shame of abetting and maintaining, at an 
enormous expense of blood and treasure, a system which it has recog- 
nised and denounced as inhuman, immoral, and unjust. 

That the cruel and aflflicting circumstances which have marked the 
moral and religious condition of the colonial slave have long claimed 
the commiseration of every benevolent mind, but have been forced on 
the attention of your petitioners at this time by recent occurrences, and 



Anti-Slaver 1/ Society. 271 

especially by the late intolerant acts of the legislature of Jamaica, and 
by the persecutions wliich Christian missionaries, and their negro con- 
verts have had to endure, and are still enduring in that island; and to 
these they respectfully beg to direct the consideration of your honour- 
able house. 

That it is not the purpose of your petitioners again to enter into any 
specification' of the various and unnumbered evils, whether physical or 
moral, of the present colonial system of Great Britain. They are 
already too well known to require it. But your petitioners cannot for- 
bear from bringing before the view of your honourable house, as one of 
its most opprobrious features, the circumstance that under the allegiance 
of a British Monarch, and within the legislative jurisdiction of a British 
Parliament, thousands of children are annually born to no inheritance 
but that of a hopeless and interminable bondage. 

That the experience of the last seven years has brought the nature 
and baneful effects of slavery more fully under the cognizance of Par- 
liament and the public ; and that contemplating in this view the evi- 
dence now lying on the table of your honourable house ; — the enormi- 
ties which are there officially brought to light ; the statistical informa- 
tion which has there been officially furnished ; and above all, the very 
measures of pretended and delusive reforms which have been framed, 
during that period, by the colonial legislatures, as well as those they 
have refused to adopt ; your petitioners are driven to this conclusion, 
that slavery is an evil which requires not merely to be palliated or 
amended, but which it is an imperative duty wholly to eradicate; — that 
it is no longer to be regarded as a practice capable of being rendered 
tolerable by regulation, but as a crime to be suppressed, an outrage on 
our professed principles as Christians to be renounced, and a foul stain 
on the national character to be wholly and for ever effaced. 

That your petitioners, indeed, must confess that they can discover no 
essential difference, in point of principle, between the colonial slavery 
which we are reluctantly made to uphold and even to foster and 
encourage, and the African slave trade which we have stamped with the 
merited characters of felony and piracy, and which we visit with the 
penalty justly due to those atrocious crimes, and which even the advo- 
cates of slavery now admit to be fully entitled to the reprobation which 
has been affixed to it. 

That, in this view, it is most important that your honourable house 
should be reminded, that before the slave trade had received its final 
condemnation, it was strenuously defended by the same advocates who 
now defend colonial slavery ; and your petitioners venture to assert, that, 
with slight variations, the petitions, remonstrances, and speeches in sup- 
port of the slave trade, and the whole character of the resistance made to 
the abolition of that foul and murderous traffic, were grounded on the very 
same principles, supported by the very same arguments, and conducted 
in the very same spirit, as have marked the recent efforts of the same 
parties, both at home and abroad, to impede the progress of colonial 
reform, and to frustrate the solemn resolutions of Parliament, and the 
wishes of the country at large on that subject. 

That your petitioners are further convinced, that the laudable efforts 



272 The Case of the West India Planters ; or, 

of Great Britain to induce other nations to abandon the slave trade have 
hitherto failed of their effect, and must continue to do so, so long as we 
ourselves, for our own profit, retain the unfortunate victims of our 
former crimes, and their innocent offspring, in a state of cruel, hope- 
less, and uncompensated bondage. 

That under the painful impression of these sentiments, sentiments 
which have recently obtained the unanimous approbation of a very large 
and highly respectable meeting in this city, and in which your petitioners 
confidently anticipate the universal concurrence of all classes throughout 
the United Kingdom who do not participate in the administration or in 
the gains of slavery ; your petitioners feel it to be their imperative obliga- 
tion again to approach your honourable house with their most urgent 
entreaties, that you would no longer postpone to take this momentous 
subject into your early and earnest consideration, and that in order 
effectually to relieve the country from the guilt and ignominy of such a 
system, you would proceed forthwith to devise, and adopt, and enforce 
the best and wisest means of ensuring its universal extinction through- 
out the British Empire ; and that, until this most desirable consumma- 
tion shall have been attained, immediate measures may be taken, at 
least to arrest the progress of the evil, and to prevent any farther addi- 
tion being made to the present number of enslaved British subjects, by 
fixing a day after which all children who shall be born within the do- 
minions of His Majesty, whatever be their class, condition, or com- 
plexion, shall thenceforward be absolutely and to all intents and pur- 
poses free. 



II. — The Case of the West India Planters ; or, Pauperism on 
A great Scale. 

We hear much at the present moment of the sufferings of the West 
India Planters, and an application is about to be made to Parliament 
for their relief. Before the application is granted, it seems expedient to 
consider its nature. It is in fact an attempt to bolster up, by national 
aid, a losing speculation, which cannot possibly be supported, and 
which, from its unjust and impolitic nature, has been, and must ever 
continue to be, a source of loss and disaster to the nation, and to all 
concerned in it. 

To prove this, it will only be necessary to take a brief review of the past 
history of West India plantership. Mr. Long, the historian of Jamaica, 
has fully established the fact,^ that so long ago as the year 1750, the 
Planters of that Island were labouring under severe distress. Mr, Bryan 
Edwards, the historian of the West Indies, referring to the period which 
closed in the year 1792, when his work first appeared, asserts, (in his 2nd 
vol. book vi. chap. i. 5th ed. p. 587,) that though " many have compe- 
tencies which enable them to live well with economy in this country, yet 
the great mass of Planters are men of oppressed fortunes, consigned 
by debt to unremitting drudgery in the Colonies, with a hope, which 
eternally mocks their grasp, of happier days, and a release from their 
embarrassments." 

But we have still more decisive authority than that even of Bryan; 



Pauperism on a great Scale. 273 

Edwards for the prevalence of great distress at this period, and during 
the twenty preceding years, that is to say, from 1772 to 1792. 

On the 23rd of November, 1792, a Report was prepared on the 
Sugar Trade of Jamaica, by a Committee of the Assembly, and con- 
firmed and printed by its order, which contains the following passage. 

" In the course of twenty years, 177 estates in Jamaica have been 
sold for the payment of debts; 55 estates have been thrown up; and 
92 are still in the hands of creditors ; and it appears, from a return 
made by the provost marshal, that 80,121 executions, amounting to 
£22,563,786 sterling, have been lodged in his office in the course of 
twenty years." 

A gleam of prosperity appears to have followed the revolution of St. 
Domingo ; but in a few years the sky was again overcast, and in a 
Report of the Assembly of Jamaica, of 23d Nov. 1804, and printed by 
order of the House of Commons, 25th Feb. 1805, we have the following 
statement. 

" Every British merchant holding securities on real estates, is 
fling bills in Chancery to foreclose, although when he has obtained 
his decree he hesitates to enforce if, because he must himself become 
the proprietor of the plantation, of which from fatal experience he 
knows the consequence. No one will advance money to relieve those 
whose debts approach half the value of their -property, nor even lend a 
moderate sum without a judgment in ejectment and release of errors, 
that at a moment's notice he may take out a writ of possession, and 
enter on the plantation of his unfortunate debtor. Sheriffs' officers 
and collectors of taxes are every where offering for sale the property 
of individuals who have seen better days, and now must view their 
effects purchased for half their real value, and at less than half the 
original cost. Far from having the reversion expected, the creditor is 
often not satisfied. All kind of credit is at an end. If litigation in 
the courts of common law has diminished, it is not from increased 
ability to perform contracts, but from confidence having ceased, and 
no man parting with property but for an immediate payment of the 
consideration. A faithful detail would have the appearance of a 
frightful caricature." 

In 1807, the consideration of the commercial state of the West Indies 
was referred to a Committee of the House of Commons. The Report 
of that Committee was printed, by an order of the House of the 24th 
July, 1807, and is numbered 65 ; and it may be referred to with great- 
advantage, as exhibiting the generally ruinous nature of sugar-planting 
speculations in our slave colonies, and the desperate and costly expe- 
dients which the planters are in the habit of demanding for their relief. 
At that time, as now, the West Indies were exhibited as liable, without 
speedy aid, to inevitable ruin, and to the total loss of their vast capital. 

In the following year the same "subject was pressed again on the 
attention of Parliament, and a voluminous Report was printed, 
by an order of the House of Commons of the 13th April, 1808, No. 
178, in which it is recommended that sugar should be substituted for 
grain in our distilleries. To this Report a detailed statement is 
appended from the Assembly of Jamaica, dated 13th Nov. 1807, in 



274 IVie Case of the West India Planters ; ur, 

which they state, that, within the last five or six years, Q5 estates had 
been abandoned, 32 sold under decrees of Chancery, 115 more respect- 
ing which suits in Chancery were depending, and many more for which 
bills were preparing: — " from these facts," they say, " the House will 
be able to judge to what an alarming extent the distresses of the Sugar 
Planters have already reached, and with what accelerated rapidity 
they are now increasing ; for the sugar estates lately brought to sale, 
and now in the Court of Chancery in this Island and in England, 
amount to about one-fourth of the whole number of the Colony. 

" Your Committee have to lament that ruin has already taken place, 
and they must, under a continuance of the present circumstances, anti- 
cipate very shortly the bankruptcy of a much larger part of the com- 
munity, and, in the course of a few years, of the whole class of Sugar 
Planters, excepting perhaps a very few in peculiar circumstances." 

And the remedy which the Jamaica Assembly modestly recommended, 
was to adopt means to raise the price of their sugars in England to from 
60s, to 70s. a cwt. exclusive of duty, as alone adequate to afford a living 
profit to the planter; and to this end they further recommend the sub- 
stitution of their sugar for British grain in the distilleries. 

On the 15th of June, 1812, by an order of the House of Commons, 
a " representation of the Assembly of Jamaica to the King " was laid on 
the table and printed. It is numbered 279. In this representation simi' 
lar complaints to those already specified were renewed. They there speak 
of their ruin as complete, — " For two years has this mo^t calamitous 
state been endured ; the crops of 1809 and 1810 are in a state worse 
than useless ; — a third draws towards its close with no appearance of 
amendment or alteration. The crop is gathering in" (they are speaking 
here of coffee), " but its exuberance excites no sensation of pleasure." If 
the slaves of the coffee plantations are offered for sale, who, they ask 
" can buy them ? — The proprietors of the old sugar estates are them- 
selves sinking under accumulated burdens.'^ " If ever there was a 
case demanding the active and immediate interference of a paternal 
government, to relieve the burdens and alleviate the calamities of a 
most valuable and useful class of subjects," " it is that of the Coffee 
Planters of Jamaica." 

The remedy the Assembly proposed was a high protecting duty, or 
even a prohibition of other coffee. — But they proceed — 

" The distresses of our constituents are not confined to the Coffee 
Planters. The growers of cotton, pimento, and the minor staples, are 
also suffering severely from their depreciation. The Sugar Planters, 
however, call more especially for protection and interposition." " The 
ruin of the original possessors has been gradually completed. Estate 
after estate has passed into the hands of mortgagees and creditors 
absent from the island, until there are large districts, whole parishes, 
in which there is not a single proprietor of a sugar plantation resident." 
" The distress," they add, " cannot be well aggravated," and the most 
moderate recompence which can save the sugar grower from ruin, is said 
to be 50s. a cwt. exclusive of duty ; for " it is not to be concealed, and 
cannot be denied, that a crisis has at last arrived, when nothing but the 
ijnmediate and powerful interposition of the supreme authority of the 



Pauperism on a great Scale. • 275 

empire can prevent our utter destruction. Exactions, debasement, and 
privations have been long and patiently endured by the proprietors. A 
large proportion of them now see approaching the lowest state of" human 
misery, absolute want to their families, and the horrors of a gaol for 
themselves ! " 

The general effect of these statements, strong as they are, seems to 
have been borne out, in some measure, by a speech of Mr. Marryat, in 
the House of Commons in 1813, in a debate on the East India sugar 
duties. He is stated to have then affirmed, " That there were compa- 
ratively few estates in the West Indies, that had not, during the last 
twenty years, been sold or given up to creditors." 

And now, after a lapse of nearly twenty years more, during which 
the West Indies have been drawing immense sums from the pockets of 
the public for bounties and protections, and have had freedom too given 
to their commerce, what is the language they are this very moment ad- 
dressing to Parliament and the nation ? It is this, — " The alarming 
and unprecedented state of distress in which the whole British West 
India interest is at this time involved," the petitioners say, justifies them 
in imploring Parliament "' to adopt prompt and effectual measures of 
relief, in order to preserve them from iyievit able ruin." And not satisfied 
with the protection they already enjoy, and a bounty of about 5s. 3d. a 
cwt. they again revert to the necessity of securing a remunerating price 
for sugar of 70s. to 80s. a cwt, (see the Bristol petition); and they call 
also for additional protection for their rum. 

What a picture have we here of frightful pauperism ! A body of not 
quite 2,000 sugar planters have already obtained of the country by 
bounties alone upwards of a million of money annually in the enhanced 
value of their sugars, being an average of near 600/. a year to each 
of them. And not content with this payment, exacted by their cla- 
morous importunity, they now come to us for more. — We term it a 
system of pauperism, and with reason, for it has all the worst charac- 
teristics of a compulsory poor's rate. It therefore may be expected 
to produce all the injurious effects on the recipients which, when we 
look around us, we see to flow from ill administered parochial relief in 
this country. It is, in short, a system of pauperism on a large scale, 
attended with all the evils of pauperism. Those evils have been stated by 
a Committee of the House of Commons to be, in the case of the paupers, 
a want of exertion and self-dependence, recklessness of the future, 
improvidence, waste, profligacy, &c. &c. : and, as it respects the public, 
unceasing and insatiable demands for farther aid ; instead of looking 
for help to their own industry and economy, and to a reformation in 
their plans of life, they throw themselves on the eleemosynary bounty 
of the public. — Those who read above what has been the state of West 
Indian interests, during the last fifty or sixty years, notwithstanding 
all the impolitic and costly boons accorded to them, will easily see how 
aptly, and in how many points the parallel applies. And perhaps, of all 
the misfortunes which have attended West India speculators, none 
have been more fatal to their prosperity, and more pregnant with evil, 
even in a pecuniary point of view, than the success which has attended 
their clamorous importunity for public aid. They have overlooked, like 



276 The Case of the West India Planters; or, 

the sturdy beggar,* the means of relief within their own power, in order 
to draw an easy, though unsatisfactory and precarious provision, from 
the weakness and creduHty of others. 

But for this, would it have been possible that the West Indies should 
have continued in that low and wretched state of improvement which 
they now exhibit; — that the miserable hoe, raised by the feeble hands 
of men and women, driven forward by the cart- whip, should still be their 
only instrument in turning up the soil, to the neglect of cattle and ma- 
chinery ; — that all modern improvements in husbandry should be almost 
unknown ; — that one unvarying course of exhausting crops should be 
pursued without change or relief; — and that in a climate congenial to 
them the population should continue progressively and rapidly to de- 
crease ? These and many other points that might be mentioned are 
fatal anomalies, which can only be accounted for by the withering in- 
fluence of Slavery, and of the factitious aid by which it is upheld in all 
its unmitigated malignity. How different would have been the state of 
things in our Colonies, had a different course been pursued ! How dif- 
ferent would soon be their state, and this is now a far more important 
consideration, if they were driven to depend on their own resources, 
and if they were released from the injurious effects of that pampering 
and protecting system which has hitherto kept them from all effective 
efforts of improvement ! 

If there be truth in history, or any certainty in political science, the 
downfall of the present system, and of the restrictive laws which main- 
tain it, would prove beneficial to none more than to the Colonists them- 
selves; — but upon that point we cannot now enter, and will only add, that 
it is vain to expect, that, while the West Indies maintain their monopoly, 
and are thus protected against the competition of free labour, a single 
effectual step will be taken in the career of reformation. 

But it is not the distress of the West India planters, as arising from 
the impolitic system we have been pursuing, which is chiefly to be de- 
plored, but the aggravated sufferings which it entails on the slave popu- 
lation. For it admits of demonstration that, independently of the other 
unnumbered evils of slavery, sugar planting, as conducted in the West 
Indies, is decidedly unfriendly to human life ; and that its destructive 
influence is aggravated by the very circumstances which swell the gains 
of the planter, namely, the fertility of the soil, and the protection 

* The resemblance, though sufficiently apposite in some points of view, fails 
in others. The mendicancy of the West Indians aims at more costly objects, 
and their ambition takes a higher flight than that of the inmates of Rent Street 
and St. Giles's. These are content with the means of occasional carousals, 
while the West Indians have their more costly banquets at the Albion. — But 
the latter aspire to still more expensive indulgencies. Their gay mansions and 
splendid equipages, their rich viands and their costly wines, by which many a 
favourable vote is gained to their interests, must be maintained. They must be 
enabled also to purchase seats in parliament for themselves, and thus to control 
the Government in the distribution of its favours, and the course of its policy. 
And to all these objects it is their design, at the present moment, to make the 
country, if they can, contribute still more largely. But this design, it is to be 
hoped that the good sense, not to say the moral feeling of the country, will 
rompletely frustrate. 



Pauperism on a great Scale. 277 

afforded to his produce by bounties and protections. It is not merely 
that these advantages enable him to live at a distance from his slaves, 
who are thus left to the care of mere hirelings ; but that they form a 
strong temptation to an increased exaction of slave labour. Accord- 
ingly we find, that where the lands are most productive, yielding the 
largest return for the labour of each slave, and a proportionately larger 
share of whatever gain arises from protection and bounty, the ratio of 
mortality is the highest. We do not mean to say that the advantages 
of the planter, and the mortality of the slave, bear such a uniform 
relation to each other, as may be made the subject of a very exact cal- 
culation. The general tendency of things, however, is not the less 
apparent. And this view of the subject supplies a satisfactory answer 
to the argument, on which too many repose as a justification of their 
supineness in this cause, namely, that it is so obviously the interest of 
the master to treat his slaves well, that no foreign interference is re- 
quired to that end ; for it shews that various adventitious circum- 
stances may concur, as unhappily they do concur in the case of our 
sugar colonies, to bring the profit of the master and the well-being of 
the slave into direct and immediate competition. 

And it further appears, that while the mortality of the slaves seems 
to keep pace with the productiveness of the soil and the consequent 
high profits of the master, the distress of the planter seems also to run 
parallel with those apparently favourable circumstances in his lot. The 
proportion of slaves, sold in execution, is greatest in those colonies 
where the quantity of produce they rear by the acre is proportionably 
the largest. The number of slaves sold in execution in Demerara and 
Trinidad, for example, where the soil is the richest and the planter's 
gains the greatest, is more than double, when compared with its popu- 
lation, what it is in the less fertile colonies. This may only prove, per- 
haps, that the more fortunate adventurers in the West Indian lottery, 
are incited, like all other gamblers, by their very success, to indulge in 
habits of greater profusion, and to become more careless and improvi- 
dent in the management of their affairs. But even if this should be the 
real solution of the phenomenon, does it not still shew that the natural 
course of the moral government of the world is framed with a singular 
aptitude to disappoint the designs of those, whose object it is to enrich 
themselves by the rigorous exaction of the uncompensated labour of 
their fellow-creatures ? 



HI. The West India Reporter's View of the Expenditure 
OF Sierra Leone. 

In our 59th Number we adverted to an Article in No. XXVIII, of the West 
India Reporter, on Sierra Leone, in which the cost of that establishment was 
given. The cost of Sierra Leone, says the Editor, had been from 1807 to 1824, 
inclusive, as follows : — 

Payments to the Company previous to the transfer of the settle- 
ment . . . . . . . ■ £117,700 



Army . 
Navy . 
Ordnance 
Civil Establishment 

2 T 



781,781 

70,702 

188,176 

218,119 



278 



The West India Reporter's View of the 



Public Buildings . 
Captured liberated Africans 
Other charges not included 



Same expense in 1825 
Ditto . . . 1826 

C 1827 
Averaged . . I 1828 

(.1829 



289,121 
333,028 
240,124 

£2,238,351 
179,813 
162,367 
150,000 
150,000 
150,000 



£3,060,531 

This amount we are told was " taken from an unpublished official account, 
made up to the end of the year 1826." 

We ventured to question the accuracy of this statement, and called for this 
alleged unpublished official document. 

In a succeeding West India Reporter, No. XXX. vehement indignation is 
expressed at our incredulity, and reference is made with an air of triumph to a 
paper which, it is said, was laid before the Finance Committee of 1827, and 
bears the number 176 ; and then follows the usual portion of invective for 
having dared to express any doubt of its accuracy. Still, as the editors pru- 
dently abstained from producing the document itself, which by a bare in- 
spection, might have settled the question, and they chose rather to show their 
skill in vituperatives ; our doubt was not removed. It is now, however, com- 
pletely obviated, for we have been able to obtain a copy of the document which 
the West India Reporter affected to quote, and we now lay it before our 
readers. 

The paper bears this general title, " An account shewing the amount 
expended by Great Britain in consequence of the measures for the abolition of 
the slave trade to the latest period for which the account can be made up ; also 
shewing the expenditure in each of the years 1825 and 1826, being the two last 
years for which the accounts are completed. 

It then proceeds thus. 



Heads of Expenditure. 


Total Amount. 


Amount expended in the years 


Expense of the Colony of Sierra Le- 
one, and other Settlements on the West 
Coast of Africa, viz, 

1. Payment to the Sierra Leone Com- 

pany on, and previous to the 
transfer of the Settlement to Go- 
vernment 

2. Expended on account of the Army 

3 Navy 

4 Ordnance 

5 Civil Establishment . . 

6. .... Public Buildings . . . 
7 Captured and liberated 

Africans 

8 Other charges not included 

in the above items . . 

Total Expense of Sierra Leone, &c. 


£. 

117,000 

781,781 
70,702 
188,176 
218,419 
289,121 

333,028 

240,124 


1825. 

£. 

110,407 

12,312 

6,444 

17,216 

10,027 

18,572 

4,835 


1826. 
£. 

- 
79,870 

6,499 
30,896 
13,688 

6,766 

18,013 
6,635 


£2,238,351 


179,813 


162,367 



The first mistatement on the part of the West India Reporter which we shall 
notice, is his asserting, that the sum of £2,238,351 exhibits the expenditure 
only to the end of 1824 ; whereas, it is the amount " to the latest period for 



Expenditure of Sierra Leone. ' 279 

which the account can be made up," and this was not 1824, but 1826. It is 
true that the expenditure in the years 1825 and 1826 is separately particularized 
^but it is obviously included in the total sums given in the first column. The 
paper specifies, indeed, the particulars of the expense of each of the two years 
1825 and 1826, but then it had previously given the whole expense (in- 
cluding these two years) to the latest period to which the account can be made up ; 
and which was not the end of 1824, but the end of 1826. Here, then, we have 
at once a deduction of £342,180 to be made from the amount as stated by the 
West India Reporter. 

But a still more remarkable circumstance consists in the suppression of that 
part of the title of the account which expressly includes the expense, not only 
" of the colony of Sierra Leone," but of " other settlements on the West coast 
of Africa." Now the other settlements on the coast are those in the Gambia, 
on the Gold Coast, and at Fernandipo. What part of the military, naval and 
ordnance expenses ; and of the cost of public buildings and fortifications, and 
of the other charges not included in these items, is applicable to these settle- 
ments we are not told, and it were vain to conjecture ; but certainly a very large 
part of this largest item, (viz. £781,781 for the army) must have arisen from the 
war on the Gold Coast with which Sierra Leone had nothing whatever to do. 
The West India Reporter, however, places the whole to the debit of Sierra 
Leone. 

But besides this, a great part of the heavy item of military expense, he must, 
or might have known, was actually incurred, not for Sierra Leone, or for any 
part of Africa, but for the West Indies. The recruiting depot, for example, 
had been maintained at Sierra Leone for many years, chiefly for the purpose of 
supplying the black regiments in the West Indies with recruits. And a further 
very heavy portion of the military expenditure was caused by the disbanding, 
and pensioning, and locating at Sierra Leone of those very black regiments 
which were raised at great cost for the service of the West Indies, but which the 
West Indians, urged by their fears, insisted on being removed from among them, 
white troops being substituted at the usual waste of blood and treasure to this 
country. 

Again, the West India Reporter, in order to swell the annual average, confines 
the expenditure at Sierra Leone to the years from 1807 to 1824, whereas it ex- 
tends from 1800 to 1826. The very first item in the account, and that a heavy 
one, (£117,000) is expressly said in "the unpublished official document" to be 
on, and previous to, the transfer of the colony to Government. Now that transfer 
took place on the 31st of December, 1807. But almost, the whole of this item 
of expense had been incurred in preceding years, namely, between the years 
1800 and 1807, the sums expended prior to 1807, being equal to about nine 
tenths of the whole amount. 

But besides the large deductions which are to be made from the total amount 
on the grounds we have now stated, there is one important item of £333,028 for 
captured and liberated Africans which there is no more reason for placing to the 
account of Sierra Leone as a colonial charge, than there would be for placing to 
the same account the expense of the Mission of Captain Sabine some years ago to 
that colony for the purpose of making certain astronomical observations, merely 
because he had fixed his instruments there. The expense of the liberated Afri- 
cans is, to all intents and purposes, as much a national expense as that which 
attends the improvement of the nautical almanack, or the removal of convicts 
to New South Whales. Their transport and subsequent subsistence constitute 
no fair charge against New South Wales, merely because that place was chosen 
as the field for a great national experiment. The expense is wholly national. 

One of the greatest mistatements, however, of the West India Reporter, con- 
sists in his average calculation of the expense of the colony during the years 
1827, 1828, and 1829, and which he estimates (moderately he tells us) at 
£150,000 per annum. 

By way of bringing the fidelity of this estimate to the test of documentary 
evidence, we will select the middle year of this series, 1828, the expense of 
which does not differ materially from that of the other two. Now, on examining 
the published official documents before Parliament on this subject, we find the 
expenditure of 1828 to be as follows :— 



280 The West India Reporter'' s View, Sfc. 

In a parliamentary paper printed in 1830, (No 130) we find at p. 57 that, ex- 
cluding £5,000 remitted from Sierra Leone to the Gambia and Fernandipo, the 
whole of the military expenditure of that year, at Sierra Leone, amounted 
to ...... £47,577 14 5 

From which is to be deducted for pensions to black 

soldiers of disbanded West India regiments £9308 4 
For advances on account of liberated Africans, ac- 
counted for below . . , 8631 2 6 



_ 17939 6 6 

Leaving a sum of . . . £29638 7 11 

This sum consists of allowances and subsistence to 
officers and men, and various contingencies paid 
at Sierra Leone . . . 6796 11 6 

And pay of troops, staff appointments, commissaries, 
ordinance, naval and victualling expenses paid in 
England .... 22841 16 5 

29638 7 11 

The civil establishment for that year is stated in the 
finance accounts (printed March 24, 1829, No. 161) 
to amount to . . . . 11624 11 8 



Making together . £41,262 19 7 

This sum is all which can, with propriety, be charged to the colony, and 
more indeed than ought to be charged to it. But even if we add to this sum 
the expense of the liberated captives as stated in the same finance accounts, it 
will only make an amount of £53,144 14s. 8d. The particulars of the expense 
of the liberated captives are as follows : — 

Paid by Colonel Denham from Jan. 1, to June 8, 1828 . £4952 15 4 

— by CoL Lumley from June9, to July 31 . . . 2408 7 10 

— by Mr. Smart from Aug. 1, to Nov. 10 . . . 3199 12 9 

— by Major Ricketts from Nov. 10, to Dec. 31 . . 1320 19 2 

Making for the year 1828, (including the sum of £8631 2s. 6d. 
deducted above as advanced by the commissaries on this 
account) 11881 15 1 

To which, if we add the total of military and civil expense, 

as above .......... £41262 19 7 



i We shall have a grand total of £53,144 14 8 



The only other sum we can discover to have been paid by the public is a sum of 
£6 7s. 6d. for public buildings, any further expense attending them, as well as 
the contingencies, being probably paid from the colonial revenues. Here then 
we have little more than a third of the West India Reporter's estimate ; and 
even of this amount a very considerable part is manifestly and strictly national 
and not colonial. 

Still we admit the sum to be too large, much larger than would be requisite if 
Government abstained from the improvident sacrifice of blood and treasure 
which is occasioned by the unnecessary employment of European troops ; and 
if they also selected the chief part of their civil functionaries from the educated 
coloured and black classes. 

There appears to us to be no excuse for employing European troops in such 
noxious climates as Africa and the West Indies, while native troops are to be 
had. We trust the West India mortality will still be fully disclosed to public 
view, as that of Africa has been. Sir William Young in his Common-Place 
Book (p. 217 to 245) gives us a glimpse of it. One table (p. 218) exhibits a 
mortality in our army there from deaths alone, independently of war, of 590 
officers, and 17,173 men, between April 1796 and Feb. 1802 ; the whole force 
at the former period being 19,676, and at the latter 10,198. 

As for the expense attending the liberated Africans, we believe that it coul«3 
nowhere be so cheaply conducted as at Sierra Leone. 



Slavery in the Brazils — Enslaved Negroes. 281 

IV. Dr, Walsh's view of Slavery in the Brazils. 

A Work, entitled Notes on the Brazils, by the Rev. Dr. Walsh, has 
just been published, containing a variety of most interesting matter on 
the subject of slavery. It shows the identity of that monstrous system 
wherever it is allowed to exist; whether in the Brazils, the West 
Indies, the United States, or the Mauritius. 

1 . The Negro race enslaved and free. 

" Here is the alfandega, or custom-house : there for the first time, I saw the 
negro population under circumstances so striking to a stranger, 

" The whole labour of bearing and moving burdens is performed by these 
people, and the state in which they appear is revolting to humanity. Here was 
a number of beings entirely naked, with the exception of a covering of dirty 
rags tied about their waists. Their skins, from constant exposure to the wea- 
ther, had become hard, crusty, and seamed, resembling the coarse black covering 
of some beast, or like that of an elephant, a wrinkled hide scattered with scanty 
hairs. On contemplating their persons, you saw them with a physical organiza- 
tion resembling beings of a grade below the rank of man ; long projecting heels, 
the gastronimic muscle wanting, and no calves to their legs ; their mouths and 
chins protruded, their noses flat, their foreheads retiring, having exactly the 
head and legs of the baboon tribe. Some of these beings were yoked to drays, 
on which they dragged heavy burdens. Some were chained by the necks and 
legs, and moved with loads thus encumbered. Some followed each other in 
ranks, with heavy weights on their heads, chattering the most inarticulate and 
dismal cadence as they moved along. Some were munching young sugar canes, 
like beasts of burden eating green provender, and some were seen near the water, 
lying on the bare ground among filth and offal, coiled up like dogs, and seeming to 
expect or require no more comfort or accommodation, exhibiting a state and con- 
formation so inhuman, that they not only seemed, but actually were, far below 
the inferior animals around them. Horses and mules were not employed in this 
way ; they were used only for pleasure, and not for labour. They were seen in 
the same streets, pampered, spirited, and richly caparisoned, enjoying a state far 
superior to the negroes, and appearing to look down on the fettered and burdened 
wretches they were passing, as on beings of an inferior rank in the creation to 
themselves. Some of the negroes actually seemed to envy the caparisons of their 
fellow brutes, and eyed with jealousy their glittering harness. In imitation of 
this finery they were fond of thrums of many-coloured threads ; and I saw one 
creature, who supported the squalid rag that wrapped his waist by a suspender 
of gaudy worsted, which he turned every moment to look at, on his naked 
shoulder. The greater number, however, were as unconscious of any covering 
for use or ornament, as a pig or an ass. 

" The first impression of all this on my mind, was to shake the conviction I 
had always felt, of the wrong and hardship inflicted on our black fellow crea- 
tures, and that they were only in that state which God and nature had assigned 
them; that they were the lowest grade of human existence, and the link that 
connected it with the brute ; and that the gradation was so insensible, and their 
natures so intermingled, that it was impossible to tell where one had terminated 
and the other commenced ; and that it was not surprising that people who con- 
templated them every day, so formed, so employed, and so degraded, should 
forget their claims to that rank in the scale of beings in which modern philan- 
thropists are so anxious to place them. I did not, at the moment, myself recol- 
lect, that the white man, made a slave on the coast of Africa, suffers not only a 
similar mental but physical deterioration from hardships and emaciation, and 
becomes in time the dull and deformed beast I now saw yoked to a burden. 

" A few hours only were necessary to correct my first impressions of the negro 
population, by seeing them under a different aspect. We were attracted by the 
sound of military music, and found it proceeded from a regiment drawn up in 
one of the streets. Their colonel had just died, and they attended to form a 
procession to celebrate his obsequies. They were all of different shades of 
I 



282 Slavery in the Brazils — Free Negroes. 

black, but the majority were negroes. Their equipment was excellent; they 
wore dark jackets, white pantaloons, and black leather caps and belts, all 
which, with their arms, were in high order. Their band produced sweet and 
agreeable music, of the leader's own composition, and the men went through 
some evolutions with regularity and dexterity. They were only a militia regi- 
ment, yet were as well appointed and disciplined as one of our regiments of the 
line. Here then was the first step in that gradation by which the black popu- 
lation of this country ascend in the scale of humanity ; the negro advances from 
the state below that of a beast of burden into a military rank, and he shows 
himself as capable of discipline and improvement as a human being of any other 
colour. 

" Our attention was next attracted by negro men and women bearing about a 
variety of articles for sale ; some in baskets, some on boards and cases carried 
on their heads. They belonged to a class of small shopkeepers, many of whom 
vend their wares at home, but the greater number send them about in this way, 
as in itinerant shops. A few of these people were still in a state of bondage, 
and brought a certain sum every evening to their owners, as the produce of 
their daily labour. But a large proportion, I was informed, were free, and 
exercised this little calling on their own account. They were all very neat and 
clean in their persons, and had a decorum and sense of respectability about 
them superior to whites of the same class and calling. All their articles were 
good in their kind, and neatly kept, and they sold them with simplicity and 
confidence, neither wishing to take advantage of others, nor suspecting that it 
would be taken of themselves. I bought some confectionary from one of the 
females, and I was struck with the modesty and propriety of her manner ; she 
was a young mother, and had with her a neatly dressed child, of which she 
seemed very fond. I gave it a little comfit, and it turned up its dusky counte- 
nance to her and then to me, taking my sweatmeat, and at the same time kissing 
my hand. As yet unacquainted with the coin of the country, I had none that 
was current about me, and was leaving the articles ; but the poor young woman 
pressed them on me with a ready confidence, repeating in broken Portuguese, 
outo tempo. I am sorry to say, the ' other time' never came, for I could not 
recognise her person afterwards to discharge her little debt, though I went to 
the same place for the purpose. 

" It soon began to grow dark, and I was attracted by a number of persons 
bearing large lighted wax tapers, like torches, gathering before a house. As 
I passed by, one was put into my hand by a man who seemed in some autho- 
rity, and I was requested to fall into a procession that was forming. It was the 
preparation for a funeral, and on such occasions, I learned that they always 
request the attendance of a passing stranger, and feel hurt, if they are refused. 
I joined the party, and proceeded with them to a neighbouring church. When 
we entered, we ranged ourselves on each side of a platform, which stood near 
the choir, on which was laid an open coftiu covered with pink silk and gold 
borders. The funeral service was chanted by a choir of priests, one of whom 
was a negro, a large comely man, whose jet black visage formed a strong and 
striking contrast to his white vestments. He seemed to perform bis part with a 
decorum and sense of solemnity, which I did not observe in his brethren. After 
scattering flowers on the coffin, and fumigating it with incense, they retired, the 
procession dispersed, and we returned on board. 

" I had been but a few hours on shore, for the first time, and I saw an African 
negro under four aspects of society ; and it appeared to me, that in every one, 
his character depended on the state in which he was placed, and the estimation 
in which he was held. As a despised slave, he was far lower than other ani- 
mals of burden that surrounded him ; more miserable in his look, more revolt- 
ing in his nakedness, more distorted in his person, and apparently more defi- 
cient in intellect than the horses and mules that passed him by. Advanced to 
the grade of a soldier, he was clean and neat in his person, amenable to disci- 
pline, expert at his exercises, and shewed the port and bearing of a white man 
similarly placed. As a citizen, he was remarkable for the respectability of his 
appearance, and the decorum of his manners in the rank assigned him; and, as 
a priest, standing in the house of God, appointed to instruct society on their 
most important interests, and in a grade in which moral and intellectual fitness 



Slavery in the Brazils — Cruelty—Slave Market. 283 

is required, and a certain degree of superiority is expected, he seemed even 
more devout in his impressions, and more correct in his manners, than his white 
associates. I came, therefore, to the irresistible conclusion in my mind, that 
colour was an accident affecting the surface of a man, and having no more to do 
with his qualities than his clothes — that God had equally created an African in 
the image of his person, and equally given him an immortal soul ; and that a 
European had no pretext but his own cupidity, for impiously thrusting his fel- 
low-man from that rank in the creation which the Almighty has assigned him, 
and degrading him below the lot of the brute beasts that perish." (Vol. I. 
p. 134—141.) 



2. Instance of savage Cruelty. 

" This was a large dreary place, like a stable, kept by a woman, who lived 
there with five or six negroes. She was young and rather comely ; but when I 
entered, evidently intoxicated. She had been, I learned, a person of indifferent 
character, at Rio ; and had two illegitimate children. She rented this rancho, 
and took one of her negroes to her paramour and partner. Of all the women 
on record who have been no ornament to their sex, this, I believe, was one of 
the worst. After having emptied a bottle of caxas, to which, as I passed by 
her venda, I saw her head constantly applied, she issued forth with her face 
flushed, and a lash in her hand ; the very personification of Tisiphon§. One 
of her slaves was a poor boy of twelve years old, and on this child she vented 
all her malignant passions. Every time she met him, she attacked him with her 
lash, cutting him across the face and body, till she left him bleeding and moan- 
ing ; and this for no reason, but in the very wantonness of cruelty. Her house 
was like herself — most abominable. I could get no place to rest in, but a kind 
of stable among the negroes ; and here, in the midst of filth, my supper was 
served up. It consisted of rancid pork sausages and feijao. When the boy, 
whom she had so cruelly treated, was laying it on the table, he trembled so, 
that he spilled a small portion of the sauce. She seized him by the throat, 
dashed him down, and trampled on him. I now interfered for the poor child, 
and took him up to protect him. There lay on the board a pointed faca, one of 
the deadly weapons used for stabbing. She caught it up, and striking the end 
of it on the table, rushed forward with an intent to wound either me or the 
child, when I wrenched it from her^hand. Knowing quid furens fcemina posset, 
and that she had several sturdy negroes at her command, I thought it right to be 
on my guard, and kept the little fellow by me on a mat ; he moaned most pite- 
ously all night, crying out for mercy every moment in his sleep. 

" I was glad to leave this fury at the dawn of day, but sorry to leave the poor 
child behind me, who, I have no doubt, will fall a victim to her intoxicated rage. 
If there was no other argument against a state of slavery, the incentive it ap- 
plies to the indulgence of our evil passions, would be sufficient to condemn it. 
If this wretched woman had not this poor victim to exercise her bad temper on 
with impunity on all occasions, she would learn to keep it under some control." 
(Vol. II. p. 274—276.) 



3. Slave Market. 

" A scene now presented itself highly repugnant to European feelings, par- 
ticularly those who witness it for the first time. We had overtaken on the road 
several troops of slaves, bought at Rio, and driven like sheep into the country 
to be sold at the different villages. A market was here opened, just before the 
inn-door, and about thirty men, women, and children, were brought there. The 
driver was the very model of what I had conceived such a fellow to be. He 
was a tall, cadaverous, tawny man, with a shock of black hair hanging about 
his sharp, but determined-looking visage. He was dressed in a blue jacket and 
pantaloons, with buff boots hanging loose about his legs, ornamented with large 
silver spurs. On his head he wore a capacious straw hat, bound with a broad 
ribbon, and in his hand was a long whip, with two thongs; he shook this over 



284 Slavery in the Brazils — Indians. 

his drove, and they all arranged themselves for examination, some of them, 
particulai'ly the children, trembling like aspen leaves. He then v^ent round the 
village, for purchasers, and when they arrived, the market was opened. The 
slaves, both men and women, were walked about, and put into different paces, 
then handled and felt exactly as I have seen butchers feel a calf. He occasion- 
ally lashed them, and made them jump to shew that their limbs were supple, 
and caused them to shriek and cry, that the purchasers might perceive their 
lungs were sound. 

" Among the company at the market, was a Brazilian lady, who exhibited a 
regular model of her class in the country. She had on a round felt hat, like an 
Englishman's, and under it a turban, which covered her head as a nightcap. 
Though it was a burning day, she was wrapped up in a large scarlet woollen 
cloak, which, however, she drew up so high as to shew us her embroidered 
shoes and silk stockings ; she was attended by a black slave, who held an um- 
brella over her head, and she walked for a considerable time deliberately 
through the slaves, looking as if she was proudly contrasting her own import- 
ance with their misery. 

" On turning away from a spectacle, where every thing, though so novel, 
was so revolting, we were accosted by a man with a gaudy flowered silk waist- 
coat, who spoke a little English, and said he was a German doctor, settled in 
the Ald^a. He informed us, that the people in the neighbouring valley treated 
the slaves with the greatest inhumanity. They allowed them but a scanty por- 
tion of farinha or feijao, and never any animal food ; yet on this they com- 
pelled them to work fourteen hours a day, exposing them to the alternations of 
heat, cold, and wet, without the smallest regard to health, comfort, or life. 
The consequence was that the deaths exceeded the births in such a proportion, 
that if it was not for the constant supply sent down in this way, the negroes of 
the district would soon become an extinct race. He himself possessed two 
slaves, which he kept alive and healthy by a different treatment, which he re- 
commended in vain to his neighbours to adopt, even for their own sakes, if not 
for that of humanity." (Vol. II. p. 51—53.) 



4. Cruel and unjust treatment of the aboriginal Indians. 

" A decree for the purpose was issued so late as the year 1808, by Dom John, 
and it was one of the measures which he thought best calculated to reclaim the 
aborigines, who had just before committed some ravages. He directed that the 
Indians who were conquered, should be distributed among the fazendeiros and 
agriculturists, who should support, clothe, and civilize, and instruct them in the 
principles of our holy religion, but should be allowed to use the services of the 
same Indians for a certain number of years, in compensation for the expense of 
their instruction and management. This unfortunate permission at once de- 
stroyed all intercourse between the natives and the Brazilians. The Indians 
were everywhere hunted down for the sake of their salvation ; wars were excited 
among the tribes, for the laudable purpose of bringing in each other captives, 
to be converted to Christianity ; the most sacred objects were prostituted to the 
base cupidity of man, by even this humane and limited permission, of reducing 
his fellow-creatures to slavery. In the distant provinces, particularly on the 
banks of the Maranhao, it is still practised, and white men set out for the woods 
to seek their fortunes ; that is, to hunt Indians, and return with slaves. The 
consequence was, that all who could escape, retired to the remotest forests ; and 
there is not one to be now found in a state of nature, in all this wooded region." 
(Vol. II. p.,70, 71.) 



This, and all other publications of the Society, may be had at their office 
18, Aldermanbury ; or at Messrs. Hatchards, 187, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornhill. 
They may also be procured, through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti- 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 



London: Bagster and Thorns, Printers, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY 

MONTHLY REPORTER. 

No. 62.] ~ For JULY, 1830. [No. 14. Vol. iii. 

I. ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER'S PICTURE OF SLAVERY IN THE 
MAURITIUS, VINDICATED. 
II. JAMAICA WATCHMAN. 
III. SOUTHAMPTON ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 



I. Picture of Mauritius Slavery Vindicated. 

Some friends of Mr. Telfair, of the Mauritius, have widely circu- 
lated an extract from a statement of his, printed at Port l.ouis, pur- 
porting to be a refutation of the charges of the Anti- Slavery Reporter, 
No. 44, against that colony, and the whole of which statement they 
announce as about to be repubhshed in this country. The only pas- 
sage in the Reporter which they have now put forward as calumnious, 
is the following : 

" The whole community have of late had their feelings violently and 
universally excited by a series of acts of cold, calculating, deliberate, 
bloody-minded ferocity, which have been judicially brought to light at 
Edinburgh ; and no man, who has a single spark of humanity in his 
frame, can view them in all their dimensions of iniquity without a thrill 
of horror. But if, even to these appalling discoveries, we were to add 
the deeds of Corder and Thurtell, and of the murderers of Marr and 
Williamson, combining with them all the murders which, during the last 
twenty years, have called down the vengeance of British law on their 
perpetrators ; we doubt whether this collective mass of crime would be 
found greater than the regular, business-like, daily march, for a like 
period, of that system, which on many estates as well-ordered as Bel 
Ombre, steadily proceeds, for ends equally sordid, in so torturing and 
murdering, inch by inch, the cultivators of their soil, as that one in ten 
shall be regularly slaughtered, every year, to glut the cupidity of their 
savage owners. Wherein do the unflinching and resolute administrators 
of such a system morally differ from the smooth-tongued and remorse- 
less villain who, in Edinburgh, is now about to suffer the penalty of the 
law ? They difier only as it appears to us in the deeper malignity, and 
more heartless barbarity of their conduct. And yet under all the cir- 
cumstances of the case, are not their crimes ours ? Are we not par- 
takers in their guilt? " P. 377. 

The circumstances which chiefly gave occasion to these severe re- 
marks, were thus stated in the preceding pages of the same Reporter : 

" By a report from Sir Robert Barclay, the collector of the internal 
taxes, dated November 29, 1823, it appears that the slave population 
of the district of Port Louis amounted, in 1822, to 7456 males and 
3669 females, in all 11,125. By a return of the interments of slaves 
occurring in this same district, during the years 1815 to 1820 inclusive, 
the number of deaths amounted to 6565, being nearly at the rate of one 
death yearly in every ten or eleven persons, or about ten per cent, of 

2' u 



286 Slavery in the Mauritius. 

deaths per annum ; the ordhiary mortahty of Europe being; not more 
than an average, on all ages, of from two to three per cent, per annum. 

" Now it has never been asserted, that there is any thing unfavourable 
to negro life in the climate of the Mauritius generally, or of the Port 
Louis district in particular. The contrary, indeed, may be proved by 
the returns of the whole free black and coloured population of the 
island during nearly the same period, viz. from 1816 to 1821 inclusive. 
The average of the population of this class for those years was 11,061. 
The annual average mortality during the sanie six years was 295, being 
one in 37 or 38, or about 2| per cent. 

" On nearly the same number of slaves, however, in the district of 
Port Louis, the annual rate of mortality was 1094, being little less than 
four times that of the free population of the colony. And supposing 
the same rate of mortality to extend over the whole slave population of 
the island, we shall have, as the result, not less than about 7000 deaths 
annually, or about 126,000 deaths in the 18 years we have possessed 
the island ; a mortality nearly equal to killing off the whole of the 
slaves existing at any one time twice told ; a number equal to which 
must have been supplied by means of importations, and by the conse- 
quent accumulation of the well-known atrocities from which alone such 
importations could be obtained." P. 375 and 376. 

Now, in these returns alone, assuming them to be correct, there was 
enough to warrant the line of remark adopted in describing the waste 
of life in one whole district of the Mauritius, If, on the other hand, 
the returns are incorrect, then the functionaries of that island, who fur- 
nished them, must bear the blame. But even if we should reduce this 
frightful estimate by a third or a half, there would still remain, as was 
observed at the time, (p. 376,) enough to justify the strongest language 
then employed. The observations proceeded on the assumed accuracy 
of official returns, some of them prepared during the pendency of a con- 
troversy which would naturally make the persons furnishing them, and 
some of whom were also parties in that controversy, careful not need- 
lessly to supply weapons against themselves. We never can suppose, 
if, under these circumstances, they either mistated or omitted facts, that 
they would do so to their own wrong. 

But then it may be asked, why the above passage should have 
selected Bel Ombre from the mass of plantations, and introduced its 
name in so invidious a connection. The reason was this ; that while all 
the other plantations in the island were lumped together, separate and 
specific returns of the particulars of the increase and decrease of its 
slaves were required and received from that estate alone. 

An order was issued by the House of Commons on the 14th of 
April, 1826, calling for a return from the collector's and register's rolls 
of the number of slaves on Bel Ombre, and of the number born, dying, 
purchased, or sold, with various other particulars, in each year, from 
1814, to the latest period. This return was extremely defective, and 
fell far short of complying with the order of the House: but still, 
having been made with the privity and consent of the owner of the 
estate, who had moreover been called upon to furnish all the explanations 
he might deem requisite, it might fairly be presumed to give as favourable 
a view of his case as could be exhibited, It was not to be believed, that 



Slavery in the Mauritius. 287 

a person so conversant with business as Mr. Telfair was known to be, and 
living in the colony, could not have furnished all the information that was 
required ; for even, if through his neglect, the records of the collector 
or of the registrar were unable to supply it, yet his own plantation 
books might have been referred to as containing every particular that 
was demanded. A transcript from them must have afforded a clear 
account from year to year, almost from day to day, of the total number 
of his slaves, and of the births, deaths, sales, and purchases occurring 
from time to time, during his occupancy of tlie estate. — If such books 
were kept, then it was in Mr. Telfair's power to comply with the order 
of the House, and in doing so, if all was regular, to satisfy the doubts 
which had produced the order. But instead of adopting this plain and 
obvious course, matters are still left in the darkness and doubt in which 
the irregularity of his own returns to the collector and registrar had in- 
volved them. But if it be alleged there were no such plantation books 
from which correct information could be drawn, then we should say that 
no allegation could be less creditable to the proprietor of Bel Ombre 
than this. It would seem at once to be a refutation of his own asser- 
tions, and those of his friends, in favour of the humane and ju- 
dicious management of that plantation. It would imply an entire ne- 
glect of the very first elements of improvement on a plantation worked 
by slaves, if the person in charge of it had not placed himself in a 
capacity of knowing from year to year, and even from day to day, the 
state and progress of its population, and of thus giving to others a clear 
account of both. And even supposing that Mr, Telfair had no view to the 
improvement of the condition of his slaves, but merely to a profitable 
investment of capital, we see not how he could possibly have omitted 
to cause such plantation records, as have been alluded to, to be kept by 
his managers. Why then, when the owner of Bel Ombre learnt that an 
order of the House of Commons required a return of the number of 
slaves on that estate, and of their births, deaths, &c., for each year 
during his possession ; and when he also knew, (for he was referred to 
on the occasion,)* that neither the collector's rolls, nor the registry, could 
afford the information required, and that the only returns to be ob- 
tained from them were vague, incomplete, and unsatisfactory ; why did 
he not offer to supply the deficiency ? Was it not in his power at once 
to have cleared up all doubts on the subject ; and was it not, therefore, 
obviously his duty, and also his interest, if his own records were in 
accordance with his present allegations, to have brought them forward ? 
The task therefore of shewing why it was not done rests entirely on him. 
He alone can clear up the mystery which hangs on the subject. 

Among the returns actually produced, none were found that furnished 
any intelligent data from which to reason, excepting for two of the 
twelve years for which they were required, namely 1819 and 1825. 

The remarks made at the time, by the Reporter, on these returns, and 
which seem to be fair and reasonable deductions from them, were as 
follows : 

" A farther proof of the dreadful extent of the mortality prevailing 
among the slaves in this colony, may be drawn from the case of the 

* See Parliamentary papers of 1827, No. 285, p. 41. 



288 Slavery in the Mauritius. 

estate of Bel Ombre, belonging to Mr. Telfair, the private Secretary of 
Sir Robert Farquhar, and the humane treatment of the slaves on which 
estate Sir Robert, who was himself a constant visitor upon it, highly 
extolled in the House of Commons, representing it as a pattern for good 
management, and one of the best regulated in the island. Now, even 
on this well regulated estate, the decrease appears, from authentic docu- 
ments, to have amounted annually to about 12 percent. The return for 
1819 gives 64 deaths and 12 births on a population of 378, being an 
actual decrease of 52, or IS^ per cent.; and the return of 1825 gives 
55 deaths and 16 births on a population of 372, being an actual de- 
crease of 39, or lOg per cent.; or, on an average of the two periods, a 
decrease of 12 percent. The mortality in the first year was as high as 
17 per cent., and in the second as high as 15 per cent., being an average 
of 16 per cent," p. 376. 

Mr, Telfair now alleges that this view of the subject was erroneous ; 
as the returns which the Reporter assumed to be annual, and on which 
it reasoned as such, were, in fact, not annual, but triennial, and that 
therefore the mortality of 13| per cent., for example, was the mortality, 
not of one year, but of three, being at the rate, therefore, not of 13|, 
but of 4| percent, per annum. We shall recur to this point hereafter. 
In the mean time we will assume, what we are not at all inclined to believe, 
that he is right, and that we have laboured under a mistake in regarding 
the return of births and deaths as annual, and not triennial. And what 
in reality does he gain by this concession ? The object was to prove 
the destructive nature of the slavery prevailing in Mauritius ; and 
though it cannot be denied that 13J per cent, is a more appalling ratio 
of decrease than 4| ; yet is not the latter a sufficiently cogent proof of 
the deathful tendency of that system, especially when found recurring, 
year after year, on a plantation which by Sir Robert Farquhar, and other 
friends of Mr. Telfair, was represented as a model of humane manage- 
ment, and of wise and beneficent attention to the comfort and well-being 
of the slaves ? We may judge from this fact of the standard of hu- 
manity among the slave-holders of Mauritius. The steady progression 
of mortality at such a rate, in a climate congenial to the slave, suffi- 
ciently establishes the malignity and destructiveness of the system. 
It cannot consist with moderate labour and an abundance of food. It 
can only be satisfactorily accounted for by severity of treatment; — by the 
excessive exaction of the slave's coerced labour, or by the scantiness and' 
inadequacy of his nourishment. 

This will be illustrated by comparing the decrease among the slaves 
of Bel Ombre, even at the assumed lower rate of 4^ per cent., with the 
ascertained progress of population among the free black and coloured 
classes in the Mauritius. On referring to the parliamentary papers for 
1823, No. 89, p. 127, we find the following census of these classes for 
the years 1817, 1818, and 1819. 





Population. 


Births. 


Deaths. 


Increase. 


1817 . 


. 10,209 


504 


262 


242 


1818 . 


. 10,549 


536 


336 


200 


1819 . 


. 11,552 


576 


337 


239 



This return, it will be perceived, gives a regular increase of upwards 
of two per cent, per annum, in the very years when the slaves of Bel 



Slavery in the Mauritius, 289' 

Ombre, even on Mr. Telfair's own admission, were decreasing at the 
rate of 4^ per cent., and in the district of Port Louis generally at a 
much higher rate. 

It has been argued, however, that the decrease of 4^ per cent, is to 
be explained, first by the fact of an epidemic, and next by the disparity 
of the sexes. Let us consider these separately. 

With respect to the epidemic, it is obvious that its influence would 
apply equally to the free negroes as to the slave negroes, except in so 
far as the slave system, notwithstanding its alleged humanity and its 
boasted hospitals, is of itself unfriendly to health and life. This inhe- 
rent unfriendliness, however, is the very point contended for, and 
which, by the comparison just instituted, is irrefragably proved. 

As to the disparity of the sexes, we have to remark, that when Mr. 
Telfair first purchased Bel Ombre, in 1816, the sexes appear to have 
been nearly equal, the males amounting to 133, and the females to 120, 
making a difference of only about one-tenth. Now, giving full credit 
to Mr.' Telfair for those humane, enlightened, and philanthropic senti- 
ments which he professes, and which his friends attribute to him, it 
might have been expected that he would have been anxious to dimi- 
nish, and most certainly not to aggravate, this slight disparity. But 
what is the fact? We have in the very next line an enumeration of his 
slaves in 1819, (p. 5,) including those transferred to him in 1816, and 
those whom he had subsequently added by purchase or otherwise, and 
it makes the males 250, and the females 176. Another enumeration, 
bearing the same date, at p. 34, makes the males 291, and the females 
199; raising the original disparity of one-tenth to about a third ; that 
is to say, more than threefold what it was when the estate came into 
Mr. Telfair's hands. 

Now these additions must have been the voluntary and deliberate act 
of Mr. Telfair; and yet, if we had judged by Mr. Telfair's own profes- 
sions, and by the testimonies of his friends in proof of his studious and 
wakeful attention, not only to the physical comforts, but to the moral 
improvement of his slaves; the very last thing we should have expected, 
or even thought possible, would have been, that in the course of one, 
two, or three years, he should voluntarily have so increased the dispa- 
rity of the sexes on his estate, that there should only be about two 
women for every three men upon it. Such a proceeding voluntarily 
adopted appears to be altogether incompatible with any rational and 
settled purpose of promoting the real comfort and well-being of the 
slaves; nor can any strength of assertion, or any multiplicity of testi- 
monies to character, rebut the plain inference deducible from such a 
fact. For whatever effect this enormously increased disparity may 
have had in swelling the mortality, or in aggravating the moral evils 
prevailing in Bel Ombre, it was his own proper and spontaneous act, 
done in the certain and inevitable prospect of the numerous evils, both 
physical and moral, v/hich he must have known could not fail to flow 
from it. 

During a part at least of the years 1818 and 1819, there were on 
Bel Ombre, (see papers of 1827, No. 285, p. 34,) 199 females; and 
the births in that year are stated to be 12. Now it was this circum- 
stance, among others, which led to the conclusion that the return of 



290 Slavery in the Mauritius. 

births and deaths there given was for a single year, and not, as Mr. 
Telfair now affirms, for three years. We could not have supposed it 
possible, for one moment, that the births among so many females had 
only been 12 in three years, or only four annually; and yet such must 
be the fact, if the affirmation of Mr. Telfair be correct, that the return 
of births and deaths was a triennial and not an annual return. If it were 
so, then must there of necessity be something radically vicious in a 
system which among so many females limited the births to only four in 
one year. Nor can we conceive it possible that this should have been 
the fact, without such undue severity in the exaction of labour, or 
such a deficiency in the supply of food, as tended to check and almost 
to destroy the natural fecundity of the human race. 

But another circumstance, which led to the conclusion that the return 
for 1819 was an annual, and not a triennial return, was this, that at the 
close of a nominal list of the slaves on Bel Ombre, dated the 25th 
February, 1819, and signed by Mr. Blancard, the co-partner and mana- 
ger of the estate, the last twelve names in the list are said to be new 
horn, (paper of 1827, No. 285, p. 25,) that is, we presume, born within 
the preceding year ; a number which exactly agrees with the number 
of births given in the same paper, p. 34, for 1819, namely, 12. — And 
if we had thus fair grounds for concluding that the births were the 
births of one year, and not of three years, we were necessarily led to 
the conclusion that the deaths embraced the same period, and that the 
return of births and deaths was therefore an annual and not a triennial 
return. Mr. Telfair, however, now affirms the contrary ; but whether 
he be right or wrong on this point, is in truth of no real importance ; 
for to prove the monstrously unnatural state of things which is produced 
by slavery in the Mauritius, it seems quite sufficient to take the fact on 
Mr. Telfair's shewing, that in three years only 12 children were born in 
Bel Ombre, being four annually. To establish this more clearly, we will 
recur to the paper of 1823, No. 89, p. 127. The number of free black 
and coloured females in the island in 1819, was 6,349. The number 
of their births in that year is stated to have been 576, being one birth for 
each eleven females ; whereas on Bel Ombre the births were one for 
every 44 females, if we take their number to be 176, as it stands at 
p. 5 of the papers of 1827, No. 285 ; or one for every 50 females, if 
we take their number at 199, as it stands at p. 34 of the same paper. 

And here we are reminded of another circumstance, which of itself 
would be sufficient to confirm us in the opinion that we were right 
as to the precise periods for which these returns are given, and that is, 
their irregular, confused, and even contradictory tenor. The order of 
the House of Commons was clear and precise. It called for the number 
of slaves on Bel Ombre in each year, from 1814 to the latest period to 
which the account could be made up; and, also, for " the number of 
slaves born, dying, purchased, or sold" in each year, as these stood 
both in the registry, and in the collector's rolls. 

The returns to this order, as they appear in the papers of 1827, No. 
285, are as follows : 

From the registry; — in 1815, 253 slaves; in 1819, 426; and in 1825, 
387; (p. 4 & 5.)— Again, (p. 34.) in 1819, 490 slaves. No specification 
is given for any other years. Both these returns, though differing so 



Slavery in the Mauritius. 291 

much from each other, are signed by the same individual, E, A. Draper, 
Acting Register, and bear the same date 31 Aug. 1826. 

From the collector's rolls we have a different statement, viz. in 1814, 
220 slaves; in 1819, 378 slaves; in 1820, and 1821, 426 slaves; in 
1822, 419 slaves; in 1823, 360 slaves; in 1824, 388 slaves; in 1825, 
372 slaves ; and in 1826, 173 slaves (p. 35—40). 

Besides this, we have a list containing the names of all the slaves 
" existing'^ on Bel Ombre, signed by Mr. Blancard, and dated 25 Feb. 
1819, and making the whole number 490, of which 64 are marked as 
dead, thus reducing the number to 426 (p. 6 — 25). We have also a list 
of slaves " existing" on Bel Ombre, dated 25 Jan. 1822, and signed by 
Charles Telfair, containing only 197 names, but closing with a certifi- 
cate, that the number on the estate, at that time, was 425 (p. 46 — 53). 
We have, moreover, a third list of the same kind, dated 27 Feb. 1825, 
and signed for Mr. Telfair, by William Foster, containing 196 names, 
and certifying the whole number to be 318 (p. 26 — 33). Some curious 
inferences from a comparison of the numbers and names in these lists 
we must for the present omit. 

Surely this uncertainty and confusion might have been obviated ; 
and means might have been taken, by a reference to the plantation 
books, to explain these otherwise inexplicable discrepancies. Mr. Telfair 
doubtless could have given a satisfactory solution of them. He must 
have been aware that such a solution was essential to the purpose for 
which the returns had been called for; and yet it was not given. Who 
then is to blame for any suspicions which, under all the circumstances 
of the case, were naturally caused by so much obscurity, but the indi- 
vidual in whose power it was to have made the whole matter clear? 

But this is not all. As a public functionary, and the secretary of the 
governor, he must have been aware that the measure of registration was 
one which the Government and the Parliament had it at heart to en- 
force, as the only effectual means of detecting, and thus preventing the 
illicit importation of slaves. Mr. Telfair himself now admits that a 
system of strict and vigilant registration is an effectual bar to slave 
trading ; and he pleads the recent institution of such a registry (at the 
close of 1826) as a proof that no slave trade can now exist. But, if so, 
how are we to account for it, that during the twelve years which had 
elapsed previous to 1827, and during which a registry was as much a 
part of the law as it now is, that registry should have been per- 
mitted to fall into complete neglect and consequent confusion, without 
having excited the jealousy and vigilance, or the remonstrances of 
the local Government of which he formed a part? And how did it 
happen that he himself, bound by all his obligations as a servant of the 
crown, to see that that law was enforced, should not only have neg- 
lected to do so, or to take, or even to propose any effectual measures 
to that end; but that he himself should have been amongst the de- 
faulters ? And could it be otherwise than that his influential example 
should have given encouragement to similar defaults in others ? They 
would naturally feel secure in the violation of an enactment, however 
vitally important it might be represented by His Majesty's Secretary 
of State to be, which was sanctioned by the example of one who was 
the confidential friend and adviser of the governor, and whose conduct, 



. '292 Slavery in the Mauritius. 

under all the circumstances of the case, could not fail to produce the 
impression that it might be set at nought with impunity. But we will 
not pursue this subject farther at present, although much remains to 
be said upon it. Our readers will feel that a single successful slave- 
voyage, encouraged even by the neglect or omission in a public func- 
tionary of the only effectual means of preventing it, involved more 
horrors than have ever been alleged to flow from slavery on any one 
plantation in the island. 

Having thus considered the inferences fairly deducible from those 
returns which profess to exhibit the state and progress of population in 
the Mauritius generally, as well as on a particular plantation ; inferences 
which cannot be shaken by any multiplication of individual affirmations 
to the contrary ; — we would say one word in justification of the sketch 
that was given of the general state of slavery in the Mauritius, in the 
Reporters Nos. 42 and 44. 

\st. As to the want of education and religious instruction. 

Even one of Mr, Telfair's own compurgators, Mr. R. M.Thomas, the 
protector of slaves, in a letter of 19 June 1829, lets us into this secret, 
that, down to that time, now only twelve months ago, on no estate but 
Bel Ombre had any, even the slightest, attempt been made to instruct 
the slaves. The words of this Avitness are — " Mr. Telfair is the only 
individual in the colony, lay or clerical, who permits elementary instruc- 
tion to be imparted to his slaves." Did the Reporter then affirm un- 
truly, that " the slaves of the Mauritius were generally excluded from 
all moral or religious instruction ?" P. 380. 

2. As to the gejieral condition of the^ slaves. 

The LAW of the island, previous to 1827, made no distinction what- 
ever in the punishments inflicted on men and women, adults or children. 
The following are a few of its provisions — Slaves can possess nothing, 
can gain nothing, by their own industry or the liberality of others, that 
shall not belong in full property to their masters, without the power, on 
the part of their children or other relations, to claim any portion thereof 
from any disposition whatever they may make. — A slave striking his 
master or mistress, or their children, and causing a wound, shall suffer 
death ; and if he commit violence upon a free person he shall be severely 
punished, even with death, as the case may be. — A fugitive slave 
(Maron) absent a month, after being denounced, shall have his ears cut 
off, and be branded with a fleur de lis ; if absent, a second time, for the 
same space, his ham-strings shall be cut, and he shall again be branded; 
if a third time, he shall suffer death. — The slaves, vjhen deemed de- 
serving of it.) may he ■put in chains and flogged by their masters ; but all 
persons are forbidden to torture or mutilate slaves on pain of confisca* 
tion, and of being proceeded against criminally. — (Papers of 1828, 
No. 526, p. 5—19.) 

The mitigations of this terrible code are — that masters are ordered 
to furnish to each slave the scanty allowance of two pounds of Indian 
corn, or an equivalent in other food, every day, together with the yearly 
clothing necessary— and " are forbidden to inflict more than thirty 
lashes'" at a time— and are also "forbidden to make their slaves work 
on Sunday."—" Slaves not fed and clothed, or barbarously and inhu- 



Slavery in the Mauritius. 293 

manly treated, may complain to the solicitor general, by whom the 
masters shall be prosecuted." (ibid.) 

Such is the Zaw,— -now for the practice. In the beginning of 1827, 
Sir Lowry Cole deemed it necessary to republish from the slave code of 
the island, framed in 1723, and renewed in 1767, the clauses which 
refer to the four mitigating provisions we have mentioned, namely, those 
respecting Sunday labour ; food and clothing ; the limitation of punish- 
ments ; and the Solicitor-General's power of prosecution in certain 
cases. This republication he accompanied by a circular letter, ad- 
dressed to the Magistrates throughout the island, in which he states, 
that notwithstanding these laws " which forbid masters on pain of arbi'- 
trary punishment and confiscation to make their slaves work on Sun- 
days," the Governor had learned that, " on many estates the slaves 
work on Sundays as on other week days." This conduct, he adds, " so 
repugnant to humanity, can no longer be tolerated;" and he "is 
resolved to put an end to so crying an abuse." He admits, indeed, 
that " the planters may find it necessary to work their sugar-houses at 
night ;" and he does " not pretend to oppose it ;'' but, in that case, he 
gives it as his opinion, that the slaves " ought to have the following day 
to rest themselves ;" and when circumstances oblige the planters to 
deprive their slaves of Sundays, he hopes " they will feel the justice of 
indemnifying them." He recommends also, that they should not be 
required to work until half an hour before sun-rise and after sun-set. 
What must their hours have been before to make such a limitation as 
this seem to Sir L. Cole a merciful indulgence ? (ibid. p. 30.) 

He then adverts to the food, clothing, and correction, which masters 
are allowed to deal out to their slaves, and says, that " there exist in 
this respect abuses which it is the duty of the magistrates to remove by 
denouncing them to the Solicitor-General." And if this warning should 
be neglected, he tells them, that he " will find himself compelled much 
against his will to recur to measures of rigour which will be repugnant 
to his feelings, but which will be called for by the dictates of humanity, 
by the laws, and by the colonial interests." He adverts also in strong 
terms, to the excess of punishment inflicted by some masters beyond 
the thirty lashes allowed by law. (ibid. p. 30 — 32.) 

Upon all these points we have the opinions and recommendations, 
the wishes and the hopes of Sir Lowry Cole, but no effective enactments. 
He issued, however, about the same time, an ordinance to regulate the 
weight of the chains and fetters which masters were authorized, by the 
existing laws, to fasten on their slaves, at their own discretion. The 
weight in future, he ordained to be; for two men chained together, nine 
pounds ; — for one man six pounds ; — for two women five pounds ; — for 
one woman, or for a child three pounds. These weights, however, 
might be augmented without limit by the magistrate. Women and 
children, though they might be chained, were not at the same time to 
be fettered ; but men might be both chained and fettered by a magis- 
trate's order. Collars, with their branches, were now for the first time 
forbidden by this ordinance, (ibid. p. 27.) 

This barbarous law, though it doubtless appeared to Sir L. Cole to be 
a merciful relaxation of the preceding law, which fixed no limit to the 

2 X 



'294 Slavery in the Mtmritius. 

weiglil of chains and fetters, and allowed of the three-pronged collars^ 
formerly described by us, (No. 44, p. 379) ; and though regarded in the 
Mauritius (such was the state of public feeling there,) as an undue inter- 
ference with the authority of the master, is thus spoken of by Sir George 
Murray, in a letter of the 8th May, 1829, addressed to the Governor of 
the Mauritius. (See papers of 1829, No. 333). " It is not without much 
surprise and concern," says the benevolent Secretary, " that his 
Majesty's Government have observed the provisions of this ordinance. 
The use of chains, as an ordinary instrument of domestic punishment 
in a tropical climate, must be deprecated on every principle of huma- 
nity and sound policy." " This enactment not merely tolerates them, 
but subjects even vFomen and children of the most tender years to the 
same description of punishments. It even permits the use of what are 
termed branches, attached to the collars, borne on the necks of the 
sufferer. It assigns no limit to the duration of this species of punish- 
ment, and, when sanctioned by the magistrate, no limit to the weight of 
the chain. Unfortunately, it cannot be suggested, that these instru- 
ments which owners are permitted to employ, are formidable only in 
name. Specimens of the various chains and collars, with or without 
spokes, which are used at Mauritius in the punishment of slaves," have 
been transmitted to this department ; " and they appear to be nothing 
less than instruments of torture." — Again, he observes, that it had been 
stated to him, that in the very streets of Port Louis, '^ the slaves em- 
ployed as scavengers were yoked together in carts, and exhibited a 
most offensive and humiliating spectacle." (Papers of 1829, No. 333.) 

3. As to the flogging and chaining of females. 

An attempt has been made to throw doubt on the existence of this 
practice. And yet does the language of the preceding statements 
permit any doubt to rest upon that point? If it did, it would be 
obviated by the following passage, in the circular of Sir Lowry Cole, 
already alluded to. " I think it," he says, " necessary to dwell upon 
the various punishments inflicted upon negro women. Uf to this mo- 
ment there has not existed any difference in the corrections ordered by 
the masters, in respect to them, and those in use with regard to the 
men. Rest assured, that his Majesty's Government will suppress the 
punishment of flogging for negro women," And lest we should be left 
to suppose that Sir Lowry Cole was some fanatical Anti-Slavery 
partizan, he goes on to use the following words. " It must, in fact, be 
admitted, that the weakness of their sex, and public decency, would seem 
to require that negro women should undergo the lash only in extraor- 
dinary cases, and with the concurrence of the local authority. Do not 
irons, the stocks, imprisonment," (is this intended as irony?) "offer suffi- 
cient means of punishing negro women, whose condition, besides being 
almost always precarious, requires great care?" Here we have the 
proof that the testimony of Sir Lowry Cole did not arise from any 
squeamishness he may have felt on the subject of slavery itself: and 
that he acted from no bias towards the views of the Anti-Slavery 
party. Indeed, Sir Lowry Cole, in a subsequent despatch, relents a 
little from the severity of his circular, and pleads, with the Secretary of 
State, to indulge the good people of the Mauritius with a prolongation 



Slavery in the MauriLius. 295 

of this amiable practice. — " I admit," he says, " that the abohshing of 
corporal punishment in the case of female slaves is highly desirable" yet, 
" I conceive, that bad consequences might result from its immediate 
prohibition." Can any one read these words of this public functionary 
without suspecting the horrid extent to which this practice must have 
been carried, and admitting the hardening effect of familiarity with this 
and the other incidents of slavery ? (Papers of 1828, No. 526, p. 32.) 

Now let any man compare these authentic and official statements of 
Sir George Murray and Sir Lowry Cole with the view given of the general 
treatment of slaves in the Reporter (No. 44, pp. 377 — 380,) and say 
wherein that work has been guilty of exaggeration. Wherever it has 
touched on the same topics, it is completely borne out by these high 
authorities ; and it may, therefore, have credit for having at least aimed 
at accuracy in every other part of its delineation. We believe it to be 
correct, and should not be shaken from that belief, though every slave- 
holder in the Mauritius were to unite with every guest who may have 
shared his hospitalities, in saying, or even swearing to the con- 
trary. And, even if Sir George Murray and Sir Lowry Cole had not 
verified the Reporter's most revolting statements, the state of the law, 
previous to the recent Order in Council, would be quite conclusive as 
marking the utter wretchedness and degradation of the slave. 

But although the accuracy of the picture drawn in the Reporter of the 
general treatment of the slaves has thus been proved ; yet it may be said 
that the particular details of cruelty that were there given as occurring on 
Bel Ombre were false and calumnious. Was it then a calumny to say, 
with respect to a Mauritius plantation, that slaves, both men and women, 
were there both flogged and chained ? or was Bel Ombre the only estate 
in the island that was exempted from such inflictions ? The facts stated 
to have occurred there, Mr. Telfair has chosen to consider as a personal 
charge, imputing to him the perpetration of cruel acts. It does not 
follow, however, that because they occurred on Bel Ombre, they were 
either authorized by him, or even known to him, though in such a case 
even ignorance is culpable. It may be unfortunate for a man to be con- 
nected with an estate of which such things have been said ; but while a 
manager possesses, as he does in the Mauritius, so unlimited a power of 
arbitrary punishment, Mr. Telfair is implicated in any particular act of 
severity occurring at Bel Ombre in his absence, only as the Earl of Rom- 
ney was implicated in the act of Mr. Cardin, his manager in St. Kitts, 
who confined his Lordship's old female mulatto slave, Betto Douglas, in 
the stocks of his Lordship's estate, for six whole months, because she 
had failed to pay her monthly hire. (See Reporters, No. 25, and No. 
28.) — It is not imputed to Mr. Telfair that he either inflicted the parti- 
cular punishments which are stated to have taken place there, or that he 
even knew of them. The sound of the whip could not have reached 
him at Port Louis, where his official duties lay. Indeed his inability 
to furnish a correct view of that branch of plantation economy, the state 
and progress of the slave population on his estate, does not indicate any 
very regular habits of inspection and scrutiny into the circumstances of 
the slaves.— Besides, let us consider the state of the laxv in the Mauri- 
tius. It empowered his iiuuuiger to inflict the lash, and chains, and 



296 Slavery in the Mauritius. 

fetters, on all slaves, and to inflict besides on fugitive slaves (Marons) 
the punishment of branding, of hamstringing, and even of death. Merely 
to flog them therefore, and even to flog them severely, might seem rather 
a lenient and merciful remission, according to the standard of retributive 
justice for slaves in the Mauritius ;-and that the sex of the fugitives would 
be no protection from such flogging, and chaining, and fettering vfe 
•have already seen. That such things too may be done, and have been 
done with impunity, in all our slave colonies there is abundant evi- 
dence. In the Mauritius, especially, the proof of the frequent occur- 
rence of such transactions is established not only by the official state- 
ments quoted above of Sir Lowry Cole and Sir George Murray, but 
by the various abortive complaints of slaves, referred to in No, 44, 
p. 383 — 390; and may further be proved by abundant oral testimony 
ready to be produced, if such testimony were necessary to prove that 
severe floggings and chainings, both of men and women, were common, 
on plantations throughout the Mauritius, not excepting Bel Ombre. 

Mr. Telfair and his friends have assumed that these statements must 
be false, because, as they allege, they rest solely on the evidence of two 
men, Higginson and Kendrick, whose evidence on some other occa- 
sion, as they say, has been proved to be unworthy of credit. It is an 
entire mistake, however, to suppose that the Reporter is compromised 
by this circumstance ; or that it has relied on the testimony of either 
of these individuals. The witnesses of the facts are entirely difler- 
ent persons whose veracity we have not yet heard questioned, and who, 
whenever an inquiry takes place, will answer for themselves. In the 
mean time we repeat, that the particular acts of atrocity in question were 
related with no intention of inculpating any individual, but merely to 
illustrate the general system, and to shew that so inveterate an evil is 
negro slavery, that even on an estate, described by Sir R. Farquhar as 
well regulated, and the owner of which held a respectable situation in 
colonial society, and had credit there both for humanity and for more 
than usual liberality, horrors may occur in the administration of the 
system, which make the blood of all, unused to such scenes, to run 
cold. This we are ready in tlie face of the asseverations of all the slave 
holders in the world, and of all their occasional guests, and boon com- 
panions, to affirm and maintain, aye, and to prove to be the uniform, 
necessary, and inevitable effect of that wicked system called negro 
slavery, wherever it is suffered to exist. 

Can we have forgotten, that from 1787 to 1807, we had hosts of genC'-, 
rals and admirals, and captains, and public functionaries of all grades, 
and planters, and merchants, testifying far more strongly in favour of 
the loveliness even of the slave trade as well as of West India slavery, 
than they now do in favour of the slavery of the Mauritius ; their testi- 
mony being backed also by the governors, and councils, and assem- 
blies of slave colonies. And yet these accumulated masses of pretended 
evidence were then felt by the abolitionists, and are now acknowledged 
by the world at large, to have been utterly false ; — the mere effusion 
either of ignorance, or prejudice, or pride, or cupidity, or the rancour 
of party spirit, or the mere effect of familiarity with the horrors which 
were denied or extenuated. Can we have forgotten the scenes of Do" 



Slavery in the Mauritius. 297 

minica, Nevis, and the Bahamas, and the testimonies borne to the high 
respectability and humanity of a Huggins or a Moss ? Can we have 
forgotten the mock conspiracies of Jamaica in 1824, with all their hor- 
rid and sanguinary results ; or the palpable and multiplied perjuries 
which drove Lecesne and EscofFery into exile, and nearly succeeded in 
crushing them ; or the audacious but flimsy fabrications by which, only 
two years since, an attempt was made to justify the persecuting laws 
of the Assembly against sectarian missionaries, but which their agents 
in this country have not dared to publish ? Or can we have forgotten 
the court martial which tried and condemned the missionary Smith ? 
But, above all, can we have already forgotten the fact of the united 
testimony of the whole white population of the Mauritius, with their 
deluded governors at their head, affirming the non-existence of that 
slave trade, the proof of the extensive prevalence of which, for many 
years, is now so unquestionable as to be fully and publicly admitted 
by his Majesty's government. 

But on this point we have a recent and most instructive and most 
apposite elucidation in the Report of the Commissioners of Inquiry, sent 
to the Mauritius, in 1827, which has lately been published, (Papers of 
1829, No. 292.) Referring to that most striking document, we will 
content ourselves now with transcribing the substance of some remarks 
which were made upon it on its first appearance, in the Anti-Slavery 
Reporter, No. 51, p. 39— 41. 

" We have often been thought to deal unfairly by the owners of 
Slaves in our colonies, when we have refused to admit their testimony 
in favour of their own system, (although such testimony amounts to no 
more at best than the substitution of the plea of Not Guilty in the place 
of legal evidence ;) or when we have ventured, as in our last number 
(p. 26,) and on many former occasions, to warn our readers against the 
effects of that sympathy of interest and that fellow feeling among them 
which tend to produce a general and firm combination of all the members 
of the dominant class, not only in defending, per fas aut nefas, the worst 
abuses of their system, but in oppressing and persecuting every indivi- 
dual of their body who may dare to assist in exposing its incurable 
wickedness. But have we really merited the charge of unfairness on 
this account ? We think not. In addition to the innumerable proofs 
which have been exhibited of such combinations from the year 1787 to 
the present day, we have it now in our power to corroborate what have 
been deemed our harsh and groundless imputations, by the testimony 
of his Majesty's Commissioners, whose report is now before us. 
' Although the investigation of such a subject as the Slave trade,' 
these gentlemen observe, ' would at any time have been unpopular 
with the inhabitants (of the Mauritius,) it was apparent to us on our 
arrival that circumstances had caused a strong repugnance to prevaii 
against it.' ' As it might be supposed that many individuals were 
deeply interested in evading the retrospect into their former proceedingSy 
they would take advantage of their influence and of the situation of 
the community, to awaken a general apprehension of the consequences 
of such an investigation as that with which we were charged, and of the 
risk attending any admission of the extent to which the Slave trade had 



298 Slavery in the Mauritius. 

been carried on and encouraged.' And it has even appeared to the 
Commissioners ' that the community had tacitly, if not expressly,' 
' entered into a general resolution to make no admission that the Slave 
trade had been encouraged by the inhabitants, or carried on to any 
extent in the colony.' They therefore have felt themselves bound to 
state, ' that the difficulties of the inquiry, from the general unpopu- 
larity attending it have been considerable ;' nor have they ' deemed it 
proper at this stage of the inquiry, and in the -present temper of the 
community, to disclose to parties the names of their accusers,' because 
as there is a ' prevalent impression of the hostility of the community 
against persons making accusations of Slave trading,' and examples of 
' prosecutions sustained' by those persons; such disclosures would have 
been construed into an intention, on the part of the Commissioners, ' to 
discourage persons from coming forward' to give evidence on the sub- 
ject. In the mean time the witnesses were made to subscribe their 
statements, and were warned that they should be held responsible for 
them, and would be liable to be called on to confirm them judicially. 
— ^The Commissioners farther intimate that they had every reason given 
to them to apprehend that ' the extensive powers of the police depart- 
ment had been unjustly exercised to the prejudice' of persons who had 
given information respecting the Slave trade, and had thereby incurred 
the hostility of the community ; and they express their solicitude, par- 
ticularly in the case of one individual who had made a frank confes- 
sion of his own delinquencies, that ' in giving publicity to his infor- 
mation, care may be taken that he shall not be made to suffer from the 
consequences of the voluntary avowal of his past conduct.' The 
danger, however, appears to them to be still more imminent in the case 
of slaves or of liberated captives who may be instrumental in making 
known infractions of the abolition law ; — and it is manifest both from 
their report, and from a variety of past occurrences, (see the case 
of Pedro, Reporter, vol. ii. p. 384, and that of Troptard, 14th Report of 
the African Institution, p. 23,) that nothing but the most energetic and 
determined interference of the government can save such persons, so 
informing, from the effects of a cruel and remorseless vengeance. Now 
what does all this indicate but a community made up of confederates 
in evil; hardened, by the kindred employments of Slave trading and 
Slave driving, and by mutual countenance and support, to deliberate 
combinations for lawless purposes? And such confederacies belong 
mot to the Mauritius alone ; they belong essentially and inherently to 
every community on which Slavery exercises the same withering and 
demoralizing influence." 

The spirit and principles of these remarks apply with equal force, 
mutatis mutandis, to slavery as to the slave trade. The parties in both 
cases, in the Mauritius at least, are the same. 

The friends of Mr. Telfair are desirous of bringing forward the London 
Missionary Society, and some of its missionaries, among the compurga- 
tors of that gentleman, and, through him, of the Mauritius system. In 
this view, it is somewhat remarkable that, at the Anti-Slavery Meeting, 
which took place atl Freemason's Hall, on the 15th of May last, Mr. 
Creorge Bennet, a highly respectable gentleman, employed by that So- 



Slavery in the Mauritius. 299 

ciety to visit tlieir various missions in the southern and eastern seas, 
and also in India, addressed the meeting on this subject. He had seen 
slavery, in all its aspects, and he declared that " in the Mauritius it wore 
its most horrid and disgusting form;''' but, he added, that, "whether in 
its mild or more appalling exhibitions, it had, really and essentially, a 
cruelly demoralizing effect, not only on the poor slaves, but on all who 
were the owners of slaves, on all who even employed slaves in their 
families, from governors downwards through all grades, civil and mili- 
tary. — Wherever it existed, there the moral sense ever became blunted, 
and it was impossible to estimate the extensiveness of its influence." 
See Reporter, No. 61, p. 252. This is the simple solution of all those 
imposing compurgations on which slave-holders in the East as well as 
in the West, are apt to place so vain a reliance. 

We here suspend any farther observations until the promised work of 
Mr. Telfair shall have been published, and we are thereby enabled to 
examine it more deliberately. As yet we have only had an opportunity of 
seeing it for a few hours, and we do not even possess a copy of it. In 
themean time, whathas now been said on the state and progress of popu- 
lation among the slaves, in the Mauritius generally, and on Bel Ombre in 
particular; and on the condition of slavery as it existed in that colony 
both in law and in practice ; will be sufficient to obviate any injurious 
inferences, with respect to the accuracy of former statements, to 
which the circular notice of Mr. Telfair's friends may have possibly led 
in the case of persons uninformed on the subject. 



II, Jamaica Watchmait. 

In the supplement to our last number, we inserted some extracts 
from a work of the Rev. Dr. Walsh, on the Brazils, confirming, in a 
very striking manner, all our views of the cruelly debasing effects of 
negro slavery, and of the unspeakable benefits to be produced by an 
emancipation from its bonds. The Jamaica Watchman, in a late 
number (April 14, 1830), admits some remarkable communications on 
the general subject of this debasement, as it affects not only the slave, 
but the free. A correspondent, in speaking of the degraded concu- 
binage so generally prevalent between the whites and the free coloured 
women, observes, that 

" The people of colour owe to Mr. Morgan, and to the Dissenting ministers 
generally, no little gratitude for the check which they have succeeded in putting 
to this detestable system, and so far from any of their body being displeased with 
him, they are rather disposed to wish him God speed in his work of charity, and 
labour of love. From the vicious, the demoralized, and depraved portion of the 
community, the Dissenters must expect abuse and vituperation. From the sober, 
reasonable, and more respectable, they will receive treatment exactly the reverse ; 
and whilst they persevere in their endeavours to put an end to this evil in parti- 
cular, they will carry with them the best wishes and prayers of such for their 
speedy success. ' 

" No man, Mr. Editor, who has any regard for the honour of his caste, can do 
otherwise than wish an end put to the system. — No man who has reflected upon 
the evils it has produced, can do otherwise than reprobate it. To this system 
principally the people of colour owe their degradation. The people of colour 
never will hv respected so long as the whites are permitted to take their mistresses 



300 Southampton Anti-Slavery Society. 

from among them ; and so long as that is the case they cannot but be despised." 

Again : — 

" To talk of the happiness of the free coloured man is absurd ; of the happiness 
of the slave madness ! As well might the sand merchants or itinerant hucksters, 
who drive their long-eared slaves through the streets of London, vaunt the hap- 
piness of their overladen, overdriven asses, because, for the interest of his owner, 
each is stabled and gets a meal of the cheapest and worst food, in order to pre- 
pare him for another day of suffering, and unremunerated labour. 

" It is in vain that the glaring falsehood is reiterated over and over again by 
the interested press here, and the hired press in Europe. — It is in vain that dis- 
tinguished strangers are taken to particular estates, after due preparation of the 
negroes. It is in vain, that under the denomination of Saints, men who are 
ornaments to their country and their species, are calumniated and abused, and 
the ministers of religion vilified and insulted — all, all, is useless ' vexation of 
spirit.' The people of England meet the falsehood with contempt, and few, very 
few, are there of those ' perishing Englishmen,' who would not impart a ' taste of 
their knuckles' to any spurious West Indian, who might be fool-hardy enough 
to suggest to them a change of their ' freedom and starvation' for the ' labour and 
plenty' of the slave." 



III. Southampton Anti-Slavery Society. 

The following important resolutions were unanimously adopted at a 
recent meeting of the Southampton Anti-Slavery Society, viz. 

1 . That viewing slavery, as it exists in the British colonies, in the 
light of a great national crime, highly offensive in the sight of God, 
disgraceful to us as a free and a Christian people, and cruel and unjust 
towards those who are the hapless victims of it, we are determined to 
employ every means in our power, that the constitution has given us, 
to put an end to this great and aggravated evil. 

2. That considering the approaching general election, as an occasion 
eminently fitting for the nation at large to vindicate its moral character, 
and publicly to testify its repudiation of this flagrant system of tyranny 
and injustice, we resolve, and invite our fellow-townsmen, and more 
especially those who signed the late petitions against slavery, to unite 
with us herein — in bestowing our suffrages, to give the preference to 
such candidates, as besides other claims to our support shall add this — 
of being the firm, zealous, and decided friends of the cause of abolition, 
and shall pledge themselves to use their utmost endeavours in Parlia- 
ment to accomplish, at the earliest possible period, the extinction of 
slavery, — urging it upon the Legislature to begin, as its first step in 
this great moral work, with fixing a day, on and after which all children, 
the offspring of slaves, shall be born free throughout his Majesty's 
dominions. 

3. That the Committee prepare and circulate forthwith an address 
in conformity with the preceding resolutions. 



This, and all other publications of the Society, may be had at their office 
IS, Aldermanbury ; or at Blessrs. Hatchard's, 187, Piccadilly, and Arch's, Cornliill. 
They may also be procured, through any bookseller, or at the depots of the Anti- 
Slavery Society throughout the kingdom. 



•ixindon : Bagster and Thorns, Printers, liavtholoniew Close. 



THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER. 



No. 63.] For JULY, 1830. [No. 15. Vol. iii. 

CASE OF LIEUTENANT SMITH. 



To THE Editor of the Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter. 

Sir, — 1 received a small pamphlet a few days ago, by the three- 
penny post, without a title, beginning with the following words : 

" Without mooting the question of slavery in the abstract, upon 
which there cannot be two opinions, the attention of the most influen- 
tial body in the empire, its officiating Clergy, is earnestly invited to the 
following case, upon its intrinsic merits. It consists in 

" 1. A statement recently published, widely disseminated, and per- 
haps very generally believed, as to the existing character of slavery 
in Jamaica. 

"2. A confession, upon his oath, of its anonymous but now disco- 
vered author, that his whole statement is a fabrication and a falsehood. 

" In such a case as this, which is one of common charity between 
man and man, it is not asking too much of the upright mind of every 
Christian minister to surrender a portion of his time to its deliberate 
examination. Should he see cause,^ on having done so, to recommend 
to those over whose judgments he must possess a large and salutary 
influence, to receive any similar statements for the future witli caution, 
it will be rendering bare and but too tardy justice to an injured com- 
munity." 

I have complied with the request, and examined it deliberately. I 
have read it attentively three times, and diligently compared one part 
of it with another. It is sent forth to the world, and circulated far and 
wide at a considerable expense, as a triumphant vindication of the West 
Indians from the charge of cruelty to their slaves, and an irrefragable 
proof of the fraudulent means to which the advocates of emancipation 
resort, and the foul calumnies which they propagate, to blacken the 
character of the West Indians, and enlist the feelings of their country- 
men in the cause of the enthralled Negroes. The House of Assembly 
in Jamaica, under whose auspices it is published, have no doubt made 
the best of their case, and placed every object in the most favourable 
point of view for themselves : yet the hideousness of West Indian sla- 
very cannot be concealed ; but meets the eye whichever way it looks. 
I think it right to state that I arn not a member of the Anti-Slavery So- 
ciety, nor have I ever written for it till now. As a free-born English- 
man, with a British heart beating in my bosom, I have always entertained 
an abhorrence of slavery in its mildest form ; a careful perusal of the 
pamphlet in question convinces me that it exists in the West Indies in 
its severest, and would have made me an emancipationist, if I had not 
been one before. 

The pamphlet consists entirely of copies of official documents, except* 

2 Y 



302 Case of Lieutenant Smith. 

ing the few lines I have transcribed, by way of introduction, and a few 
move by way of conclusion. It contains 

"LA letter from Mr. George Hamilton Smith, Comptroller of his 
Majesty's Customs, residing at Savanna-la-Mar, in the parish of West- 
moreland, in the island of Jamaica, dated May 15th, 1829, addressed 
to his brother, a clergyman in England. 

" 2. A second letter from Mr. Smith, dated Tuesday afternoon, ad- 
dressed to Mr. Evelyn, Collector of his Majesty's customs at Savanna- 
la-Mar. 

" 3. Examinations on oath, taken before a committee of the House 
of Assembly of the island of Jamaica, appointed to inquire into the 
charges against the inhabitants of the parish of Westmoreland in the 
island of Jamaica, of cruelty tov/ards the labouring class of the popula- 
tion of that parish, which were published in certain newspapers of the 
United Kingdom, and of which charges, Mr. G. H. Smith, the Comp- 
troller of bis Majesty's customs, and residing in Westmoreland, has 
admitted himself to be the author. 

" 4. Proceedings of a Council of Protection, held on Thursday the 
l4th day of January, 1830, at the Court House at Savanna-la-Mar, in 
the parish of Westmoreland, to inquire into the manner in which a cer- 
tain girl slave, named Juliana, in the possession of Eleanor Whitehead, 
of the said parish, tavern keeper, lost the sight of her right eye, and 
which said slave was committed to the workhouse of the said parish for 
maintenance and protection, and not to be worked, by justices Hardin, 
Pinnock, and M'Cail. 

" 5. The examination, on oath, of Mr. Smith, before the House of 
Assembly, on Tuesday, February 9, 1830. And 

" 6. The Report of the Committee of Inquiry, appointed by the 
House of Assembly to investigate the case, dated February 13, 1830." 

The former part of the first sentence of the pamphlet, coming from 
such a quarter as it does, must not be overlooked. It runs thus, 
" Without mooting the question of slavery in the abstract, upon which 
there cannot be tivo opinions." There is an ambiguity in the wording 
of it which renders it susceptible of two constructions diametrically op- 
posed to each other. The one is, that slavery is so notoriously repugnant 
to nature, reason, justice, humanity, and religion, as to be utterly inde- 
fensible, and that no one can think he has a right to hold his fellow 
creatures in bondage. If this be the right construction, (and it seems 
to be the obvious meaning of the words,) the West Indians are self- 
condemned of pertinaciously struggling to uphold a system, the moral 
turpitude of which they cannot conceal from themselves, and no longer 
venture to deny : interest, then, is the Moloch whose altar in the West 
Indies towers above the altar of God, on which myriads of human beings 
are daily immolated, without a sigh of pity or a pang of remorse. The 
other construction is, that the right which one man has to acquire an 
absolute and permanent property in another, and make him his slave, is 
so consonant to nature and reason, so consistent with justice and huma- 
nity, and so clearly sanctioned by revelation, that no one can entertain 
a doubt of the lawfulness of slavery. That is to say, that the strong 
may prey on the weak, get possession of their persons, and deprive them 
of their liberty and property. If this be what is meant, the pamphlet 



Letter of a Correspondent. 303 

begins with an intentional falsehood ; for the authors of it know that 
public opinion in this country indignantly denies the existence of such 
a right, and a suspicion naturally arises that the words were artfully 
chosen to entrap the unwary reader, and instil into him a prejudice in 
favour of the equity and humanity of the West Indians, to bias his judg- 
ment before they opened the case, on the merits of which they request 
him to decide, and they wish him to confine his attention to its intrinsic 
merits, and to put the general principle entirely out of sight. A verdict 
given against Mr. Smith under such circumstances, however it might 
sully his character, would not whiten theirs, for two blacks do not make 
a white. Let us, however, investigate the case on its intrinsic merits. 
] . The letter which Mr. Smith wrote to his brother was a private 
communication, not intended to meet the public eye. His brother, 
thinking the pubhcation of it would serve the cause of justice and hu- 
manity, procured its insertion in the Dublin Evening Mail, and it after- 
wards appeared in the Morning Chronicle of London, of October 8, 
1829, with the following title prefixed to it. 
" Cruelties of West Indian Slavery at this moment, by an eye-witness." 
The contents of the letter may be arranged under the following heads : 

1. What Mr. Smith actually saw, viz. A negro woman indecently and 
unmercifully flogged ; the drivers armed with their whips in the fields ; 
then a description of that tremendous instrument of torture, the whip, 
and of parties of negro women, almost in a state of nudity, washing 
clothes in the narrow, shallow rivers, which frequently intersect the 
roads ; and lastly the fact that Sunday markets are not abolished. 

2. What he was told by a girl slave, named Juliana, by Mr. Fraser, 
and by Mr. Evelyn, and 

3. What he copied from Mr. Stephen's work on West India Slavery. 

Mr. Smith is evidently a humane, but nerveless man, easily intimi- 
dated. The style in which his letter to his brother was written, and the 
circumstances it detailed, betrayed the writer. It was copied from the 
Morning Chronicle into the " Watchman and Jamaica Free Press." In 
his letter to Mr. Evelyn, he says, " Messrs, Valentine and Fraser called 
on me with it, to know if I was the author of it. I, of course, immedi- 
ately acknowledged that I was, but that it was never intended for the 
public eye, and, on perusing it, that it was incorrect in many points. 
You may be sure I am not much pleased with my clerical brother in- 
serting my letter to him, with his own alterations, as I shall have the 
whole island in arms against me, as the parties here are so indignant, 
and will write of course by this post, giving me up as the author. I do 
not expect it will end here, as Valentine and Fraser seem much hurt ; 
however, I do not hesitate in saying that the principal part, alluding to 
the latter, (Eraser,) is incorrect." — " Hov/ever, I do not by any means 
disavow being the author, expunging some sentences and allusions; but 
I must again repeat, I never had the most distant idea of my brother 
giving it publicity. But now that he has done so, 1 further disavow 
meaning the least offence to any individual ; but what 1 said was against 
the system of slavery in general." He adds, in a postscript, " If you 
would approve of it, (and I hope I am not asking too much of you to be 
my friend on this occasion,) I don't think there would be any thing 
like implicating my honour, in your giving publicity, as from me, to some- 



304 Case of Lieutenant Smith. 

thing like the following ; stating that two gentlemen of the town had 
just called on me, to know if I was the author of the paragraph alluded 
to. On casting my eye over it I immediately admitted that I was, but 
on perusing it through, I totally disavowed many allusions therein, but 
that it was never intended to get publicity, and that no offence was 
meant individually, but what I said was against slavery itself." 

This letter, -which was written to Mr. Evelyn immediately after Va- 
lentine and Fraser had called on him, discovers great alarm ; for he 
says, " / shall have the whole Island in arms against me," and " / do 
not expect it will end here." He was anxious to extricate himself 
from the difficulty in which the publication of his letter to his brother 
had involved him ; he, probably, apprehended the loss of the lucrative 
situation which he held in the Customs, and the ruin of himself and his 
family. A court of protection was held to inquire into the case of Juliana; 
and a committee was appointed, by the House of Assembly, to inquire 
into the charges of cruelty against the inhabitants of Westmoreland. 
Public and private hostility were excited, and legal and legislative bddies 
put in motion against him. Whichever way he looked he beheld a foe; 
no one would befriend the friend of the negroes, and he probably recol- 
lected the fate of the injured Smith of Demerara. He was not a missio- 
nary, and he had not a martyr's spirit; he trembled at the dangers which 
surrounded him ; his courage failed ; and when he stood at the bar of 
the House of Assembly he 'partially recanted what he had written to his 
brother. He did not confess, as the author of the pamphlet asserts, 
that his whole statement was a fabrication and a falsehood. He says, 
that when he wrote the letter to his brother, as published in the Morn- 
ing Chronicle, he had little or no means of information, relative to the 
character and conduct of the white inhabitants of Jamaica, towards their 
slaves on plantations, either their own property, or that of persons in 
England whom such inhabitants represent as their attorneys or agents : 
his opinion was formed from the statement oi another. He feels it an 
act of justice to acknowledge that he was deceived. He viewed the 
character and actions of the white inhabitants with a jaundiced eye; 
being prejudiced against them by one whom he did not conceive could 
have misled him as he certainly had done. Since he had acquired the 
means of forming his own judgment, he was satisfied that the charges 
made against the managers of plantations in perpetrating or suffering 
cruelty were groundless. Had not his mind been warped against the 
parishioners of Westmoreland he would not have written the letter before 
referred to, and since he had found his error he had written to correct 
it. He never intended the letter, which was inserted in the Morning 
Chronicle, for publication ; but as innocent individuals had been injured 
by it, he felt it due to them to make the only atonement in his power, 
by acknowledging his error in adopting the statements of another as 
facts, without waiting the result of his own experience. 

This recantation appeased the wrath of the House of Assembly, and 
the storm which had lowered over Mr. Smith passed away, not harm- 
lessly indeed, for it stripped him of much honour, though it left him in 
possession of his office, and the ernoluments connected with it. But let 
us examine it closely, and compare it with Mr. Smith's letter to his 
brother, that we may see whether it amounts to a confession tha,t his 



Letter of a Correspondents 305 

whole statement is a fabrication and a falsehood. It will be found 
that the charge of fabrication and falsehood recoils, with no small vio- 
lence, on those who have made so baseless an assertion, and confidently 
and unblushingly proclaimed it to the world. The House of Assembly 
and its Committee have shewn themselves skilful tacticians, for though 
they attacked some parts of Mr. Smith's letter with great violence, and 
boast of the total discomfiture of their intimidated adversary ; they con- 
tented themselves with driving back a piquet, and cutting off a straggler, 
but are so far from having made a breach in the intrenchments, that 
they have not ventured to plant a cannon against them. 

1 . Mr. Smith says in his letter to Mr. Evelyn that his letter to his 
brother, as published in the Morning Chronicle, and copied into the 
Watchman and Jamaica Free Press, was " incorrect in many points." 
" You may be sure I am not much pleased with my clerical brother, 
inserting my letter to him, with his own alterations, as I shall have the 
whole Island in arms against me." " However I do not, by any means, 
disavow being the author, expunging some sentences and allusions." 
Of these alterations Mr. Smith's brother, and the Editor of the Morning 
Chronicle, give the following account: — 

" The following extracts," (says the editor) " are from a letter recently 
received from a gentleman in Jamaica, by his brother, a clergyman in 
this country, by whom it is authenticated : only a few trifiing verbal 
alterations have been made." — Blanks were left for the names of per- 
sons and places, and here and there perhaps a word or part of a sen- 
tence altered, which as it was originally written would have exhibited 
the writer too clearly. The intention was to throw a veil over Mr. Smith, 
not to conceal truth, or display falsehood. But the veil was too thin, his 
features were recognised through it ; a proof that his letter was private 
and confidential, not intended for the public eye, and aftording a strong 
argument that what he declared he had seen and heard was strictly true, 
for he could have no interest, nor any imaginable motive to deceive and 
mislead his brother. And it is remarkable, that he never specified, or 
offered to specify the alterations which his brother had made in his let- 
ter, to appease or soften the anger that was kindled against him ; nor 
did Mr. Valentine, or Mr. Eraser, or the Council of Protection, or the 
House of Assembly, though both of them examined him, desire him to 
point them out. 

They eagerly catch at the words " By an eye witness," which are 
part of the heading to the letter in the Morning Chronicle. The letter, 
as has been before observed, narrates facts which Mr. Smith had wit- 
nessed, and information which he had received from others. But it 
did not suit the West Indians to separate the one from the other, 
though they could not but perceive the difference. If the Committee 
had distinguished them they must have investigated the facts, and 
either confessed or denied them in the report which they made to the 
House of Assembly. The former they would not, the latter they could 
not do, they therefore prudently overlooked the facts, confined them- 
selves to the information, and reported in general terms, that Mr. Evelyn 
" had given a succinct and direct negative to the charges," and that 
Mr. Smith had " declared on oath before the Committee that his accu- 
sations were untrue, and that lliey arose from his having been misled 



306 Case of Lieutenant Smith, 

by art individual, iit whom he reposed unaccustomed confidence;" and 
it is added, " By implication, he accuses Mr. Evelyn (his only associate) 
of having deceived him by false information." Is it not somewhat extra- 
ordinary, that when the House of Assembly asked Mr. Smith whether he 
had any objection to state who his informant was, by whom he said he was 
so misled, they did not press the question on his objecting to answer it ? 
The author of the calumnies (if the West Indians were calumniated,) 
was more criminal than the unsuspecting retailer of them, and thebusiness 
could not be thoroughly sifted without ascertaining the author, and inter- 
rogating him as to what he had said to Mr. Smith, and his reasons for 
saying it. And it is still more extraordinary that the Committee ap- 
pointed to inquire into the charges, though they examined Mr. Evelyn 
at considerable length, and reported that Mr. Smith, " by implication, 
accused Mr. Evelyn, (his only associate) of having deceived him by 
false information ;" they did not once ask him whether he had given 
Mr. Smith any and what information respecting the circumstances and 
morals of the West Indians, and their treatment of their slaves. The 
examination of Mr. Evelyn, and indeed all the proceedings, are marked 
by extreme caution. There is a line to which the Committee and the 
House of Assembly advance, but which they do not venture to pass. 
They raise a great alarm about some parts of the letter, but on other 
parts they maintain a wary and invincible silence. 

Mr. Smith's letter to his brother greatly offended the West Indians, 
by the terms in which he spoke of them ; and by the facts he detailed 
respecting the treatment of the slaves. He says, " You will be as 
much surprised as I was myself on coming, to hear that we did not 
find a single respectable person, except the Collector (Mr. Evelyn,) 
who is a countryman, in the whole town or neighbourhood, so that 
you will say we are well oflF in respect to society." " The owners of 
an estate, or rather the mortgagees of it, for all the estates are mort- 
gaged, do not one in a hundred reside on their properties ; but invari- 
ably take up their abode in a more genial climate, preferring half their 
income at home to residing in such a country. In these instances they 
delegate their power to what are here designated attornies, something 
like agents at home, with this difference, that they are intrusted with a 
thousand times greater authority and power." — The attornies, mana- 
gers, overseers, and drivers, " all possess and exercise the tremendous 
power— for such it truly is — of inflicting on the slaves, who are under 
their government, whether male or female, the punishment of the cart- 
^bip." — " The drivers make it subservient to the gratification of their 
employer's sensual appetites, by applying the whip to the removal of 
any impediment that may arise, even should it be a wretched mother 
trying to shield a yet more wretched daughter from the lust of such 
merciless brutes."—" It is impossible," he adds, " to give you an idea 
of the dreadful depravity of the whole of the white population, with 
scarcely a single exception. — They oppose to the utmost of their power, 
(which over their slaves is unbounded) every thing in the shape of reli- 
gion, turning it on all occasions into contempt and mockery," and " it 
is quite a rare sight to see one of the white population at church ; one 
or two ladies occasionally, but the gentlemen never." 

It i? not surprising that such severe animadversions on the character 



Letter of a Correspondent. 307 

and conduct of the West Indians should excite their anger, for the inno- 
cent are indignant at being calumniated, and the guilty vexed and 
mortified at having their vices detected and exposed. He says, in his 
examination before the House of Assembly, that these opinions were 
formed from the statements of another, and that since he has acquired the 
means of forming his own judgment, he is satisfied that the charges 
made against the managers of plantations, as perpetrating or suffering 
cruelty, are groundless. He recants his opinions formed on the infor- 
mation of another, but he does not retract his statement of facts which 
came under his own kno^vledge, and the House of Assembly does not 
venture to ask him to retract them. He pleads guilty of credulity, not 
of falsehood ; they record his plea, and though they bring forward no 
evidence to convict him of what he denies, they have the effrontery to 
say that he confessed on oath that his whole statement is a fabrication 
and a falsehood. 

Let us now proceed to the case of Juliana, which Mr. Smith describes 
in the following words : " In the house we live in there is a very inter- 
esting little girl of about 18 years of age, who has lost an eye by the 
blow of a whip from her mistress, but you may be sure not since I have 
been here.'' In consequence of the publication of this letter, a Court 
of Protection was held on Thursday the 14th day of January, 1830, at 
the Court house of Savanna-la-Mar, in the parish of Westmoreland, to 
inquire into the manner in which a certain girl slave, named Juliana, in 
the possession of Eleanor Whitehead, of the said parish, tavern-keeper, 
lost the sight of her right eye, and which said slave was committed to 
the workhouse of the said parish, for maintenance and protection and 
not to be worked, by justices Hardin, Pinnock and M'Cail." Juliana 
stated to the council, that she was sent by her mistress to her house in 
the Bay, for a flannel jacket, and did not return till the following morn- 
ing. It does not appear how far Miss Whitehead's two houses were dis- 
tant from each other, nor at what hour the girl was sent for the jacket. 
On her return her mistress flogged her with a cat of six tails, and when 
running from the lick, the end of the cat licked her in the eye, and a 
little film grew over it, but after that she could see out of it, and was 
sent out to needle work. A long time after, she and Massa Willie were 
playing together ; he had a black jacket with brass buttons, and as they 
were playing, she was teazing him and running from him, he took the jacket 
and went to lick her, and one of the buttons licked her in the same eye, 
and she has been blind ever since. — Antoinette Leslie Bell, for whom 
she went to work, and Margaret Tate, who was in the habit of seeing 
her frequently, two free persons of colour, contradicted each other; 
Tate says that her eye was not bad at all until she was struck by the 
button, and Bell that she had a failing in her eye. Mr. Smith deposed 
on oath, that " he asked the girl how she lost her eye ; she told him it 
was from the lick of a whip from her mistress." He further deposes, 
" I heard from many persons, and on one occasion particularly from 
Mr. Fraser, when I asked him if it really was the case, that Miss White- 
head had put the girl's eye out, and he said it was too true." Mr. 
Fraser, who went to live at Miss Whitehead's house in 1826, says, " he 
thinks he told Mr. Smith that the girl had received an accidental blow 
from her mistress but that he never said any thing to Mr. Smith to in- 



308 Case of Lieutenant Smith. 

duce him to believe that it had occurred otherwise than accidentally.; 
The girl was in the habit of i playing with Miss Whitehead's children." 
Mr, Smith concluded his deposition by saying, " my private sentiments 
are that it was accidental," and Juliana said, in answer to a question, 
"was your mistress good to you? Yes." — The Council were " unanimously 
of opinion that there were no grounds for instituting any proceedings 
against Eleanor Whitehead in the above matter." 

1. There can be no doubt that the poor girl received a severe blow 
in the eye from her mistress, which injured it considerably, and occa- 
sioned a film to grow over it, though she afterwards recovered the use 
of it; and though the immediate cause of the loss of sight was the blow 
which she received from one of the buttons of Massa Willie's jacket, the 
blow that she received from her mistress, whether intentional or acci- 
dental, might have induced a weakness which rendered the second stroke 
more injurious to her than it would otherwise have been. 

2. When this unfortunate child's eye was diseased so that blindness 
ensued, Miss Whitehead did not nurse her; it does not appear that she 
had any surgical attendance, but was committed by three justices to the 
workhouse, which partakes of the nature of a jail, and is at once an 
hospital for the sick, and a prison for the profligate. So much for 
West Indian humanity, and the kind treatment of the slaves. This fact 
is established by an official document, which the West Indians them- 
selves send forth to the world. 

3. The answer of Juliana to the leading question, " was your mistress 
good to you?" to which she replied, "yes," is not conclusive evidence 
that Miss Whitehead was really good to her ; and the circumstance of 
this afflicted child being sent to such a place as a West Indian work- 
house, argues little in favour of the tenderness of her heart. It would 
have been unsafe for the poor girl to have said that her mistress was 
not good to her, for she was to go from the Court to her mistress's 
house, where she would have soon felt the effects of her displeasure, if 
she had said any thing to offend her. 

4. Nor does the circumstance of Miss Whitehead having children 
in her house, and publicly acknowledging them as her own, (for Mr. 
Fraser's words imply nothing less,) yet retaining the appellation of Miss, 
and enjoying the patronage of respectable persons, who lodged in her 
house, and by so doing countenanced her, give us a favourable opinion 
of West Indian morality. In England when a woman owns her illegiti- 
mate children, she boldly proclaims herself a prostitute, in which case 
she is openly shunned by those who have any regard for public decency 
and for their own characters, and those who visit her do it by stealth ; 
or she goes where her shame is not known, takes the title of mistress, 
and calls herself a widow. 

Let us now investigate the facts which Mr. Smith states from his own 
knowledge, and which are so far from being disproved that they are not 
even denied. 

1 . He describes the whip with which the slaves are flogged. " It 
consists of a short handle, with a thick and strongly plaited whip, of 
about three yards long, formed either of rope as hard as iron, or of a 
strip of dried hide, the lash of it being made of the fibres of a plant 
paraed penguin, in appearance like the finest flax; when twisted up and 



Letter of a Correspondent. 309 

kn6tted^ it becomes as bard as steel, and will cut like a razor." The 

effect of tbe whip he thus describes. " The proprietor of the 

here, and who lives, I am sorry to say, under the same roof with us, 
but you may be sure not in the same apartment, takes great credit to 
himself for being possessed of no small portion of humanity, as he told 
me the other day, when reasoning with him on the dreadful system of 
flogging, that he had given directions to the drivers not to cut the 
negroes, on pain of being laid down and flogged themselves, for when 
inflicting this torture they are always extended on the ground. But 
you must observe, cutting does not merely mean drawing blood, and 
fleecing off the skin, for those are the effects of almost every lash on the 
naked body with this instrument, however leniently applied ; but it 
means cutting into the very muscles and flesh below." 

2. He gives the following dreadful account of the flogging of a female 
slave. " It was only the day before yesterday, when writing, that I 
heard the noise of that dreadful instrument, the whip, which so often 
grates on my ears, proceed from a back yard, each crack of it being fol- 
lowed by an agonizing groan that would have touched a heart of adamant. 
In hopes of begging off the miserable creature, whoever it might be, I 
went there, but, gracious God ! what an appalling sight did I behold ! 
a wretched woman extended on the ground, with her clothes tied up to 
her waist; a powerful negro man, upwards of six feet high, a driver from 
the workhouse, (who has to deal there with the worst characters) 
lacerating her flesh ; and this disgusting and abominable sight, directed 
and superintended by a mother and her daughter; the poor miserable 
slave herself the mother of eleven children, nine of whom are living, 
and a grown up daughter of her own one of the spectators. And what 
think you was the poor woman's crime? The poor wretch had left 
some things before the fire to dry, belonging to her mistress, and having 
placed them too near the fire, in her absence they were burnt: the 
whole of them were not worth five shillings." 

As a specimen of the callous indifference with which the West In- 
dians regard the tortures that are inflicted on the negroes, Mr. Smith 
goes on to state, that on the evening of the day on which the poor 
woman had been so indecently and barbarously flogged, he walked up 
to the Collector of the Customs, Mr. Evelyn, to drink tea, and hap- 
pened to mention to him what he had witnessed that day, and asked 
him if he could not take the woman before a magistrate. " There was 
a lady present, (hardly deserving the epithet) and a namesake, the wife 
of an attorney, and possessing 150 slaves, who hearing me state the 
circumstance and ask the question, in the most unfeeling and brutal 

manner said, what Mr. Avould you prevent the woman doing what 

she pleased with her own ? But what think you was the worthy 

(Mr. Evelyn's) advice? he said, I might have the woman taken before a 
magistrate, but perhaps I might find him committing the same act on 
one of his own slaves, and therefore not likely to give much redress." 
Mr. Evelyn does not deny having said so. When that part of Mr. 
Smith's letter which related it was read to him, he answered, " with 
regard to what is alleged to have taken place at my house, I cannot at 
this distance of time particularly remember; however, I remember Mr. 
Smith's complaining that a woman had been severely flogged in a yard 



310 Case of Lieutenant Smith. 

opposite to the tavern where he then lodged, and I also remember that 
I told him we could and would bring the matter before the magistrates, 
if he, from his own knowledge, had seen enough of the excess of 
punishment, either as to the severity, or the number of the lashes in- 
flicted ; but after much conversation on the subject, I was impressed 
with the idea that he knew nothing more of the matter than the mere 
hearing of the woman's cries could inform him ; and therefore I was 
decidedly of opinion that it would be most ridiculous to go before a 
magistrate, and when there, be found to have no sufficient ground or 
information to go upon." — If application had been made to a magis- 
trate on the following day, (the day after the flogging) when her 
lacerated flesh was raw and her wounds unhealed, the inspection of 
her person would have shewn the severity of her punishment. Mr. 
Evelyn's advice not to interfere in her behalf proves either the defective- 
ness of the law, if magistrates could not compel the production of the 
slave, for the purpose of having her examined ; or the unwillingness of 
the magistrates to act on behalf of the slaves, and extend to them the 
protection and redress which the law allows them ; or that Mr. Evelyn 
was not possessed of common humanity ; or that he was afraid of 
provoking the resentment of the West Indians by espousing ihe cause 
of an injured tortured slave against her merciless owner. Perhaps it 
proves all this. The Council of Protection took no notice of this strong 
and recent outrage; the House of Assembly did not question Mr. Smith 
about it, though they called him before them ; a committee, indeed asked 
Mr. Evelyn, who was not a spectator of the melancholy sight, what 
truth there was in the whole of the statement, — they took his heartless 
answer, and coolly proceeded to interrogate him about something else. 
Neither the smallness of the offence, nor the severity of the punish- 
ment, are denied. 

3. He states " that the roads are frequently intersected by narrow 
shallow rivers, at which parties of negro women are at almost all times 
to be seen, washing clothes, their bodies quite naked, with merely some- 
thing wrapped, round their loins, and thus are exposed to full view the 
crowded and callous scars of repeated punishments." The committee 
after reading this paragraph to Mr. Evelyn, desire him to " state 
whether the women are compelled to this exposure" (thereby admitting 
that they are so exposed) " and whether he has witnessed the crowded 
and callous scars of the repeated punishments which Mr. Smith men- 
tions?'' To which he replies, " the washerwomen are certainly to be 
seen in the rivers near all towns in this country, nearly half naked, and. 
I believe not from being compelled to do so ; but as to the scars they 
have, I know nothing." He does not deny their being scarred, he only 
says he knows nothing about it. This answer, cautious and guarded as 
it is, proves either that their owners do not provide the female slaves 
with proper clothing ; or that these unfortunate women are in the lowest 
state of moral degradation, destitute of modesty, the brightest ornament 
of their sex, and that no pains are taken by their owners to teach them the 
first principles of virtue ; or that the magistrates are not the faithful 
guardians of public morals. Perhaps it proves these three points. 

4. He says, "That having obtained permission to visit an estate, he 
found on going to it the negroes all nicely dressed, not a whip, or cat- 



Letter of a Correspondents 31,1 

o-nine tails was to be seen, and every thing in the nicest order ;" but 
that " some days after when the miUtia had to muster, at which all the 
white people on an estate are obliged to attend, he took advantage of 
their absence and drove out again, and then he saw every driver armed 
with his whip." — The practice of the drivers carrying their whips in the 
field is not disputed. 

5. He asserts that, " Sunday here is the day of business ; not even 
yet is one of the markets abolished on that day, although the Speaker 
of the House of Assembly and another of its members are inhabitants 
of the place. The poor slaves themselves would most gladly devote 
that day to other and better purposes, — but their inhuman and unchris- 
tian overseers will not allow them any other time to procure the 
necessaries of life." — Nor is the truth of this statement disputed. 

The examination of Mr. Evelyn before the committee of the House 
of Assembly occupies nearly one-fourth of the pamphlet, and as great 
importance is attached to it, for the committee report to the House that 
" Mr. Evelyn has given a succinct and direct negative to the charges of 
Mr. Smith ;" it is intitled to more particular attention than it has yet 
received. He says, almost at the outset, " my office is so peculiarly 
situated in this country, that I have always considered it incumbent on 
me not to interfere, and to inquire as little as possible, into the transac- 
tions connected loith the general system of the country ; and I con- 
sider that Custom House officers should feel it to be their duty to 
interfere as little as possible with its affairs," 

Mr. Evelyn is determined, by his own confession, to use a homely 
phrase, to keep himself to himself, to be on good terms with his white 
neighbours, and to leave the wretched negroes to their fate. He has 
eyes, but he will not see their sufferings ; he has ears, but he will not 
hear their cries ; and it would not avail the wretched sufferers if he 
did, for he publicly declares that it is " ridiculous'' to consider the 
violence of the cries of a negro under the lash as affording such pre- 
sumptive proof of excessive punishment, as to induce a person to go 
before a magistrate to have the circumstances of the case investigated. 
What regard would be due to his evidence if it were decidedly 
favourable to the West Indians ? But of what nature is it ? purely 
negative; not negativing from his own knowledge the facts which Mr. 
Smith stated, but only declaring his ignorance of them : and the very 
few facts which he does state, make as strongly against the present 
system of West Indian slavery as can well be imagined. He says, " he 
has no knowledge of the drivers being made subservient to the grati- 
fication of their employers, by employing the whip for the removal of any 
impediment that may arise, even should it be a wretched mother trying 
to shield a yet more wretched daughter from the lust of such merciless 
brutes ;" he never heard a single instance of it ; he should hope and 
believe Mr. Smith had not. " He never heard the expression of cutting 
before." " He had never, that he remembers, immediately and closely 
witnessed a flogging. He does not believe that when Mr. Smith visited 
an estate by permission, the negroes were dressed to meet his inspec- 
tion. He believes the magistrates would not permit any man with 
impunity to violate the provisions of the slave laws, on complaint being 
made to them ; and he knew of one fact where an overseer was fined 



312 Case of Lieutenant Smith. 

£20 for putting a light collar on a notorious runaway, without the 
authority of a magistrate. He does not know of any influence 
used by the managers and owners of slaves to prevent them at- 
tending public worship at church." The question that was put to 
him respecting Sunday markets he dexterously evades. He says 
" this question can be answered by a reference to the law, which 
/ believe is generally adhered to." " He never heard of any act , 
of excessive flogging which was not visited by some punishment, 
either at the hands of the magistrate, or of the attorney or owner of 
the slave." As Mr. Evelyn would know nothing about the general 
system of the country that he could help knowing, nothing would 
come to his knowledge but what was matter of such public notoriety 
that he could not be ignorant of it ; that is to say, when the perpetra- 
tor of an atrocious act of cruelty was punished for his barbarity, he 
knew that an atrocious act of cruelty had been perpetrated. His con- 
fession, that the negroes are sometimes punished excessively, proves 
that the penalty on conviction is too trifling to prevent the commission 
of the offence ; or that the magistrates are criminally remiss in not levy- 
ing it ; or that the difficulty of convicting an offender is so great, that 
the law is a dead letter. Yet Mr. Evelyn does not blush to swear that 
" he believes the slaves are in a better state, more comfortable, and 
more attended to, than the peasantry and lower classes of society in the 
countries with which he is in any wise acquainted." 

The most sanguine advocate of emancipation could not have antici- 
pated that the West Indians would have sent into the world a pam- 
phlet which pleads so powerfully on behalf of the cause that interests 
the best and warmest feelings of' the hearts of the best and wisest part 
of the community. Where was the sagacity of the legislators and the 
acuteness of the lawyers of Jamaica, that they did not foresee the in- 
jury which the publication of it would do them? Five facts are stated 
by Mr. Smith : he has not disowned them, nor has the House of As- 
sembly, or its Committee, nor the Council of Protection, denied, or at- 
tempted to explain them away, or soften them down, viz. That the 
cart-whip is a tremendous instrument of punishment — that the drivers 
carry it with them into the fields — that females are indecently stripped 
and publicly flogged with it — that women, almost in a state of nudity, 
are seen by the road side, near all the towns, washing — and that the 
Sunday markets for the slaves are not abolished. No impression has 
been made on the obdurate minds of the West Indians ; their inflexible 
dispositions have not yielded in the least, and their determination to 
perpetuate the bondage of the unfortunate negroes " till time shall be 
no longer," unless prevented by superior power, is too plainly mani- 
fested to admit of a reasonable doubt. If any thing be wanting to 
<iive a fresh impulse to the zeal of the Anti-Slavery Society, the scenes 
of oppression and woe which this pamphlet exhibits, will surely give it. 
The tear-swollen eyes of the wretched slaves are turned towards 
England, from whence are all their hopes, for the soil that produces 
the sugar-cane yields no hope to the wretched African. I trust my 
reverend brethren will answer the appeal that has been made to them, 
and " render too tardy justice" to the most " injured community" in 
the world, by throwing all the weight of their influence into the scale 



Anti-Slavery Reporter's Vindication. 313 

of justice and mercy, and will bind it on their congregations as a sacred 
duty which they owe to God and man, to put forth all their energies, 
and co-operate with them in " binding up the broken-hearted, proclaim- 
ing liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that 
are bound." 

I am, Sir, a sincere well-wisher to yourself and to the cause which 
you so zealously advocate, 

Clericus. 



The Circular Letter on which our reverend Correspondent has so 
ably and satisfactorily commented, consists of a transcript from the 
West Indian Reporter, No. XXX., to which we have already given a 
conclusive reply, as far as we ourselves were concerned, in the Supple- 
ment to our 60th number for May 1830, p. 225 to 227. It would 
be hardly necessary therefore, for us to go over the same ground 
again, were it not that, notwithstanding that reply, which the issuers 
of this Circular have, with a laudable prudence, wholly omitted to 
notice, they have chosen to republish the following concluding sentence 
of the West India Reporter, every assertion in which we had, in the 
passage last referred to, completely refuted. — 

" Such'' it is said, " is the history of a transaction not indeed unpa- 
ralleled in the catalogue of calumny, but certainly distinguished in the 
degree in which it has been confuted and overthrown. Yet the over- 
throw of this deliberate fraud, signal as it has proved, is scarcely 
more conspicuous than was the confidence with which its absolute 
integrity was maintained. A publication called the Anti-Slavery 
Reporter, rushed forward in the cause with what would have been a 
perfect self-immolation, had not that publication already survived 
repeated convictions of mendacity. When the authenticity of Mr. 
Smith's letter was first impeached, upon its internal evidence of 
plagiarism from the obsolete work of Mr. Stephen; the Anti-Slavery 
Monthy Reporter boldly came to its support by the following declara- 
tion, — ' The extraordinary whoop about this unfortunate letter has led 
to enquiries which we should not otherwise have thought of making, 
and the result is a complete conviction of its genuineness.' 

" Those who have adopted the ' complete convictions' of this publi- 
cation as their own, are assuredly entitled to some apology from the 
guide who has misled them ; but those who have been injured by such 
implicit adoption of this and similar calumnies ask no other reparation 
than a cautious mistrust of such staitements for the future."* 

* The only assertions we made were, first, that the letter was not a forged but 
a geniiine letter, a fact which the Circular has " not confuted or overthrown" but 
confirmed ; and secondly, that Mr. Smith had truly depicted the state of slavery 
in Jamaica, and which we affirm is still substantially the same as wlien Mr. 
Stephen wrote his delineation. — As to fraud, we neither wrote nor publislied the 
letter in question, nor vouched for the truth of its particular statements, thou^jh 
we did, and still do, vouch for the appropriateness of its general description. 
— We spoke with confidence, not of its integrity, but only of its genuineness, and 
that point the Circular confirms ; we have therefore not misled our readers, and 
we have absolutely nothing to qualify or retract. 



314 Case of Lieutenant Smith. 

The extreme difficulty to which the West Indian party are reduced 
in defending their criminal system against the rising indignation of the 
public, has led them to the infatuated step of giving increased circula- 
tion to the present document, a document which, as our correspondent 
has well shewn, is of itself completely damnatory of that system. With 
a singular blindness to consequences, and an utter ignorance of the state 
of public feeling, they have hoped to revive their sinking cause by 
giving to it so extraordinary a degree of publicity, as must have in- 
curred an expence of at least a thousand pounds in sending it, as they 
have done, by post to every " officiating minister'' in the kingdom, to 
most also of the dissenting ministers, and to multitudes of persons 
besides. Under these circumstances we are grateful to our corres- 
pondent for having saved us the trouble we might otherwise have been 
obliged to take of exposing the artful and insidious manner in which 
this fallacious document has been got up, and especially the curious 
dexterity with which prominence is given in it to those circumstances 
which are the least material, while the real and substantial points of 
the question are suppressed or evaded. Our reverend friend has done 
this so effectually that we shall confine ourselves entirely to that part 
of the case on which he has not touched, we mean our own defence. 

When the letter of Lieutenant Smith first appeared in the Dublin 
Evening Mail, and was thence transcribed into various newspapers in 
this country, we regarded it as an unauthenticated statement, and ab- 
stained wholly from noticing it in our pages. So far were we from 
eagerly seizing upon it for the purpose of popular inflammation, that we 
maintained an absolute silence respecting it, until the Morning Journal 
and various other Pro-Slavery publications charged us with being its 
authors, and with having ourselves fabricated it for Anti-Slavery pur- 
poses. They affirmed that it was of English manufacture, and was 
actually the work of the Anti-Slavery Society itself. This slander was 
repeated in a variety of forms, the West Indian Reporter among the 
rest holding up the letter as a monstrous fabrication of the Anti-Slavery 
journalists. In order to repel this false and calumnious charge, we 
wrote to a friend in Dublin, through whom we obtained the most satis- 
factory proof of the genuineness of the letter; that is to say, that it was 
a letter written in Jamaica as it professed to be, and by a person who 
was actually residing in that Island. We were permitted even to inspect 
the original letter of Lieutenant Smith, and to collate it with the Mail, 
so as to ascertain that the transcripthad been fairly and honestly made : — 
a few expressions only were omitted which would have served to be- 
tray the writer. We deny therefore that the reverend gentleman who 
gave publicity to this letter, (which he did without any previous com- 
munication with us whatever, neither he nor his brother having been in 
the slightest degree known to us) is justly liable to the charge in- 
sinuated against him by his brother of having made "alterations," or 
of having added "sentences and allusions" to the original. There is 
no sentence or allusion in the printed letter which is not to be found 
in the original. That original, we presume, is still in existence, and 
may be referred to in confirmation of this fact. 

Having obtained such convincing proof of the genuineness of this 



Anti-Slavery Reporter's Vindieation. 315 

letter, we deemed it incumbent upon us to repel the charge of " mon- 
strous fabrication" which had been brought against us in several 
journals and periodical works. We therefore briefly remarked, in a 
paragraph of only ten lines, at the close of our number for November 
1829, (No. 54, p. 146,) that the charge of having forged this letter had 
led to inquiries which we should not otherwise have thought of mak- 
ing, and the result of which was " a complete conviction of its genuine- 
ness.'' In short, we had found it to be, what indeed the whole of the 
evidence taken in Jamaica proves it to have been, the genuine letter of 
a Lieutenant Smith residing in Jamaica, and not the work of any indivi- 
dual in this country. We added the further statement, and to that we 
still adhere, that the author of that letter, whatever may have been his 
other errors or inaccuracies, had " painted the slavery of Jamaica in 
true colours." We nevertheless did not, therefore, take it upon us 
to affirm that Mr. Smith, though he might paint truly, had narrated 
faithfully ; and until that point also could be ascertained, we 
judged it right to make no use of his testimony. Not a single line 
of his letter therefore was transcribed into the Anti-Slavery Reporter, 
nor a single allusion made to any of the particular occurrences of 
which he professed to be the eye-witness. All we did was to state 
that the letter was a real, not a forged or fabricated letter, and that the 
picture given in it of West Indian practices and manners was a lively 
resemblance of the original ; and this opinion we still maintain 
in the face of all the evidence which has been so ostentatiously ob- 
truded on the public. Without attempting to defend either the veracity 
or the consistency, or the firmness of Mr. Smith, we nevertheless affirm 
that he has succeeded in painting with much truth of colouring, and 
with unquestionable verisimilitude, scenes which are of daily occurrence 
in Jamaica. And whether it be the tremendous power of the cartwhip; or 
the indecent exhibitions of naked and scarred negroes ; or the cruel and 
disgusting inflictions of the lash to which the bared bodies of wretched 
women are frequently subjected; or the continuance of the brutal 
system of drivijig men, women, and children to their labour in the 
field by the whip ; or the uncontrolled power possessed by masters and 
managers of plantations, and the dreadful abuses to which that power 
is liable ; or the general disregard of religious observances and of 
moral restraints, and the general diffusion of licentious habits through- 
out the community ; or the universal desecration of the Sabbath to the 
purposes of marketing, and labour, and revelry; or the injurious effects 
of the non-residence of the mass of proprietors, and the consequent 
delegation of their despotic authority to hirelings ; — we affirm that 
there is not a single feature in this picture which has not in our pages 
been substantiated over and over again, and which we are not now 
ready to substantiate anew, beyond the possibility of denial ; and that, 
on the conclusive authority of the colonists themselves. 

We are happy to inform our readers that His Majesty's Government, 
in the exercise of their justice and clemency, have disallowed the con- 
solidated Slave law of Jamaica of 1829, with all its harsh provisions and 
persecuting enactments. 

LoadoH :-Bag3ter and Thorns, Printers, 14, Bartholomew.Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER. 



No. 64.] AUGUST, 1, 1830. [Vol. iii. No. 16. 

T. PROCEEDINGS OF PARLIAMENT ON THE SUBJECT OF COLO- 
NIAL SLAVERY— SPEECH AND REPLY OF MR. BROUGHAM 
—SPEECHES OF MESSRS. PROTHEROE, DOUGLAS, SMITH, 
AND HORTON, SIR G. MURRAY, MESSRS. CAVE, AND 
MANNING, SIR F. BURDETT, SIR R. PEEL, MR. TWISS, MR. 
BUXTON, AND SIR A. GRANT— CASE OF PERSECUTION- 
GENERAL ELECTION— BRISTOL— YORKSHIRE. 
II. CASE ILLUSTRATIVE OF JAMAICA SOCIETY AND MANNERS. 



1. — Proceedings in Parliament on the subject of 
Colonial Slavery. 

On the 1st of July Mr. Brougham presented to the House of Com- 
mons the petition from the Committee of the Anti-Slavery Society, 
(inserted in the Supplement to the Reporter, No. 61, p. 269) on which 
occasion he thus expressed himself: " Sir, I rise to present a petition, on 
a subject of the greatest possible importance, and one which does not 
derive that importance from circumstances of an adventitious nature ; 
but as the natural consequence of its own intrinsic weight. The 
subject matter of the petition which I hold in my hand, is slavery, 
with all its frightful consequences — -that system by which hundreds of 
thousands of the King's subjects, and of our fellow-creatures, are held 
in bondage within the dominions of his Majesty. This petition comes 
from a meeting, which was equalled by none that I ever saw, though 
nowise unaccustomed to public meetings, in numbers, weight, and perso- 
nal respectability. It consisted of persons of various sects, of opposite 
parlies, and of different classes, whom zeal and feeling in behalf of this 
cause called together. If I were to say that above two thousand per- 
sons, such as I have described, were assembled together on the great oc- 
casion, on which this petition was agreed to, and that the same number 
of persons entitled to the same description departed for want of accom- 
modation in the great ball in which the meeting was held, I should not 
exaggerate the account as to numbers; and as little should I exagge- 
rate if I said that I never attended at any public meeting, even when those 
composing it were the most likely to be aroused, as upon any question 
of religious controversy or political principle — even at such meetings, 
never did I see any thing like the exhibition of feeling, by which the 
persons who composed this meeting were apparently guided and im- 
pelled. The proceedings of that day were, in my mind, most interesting ; 
and when I look to the names affixed to this petition it becomes stilt 
more interesting. The first name is that of a most venerable person, 
one whose eloquence has often delighted this house, and the purity of 
whose private life would have rendered him distinguished, even if the 
importance of his public services had not given him a place amongst 
the greatest, as well as the most amiable benefactors of mankind. It 

2 7. ' 



318 Parliamentary Proceedings on Colonial Slavery. 

is scarcely necessary for me to name Mr. Wilberforce, whom I have 
already endeavoured, thoug-h faintly and imperfectly, to describe by his 
talents and his virtues. His name is the first, and in fit and meet con- 
junction with it is the name of Thomas Clarkson, one remarkable even 
amongst those the most distinguished for unwearied zeal and persever- 
ance in the cause of humanity. That gentleman, it is well known, has 
devoted his talents, his learning, and his untamable zeal in promoting the 
abolition of slavery. It is only necessary for me to say, that there are 
other names fit to follow those, who have been most appropriately 
chosen to lead in this petition. The petitioners approach this house in 
the language of respect; "but at the same time of calm remonstrance. 
They state that just seven years have elapsed since the resolutions of 
the 15th of May, 1823, respecting Colonial Slavery were unanimously 
adopted by this house, the only difi'erence of opinion then being, whether 
they went far enough ; and certainly, the only diiFerence at the meeting 
from which this petition emanated being, whether they now went far 
enough to meet the exigencies of the case. 

" The petition, after stating that hardly any of the measures recognised 
by the resolutions of May, 1823, have been adopted by the colonial 
legislatures, and have been imperfectly fulfilled even in those colonies 
where the crown could have dictated the adoption of such measures, 
naturally, in substance if not in words, takes the form of a remon- 
trance, and asks how long Parliament will suffer itself to be thus trifled 
with. After the repeated pledges given on this subject, the petitioners 
express their surprise — and they might have well expressed a stronger 
feeling —upon finding that the West India Committee at home had not 
scrupled to express its concurrence and approbation of the conduct of 
the local legislatures. The petitioners go on to state, that the measures 
proposed by Parliament for facilitating the manumission of slaves, 
have been adopted in any degree only in the crown colonies ; in the 
others not at all. In these also, even where a shew of admitting slave 
evidence, for example, is made, it is done so partially and ineffectively 
as to produce no benefit to the slave ; and although something has also 
ostensibly been done with respect to Sunday markets, in some of the 
chartered colonies, yet no time being allowed to the slave in lieu of Sun- 
day, what has been done is wholly inadequate and evasive. Besides 
which, in no one of the colonies, having legislatures of their own, have the 
steps been taken of putting an end to the flogging of females or to the 
u§e of the driving whip, or towards establishing the principle of the com- 
pulsory manumission of the slaves. — I abstain from entering further 
into detail on this mighty question, not differing with the petitioners as 
to its urgency, nor harbouring the slightest shadow of doubt that the 
time is arrived when this subject cannot be trifled with further. Acting 
on that impression, I have given notice of a specific proposition, which 
I am in hopes will enable the House to deal with this question before the 
end of the present session. I think this is due to the subject — to the 
colonies — to hundreds of thousands of our fellow subjects, suffering in 
unabated and unceasing bondage. It is due to ourselves who, seven 
long years ago, carried our recommendations to the foot of the Throne ; 
and it is due to the Crown itself which adopted the recommendations 



Speech of Mr. Brougham. 319 

of this House. Above all, Sir, it is due to our constituents, to the 
people of this country, who are deeply interested in the question; and 
I for one would not wish, indeed I could hardly venture to meet those 
whose confidence I desire most to enjoy, if 1 had not taken some step 
towards enabling this House to discuss the question of Negro Slavery 
before the conclusion of the present session. — On that occasion I 
would fain hope that this House will again raise its voice on behalf of 
the hundreds of thousands of our fellow creatures novv suffering in 
Slavery." 

On the 13th of July, Mr. Brougham brought forward the promised 
discussion, grounded on a motion pledging the House to proceed, at the 
earliest practicable period in the next session, to take into its serious 
consideration the mitigation and final abolition of Slavery, together 
with the amendment of the administration of justice in the slave 
colonies of Great Britain. 

This motion he prefaced with a speech to the following effect. — 
" Sir, — In rising to bring before the House a subject more momen- 
tous, in the eyes both of this country and of the world, than any that 
has occupied our attention during the whole of a long protracted session, 
I feel that I owe some apology for entering upon it at so late a day. I 
know too, that I am blamed in many quarters, for not postponing it till 
another session. But the apology which I am about to offer is, not for 
bringing it forward to-day, but for having delayed it so long; and I 
feel that I should be indeed without excuse ; that I should stand con- 
victed of a signal breach of public duty, to the character and the honour 
of the House, to the feelings and principles of the people, nay, to the 
universal feelings of mankind at large, by whatever names they may be 
called, into whatever families distributed, if I had not an ample defence 
to urge for having so long put off the agitation of this great question. 
Occurrences which happened at the commencement of the session, and 
the matters of pressing interest which attended its close, must plead my 
justification. Early in the year I had hoped that the Government 
would redeem the pledges which they gave me last session, and which 
then stayed my steps. I had expected to have the satisfaction of seconding 
a measure propounded by the ministers of the crown for improving the 
administration of justice in the colonies, and especially for amending 
the law which excludes the testimony of slaves. That those expecta- 
tions have been frustrated, that those pledges remain unredeemed, I 
may lament, but in fairness 1 am bound to say I cannot charge as matter 
of severe blame on the Government, because I know the obstacles of a 
financial nature, which have stood in the way of intentions sincerely 
entertained to provide a pure and efficient system of judicature for the 
West India islands. Until I saw that no such reforms could be looked 
for in that high quarter, I was precluded from undertaking the subject, 
lest my efforts might roar the work in hands far more able to execute it. 
This is my defence for now addressing you at the end of the parlia- 
mentary year ; but to imagine that I can hold my peace a moment 
longer, that I can suffer the parliament to be prorogued, and above all 
to be dissolved, and the country to be assembled for the choice of new 
representatives, without calling on the House for a solemn pledge whiph 



320 Parliamentary Proceedings on Colonial Slavery. 

may bind its successors to do their diity by the most defenceless and 
wretched portion of their fellow subjects, is so manifestly out of the 
question, that I make no apology for the lateness of the day, and disre- 
gard even- the necessary absence of many of the fastest friends of the 
cause,* and the general slackness of attendance incident to the season, 
as attested by the state of these benches, which might well dissuade me 
from going on. 

"And now, after the question of colonial slavery has for so many years 
been familiar to the House, and I fear still more familiar to the country, 
I would fain hope that I may dispense with the irksome task of dragging 
you through its details, from their multiplicity so overwhelming, from 
their miserable nature so afflicting. But 1 am aware that in the thres- 
hold of the scene, and to scare me from entering upon it, there stands 
the phantom of colonial independence, resisting parliamentary inter- 
ference, fatiguing the ear with the thrice-told tale of their ignorance 
who see from afar off, and pointing to the fatal issue of the American 
war. There needs but one steady glance to brush all such spectres 
away. That the colonial legislatures have rights — that their privileges 
are to be respected — that their province is not to be lightly invaded — 
that the parliament of the mother country is not without necessity to 
trench on their independence — no man more than myself is willing to 
allow. But when those local assemblies utterly neglect their first 
duties — when we see them from the circumstances of their situation 
prevented from acting — struggling in these trammels for an independent 
existence — exhausted in the effort to stand alone — and to move one step 
wholly unable; — when at any rate we wait for years, and perceive that 
they advance not by a hair's breadth, either because they cannot, or be- 
cause they dare not, or because they will not; — then to contend that we 
should not interfere — that we should fail in our duty because they do 
not theirs — nay, that we have no right to act, because they have no 
power or no inclination to obey us, would be not an argument, but an 
abomination, a gross insult to Parliament, a mockery of our privileges — 
for I trust that we too have some left — a shameful abandonment of our 
duty, and a portentous novelty in the history of parliament, the planta- 
tions, and the country. 

" Talk not of the American contest, and the triumph of the colonists ! 
Who that has read the sad history of that event (and I believe among 
the patriarchs of this cause whom I now address there are some who 
can remember that disgrace of our counsels and our arms), will say, 
that either the Americans triumphed, or we quailed, on one inch of the 
ground upon which the present controversy stands ? Ignorance the 
most gross, or inattention the most heedless, can alone explain, but can- 
not at all justify the use of such a topic. Be it remembered, and to set 
at rest the point of right, I shall say no more — let it not once be for- 
gotten that the supremacy of the mother country never for an instant 
was surrendered at any period of that calamitous struggle. Nay, in 

* He alluded to Sir J. Mackintosh, Dr. Lushington, Mr, Buxton, Mr. Sykes, 
Mr. W. Whitmore, and others, who were unavoidably absent on the occasion. 



Speech of Mr. Brougham. 321 

die whole course of it, a question of her supremacy never once was 
raised ; the whole dispute was rigorously confined to the power of taxing. 
All that we gave up, as we said voluntarily, as the Americans more 
truly said by compulsion, was the power to tax ; and by the very act 
which surrendered this power, we solemnly, deliberately, and unequivo- 
cally reasserted the right of the Parliament to give laws to the planta- 
tions in all other respects whatever. Thus speaks the record of history, 
and the record of our statute book. But were both history and the 
laws silent, there is a fact so plain and striking, that it would of itself 
be quite sufficient to establish the doctrine of parliamentary supremacy. 
I believe it may safely be affirmed, that on neither side of the water 
was there a man more distinguished for steady devotion to the cause of 
colonial independence, or who made his name more renowned by firm 
resistance to the claims of the mother country, than Mr. Burke. He 
was in truth throughout that memorable struggle the great leader in 
Parliament against the infatuated ministry, whose counsels ended in 
severing the empire: and far from abating in his opposition as the con- 
test advanced, he sacrificed to those principles the favour of his consti- 
tuents, and was obliged to withdraw from the representation of Bristol, 
which till then he had held. His speech on that occasion reaffirms the 
doctrines of American independence. But neither then nor at any 
other time did he ever think of denying the general legislative supre- 
macy of Parliament ; he only questioned the right of taxing the unre- 
presented colonies. But another fact must at once carry conviction to 
every mind. During the heat of the controversy, he employed himself 
in framing a code for the government of our sugar colonies. It was a 
bill to be passed into a law by the legislature of the mother country ; 
and it has fortunately been preserved among his invaluable papers. 
There is no minute detail into which its provisions do not enter. The 
rights of the slave, the duties of the master, the obligation to feed and 
clothe, the restriction of the power of coercion and punishment, all that 
concerns marriage and education and religious instruction, all that re- 
lates to the hours of labour and rest, — every thing is minutely provided 
for, with an abundance of regulation which might well be deemed ex- 
cessive, were not the subject that unnatural state of things which sub- 
jects man to the dominion of his fellow creatures, and which can only 
be rendered tolerable by the most profuse enactment of checks and 
controls. This measure of most ample interference was decreed by the 
most illustrious champion of colonial rights, the most jealous watchman 
of English encroachments. With his own hand he sketched the bold 
outline ; with his own hand he filled up its details ; with his own hand, 
long after the American contest had terminated, after the controversy 
on negro freedom had begun, and when his own principles touching the 
slave trade and slavery had bent before certain West India prejudices 
communicated by the party of the planters in Paris with whom he made 
common cause on revolutionary politics, — even then, instead of rejecting 
all idea of interference with the rights of the colonial assemblies, he de- 
livered over his plan of a slave code to Mr. Dundas, then Secretary for 
the colonies, for the patronage and adoption of himself and Mr. Pitt. I 
oflTer this fact as a striking proof that it is worse than a jest, it is an 



322 Parliamentary Proceedings on Colonial Slavery. 

unpardonable delusion, to fancy that there ever has existed a doubt of 
the right of Parliament to give the colonies laws. 

'* But I am told, that granting the right to be ours, we ought to shrink 
from the exercise of it when it would lead to an encroachment upon the 
sacred rights of property. I desire the House to mark the short and 
plain issue to which I am willing to bring this matter. I believe there 
is no man, either in or out of the profession to which I have the honour 
of belonging, and which over all others inculcates upon its children an 
habitual veneration for civil rights, less disposed than I am lightly to 
value those rights, or rashly to inculcate a disregard of them. But that 
renowned profession has taught me another lesson also ; it has im- 
printed on my mind the doctrine which all men, the learned and the 
unlearned, feel to he congenial vi^ith the human mind, and to gather 
strength with its growth — that law above and prior to all the laws of 
human lawgivers, for it is the law of God — that there are some things 
which cannot be holden in property, and above every thing else, that 
man can have no property in his fellow-creature. But I willingly avoid 
those heights of moral argument, where, if we go in search of first prin- 
ciples, we see eternal fogs reign, and " find no end in wandering mazes 
lost." I had rather seek the hunibler regions, and approach the level 
plain where all men see clear, where their judgments agree, and common 
feelings knit their hearts together ; and standing on that general level, 
I ask, what is the right which one man claims over the person of another, 
as if he were a chattel and one of the beasts which perish ? Is this that 
kind of property which claims universal respect, and is clothed in the 
hearts of all with a sanctity which makes it inviolable ? I resist the 
claim ; I deny the title : as a lawyer 1 demur to the declaration of the 
right ; as a man I set up a law superior in point of antiquity, higher in 
point of authority than any which men have framed — the law of nature ; 
and, if you appeal from that, I set up the law of the Christian dispensa- 
tion, which holds all men equal, and commands that you treat every 
man as a brother ! Talk to me not of such monstrous pretensions being 
decreed by acts of parliament, and recognised by treaties ! Go back a 
quarter of a century to a kindred contest, when a long and painful 
struggle ended in an immortal triumph. The self-same arguments were 
urged in defence of the slave trade. Its vindication was rested upon 
the rights of property, as established by laws and by treaties : the right 
to trade in men was held to be as clear then as the right to hold men in 
property is held to be clear now. For twenty-five years, I am ashamed 
to repeat, for twenty-five years, to the lasting disgrace of the Parliament, 
the African slave traflfic was thus defended ; and that which it was then 
maintained every one had a right to do, is now denounced by our laws 
as piracy, and whoso doeth it shall be hanged as a felon. 

" But 1 am next told, that be the right as it may, the facts are 
against me ; that the theory may be with those who object to slavery, 
but the practice is in favour of the system. The negroes are all well off, 
it seems; they are inured to the state in which they have been born 
and grown up ; they are happy and contented, and we shall only hurt 
them by changing their condition, which the peasantry of England are 
desired to regard with envy. I will not stoop to answer such out- 



A 



speech of Mr. Brougham. 323 

rageous assertions by facts or by reasons. I will not insult your 
understanding, by proving, that no slave can know happiness or 
comfort; that where a man is at the nod of another, he can know 
nothing of real peace or repose. But I will at once appeal to two 
tests ; to these I shall confine myself, satisfied that if they fail to de- 
cide the question, I may resort in vain to any arguments which philo- 
sophers can admit, or political economists entertain, or men of ordinary 
common sense handle. 

" The two tests or criteria of happiness among any people, which I 
will now resort to, are the progress of population, and the amount of 
crime. These, but the first especially, are of all others the most safely 
to be relied on. Every one who has studied the philosophy of human 
nature, and every one who has cultivated statesmanlike wisdom, which 
indeed is only that philosophy reduced to practice, must admit, that 
the principle implanted in our nature, which ensures the continuance of 
the species is so powerful, that nothing can check its operation but 
some calamitous state of suffering, which reverses the natural order of 
things. Wherever, then, we see the numbers of men stationary, much 
more when we perceive them decreasing, we may rest assured that 
there is some fatal malady, some fundamental vice in the condition of 
the community, which makes head against the most irresistible of all 
impulses. Now look to the history of the black population, both free 
and slave, in the Antilles. In the IBritish islands, excluding the island 
of Barbadoes, on a population of 670,000 slaves, there was a decrease 
of 31,500 in the six years which elapsed between 1818 and 1824; in 
Jamaica alone, upon the number of 330,000, a decrease of between 
8,000 and 9,000. But not so with the free men : although placed in 
circumstances exceedingly unfavourable to increase of numbers, yet 
such is the natural fruitfulness of the negro race that they rapidly mul- 
tiplied. The Maroons doubled between 1749 and 1782; and when 
great part of them were removed after the rebellion of 1796, those who 
remained increased in six years, from 1810 to 1816, no less than 18 
per cent. ; and in five years, from 1816 to 1821, 14 per cent. In 
North America, where they are belter fed, the negroes have increased 
in thirty years no less than 130 per cent. Look next to Trinidad: in 
the four years, from 1825 to 1829, the slaves have fallen off from 23,1 17 
to 22,436, notwithstanding a considerable importation ; being a decrease 
of at least a 34th, but probably of a 20th. But what has happened 
to the same race, and circumstanced alike as to climate, soil, food, in 
short every thing stive liberty? Nature has with them upheld her 
rights; her first great law has been obeyed; the passions and the 
vigour of man have had their course unrestrained ; and the increase of 
his numbers has attested his freedom. They have risen in the same 
four years, from 13,995 to 16,412, being a rate, when due allowances 
have been made for manumissions, which would double their numbers 
in twenty years ; the greatest rate at which population is in any cir- 
cumstances known to increase.* 



* We shall be alile to show, that even this frightful contrast, instead of being 
exaggerated, as was asserted 1)y IMr. K. Doiigbis, is below the mark. The de- 



324 Parliame7itary Proceedings on Colonial Slavery. 

" There cannot be a more appalling picture presented to the reflect- 
ing mind than that of a people decreasing in numbers. To him who 
can look beyond the abstract numbers, whose eye is not confined to 
the mere tables and returns of population, but ranges over the miseries 
of which such a diminution is the infallible symptom ; it offers a view 
of all the forms of wretchedness, suffering in every shape, privations 
in unlimited measure — whatever is most contrary to the nature of human 
beings, most alien to their habits, most averse to their happiness and 
comfort, — all beginning in slavery, the state most unnatural to man j 
consummated through various channels in his degradation, and leading 
to one common end, the grave. Show me but the simple fact, that 
the people in any country are regularly decreasing, so as in half a 
century to be extinct ; and I want no other evidence that their lot is 
that of the bitterest wretchedness; nor will any other facts convince me 
that their general condition can be favourable or mild. 

" The second general test to which I would resort for the purpose of 
trying the state of any community, without the risk of those deceptions 
to which particular facts are liable, is the number of crimes committed. 
In Trinidad, I find that the slaves belonging to plantations, in number 
16,580, appear by the records printed, to have been punished in two 
years for 11,131 offences ; that is to say, deducting the number of in- 
fants incapable of committing crimes, every slave had committed some 
offence in the course of those two years. It is true that the bulk of 
those offences, 7,644, were connected with their condition of bondage 
— refusing to work, absconding from the estate, insolence to their owner 
or overseer; all incidental to their sad condition, but all visited with 
punishment betokening its accompanying debasement. Nevertheless, 
other crimes were not wanting: 713 were punished for theft, or above 
350 in a year, on a number of about 12,000, deducting persons incapa- 
citated by infancy, age, or sickness, from being the subjects of punish- 
ment. Let any one consider what this proportion would give in Eng- 
land : it would amount to 350,000 persons punished in one year for 
larceny. In Berbice, on a population of 21,000, were 9,000 punish- 
ments ; no record being kept of those in plantations of six slaves or 
under : and in Demerara, of 61,000 plantation slaves, there were 
20,567 punished, of whom 8,461 were women. I cannot here with- 
hold from the House the testimony of the protector of slaves, to the 
happiness of their condition. ' I cannot,' says that judicious officer, 
' refrain from remarking on the contented appearance of the negroes ; 
and from the opportunities of judging which I have, I think that gene- 
rally they have every reason to be so.' I would not have this protector 
placed in the condition of the very happiest of this contented tribe, 

crease of the slaves in Trinidad, from 1818 to 1824, was 3868, or 2| per cent, 
per annum. The rate of decrease from 1825 to 1829, adding; the large importa- 
tion which took place, and deducting the number manumitted, in those years, 
will be found not to fall short of this ; while the increase of the free black and 
coloured population, during the same years, making due allowance for manumis- 
sions, appears to have proceeded at the rate of at least 3 per cent. — The decrease 
of 3 1, .500, mentioned above, ought to be 30,150, the increase in the Bahamas 
appearing not to have been deducted. — See A nti- Slavery Reporter, No, 20. p. 11, 



Speech of Mr. Brougham. 325 

whose numbers are hourly lessening, and whose lives, are spent in com- 
mitting crime and in receiving punishment. No, not for a day would 
I punish his error in judgment, by condemning him to taste the comforts 
which he describes, as they are enjoyed by the very luckiest of those 
placed under his protection. But such testimony is not peculiar to this 
officer. Long before his protectorate commenced, before he even came 
into this world of slavery and bliss, of bondage and contentment, the 
like opinion had been pronounced in favour of West Indian felicity., 

" 1 hold in my hand the evidence of lord Rodney, who swore before 
the Privy Council that he never saw an instance of cruel treatment ; — 
that in all the islands, ' and,' said his lordship, ' I know them all,' the 
negroes were better off in clothing, lodging, and food, than the poor at 
home, and were never in any case at all over-worked. Admiral Bar- 
rington, rising in ardour of expression, as he advanced in knowledge, 
declares that he has often wished himself in the condition of the slaves. 
Neither would I take the gallant admiral at his rash word, sanctioned 
though it be by an oath. I would not punish his temerity so severely 
as to consign him to a station, compared with which he would in four 
and twenty hours have become reconciled to the hardest fare in the 
most crazy bark that ever rocked on the most perilous wave ; or even 
to the lot which our Enghsh seamen are the least inured to — the most 
disastrous combat that ever lowered his flag in discomfiture and dis- 
grace. But these officers confined not their testimony to the condition 
of slavery ; they cast its panoply around the slave trade itself. They 
were just as liberal in behalf of the Guineaman, as of those whom his 
toils were destined to enrich. They gave just as Arcadian a picture of 
the slaver',s deck and hold, as of the enviable fields whither she was 
fraught with a cargo of happy creatures, designed by their felicitous 
destiny to become what are called the cultivators of those romantic re- 
gions. ' The slaves on board are comfortably lodged,' says one gallant 
officer, ' in rooms fitted up for them,' ' They are amused with instru- 
ments of music : when tired of music, they then go to games of chance.' 
Let the inhabitants or the frequenters of our club houses hear this and 
envy — those ' famous wits' to whom St. James's purlieus are ' native 
or hospitable :' let them cast a longing look on the superior felicity of 
their sable brethren on the middle passage. They toil not, neither do 
they spin, yet have they found for them all earthly indulgences ; food 
and raiment for nothing; music to charm the sense; and when, sated 
with such enjoyment, the mind seeks a change, games of chance are 
kindly provided by boon traffic, to stimulate the lazy appetite. ' The 
slaves,' adds the admiral, * are indulged in all their little humours.' 
Whether one of these caprices might be to have themselves tied up from 
time to time, and lacerated v/ith a scourge, he has omitted to mention. 
' He had frequently,' he says, ' seen them, and as happy as any of the 
crew, it being the interest of the officers and men to make them so.' 
But it is admiral Evans who puts the finishing stroke to this fairy pic- 
ture. ' The arrival of a Guineaman,' he says, ' is known in the West 
Indies by the dancing and singing of the negroes on board.' It is thus 
that these cargoes of merry happy creatures, torn from their families, 
their native fields, and their cottages, celebrate their reaching the land 

3 A 



326 Parliamentary Proceedings on Colonial Slavery. 

of promise, and that their coming is distinguished from the dismal 
landing of free English seamen, out of West India traders, or other re- 
ceptacles of cruelty and wretchedness ! 

" But if all the deductions of philosophy, and all the general indica- 
tions of fact, loudly prove the unalterable wretchedness of colonial 
slavery, where, may it be asked, are the particular instances of its 
existence ? Alas ! there is no w'ant of these: but I will only cull out a 
few, dealing purposely with the mass rather by sample than by breaking 
its foul bulk. I shall illustrate by a few examples the effects of slavery 
in communities to the exertions of which we are bid to look for the miti- 
gation and final extinction of that horrid condition. 

" A certain Reverend George Wilson Bridges was charged with an 
offence of the deepest dye. A slave girl had been ordered to dress a 
turkey for dinner, and the order having been disobeyed, he struck her a 
violent blov/, which caused her nose and mouth to flow with blood, ap- 
plying to her at the same time an oath, and a peculiarly coarse epithet, 
highly unbecoming in a clergyman, and indeed in any man, as it isthe 
n-ame most offensive to all womankind. He then commanded two men 
to cut bamboo rods and point them for her punishment. She was 
stripped of every article of dress, and flogged till the back part of her, 
from the shoulders to the calves of the legs, was one mass of lacerated 
flesh. She made her escape, and went to a magistrate. The matter 
was brought before what is called a council of protection, where by a 
majority of fourteen to four it was resolved that no further proceedings 
should take place. The Secretary of State for the colonies, however, 
thought otherwise, and in a dispatch, with no part of which have I any 
fault to find, directed the evidence to be laid before the attorney general. 
I understand that the reverend gentleman has not been put on his trial.* 
I hope I may have been misinformed: I shall rejoice to find it is so. I 
shall also be glad to find that there is no ground for the charge : although 
the man's servants, when examined, all admitted the severity of the 
flogging, and himself allowed he had seen it, though he alleged he was 
not near; but he could not deny he had heard the screams of the victim. 
This Reverend Bridges I happen to know by other works of his, by those 
labours of slander which have, diversified the life of this minister of 
peace and truth. For publishing one of these, a respectable bookseller 
has been convicted by a jury of his country. Others have been passed 
over with contempt by their illustrious object — that venerable person, 
the great patriarch of our cause, whose days are to be numbered by acts 
of benevolence and of piety; whose whole life — and long may it be ex- 
tended for his own glory and the good of his fellow-creatures ! — has 
been devoted to the highest interests of religion and charity; who might 
have hoped to pass on his holy path undisturbed by any one calling 
himself a Christian pastor, even in a West Indian community. This 
man, however, has so far succeeded, whether by the treatment of his 
slaves, or the defamation of Mr. Wilberforce, in recommending himself 
to his fellow-citizens in Jamaica, that a great majority of the protecting 
council forbade his conduct being inquired into. So vain is it to expect 

* Subsequent accounts state that he is to be put upon his trial. 



Speech of Mr. Brougham- 327 

from the owners of slaves any active execution of the laws against 
slavery ! And will you then trust those slave owners with the makino^ 
of such laws ? Recollect the memorable warning of Mr. Canning, given 
thirty years ago, and proved true by every day's experience since. 
' Have a care how you leave to the owners of slaves the task of making 
laws against slavery. While human nature remains the same, they 
never can be trusted with it.' 

" It is now six years since I called the attention of Parliament to one 
of the most gcrievous outrages that ever was committed since the Cha- 
raibean Archipelago Avas peopled with Negro slaves — the persecution 
unto death of a Christian minister, for no other offence than preaching 
the gospel of his Master. I was then told, that no such wrong would 
ever be done again. It was a single case which never could recur: at 
all events, the discussion in this House, and the universal reprobation 
called forth, even from those who had not sufficient independence to 
give their voices for doing justice upon the guilty, would, I was told, 
effectually secure the freedom of religious worship in future. I was 
silenced by the majority of votes, but not convinced by such reasons as 
these. And I now hold in my hand the proof that I was right. It is a 
statement promulgated by a numerous and respectable body of sincere 
Christians, with whom I differ both in religious and political opinions, 
but in whose conduct, if there be any thing which 1 peculiarly blame, it 
is their disinclination to deviate from a bad habit of passive obedience — 
of taking all that is done by men in authority to be right. They seem, 
however, now to be convinced that they have carried this habit too far, 
and that the time is come when they can no longer do their duty and 
hold their peace. The narrative which they have given, confirmed by 
the conduct of the Government itself, is such as would have filled me 
with indignation had I read it six years ago ; but after the warning voice 
so loudly raised in the debates upon the missionary Smith's murder, I 
gaze upon it astonished and incredulous. The simple and affecting 
story is told by Mr. Orton, a blameless and pious minister of the gospel 
in Jamaica. He first alludes to the ' daring attack made on the mission 
premises at St. Ann's Bay on Christmas-day 1826' (the festival chosen 
by these friends of the established church for celebrating their brotherly 
love towards another sect). ' The attack,' says he, ' was made by a 
party of white persons, of the light company of militia, who were sta- 
tioned at St. Ann's Bay as the Christmas guards. The plan appeared 
to have been premeditated, and there remains but little doubt that the 
design was murderous. A great number of balls were fired into the 
chapel and house, fourteen of which I assisted to extract from various 
parts of the building; and upon noticing particularly the direction, and 
measuring the distance from which some of the shots must have been 
fired, it appeared that Mr. and Mrs. Ratcliffe and their child most nar- 
rowly escaped the fatal consequences which were no doubt designed.' 
All attempts to bring these criminals to justice failed, it seems, for want 
of evidence— a somewhat extraordinary incident in a community calling 
itself civilized, that so many persons as must have been concerned in it 
should all have escaped ! In the course of the next summer, Mr. Grims- 



328 Parliamentary Proceedings on Colonial Slavery. 

dall, another clergyman of the same persuasion, was arrested twice; 
the second time, for having preached at a small place called Ocho Rios, 
in an unlicensed house, although a licence had been applied for and 
refused, contrary to the judgment of the custos and another magistrate. 
He was flung into a noisome dungeon, ' such,' says the narrative, ' as 
no person in Great Britain can have any conception of. His constitu- 
tion, naturally strong, could not sustain the attack — he sunk under the 
oppression of these persecutors, and the deleterious effects of confine- 
ment in a noxious prison ; and this devoted servant of God, after a painful 
sickness of sixteen days, was delivered by death from the further suffer- 
ings projected by his unfeeUng persecutors. He died the 15th day of 
December 1827.' 

" Mr Whitehouse, too, was a preacher of the gospel, and consequently 
an object of persecution. In the summer of 1828, he was seized and 
carried before a magistrate, accused of having preached without a 
licence, that is, of having a licence in one parish and preaching in an- 
other. He besought the magistrates as a favour, to be bound in irons 
in the market-place, instead of being confined in the cell where his 
predecessor had been deprived of life. They treated his remonstrances 
with indifference, said they were resolved to do their duty, professed 
not to regard what the public might say of them, and added that ' who- 
ever might come should be treated in the same manner.' He was 
accordingly flung into the dungeon where Mr. Grimsdall had perished. 
' I found it,' says he, ' occupied by an insane black woman. She was 
removed, but the cell was exceedingly filthy, and the stench unbearable. 
It was now eight o'clock in the evening, and the jailor said he 'must 
lock up.' I desired that the cell floor might, at least, be swept, which 
a few friends immediately attended to. There was no bed provided for 
me, not even one of straw ; and it was not until I had made several re- 
quests to the jailor that a few benches from the chapel were allowed 
to be brought in, on which to make a bed. A large quantity of vine- 
gar, and of strong camphorated rum, was thrown upon the floor and 
walls for the purpose of counteracting the very disagreeable effluvia 
which proceeded from the filth with which the place abounded ; but 
this produced very little effect. The sea-breeze had subsided, and the 
only window from which I could obtain the least air, was just above the 
place in which all the filth of the premises is deposited.' 

" Mr. Orton received the intelligence of his persecuted brother's 
affliction, with a request that he would perform his pastoral duty to his 
congregation. He did so, and was forthwith committed to the same 
jail. ' Of the horrid state of the place,' he says, ' an idea can scarcely 
be /ormed from any representation which can here be made, as common 
decency forbids the mention of its filthy condition, and of the many un- 
seemly practices which were constantly presented to our notice. The 
hospital, jail, and workhouse, are united: the two former are under one 
roof, occupying an area of about twenty-five feet by thirty-five. On the 
ground-floor were three apartments. In the condemned cell were two 
unfortunate creatures waiting their doom. In an adjoining cell were 
many negroes confined for petty offences ; and in another apartment, 



Speech of Mr. Brougham. 329 

on the same floor, forty were crammed together, who had been taken in 
execution, and were waiting to be driven and sold in the market. This 
building, small and confined, was, especially during the night, literally 
stowed with persons ; so that from the number of the prisoners, and the 
extreme filth of the negroes, it was almost unbearable.' 

" Let us but reflect on the sufferings of imprisonment, even in the 
best jail of our own temperate climate ; and let us then add to those the 
torments of the tropical heats ! Think of being inclosed with crowds 
beyond what the air will supply with the needful nourishment of the 
lungs, while a fiery sun wheels round the clear sky from morning to 
night, without the veil of a single cloud to throw a shade between ; 
where all matter passes instantly from life to putrescence, and water 
itself, under the pestilent ray, becomes the source of every frightful 
malady! Add the unnatural condition of the inmates, not there for 
debts or for offences of their own, but seized for their owner's default, 
and awaiting, not the judgment of the law, or their liberation under an 
insolvent act, but till the market opens, when, like brute beasts, they 
are to be driven and sold to the highest bidder ! In such a dungeon 
was it that Mr. Orton and his brethren were immured ; and when their 
strength began to sink, and it seemed plain that they must speedily 
follow their friend to the grave, they were taken before the Chief Jus- 
tice, who instantly declared the warrant illegal, and their seventeen days' 
confinement to have been without the shadow of pretence. 

" Who then was in the right, six years ago, in the memorable debate 
upon the persecutions of the missionary Smith? You, who said enough 
had been done in broaching the subject, and that religion and her mi- 
nisters would thenceforward be secure — or I, who warned you, that if 
my Resolutions were rejected, he would not, by many a one, be the last 
victim? I would to God that the facts did not so plainly prove me to 
have foretold the truth. 

" I may seem to have said enough ; but it is painful to me that I 
cannot stop here, — that I must try faintly to paint excesses unheard of 
in Christian times — which to match we must go back to heathen ages, 
to the days and to the stations wherein absolute power made men, but 
pagan men, prodigies of cruelty exaggerated by caprice, — that I must 
drag before you persons moving in the higher walks of life, and exerting 
proportionable influence over the society they belong to : — an English 
gentleman and an English gentlewoman accused, guilty, convicted of 
the most infernal barbarity ; and an English community, so far from 
visiting the enormity with contempt, or indignant execration, that they 
make the savage perpetrators the endeared objects of esteem, respect, 
and aff"ection ! I read the recital from the despatch of the late Secretary 
for the Colonies (Mr. Huskisson), a document never to be sufficiently 
praised for its statesmanlike firmness, for the manly tone of feeling and 
of determination united which marks it throughout. ' The slave girl,' 
he says, ' was accused of theft, but some disobedience in refusing to 
mend the clothes was the more immediate cause of her punishment. 
On the 22d of July, 1826, she was confined in the stocks, and she was 
not released till the 8th of August following, being a period of seventeen 
days. The stocks were so constructed that she could not sit up and 



330 Parliamentary Proceedings on Colonial Slavery. 

lie down at pleasure, and she remained in them night and day. During 
this period she was flogged repeatedly, one of the overseers thinks about 
six times, and — red pepper was rubbed upon her eyes to pre- 
vent HER sleeping. Tasks were given her, which, in the opinion 
of the same overseer, she was incapable of performing; sometimes be- 
cause they were beyond her powers, at other times because she could 
not see to do them on account of the pepper having been rubbed on her 
eyes : and she was flogged for failing to accomplish these tasks. A 
violent distemper had been prevalent on the plantation during the 
summer. It is in evidence, that on one of the days of her confinement 
she complained of fever, and that one of the floggings which she re- 
ceived was the day after she had made this complaint. When she was 
taken out of the stocks she appeared to be cramped, and was then again 
flogged. The very day of her release she was sent to field labour 
(though heretofore a house servant), and on the evening of the third 
day ensuing, was brought before her owners as being ill and refusing to 
work, and she then complained of having had fever. They were of 
opinion that she had none then, but gave directions to the driver, if she 
should be ill, to bring her to them for medicines in the morning. The 
driver took her to the negro-house, and again flogged her, though this 
time apparently without orders from her owners to do so. In the 
morning, at seven o'clock, she was taken to work in the field, vyhere 
she died at noon.' 

" Mark the refinement of their wickedness ! I nowise doubt, that to 
screen themselves from the punishment of death due to their crimes, 
these wretches will now say — they did indeed say on their trial — that 
their hapless victim died of disease. When their own lives were in 
jeopardy, they found that she had caught the fever, and died by the 
visitation of God. — But when the question was, Shall she be flogged 
again ? Shall she, who has for twelve days been fixed in the stocks 
under the fiery beams of a tropical sun, — who has been torn with the 
scourge from the nape of the neck to the plants of her feet, — who has 
had pepper rubbed in her eyes to ward off the sleep that might have 
stolen over her senses, and for a moment withdrawn her spirit from the 
fangs of her tormentors — shall she be subjected by those accursed 
fiends to the seventh scourging ? Oh ! then she had no sign of fever ! 
she had caught no disease! she was all hale, and sound, and fit for the 
lash ! At seven she was flogged — at noon she died ! and those exe- 
crable and impious murderers soon found out that she had caught the 
malady, and perished by the ' visitation of God ! ' No, no ! I am used 
to examine circumstances, to weigh evidence, and I do firmly believe 
that she died by the murderous hand of man ! that she was killed and 
murdered ! It was wisely said by Mr. Fox, that when some grievous 
crime is perpetrated in a civilized community, we are consoled by find- 
ing in all breasts a sympathy with the victim, and an approval of the 
punishment by which the wrong-doer expiates his offence. But in the 
West Indies there is no such solace to the mind — there all the feelings 
flow in a wrong course — perverse, preposterous, unnatural — the hatred 
is for the victim, the sympathy for the tormentor ! I hold in my hand 
the proof of it in this dreadful case. The Mosses were condemned by 



speech of Mr. Brougham. 331 

an iniquitous sentence ; for it was only to a small fine and five months" 
imprisonment. The public indignation followed the transaction ; but 
it was indignation against the punishment, not the crime, and against, 
the severity, not the lenity of the infliction. The governor, a British, 
officer — and I will name him to rescue others from the blame — General 
Grant — tells us in his despatch, that 'he had been applied to by the most 
respectable inhabitants to remit the sentence;' that 'he loses no time 
in applying to Lord Bathurst to authorize the remission.' He speaks of 
* the unfortunate Henry and Helen Moss ;' says, they ' are rather to be 
pitied for the untoward melancholy occurrence' (as if he were talking 
of some great naval victory over the Turk, instead of a savage murder,) 
and that ' he hastens to prevent the impression, which the mention of 
the case might make on his Lordship's mind.' In a second despatch, he 
earnestly renews the application ; describes ' the respectability of Mr. 
and Mrs. Moss, their general kindness to their slaves, the high estima- 
tion in which they are held by all who have partaken of their hospi- 
tality ;' tells us that ' they have always been favourably spoken of in 
every respect, including that of slave management;' states his own 
anxiety, that ' persons of their respectability should be spared from im- 
prisonment ;' and that at any rate ' the mulct should be relinquished, 
lest they should be thought cruel and oppressive beyond others, and 
also in, order to remove in some degree the impression of their being 
habitually and studiously cruel ;' and he adds a fact, which speaks 
volumes, and may well shut all mouths that now cry aloud for leaving 
such things to the assemblies of the islands. ' Notwithstanding their 
being in gaol, they are visited by the most respectable persons in the 
place, and by all who knew them before.' 

" The governor who thus thinks and thus writes, has been removed 
from that settlement ; but only, I say it with grief, to be made the ruler 
of a far more important colony. From the Bahamas he has been pro- 
moted to Trinidad — that great island which Mr. Canning described as 
about to be made the model by the crown, for all slave colonies. Over 
such a colony was he sent to preside, who, having tasted of the hospi- 
tality of the Mosses, could discern in their treatment of their slaves, 
nothing out of the fair, ordinary course of humane management. 

" From contemplating the horrors of slavery in the West Indies, it is 
impossible that we can avoid the transition to that infernal traffic, alike 
the scourge of Africa and America, the disgrace of the old world and 
the curse of the new, from which so much wretchedness has flowed. It 
is most shocking to reflect that its ravages are still abroad desolating 
the earth. I do not, I believe, rate the importation into the Brazils too 
high, when I put it at 100,000 during the last twelve months. Now^ 
when we recollect that the number of seventy-three capital punish- 
ments, among which are but two or three for murder, in a population 
of twelve millions, excites our just horror in England, what shall we 
say of 100,000 capital crimes commiited by a handful of desperate men, 
every one of which involves and implies rapine, fraud, murder, torture, 
in frightful abundance ? And yet we must stand by and see such enor- 
mities perpetrated without making any remonstrance, or even urging 
any representation ! By the treaty with Portugal, it is true, no such 



332 Parliamentary Proceedings on Colonial Slavery. 

crimes can henceforth be repeated ; for this year the traffic is to cease, 
and the mutual right of search is given to the vessels of both nations, 
the only possible security for the abolition being effectual.* But there 
is another country, nearer to us in position, and in habits of intercourse 
more familiar, one of far more importance for the authority of its ex- 
ample, in which the slave trade still flourishes in most portentous 
vigour, although denounced by the lavp and visited vs^ith infamous punish- 
ment : — the dominions of the monarch vs^ho calls himself ' Most Chris- 
tian,' and refuses the only measure that can put such vi'holesale iniquity 
down. There it must thrive as long as groundless national jealousies 
prevent the right of search from being mutually conceded. Let us hope 
that so foul a stain on the character of so great a nation will soon be 
wiped away ; that the people who now take the lead of all others in the 
march of liberty will cast far from their camp this unclean thing, by all 
lovers of freedom most abhorred. I have heard with amazement some 
thoughtless men say, that the French cannot enjoy liberty, because they 
are unused to it. I protest solemnly, I could point to no nation more 
worthy of freedom, or which knew better how to use it, how to gain it, 
how to defend it. I turn with a grateful heart to contemplate the glori- 
ous spectacle, now exhibited in France of patriotism, of undaunted devo- 
tion to liberty, of firm, yet temperate, resistance to arbitrary power. It is 
animating to every beholder; it is encouraging to all freemen in every part 
of the world. I earnestly hops that it may not be lost on the Bourbon 
monarch and his councillors ; for the sake of France and of England, for 
the sake of peace, for the sake of the Bourbon princes themselves, I pray 
that they may be wise in time, and yield to the wish, the determination 
of their people ; I pray that, bending before the coming breeze, the ga- 
thering storm may not sweep them away ! But of one thing I would 
warn that devoted race ; let them not flatter themselves that by 
trampling upon liberty in France, they can escape either the abhorrence 
of man or the divine wrath for the execrable traffic in slaves, carried on 
under their flag, and flourishing under their sway in Africa. I will tell 
their ghostly councillors in the language of a book with which they 
ought to be familiar — ' Behold, obedience is better than sacrifice, and 
to hearken than the fat of rams.' To what should they lend an ear? 
To the commands of a God who loves mercy, and will punish injustice, 
and abhors blood, and will surely avenge it upon their heads; nothing 
the less because their patronage of slavery in distant climes is matched 
by their hatred of liberty at home. 

" Sir, I have done. I trust that at length the time is come when par- 
liament will no longer bear to be told that slave owners are the best 
lawgivers on slavery : no longer allow an appeal from the British pub- 
lic to such communities as those in which the Smiths and the Grims- 
dalls are persecuted to death for teaching the gospel to the negroes ; and 
the Mosses holden in aflfectionate respect for torture and murder : nO' 
longer sufter our voice to roll across the Atlantic in empty warnings, 
and fruitless orders. Tell me not of rights — talk not of the property of 

* From the month of March last, by the treaty with Brazil, slave-trading is 
made piracy, and slave-traders are punishable a§ pirates. 



Mr. Brougham — Mr. Frotheroe — Mr. K. Douglas. 333 

the planter in his slaves. I deny the right — I acknowledge not the pro- 
perty. The principles, the feelings of our common nature, rise in re- 
bellion against it. Be the appeal made to the understanding or to the 
heart, the sentence is the same that rejects it. In vain you tell me of 
laws that sanction such a claim ! There is a law above all the enact- 
ments of human codes — the same throughout the world, the same in all 
times — such as it was before the daring genius of Columbus pierced the 
night of ages, and opened to one world sources of power, vuealth, and 
knowledge ; to another, all unutterable woes ; — such it is at this day : it 
is the law written by the finger of God on the heart of man ; and by that 
law, eternal, unchangeable, while men despise fraud, and loathe rapine, 
and abhor blood, they shall reject with indignation the wild and guilty 
phantasy, that man can hold property in man ! In vain you appeal to 
treaties, to covenants between nations. Tlie covenants of the Almighty, 
whether the old covenant or the new, denounce such unholy preten- 
sions. To those laws did they of old refer, who maintained the African 
trade. Such treaties did they cite, and not untruly; for by one shame- 
ful compact you bartered the glories of Blenheim for the traffic in blood. 
Yet, in despite of law and of treaty, that infernal traffic is now de- 
stroyed, and its votaries put to death like other pirates. How came 
this change to pass ? Not assuredly by parliament leading the way ; 
but the country at length awoke ; the indignation of the people was 
kindled ; it descended in thunder, and smote the traffic, and scattered 
its guilty profits to the winds. Now then let the planters beware — let 
their assemblies beware — let the government at home beware — let the 
parliament beware ! The same country is once more awake, — awake to 
the condition of negro slavery; the same indignation kindles in the 
bosom of the same peeople ; the same cloud is gathering that annihi- 
lated the slave trade : and, if it shall descend again, they, on whom its 
crash may fall,, will not be destroyed before I have warned them : but I 
pray that their destruction may turn away from us the more terrible 
judgments of God !" 

The motion of Mr. Brougham was seconded by Mr. E. Protheroe, 
who expressed his satisfaction in the opportunity of giving it his warmest 
support, although in so doing, he should displease many of his friends, 
and raise serious obstacles to his return to Parliament. 

Mr. Keith Douglas entered upon a vindication of the conduct of 
the colonial legislatures, re-affirming many of the statements which have 
recently appeared in an Abstract published with the sanction of the 
West India committee.* 

Mr. W. Smith replied to the statements of Mr. Douglas, on the 

* A full exposure of the extreme unfairness of this Abstract, indeed of its 
extraordinary deviations from truth, will be found in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, 
No. 60. Both Mr. Douglas, and afterwards Mr. Manning, endeavoured to vin- 
dicate the colonial legislatures, by gleaning from the official despatches of suc- 
cessive secretaries of state an occasional compliment ; entirely omitting their 
severe animadversions on the inefficiency or injustice of the pretended colonial 
ameliorations. Compliments, however, do not alter the facts of the case, or give 
a new character to laws which are in themselves, and by the same high autho- 
rity are pronounced to be, evasive, inoperative, or unjust. .( jlji/jii 

3 B 



334 Speeches of Mr. W. Smith— Mr. W. Morton— Sir G. Murray. 

subject of colonial improvement, and affirmed that the pretended com- 
pliances of the colonial assemblies with the recommendations of the 
Crown, were altogether evasive and ineffectual. He protested also 
against a system of making man the property of his fellow man, as 
opposed to every principle of British constitutional law, and still more 
as forbidden by the laws of nature and of God. 

Mr. W. HoRTON defended himself from the imputation of having 
been hostile to the anti-slavery cause, and charged the Anti-Slavery 
Society with inconsistency in objecting to the proprietary rights of the 
holders of slavers, while they contended for the adoption of the compul- 
sory manumission clause.* His object had been to give full effect to 
every part of the resolutions of 1823, and no less to that part which 
recognised the interests of private property, than to that which pointed 
to the final termination of slavery ; both which objects were equally 
contemplated by the resolutions of 1823. He further thought, that 
it would be most unwise in Parliament to force on the colonies laws, to 
frame which Parliament was very incompetent. The laws ought to be 
framed by the colonists abroad, and not by us at home. Nevertheless, 
he would strongly advise the chartered colonies to adopt into their codes 
the provisions of the late order in council, which he conceived, with a 
slight exception or two, had done all in the way of reform that was 
requisite. Still he thought it would be unwise to force upon the 
colonies an act of Parliament, though he wished them to adopt the 
order in council. And if they still refused to do so, we might then in- 
duce their compliance, by imposing higher duties on the produce of the 
refractory colonies, and lower duties on the others. He closed his 
speech by reading a series of resolutions in conformity with the general 
views he had expressed on the subject, f 

Sir George iMuRUAy objected to the resolutions of Mr. W. Hor- 

* We can see no inconsistency whatever in denying the right of one man to 
hold his fellow creature in bondage, and at the same time urging Government to 
fulfil its own pledges on the subject of manumission. If the Anti-Slavery So- 
ciety cannot obtain all that they think just for the slaves, that would be a very 
bad reason for failing to claim on their behalf the fulfilment of every promise of 
relief and mitigation, which, in however slight a degree, tended to make their 
yoke less galling and oppressive, and their bondage less hopeless. 

t We find it difficult clearly to comprehend the consistency of the reasoning 
here employed by Mr. Horton. He disapproves of Parliament legislating for the 
colonies, and says we ought to leave that work to themselves ; and yet he re- 
commends to their adoption, under pain of fiscal coercion, a slave code, not 
framed in the colonies, but framed in England. He deems that code to be 
excellent. Without stopping to dispute that point, — still that code has been 
framed at home, and has been forcibly imposed on six of our colonies ; nor does he 
allege that any evil has arisen, or is likely to arise from this compulsory course. 
And yet he condemns it as an unwise policy to impose the same code in the same 
way on the other colonies. But, surely, if it is right, and has been productive 
of good, to legislate from home for the Crown colonies, it cannot be wrong and 
productive of evil to legislate in like manner for the chartered colonies. And 
as to his expedient for iaducing these colonies to adopt this code, what is it 
but the use of force? We should have thought that an act of parliament, 
which it is admitted on all hands we have full right to pass on this subject, 
would be a much more simple, rational, and efficient process than that which he 
recomnieuds. 



Si?- G. Murraij—Mr. Cave— Mr. Manning—Sir F. Burdett. 335 

ton, and to the motion of Mr. Brougham ; and he strongly urged the 
latter not to divide the house. He expressed strongly his admiration 
of Mr. Brougham's speech, and declared his decided repugnance to 
such a condition as that of slavery, which, he thought, injurious alike 
to master and slave, as well as opposed to humanity and sound policy, 
and at variance with the principles of Christianity. He admitted fully 
the right of Parliament to legislate for the West Indies ; and the slaves 
he regarded as having an equal right with every other class of the king's 
subjects, to the protection of the government and legislature of this 
country. He was averse, however, to precipitate measures. It was 
certainly his intention to fulfil his pledge of last year as to improving 
the administration of justice, and he conceived that the ends of justice 
would be greatly promoted by freely admitting slave evidence in all 
cases. He adverted to the consolidated slave lav/ of Jamaica, which, 
though containing, he said, some improvements, had been disallowed on 
account of its inadmissible restrictions on religious toleration. Sir 
George concluded with assuring the House that he would continue to 
urge the colonies to reform their system as rapidly as it could be done, 
but that he felt, at the same time, the necessity of caution,* 

After a few words from Mr. Otway Cave, urging the early and entire 
abolition of slavery; and a speech from Mr. Manning, in vindication of 
the colonial legislatures, and complaining of such motions as the present 
being brought on at the close of a Parliament, as they led to a most in- 
convenient catechising of candidates, an inconvenience he had painfully- 
experienced at the last election ; — Sir Francis Buudett addressed the 
house at some length. He supported Mr. Brougham's motion, pledging 
the house to an early consideration of the whole subject ; and though he 
was inclined to believe, that they might not be able to place the matter in 
better hands than those of Sir G. Murray, yet it was desirable, by a re- 
solution of that house, to quicken the sluggish movements of the colo- 
nial legislatures, to whom, however, he did not impute great blame. On 
the contrary, of their intentions he thought favourably, and he believed 
they had done much in the way of amelioration. He then suggested 
various expedients for improving the condition of the slaves, and gra- 
dually effecting their emancipation ; but he expressed an opinion, at the 
same time, that the question was one of great delicacy, and requiring very 



* Sir George Murray admits that the right of Parliament to legislate for the 
chartered colonies is as indisputable as that of the Crown to legislate for the 
Crown colonies. Now what is it that has justified him in imposing a slave 
code on the Crown colonies against their will, which would not equally justify 
him in proposing to impose the same code by act of Parliament on the chartered 
colonies ? He speaks of the necessity of acting cautiously, and of avoiding pre- 
cipitancy. But these considerations must have been equally valid, when he 
issued the Order in Council of February last, as they are now. And what 
makes them of more force in respect to Jamaica, Barbadoes, Antigua, &c. than 
they are with respect to Demerara, Trinidad, and the Mauritius ? Is the re- 
luctance of the planters to tiie measure greater in the former than in the latter? 
Or would the effects be different, or the resistance to be dreaded of a more 
serious and alarming character in the one case than in the other ? Sir George 
Murray, and Sir Robert Peel (who concurred in Sir George's view of the sub- 
ject), must feel that there is in fact no real distinction between the two cases. 



336 Parliamentary Proceedings on Slavery — Sir R. Peel. 

slow and cautious advances ; although he admitted, that by pursuing 
our inquiries with zeal and earnestness, the duration of slavery might 
be greatly shortened; and he held, moreover, that the emancipation of 
the slaves, when brought about, could not but prove, in the end, a 
benefit to the proprietors as well as to the slaves.* 

Sir Robert Peel, after highly praising the moderation and good 
sense which distinguished the observations of the preceding speaker, 
urged various objections to the expediency of giving the prospective 
pledge proposed by Mr. Brougham. He objected to it, among other 
reasons, because it pledged the House to the final abolition of slavery, 
whereas, he was not prepared to give any such pledge, until he saw the 
means of effecting it. It did so too, without adverting to compensa- 
tion. He admitted he could not defend the title by which slaves were 
held as property, but still he thought the present holders of them had 
the same just claim to compensation with the holders of any other kind 
of property. He cautioned the House against pledging itself to any 
measure, leading to emancipation. — He admitted the power of Parlia- 
ment to impose laws on the colonies, but he could not contemplate, 
without horror, an idea of going to war with them to enforce such laws. 
— He viewed the atrocities practised towards the slaves with deep regret, 
especially as he could not view them merely as if they were the acts of 
individuals, but as indicating that the sympathies of the colonists gene- 
rally were enlisted on the side of the wrong doer and against the slave. 
— While he admitted, in the fullest extent, the right of Parliament to 
legislate for the colonies on this question, yet he shoula rather let the 
necessary measures originate in the kindly feelings of the colonists them- 
selves, for he thought little good could be expected from reluctant 
legislation.f 



* We were surprised by the tone of this speech. The honourable Baronet 
would, we think, have modified his view of this subject had he drawn his 
information from the only legitimate sources, particularly from the colonial 
statute books, the statistical and other official returns received from the colo- 
nies, and the recorded admissions of the colonists themselves ; and had reasoned 
from them on the general principles which he would apply to every other case. 
If he had pursued this course, it would have been impossible that a mind like 
his, so sensitively alive as it has ever shown itself to the evils of oppression, 
could have so inadequately appreciated the evils of the very worst species oiF 
oppression which has ever darkened the history of the human race. We ear- 
nestly hope he will carefully re-examine the subject. If he does, we cannot 
doubt the result. 

t We were still more surprised by the speech of Sir Robert Peel, than by that 
of the Baronet who preceded him. The concluding observation of it has already 
been noticed. Our chief surprise was caused by Sir Robert's reluctance to 
give any pledge for the final abolition of slavery. He surely must have for- 
gotten his unqualified concurrence in those solemn resolutions of the 15th May, 
1823, which deeply pledged both the Government, of which he formed a part, 
and the Parliament of Great Britain, to the final extinction of every trace of 
slavery, " at the earliest period," compatible with certain objects there specified. 
And if he has not forgotten this pledge, does he consider it as having been 
vacated by circumstances? Or is his present disclaimer to be regarded as a 
designed retractation of it? We hope not. And then as to the omission of which 
he complains, in tlie proposed motion, of all reference to the subject of compen- 
sation in case of abolition ; in what way can .the motion be viewed as shutting 
out that or any other part of the entire case from the consideration of Parlia- 



Reply of Mr. Brougham. 337 

Mr. Brougham, in reply, stated that he was afraid there was but 
little substance in one of the objections of the right hon. Secretary to 
dividing the House, grounded upon the smallness of the numbers pre- 
sent on this occasion. He was apprehensive lest it should, by the 
division, be disclosed to the country how few were present on so impor- 
tant a question. But he did not exactly see how the circumstance could 
be long concealed, even if they did not divide. A secret like this, trusted 
to above forty individuals, like the secrets of the weaker sex, was con- 
fided to too many persons, not to reach the parties interested in the dis- 
cussion, in the course of to-morrow. It was thus that the most delicate 
secrets always got out. A person being confided in, and afraid of not 
being able to keep the secret, took some one to help him, and he finding 
the difficulty increase, took two or three more to his assistance, and so 
about as many as now were present came to know it, and there was an 
end of the secret. In his mind, the smallness of the number who felt 
an interest in the settlement of the question, ought to be an additional 
argument with its friends for the publication of the numbers who divided 
upon it ; because it showed that Parliament, which notwithstanding its 
vote of the 15th of May, 1826, had ever since done exactly and pre- 
cisely nothing, continued still to evince the same slowness to redeem the 
pledges it had so solemnly given to the public on that former occasion. 
But it was said, you hurt the character of the House by dividing. He 
would not stop to inquire what character the House had to lose in this 
respect, or whether it could spare any character, — A death-bed repent- 
ance, in the case of individuals, it was said, went but a little way ; per- 
haps, in a Parliament, it went further, especially with members' con- 
stituents on the eve of a dissolution. — But he really was amused with 
the ingenuous simplicity of the member for Evesham (Mr. Manning), 
so refreshing in an ancient senator, a West India merchant, and a Bank 
director — and so worthy rather of the tenderness of artless youth. He 
complained of the great inconvenience of being put to answer ques- 
tions at his election; and said that, in 1826, a similar motion, made 
at the end of the last Parliament, had exposed him to be catechised, 
when he went to his constituents — a troublesome and even painful 
ceremony, he innocently said. — Would he suffer him (Mr. B.) to attend 
him on his death-bed — while alarmed at approaching dissolution — and 
minister comfort, and indeed aid to him ? He could tell him how he 
might take the sting from dissolution, and meet his constituents with- 
out fear. Let him vote for the motion, and he would answer for their 
being satisfied, and re-electing him without asking any questions at all. 
But, again, it was objected that they should not presume to take on 
them the dictation of any measure to a future Parliament. — Where 
then was Mr. Fox's precedent, when, in 1806, he moved his resolu- 
tion on the slave trade as a minister, and carried it? — What became 

raent ? The pledge called for by Mr. Brougham is limited to the point of an 
early and mature consideration of the whole subject. To such a motion, there- 
fore, this objection is wholly inapplicable. It appears, however, that so many 
years have already passed fruitlessly since the pledge was first given, that even 
those who gave it have forgotten its import. It is surely high time, therefore, 
that it should be renewed. 



338 Reply of Mr. Brougham. 

of Mr. Canning's resolution, and the precedent he tlien established, re- 
lative to the pledge of concession to the Catholics, on the 22d of June, 
in the year 1812, when, as in the present instance, the House was on 
the eve of dissolution ? There was also the precedent of Mr. Dundas, 
who was by no means an enthusiast, but remarkable as a practical man, 
which pointed out, as the point on which we were to keep our eye 
fixed, and on which we were constantly to steer — final emancipation. 
This plain, common sense, every day statesman, actually proposed, in 
1792, a resolution which was to take effect eight years after, long 
before which Parliament was to be dissolved. Had that proposition 
been adopted, every negro born after January 1800 would have been 
free, and there could hardly at this day have been a slave in the Colo- 
nies. — The Honourable Baronet (Sir F. Burdett) had spoken of the 
evils of a sudden emancipation of the slave. He (Mr. B.) had reason 
to complain of this, (though it was the speech that had proved most 
gratifying to the Secretary of State of any his Hon. Friend had ever 
delivered,) for it misrepresented his (Mr. B.'s) views. , Who talked of 
sudden emancipation ? He did not say emancipate suddenly, but con- 
sider how you may deal with the condition of the slave, so as to set him 
free hereafter, which was his right and your duty. What was there 
alarming in giving a pledge that the subject of the mitigation and abo- 
lition of slavery should be inquired into (he pointed out no mode of in- 
quiry) in the next Parliament ? — But there was one most painful and 
alarming novelty in this night's debate. The minister (Sir it. Peel) had 
for the first time declared against emancipation — even against final 
emancipation : he could not go the length of committing himself to it 
in any shape or at any time. He differed in this, not only from him- 
self and his colleagues in May, 1823, but from all his predecessors, even 
from those least friendly to the negroes — even from Mr. Dundas, and 
most widely from Mr. Pitt. They always avowed that ultimate emanci- 
pation was their great and common object, and that every regulation 
then taken must have this for its final issue. He, (Sir R. Peel,) on the 
contrary, took the alarm at the bare use of the word, so far were we gone 
back in the lapse of years, while the case had been growing daily more 
overpowering I Then the Hon. Bank Director (Mr. Manning) had cour- 
teously invited him (Mr. B.) and his honourable friend (Mr. W. Smith) 
the long tried advocate of this cause, to visit the West Indies in the ensu- 
ing vacation. One reason he had for not accepting the proffered hospi- 
tality was, that he did not perceive the proprietors of estates there to act 
on the same suggestion — they did not visit their plantations and their 
negroes — but remained here, and left the care of every thing to hired 
servants. Here was the root of much evil. The interest of the slave 
owner had not its due weight in the slaves' treatment, though always re- 
ferred to in the argument ; and the Colonial Assemblies were both com- 
posed and controlled differently frum what they would be, were the pro- 
prietors resident on the spot. The Colonial Legislatures — made up, not 
of such men as the member for Dumfries, the Hon. Bank Director, Lord 
Seaford, or Lord Holland, men of liberal views and enlightened minds ; 
but of the mob of low whites in those islands, and sitting among the same 
mob, could not, beset as they were, or carried away by their own preju- 



Reply of Mr. Brougham. 339 

dices, do what was now every hour becoming more urgently necessary. — 
The fact of the liberation of Moss from confinement being celebrated as 
a day of rejoicing, and occasioning a jubilee dinner amongst them (Moss 
no doubt being present, and the object of undivided solicitude and in- 
terest) showed the blackest traits of the gloomy picture of the social 
state of those colonies. What could be expected from them but similar 
conduct to that which characterised the demeanour of the same party in 
the West India islands, relative to the Missionary Smith, so much and so 
deservedly deplored ? But the hour was arrived, the measure of time was 
completed, when neither apathy nor interest could any longer present a 
sufficient barrier against public opinion. — Six long years, of misery to 
the negroes and shame to ourselves, had rolled on since he (Mr. B.) 
lifted his voice, beseeching the parent state to do her duty, and warning 
the colonies of their coming fate. He told them that the work might 
still be left in their hands, but on condition that they did it. If not, 
England, in mercy to themselves, must stretch forth her hand and save 
them from the luin into which they were rushing headlong. If, he then 
said, moved by no threats, scared by no auguries, deaf to all warning, 
they still went on, contumacious; they would ere long see that we should 
be trifled with no more. — Still they went on — moved by no threats, scared 
by no auguries, deaf to all warnings — and refusing every concession — 
while the indignant voice of all England echoed, in accents of impatient 
resentment, across the Atlantic waves. All they did was a mockery — 
no measure of real value was adopted. Exemption from labour on the 
Sabbath, to afford opportunities of religious worship, had not been given 
in the only way in which it could be effectual — coupled with allotting 
some week-day for the necessary labours of the slave in his own sup- 
port. No attempt to provide the means of manumission was made. 
Religious liberty had been violated, by the general persecution of 
teachers, whose lives were blameless as their doctrines were pure. The 
cart-whip still rang as loud, as ceaseless as before, through all the 
brakes and dells of all the islands. Nothing had been done ! But still 
the Assemblies went on, expecting that England would continue as 
supine as they were obstinate. They were, he trusted, greatly de- 
ceived. Even from Parhament he hoped something — but from the 
country he hoped all things. He knew that what the House did or 
left undone might be important, as it regarded its own character ; and 
he therefore hoped it might do its duty— but if not, the affair was of 
moment rather to itself than to the question — for the people of England, 
he well knew, would do theirs. 
The House then divided — 

For the motion - - - - 27 

Against it ------ 56 

Majority - —29 

On the 1 6th of July some further conversation on this subject took 
place in the House of Commons, on the presentation of a petition from 
Brighton, by Mr. Otway Cave, who maintained that West India pro- 
prietors possessed, and could possess no legal property in persons who 
were equally British subjects with themselves. Since the division of the 



340 Mr. Cave, Mr. Twiss, Sir G. Murray, Mr. Smith, Mr. Buxton. 

13th he had no longer any hopes of a change proceeding from his 
Majesty's Government. He trusted, therefore, that the constituency of 
the country would call on every candidate to pledge himself to use his 
best efforts to get rid of it. If this were not done, and that speedily, 
the negroes would be justified in the eyes of God and man in shaking 
off the yoke that oppressed them. Mr. Taviss and Sir George 
Murray deprecated such language, as pregnant with danger ; and its 
use was defended by Mr, Cave. — Sir G. Murray allowed that it was 
indeed difficult to speak of slavery in an assembly of freemen without 
giving way to that warmth of expression which a contemplation of its 
horrors naturally excited; and he admitted it had its origin in injustice 
and inhumanity. But he said we could not now go back to its origin. 
We found such a state existing — and recognised — and what we had now 
to do was to ameliorate in order to get rid of it altogether ; and huma- 
nity itself required we should be cautious, both in the steps we took, 
and the language we used. — Mr. W. Smith took the occasion again to 
express his opinion that slavery had never been established by any law 
of this country. He thought the House was bound to interfere and 
put an end to the present system, for if it left the planters to their own 
counsels it would soon behold them plunged in irretrievable ruin. He 
had seen in a recent petition from certain slave-owners of Demerara the 
extraordinary allegation that the negroes were as much property as 
chairs and tables. This was a doctrine so monstrous that he never 
could hear it without bearing his very strongest protest against it. 

Again, on the 20th July, Mr. Buxton on presenting several peti- 
tions against slavery — among others, one from the graduates, and under- 
graduates of Oxford, expressed his pleasure in observing the union of 
the learned and unlearned in demanding the speedy abolition of slavery. 
He lamented that domestic circumstances had prevented his attending 
on Mr. Brougham's motion on the 13th. He therefore felt himself now 
called upon to make a few remarks on the subject. The question was 
now brought to this alternative. The House and the country must now 
take up the question — or renounce it altogether. It was utterly idle to 
expect any thing from the Colonial Assemblies. During seven years 
they had been urged to ameliorate the state of the slaves with a view to 
final emancipation, as held out in the resolutions of 1823 ; and they had 
done literally nothing. — In 1823, Mr. Canning had stated it as a first step 
to negro improvement to abolish the flogging of females. Not one As- 
sembly had adopted the recommendation. No man, in that of Jamaica, 
had the courage to propose it. One man moved, indeed, that in flogging 
women there should be no indecent exposure of their persons, but the 
motion was negatived by 28 to 12. — Another of the objects of Mr. Can- 
ning was to afford the slaves facilities of religious instruction. And yet 
to this hour no time whatever was allotted to them in any of the 
colonies in lieu of Sunday, hitherto the day for ra,ising their food and 
going to market. Within the last two hours he had learnt a fact, illus- 
trative of the desire of religious improvement alleged to prevail in Ja- 
maica. So recently as in May last, a poor negro who had been 
guilty of no other crime but that of attending, with his master's per- 
mission, a prayer meeting, where he joined in prayer to God, was 



Mr. Buxton — Pei'secution in Jamaica. 341 

convicted of that heinous crime, and sentenced on account of it to be 
flogged with the cart-whip, and afterwards worked in chains for a fort- 
night.* It was plain, therefore, nothing could be done unless the 



* The following is the substance of the account of this transaction which 
ended in the conviction and punishment of a negro named Sam Swiney, as given 
under the hand of the Rev. William Knibb, a Baptist Missionary, and inserted 
in the Jamaica Watchman of the 5th June, 1830. The transaction occurred at 
Savannah-la-mar, the very spot where Lieutenant Smith, whose letter has made 
so much noise in the world, resides. 

" During my absence from Savannah-la-mar," observes Mr. Knibb, " in con- 
sequence of serious indisposition, a number of my congregation were molested 
by certain ' lewd fellows of the baser sort,' and which molestation has ended, 
according to my conception, in as manifest a perversion of justice as I have ever 
witnessed." " On Easter evening, part of my congregation assembled at my 
house, to hold a prayer meeting, which is customary in all dissenting congrega- 
tions." " When they were thus engaged, much interruption was experienced 
from two persons of the name of Passoa and Metchener, who on the following 
day, after consulting the clergyman of the established church, gave information, 
upon which a warrant was issued for the apprehension of six free persons and. 
six slaves." The charges on oath " the whole of which I am prepared to prove 
were false, and the majority of which were proved to be so on oath by three 
respectable gentlemen" were, 

" 1. That the persons were assembled for the purpose of preaching and 
teaching. 

" 2. That the meeting continued till between 9 and 10 at night. 

" 3. That such a noise was made as disturbed the whole of the neighbourhood. 

" 4. That a slave, John Wright, was there, who it could have been proved at" 
that time was four miles off." 

The second and third charges were disproved by the oaths of two gentlemen 
living opposite to Mr. Knibb's house, one of them Mr. Gibson the head consta- 
ble, who testified that there was not the least noise, and that the meeting was 
over before eight o'clock. "Mr. Aaron Deleon, the owner of the slave Sam 
Swiney who suffered, informed the magistrates, being the Gustos, the Hon. 
David Finlayson, (the speaker of the House of Assembly,) and Mr. T. W. Har- 
din, that he had given Sam free permission to attend the meeting : the Gustos 
asked whether the permission was in writing, and the owner answering he 
was not aware it was necessary, he was told that the omission made the leave of 
no avail." After a long investigation, and nothing tangible appearing against 
the other parties, " the Gustos appeared determined to iind Sam Swiney, one of 
the slaves apprehended, guilty of something for which he might be punished : 
and therefore because he prayed without a book, and out of his head, or as one 
of the witnesses swore with his lips, he declared that praying and preaching were 
synonymous terms, and that he had acted illegally, and must suffer for the in- 
fraction of the law. I explained to Mr. Finlayson the nature of the meeting." 
" I told him that Dissenters made use of no set form of prayer, and that there 
was a manifest difference between preaching and praying. He I'eplied there 
was not : they were the same : praying meant teaching, and preaching meant 
teaching, and it was nonsense to make a difference." He said, '• Mr. Knibb, you 
have done very wrong, and if you do so again I'll take away your license." 

" The result of this extraordinary proceeding was, that though the owner of 
the slave appeared and stated that the negro had free permission to attend the 
meeting : though the neighbours declared that the deposition of the informer' 
was false, the man was without any hesitation convicted, and for simply, on his 
knees, offering a short prayer to God, was sentenced to receive 20 lashes, and 
to be worked in chains for a fortnight. Early on the following morning, I went 
to see the disgusting scene that was then enacted. What my feelings were I will 
not now express, for I beheld a fellow creature, a respectable tradesman of his 
class, stretched indecently on the earth, and lacerated with a cart-whip, and 
immediately after chained to a convict and sent to work on the road" — " lo gia- 

3 c 



342 Sir A. Grant — Mr. Buxton — General Election — Bristol. 

country took up the question, and unless also the electors throughout 
the kingdom now took it up. If the electors thought that slavery was a 
good thing; -that the flogging of naked women was to be borne; — that 
missionaries should be confined in loathsome jails for no offence but 
preaching the Gospel, and negroes be punished for attending, with their 
masters' leave, meetings for prayer : — if the electors thought all these 
things right and proper, then let them vote for those who support such 
abominations. But if not, then would they send men to this House, pledged 
to do their utmost, both by their voices and their votes, to put an end 
to so detestable a system. 

Sir Alexander Grant argued that Mr. Buxton had not fairly 
represented the pledge of May 1823, which asserted the sacred rights 
of the property vested in slaves, and he referred to the resolutions of 
that period, as giving the planters a full title to compensation. 

Mr. Buxton replied, that he had not misrepresented the resolutions 
of 1823, in affirming that they looked distinctly to the final emancipa- 
tion of the slaves. He did not mean to say that fair compensation 
should not be given by this country to the West India proprietors. 
Whatever claims they had on this country, which was one of the guilty 
parties in supporting slavery, he did not deny that they were entitled 
to equitable consideration ; but most certainly they had no just claim, 
and could have none, upon the injured and oppressed slave. 

In closing this brief sketch of what has recently taken place in Par- 
liament, we turn involuntarily to the scene of bustle and conflict which 
its dissolution has produced. Now is the critical moment for the friends 
of humanity to bestir themselves on the behalf of the injured and 
outraged negro. We have already remarked with satisfaction the 
paramount importance attached to this question, by many of the elec- 
tors in various parts of the kingdom. Bristol, anciently a stronghold 
of the African Slave Trade, and still one of the main holds of the 
opprobrious system of slavery which has sprung from that polluted 
source ; Bristol has taken the lead in strenuous efforts to wipe off this 
foul stain, and has set an example already followed by many, and, 
which we trust, will be widely influential. Many of its most repectable 
inhabitants subscribed a public declaration, that they could " consider 
no man to be a fit representative of Britons" who did not regard " as 
sacred and inviolable articles of his political belief," that " personal 
freedom is the birthright of every human being; and that every person 
owing allegiance to the Grown of this empire is justly entitled, as the 
condition of such allegiance, to the full enjoyment of the civil rights 
and immunities of a freeborn British subject ; '' and they pledged their 
word and promise to each other and to the world, that, at the general 
election, they would give their respective votes " to no candidate for a 
seat in Parliament who would not solemnly and publicly engage to pro- 

tify the prejudices of those who hold that preaching and praying are the same, 
and equally infractions of the law of Jamaica. Whether justice has been done 
in this case I leave others to determine. For my own part, I must consider that 
if the law sanctions such a conclusion, that law is an abomination, and a dis- 
grace to a Christian country." 



Bristol — Yorkshii'e. 343 

mote the practical application of those principles, whenever British 
Colonial Slavery should be brought under the consideration of the 
House of Commons." 

Without any reference to this declaration, it appeared from what 
passed in the House .of Commons on the 13th of July last, and to which 
.we have already briefly adverted (see above, p. 333,) that Mr. Edward 
Protheroe, junior, having offered himself as a candidate for Bristol, with 
flattering prospects of success, it was no sooner known that his views 
were decidedly opposed to slavery, than he was threatened with the 
most formidable opposition from the whole West India interest ; and 
many whose cordial support he had relied upon, turned their backs 
upon him, in order to seek out as a representative some decided favourer 
of the colonial system. They have accordingly invited Mr. James 
Baillie to become a candidate, and he has accepted the invitation. The 
battle therefore of freedom against slavery is about to be fought at Bristol. 
The utmost energies of the friends of slavery are now putting forth to 
protect their alleged inalienable right to hold their fellow men in helpless, 
hopeless and endless bondage ; and they threaten to spare no efforts and 
no sacrifices which may be required to avert any infringement of that 
cherished privilege. We trust, however, that there will be found among 
a majority of the freemen of Bristol a spirit too high, and principles too 
pure, and a determination too firm to be moved, either by entreaty or 
intimidation, to bend to compromise on such a question ; — too sacred a 
reverence for their paramount obligations as Christians, and too deep a 
feeling of the claims of humanity, to permit them to listen to any voice 
which would seduce them from the plain path of their duty. The eye 
of Great Britain is upon them, and whether they succeed or not in their 
attempt, every extremity of her wide dominion must feel the purifying 
and exalting influence of such an example. 

But it is in the great county of York that the anti-slavery zeal seems 
to burn with the most intense and pervading flame. It has led to the 
nomination of Mr. Brougham for the representation of that county, with 
a demonstration of union and cordiality which seems to insure his return. 
And the spirit which animated a large meeting of freeholders, held at 
York on the 23d of July, and which issued in the nomination of that 
gentleman, seems but the echo of the other divisions of the county. In 
the East Riding the most decisive resolutions were adopted, D. Sykes, 
Esq., M. P., in the chair, to take advantage of this opportune period to 
engage on their own behalf, and to solicit others, in the name of justice, 
humanity, and religion, to use every lawful means of putting an end to 
so great an evil " as the cruel bondage in which nearly one million of our 
fellow-creatures are held : '' and they recommend " to all who deem the 
buying and selling of human creatures, and holding them in slavery to be 
a crime," to favour those candidates only " who will engage to exert 
themselves in carrying into immediate effect the wisest and most prac- 
ticable measures for the speedy extinction of a system by which man is 
made the absolute property of his fellow-man, and thereby degraded to 
the condition of a brute." 
. The cry from the West Riding is not less loud and unambiguous. 



344 General Election — Yorkshire. 

The following are the resolutions of an anti-slavery meeting held at 
Leeds on the 21st of July, John Clapham, Esq., in the chair. 

" That it is the duty of all the Members of this Association to exert 
their utmost influence in the ensuing General Election, to secure the 
return of those Candidates alone who will give an unequivocal pledge of 
their determination to seek, as an object of high and primary import- 
ance, the entire extinction of Negro Slavery in the British Colonies. 

" That w^e therefore agree and also earnestly recommend to our 
friends who possess the elective franchise, either for the county or for 
boroughs, to vi^ithhold all support from such persons as are interested in 
the system of Slavery, or will not assist to accomplish its extirpation. 

" That the transcendant ability, and nervous and commanding elo- 
quence with which Henry Brougham, Esq. has so often pleaded the 
cause of an injured race, the ardent zeal, and uniform perseverance with 
which he has laboured to redress their wrongs and effect their emanci- 
pation, pre-eminently entitle him to the gratitude of all true friends of 
civil and religious liberty, and signally mark him out as the fittest re- 
presentative of the opinions and wishes of the Freeholders of this great 
County, who demand the Abolition of Slavery as an evil of fearful mag- 
nitude, directly opposed to the well-being and happiness of man, the 
Law of God, and the Religion of Christ. 

" That should Mr. Brougham permit himself to be proposed as a 
Candidate for the Representation of Yorkshire, — we do, in accordance 
with our avowed principles, and on the ground of his past exertions in 
this righteous cause, and his pledge of future and more entire self- 
devotement to it, faithfully bind ourselves to give him our most strenuous 
support, and to forward his election by every constitutional means." 

An address accompanied the resolutions, from which we extract a few 
sentences. 

" Beneath the sceptre of your King, whose brightest glory it is that 
He is called to reign over freemen ; and under the Law of your country, 
whose proudest boast is the equal security and well-being of all; — 
nearly a million of the human family — our fellow-creatures in kind, 
reason, moral capability, and immortal destiny, — are held as captives, 
rated as chattels, yoked as beasts, and branded as criminals, without 
the pretext or allegation of any offence." 

" It is for you to say, and for your loud voice to determine, whether 
this monstrous evil shall be any longer endured. 

" Firmly reject, peremptorily discountenance, any candidate who will 
not explicitly and decidedly pledge himself to measures which shall 
exterminate this horrible enormity. 

" An opportunity, the most providential, now occurs of proclaiming 
your sentiments against this unequalled wrong on our Common Nature, 
and this foul scandal on the Christian name. 

" You poured forth your thousands to support Wilberforce when 
he stood the champion of Africa against the traffic in her children : 
prove that you have not degenerated from the lofty standard of your 
own example. 

" A patriot the most unshrinking, a philanthropist the most indefa^ 
tigable, a statesman the most acute and eloquent, will stand forward on 



State of Society and Manners in Jamaica Illustrated. 345 

your County hustings, to receive your command that Slavery shall 
cease to the ends of the earth." 

" Never was there a more urgent occasion for your strenuous and 
united exertions, — never a more noble and disinterested cause to engage 
them. 

" Your character as Christians is in the balance ! 

" How can you answer it to Him who heareth the groaning of the 
prisoner — how can you answer it to the brother for whom Christ died— 
how can you answer it to yourselves,— if you forego the opportunity of 
exercising your franchise or influence on behalf of this deeply injured 
race? 

" With you it rests, under God, whether the bondman shall go free,— 
whether your fellow-man shall be reinstated in the rights of manhood,— 
whether tens of thousands of your fellow-Christians, 'born again' to 
the Saviour in their cruel exile or servitude, shall be welcomed to the 
Christian charter,— the privileges of which their injuries have only en- 
deared ;— from which privileges no circumstance, no law, any more than 
the accidents of birth and complexion, can justly exclude them ! 

" Brother Christians !— Allow no discouragements, fear no difficul- 
ties ; fortify yourselves with your cause ; rejoice in the testimony of 
your conscience ; carry out your principles ; be true to yourselves ; and 
soon the last rivet of slavery shall be broken, and even its last scar be 
effaced.'" 



II. — Illustration of Jamaica Society and Manners. 

Want of room alone prevents our conveying to our readers much in- 
teresting intelligence recently received from the West Indies, exhibiting 
in lively colours the disgusting effects of the miserable system, which 
converts that smiling region of the earth into a loathsome Lazar-or 
rather Charnel-house. We have scarcely room left for a brief abstract 
of a single case. It is that of a mulatto female slave, named Eleanor 
Mead, belonging to Colchis estate, in the parish of Trelawney. Her 
mistress, Mrs. Earnshaw, who is described by some as a lady of humanity 
and delicacy, having taken offence at something which this slave had 
said or done, in the course of a quarrel with another slave, ordered her 
to be stripped naked, prostrated on the ground, and in her own presence 
caused the male driver to inflict upon her bared body fifty-eight lashes of 
the cart whip. This happened about the 1st of April last. — Eleanor 
Mead was the mother of nine children. One of the persons ordered to 
hold her prostrate during the punishment, was her own daughter Ca- 
therine. When one hip had been sufficiently lacerated in the opinion 
of Mrs. Earnshaw, she told the driver to go round and flog the other 
side. On rising up after the infliction, the woman proceeded to pull 
down her clothes which had been raised up towards her shoulders. Mrs. 
Earnshaw would not permit her to do so, but ordered her to be conveyed, 
in her naked and exposed state, by two men, to the bilboes, she herself 
walking behind till she reached the bilboes, and had her feet fastened 
in them. — On the character given to Mrs. Earnshaw for humanity and 
delicacy, the Editor of the Watchman inquires what opinion could be 
formed of her delicacy, " when she could order the clothes of a woman 



34G State of Society and Manners in Jamaica Illustrated. 

to be taken up in her presence and in the presence of negro men ; or of 
her humanity, when she could cahnly stand by and suffer fifty-eight 
lashes to be inflicted on an unfortunate wretch who had been the mother 
of nine children, one of whom she compelled to assist in the punishment 
of her own parent, by holding her down while she was writhing under 
the lash ? Where was her humanity when after one side was flogged 
she told the driver to turn round and flog the other ? And where was 
her modesty when she refused her slave to pull down her clothes, and 
when she walked behind her in a state of nudity with a bleeding body 
from the house to the bilboes ?" 

In the course of the same evening, Eleanor Mead escaped from the 
bilboes, and reached Falmouth along with her daughter Catharine, and 
there made her complaint to the Gustos, Mr. Miller. Mr. Miller and 
his brother magistrate, though they saw that a severe punishment had 
been inflicted, yet having no evidence but that of slaves to prove that 
the punishment had exceeded thirty-nine lashes, sent the complainant and 
her daughter back to Colchis, with a letter stating, that as she had not 
been proved to have received a punishment contrary to law, she had been 
ordered home, and they requested she might be allowed to resume 
her usual employment, which was that of a house servant. On return- 
ing to the estate however, neither she nor her daughter were restored 
to their usual employment, but were ordered into the field with a hoe 
and bill. On refusing to go, they were placed in the stocks, and on the 
following day, the 8th of April, 1830, Eleanor Mead was sent by the 
attorney of the estate, Mr. Frater, to the workhouse, with an order to 
the superintendant, authorizing him to receive her, and there safely keep 
her for one month, giving her thirty-nine lashes on going in. In her way 
thither, she contrived to present herself to the view of a magistrate, 
Mr. Ogilvy, who, on hearing her statement and reading Mr. Prater's 
order, interposed to prevent this second punishment from being carried 
into effect, " the consequences of which " he thought, " might have 
been of a serious nature, as she had not recovered from the effects of 
the first." This interference on the part of the magistrate, excited 
loud complaints on the part of Mr. Frater, who vehemently accused 
him of illegal and improper interference with the power of the master.* 

* On the 7th April, 1830, Mr Frater informed the Custos by letter, that he had 
not only sent the mother, Eleanor Mead, to the workhouse, to be punished with 
thirty-nine lashes more, but that he had ordered the overseer of Colchis to inflict 
also on the daughter Catharine, thirty-nine lashes, and " to keep her confined 
till she behaves herself." The Custos replied on the 8th April, by recom- 
mending more lenient measures to Mr. Frater than he had stated it to be his 
intention to pursue. On the 12th, Mr. Frater repels, with indignation, the cau-' 
tion of the Custos, and says " I will defy the vs^orld to accuse me of any im- 
proper or cruel act towards a slave, during my residence in this country, of 
upwards of thirty years." The slave law, he adds, " requires that the complaint 
of the slave being proved frivolous, the magistrates should give redress to the 
master by punishing the slave — and not," as had been done in this instance, " to 
adopt a mistaken philanthropy by turning the slave back on the owner, with 
directions that no further notice is to be taken of their misconduct." " Such a 
decision" he adds, " never could have been contemplated by the legislature in 
enacting this law, for it is striking at the very root of our constitutional rights 
that we are so strenuously defending." 



State of Society and Manners in Jamaica Illustrated. 347 

On the 3d of May, the case was submitted to a board of twenty- 
three magistrates, when it was resolved by a majority of nineteen to 
four, to forward the whole of the evidence to the Attorney-General for 
his opinion. Among the witnesses examined were two surgeons. — Dr. 
Neilson the surgeon of the workhouse, saw Eleanor Mead, first, on the 
2nd of April, — " she had many marks of punishment on her posteriors 
and thighs in about ten or a dozen places; the lashes had penetrated 
the skin and lacerated the parts. — Saw her again on the 9th, when the 
sores had been scabbed over, but none of them were well. Witness 
considered the punishment severe for a woman of her age and colour, 
although he could not say that the law had been exceeded. Never 
saw such a punishment inflicted on a person of her description. She 
was not in a fit state to receive a second punishment, the parts being, 
still lacerated." — Dr. Perkins, the surgeon of the plantation Colchis, was' 
sent by Mr. Frater on the 17th of April to examine her. He testified 
that " he found the skin completely healed and she was perfectly well, 
but had the appearance of recent punishment. He cannot say how 
many lashes were inflicted, being so blended with old marks of punish- 
ments. Cannot say if she had received fifty lashes. Had not the ap- 
pearance of so many. Should not think her capable of doing heavy 
or gang work or cutting canes." 

The Attorney-General's opinion, dated the 15th May, 1830, is, 
that as he cannot receive the evidence of slaves as proving excess of 
punishment, (that is to say, above thirty-nine lashes) and there being no 
other direct proof to that point, he thinks no case is substantiated 
against Mrs. Earnshaw. And as to the charge of a second punishment 
being ordered when the slave had not recovered from the former 
one, the magistrates, he conceived, had acted properly in suspending 
it, but the offence was not complete so as to form a ground of prose- 
cution, unless such second punishment had actually been inflicted. 

Two days after, on the 17th of May, Eleanor Mead was sent back to 
Colchis, and placed under the uncontrolled power of Mrs. Earnshaw 
and Mr. Frater ! 

We have been obliged to abridge much of this case, and to omit 
many observations suggested by it, but we may again recur to it. The 
particulars are fully detailed in the Jamaica Watchman of May 29 and 
June 2 and 5, 1830. 



The argument on which Mr. Frater chiefly insisted as justifying himself and 
Mrs. Earnshaw, and condemning the magistrates, was that " the law gave him 
power to punish his slave, provided he did not exceed the law ; and to put him to 
any work he chose." The observations of Mr. Barrett, one of the magistrates, 
on this plea was — " Look at the complainant, a poor weakly woman ! Can it be 
for a moment contended, that the law gives the master power to inflict the same 
punishment on a weakly woman as on an able bodied negro man, or to put her to 
work which she cannot physically perform ? No ! the law curtails the power of 
the owner." Mr. Frater however was right, and Mr. Barrett wrong in his in- 
terpretation of the law according to the Attorney-General. — Such are the laws 
of Jamaica ! 



348 



Donations and Remittances hi Aid of the Punds of the Anti-Slavery 
Society, from the General Meeting, May 15, to July 24, 1830.* 



Collection at General Meeting 

His Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester (annual donation) 
Pontefract Association (donation) .... 
Southampton Ladies' Association (donation) 

Ditto ditto (payment for Reporters 

Beverley Ladies ditto (£5. donation £3. payment) 

Tewksbury Association (payment) . 
Lewes ditto . ditto 

Doncaster ditto . ditto 

Mrs. Drew, Roehampton (donation) . 
J. J. Briscoe, Esq. ditto 

J.T.Price, Esq. ditto . 

B. J. Wood, Esq. (annual subscription) 
Rev. Charles Stuart (donation) 
Captain Hawkins (annual subscription) 

Ditto (payment) 

G. T. Clark, Esq. (annual subscription) . 
W. Albright, Esq. Charlbury (donation) 
Rochester Ladies' Association ditto 

Ditto ditto (payment) . 

Horsham Association (payment) 
Chelmsford Ladies' Association (donation) 
Coalbrookdale Association (donation) . 

Ditto (payment) 

Leominster Association ditto 

Berkhamstead, Tring, &c. ditto (donation) 
West Bromwich, Birmingham, &c. (payment) 
Joseph Sturge, Esq. Birmingham (donation) 
Charles Sturge, Esq. .... 

Charles Elliot, Esq. (annual subscriber) . 
Joseph Dimsdale, Esq. ditto 
Halifax. Association, (payment) 
Gainsborough, ditto, per Maw Bowen, Esq. (donation) 

Ditto ditto ditto (payment) 

Bristol, ditto (donation) 

Ditto ditto (payment) 

W. Johnson, Esq. Cork (donation) 
Rev.-T. Weaver ditto 

Thomas Wilson, Esq. ditto 

Clapham Ladies' Association, ditto . 
Stoke Newington, ditto, ditto (payment) . 
Margate Association ditto 

Ditto ditto (donation) 

Keyhaven Association ditto 

Rev. J. H. Malpas ditto 

Plymouth Association ditto 

Miss S. Wedgwood, Camphill ditto 
Geo. Long, Esq. ditto 

F. W. Austin, Esq. ditto 



£. .t. 


cl. 


64 1 


9 


10 10 





10 





10 





2 6 





8 


a 


6 19 


1 


3 IT 


1 


11 .5 





1 





1 1 





1 





1 I 





1 





1 





4 





1 1 





1 





10 





2 15 


6 


4 19 


G 


10 





11 13 


m 


5 


6 


1 14 


6 


5 





5 6 


9 


10 10 





5 





2 2 





1 1 


a 


5 19 


8 


26 9 





13 11 





25 





13 16 





2 2 





1 


0- 


10 10 





20 





1 4 


G 


2 10 





1 5 


1 


3 4 


10 


1 I 





5 





40 





1 1 






10 



* It is intended to publish a list of contributions to the funds of the Society, in 
this manner, from time to time, exclusive of the Annual Account of Receipts and 
Disbursements, made up at the close of each year. The Accounts and Lists of 
Subscribers for 1829, and 1830, will be printed in January 1831. 



London: Bagsler mid I'homs, I'rinters, 14, Barlliohmeic Close. 



THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER. 

No. 65.] AUGUST 20, 1830. [Vol. iii. No. 17. 

I.— WESLEYAN METHODISTS AND COLONIAL SLAVERY:— 

Resolutions of Methodist Conference, Jdly 30, 1830 ; 
Persecution of Methodist Missionaries by Magistrates and As- 
sembly OF Jamaica; 
Persecution of Religious Slaves in Jamaica ; 
Rev. J. Barry's Exposure of Mr. Barclay. 

II.— GENERAL ELECTION :— 

Contest at Bristol ; Mr. Protheroe's parting Address, &c. ; 
Triumph of Anti-Slavery Principles in Yorkshire; 
Return of Mr. Brougham, &c ; popular feeling on the subjcet. 
Call for Universal Petitions to Parliament. 

III.— ADMINISTRATION OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE IN BARBADOES. 

IV.— SUCCINCT VIEAY OF THE STATE OF COLONIAL REFORM 
BOTH IN THE CROWN AND IN THE CHARTERED CO- 
LONIES. 



I. — Wesleyan Methodists and Colonial Slavery. 

We have the utmost satisfaction in recording the follovping resolu- 
tions of the Wesleyan Methodist Conference, assembled at Leeds, on 
the 30th July, 1830, on the subject of Colonial Slavery, the Rev. George 
Morley in the Chair. The Resolutions are in the very highest degree 
honourable to that body, and cannot fail to produce results the most 
beneficial to the interests of humanity and to the diffusion of religious 
light among the oppressed and outraged objects of their active zeal and 
unwearied benevolence. They are thus expressed : — 

" The Conference taking into consideration the laudable efforts which 
are now making to impress the public with a due sense of the injustice 
and inhumanity of continuing that system of slavery which exists in 
many of the colonies of the British Crown, and to invite a general 
application to Parliament, by petition, that such measures may in its 
wisdom be adopted as shall speedily lead to the universal termina- 
tion of the wrongs inflicted upon so large a portion of our fellow men, 
resolve as follows : — 

" 1. That as a body of Christian Ministers, they feel themselves 
called upon again to record their solemn judgment, that the holding 
of human beings in a state of slavery is in direct opposition to all the 
principles of natural right, and to the benign spirit of the religion of 
Christ. 

" 2. That the system of bondage existing in our West India Colonies 
is marked with characters of peculiar severity and injustice, inasmuch 
as a great majority of the slaves are doomed to labours inhumanly 
wasting to health and life ; and are exposed to arbitrary, excessive, and 
degrading punishments, without any effectual protection from adequate 
and impartially administered laws. 

" 3. That the Conference having long been engaged in endcavourino" 

3 D 



350 Resolutions of the Methodist Conference on Slavery. 

the instruction and evangelization of the Pagan Negroes of our West 
India Colonies by numerous and expensive Missions, supported by the 
pious hberality of the Friends of Religion at home, have had painful 
experience of the unfavourable influence of a state of slavery upon the 
moral improvement of a class of men most entitled to the sympathy and 
help of all true Christians ; that the patient and devoted men who have 
laboured in the work of Negro conversion, have too often been made 
the objects of obloquy and persecution, from that very contempt, or 
fear of the Negroes, which a system of slavery inspires ; that the vio- 
lent prejudices of caste, founded upon the colour of the skin, and 
nurtured by a state of slavery, and inseparable from it, have opposed 
■ the most formidable obstacles to the employment of coloured teachers 
and missionaries, who would otherwise have been called into useful em- 
ployment, in considerable numbers, as qualified instructors of their 
fellows ; that the general discouragement of slave marriages, and the 
frequent violent separation of those husbands and wives who have been 
united in matrimony by missionaries, have served greatly to encourage 
and perpetuate a grossness of manners, which might otherwise have 
been corrected ; that the nearly absolute control of vicious masters, or 
their agents, over those under their power, is, to a lamentable extent, 
used for the corrupting of the young, and the polluting of the most 
hallowed relations of life ; that the refusal of the Lord's-day to the 
slave, as a day of rest and religious worship, besides fostering the habit 
of entire irreligion, limits, and in many cases renders nugatory every 
attempt at efficient rehgious instruction ; — all which circumstances, 
more or less felt in each of the colonies, demonstrate the incompatibility 
of slavery with a general diffusion of the influence of morals and re- 
ligion, and its necessary association with general ignorance, vice, and 
wretchedness. 

"4. That the Preachers assembled in Conference, feel themselves the 
more bound to exhort the Members of the Methodist Societies and 
Congregations at home, to unite with their fellow-subjects in presenting 
their petitions to the next Parliament to take this important subject into 
its earliest consideration, because of the interesting relation which 
exists between them and the numerous Methodist Societies in the West 
Indies, in which are no fewer than 24,000 slaves, who, with their 
families, have been brought under the influence of Christianity ; and 
who, in so many instances, have fully rewarded the charitable toil of 
those who have applied themselves to promote their spiritual benefit, 
and whose right to exemption from a state of slavery, is, if possible, 
strengthened by their being partakers with us of ' like precious faith/ 
and from their standing in the special relation of ' brethren to all 
who themselves profess to be Christians. 

" 5. That the Conference fully concurs in those strong moral views of 
the evil and injustice of slavery, which are taken by their fellow-chris- 
tians of different denominations, and in the purpose which is so 
generally entertained of presenting petitions to Parliament from their 
respective congregations for its speedy and universal abolition; and 
earnestly recommends it to all the congregations of the Wesleyan 
Methodists throughout Great Britain and Ireland, to express in this 



Resolutions of the Methodist Conference on Slavery. 351 

manner, that is, by petitions to both Houses of Parliament from each 
congregation, to be signed at its own chapel, and presented, as early as 
possible, after the assembling of the next Parliament, their sympathy 
with an injured portion of their race, and their abhorrence of all those 
principles on which it is attempted to defend the subjection of human 
beings to hopeless and interminable slavery. 

" 6. That the Conference still further recommend, in the strongest 
manner, to such of the Members of the Methodist Societies as enjoy 
the elective franchise, that, in this great crisis, when the question is, 
whether justice and humanity shall triumph over oppression and 
cruelty, or nearly a million of our fellow-men, many of whom are also 
our fellow-christians, shall remain excluded from the rights of humanity, 
and the privileges of that constitution under which they are born; they 
will use that solemn trust to promote the rescue of our country from 
the guilt and dishonour which have been brought upon it by a criminal 
connivance at the oppressions which have so long existed in its colonies, 
and that, in the elections now on the eve of taking place, they will give 
their influence and votes only to those candidates who pledge them- 
selves to support, in Parliament, the most effectual measures for the 
entire abolition of slavery throughout the Colonies of the British 
Empire." 

When it is recollected that the Wesleyan Methodists have been pro- 
secuting their Christian labours in our slave colonies for nearly half a 
century ; that during that period their missionaries have been brought 
into close contact with the system prevailing there ; that they have en- 
joyed daily and almost hourly opportunities of examining its real 
nature and effects, without being exposed to the corrupting and de- 
moralizing influence either of its profits, or of the despotic power it 
confers on its administrators ; and that the Conference have now been 
enabled to bring before the public the result of the accumulated ex- 
perience of hundreds of missionaries, who, for fifty years, have been 
toiling and suffering and dying in their divine master's service ; the 
unequivocal and decided testimony which they have now borne to the 
evils, the incurable evils of slavery, cannot fail to produce on the nation 
at large a powerful and almost irresistible conviction of the imperative 
obligation which lies upon us to effect its early and entire extinction. 

And it is certainly no small satisfaction to us, exposed as we have 
been to obloquy of the grossest kind for the part we have felt it our 
duty to take in this cause ; accused as we have been of misrepresenta- 
tion, exaggeration, and deliberate falsehood in the facts we have ad- 
duced and the views we have exhibited of this enormous evil; thus to 
receive from a body of witnesses so competent and so unexceptionable, 
their clear, unbiassed, and unambiguous confirmation of the truth and 
fidelity of our general statements on the subject. 

If any one will be at the trouble to compare, for example, our " Brief 
View of the Nature and Effects of Negro Slavery as it exists in the 
colonies of Great Britain," which was first drawn up and published in 
April 1823,* with these resolutions, the spontaneous and unconcerted 

» See Preface to .Substance ot Debate of 15th May, 1823, p. 13. 



352 Religious Persecutions in Jamaica. 

judgment of this higlily respectable body, formed on the mass of con- 
current information furnished by hundreds of respectable eye-witnesses, 
who, during half a century, some for a longer and some for a shorter 
period, have been brought into familiar acquaintance with slavery 
stripped -of its disguises, apd as it exists in its proper and intrinsic 
deformity, he will find irrefragable proof of the accuracy of our deline- 
ations. And this corroboration too we have from men whose zeal brings 
them into habits of constant intercourse not only with slavery in our 
colonies, but with the lowest states of poverty and depression in Great 
Britain and Ireland; and who are thereby singularly qualified to pro- 
nounce with authority on the supreme degradation and wretchedness 
of the colonial slave. We earnestly entreat our readers to weigh with 
attention every syllable of this most important document, — the most 
important which perhaps has yet appeared during the present con- 
troversy, — for every syllable of it is fraught with meaning ; and they will 
find within its brief compass the substance of many a bulky pamphlet 
and voluminous Reporter, expressed with a force and fulness which we 
have seldom seen equalled. 

Nor is this all which this body has done to promote most essentially 
the Anti-Slavery cause. An Appendix to their Report of the Wesley an 
Missions for the year 1829, appeared about two months ago, in which 
they lament the necessity to which they are driven of making known to 
the public the flagrant and unprovoked instances of hostility to the 
propagation of the Gospel which have occurred in the island of Jamaica. 
The Committee affirm truly that they have shewn no inclination to in- 
dulge in reproaches ; — but the recent systematic and repeated attempts 
to suppress religious liberty in Jamaica, and to deprive the slaves of the 
Christian instructions of the Missionaries, and of the advantages of 
public worship, do not permit them to be longer silent. The Rev. 
Mr. Orton who has lately returned to England, his health broken by 
harsh and illegal imprisonment, has drawn up a narrative of the perse- 
cutions the Missionaries have had to endure, and of the iniquitous laws 
which have been passgd by the legislature with the view of destroying 
the freedom of public worship. We have already distinctly pointed 
out the harsh and revolting tenor of the clauses introduced into the 
disallowed Act of 1826. (Reporter, No. 29, p. 104 and 105.) In the 
Act of 1 829, likewise happily disallowed, the same clauses were renewed 
with a very considerable aggravation of their anti-christian severity. 
The Act of 1 826 permitted licensed ministers to perform divine worship 
in licensed places at any time before eight in the evening. The Act of 
1829, with a studied and deliberate antipathy to religious instruction, 
confined the celebration of divine service between the hours of sunrise 
and sunset, it being well known to the framers of the lavi? that between 
these hours it is physically impossible that divine service should be per- 
formed or Christian instruction given. These hours comprehend the 
very hours when the slaves, men, women and children are of necessity 
labouring, under the impulse of the lash, in the cultivation of the soil 
beneath a vertical sun ; for the law empowers the master to compel the 
slave to be in the field from five in the morning till seven in the even- 



Religious Persecutions in Jamaica. 353 

ing, independently of the severe night labour of crop, and a variety of 
extra services which he is forced to perform both for his master and for 
himself. (See Reporter, No. 33, p. 180, &c.) The enactment therefore 
had it directly in view entirely to suppress rehgious instruction. 

Such is the obvious and unquestionable spirit of the legislation of 
Jamaica in respect to religious missions. Now for its practice. 

We have already adverted to the premeditated midnight and ruffian- 
like attack made on the Mission-house at St. Ann's Bay, on the Christ- 
mas-eve of 1826, incited by a sermon preached in the preceding fore- 
noon by the Rev. G. W. Bridges, and perpetrated by men Avearing the 
garb and assuming the character of gentlemen, with the murderous 
design of taking the life of the missionary Mr. RatclifFe, his wife and 
child. This outrage has met with perfect impunity. We have also 
given some account of the repeated apprehension, and imprisonment in 
a noisome dungeon, of the Rev. Mr. Grimsdall, a Wesleyan missionary ,' 
who sunk under the oppressions he had to endure, and fell at length the 
martyred victim of the persecuting rage of his enemies. (No. 22, p. 326.) 

In the Reporter, No. 43, p. 370, will be found a further account of 
the implacable spirit of intolerance, with which the persecutors of Mr. 
Grimsdall, unsatiated with his blood, continued to pursue those intrepid 
servants of Christ, Mr. Whitehouse and Mr. Orton, who succeeded Mr. 
Grimsdall in his missionary labours among the slaves ; and who under 
providence have only escaped a similar fate through the firm interfer- 
ence of the Chief Justice of the island, Sir W. Scarlett, seconded by 
the King's Attorney General. 

Not satisfied even with these savage and remorseless proceedings, 
vexatious prosecutions for perjury and other crimes v/ere instituted 
against missionaries, which, though they terminated in an honourable 
acquittal, were necessarily a source of most distressing annoyance. 
And the House of Assembly, falling in with the hostility to Christian 
missions entertained by a large part of the community, did not scruple 
to lend its aid to the unhallowed conspiracy for rooting them out from 
the island, by fastening upon the missionaries the crimes of sedition, 
extortion, and licentiousness. Fabricated testimony, slanderous insinua- 
tions, and notoriously false assertions v/ere among the means resorted 
to ; and the resolutions on the subject, with the evidence on which 
they were founded, remain an imperishable monument of the wicked 
arts which men calling themselves legislators could employ to effect the 
impious design of extinguishing the Christian light which had begun 
to dawn upon the slaves in that den of darkness. It is true, that warned 
by the remonstrances of their friends in England, pains have been taken 
to keep from the view of the British parliament and public these perilous 
proofs of infamy ; but we appeal fearlessly to the documents themselves 
as justifying all that is said of them. And that this is no hasty sentiment 
on our part but our calm and mature judgment will appear by turning 
to the preceding pages of this work. (See Reporters, No. 46, p. 462, 
No. 50, p. 24, No. 55, p. 162, No. 62, p. 297, &c. &c. &c.) But this 
is not an insulated case. It is merely one proof among many of the 
sadly demoralizing influence of slavery, not on the slave alone but on 
the master, and of the utter discredit which is justly due to the strongest 



354 Religious Persecutions in Jamaica. 

representations of slave holders, even when concurrently made, in 
favour of their own system. (See No. 62, p. 296.) 

We proceed to confirm these views of the conduct of the Assembly 
and community of Jamaica by a few extracts from the concluding re- 
marks of the Committee of the Wesleyan Missionary Society, in the 
Appendix to their Report. 

" The Committee have the most certain means of knowing that as far 
as their missions are concerned, and they doubt not as to all others, 
more false and unsupported allegations were never made by private 
prejudice, than are, in the Report of the Jamaica ' Sectarian Committee,' 
levelled against innocent men and their peaceable congregations, on the 
authority of the House of Assembly. Such is the exact and constant 
superintendence exercised over all these missions by the Committee, 
that it is impossible that such evils should exist without their own 
knowledge of, and consequent participation in them, if they existed at 
all ; and they trust that they have a character sufficiently responsible 
to render it unnecessary that they should go into any formal refutation 
of charges so infamous. It is enough that they give sufficient reasons 
to show, that the statements of this famous Report, have produced little 
conviction in Jamaica, and even in the House of Assembly itself, and 
that the only conclusion which can be rationally arrived at, from con- 
sidering the whole case, is, that the Report was, in the worst sense of 
the phrase, got up for the purpose of favouring the passing of the New 
Slave Law, with its intolerant clauses, so as to place the missions con- 
ducted in that island wholly under the power of the local government ; 
a power which the above statements are sufficient to prove would be most 
intolerantly used." Appendix, p. 18, 19. 

" If the foul charges against the missionaries contained in the Report 
of the ' Sectarian Committee,' had been believed in Jamaica, there would 
surely have been no difficulty in carrying through the House of Assem- 
bly those clauses respecting religion which are now inserted in the 
Slave Law last sent home. If the charges of extortion, injury to the 
morals of slaves, preaching seditious doctrines, inciting the slaves to in- 
surrection, and taking the hire of the prostitution of the female members 
of their societies to their own use, had rested on any probable evidence, 
and had carried conviction to the minds of the members, he must have 
been a very rash man who would have made the least resistance to them. 
The influence of sectarianism in the Jamaica House of Assembly cannot 
be said even to exist, in any degree ; and a unanimous vote of the As- 
sembly in favour of the clauses in question, must have resulted from the 
development of the facts of the Report, had they been generally received 
as credible. But the truth is, that so much had public opinion in Jamaica 
in favour of the missionaries been improved by the publication of this 
very Report itself, and the design which it so evidently disclosed to 
harass and persecute them upon the most frivolous and partial evidence, 
that the clauses were carried by majorities small beyond all former pre- 
cedent on such questions ; and that one of the members of the House of 
Assembly who most strenuously and violently advocated them, felt him- 
self under the necessity of resorting to the manoeuvre of using the name 
of his Majesty's ministers in a most unwarrantable manner to influence 



Religious Persecutions in Jamaica. 355 

the division ; asserting, that he had ' high authority ' for stating, that 
if a few verbal alterations in the clauses which had been rejected in the 
Slave Law of 1826 were made, they would receive the sanction of the 
government at home." — ib. p. 20, 21. * 

In short they affirm that the Report of the ' Sectarian Committee,' 
of the House of Assembly, " rests on no evidence of credit, or even 
thought to be of credit, in the very place where it originated; and 
stands only as a monument of one of the most unworthy attempts ever 
made by any public body to carry into effect a system of persecution, 
under pretences known by them to be without any sufficient foundation. 
The Committee rejoice to be able to state that the number of the advo- 
cates of religious toleration, and of the religious instruction of the 
slaves, has, of late, considerably increased in the island of Jamaica ; 
that acts of justice have been done by several magistrates, in favour of 
the persecuted and harassed instructors of the slaves ; and that an in- 
creasing number of proprietors encourage their labours among their 
negroes. Still, not only do these public acts of the House of Assembly 
prove the existence of a violent and intolerant party in that colony ; but 
many instances of private persecution are occurring, which show a 
spirit so much at variance with religious toleration, and even humanity, 
as to afford additional reason for the earnest applications which the 
Committee have again made to His Majesty's Government for the pro- 
tection of the Wesleyan Missionaries in the exercise of their religious 
duties, and of their congregations in their religious rights. The relief 
which they have sought will, they doubt not, be again afforded them, 
by the disallowance of the persecuting clauses of the new Slave Bill* 
which has recently passed the Jamaica legislature, and is now under the 
consideration of His Majesty's Ministers. Without that protection 
which a tolerant government has ever extended, certain it is that agents 
are not wanting in Jamaica to carry into operation, and that in the 
harshest manner, every restrictive enactment. Of the treatment of 
Missionaries, Mr. Orton's narrative affords some painful proofs, which 
exhibit, however, but a continuation of former instances of violent per- 
secution. The Missions in Jamaica, although carried on among a 
people professing Christianity and Protestantism, bear upon them the 
marks of persecuting violence to imprisonment and to death ! Nor is 
that spirit in some parts of the island at all abated. The Committee 
have the details before them of a slave of excellent report, who Avithin 
a few months was so severely punished by flogging for no other cause, 
alleged at the time, but his attendance at one of the mission chapels, 
as to have most narrowly escaped with life, if indeed he yet survives a 
most atrocious act of barbarity. And they have also the particulars of 
the case of another slave, more recently, who was laid down and 
severely flogged for the same alleged offence ; not indeed by his owner, 
but by order of the Rector of St. Ann's parish, before whose house he 
happened to be passing, and whose injury the said clergyman compen- 
sated by a pecuniary gift to the injured man, to escape judicial pro- 
ceedings instituted by the owner of the slave, who gives him a most 

* This bill, as our readers are awave, has been disallowed. 



356 Religious Persecution of Slaves in Jamaica. 

excellent character. Names, places, and dates, are all in the possession 
of the Committee, and can be adduced on a proper occasion ; but they 
now state these cases in brief, for the purpose of showing, that neither 
the religious liberties, nor the personal safety of Missionaries, nor of 
the members of their societies, are safe, except under the justice of His 
Majesty's Government, and the sympathies of the friends of religious 
liberty and the instruction of an oppressed race of their fellow men." — 
ib. p. 22, 23. 

Of the two facts alluded to at the close of the above passage, we 
deem it our duty to present our readers with some further details. 

The first of these two cases is that of a slave, named Henry Williams, 
belonging to an estate called the Rural Retreat. The owner of the 
estate is a lady residing in Scotland, to whom it has lately descended 
Jjy inheritance. Her attorney is a magistrate of Jamaica. The late 
owner of this estate had placed unlimited confidence in Henry Williams, 
and had been in the habit of employing him under his own direction, as 
sole manager of the property. Having thus been a favourite with his 
deceased master, he was in very respectable circumstances, and his 
conduct is said to have uniformly been such that he had never, during that 
master's hfetime, been subjected to corporal punishment. He had for 
years been a member of the Methodist Society, and had given such evi- 
dence both of intelligence and piety, that in March, 1829, he was 
appointed the leader of a class. The attorney hearing of this ap- 
pointment, expressed his displeasure. "Ihear," he said, "you are 
become a great preacher at the Methodist chapel, but if ever you go 
there again, I will send you to Rodney Hall workhouse."* Henry re- 
plied, that he was no preacher, but that he had attended the chapel for 
years, and had received much good there, and had there learned his 
duty to God and to his master. The attorney charged him also with 
the crime of drawing his fellow-slaves to the chapel, and thus ruining 
both them and himself. Henry admitted the fact of his trying to induce 
others to go thither. He had himself, he said, been benefited by his 
attendance, and he thought he could not do better than advise his 
fellow-slaves to attend too ; and, but for that, he felt confident that they 
would not have minded their business as they were now doing. On 
the following day the attorney visited the estate, and having summoned 
the whole gang before him, threatened them with severe punishment if 
they went again to the chapel. On this a female slave, a sister of 
Henry WiUiams, happened to heave a deep sigh- The attorney said, 
"Who is that groaning?" and perceiving who it was, ordered her to 
be laid down on her stomach on the ground, and caused to be inflicted 
upon her a severe flogging. From the estate the attorney went to the 
house of the Rev. G. W. Bridges, which is near it, probably to consult 
with his Rector on the means of checking this unhappy tendency to fre- 
quent the Methodist chapel. The next day Henry Williams having to pass 
that way, Mr. Bridges called him, and inquired his reasons for preferring the 

* This workhouse is situated in St. Thomas in the Vale, and is a sort of re- 
ceptacle for notorious delinquents. Slaves deemed deserving of extraordi- 
nary punishment, are said to be often sent to this seat of darkness and misery, 
because of the peculiar severity with which they are there treated. 



Persecution of Slaves in Jamaica — Case of Henry Williams. 357 

Methodist chapel to the church. Henry frankly told him his reasons : 
They were generally, that he derived more spiritual benefit from going 
to the chapel than to the church. Mr. Bridges then told him that unless 
he came to church himself, and brought his fellow-slaves with him, he 
was assured by the attorney that he must prepare for the consequences 
with which he had been threatened. On the succeeding Sunday Henry 
Williams, having received the orders of the attorney to attend at church 
with all the people, was himself present during the service. After 
service, the attorney asked him where the rest of the people were. 
Henry replied, that the people had told him, that Sunday was their own, 
and that some of them had gone to the Methodist chapel, and others 
had gone in other directions, (probably to their grounds or to market,) 
but that he himself, though resolved not to relinquish the chapel, had 
come to church to shew how desirous he was to obey the orders that had 
been given him. The attorney then told him he should be sent to Rod- 
ney Hall workhouse. Thither, in a day or two, he was accordingly 
sent, and though perfectly ready to go without constraint, he was 
lashed round like a felon, his arms being fastened with ropes. This 
took place about the beginning of July, 1829. In the workhouse at 
Rodney Hall, he was put in chains, and repeatedly flogged, and so 
severe was the punishment inflicted upon him, that, after a time, he be- 
came so ill, that the superintendant deemed it necessary to remove from 
him the chains with which he was loaded, and to place him in the hos- 
pital, where his death was expected. The attorney, it seems, was much 
displeased with this lenity, alleging, that the sickness of Henry Williams 
was feigned, and signified his intention of removing him to a still more 
distant workhouse. His poor wife endeavoured to induce a gentleman to 
intercede for her nearly murdered husband, who had been thus literally 
brought to death's door for no other offence than that of attending the 
Methodist chapel, but in vain. At length, however, the circumstances 
of the case were brought to the knowledge of the Editor of the news- 
paper called the " Watchman and Jamaica Free Press," who animad- 
verted upon it in an able article with such just and pointed severity, 
that the guilty party appears to have caught the alarm, and Henry 
WiUiams was soon after released from the workhouse, and reconveyed 
to the Rural Retreat. By this time, however, he had been so cut up 
with the severe floggings he had received, that his life was despaired of; 
and the last account of him, dated in November last, was, that for 
several weeks he had been " confined to his bed, and obliged to lie on 
his stomach, day and night, his back being a mass of corruption." 
Whether he has survived this atrocious act of barbarity, is still, as stated 
in the appendix, a matter of uncertainty. 

The second case referred to in that appendix will occupy a shorter space. 

A slave of the name of George, belonging to a lady in Jamaica, who is 
favourable to missionary exertions, and who herself occasionally attends 
the Methodist chapel, had been for several years distinguished, as a 
person of excellent character, even among white persons in the neigh- 
bourhood. He was guilty, however, of the same crime with Henry 
Williams. He was a zealous and regular attendant on the ministrations 
of the Methodists. Shortly before the time that Henry Williams was 

3 E 



358 Persecution of religious Slaves — Case of George. 

sent to Rodney Hall workhouse, this slave had also become obnoxious 
to the Rev. G. W. Bridges, and in passing that gentleman's residence, 
was stopped by him, and ordered to be laid down and flogged. The 
order was executed, and George was flogged with such severity, that it 
was with difficulty that he afterwards walked to his home, which was 
about a mile distant. The mistress of George, indignant at this treat- 
ment, sent him, as soon as he was sufficiently recovered to leave home, 
to the custos, with a letter complaining of the conduct of Mr. Bridges : 
on this the custos wrote to Mr. Bridges, and appointed a day for inquir- 
ing into his conduct. But before the appointed day arrived, a friend of 
the Rev. gentleman succeeded in compromising the matter with George 
by paying him a small sum of money as a satisfaction for the injury he 
had received. This happened not long before the period when the same 
Rev. gentleman was cited, as stated in our last number, p. 326, before 
a special vestry, for cruelly maltreating one of his female slaves, a mu- 
latto. But as on this transaction we shall hereafter have much to say, 
we postpone it for the present. 

These are only two of the many cases of a similar kind which have 
reached us, and which shew that the violence of persecution, for a time 
directed towards the missionaries themselves, had been turned upon the 
poor slaves, who, it was discovered, could be assailed with more effect, 
and with less danger to the persecutor, though with scarcely less pain 
and annoyance to the missionaries. To the narrative, the substance of 
which is given above, it is added, that " almost every breeze that 
blows, appears to convey the distant sigh of the persecuted Christian 
slave."-^-How long, we ask, shall these enormities be endured by this 
Christian land ? 

But besides the publication of the Methodist committee, on which 
we have been led to dwell at so much length, we have before us a pam- 
phlet, published by Mason, 60, Paternoster-Row, of the Rev. Jonn 
Barry, a Wesleyan missionary, recently returned from Jamaica. It 
consists of a letter addressed by him, on the 30th of June last, to Sir 
George Murray, in refutation of many foul, false, and calumnious 
charges made against the Jamaica Missionaries generally, in a letter also 
addressed to Sir George Murray, by the well known Alexander Barclay, 
written with a view to accredit colonial slavery generally, and to justify 
the persecuting enactments of the Jamaica assembly. 

With, Mr. Barclay we and our readers have long been acquainted. 
He stands forward as the avowed champion of the colonial system, and 
in conducting its defence, he has not scrupled to employ the most shame- 
less misrepresentations not only of the statements of his opponents, but 
of the very law as well as the practice of slavery. He had the hardi- 
hood to undertake the refutation of Mr. Stephen's '' delineation of 
Negro Slavery," and his work on that subject was held out by himself 
and hailed by the Jamaica Assembly, and by the West India Committee 
at home, who bought and circulated 1000 copies of it, as a conclusive 
vindication of the slave system. 

In an early number of the Reporter, No. 18, we shewed in a variety 
of instances how futile, how utterly groundless was this boast ;— and to 
bring the matter to a short issue, we challenged Mr. Barclay and his 



Exposure of the Calumnies of Mr. Barclay. 359 

friends to produce a single instance in which he had refuted any one of 
Mr. Stephen's positions. The challenge was prudently declined. The 
same challenge has since been twice renewed with "the same result. 
We may regard Mr. Barclay's work therefore as undeserving of con- 
fidence. 

Mr. Barry confines his exposure of Mr. Barclay chiefly to his falsifi- 
cations of fact in regard to the conduct of the missionaries. In common 
with the Assembly he accuses them of the foul crime of rapaciously ex- 
torting money from their negro converts for their own selfish ends. We 
need not say that not only is this charge not established, but that it is 
fully disproved. 

Mr. Barclay had strenuously defended the colonists from the charge 
■of being opposed to the religious instruction of the slaves. Mr. Barry 
willingly admits that several proprietors and managers are friendly to 
that object. But, he asks, " is this the general disposition of the 
colonists ? Is the fact of their friendly disposition towards negro in- 
struction proved by severe legislative enactments, — by the imprisonment 
of three missionaries, for no other crime than that of preaching the gos- 
pel, — by the punishment inflicted on slaves for attending our chapels, 
by attempts to prevent the possibility of their attendance, and by the 
efforts of several courts of quarter sessions to assume illegal power, and 
subject the missionaries to the necessity of receiving their licenses to 
oflSciate in every parish, without which they were not permitted to 
preach ? — The last, I am happy to say, has been set aside by the deci- 
sion of the Supreme Court." 

" The tendency of Mr. Barclay's pamphlet requires that at this tirne 
the truth should be told ; and I regret to be compelled to say, that no 
such general disposition exists, and the facts above adverted to, with the 
actually neglected state of the vast majority of the slaves, sufficiently 
establish the conclusion. Mr. Barclay, in a note, refers to the Scotch 
Kirk for proof that the colonists are not unfriendly to the religious in- 
struction of the slaves ; but does he forget that in Kingston no slaves 
atteyid the ministry of the Rev. Mr. Wordie ; at least I have never 
seen any." 

" In speaking of the 84th clause of the law, Mr. Barclay introduces 
Mro Huskisson's remark, that, prohibiting meetings, unless between 
sunrise and sunset, would prevent the slaves from receiving instruction, 
and denies that such prohibition exists ; as the clause allows ' all 
licensed places to be open till eight o'clock.' I can scarcely avoid sus- 
pecting here an intentional insincerity. Surely he was fully aware at 
the time of writing his pamphlet, that the intolerant clauses of 1826 
were rendered even more odious and restrictive in the bill of 1829; and 
he must therefore have hoped that the British public, for want of proper 
information, would conclude that the law of 1829 is in this respect the 
same as that rejected in 1826. The fact, however, is, that no meetings 
are by the last slave law permitted before sunrise, or after sunset, and 
that the extension to eight o'clock is not to be found in it. All who 
know the West Indies, know, therefore, that this act excludes the greater 
part of the slaves from all opportunities of instruction. 

" In reference to the influence of the Sunday markets on the interests 



360 Mr. Barry's Exposure of Mr. Barclay's Calumnies. 

of religion, Mr. Barclay must admit that it is most destructive. He 
speaks a great deal concerning the favourable circumstances of the 
slaves with regard to the time allow^ed them, and refers to a clause of 
the law of 1816, prohibiting the working of sugar-mills between seven 
o'clock on Saturday evening, and five o'clock on Monday morning; but 
I would ask Mr. Barclay, is this really acted upon? Does labour cease 
on the estates during these intervening hours ? If so, I arn glad to 
hear of the improvement ; but it certainly was not general in the year 
1825, nor, as I am informed, to this day.* According to my own per- 
sonal observation, the negro cannot attend the Sunday market and the 
services of religion ; nor even devote sufficient time to the cultivation of 
his grounds. There are a few cases in which both objects may be ac- 
complished, but they are exceptions. For instance, many of the 
negroes, who go to the Kingston Sunday markets, have sometimes to 
travel twenty, nay thirty miles with a heavy load of provision. This I 
have often known to be the case. The principal part of Saturday is 
occupied in performing the journey ; and if, by Mr. Barclay's showing, 
the slave previously digs his provision on that day, the excessive labour 
consequent on such a task should be another reason for the abolition of 
the market. The negro arrives in Kingston late in the evening, and if 
he have no friend with whom to lodge, sleeps in the market-place; the 
market continues, say, until eleven o'clock on Sunday forenoon ; he has 
then to procure his own little articles at the store, and spends the re- 
mainder of the Sabbath in returning to the plantation. Where then, I 
would inquire, is the possibility, especially under restricted hours, of 
attending religious worship ?" 

" But supposing the law of 1826 had received the Royal assent, and 
become operative, the case would not have been greatly bettered, since, 
independent of the injustice done thereby to the Sects, by so unmerited 
an attack on their civil and religious privileges, the peculiar circum- 
stances of the slave would very frequently involve the violation of that 
law. For instance, the slave works on the plantation till six o'clockf 
— the shell blows — he leaves the field — has frequently to procure grass 
for the horses on the property, and meat for the hogs, — then walks from 
one to three miles to the negro houses ; if — perhaps washes and dresses 
himself, — proceeds another mile to the chapel, — and yet by the law, 
the favourable law of 1826, the Missionary must close the service at 
eight o'clock ! This is no exaggerated picture, — this is a case of very 
frequent occurrence ; — and this I stated to the Committee of the House 
of Assembly as a reason why the Missionary should not be restricted 
to that hour. We do not at any time hold late meetings ; and I have 
often known the services of the Established Church continued much 
later than ours ; yet it was never said that such a practice injured the 
health of the slave, or afforded facilities to propagate sedition." 

* Mr. Barry is speaking of the parish of St. Thomas in the East, where Mr. 
Barclay resides, and where he himself had resided as a Missionary in 1825. 

t Mr. Barry mentions this as the most favourable representation. In truth 
the law extends the hours of j^eZd-labour to seven at night. — Editor. 

t " This will not appear surprising to those who are acquainted with the extent 
of the properties in the island, and the zig-zag nature of the roads." 



General Election. 361 

There is much more in this pamphlet which is deserving of notice, 
^3ut our Hmits will not allow us to add any further extracts. We must 
therefore, refer our readers to the pamphlet itself. Enough, it will be 
allowed, has been already brought forward to establish the deplorable 
state of our negro bondmen with respect to religious instruction, as 
well as the spirit of determined hostility to the diffusion of Christianity 
which pervades the greatest of our slave colonies. We well know also 
the kindred spirit which has prevailed in other colonies, and especially 
in Demerara and Barbadoes. But we must quit the subject for the 
present, only earnestly recommending it to the compassionate considera- 
tion of this Christian nation, and urging it upon them as their im- 
perative duty, in the sight of God, to rise in their united strength in 
order to sweep away a system which is the source of so many evils. 

II. — General Election. 

We turn with disgust from' these foul and loathsome scenes, to con- 
template the cheering prospect which the course of the general elections 
has opened to the view of humanity. It is impossible not to exult in 
the manifestation of public feeling which the occasion has called forth 
on the subject of Negro Slavery, and in the fruits which have already 
resulted from it. It would be impossible for us to enter at any length 
into the details of what has been occurring simultaneously in all parts of 
the kingdom to mark the deep-rooted determination of the people of 
this country to put an end, at whatever cost, to this great national 
crime. But we will just glance at a few particulars. 

We alluded in our last number to the conflict between the interests of 
humanity and freedom on the one side, and of oppression and slavery on 
the other, which had commenced at Bristol. The opposing candidates 
were Mr. Edward Protheroe, junior, who presented himself to the 
choice of the electors of that city, the very focus of colonial power and 
prejudice, as the advocate of anti-slavery principles ; and Mr. James 
Evan Baillie, a great West India proprietor and merchant, who, 
though spoken of as a highly respectable gentleman, has nevertheless 
a deep stake in the perpetuation of that system of cruelty and crime 
Negro Slavery. It was highly gratifying, however, as a decisive indi- 
cation of the strong current of the popular feeling against slavery, 
that the supporters of Mr. Baillie found it necessary to use language 
on the subject, which, though vague and equivocal, was calculated to 
serve as a salvo to the consciences of the voters in his favour, and to 
supply something like a plausible answer to the reproaches of their less 
compromising neighbours. The following address of Mr. Protheroe 
at the close of the poll will afibrd a striking view of the nature and pro- 
bable effects of this struggle. 

" The election for Bristol is over, and with it the high hope that I 
had entertained of becoming your representative in Parliament: but I 
use not the language, for I have not the feelings, of defeat and disap- 
pointment. 

"This has been a contest not between individuals, but between prin- 
ciples ; and our cause has been borne down by the weight of wealth and 



362 General Election — Bristol. 

commercial influence. Money has been poured forth Hke water in the 
purchase of votes, and undisguised dictation has made the elective 
franchise a mockery and a snare to the conscience. Perhaps it v^as too 
much to expect that the first struggle of the friends of humanity in this 
ancient seat of West India commerce could be suffered to succeed. The 
attempt was regarded, even by my own friends, as an act of absolute 
madness — yet what has been the result ? — 2,843 unpurchased and un- 
biassed votes, a number never before approached by an unsuccessful 
candidate, have been given in my favour ; and the majority against me 
was only 338, when my friends ascertained that a large number of Lon- 
don voters had been engaged by my opponents, and were actually on 
their way down at an enormous cost. Under these circumstances 
they prudently advised me to retire. 

" Gentlemen, such a defeat is in truth a glorious triumph to our great 
cause, and the sure presage of its ultimate success. Already it is felt 
and acknowledged to be the deadliest blow that was ever given to the 
slave system, and the character of our city stands redeemed and exalted. 
It matters little that my humble voice may not be raised in the new Par- 
liament in defence of the oppressed. The cry of freedom is gone forth 
— the spirit of the people is roused — and the representatives of the 
people will do their duty." 

The progress of the contest roused into action the zeal, and called 
forth the talents of the friends of freedom, and many of the placards 
and publications were marked by great abiHty as well as an intimate 
knowledge of the question. It may be invidious to make selections, 
and yet from a letter to Mr. Pinney signed " Libertas," which appeared 
in the Bristol Mirror of the 31st of July, we are tempted to pre- 
serve an extract. 

*' By the law of the colonies, slavery is a constrained servitude 
during the live of the slave. It is a service without wages. The master 
is the sole arbiter of the kind of labour to which the slave shall be sub- 
jected ; and he can likewise confine, beat, scourge, and afflict the per- 
son of his slave. These powers of the master may all be exercised not 
by himself only, but by his representatives, and by every person, whe- 
ther bond or free, who is clothed in any manner with his authority. 
The slave in the British colonies is at all times hable to be sold at the 
will of the master, in all respects as cattle or any other personal effects. 
He is also at all times liable to be sold by process of law for the debts 
of a living or of a deceased master, at the suit of creditors or of lega- 
tees. The slave may be mortgaged, demised, and settled for any 
particular estate or estates, while the master's power of removal is 
despotic. The slave has no legal right of redeeming his liberty on any 
terms whatever, or of obtaining a change of masters, even when cruel 
treatment makes it necessary for his relief. Colonial slavery is here- 
ditary and perpetual — the children as soon as born are slaves, and any 
black man is legally such, except he can legally prove his liberty. Mar- 
riage has no legal protection among them, and consequently has com- 
paratively little existence; and they are deprived of all motive to industry 
for their master except the whip. 

" This, Sir, you know is a correct though faint description of colonial 



General Election — Bristol. 363 

slavery, and this is that deplorable and disgusting state of society which 
you and your coadjutors in this election are combined to protect. In 
so doing, you are at variance not only with the whole of that precept 
of the divine law, which commands you to love your neighbour as 
yourself, but you are exposed to the prophetical denunciation which 
says, ' Woe unto him that useth his neighbour's service without wages, 
and giveth him not for his work.' 

" I have sometimes been surprised to hear colonial planters, West 
India merchants, and you among the rest, express your approbation 
of the destruction of the slave trade. The very same arguments used 
to defend that infernal traffic are at this time employed by yourselves 
to protect colonial slavery. And why ? Because the latter is a twin 
brother of the former. The West India interest may console itself as 
much as it pleases by execrating the slave trade, but I think it will re- 
quire some extraordinary logic to prove that it is not at this time deeply 
implicated in the crime of dealing in our fellow creatures. The only 
difference between the merchant who carried on the African slave 
trade, and the merchant who buys or sells a human being at present in 
the West Indies, is this, the African trader first stole his fellow creatures 
from the land of their nativity and sold them in the West Indies, and 
the present merchants or planters buy and sell among themselves the 
very same beings, or their descendants, who have previously been the 
commodities of the African slave trade." 

" It is frequently asserted by persons on your side of the question, 
that the condition of the slaves is greatly ameliorated. I will admit 
this to be truth, but still the horrid cartwhip lacerates the flesh of 
the negro, and even the pregnant female slave is made to writhe under 
its torture in a manner which decency forbids me to describe. The 
Sunday market is not abolished, therefore the sanctity of the Sabbath 
is perpetually violated. The negroes are still the chattels of their 
owner, and can be seized and sold for his debts. The only consolation 
which this wretched race could obtain to relieve the misery of their 
bondage is religion ; but even in this they are controuled and impeded 
by law, which inflicts on them imprisonment and stripes for its diso- 
bedience ; places of worship erected for them by the British public are 
injured and closed, and useful missionaries, sent to instruct them, are 
incarcerated and murdered, being left to expire in loathsome dungeons, 
for no other crime than a determination to obey God rather than man ; 
the former commanding His Gospel to be preached, and the latter for- 
bidding it on pain of punishment. It is in vain for you to contradict 
this ; I have in my possession abundant evidence to prove the truth of 
my assertion, and amongst it is the testimony of the Bishop of Jamaica, 
who declares that the planters generally are inimical to the instruction 
of their slaves." 

" On the day of Mr. Baillie's public entrance, I went as many others 
did, to gaze at the show. Numbers,- doubtless, were charmed with the 
display, whilst many others augured the certain success of your candi- 
date. Far different from these were my feelings and thoughts. I stood 
in silence contemplating the procession, and whilst viewing it as it 
passed, I thought how many human backs had been lacerated — sighs 



364 General Election — Bristol. 

heaved — groans uttered — and sales of human beings effected, to have 
produced the ostentatious display ! I turned away, Sir, from the guilty 
pageantry, and said ' My soul come not thou into their secret, to their 
assemblage mine honour be not thou united.'" 

" Whatever may be the issue of the present contest, as it respects the 
candidate who may be returned, I am certain that the glorious cause of 
negro freedom will have acquired increased and accelerated strength. 
The struggle has commenced in one of the strongest holds of West 
Indian commerce, and the shock of the conflict has been felt through 
the wide spread dominion of Britain. Other places, both cities and 
counties, have kindled their torch of freedom at our altar, and illu- 
minated the elective franchise with its beams. The British Lion has 
been roused from his repose, and having shaken himself, has sent his 
roar across the Atlantic, intimating to the oppressor and the oppressed 
that the year of jubilee is at hand ! In a shorter period than you ima- 
gine, the laurel of universal freedom will be in luxurious growth both 
on the heights of Jamaica and the plains of Barbadoes. Universal 
emancipation has hoisted its signal, and, like that intrepid commander, 
the thunder of whose cannon rolled so victoriously over the deep, has 
declared that ' England expects every man to do his duty.' Like the 
Persian army, for numbers and wealth, you have invaded the cause of 
freedom, but you have forgotten that you have a Thermopylae to pass, 
at which is posted not a solitary Leonidas, but ten thousand times ten 
thousand of the same spirit, who, if they cannot return from the con- 
flict with their shields, they will be conveyed home upon them. We 
are contributing to wipe away a great national stain, the blot of our 
commerce and the disgrace of our government. All England has its 
eye on the present struggle, anxiously awaiting the result. If you 
return your candidate to parliament your triumph will be short. The 
friends of freedom will organise — a progressive fund shall commence 
its accumulation — and at every succeeding election, as long as a 
shilling can be produced, will we expend it in the destruction of 
West India despotism, and the glorious cause of universal freedom ! " 

We cannot quit Bristol, however, without intimating to the supporters 
of the anti-slavery cause throughout the kingdom, that the friends who 
embarked with so much zeal and effect in this contest have done it at a 
personal sacrifice of a very serious description. They have them- 
selves contributed largely to defray the legal expenses of the election, 
and none other were incurred; but there is still a considerable deficiency 
to be provided for, the pressure of which, those who possess the means 
and who have formed a due estimate of the importance of asserting the 
principles of humanity and justice on such an occasion, will, we are 
well assured, not be slow in assisting to lighten. The Electors of 
Bristol have fought the battle ably and well. But they ought not to be 
allowed to suffer beyond their fair share of inconvenience because they 
have stood in its forefront and have attacked the foe in his very citadel. 

It would be endless to particularize all the instances in which public 
feeling has been signally excited on this subject during these elections, 
or in which it has triumphed. It has formed indeed the paramount 
and engrossing topic of interest, in conjunction with the question of 



General Election — Yorkshire. 365 

the India and China monopoly, the retrenchment of the pubhc expence, 
and the corn laws. But it is in Yorkshire, the first and wealthiest 
and most populous of our counties, that the flame of anti-slavery zeal 
has burst forth with the most intense, and steadiest lustre, and has pro- 
duced the most splendid as well as the most decidedly beneficial results. 
Mr. Brougham was richly entitled, on account of his pubhc services as 
well as his supereminent talents, to the highest marks of distinction 
which a grateful public could bestow upon him ; but it was on anti- 
slavery principles especially that he was invited, and has been chosen, 
by the free and unbought suffrages of thousands upon thousands of his 
fellow citizens, to succeed Mr. Wilberforce in representing the largest 
associated population in the British Empire. His last speech in Par- 
liament operated like the electric spark, and the moment his name was 
pronounced as a candidate for Yorkshire, the train was kindled through- 
out that mighty mass of living intelligence, and he was placed by ac- 
clamation on the very summit of his worldly ambition. Enough for 
that object, if from the commanding elevation which he occupies, he 
shall be enabled to emulate his predecessor's achievements, and com- 
plete the work of justice and mercy which he was the honoured 
instrument of commencing, and of which he will live, we trust, to 
witness the final accomplishment. 

" The triumph of these principles, " observed Mr. Brougham in his 
first address to the electors, " is now about to be achieved. I am only 
known to you by my devotion to the improvement of our species; by 
the love I bear to civil and rehgious liberty all over the world, by my 
inextinguishable hatred of slavery, under what name soever it may be 
veiled, and of whatever race it may be the curse. — If you place in my 
hands the sacred trust of representing you in the Commons House of 
Parliament, you arm me with power to complete the good work which 
we have begun together, nor will I rest from my labours until, by the 
blessing of God, I have seen an end of the abuses which bind England 
to the ground, and the mists dispersed from the eyes of the ignorant, 
and the chains drop from the hands of the slave." 

Language to the same effect was held to the thousands who assembled 
to hear him in different parts of the county; — and on the day of his 
election, after touching on a variety of topics, as the recent revolution 
in France, reform in Parliament, retrenchment, the corn monopoly, 
and the East India monopoly, on the necessity of extinguishing which 
last, for the sake of the distressed people of England, he dwelt with 
peculiar force; — but " I hasten," he said, "to a topic on which we are 
all agreed — I mean to that detestable monopoly, which one and all of 
us, thank God, condemn and execrate. If, in matters of trade, I 
hold monopoly to be false policy, I hold a monopoly of freedom, which 
would not allow to be enjoyed by others, but seek to reserve it to them- 
selves, the first, best, and most inestimable blessings that God has 
given toman; — if I hold commercial monopoly to be impolitic, the 
monopoly of freedom I hold to be impious and abominable. (Loud 
Cheering.) Slavery, which is the most accursed and unnatural produc- 
tion of crime, and the most frightful source of human misery, which 
degrades the slave, but not more than it degrades his master, — for I 

3 F 



366 General Election — Yorkshire — Mr. Brougham. 

never can hold the victim of oppression to be more debased than himi 
who imperiously exercises oppression ; — (Great Cheers.) Slavery, that 
plant under which grows all that is noxious and detestable, for the de- 
scription of which my own poor diction is wanting, and for which I must 
refer to him, who, as he was the most eloquent of bards, was also one 
of the wisest of men, and one of the fastest friends of freedom — that 
plant under which 

" All life dies, death lives, and nature breeds. 
Perverse, all monstrous, all prodigious things, 
Abominable, unutterable, and worse 
Than fables yet have feign'd or fear conceiv'd ;" — 

that plant, under which all that grows to defile the earth, to pest the 
air, and to desecrate the works of Providence, I have by these feeble 
hands, assisted to loosen by the roots, — and my exulting hope is — and 
that it is which fills my heart with gratitude to you, and with hope /or 
us all — that, my hands being strengthened by yours, we shall succeed at 
last in tearing it up, and brandishing it in triumph over the heads of 
the tyrants." [Mr. Brougham's voice, action, and look in this energetic 
passage, were said to be most powerful, and the cheering of the mul- 
titude tremendous.] 

Mr. Brougham alluded to the unanimity which prevailed among the 
other candidates on this question ; and it was certainly most remarkable 
and consolatory. Their pledges were almost as emphatic as his own. 
" The foremost topic among us all," said Lord Morpeth, "^may now be 
said to be the abolition of negro slavery, and it seems to be a matter ini 
which we directly see our way ; and the obligations of religion forbid us 
to stop short." Again, he observed, " while as a patriot and a philan- 
thropist I cannot help expressing my general wishes for the triumphant 
and bloodless march of freedom, in every corner of the globe — whether 
it sweeps away a Bourbon, a Don Miguel, or a Grand Turk — whether 
it inspires France, or revives Portugal, or regenerates Greece — we must 
not forget that it is a still more especial duty of our own to take care 
that the blessings of freedom should be extended and felt in our own 
dominions, and among our own fellow subjects. I am sure you ally 
gentlemen, desire and demand the speediest possible abolition of negro 
slavery. — (Cheers.) You have heard much to his credit from Mr. Dun- 
combe — I believe you will hear from all the candidates, assurances of 
their concurrence in this Christian object. — (Cheers.) I believe this has 
not been, as somebody has hinted, the reason exclusively, yet certainly 
very signally, why you have claimed and secured for yourselves the 
consummate mind and unrivalled energies of Mr. Brougham ; (loud 
cheers) and happy and proud for you will be that day, fellow country- 
men, when you will be able to reflect, that in consequence of your efforts, 
and of the efforts of those whom you have encouraged and incited, and 
in consequence too of your example, the slave, now groaning under a 
brutalizing bondage, will be able to drop his knee to thank heaven for its 
greatest blessing, and to &pring again to the earth without a chain and 
without a master." — (Reiterated cheers.) His Lordship gave it as his 
decided opinion that the East India monopoly should not be permitted 
to exist an hour ;ifter the expiration of its present charter, and in this- 



General Election — Yorkshire. 367 

sentiment Mr. Duncombe and Mr. Bethell fully concurred. On our 
peculiar topic they were no less energetic and decisive. " There is one 
subject," said Mr. Duncombe, " to which I must allude, because I find 
I have been grossly misrepresented upon it, I mean the subject of 
colonial slavery. Gentlemen, I abhor colonial slavery. I will yield to 
no man in an anxious desire to see it abolished and extinguished, and 
my public conduct will shew the sincerity of my professions on this 
point. To represent me as favourable to slavery is the grossest calumny 
that ever was invented." 

" Political liberty," observed Mr. Bethell, " is doubtless one of the 
greatest of blessings, and its excellence consists in this, that it is the 
only permanent safeguard of -personal liberty : and if we are lovers of 
freedom, surely we ought not to be contented whilst so many of our fellow- 
creatures, nay our fellow-subjects, remain in the most brutalizing bond- 
age. This subject has excited the highest interest ; and the time has 
now arrived when Parliament must take some effective step to put an 
end to this abominable system ; and I shall give my cordial aid to ac- 
complish so desirable an object. Upon this subject, at least, we are all 
united, for in the hearts of Englishmen there is an innate hatred of 
slavery. The opinion of this county has been loudly and decidedly 
raised against the further continuance of this abominable system, and 
the British Legislature must take steps towards its final extinction." 

In the midst, however, of so many subjects of congratulation, as 
respects the progress of our cause in the public mind, we cannot but 
mourn over the absence from parliament, we trust it is but a brief and 
temporary absence, of those tried and fast friends of our cause, Mr. 
William SmJth and Dr. Lushington. We deem it to be a calamity to 
lose their public services at such a moment as this. We hail at the 
same time the return of many to Parliament who have already sig- 
naUzed their attachment to the cause of freedom, and their rooted de- 
testation of negro slavery, and of numbers more who we trust will 
manifest equal zeal in this cause. 

And now for further action. Parliament will meet ere long ; — let its 
table groan under the accumulated weight of thousands of earnest 
prayers for the utter extinction of colonial bondage ; and let them be 
accompanied by the earnest aspirations of every Christian, that He who 
has the hearts of all men in his hands, would incline the hearts of our 
rulers to " let the oppressed go free and to break every yoke," and to 
^' send them forth from the house of their bondage." " For woe unto us 
if we wait for the plagues and the signs, the wonders and the war, the 
mighty hand and the outstretched arm !" 

And let us hope that France having happily accomplished her own 
emancipation from lawless tyranny, will unite with us in wiping out, 
from her fair escutcheon also, the foul blot of slave trading and slavery; — • 
will unite with us in breaking the manacles of the slave, and in con- 
signing, by a solemn compact, the future dealers in human flesh, of what- 
ever nation, to the merited fate of felons and pirates. 

We all remember the eagerness with which, on the restoration of the 
Bourbons, the slave trade was revived in France, and the wicked con- 
nivance with which the barefaced violation by its subjects of the solemn 



368 Administi'ation of Criminal Justice in Jamaica. 

treaties with us on that subject, was overlooked and even protected. 
Shall we be blind to the retributive justice which has hurled them from a 
throne thus polluted by the guilt of tolerated rapine and blood? 



III. — Administration of Criminal Justice in Barbadoes, 

On the 9th of June last, the Court of Oyer and Terminer and general 
Gaol Delivery was held at Bridgetown before the Chief Justice, Mr, 
Braithwaite. In his address to the grand jury, he observed, " the 
calendar, I am sorry to see, exhibits an appalling list of offences, and 
many of them of a very heinous nature," He might well say so, as no 
fewer than ten persons stood upon it indicted for murder, besides a still 
larger number for other heinous crimes. What became of the alleged 
murderers we are not told. Nine of them were slaves, and the tenth a 
white man named W. G. Mandeville. Of the fate of these indictments 
not one syllable is said in the newspapers of the island. Indeed after 
the second day's proceedings all further notice of the trials is suddenly 
suspended, for reasons which may be imagined but cannot with certainty 
be assigned. The last which took place on that day was the trial of 
a white man, James Curtis, for maltreating two slaves by placing irons 
on their limbs, and confining them in a room of his house. The jury 
continued inclosed till midnight of the following day, when they de- 
clared they were unable to agree in their verdict, and the Court was 
dissolved. Of the manner in which the accused murderers black and 
white were dealt with, as we have already stated, not one word is said. 
But with respect to the white, strange rumours are abroad, and we trust 
that strict inquisition will be made for the blood which he was asserted 
to have shed. The indictment, we understand, charged him with having, 
in the most wanton and unprovoked manner, killed a free black man 
of the name of Clarke, by deliberately blowing out his brains with a 
loaded musket, in the presence of several slaves, and of the wife of the 
murdered man, who herself, it is said, is also free. It is further ru- 
moured that the bill of indictment was thrown out by the grand jury, 
because the evidence of slaves was inadmissible against a white, and 
because the unfortunate widow, though an actual witness of the atro- 
cious deed, and in possession of her freedom, yet was incapacitated by a 
law recently passed in Barbadoes, and sanctioned by the crown, from 
giving evidence against a white man, because she had obtained her ma- 
numission in England, and had thereby evaded the island tax of SOL 
levied on each act of manumission, and the payment of which was vin- 
dictively made by that iniquitous law, a necessary qualification for the 
right of giving evidence against whites in a court of justice. The whole 
of the record of the Barbadoes Grand Sessions of June, we trust, will 
be called for, and rigidly scrutinized by his Majesty's Government. 



Succinct View of Colonial Reform. 369 

IV._A SUCCINCT VIEW OF THE MEASURES PROPOSED TO BE 
ADOPTED BY HIS MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT, AND OF THE 
MANNER IN WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN CARRIED INTO EF- 
FECT BOTH IN THE CROWN AND IN THE CHARTERED CO- 
LONIES TO THIS TIME, AUGUST 20, 1830. 

1. — To provide the means of Education and religious Instruction for 

the Slaves. 
Neither in the Crown nor in the Chartered Colonies has a single 
legal provision been made for securing either the education or the reli- 
gious instruction of the Slaves. Sir George Murray in his circular 
letter to the Governors of chartered colonies, of the 15th September, 
1828, (See Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 52, p. 54,) urges it upon them 
with great force that -provision should he made for these objects by 
law ; and yet the new Consolidated Slave Code for the crown colonies, 
contained in the Order of the King in Council of the 8th of February 
last, and which is held out as the model of legislation for the chartered 
colonies, makes not the slightest provision on the subject. (See Anti- 
Slavery Reporter, No. 58, p. 148.) 

2. — To put an end to Sunday markets. 
The Order of the 8th February last abolishes Sunday markets in all 
the crown colonies, and empowers the Governor to appoint another 
day for that purpose. Two of the chartered colonies, Grenada and 
Tobago, have also abolished Sunday markets. The others, instead of 
abolishing, have legalized and established them, only limiting their 
duration, in one colony, that of Barbadoes, to nine, and in other colonies 
to eleven o'clock. But even these enactments are altogether illusory, no 
relief being thereby given to the slaves, nor any boon conferred upon 
them, as will appear under the succeeding head. 

3. — To make Sunday, which has hitherto been to the slaves a day of 
labour in their provision grounds, henceforward a day of rest and 
religious observance, by allowing them equivalent time in lieu of 
Sunday, for cultivating their provision grounds and for marketing. 
In no one instance has this recommendation been complied with. In 
no colony, whether crown or chartered, has equivalent time in lieu of Sun- 
day been given by law to the slave, so that the mere prohibition of Sun- 
day markets, or the mere appointment of another market day, even where 
such prohibition and appointment have taken place, will not afford to 
the slave the opportunities of rest or religious observance, or the power 
of attending the market on any week day unless that day is secured to 
him by law. In fact, no equivalent time being allotted to him for that 
labour of raising provisions for himself and family, to which the Sunday 
has hitherto been devoted, he must of necessity still employ his Sunday 
for that object, otherwise he and his family must starve. This point will 
be found fully explained and proved in the Reporters, No. 41, p. 315 — 
318, No. 52, p. 67, No. 58, p. 134—139, and No. 60, p. 196—199. 
It will be found further illustrated and proved at p. 19, 20, &c. of a 
pamphlet recently published by the Rev. JVIr. Barry, a Methodist Mis- 
sionary, from Jamaica, under the title of " a letter to Sir George Murray." 
What possibility can exist either of rest or religious observance on the 
Sabbath under such circumstances ? And yet it is hypocritically argued 



370 Succinct View of Colonial Reform. 

that to make the slaves rehgious, is a necessary prelude to their free- 
dom ; and that all idea of their emancipation must be postponed till 
this first step shall have been taken. But after seven years of promise 
this first step has not yet been taken in any colony, nor if left to the 
colonists themselves v?ill it ever be taken. In order to education and 
instruction time is obviously required, and that time they have not given, 
and will not give, even to the children. The universal refusal of the 
colonists to grant to the slaves equivalent time in lieu of Sunday, when 
viewed in connection with the clauses, in the disallowed Acts of Jamaica, 
which prohibit the slaves from attending divine worship between sunset 
and sunrise (all their other time being passed in hard labour) proves 
most clearly, notwithstanding the professions of the colonists, that their 
real object is to prevent, not to promote education and religious in- 
struction, 

4. — To admit the testimony of slaves in civil and criminal cases. 

In the new Order the evidence of slaves is made admissible in all 
the crown colonies in the same manner as that of free persons ; except 
that a court or jury may advert to their servile state as affecting their 
credit. (See Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 58, p. 146.) 

Of the chartered colonies Grenada and Tobago alone have admitted 
the evidence of slaves without restriction. In the other chartered 
colonies the restrictions imposed on that admission are of such a nature 
as to render their apparent concessions perfectly futile and valueless. 
(See ibid. No. 33, p. 180, No. 38, p. 266, No. 43, p. 348, &c.) 
5. — To legalize the marriages and to protect the connubial rights of 

slaves. 

The new Order of February last, legalizes slave marriages in the 
crown colonies, by all classes of religious teachers, it being provided 
however that such marriages shall not invest the parties or their pro- 
geny with any rights at variance with the owners title to them and their 
services. (See ibid. No. 58, p. 131, and 141.) 

In none of the chartered colonies are either adequate facilities or 

sanctions given to marriage, on the contrary in all of them the most 

absurd impediments are interposed. (See ib. No. 29, No. 33, p. 179, 

No. 38, p. 265, No. 43, p. 347, No. 48, p. 279, and No. 60, p. 195.) 

6. — To prevent the separation of Families by Sale. 

The new Order in Council is a great improvement on the former 
Orders, inasmuch as it prohibits, in all the crown colonies, the separa- 
tion of families, not by judicial sales only, but by sales of whatever 
kind. No adequate provision however has been made for obtaining and 
preserving a record of those family ties which the law forbids to be 
broken. 

In all the chartered colonies the pretended attempts to remedy this 
evil, are in a remarkable degree evasive and worthless. (See ib. No. 
18, p. 251—254; No. 19, p. 272, & No. 28, p. 85—90; No. 33, p. 
179 ; No. 38, p. 264—274, and No. 52, p. 74.) 

7. — To protect the Slaves by law in acquiring, possessing, and 
transmitting Property. 

The new Order in Council confers on the Slaves in the crown colonies, 
the right of property; and the right also of prosecuting and defending 



Succinct View of Colonial Reform. 371 

actions at law in respect to such property. Slaves however, there is 
reason to fear, are still debarred even in the crown colonies, as they 
certainly are in all the chartered colonies, from cultivating or pos- 
sessing, buying or selling any of the staple articles of culture, such as 
sugar, coffee, indigo, cotton, &c. &c. &c. (See ib. No. 34, p. 191, and 
No. 58, p. 142.) 

The legislatures of the various chartered colonies, have pretended to 
legislate on this subject, but their enactments are of the most ineffective 
and delusive description. (See ib. No. 29, p. 103; No. 33, p. 179; 
No. 37, p. 242 ; No. 38, p. 264—274, and No. 60, p. 201.) 

8. — To grant to the Slaves a right of redeeming themselves or 
any of their family, at a fair appraisement. 

In none of the chartered colonies is this right given to the Slaves. 

In all the crown colonies the new Order has imposed the compulsory 
manumission clause (a clause however which falls far short of the 
Spanish law) — but it introduces some new and oppressive provisions 
to the disadvantage of the Slave. One is that if a donation shall be 
given to the Slave to enable him to purchase his freedom, the manu- 
mission shall be void. Another is that if an owner or manager shall 
prove, that within the preceding five years a slave had committed a 
theft, all further proceedings towards his manumission shall be stayed 
for five years. (See ib. No. 58. p. 132—145.) 

9. — To limit the power of arbitrary punishment possessed by the 
master and his agents, a^id to restrain its abuse. 

The new Order of February 1830, omits that clause in the former 
Order, which inhibited the master from inflicting punishment on his 
slave until 24 hours had elapsed — a most unhappy omission when 
the violent and impetuous habits of those who have the power of arbit- 
rary punishment in their hands is considered. 

The master, in the crown colonies, and by the legislatures of two or 
three of the chartered colonies, is limited to the infliction of 25 lashes 
at one time, — but in the chartered colonies generally, the power of 
punishment remains as it was. Not only may 39 lashes of the cart- 
whip be inflicted on any man, woman or child, for any offence or for 
no offence, and without being obliged, within that limit, to render a 
reason for the infliction ; but the master may further imprison in the 
stocks or in the workhouse, for any length of time he may think proper, 
without being liable to any penalty for so doing. (See ib. No. 60, p. 205.) 
10. — To provide that a regular record shall be kept, and a regular 
return made of all arbitrary punishments by the master or his 
agents. 

The necessity of this record even in the crown colonies is confined to 
slaves employed in agricultural or manufacturing labour, (which does in 
point of fact limit it to plantations,^ and it does not therefore extend 
to the case of mechanics, domestics, &c. not attached to plantations ; — 
and yet these are still more exposed to the excesses of passion and 
caprice than even the field-slaves themselves. (See ib. No. 58, p. 141.) 
— In none of the chartered colonies is any return required of arbitrary 
punishments by the master, or even any adequate record of such punish- 
ments. 



372 Succhict Vieio of Colonial Reform. 

11. — To abolish entirely the practice of flogging Females. 
In the crown colonies, female flogging is abolished — but it is not 
abolished in any one of the chartered colonies. The Assembly of 
Jamaica refused by a large majority, to enact that women should cease 
to be indecently fogged. (See ib. No. 29, p. 107.) 

12. — To abolish entirely the use of the driving-whip in the f eld, 

as a stimulus to labour. 
Of the chartered colonies, the Bahamas alone (where there never 
was any driving) has abohshed the driving-whip. In the new Order 
for the crown colonies, there is a change of terms in the prohibitory 
clause on this subject which, it is feared, may open a door to 
abuse. The former Order forbade the use of " any whip, cat or other 
instrument of like nature," "for the purpose of compelling or causing 
any slave to perform labour of any kind or nature whatsoever." The 
present Order omits the clause in italics, and forbids the use of " any cat, 
whip or other instrument usually employed in the punishment of slaties ; " 
instead of "other instrument of like nature." — See ib. No. 58, p. 130 
—139.) 

13. — To appoint protectors of the Slaves in every Colony. 
This is done only in the crown colonies. The chartered colonies 
have all refused to appoint a Protector of slaves. 

14. — To provide that in future no person being a Protector of Slaves, 

or interested in Slave property , should be appointed by the Crown 

to the offices of Protector of Slaves, Governor, Judge, Fiscal, 

Attorney-General, Bishop, Clergyman or salaried Teacher, and 

generally to any function connected with the administration of 

the Slave laws. 

This has been carried into full effect in the crown colonies with 

respect to Protectors, but not with respect to Assistant Protectors 

(See ib. No. 58, p. 133). These are, to a man, Slave proprietors. 

In the chartered colonies this proposed reform has had little or no 

operation hitherto — except that it is believed that the Government have 

not lately appointed Governors or Judges from among slave holders. 

15. — To provide that in questions involving the Slavery or freedom 

of individuals, the presumption of law shall be in favour of 

freedom. 

This rule has been adopted by Grenada, but by no other of the 
chartered Colonies. In the crown Colonies of Trinidad and St. Lucia, 
it is also acted upon. 

16. — To purify the administration of justice. 
No steps have yet been taken to this end. 

No measures have been taken or even proposed by Government, for 
abating the intensity, or shortening the duration of that excessive toil, 
which is, at this moment, wasting negro life at a dreadful rate. 

But even were this and all the other measures enumerated above, 
carried into full effect, it could only be regarded as a step towards that 
consummation which is never to be lost sight of, the early and 

TOTAL ABOLITION OF SLAVERY THROUGHOUT THE BRITISH DO- 
MINIONS. , ^__ 

London : Bagster and Thorns, Printers, Bartlioloiriew Close. 



THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER. 

No. 66.] SEPTEMBER 1, 1830. [Vol. iii. No. 18. 

I. THE REV. G. W. BRIDGES, AND HIS SLAVE KITTY HILTON. 

II. FALLACIOUS REPRESENTATIONS OF COLONIAL PARTIZANS. 

III. PROTECTOR OF SLAVES IN DEMERARA. 

IV. BARBADIAN ESTIMATE OF THE STATE OF THE ANTI-SLA- 
VERY CAUSE. 

V. MEETING OF PARLIAMENT. 



I. — The Rev. G. W. Bridges, and his Slave Kitty Hilton, 

Much has been said of late respecting this gentleman, both in Ja- 
maica and in England, to which we should hardly have deemed it 
necessary to advert, but for the light which the circumstances of the 
case are calculated to throw on the extraordinary state of manners and 
morals existing in this Island, and which may be regarded as the ge- 
nuine result of that system of slavery which tends to corrupt the prin- 
ciples and pervert the feelings of the community of masters far more 
than those of the slaves. We give the facts as they appear in the news- 
papers of Jamaica. 

On the 6th of July 1829, Mr. Pringle, the Secretary of theAnti-SIavery 
Society, addressed the following letter to Sir George Murray, the Colo- 
nial Secretary of State. 

"Sir, — I am desired by the Committee of the Anti-Slavery Society to convey 
to you the enclosed extract from a letter, which has recently been received from 
Jamaica, and which contains statements that seem to call for inquiry. The 
Committee do not vouch for the truth of these statements, but they know their 
informant to be respectable. They desire me to transmit, along with the ex- 
tract, two Jamaica Newspapers, which seem guardedly to allude to the same 
transaction which is detailed in the extract." 

The extract was as follov.'s, being taken from a letter dated in Ja- 
maica, on the 19th May 1829, and received in London on the 2nd 
July 1829. 

" The Rev. Mr. Bridges has been brought before a Special Court,* in St. 
Ann's, for maltreating a quadroon female slave in a most brutal manner, and 

* What the writer of this letter erroneously calls a Court, it clearly appears 
from tlie subsequent proceedings, was merely a meeting of the justices and 
vestry of the parish, convened as a Council of Protection, to inquire whether 
there was sufficient proof of cruelty in the case to justify a public prosecution. 
See the Jamaica Slave Act of 181G, § 25. The result of the inquiry therefore 
was not, properly speaking, an acquittal, but a decision that the evidence did not 
afford ground for a criminal prosecution by the parish. 

3 G 



374 The Rev. G. W. Bridges, and Kithj Hilton. 

acquitted by a decision of 14 against 4. I sliall give the matter as I heard it, 
for no notice is taken of the trial in the newspapers. Bridges had ordered the 
girl to get a turkey for dinner, expecting a friend to dine. — In the course of the 
day he learnt that this friend could not come. He called the girl and asked 
her what was for dinner ; she replied ' the turkey.' He immediately said, ac- 
companying his words with a blow, 'you d b , who told you to get a 

turkey V — The blow blackened both the girl's eyes, and set her nose in a flow of 
blood. The poor creature again said, ' Massa, it was the last thing you told 
me to do this morning.' He immediately called two men to cut bamboo rods 
and point them. She was then stripped of every article of dress, tied up by the 
hands, her toes barely touching the ground, and flogged until the back part of 
her, from the shoulders down to the calves of her legs, was one mass of lacerated 
flesh and gore. In this state she was locked up, but made her escape in the 
night, in a state of nudity, to a magistrate, who was about sending her back to 
Bridges. — On hearing that she was to be sent back to her master by this inhu- 
man magistrate, she made a start from him and went to Mr. Cox (another ma- 
gistrate), who detained her. ' Mr. Cox, as I am informed, said he never saw, in 
his life, a poor creature in so miserable a state from punishment. She was al- 
most naked, and flogged from her shoulders to the calves of her legs. Mr. Cox, 
as Custos of the parish, had a court convened — he, with other magistrates, at- 
tending. After hearing the evidence on both sides, in which Bridges' two ser- 
vants admitted the severity of the punishment, and he. Bridges, acknowledged 
his having had her punished for her insolence ; when he was asked if he did not 
see the punishment given, he said he was on a hill that looked down on the 
spot where it was done. Again, if he did not hear her cries? He said he 
could hear her, but that she was very insolent, and he gave orders for her to be 
punished. It was then put to the vote whether he should be prosecuted or not: 
14 were against and 4 for prosecution. Mr. Cox, Mr. Hodgson, Mr. Austin, 
and another magistrate, were the four decidedly for laying the case before His 
Majesty's Attorney General." 

The paragraphs in the Jamaica Newspapers which were sent along 
with the above extract as affording presumptive evidence of its general 
truth, were as follows : — 

The first ivas an " Extract of a Letter from St. Ann's, dated May 12, 1829." 
" I am sure that you will, as a friend to justice, rejoice with me at our worthy 
Rector having been yesterday acquitted by a Council of Protection, after a long 
and minute investigation of the charge of cruelty and maltreatment, brought 
against him by one of his slaves." 

The second was a letter addressed to the Editor of the Jamaica 
Courant, dated St. Ann's, May 13, 1829, as follows : — 

" Sir, — The serious charge that was made against a Clergyman of talent and 
respectability for maltreating a slave, adverted to in your publication of Monday 
the 4th instant, was duly and strictly investigated at the Court House on the 
11th, and I have pleasure in informing you that your anticipations were realized. 
The God of Shadrach was with him : not a hair of his head is scorched. He 
has escaped unhurt, notwithstanding that nearly one-fifth of the furnace was 
tenfold hot. The numbers for and against the respectable individual alluded 
to were as follow : Pro 14 — Con 4." 

Copies of the whole of these communications were transmitted by 
Sir George Murray, to Lord Belmore, the Governor of Jamaica, in- 
closed in a despatch to the following effect : — 

"My Lord, — I have the honour herewith to transmit to your Lordship the 
copy of a letter, which has been addressed to me by Mr. Thomas Pringle, de- 
scribing himself as Secretary to the Anti-Slavery Society. Your Lordship will 
observe, that this Society, on the authority of an unnamed Correspondent, attri- 
butes to the Rev. Mr. Bridges, conduct of great cruelty and indecency towards a 
female slave : although, in making this statement, the Anti-Slavery Society does 



The Rev. G. W. Bridges, and Kitty Hilton. 375 

expressly declare, that they do not vouch for its truth. The imputation, there- 
fore, against the character of Mr. Bridges, is not only repelled by its own inhe- 
rent improbability, but it is not sustained by any evidence, properly so called, 
or even by the assertion of any producible person. Your Lordship will also 
observe, that the anonymous author of this statement first represents Mr. Bridges 
to have been brought before a Special Court, and acquitted of the charge, and 
then states the decision to have been only that he should not be prosecuted. 
The former of these assertions must be incorrect, since, if any trial had taken 
place for this supposed offence, Mr. Bridges must, I presume, have been tried 
like any other person, either before the Court of Grand Sessions, or some Assize 
Court, by a jury of twelve men. The quotation from the Jamaica newspaper 
represents the proceeding to have taken place before a Council of Protection, 
which statement I therefore presume to be so far correct. 

" The determination of the Council of Protection would seem, even from the 
statement of the Anti-Slavery Secretary, to have been in favour of Mr. Bridges, 
by a majority of fourteen to four; so that not only the personal character and 
sacred office of Mr. Bridges, but the solemn opinion of fourteen of the gentle- 
men composing this Council are arrayed in his favour, against an accuser whose 
name is not quoted, and for whose truth the Anti-Slavery Society declines to 
vouch. 

" Under such circumstances, I might, in any ordinary case, think it quite 
unnecessary to institute any further inquiry into the transaction in question. 
But I conceive it is due to Mr. Bridges, and even to the Council of Protection, 
to afford them the opportunity, of which I am persuaded they will gladly avail 
themselves, to make their own vindication against a charge of so serious a na- 
ture, however unsupported by proof, and contradicted by fair presumption. 

" Your Lordship will, therefore, transmit to Mr. Bridges, and to the Council 
of Protection, a copy of the enclosed documents, and of this despatch ; and you 
will acquaint Mr. Bridges and the Members of the Council, that I shall be happy 
to receive any explanations which they may think it necessary or convenient to 
transmit to me through your Lordship. — You will also desire the Council of Pro- 
tection to furnish you with copies of the examinations taken by them upon this 
case. It would be great injustice to Mr. Bridges, and to the Members of the 
Council of Protection, were I at present to entertain any distrust of the perfect 
propriety of their decision on the subject; but it Avill be the most satisfactory 
mode of proceeding to refer to the Attorney-General of Jamaica the information 
Avhich may be received, desiring that gentleman to report to your Lordsliip his 
opinion, whether any sufficient grounds exist for instituting a further prosecu- 
tion against Mr. Bridges, and, if so, v/hether the Attorney-General be precluded 
by tlie decision of the Council from instituting it? In the very probable event 
of the Attorney-General advising such a prosecution, it must, of course, be in- 
stituted. 

'• It is not without sincere regret, that I thus commit to your Lordship an 
inquiry, which must subject the Rev. Gentleman, above named, who has been 
implicated in this charge, to much inconvenience, and which may, perhaps, how- 
ever erroneously, be thought to imply a distrust of the whole Magistracy of the 
island. — But I am not aware that there is any other mode of disposing of this 
complaint, by which I should equally consult the real interests of the Colony, 
or the personal reputation of Mr. Bridges and the Council of Protection. 

" I have the honour to be, &c. &c. (Signed) G. MURRAY." 

It is remarkable that in all the copies of this letter which have ap- 
peared in the different Jamaica Newspapers, the dale of it is wholly 
omitted.. The letter was probably written in the month of July 1829. 
It was not acted upon, however, by Lord Belmore until about the 1st 
of May 1830, at least six or seven months after it must have reached 
him. About that time, it first made its appearance in the news- 
papers of Jamaica. The omission of the date was doubtless intended 
to prevent the delay in carrying- Sir George Murray's wishes into eflPect 
from being perceived. But what caused the delay ? Lord Belmore is best 



376 The Rev. G. W, Bridges, and Kitty Hilton. 

able to answer that question. It is rumoured, however, that on 
receiving it, his Lordship wrote to the Secretary of State suggesting the 
expediency of not prosecuting the inquiry, as the transaction had sunk 
into oblivion, and had much better not be revived. The result would 
indicate that this view of the case did not satisfy Sir George Murray, 
and that he had given peremptory directions to Lord Belmore to carry 
into effect the instructions contained in his first letter. That letter wa& 
accordingly communicated to the Gustos of St. Ann's, with a request, 
that he would take measures for complying with the desire of the Secre- 
tary of State. 

In consequence of this communication the gentlemen who had formed 
the Gouncil of Protection on the 11th May 1829, when the charge 
against Mr. Bridges was first investigated, were summoned to meet. 
They accordingly met on the 14th May 1830, and after much discus- 
sion adopted the following Resolutions, viz. : 

" That notwithstanding those sentiments of loyalty and attachment to his 
Majesty's Throne and Government, with which we have ever been impressed, 
we consider that we should be wanting to ourselves, to our stations, and to our 
country, were we not to express our surprise and deep indignation at the Letter 
of Sir George Murray, and the accompanying Letter, from a person styling him- 
self the Secretary to the Anti-Slavery Society, which has been laid before us by 
his Honour the Gustos. 

" That we deprecate this interference of the Colonial Secretary as a gross 
violation of our just rights, and an attempt to destroy that constitutional autho- 
rity with which vie have been solemnly invested by the several branches of the 
Legislature, and by the confirmation of our gracious Sovereign ; nor can we re- 
frain from expressing our astonishment, that the Colonial Secretary should, a 
second time, irritate and wound the feelings of the Magistrates of this Colony, 
by an attempt to establish an inquisitorial jurisdiction over their proceedings. 

" That this interference of his Majesty's Ministers is equally a subversion of 
every principle of British jurisprudence, for in all ordinary cases, and in all 
Courts of Law, it is indispensably requisite that every charge should be esta- 
blished on the oath of some producible person. It is a thing unknown to the 
English Constitution, to entertain for a moment accusations which deprive the 
accused of the means of establishing his innocence, by exposing the fallacy or 
motives of the accuser ; but, in the present instance, this wholesome principle 
is rejected, and it is with the most profound regret that this Meeting perceives 
a practice adopted by his Majesty's Ministers, which has hitherto been confined, 
among civilized nations, to the unhallowed cloisters of the Inquisition.* 

" That of the Anti-Slavery Society, we admit no other cognizance than their 
avowed and implacable hostility to the Colonies, and their general treachery to 
the interests of the empire. We, however, deplore the influence which they 
appear to have gained over the several departments of Government, and the 
tyranny with which they exercise it. And it is with the utmost pain that we 
have to contrast the facility with which all communications from this illegal 
Society are received and acknowledged, with the neglect which the petitions 
and remonstrances of our Representatives in Assembly have suflered from the 
Ministers of the Crown." 

Notwithstanding the refusal of these magistrates to comply with the 
desire of the Secretary of State, the Attorney General of Jamaica ap- 

* It is difficult to conceive in what respect the request, on the part of the 
Secretary of State, to be furnished with information of the proceedings of ma- 
gistrates or courts of justice appointed by the crown, can be considered as vio- 
lating any constitutional right. The due protection of the subject requires that 
the crown should have at all times access to full information as to the manner 
in which its own functionaries have fulfilled the duty intrusted to them. 



The Rev. G. W. Bridges, and Kitty Hilton. 377 

|)ears to have got possession of the minutes of the evidence which had 
been taken on the 11th May, 1829; and he conceived that he was 
warranted on the ground of that evidence to prefer a bill of indictment 
to the grand jury, which assembled in Spanish-town on the 14th June, 
1830, against the Rev. G. W. Bridges, " for maltreating a slave." The 
grand jury threw out the bill, and thus put a stop to all farther judicial 
inquiry. 

A friend of Mr. Bridges, however, who assumes the feigned name of 
Byron, undertook to enlighten the public respecting the real circum- 
stances of this case, and pubHshed the following exculpation of him in 
the Postscript to the Royal Gazette of the 12th June, 1830, two days be- 
fore the meeting of the Grand Court by which be was to have been tried. 

" The public attention is now occupied by the extraordinary proceedings of 
the Attorney-General against the persecuted rector of St. Ann's — a proceeding 
by which he seeks to supersede the decisions, the repeated decisions of the 
Council of Protection, convened, and reconvened, to perform the dirty work of 
the Anti-Slavery Society, the Macaulays, the Stephens, and their wretched 
spies ! We have had access to the records of the Council of Protection of 1829, 
and now lay before our readers the real circumstances of this case. They were 
proved by the witnesses, on the complainant's own behalf, though it now 
seems the Crown ofBcers take advantage of the long period which has since 
elapsed, and the circumstance of the most material witnesses being off the island, 
to establish a new case. 

" The woman, Kitty Hilton, was proved both by her former, and present 
owners, to be of notorious bad character and evil propensities, and was ordered, 
for repeated insolence, to be switched with bamboos. No other negro was about 
the house, but an old watchman (for Mr. Bridges had European servants, to 
avoid, as far as he could, a repetition of the charge of being a slave-owner him- 
self, which Mr. Wilberforce had discovered from an advertisement in a Jamaica 
paper of 1824, and which Blr. Wilberforce adduced in the Rouse of Commons, 
for the purpose of invalidating the testimony of the author of ' A Voice from 
Jamaica'). There was, therefore, no person to hold the woman, nor was she in 
any way confined, but, with much insolent nonchalance, walked off to receive 
her punishment, at a short distance from the house, where her master remained 
until he heard her expressing her contrition, when he went on the lawn before 
the door, and called to the old man below to cease. The woman returned to 
the house certainly in a very dirty, ragged, and indecent state, and appearing 
thus before her master and some ladies staying there, he ordered her away to 
cliange her clotlies, at the same time sending her a supply from a box of negro 
clothing, beside which he was standing, as she had complained of wanting them. 
A young lady, a visitor there, saw her at the time, as did also the governess in 
the family, and the white butler. The two latter are now unfortunately off the 
island, which makes the re-investigation of the case, at this distance of time, a 
case of peculiar hardship on the accused. The former is, however, still here, 
and the most material witness, as she saw her both immediately before, and im- 
mediately after, the punishment, before she had been tampered with by a party of 
Methodists, who reside on a property within two hundred yards of Mr. Bridges' 
house, and who are continually annoying him, by encouraging his people to run 
away. By these people she was advised to run away, as she had for years been 
in the constant habit of doing, and accordingly next morning she was missed. 
She walked seven miles to Mr. Raffington, who told Mr. Bridges of the circum- 
stance, and advised his sending for her. Mr. B. did so, and sent a horse and 
side saddle, as Mr. Raffington declared she was suffering much from fever. In 
the same time, however, she had left his protection at Sea- View, and, contrary 
to his orders, had gone to his house on St. Ann's Bay ; and thence away again 
to Mr. Smith, with whom she knew her master was not on friendly terms. Mi*. 
Smith delivered her to the person who took the horse for her, with the usual 
letter interceding for her pardon. She came home late at night when the family 
had all retired, and Mr. Bridges being called up, ordered his white servant to 



378 The Rev. G. W. Bridges, and Kitty Hilton. 

put her in charge of the watchman, whose fire was blazing in the yard ; but he 
saw not the woman himself. Next morning it was discovered that she had again 
run away, and nothing more was heard of her till Mr. Cox wrote officially to say 
that she had appeared before him sixteen miles off, in the afternoon of the same 
day, in a wretched condition, and that he thought it his duty to send her before 
a Council of Protection. He accordingly immediately ordered her off to the 
workhouse, where she was again seen by Mr. Marker and the workhouse doctor, 
Mr. Stennett, after completing a journey of more than fifty -seven miles, in an in- 
credibly short period, for one who assumed the wretched appearance described 
by those to whom she made her artful complaints ! ! She was at the same time 
suffering also under a virulent and disgraceful disease. Still, at the Council of 
Protection, in 1829, Mr. Stennett declared on oath that the marks of punish- 
ment did not equal those which 39 lashes with a whip would have inflicted. 
Within a few days she was also seen by various other persons, who had been in 
the habit of knowing her in her master's house, and who declared she looked 
quite as well as usual ! She was allowed repeatedly to be at the house of Mr. 
Marker, and in conference with the numerous Methodists in St. Ann's Bay, 
whom she knew to be very hostile to her master, and who made her believe that 
if she could establish a good case, she would be made free, and he would be 
turned out of his living. The deputy clerk of the peace, who saw her surrounded 
by these Methodists, proved that she complained to him that she was not used to 
such treatment and allowances as the workhouse afforded, particularly that she 
wanted coffee! — and, strange to say, she some how or other contrived to be quite 
at large for several weeks, and to obtain such assistance as to perfect her plan 
of deception. 

" The Council of Protection met within ten days of these circumstances hap- 
pening. Mr. Bridges was very ill, unable to leave his bed ; the woman's story 
was nevertheless heard, but without witnesses, in his absence! ! and, of course, 
went forth uncontradicted ; till another council was convened a month after- 
wards, when all the woman's witnesses, to prove her assertions, were in attend- 
ance ; but they so disproved them, that the case was dismissed — and her own 
testimony being completely contradicted by all her own witnesses ! ! — for Mr. 
Bridges called none. She had stated that her master stood over her and beat her 
while the watchman stretched her ; but it was ascertained that he remained in 
the house until he went out on the lawn to stop the punishment, and when 
even there, though within sight, was not within two hundred yards of her I By 
the Custos of St. Mary's, this circumstance was then turned into a serious and 
new charge against Mr. Bridges, of infringing the law, by not being present at 
the punishment ! ! The artful conduct of the woman was also made apparent by 
the circumstance of her applying only to those persons who she knew were most 
unfriendly to her master, who all espoused her cause most warmly, and who, 
even to the very last, were found in the minority of 4 against 14 ! ! 

" It is upon such grounds as these that the Attorney General of Jamaica 
seconds the efforts of the Anti-Slavery Society, and their base anonymous in- 
former; seeking to ruin a persecuted individual by setting at nought the law of 
the land, and trying him a third time* in the absence of the principal witnesses, 
for what has been twice already declared to be no offence ! ! ! ! 
" We can trust ourselves to say no more, with 

" Attornies General, awful to the sight. 

As hinting more, unless our judgments warp us, 
Of the Star Chamber, than of Habeas Corpus." 

We have thus laid before our readers the whole particulars of this 
transaction so far as they have yet been made public, and what- 
ever may be the impression produced by them as to the legal guilt 
of the Rev, G. W. Bridges, they will at least establish a case against 
the state of society and manners in Jamaica, which it will not be very 
easy to get rid of. Any comment of ours would be superfluous. We 

Me has not yet been tried at all. 



The Rev. G. W. Bridges, and Kitty Hilton. 379 

would only ask what must be the state of that society in which such 
a defence of a clergyman could be expected to avail in his favour ? His 
anonymous vindicator, even assuming his exparte statement to be true, has 
disclosed enough to decide that part of the question.* We wish, how- 
ever, that he had condescended to tell us what has been the destiny of 
the wretched Kitty Hilton, since she was remanded in May or June of 
last year into the custody of her Reverend Proprietor. Is it true, as re- 
ported, that she has passed the interval in a workhouse, subjected to 
occasional flogging, and to hard labour in chains? Or how otherwise 
has she been disposed of? Or where, and in what condition is she at the 
present moment? The Attorney General must have it in his power to 
remove all doubts on these points, as he must have required her to be 
produced in court when the indictment was preferred against her master 
for the maltreatment she had received. 

During the months of May and June last, the newspapers of the 
island were filled with discussions on this subject. With one excep- 
tion, they appear to have taken a vehement part in favour of Mr, 
Bridges, who is held up as a grievously persecuted man; and yet not one 
of them that we have met vpith has ventured to deny the substantial cor- 
rectness of the original statement which was communicated, by the Sec- 
retary of the Anti-Slavery Society, to Sir George Murray, on the subject. 

* On tMs defence the "Watchman" observes, " Defend me from my friends was 
the exclamation of one who justly dreaded the eulogium of fools; and few im- 
partial readers of Friday's Courant will deny that Mr. Bridges has now an 
excellent opportunity to ascertain its just value. The intended defence of him 
bears on its face such conclusive evidence of its untruth, and betrays such per- 
fect indifference to the sufferings of the woman (whom it calmly describes as 
' suffering under a virulent and disgraceful disease' at the time she received 
such severe punishment as to reduce her to the ' wretched condition' in which 
Mr. Cox saw her some days after) that we can hardly believe the writer of it" to 
be serious. " We could with very little trouble insert the entire statement, and 
by adding what the Courant has suppressed, and removing excrescences he has 
uttached, exhibit the affair in a very different light. But justice forbids us to 
prejudge a case which is so soon to be submitted to the decision of a jury." 
" We therefore suspend our remarks, save in reference to the journey of fifty- 
seven miles, performed (and, as he states, partly on horseback) in the incredibly 
short space of two days, and alleged as a proof of the mildness of the punish- 
ment, a device so shallow that it can only be intended to mislead those who are 
unacquainted with the habits of the negroes, who, from the age of seven or 
eight yeai's, are so accustomed to make long journeys on foot to the distant 
markets, that on Saturdays and Sundays they crowd the roads in every stage 
from health to extreme disease, coming from plantations from ten to thirty miles 
distant, and to which they must return on the same or following day. Nor is 
it less notorious that the humane owners of that happy and contented race do not 
conceive that flogging disqualifies the slave for immediate labour, so that unless 
the ' Bilboes' be put in requisition for increase of punishment, the culprit is 
immediately set to work. 

*' The allegation amounts to just this much — that the flogging inflicted upon 
the woman, not having deprived her of the use of her legs, the dread of further 
punishment urged her to seek the protection of a Magistrate. 

"Judging from the specimen before us, we do not hesitate to assure our contem- 
porary that his misrepresentations are more likely to injure than serve the cause 
he advocates. We advise him seriously not to increase by falsehood the indig- 
nation excited in the breasts of all good men by the misconduct of his patron. 
Pending the trial he may as well agree to a short armistice with truth." 



380 The Rev. G. W. Bridges, and Kitty Hilton. 

There is abuse in abundance of that Society, and of Sir George Murray, 
and also of the Attorney General ; but, setting aside the opprobrious 
apology quoted above, we do not find one line which asserts the inno- 
cence of the accused. It will mark the prevalent feeling in his favour, that 
on the very morning of the day on which the Grand Jury were to meet 
to decide on the indictment preferred against him, the following obser- 
vations appeared in a popular journal, the Jamaica Courant, with the 
obvious intention of influencing their decision. 

" We have devoted, to-day, a large portion of our columns to the case of the 
Rev. Mr. Bridges, as we are anxious that the merits of this question should be 
brought in one view before the public. Two questions are involved in it — one, 
whether the Reverend Mr. Bridges is to be tried a third time * for the same 
offence, merely to gratify the Anti-Slavery Society in England ; the other, whe- 
ther the Orders of the Colonial Office are to supersede the solemn enactments 
of our Legislature,! sanctioned, as they are, by his Majesty. The Grand Jury 
of Middlesex have a duty to perform to their country, and we have no doubt they 
will discharge it fearlessly and conscientiously, and convince the Anti-Slavery So- 
ciety, as ivell as the hired and base spies of that body, that their wishes are not yet 
law in Jamaica." 

" The Reverend Rector's principles, as an active minister of the established 
religion, and a zealous defender of the oppressed and traduced colonists, do 
him credit, and demand support from the inhabitants of Jamaica in particular ; 
and we do sincerely hope, that he will receive that support which he so richly 
merits, to the confusion of his enemies." 

" If we refer to Sir George Murray's Dispatch on the subject of the St. Ann's 
Magistrates, we shall be at a loss which most to admire — the undertoned con- 
tempt and dislike of the powerful party which he dares not openly disoblige — 
or the subterfuges by which he wishes to shift the odium of an unwarrantable 
act from his own shoulders, on those of his Majesty's Attorney -General of this 
Island, Had Sir George Murray been acquainted with the laws and institu- 
tions of the island, he would not have hesitated, for one moment, to declare to 
that base faction, by whom he has been instigated, that his interference would 
be a direct violation of a positive law, to which his master, the King of England, 
had affixed his sanction." " There may be, indeed, some excuse for a man who 
accepts oflBce, such as Sir George Murray, without knowing any thing of its duties." 
"But the Attorney -General of this island cannot, does not, plead ignorance. 
He mounts upon his official stilts, and declares he will set the popular voice at 
defiance — that his authority is paramount to the solemn acts of the legislature, 
and he considers it his duty to comply with the orders of the Colonial Secre 
tary, in other words, he considers it necessary, for the preservation of his office, 
to lend himself to the views of a party. But we would ask, is nothing due 
to the land which pays him so liberally ? Is nothing due to its rights and pri- 
vileges ? Is nothing due to the outraged feelings of its inhabitants ? Or shall 
the officer, who is paid, fed, and fattened, on the small remains of its revenues, 
who is raised to that station as the chief conservator of peace, be allowed thus 
to sound the tocsin of discard and confusion? We say, that this act, on the 
part of the Attorney-General, appears to us to be nothing more, nor less, than 
an attempt to establish, in his own person, the long-sought for — the devoutly 
hated— the scorned— the scouted- Anti-Slavery Office of PROTECTOR OF 
SLAVES ! We dread the result of this interference of the Attorney-General, 
among our slave population, — they will see that our laws are of no avail — that 
an acquittal of a master, by a legally constituted tribunal, is despised — that 
a charge brought by them, however groundless, is eagerly laid hold of, to our 
injury — and every nerve strained in their favour, to support their cause, however 
unjust, and to crush the innocent ! We ask, where is this to end ? If the 

* He has not been tried at all. 

t There is no act, and can be no act, of the legislature forbidding the King to 
inquire into the due execution of the laws. 



The Rev. G. W. Bridges, and Kitty Hilton. 381 

Attorney-General has the power of superseding a Council of Protection in this 
instance, he has the power to interfere with every other, past, present, or to 
come, and we leave the public to judge, where the confusion will end. — We need 
not tell them where it begins. But we deny his power, — we denounce it as a 
violation of our just rights, and a dangerous interference with our local institu- 
tions. We say distinctly, that actuated by an honourable and jealous feeling 
for the preservation of our rights, the House of Assembly enacted the 45th 
clause of the Slave Law, for the express purpose of preventing a protector, or an 
Attorney-General, from interfering with the decision of a Council of Protection."* 

" There can be but one opinion of the conduct and motives of the Attorney- 
General, in the contemplated violation of the rights of the subject, in the 
person of Mr. Bridges. It is equally plain that he is impelled by views of self- 
interest alone ; for to use his own language, ' He will not be deterred from his 
duty by popular clamour' — thus admitting the indignant feeling which has been 
raised on the subject throughout the island ; but setting it at defiance ! ' That, 
as an officer of the Crown, he is bound to support the views of Government ! and, 
though without hopes of success, will appeal to a Grand Jury to exonerate him- 
self! ' To exonerate him from what? The Grand Jury cannot exonerate him 
from the charge of subserviency !— from the charge of aiding the enemies of the 
island ! — from setting at defiance the public voice ! or from the charge of acting 
in violation of the law of the land. No ! the Grand Jury will fulfil the sacred 
functions for which they are impannelled. They will maintain the rights of 
the subject — thej^^ will exonerate, from oppression and tyranny, the man who 
has been already twice acquitted by his peers.'" f 

" Every one knows how severely the Rector of St. Ann has been persecuted 
by the Government at the instance of the Anti-Slavery Society. The prosecu- 
tion in the name of Lecesne and EscofTery, was instituted not for any real injury 
done to these men, but to gratify the revengeful feelings of the anti-colonial 
party against the intrepid defender of West Indian character and rights. — The 
present prosecution is but a sequel of the unjust and oppressive injuries he has 
already suffered on the other side of the water ; and it is now clear, that nothing 
but his total destruction will glut the vengeance of his Methodistic anti-colonial 
foes. It is time the voice of the public was raised in one simultaneous shout, 
which, vibrating through every part of the island, will serve to defend, in the 
person of the persecuted Rector of St. Ann, the rights and the privileges of all. 
— An appeal to a British public, in such a case, was never made in vain ; and 
it is only characteristic of Britons, in their acknowledged detestation of tyranny, 
boldly to step in, and shield the man who is unjustly borne down by the strong 
arm of power."^ 

We subjoin some remarks of the Editor of the Jamaica Watchman 
on the same subject. On the 1st of May, he observes, 

" The Jamaica papers, as might have been expected, now begin to teem with 
violent tirades and abusive articles against Sir George Murray, the Anti- 
Slavery Society, the Hon. A. Hodgson, and, as a matter of course, the Sec- 

* The clause referred to, if it have the meaning here assigned to it, is a proof 
at once both of the insidiousness of colonial legislation, and of the carelessness 
with which the colonial laws were suffered to obtain the Royal sanction in time 
past. This act was passed in 1816. The 45th clause enacts " that no writ of 
certiorari, or other process, shall issue or be issuable to remove any proceeding 
whatsoever, had in pursuance of this act, into the supreme court of judicature, 
or any other of the courts of this island." 

t The Council of Protection had no power to try him, but only to inquire 
whether there was ground for sending him to trial. 

i If it be asked why the Anti-Slavery Society should not have disclosed the 
name of their informant, it may be answered that had they done so, they would, 
most infallibly, have exposed him to a merciless persecution ; from which the 
truth of his statement would have been no protection. His original com- 
munication, however, was, and now is, perfectly open to the confidential 
inspection of Sir George Murray, on his requisition to that effect. The extract 
from it, however, which was transmitted to Sir George Murray, was supported, 
be it remembered, by the two newspapers which accompanied it. 

3 H 



382 The Rev. G. W. Bridges, and Kitty Hilton. 

tariaus, in consequence of Sir G. Murray's Letter to Lord Belmore, relative 
to the maltreatment of a Quadroon slave girl, the property of Mr. Bridges. 

" Instead of meeting the charge in a cool, a calm, and dispassionate manner, 
and endeavouring, if possible, to prove to Sir George Murray and to the world 
the falsehood of the anonymous accusation forwarded to the Colonial Office, our 
great men, and big men, and clever men, have commenced to bluster, to brawly 
and to defy : just as though abuse was argument, or obstinacy proof. 

" To any man who has not allowed his passions to gain the ascendancy over his 
reason, it must appear at first sight extremely strange, to say the least of it, that 
a man, or set of men, whose conduct, according to their own account, has been 
so very correct and free from blame, should instantaneously take fire at the bare 
mention of their having acted with partiality ; and instead of manifesting, by a 
full, free, and open examination of all the circumstances involved in that 
charge, the correctness of their conduct, attempt to shield themselves under the 
plea of its having been brought forward by an unknown and irresponsible indi- 
vidual." — " The Courant, as usual, is loud in its recommendation to the Magis- 
tracy of Saint Ann's to be firm, or, in other words, to be obstinate." 

On the 19th of May, he thus comments on the refusal of the magis" 
trates of St, Ann's, to furnish to the Attorney-General the evidence 
taken before them in the preceding year. 

" To have forwarded to the Attorney-General the examinations that were then 
taken, would be to put into that officer's hands evidence on which he could, 
with great justice and propriety, ground proceedings at law, as well as to render 
notorious the facts of a case which reflects eternal disgrace, as well upon the 
individual whose conduct rendered such an examination necessary, as upon the 
majority of those who, as Jwnest men, were called upon to administer justice be- 
tween an inhuman master and an unfortunate sulfering slave ! It is downright 
nonsense to talk about ' gratifying the worst of our enemies by attempting to 
disturb the judgment already pronounced;' because if that judgment was cal- 
culated to ^ bear the light,' it would matter little how often it was disturbed; 
nay, the oftener it was disturbed, the more complete would be the triumph ! — 
If Mr. Bridges be innocent, why such a decided disinclination to put the neces- 
sary papers into the hands of the Attorney-General ? Why evince so much 
hostility to a reinvestigation ? Why such an attempt to raise a cloud of dust 
about ' infringement of rights,' under which to hide the former dirty transac- 
tion ? and why not openly and fearlessly meet and disprove the charges ? But 
this cannot be done, and for no other reason but because they are known to be 
true ; because it is a transaction over which it must be the anxious wish of 
every individual who has been engaged in it to throw an impenetrable veil ; be- 
cause the decision which was then made was not a decision upon the merits of 
the case ! The question, with the majority, was not whether Mr. Bridges had 
maltreated his slave or not, for that was a fact too notorious to be denied. It 
was whether their decision in favour of the slave would not furnish the Saints 
in England with a strong argument against Mr. Bridges, and whether such a 
decision would not prove injurious to the colony ? It was to prevent this being 
said that the Council of Protection voted for shielding the Rev. Mr. Bridges 
from the consequences of a public prosecution. 

" No wonder that the Reverend Mr. Bridges has attempted to defend the sys- 
tem of slavery, and to prove that no cruelties exist in Jamaica — because he is 
himself a slave holder, and a cruel one too, as is proven by the proceedings of 
the Council of Protection held at Saint Ann's Bay." 

"To designate the mild and friendly letter of the colonial minister an 'at- 
tempt to subvert our rights, and to set the laws at defiance,' argues a most 
' iniquitous' wish to pervert the plain meaning of a communication, which 
speaks volumes for the moderation of the minister, and but too clearly proves 
to what miserable expedients men are driven in the defence of a bad cause." 



n. — Fallacious Repkesentatiows of Colonial Advocates. 
We have at various times produced striking proofs of the infatuated 
spiritof combined and determined hostiUty to the truth which actuates 
the great body of our coloniaJ slave holders, whether in the West Indies 



Fallacious Representalions of Colonial Advocates^ 383 

w in the Mauritius. Truth is what they naturally dread, as letting 
sn light upon the abominations of their system. Hence the violence 
with which they resent any attempt to bring before the public the dark 
deeds imputed to a man, who like Mr. Bridges, has so identified himself 
with their cause, that his delinquences reflect discredit upon them- 
selves. And hence also the eagerness with which they have circu- 
lated their proceedings in the case of Lieutenant Smith, at a cost 
probably to the pro-slavery fund, of not less than £2,000, merely in the 
hope of hiding its real merits from the public. Their whole imposing 
array of judicial and even legislative powers were brought to bear on 
this unfortunate individual, in order to entrap or terrify him into contra- 
dictions on collateral and immaterial points; while they studiously, and 
of set and premeditated purpose, kept out of view what was alone ma- 
terial to the vindication of their system — an inquiry into the truth of 
the brutalities Mr, S. said he had witnessed. With respect to these, 
they dexterously shun all approach to elucidation, hoping without doubt 
that these would be lost sight of in the overwhelming cloud of irrelevant 
matter with which they have contrived to obscure the only facts it was 
really of moment to investigate. 

If, indeed, we were to select any single instance on which to ground 
a charge of wilful and deliberate misrepresentation against the ge- 
neral body of the Colonists ; it would be their proceedings in this very 
case, by giving a costly publicity to which, they have been so Winded by 
their prejudices as to fancy, that they could either reconcile the people 
of Great Britain to their wicked system, or weaken the hands of those 
who have united to free their country from its pollution and its guilt. 

In the same spirit have the Colonists hailed and heralded the im- 
postures of such writers as Barclay, who, in his letter to Sir George 
Murray, published last year, has not scrupled to affirm, " that the Co- 
lonists are not unfriendly to the religious instruction of the slaves; but 
on the contrary, are anxious to promote it; but that they are naturally 
suspicious of teachers sent by societies, which scarcely disguise their 
enmity." In commenting on this statement, the Jamaica Watchman, 
(in his paper of 28th April, 1830,) observes, that it appears " by a Re- 
port of the Jamaica Auxiliary Church Missionary Society, that the un- 
friendly disposition evinced to the members of the established church 
is just as great as towards the Sectarians. Speaking of Coley Estate, 
the property of Sir G. H. Rose, and others, situated in St. Thomas in 
the East, this Report says, ' Of this station the Committee regret their 
inability to speak favourably. Mr. J. Wood, the catechist and school- 
master reports that of 256 slaves, the number in attendance amounts 
to seventeen. These, with the addition of three children make a total 
of but twenty. On the Sabbath twelve adults and twelve children re- 
ceive instruction. Mr. Wood further reports, that he has not received 
the manager's permission to catechise (even to catechise) on any ■pro- 
perty except that on which he resides. — Should Mr. Barclay require 
further proof of the utter falsehood of his assertion, the Rev. S. H. 
Cooke, Rector of St. Thomas' in the East, will be able to inform him 
whether any, and what proprietors of estates in a neighbouring parish," 
(St. David's) " positively refused to allow the negroes to be instructed, 
and drove the catechists off the properties." — See also No. 5^. p. 168. 



384 Fallacious Representatio7is — Barclay, Clergymen, ^c. 

But still more direct and unequivocal, in contradiction of Mr. Bar- 
clay's position, is the language of one of his own partizans, who, in 
the Jamaica Courant of the 2d of July last, thus expresses himself, 
forgetting, for a moment, that what he wrote might, perchance, meet 
other eyes than those of colonists. — " If any gentleman wishes to con- 
vert the heathen, or to teach them to read and write, let him first free 
them out of his own pocket, and then he may make a kirk and a mill 
of them. But for a Receiver, Attorney, or Overseer, to educate the 
slaves, under their management, before the proprietor is remunerated, 
is downright robbery or madness." 

The misrepresentations, however, of the Courant, or of such a man 
as Barclay, we can tolerate much more easily, for they are in due keep- 
ing, than we can the manner in Avhich certain colonial clergymen so 
speak and write as to hide from view the abominations of the slave sys- 
tem ; and who, at the very moment they are preferring claims on our li- 
berality in order to promote the spiritual interests of the poor perishing 
slaves committed to their charge, conceal the fact, that the persons for 
whom they plead are deprived, by the iniquity of the laws and the 
cupidity of the planters, of all the benefits of a Christian sabbath. 
No one knows better, for example, than the late Rector and late Curate 
of St. Thomas in the East that the slaves have no sabbath. Yet we have 
heard from them of no remonstrances addressed to their own parish- 
ioners, who wickedly withhold the Sunday from their slaves ; nor of any 
call upon the British public to exert themselves to obtain it for them. 
The latter of these gentlemen scruples not to pour into the ears of all 
who will listen to him, his tales of negro comfort and enjoyment, obvi- 
ously mistaking that familiarity with the evils of slavery which serves to 
blunt the sense of them for their absence or abatement. It is easy to 
say that the slaves have all the external marks of comfort, are sleeky 
plump, and fat, and free from care. So doubtless might it have been 
said of Henry Williams, mentioned in our last number, (p. 356,) the 
day before his attorney sent him to Rodney Hall workhouse to be 
flayed alive with the cartwhip, because he would not cease to attend the 
VForship of God ; — or of Kitty Hilton, before Mr. Bridges had caused 
her to be lacerated with bamboo rods ; — or of Eleanor Mead, the mother 
of nine children, before Mrs. Earnshaw inflicted upon her, by the hands 
of the driver, and with the aid of one of her own daughters, fifty lashes 
of the cartwhip, and then sent her to the workhouse to be again flogged ; 
(No. 64, p. 345;) — or of Sam Swiney, (ib. p. 34 i,) who, for uttering a 
prayer to God, was sentenced by Mr. Finlayson, the Speaker of the 
Jamaica Assembly, to have his flesh cut with the lash, and then to be 
worked in chains fastened to a felon convict. — But we need not travel 
out of the parish with which he is best acquainted, for the disproof of 
those fallacious representations. How does he account for it, that with 
all the laudable zeal manifested by Sir George Rose 'for the religious in- 
struction of his slaves, he should have been unable to effect his purpose^ 
or even to screen the Christian part of them from persecution, on ac- 
count of their religion, at the hands of the very managers of his proper- 
ty ? Nay, how does he account for it, consistently Avith his glowing 
picture of negro felicity in St. Thomas in the East, that even on Golden 
Grove, the crack estate of the Parish, selected by the Bishop of Jamaica 



Fallacious Representations of Negro Comfort hy Clergyme^i. 385 

and his clergy, as a model of humane and lenient management ; (Re- 
porter, No. 13, p. 191) the slaves should decrease? No one, however, 
can read the Bishop's report of that plantation vpithout seeing at once 
the cause of such decrease, in the unintermitted continuity of the toil 
there exacted from old and young, from male and female, and even 
from children. Let any one read the picture drawn by the overseer of 
this estate — a man whom familiarity had rendered, like the clergyman 
in question, unconscious of its deformity. He does not seem, in the 
least, to be aware that the details he has given, will produce a different 
impression on the minds of Englishmen from that which they have pro- 
duced on his own mind, habituated, as it has been, to the hourly sight 
of a state of things which absolutely levels his fellow-men with the beasts 
of the stall. But why did not the Bishop or this clergyman ascertain 
the progress of population on Golden Grove, before they suffered them- 
selves to be deluded by such statements? In March, 1820, the number 
of its slaves was 717. In March, 1826, that number was reduced to 660, 
being a decrease of 57 in six years, or about 1 \ per cent, per annum ; 
Avhile the Maroons, in their vicinity, have been increasing during the 
same period at the rate of 2 per cent, per annum. And this is the de- 
cisive result of the system which Bishops and clergymen delight to eulo- 
gize ! We doubt not indeed that the treatment is so much better on 
Golden Grove than on most other estates, as to appear to be in itself ex- 
cellent, when it is only good by contrast with the general administration 
on the adjoining properties. It can only be owing to the lowness of the 
standard, by which, on looking abroad over the whole surface of society, 
men are habituated to measure human comfort, that any one could ever 
have exhibited Golden Grove as a proof of the humanity of the slave 
system. If this be its humanity, then are its tender mercies at the 
best cruel. Tried by a comparison with the sugar estates of St. Tho- 
mas in the East generally, we have little doubt that we should recog- 
nise a superiority of treatment on Golden Grove. But as on the whole 
population of that parish, including the negroes employed as domestics 
and mechanics, and in the culture of provisions, the rearing of cattle, 
and other lighter and less deathful employments, among whom there 
probably is an increase, the regular decrease from 1820 to 1826 has 
been 1 per cent, per annum, we may assume the larger decrease 
on Golden Grove to be below the average of sugar estates — a fact 
wholly at war with the flattering statements of this clergyman. And 
here let us remind him, and all his clerical brethren who adopt the 
same tone, of the responsibility they incur by such hasty and ill-consi- 
dered representations. For however innocent may be their motives, 
and we do not impugn them, yet they must see that they have been 
led into fatal errors on the subject. It becomes them, therefore, to 
pause, and to reconsider the whole facts and bearings of the subject, be- 
fore they venture again to use language, which, if incorrect, as we have 
shown it to be, is calculated most deeply to injure the professed objects 
of their benevolence, and to impede instead of promoting the diffusion 
of Christianity among them. 



III. — Protector of Slaves in Demerara. 
In our 2nd Volume, No. 43, (p. 352,) we adverted to the wages fixed 



386 Protector of Slaves in Demerara, 

by the Protector of Slaves in Demerara, for the labour of slaves in picking' 
coffee during the Sunday, namely, 8|d. for each basket of ten pounds, 
six such baskets being stated as an average day's labour. We then 
remonstrated against this regulation, shewing, by the most unquestion- 
able testimony, that this was double the task which ought to be required 
of any individual, and that therefore, the Protector was guilty of an 
act of injustice and oppression in fixing the Sunday's wages on such 
a scale; it being obvious, that if the slave could easily pick six 
baskets of coffee a day, the wages assigned him would enable him to 
earn 4s. 3d. during the day ; whereas, if the fact was that he could pick 
only three baskets by his utmost exertions, then, at the rate fixed by 
the Protector, he could earn at most only 2s. l|d. per day. — In conse- 
quence probably of these remarks, a motion was made in the House of 
Commons on the 3rd of June, 1829, calling for the information on which 
the Protector " had proceeded in assigning, as a proper and moderate 
task, for a slave hired to labour on the Sunday in picking coffee, sixty 
pounds weight." 

The return to this motion appears in a paper printed by order of the 
House on the 1st of July, 1830, numbered 583, and we must confess that 
it has struck us with some surprise- Sir B. D'Urban refers the Secre- 
tary of State to the Protector's clear and full explanation of the subject, 
which leaves him, he says, nothing to add but that it is evident, " that 
the Protector never did assign sixty pounds weight of coffee as a task 
for the labour of a hired slave on a Sunday.'' 

The Protector, in the letter which has proved so satisfactory to Sir B. 
D'Urban, reiterates this denial, adding that the only part of his corres- 
pondence which implies such a declaration, is a letter to the Governor's 
Secretary of 31st July, 1827 ; in which he had stated, that slaves " if 
industrious, may earn 4s. 4d. a day, being the lowest rate at which a 
dollar can be valued." 

In the face of these peremptory denials, we beg the reader of them 
to turn to " Papers presented to Parliament by His Majesty's com- 
mand," " in continuation of the papers presented in the year 1827," 
and there, under the head Demerara, and at the 145th and 146th pages 
he will find the following insertion verbatim et literatim. 

" Rate of wages fixed by the Protector for the labour of slaves in 
the picking of coffee or cotton during the time allowed them by law* 
In obedience to the 9th clause of the Ordinance for the amelioration of 
the condition of slaves in this colony. 

" Coffee. — Two bits or eight pence halfpenny sterling for every 
basket often pounds." 

" Cotton. — One bit or four pence farthing sterling for every basket 
often pounds." 

" xNT. B. Six baskets of coffee is the average labour per diem. 

(Signed) A. W. Young, Protector of slaves." 

This notice v.'as transmitted by the Protector to Sir B, D'Urban, as 
part of his half-yearly Report of the 1st of May, 1827. 

Both Sir Benjamin and the Protector must have wholly overlooked 
this document, when they so strongly and positively denied the ever 
having assigned the picking of sixty pounds' weight of coffee as a rea- 

* Meaning Sunday, the only day on which, there, any time is allowed them by law. -i 



Protector of Slaves in Demerara. 387 

sonable task for a hired slave on a Sunday. Do not the words then 
convey the clear opinion of the Protector, that to pick 60 lbs. of 
coffee vpas only a reasonable, an average, task for a slave for the day? 
It has been proved, however, that the fair average task does not ex- 
ceed half of that quantity. Now, supposing a master were to punish 
his slave for failing to bring him 60 lbs. of coffee each day during the 
week, and the slave were to complain to the Protector of the severity 
of the exaction, and the impossibility of a compliance with it, and that 
therefore he had been punished unjustly, would not the master be able 
to defend himself by a reference to the Protector's own authority — 
" You have proclaimed your opinion, that to pick 60 lbs. of coffee is an 
average daily task for a slave hired to do Sunday labour. If this be 
a fair task for Sunday, is it not also a fair task for Monday and for 
all the days of the week ?" 

Again, the Protector seems to admit that the slave ought to have a 
rate of wages for Sunday labour, which would allow of his earning 4s. 4c?. 
a day. He has contrived, however, by the construction of his notice, 
that he shall not be able to earn more than 2s. Id. 

The Protector's excuse for his conduct, is, that the opinion he gave that 
a slave might earn 4s. Ad. a day, proceeded on the supposition of his 
being " impelled to be industrious by the prospect of gain,"* and not 
with a view of " assigning; a proper and moderate task to the slave, such 
a task as he could with ordinary labour perform, but such as he may do 
with extraordinary inducement, without which he does not perform it." 
This however is a very bad reason for having stated the average labour 
of a day to be double that which is admitted on all hands to be the fair 
ordinary rate. As for saying he did not " assign" the extent of la- 
bour to be performed, it is a mere quibble. He assigned the proportion 
which the extent of labour ought to bear to the pay, and that pro- 
portion was unjust and oppressive. 

" If it had been required," says the Protector, " to fix the rate of wages 
which slaves shall receive when working for individuals other than their 
owners, the case would have assumed a different bearing, and most probably 
the highest rate usually given in the colony would have been fixed as the 
minimum, in order to give them the benefit of any more advantageous bargain 
which they might make. The rate of wages which the Protector had to fix, 
affected, however, a class of persons standing in a more intimate relation to the 
slave, it must be allowed, than mere strangers, from whom was to be derived, 
as the only advantage, the simple amount of hire previously agreed on. I con- 
sulted with some of tlie leading men in the colony connected with coffee pro- 
perty, both as proprietors and attorneys, and generally with all within my 
reach who could afford information on the subject." " On these opinions and 
my own observations I regulated the lowest rate of wages." 

The reasons given by the Protector, for his conduct, have proved as 
unsatisfactory to his Majesty's Government as to us. Sir George 
Murray, in a letter to Sir B. D'Urban, of the 2d Nov. 1829, thus 
animadverts upon them in a way certainly most highly honourable both 
to his judgment and his feelings. 

" The considerations which Colonel Young adduces as elements of his calcu- 
lation, the food, clothing, &c. which the slaves receive, and their interest in 
their owners' prosperity, are matters wholly extraneous to the duty which the 

* So the Protector has discovered that adequate wages will " impel" a slave 
to perform twice the labour which a master could reasonably hope to extract by 
the whip. What will Major Moody say to this ? 



388 Barbadian view of Anti-Slavery — Meeting of Parliamejit. ^ 

Protector had to perform. The rate of the wages of labour at any given time, 
is the sum for which labour can be had at that time, from persons who are 
in a condition to make an independent contract. The Protector's duty was 
to make known from time to time what that sum was. There could be no 
justification for making deductions from that sum on the ground of food and 
clothing, or the still more vague assumption of a common interest. The prin- 
ciple which His Majesty's Government have laid down, and on which the 
ordinance in question was founded, is, that the Sunday shall be wholly clear 
from the demands of the master. The Protector has anexed to his communi- 
cation various opinions which he obtained from the ' leading men in the 
colony connected with coffee property, both as. proprietors and attorneys.' The 
fallacious views which he has adopted are to be found in their letters. This 
can be matter of no surprise. Those gentlemen were the natural advocates 
of their own interests, and the trust of protecting the interests opposite to 
their own was not committed to them ; but that consideration should have 
made the Protector a little more cautious in adopting or drawing inferences 
from opinions of theirs. You will be pleased to communicate a copy of this 
despatch to the Protector ; who should understand that errors of such a nature 
as those on which I have been commenting, would, if repeated, abate that full 
confidence which it is necessary that His Majesty's Government should repose 
in any officer to whom they would feel themselves justified in intrusting the 
administration of the law for meliorating the condition of the slaves in 
Demerara." 

If the reader will connect, with the above details, our former obser- 
vations on the spirit in which the protectorate of Demerara had been 
conducted, (see No. 43. p. 355—358, No. 54. p. 142—145, and No. 64. 
p. 324.) he will be prepared to concur with us in thinking that a Pro- 
tector, imbued with colonial feelings, and prejudices, affords but a 
mockery of protection, nay is, perhaps, worse for the slave than having 
no official Protector at all. In the present case, even a planter gives 
it as his clear opinion that a guilder, that is 17c? sterling, is the 
lowest pay he had ever known given, or that ought to be given, for 
picking a basket of coffee, (p. 8). The Protector, however, instead of 
following this good counsel, actually cuts down the remuneration of the 
slave to one half of even this planter's recommendation, and makes the 
pay for a basket only %^d. 

I , III. — Barbadian Estimate of the State of the Anti- 
Slavery Cause. 

In the Barbadian of the 13th July, 1830, we find the following sage 
editorial remark : — 

" The Session of Parliament has probably by this time terminated. If no- 
thing has been done for the relief of West India interests, we have at least rea- 
son to be thankful that no fresh blow has been aimed at it. Mr. Otway Cave's 
ridiculous attempt to rob the West Indians of their property, has been strangled 
in its very birth. In fact, the subject has become perfectly disgusting, we have 
reason to believe, to most people in England, and we trust that the late exer- 
tion made by Mr. Wilberforce and his friends, at Freemason's Tavern, was the 
last expiring effect of an exhausted faction." 

Did we not say with truth, however Mr. K. Douglas may object, that 
the West Indians are labouring under infatuation ? 

IV. — Meeting of Parliament. 
The Meeting of Parliament is fixed for the 26th of October next. 
The friends of the Anti-Slavery Cause, we trust, will be on the alert 
with their petitions for the early and utter extinction of Slavery. 

London :— Bagster and Thorns, Printers, 14, Baitholomew Close. 



THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER. 

No. 67.] SEPTEMBER 20, 1830. [Vol. iii. No. 19. 

I.— ANTI-SLAVERY PETITIONS TO PARLIAMENT. 
II.— ANTI-SLAVERY PUBLIC MEETINGS. 
1. Cork. 2. Bridlington. 
III.— GODV^IN'S LECTURES ON SLAVERY. 

IV DR. WALSH'S VIEWS OF SLAVERY IN BRAZIL, WITH 

NOTES i — ITS UNPROTECTED STATE; — ALLEGED HAPPINESS ;— CASE OF 

suicide; — HORROR ENTERTAINED OF SLAVERY; ITS INTERMIN ABLEj 

DEHITMANIZING AND DEMORALIZING NATURE; — THE SLAVE MARKET; — 
ENFRANCHISED PEOPLE; — BRAZILIAN ABOLITIONIST. 

v.— DONATIONS AND REMITTANCES. 



L— Anti-Slavery Petitions to Parliament. 

The meeting of Parliament is fixed for the 26tli day of October. It is 
hoped, and most earnestly requested, that those who intend to unite in 
imploring the early and utter extinction of Colonial Slavery, will trans- 
mit their petitions for both Houses of Parliament by that day, or as soon 
after as possible. No needless delay should be allowed to prevent the 
fulfilment of this sacred duty. 



II. — Anti-Slavery Public Meetings. 

Meetings, for the purpose of promoting, the abolition of Slavery, are 
now holding in various parts of the kingdom, and are likely to prevail 
very extensively. We can at present notice only two. 

1, Cork. 
The annual meeting of the Cork Anti-Slavery Society was held on 
the 21st of August, W. Crawford, Esq., in the chair, and was most 
numerously and respectably attended. So intense was the interest 
which it excited, that twice the number of pefsons v/hom it was possi- 
ble to accommodate applied for admission. The proceedings manifested 
the very warmest feelings in the cause. The Chairman said, they were 
assembled to petition Parliament, to name a day when Slavery should 
cease. For his own part, he was utterly opposed to the recognition of 
the slave-holder's right of property ; and yet he was willing to tell the 
legislature, that there was no pecuniary burden he would not bear 
rather than that our unfortunate brethren should continue in Slavery, 
Mr. Philpot Leader and Mr. Callighan, members of Parliament for the 
City, expressed in energetic terms their detestation of Colonial Slavery, 
and their determination to aid to the utmost of their power in Parlin- 
mentj to extirpate it. Mr. O'Connell, who was present, took the same 

.3 1 



390 Cork Anti-Slavery Meeting. 

ground with his accustomed force ; and similar views were ably sup- 
ported by the Rev. Mr. Mahony, and various other speakers. Mr. 
Leader urged upon the Irish members to unite their hundred votes in 
Parliament against this foul enormity, and against monopolies, whether 
in the West or the East. By Ireland especially, he said, ought this 
battle to be fought, not merely on the ground of religion and humanity, 
though these were paramount considerations, but on the ground of Irish 
interests. With a free and unrestricted commerce every stream in Ire- 
land would be turned to profitable use, and its starving population be em- 
ployed and fed. — We were advised, said Mr. Beamish, to apply our- 
selves to the relief of distress at home, and not to be wandering abroad 
in quest of it. But besides the illiberality of confining our philanthropy 
within the narrow circle of our own island, by our efibrts to destroy 
Slavery and its attendant restrictions, we should more effectually relieve 
domestic distress than by any other expedient we could possibly resort 
to. — We were assured, said Mr. Croker, that the negro slave was_^better 
off than the Irish peasant. " I deny it — What would the poorest wretch 
in Ireland think, if he were to be told that his wife, the partner of his 
aflfection, was to be torn from his bosom and flogged on her bared body 
with such an instrument as this?'' holding up a cartwhip to the view of 
the meeting. And yet in the Jamaica Assembly, during the last year, 
a motion which was made to substitute, for this tremendous instrument, 
the military cat, and to apply it to the female slaves with decency, 
was rejected by 28 to 12. " Let us terminate," he added, " a system 
by which man thus tramples on his fellow man : 

" Chains him and tasks him, and exacts his sweat 
With stripes, that mercy with a bleeding heart 
Weeps when she sees inflicted on a beast. 

■ • What man beholding this, 

And having human feelings, does not blush, 
And hang his head to think himself a man." 

— " Slavery,'' said the Rev. Horace Toivnsend, " was incompatible 
with religious privilege. It wound its chain not only around the body, 
but the mind. The time was hastening on when the slave and the 
slave owner would stand before the bar of God ; when there would be 
neither Barbarian nor Scythian, bond nor free ; but each would ap- 
pear in his own personal character, stripped of all adventitious circum- 
stances of time and place, condition and circumstances. Let us then 
look no longer heedlessly on this great subject, but extend our warmest 
sympathies towards our fellow beings. Let us temperately, but deci- 
dedly lift up our voices in their behalf, and call on the legislature to 
declare Slavery a sin against God, and an outrage on the wellbeing of 
man, which ought to be utterly abolished: in no other way could it be 
effectually dealt with.'' Mr. Cummings, while he held that the British 
nation shared in the planter's guilt, and should pay its share of the re- 
tribution which was due to the slaves, was no less convinced that Sla- 
very was wholly inconsistent with Christianity, and must be abolished 
with a due regard to the safety and wellbeing both of master and slave. 
Not only "the schoolmaster," but the "bible" was abroad, and as far as 
the progress of knowledge was at all accompanied with the influence of 
Christianity, it must rise as a mighty and powerful flood, burst every 



Cork Anti-Sldvery Meeting. 391 

resisting barrier and sweep from the faoe of the earth every species of 
Slavery. Let the Colonists then be wise and in time contemplate the 
progress of this mighty power.'' — " We are told," said the Rev. Mr. 
Burnett, " not to meddle with vested rights : I have a sacred feeling 
about vested rights ; but when vested rights become vested wrongs I am 
less scrupulous about them. The Charter of Runnymede disturbed many 
a vested right. In ,1688, it was thought right also not only to disturb 
certain vested rights, but to sweep them all away. The union wiih 
Scotland and that with Ireland disturbed the vested rights of their respec- 
tive parhaments. In fact the very framework of our constitution rests on 
the disturbance of vested rights. And look for a moment to the Conti- 
nent ! France, the other day, pounced upon a nest of slave dealers on 
the opposite shore of the Mediterranean, and she says nothing about com- 
pensation. Her troops cannonade the country of the Dey, take his capi- 
tal, enter his palace, gather up his gold dust, and send him about his busi- 
ness. That is the compensation they give him. I would not treat our 
poor planters in this way, nor do I say the case is precisely parallel; but 
still, 1 must protest against the abstract principle of respecting vested 
rights when those rights are founded in injustice and perpetuated by 
crime." Mr. Burnett concluded his speech, with reminding the meet- 
ing of their object — the urging Parliament to name a day when 
slavery should cease. To effect this object, he said, it was of the utmost 
importance that as many petitions as possible should be addressed to 
Parliament. " Let each parish in the country speak. Let each deno- 
mination of Christians in its distinctive capacity speak. Let every 
mouth in the community speak. We have too long trusted to others. 
We must now do something ourselves. We must arouse the public 
sympathy. We must enlist public feeling. We must create a moral 
storm. We must collect the elements of a moral conflict, and when 
we have prepared and presented them to the legislature, we must point 
to the portentous cloud ; we must warn them of the bolt that slumbers 
in its bosom; and while it still thickens and darkens along the horizon, 
we must tell them, that unless they resolve, by bending before it, to de- 
prive it of its power, it will come down and sweep along with it every 
vestige of the system they refuse to reform." — " I did not come here," 
said Mr. O'Connell, " to argue the question whether man may be the slave 
of his fellow-man ; whether a man born of the same common parents, 
formed by the same great Creator, and redeemed by the blood of the 
same common Saviour, may become the goods and chattels of another. 
Slavery is not an ofFence to be tolerated ; it is a foul crime to be abo- 
lished. It is the duty of every man to unite in extirpating this crime. 
The great majority of the English nation are disposed to countenance 
it no longer. In Ireland, this hostile feeling begins to spread far and 
wide. Let it not sink into inertness, but be brought into energetic 
action, and conveyed to the legislature in a tone that cannot be mis- 
taken, and with a voice that will not be unheard. The value of 
associated exertion is well known in Ireland. I am anxious it should 
not be less successful in this than it has been in a different cause, but 
that he who has liberated himself may have the pleasure of striking the 
chain from others." Mr. O'Connell attacked the conduct of the United 



392 Cork and Bridlington Anti-Slavery Meetings. 

States with great vehemence. "Here from this tribunal I raise my voice 
against the American independent, and I tell him he is a hypocrite. 1 
stain his star-spangled standard that never was struck down in battle. I 
read in his bill of rights, his declaration of independence, that man has 
an indefeasible right to freedom. He does not say the white man or the 
black man, the man of this country or of that, but emphatically man. 
And when I read this, I turn to the American and I tell him, that he 
has declared to God and man a lie, and before God and man I arraign 
him as a hypocrite. All Neptune's ocean would not wash out from 
America this stain." Mr. O'Connell proceeded to censure with almost 
equal strength of language, the supineness manifested, during the last 
Session of Parliament, by Anti-Slavery members and by Anti-Slavery 
Societies. — We do not quarrel with him for this strong censure, espe- 
cially as he himself stands involved in it, and as we wish rather to 
hail his reprehension of past inaction as a pledge of future and com- 
bined and energetic effort, on the part of himself and of all who con- 
cur in his reprobation of slavery, as a foul blot on the national es- 
cutcheon. We also mourned at seeing the Session and the ParUament 
itself closing without having been marked by a single measure, for the 
benefit of the wretched slaves. On the contrary, we had to hear with 
pain, the loud claims of the Colonists for farther eleemosynary aid 
reiterated with scarcely an opposing murmur ; and to see the Government 
and Parliament of this country, instead of redeeming their pledges for 
the extinction of slavery, almost on the point of adding to the burdens 
of the nation for the purpose of upholding that hateful system of 
crime which it has so loudly reprobated. Nay, we had even to listen 
with dismay, to language in the first minister of the Crown in the House 
of Commons, which involved a virtual abriegation of the solemn engage- 
ment of May 1823, to extinguish Colonial Slavery at the earliest safe 
and practicable period. Happily however, before Parliament had actu- 
ally expired, the discouraging darkness of the scene was splendidly 
illumined by a burst of light ; and the heart-thrilling appeal of Mr. 
Brougham, to Parliament and the nation, with the gratifying results 
which have followed it, has opened to us more cheering prospects. 
The nation is now awake to all the momentousness of the question, and 
we trust that Mr. O'Connell will be as strenuous on the floor of Parlia- 
ment as on the platform at Cork in rousing any of his colleagues who 
may slumber at their posts. 



2. Bridlington Anti-Slavery Society. 

The annual meeting of this Society took place on the 27th of 
August, Archdeacon Wrangham in. the chair. Th6 object of the Society 
was declared to be the complete emancipation of 800,000 of their fellow 
creatures from the chains of slavery and oppression ; and petitions to 
that effect were prepared for signatures, in the hope that the great moral 
Governor of the world would follow with his blessing the efforts of this 
and kindred associations. Mr. Sykes, M. P. attended on the occasion, 
as he had done the day before at a still larger meeting at Driffield, and 
laid before the assembly a remarkably able and luminous exposition of 



Bridlington Anti- Slavery Meeting. 393 

the whole question. To transcribe his speech, would be to give, in a 
succinct and impressive form, the substance of many a lengthened 
statement spead over th^ pages of many a weary Reporter. The evils 
of Colonial Slavery, the reforms proposed with a view to its extinction, 
the defective manner in which those reforms have been executed even in 
the crown colonies, and the worse than defective, the delusive and de- 
ceptions manner, in which almost every attempt even at a shew of com- 
pliance has been conducted in the chartered colonies, are sketched 
with great clearness and force, and with strict regard to accuracy. Into 
the details it will not be necessary for us to follow him. They must be 
already famihar to all who read our work with attention. We will limit 
ourselves to a single extract from this excellent speech. 

In repelling the charge of precipitation, fanaticism, &c., brought 
against the abolitionists by their opponents, — Mr. Sykes remarked, that 
" nearly forty years ago, a person of distingaished abilities, — one not 
carried away by enthusiasm, a practical statesman, one versed rather in 
expediency than principle, of great knowledge in all the branches of 
government, who held high offices in this country for years, in whom 
the patronage of Scotland was vested, in whose hands the government 
of India was placed, besides holding many important situations in this 
countiy, — Mr. Dundas, afterwards Lord Melville, introduced and car- 
ried through one stage a bill in Parliament, directly for the purpose for 
which we are now assembled, namely, to put down, in a given time, the 
evils of slavery. By that bill it was declared, that after a certain day, 
the 1st of January, 1800, all the children born of slave parents should 
be free. I only mention this to show, that when we are branded with 
the appellation of factious innovators, wild fanatics, and persons going 
on heedlessly and carelessly without looking to consequences, we may 
shelter ourselves under the authority of Mr. Dundas, who was not an 
enthusiast, nor a fanatic, not carried away by fanciful ideas, but who 
rested his views more upon trade, expediency, and political safety, than 
any person that ever held office in this country. If we are now pressing 
and calling upon Parliament, that slaves born after a certain day should 
have their freedom, we are doing no more in 1830, than Mr. Dundas in 
1792 proposed to do in eight years from that time, now thirty years 
ago. I have not only the authority of Mr. Dundas, but of a dis- 
tinguished nobleman now living, who, at the time when the Abolition 
Act was passed, thought it inefficient, and then proposed an amendment, 
that there should be a clause providing for the liberation of the then 
existing slaves ; — I allude to the then Lord Percy, now the Duke of 
Northumberland. I therefore say, we are not to be charged with any 
precipitation. Can any one seriously talk of precipitation, when the sub- 
ject has been fifty years under consideration, — when most of the slaves 
of that day have, happily perhaps for themselves, ceased to live, and thus 
escaped — the only escape they had, — from cruelty , oppression, and misery, 
— shall it be said we are precipitate, if now we declare that our mea- 
sures shall be prompt, and that we will delay no longer ? " — " Slavery 
cannot possibly co-exist" said Mr. Sandwith, " with Christianity. Its 
mild and humane genius levels itself against the tyranny which would 
elevate one portion of the community on the utter ruin and degradation 



394 Mr. Godwin s Lectures on Slavery. 

of another. It stands opposed to the system of caste in the East, to 
the slavery of colour in the West. It is its light which has flamed into 
the dungeon of the negro slave and shewn the poor captive his fetters 
and his wrongs." " Slavery is also incompatible with the very nature 
of man and the welfare of society. The inextinguishable mind of man 
can never be wholly enslaved. Attempts may be made to crush it, but 
it will burst forth like a smothered volcanic fire and dissolve the fabric 
of society." — The Rev. /. Sykes, of Hornsea, bore testimony, from per- 
sonal observation, during several years that he was stationed on naval 
service in the West Indies, to the degraded and demoralized conduct of 
the slaves, and the cruel and coercive system to which they were subject. 
The Rev. /. Powell^ a Methodist minister, in a brief and energetic 
speech, observed with much effect, on the justice of the cause in which 
they were engaged. It ,was the cause of righteousness and humanity, 
one which they might expect God to bless; which Avould be a blessing to 
the nation ; and in which their example would be beneficially followed 
by other countries. He regretted the unwillingness shown by Sir R. 
Peel, in his very last speech in Parliament on the subject of slavery, to 
abolish it. The time had, therefore, arrived for the country to declare 
itself, and to remove by prudent but decisive interference, so abominable 
a nuisance.'' — He held in his hand a copy of the recent resolutions on 
Negro Slavery by the Wesleyan Conference, which were exceedingly 
stringent and to the purpose, and by which their congregations uni- 
versally were invited to present petitions to both Houses of Parliament. 
In conclusion, he declared the readiness of the Wesleyans as a 
body, to agitate the subject by petitions and by every other lawful 
means, until the voice of humanity prevailed in the Senate. 

The general purport of the resolutions adopted at this meeting, and 
at various other meetings in Yorkshire, and elsewhere, and particularly 
in the Parish of Marylebone in London, and at other places near the 
Metropolis, has been " to pledge those present to seek the immediate 
abolition of Colonial Slavery ; to rest satisfied with no inferior improve- 
ment in the condition of the slaves ; and to unite in petitions to Parlia- 
ment to that effect." 



III. — Lectukes on Slavery. 

The Rev. Benjamin Godwin, an Independent minister of Bradford, in 
Yorkshire, and one of the tutors of an academy near that populous place, 
has just published the Substance of four Lectures, which he delivered 
with great acceptance at Bradford, York, and Scarborough, and of 
which we gave a brief sketch in the Supplement to our 60th Number for 
May, 1830. Having read this work with care, we are enabled to re- 
commend it to our readers at large, and particularly to Anti-Slavery 
Associations, as a well digested compendium of the facts and arguments 
connected with the interesting topic which it professes to elucidate. 
The views of the writer are enlightened and comprehensive, and they 
are developed with a vigour and perspicuity, and with a soundness of 
principle and depth of feeling, which are in the highest degree credit- 



Mr. Godtvin's Lectures on Slavery. 395 

able to him. We hail this publication as a desideratum, of great mo- 
ment at the present crisis of the Anti-Slavery cause, and we announce 
it to all our friends in every part of the kingdom, as a valuable guide 
in the deliberations of every public meeting convened for the considera- 
tion of that most important question, and as a text book richly fraught 
with materials for those who may wish to emulate, in the same mode 
of benevolent exertion, the labours and success of this able and estima- 
ble minister of Christ. Others indeed ; and among them we would par- 
ticularly distinguish the Rev, Mr. Marsh, formerly of Colchester, now of 
Birmingham ; have already entered with zeal, and with eminent advan- 
tage to the interests of humanity, upon this line of service, and will con- 
tinue, we trust, their powerful advocacy, until the nation is effectually 
roused to fulfil its obligations to the oppressed and outraged negro. 

We subjoin a compressed view of the . contents of Mr. Godwin's 
volume, in the hope of thereby stimulating the appetite of our readers 
for its perusal.* 

Lecture First: — Contains a Gekeral View of Colonial Slaver v, 
comprising Africa and its Slave trade; — the British Slave Colonies, 
their inhabitants, productions, mode of culture, and mode of subsis- 
tence; — the characteristic features of Colonial Slavery; — the pro- 
ceedings in Parliament respecting it in 1823 ; — and general remarks. 
Lecture Second : — Exhibits The Evils of Slavery; shewing their 
extent; — the horrors of the Slave trade ; — the forced labour of slaves 
and its severity; — their wretched and unprotected state as to food, 
and as to punishment, including the driving system ; — the evils also 
arising from the inadmissibility of their evidence ; from the diffi- 
culty of obtaining redress ; from the disregard and disruption of 
their domestic ties ; from their destitution of education and religious 
instruction ; and from their general'degradation ; — shewing also the 
demoralizing effects of Slavery on master and slave; — the general 
licentiousness attending the slave system; — its evils, physical, moral, 
political, financial and commercial ; — and its national guilt. 
Lecture Third : — Gives a View of The Unlawfulness of Slavery ; 
considers the arguments in favour of it drawn from the alleged happi- 
ness of the Slaves, and the alleged interest of the master in their 
wellbeing ; — proves the unlawfulness of Slavery ; as a violation of 
natural rights ; of charity; of justice ; of the British Constitution ; and 
of international law ; — refutes the pleas in its favour drawn from the 
inferiority of the Negro race, from the sanction of Acts of Parliament, 
and from the authority of Scripture ; and establishes its utter repug- 
nancy to the spirit and genius as well as to the precepts of the Gospel. 
Lecture Fourth :— Treats of The Abolition of Slavery ; including 
the origin of the Slave trade and the extent of misery flowing from it; 
— gives a brief view of the measures which terminated in its abolition 
in 1807 ; of the measures subsequently adopted for abolishing Colo- 
nial Slavery: viz. the resolutions of Parliament in 1823, and reforms 
proposed in consequence ; — and of the opposition of the Colonists to 

* Tlie Lectures are preceded by a table containinp; a statistical view of the 
slave colonies of Great Britain. The work is published by Hatchard. 



396 -Dr. Walshes Views of Slavery in Brazil. 

Reform ; with their treatment of the missionary Smith. — It then 
chives a Summary of the reforms that have been effected;— and closes 
with a view of the obligations of this Christian nation toward the 
Slaves, with a loud call upon all classes to fulfil those obligations. 



IV.— Dr. Walsh's Views of Slavery in Brazil. 
( Continued from the Supplement to No. 61. for June, 1830, p. 284.) 
We continue our Extracts from Dr. Walsh's most interesting work 
entitled " Notes on Brazil;" and we add, in the margin, Notes of our 
own to prove the identity of British with Brazilian Slavery in genius and 
spirit, in law and practice. 

5. — Unprotected state of the Brazilian Slave. 

" If a slave has produced his master ten children, he may demand his free- 
dom; but these and similar regulations are so constantly evaded, and have been 
so seldom enforced, that they are a mere dead letter. To restrain his violence, 
a master is liable to a fine for ill using his slave, but no part of it goes to the 
unfortunate sufferer. He can even be compelled to hand oyer the slave to an- 
other master, on proof of ill usage; but though the most glaring outrages are 
committed every day, the law is never enforced, and the slave has no alterna- 
tive but running away.* 

" In the 'Journal do ComWercio,' and the *Diario,' there are always ten or 
twelve advertisements of ' escravos fugidos — run away slaves.' When they 
abscond, they generally betake themselves to Corcovado, or the contiguous 
mountains, and here, armed with spears, they attack travellers, and live by 
plunder. The beautiful road leading along the aqueduct is infested with 
these fugitives, living in a state of nature, and many robberies have been lately 
committed there. The police is particularly employed under an officer, called 
Capitao do Mate, or captain of the woodfi, hunting them down ; and in a dense 
thicket, in the chain of hills just behind Rio, a whole colony of these unfortu- 
nate beings was lately found in the greatest misery. When brought back, 
besides the punishment of flogging, they are distinguished by a very extraor- 
dinary looking mark. An iron collar is firmly rivetted on their necks, from 
which a long bar projltets at nearly right angles, terminated at the otlier end by 
a cross, or by a broad osri, so as to resemble a fleur-de-lis. The intent of this 
is as well to stigmatise them as fugitives, or deserters, as also to impede them 
in their flight, as the iron bar entangled in the bushes would soon cause the 
collar to strangle them, if they attempted to force their way through the under- 
wood. Sometimes the extremity of the bar is terminated by five fingers, and 
this implies that the slave had carried off with him some property, and so was a 
surripio, or thief, as well as a fugidio. The multitudes of slaves seen thus 
neck-fettered in the streets, is a proof of the numbers who are continually at- 
tempting to escape, and also a proof how intolerable is the state of existence in 
which they find themselves. "f 

6. Alleged happiness of Slavery as compared with freedom. 

"" Nothing can be more unfounded, or, indeed, more absurd, than to say, they 
are reconciled and happier in slavery in America, than in freedom in their own 
country. They seem to have as keen a sense of bondage, and to repine as 

* See this feature of slavery daily exemplified in the columns of the Jamaica 
Gazette, with all its hideous enumeration of brands, and scars, and blotches, 
and lacerations, and mutilations which distinguish the apprehended runaways 
from each other only by marks and signs of misery. 

t See Sir G. Murray's graphic description of these instruments of torture pp 
used in the Mauritius, in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 52j pi 71. 



Alleged happiness of Slaves —Suicide. 397 

bitterly at their lot, as any white men, in the same state inAfrica ; indeed, if 
we might judge from the effects, still more. I have never heard that suicide in 
common among the unhappy Europeans, detained in slavery on the Barbary 
coast ; it is the daily practice in Brazil. Besides the instances I have men- 
tioned elsewhere, the harbour is constantly covered with the bodies of blacks, 
on whom no marks of violence are found, and who are known to have thrown 
themselves in, to escape from insupportable life. This is particularly the case 
at Bota Fogo, where several respectable persons have told me they frequently 
encountered black bodies when they went to bathe. I have seen them myself 
left by the tide on the strand, and some lying weltering just under our 
windows."* 

7. An affecting case of Suicide. 

" But we were all eye witnesses to a very striking and melancholy fact of 
this kind. One evening, some policemen were conducting a woman to the 
calabuofo, along the road leading to Catet6. Just when they came opposite 
our door, where there was an open descent to the strand, the woman suddenly 
rushed down the rocks and cast herself into the sea. The place in which she 
fell was too shallow to drown her ; so, after lying on her face a moment, she 
again raised herself, and rushing forward into deeper water, she sunk, and dis- 
appeared. The policemen made no attempt to save her ; but Mr. Abercrombie 
ordered some of the blacks of our house to follow her. They immediately did 
so,, brought her up apparently dead, and carried her into our hall, with her 
head hanging down and exhibiting the supposed mortal symptom of froth col- 
lected on her lips. The negroes who humanely saved her, supposing her dead, 
threw her down on the bare stones, just as they would be treated themselves; 
and she lay there like any other worthless and despised object : but, on exa- 
mining the poor creature, we had reason to suppose it was still possible to 
restore suspended animation ; a bed was therefore brought, on which she was 
laid, divested of her wet and tattered garments, and wrapped in a warm 
blanket. Friction, and other usual means, were then resorted to ; and after 
being persevered in for some time, she shewed symptoms of returning animation. 
She was seized with convulsions, succeeded by a violent shuddering : then 
ejected a quantity of water from the stomach, opened her eyes, and muttered 
some incoherent words, and, at length, fell into a slumber, from which she 
awoke in a sensible state. 

" She gave the following account of herself. — She was a native of Minas, on 
the coast of Guinea, where she was one night seized in her hut, dragged on 
board a slaver, brought to Rio, and sold at the Vallongo. She was then baptized 
at the church of the Candellaria, by the name of FranciscA, and brought by her 
master, a captain Philipe, to his chacara, near Bota Fogo. She was employed 
in washing, which she willingly performed ; but her master treated her with the 
greatest cruelty and inhumanity, and, in proof, she shewed her arms and side, 
which were greatly swelled and inflamed from the effects of blows she had 
received a few days before. She could endure it no longer, and she fled to the 
woods. Her master immediately gave sixteen milreis to the Capitao do Mato; 
she was pursued and overtaken, and was on her way back to her former state ; 
but she conceived such a horror at again returning to encounter the brutality she 
had before experienced, that she determined not to be brought home alive; so 
in passing along the shore, where there^ is an opening to the sea among the 
rocks, just opposite our house, she rushed down, and hoped she had effected her 
purpose. t 

" She appeared very grateful for the kindness with which she was treated, so 
different from any thing she had ever experienced in Brazil before, and proposed 
to do any work with alacrity to which she was put ; but when we spoke of her 
returning to her master, she expressed a degree of horror, both in her looks and 
manners, that amounted to distraction, and seemed to think she was but little 

* Similar instances abound in the British slave colonies, and to this day, even 
in Barbadoes, the oldest of them, as we shall have occasion to shew. 

t See for examples in the British colonies, No. 20, p. 292, &c. and No. 32. p. 
162 and 172. 

3 K 



398 Walsh's Brazil — Overwhelming horror of Slavery. 

indebted to those who saved her life, if she was again to be given tip to that 
suffering, than which loss of life was more tolerable. 

" The next day I went to Bota Fogo, to learn something of her master, and 
to interest some friends in her behalf, who, I knew, were very kind and humane. 
But a slave, I found, was no legitimate object of compassion ; and they, whose 
deepest sympathies would have been roused for a white European so circum- 
stanced, had not the smallest for a black African. In reply to my statements, 
I was assailed with stories of the wickedness and worthlessness of the race in 
particular to which she belonged. I inquired if they were addicted to theft, or 
other immoralities ; it was admitted that they were not, but they were notorious 
for a practice equally dishonest, that of cheating their masters, who had paid 
their money for them, by daring to kill themselves when life was no longer 
tolerable. I further learned, that her master could come and claim her, as he 
would his horse or his mule ; that she could be sent to the calaboufo, to be first 
punished for her dishonest attempt on her own life, and then restored to him, to 
be dealt with as he pleased.* 

" In effect, in a day or two, her master did come and claim her, and his claim 
could be no more resisted, than if he had demanded any other article of his 
property. Her arm and side were still greatly inflamed, but she had no alter- 
native, and was obliged to go away with a stern fellow sent for her. All that 
could be done, was done by his Excellency, Lord Strangford. When a slave 
flies and returns, or is brought back, he endeavours to procure the interference 
of some one, who becomes his podrinho, or sponsor, and intercedes for his for- 
giveness. If the person consents, he is always sure the fugitive will be for- 
given, for it is considered a high offence to refuse. This kind office Lord Strang- 
ford undertook, and secured the poor creature from present punishment, but 
could be no protection against future cruelty, which, no doubt, will end in deter- 
mined suicide." 

8. Overwhelming Horror of Slavery. 

" This horror is carried to such an extent, that the slaves not only kill them- 
selves, but their children, to escape it. Negresses are known to be remarkably 
fond mothers, and all I have seen confirms the observation of others; yet this 
very aflection impels them to commit infanticide. t Many of them, particularly 
the Minas slaves, have the strongest repugnance to have children, and practise 
means to extinguish life before the infant is born, and provide, as they say, 
against the affliction of bringing slaves into the world. Is it not a frightful state 
which thus counteracts the first impressions of nature, eradicates the maternal 
feelings from the human breast, and causes the mother to become the murderer 
of her unborn offspring ? 

" The yearning after liberty is the strongest feeling of a negro's mind. It is 
usual with people, at their deaths, to emancipate their slaves, particularly eccle- 
siastics, as if to make an atonement for having kept them in that state, as long 
as they could hold them in their grasp. Slaves, who have expected this, and 
have had their hopes frustrated, sink rapidly under the effects of a bitter disap- 
pointment, and die of broken hearts. An incident of this kind occurred at S. 
Josfe, a few days before my arrival. An ecclesiastic in the Minas Geraes died, 
and all his slaves were emancipated by his will. It is requisite, however, to 
pay a certain duty on such manumission, and as no provision had been made in 
the will for this, it tv^as necessary to sell one or two of the slaves to pay for the 
rest. One of them was brought to S. Jos§, where he sank rapidly under th( 
feelings of disappointed hope. He refused to take any sustenance, and it was 
necessary to have his mouth held forcibly open by other blacks, while it was 
poured down his throat ; but he persisted in his determination to emancipate 
himself, as he said, and in a short time he succeeded. He was buried, as well 
as I remember, the day before we arrived. 



* This is British as well as Portuguese colonial law. See Mr Stephen's 
Delineation of Slavery, vol. 1. chapter iii. and Appendix No. 1. See also No. 5, 
and No. 16, passim. No. 64, p. 345, &c.&:c. 

t See Nos. 20, p. 292, and No. 32, pp. 162 and 172. 



Slavery interminable, dehumanizing, demoralizing. 399 

"But this irrepressible horror at a state of slavery, is the parent sometimes 
of the greatest crimes ; and when negroes expect a testamentary freedom, they 
anticipate the time by the premature death of the testator ; and thus, a humane 
and benevolent intention is often the cause of the death of the intended bene- 
factor, and becomes a frequent incentive to poison and assassination. I knevr a 
man in the Organ mountains, who displayed a most frightful picture of the 
effects of slavery in the different relations of life. The man's name was Felice, 
a gamelleiro, or one who undertakes to cut down woods, to convert the timber 
into gamellas, and sell them through the country. He was a mulatto, the son 
of a white man by a negro slave. You will suppose that his bondage ceased at 
his birth, and that the offspring of a white man could not be the bondsman of 
his parent. No such thing ; he was liable to the condition of his mother, and 
the father kept his own son a slave, to sell him, or dispose of him, as he would 
his mule. Being ill, however, and near to die, he made his will, left his child 
Lis freedom, and apprised him of it. After some time, he recovered, and having 
some dispute with his son, he threatened that he would alter his will, and that 
he should be sold with the rest of the stock. This his boy determined to pre- 
vent, assassinated his father in a wood, got possession of the will, demanded his 
freedom, and obtained it. This circumstance was perfectly well known to every 
body in the neighbourhood, but no process was instituted against him ; and I 
saw him everyday driving his mules, loaded with gamellas, and not chargeable, 
as I could hear, with any other delinquency, except the horrible one of having 
murdered his father to obtain his freedom."* 

9. Slavery interminable — its dehumanizing and demoralizing effects. 

"The circumstance that particularly struck me in Brazil, was the intermin- 
able period to which the offspring of a slave is doomed to bondage, from genera- 
tion to generation. It is a taint in the blood, which no length of time, no change 
of relationship, no altei'ation of colour, can obliterate. Hence it is that yon see 
people of all hues in a state of bondage, from jet black to pure white. On the 
ecclesiastical estates, every precaution is taken to preserve the original colour ; 
and when, from an intermixture of white blood, the complexion of the children 
is become too light, they endeavour to restore its darkness, by obliging the fair 
slaves to intermarry with those who are blacker than themselves ; the good 
fathers being alarmed at the prospect of keeping, in a state of slavery, human 
faces as fair as their own.f 

" I one day stopped, with a friend, at the house of a man on the road to 
Tijuca, to obtain some refreshment. In the garden, at the back of his venda, we 
saw some young negroes playing about, and among the rest, a very pretty white 
boy. He had a soft fair face, light curling hair, blue eyes, and a skin as light as 
that of a European. Attracted by the very engaging little fellow, I caressed 
him, and inquired of the man of the house, if he was his son. He said not ; but 
that he was the son of an Englishman, and his slave, and he mentioned the name 
of his father. Shocked and incredulous, I denied the possibility of his father's 
knowing that the child was in bondage ; but I was then informed, that the father 
not only knew it in this instance, but that in other cases, he was known to sell his 
own white child along with its mother! Oh, my friend ; here is a picture of 
slavery ! Here is the story of Mr. Thomas Incle actually revived, and a Euro- 
pean in the nineteenth century, selling a mother, with whom he had lived as with 
a wife, and enhancing her value, by selling his own son along with her. 

" If then we put out of the question the injury inflicted on others, and merely 
consider the deterioration of feeling and principle with which it operates on 
ourselves, ought it not to be a sufficient, and, indeed, unanswerable argument, 
against the permission of Slavery? 

" The exemplary manner in which the paternal duties are performed at home, 
may mark people as the most fond and affectionate parents ; but let them once 
go abroad, and come within the contagion of Slavery, and it seems to alter the 
very nature of a man; and the father has sold, and still sells, the mother and 



* See No. 20, p. 293-295. 

1 See No. 20, p. 295 and 290, and No. 32, p. I(i5 and lOG. 



■400 Walsh's Brazil — Slavery's dehumanizing effects. 

his children, with as little compunction as he would a sow and her litter of pigs ; 
and he often disposes of them together.* 

" This deterioration of feeling is conspicuous in many ways among the Bra- 
vilians. They are naturally a people of a humane and good-natured disposi- 
tion, and much indisposed to cruelty or severity of any kind. Indeed, the man- 
ner in which many of them treat their slaves is a proof of this, as it is really 
gentle and considerate ; but the natural tendency to cruelty and oppression in 
the human heart, is continually evolved by the impunity and uncontrolled licence 
in which they are exercised. I never walked through the streets of Rio, that 
some house did not present to me the semblance of a bridewell, where the moans 
and the cries of the sufferers, and the sounds of whips and scourges within, an- 
nounced to me that corporal punishment was being inflicted. Whenever I re- 
marked this to a friend, I was always answered that the refractory nature of the 
Isave rendered it necessary, and no house could properly be conducted unless it 
was practised; but this is certainly not the case; and the chastisement is 
constantly applied in the very wantonness of barbarity, and would not, and 
dared not, be inflicted on the humblest wretch in society, if he was not a slave, 
and so put out of the pale of pity. 

" Immediately joining our house was one occupied by a mechanic, from which 
the most dismal cries and moans constantly proceeded. I entered the shop one 
day, and found it was occupied by a saddler, who had two negro boys working 
at his business. He was a tawny, cadaverous-looking man, with a dark aspect ; 
and he had cut from his leather a scourge like a Russian knout, which he held 
in his hand, and was in the act of exercising on one of the naked children in an 
inner room ; and this was the cause of the moans and cries we heard every day, 
and almost all day long. 

" In the rear of our house was another, occupied by some women of bad 
character, who kept, as iisual, several negro slaves. I was awoke early one 
morning by dismal cries, and looking out of the window, I saw in the back 
yard of the house, a black girl of fourteen years old ; before her stood her mis- 
tress, a white woman, with a large stick in her hand. She was undressed ex- 
cept her petticoat and chemise, which had fallen down and left her shoulders 
and bosom bare. Her hair was streaming behind, and every fierce and malevo- 
lent passion was depicted in her face. She too, like my hostess atGoverno, was 
the very representation of a fury. She was striking the poor girl, whom she 
had driven up into a corner, where she was on her knees appealing for mercy. 
She showed lier none, but continued to strike her on the head and thrust the 
stick into her face, till she was herself exhausted, and her poor victim covered 
with blood. This scene was renewed every morning, and the cries and moans 
of the poor suffering blacks, announced that they were enduring the penalty of 
slavery, in being the objects on which the irritable and malevolent passions of 
the whites, are allowed to vent themselves with impunity; nor could I help 
deeply deploring that state of Society in which the vilest characters in the com- 
munity are allowed an almost uncontrolled power of life and death, over their 
innocent, and far more estimable fellow creatures. t 

" You will allege, perhaps, that chastisement in this way may be often quite 
necessary, though it be sometimes abused, and carried to an excess ; but what 
will you say when I tell you, that they frequently perish under this infliction 
of evil passion, and negroes every day are sacrificed not so much as delinquents 
punished for offences, as victims offejred up to the revenge or malice of their 
masters. A Portuguese merchant was pointed out to me at the Alfondega, as 
a remarkable example of this. He had ill used a black so as greatly to exas- 
perate him ; and as he was not his master, the slave was not in the same per- 

* Instances of the same kind frequently occur in the British colonies at this 
hour : see No? 20, p. 296 (note), and No. 32, p. 166 and 167, A recent case in 
Barbadoes we have in reserve. 

t Our pages abound in illustrations of this characteristic feature of colonial 
slavery : see Nos. 5 and 16 passim ; No. 27, p. 28 ; No. 43, p. 362—367 ; No. 44, 
p. 380—392 ; No. 47, p. 462—468 ; No. 63, p. 309 ; No. 64, p. 341 and 345 :, 
No. 65, p. 356 and 357 ; and No. 66, p. 373. 



Walsh's Brazil—Slave Market. 401 

sonal awe of him, and he struck him in the face in a sudden fit of passion. The 
merchant said little about it at the time, but the inexpiable insult of receiving 
a blow from a negro slave rankled in his heart. He some time after applied 
to his master to sell him, but as he was a good negro, for whom he felt a regard, 
he declined, till he was offered a considerable sum, which he thought it not 
prudent to refuse. The money was immediately paid, and the slave transferred ; 
but the moment his new master obtained possession of him, he sent him to the 
calaboucjo, or place where the slaves are punished. Here he obtained an order, 
as is usual, from the intendant of the police, for three or four hundred lashes, 
or as many as he might think necessary ; and he had him flogged evcy day with 
such severity, that he gradually sunk under the punishment, and the merchant 
never thought his affront expiated.^till he saw his dead body sent in a mat to the 
burying ground of the Misericordia. 

" Sometimes the gratification of these passions is too sweet to be intrusted 
to other hands, so they take it into their own, and of this several stories were 
told me ; I shall mention one : — A. family was about to remove to the country, 
and the master ordered one of his slaves to prepare the carriage. The slave, as 
often happens, had some attachment which he did not wish to leave, and neglect- 
ed the orders; and when they were repeated in a more peremptory manner, he 
took an axe, and in a sudden fit of frenzy or despair, attempted to cut his master 
down. He was seized and disarmed ; but he was not sent to the calabou^o, 
where it was said his punishment would not be sufficiently severe ; so he was 
tied up in a cellar in the house, where the master every day inflicted the chas- 
tisement with his own hands, and never took him down till he was dead. This 
was universally known, and mentioned to me as rather a more salutary and 
effectual way of domestic punishment, than sending to the calabouco. The 
master suffered nothing in public estimation, and was never called to any account 
for the murder. 

" The wretched slave often anticipates the result by inflicting death upon 
himself in an extraordinary manner. They have a method of burying their 
tongue in their throat, in such a way as to produce suffocation. A friend ' of 
mine was passing through the carioca, when a slave was tied up and flogged. 
After a few lashes, he hung his head apparently lifeless, and when taken down 
he was actually dead, and his tongue found wedged in the oesophagus, so as 
completely to close the trachea." — Vol. ii. p. 32—359. 

10. The Slave Market. 

" The place where the great slave mart is held, is a long winding street called 
Vallongo, which runs from the sea at the northern extremity of the city. Al- 
most every house in this place is a large wareroom, where the slaves are depo- 
sited, and customers go to purchase. These warerooms stand at each side of 
the street, and the poor creatures are exposed for sale like any other commodity. 
When a customer comes in, they are turned up before him ; such as he wishes 
are handled by the purchaser in different parts, exactly as I have seen butchers 
feeling a calf; and the whole examination is the mere animal capability, without 
the remotest inquiry as to the moral quality, which a man no more thinks of, 
than if he was buying a dog or a mule. I have frequently seen Brazilian ladies 
at these sales. They go dressed, sit down, handle and examine their purchases, 
and bring them away with the most perfect indifference. I sometimes saw 
groups of well-dressed females here, shopping for slaves, exactly as I have seen 
English ladies amusing themselves at our bazaars. 

" There was no circumstance which struck me with more melancholy reflec- 
tions than this market, which I felt a kind of morbid curiosity in seeing, as a 
man looks at objects which excite his strongest interests, while they shock his 
best feelings. The warerooms are spacious apartments, where sometimes three 
or four hundred slaves, of all ages and both sexes, are exhibited together. 
Round the room are benches on which the elder generally sit, and the middle is 
occupied by the younger, particularly females, who squat on the ground stowed 
close together, with their hands and chins resting on their knees. Their only 
covering is a small girdle of cross-barred cotton, tied round the waist. 

" The first time I passed through the street, I stood at the bars of the window 



402 Walsh's Brazil—Slave Market. 

looking through, when a cigano came and pressed me to enter. I was particu- 
larly attracted by a group of children, one of whom, a young girl, had something 
very pensive and engaging in her countenance. The cigano, observing me look 
at her, whipped her up with a long rod, and bade her with a rough voice to 
come forward. It was quite affecting to see the poor timid shrinking child^ 
standing before me, in a state the most helpless and forlorn, that ever a being, 
endued, like myself, with a reasonable mind and an immortal soul, could be 
reduced to. Some of these girls have remarkably sweet and engaging counte- 
nances. Notwithstanding their dusky hue, they look so modest, gentle, and 
sensible, that you could not for a moment hesitate to acknowledge, that they 
are endued with a like feeling and a common nature with your own daughters. 
The seller was about to put the child into all the attitudes, and display her 
person in the same way as he would a man ; but I declined the exhibition, and 
she shrunk timidly back to her place, and seemed glad to hide herself in the 
group that surrounded her. 

" The men were generally less interesting objects than the women ; their 
countenances and hues were very varied, according to the part of the African 
coast from which they came ; some were soot black, having a certain ferocity of 
aspect that indicated strong and fierce passions, like men who were darkly 
brooding over some deep felt wrongs, and meditating revenge. When any one 
was ordered, be came forward with a sullen indifference, threw his arms over 
his head, stamped with his feet, shouted to show the soundness of his lungs, 
ran up and down the room, and was treated exactly like a horse put through 
his paces at a repository ; and when done, he was whipped to his stall. 

" The heads of the slaves, both male and female, were generally half shaved ; 
the hair being left only on the fore part. A few of the females had cotton 
handkerchiefs tied round their heads, which, with some little ornaments of 
native seeds and shells, gave them a very engaging appearance. A number, 
particularly the males, were affected with eruptions of a white scurf, which had 
a loathsome appearance, like a leprosy. It was considered, however, a whole- 
some effort of nature to throw off the effects of the salt provisions used during 
the voyage; and, in fact, it resembled exactly a saline concretion. 

" Many of them were lying stretched on the bare boards ; and, among the 
rest, mothers with young children at their breasts, of which they seemed pas- 
sionately fond. They were all doomed to remain on the spot, like sheep in a 
pen, till they were sold ; they have no apartment to retire to, no bed to repose 
on, no covering to protect them, they sit naked all day, and lie naked all night, 
on the bare boards or benches, where we saw them exhibited. 

" Among the objects that attracted my attention in this place, were some 
young boys, who seemed to have formed a society together. I observed several 
times, in passing by, that the same little group was collected near a barred 
window; they seemed very fond of each other, and their kindly feelings were 
never interrupted by peevishness ; indeed, the temperament of a negro child is 
generally so sound, that he is not affected by those little morbid sensations, 
which are the frequent cause of crossness and ill temper in our children. I do 
not remember that I ever saw a young black fretful, or out of humour; cer- 
tainly never displaying those ferocious fits of petty passion, in which the supe- 
rior nature of infant whites indulges. I sometimes brought cakes and fruit in 
my pocket, and handed them in to the group. It was quite delightful to ob- 
serve the generous and disinterested manner in which they distributed them. 
There was no scrambling with one another ; no selfish reservation to them- 
selves. The child to whom I happened to give them, took them so gently, 
looked so thankfully, and distributed them so generously, that I could not help 
thinking that God had compensated their dusky hue, by a more than usual 
human portion of amiable qualities. 

" A great number of those who arrive at Rio are sent up the country, and we 
every day met cofilas, such as Mungo Park describes in Africa, winding through 
the woods, as they travelled from place to place in the interior. They formed 
long processions, following one another in a file ; the slave merchant, distin- 
guished by his large felt hat and puncho, bringing up the rear on a mule, with 
a long lash in his hand. It was another subject of pity to see groups of these 
poor creatures cowering together at night in the open ranches, drenched with 



Donations and Remittances. 403 

cold rain, in a climate so much more frigid than their own."* — Vol. ii.p.323 — 8. 

11. Free Blacks and People of Colour. 
" The number of free blacks and mulattoes is very considerable already in the 
country. It is calculated of the former, that there are 160,000 ; and of the latter 
430,000, making about 600,000 free men, who were either slaves themselves, or 
are the descendants of slaves. These are, generally speaking,well conducted and 
industrious persons; and compose indiscriminately different orders of the com- 
munity. There are among them merchants, farmers, doctors, lawyers, priests, 
and officers of different ranks. Every considerable town in the interior has 
regiments composed of them ; and I saw at Villa Rica two corps of them, one 
consisting of four companies of free blacks, and the other of seven companies of 
mulattoes. The benefits arising from these, have greatly disposed the whites to 
consider the propriety and necessity of gradually amalgamating the rest with 
the free population of the country, and abolishing for ever that outrage upon the 
laws of God and man, the condition of a slave." — Vol. ii. p. 365, 366. 

12. Brazilian Abolitionist. 
" Jose Bonafacio's last effort in the constituent assembly was on the subject 
of slavery ; he drew up an address, in which he makes an energetic appeal to 
them to abolish gradually a state which, contrary to the laws of God and man, 
a person is made a thing, and property claimed in that in which another can have 
no property ; and he clearly proves, that the cultivating the soil by slaves is the 
bane of the prosperity of Brazil. Before he could pronounce this address, the 
assembly was dissolved, and he was arrested and exiled. It was not, however, 
lost ; for the manuscript was left with a friend in Brazil, who published it when 
he was gone."— Vol. i. p. 239, 240. 



V. — Donations and Remittances 

In aid of the Funds of the Anti-Slavery Society , from July 24 to 

September 4, 1830. 

£. s. 

Rev. W. Stephen (annual subscription) 10 

Birmingham, West Bromwich, &c. Female Society for the Relief of 

British Negro Slaves (donation) 
J. F. Moore, Esq. ditto 

Mr. G. Drow, Auchtermuchty (payment)' 
Mr. Hopkins, Chipping-under-Edge (annual) . 
Thomas Proctor, Esq. Selby (donation) 
Westminster Ladies (payment) 




* Though the Anglo- African slave trade has now ceased, and the perpetrators 
of that crime are liable to be punished with a pirate's death, yet our colonies 
have continued to exhibit abominations of the kind described above equally 
revolting in their circumstances. See No. 18, p. 254, 257, and 258 ; No. 19, p. 
272—274 ; No. 20, p. 290 ; No. 24, p. 388, and Slave Colonies of Great Britain, 
p. 92. — Indeed, before the passing of Dr. Lushington's consolidated Abolition 
Act of 1825, whole bodies of slaves had, in some cases, been forcibly torn from 
their homes, in colonies, where, from the unfitness of the soil for sugar, they 
bad enjoyed comparative relief from the severity of coerced labour ; and had 
been transported to the colonies of Demerara and Trinidad, where, from various 
causes, but especially from the increased exaction of labour in the culture of 
sugar, they perished in great numbers. One of the objects of Dr. Lushington's 
Act was wholly to suppress this intercolonial slave trade, perhaps the most 
cruel of any. The Colonists, however, have been loud in their clamours against 
it. In deference to them a bill was brought into Parliament last session, but 
afterwards withdrawn, to be renewed in the present, containing some very 
objectionable clauses, and tending to relax instead of to render more rigid the 
provisions of Dr. Lushington's Act. Any attempt to renew it, we trust, will be 
sedulously watched. 



404 



Donations and Remittances. 



West Ham and Plaistow Ladies (payment) 
Mrs. Ovington, Camberwell ditto . 

Mr. W. G. Gibson, of Saffron Walden (annual) 
Tottenham Ladies (payment) 
A. F. (donation) .... 

Robert Bevan, Esq. (annual) 
Gracechurch Street Ladies (payment) 
Calne Association ditto . 

Fordingbridge, ditto ditto . 

Clapham Ladies (dbnation) 
R. Reynolds, Esq. (annual) 
Leek Association (donation) 
Manchester Ladies (payment) . 
Peckham, ditto ditto . , 

Rev. W. Hancock, Kilburn (annual) 
Liskeard and East Cornwall Association (payment) 
Newcastle on Tyne ditto ditto 

Robert Forster, Esq. Tottenham (annual, 2 years) 
Rev. E. G. Marsh, Hampstead (annual) 
H. Wedgwood, Esq. ditto 

W. A. Garratt, Esq. Lincoln's Inn ditto 
John Cardale, Esq. Bedford Row ditto 
C. E. Rumbold, Esq. M.P. (annual, 2 years) 
John Kitching, Esq. Tottenham (annual) . 
W. Smith, Esq. Upper Seymour Street (annual, 2 years) 
W. W. Whitmore, Esq. M.P. ditto 

Rev. Robert Aspland, Hackney ditto 

R. S. Gwatkin, per Hatchard, a donation 
Rev. W. Dealtry (annual, 3 years) 
T. S. Rice, Esq. M.P. ditto 
Br. J. Pye Smith (annual) 
W. Evans, Esq. M. P. (annual, 3 years) . 
Rev. J. Ivimey (annual) 

Miss M. Davidson, per Mr. Nisbet ditto 
J. M. Strachan, Esq. ditto 

Thomas Sturge, Esq. ditto 

Miss P. Dawes - ^j^^ 

Southampton Ladies (payment) 

Birmingham A. S. Society ditto) 
Mr. Joseph Sharpies, Hitchin (annual) . 
Mrs. Eliz. Wheeler, ditto ' ditto 

Rev. Tho. Morell, ditto ditto . 

Rev. W. W. Pym, ditto ditto . 

Mr. W. Lucas, ditto ditto 

Mr. Joseph Lucas, ditto ditto 

Mr. W. Exton, ditto ditto 

Misses E. S. & M. Wheeler, ditto, ditto 
Mr. John Thompson, ditto ditto 

Mr. Samuel Allen, ditto ditto 

Mrs. Ovington, Camberwell (payment) 
Leominster, Hereford, contribution from . 
Kendal A. S. Association (payment) 
(donation) 
Mrs. Kidd, Cleck-heaton, ditto 
Friends, Society of, from a subscription raised to aid in promoting 

the total abolition of the Slave Trade and Slavery 
Rochester A. S. Association (payment) 

ERRATUM. 

In part of the impression of No. 65. p. 372, 1. 22, for Protector read Proprietor. 

London : Bagster and Thorns, Printars, Bartholomew Close. 



•£. 


s. 


d. 





12 


11 





3 





1 


1 





2 


12 





180. 


8 





2 


2 








1.5 


9 


2 


2 








12 


3 


10 








1 








12 


9 


6 


8 


1 





4 


2 


8 


1 


1 





8 


11 





7 


2 





2 


2 





1 


1 





1 


1 





2 


2 





1 


1 





4 


4 





1 


1 





4 


4 





2 


2 





2 


2 





3 


3 





3 


3 





3 


3 





1 


1 





6 


6 





1 


1 





2 


2 





2 


2 


Q> 


2 


2 





1 


1 





2 


2 





23 


14 





2 








1 











10 





1 








1 





^ 


1 








1 








1 











10 





1 











7 





10 








3 


18 





10 








10 








500 








2 


2 






THE 



ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER. 



No. 68.] OCTOBER, 5, 1830. [Vol. iii. No. 20. 

I.— LEEDS ANTI-SLA.VERY MEETING. 
II.— DEVIZES ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING. 

III.— LAWS AND MANNERS OF JAMAICA ILLUSTRATED :— 

1. Port-Royal Council of Protection. 

2. St. George's Council of Protection. 

IV.— STATE OF SOCIETY AND MANNERS IN BARBADOES ILLUS- 
TRATED. 

v.— ANTI-SLAVERY MEETINGS. 



I. — Leeds Anti-Slavery Meeting. 

On the 22d of September a General Meeting of the inhabitants of 
Leeds and its vicinity, was held in the spacious area of the Coloured 
Cloth-Hall, the Mayor, Christopher Beckett, Esq. in the chair : for the 
purpose of considering the propriety of an address to the King, and a 
petition to both Houses of Parliament for the total abolition of Negro 
Slavery. The number assembled on the occasion amounted to about 
6,000 persons, and among them were Lord Morpeth, and Mr. Brougham. 
Mr. Buncombe and Mr. Bethell were necessarily absent, but had ex- 
pressed their warm approbation of the object of the meeting. We can 
only give a very brief sketch of the proceedings.* 

Mr. George Rawson, in an impressive speech, contended that the 
only course which now remained for the friends of the African race, 
was to urge upon Parliament, by all constitutional means, the total 
abolition of slavery in all parts of His Majesty's dominions. Their 
object, he said, was the entire extinction of slavery ; and in this object 
they would persevere, undeterred by difficulties, unmoved by obloquy, 
unseduced by sophistry, until their fellow subjects of every shade of 
colour in every part of the world were raised to their just rights as men 
and as the denizens of a free state. On his motion, seconded by Mr. 
Alderman Hey, it was unanimously resolved, " That the slavery of our 



* It may be proper to mention, that the resolutions on the subject of Colonial 
Slavery, passed at a meeting at Leeds, on the 21st July, 1830, and inserted in 
our number G4, p. 344, were resolutions not of the Leeds Anti-Slavery Society, 
but of the Protestant Dissenter's Anti-Slavery Association, meeting at Leeds. 
We mention this circumstance be^jause we are desirous not to appear to rob 
them of the credit of those excellent resolutions. 

3 L 



406 Leeds Meetmg — Messrs. Rawson, Schles, Hamilton. 

fellow men is abhorrent to every principle of humanity and justice, not 
more oppressive and cruel to the slave than disgraceful and demoraliz- 
ing to the master, and utterly inconsistent with the sentiments and 
constitution of this free country." 

The Rev. Thomas Scales took an able review of the nature and 
effects of slavery, and of the abortive measures which had been pro- 
posed for its amelioration, and observed, that we might safely leave the 
system of slavery to the arguments urged by its own advocates in its 
defence, and which, when properly weighed, went the length of esta- 
blishing every position of its adversaries. The cause of abolition had 
gained something by the efforts of its friends, but much more by the 
evidence furnished by the planters themselves, and which proved in- 
controvertibly that such was the miserably degraded state of the Colonial 
slave, that he could only be happy in the degree in which he was reduced 
to the condition of a brute beast. His was a permanent misery on 
which light dawned not, and on which hope shed no cheering light. He 
had succeeded to a long and sad inheritance of woe, and had only the 
prospect of transmitting the same hard fate to his innocent children. 
His very bones and sinews, his wife and children, were not his own but 
another's. — The motion of Mr. Scales, seconded by J. Marshall, Jun. 
Esq., went to express regret at the little benefit derived to the slaves from 
the Parliamentary measures of 1823, and the conviction that no effectual 
reform was to be expected from the proprietors of slaves, and that Par- 
liament must interpose its authority in order to afford to their wrongs 
the only adequate redress ; namely, the utter extermination of Negro 
Slavery. It was carried unanimously. 

The Rev. R. W. Hamilton moved an address to His Majesty which 
was also carried unanimously, and which he supported by an argumenta- 
tive speech of considerable effect. In particular, he appears to have very 
happily exposed some of the stale but popular arguments of the West 
Indians in favour of their system, drawn from the inferiority of the 
negro race ; from their miserable state in Africa, and their happiness 
in the West Indies, superior to that of the British peasantry ; and 
from the scriptural sanction given to slavery. The address, after the 
usual congratulations to His Majesty on his accession, thus proceeds : — • 

" We cannot but express our deep regret and disappointment that 
the efforts of his late most Gracious Majesty King George the Fourth, 
and of Parliament, have been productive of so httle benefit to that un- 
fortunate class of your Majesty's subjects, the Negro Slaves. 

" We exult in the institutions of that civil liberty, and the frankness 
and generosity of your Majesty's character, by which we are permitted 
and emboldened to declare our decided and uncompromising con- 
viction, that the unhappy and injured beings who toil in our colonies, 
are just as much entitled to liberty as either the peasants or the princes 
of England ; and that we have no more right to hold them in a state of 
slavery, than they have to reduce us to the same condition ; and that 
every principle of justice and religion, as well as the spirit of our 
free constitution, and the dictates of a sound and enlightened policy, 
demand that they should be totally and for ever emancipated. 

" We therefore earnestly entreat that your Majesty would be pleased 



Speeches of Messrs. Wailes, Jowett, Baynes. 407 

to direct your Ministers to adopt, with the aid of Parliament, every 
measure which can be resorted to for annihilating a system, so degrad- 
ing to humanity, and so unworthy of a civilized age ; and we cannot 
forbear humbly expressing to your Majesty our decided conviction that 
nothing will amount to a just redress of these wrongs, short of the final 
and utter extermination of Slavery ; and that all other expedients for its 
amelioration would be nugatory. 

"We implore your Majesty, in justice and mercy, the peculiar attri- 
butes of your crown, to extend your protection to these unfortunate 
beings, and their innocent, but ill-fated offspring, reduced to, and re- 
tained in, a state of Slavery, from our want of justice and virtue, and 
not from their own demerits, assured that it would add another gem to 
the Crown of England, and your Majesty's name would be handed 
down to posterity as the friend of the oppressed and the benefactor of 
mankind." 

Mr. George Wailes moved that petitions should be presented to 
both Houses of Parliament for the total extinction of Negro Slavery, 
and supported his motion by a detailed view of the history of this great 
question from the time it was first brought before the public in 1787, to 
the present hour. 

Mr. Robert Jowett, in seconding Mr. Wailes's motion, which was 
unanimously agreed to, dwelt on the impolicy of slavery ; on the evils 
arising to our commercial interests from the West India monopoly ; and on 
the waste of treasure and still more of life caused by the maintenance and 
defence of this cruel system ; and he closed with a solemn call on the 
meeting not only to address the Throne and to petition Parliament on 
the subject, but to offer up their supplications to the King of kings im- 
ploring him to influence the hearts of our rulers that this great iniquity 
might be removed from us. 

Mr. E. Baynes, Jun., moved a vote of thanks to their County 
Members for their pledges of support to the Anti-Slavery cause, and 
especially to Lord Morpeth and Mr. Brougham for their presence on 
this occasion. It was a most striking proof of the state of the public 
mind, not only that their four representatives were united on this ques- 
tion, but that not one solitary voice among the hundreds of thousands 
collected at York and elsewhere, to listen to their representatives on 
their canvas and at their election, not one solitary voice from the 
Humber to the Tees, was raised to palliate the horrors of slavery or to 
avert its doom. He thought that though the social degradation and 
physical evils of slavery were most deplorable, the slaves having no more 
civil rights than the cattle of the field, and their females being subject to 
the foul abomination of the lacerating cart-whip in a state of all but 
utter nakedness, there was something still more intolerable in that 
marring of the image of God impressed on the soul of man, in that 
quenchingof the sacred light of reason, in that almost absolute obliteration 
of the mental and moral faculties of its victims, which marked this fell 
system. And this their degradation to the level of the brute, was pleaded 
by the planters as a proof of their incapacity of moral and intellectual 
culture ! But the Missionaries of Christianity, as the Rev. Richard 
Watson had eloquently expressed it, " had dived into that niine from 



408 Leeds Meeting — Mr. Anderson, Lord Morpeth, Mr. Brougham. 

which we were told no valuable or precious stone could be extracted, 
and they have brought up the gem of an immortal spirit, flashing with the 
light of intellect, and glowing with the hues of Christian grace." — He then 
adduced in proof of the utter hostility of the planters to the religious 
instruction of the slaves, notwithstanding their professions to the con- 
trary, the extract from the Jamaica Courant contained in the Anti- 
Slavery Reporter, No. 66, p. 384. 

The Rev. John Anderson, a Wesley an minister, in an able and 
animated speech, expressed his utter detestation of slavery, a state 
equally at variance with the dictates of humanity and the precepts of 
religion. He exhorted them not to be content with making speeches. 
Actions and not words were required. He would say to them — do! do! 
do ! and would urge them never to relax their efforts till the whole 
British empire formed one Anti-Slavery Society, and until the accursed 
name of slavery was erased from its code of laws. 

Lord MoKPETH said, that his object in presenting himself at this 
meeting was twofold ; first, to prove that however little qualified he might 
be to serve this cause he felt no lukewarmness in promoting it; and se- 
condly, to learn the wishes of his constituents, on a point which so deeply 
interested them. He came, therefore, not to speak, but to hear. He al- 
luded to the difficulties of the question, and said tliat he alluded to them 
in order to express his opinion, that those difficulties, whatever they 
were, ought not to damp their zeal, but to stimulate them to prepare 
to meet and to overcome them. In this temper he should address him- 
self to the question when it came before Parliament, and he trusted 
that their efforts, and those of Parliament, would be crowned with an 
issue, which should be satisfactory, full, and final, as well as just and 
beneficent to all parties concerned. The dispensations of Providence, 
always in silent operation, had lately spoken audibly to the world; 
and though it might be presumptuous to interpret their motive, or an- 
ticipate their cause, it did not seem presumptuous to assume that in 
the effort to accomplish the purpose of the present meeting — in labour- 
ing for the abolition of human suffering, and the dift'usion of human 
happiness — they were pursuing the path of true wisdom and of n,^tional 
prosperity. He concluded with expressing his fervent wish for the final 
and complete success of the cause in which they had embarked. 

Mr. Brougham said, that ready as he should always be to listen to 
the instructions of his constituents, and to give them all due weight 
even when they differed from his own views, it was a cordial gratification 
to him to receive them, when they commanded him to do that very thing, 
which of all others, he was inclined to do. If there was any one of the 
eloquent speeches he had heard that day, to which he more entirely 
assented than another, it was that of Mr. Anderson, who had lately 
addressed them, and who had attended an Anti-Slavery meeting for 
the first time. He had attended many such, and he would shortly have 
to attend, not an Anti-Slavery Society, but an assembly which had 
hitherto been more remarkable for upholding Slavery than for putting 
it down. The last time he had sat in that assembly he had begged to 
call its members to pledge themselves in the next session, not to abo- 
lish slavery, not to put down the flogging of females, not to put down 



Leeds Anti-Slavery Meeting — Mr. Brougham. 409 

the lacerations of the cart-whip, not to put down the unutterable oppres- 
sion of man by man, but only to pledge themselves that they would 
take the subject once more into their serious consideration ; and by a 
large ma.jority his motion had been rejected. His experience, there- 
fore, of Slavery as well as of Anti-Slavery meetings led him to concur 
heartily in Mr. Anderson's counsel, to have as our motto, not "say, 
say," but "do, do." He illustrated the difference by contrasting the warm 
speeches of candidates on the hustings with their lukewarm conduct in 
the House of Commons, which justified him in saying, that the pave- 
ments of hustings in general throughout England were formed of the frag- 
ments of broken promises. Even the first and almost universal promise, 
made by all candidates, of attending in their places in Parliament to do 
the work of the people, was one of the first and surest to be violated. 
To all such he would now give fair notice, that on the subject of Slavery, 
he hoped to afford them an opportunity of redeeming their pledges to 
their constituents. He looked forward to the approaching session as 
most important, so far as that great cause was concerned ; for if ever 
the voice of the country was raised clearly, unequivocally, and univer- 
sally on any one subject, it had now been so raised on the subject of 
Colonial Slavery. And if after it had been so raised nothing was done, 
then should we be a degraded people, a poor, spiritless, powerless set 
of constituents, who could not make the very members we had returned 
to Parliament to perform our work, or rather the work of heaven, for 
which we had sent them thither; thus treating with contempt the 
suffrages to which they owed their seats, because they hoped not 
to meet their constituents again for the next six years to come. Mr. 
Brougham then adverted to the Bill for amending the Consolidated 
Slave trade Abolition act, (alluded to in our last No. 67, p. 403, note) 
which was brought into the House last session and was likely to be 
renewed in the next; and trusted that both in and out of Parliament 
the progress of such measures would be sedulously watched. — He pro- 
ceeded to express his confident hope of better things than they had 
hitherto witnessed ; and trusted, that consistently with a due regard to 
the rights of property, and first of all of the property a man has in his 
own life and in his own limbs, we should at length succeed to break 
asunder, in peace and tranquillity, those bands by which the slave is made 
miserable and the master wicked, and thus happily achieve the greatest 
and most glorious triumph, which the enlightened benevolence and 
justice of a great and free and virtuous people ever did achieve. He 
then pronounced a glowing eulogy on their precursors in this great cause, 
on Granville Sharpe, Mr. Fox, Mr. Pitt, Mr. Clarkson, and above all, and 
over all, that venerable man, whom it was his glory to have succeeded 
as their representative, Mr. Wilberforce, who, though he had with- 
drawn from public life, retained the entire vigour of his mental faculties, 
and the warmest feelings, both of benevolence to his fellow-creatures 
and of piety towards God ; and whose latter end formed so great a 
contrast to the latter end of those who had extracted from the suffer- 
ings, and built upon the wretchedness, of slaves the splendour of their 
own private fortunes. Of him we might truly say : — 



410 Devizes Anti-Slavery Meeting — Mr. Elliott. 

" For him no wretch is born to work and weep, 
Explore the mine or tempt the dang'rous deep ; 
But on he moves towards his latter end, 
Angels around befriending Virtue's friend ; 
Sinks to the grave with unperceived decay, 
While resignation gently slopes the way ; 
And all his prospects brightening to the last, 
His heaven commences ere this world be past," 

Mr. James Richardson then moved, that the Committee of the 
Leeds Anti-Slavery Society should adopt the measures best calculated 
to ensure from every parish or township in the county of York, similar 
addresses and petitions ; stating that the continuance of Negro Slavery 
was a great constitutional and moral wrong, and urging in the 
strongest manner that immediate measures should be adopted for the 
total abolition of Slavery; an example, which, he trusted, would be fol- 
lowed by every other county and town and parish in the kingdom. The 
motion being seconded by Mr, J, Clapham was carried unanimously. 

The Vicar of Leeds moved a vote of thanks to the Leeds Anti- 
Slavery Committee, in whose proceedings he heartily concurred, which 
was seconded by the Rev. James Fawcett, and passed unanimously. 
Thanks were also voted, on the motion of Lord Morpeth, seconded by 
Mr. B. Sadler, to the Mayor for his conduct in the chair. 



IL — Devizes Anti-Slavery Meeting, 

A highly respectable meeting was held at Devizes on the 17th of Sep- 
tember, J. S. Fuller, Esq. in the chair, to consider the subject of Negro 
Slavery ; at which there was a display of energy, both intellectual and. 
moral, which has seldom been surpassed. It would scarcely be possible 
writhout transcribing into our pages the whole of the interesting pro- 
ceedings of the day, to do any thing like justice to those who, on 
that occasion, stood forward to advocate the cause of the oppressed 
slave. The utmost we can effect is to give a faint outline of them. 

The Rev. R. Elliott informed the meeting, that he and his friends 
were influenced in calling it by a deep and growing repugnance to 
slavery, and a firm and settled conviction that that evil ought not to 
exist, especially in any part of the British dominions. This feeling was 
not founded upon any isolated facts of the cruelty attending slavery, but 
on a view of the intrinsic evil of a state which gives to man the power 
of exercising cruelty over his fellow. Such a state was incompatible 
with our holy religion, and with the merciful spirit of him who came to 
give deliverance to the captive, and to open the prison doors of them 
that were bound. The law of God was expressly against the man-stealer; 
and if it were said we had done with man-stealing, yet, were not the men 
found in our hands whom we knew to have been stolen ? He then pro- 
ceeded to shew that this system was as much opposed to constitutional 
law, and as revolting to humanity, as it was contrary to religion and to 
sound policy. After drawing a striking picture of the more prominent 
features of slavery, and refuting some of the popular sophisms on the 
subject, he asked, what it was we now had to propose; and to this ques- 
tion he replied, " the utter extinction of slavery," It was idle to talk 



Devizes Anti-Slavery Meeting — Mr. Johnson. 411 

of amelioration to men who like the legislators of Jamaica, refused to 
enact that women should cease to be indecently flogged. The object of 
the Society was to assist in procuring, by every proper method, the utter 
extinction of Negro Slavery in the British Colonies. We had heard 
much of gradual e7nancipation ; but we now found that the true meaning 
of gradual emancipation, was perpetual slavery.— The frightful antici- 
pations connected with the abolition of slavery, were, in his opinion, 
without foundation. Human nature was the same everywhere. Man 
with a black skin was as capable of feeling a kindness, as man with 
a white skin. The experiment had been made, and it had been found 
to answer. — But how were the slaves to be then governed ? By passing 
such legislative provisions and restraints as should put the liberated 
Negroes under the authority and protection of just and equal laws. 
The object in short of this Society was to assist in procuring, by every 
proper method, the utter extinction of Negro Slavery in the British 
Colonies. — But what, it might be asked, was to become of the planters 
themselves ? Let their claims be calmly considered ; and if they sus- 
tain loss, let them be remunerated. We did not wish to be guilty of 
injustice in the exercise of our compassion. There was a strong moral 
feeling alive in this kingdom, which was growing stronger and stronger 
every hour ; and which could hardly fail to make the Negro free. And 
if this was not done for the Negro, he would ere long do it for himself. 
" Every effort to keep these miserable captives in ignorance, must in the 
end fail. Their oppressors may persecute and murder our Missionaries : 
they may try to extinguish the light of truth, although they may as 
well attempt to extinguish the sun ! But the slave will acquire know- 
ledge; and knowledge is power; and that power will exert itself to break 
the chain that binds him ; and if this must be the alternative, (which 
may God prevent) the Negro will be free !" 

The Rev. Mr. Johnson entered at considerable length and with much 
force into the same views of the subject, and detailed with great effect 
and with suitable comments, some of those acts of atrocity recorded in 
the Anti-Slavery Reporter, which the cruel state of Colonial law per- 
mits to be perpetrated either with entire impunity, or with such slight 
penalties, as scarcely to afford any protection to life or hmb. The contem- 
plation of these authenticated horrors led him to press the immediate 
abolition of Slavery ; and this he was the more anxious to do when he saw 
a religious society, supported by many of the dignitaries of the Church 
of England, owning plantations cultivated by slaves driven to their la- 
bour by the whip, and liable to all the debasing effects of this cruel 
system ; a course in which, if they persisted, they would bring down from 
heaven a curse rather than a blessing. — As to the hope of preparing the 
slaves for freedom by religious instruction it was vain. Christianity 
for example, teaches that all men are brethren ; that there is neither 
bond nor free, but that all are one in Christ. No, says the planter ; to 
preach such doctrine is treason against the majesty of the whites ; and 
the Rev. Mr. Harte was deemed guilty of an unpardonable offence for 
administering the Lord's Supper to black and white at the same table 
and at the same time. — But we were told the slaves were not prepared 
for emancipation. What then was it which now restrained them from 



412 Devizes Anti-Slavery- Meeting— Colonel Napier. 

acts of- violence ? You say the arm of power. And would not the law 
restrain them from doing mischief to themselves or others as effectually 
after as before emancipation ; after having multiplied their motives to 
gratitude and peaceful conduct, as while still groaning under oppression? 
Of this he could have no doubt. But if not, still loe were bound to do our 
duty— to act justly, and to exercise mercy, and to leave the issue to God. 
" Let us then," he said in conclusion, "■ take up this question with the 
warmest zeal ; let us never more be satisfied with empty promises, but 
in a firm and constitutional manner, call upon the Legislature, to wipe 
off from the page of our history this accursed stain. Let us use 
our utmost efforts that every parish in the land may hear of the wrongs 
of our sable brethren, and rise to redress them. They are bone of our 
bone, and flesh of our flesh ; and methinks, with imploring looks, they 
exclaim— Come over and help us. The blood of martyred Missionaries 
calls upon us — not to avenge their murder, for they know who has said, 
*' vengeance is mine, and 1 will repay, saith the Lord" — but to vindicate 
the wrongs of suffering humanity, and to remove the impediments 
which Slavery presents to the spread of the Gospel, and the progress 
of true religion among the heathen ; — nor ever rest, 

" Till man nor woman under Britain's law, 
Nor son nor daughter born within her Empire, 
Shall buy, or sell, or hold, or be a Slave." 

The next person who addressed the meeting was the justly cele- 
brated Colonel Napier, the author of the history of the late peninsular 
war, which it is impossible to have read without admiring the power 
of intellect, the acuteness of observation, and the manly independ- 
ence of mind which it displays. He came forward, he said, with re- 
luctance, not because he was lukewarm in a cause which he held to be 
pure even to holiness, but because he was unused to take a part in 
popular meetings. Nevertheless, being called upon, he would not shrink 
from avowing, publicly, sentiments and principles which he had never 
hesitated to express in private, sometimes perhaps, more warmly than 
the occasion called for. 

" First then," he said, " I hold Slavery of every kind in abhorrence; 
but, most especially, do I abhor domestic Slavery, We have seen the 
people of a neighbouring country rise, as one man, and shed their blood 
like water, to avoid political oppression. Gloriously have they effected 
their object ! and greatly and justly has the world applauded their 
heroic action ! But, in modern times, what political bondage can be 
for a moment compared, as an evil, to the harrowing oppression of 
domestic Slavery ? The former, indeed, forbids men to meddle in 
public affairs, and thwarts them in the exercise of their just rights ; but 
the domestic slave dare not move his person, but as his master directs ; 
he dare not publish his thoughts, speak or make a sign of discontent, 
or even of joy ; he dare not even sigh over his unhappy fate; lest his 
offended tyrant should crush him, body and soul— his body with the 
torture of the whip, his soul with the degradation. Domestic Slavery, 
then, is a great and dreadful evil, which it behoves every good man to 
endeavour to abate. But, on a subject of this nature, it is better to 
argue than to declaim ; and it is unnecessary to appeal to the passions 



Devizes Anti-Slavery Meeting — Colonel Napier. 41.3 

in favour of a cause, which is founded upon the plainest principles of 
justice and humanity. The subject is one, no doubt, affording a wider 
scope than any other, for appeals to the passions; but it is, fortunately, 
also the one which needs them the least, being founded on the plainest 
dictates of justice and humanity. Hence, I shall not here have recourse 
to any of those stories of appalling atrocities, committed by slave- 
holders, or, rather I should say, by slave masters, for many slave-holders 
are very humane men, who have never been near the scene of those abo- 
minations which we have all heard and read of, even too often for the 
tranquillity of our own minds. — Such stories, when truly related, and 
well authenticated, are, no doubt, necessary to rouse the feelings of in- 
dolent and unreflecting persons; and the publication of them inflicts 
some punishment upon the perpetrators of such enormities, when they 
can be no otherwise reached than by holding them up to the indigna- 
tion of the virtuous part of the world. But, as parts of the argument 
against domestic Slavery, they are wholly unnecessary. That argument 
rests upon the broad and deep foundation of general and immutable 
principles. We may be told, and we are continually told, that the 
stories of cruelty and oppression which are published, are false, exag- 
gerated, distorted, and discoloured. I can believe it. — A great question 
like the Abolition of West Indian Slavery, which has been agitated for 
years ; which excites so many passions and involves so many interests; 
must of necessity be exposed to exaggeration. And what then ? Shall 
it follow that Slavery is not a great and dreadful evil ! Sir, if I hear 
that a woman heavy with child has been lashed to death, and that on 
enquiry I find she was not with child, and did not die of her tortures, 
but that if she had been so situated, and had so died, it would only 
have been an unfortunate result of the legal exercise of a power which 
wicked and infamous laws had conferred upon her master, am I not to 
denounce the horrid system ? Am I, because the story is not accurate- 
ly told, to refrain from exclaiming against the horrid system, under 
which such villany may be perpetrated ? Am I not to declare that 
domestic Slavery is a great and terrible evil, which it is the duty of 
every good man to abate ? Sir, there is an omnipotent Being above us, 
who has, I will not say, taught, but who has forced us, in spite of our 
wayward dispositions, to feel that virtue and vice are not indifferent to 
him; that the first is pleasing, the second displeasing to his nature; 
and mankind, in every age and every part of the world, have believed 
that a strict reckoning will be held hereafter, when rewards exceeding 
the dreams of poets, and punishments the very thought of which causes 
the soul to shrink, will be distributed according to our merits. Yet, in 
despite of this universal feehng, and this universal belief, the power of 
doing wrong being granted to man, wrong always has been committed: 
there is, at least, as much of vice as of virtue, there is as much of op- 
pression and cruelty, in this world, as there is of kindness and charity. 
What do I infer from this ? Why, that as such is the imperfection of 
man in general, that neither the promised reward for virtue, nor the 
denounced vengeance for vice, avails to prevent him from doing evil, 
when he has the power, it is impossible to believe that the slave-holder 
(who has already so grossly violated natural justice, as to hold his 

3 M 



414 Devizes Anti-Slavery Meeting — Mr. Blair. 

fellow-being in bondage,) having the power to oppress and misuse, will 
not oppress and misuse his slave ; that having the power to be cruel, he 
will not also have the will. Admitthig, therefore, that all the tales of 
horrors committed in the West Indies, which we have yet heard, were 
utterly untrue, we might still be assured, from a consideration of the 
nature of man, that there was sufficient foundation to expect them ; 
aye, although they were fifty times as numerous, and, if possible, related 
circumstances fifty times as atrocious. And this I hold to be so certain, 
and my position so immoveable by argument, that if an angel were to 
stand before me at this moment, and assert the contrary, I would turn 
away, fearing and doubting, that although clothed in the glorious light 
of heaven, the coming was from hell ! I recur then to my original 
assertion, that Slavery, and more especially domestic Slavery, is a great 
and terrible evil, which it is the duty of every good man to abolish; and 
in this feeling, I propose that it be a fundamental principle of this 
Society that Slavery is no longer to be regarded as a condition capable 
of being rendered tolerable by regulation, but as a crime to be suppressed, 
an outrage on our professed principles as Christians to be renounced, 
and a foul stain on the national character, to be wholly and for ever 
effaced. " 

The motion being seconded by the Rev. Mr., Noble was carried 
unanimously. 

William Blair, Esq. entered fully into the whole question, giving 
a comprehensive and luminous view of it in its principle and its details, 
its tendencies and effects, its abstract nature and its practical influence ; 
exhibiting it as so unnatural and degrading, so opposed to the love of 
God and man, so destructive of human happiness both here and hereafter, 
and so full of horror, as to convince every candid mind that such an 
abomination ought to be swept from the face of the earth with the least 
possible delay. Even Sir Robert Peel was forced, while giving a paramount 
weight to the claims of the planters, to admit, that if the poor slave were 
ever to ask him by what title he was held in bondage, he feared he 
should not have one syllable to say in self-justification. Thus, it was only 
by an oblivion of the grand fundamental principles of truth and duty, 
that the enormities of the system could be palliated or endured for one 
moment. Abstracted indeed from all consideration of consequences, 
personal slavery was revolting and detestable, a sin against human na- 
ture, which all good men should unite in extirpating; treason against the 
very law of man's existence, robbing him of his right to life, limbs, and 
liberty, to the labour of his hands and to the worship of his God, in 
short, of his birthright — the very charter of his being. Neither the so- 
lemn dicta of a minister of state, nor the alleged omnipotence of acts of 
parliament, nor treaties however guaranteed, nor claims of chartered 
rights and vested interests however urged, can be allowed to come into 
successful competition with the sacred, universal, immutable right to 
personal freedom, inherited by every child of man. As to the claims 
the planters might have, he neither asserted nor denied them. Whatever 
they were, they attached not to the poor slave, but to other parties, and were 
wholly subordinate to the claims of the slave, which were independent, 
primary, and paramount. Besides, in what chapter of the British con- 



Devizes Atiti- Slavery Meetiny — Mr. Blair. 415 

stitution should we find a warrant for making the colour of a man's skin 
the proof of guilt and the ground of punishment, or for giving to the 
white a monopoly of freedom, and to the black the whip, shackles, and 
a dungeon ? — In turning to the practical part of the subject, he wholly 
repudiated that low and gross view of the subject which looked only to 
the slave's physical wants and the externals of his happiness, and heeded 
not his moral and mental degradation to the level of the beasts of the 
field. But even the assertion of his physical comfort was a lie. The 
slaveswere over-worked and under-fed, and harshly used, as was proved by 
that undeniable test of physical comfort, the state and progress of popu- 
lation, and which shewed that there was in the system some fatal blight 
tainting the very vitals of society, and withering the very springs of 
existence; so that, were this system permitted to continue, the victims 
of it would at length find repose where the wicked cease from troubling, 
and the weary are at rest ; the silence of death would reign over these 
lovely regions; while the graves of the millions of our fellow-creatures 
who had worn out their lives there in bitter bondage, would be the eter- 
nal monument of our shame. And this depopulating effect of the 
system was the more remarkftble when contrasted with the rapid increase 
of the same race when free. The progress of population in Hayti, as 
compared with that of Jamaica, was such as to raise the positive waste 
of negro life in the latter to about 350,000 human beings in twenty years. 
This was frightful. In the Mauritius, Guiana, and other places, the 
decrease was still more appalling. But enough had been said to shew 
the necessity of the most strenuous exertions to effect the speedy over- 
throw of this monstrous system. Half measures and palliatives would 
no longer suffice : we must seek the entire and speedy removal of this 
mass of misery and guilt. We were all involved in its criminahty if we 
did not do all in our power to that end. The blood of our brother would 
cry against us to heaven; and while there was a righteous Governor of the 
universe, it would not cry in vain, if we did not relinquish the guilty gains 
of oppression. " Raise him then from the depth of his degradation, and 
shed on him ihe light and consolations of the Gospel ; and impart to him 
with his civil rights the sympathies and charities of social life. And let 
not such feelings evaporate in words, or even in petitions. If the Parlia- 
ment will not heed these, you have a remedy in your own hand. Abjure 
the use of slave-grown sugar — for it is the sugar above all which kills the 
slave — and you will assist in sealing the death warrant of slavery. While 
you consume this production of slave labour, you are paying your quota 
towards that million and a half which goes annually, in the shape of 
drawbacks and protecting duties, into the coffers of the slave-holder. 
It is nothing less than the price of blood, and a direct bounty for keeping 
the poor slave in bondage. — Another most effectual means of advancing 
the cause of emancipation, will be to establish Anti-Slavery Associations 
in every town and village throughout the kingdom, and to diffuse infor- 
mation as extensively as possible. Thus we may hope that the nation 
will awake — that it will arise in all its moral and religious might, and 
decree the extinction of slavery throughout all the dominions of the 
British Crown." 

Impressive addresses followed from the Rev. Mr. Rogers, the Rev. 



416 Laws and Mmmers of Jamaica Illustrated. 

Mr. Bunce, the Rev. Mr. Newton, the Rev. Mr. Keene, Mr. Saunders, 
and Mr. Phillips, of Antigua. But our limits are exhausted, and we 
must draw to a close ; merely noticing that the petition agreed to, con- 
tains, among others, the following passages — 

"That they consider this state of society as directly opposed to every 
principle of religion, justice, and humanity ; and that it ought not 
therefore to be tolerated under any plea of amelioration, inasmuch as 
that which is palpably unjust in itself, cannot be rendered otherwise by 
merely lessening the degree of its enormity. And even if mitigation 
could justify its existence, it is altogether hopeless to look for such 
mitigation from the Colonial Legislatures. 

" They therefore abandon the hope of accomplishing any alleviation of 
the horrors of slavery, and conceive that its total abolition is the only 
effectual mode of relief to the slaves, and of wiping away this foulest blot 
on our national honour — this daring outrage on the laws of God ; and 
they leave it to Parliament to estimate and discharge any losses that may 
accrue to the West India planters by the legislative extinction of slavery; 
but that no plea of this kind ought to delay this act of national justice, 
or prevent the immediate adoption of such measures as shall be deemed 
most advisable, for the speedy and total extinction of Negro Slavery, in 
all the dependencies of the British Crown." 



III. — Laws and Manners of Jamaica Illustrated. 
1, — Port Royal Council of Protection. 

The following piece of intelligence is taken verbatim from the Royal 
Gazette of the 3d July, 1830. 

" At Port-Royal, on June 19, a special bench of magistrates assembled, 
consisting of his honour the Custos, and E. B. Warren, W. Hyslop, and 
H. Fraser Leslie, Esqrs. Justices, to inquire into complaints preferred 
by certain slaves from Dallas-Castle estate against their overseer, Mr^ 
Stevens. A gang, twenty-four in number, including men, women, 
and children, all appeared before the justices, and, with the exception 
of the children, severally stated their complaints. They were heard at 
length, and afterwards the bookkeeper, who had been called down as a 
witness at their own request, was sworn, and denied the whole state- 
ment preferred against the overseer in the clearest manner, to the satis- 
faction of the bench. The chief grounds of the dissatisfaction of the 
people were, that the time allowed them for their meals, &c. at break- 
fast and dinner (which it was proved on oath exceeded the time allowed 
by law,) was not sufficient — that they were not taken care of when 
they were sick, but made to work, and that two hogs had been 
killed ! ! 

" Mr. M'Cunn, the attorney, was sworn, and proved that every com- 
fort was afforded to the people— that the hot-house had every article 
that was required for it, and that the people were discharged from it 
according to the directions, from time to time, of the doctor, who regu- 
lary visited the property; that Mr. Stevens, the overseer, had been 
there for seven or eight years, and was a mild, humane man, and that 
he, who the negroes knew was the attorney, never received any com- 



Port'Royal Council of Protection. 417 

plaints whatever, although they were constantly coming to him for 
supplies, &c. The gang generally admitted * that they were well fed, &c.* 
but '■ that they wanted a new Busha, (overseer) and wordd not serve 
under the -present one, a woman declaring that she would die before she 
would return to the estate.* Every one of them actually shewed the 
greatest insolence to their overseer, in the very face of the magistrates ! ! 

" The bookkeeper also stated on oath to the Court, that he was satisfied 
it was but a conspiracy to get the overseer discharged, if possible, and 
mentioned several expressions he had heard in the field to that effect, 
and that the ringleader was a runaway, generally speaking. 

" The records also shewed that the greater number of these people had 
been twice before the justices with similar complaints, and admonished 
not to persist in making them without just grounds. 

" Mr. Stevens, the overseer, having requested permission (for his own 
character) to address the magistrates, declared what had been proved 
by the bookkeeper, and in the most satisfactory manner shewed that 
there were no grounds of complaint whatever. The negroes had more 
indulgences than those on the other properties in the neighbourhood ; 
and in regard to the two hogs alluded to, they had been killed for 
destroying the grounds, and injuring the corn and coffee-pieces, after 
repeated remonstrances from him. When they were killed, he asked to 
whom they belonged, but, as no one would claim them, they were 
burnt. The whole gang were a turbulent and dissatisfied set, and were 
so known by the other slaves on the estate. The bench, after a long 
deliberation, decided that the complaint was most frivolous and ground- 
less ; and his honour the Gustos, in an impressive manner, pointed out 
to them their very improper and almost rebellious conduct, adverting to 
the admonitions they had received from him on former occasions years 
ago. He stated to them that whilst the law provided that their com- 
plaints should always be patiently heard, it wisely directed, that if their 
complaints were groundless, they should meet with a suitable punish- 
ment for making them. It was necessary, for the well-being of the 
island, that complaints like these should meet with exemplary punish- 
ments, to deter a repetition of them. — To that end, the principal actor 
(the runaivay) was sentenced to fifty lashes, and the four next men to 
thirty-nine lashes publicly, and three of the head-women of the gang 
to three weeks' hard labour in the workhouse, and the remainder were 
severely admonished. 

" Mr. Justice Hyslop likewise recommended the people to be guarded 
in their conduct in future, pointing out to them that, if they persisted 
in their riotous conduct and behaviour to their overseer, some of them 
might be brought to an ignominious end. The law, and the magistrates 
appointed to deal it out, would always protect them, if protection was 
necessary ; but would punish them whenever they should conspire, by 
falsehoods and improper motives, to prefer frivolous complaints against 
white or other persons in charge of them. The proceeding was under 
the 28th and 103d clauses of the Act; and the Clerk of the Peace 
took down notes of all that passed, and of the evidence given, by the 
desire of the magistrates. 

" A finer gang we never saw ; and their appearance alone was almost 

3 m 2 



418 Laws and Manners of Jamaica Illustrated. 

sufficient to rebut any charge of harsh or improper treatment— and we 
cannot help admiring the impartial and firm manner in which the jus- 
tices acted, and the decision they came to. These frivolous complaints 
are daily increasing, and, unless a check is given to them, they may 
slowly amount to an alarming magnitude ; for, as in the present 
instance, a gang may leave an estate for days, when they want a new 
overseer, with false complaints, and go to a magistrate ; the proprietor, 
therefore, loses their labour, incurs a heavy expence, and a body of 
magistrates are occupied for four or five hours in investigating the 
charges, which turn out to be such as cannot but be deemed wanton 
and frivolous — and for such conduct a soldier or sailor would be 
doomed to receive a heavy punishment at the halberds, or, perhaps, 
suffer death." 

Thus far the statements and the comments of the Royal Gazette. 

And yet on this estate, the humanity of whose management is so 
much vaunted, the negroes are decreasing. In the space of ten years 
too it appears to have changed its proprietors at least four times, so 
that the overseer has had a firmer tenure of his authority, than the 
owners of their property ; a circumstance which must have set him free 
from much of supervision or control. What an illustration does this 
circumstance afford too of the gross fallacy of those representations, 
made on oath before the Privy Council in 1827, by the Demerara and 
Berbice planters, Mr. Macrae, Mr. Macdonnell, Major Moody, and 
others, respecting the closeness of the ties which bind the master and 
slave to each other — indeed of the general delusion practised on the 
public by the Colonists. The slaves of Dallas-Castle had four different 
owners in ten years, to all of whose varying humours, caprices and 
interests, if resident, they must have been successively subjected ; or 
if absent, to those of their hireling representatives ; without any means 
of appeal or redress but at the risk of what the Royal Gazette deems 
the salutary infliction of fifty lashes of the cart-whip, ordered by some 
magistrate, himself a slave-holder, who may rejoice in the opportunity of 
thus repressing in his own gang the disposition to prefer like " frivolous 
complaints" against himself. And in such a case, be it remembered, 
the slave has no ulterior remedy. However injured he may have been 
by the overseer, or however unjust may have been the infliction of the 
magistrate for the mere act of complaining, (slave evidence being wholly 
shut out) he has no means of appeal or redress. — In the present 
instance the only exculpatory evidence in favour of the overseer, was that 
of his employer, who though testifying generally to his mildness and 
humanity, yet, not being resident on the estate, could be no witness to 
the facts occuring there ; and that of his bookkeeper, whose entire de- 
pendence on the overseer made it perilous for him to testify othervvise than 
favourably. Had he done so, he would have been as effectually shut out 
from all future employment in Jamaica, as if he had been branded in 
the forehead as a felon, or convicted of being a saint. — The Clerk of 
the Peace, it is said, took notes of the evidence by desire of the magis- 
trates. We trust that those notes will be called for by the House of 
Commons. Till then, we are unwilling to make the comments which 
even this ex parte and manifestly partial statement, published, with the 



Si, George's Council of Protection. 419 

usual fatuity to serve some blind purpose, suggests to the disadvantage 
of the administration of Colonial justice. 

2. — St. George s Council of Protection. 

An additional Postscript to the Royal Gazette of the 7th August, 
1830, has just reached us, and we insert the following extract from it, 
as a further illustration of the state of law and manners in Jamaica. A 
letter, it seems, had been sent by the Rev. Stewart William Hanna, 
Island Curate of S|. George's, to the Editor of the R,oyal Gazette, con- 
taining a case of cruelty to a slave. The Editor refused to insert it ; 
and insinuated against Mr. Hanna a charge of saintship, and a design 
to serve the purposes of the Anti-Slavery Society. Mr. Hanna, how- 
ever, was sufficiently firm not to be intimidated by such language, and 
he procured the insertion of his letter in the Kingston Chronicle; the 
Editor of that paper justifying its insertion as being the production of a 
respectable clergyman of the established Church, and as calling for just 
and fair investigation. It has since appeared, as already stated, in the 
Royal Gazette. It is to the following effect : — 
" Sir, 

" It is well known that one of the principal charges, brought forward 
by the Anti- Slavery men and their adherents in England against the 
West Indians, is to this effect : — ' That from the state of the Colonial 
laws, and their defective administration, the slave, when wronged by 
the free man, cannot obtain legal redress,' It is not my wish to join 
in such a cry, nor is it my design at present to advocate either the prin- 
ciples or the conduct of any party whatsoever. But, Sir, when a case 
falls under my observation, in which a slave has been grossly injured 
by a free man, has sought legal redress, and has been denied it, then I 
hold it to be a matter of duty to put forth every effort on behalf of 
the oppressed, however slight the chance of ultimate success, as I am 
equally satisfied it is the interest of every honest and independent 
Colonist to second my endeavours. 

" A Council of Protection assembled on Friday the 9th inst. in this 
parish, to investigate a case of alleged cruelty, in which the Overseer of 
Windsor Castle estate (Mr. William Ogilvy Chapman), was the offend- 
ing, and a slave belonging to the same property, the aggrieved party. 
The following is a list of the Magistrates and Vestrymen who composed 
the council : The Hon, John Bell, Custos. The Rev. M. C. Bolton, 
Rector. James Shenton, Roger Swire, Thomas P. Rogers, Adam 
Gray, Esqrs., Magistrates. James Maxwell, Josias Bowyer, 
George Helps, Francis Guscott, Esqrs., Vestrymen. 

"The evidence adduced was substantially as follows: — 

" For some trifling neglect of duty the man had received, by the Over- 
seer's direction, a severe, though not an illegal flogging," (that is to say, 
not more than thirty-nine lashes.) " This was on Saturday; June 26th. 
In a state of great suffering, he proceeded to the nearest magistrate, 
Mr. Shenton, the proprietor of Dover estate, to complain of the treatment 
he had received. Mr. S. on inspection, found the man's hinder parts 
so completely covered with blood, as to prevent his accurately ascer- 
taining the extent of injury sustained. He, however, advised him to 



420 Laws and Manners of Jamaica Illustrated. 

return home, as no sufficient cause appeared to call for legal interference. 
The poor man, who is a carpenter, followed this advice, and remained 
in his house until Monday morning, when he proceeded to the work- 
shop, and endeavoured to resume his work. The gang of carpenters and 
coopers was shortly afterwards ordered to the beach to ship sugar, but 
the wretched condition of the sufferer compelled him to remain. About 
three o'clock in the afternoon, Mr. Chapman went into the workshop, 
and finding him there, demanded why he had not accompanied the 
gang. The poor man answered, that his wounds had prevented him. 
This reply, it would seem, exasperated the Overseer, for he ordered him 
to be "confined in the stocks forthwith, and placing his hands behind 
him, with difficulty, though having the assistance of the hot-house 
doctor, forced a pair of tight handcuffs on his wrists. The very slave 
assisting remonstrated against this barbarity ; but in vain. Thus 
mangled and manacled was the wretched negro compelled to remain 
from four in the afternoon of Monday until seven o'clock on "Wednesday 
morning ! On that day Mr. Shenton summoned all the parties to ap- 
pear before him, and he has stated on oath that the man's hinder parts 
were in three different places, each of considerable extent, not merely 
*cut' or scored, but in the actual condition of ' raw flesh ;' and further, 
that his hands, from the extreme tightness of the manacles, * were swol- 
len to twice their ordinary size.' Yet the five last named on the list of 
members, who composed the Council of Protection, subsequently sum- 
moned to investigate the case, have resolved that the matter is unworthy 
of farther notice, and, accordingly, all hope that the demands of justice 
may be satisfied is for the present at an end. It is not, Sir, my wish 
to animadvert upon the conduct of these gentlemen. I am willing to 
believe their's to have been an error rather of the head than of the 
heart, and that they did not wantonly sacrifice their better feelings at 
the shrine of unmanly apprehension or selfish expediency. Be this, 
however, as it may, t write not with the intention of canvassing their 
motives or their conduct, but in the hope that these lines may meet 
the eye of his Majesty's Attorney General for this island. Him I would 
conjure, by the impartial spirit of the British Constitution, by virtue 
of which he holds his office— by all the obligations of rehgion and 
morality — by the common feelings of our common nature, not to let 
this matter terminate here, but to stretch forth the protecting arm of 
the law on behalf of this poor oppressed negro. It will, perhaps, be 
said, that the case mainly rests upon testimony not admissible by law, 
namely, that of slaves. In part it certainly does, but so much circum- 
stantial evidence may be collected, and that, too, of a nature so satisfac- 
tory (look for example at the testimony of Mr. Shenton to the maimed 
and lacerated condition of the sufferer), that little doubt can be enter- 
tained of the feasibility of bringing home the charge to the offending 
party. Let the attempt be made : Justice — Humanity — the best interests 
of the colony, appear to demand it. Success no man can command, but 
even failure in a good cause brings with it a rich reward. 

" Perhaps the question may be asked — Why does the writer of these 
lines interfere in matters of this kind ? Is he not a minister of the 
Gospel of Peace? It is, Sir, for this very reason that he feels himself 



St. George'' s Council of Protection. 431 

especially called on to interfere. Were this a matter of political expe- 
diency merely, or did it involve the discussion of the question of Slavery 
in the abstract, he should have been silent; but believing that a wanton 
act of cruelty had been committed upon a helpless slave, and seeing the 
wheels of justice at a stand, did he not again attempt to put them in 
motion, he should ill deserve the name of man, and still less to hold the 
office of a minister of that religion, whose Divine Author's great design 
was to bind up the bleeding wounds of misery, to heal the broken-hearted, 
and to bid the oppressed go free. 

Your obedient Servant, 

STEWART WILLIAM HANNA, 
"St. George's, July 20, 1830. Island Curate of St. George." 

Two members of the Council of Protection, Mr. Gray and Mr. Max- 
well, attempt a vindication of their vote on this occasion, but, thouo-h 
held up as complete, by the journalists of Jamaica, nothing can be more 
feeble. They admit Mr. Hanna's facts ; that for some neglect of orders the 
slave, who was the head cooper of the estate, was punished with whip- 
ping by the overseer, and for refusing, or as the slave alleges, being 
unable to proceed to work, the overseer applied handcuffs to his wrists 
behind his back, and ordered him to the stocks on Monday at 3 p. m. 
where he remained till Wednesday at 7 a. m. when " the hot-house 
doctor came and informed him that the prisoner's wrists were swelled 
and painful." On this he was released. In the interim the prisoner's 
wife went and complained to the Gustos, who wrote to Mr. Shenton, to 
have the matter investigated. Mr. S. examined the man, and "found his 
wrists tumified." A Council of Protection was called. Ten were present. 
The five first names voted for laying the matter before the Attorney Gene- 
ral, the five last against it, and thus there being no majority the matter 
dropped. These last five, the defence says, " did not altogether exculpate 
Mr. Chapman, but, after taking all circumstances into consideration, 
thought he had acted more from an error of the head than the heart." 
They would, therefore, have thought it right to reprimand him. — But 
even this was not done. 

All this, say these two gentlemen, they doubt not, will be contorted 
into some unheard of species of cruelty by our Anti-Colonial friends. 
— But it needeth not. The admitted facts of laceration and torture, for 
some offence too trivial to be even named, speak for themselves. — The 
conclusion of the address to the public of Jamaica by these two slave 
protectors deserves to be recorded. It is as follows : — 

"We regret exceedingly, that a clergyman of the Established Church," 
(meaning Mr. Hanna,) "should identify himself with a faction that seeks 
the destruction of the Colonies, or that he should have taken such a 
zealous part in a political matter, of which he could have only a con- 
fused and superficial knowledge by retail. He ought to recollect that 
he was sent here not to destroy Temples, but to build them up ; not to 
weaken the fabric of our institutions, assailed by every heartless dema- 
gogue, but to add strength and unanimity to them, to preach peace 
and good-will to men, and a cheerful obedience to constituted authori- 
ties. We are as feelingly alive to the melioration of our slaves, and at 
all times ready to punish wanton severity, as any class in the country, 



422 Society and Manners of Barbadoes illustrated. 

but the rude materials, of which our population are formed, require no 
small degree of firmness and consistency to maintain the authority of a 
manager. We have nothing to fear from Anti-Colonial virulence, if we 
are true to ourselves — once divided, with so many irresponsible incen- 
diaries amongst us, and we shall soon see our enemies triumph, and 
this beautiful island, now the seat of peace, happiness, and plenty, 
become a sterile desert." 



IV. — Society and Manners of Bakbadoes Illustrated. 

A gentleman of the highest credit visited Barbadoes in the early part 
of the present year. During the short time he was there, he made notes 
of what he saw. We are permitted to make a literal transcript of such 
of these notes as appear likely to interest our readers, and to throw light 
on the state of society and manners in that island. We abstain at present 
from any comment upon them, only premising, that we entertain the most 
entire confidence in the accuracy and fidehty of this gentleman's state- 
ments. 

" One of mj"^ first objects was to learn from the slaves themselves how far they 
had benefited by the eflforts to introduce education ; and I visited the Colonial 
School, under the patronage of the Bishop, and a committee of the chief persons 
of the island. Here, I understood, are from 150 to 200 boys. The children ap- 
peared to have great pains bestowed upon them by a worthy and persevering 
master, and to make as much progress as European children would, surrounded 
by the same disadvantages. They were, as I thought, particularly expert in 
arithmetic. I was, however, much disappointed to find upon a close enquiry, 
that these children, with the exception of perhaps three or four, were exclusively 
the children of free people of colour. The children of slaves on this island re- 
ceive instruction only in a catechetical form ; in some instances they are taught 
to 7'e;)ea^ hymns, but these opportunities for| instruction are wholly confined to 
Sunday mornings in all the places which I saw and visited, except one instance, 
in which the slaves were assembled occasionally under the parlour window, and 
sang a hymn. 

" I enquired of all the slaves I could get an opportunity of conversing with, as 
to their having any knowledge of letters ; and was certainly a good deal disap- 
pointed and mortified to find, that with a very, very small exception, I believe 
confined to two or three individuals, I met with no slave who could read. These 
were slaves that held some places of more than common importance in the estab- 
lishments of persons of consequence in the island who bore a high character for 
great humanity and benevolence, and whose slaves shewed, by their appearance 
and manners, that their masters were so distinguished. 

" As to the means afforded the slaves of religious worship, I fear that little can 
be said. I was several times at the churches on the island ; and, with the ex- 
ception of the slaves who attended their masters and their families, and remained 
with the carriages during the service, I never saw any one slave there, nor could 
I find that they did ever attend. I did not go to the Wesleyan or Moravian meet- 
ing houses, (the former rebuilt since its destruction, and liberally subscribed to 
by many of the persons who assisted in destroying it.) One person I was credi- 
bly informed, who was one of the very first in the work of destruction, has since 
died, and left all his little property to repair the evil he had committed, and 
appease his conscience. 

" I visited a few estates, on which I understood a sermon is read by the mana- 
ger, and the usual devotional exercises gone through as contained in the ritual 
of the church of England, to which the slaves are invited. 

^,ce I was present, and was gratified by observing the quiet and 
\ ■.'■■' f&JIUM9.!V>ii"' J ^'^^1 th?Slaves during the time,which lasted for nearly two hours. 
: r^fflipi^g service was performed by the owner of them ; his wife acting as clerk, in a 
very conde&xending and kind 'manner : but the gross ignorance in which these 



Society and Manners of Barhadoes illustrated, 423 

poor things are kept, leads me to doubt whether many of them had the power to 
comprehend that which was thus presented to their minds. 

" As it regards their happiness and contentedness, it may be sufficient to relate 
two facts. One is, that I heard it complained of by most respectable persons, that 
the male slaves were continually quarrelling about their wives, of whom there 
were numerous instances of one man possessing from two to seven ; and the con- 
sequent dreadful immorality in both sexes is matter of notoriety. 

"I could not heAr that marriage was encouraged amongst them, except by the 
Moravians, who are most indefatigable on this subject, as well as all others, in 
order to assist and raise the condition of their coloured brethren : nor was I able 
to ascertain that more than a few instances of an union of this nature had taken 
place, and these were generally if not entirely the result of the diligent, perse- 
vering efforts of the Moravians.* 

" There is also another source of complaint on the part of the planters, which 
is, the loss they sustain by the extent to which self-destruction is practised 
amongst the slaves ; it being by no means an uncommon thing to find valuable 
slaves hung to a tree or destroyed in a well, in the early part of the morning. 
On most of the estates I was shewn the stock of negroes in the same manner as 
an English farmer shews his horses and cattle, and with the same view of gaining 
credit for the management of them. 

"I was anxious to ascertain how far the slaves benefited by the sale of the 
commodities which I was told were grown on the small portions of ground allot- 
ted to them near their dwellings ; but which, in the course of ray visits to differ- 
ent estates, I could discover to be only partially the case, many being certainly 
without this provision. 

" I was likewise often assured, that the market of Bridgetown was thus sup- 
plied ; and in order to be satisfied, I attended at the usual place of sale frequently, 
and took pains to inquire of individual slaves offering either fruits or vegetables 
&c. for sale, from what estate they came, and was grievously disappointed to find 
that they almost all had their mistress with them, to receive the amount of the 
sales made ; or what was more common, that the major proportion of them were 
free coloured people, and consequently small cultivators, and not slaves. 

" I find upon inquiry, that the produce which a slave may have, is always 
under the control and absolutely in the power of the master, if he chooses from 
any motive to exercise such a power. 

" I went into many of their huts, which are built of mud and thatch, sometimes 
of stone and slate ; they contain one room only for the whole family, with very 
little furniture, and they appear to own very little apparel. 

" It seemed rather a curious custom to me as an Englishman to find that the 
usual place of rest during the night for the domestic slaves was on the floor of 
the landings : the men on the lower and the women on the upper floor, a custom 
better suited to a hot climate than to ours. 

" I am inclined to believe, that notwithstanding the dreadful power possessed 
by the owners and managers of slaves over their poor pitiable fellow-men, this 
power is not so often exercised in overt acts of violence as might be apprehended; 
but almost every estate appears to be furnished with a place of confinement, to 
be used at the will of the master. This usually dismal room is provided gene- 
rally with a pair of stocks, and a wooden or iron bedstead ; the stocks are placed 
so as to enable the prisoner either to sit or lie on the bedstead. The duration of 
the confinement is determined by the arbitrary will of the master or overseer. 
Once for the negligence of some domestic concern, and an impertinent answer, 
a slave was confined three days and four nights, and I left him still in confine- 
ment. 

" Being at home at my lodgings, I was alarmed by the most dreadful howling; 
and starting up, I got to the window, in time to see a free black mason, or plas- 
terer, inflicting some severe blows with his fist upon the bosom of a female negro 
slave, about sixteen or seventeen years old, who, I heard, was his own daughter. 
This girl had been before serving him and another man with mortar, which she 
carried up a high ladder; and on inquiry, I learnt that ipt being quite so quick 

* But even the Moravian marriages have no legal sanction in Barbadoes. — 
(Editor.) 



424 Barbadoes Societi/, Sfc. — Anti-Slavery Meetings. 

as he wished in supplying them, one of them descended, and gave her a severe 
beating, in the manner I have just described. I immediately ran out of the 
house to save her from further suffering, but was agreeably surprised to see a 
number of individuals apparently with the same intention going towards the spot. 
I thought as a stranger it would be better for me to allow them to remonstrate 
with the barbarous fellows ; but what was the horror I felt when I found that 
their object was not to exclaim against such treatment of the poor girl, but to tell 
her that they would not, and could not bear such a howling near them. Some 
of the tenants, accompanied by our landlady and several slaves, were there, and 
loudly swore at the girl, telling her they would have no such noise there, as a 
gentleman, (meaning a friend of mine, who was suffering from great weakness,) 
was very ill in the next house. 

" Once it happened that I lodged at a house in Bridgetown, and was attracted 
to the window, whilst dressingin the morning, by piteous and loud cries. On look- 
ing out, I saw in a yard below, the mistress of the house, a free woman of colour, 
caning a female slave about twenty-two, very severely with a small bamboo cane, 
in a state of elasticity we never see them in this country, and about the size of a 
black-lead pencil ; in which castigation she struck both fore stroke and back 
stroke on the unpi-otected shoulders, breast, back, and face of the poor girl, who 
leaned against a post in the yard to support herself while she received the cuts, 
(about thirty.) I knew it would be useless to interfere, and therefore only de- 
termined, il' possible, to learn the cause of such a dreadful flogging. Very 
opportunely, I met the poor black girl going to market; and asked her what 
very bad thing she had done to make her mistress so angry ? She replied, 'Yes, 
massa, I am very sorry, I did indeed break the tea-cup.' Her mistress after- 
wards allowed to me that this was the cause for which such a flogging was 
inflicted. I took particular notice of her neck and breast, which were swollen all 
over in a pitiable manner ; and the weals on her neck were nearly or quite the 
size of my little finger." 

[The remainder of these notes, with our observations upon them, will 
appear in our next number.] 



V. — AiiTTi-SLAVEiiY Meetings, 

A variety of meetings have been held in various parts of the United King- 
dom, and many more are about to be held, which it will be scarcely possible 
for us to notice particularly. Our friends in the country therefore must attribute 
any omissions of which we may be guilty to their true cause, the absolute im- 
possibility of our keeping pace with the kindling eagerness of the public, to 
combine their efforts in the great work of extinguishing Slavery root and 
branch from every corner of the British Empire. Besides the meetings already 
announced, others have taken place at Belfast, Bray, Buxton, Greenwich, Tot- 
tenham, Ilfracombe, Melksham, Colchester, Peckham, Bridlington, Ipswich, 
Nailsworth, Chipping-Norton, Hook-Norton, Banbury, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 
Beverley, &c. &c., and are preparing at Wandsworth, Staines, Brentford, 
Mile-End, Leicestershire, Rutlandshire, Wansford, Northamptonshire, Glou- 
cester, Oakham, Boston, Spilsby, Wainfleet, Alford, Louth, Horncastle, 
Hertfordshire, Penzance, Truro, Petersfield, Oroydon, Stroud, Cambridge Uni- 
versity, Witham, Maldon, Becking, Braintree, Bristol, Reading, Wallingford, 
Plymouth, Wellington, Exeter, Taunton, and many more places than we can 
now name. 



Bag-ster aiid Tlioins, Printers, 14, Bartlmlomew Close, 



THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER. 

No. 69.] OCTOBER 20, 1830. [Vol. iii. No. 21. 

I.— STATE OF SOCIETY AND MANNERS IN BARBADOES ILLUS- 
TRATED. 
II.— STATE OF LAW AND MANNERS IN JAMAICA ILLUSTRATED : 

1. St. George's Council of Protection ; — 2. The Case of Mr. Bf.tty 
AND Henry Williams;— 3. The Police of Kingston; — 1. The 
Vere Quarter Sessiojjs ; — 5. The Defence of the Rev. Mr. 
Bridges. 

III.— JAMAICA ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY PROPOSED. 

IV.— ANTI-SLAVERY MEETINGS ;— Ipswich— Mr. Orton.— Colchester 
— Mr. Blyth. 
v.— ANTI-SLAVERY SERMONS— Rev. S. C. Wilks. 

VI.— MAURITIUS REGISTRY AND SLAVE TRADE. 

VII.— THE SLAVE TRADE AND COLONIES OF FRANCE. 
VilI._ON FRAMING PETITIONS TO PARLIAMENT. 



I. — State of Society and Manners in Barbadoes illustrated. 
We continue our extracts, on this subject, from the notes of a tra- 
veller who visited Barbadoes early in the present year. — (See our last 
Number, p. 422—424.) 

" I had occasion to pass the greater part of one day on board a vessel lying in 
the bay ; and whilst there, we were boarded by a very comely youth, of good 
features and engaging manners, who came on some business to the ship. I asked 
him from whence he came, what his name was, &c.; which questions led him to 
give the following description gf himself: ' I am,' said he, 'the illegitimate son 

of , esq. by a coloured woman ; I live on his estate, and am his 

slave.' I was surprised and shocked at the unnatural ji-roceeding of a man 
keeping his own son as a slave ; but much more so when he added, 'I should 
certainly have been starved, if it had not been for the conipas.sion of some who 
knew me.' He shewed me his naked body, cut, scarred, and bruised from the 
waist upwards in a horrible manner. A creditable person on board the vessel 
assured me he had known this young man for several years ; and that he could 
assert the dreadful narrative to be correct. I determined to pay a visit to this 
fellow Christian, whose heart had become thus callous by a familiarity with 
tyranny; but was dissuaded, by an assurance that it would produce no other 
effect than the increased ill usage of the poor young man. 

" During my residence in the island, I made the acquaintance of a middle- 
aged and very respectable man, who assured me that he had given up a very 
lucrative situation for a small stipend, upon which he now subsists, because he 
could not conscientiously be concerned in slavery ; and he added, * if I dared, I 
could relate circumstances which would make every hair you have on your head 
stand on end ; but if I were to do so, and it became known, my name would be 
held up to odium, and would be made to stink all over the island ; and I cannot 
do without the scanty subsistence that I now get.' He also added, that he had 
the offer of another very good situation as a manager ; but preferred poverty and 
an easy conscience to this horrible employment. 

"Upon diligent and repeated inquiry, I found that during all the time I was 
in the island, the prison was nearly filled with blacks, and contained no white 
person ; and also that no trial in which a slave was plaintifi"was instituted ; and 
indeed, that such a thing was never expected to occur, nor did any one seem to 
conceive it possible. 

3 N 



426 Society and Manners of Barbadoes Illustrated. 

"The Barbadians allowed, that is, some of them who are amiable and con- 
siderate, except as far as they are under the. influence of the baneful practice of 
slaverj', tliat the slavery of Barbadoes was less severe and degradihp;, some- 
times they added, even less horrible, than in some other places, especially the 
Mauritius ; and that the children were at an early period taken from their 
mothers, and placed in the nursery, and that ihey are not afterwards allowed to 
be with them. They added, that they thought the plan very preferable to our 
English plan with the poor people, as the mothers had no time to attend to their 
wants. Some few admitted, that a system of free labour would be much better 
both for the labourers and masters, and that they earnestly desired it. 

" It is by no means uncommon to see white persons box the ears of their slaves, 
or even knock them down sometimes, in a very brutal manner. 

" I also discovered, that it was a decided loss of caste if a white person asso- 
ciated as a visitor with persons of colour, even free and of unblemished character. 

" I never saw any slave at work in the field for their masters on the Sabbath, 
nor was I aware that they worked all night." 

: Our traveller further states, that the first impression made on his 
mind, on his visit to Barbadoes, " was the degree of animal comfort 
apparent in the embonpoint and general cheerfulness of the slaves." 
Indeed, he says, he could not possibly avoid observing it, as it was con- 
stantly pointed out to him, frequently with the observation, " that the 
slaves were much better off than the poor people in England." The 
comparison, however, he says, " appeared to him altogether improper." 
" Had they said. You see that the slaves are as well provided for, and 
much in the same way, as our horses in England, the observation would 
have been more just and appropriate.'' He notices, also, having seen a 
slave festival, and, he says, " it was afflicting to contemplate a number 
of human beings, arrived at maturity, tumbling about like children, 
fiddling and dancing, being an assemblage of the most inharmonious 
and discordant sounds." 

Nothing can be more calm and dispassionate than the tone of this 
traveller, and considering the short time he was on the island, and the 
consequently superficial view he had it in his power to take of the state 
of society and manners, he is certainly, in proportion to his opportuni- 
ties, an accurate observer. 

We know that Barbadoes, notwithstanding its peculiarly harsh laws, 
and its frequent cruelties in practice, is placed in circumstances more fa- 
vourable to mere animal comfort, and to native increase, than any other 
of our sugar colonies. One cause of this will be found stated in a former 
Number of our work, No. 41, p. 316. " In Barbadoes,"we there observed, 
" the slaves are chiefly fed, not by provisions raised on their sepa- 
rate allotments, but by provisions raised in common on the working 
days, on the master's account, and under the same impulse by which 
sugar or cotton is raised. And the masters, in Barbadoes, concur with 
the authorities in declaring, that it requires one-third of the labour of 
the year to raise the food necessary for the purpose." That is to say, 
103 week days are given to raise the food of the slaves, Sunday also 
being free from field labour and left pretty much to the slave's disposal. 
But this is four times the number of days, which, exclusive of Sunday, 
is given to the slaves in Jamaica, and six or seven times the number of 
days allowed to the slaves in Trinidad. In this single circumstance we 
have enough to account, both for the increase and the embonpoint of 
the Barbadian slaves, as compared with those of the other islands. But 



Peculiar Ciraimstances of Barbadoes. 427 

this is not all that is comparatively favourable in the physical state of 
the Barbadian slave. We have seen that it is sugar culture which ope- 
rates the most powerfully in destroying slave life. Now the circumstances 
of Barbadoes necessarily confine within narrow limits the growth of 
sugar, and a much larger proportion of the soil, as well as of the slaves' 
time, is devoted to raising food in Barbadoes than elsewhere. 

In 1829, the slaves of Barbadoes amounted to 81,902. The quantity 
of sugar imported thence into Great Britain and Ireland, in that year, 
was 299,190 cwt. being at the rate of a little more than 3| cwt. for 
each negro. The imports in the same year, from Trinidad, amounted 
to 394,448 cwt. being, for its slave population of 23,000, at the rate of 
upwards of 17 cwt. for each slave, nearly five times the rate of produc- 
tion in Barbadoes. This larger proportion of sugar culture involves too 
the necessity of continuous night work in Trinidad, while, in Barbadoes, 
the labour of the sugar crop is in many, perhaps in most cases, not 
protracted beyond 8 or 9 o'clock at night. In this limitation our tra- 
A'eller concurs with Mr. Clarke, the attorney of the Coddrington estates, 
(No. 45, p. 423) though it m.ay be presumed that on these estates, as 
well as on that of the humane proprietor, with whom our traveller re- 
sided for a short time, there is less of night work than on most other 
estates. 

Here, then, we have several material circumstances in favour of the 
Barbadian slaves ; first, the vastly greater portion of time which is taken 
from the severity of sugar culture, and given to the comparatively easy 
work of growing provisions for their own consumption ; and, next, as a 
consequence of this, the abridgment of night labour, and the more 
abundant supply of food. And such is the effect of these circumstances, 
arising not from the voluntary policy of the master, but from the ne- 
cessity of the case, that while in the colonies of Trinidad, Demerara, 
St. Lucia, Grenada, St. Vincents, Jamaica, &c. the slaves are de- 
creasing, some in a higher, and some in a lower proportion, in Barba- 
does there is annually a considerable increase. 

What an additional proof have we here of the destructive nature of 
sugar culture, as it is conducted in our slave colonies generally, as 
well as of the cruel parsimony which in Jamaica, Trinidad, and many 
other colonies, so abridges the time given for the growth of food, as to 
half starve the slaves, and to force them, in order to sustain life at all, 
to devote the Sunday to toiling in their provision grounds. 

But, putting aside this singlecircumstance of a comparatively abundant 
supply of food, is it possible to view without horror the picture drawn, 
by our calm and candid witness, of the state of debasement to which 
the 82,000 slaves, inhabiting this small island, are reduced. The de- 
plorable neglect of education and religious instruction ; the degradation 
of the human animal to the level of the horse or the ox ; the absence 
of the connubial tie, and the general prevalence of polygamy and licen- 
tiousness ; the cruel treatment of the slaves producing by its very terror, 
as in the Brazils, (see No. 67, p. 397,) the frequency of suicide; their 
total destitution of all rights of property, indeed of all civil rights what- 
ever; their miserable lodging and clothing; the unlimited povver of ar- 
bitrarily punishing them possessed by every miscreant in the comnuuiily ; 



428 Peculiar Circumstances of Barbadoes. 

the brutal violence to which all of them, men and women, are liable ; the 
extinction in masters of the parental affection under the withering in- 
fluenc'e of slavery ; and the degradation inflicted, even on the free, by the 
slightest taint of African blood ; — all these bitter fruits of slavery are 
exhibited even in the brief and cursory notes of this temporary resident. 
And had his residence been prolonged, he would doubtless, have had better 
opportunities of realizing the portraiture of Barbadian policy towards the 
slave population, so ably and graphically drawn by Mr. Dwarris, himself 
a large slave holder : — " Slaves in this island are without legal protection 
or redress for personal injuries." " The slave has no remedy in case of 
the greatest oppression by the master or his delegate, or the grossest 
injury by third persons.'' *' In a case even of a very grievous bodily 
injury, inflicted upon a slave by a manager, the suft'erer himself, or his 
slave brethren Avho were present, cannot give evidence, even though all 
the free persons on the premises should have been designedly sent out 
of the way. In such a case a slave is not allowed to be a prosecutor. 
Maimed, disfigured, dismembered, his wounds must be the only tongue 
permitted to relate his wrongs.'' *' On the trial of a criminal slave, no 
indictment is preferred, no bill found by the grand jury." " On convic- 
tion, sentence of death must be passed without an appeal — the execution 
takes place without delay; — and there being no assigned place for the 
execution, the wretched convict is fastened to the nearest tree, unless, 
which frequently happens, the owner of the soil is at hand to prevent it. 
In such cases the miserable culprit is dragged from tree to tree, from 
estate to estate ; and in one case of then recent occurrence, the con- 
stable was at last forced to throv^^ the exhausted sufferer off" the town- 
bridge, securing the rope by a lamp-post." 

If any thing could add to the horror of this picture, it is that these 
wretched and unprotected beings, liable to be thus maimed, mutilated, 
dismembered, and hanged over a tree, or a lamp-post, are nevertheless re- 
presented by the same Mr. Dwarris as frisking and dancing, and dream- 
ing away life, " ignorant of their own unprotected condition, and of the 
fury of the laws." 

But there remains another circumstance to which the fatness and 
sleekness of the Barbadian slaves may be traced. We mean the cir- 
cumstance, that they are beginning to be reared like pigs or calves of the 
stall, for sale to the planters of Trinidad and Guiana. As in the United 
States, many of the planters of Virginia derive their income from breed- 
ing slaves for the southern market, where slave labour is more in de- 
mand, and slaves fetch higher prices; so Barbadoes is becoming a 
nursery for supplying the waste of life in the deadly sugar plantations 
of Demerara and Trinidad. This new slave trade has already com- 
menced. Under the protection of a clause in the Consohdated Abolition 
Act, which permits a master to take with him to sea certain domestic 
servants, an export trade in slaves has of late been going on from 
Barbadoes to other colonies, in contravention of the abolition acts. 
Such a trade is piracy by law, and is liable to be punished as such ; 
and yet it has hitherto been carried on with impunity ; and even where 
the clearest evidence of guilt has been produced before Barbadian grand 
juries, they have dared to throw out the bills of indictment. We call 



State of Law and Manners in Jamaica Illustrated. 429 

the attention of our friends in Parliament to this evil, and intreat 
them to take effectual measures for its repression, though we are per- 
suaded that the only effectual measure that can be adopted to that end 
is the extinction of slavery itself; to which consummation, as the only 
cure of all the varied evils of this monstrous system, we trust we shall 
speedily come. Of the prevalence of this particular evil, the cruel 
slave trade carried on from Barbadoes, there is, we believe, in the 
possession of his Majesty's Government abundant evidence. It was 
called for in the last session of Parliament, but has not yet been produced. 



II, — State of Law and Manners in Jamaica illustrated. 
1. St. Georges Council of Protection. 

Our readers cannot have forgotten the account which appeared in our 
last Number, of the conduct of a Council of Protection, in the parish 
of St. George, in regard to a case of cruelty to a slave, which, in des- 
pite of the general obloquy caused by it, the Rev. Mr. Hanna, a clergy- 
man of the church of England, had the Christian courage to denounce 
to the public and to the authorities of Jamaica. Our account was taken 
from the Royal Gazette of that island. Since its publication, we have 
received the files of the Watchman, which throw fresh light on this 
atrocious transaction, not less atrocious as it respects the overseer who 
committed the act of cruelty, than as it respects those members of the 
Council of Protection, who refused to send its perpetrator to his trial, and 
the community at large, who, if we may judge from the tone of the 
public press in Jamaica, appear to have applauded the unrighteous de- 
cision. " The Watchman" agrees with us in thinking that the statement 
of Mr. Hanna is made out in its very fullest extent, by the reluctant 
admissions of the two protectors, who undertake, while they pour dis- 
credit and contumely upon him, to vindicate their own conduct. Their 
defence, he maintains, " proves to demonstration not only that the over- 
seer, Mr. Chapman, had been guilty of an act of gross cruelty towards 
an unprotected negro, but that our Councils of Protection are and ever 
will be, to all intents and purposes, a solemn mockery of justice, a veil 
wherewith to hide from the eyes of the people of England the cruelties 
which almost daily occur in the plantations of this island, and a means 
of saving from merited reproach, scorn, and contempt, the inhuman 
monsters who outrage every feeling of mercy, humanity, or compassion, 
by their babarous and brutal conduct." He then carefully collates Mr. 
Hanna's statement with the admissions of these protectors, and clearly 
establishes the correctness of the former, showing that the unfortunate 
negro had been punished in a manner, which even these two gentlemen 
feel themselves compelled " strongly" to " deprecate." They do not 
deny, nay, they fully admit, that the negro was most severely flogged 
in the first instance (Mr. Shenton, the magistrate, indeed, had testified 
that the man's hinder parts were so cut and scored as to be in the actual 
condition of raw flesh, and so covered with blood as to prevent his 
accurately ascertaining the extent of the injury); and they also admit 
that he was subsequently confined in the stocks, with his hevnds,&W 
forty hours, torturously munaclcd behind him. . f asiius 



430 Si. George's Council of Protection and Mr. Hanna. 

But what was the particular crime which called for such signal ven- 
geance ? " The Watchman" makes it out satisfactorily, even from the 
designedly confused account of the two protectors, to have been this 
— The cooper with his associates had been hard at work, but without 
the express order or permission of the overseer, during the dinner in- 
terval, in hauling up a boat on the beach. They were thus engaged 
from " shellblow," that is from noon-tide Avhen " the field negroes" 
were called in from work, till they again " were turning out to work." 
They then came home " with an expectation of having the hour and a 
half (of their own time — their usual interval of labour) which they had 
lost, repaid." This the overseer refused to allow them, which would 
have been punishment enough for having expended their own time la- 
boriously though without express orders. But this he deemed not enough. 
He also mercilessly flogged the head cooper for his venial error. " The 
Watchman" then adverts to the only circumstance of extenuation ad- 
duced by these gentlemen, and " to which they cling as does a drown- 
ing man to a feather," namely, that on the day of his flagellation, the 
negro had gone to the bay, a mile distant, to assist the seamen to 
launch a boat, and had afterwards gone on board to eat breakfast 
with them, and he states it as a notorious fact, that the pain 
arising from such a flogging, is not always so severe at the time, or 
soon after, as after the lapse of a day or two : so that the sufferer 
might be able to creep to the bay and eat his breakfast there on Satur- 
day, and yet be wholly unable to go to his work on the Monday ; for 
failing to do which, he was then put into the stocks and cruelly 
manacled. 

Having explained these points, " The Watchman" then proceeds to 
ask Messrs. Gray and Maxwell " how under all the circumstances of 
the case, consistently with their oaths ; with their professed willingness 
'to punish wanton severity' whenever brought under their notice; 
with their being ' feelingly ahve to the amelioration of the slave,' or 
with a regard for the claims of suffering humanity ; they could, con- 
trary to evidence, to the loud calls of outraged justice, and to the un- 
doubted right of the slave to have his wrongs redressed, declare by 
their votes, that the circumstance was of so trifling a nature as to be 
unworthy of further notice ! " 

" It is in vain," he adds, " that these gentlemen attempt to gloss over 
the matter by deprecating the conduct of Mr. Chapman, or by iden- 
tifying Mr. Hanna with, as they are pleased to term it, ' a faction that 
seeks the destruction of the colonies,' and reading him a lesson as to 
what he ought or ought not to do. Abuse of the Anti-Colonists has 
too often been resorted to in cases of this kind to be of any service, 
and its adoption on this occasion but too clearly proves that all is not 
right." 

" Well may they endeavour to explain away facts, which have oc- 
casioned, according to their own showing, ' such grave and ambiguous 
remarks throughout the island,' and which only require to be known, 
in order to satisfy any reasonable man that in the case before us there 
is developed a most daring and unheard of species of cruelty and op- 
pression. — We say explain away, for it is all that these guilty advo- 



Jamaica Law and Maniiers — Case of Henry Williams. 431 

cates of an inhuman system can do. — They cannot — they dare not — 
deny the correctness of the statements. Look at Mr. Slienton's evi- 
dence : — ' The man's hinder parts were in three different places, each 
of considerable extent, not merely cut or scored, but in the actual con- 
dition of raw flesh ; and his hands (which had been pinioned behind 
him) from the extreme tightness of the manacles swollen to twice their 
■ordinary size.' In this state, with his feet in the stocks, he was com- 
pelled to sit, for lie down he could not, his hands being pinioned be- 
hind him, for forty hours, upon hinder parts that are described as 
having been in the state of raw flesh, without a possibility of changing- 
even for one moment his position ; nor would he, at the expiration of 
that time, have been relieved, had not Mr. Chapman learnt that his 
wife had proceeded to Mr. Shenton's to complain. — And when re- 
lieved, in what state was that unfortunate creature's posteriors ? Let 
Mr. Chapman tell. We know, and others may conceive ! — But what 
signifies all this? The negro who underwent these sufferings, like the 
rest in the island, is happy and contented ; a sleek, fat, well-fed and 
well-clothed peasant, who prefers belonging to a kind humane master 
to being free,, and of the blessings of whose condition this circumstance 
affords a pretty decent sample." 

We think we may now leave this transaction to make its own impres- 
sion on the minds of our readers. 

2. — The Case of Henry Williams. 

Our readers will also without doubt, recollect the case of Henry 
Williams, a Methodist slave, of which an account is given in No. 65, 
p. 356, 357. No one can have read and forgotten it. The details of 
the case, it now appears, had been communicated by the Methodist 
committee to Sir George Murray. Sir George, with the humanity 
which distinguishes him, transmitted them to the Earl of Belmore, in- 
closed in a remarkably calm and temperate despatch, dated May 6, 
1830, to the following effect : — 

" Your Lordship will perceive, in the statements which have been 
made to the Missionary Society, by Mr. Whitehouse, one of the Mis- 
. sionaries, that Mr. Betty, who is represented to be a magistrate in 
Jamaica, is accused of extreme oppression and cruelty towards a 
slave, named Henry Williams, attached to an estate, called ' Rural 
Retreat' of which Mr. Betty has the charge, as attorney of the pro- 
prietor. The statements also imply that Mr. Betty's conduct was, in 
some degree, instigated by the Rev. Mr. Bridges; and this latter gen- 
tleman is himself accused of having caused a slave, named George, 
"who was a member of the Wesleyan Society, to be flogged, although 
this slave was not the property of Mr. Bridges, but of a person who 
is described as ' xMrs. S.' 

" It would be with great regret and reluctance, that I should admit 
. the supposition that any foundation exists for attributing to either of 
these gentlemen the proceedings or the motives imputed to them ; 
but I feel it impossible, in justice to them, or to the Colonial 
Magistracy, of which one or both of them are members, \o ,req^^ve 
these statements without apprising them that such ..h^^^^j^^^ 



432 State of Law and Mamiers in Jamaica Illustrated. 

made, and giving them an opportunity to vindicate their character, — 
Your Lordship will, therefore, transmit copies of the enclosed papers 
to each of the parties accused, together with a copy of this despatch, 
and acquaint ihem that you are ready to receive any communications, 
which they may wish to make upon the subject. 

" If your Lordship shall, in consequence, receive explanatory state- 
ments from them, you will, with the assistance of your confidential 
legal advisers, examine these statements, for the purpose of ascertain- 
ing whether it be necessary to inquire further into the truth of the ac- 
count given by Mr. Whitehouse, and to call upon him to substantiate 
it; and you will, so far as may appear to you to be requisite, com- 
municate the answers of each party to the other, for the purpose of 
enabling yourself to judge between them, and to transmit to me your 
report and opinion, together with the materials on which they shall 
have been founded.'' 

The reply of Mr. Bridges has not been made public. That of Mr. 
Betty, (the name, it seems, of the merciless persecutor of Henry Wil- 
liams), is addressed to Lord Belmore, and contains a positive refusal 
to enter into any explanations. He sets out indeed, by solemnly 
denying, what no one had accused him of, — his having exercised his 
authority on this occasion, in his character of magistrate. It was not 
alleged that he had punished Henry Williams in his capacity of magis- 
trate, but in that of attorney for the lady in Scotland, whose slave 
Henry Williams was. " Whenever," he says, " I have found it neces- 
sary to punish slaves under my care, I have done so according to the 
provisions of the slave code." " This charge," he flippantly proceeds, 
" seems to have acquired greater importance from my having presumed 
to chastise a slave who holds some official situation under Mr. White- 
house. I was certainly not aware, that these preachers possessed any 
power to transfer to the tabernacle, the obedience which slaves owe to 
their masters ; but if this be the case, it would be only fair, that some 
public notice should be given, so that persons in ignorance, like 
myself, may be able to avoid interfering with such hallowed characters. 
Hitherto slaves, when they had suffered any grievance from their over- 
seers, or others, have appealed to their master or his representative, 
from thence they had a further appeal to the magistracy, and their 
complaints were often carried to the Governor. But now there appears 
an attempt to interpose a new authority, superseding all others, and 
one of a most mischievous tendency — when, instead of negro com- 
plaints, receiving a sober and dispassionate consideration, they are to 
be disposed of according to the caprice of some low, ill-disposed fana- 
tic. If such doctrine be not put down, there is an end of that 
control, without which slavery cannot exist. 

" The statement of Mr. Whitehouse is such a compound of the 
grossest falsehood and misrepresentation, mixed up with a very slender 
portion of truth, that it is difficult to separate the ingredients. I cer- 
tainly did confine Henry Williams in the St. Thomas in the Vale 
workhouse, for disobedience of my orders, in fact, openly setting me at 
defiance before the rest of the slaves. I had an undoubted right to do 
so, and I do not consider n yself responsible for that act. That the 



Mr. Betty and Henry Williams, 433 

slave became sick there, and that I removed him, is equally certain'}-; 
and, had he died in confinement, these canting hypocrites would have^ 
reproached me with having been the cause of his death, although aH^f 
able medical person regularly attends the establishment. ^^ 

" Referring to the melancholy picture which Mr. Whitehouse has 
drawn of the St. Thomas' in the Vale workhouse, I preferred that 
place of confinement because I knew that it is under very judicious 
management — that proper and sufficient food is supplied, and whether 
the prisoners be poor or rich they have nothing but the prison allowance* 
— whilst at St. Ann's Bay the discipline is more relaxed, the friends? 
and acquaintances of the prisoners have access to them, and, what is 
still more objectionable, they are exposed to the mischievous counsels 
of canting Methodists. I am sorry to speak with harshness of any 
set of men, and, until the present time, have never come into contact; 
with sectarianism ; but twenty-three years experience, and the visible 
alteration in the manners and habits of the slaves within the last ten 
years, teach me that these dissenting preachers will, inevitably, bring 
the country to ruin, especially if their most improbable calumnies are 
countenanced by the highest authorities in the state." Watchman of 
17 th July, 1830. 
After some details, laudatory of his own humanity, he goes on to say :v 
" Conscious that I have done nothing deserving reproach, I am ready 
to meet any charge Avhich may be preferred against me in a court of 
justice, where my actions will be investigated before a legal tribunal of 
twelve honest men ; but with all the deference I feel for the Colonial 
Office, I never will consent to answer interrogatories." Ibid. 

" The Watchman'' in making some comments on the remarks of 
another Colonial newspaper, the St. Jago Gazette, respecting this cor- 
respondence, writes to this effect, in his paper of the 14th July, 1830 : 
" The Gazette observes, ' Our readers will perceive from Mr. Betty's 
reply to his Excellency Lord Belmore, who made the communication to 
him, that he has denied the truth of Wbitehouse's allegations; and frowf 
Mr. Betty's well known character for honour and integrity, which he has 
borne for a long series of years, we cannot doubt that when the matter 
is properly investigated, their falsehood will be completely exposed.' :*«• 
" Now, our readers will perceive, that so far from Mr. Betty's letted 
to the Earl of Belmore, containing a denial of Mr. Whitehouse's 
statement, it, in point of fact, corroborates it. — For example, Mr. 
Whitehouse charges Mr. Betty with having threatened to send Henry 
Williams, a slave belonging to Rural Retreat plantation, then under 
his management, to Rodney Hall workhouse, if he should hear that he 
(Henry) went to the chapel again— with having actually sent the above- 
named negro to the workhouse, and with punishing him for saying that 
he could not give up his religion. To this, Mr. Betty replies, ' I cer- 
tainly did confine Henry Williams in the St. Thomas' in the Vale 
workhouse, for disobedience of my orders, in fact, for openly setting 
me at defiance, before the rest of the slaves. That the slave became 
sick there, and that I removed him, is equally certain.' ^ «.;..,.'? 

" After an acknowledgement of this kind, nothing remains but*fob 
Mr. Betty to state (what he appears very desirous to keep back) the 

3 o 



434 State of Law and Manners in Jamaica Illustrated. 

nature of the orders which he asserts Henry refused to obey. He is 
also silent as to the punishment said to have been inflicted. This, how- 
ever does not surprise us ; on the contrary, we are only surprised that 
he has acknowledged so much ; — enough indeed to lead to the con- 
clusion that 'when the matter is properly investigated, their truth will 
be completely established.' 

" To return to the St. Jago Gazette. Its editor goes on to say, * On 
a former occasion we observed that the eager attention which the Co- 
lonial Office paid to complaints of this nature, was a complete proof 
iof its being governed by Mr. Stephen ; and this affords another confir- 
mation of the justice of our remark — that the Colonial Minister was 
ptoo much guided and led astray by the machinations of our enemies.' 
to " That the Colonial Office is under the government of Mr. Stephen, 
and that the Colonial Minister is guided and led astray by the machina- 
tions of our enemies, because he listens to the representations made to 
him on behalf of suffering humanity, is a deduction quite natural to a 
slave-holder, whose interest it is to perpetuate the present inhuman sys- 
tem, and to treat as ' calumnies' and ' falsehoods' every complaint of 
that kind, must be admitted. It is not, however, quite clear that it is 
correct. Nor should we have supposed that the editor of the St. Jago 
Gazette, would condescend to make use of such an old thread-bare, 
common-place, assertion, in defence of a gentleman of Mr. Betty's 
* honour' and ' integrity.' 

" ' We know,' (observes our contemporary) * the St. Thomas in the 
Vale workhouse to be a well regulated and humane house of correc- 
Hon, in which every indulgence and comfort are granted to those con- 
fined therein,' and then he adds, by way of qualification, (and a very 
necessary one we think it is,) ' that is consistent with the nature of the 
institution, as a place of confinement for runaway and unruly slaves.' 
But let us look at Mr. Betty's account of this place — ' I preferred' (he 
says) ' that place of confinement' (the St. Thomas' in the Vale work- 
house) * because I knew that it was under very judicious management — 
that proper and sufficient food is supplied, and whether the prisoners 
be poor or rich, they have nothing but the prison allowance, whilst at 
St. Ann's Bay, the discipline is more relaxed, and the friends and ac- 
quaintances of the prisoners have access to them.' Ergo, St. Thomas 
hi the Vale is the worse of the two ; the seat of the greatest darkness, 
and therefore, I sent Henry Williams there, knowing that he would 
be much more cruelly punished. 

" * Such studied and mischievous misrepresentations' (continues Mr. 
Lunan, the editor of the Gazette), * on the part of the Missionary 
preachers, will soon, however, counteract their own designs ; for every 
sectarian must now be considered as a spy in the land. Some, indeed, 
may be innocent, but from the difficulty of discovering those who are 
so, all will be suspected, and every man who has the least regard for 
the peace and welfare of the Colony will now watch them as enemies,- 
and be slow to encourage them.' 

" Short as is this paragraph, and mild the language in which it is 
couched, it nevertheless contains, in the first place, an unfounded as- 
'^^i-tion that the Missionaries are guilty of ' mischievous misrepresenta- 



iy»uym>i0onduct of the Police of Kingston. 436 

tlon's ; ' AiJid'^iti the next, an admirable sample of Colonial justice. 
• Some, indeed, may be innocent, but from the difficulty of discovering 
those Avho are so, all will be suspected.' Now, we should be glad to 
know how our contemporary would like to have his conduct and that 
o( his friend, tried by this rule, which he has thought proper to lay 
down, and by which the guilt or innocence of the Missionaries is to be 
ascertained." 

" It also remains to be shown in what respects the Missionaries 
have been guilty of misrepresentation. — Assertions are not proofs ; 
and we should hope, for the honour of Mr. Lunan, that he is prepared 
to substantiate the charge he has so gravely brought forward. From 
another quarter it would be treated with contempt. Coming, however, 
as it does from the custos of St. Catherine's, who is also a Member of 
Assembly,' it is calculated to mislead. Under such circumstances, then, 
we must be excused for leaving out of sight, for the present, our oft- 
expressed respect for that gentleman, and telling him that either he 
must produce his proofs, or sit down under the odious charge of 
having hazarded an assertion which, to say the least of it, is not true." 

3. Police of Kingston. 

The Watchman of the 10th July, 1830, contains the following case 
of outrageous cruelty, combined with a gross violation of the sanctity of 
the Sabbath : 

" Yesterday morning, William Henry Hall, esq. a magistrate of this 
city, preferred a complaint to the sitting magistrates, J. Smith, and J. 
Nethersole, esqrs. against Mr. W. J. Harvey, a white person, employed 
on the wharf of Messrs. John Wilson and Co., for cruelty towards two 
negro men slaves belonging to the drogging (coasting) schooner Judith 
Farmer, lying along-side that Avharf. 

" Mr. Hall stated, that about six o'clock on Monday afternoon he re- 
ceived information that two negroes had been flogged in the workhouse 
early that morning, by order of Mr. Harvey, their owner, and on their 
return to the vessel, that they were chained down to the deck by the 
wrist, where they remained the whole day, with the lacerated parts ex- 
posed to the heat of the sun. He then proceeded to the wharf with two 
constables, and, on going on board, found the negroes still chained on 
the deck. They had on only their shirts. He ordered a pair of panta- 
loons to be given to each of them, and desired the constables to release 
them from the chain, and to take them to the cage ; at the same time, 
warning Mr. Harvey, the owner of the slaves, and Captain Bacon, the 
commander of the schooner, to appear on the following morning before 
the sitting magistrates. 

" Captain Bacon, the commander of the vessel, stated, that on Sunday 
morning, the two men present, Bush and Bull, left the vessel with two 
other negroes, named John Uter and William : that they returned on 
board early on Monday morning, and resumed their work. Shortly after, 
Mr. Harvey came on board, and on demanding their reasons, for not 
loading the vessel on Sunday ; they answered, that they thought it very 
hard they were not to be allowed even one Sunday ; they were not insolent. 
Mr. Harvey then seized them, and placed them in a boat, for the purppse 



•iSQ State of Law and Manners in Jamaica illustrated. 

of giving them a flogging in the workhouse, to which place he took them. 
When he returned on board with the negroes, (about seven o'clock the 
same morning,) he ordered witness to chain them, which he did. Mr. 
Harvey came on board several times during the day, and saw where the 
negroes were lying, and the naked state in which they were, but gave 
no orders that they should be removed out of the heat of the sun, or 
that pantaloons be put on them. Bush and Bull remained in that ex- 
posed situation from about seven o'clock in the morning, till six in the 
evening, when the magistrate and constables released them. He had 
no fault to find with the negroes ; they certainly were not the very best 
of negroes. Bush was a little trickified, but generally he had no fault to 
find with them. They were flogged and chained for no other offence 
than for not loading the vessel on a Sunday. 

" [During the examination, Mr. Harvey whispered something twice or 
thrice to Capt. Bacon, who answered, ' I must speak the truth, Mr. 
Harvey ;' -for doing which he has since been discharged.]" 

" There were several other witnesses present ready to corroborate th6 
statement of Mr. Hall and the Captain, as well as to prove Mr. Harvey's 
general cruel treatment of the negroes under his control, but the ma- 
gistrates refused to examine them. 

" Mr. Smith (one of the magistrates) said, he conceived that Mr. Har- 
vey acted very properly in correcting his negroes as he did. He was of 
opinion, that it was highly necessary that they should have been on board 
on Sunday ; and, with regard to their being exposed to the sun all day, he 
knew that they preferred being in the 8un than to be in the shade. In 
fact, he knew it, and therefore dismissed the complaint." 

The proceeding in this case was vindicated by other nev/spapers, and 
particularly by the Courant. In reply to them, the editor of the Watch- 
man puts the following stringent questions : 

" 1st. By what law was Mr. Harvey authorised to punish, by the in- 
^iction of thirty-nine lashes each, two men, merely because they would 
not work on the Sabbath-day ? 

" 2d. Was it necessary to ensure obedience, after they had been flogged, 
-to handcuff" them to a chain cable, on the deck of a vessel, from seven 
o'clock in the morning, till half-past six o'clock in the evening ? 

" 3d. Was it, or was it not, cruelty to confine them, in the manner de-^ 
■scribed, during the whole day, in a hot sun, in a state of partial nudity, 
at the risk of their lives ? 

''4th. What would have been the consequence, had it come on suddenly 
to blow (as it is said Xo have done on the day previous) half a gale of 
wind ? And whether such an event might not have been attended with 
the loss of those unfortunate individuals' lives ? 

" If Mr. Harvey, or the magistrates, will reply satisfactorily to these 
questions, we will then acquit the former of the charge of cruelty, and 
the latter of having outraged common sense, by declaring that he acted 
very properly in correcting his negroes as he did ! 

•" But, observes Mr. Smith, ' it was highly necessary that they (the 
negroes) should have been on board on Sunday." In making this ob- 
servation, did Mr. Smith reflect for one moment ?/;% they were not on 
board on that day? Or will he pretend to say that he was at the time 



Conduct of the Police of Kingston. 437 

ignorant of the reason ? If he was, we are not, and it is this. — They were 
not on board on Sunday, because had they been, they would have been 
compelled to load the vessel on that day. Granting, however, that it is 
necessary that some person should remain on board the vessel, we are 
inclined to inquire where was the necessity for the whole of the negroes 
being on board ? Sunday, it is well known, is said to be a day of rest 
to the slaves, as well as to the free. The wharves, and other places of 
business, are, or ought to be, closed on that day. All that was necessary 
ihen, was for one or two men to remain on board the Judith Farmer, to 
take care of her, and the others were certainly entitled by law, as well as 
custom, to go on shore and employ their time as they pleased. The Cap- 
tain, be it recollected, stated, that the vessel was made fast to the wharf, 
and that a negro man, his own property, and a negro boy belonging to 
Mr. Harvey, remained on board with him all Sunday. In the present 
instance, however, we find Mr. Harvey going round, on the Saturday, 
to the different wharves from which his vessel, the Judith Farmer, had 
to take goods, and requesting those goods to be left on the bridge of 
the wharf, so as to enable him to employ his negroes on Sunday in taking 
them off, and therewith loading his vessel ! In order, then, to avoid 
what they very properly considered a hardship, namely, loading the 
vessel on Sunday, the negroes went away, and did not return until six 
o'clock the following morning. For this heinous crime, two of these 
men received thirty-nine lashes each, and were handcuffed to the chain 
cable of a vessel in Kingston harbour, until liberated by a magistrate ; 
and yet this is the kind of conduct that Mr. James Smith and Mr. John 
Nethersole attempt to justify, and to examine and decide upon which 
they, as magistrates, meet and award Justice by dismissing the com- 
plaint. 

" But, further observes Mr. Smith, ' with regard to their (the negroes) 
being exposed to the sun, I know that they prefer being in the sun than 
to be in the shade.' Without inquiring from whence Mr. Smith drew 
his stock of information, we must be allowed to say, that his assertion is 
inconsistent with truth ; the negroes do not prefer the burning heat of 
the sun, to the refreshing coolness of the shade ; and of the correctness 
of this assertion, one day's observation of the negroes in this town will 
satisfy any impartial man. Had he said, that from being compelled to 
be almost always in the sun, they can bear the heat better than any 
other class of the inhabitants, he would have been nearer the truth ; but 
we have yet to learn that the being obliged to bear is synonymous with 
being fond of ; and we are inclined to believe that Mr. Smith would 
soon be of our way of thinking, if he had ten of the thirty-nine lashes 
on his posteriors which were inflicted upon Bush and Bull, and be placed 
on the deck of the Judith Farmer in a broiling sun, for two hours, with 
his colleague by way of companion ! 

" The plain simple fact is — the magistrates who sat on this occasion, 
like most Jamaica magistrates, look upon the negroes as being little 
better than beasts of burden ; and they will allow almost any crime 
committed against them to pass unheeded, and consequently unpunished ! 
After the sample that we have seen of these gentlemen in Saint Ann's, 
in this town, and in other parishes of the island, are we not justified in 



438 State of Law and Manners in Jamaica Illustrated . 

again declaring that impartial justice never has, nor ever will be, awarded 
that much injured and unfortunate race of men under the existing 
regime ?" 

In the next number of the Watchman, the subject is resumed. 

" In our last," says the editor, " we offered a few remarks on the 
conduct of Messrs, James Smith and Nethersole, the magistrates who 
decided that Mr. J. W. Harvey had acted properly in inflicting thirty- 
nine lashes each on two negro men belonging to him, and afterwards 
handcuffing them to the chain cable of the schooner Judith Farmer, 
from seven in the morning till half-past six o'clock in the evening. We 
also stated, that the Courant had suppressed every part of the evidence 
which went to fix the charge of cruelty on Mr. Harvey, and that its 
object evidently was to justify that gentleman s conduct on the ground 
that the punishment was mild, and no more than the negroes deserved. 
Since then, we have received a letter from Capt. Bacon relative to the 
subject, in which he clearly shews how shamefully his evidence has been 
falsified and garbled, and language put into his mouth which he never 
uttered, in order to give a colouring to this infamous transaction. 

" The fact of Capt. Bacon's being immediately discharged, proves to a 
demonstration that the individual who regards the solemn obligations 
of an oath as being paramount to personal interest, is not the kind of 
character likely to do well in Jamaica ! 

" Capt. Bacon observes, ' Mr, Harvey asked me on Monday night what 
kind of testimony I intended to give, and, on my answering him I 
could not tell, I would answer truly io whatever I was asked; he replied, 
then I do not think you will be a friend of mine, and I must get some 
other person to plead for me.' 

" Finding that Capt. Bacon was not to be tampered with, Mr. Harvey 
immediately determines upon pursuing the line of conduct almost inva- 
riably pursued in cases of this kind — that is, in attempting to throw 
discredit upon his testimony, by making it appear that his having been 
discharged was the reason why he spoke as he did ; or, to be more 
plain, that he was actuated by vindictive motives in stating what he did, 
because he had been discharged. This ground, we are, however, glad 
to perceive, had been rendered untenable by Capt. Bacon's explanation. 

" It further appears, that it was the constant practice on board the 
Judith Farmer to punish the negroes in this dangerous as well as inhu- 
man manner. With all due deference, however, to the "profundity of 
Messrs. Smith and Nethersole's wisdom, we must be allowed to say, 
that not only is it not the practice on board of droggers to confine ne- 
groes in this manner, but that it is also repugnant to the spirit of our 
much boasted slave law; and that consequently no man, whatever may 
be his rank or condition, has a right to treat his slaves in the way that 
Mr. Harvey has done. 

" That Mr. Harvey is as cruel a slave-owner as any in the city of 
Kingston, if not in the island of Jamaica, is a fact too notorious to be 
denied, even by his champions. Nor is it irrelevant to the subject tb 
mention a circumstance, which must go to justify the negroes for having 
left the schooner, after they had done that which alone they are required 
on board of other droggers to do, and ought to d6 on Sundays, nainelyji 



Decision of the Vere Quarter Sessions. 439 

washing the decks. It is this : they had been employed from six o'clock 
on the Saturday morning until two o'clock on Sunday morning in load- 
ing the Judith Farmer, with only two intervals, during which they took 
their breakfast, consisting of corn-meal and mackarel, at seven o'clock 
in the morning, and their dinner of the same kind of food, at seven 
o'clock in the evening. Yet, although they had been worked till two 
o'clock on Sunday morning, they were required by their humane owner 
to turn to work again at seven o'clock ; and to avoid which, they went 
away, and were subsequently punished in the manner already described. 
So much for the propriety of that gentleman's conduct, and the justice 
of the magistrates' decision ! And here we leave this subject, with an 
assurance to John Nethersole, and James Smith, esqrs. that they are 
quite at liberty to snarl and shew their teeth, (for more they cannot do,) 
whilst we proceed in the discharge of our duty, regarding their malice 
with contempt, and their want of common humanity and common sense 
with pity 1" 

4. Ve7'e Quarter Sessions. 

In the Watchman of the 7th August, 1830, we have the following 
communication : 

" On Tuesday, the 24th ult., the folio vising trial took place before 
Justices Holmes, M'Leod, Lewis, and Mr. Sconce, at the quarter ses- 
sions, in the parish of Vere. 

"A negro man slave, belonging to the Bog Estate, in that parish, 
named George Ancle, was brought to the bar, charged with holding and 
attending nightly meetings, in defiance of the 51st clause of the island 
slave law. Prisoner pleaded Not Guilty. 

" Mr. Syers, overseer of the Bog, sworn. On Monday, 21st June, a 
man was sent to me by the driver, as being a preacher about our negro 
houses. He was decently dressed, and had on a black coat. I talked a 
little with him, and then ordered him off the property. 

" Head driver sworn. I have seen prisoner stand up, and pray ; did 
not see any pulpit. I sometimes go to hear him, and plenty others go. 
Some pray. We meet on Sunday afternoons ; I sometimes stay till all 
is over ; it is not later than eight or nine o'clock. Never see or know 
him to get any money. I go to hear prayers, and to pray to God. 
Never knew the negroes to neglect their work, or turn out later in the 
mornings in consequence. 

"John Chambers, head watchman of the Bog, and a Christian, sworn. 
The prisoner is a preacher ; he has been in the habit of praying many 
years. Since old massa's time, myself and others go and hear him ; 
they meet on Sunday afternoons, and Friday nights, at dark ; can't say 
the time ; the candles were lighted. We did not know it was any harm 
to go and hear of our duty to God. I have seen the prisoner preaching ; 
I can't say what time when we break up. Prisoner never had a book. 
We all sang hymns also. There was never any money collected ; never 
saw or heard of the prisoner getting paid for his preaching, either by 
money, fowls, pigs, or any other thing else. 

" Thi5 driver was here called upon to give the prisoner a character. 
Prisoner is a carpenter ; a very good working man, a moral man ; nevep 
knew him to get into faults, or run away ; always pleased every one* ,,0 



440 State of Law and Manners in Jamaica — Rev. Mr. Bridges. 

" The prisoner was here asked what he had to say in his defence. 
He said he attended church and chapel whenever he could himself, arid' 
heard the good word ; he thought it was no harm to tell it to his fellows- 
slaves, and to pray with, and for them, that God may bless them all. 

" The court then addressed him, saying, that the jury had found him ' 
guilty of preaching ; and as such, and in order to deter others from the 
like, the sentence of the court was, that he should be taken toClarendori 
workhouse, and there placed to six months' hard labour." 

5. Defence of the Rev. Mr. Bridges. 

It is a further proof of the zeal with which the cause of inhumanity 
is upheld in Jamaica, that the Coilrant, the paper in that island, which 
is regarded as the organ of the assembly and of the colonial party ge- 
nerally, has introduced the following shameless libel on the Bishop of 
that island, because he appears to have been scandalized at the conduct 
of the Rev. Mr. Bridges. It is inserted in the Courant of the 7th 
July, and forms the leading article of the paper of that day: — 

" We understand," says the editor, "from authority on which we can 
rely, that the Bishop, backed by Mr. Anti-slavery Secretary Pringle's 
influence with the crown office, has obtained the Attorney General's 
garbled documents against Mr. Bridges, which Lord Belmore, it. seems, 
very judiciously refused; and that the prelate intends to attempt the 
utter ruin of that persecuted gentleman and his family ! We know not 
what inquisitorial power the Bishop possesses under a law blindly as- 
sented to by our legislature ; but we are quite certain that the House 
of Assembly never contemplated bestowing such power on any man. 
And, after all, what has Mr. Bridges done ? We know what he has 
done to serve the colony, and we know that it is that alone which stirs 
the bile of his malignant oppressors. But let us ask, what is the out- 
ward and visible plea for all this persecution 1 Why, he did what every 
owner of a slave is daily obliged to do : he ordered an insolent slave 
to be punished with switches ; and the slave was suborned by the Me- 
thodists to declare that she had been punished overmuch. A council 
of protection examined the slave, and investigated the matter within 
a few days of its being inflicted; when, if severe, it would have been 
visible on her person. No such violence appeared. The woman was 
detected in the grossest deception and falsehood, and the rector stood 
perfectly acquitted of the malicious charge. His enemies, the Metho- 
dists, represented the matter in their own way to the Anti- slavery 
Society; and Mr. Hugo James (the Attorney General), we suppose, to 
gratify that respectable body, indicted Mr. Bridges a twelvemonth af- 
terwards. The grand jury, after minute investigation, threw out the 
bill on the clearest evidence. The Bishop, to satisfy his episcopal 
spleen, and wreak his vengeance on a clergyman who rejected his 
chaplaincy, now seeks to deprive him of his bread on the ground of an 
offence which three tribunals, composed of honest men, have declared 
on their oaths that he did not commit ! Will Jamaica permit this ? 
Never. 

" But we happen to have some little information as to the domestic 
lives of this said Bishop and his clergy, arid with some degree of confi- 



Profosed Jamaica Anti-Slavery Society. 441 

dence we will ask the Bishop whether he never ordered a servant to be 
punished, not with switches, but with the cart-whip, and with thirty- 
nine lashes instead of five ? Did the venerable archdeacon, at a certain 
tavern on the north-side, never take the law into his own hands and 
punish his servant himself, and then give him sundry dollars to proceed 

one stage further with him ? Did the very Rev. the D, of , never 

chastise a servant in the fancy hne ? We could cite many more, even 
among the clergy. Then what has Mr. Bridges done in comparison to 
all this ? Why is he the man whom the mild, the charitable, the bene- 
volent Bishop of Jamaica, said he would drive off the island, when he 
himself first set foot on it, because he was a ' pamphleteering parson V 
Such were his very words — that is, because he had defended the cha- 
racter of the colony against Wilberforce and his infamous crew.- The 
Clergy Bill and the Bishop's authority expire with the present year. 
Will Jamaica foster a man who entertains feelings like these? Let her 
look to this — We shall."" 

We think it honourable to the Bishop that he should have become 
the object of calumny to the partizans of colonial abuses. It is the fate 
which all, who will honestly perform their duty as public functionaries, 
must expect to encounter; and he only shares the lot of those who have 
preceded him in that righteous course. 

The statements of the Courant, in exculpation of Mr. Bridges, are 
some of them so obviously untrue, so opposed to the unquestionable 
facts of the case, that we must believe that the charges preferred 
against the bishop and archdeacon, with a view of relieving the imputa- 
tions on Mr. Bridges from a share of their enormity, by associating others 
in equal guilt, to be equally false and unfounded. If those charges 
were even true, they might tend to prove the hateful nature of slavery, but 
they could do little to clear the character of Mr. Bridges. — There is one 
part, however, of the Courant's defence, for which we thank him, because 
there he is a competent and credible witness. " After all," he says^ 
" What has Mr. Bridges done?" " Why," replies the editor, " he did 
what every owner of a slave is daily obliged to do." That is to say, he 
flogged his female slave on the bared body with bamboo rods, till her 
back was covered with gore. Surely there must be somewhat of exag- 
geration in the testimony of this eager partizan of Mr. Bridges. Surely 
there must be some owners of slaves in Jamaica who do not daily thus 
disgrace themselves. But even if we assume, that in the too zealous 
advocacy of his friend he has surpassed the limits of truth, yet, if his 
statement is to be regarded as even approaching those limits — he gives 
a still more revolting representation of Jamaica law and manners, 
than even we should have dared to exhibit. 



III. — Jamaica Anti-Slavery Society proposed. 

In the Watchman, of the 31st July 1830, is inserted a letter to the 
Editor, from a Hater of Slavery, to this effect ; — " What think you 
of the propriety of establishing an ' Anti-slavery Society' in this island? 
It might Inspire our brethren in England with more ardour, in fighting 
for the abolition of slavery, to know that they had spies on the spot to 

3 p 



442 Anti-Slavery Meetings — Ipswich — Rev. Mr. Orton. 

give information on which they might depend." The reply of the 
Editor is as follows : — " We cannot, in justice, be averse to a proposi- 
tion in itself so liberal, and so consistent with the spirit of humanity. 
Nay, the subject is one that has occupied the minds of several influen- 
tial persons, and we can find no reason operating against the formation 
of such a Society." 

IV. — Anti-Slavery Meetings. 

It would be beyond our power, and would far exceed the capacity of 
oiir pages, to enter into any detailed account of the various meetings 
which have taken place during the current month, with a view to pro- 
mote the early and entire extinction of negro slavery. We must of ne- 
cessity content ourselves with seizing on any circumstances of a new 
and important character which may have occurred to throw additional 
light on the question, or to give additional confirmation to the esta- 
blished facts and relations of the subject. It is in this view that we are 
led to single out the particular occurrences to which we are now about 
to advert. 

A meeting was held at Ipswich, on the 24th of September last, 
which was very numerously and respectably attended, and where reso- 
lutions were adopted, and petitions framed, in unison with the now pre- 
vailing sentiment — that it is the imperative duty of this Christian nation 
to put an end forthwith to the crime of colonial slavery. One of the 
speakers, on that occasion, was the Rev. Mr. Orton, who, after a resi- 
dence of about six years in Jamaica, as a missionary, in connection with 
the Wesleyan Methodists, lately returned to England, in the hope, 
through the divine blessing, to repair his shattered constitution. Our 
readers are already conversant with Mr. Orton's labours and sufferings 
in the service of his Master, and of those outcasts from the pale of hu- 
manity, for whom that Master shed his blood — the negro slaves of Ja- 
maica. In the zealous discharge of his missionary duties, he was 
necessarily brought into close contact with slavery, and had a full 
opportunity of estimating its real nature and effects. His courage and 
constancy, and at the same time his meekness, in circumstances of pe- 
culiar trial and of persecution ; the admitted uprightness of his cha- 
racter; and his disinterested devotedness to the cause of Christian truth, 
are pledges for the correctness of his representations, especially as le 
has had full means of verifying them, so as to escape those illusions which 
a hasty and cursory view of the facts, for which he makes himself 
responsible, might possibly have caused. We give, therefore, the 
substance of his personal testimony on this subject, with more than 
ordinary confidence; and with no less confidence do we recommend 
it to the attentive consideration, of our readers. — Mr. Orton said, 
he came forward with much diffidence, particularly on account of 
the peculiar circumstances in which he stood. It had been his lot, 
as a Minister of the Gospel, to suffer from those who were opposed 
to the religious instruction of the slaves. He, however, could con- 
scientiously disclaim any thing like vindictive feeling, and trusted 
that, in the midst of severe persecutions, he had been influenced by 



Ipswich Anti-Slavery Meeting — Mr. Or ton. 443 

that Christian principle which led him to commiserate the condition of 
his worst persecutors, and sincerely to pray for those by whom he had 
been despitefuUy used. And he assured the meeting, that nothing 
short of a sense of duty, arising from an utter abhorrence of Slavery, 
produced by personal observation, would have induced him to come 
forward in compliance with the pressing invitation he had received to 
lend his feeble aid to a cause which had for its object the extermination 
of a systenr so fraught with evil. He had had many painful oppor- 
tunities of witnessing the horrors of slavery. He had heard the clank- 
ing of the chains of the poor negroes ; he had listened to their heart- 
rending shrieks under the lash of the whip ; nor had he become callous 
to them, as might be the case with some long accustomed to view, and 
to participate in, and to profit by, such scenes of human misery. His 
hatred to it as a most brutal system, had increased in proportion to the 
length of his acquaintance with it. It had been suggested by 
one of the preceding speakers, that slavery was bad in principle, and 
cruel in practice ; he desired to corroborate those sentiments. They 
were all agreed that slavery was bad in principle. How many of our 
fellow men were deprived by it of the common rights of God's rational 
creatures. Having no property even in their own persons or in their 
families, parents and their offspring being the common chattels of 
their owners, they were subject to disposal, and liable to painful se- 
parations at the mere caprice, or convenience of the master. He had 
frequently witnessed, v/ith feelings of the highest indignation, the sale 
of human beings in the public market, consisting chiefly of the Mar- 
shal's seizures for debt, upon whom violent hands had been laid under 
the moot painful circumstances, and who were thus dragged to the 
market and sold to the highest bidder. Neither could the slave legally 
acquire property of any description; and thus he was made to endure more 
than the common curse of man. His brow sweats by excessive toil 
under a burning sun, where nature had provided, by rapid vegetation 
and the fruitfulness of the earth, for the incapacity of man intensely 
to toil in such a climate. The unhappy result was, that thousands 
dragged out a miserable existence, and that there was a most prodigal 
waste of human life ; and all this for the pecuniary advantage of a 
few individuals, the labourers themselves having nothing in the form of 
equivalent for such a cruel extortion of severe and uncompensated toil. — 
Slavery was not only bad in principle, but cruel in practice. Of this 
the British public heard something, but very partially, and they had 
been grievously misled by misrepresentations ; though he felt disposed 
to give slave-owners residing in England, credit for ignorance of many 
abuses practised towards their own slaves. But those who have had 
opportunities of witnessing slavery in its undisguised state, not in its 
holiday attire, not veiled by preparatory arrangements from the view of 
an unexpected visitor ; such persons could alone see and hear and,, 
know the horrors of slavery. The excessive labour extorted from the^^j 
slave is certainly one of the worst features of this cruel system.^! 
Various statements had been given as to the number of hours the slav.^^^ 
had to be employed for his master ; he would state, and that wilhot^tfi - 
any fear of successful contradiction, that calculating from the time the 



444 Ipswich Anti-hlavery Meeting -^Mi'.Ortdn. 

•ai^ffs -i-ynnnU^'si Tmm m feiifii o;.^ ; ■ ■ " ,•• ^ - ',;,. if.,.i.v/0'= -4 -n- 

jl><^-ro IS called fro ui his rest by the smack of the whip, or other Sigtiaf, 

il^e.i^s eniploy^id for his master, taking the average of the year round'^ 

^Vpm fifteen to sixteen hours every day. He had been in the habit of 

|jyr,iayeliiiig- much in the night, or early in the morning, and had fre- 

QUqntly observed the negroes on the stir, and travelUng to the field be- 

gwrpen the hours of three and five o'clock ; and had witnessed the 

j|pgS^"&" of slaves before five in the morning for not being earlier at 

„|ii€;jt- work. He had also seen them in the field, during crop time, aS 

^l^teas nine or ten o'clock at night ; and all tliis exclusive of the con- 

ji|j[,a»u night work going on during crop in the mill and boiling-house. 

^-^l feast in some instances, he could say, from his own knowledge, that 

|il)|e hours of employment were excessive and cruel, and they might be 

g^p: in alt with impunity. It was almost unnecessary to dwell upon the 

.jgpercive measures adopted for obtaining such excess of labour ; it was 

„^ell known that the whip was the constant and only stimulus to com- 

„pel them to toil beyond the capability of nature itself. This instru- 

])^ent, of which he gave a description, when adroitly applied, cuts most 

gSpverely, literally lacerating the flesh at every stroke. He, howevef, 

g|^:t,^SG^^ satisfaction in stating, that this awful instrument was growing 

^1^1,0 dis|^ste, and he could confirm a statement that had been made to 

j^tl)e meeting a,s to the humane conduct of Mr. Barrett, a member of the 

^,^aica Assembly, who had spoken in the strongest terms against the 

^Jl^Q, of so horrible an instrument, and had prohibited the use of it on his 

lf^:^j^ estates entirely, not allowing it to be used even in driving bis cattle. 

„.JJe had the honour of being acquainted with that gentleman, and had 

jtjl^fen in the habit of visiting his estates as a Missionary, and he had 

"^Ij^very reason to believe that the cart-whip was never used on Mr. Bar- 

„^'gtt's property. It was however enough for the point in question, that 

jj^.uch a foul weapon might be, and was actually used, at the pleasure 

^IQf any individual, to lacerate cruelly the person of a helpless fellow 

^djj^eature. — The want of proper support and care was also a species of 

j-qi^iielty connected with slavery. Slaves in Jamaica were not supported 

g^ijom the store houses of the estate, but had allotments of land which 

((^jjthey must cultivate for their support. These negro grounds were very 

Ijjlrequently at a great distance from the estate on which they lived, 

|,y^rying from two to six or even ten or fifteen miles from their residence. 

ijjj:0; raise provisions on these grounds for their support, they were allowed 

|g,§y the law of the island one day in the fortnight, having to travel to 

Q^fd frpm the distances stated. The consequence was, that a coh- 

@j|iderable portion of their little time and strength was taken up in going 

gj^^kwards and forwards; add to which, in crop, which lasted nearly half 

csAfe year, and during whicli, they worked half the night as well as all 

3j|he, day, they seldom had aii opportunity of going to the grounds 

IjjWlieii so distant, so that these; frequently went to ruin, the provisions 

AW^^^. stolen, and the negro was dispirited, and became quite reluctant 

^gJo,,,atte,mpt to restore his land under such discouraging circumstances. 

■^'rSh^*"^ ^as, however, a small portion of pickled herrings served out to 

them, and occasionally, to women advanced in pregnancy, and children, 



„^WMiP^.Rf C0^n-i;a^£ilprgatr)n),^al.7-^^I^^ huts,)niany 

Iscenes of wretchedness' were pliese^edjin" oM and disabled ii^groesy 



Anti-Slavery Meetings — Colchester. 44S 

sorely affected with scorbutic humours, so that in some instances their 
limbs were Hterally rotting from their bodies. It must be admitted that 
this may be partly owing to neglect on the part of the negroes, but in 
most instances it arose from a constitution injured by excess of labour 
and poorness of living. — Slavery was also most injurious in its moral 
influences, it corrupted the morals, induced idleness, theft, debauchery, 
and duplicity, all of which strongly characterized the Negro Slave, 
particularly petty theft, (if so it may be called) it being difficult to con- 
vince a slave that there was any moral evil in taking his master's pro- 
visions. Slavery interfered too with the religious privileges and advan- 
tages of the negroes, depriving them of their Sabbaths, which must 
necessarily be occupied in cultivating their grounds or bringing down 
their provisions to market ; and too frequently many are employed for a 
. great portion of the Sabbath attending to sundry matters upon the 
estates. The apprehension of punishment expressly inflicted for 
attending the means of grace operates very seriously against the re- 
ligious instruction of the slave; many very distressing and weir au- 
thenticated instances of such persecution were upon record, some of 
which had come under his own immediate notice. By the provisions 
of the slave law of Jamaica, mutual instruction amongst the slaves was 
entirely prohibited, and this law had in many cases been most rigorously 
and painfully enforced. There could not be a greater hindrance than 
this to religious instruction ; many slaves from previous instruction 
being quite competent to teach, and in general astonishingly apt in com- 
municating knowledge to their fellow negroes. In fact, in a thousand 
forms over which, under existing circumstances, there could be no con» 
trol, did the hateful system of slavery obtrude itself upon the full and 
proper discharge of ministerial duties, and the religious privileges of 
the slave. He was quite aware that many gentlemen residing in Eng- 
land were desirous to afford every facility for the religious instruction 
of their slaves ; but their benevolent designs were thwarted by their 
agents, and they were in fact deceived, in many instances, by state- 
ments the most incorrect. It became therefore the duty of every man, 
and especially of those under whose observation many of those evils 
had passed, on the principles of common humanity and Christianity, to 
lift up their voice against a practice so unjust in itself, and so baneful 
in its tendencies. Mr. Orton, in conclusion, observed, that he trusted 
every exertion would be made for the immediate and entire abolition 
of Slavery. It was not a question of intricacy whether the cruel 
system of slavery should be exterminated, but one of common sense 
and of common humanity, on which the meanest and most illiterate 
were capable of deciding. He hoped the utmost efforts would be made 
to rouse the British public in general, on a question in which every man, 
nay, every woman, was deeply concerned. And he trusted that the 
mass and weight of the petitions, bearing the cries of Great Britain and 
Ireland, against oppression and cruelty, to the ears of the British 
Legislature, would impel them to the adoption of decided measures, 
for the full accomplishment of an object so desirable, and so long 
prayed for — the utter extinction of British Colonial Slavery. 

At CoLCHESTEK a similar meeting was held, on the 28th of Scp- 

3 p2 



446 Colchester Anti-Slavery Meeting — Mr. Blyth. 

tember. On this occasion, a zealous friend of the Anti-Slavery cause, 
Mr. Blyth, suggested a serious difficulty which was likely to arise 
in carrying into effect the measure of entire and immediate emancipa- 

-j^ion. It was this — " As there was no poor laws in the West Indies, 
what provision would be made for the support of the slaves generally, 
and especially of the old slaves ? Would they not be turned out to 
perish with hunger or disease, unless some provision were made for 
them ? How were they to be fed and clothed, when no longer fed and 
clothed by the owners?"— We did not perceive that any distinct solu- 
tion was given to this difficulty. It may be of use, therefore, to make 
a few remarks, in order to obviate all apprehensions of the same kind, 
which may suggest themselves to well meaning, but ill informed friends 
of our cause. Let us take, as an example, the agricultural slaves of Ja- 
maica, and let us consider how they are sustained at the present mo- 
ment. The missionary Orton has already thrown light on that question. 
As to what they receive from their masters, it may be thus estimated : — 
herrings, at an annual cost for each slave, of 8 or 10s.; seven yards of 
coarse Osnaburgh, and three yards of coarse baize, at an expense 
of 9 or 10s. more; a hat, and other small articles, which may cost 
2s. to 2s. Qd., making in all from 20s. to 22s. 6d., being a very liberal 
estimate of the master's annual supply of food and clothing for each 
slave. With these exceptions, the whole of the slave's subsistence, and 
that of his family in Jamaica, is derived from the produce of his own 
labour in the provision grounds during the 26 days in the year, which, 
besides Sundays, are by law directed to be allowed to him for this pur- 
pose. If, however, by the employment of time equal to half a day in the 
week, exclusive of Sunday, a slave and his wife can now raise food to 

\ sustain themselves and their children, it is obvious that when they have 
twelve half days in the week, besides Sunday, for the purpose, they 
will not be likely to suffer from the pressure of hunger ; or if they do, it 
will be clearly their own fault. But it will be said, that land is now given 
them by their masters, but then the masters will not be bound to give 
them any. True ; — but there is the whole soil of the island, which now 
supports them ; and which produces vast quantities of sugar, coffee, and 
other articles in addition to their food. What is to become of it ? If 
the present proprietors continue to occupy and cultivate it, it is plain 
they will require labourers, to whom they must pay reasonable wages 
for doing so ; and where are such labourers to be found, but among the 
former slaves? Or they must parcel it out, and sell or rent it to their 
former bondmen. Or they must abandon it entirely. In either case, the 
liberated negroes will enjoy abundant means of obtaining food and 
other comforts, in proportion to the labour they choose to exert; and 
tliat labour, we may rest assured, will not fall below the measure of 
their wants. No one has ever asserted that the liberated Haytians 
ever experienced the slightest difficulty in providing themselves with 

. abundance of food, and with the clothing they required ; and nothing 
can prove more decidedly the absence of any thing of that distress or dis- 
comfort, of which Mr. Blyth is apprehensive, in case even of sudden eman- 
cipation, than that while the slaves in Jamaica decrease, notwithstand- 
ing all the herrings and clothing their masters give them ; and the 



S€r?mns on Slavery-^The Rev. Mr. Wilks. Ml 

Haytians, while slaves, also decreased rapidly ; yet that, since their eman- 
cipation, the Haytians have been doubling their numbers in about 20 
to 22 years. All such fears as those of Mr. Blyth may therefore be 
dismissed as utterly vain. As for the old and infirm, they are nowr ge- 
nerally maintained, not by their masters, hut by their own feeble exer- 
tions, aided by the kindness and bounty of their relatives. ■:-5 

'. -^tf 

V. — Sermons on Slavery. 

We are anxious to call the attention of the ministers of Jesus Christ 
throughout the land, whether they belortg to the Established Church, 
or to any of the bodies dissenting from it, to the duty which devolves 
upon them at this moment of rousing their congregations to a just sense 
of the iniquity of colonial slavery — that grand national iniquity, which 
must bring down, upon our unfeeling and obstinate perseverance in it, 
the judgments of God, as certainly as they were executed upon the 
hardhearted and unrelenting monarch of Egypt ; who, in despite of re- 
peated calls and warnings, and portentous inflictions, still refused to 
" LET THE PEOPLE GO." We noticed, on former occasions, the sermons 
of the Rev. C. Townsend, and the Rev. Mr. Marriott, the Rev. R. 
Watson, and the Rev. A. Thompson on this subject. We have now to 
announce a sermon preached on the 26th of last September, at Ben- 
tinck Chapel, Mary-le-bone, by the Rev. S. C. Wilks, entitled, " The 
Duty of prompt and complete Abolition of Colonial Slavery ; " which 
we strongly recommend as a most powerful and energetic appeal to the 
national conscience. It is prefaced by a letter to the Archbishop of 
Canterbury. It is published for Hatchard, and may be also had at the 
Anti-Slavery office. We can do no more than cite two or three brief 
passages as a specimen of the spirit which animates this discourse. 
After an exposition of the evils of slavery which is just and imprci^sive, 
he tells us that there are Christians, even in this metropolis, who talk 
of " their slaves," and of the happiness of their condition. May not 
such be asked — " Are their limbs their own ? Can you not buy them, 
can you not sell them, hke brute beasts ? Can you not tear their wives 
and children from them ? Do you not work them under the lash ? May 
not you stripe them till their quivering flesh calls to heaven in vengeance 
on your head? May you not imprison them, and put them in the stocks, 
at your pleasure ? May you not sell their sons and daughters to a 
stranger ? And may not even your hired agents, your menial servants, 
do all this at your bidding? You say you are kind to them ; but how 
know you this ? Can you control the far distant agents of your au- 
thority? Can you hear their groans and sorrowful sighings across the 
Atlantic ? Your intended kindness may never be heard of by them ; 
besides, you may sell them, and soon you must die, and what cruel 
master may they not have after your death ? or you may contract a 
debt, and they may be seized and put up to auction, and scattered to 
distant parts to discharge it. And all this you call happiness! Would 
you be happy thus circumstanced ? Would you be happy to be a bond- 
man yourself, and see your children condemned for no crime to ;the 
same hereditary inheritance of tears ? " ■ni'jf! yri) n.e -Sfft 



448 Anti- Slavery Sermons — Mr. Wilks. 

He exhorts his hearers to make themselves " fully acquainted with 
the subject ;'' to take it up on Christian grounds alone; not tp suffer 
themselves to be deceived by partial statements, or to be diverted from 
the extirpation of slavery itself by any promises of amelioration ; not to 
be seduced into admitting the right of one man to hold another as a 
slave ; to urge the necessity of prompt and speedy measures for its 
utter extinction ; to employ their earnest and unceasing prayers in be- 
half of those " desolate and oppressed" outcasts ; to aid the cause by 
their unwearied exertions and liberal contributions ; to abstain from the 
use of articles which grind down the life of the slave in their produc- 
tion ; and to unite in petitions to the legislature until not one slave 
shall exist in the British dominions. And, in conclusion, be thus ad- 
dresses them : — 

" By your love then to your Saviour ; by your sense of gratitude to 
Him for his mercies to yourselves, to your souls and bodies, to your 
beloved offspring, and to all that are dear to you ; I beseech you re- 
member these your brethren in bonds as bound with them. Look for- 
ward with hope to the blessed day when, no longer smarting beneath 
the scourge, but as free and happy villagers, under the wholesome and 
mild restraint of law, they shall repair to their daily labours, and reap 
honest wages, and buy bread for their children with the fruits of 4heir 
industry ; when also they shall call those children their own, and not 
the slaves of another; when they shall have the comforts of a Christian 
Sabbath, and go to the house of God to join in the prayers and praises 
of their fellow-worshippers in every land ; when, in place of the horrible 
licentiousness which now prevails, both among Blacks and Whites, 
marriage shall be encouraged, and its ties be every where rendered 
sacred ; when the younger women, now too frequently trained to the 
service of vice, shall live in meekness and purity as disciples of Christ ; 
when the Christian minister or missionary shall no more be subjected 
to lawless violence or legal persecution, no more languish with fever 
in the noisome prison-house, or sink a blessed martyr for the name of 
his Saviour and love to those for whom he shed his blood, but be re- 
ceived and cherished as the servant of Christ and a harbinger of mercy 
to mankind ; when the Bible shall be in every hand, and all be per- 
mitted and encouraged to read it ; when even in this now desolate part 
of the Messiah's heritage, the Saviour shall see of the travail of his 
soul and be satisfied ; when master and servant shall rejoice together in 
their common Lord, and meet as brethren at his holy table ; when 
these sable sons of Ethiopia shall stretch out their hands to God; and, 
to conclude all, when that blessed day shall dawn when ' the kingdoms 
of this world shall become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ, 
aM he shall reign for ever and ever, King of kings, and Lord of lords.' '' 
'AS May multitudes of the ministers of Christ follow the example, and 
Mitate the fervour of Mr. Wilks in this sacred cause ! 

YT. — Mauritius Registry and Slave Trade. 

^ftfO'UB.; readei's are aware how entirely and exclusively the suppression 
(sf f^heslave trade in the Mauritius depends on the regularity and strict- 



Registries of MatintiHSy Bahamas, Jamakii^ <md Trinidad. 449; 

ni^§'Vkh%hic:h the registry of slaves is kept. We have shewn to what 
alP^peM the slave trade was carried on in that island down to the year 
\W^\ tfel)Ugh the designed neglect and consequent disorder of that record, , 
Gfoviefemeht being at length convinced of this, on the 30th January, 
1S26, a fresh order in council was issued, for instituting a newand more 
rigid system of registration, and the most pointed orders were given by 
Lord Bathurst for its correct and systematic enforcement. This duty 
WAS emphatically ])ressed upon the attention of the colonial authorities^ 
as a point of indispensable obligation and paramount importance. But, 
this notwithstanding, it would appear from a document lately furnished 
to the House of Commons, that disorder and irregularity still prevailed 
there, and that consequently the slave trade, which nothing but an ac- 
curate registry, it was admitted on all hands, could prevent, must also still 
{Prevail there. The document to which we allude, is entitled " An Ab- 
stract of the latest returns from each of His Majesty's slave colonies, 
(including the Mauritius, and its dependencies, and the Cape of Good 
Hope ;) of the slave population, distinguishing the sexes, specifying the 
precise date to which such returns have been made up in each colony 
respectively, and the date also at which they were received into the Re- 
gistry office, in this country." This document was ordered to be printed 
on the 16th July, 1830, and is numbered 674. The facts disclosed by this 
document are these : the registered returns of slaves in the Mauritius, 
under the new order in council, for the year 1826, were males, 47,657y 
females, 29,117, total 76,744. (Mark the disproportion of sexes as 
proof of slave trading !) Now these returns, which ought to have been 
made to the registry office in England, in 1827, were not received 
there till the 18th February, 1829. What could have caused such a 
delay, if all was fair and regular, and free from any collusive alterations 
with a view to prevent inconvenient discoveries and discrepancies, ad- 
mits, we presume, of easy explanation. But until it is explained, con- 
sidering the system of fraud and imposture which was carried on in that 
Colony for so many years, and which rendered abortive the first registra- 
tion act to any one of its remedial purposes, we must retain some lurking 
suspicions that all is not as it should be. 

But besides this, the return for 1826 is the latest that has been made. 
The new act, however, which then came into operation, peremptorily 
required, that the future returns, instead of being triennial, as formerly^ 
ishould be biennial. There ought, therefore, in order to comply with the 
provisions of the law, to have been a return for 1828, as well as for 
1826. But on the 8th July, 1830, no such return had arrived at the 
registry office in this country. What are we to think of these irregu- 
larities, after all the overwhelming proofs which the Mauritius have 
already supplied, of a firm and well-organized conspiracy among the 
whole community of slave holders and slave traders in that island to 
defeat one of the most solemn of the enactments of the British legisla- 
ture — the abolition of the African slave trade? We trust His Majesty's 
Government have already been looking to this matter ; if not, we shall 
deeply regret the oversight. 

' Bat this is not the only thing in the document before us requii^ing 
i)^jj>Hihktion. ''-From the Bahamas there Is no return latef than' the "Utbf 



450 Cape of Good Hope — French Slave Trade and Colonies. 

January, 1825, nor from Dominica and Jamaica since 1826, nor from 
Trinidad, tlie Cape of Good Hope, (where the great disproportion of sexes 
i's also most suspicious,) and the Virgin Islands, since 1825. What 
account is to be given of these negligences and irregularities? Alt 
transfers of slaves in these islands, including the Mauritius, must have 
ceased to be lawful since the time when the returns ought to have been 
furnished ; and the slaves who have been made the subjects of such 
unauthorised transfers, must have legally become forfeited to His 
Majesty. 



VII, — The Slave Trade and Colonial System of France. 

The French Moniteur of the 27th of September, contains the follow- 
ing statement of what passed in the Chamber of Deputies, on the 25th : 

General Lafayette ascended the tribune, and spoke to the following 
effect : — " I trust the Chamber will not object to my availing myself of 
the relation which the subject now before us (which was some question 
relative to the pecuniary arrangements with Hayti,) bears to the actual 
condition of our remaining colonies. I deeply regretted, at the time of 
the Constitutional Assembly, that we had not persisted in our intentions 
of placing free men of all colours on the same footing as to civil rights. 
I could have wished, also, that we had rigorously prohibited and adopted 
measures for the gradual enfranchisement of the slaves. We might 
thus have prevented the evils which have since occurred. And since 
that time, have we not had to deplore that consular and imperial system 
which sent our best troops to perish in the fatal expedition to St. Domin- 
go, and which committed the double crime of attempting to re-establish 
slavery, and reviving the slave trade, at a time when no French capital 
was embarked in it ? At present, we find ourselves in these points behind 
the United States and England, who have assimilated the trade in slaves 
to piracy, — certainly the only effectual means of repressing slavery, as 
the guilty can now secure themselves against pecuniary loss. In order 
to avoid the inconvenience of tedious discussions, I request the • 
Minister of the Marine, whose sound views on the subject I am well 
acquainted with, to inform us positively what is the determination of 
Government on the questions both of the slave trade and of the condition 
of the free people of colour in our colonies.'' 

The Minister of the Marine said, " I quite concur in the views of 
justice and humanity of the illustrious General who has just addressed 
the Chamber. It is the purpose of Government to present to the Cham- 
bers a law for inflicting the punishment of piracy on those who engage in 
the infamous slave trade. I must admit, that in spite of the measures 
of prevention adopted by the Government, though the trade has diminish- 
ed, it still exists. The punishment of piracy can alone be adequate to 
its entire repression. It might be said to the honour of France, that 
of all the maritime nations of Europe, France was, at this present 
moment, the least addicted to this odious traffic. As to the free men of 
colour in the colonies, the Government has recognised the principle that' 
there shall no longer exist any differences in the civil condition of the 
free. Accordingly, a law which should be presented, would afford the 



On Framing Petitions to Parliament. 451 

opportunity of consecrating the principle, that all the free, of whatever 
class or colour, should be equal in the eye of the law." 

We congratulate France, and the world at large, on these gratifying 
declarations. 



VIII. — On Framing Petitions to Parliament. 

An address to the public, on the subject of slavery, from the pen of 
Mr. Edmund Clarke, of Truro, has it seems been widely circulated. We 
insert part of it, as entitled to general attention at the present moment. 

" As it is intended again to apply to Parliament on this momentous subject, i* 
is desirable not only that petitions should be forwarded early in the session, but 
that they should possess such characteristics as will ensure their success. 

" They should be directed to one object : — they should convey, in reference to 
that object, the temperately expressed, yet importunate requirement of the whole 
British community. 

" Should the forthcoming petitions against Slavery possess these two features, 
the abolition of that odious crime must speedily be accomplished. These are not 
times in which a Ministry, a body of Representatives, or a House of Peers would 
withstand such an appeal as this ! ! 

" What is the object to which the prayer of every petition should be directed? 
It is that an early day be fixed, after which Slavery in the British dominions shall 
utterly and irrevocably cease. Let all the minor details of policy, commerce, 
finance, and compensation be deferred to the consideration and adjustment of 
government; while the public solicit the early extinction of Slavery as a mea- 
sure of paramount, stern, and uncompromising justice ! 

" To make amelioration any longer a prominent object will be delusive. To 
obtain the mitigation of Slavery, it now appears indispensable to abolish Sla- 
very itself. The experience of the last seven or eight years has demonstrated 
the folly of expecting any valuable improvement from the colonists. Their prin- 
ciples have been perverted, and their feelings have been obdurated by a long 
and demoralizing familiarity with the system in which they have been tutored ; 
so that every meliorating provision will be lendered nugatory by the habits and 
imagined interests of the very men who must be its executors. Besides, the 
time consumed in obtaining, or endeavouring to obtain amelioration, is so much 
lost to the ulimate design of abolition. For the last mentioned reason, it is in- 
expedient to render the emancipation of slave children, at birth or any other 
time, a separate object of solicitude ; to say nothing of the difficulty of providing 
for children whose parents would remain slaves, or of the injustice and cruelty' 
of retaining a parent in bondage while his offspring is declared free. 

" Should any object to immediate emancipation, it is replied, that justice to the 
slave, and regard to his owner's interests, both require it. If we have wronged 
the former by enslaving him, he ought to be instantly liberated. To make him 
toil for the purchase of his freedom, under the idea of preparing him for his re- 
covered rights, would seem to add insult to injury. The proprietor represents 
his property as depreciated by the agitation of the subject. For his sake, then, 
let the question be set at rest as early as possible, and he will instantly know 
what ulterior measures his interests require him to pursue. 

" Besides, the advocates for gradual emancipation must admit that every pro- 
cess, however long its course, must at some time or other reach its termination. 
Has not the slave for years been graduating for his freedom? Did not the abo- 
lition of the trade in 1807, proclaim to him the approaching extinction of the 
slave market and of slavery itself; and have not eight years nearly rolled away, 
since the far-famed resolutions of Parliament announced to him our determina- 
tion to lighten, and then remove his chains 1 Surely it is time, even on the 
gradual scheme, to bring Slavery to a close ! 

" But will it be safe to emancipate immediately ? The answer is unhesitatingly 
affirmative; and the following reasons will form its justification. 1. For many 
years past, both the slave and his owner have had reason to be assured that Sla- 



452 On Framing Petitions to Parliament. 

very must ultimately cease ; and therefore the minds of both have been long 
undergoing an anticipatory preparation. 2. Almost every slave has been move 
or less accustomed to certain modes of labour, comparatively uucompulsory, which 
must render him at any time easily convertible into a free labourer, willing to 
serve for a fair remuneration, and to subsist contentedly on the produce of his 
industry. Some, for instance, have worked by task, others have hired them- 
selves to various occupations on payinf^ their owners a certain compensation ; — 
many have been habituated to the milder form of domestic servitude ; while the 
great body of predial slaves, after all their whip-driven toils in the field, receive 
no wages, but still labour for their subsistence by cultivating the small portions 
of land allotted to them under the name of provision grounds. 3. There are 
already in the colonies, 90,000 free people of colour, a greater number than the 
whole of the whites, most of them intelligent and respectable, and in some 
islands possessing half the property. 4. A considerable portion of the slaves 
have, with the encouragement of some proprietors, and notwithstanding the vio- 
lent opposition of others, been brought under the elevating and holy influences 
of true religion. 6. All experience teaches that acts of justice and humanity, 
such as the immediate liberation of the enslaved would be, may at any time be 
performed with safety. 6. Numerous cases of immediate emancipation have 
taken place, under great diversity of circumstances, not only with safety but 
with advantage to their owners. In proof of this, reference may, be made to 
various publications. 

" On the grounds briefly stated, it is hoped that all the petitions of the empire 
will concur in the one just, humane, patriotic, politic, safe, and more than all, 
the Christian entreaty, that after an early day, Slavery may be no more ! ! 

" As to the second character w 'lich it is desirable that the proposed addresses 
to Parliament should assume, it is only requisite that every friend of the negro 
should employ a small portion of effort in his immediate locality ; and the ele- 
ments of British and Christian feeling will kindle in everyplace, and burst forth 
in one sacred and universal flame. 

"The trifling expense and trouble of circulating pamphlets, and preparing peti- 
tions on parchment or paper, will surely be incurred without regret. Every city, 
town and village, will doubtless come forward, while every Christian congrega- 
tion, of every denomination, in every town and village, will present its own 
petition to both Houses of Parliament. 

"And why should not the number be increased by a separate petition, either to 
Her Majesty or to the Legislature, from British females of every town, village, 
and congregation? Do not the over-wrought and unrecompensed labours, the 
unfeeling violations of maternal tenderness, the wretched indecencies, the brutal 
floggings, and other heart-rending woes to which their negro sisters are subjected 
by slavery, constitute a case for whose effectual relief the daughters of Britain, 
virtuous, happy, and free, may laudably exert their utmost sympathy and zeal. 

" Ministers of the Gospel ! Disciples of Jesus ! Friends of man ! Patriots ! 
Fathers ! Mothers ! Brethren ! Sisters ! Come forward — be in earnest ! Your 
country is disgraced by holding 800,000 of her subjects in a slavery more cruel 
and grievous than that of pagan antiquity ! Religion is outraged t Justice and 
humanity weep ! Resolve to seek redress. Convince the legislature that while 
respectful, you are earnest ; that while obedient for conscience' sake, you are 
determined to employ every religious and constitutional means till the crime of 
Slavery be abolished. Christian ! let your petition to an earthly power be ac- 
companied with prayer to the Supreme Director of all ; and the cause of right- 
eousness mM5^ prevail. The sighing of the prisoner, and the groan of the captive 
shall be heard in heaven ; and the decree shall go forth, — ' Thus saith the Lord 
of hosts, even the captives of the mighty shall be taken away, and the prey of 
the terrible shall be delivered.' 

.^ EDMUND CLARKE." 

-■'"JVkto, Oct. 7, 1830." 






S. Bagster, jmi. Printer, 14, Bartholomew Close, I^ndon. 



TFIE 

ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER. 

No. 70.] NOVEMBER 10, 1830. [Vol. iii. No. 22. 

I.— THE QUESTION CALMLY CONSIDERED— What will be the 
probable consequences, as affecting the public peace of the 
Colonies and the well-being of the Slaves themselves, of the 
early and entire extinction of colonial slavery, by an act of 
THE British Parliament? 

11.— DONATIONS AND REMITTANCES. 

III.— MR. STEPHEN'S SLAVERY DELINEATED. 



i. The question calmly considered — What will be the tro- 
bable consequences, as affecting the public peace of 
THE Colonies and the well-being of the Slaves them- 
selves, OF the early and entire extinction of Colonial 
Slavery, by an act of the British Parliament? 

A grave question has arisen among the best friends of the anti- 
slavery cause, as to the fitness of the slaves for the freedom which it 
is now the general wish of the British pubHc to communicate to them. 
There are many decided enemies of the colonial system, who, while they 
fully admit its criminality, and assert the full right of the slave to his 
liberty at the very earliest period which may be compatible with his 
own well being, yet assume that his immediate or even very early 
.emancipation, would necessarily be attended with injury to himself and 
with great danger to the public peace. Laying aside all consideration 
of the master's pecuniary interests ; which forms a separate and distinct 
subject of discussion; we mean now to confine our view simply to this 
point : What are the effects which an early or immediate emancipation 
of the slaves would be likely to produce on their own happiness and 
comfort, and on the peace and good order of society, supposing the le- 
gislature of this country were to pass a law for enfranchising the whole 
of the slave population ; and supposing, moreover, that the proprietors 
of the slaves were to make no attempt to resist the execution of that 
enactment. We add this last conditrn, because we believe, that in 
the case of a parliamentary emancipation of the slaves, the only source 
of real injury to the well-being of the slave, or of real danger to the 
public peace, would be found in the contumacious resistance of the 
masters to the execution of such a law, and in their reluctance to forego 
those powers of arbitrary coercion and punishment, which they could 
then no longer legally exercise. — We are here supposing the case, not 
of a convulsive struggle, on the part of the oppressed negroes, to break 
asunder the odious and cruel relation of master and slave ; but of a 
legislative enactment which should dissolve it in the same calm and 
peaceful manner, in which any proprietor might say to his own slaves, 

3q 



454 The Question of early Emancipation considered. 

" You are free; — you are henceforward the masters of your own time, 
use it for the benefit of yourselves and your children, and be obedient 
subjects of the laws of the land, to which you must now look for pro- 
tection ; and regard me as a friend ready to aid and to counsel you on 
all occasions ;" — Can any one believe for one moment that the slaves, 
whom a master should thus address, instead of being grateful for the 
boon of freedom which he had conferred upon them, would proceed to 
acts of violence and outrage, of pillage and massacre ? It would be ab- 
surd to suppose that such would be the issue of this act of beneficence, 
even if there were no force in the laws which protected the peace of the 
community, nor any vigilance or activity in the executive government, 
and in the police which administered them. 

Let it be carefully kept in mind, therefore, that the emancipation, 
ihe safety of which we have to consider, is not an emancipation to be 
violently wrested, by the slave, from the opposing and conflicting master, 
but legally conferred upon him by the authority of a parliamentary en- 
actment, which the master, as a faithful subject, would not only be bound 
to obey, but to aid in carrying into effect. That the public safety, as 
well as the benefit to the slave, of such a measure, might be endangered 
by a determined resistance on the part of the master is not denied. — 
But can we suppose it possible, that if such an act of Parliament should 
have passed, a handful of white colonists in the West Indies would 
be so iDlind to the consequences of their desperate folly, as forcibly to 
resist its due execution; and thus to enter into a hopeless and ruinous 
conflict, not merely with their emancipated bondmen, now armed with a 
legal title to freedom, but with the whole power of the British empire ? 

The evils which the colonists affect to dread, from such an emancipa- 
tion of their slaves, are of two kinds — first, civil insubordination, tumult, 
and disorder issuing in pillage, conflagration, and massacre ; and, se- 
condly, the deterioration of the slave's condition, and his return to all 
the miseries and privations of the savage state. In argument, it has 
been hitherto assumed by the colonists as indisputable, that such would 
necessarily be the consequence of an immediate or even very early 
emancipation of the slaves ; and we must admit that not a few of those 
who are decided enemies to colonial slavery, both in its principle and 
practice, have far too readily yielded their assent to this unwarranted 
assumption. We call it unwarranted, because we are not aware of any 
attempt having ever been made to prove its truth.. But, surely, all who 
assert the radical injustice of colonial slavery; and that the slave has 
an undoubted right to his freedom, provided it may be safely granted to 
him ; are bound scrupulously to examine the justice of this only plea for 
prolonging his bondage for a single hour, and should demand the most 
rigid proof of its truth from those who advance it, before they consent to 
recognise its validity as a ground for retaining, in a state of abject sla- 
very, 800,000 of their fellow creatures. — But where are we to find the 
proof of the confident and unhesitating assumption, that the extinction 
of personal slavery, by law, is likely to produce such disastrous effects as 
are commonly attributed to it? We know of none ; and we call, there- 
fore, on those who, on such a plea, would retard, for a single hour, the 
deliverance of their fellow-subjects from a state of cruel thraldom, if they 



The enfranchised Population of the Slave Colonies. 455 

have any such evidence in their possession, to produce it without delay. 
We are acquainted with no such evidence. We know even of no single 
case in which an emancipation of slaves, proceeding from the legal au- 
thorities of the state, and unresisted by violence on the part of the 
masters, has led either to public disorder, or to the unhappiness and 
discomfort of the slave, or to the deterioration of his moral, intellectual, 
and political condition. If there be such a case, let it be stated and 
proved. 

We might here close the discussion. — Those who agree in the utter 
injustice of colonial slavery, and the indisputable right of the black no 
less than the white to employ his time and labour for his own benefit, 
will not deny that, if we consent to prolong this injustice, and to with- 
hold this right, we are bound to produce some satisfactory justification 
of our conduct, beyond vague surmises of possible evil, unsupported not 
merely by the general current of past experience, but by a single fact to 
give to such surmises even the colour of probability. 

But though the burden of proof, in this case, thus rests entirely with 
the opponents of early or immediate emancipation, yet we will not limit 
ourselves to the simple denial of their unfounded assumption; but pro- 
ceed to prove, by an induction of undeniable facts, not only that there 
exists no good ground on which to pronounce the slaves unfit for the 
immediate enjoyment of their personal liberty, but that there are ample 
grounds for a directly opposite conclusion. What we undertake to 
show is, that their emancipation, by an act of the legislature, peaceably 
acquiesced in on the part of the masters, is a measure pregnant with no 
public danger, and with no injurious consequences to the well-being of 
the slaves themselves. 

We would premise that, in the whole of our slave colonies, including 
the Cape of Good Hope, and the Mauritius, there are at the present 
moment about 108,000 whites; 144,000 free blacks and persons of co- 
lour ; and 813,000 slaves. Excluding the Cape and the Mauritius, and 
confining the enumeration to our slave colonies in the West, the popula- 
tion will stand nearly thus: — 57,000 whites ; 100,000 free blacks and 
persons of colour; and 702,000 slaves; independently of the amount 
of the naval and military forces employed in colonial service. 

Now, these 100.000 free black or coloured persons, existing in the 
British West Indies, (being nearly double the number of whites) — -what is 
their origin, and how have they attained to a state of freedom ? They 
are, almost all, either slaves that have been emancipated by due course 
of law, or the descendants of such. But has any inconvenience arisen 
from the emancipation of this large body of persons ? Has any public 
disturbance, or any peculiar evil to the slaves, resulted from it ? We 
believe not. We certainly have never heard of any such result ; or even 
that any such result has ever been attributed, by the colonists themselves, 
to the Hberation from personal bondage of these 100,000 individuals. 

Of this large number, 40,000 are to be found in the single Colony of 
Jamaica. But who has ever heard of any civil disturbance caused by 
this body, although they out-number the whites, in the proportion of 
nearly three to one? Or who has ever heard of the general prevalence of 
distress among them ? On the contrary, it is admitted, on all hands, 



45G Enfranchised Population of Jamaica, Trimdad, Grenada. 

that as citizens they are peaceable and loyal in theii^ demeanour : and that 
they are increasing daily, in number, in wealth, and in respectability. 
They have not only been put in possession of personal liberty, but they 
are armed and drilled for military service, and form in fact, the efficient 
militia force of the colony. , Can it be shewn (it never has been shewn) 
that they have abused either their liberty, or their military equipment and 
array, to the disturbance of the public peace; or that the subsistence of 
themselves and their growing families has been derived from any other 
source than their own exertions, in such paths of industry as llie op- 
pressive restrictions under which they are placed by the whites have 
left open to them ? 

Nor is this a mere inference of ours. At the close of the session of 
1824, when the community of Jamaica had been disturbed, for months, 
by vain and unfounded rumours of servile insurrection, a committed of 
its legislative Assembly drew up an elaborate report on its internal 
state, which concludes with this remarkable testimony to the good con- 
duct of these freed people : " Their conduct evinced," not only " zeal and 
alacrity," but " a warm interest in the welfare of the colony, and every 
WAY identified them with those who are the most zealous promoters of 
its internal security." And yet these are all either emancipated slaves 
or the descendants of such ! 

The Island of Trinidad is a still stronger exemplification of our ge- 
neral position. There the free black and coloured population, being either 
emancipated slaves or their descendants, amount to at least 16,000 or 
17,000, while the white inhabitants are not much more than a fifth part 
of that number, namely, 3,500. They are also armed and disciplined, 
and constitute the main strength of the colonial militia. But has there 
ever been heard even a whisper impeaching their loyalty, or charging 
them with any disturbance of the public peace 1 Or since they have 
been emancipated have they been suffering severe privations from want 
of the necessaries of life ? The official reports from the colony, sighed 
by the Treasurer of it (Reporter, No. 19, p. 278) state that no funds hStve 
been there raised for the support of the poor; in short, that there is ho 
pauperism in Trinidad. — Again, can it with truth be affirriied, that this 
wide spread system of emancipation has tended to throw back the sub- 
jects of it into the barbarism from which they have emerged : on the 
Contrary, the very opposite effects have followed. They are daily grow- 
ing in number and wealth, in knowledge and respectability. Half the 
property of the colony is estimated to be in their hands ; and they are 
advancing rapidly in all the arts of civil life. 

We might go through every colony in the West Indies, one by one, 
and exhibit, on the same unquestionable official authority, results pre- 
cisely similar ; but we will cite only one other instance to the same effect, 
the colony of Grenada. The enfranchised population in this colony is 
jnore than four times as numerous as the while population, amounting 
to 3,700, while that of the whites does not exceed 800. These emanci- 
pated persons, in 1823, presented to the Colonial Assembly a petition, 
representing their unimpeachable loyalty and general good conduct, the 
largeness of their contributions to the colonial revenue, and their impor- 
tance to the defence and security of the colony ; stating also the fact, (and 



Rights yranied to the enfranchised in the Croion Colonies. 457 

of its truth the Assembly were very competent judges) that no small 
portion of the property of the colony, and in particular, that two-thirds 
of the property in its capital town, belonged to them. This petition hav- 
ing been taken into consideration, a resolution was adopted by the Assem- 
bly, that the free coloured inhabitants of these colonies were a respectable 
well behaved class of the community, were possessed of considerable pfo^ 
perty, and were entitled to have their claims viewed with favour. ■ 

But notwithstanding these proofs of the beneficial effects which have 
resulted in these colonies, and in every other slave colony belonging to 
His Majesty, from the legal emancipation of so many individuals frorti 
personal slavery ; it is well known that these emancipated persons have 
been made to labour under many and grievous disabilities. Though 
delivered from the coercion of the cart-whip, and left to employ their 
time and talents, for their own benefit, in any line of industrious occu- 
pation which is open to them, yet their exertions have been cruelly 
fettered by exclusion frohi many lucrative branches of employment, re- 
served exclusively for the whites: and they have been denied all partici- 
pation in many of the civil and political rights of their white fellow 
subjects ; having been disqualified, whatever might be their wealth or 
intelligence or respectability, even for sitting on juries; or for exercising the 
elective franchise ; or for filling even the lowest civil or military office; 
and having also been subjected to a variety of Other painful and degrad- 
ing distinctions. Of this injustice they have from tirhe to time complain- 
ed, but their complaints have always been preferred with good temper 
and moderation. Their appeal from the selfish policy of the colonial 
authorities has ever been, not to physical force or to outrage of any 
kind, but to the justice of the king and of the British parliametit. Their 
representations, backed by their uniformly good conduct, have at length 
induced the ministers of the crown to use the legislative power they 
possess, in certain colonies, in redressing their grievances, and in raising' 
them to an equality of those civil and political rights of which they had 
been most unjustly deprived by their brother colonists. This act Of 
justice, tardy though it has been, cannot be too highly commended, 
while it furnishes a most instructive precedent as to the safest and most 
effectual means of redressing that still more grievous species of oppres- 
sion under which the enslaved population continues to labour. 

On the 13th of March, 1829, a brief but decisive Order in Council was 
issued, which at once abolished all the civil and military disabilities that 
had so long oppressed the free black and coloured population of Trini- 
dad. It ordained that " every law, ordinance, or proclamation in force 
within that island, whereby His Majesty's subjects of African birth or 
descent, being of free condition, are subject to any disability, civil or 
military, to which His Majesty's subjects of European birth or descent 
are not subject, shall be, and the same and each of them are and is for 
ever repealed and annulled." 

About the same time a similar Order was issued in favour of the freed 
slaves of St. Lucia, who are four times as numerous as the white inha- 
bitants. And on the 29th of January 1829, another Order was issued, 
raising a population of about 30,000 persons at the Cape of Good Hope, 
consisting of native Africans, and other free persons of colouf, ftoiW a 



458 State of the enfranchised in the Chartered Colonies. 

state of destitution of all civil, and of almost all personal rights — from 
a state, in short, nearly bordering on slavery, and in some respects, worse 
than slavery — to the possession, " in the most full and ample manner," 
of " all and every the rights, privileges, and benefits of the law, to 
which any other of His Majesty's subjects lawfully residing within the 
colony, are or can be entitled." 

We do not know, but we presume, that the same measure of justice 
has been extended to the free black and coloured inhabitants of the 
Colonies of Demerara, Berbice and the Mauritius, which are equally 
under the direct legislative authority of the crown with the Cape of 
Good Hope, Trinidad and St. Lucia. Although no similar Order, as 
affecting the three former Colonies, has reached us; yet we cannot doubt 
that the just and liberal policy of His Majesty's Government has em- 
braced them also. 

Here then by a single Order in Council, or rather by the fat of the 
Colonial Secretary, have 75,000 emancipated slaves or their descendants 
been raised, at once, from a state of extreme civil and political degrada- 
tion, to the full enjoyment of all the rights, privileges and immuni- 
ties of the dominant whites, whose prejudices have not only not been 
consulted, but greatly outraged, by the measure ; but who nevertheless 
have prudently and silently acquiesced in an act of justice, which they 
could neither prevent nor evade. This i^ieasure must have been pecu- 
liarly grating to the pride of the white Colonists, as may be inferred from 
the determined resistance, made by most of the Colonial legislatures, to 
the repeated recommendations of the crown to raise the freed population 
to the enjoyment of their rights as British subjects. Nothing less, there- 
fore, than an irresistible act of the supreme legislative authority, render- 
ing hopeless all opposition, could probably have effected this great 
change. But that authority has accomplished it at once, with perfect 
ease, and without the very smallest public disturbance, or private incon- 
venience or injury. The freed population have exulted indeed, but they 
have respectfully abstained from all offensive expressions of exultation ; 
and the whites, however mortified, have been so prudent, in this instance 
at least, as to give no loud voice to their discontents. 

Can it be denied that such a precedent is highly important, when we 
are considering the best means of effecting such Colonial reforms as are 
violently opposed to Colonial prejudice ? In this case all collision which 
could compromise the public peace was prevented by the clear, decisive 
and uncompromising Order of the government, speaking with an 
authority which could not be resisted without incurring the guilt of 
rebellion ; — while the due execution of it was secured by its placing 
the parties inteaded to be benefited by it, at once, in a capacity to com- 
prehend and to vindicate their rights, and to repel by law every at- 
tempt to withhold or infringe them. 

In the Chartered Colonies, however, to which Orders in Council do 
not extend, there are 70,000 emancipated slaves or their descendants, 
who continue in the same abject and degraded state, from which the 
enfranchised population of the Crown Colonies have been recently ele- 
vated, by means of such an Order, to the enjoyment of all the rights of 
British subjects ; a change which has been effected without any danger 



Preparation of the enfranchised for Freedom. 459 

or difficulty. Now let us suppose that Parliament were to adopt the 
very words of this Order in Council into one of the statutes of the realm ; 
by that single Act of ten or twenty lines might the whole of these 
70,000 persons be at once raised, without danger, and even with manifest 
advantage to the public peace as well as to their private and personal 
interests, from their present degrading and oppressed condition, to the 
full enjoyment of all the rights to which they are most justly entitled, 
but which are now both unjustly and injuriously withheld from them by 
their fellow Colonists. No graduation is needed here; no previous 
mitigations are required. At least, so thought his Majesty's Ministers 
with respect to the 75,000 enfranchised persons, in the Crown Colonies, 
whom they have admitted at once, and without an hour's delay, to the 
full benefits of the British Constitution. Indeed it is only by pursuing 
such a course that evil can be averted. Suppose the 40,000 emancipated 
slaves of Jamaica to continue to demand, of the whites of that island, the 
restoration of their just rights, and their deliverance from the galling and 
oppressive disabilities and degrading distinctions which injure and irri- 
tate them ; and suppose the 15,000 whites to continue, as heretofore, to 
resist this just demand, or to make only such partial and inadequate 
concessions as convey insult in their very terms, will not bad feelings be 
mutually excited, and dangers generated and ripened, until, as formerly 
in Hayti, all parties are involved in contention, calamity, and ruin? An 
Act of -Parliament of a few lines would settle the question at once and 
for ever; would at once and for ever put an end to all collision, and 
dissipate all danger from this source. The peace of the chartered Co- 
lonies also would thus be solidly secured, and the 70,000 enfranchised 
slaves they contain, no longer depressed and discouraged as at present, 
would, by their rapid advance in industry, wealth, and intelligence richly 
reward the state for this measure of too tardy justice. 

But to return from this digression, which however will be found in the 
sequel to have been by no means foreign to the main subject of our 
inquiry, it may be proper to ask, how it was that these 100,000 en- 
franchised slaves, now inhabiting our West Indian Colonies, (who, as 
we have seen, have generally conducted themselves with propriety, and 
many of whom have recently been admitted to all the rights of British 
subjects) were prepared for their enfranchisement. We hear much of 
the necessity of previously preparing the slaves for freedom. We are 
told, they must be made Christians before they can cease to be slaves. 
We will not now stop to inquire whether the true way to win them to 
Christianity be, to keep them in slavery, instead of setting them a Christian 
example, by fulfilling that simple precept of the religion we would 
recommend, of acting towards them as we should wish them to act to 
us, that is, with justice and mercy, and thus restoring to them the per- 
sonal liberty of which they have been most cruelly and unchristianly de- 
prived. We will not now stop to make this inquiry, however pertinent it 
may be, but will pass on to remark, that, most assuredly, in the case of 
these 100,000 persons, who have shewn themselves so deserving of 
liberty and so fit for it, there was no such preparation as is now as- 
sumed to be indispensable. Those who made them free, dreamt of no- 
thing less than of christianizing before they manumized them ; and 
indeed we have sufficient evidence that, in the West Indies, Christian 



460 Preparation of Slaves for Freedom. — Sierra Leone. 

slaves are rather objects of persecution than of special favour and encoi^- 
r^gement. But, in truth, the enfranchised population of the West Indies, 
who have hitherto conducted themselves so well, were so far from re- 
ceiving any preparatory instruction in religion and morals to fit them 
for freedom, that by much the greater part of them have owed that 
freedom to their being the objects or the offspring of a licentious inter- 
course. We shall not be supposed,, by this remark, to detract from the 
supreme importance of Christian instruction to the slave as well as to 
the free ; but we are anxious to expose the hypocrisy of those, who, 
.while violating every principle of Christianity by holding their fellow 
men in bondage, will clamour for the necessity of previous Christian 
instruction, to tit their v/ronged slaves for a freedom which they only 
desire, by this stale pretext, to postpone for an indefinite period. — In 
fact, it is among the very persons, who having been liberated from their 
personal bondage before they had received a particle of Christian in- 
struction, and having thus the time, which as slaves they had not, to 
attend to the hearing and reading of the word of God, that Christianity 
is now most successfully winning its way. And by this we may be assured, 
that it is only when the fetters which bind the minds, still more than the 
bodies, of the hapless slaves shall be broken, that a rational hope can 
be entertained of the generally efficient reception of the Gospel among 
ihem. 

We have now shewn that there are already, in our West India Co- 
lonies, 100,000 emancipated slaves or their descendants, who have been 
admitted to the enjoyment of their personal liberty, without abusing it, 
either to the disturbance of the public peace, or to their own detri- 
ment; and who, instead of retrograding into barbarism, are advancing 
daily in wealth, civilization and knowledge. 

And what reason is there to suppose that, if another 100,000, or 
500,000, or 700,000, were raised, by the same peaceful and legitimate 
means, and with a similar acquiescence on the part of the now dominant 
whites, to the state in which the 100,000 already emancipated slaves 
are placed at this moment, they would act a different part, or be 
swayed by different motives, or pursue different ends, from their fellows 
who have preceded them ? They would be restrained from crime by 
the same control ; they would seek their subsistence and that of their 
families by the same means; they would aspire after advancement jn 
the same way; they yvould welcome with the same gladness die heralds 
of divine mercy; and they would rapidly advance, as their fellows have 
done and are doing, in all that can elevate and dignify the human 
character. 

But not to confine our view to the case of the slaves already enfran- 
chised in our own slave Colonies, let us look abroad, and see what light 

„^e may derive from facts occurring elsewhere. 

|..-Let us first take the case of Sierra Leone. The population of that 
pjgce is chiefly composed of emancipated slaves; of slaves emancipated 

Jjp circumstances the most unfavourable, and yet emancipated suddenly : 
-T^naised, in a moment, from chains and fetters in the loathsome dungeqn 

.^l" a, slave-ship, and, not only transferred into a state of personal liberty, 
but put into possession, at once, by law, of the rights and privileges of 
British subjects. From 2.5,000 to 30,000 of these African slaves, in 



State of emancipated Slaves at Sierra Leone. 461 

the lowest extreme of degradation and wretchedness, in a state of 
utter nakedness, savageness, and barbarism, have, during the last 15 
or 20 years, been there introduced at once to the enjoyment of British 
freedom, and to the protection as well as to the restraints of British 
law. And this change has taken place without a single tumult, without 
one hour's disturbance of the public peace, or one act of civil insubor- 
dination, beyond the ordinary average of crime existing in all communi- 
ties of men. And this tranquil dissolution of the bonds of slavery has 
been effected too in a colony where the disproportion between white 
and black is not as five, ten or tv/enty, but as 100 and 150 to one. And 
these emancipated slaves have lived, and are now living in comfort, 
on the fruits of their own industry. They are not retrograding but 
rising in the scale of being. They are acquiring knowledge and civili- 
zation. They are receiving the healing influence of Christian light. 
They are submitting cheerfully to all the ordinary restraints of civil 
society ; and they are even taking a part in the administration of those 
laws which yield themselves protection, and in the maintenance of the 
peace and good order of the Colony, on which they feel that the conti- 
nuance of their own blessings depends. (See Reporter, No. 59.) 

In Mr. Barclay's fallacious introduction to the mass of misrepresen- 
tation by which he labours to defend the abuses of the Colonial system, 
he traces its past evils and cruelties to the hard necessity imposed on 
the planters to have recourse to such harsh expedients, by the crowds of 
" Savage Africans who were poured into Jamaica." And yet at Sierra 
Leone, though crowds of the same class, crowds of " savage Africans" 
in precisely the same state of debasement, have been poured into 
it, no such necessity has been felt. Immediately on their manacles 
being struck off, they have been put into possession of their personal li- 
berty ; they have not been subjected either to the whip, or to the chain, 
or to the fetters, or to the coerced labour, or to the exclusion of their evi- 
dence, or to the privation of all rights of property, or to the denial of the 
marriage tie, or to any other of the cruelties and abominations which 
Mr. Barclay himself admits were resorted to in Jamaica, and continued 
there to a late period, in order to secure the quiet submission of these 
" savage Africans" to the exactions, and extortions, and tortures of the 
still more savage Europeans who kept them in bondage. Why could not 
these " savage Africans'' have possessed their liberty without abusing it, 
in Jamaica as well as in Sierra Leone ? Why, but because the Colonists 
thought nothing of the demands, either of mercy or of justice, of re- 
ligion or of morality ; but only how they could contrive to extort, froni 
the lacerated thews and sinews of their hapless and helpless victims, 
the means of gratifying their sensuality and their avarice. 

Look at the suddenly emancipated slaves of Sierra Leone, and com- 
pare their state of innocuous freedom, their adequate supply of the 
necessaries of life, and their advancing improvement, with the wretched 
thraldom, the abject dependence, and the crushed and prostrate spirits 
of the slaves in Jamaica, and say whether the former have not benefited 
by their emancipation ; and whether the latter also would not benefit, 
by an immediate admission to the enjoyment of the same personal libertv 

. «lpi)na 



462 E7ijfra7ichised Slaves, Brazils, Cuba, Columbia^ 

whi(ih" has been imparted to their brethren at Sierra Leone, without aray 
disturbance of the public peace, or any injury to themselves. ■*' 

^ It is vain to say that the cases are not parallel. They are only not 
so because that of Sierra Leone is an infinitely stronger exemplification 
of the safety of immediate emancipation, and of the fitness of the slaves 
for freedom, than any which the existing state of the slave population in 
our West India colonies could furnish, if they were all to be emanci- 
pated to-morrow. 

But let us travel back to the western side of the Atlantic. 

With respect to Brazil, we have the testimony of that correct and 
diligent inquirer, the Rev. Dr. Walsh, that there are in that province 
600,000 enfranchised persons, either Africans, or of African descent, 
" who were either slaves themselves, or are the descendants of slaves." 
These are represented by him, generally speaking, as " well conducted 
and industrious persons, who compose indiscriminately different orders 
of the community. There are among them merchants, farmers, doctors, 
lawyers, priests, and oflScers of different ranks. Every considerable 
town in the interior has regiments composed of them." The benefits 
arising from them, he adds, have disposed the whites to think of making- 
free the whole negro population, and " abolishing for ever that outrage 
on the laws of God and man, the condition of a slave." — Walsh'' s Notes 
on Brazil, vol. ii. p. 365. 

In the single island of Cuba, there are also about 150,000 emanci- 
pated slaves or their descendants, whose conduct and wliose circum- 
stances form an additional corroboration of the perfect safety to the 
public peace, and of the benefits to the emancipated individuals them- 
selves, which have attended their deliverance from the yoke of personal 
bondage. 

\.^,-In consequence of the revolution in Columbia, all the slaves who 
jtfi'ned the Columbian armies, and who were considerable in number^ 
were declared free; and on the 19th of July, 1821,adecree of the Gene- 
fal Congress of Columbia ordained, that from that day forward no slave 
should be born in Columbia. A fund was at the same time established 
for redeeming from year to year all who still remained in slavery — 1st, 
of |- per cent, on all property of those who die, leaving lawful descend- 
ants ; 2d, of one per cent, on all property of persons dying and leaving 
lawful progenitors ; 3d, of 3 per cent, on the property of persons dying 
and leaving only collateral heirs; and 4th, of iO per cent, on all pro- 
perty bequeathed to those not of kin. And it was further decreed, that 
this tax should continue to be exacted, and to be applied exclusively to 
this single object, until slavery should be extinct in Columbia. The 
period of that extinction, we understand, is now rapidly approaching, 
its progress having been greatly accelerated by the voluntary enfran- 
chisement of their slaves by many proprietors. All distinctions of colour 
among the free have also entirely ceased. 

Our readers are already well acquainted with the remarkable case of 
Mexico, as given in the Report of Mr. Ward, the Mexican envoy; 
from which it appears that extensive plantations of sugar and coffee are 
worked in that province by gangs of emancipated slaves, voluntarily 



Eiifranchised Slaves, Mexico, SfC.— Guadaloupe. 463 

enfranchised by the owners both of them and of the soil, and who now 
employ them in labouring for wages, chiefly by the piece, in carrying 
on cultivation, and in particular the cultivation and manufacture of 
sugar. To the interesting details which Mr. Ward has given on this 
subject, he subjoins the following striking observation : — " The most 
remarkable circumstance in this case is, the total abolition of slavery iri 
a district where such a mass of colonial fruits is produced ; and the suc- 
cess with which the introduction of free labour has been attended. It 
is this which has induced me to lay these observations before his Ma- 
jesty's Government." — See Reporter, No. 51, p. 56. 

Nor is this all. On the 15th of Sept. 1829, a decree was issued by 
the Mexican government, declaring that " Slavery is for ever abolished 
in the republic; and that consequently all those individuals, who, until 
this day, looked upon themselves as slaves, are free." 

We have never heard that any of these decrees of universal emanci- 
pation, whether immediate as in Mexico, or prospective as in Columbia, 
has ever been attended with any disturbance of the public peace, or 
with any injury to the emancipated slaves themselves. 

We omit a great many instances of the enfranchisement of bodies, 
or gangs of slaves by the benevolence of individual proprietors, such as 
the case of a body of slaves of a large South American proprietor (Count 
Torur), in the valley of Aragua, related by Humboldt (see Society's 2d 
Report, p. 175); that of the slaves manumitted by a Quaker of the 
name of Samuel Nottingham, in Tortola, (See Debate of 15th May, 1823, 
Appendix, p. 234) and in Jamaica by another Quaker, of the name of 
David Barclay ; and that of the American refugees removed to Trinidad 
and now settled there, and recently put into possession, in common with 
all persons of free condition of whatever colour, of the same rights as the 
white inhabitants. (See Reporter, No. 31, p. 156, and No. 43, 353.) 
We omit these and various other instances of the same kind, in dif- 
ferent parts of the world, though they are very material to the question 
at issue, in order to come to a case which is still more directly in 
point, we mean that of the French colony of Guadaloupe, 

GuADALOupE, in common with all the colonial possessions of France, 
partook of the convulsions with which the revolution of 1792 so vio- 
lently agitated the mother country. And in that colony the contests of 
the partisans of royalism and democracy, and those of the white and 
coloured colonists, were carried on with a fury which could not fail to 
excite the slaves, who, from time to time, were called in to aid the con- 
tending parties. No insurrection, however, properly servile followed ; and 
the slaves who were not converted into combatants continued their usual 
labours. In February, 1794, the French convention passed a decree, 
giving liberty to the slaves in all the colonies of France. This decree 
was carried into effect in Guadaloupe, under certain local regulations 
called La Police Rurale, which was administered, in the different dis- 
tricts of the Island, by commissioners appointed by the government. 
By these regulations, the labourers were entitled to a fourth part of the 
produce of the estate which they were employed in cultivating, indepen- 
dently of their food, which was wholly furnished from the estate. J^he 
only deductions to which this fourth part was liable, before it was di- 



464 Emancipation of Slaves in Guadaloitpe. 

vided in fixed proportions among the labourers, were the expenses of a 
medical attendant and medicines, and of packages for their own share of 
the produce. All other expenses of every kind, including taxes, were 
to be defrayed from the other three fourths. The shares of labourers 
absenting themselves from labour were to be reduced in proportion to 
the length of their absence, and the sums thus deducted were to be 
added to the shares of those who had laboured regularly. — Under these 
regulations agriculture appears to have flourished, after a vigorous 
government had repressed the furious intestine commotions among the 
different political parties of whites, and between the whites and the free 
people of colour; and in April 1801 we have an enumeration of the 
plantations then under cultivation, amounting to 390 of sugar, 1,355 of 
coffee, and 328 of cotton, besides 25 pasture or grass farms. In the suc- 
ceeding year, on the peace of Amiens, a powerful French force was sent 
to take possession of Guadaloupe, and to reduce the negroes to their 
former state of slavery. This attempt was resisted on the part of the 
negroes, and it was not till after a severe struggle, and dreadful slaughter, 
that they were again brought under the power of the cart-whip ; for what 
will not men who have once felt it endure, to escape that calamity ? 
The accounts from the island immediately preceding this event were 
most satisfactory. The reports of the commissioners of different cantons 
to the local government speak of the tranquillity which reigned in the 
agricultural districts, and on the plantations ; and the government, on the 
other hand, in its circular addresses to the commissioners, dwell upon 
it most anxiously and sedulously as an essential part of their duties, that 
while they enforce order and regularity among the labouring classes, 
they should maintain their just rights, and secure to them the full mea- 
sure of the remuneration to which they were entitled for their labours ; 
punishing with exemplary severity proprietors who should be guilty of 
any failure in this respect, or of any other conduct towards the labour- 
ers which should be inconsistent with the claims of humanity and justice. 
The regulations by which the rights ciud privileges of the labourers were 
guarded were ordered, by the law, to be translated into the Creole dialect, 
to be posted up in conspicuous places, and to be read and explained 
once a month on every estate. We have before us a letter addressed by 
the supreme council of the colony, in February 1802, to the Commissary 
Valluet of the canton de Deshayes, to this effect : " We have received, 
Citizen Commissary, your letter of the 6lh instant, with the different 
returns relating to the payment of their fourth, to the cultivators. 
We perceive with pleasure that you have devoted your attention to this 
most essential branch of your administration. It is in exercising this 
justice towards the men whose sweat is the source both of our private 
and public wealth, that you can alone acquire a right to exert your 
authority to enforce upon them the due performance of their duties. 
Continue, Citizen Commissary, to maintain that order in your canton 
which now reigns universally throughout the colony. We shall have 
the satisfaction of having given an example which will prove, that all 
classes of people may live in perfect harmony with each other, under an 
administration which secures justice to all classes." 
'In the Moniteur of 19 Germinal, an 10, (April 1802) there is inserted 



Emancipated Slaves of Hay ti. 4<55 

a: communication from Guadaloupe, dated in the preceding February, 
stating that all was perfectly tranquil in that colony, and that, although 
there existed some anxieties,* yet every thing promised the peaceable 
reestablishment of lawful authority." (Meaning doubtless, the restoration 
of slavery and the carl-whip.) " Cultivation," the writer adds, " has 
never been discontinued, and although the last sugar crop happened to 
be not very productive, yet there is now considerable produce in hand, 
and the next sugar crop is likely to be large." 

In about two months from the date of this communication, a power- 
ful French force under Richepanse disembarked in Guadaloupe ; and, 
in a short time, by the indiscriminate massacre of all who opposed his 
purpose, he reduced the whole body of the surviving negroes, whom the 
law of 1794 had emancipated, and who, during the intermediate eight 
years had been in the legal possession of their personal liberty, to their 
former cruel and abject bondage ; an object the attainment of which is 
said to have required the sacrifice of nearly 20,000 negro lives. 

This result, unfortunate as it was, does not prove the unfitness of the 
slaves of Guadaloupe for the liberty that had been granted to them; and 
which, as we have seen, was granted under circumstances of public dis- 
turbance, particularly unfavourable to their quiet enjoyment of its bless- 
ings. When we take into view all those circumstances, it is impossible 
not to feel that the case of Guadaloupe is so far from justifying the 
anticipations of our opponents, that it furnishes an undeniable confirma- 
tion of the general view we have ventured to give of this subject, namely 
that an act of emancipation by the supreme government, in quiet and 
peaceful times, accompanied by such precautionary measures as would be 
obviously expedient, and not resisted but acquiesced in by the masters, 
might be carried into complete effect, without the slightest danger to the 
public tranquillity, and with the most unquestionable advantage to the 
slaves themselves. 

There remains one other case, and that by far the strongest, which we 
must invoke in support of the view we have taken of this question. In- 
deed it is the very case which is most frequently adduced by our oppo- 
nents as demonstrating the dangeis to the public peace, as well as the 
ruinous consequences to the slaves themselves, which are likely to follow 
from an act of the legislature which shall at once restore to them the 
possession of their personal liberty, and insure to them the fruits of their 
own industry : — which shall raise them from the condition of chattels, 
of , mere beasts of burden, to the condition of men, of rational agents, 
free to employ their time and their strength, their powers of body and 
mind, not for the benefit of another, but under the protection and re- 
straint of just and equal laws, for their own. 

The case to which we allude is that of Hayti. 

It was our intention to have entered at large into the elucidation of 
the facts connected with this grand experiment, but in the very outset 
of our inquiry we met with so correct and luminous a history of 
it in a pamphlet published in 1824 by Mr. Clarkson on " the practi- 

* These anxieties appear to have been caused by apprehensions, excited 
among the negroes by the news of the peace of Amiens, lest Fy^nce shpulct 
restore slavery among them. r^ ^'i -^n.. 



466 History of Emancipation in Haijti. 

cability, safety, and advantage of emancipation," that we found we could 
not do justice to our cause more effectually than by abstracting a great 
part of his statement, having first taken the pains to verify it by a 
reference to the authentic documents from which he has drawn his 
materials. 

When the French Revolution took place, the free people of colour 
of St. Domingo, many of whom were persons of property and educa- 
tion, petitioned the National Assembly, that they might enjoy the same 
political privileges as the whites. In March 1790, the Assembly 
adopted a decree on the subject, but worded so ambiguously that, in St. 
Domingo, the whites and the people of colour interpreted it each in 
their own favour. This gave rise to animosities between them ; dis- 
turbances ensued, and blood was shed. 

On the 15th of May 1791, another decree, in more explicit terms, 
declared that the people of colour in all the French islands were en- 
titled to all the rights of citizenship. This decree, on arriving at the 
Cape, produced an indignation almost amounting to frenzy among the 
whites. The two parties armed against each other; and camps began 
to be formed ; and massacres and conflagrations followed. The report 
of these occurrences led the Assembly to rescind the decree they had 
passed in favour of the free people of colour. 

The news of this repeal enraged the people of colour as much as 
the former decree had done the whites, and hostilities were renewed. 
On this, the National Convention resolved to readopt their former decree 
of May 1791 ; and they appointed Santhonax, Polverel, and another, to 
repair as commissioners to St. Domingo, with a large body of troops, in 
order to enforce the decree and to keep the peace. 

During the interval which had elapsed from 1790 to the tim.e of 
their arrival in 1 793, the island had presented a dreadful scene of car- 
nage caused by a civil war, not only between the whites and the people of 
colour, but between the different parties of whites. And it was at this 
time, namely, in 1791 and 1792, before the emancipation of the slaves 
had been contemplated, that the great massacres and conflagrations, 
which make so frightful a picture in the history of this island, occurred; 
and all of which were caused not by giving liberty to the slaves, but by 
quarrels between the white and coloured planters, and between the royal- 
ists and revolutionists, who, to wreak their vengeance on each other, 
called in indeed the aid of their slaves. And even as to the bodies of 
armed Negroes who then filled the North, in particular, with terror and 
dismay, Malenfant affirms that they were originally put in motion by the 
royalists in order to put down the revolutionists ; and that even when 
Jean FrauQois and Biassou commenced their insurrection there were many 
white royalists with them, and the Negroes wore the white cockade. 

Jn the year 1793, the same divisions and conflicts continued, not- 
withstanding the arrival of the commissioners; and, on the 20th of 
June, a dreadful commotion took place at Cape Francois, the seamen 
and the white inhabitants being ranged against the people of colour, 
who were afterwards joined by the insurgent blacks. The battle lasted 
two days ; the arsenal was taken and plundered ; some thousands were 
kiH'ed in' the streets, and more than half the town was burnt.;. The com- 



History of Emancipation in liayti. 467 

missioners, who were spectators of this horrible scene, and who had 
tried in vain to prevent it, escaped unhurt, but were left upon a heap of 
ruins, with little more power than their commission gave them, having- 
only about a thousand troops at their command. They determined, 
therefore, as the only way to restore order, and to maintain their own 
authority, to call the slaves in the neighbourhood to their aid, promising 
to give freedom to all who should range themselves under the banners of 
the Republic. This was the first proclamation by any pubHc authority 
for emancipating any part of the slaves in St. Domingo. The result of 
it was, that in the North a very considerable number of them joined the 
Republican cause and became free. 

Soon after this transaction, Polverel, leaving Santhonax at the 
Cape, went in his capacity of commissioner to Port au Prince, in the 
West. Here he found things quiet, and cultivation flourishing. He 
also visited the South. He had not, however, been long there, before 
the slaves, having become acquainted with what had taken place in the 
North were so excited that he was convinced their emancipation could 
not be prevented nor even long retarded ; and^that it was necessary for 
the safety of the planters, as well as for the public peace, that it should 
be extended to the whole of the slaves in the island. Accordingly, in 
September 1793, he issued a proclamation to that effect, dated from 
Les Cayes. He exhorted the planters, if they wished to avoid the most 
serious calamities, to concur in the measure. He caused a registry 
to be opened to receive the signatures of those who should approve of it ; 
and it is remarkable that all the proprietors in the South inscribed 
their names. He theri caused a similar registry to be opened at Port 
au Prince for the West, and there the same disposition was found to 
prevail. All the planters, except one, gave in their signatures. — While 
these measures were in progress, in the month of February 1794, the 
French Convention passed a decree abolishing slavery throughout the 
whole of the French Colonies. , Thus the Government of the mother- 
country confirmed the freedom bestowed by the commissioners, remov- 
ing all doubts of its validity, and completing and consolidating the 
emancipation of the whole slave population of St. Domingo. 

It was about this very time that the British Government began its sense- 
less and wicked crusade against liberty in St. Domingo, which, while 
it greatly impeded its progress, by the prolongation of intestine war with 
all its evils, was productive only of defeat, disgrace, and disaster to this 
country, and of an enormous waste of British life and British treasure. 

Having thus given a concise history of the abolition of slavery in St. 
Domingo, let us inquire how those who were liberated conducted them- 
selves after this entire change in their situation. 

Colonel Malenfant, who was resident in the island at the time, has 
made us acquainted with their general conduct. " After this public act 
of emancipation, the Negroes remained quiet both in the South and in 
the West, and they continued to work upon all the plantations. There 
were estates, indeed, which had neither owners nor managers resident 
upon them, for some of these had been put into prison by Montbrun ; 
and others, fearing the same fate, had fled to the quarter which had 
just been given up to the English. Yet upon these estates, thaug^i 



468 Effects of Emancipation in Hayti. 

abandoned, the Negroes continued their labours, where there were any 
even inferior agents to guide them; and on those estates, where no 
white men were left to direct them, they betook themselves to the 
planting of provisions. But upon all the plantations where the whites 
resided, the blacks continued to labour as quietly as before." A little 
further on in the work, ridiculing the notion entertained in France, that 
the Negroes would labour from no motive but compulsion, he takes oc- 
casion to allude to other Negroes, who had been liberated by the same 
proclamation, and asks " hov? did Toussaint succeed ? How did I suc- 
ceed also before his time in the plain of the Cul de Sac, and on the 
Plantation Gouraud, more than eight months after liberty had been 
granted to the slaves ? Let those who knew me at that time, and even 
the blacks themselves, be asked. They will all reply, that not a single 
Negro upon that plantation consisting of more than four hundred and 
fifty labourers refused to work ; and yet this plantation was thought to 
be under the worst discipline, and the slaves the most idle of any ih' 
the plain. I, myself, inspired the same activity into three other plan-' 
tations, of which I had the management." 

Such was the conduct of the Negroes for some time after their libe- 
ration, as far as we have the means of knowing it; and it may be pre- 
sumed that if, during the years 1795 and 1796, any thing had occurred 
in the way of outrage, the public would have heard of it. 

We come now to the latter part of 1 796 ; and it is evident that from 
this time there was no want either of industry or of subordination iri 
those who had been emancipated. "The colony," says Malenfant,^ 
"flourished under Toussaint. The whites lived happily and in peace 
upon their estates, and the negroes continued to work for them." — Now 
Toussaint came into powej", as general in chief of the armies of St. ' 
Domingo, in 1796, and remained in power till the year 1802, or till the' 
invasion of the island by Leclerc. Malenfant means therefore toaffirni, 
that from 1796 to 1802, a period of six years, the planters kept possession 
of their estates, and lived upon them without disturbance ; and that the 
negroes, though they had been all emancipated, continued to labour. 
Can any account be more favourable than this, and especially after so 
sudden an emancipation, and under such unpromising circumstances 
as those in which it took place? 

General Lacroix, also, who published his " Memoirs for a History of 
St. Domingo," in 1819, informs us, that when Santhonax, who had 
been recalled to France by the government, returned to the colony in 
1796, " he was astonished at the state in which he found it on his re- 
turn." This, says Lacroix, " was owing to Toussaint, who, while he 
had succeeded in estabhshing perfect order and discipline among the 
black troops, had succeeded also in making the black labourers return 
to, the plaritations, there to resume cultivation." The same author tells 
us, that in the next year (1797) the most wonderful progress had been 
made in agriculture. He uses these remarkable words ; " The colony," 
says he, " marched, as by enchantment, towards its ancient splendour; 
cultivation prospered ; every day produced perceptible proofs of its pro- 
gressi The city of the Cape and the plantations of the north rose up , 
agaiit visibly to the eye." Now it is clear, that unless the negroes, who 



Emancipation of Slaves in St. Doming&. 469 

were then free, had done iheir part as labourers, both by working in- 
dustriously, and by obeying the rules laid down for them by authority, 
cultivation could never have prospered in the manner described. 

General Vincent, who now lives at Paris, was a colonel, and aft^^' 
wards a general of brigade in St. Domingo. He was stationed there 
during the time both of Santhonax and Toussaint. He was also a pro- 
prietor of estates in that island. He assisted in planning the scheme 
of its agriculture after the abolition of slavery, and was one of the 
great instruments in bringing it to perfection. In the year 1801, he 
was sent by Toussaint to Paris, to lay before Buonaparte the new con- 
stitution which had been agreed upon in St. Domingo, and arrived there 
at the moment of the peace of Amiens. Here he found, to his surprise 
and grief, that Buonaparte was preparing an immense armament for re- 
storing slavery in St. Domingo. He lost no time in seeing the first 
consul, and had the courage to remonstrate against the expedition; 
telling him, that his army would most assuredly be destroyed by the 
climate of St. Domingo, even if it could be doubted whether it would 
Dot be destroyed by the blacks. He stated, as another argument against 
the expedition, that it was totally unnecessary ; for that every thing was 
going on well in St. Domingo ; the proprietors were in peaceable pos- 
session of their estates ; cultivation was making a rapid progress ; the 
blacks were industrious, and orderly and happy. He conjured him, 
therefore, not to reverse this satisfactory state of things. But his efforts 
•were ineffectual. The mind of Buonaparte had been poisoned by the 
misrepresentations of the Colonists. The expedition proceeded, and the 
scene, described by General Vincent, was speedily changed into one of 
carnage and devastation. But this was not the fault of the emancipated 
negroes, but of their former masters. It was owing to the prejudices of 
the latter, nay, to their importunate solicitations, that this fatal invasion 
took place. Such prejudices, however, are common to almost all slave 
owners. Accustomed to the use of arbitrary power, they could not brook 
the loss of their whips. Accustomed to look down upon the negroes as 
an inferior race of beings, as mere reptiles of the earth, they could not 
bear, well as these had conducted themselves, to come into that familiar 
contact with them, as free labourers, which the change of their situation 
required. They considered them, too, as property lost, but which was 
to be recovered. In an evil hour, they prevailed upon Buonaparte to 
undertake to restore things to their former state. The expedition at 
length arrived upon the shores of St. Domingo, — and a scene of blood 
and torture followed, such as history had seldom if ever before dis- 
closed ; and compared with which, though planned and executed by 
whites, all the barbarities said to have been perpetrated by the insur- 
gent blacks, amount comparatively to nothing.* At length, however, 
the French were driven from the island, and the planters, who till then 
had retained their property, were for ever stripped of it. 

The thorough devastation which had taken place at St. Domingo, the 
destruction of houses, sugar-works, &c. and the dread of another inva- 

* The planters, and not the French troops were the authors of tearing to 
pieces the negroes alive by bloodhounds, or of suffocating them by hundreds at 
a time in the holds of ships, ov of drowning them in whole cargoes, by scuttling 
and sinking tlie vessels. 

3 s 



470 Emancipation of Slaves in St. Domingo. 

sion, necessarily prevented the pursuit of the cultivation of articles for 
export, on the same scale as before. To secure their liberty and inde- 
pendence, was now their paramount object ; and their fixed determi- 
nation was, on the first appearance of an invading enemy, to set fire to 
the towns, and to destroy all means of shelter on the plains, be- 
taking; themselves to the mountain fastnesses. Their agricultural la- 
bours were greatly regulated by this policy. Still there has been no 
want of subordination or industry among them. They or their descen- 
dants are the persons by whom St. Domingo has still been cultivated, and 
they follow, at this very moment, their occupations with as peaceable a 
demeanour, and with as great a share of personal comfort as any other free 
labourers in any other quarter of the globe. But of this, more hereafter. 

We have now seen how the emancipated negroes of St. Domingo 
have used their liberty, from the year 1793 (the era of their general 
emancipation) to the present day, a period of thirty-seven years. — An 
important question here seems to force itself upon us, What were the 
measures taken, after emancipation, to secure tranquillity and order, 
and to rescue the planters and the colony from ruin ? One of the first 
steps was to draw up a code of rules to be observed upon the planta- 
tions. These rules were printed and made public. They were also 
ordered to be read aloud to all the negroes, in their own dialect, upon 
every estate, at short and fixed periods. The preamble to these regula- 
tions, while it proclaimed freedom to all, insisted upon the necessity of 
industry in all, without which every thing would go to ruin. 

These rules underwent various modifications from time to time, but 
their general object was to prevent oppression on the part of the master, 
and to secure good order and to stimulate industry on the part of the la- 
bourer. They took away from the master the use of the whip, and of 
the chain, and of every other instrument of correction, either by himself 
or his authority : in short, all power of arbitrary punishment, under se- 
vere penalties. On the other hand, that a just subordination might be 
maintained, all labourers offending against the established rules, or not 
performing their contracts, were to be brought before a magistrate, who 
should examine the case, and decide it according to fixed principles. 

Among plantation offences, idleness on the part of the labourer was 
one. A man was not to receive remuneration for labour which he did 
not perform. Another offence was absence without leave, which was 
visited with fine and imprisonment. One-fourth of the produce of the 
soil was assigned to the labourer, independently of his food, which was 
raised on the estate ; a constitution of things, which with certain modi- 
fications, still continues. 

And have we not here a case analogous to that which we are now con- 
sidering ? Let us remember that the number of slaves liberated by the 
French decrees in St. Domingo alone, was little short of 500,000 per- 
sons, and this emancipation was obviously attended with far more ha- 
zard to persons and property, and with far greater difficulties, than we 
have any reason to expect in our own islands. By the decree of Polverel, 
sanctioned afterwards by the convention, the slaves were made free at 
once. No notice was given of the event, and of course no preparation 
could be made for it. They were released suddenly from all their former 



State of emancipated Slaves in Hayti. All 

obligations and restraints. They were let loose with all tlie vices of 
slavery upon them. What was to have been expected but the dissolu- 
tion of civilized society, and the reign of barbarism and terror? 

The island at this juncture too, was a prey to political discord, civil 
Avar, and foreign invasion. The slave owners were politically at variance 
with each other, as they were white or coloured persons, or republicans, 
or royalists. They were quarrelling and fighting with each other, and 
shedding each other's blood. The English, at the same time, who were 
in possession of the strong maritime posts, were alarming the country 
by their incursions. The slaves, unfortunately, had been taught to im- 
bibe the political animosities, and to take the side of their respective 
masters, and had been familiarised to scenes of violence and bloodshed. 
Now the emancipation proposed in our colonies, is proposed under cir- 
cumstances wholly dissimilar. Who then will affirm, that there can be 
any thing like the dangers and difficulties, in emancipating our slaves, 
which existed in St. Domingo when the slaves were made free there ; 
and yet how well did their emancipation work previous to the arrival of 
Leclerc ? 

But what is now the actual state of things among the emancipated 
slaves of St. Domingo ? Are they a turbulent and disorderly set re- 
fusing to submit to lawful authority ? Are they suffering distress from 
any want of the necessaries and comforts of life ? Or have they retro- 
graded into a state of barbarism and incivilization ? A direct negative 
must be given to all these questions, if we may rely, not indeed 
on the inferences and reasonings of Mr. Mackenzie, the late Haytian 
Consul, but on the evidence he has given us. An analysis of that 
evidence will be found in our Reporter, No. 55, and the force of it is 
materially strengthened by his two volumes of " notes" subsequently 
published. The result of the whole, as regards the bulk of the Hay- 
tian population, the labouring classes, may be thus summed up. 

The Haytian laws have utterly abolished Slavery. They proscribe 
and wholly abolish the use of the whip, both as a stimulus to labour 
and as an instrument of punishment. They give to the whole body of 
the people the same equal rights. Every man is admissible to all offices, 
whatever be his colour. The law is the same for all whether it punish 
or protect. The rights of property are inviolable, and every individual 
has the free and uncontrolled power of disposing, as he pleases, of 
whatever belongs to him. The system is becoming general of dividing 
the land into small allotments, where the Haytian farmers cultivate 
provisions and other articles, and rear cattle, pigs, poultry, &c. for their 
own use or for sale. Labourers are hired by the day or week, weekly 
labourers being paid on Saturday. On large estates, contracts are en- 
tered into between the proprietors and labourers, for a certain term, 
of one, three or five years, renewable with mutual consent ; one 
fourth of the produce being secured to the labourers, who are also fed 
from the estate, and who have Saturday and Sunday entirely to them- 
selves, with garden grounds to cultivate on those days if they think 
proper ; while the proprietor or renter pays all out-goings except labour, 
and provides for medical attendance and medicines, and for the 
care of children. The legal punishments for ofTenders are fine 
and imprisonment. Corporal punishments are by law wholly abo 



472 State of emancipated Slaves in Hayti. 

lished.* Men and women labour together without distinction, but the 
men in larger proportion than the women, who are generally charged 
with the duties of the kitchen. The labourers are punishable, by 
fine and imprisonment, for not fulfilling their contracts ; or for ab- 
senting themselves without leave, except on Saturdays and Sundays, 
from the estate on which they have contracted lo labour; or for changing 
their place of abode without a passport ; and they are prohibited from 
keeping shops or exercising trades without a licence, as indeed all per- 
sons are ; such licences being, in Hayti, one main source of revenue. 

Such is the general condition of the agricultural labourers of Hayti, 
in point of law, even according to the evidence to be found in the 
official report of Mr. Mackenzie. He no where ventures to tell us that 
they are over-worked or under-fed. Indeed, the very contrary may be 
inferred from the whole of his writings. We hear not one syllable 
from him of their want or distress, or of the severity of exaction, or the 
cruelty of treatment to which they are subject. — But if, turning our 
eyes from the agricultural class, we take a view of the general state of 
society in this community of emancipated slaves, we shall find that 
they have made such advances in the improvement of their social and 
political institutions, as infallibly indicate great progress in the arts of 
civilized life. The documents produced by Mr. Mackenzie prove that 
Hayti possesses a regular constitution of government ; a code of laws 
evidently founded on good sense and justice ; an adequate administra- 
tive system of jurisprudence ; a fiscal establishment, which appears to 
be well regulated and effective ; a well disciplined military force ; and 
a police which seems to give security to person and property. The 
whole of its laws too are clearly and intelligibly expressed, so as to be 
level to the capacity of the most ignorant, and, being printed and uni- 
versally circulated, are accessible to all ; so that every Haytian may 
easily make himself acquainted with all his social, civil, and political 
rights, relations and duties, while every thing connected with them is 
open also to the examination and criticism of strangers. 

This view of the state of Hayti seems to us fairly deducible, from the 
bfficial documents contained in Mr. Mackenzie's report ; and yet it 
describes the state of a body of about a million of emancipated slaves 
or their descendants, who, when first emancipated, were in a still more 
deplorable state of barbarism and incivilization than can be justly predi- 
cated of the 800,000 slaves existing in our colonies at this moment. And 
this is the testimony of an unwilling and hostile witness ; and though 
on that very account it is the more valuable as far as it goes, yet it may 
be presumed to be less favourable than an impartial witness would have 
furnished. Such impartial and unprejudiced testimony, of a date con- 
siderably posterior to that of Mr. Mackenzie, and after the effects pro- 
duced by the sense of security, derived from the recognition of their 



*The law is as follows : " Except in the case of lawful defence, he who shall 
voluntary wound or even strike any one, shall be condemned to a fine of 100 
dollars and eight months imprisonment ; and the penalty will be doubled where 
the assault has been committed on women, or aged persons above sixty, or 
children under fourteen ; and even this will be increased if the violence has 
been committed by a master on his apprentice or hired labourer." 



Concluding Reflections. 473, 

independence, in exciting exertion among all classes of the community, 
had begun to be visible, is now in our possession. But we must reserve 
for a subsequent number, the full view we have it in our power to give of 
the actual condition of the emancipated slaves of Hayti at this moment. 

In the mean time, may we not appeal to those who have followed us 
in our statements, whether we have not satisfactorily demonstrated the 
propositions with which we set out ; and shewn, that is to say, that when 
an emancipation of slaves has proceeded from the supreme authority of 
the state, and has been peaceably acquiesced in by the masters, there 
has neither been any disturbance of the public peace, nor any incon- 
venience or distress to the slave, nor any relapse into his original bar- 
barism. And why should we apprehend dissimilar results now ? 

Take, for example, the actual situation, as to the means of subsistence, 
of the great mass of predial slaves in the island of Jamaica. Besides 
Sunday, they have twenty-six days in the year allowed them for raising 
the food required to support themselves and their families ; their 
children, from the early age of five or six, aiding their labours in the 
provision grounds. The only food given them by their masters consists 
of a few herrings, which cannot be considered as food, but as mere 
seasoning. At the present moment, therefore, the predial slaves of 
Jamaica generally are supported by their own labour, during time equal 
to one half-day in the week, besides Sunday, If by the labour of that 
one half-day, they are now, as Mr. Barclay tells us, amply supported, 
where can be the difficulty of their finding abundant means of sustenta- 
tion when they shall have twelve such half-days in the week besides 
Sunday in which to labour? To talk of their starving or suffering pri- 
vation under such circumstances, is altogether absurd. Though now 
employed for their master, in the exhausting labour of the field under a 
tropical sun, for five days and a half at least in the week, during which 
they are driven by the whip ; they continue to feed themselves and their 
families, as the planters tells us, plentifully, " by the labour of a single 
half-day in the week ;" yet they would have us to believe, that having 
the entire command of the time now given to the master, as well as of 
that fragment of it which is called their own, they will suffer from 
want. But besides this, will the labour of man lose all its value in the 
West Indies, when he has ceased to be a slave ? Will not contracts for 
labour be as possible, between the owners of estates in Jamaica and their 
emancipated slaves, as between the planters of Trinidad and the free 
labourers in that island ? Is there any thing which would render such 
an arrangement as is detailed in the note below,* impracticable in 

* In a paper, printed by order of the House of Commons, on the 14th of June, 
1827, No. 479, there is given the testimony of Robert Mitchell, Esq. a planter 
of Trinidad, of nearly thirty years standing, and who was also the civil super- 
intendant of a considerable body of free blacks settled in that island. The 
account he gives of them is — that each of these emancipated slaves possessed 
an allotment of land of his own, which he cultivated, and on which he raised 
provisions and other articles for himself and his family, his wife and children 
aiding him in the work. A great part, however, of the time of the men (the 
women attending to the domestic menage) was freely given to labouring on the 
neighbouring plantations, on which they worked, not in general by the day, but 



474 Concluding Remarks. 

Jamaica, although it is found to work so well in Trinidad ? What part 
of the field labour of the plantations in Jamaica may not be equally 
made the subject of agreement between the owner of the soil and the 
labouring class; whether it be the felling and clearing of woodland, or 
the digging of cane holes, or the planting of canes, or the successive 
weedings of them, or at length, the cutting of them for the mill ? And 
could there be any difficulty in fixing a fair price for these different 
processes ? None whatever. None is experienced in Trinidad. Nor is 
any experienced in Jamaica itself. Nothing is more common, in Jamaica, 
than for the owner of a jobbing gang to contract with the proprietor of 
a sugar estate, for a stipulated price per acre, to execute a variety of these 
operations. Would there be any more difficulty in contracting with 
twenty of the emancipated slaves, or with one on behalf of the twenty, 
to perform, at certain rates, certain quantities of work, the due division 
of the price being settled by themselves ? This is rendered particularly 
easy in Jamaica, where the exact size of every cultivated field is accu- 
rately known, to a rood or a perch ; and where the slaves on every 
estate know well the quality of the soil, and therefore the quantity of it 
which, for example, could be dug up into cane holes by them in the 
course of a day. All thiss is so obvious, that it need not be farther in- 
sisted upon ; and its practicability is too well established, in the 
instances of Trinidad and Mexico, Guadaloupe and Hayti, to permit a 
doubt to rest upon it. 

By specifying this particular mode of obtaining the labour of eman- 
cipated slaves, it is not intended to imply that there are no others. In- 
dividual ingenuity, goaded by self-interest, will modify according to cir- 
cumstances the arrangements and contracts between the parties. It 
will obviously be the interest of the proprietor of the soil to attract 
labourers to his estate, or to retain them upon it if already fixed there. 
And it will be the interest of the labourers to retain possession, on fair 
terms, of their domicile, in the midst of their relations, and of the pro- 
vision grounds they have been accustomed to cultivate for their sub- 
sistence, and every tree in which their own hands may have planted. 
A reasonable rent for these possessions might easily be fixed, and would 
be paid out of the remuneration to which they would be entitled for 
any labour they might perform upon the estate; or the general rate of 
that remuneration might be modified, in consideration of continuing to 

by the piece. The rates, at which they contracted to perform such labour, are 
given. Mr. Mitchell calculates by the quarrie of land, equal to three and one-fifth 
English acres ; and in Trinidad currency, bearing the proportion to sterling of 
225 per cent. The quarries, in his statement, being reduced to English acres, 
and the currency to sterling, the following are the prices which he has told us 
these emancipated slaves receive for their work, and which, according to him, 
was well executed : — 

Cutting Rattoon canes, by the acre . . . £2 10 sterling 

Cutting Plant canes ditto . . . 3 12 

Planting canes ditto from £15 12 6 to 18 15 

Felling high woods ditto . . . 2 10 

Cutting a cord of wood, 6 feet high, 8 long, and 

Q , 4 wide, by the cord from 2 8 to 3 2 

. At these rates, Mr. Mitchell adds that they can earn as much as four shil- 
lings a day, but frequently do not earn more than two. — (p. 5.) 



Concluding Remarks. — Contributions. 475 

them these advantages. Ail these matters would soon be arranged, if 
there were a willingness on the part of proprietors to adjust them on 
reasonable and equitable principles. For what can the proprietor of 
the soil desire more than that his land should be cultivated ? It can 
make no difference to him whether it be done for his own profit, by la- 
bourers fairly remunerated, or by the labourers for themselves, they 
remunerating him by a rent for the use of the soil they cultivate? 

But it is not our intention, at present, to touch on the case of the 
proprietors of estates, or on the advantages or disadvantages which they 
would incur by the proposed change of system. We are prepared, 
indeed, to show that the advantages of it to them would be great. — 
But we must defer the consideration of that part of the question, having 
fulfilled the only task we undertook to perform, which was to quiet the 
fears of such of our friends as apprehend evil, to the slaves themselves, 
from that kind of emancipation which alone has been thought of, an 
emancipation by laws which masters and slaves must equally obey, by 
showing them that such a change involves no ground of alarm for the 
well-being of the slave ; that it will not be likely to lead to any violation 
of the pubhc peace ; that it cannot produce to him either difficulty or 
distress ; and that it will not tend to retard, but to promote his physical 
comfort and his moral and intellectual improvement. 

A comparison of the progress of population among the free and the 
enslaved classes in our colonies, is the best answer which can be given 
to all those groundless apprehensions which would connect with the ac- 
quisition of his freedom, the deterioration of the condition of the eman- 
cipated slave. (See Reporter, No. 13, p. 193 ; No. 23, p. 354 ; No. 26, 
p. 14 ; No. 31. p. 155 ; No. 40, p. 295 ; No. 44, p. 374 ; No. 54, 
p. 146 ; No. 62, p. 285—291 ; No. 66, p. 385, &c. &c.) 

As for the young children, and the old and infirm, about whom, in 
case of emancipation, so many humane fears are expressed, be it known 
that at the present moment, upon the plantations generally, (still taking 
Jamaica as our example,) these do not now derive their support from the 
masters. The young children derive it from their parents, and the old 
and infirm from their relations, chiefly their children. The means of 
continuing to afford that support would evidently not be diminished, but 
greatly increased by emancipation. 



II. — Donations and Remittances 

In aid of the Funds of the Anti-Slavery Society, from September 4, 

to November 4, 1830. 

York Association (payment) .... 

Huddersfield Association ditto .... 
Bridlington Association ditto .... 

Ralph Leycester, Esq. 67, Portland Place (annual) 
Chipping Norton Association (payment) 
Camberwell Association ditto 

Banbury Association ditto 

Halifax Association ditto 

Bridport Association ditto 

E. Carroll, Esq. (annual) .... 



£. 


s. 


rf. 


13 


13 


6 


5 


4 


3 


5 








2 


2 








12 


6 





4 





I 


1 





7 


7 





1 


3 


G 


1 


1 






476 



Mr. Stephen's Slavery delineated. 



(annual) 
ditto 
ditto 



Rev. M, M, Preston (donation) 

A Friend at Fife ditto . 

Richard Peek, Esq. Cokman Street 

William Peek, Esq. ditto 

James Peek, Esq. ditto 

Brighton Association (payment) 

Ditto ditto (donation) 

Percy Ibotson, Esq. Poyle, near Colnbrook (annual) 

Joseph Wilson, Esq. Clapham ditto 

Isaac Crewdson, Esq. Manchester (donation) . 

Joseph Crewdson, Esq. ditto ditto 

AVilson Crewdson, Esq. ditto ditto 

John Hoyle, Esq. ditto ditto 

George Hadfield, Esq. ditto ditto 

Manchester Association (payment) 

Anonymous (donation) ... 

Wellington (Somerset) Association (payment) . 

Rev. G. Burder (donation) .... 

Hanley and Shelton Association (donation) 

Ditto ditto (payment) 

Francis Wedgwood, Esq. (donation) 

Colchester Association (payment) 

W. S Hathaway, Esq. (annual) 

Chelmsford Association (payment) . 

Reading Association ditto 

Stowmarket ditto ditto 

Tewksbury and Cheltenham Association (payment) 

Ditto ditto (donation) 

A Hater of Oppression ..... 

Derby Association (payment) .... 

Samuel Thorowgood, Esq. (annual) 

Messrs. H. and S. Blanch, Glastonbury (donation) 

Hertford Association (payment) 

Miss Pringle, Yair, N. B. (donation) 

Nottingham Association (payment) . 

Salisbury Association (payment), by Mrs. Pearson 

Pontefract Association ditto 

A. B. (donation) 

R. W. Cox, Esq. Lawford Hall, Manningtree, Essex (donation"* 
I. A. by T. F. B. (donation) 



£. 


s. 


</. 


5 








1 








1 


1 





1 


1 





1 


1 





3 


16 





1 


14 





1 


1 





5 


5 





10 


10 





10 


10 





10 


10 





10 


10 





10 


10 





33 


19 








5 





1 


19 


6 


1 








10 


10 





6 


1 


4 


3 


8 


8 


29 


18 


6 


3 


3 





15 


14 





5 


8 


3 


20 








5 








15 








100 








22 


4 





1 








1 








5 


6 





1 








8 


9 


9 


5 


11 





10 








10 








25 








1 









III. — Mr. Stephen's Slavery delineated. 
We have never had a more grateful office to perform than that of 
announcing to our readers the publication of the 2nd volume of Mr. 
Stephen's " Slavery of the British West India Colonies delineated, as 
it exists both in law and practice." The first volume, as our readers 
know, was a delineation of that state in point of law, — the present is a 
delineation of it in point of practice. We hail its appearance at this 
crisis of our cause as a token for good; but must limit ourselves at 
present to this brief notice of its publication, and with earnestly recom- 
mending it to general perusal, as a most masterly and triumphant and 
unanswerable exposition of the practical horrors of the Slave system. 
No one, we think, can read this work, without uniting in the universal 
cry of the nation for the abolition of colonial slavery. 



London :-S. Bagster, Jun. Printer, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTE 



No. 7].] NOVEMBER, 20, 1830. [Vol. iii. No. 23. 

I.— STATE OF LAW AND MANNERS IN JAMAICA ILLUSTRATED. 

1. — Testimony of the Rev, John Thorpe ; — 2. Case of Eleanor 
Mead ; — 3. St. George's Council of Protection, and the Rev. Mr. 
Hanna; — 4. Case of George Ancle, belonging to J. Morant, Esq. 
— 5. St. Andrew's Sessions, a new case of persecution ; concluding 
remarks. 

II.— SLAVE TRADE AND SLAVERY OF THE MAURITIUS. 

III.— ANTI-SLAVERY PETITIONS TO PARLIAMENT. 



I. — State of Law and Manners in Jamaica illustrated. 
1. Testimony of the Rev. John Thorpe. 

The Rev. John Thorpe, now the Curate of Wigginton, in the county 
of Oxford, occupied the situation of Curate in the parish of St. Thomas 
in the East, in Jamaica, under the Rev. Mr. Trew, the Rector, from 
1826 to 1829. At several public meetings, and especially at Chelten- 
ham on the 7th of October last, he has taken occasion to bear his testi- 
mony to the nature and effects of colonial slavery as it exists at this 
moment in this the largest slave colony in his Majesty's dominions. 
Those who have the happiness of knowing the sound judgment and un- 
impeachable integrity of this pious and exemplary clergyman, and the 
spotless character he has borne both at home and abroad, will best 
appreciate the value of that testimony, the substance of which we shall 
now lay before our readers with an entire conviction of its truth, derived 
not only from the confidence we repose in his deliberate statement of 
facts, but from the perfect agreement of that statement with the mass of 
evidence on the same subject which has already appeared in our pages. 

Mr. Thorpe said that his views of slavery arose from his constant 
residence in an agricultural part of the island of Jamaica. In stating 
those views and the facts by which they were supported, he disavowed 
all hostility to the Planters, many of whom he respected — his enmity 
was to the system, which, with a corrupt foundation, was upheld by cor- 
rupt means. He would premise that the law regards the slave as a 
mere chattel — he may be bought, sold, transferred, levied upon, or be- 
queathed. The Jamaica Gazettes teem with advertisements announcing 
the sales of negroes, many of whom have been seized by virtue of the 
Deputy Marshal's writ, and some given to pay arrears of taxes due by 
the estate to which the slaves may belong. Few owners reside on their,' 
properties, but manage them by an attorney (or land agent), who has" 
the general care of several — under him is an overseer (or bailiff) for" 
each estate — under the overseer are book-keepers — and under these as 
many drivers as there are gangs of negroes. The drivers are blacks, the 
3 T 



47S State of Law and Manners in Jamaica illustrated. 

others whites. Such are the actual managers — now for their mode Off 
management. This briefly is compeUing the slaves to work by the cart-' 
whip, an instrument with which a very severe wound may be inflicted; 
Indeed it lacerates the flesh most terribly. The law allows the whites, 
except the book-keepers, to order thirty-nine lashes to be inflicted, on 
any slave, provided the effect of former punishment shall not remain, 
and ten to be given by the drivers, if in their opinion the punishment is 
called for. The mode of administering it is, by holding the victim down 
on the ground, and as he lies extended, the lashes are inflicted on his 
bared body. After this, which may be called the legal flogging, the poor 
wretch, Mr. T. has understood, is not unfrequently scourged with the 
prickly branches of ebony, quantities of which are collected for this 
atrocious purpose.— Mr. T. knew an overseer in the neighbourhood, 
who having neglected his business, was reproved by the attorney, which 
so irritated him, that he sought amongst the slaves under his charge, 
some objects on whom to wreak his vengeance. Three were singled 
out, and received a tremendous punishment. They complained to the 
attorney ; who, on inquiry, found them blameless in the matter. The 
overseer was dismissed ; but he was appointed to another and a larger 
estate. — On passing through a town, Mr. T. heard cries: he went to 
the spot and found a negress tied up by the hands, while a driver was 
flogging her — on asking the white man, who stood by, what was her 
fault ; he replied " he did not know — ^his employer had sent her there 
to be flogged." — A brother clergyman left Mr. T.'s house early one 
morning, and missing his road, unexpectedly arrived at an estate where 
he saw the overseer *' occupying himself with flogging a number of 
women." — Mr. T. knew of a slave who from severe punishment died. 
The coroner's inquest sat. It was endeavoured to be proved that he 
died from disease : but the case was so barefaced, that the coroner and 
jury, themselves planters, gave a verdict of wilful murder. The man 
was brought to trial and was acquitted, — from what cause he could not 
precisely say ; but he believes, from the inadmissibility of the evidence 
of the negroes, who alone witnessed the fact. Mr, T. afterwards saw 
this man with a party of his fellow-overseers, received into their society 
as if nothing had happened.— In every parish there is a workhouse, or 
more properly a gaol ; the receptacle of negroes convicted of idle or 
refractory conduct, and sentenced to imprisonment with hard labour. 
He never could forget his sensation on entering, soon after his landing, 
one of these miserable abodes. The filth was disgusting— the dens 
dark, while their wretched inmates driven out, and arranged on each 
side for inspection, in their half naked state,— their wild stare,— and 
woeful appearance — scarcely resembled human beings. But the work- 
house is not for these only, but any owner or his deputy may send 
a negro there, when anxious to give him a severer punishment than 
ordinary, with an order to that effect, which never fails to be executed, 
and generally without any inquiry being instituted as to the offence.— 
He knew a carpenter slave who being pressed by his attorney to labour 
in the field, refused, on the ground of its being unusual thus to employ a 
tradesman, his age and infirmities being superadded; and stated that if 
he woiild'allow him, as he had formerly done, to hire himself out by the 



Testimony of the Rev. John Thorpe. 479 

day, he would bring any reasonable wages he required. The attorney 
Avould not swerve from his purpose, and the slave persisting in his 
refusal was confined in the workhouse, and twice severely flogged; 
besides being worked with the gaol gang, who, chained together in 
pairs by a collar fastened to the neck, repair to their daily labour at- 
tended of course by the driver, who is not sparing of his cart-whip. 
Mr. T. saw him use it on one poor infirm fellow, who, not keeping up 
the trot at which they were going, in changing the scene of their labour, 
received this sensible hint from his merciless taskmaster. — One obser- 
vation he must be allowed to make ; many overseers might be humane 
and abhor an act of cruelty ; what he complained of was, the intrust- 
ing of arbitrary power to men of like passions with ourselves ; and he 
adduced these facts as its necessary results. For let it be remembered 
that the case he had mentioned, came incidentally to his knowledge, 
and aflforded a fair specimen of what is constantly recurring, and what 
must recur so long as this uncontrouled power, the very essence and 
support of slavery, is committed to the planter. — Such facts served to lift 
up the curtain with which the planters studiously veil the cruelties of their 
system, and to expose to our view some of its terrible enormities, the full 
amount of which are known only to Him who maketh inquisition for 
blood, and who forgetteth not one cry of these poor oppressed Africans. 
— Much is said of the careful attention paid to the sick ; he believed it 
to be true on properties possessing a humane attorney or owner; but he 
had seen hospitals which, from their heat and effluvia, he should deem 
far more likely to create disorders than to cure them. Some of the sick 
were lying on benches made for their reception, others on the floor, with 
no covering but their tattered clothes, and no couch but the bare boards. 
Then their aged people are made watchmen, some of whom suffer great 
privations, and who live on remote and scattered parts of the estate, in 
miserable sheds, not so good as gypsy tents, to guard the provisions 
and sugar canes of the property ; while even their hoary hairs, in case 
of supposed offence through neglect or otherwise, do not protect them 
from the merciless lacerations of the cart-whip. — He knew one, 
formerly a valuable slave, who was sent to a distance, and almost 
starved, that he might be prevented preaching to his fellows. — The 
slaves, divided into gangs, each gang attended by a driver and his 
cart-whip, work from the earliest dawn of the morning to the decline of 
day, averaging about thirteen hours daily throughout the year; out of 
which time half an hour is allowed for breakfast, and two hours in the 
middle of the day ; but this time he had known abridged under a press 
of business, and much of it was consumed in going from and to the 
scene of their often distant labours. It was not, however, of their daily 
labour he complained so much as that, during the crop time, which 
lasts generally about six months of the year, this labour is protracted on 
most estates through every alternate, and on others where slaves are 
more numerous, through every third night. This is a cruel part of the 
system, and must tend to shorten life ; especially as, when heated by 
labour, they are exposed'to the chilling and unwholesome night air and 
heavy dews, which not unfrequently engender decline and hasten death. 
— Another crying evil of the system is, that a slave cannot manumit him- 



480 State of Law and Manners in Jamaica illustrated^ 

self, even though through industry he may have saved a sufficiency for 
his ransom. If he be a respectable and faithful slave, he is told he 
cannot be spared ; and even where a slave is permitted to purchase his 
freedom, he is often obliged to obtain another to fill up his place. — It 
may be asked, what compensation has the negro ? His owner allows 
him weekly six salt herrings, a woman the same, a child three, Avith a 
few yards of coarse woollen and linen cloth yearly, barely sufficient 
to cover them, with a hat for the men, and a handkerchief for the women. 
Then a certain portion of land, generally unavailable for other purposes 
(certainly for sugar canes), on which the slave is to cultivate his vege- 
table provisions ; only twenty-six days in the year are allowed him for 
this cultivation, which obhges him to trespass on the Sabbath. It some- 
times happens that the negroes raise a little poultry, and occasionally 
kill a pig, which, with their surplus provisions, they bring to the market 
to sell or barter for salt meat, fish, or better clothing than their allow- 
ance affords. — The decrease of the negro population is most fearful • 
but can we be surprised that the rigorous exaction of labour, through 
13 hours of every day, and for 5 more making 18 hours a day during 
half of the year, with no rest on the Sabbath to recruit wasted strength, 
besides the attention to domestic concerns, v/hich must increase fatigue 
and abridge the hours of repose— can we be surprised that this exhaus- 
tion of strength should produce as its result misery and death ? It 
is proved, by authentic documents, that the maroons of Jamaica rapidly 
increase — and what does this show but that, within the atmosphere of 
freedom, the principle of animal life is vigorous and prolific, while 
within that of slavery it sickens, and withers, and dies. — The market 
day in Jamaica is the Sabbath; — the consequent desecration of this 
holy day is awful. Often had he returned from an almost empty church, 
and passed the market, where hundreds of slaves were collected, merged 
in all the secularities of life, and indulging in all the vices of their cor- 
rupt nature. After stating this, the degraded state of their morals may 
be easily imagined. Marriage is comparatively unknown, and illicit 
intercourse prevails. In a recent report of a society established in his 
parish, for the religious instruction of the slaves, it is mentioned as a 
cause of exultation, that, during the two past years, since the society 
had existed, the number of legitimate children had increased, so that 
they were then in the proportion of one to nine of the whole black po- 
pulation. This one fact speaks volumes, and this debased state of 
morals is fostered by the evil example of the whites, who almost all live 
in sin. The white planter lives at the great house of the estate, where 
reside also a number of females of colour, most of them belonging to 
the property. The licentiousness prevailing in consequence, he need 
not depict; but he would excite the sympathy of the females before him 
in behalf of their degraded sisters, who were constrained by their bonds 
to dwell in these haunts of iniquity, and became, from a moral necessity, 
the victims of their master's passions ; who, by withholding instruction, 
concealed from them the guilt of their conduct, while they hid their 
atrocities from the people of England by specious names. And to un- 
deceive many, he woidd observe, that a housekeeper is considered a 
necessary appendage to a white man's establishment, an individual 



Rev. Mr. Thorpe^ s Testimony — Case of Eleanor Mead. 481 

whom, in England, we should designate by afar more just though more 
opprobrious title. — If such, then, be their moral, what must be their reli- 
gious state ? True, the Gospel has visited the heart of many a negro, but 
their numbers bear no comparison to the mass of the uninstructed ; and 
how should they, when religious instruction is so much discouraged? 
In his parish, the most improved in the whole islarid, there were indeed 
54 estates permitting the ministers of the established church to commu- 
nicate religious instruction ; but, with the exception of three, stipulating 
that it should be merely oral, and in all cases appointing one half hour 
once a week during the noontide, a time when, from weariness and 
hunger, few could avail themselves of it. In fact, as a Jamaica pro- 
prietor, well acquainted with the operation of this system, told him, " It 
was a mere farce." But even this instruction, thus limited and defi- 
cient, was actually denied to 11,451 slaves, on 46 estates in the parish, 
who enjoyed no opportunity of instruction whatever. Nor can the 
negro receive instruction to any practicable extent on the Sabbath. 
One of the members of the House of Assembly stated, " that the slave 
must work on that day or starve ; "and the scantiness of Mr. T.'s con- 
gregation, amounting, on an average, to only 80 out of 6000 at least, while 
at the sanie time they were anxious for instruction, confirms the state- 
ment. — Remember, then, the slave is considered as a chattel, liable to 
the cruelty of the cart-whip, and the chains of the workhouse ; — that he 
endures excessive and unrequited toil, — that he cannot manumit him- 
self; — -that he is demoralized and brutalized, — and then acknowledge 
that slavery is a monster, whose existence ought no longer to be al- 
lowed.— The Rev. gent, then observed, that what he had seen of the 
industry of the negro when employed for himself, fully proved that free 
labour v/as practicable, and that, were the negro freed, he would not 
starve as some feared. He also related an affecting anecdote of a 
female slave, who, having been stolen in Africa, and sold in Jamaica, 
was under the usual treatment of the planter, hateful, hating, dishonest, 
and revengeful; she became the property of a clergyman, under whose 
mild treatment and Christian instruction her dispositions altered, exhi- 
biting all the faithfulness, tenderness, and sympathy, of which the heart 
is capable. 

2. Case of Eleanor Mead. 

In the Reporter, No. 64, (p. 345,) we gave an account of the treat- 
ment, by a lady of Jamaica, Mrs. Earnshavv , of an elderly mulatto 
slave, named Eleanor Mead, the mother of nine children, who for some 
trivial offence had been severely lacerated with the cart- whip, in the pre- 
sence and by the order of her mistress ; a daughter being compelled to 
assist in holding her parent, prone on her stomach, to the ground, while 
the driver, a male, inflicted on her bared hips, according to the uncon- 
tradicted evidence of the slaves present, 58 lashes, being 19 more than 
even the liberal law of Jamaica allowed. Our readers will, probably, 
recollect the various other digusting circumstances which served to 
mark the grossness of manners, and the perfect hebetude of feeling, 
even in ladies, which result from the every day practices of slavery. 
The magistrates to whom Eleanor complained having no evidence but 



482 State of Law afid Manners in Jamaica illustrated. 

that of slaves, as to excess in the nujuber of stripes, were obliged to dis- 
miss the complaint, and to send her back to her exasperated mistress. 
On her return, a hoe was put into her hand, and she was ordered into the 
field, to the labour of which she was wholly unused, having always been 
a house servant. She refused — for this offence she was sent to the work-, 
house, with the former excoriations unhealed, to receive 39 lashes more, 
and to be put to hard labour in chains for a month. She'^was stopped 
in her way thither by a magistrate, and, after an inquiry which fully 
established these facts but produced no other result, this poor weakly 
woman, as Mr. Barrett called her, was again sent back to the estate to 
endure the tender mercies of her mistress, who, notwithstanding all that 
had passed, had made herself amenable to no law. — The reader ought 
to refer to our former number, in order to be prepared for what we have 
now farther to relate respecting this wretched victim of the unrelenting 
and merciless spirit of this oppressive system. In the Royal Gazette, of 
the 21st of August last, we find an account of a trial which took place 
at the Quarter Sessions, held on the 10th of that month, at Falmouth, 
before the custos and five other magistrates, to the following effect: 

" Eleanor Mead, a mulatto woman slave, belonging to Colchis estate, 
was arraigned for an assault on her overseer, and for refusing to do the 
duty of the estate. 

" A number of witnesses, who had been cited to attend on this case, ^ 
were, on the motion of the Defender of Slaves, ordered to withdraw to an 
adjoining room. 

" James M'Claren, overseer on Colchis estate, deposed that the pri- 
soner would never turn out to work in the morning;* he told the driver 
that he would punish himf if she did not turn out to work at the proper 
time in the morning, but to no purpose. As she would not turn out in 
time, according to his orders, he gave her twenty lashes. After she had 
received the punishment, she went on in a most violent manner to wit- 
ness, who went over a wall,- and she followed him and took hold of him 
round the waist; witness shoved her away, and told the driver to send 
one of the people and put her in the stocks ; she refused to go as long 
as witness was witnin hearing, saying she would not go. After break- 
fast he found that the negro, whom he had sent with her, had taken her 
to the stocks ; he then put her in, and kept her there till shell-blow ; 
when the driver came to receive orders, he went with him and took her 
out and told her to go to her work ; she had been in the stocks from 
half past seven till ten o'clock; did not hear any thing more of her until 
he heard that she had been taken up at Falmouth as a runaway;* does 

* It seems, therefore, that this " poor weakly woman," who had always been a 
domestic, and had borne nine children, on going back to the estate in the month 
of May last, was forced to labour in the field; and, as we are afterwards told, 
in the severest description of field labour, being made to work in " the Great 
gang," otherwise the holing gang. There is something perfectly ludicrous, 
were there room for any feeling but that of indignation, in indicting this poor 
persecuted wretch for an assault on the overseer, with whip and stocks and 
driver and gang at his back. The assault was his not hers, as we shall see. 

+ Observe the chain of plantation discipline.— If the labourer doesnot turn 
out, or does not work, the driver is flogged. Will the driver have much tender- 
ness;!to#ards those for sparing whom his flesh is to be torn? 

* The poor creature, becoine an object of persecution to her mistress, the at* 



Case of Eleanor Mead. 483 

n6^ Kno\v who committed her, but she has been most annoying to him 
all along ; gave her every chance to work quietly, but she would not ; 
she has frequently told witness that she could not and would not work 
for him ; witness was alarmed when she laid hold of him, and pushed her 
away with his hand." Cross-examination—-" Does not remember when 
she returned to the estate ; he did not order her to work until the day 
after she returned from Falmouth ; the assault occurred in the field 
about seven o'clock in the morning ; it was in a cane-field away from 
the negroes; she followed witness through the interval; it was not to 
implore him.^to have mercy upon her ; he put her in the stocks for hav- 
ing laid violent hands on him and refusing to go to work ; had she gone 
to her work, such would not have been the case. Witness did not re- 
collect her saying any thing, but she was in a violent rage at the time." 

" AUick Graves,t does not knoio the nature of an oath, but, being ad- 
monished to speak the truth, he stated that he remembered, when she 
came from Falmouth, she went to her work in the great gang ; remem- 
bers her being flogged the last time ; she was flogged for not turning 
out in the morning ; she turned out after sunrise, she was punished for 
not turning out earlier ;| witness (as driver) was directed to give her 
twenty stripes ; after she was flogged, said she would not follow, or work 
with the gang ; did not see her lay hold of the overseer ; she would not 
turn out in the field sooner; she gave as a reason that she had several, 
young children, and had to procure breakfast for them ; they were 
mostly grown up ; she would not go to the stocks at first ; when wit- 
ness was going to take the prisoner out of the stocks, Mr. M'Claren 
said that, if she would go quietly to her work, he would not trouble her 
any further; she has refused to go on with her work when tying canes in 
the field ; thinks her the most weakly brown woman on the estate; when 
she was put down she took the flogging ; but she said she would not 
stay in the field. 

" Mr. Sloly (superintendant of the workhouse) proved that she had 
marks of punishment upon her when committed to the workhouse. 

" The Gustos, in addressing the Jury, stated to them the opinion of the 
court, that the assault had not been proved ; but observed that it was 
not to be considered as a guide to them ; that he perceived men of sense 



torney, and the overseer — seeks a temporary relief from her sufferings in flight, 
and is retaken and committed to jail. 

t The driver, a slave belonging to Colchis. His evidence is received against 
his fellow-slave, but is inadmissible against a free person. 

X There is here a note by the Jamaica editor to this effect : 

" From half-past four to five is the usual time for commencing labour, and by far 
the most pleasant period of the twenty-four hours." 

We will not stop to notice all the inferences to be deduced from this brief in- 
cidental remark. To commence labour at half-past four, the slave must have 
been up at half-past three in order to prepare breakfast and get to the field ; 
but the toil of this " most pleasant period" of the day, the editor well knows, 
gives no exemption from toil, even under the blaze of a tropical sun, and till 
night-fall, and even long after; thus fully establishing the fact, that, including 
the time of crop, the labour of the field slaves in Jamaica is equal to an average 
of 16 hours a day throughout the year, as Mr. Stephen, in his recent work, ha&: 
amply proved. '■tuis'iv) !>>on( sri'f * ' 



484 State of Law and Manners in Jamaica illustrated. 

and experience in the box, and he left it to ihem to judge of the evis; 
dence as it had come before them. , >, 

"The jury then retired and were absent from the court about two hours, 
at the conclusion of which a proposal was made to empanel a new jury, 
to proceed with the second trial of this woman,* which was objected to 
by the Defender of Slaves, as not being compatible with the 79th clause 
of the Slave Law, which allows due notice before a slave can be put 
upon his trial, 

" Mr. Jackson observed, that he would suggest to the court to put the 
second trial off for the present, as the jury were retired on a verdict that 
might involve the life of the prisoner.f Mr. Frater (the prosecutor) 
would no doubt acquiesce in what he now proposed. 

" Mr. Frater said, that he had no objection; that he had not come 
there with any vindictive feelings against the prisoner, but it had been 
shewn by the evidence of the overseer, how far he was justified in what 
he had done ; in fact, he had no objection that the prosecution should 
be withdrawn altogether. 

" The Clerk of the Peace then proposed the jury being recalled, and a 
juror withdrawn, which v/as agreed to by their Honours, and it was done 
accordingly. This conduct of Mr. Frater seemed to give verv general 
satisfaction in the court, and we trust that it will annihilate the party 
bickerings, that beset the better feelings of the inhabitants of the parish 
of Trelawny. 

" After the jury were discharged, his Honour addressed the prisoner as 
follows : 

" Eleanor Mead, you came down here some time ago to complain of 
harsh treatment, and I then admonished you to go home and do what 
was required of you. I cautioned you to take care of yourself; how- 
ever, after you went home, you refused to do your work, and gave a 
great deal of unnecessary trouble, and it clearly appears that you are £l 
very quarrelsome woman : your master has come forward to-day, and 
has interceded for you ; and this is an evident proof that he has no vin- 
dictive feeling towards you. I am perfectly satisfied, that if you return 
to your duty, both your master and mistress will see strict justice 
done towards you. [Here the prisoner manifested her turbulent temper, 
and insisted to go out of the dock, notwithstanding so benevolent an 
expression of feeling in her favour, not only by her master, but by the 
whole auditory. This unruly conduct was checked by his Honour, 
who told her that she must not depart this court under her present 



f 'f It is not said what the crime charged in this second indictment was, pro- 
bably running away from happiness and comfort. 

t This remark of Mr. Jackson may not be very intelligible to our readers. — 
He alluded to the clause in the slave act, under which this wretched woman 
was tried, namely, clause 47, which enacts, " that if any slave shall assault or 
offer any violence or otherwise to or towards any white people or persons of free 
condition, such slave upon due and proper proof shall, upon conviction, be pu- 
nished with death, transportation, or confinement to liard labour for life, or for 
a limited time, according to the nature of the offence, as the court shall in their 
discretion think proper to inflict." So tliat it was actually the life of this mise- 
rable creature which was aimed at in this judicial proceeding. 



Case of Eleanor Mead. 485 

angry feelings. — She was then discharged, but said she would not re- 
turn to the estate.] 

" This woman's countenance is a complete index of her temper ; her 
features seem to be constricted by the indulgence of the darker passions. 
She is a personification of the passion of Hate, and, from what she pub- 
licly evinced in the court, she seems not to be imbued with the most 
distant feeling of generosity. — Court adjourned." 

These closing remarks of the Editor, or Reporter, are doubtless in- 
tended to operate unfavourably to the wretched sufferer in the mind of 
the English reader; but they have, very probably, no foundation, except 
in prejudice, and in the desire to blacken her character, and thus to 
relieve her persecutors from some of the odmm which cannot fail to 
attach to their conduct, and still more to a state of law and manners 
such as is here displayed. 

The case is the more striking, because we find in the 12th clause of 
that very act of 1816, by which this woman's life was put in jeopardy, 
a provision which seems to have slept very soundly, while the 47th 
clause retained its full vigour and activity. This 12th clause enacts, "in 
order to give further encouragement to the increase and protection 
of negro infants, that every female slave who shall have six children 
living," " shall be exempted from all hard labour in the field or other- 
wise ; and the owner of such female slave shall be exempted from all 
manner of taxes for such female slave,'' &c. This is one of the pre- 
tended ameliorating acts of Jamaica. We see how it works. It is a 
dead letter. It was made for England, not for Jamaica. Eleanor 
Mead, the mother of nine children, is sent to work in the great gang! 

And the result of all is, that the wretched Eleanor Mead is again 
placed under the care of Mrs. Earnshaw, and Mr. Prater, and Mr. 
Maclaren ; of the very persons who, aftfer having embittered her days by 
flagellation, and chains, and stocks, and oppressive toil, now sought to 
terminate them by a premature death. 

We shall close this atrocious case, (a case involving not particular 
individuals only, but the whole frame and structure of Jamaica slave law 
and Jamaica society, in the heavy charge of cruelty and oppression,) 
with some remarks upon it which appear in the "Watchman" of that 
island, of September 12, 1830. 

" In our paper of the oth instant, we noticed the conduct of Mr. 
Prater and Mrs. Earnshaw, in reference to the brown woman (Eleanor 
Mead) belonging to Colchis estate. Since then we learn that this 
female has been sent to the field, and for being late in turning out, was 
again whipped, which so irritated her, that she assaulted the overseer, 
for which crime she has been committed for trial at the next Slave 
Court. 

" If any circumstance was required to prove the existence of cruelty 
on the part of Mr. Prater and Mrs. Earnshaw towards this unprotected 
slave, or to demonstrate the kind of spirit by which they are actuated, 
that circumstance is to be found in the conduct which we have just 
mentioned. 

" From the nature of the evidence given before the Council of Pro- 
tection, and the hostility which Mrs. Earnshaw appeared to entertain 

3 u 



486 State of Laiv and Manners in Jamaica Illustrated. 

towards this woman, we were half disposed to think that to the existence 
of the ' green-ey'd monster' was that hostiUty attributable. Since then 
circumstances have come to our knowledge which satisfy us of the 
truth of the supposition, and at once explains a paragraph to be found 
in Eleanor's testimony, namely, that ' she had been sent to the field by 
her mistress once before, but that her master took her out ;' from which 
it is plain that this woman had been the object of Mrs. E.'s hatred long 
antecedent to the death of her husband. Allowing, however, that Mr. 
Earnshaw had cohabited with this woman during his lifetime, is that 
any reason why this unfortunate creature (who, when the condition of 
the slaves in this island is considered, could scarcely have dared to 
resist the desires of her master,) should still suffer for a crime, the guilt 
of which is chargeable upon the man solely, who, taking advantage of 
her condition, drives her to the commission of a crime which, notwith- 
standing the frequency of its committal, is not less repugnant to the 
laws of God, than destructive to the morals of men ? 
. " To what extremes the passion of jealousy will drive an ignorant and 
illiterate woman (for we are informed that Mrs. Earnshaw can scarcely- 
read or write) has been seen. How far that passion, assisted by 
revenge for the expose which has been made, will drive her, remains to 
be seen. Of this, however, Mrs. Earnshaw and Mr. Prater may rest 
assured, that their conduct, in reference to this woman, will be narrowly 
watched and made public. If the laws are insufficient to protect the 
unfortunate slaves from the tyranny of such owners as Mrs, Earnshaw, 
the press is all-sufficient to expose their conduct, and to hold them up 
to the detestation of the world. This we are determined to do, and this 
we will do, despite of every thing." 

3. St. George's Council of Protection — Rev, Mr. Hanna. 
In our number 68, we gave a statement of the Rev. Mr. Hanna, a 
respectable clergyman of the Church of England, respecting a case of 
extreme cruelty which had occurred in his parish, and the impunity that 
had attended it. We also inserted the impotent defence set up for the 
conduct of the Council of Protection by two of their body, who, how- 
ever, did not impugn, but admitted the truth of the allegations of Mr. 
Hanna to their full extent. But Mr. Hanna is not less the object of bitter 
persecution because his facts cannot be denied. The whole ire of the Ja- 
maica press, with a single exception, is turned, not on the overseer who 
inflicted the acknowledged cruelty ; not on the five magistrates who dis- 
missed the sufferer's complaint unredressed, though its truth was incon- 
testably established; but on Mr. Hanna who exposed the atrocious trans- 
action to the public indignation, if not in Jamaica, at least in England. In 
the RoyalGazetteof the 7thof August, we find him arraigned for conduct 
the most unconstitutional and monstrous — for having interfered between 
master and slave, and between both and the courts of justice — conduct 
directly leading to anarchy, insubordination, and insurrection. The 
Courant is still more virulent, and attacks not only this part of his con- 
duct, but his reprehensible rigour in the performance of his cleric&l 
duties. " He refused to baptize," says the Courant, Dr. Robertson's 
child, " because one of the sponsors was a batchelor." The reply of a 



Si, George^s Council of Protection and Rev. Mr. Hanna, 487 

friend of Mr. Hanna, that the proposed sponsor was not only a bat- 
chelor, but living in open concubinage, and the father of a family of 
coloured children, and therefore not a fit person to engage on behalf of 
the child, to " renounce the pomps and vanities of this v?icked world, 
and all the sinful lusts of the flesh," seems to have added greatly to the 
unpopularity of this faithful clergyman. 

The following are some of the remarks of the " Jamaica Watchmaa" 
on the whole of this affair : — ,,, J 

" In our paper of the 21st ult. we adverted to the oppression which 
had been exercised towards a negro slave in the parish of St. George, 
and to which our attention was drawn by a ' Notice to a Corres- 
pondent,' which appeared in the Gazette of our Royal contemporary of 
the previous week, as well as by various reports which were then 
current. 

" On that occasion we promised, that so soon as a statement of the 
circumstances was received, it should be laid before them. The receipt 
of a letter from St. George's on Monday evening, enables us to redeem 
our pledge, and affords us the opportunity of inquiring if any reason- 
able creature can peruse that communication without having his feelings 
harrowed up ? The individual who can peruse such a statement without 
feeling something more than indignation rising within him, cannot pos- 
sibly be possessed of natural feeling ! What ! a slave to be severely 
punished, and, because upon being ordered to proceed to a distant spot 
to labour, he pleads his still bleeding wounds, is to be incarcerated 
from Monday evening until Wednesday morning, his feet thrust into 
the stocks, and his hands reversely manacled by a pair of hand-cufFs ? 
Is tills the punishment which has been described as being too trifling 
in its nature to be further noticed ? What became of the feelings of 
those five gentlemen (and they too, we suppose, are proverbial for ten- 
derness and good nature), when they came to such a determination ? 
Surely they will not pretend to assert that the charge was not proven! 
Was not the testimony of Mr. Shenton, a respectable magistrate, suffi- 
cient to urge them to drag the oppressor before a higher tribunal ? It 
undoubtedly was. Those gentlemen, however, thought otherwise. 
They considered it better to decide that the case was unworthy of fur- 
ther notice, than that injured justice should be satisfied — a slave should 
have his wrongs avenged — or the white oppressor receive that punish- 
ment which his crimes so loudly call for. 

" Of what avail are Councils of Protection, falsely so called, when, 
as in this and a variety of other instances, the offender is sure to be 
acquitted; — when a deaf ear is turned to the complaints of the sutfering, 
unprotected negro; and those complaints are declared unworthy of 
further notice ;— when men who are either slave-owners or slave-drivers, 
and who are themselves guilty of maltreating and oppressing the ne- 
groes belonging to them, or under their management, constitute them ? 

" The dearest friends of the oppressor are often called upon to decide 
between him and a slave whom he has maltreated. In a case of that 
kind, is it to be supposed that they will, by their decisions, place him 
withini!the reach of the law officer of the Crown? Assuredly not. Nor 
can it be otherwise, until another class of 'persons is admitted to a share 



"'^0 State of Law drid mmimrs in Jamaica Illustrated. 

of that power, which is, and has been, monopolized by a favoured few. 
Here we have a Council of Protection (what a strange name), two of th^ 
members of which vote in an unaccountably strange manner, and then, 
strange to say, put forth, by way of defending their conduct, a letter 
^hich most powerfully witnesses against them. 
^*^* What shall we think of men who can lead us to suppose, that the 
^absence of the wretched sufferer from his work on Monday, after re- 
ceiving severe flagellation on the Friday preceding, ' was the result ofa 
concerted plan,' as he had been (what think you, reader?) — pleasuring 
on board a drogger, not forty-eight hours before ! 

" What shall we think of men who can describe the result of Mr. 
Shenton's examination of the sufferer, with such a milk and water 
phrase as this — " his wrists were found tumified," when that very Mr, 
Shenton made oath before these gentlemen, that the man's back parts 
were ' scored like raio beef, and his hands swollen to double their na- 
tural size /' 

" What shall we think of men who inform us, that the poor negro, 
while suffering under the effects of previous punishment, was confined 
in the stocks (thus irritating his fresh and bleeding wounds) ' with hand- 
cuffs on his wrists behind his back,' (how admirably expressed !) ' from 
3 P. M. on Monday till Wednesday at 7 A. M.,' and then with unblush- 
ing effrontery step forward and declare that they considered ' a smart 
reprimand would not only have a salutary effect' upon the overseer, 
' but ivoiild answer all the ends of justice, and be a teaming (what a 
terrible warning!) to others not to commit themselves in a similar 
way !' 

" What shall we think of magistrates who would not and did not vote 
for the prosecution of an individual, whose conduct ' they yet strongly 
deprecate,' and who had been guilty of treating his wretched fellow 
being ' in such a manner as had never before come within their know- 
ledge, during a long and intimate intercourse with slaves!'" 

The following is an extract from the letter of the correspondent 
alluded to : 

" Some time in the month of June, a negro slave, belonging to 
Windsor Castle estate, in this parish, received, by the orders of the 
overseer, a very severe punishment. Conscious of not having com- 
mitted a very great error (it having been a mere slight dereliction of 
duty for which he underwent so severe a chastisement) he repaired to 
James Shenton, Esq. a magistrate of the parish, to whom he preferred 
his complaint. And what was the result ? Such was the state of 
the part affected, that Mr. S. could really come to no conclusion as to 
the extent of the punishment inflicted ; the nature was that of unwar- 
rantable severity. This gentleman very properly advised the negro to 
creturn to the estate, which he did. It appears, also, that though la- 
bouring under such sufferings, he did not omit to return to his appointed 
place for labour ; but, on making his appearance there, he was in- 
structed that he and his fellow-workmen were ordered to repair to an- 
other place to perform some work of the estate. This was on Monday. 
Feeling himself still labouring under the laceration, he was unable to 
comply with the order, and remained there until about the close of the 



Case of George Ancle. ,489 

day, at which time, being missed by the overseer, he was desired to 
state the cause of his absence. The poor negro pleaded his wretched 
state, and offered his wounds as a defence. For thus pleading, he was 
immediately thrust into the stocks- — -and, by main force, the negro's 
hands were tightly handcuffed behind him — in which state, from the 
close of Monday until sometime early on Wednesday, he remained 
writhing under the severest agony ! I have heard that Mr. Shenton saw 
the man in this state, or rather he has deposed, on oath, * that such 
was the state of his hinder parts, that the place affected appeared as 
raw meat sliced ; and bis hands, from the reversed confinement, en- 
larged to a bulk that can readily be conceived.' With these facts before 
him, he immediately resorted to the means of convening a Council of 
Protection, which assembled about the commencement of this month. 
The Gustos, the Hon. J. Bell, Avas present. He was assisted in this 
important duty by the rector of the parish, and the following magis- 
trates : — Messrs. Rogers, *Gray, Swire, *Maxwell, *Bowyer, Shenton, 
*Guscott, and *Helps. Certainly, no other evidence could be admitted 
but that of Mr. Shenton, the rest who saw it being slaves ! and although 
he was clear and positive in his statement, on a division, whether the 
oppressor should bear the penalties of the law — the five gentlemen, 
whose names are thus marked*, put an end to the proceedings by de- 
claring that the trifling nature of the circumstance required no further 
notice ! And thus did the labours of the Council of Protection ter- 
minate. 

"I shall offer no observations.'' 
4. Case of George Ancle, a slave belonging to Bog Estate, in Vere, 
the property of John Morant, Esq. 

We gave, in our No. 69, the case of this negro, a carpenter, who was 
tried at the Vere Quarter Sessions, in July last, found guilty o? preaching 
to his fellow slaves, and sentenced for this offence to six months' hard 
labour in the workhouse. In the Watchman of the 11th of September 
is contained a letter addressed to Mr. Morant, the proprietor of the Bog 
Estate, now, we believe in England, to this effect : 

" It was my intention to have handed you an account of your slave, 
George Ancle, as I received it from two respectable persons who were 
present at the trial ; but I have been spared the trouble of so doing by 
some person or persons, who prompted by the feelings of humanity, 
have done it in a much more able manner than I could.* I have, 
therefore, only to relate a few more particulars, which, most probably, 
will not reach you in any other way. A woman of the name of 
* Richards,' was taken up as well as ' Ancle,' and both of them confined. 
She is a Methodist — Ancle is a Baptist ; and I understand that on the 
day of trial, the ' Gustos,' after some conversation with your Attorney, 
Mr. Bayly, handed this woman her manumission paper, with a severe 
reprimand for her conduct, and discharged her. 

" Report says, that the late Mr. Richards left her free. If so, why 
has she been kept in bondage upwards of two years since his demise ? 

* The writer alludes to the account which we have already inserted in the 
Reporter, No. 69. . ,i-,y, 

3 u 2 



490 State of Law and Manners in Jamaica — George Ancle. 

Surely she ought to be recompensed for her services on the property 
during that time. But this I must leave, and proceed to inform you 
further of George Ancle subsequent to his trial. The poor man took a 
few necessaries with him 1o the workhouse, to comfort him in his de- 
plorable situation, of which he was quickly robbed, and since which he 
has been exceedingly ill. And now, Sir, if death should be the conse- 
quence of his sufferings, I would humbly ask — Who is to answer for 
his life ? The watchman who informed against him ? The attorney 
and overseer who prosecuted him ? The jury who gave their verdict 
against him? The judge who awarded the sentence? Or will his 
blood be upon his own head for daring to worship his God, and invoking 
others to follow his example ? 

" Perhaps, Sir, you are not aware of the loss you sustain by this 
^event; from what little I am acquainted with a sugar estate, I know the 
value of tradesmen on the property, especially a good carpenter bearing 
a good character ; and if an overseer does not know how to appreciate 
their services, he is very unfit for his business. 

"In conclusion. Sir, as the Clarendon Workhouse is not much out of 
my way, I shall take every opportunity of ascertaining the state and 
condition of this good man, and informing you of the same through 
the medium of ' Thb Watchman.' " I remain, Sir." 

We subjoin some of the remarks of the Editor of the Watchman on 
this horrifying transaction : d 

" It has become common with the M'Queens, the Barclays, and other 
hired defenders of the existing system of Colonial oppression, to assert 
that the planters are not inimical to the religious instruction of the 
slaves, but that they object to that instruction being afforded by Sec- 
tarians, because they receive money from, and consequently deprive the 
negroes of their little earnings, injure their healths by nightly meetings, 
and afford, under pretence of religious worship, opportunities for com- 
municating designs of a nature dangerous and destructive to the well- 
being of the island !" 

" As the general decent appearance of slaves attached to dissenting 
congregations, together with their proverbially industrious and peace- 
able habits completely disprove the latter assertions, we sliall confine 
ourselves to the following : — ' The planters are not inimical to the reli- 
gious instruction of the slaves,' and adduce another fact in support of 
the position which we some time ago assumed, that the assertion was 
false, and only put forth as an excuse, or palliative, for the disgraceful 
system of opposition, so foolishly manifested towards the industrious 
and indefatigable propagators of Christianity in this island, not con- 
nected with the Established Church. 

" As we have, upon former occasions, noticed at large the remarks 
of Mr. Barclay, we shall content ourselves with bringing forward, as 
they come in our way, facts which go to prove (in opposition to that 
gentleman's declaration) the presence of a decided hostility to the dis- 
semination of religious knowledge among the slaves, and the obvious 
determination of the planters to prevent, by every means in their power, 
the spread of that knowledge, which they -pretend to wish their negroes 
?tftiPP5ses?j 



-...< iS^. Andrew's Sessio7is — Further Persecutions. 491 

V ??';*'* Connected with this determination of the planters, is the charge of 
cruelty : for surely it must be cruel to punish a negro for worshipping 
his Creator according to the dictates of his own conscience: unless, in- 
deed, it is intended to be maintained that the soul, as well as the blood, 
bones, and sinews of the negro, is the rightful property of his master, 
and that as a matter of course he can and will keep the former in dark- 
ness, as well as the latter in bondage ; contrary to every principle of 
reason, justice, or humanity." 

After detailing the facts of the case, as we have already detailed 
them, and which he says " shew how much truth there is in the asser- 
tions of Mr. Barclay, and how much dependance is to be placed in the 
declarations (however solemn) of men who ' love darkness rather than 
light, because their deeds are evil,' and who are therefore desirous to 
perpetuate a system fraught with so much mischief to themselves, and 
injury to those who are its unfortunate victims," the Editor of the 
Watchman thus proceeds : 

" Remarks upon this sentence we shall not make, because they are 
unnecessary. The man who can peruse the testimony of the several 
witnesses, the declarations of the prisoner himself, and reflect but for a 
moment upon the truly praise-worthy and Christian spirit by which this 
poor negro was actuated, and not feel his blood boil within him at the 
reflection that for the manifestation of a degree of charity and Christian 
benevolence truly admirable, he has been sentenced to hard labour for 
six months in a workhouse, must certainly be void of feeling, and dead 
to the best sympathies of our nature ! 

" Mr, Morant, no doubt, supposes that his negroes are happy and 
contented, and living in the enjoyment of liberty of conscience. The 
foregoing, however, but too clearly proves that he is mistaken ! Bene- 
volent and kind as he is, too kind to entertain for a moment the suppo- 
sition that one of his negroes is doomed to six months' hard labour in a 
workhouse for endeavouring to make his fellow-slaves better men and 
better servants, and worshipping in company with them the Being that 
gave them existence, we may conceive his astonishment when roused 
from his pleasing slumber by ' Tht Watchman,' (which will be sent 
him,) he perceives that the fancied happiness of his slaves was at 
best but a dream, and that whilst he has been reposing on the artful 
representations of his underlings, the iron yoke of tyranny, and, worst 
of all, religious tyranny, is pressing hard upon those whose comfort and 
happiness he is bound, by every principle of justice, to attend to and 
ensure." 

5. St. Andrew's Sessions — a new case of 'persecution, "'f'j' 

The Royal Gazette of the 11th of September last, coniains thie fol- 
lowing intelligence : — 

" A full bench of magistrates sat on Tuesday, the 7th of September, 
; at the Court-House, Halfway-Tree, in the parish of St. Andrew, viz. — 
Justices Robert Smith, James Smith, C. S. Cockburn, and J. Wiles, 
Esqrs. >i^;^ ■ -: '-^ 

"Their attention principally was called to a case relative to three slaves 
from Mount Industry, one of whom had already been committed for 
trial, for a violent assault on his overseer, while discharging the duties 



492 State of Law and Manners in Jamaica Illustrated. 

imposed on him by the orders of his employer, Barnaby Maddan, Esq. 
for a violation of the 50th and 51st clauses of the Slave Law.* That 
highly respectable and well-known humane owner, Mr. Maddan, f with 
his overseer, were in attendance. The case, however, was not proceeded 
in further than that one of the slaves, Bull, was remanded, and the 
other, Romeo, committed for trial at the next Slave-court. This line of 
proceeding was unanimously adopted, on the Deputy Clerk of the 
Peace, Mr. Clement, submitting the affidavit of the overseer, Mr. Ouens, 
to their worships' consideration. The affidavit contained three distinct 
charges — one, that Bull was (after repeated orders to the contrary,) 
discovered in the act of preaching to a concourse of slaves in his negro- 
house, at a time he should have been at his work in the field ; another, 
that Romeo (in opposition to the orders he had also received,) was dis- 
covered preaching to an assemblage of slaves, at two o'clock in the 
morning, of another date, dressed in the habiliments of a priest; and 
the other, that the head driver, Richard, who had had the confidence of 
his owners and overseer for some years past, had violently assaulted Mr. 
Ouens, because, forsooth, he (the overseer) detected Bull and Romeo in 
their improper practices. Mr. Clement submitted, with reference to the 
50th clause, that Bull should be remanded (notwithstanding that clause 
gave power and jurisdiction to any two justices to proceed summarily 
to punish him on due conviction,) until the case of Romeo, and that of 
Richard, were disposed of in the Slave-court, as it was unquestionable 
that the two latter were triable there under the 51st clause ; and Richard 

* These iniquitous clauses are as follow, viz. — 

" L. And ivhereas it has been found that the practice'of ignorant, superstitious, 
or designing slaves of attempting to instruct others, has been attended with the 
most pernicious consequences, and even with the loss of life : Be it enacted, That 
any slave or slaves, found guilty of preaching and teaching as Anabaptists, or 
otherwise, without a permission from their owner and the quarter sessions for 
the parish in which such preaching and teaching takes place, shall be punished 
in such manner as any two magistrates may deem proper, by flagellation, or im- 
prisonment in the workhouse to hard labour. 

" LI. And whereas a practice of nightly and other private meetings has fre- 
quently taken place amongst the slaves in several parts of this island, and 
which have been unknown to the owner, attorney, or other person having charge 
of the slaves of the property, and as such meetings are injurious to the health of 
the slaves, and of dangerous tendency : Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid. 
That in future all such meetings shall be deemed unlawful, and the persons who 
shall or may attend them, shall be liable to be apprehended and taken before 
any magistrate of the parish wherein the offence shall be committed, and, if any 
person of free condition attend such meeting, and it appears to the said magis- 
trate, on the oatli of the person accusing the party, that he or she is guilty, he or 
she shall be committed to gaol to be tried at the next quarter session for the 
parish for the said offence, and, if convicted thereof, he or she shall be sentenced 
to imprisonment in the county gaol for such period of time as the justices, before 
whom he or she shall be so convicted, think proper to direct, not eKceeding three 
months ; And if the offender be a slave, he or she shall be tried at a slave-court, 
and, if convicted thereof, he or she shall be sentenced by the said court to hard 
labour for such time as the court shall think proper to direct, or to receive such 
other punishment by flogging, not exceeding thirty-nine lashes at one time, as 
the court shall order and direct." (This seems to imply, that the court may 
award several such inflictions, if they be given at different times.) 

t Mr. Maddan is not the owner, but only the receiver of the estate, on which 
their are seventy slaves. 



- Fresh Case of Persecution. 493' 

also, under the 47th.* Mr. C. conceived it his duty thus to address 
their worships, because he wished them to proceed with the utmost pre- 
cision and dehberation ; the more especially so, as there was a matter 
(which he would only at the present moment assert to be one of the 
most officious and intruding nature, that perhaps Avas ever before 
attempted, towards the subversion of all local constitutional authority, 
and the right of ownership of slave property,) connected with this case, 
on which, in the discharge of his duty, he might hereafter be called 
upon officially to animadvert, and bring before another tribunal. Mr. C. 
would not then go into the particulars of what the matter alluded to 
was, but would briefly refer to an article, or rather an address, in a late 
public print, from an individual whose authority and conduct, as 
assumed and exercised in the production alluded to, would doubtless be 
questioned and considered of in another jurisdiction ! He was satisfied 
that the production in question was too well already circulated by the 
channel of its publicity to require a further identity, and he was equally 
satisfied that their worships, without giving it any further consideration 
for the present, would exercise their usual sound and honest discretion 
in then disposing of the case in the way submitted. Accordingly, their 
worships then ordered that Bull should not be tried summarily at pre- 
sent, but remanded until the trial of Romeo and Richard should be 
disposed of next month. Mr. Maddan was asked (in order to save the 
property from the inconvenience of the loss of their labours,) if he 
would enter into bail to produce Bull and Romeo at the trial ; but that 
gentleman declined, observing, that after his own admonitions and his 
own orders had been so disregarded," (ihe slaves choosing to obey God 
rather than man. See Acts iv. 19.) "he would not interpose. They 
were consequently put in custody. We observed, as Mr. M. was leaving 
the Court-house, that Romeo and Bull dropped on their knees, re- 
questing his pardon, and excusing themselves for having acted as they 
did under the advice of others. They said he was a ' good Massa 
Trustee, and they begged him hard.' — Mr. M. could only say to them 
he could not interfere, but they would have justice dealt to them. He 
was sorry they had brought themselves where they were." 

So far the Gazette. — Our readers will perceive that the head and 
front of these men's ofl^ence is meeting together for the purpose of pray^ 
ing to and praising God, and for imparting to their fellow-slaves the 
knowledge they themselves have acquired. We shall soon learn the 
result of this persecution. .i^J 

In the mean time the newspapers are filled with discussions on th6 
subject. The following letter of the Rev. T. Morgan, the senior Wes- 
leyan Missionary, has appeared in the Watchman of the 4th of Septemr 
ber, dated two days before ; being, we doubt not, the obnoxious letter 
alluded to above by Mr. Clement. ._ -x 

" Having heard that Richard Shroeter, a slave belonging to '^^ 
Maddan, Esq., and a Member of the Methodist Society, was in the gaol 
of this city, I visited him this morning, for the purpose of ascertaining 
the cause of his imprisonment, Richard, it appears, being the driver^ 

* See above, p. slSd, Note. '^^^^^ 



494 , State of Laws and Manners in Jamaica Illustrated. 

had frequently been charged by the Overseer not to allow Methodist 
prayers at the negro houses, which caution was on Friday morning last 
renewed. On that occasion he retired to his house, ate his supper, and 
was about going to bed, when he heard the noise of children, and, on 
opening the door, and inquiring what was amiss, he was told by some 
of the children that Bus ha (the overseer) was chasing them. On 
observing to the children that they were mistaken, he was accosted by 
the overseer, v/ho charged him with allowing ' Methodist prayers' to be 
kept at the negro-bouses, contrary to his pleasure. He was then ordered 
by this Gentleman to accompany him to the house of prayer, which he did. 
On finding, however, that the praying negroes were dispersed, the over- 
seer commenced an assault, and struck the negro repeatedly. Richard 
then requested him to desist, and in his defence held the aggressor by 
the sleeve of his upper garment ; but denies most distinctly the charge 
of having struck him. The sick nurse was present, and witnessed the 
•whole affair. The next morning Richard was taken with his fellow- 
slaves, William and Edward, who are also members of the Methodist 
Society, to Halfway-Tree workhouse, and on Monday. the former was 
removed to the gaol of this city. * 

" These facts, which were stated to me by the negro himself, in the 
presence of one of my colleagues, I send for insertion in your paper." 

On the 13th of September, there appeared in the Jamaica Courant, 
the organ of the colonial authorities, the following leading article : — 
■ " On Friday morning last, Mr. Morgan, one of the Wesleyan Preachers 
in this city, called at the gaol, and applied for permission to visit one 
of the slaves confined there, by order of the magistrates, but declined to 
name the party to whom he wished to have access. The gaoler pointed 
out to this Reverend intermeddler, that according to the gaol regula- 
tions, no one was permitted to visit prisoners under commitment be- 
tween the hours of 9 a. m. and 5 p. m. without an order from a magis- 
trate. This was a poser for the old fellow, who sulkily walked away, 
expressing his determination to find his way into gaol, in spite of the 
magistrates. This, we believe, he will very shortly accomplish ; but his 
deliverance therefrom may not be so easily effected as he imagines. We 
would advise Mr. Morgan to bear in his remembrance the fate of Mr. 
Smith in Demerara." 

In the Watchman of the 15th, an answer to this statement, from two 
Methodist missionaries, Mr. Morgan and Mr. Pennock, was inserted. 
They affirm, that on the morning of the 10th, they called at the 
gaol to see a slave, a member of their society, named Richard Schroeter, 
in order to administer to him that spiritual instruction and consolation 
which, in his present unfortunate circumstances, were so highly necessary. 
But they were told at the office that no persons were allowed to visit 
the prisoners between the hours of nine and five, when Mr. Morgan ob- 
served, — " as that is the case, we will call again after five this even- 
ing." They were then told by the white person in charge of the pri- 
soners, that he was " under orders to prohibit their visits altogether." 
To which, all that Mr. Morgan replied was, " that is what we wished to 



*To be tried, we presume, for his life, under the 47th clause of the act of 1816. 



Jamaica Illustrated — Concluding Remarks. 495 

know ;" and then departed without uttering another syllable, or express- 
ing " any determination to find his way into gaol in spite of the magis- 
trates." If, however, it is added, '* either Mr. Morgan or any other Wes- 
leyan missionary get into gaol for ' righteousness' sake,' they will trust 
in that God who preserved Daniel in the lion's den, and count neither 
life nor liberty dear to them, when God can be honoured by the sacrifice 
of either. As to Mr. Smith of Demerara, to whose fate the Courant 
refers them, he was generally regarded in the Christian world as a 
martyr to intolerance, oppression, and cruelty ; and should they be 
doomed to the same fate, they would neither murmur nor repine at 
their lot; so that it was idle to hold Smith up as an object of terror to 
them.'' The Courant, however, does not confine his bile to the secta- 
ries, as may be seen by his abuse of the Rev, Mr. Hanna, and his 
virulent attacks on Mr. Wildman, for his present evangelical mode, as 
he calls it, of managing Papine Estate, and his folly in " teaching the 
young idea to shoot," and in labouring to convert his slaves. 

The effect of the above illustrations will be greatly strengthened when 
we come to consider a volume just laid on the table of the House of 
Commons by Sir George Murray, being a detail of his further abortive 
efforts to bring Jamaica and the other colonies to some sense of their 
duty. But we must suspend for the present any analysis of this instruct- 
ive volume, or of Mr. Stephen's admirable work, to which we briefl}'^ 
adverted in our last number. In the mean time, " the Watchman'' shall 
aid us to express the view we take of the subject. (See his paper of the 
16th of June, 1830.) 

" Had proofs been wanting of the utter inutility of Councils of Protection — 
of the absolute necessity for the admission of slave evidence (unshackled by cer- 
tificates from Hectors) — and of the impossibility of obtaining justice for the 
slave, and the absurdity of talking about ameliorating his condition without such 
admission of his evidence — the case of Mr. Bridges has furnished them 
abundantly, since no one can doubt that had slave evidence been admissible, 
this ' amiable' personification of truth and mercy would have met with justice, 
and not impunity. As it is, the whole affair assumes the character of an open 
contest of falsehood, prejudice, and tyranny against justice. 

" The recent development of Jamaica liberality, will, we have no doubt, be 
productive of much good to the cause of the oppressed classes in this island. 
The ministry and people of England will no longer be in doubt as to the cause 
and nature of the opposition shown by the Colonists to every attempt or 
proposition tending to relax the iron grasp of Colonial tyranny. — Sir George 
Murray will now see the futility of issuing instmctions for the investigation of 
slave questions by Councils of Protection, and of expecting a Jamaica Grand 
Jury to find a trae Bill, in such a case, against an avowed defender of the Jamaica 
system. He will no longer leave the trial of such charges to men whose interests, 
and, (considering that many of them are Americans and other foreigners,) we 
may add, prejudices prompt them to oppose the British Government, and who 
(even though uninfluenced by such motives,) dare not convict the criminal, lest 
he, in retaliation, should expose their liability to a similar ordeal, or the Colonial 
Press mistake them for good men, and abuse them accordingly. Conscious of 
the impropriety of their individual conduct, they cling together for mutual pro- 
tection ; and should any of their misdeeds transpire and give rise to the sem- 
blance of a legal inquiry, the pack commence, at full cry, a clamorous protest 
against the ' invasion of their rights.' 



496 Mauritius a^d Mr. Telfair. — Anti-Slavery Petitions. 

" With such materials composing the wajority of our Senators and Civil Au- 
tliorities, it cannot occasion much surprise, that Sir George's recommendation to 
do justice to a slave, should be met by clamorous insult ; — that the minorities 
who presumed to vote, v^dth some regard to conscience, on the late Councils of 
Inquiry, should be denounced as the personal enemies of the accused ; — that 
Mr. S. M. Barrett should have raised the voice of humanity in vain, against the 
shameless violators of her sex's modesty ; or that the Grand Jury of Middlesex 
has ignored the Bill against the author of the ' Voice from Jamaica.' 

" To succeed in its humane views, the British Government must adopt another 
line of policy from tliat hitherto observed. The contemplation of unrestricted 
authority has so long been familiar to the mind of the planter — he has so long 
revelled in the power to ' excite terror and inflict pain ;' with no opposition to 
his will, save 'supplications, by which insolence was elated, and tears, by which 
cruelty was gratified ;' that the puny despot now views complaint as open rebel- 
lion, and legal investigation as an infringement on his ' vested rights.' " 

II. — Mauritius, and Mr. Telfajr. 

We beg to inform our correspondent J. P., as well as all others who 
may be disposed to make the same inquiry, that they will find in the 
Reporter, No. 62, a brief but decisive reply to Mr. Telfair's bulky 
pamphlet, as far as it was required to vindicate the account we had 
given in preceding numbers of the state of slavery and the slave 
trade in the Mauritius. Besides this, they will find in our No. 69, p. 
449, strong ground, in the neglect and irregularity of the Slave Registry, 
for suspecting that things have not been materially reformed in that 
island, in respect to the effectual prevention of the piratical slave trade. 
And if that only effective means of repressing the slave trade be neg- 
lected by the authorities there, what hope can be fairly entertained of 
improvement in tbe state and condition of the slaves ? 

But a still more complete answer to every attempt to deliver the 
Mauritius from the opprobrium justly affixed to it, as the most noted 
of all the colonies for the iniquity of its laws and the cruelty and op- 
pressiveness of its practice, will be found in the papers laid three or 
four days ago on the table of the House of Commons by Sir George 
Murray, to which we have already alluded, and of which we hope soon 
to be able to give an account. 



Anti-Slavery Petitions. 

Since Parliament has assembled, the number of petitions for the 
early and entire abolition of Colonial Slavery, which have been pre- 
sented to the House of Commons down to the 17th instant inclusive, 
is 2089. Events, with which all our readers are well acquainted, may 
cause the postponement, for a short time, of the multitude of petitions 
which still remain to be presented, and which all breathe the same ear- 
nest prayer. 



London : S. Baaster, Jun, Printer, 14, Biirtliolomew Close. 



\ 



THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY REPORTER. 

No. 72.] DECEMBER 1, 1830. [Vol. iii. No.24. 

, The " Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter" will be forwarded to any Anti- 
Slavery Society, at the rate of four Shillings per hundred, when not exceeding 
half a sheet, and in proportion, when it exceeds that quantity, on application at 
the Society's office. No. 18, Aldermanbury. Single Copies may be had of all 
booksellers and newsmen, at the rate of Id. per half-sheet of eight pages. 



Reply to an Attack on the Anti-Slavery Society, contained 
IN A Pamphlet by the Right Honourable R.Wilmot Horton, 
entitled, " First Letter to the Freeholders of the County 
OF York, on Negro Slavery," &c. 

A pamphlet has recently appeared, from the pen of the Right 
Hon. R. Wilmot Horton, late Under Secretary of Stale for the Co- 
lonies, bearing- this title: — " First Letter to the Freeholders of the 
County of York, on Negro Slavery ; being an Inquiry into the Claims 
of the West Indians for equitable Compensation." We are induced 
to notice this pamphlet, chiefly on account of the authority which may 
be thought to attach to it, in consequence of the official situation 
which its author filled so long, and which naturally gave him a ready 
access to the best sources of information. But for this circumstance 
it would hai'dly have called for animadversion, as it is no more than 
a reimpression, slightly altered to suit existing circumstances, of a 
former pamphlet published by him in 1826, and placed on their list by 
the Colonial Committee, entitled " The West India Question practi- 
cally considered." The two pamphlets are marked, as we might 
expect, by the same characteristic peculiarities. They are employed 
either in laboriously proving admitted truths ; or in eagerly com- 
bating mere shadows, the creation of the author's own fancy. 

With respect to the former point, we need only to repeat what we 
said on the publication of the first of these two pamphlets, in 1826, 
(see Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 11, p. 168.) — that the author might 
have spared all the pains he has taken to convince the world that the 
views now entertained by the leading abolitionists on the subject of 
the necessity and expediency of legislative interference, with respect 
to colonial slavery, have undergone a great change since 1792, and 
even since 1807. This fact is so far from having been denied, that 
it has been fully and freely admitted. Nay, it stands prominently 
forward as the very ground on which, in 1823, the men of 1792 and 
of 1807 formed themselves into a Society, for the avowed purpose of 
abolishing slavery in every part of the British dominions.* But, 
(we then asked, as vve now ask again) if the abolitionists formerly 



See substance of th& Debate of the 15th of May, 1823. Preface, pp. 10, U . 

3 X 



498 Reply to Mr. W. Hor tori's Attack on the Anti Slavery Society. 

placed an unwarranted and too liberal confidence in the purposes of the 
colonists to improve the condition of their slaves, are they, or are those 
who have entered into their labours to be blamed, as wanting either 
in consistency or in good faith, because the painful experience of 
twenty-three years has satisfied them that their confidence was mis- 
placed, and that all hope of improvement in the condition of the slave, 
and still more, all hope of his emancipation, except from parliamen- 
tary interference, has become vain and illusory 1 On this point, there- 
fore, the author may now, as in 1826, enjoy his fancied victory un- 
disturbed by any denial. We plead guilty ; and we feel no shame in 
the avowal. 

Again, with respect to the author's charge against the abolition- 
ists of departing from the compact, by which he alleges they bound 
themselves, to abide by the resolutions of the 15th of May, 1823, he 
has entirely overlooked the circumstance that they, one and all, pro- 
tested, at the time, against committing the work of reformation to the 
Colonial Assemblies, and only forbore fi'om pressing the matter to a 
division, in consequence of the deliberate promise of the Govei'nment, 
that in case those assemblies refused to comply with the wishes of 
parliament, the interference of parliament would unquestionably be 
applied for. We here allude not merely to Mr. Canning's speech on 
that occasion, published and accredited by Lord Bathurst, in his cir- 
cular addressed to the colonial governors on the 28th of May, 1823, 
but to the following passage in the subsequent despatch of the 9th of 
July, 1823, which may probably have proceeded from the pen of the 
right hon. gentleman himself. — " In conclusion, I have most ear- 
nestly to impress upon you the necessity of proceeding to carry these 
improvements into effect, not only with all possible dispatch, but in 
the spirit of perfect and cordial co-operation with the efforts of his 
Majesty's government;" — " and if (which I am unwilling to imagine) 
you should meet with any serious opposition, you will lose no time in 
transmitting to me the necessary communication, in order that I may 
take the earliest opportunity of laying the matter before parliament, 
and submitting for their consideration such measures as it may be Jit 
to adopt in consequence.'''' 

Has, then, the compact of 1823 been violated? It undoubtedly has 
— and we think that on the ministers of the crown rests the guilt of its 
violation, not exempting from a share of that guilt the right hon. 
gentleman himself. Nor is our estimate of its amount at all lessened 
by reverting to the fallacious statements, whencesoever derived, which 
were officially laid before parliament by Mr. Canning, and more par- 
ticularly in March 1826, on the subject of colonial reform ; and which 
were so fully exposed at the time in the Reporters, Nos. 10 and 11. 

The author will not deny that, in 1823, a solemn engagement was 
entered into by government, to adopt "determined and vigorous" mea- 
sures, for accomplishing, " at the earliest period," the emancipation of 
the slaves, in other words, the words of the resolution, " their partici- 
pation in those civil rights and privileges which are enjoyed by other 
, classes of his Majesty's subjects." He cannot deny this. — Does he then 
blame the abolitionists, for insisting on the fulfilment of this pledge, and 



Reply to Mr. W. Mortons Attack on the Anti-Slavery Society. 499 

for complaining of its forfeiture on his part and that of his associates ? 
No, not entirely so : but he blames them for doing- this " m'ithout 
EQUITABLE COMPENSATION." We distinctly deny this charge ; and we 
call upon him to say whether he or any of the members of govern- 
ment ever brought forward*any proposition for equitable compensation 
which was resisted by the abolitionists. Had not he and his col- 
leagues forcibly taken the matter out of Mr. Buxton's hands ? Was 
it not for them to have adopted the means of fulfilling their own 
pledges ? Was it Mr. Buxton's part or theirs to have done this? Or 
were they ever prevented by him, or by any one of his friends, from 
propounding what might appear to them equitable, with a view to 
the accomplishment of the great purpose to which they had so so- 
lemnly bound themselves ? So far from it, the abolitionists often and 
in vain urged the government to do so at whatever cost. This was 
the burden of almost every Anti-Slavery petition addressed to parlia- 
ment from one end of the kingdom to the other. Even the Anti- 
Slavery Society itself, in its petition of 1826, professed its perfect 
readiness, if called upon to contribute whatever sum might be deemed 
necessary to the extinction of slavery, cheerfully to obey the call. 

And yet, will it be believed, that after all this, in 1830, the right 
hon. gentleman should write a pamphlet, to denounce the Anti- 
Slavery party as men of bad faith, as men guilty of violating their 
compact with government and the planters, in demanding abolition 
without compensation ! ! 

His proof of this charge is sufficiently whimsical, and not a little 
characteristic. He places in the title-page, as his motto, a passage in 
which the Anti-Slavery Society fully recognizes the right of the 
planters to prefer, and, by adequate proof, to establish their claim to 
indemnity. The whole of the passage from which he has drawn his 
motto, is as follows : — - 

" It is by no means intended to attribute the existence and continuance of this 
most opprobrious system to our Colonies exclusively. On the contrary, the guilt 
and shame arising from it belong in perhaps an equal degree to the people and 
parliament of this country. But on that very account are we the more rigidly 
bound to lose no time in investigating the state of colonial bondage, and in 
adopting such measures as shall bring it to the earliest termination which is com- 
patible with the well-being of the parties who sustain its grievous yoke, 

" But, besides our paramount and indispensable obligations, on moral and 
religious grounds, to relieve our colonial bondsmen from the cruel and degrading 
state to which we have reduced them, and to remedy as far as we can the num- 
berless wrongs of which we have been the criminal authors ; it is further due to 
the character of Great Britain, in the eyes of foreign nations, that we should act 
agreeably to the principles which, in our discussions with them relative to the 
African Slave Trade, we have professed to make the basis of our representations. 
It would be vain to expect that they should regard those professions as otherwise 
than insincere, or that tiiey should defer to our representations, however urgent, 
if we exhibit in our own conduct the glaring inconsistency of sanctioning as legal, 
in our own dominions, practices of the veiy same nature, in effect, with those 
which we reprobate and denounce as immoral, inhuman, and unjust, when they 
occur on the coast of Africa. 

" It is therefore our clear and indisputable duty completely to reform our pre- 
sent colonial system, even if it should require a large pecuniary sacrifice to 



500 Reply to Mr. W. Hortous Attack on the Anti-Slavery Society. 

accomplish that object. But the proposed change, we believe, is prescribed to 
us not more by moral and religious principle, than by the soundest views of poli- 
tical expediency. In the present advanced state of knowledge, it can no longer 
be a question that the labour of slaves is much less profitable than that of freeraeri, 
and that it can only be supported at a veiy heavy expense to the community at 
large. In proof of this, it will be sufficient to adduce the protecting duties and 
bounties afforded to the growers of sugar in the West Indies ; and without which 
they declare it would be impossible for them to continue its culture. Indeed, we 
are persuaded that no institution which is directly at variance with the will of the 
Supreme Governor of the Universe can prove a source of permanent advantage 
either to nations or individuals. And, in the present case, it might be clearly 
demonstrated, that the personal slavery which deforms the face of society in the 
British colonies, and stains the British character, is as detrimental to the interests 
of the slave-owner as it is cruel and oppressive to the slave ; and that its aboli- 
tion, instead of proving an injury to either, will prove an unspeakable benefit to 
both. 

" The Colonists say, that they shall sustain a great actual loss by the proposed 
change of system. If so, they vi^ill of course have an opportunity of preferring 
and establishing their claim to indemnity. But, whatever the extent of that claim 
may be proved to be, it is obvious that it attaches not to the negro bondsman, but 
to the British nation. It would be repugnant to every idea of equity, if we were 
to discharge any debt we may owe to the colonists, not from our own resources, 
but with the toil and sweat and blood of our African brethren. 

" But, in whatever degree it may be found necessary to indemnify the colonists 
for any loss which may arise to them from the abolition of negro slavery, yet, while 
that state of society continues unchanged, there will be an insuperable objection 
in the mind of every conscientious individual to the adoption of any measures of 
pecuniary relief, by means of protecting duties or bounties on their produce, or 
otherwise; because it is obvious that such measures, however modified, would 
involve the people of this country in the farther guilt.of upholding a system which, 
when the facts of the case are known, it is impossible not to feel to be utterly re- 
pugnant to the principles of justice and humanity, and to the whole spirit of 
Christianity." 

But this clear and unambiguous declaration, the right hon. gen- 
tleman may allege, was published in April 1823. We admit it. 
But then we have it in our power to lay before him a second edition 
of the same paper, which has furnished him with his motto, entitled, 
" A brief View of the Nature and Effects of Negro Slavery, as it 
exists in the Colonies of Great Britain," and which bears date, not in 
April, 1823, but on the 1st of October, 1830. Now this paper, which 
has been circulated very largely throughout all parts of the kingdom, 
though it contains statements varying in some respects from those 
contained in the former edition, in consequence of the intermediate 
changes which have taken place in the laws of slavery, yet gives 
the above passage without a single material variation. Indeed the 
only variation consists in the omission of these words in thfe first para- 
graph of the extract, " in investigating the state of colonial bondage, 
ajad ;" it being justly thought that the work of investigation has now 
been sufl&ciently fulfilled. ' ' 

And yet in the face of this apparently overwhelming evidence, 'lb 
which much more might be added in corroboration, the right hon, 
gentleman comes forward with his '•• First Letter to the men of 
Yorkshire," to denounce the abolitionists as denying and resisting the 
elaiip- of >«th« planters to equitable compensation, and to «stabiiih 
.s:rft Htod ifidi Ji,;^- -Brs^uf, ylj^l 



Reply to Mr. W. Hortons Attack on tlie Anti-Slavery Society. 501 ' 

against them, by laboured proof, this groundless charge. It is time, 
they have said nothing as to the amount of" compensation ; neither has 
the right hon. gentleman. He has concurred with them, probably, 
in thinking that that is a point to be settled, neither by the exagge- 
rated claims of the planters, nor by the vehement objections of indivi- 
dual declaimers, but by the sober estimate of an impartial and enlight- 
ened tribunal, deciding fairly and dispassionately on the subject ac- 
cording to evidence. 

On what ground, then, is it that the right hon. gentleman has 
contrived to raise a controversy between himself and the Anti-Slavery 
party on this subject? It is on a ground quite as whimsical and unr 
tenable as any we have yet noticed. He assumes it as a principle of 
his reasoning, that the very call for the early and entire extinction of 
slavery proves that it is intended, by the parties so calling, to be 
effected " rsithout equitable compensation.'''' This, we must take leave 
to say, is a somewhat extravagant, and certainly a most unwarrant- 
able assumption, and yet the whole of his pamphlet is founded upon 
it. For our own parts, with all respect for the superior sagacity of 
our author, we cannot discover what difference it can possibly make 
as to the principle on which the question of equitable compensation 
rests, whether the abolition shall take place in 1831, or 1841, or 1851. 
The equity of the matter remains the same on either supposition; 
and we are utterly unable to divine by what species of logic the 
right hon. gentleman has arrived at the conclusion, tliat because 
Mr. Brougham pledged himself to the Yorkshire Electors "never to 
cease from his labours till the chains shall have dropped from the 
hands of the slave;" and because the Hull Anti-Slavery Society have 
resolved to call for " the speedy extinction of slavery ;" that either 
Mr. B. or the members of the Hull Society will refuse to concur in any 
just and reasonable proposition, which he or any other person may 
bring forward, for carrying into effect that part also of the compact 
of 1823, which relates to the question of equitable compensation. 
And yet this speech- of Mr. Brougham, and these resolutions of the 
Hull Society, which are only samples, we admit, of many similar 
speeches and similar resolutions, form all the ground we can dis- 
cover for this weighty charge. We doubt whether labour and thought 
were ever so completely thrown away. Nay, if the author had only 
taken the trouble to read with ordinary attention the publications of 
the Society, which for years past, in various ways, it has been his 
labour to assail ; or to look into a few of the thousands of petitions pre- 
sented to Parliament on the subject, he would not have found there 
even a single attempt to controvert the position, that equitable com- 
pensation to the planter is a fair subject of parliamentary considera- 
tion. Nay, in not a few of them, he would have found even Hberal 
offers to bear their share of any indemnity, to which, on investiga- 
tion, the planters might prove (for with them must the onus proban- 
di rest) that they were equitably entitled. ;: 

Such being the state of the question between the right hon. g&iit- 
tlenian and the special objects of his attack, we think we were per* 
fectly justified in the remark with which we set out, that both this 

3 X 2 



502 Reply to Mr. W. Hortuns Attack on the Anti- Slavery Sbe^ii/'ii 

and his former pamphlet on the subject, were employed either in.' 
" laboriously proving- admitted truths, or in eagerly combating mere r 
shadows, the creation of the author's own fancy.'' dfi 

We might here close this unprofitable controversy, were it not fo'f s. 
some incidental statements of the right hon. gentleman, the accur.'« 
racy of which appears to us to be questionable, and which we shall^ 
therefore take the liberty of examining. We shall cite for this pnrm 
pose the following passage : ' 

" If you refer to a recent publication^of the Anti-Slavery Society, you will|find 
much criticism on the presumed defects and omissions of this Order in Council 5 
and it will be for those who pursue a critical study of this great question, to form 
a judgment of the revelancy or irrevelancy of that criticism. On one material 
point, I have already expressed my opinion in the House of Commons, in accord- 
ance with die sentiments of the Anti-Slavery Society : but this at least must be 
conceded, (and the concession is quite enough for any argument which I am 
prepared to sustain in this letter) that if certain modifications do take place in 
this Order in Council, the six ceded colonies, containing a population of 300,000 
slaves, will have completely and entirely embodied in their laws all those tem- 
perate and prudent recommendations which the abolitionists personally approved, 
and which were founded on the temperate and prudent resolutions of Mr. 
'ianning. 

" I put aside, then, the case of the colonies having local legislatures, for the 
purpose of considering that of the ceded colonies, where the interests of the pro- 
prietors in their slaves is just as strong and undoubted as in the case of the legis- 
lative colonies ; and I ask of you the following questions : Supposing that, upon 
examination of the Order in Council of February, 1830, you are of opinion that 
it ought to be modified according to the criticisms of the Anti-Slavery Society, 
can you deny, that, if it should he so modified by another Order in Council, the 
temperate and prudent recommendations of the Government, founded upon Mr. 
Canning's resolutions, will have been carried into effect in the ceded colonies ? 
And will you in that case be prepared to call for the sudden extinction of slavery 
in ^Aose colonies, without equitable compensation? 

" The ceded colonies, as I have'°already stated, have not the power of legis- 
lation. The British Government has carried certain meliorations into effect, 
according to its view of what was required by the resolutions of Parliament. If 
those meliorations do not come up to the proper standard, whose fault is it? In 
such a case, the existing Government ought to be impeached, rather than the 
property of the planters in the ceded colonies confiscated. Whatever, therefore, 
may be said with respect to the coIonies!having local legislatures, it is impossible, 
with common justice, to escape from the necessity of granting equitable compen- 
sation to the proprietors in the ceded colonies. In the case, then, of the ceded 
colonies, if you are not satisfied with the law as it now exists, or as it will exist 
when the Order in Council shall have been amended, (including compulsory 
manumission,) what is your project, and where are your funds? 

" But it may be said, * we will not emancipate the slaves in the ceded colonies, 
but we will at once emancipate those in the colonies having no legislatures.' If 
justice to the slaves be the object, how are any principles of justice to bp recoii- 
ciled with the distinction ? In that case the emancipation of the slaves will be 
effected, rather as a punishment to the planters, than as a measure intended for 
the well-being of the slaves. If your object be to punish the planters, there are 
many better modes of punishment than the measure of emancipation." 

What we have already said will shew, how totally wide of the 

mark are these observations. We are not conscious, in the first place, 

of ever having made any such distinctions as the right hon. gentle- 

r man supposes. In truth, had we done so, they would have been dis- 



Rmly to Mr. W. Horlon's Attack on the Anti- Slavery Society. ;. 50^$ 

tinctions of a very different description. Instead of maintaining his 
affirmative proposition, that the claims of the ceded colonies are as 
strong and undoubted as those of the old colonies, Ave should have-, 
added to it the monosyllable not. But into this part of the question 
we shall not now be tempted to digress, as it is foreign to our pre- . 
sent purpose. Suffice it to say, that we have no where attempted to, 
raise distinctions between the claims of different classes of slave-ij; 
holders, whatever may be our opinions on the subject, as interfering; 
with any claims of equitable adjustment. We pass therefore from 
that point, in order to express our unfeigned astonishment, that, 
familiar as the right hon. gentleman seems to be with the criticisms' 
of the Anti-Slavery Reporter, he should have so far misapprehended 
its sentiments, as to assume that it regarded the Consolidated Order 
in Council of February last, as forming, with " certain modifications," 
a complete and entire fulfilment of the pledges of his Majesty's Go- 
vernment on the subject of reform, as respects the crown colonies. 
In the very Reporter to which he refers, what is the language held ? 
(No. 58. p. 154.) It is that, even if all the measures proposed by 
government had been carried into full effect, we could only regard 
them as steps towards the final extinction of slavery throughout the 
British dominions ; in other words, as steps towards the great object, 
which the resolutions of May, 1823, professed and promised to ac- 
complish, namely, the introduction of the colonial slaves to a full 
participation of the civil rights and privileges enjoyed by other classes 
of his Majesty's subjects. ' 

But is it true, that all the measures proposed by his Majesty's 
ministers have been carried into effect, even in the crown colonies? 
Our author affirms this to be the case, and hesitates not to assume, 
that certain modifications would, even in our view, have rendered 
them complete. VVe totally dissent from this assumption, and pro- 
nounce it to be a complete, though doubtless unintentional misre- 
presentation of our opinions ; but still hardly excusable, in one so 
familiar with the details of the question as the right hon. gentleman. 
But let us look more closely at the subject, and first, with respect 
to education and religious instruction. 

In 1823, this point was placed in the fore-front of all the con- 
templated measures of reform. It was professedly made to rank 
in importance above all others, both by the ministers of the crown 
and by the colonial planters. And yet, in the crown colonies, subject 
as they are to the sole, exclusive, and uncontrolled legislation of the 
crown, what has been done to promote this avowedly paramount 
object '? Literallynothing. Not a single clause in any one Order of 
Council yet issued, not even in the late consolidated order whiph our 
author represents as so complete, relates to this object, or provides 
for the dedication of a single hour of the slave's time to its attairi- 
ment. Education and religious insti'uction formed, in 1823, ^ pro- 
minent feature, both of the speeches of Mr. Canning, and of the 
dispatches of the right hon. gentleman's principal. Lord Bathurst. 
And yet, in act and effect, they are an utter nullity. A bishop and 
some clergymen, it is true, have been appointed, and salaries have 



50'i Reply to Mr. W. Hortoiis Attack 07i the Ariti-Slavery Society. 

been given them, but not one clause of enactment has issued, to 
g-ive scope or efficacy to theii- labours. Their appointments and their 
salaries, therefore, only render the mockery of the proceedino- the 
more remarkable, and the violation of solemn professions and reite- 
rated pledges the less excusable. 

Closely connected w^ith this part of the case, is the total violation 
of another pledge, no less solemnly and explicitly given — a pledge 
to secure to the slave the full enjoyment of the repose, and of the 
other temporal as M^ell as spiritual advantages of the sabbath. This, 
it was admitted on all hands, nay, by the West Indians themselves, 
could not be eflPected in any other v^^ay than by affording to the slave 
equivalent time in lieu of Sunday. In no other way could the neces- 
sity of his labouring, on that day, for his own subsistence and that of 
his family, or of his attending Sunday markets, be obviated. Now, in 
the all perfect Order in Council of February last, Sunday markets are 
abolished, and compulsory labour on the Sunday is forbidden ; yet the 
law gives no time to the slave, to enable him either to attend market on 
any other day, or to exempthimfrom the stringent necessity of toiling 
on the Sunday, to raise food for himself and his family. In short he 
must still work on that day or starve. The right hon. gentleman 
cannot deny this statement ; neither can he deny, that it involves not 
only a violation of the pledges of government, and especially of that 
government to which he was attached, but that it is also an act of 
extreme cruelty and injustice to the slaves, for which we cannot even 
imagine the shadow of an adequate apology. 

But it is not merely as it affects the moral and religious interests of 
the slaves, or their bodily health, that this unaccountable violation of 
good faith, and of all justice and humanity, is to be reprobated ; though 
these are considerations of paramount importance ; but as it affects the 
operation of other parts of the Order, and especially of the much de- 
bated and much vaunted manumission clause. The predial slave, 
while forced as noWto employ the Sunday in labour, in order to pro- 
cure a bare subsistence for himself and family, can have no hope what- 
ever of effecting any accumulation of property. The thing is impos- 
sible, and is proved to be so by the utter abortion of the plan of Savings' 
Banks, in as far at least as respects the predial slave. So that this 
most unjust arrangement is not only destructive of health, and incom- 
patible with any progress in religious knowledge, but it extinguishes 
all expectation of benefit to the predial slave from the power of self 
manumission. To profess, therefore, under these circumstances, to 
give him that power, is little better than an act of derision. 

But the Anti-Slavery Reporter has dwelt so often and at such 
length on this important subject, that the right hon. gentleman 
must be familiar with these incontrovertible positions. VVe shall 
therefore only refer him and our readers to the passages noted in the 
margin, as containing full information upon it.* 

* Nell, p. 132— 135, 156; No. 21, p. 303; No. 27, p. 31; No. .30, p. 131 ; 
No. 34, p. 185; No.41, p. 311, 314; No. 48, p. 471; No. 52, p. 56 and 75; 
No. 58, p. 134—139; No. 60, p. 195—201 ; N. 66, p. 384; No. 71, p. 480. 



Repli/ to Mr. W. Hortons Attack on the Anti-Slavery Society. 505 

It was further promised by the government, that no one who was a 
proprietor of slaves, or interested in slave property, should be ap- 
pointed by the crown to the offices of protector of slaves, governor, 
judge, fiscal, &c. How has this promise been kept in all the crown 
colonies? The protector, to whom the chief guardianship of the 
slaves is committed in each colony, is indeed wholly debarred from 
having any interest in slave property. But in every one of these 
colonies, his assistants, on whom the duty of protecting the slaves, 
and especially the predial part of them, must of necessity fall, are 
to a man slave holders. The evils of such a system we need not 
insist upon. They are acknowledged in the very restrictions laid on 
the chief pi-otector ; they have been recognized, on a variety of oc- 
casions, by his Majesty's government; and they have been exposed, 
over and over again, with all their disastrous effects, in the pages of 
the Anti-Slavery Reporter;* and yet, they remain, to this very hour, 
wholly unredressed. 

But it were endless to enter into farther details on this subject, 
or to repeat statements which the right hon. gentleman knows 
we have already repeated even to satiety. We are not satisfied, 
we never were satisfied, and we have never expressed ourselves 
satisfied, with the provisions of the Order in Council ; and we have 
continued to dwell on their defects, even to the fatigue of our readers. 
But still we must not withhold from them or from our author, a new 
and invaluable testimony to the validity of many of the objections 
which we have not ceased to urge, for seven long years, but which 
were wholly unheeded by the right hon. gentleman while he re- 
mained in office. The testimony we have to produce is that of Sir 
George Murray, who, in a late circular despatch to the governors of 
crown colonies, dated the 4th of February, 1830, thus feelingly ex- 
presses himself with respect to the defects of this very Order, which 
Mr, Wilmot Horton holds to be perfect and complete, and which he 
would make the ne plus ultra of improvement. 

*' I am well aware," says Sir George, "that there are some topics 
connected with the improvement of the condition of slavery, which 
are omitted in this Order, although superior in importance to some of 
those which it embraces ; amongst these I may particularly mention 

THE DURATION OF THE DAILY LABOUR OF THE PLANTATION SLAVES J 

THEIR FOOD AND CLOTHING; and above all, their religious in- 
STRUCTTiON." (How Sir Gcorge should overlook, in this enumera- 
tion, the want of time in lieu of Sunday, is to us inconceivable.) " If 
it had been the design of his Majesty's ministei's," he adds, "to frame 
a complete code for the government of the slaves, a prominent place - 
must have been assigned to topics of this nature ; but for the present 
nothing farther has been contemplated than to consolidate the Order 
in Council of the 10th March, 1824, and the most valuable of thcj, 

* See No. 11, p. 142 ; No. 21, p. 298 ; No. 33, p. 178 ; No. 34, p. 192 ; No. 
38, p. 261 ; No. 39, p. 287 ; No. 43, p. 346, and p. 355—358 ; No. 54, p- 
142—145; No. 66, 373—382, and 386; No. 68, p. 416—421 ; No. 69, p. 
429—441 ; No. 71, p. 481—496. H\ o'/I 



506 Reply fo Mr. W. Hortons Attack on the Anti-Slavery Society. 

provisions which have been engrafted upon it by supplementary en- 
actments, either in Trinidad or in other sepai-ate crown colonies." In 
a subsequent despatch, of the 18th February, 1830, he calls for official 
information on the subject of the duration of slave labour, which must 
prove invaluable. We trust the call has been answered, and that the 
information will speedily be produced. 

It is now time, however, that we should reply to the question pro- 
pounded to us in the last extract. Our answer to it is, that if this all- 
perfect Order were carried into effect, not only in the crown but in 
the chartered colonies, and there were added to it all our suggested 
emendations, and all the supplementary measures of Sir George 
Murray, we should not the less, on that account, continue to call for 
the early and entire extinction of slavery, without, at the same time, 
opposing the slightest obstacle to the fair and full consideration of 
every equitable claim for compensation which the planters may prefer, 
or are able by satisfactory proof to establish. 

The right hon. gentleman tells us, that in the case which we 
have now proved beyond dispute, namely, that of the failure of 
ministers to come up to the proper standard of their pledges in 1823, 
they " ought to be impeached." We will not contest with the right 
hon. gentleman their claim to that honour, especially as he himself, 
who is unquestionably a particeps criminis, even if he pleads not 
guilty, must allow that we have at least produced a strong prima 
facie case, which furnishes a presumption that, if fairly tried, the plea 
would prove unavailing. 

But the author has propounded another question, which he seems 
to think will completely strike dumb the abolitionists, and especially 
Mr. Brougham, who happened some thirty years ago to say, that 
Africans must undergo " a radical change" before they are fit for 
freedom. " Have the negi'oes," he asks, " undergone that radical 
change ? " This kind of catechetical lecture appears to us, with all 
due respect to him, to be misplaced. Would he himself be willing 
to be catechized as to all he wrote or said thirty years ago ? Be- 
sides, have we had no experience to enlighten us in the course 
of those thirty years ? Let the right hon. gentleman only read 
the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 70, for an answer. But indepen- 
dently of this, if we were not anxious to hurry to a close, it would 
be easy to point out innumerable absurdities involved in this question 
of the right hon. gentleman. Does he mean to say that there is 
any radical difference between a black infant born, in Jamaica for 
instance, of a free person, and one born of a slave ? Or that black 
children in Sierra Leone, in Mexico, or in Hayti, are differently con- 
stituted from what they are in Jamaica, in Demerara, or in Barba- 
does ? Or that even black men and women are made of different 
materials, and endowed by nature with different dispositions from 
those with which white men and women are endowed? There is 
no end of such trifling. It savours too much of Major Moody's 
school, to which we are sorry to perceive that the right hon. gen- 
tleman retains some lurking attachment. We find him even pro- 
ducing the Major, as having proved some point " in the clearesft 



Reply to Mr-. W. Hortori's Attack on the Anti-Slavery Society. 507 

manner," so as to constitute, it seems, " an axiom''' in the Philosophy of 
Labour. But to cite Major Moody as a clear reasoner, nay, as a 
pi'opounder of axioms which are to pass current in the world, seems 
an aberration of the same kind which has made Mr. Brougham re- 
sponsible for an opinion uttered in youth, and long since disavowed ; 
or which exhibits it as a necessary corollary from the call of that gen- 
tleman, or of any other, for early and entire abolition, that he should 
exclude all consideration of equitable compensation to the planters. 
We hardly expected to have seen Major Moody again quoted as an 
authority, by any reasonable person, since the publication of the 
Edinburgh Review, No. XC. And although the right hon. gen- 
tleman might be excused for a feeling of partiality towards the 
views of the Major, yet we should hardly have expected that he 
would refer to him as a decisive umpire in this controversy. 

We cannot discover another syllable in this pamphlet which requires 
from us the slightest notice. AH that remains is a prolongation of 
the battle with shadows, which, from first to last, characterizes the 
productions of our author on this question. 

Before we close this article, we beg to assure the right honourable 
gentleman, that it is with great reluctance we have been compelled 
by his new attack upon us once more to enter the lists of conti'oversy 
against him. Whether the pamphlet before us will add to his repu- 
tation as a statesman, we leave to others to determine. It must, at 
least, have the effect of confirming and perpetuating, in the public 
mind, the impression of his unfriendly feeling towards the cause of 
negro freedom, which was created by his former writings, and by 
the general tenor of his official conduct. He has, it is true, disclaimed 
any such feeling, and has denounced its imputation as unwarranted 
and unjust. And yet, how is the public to form a judgment of public 
men but by their public conduct '? And when they have seen the 
right honourable gentleman uniformly palliating or defending in 
parliament colonial abuse or outrage ; and when they have also seen 
his writings, either selected by the colonial club for insertion in their 
list of works favourable to the colonial cause, or received with accla- 
mation by every colonial coterie, and lauded in every colonial 
journal ; what other conclusion was it possible for him to expect 
they should come to, but that to which they have come? His pre- 
sent pamphlet, he must allow, is not calculated to efface the impres- 
sion of which he has so loudly complained, and he must therefore be 
content, without some great change in his views and conduct, to rank 
in public estimation among the chief advocates of colonial bondage ; 
second to none, indeed, in talent ; and in zeal, inferior only to such 
men as Macqueen and Moody, as Barclay and Macdonnell. 

But as the right hon. gentleman appears to have taken his side 
in this controversy, we recommend it to him no longer to waste his 
strength in combating the comparatively puny efforts of the Anti- 
Slavery Reporter ; but to grapple at once with an antagonist wor- 
thy of him, we mean Mr. Stephen, the refutation of whose recent 
work on slavery will afford abundant scope to the exertion of all his 
talents ; and may supply him with a large fund of materials for the se- 
ries of letters with which he threatens the freeholders of Yorkshire. 



608 Reply to Mr. W. Horton's Attack on the Anti-Slavery Society. 

We are forcibly reminded, by the names of the four colonial 
champions just mentioned, as well as by the work we have now re- 
viewed, of some propositions which, three or four years ago, we 
deduced from their publications of that period, in conjunction with 
the former pamphlet of the right hon. gentleman. One of these 
propositions was: — (see Reporter, No. 11, p, 170.) 

" That though it is admitted that the British nation and the colo- 
nists have been guilty of a great crime, in subjecting the negroes to 
slavery, yet compensation is due, not from the criminals to each 
other, or to the victims of their crime, but is due from the negroes 
to their oppressors ; and that, in order to furnish this compensation 
to the criminals, the unoffending victims of their crime must be re- 
tained for ages, if need be, in their present abject and degraded 
state." 

Now it is somewhat remarkable, that, after the lapse of nearly 
four years, we should have another pamphlet from the pen of the 
right hon. gentleman, treating of negro slavery in a manner per- 
fectly justifying this proposition. — On the claim of the injured and 
outraged negro to compensation, he bestows not one thought, nor, 
on his forlorn and helpless condition, even one passing glance of pity. 
He bestows, as before, his undivided anxiety, and expends the whole 
current of his sympathies, on the possible loss of some fraction of pro- 
perty which may accrue to the master. Here again he and we are 
widely separated as the poles. Our clear opinion, as we have often 
stated it, is, that if there be any one party more indubitably entitled 
to indemnity than another, it is the slave ; who, even if the right 
hon. gentleman's favourite plan of compulsory manumission were 
carried into full effect, would have this injury added to all his other 
wrongs, that he is to be condemned to pay, with his coerced labour, 
the penalty of the criminal conduct of his oppressor. 



*^* The Third Volume of the Anti-Slavery Reporter being now brought to a 
close, we take the opportunity of apprizing our readers that, through some typo- 
graphical oversight, the paging from p. 129 to p. 182 inclusive, has been repeated. 
The first series of these double numbers comprises Nos. 54, 55, 56, and 57. 
The second series commences with No. 58. — We know of no better way to ob- 
viate the inconvenient effect of this oversight, in quoting from this third volume, 
than to refer always both to the page of the volume, and to the number of the 
Reporter. In the Index means will be taken to distinguish the second series of 
pages from the first. 



London : S. Bagster, Jun. Printer, 14, Bartholomew Close. 



^kH 2 \BU 



