RESENTED TO Tl^^^^j^^f^^^i 




I -f . • _ZZ__ ^ / ' ! ' 



^x 



^U^c^. ^v. 7* 




' * t » : >' 



THE 



ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 



" And tears and toil have been my lot, 
Since I tlie wiiite man's tlrrall became ; 

And sorer griefs I wish forgot — 
Harsh blows and burning shame !" 

Prinole. 



Vol. Ill, FOR 1837. 



NEW-YORK : 

PUBLISHED BY THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 

R. G. WILLIAMS, PUBLISHING AGENT. 

143 Nassau Street. 

1838. 



V 3 



INDEX. 





PAGE 


PAGE 


Abdy, Esq. E. S. - 


- 156 


Eaton, Gen. . . . . 


9 


Abolitionists, Old Fashioned - 


166 


Edinburgh Review, - 


156 


Adams, Hon J. Q. 


- 30 


Edwards, Pres. ... 6 


,107 


Adams, Samuel 


171 


Emancipation, Restraints upon 


70 


Advertisements for Runaways, 


- 84 


Eye Witnesses of Slavery, 


1 


AUan, Rev. William 


11 






Amo, 


- 134 


Finley, Dr. James C. - - 


4 


Anecdote of a Colored Man on a 


Foreign Opinions of Slavery, 


156 


Jury, 


164 


Foster, James - - - - 


20 


Anecdotes of Toussaint, - 


- 174 


Franklin, Benjamin - - 


171 


Archer, Hon, Mr. 


15 


Fugitives, Law Concerning - 


72 


Ashmun, Rev. Mr, 


- 23 


Fuller, Thomas - 


135 


Bannaker, _ . . - 


135 


Gates, Horatio 


173 


Barrett, David - 


- 74 


Geoifroy, L'Islet - - - - 


134 


" Believing Masters," 


116 


Gradual Emancipation Soc. - 


5 


Berrien, Mr. 


- 29 


Grayson, Mr. .... 


123 


Blackstone, Judge - 


107 


Grimke, Miss A. E. - 


2 


Bliss, Esq. Philemon - 


6 


" Miss S. M. - - - - 


3 


Bourne, Rev. George 


8 






Boyd, Henry 


- 141 


Hannibal, 


133 


Bradley, James 


111 


Henry, Patrick - - - - 


123 


Rreckenridge, Rev. R. J. - 


- 145 


Hope for the Oppressed, - 


150 


Brissot, Jean Pierre 


157 


Horton, George - - - - 


110 


Brougham, Henry 


- 141 










Indian Slaves, - - - 


61 


Chancellor of New York, 


92 


Intellect of Colored Men, - 


133 


Charleston Papers, 


35,36 






Churches, Division of the 


45 


James, Hon. Francis - - 88 


,165 


Clay, Rev. Thomas - 


5 


Jarchi, 


106 


Clergyman, Testimony of a - 


12 


Jefferson, Thomas - - 145 


,172 


Cole, Mr. Nathan 


- 10 


" Extract from his Letter 




Colonization, - - - - 


13 


to Wm. Short, 


27 


" and Slave-Trade, 


- 148 






" Effects of - 


148 


Keys, WilUam 


11 


" Society, - 


- 10 


King, Rufus 


121 


" " 15th Report of 14 


Kosciusko, .... 


173 


Colored People of Philadelphia 


- 19 


Kroomen, 


148 


Columbia, District of 


121 






Commercial Advertiser 


1 


La Mennais, Abbe de 


153 


''Compact," - - - . 


40 


Laws of Slavery, ... 


61 


Compensation, - 


- 170 


" oftheU. S. - 


72 


Concert of Prayer for Slaves, - 


152 


Letter to a Minister of the Gospel, 


, 109 


Creed of Abolitionists, 


- 158 


Liberia, - - - - 148 


,149 






Liberty, the Home of - 


48 


Debate on Slave Petitions, 


30 


" of the Press, 


153 


Definition of Slavery, - 


- 154 


London Evangelical Magazme, - 


157 


Derham, James 


135 


L'Ouverture, Toussaint - 


13S 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Marriage Rights, - - - 67 
Martineau, Miss - - - 83 
Maryland Journal, - - - 5, 9 
Maryville Intelligencer - - 12 
Mason, George - ► - - 122 
Meanness of Slavery, - - 29 
Men-Stealers, - - - - 97 
Miner, Mr. - - - - 125 
Missionary Influence of Colo- 
nies, - - - - 148, 149 
Morell, Judge - - - - 126 

Niles' Register, - - - - 10 
Non-Intercourse with St. Domingo, 28 
No Principle at strife with Principle, 49 



Objections Answered, 
O'Connell, Daniel 
Othello, - 
Ottobah Cugoano, 



43 

- 156 
176 

- 176 



Paxton, Rev. J. D. - - - 146 

Philip, Rev. Dr. - - - - 148 

Pickens, Remarks of Mr. - 33 

Pinckney, Hon. William - - 12 

Finney, Rev. J. B. - - - 24 

Power of the Master, - - - 62 

Preaching, Southern - - 159 

Presbyterian Catechism, - - 106 

Proportion of Slaves to Masters, 39 

Punishments, .... 63 

Randolph, Hon. John - - 40 

Rankin, Rev. John - - - 7 

Religious Worship of Slaves, - 69 

Review, Edinburgh ... 156 

Rice, Rev. Daniel - - - 11 

Riley, Capt. James - - - 10 

Right of Northern Interference, 37 

Ruffin, Judge - - - - 111 
Rum in Liberia, - - - 22, 149 

Runaway, 73 



Sancho, Ignatius - - - 136 

Scenes at Sea, - - - - 168 

Seabrook, Whitmarsh B. - 4 

Separation of Families, - - 66 

Slaveholder's Heart, - - 25 



PAOK 

Slave, Meaning of the Word - 26 

Slave Petitions, ... 30 

Slavery Warring against Principle, 60 

Slave Laws, - - - - 66 

Slaves cannot hold Property, 68 

" not protected by Law, - 66 

" not Witnesses, - - 67 

" not instructed, - - 68 

" obliged to obey any White 

Person, 69 

Slaveholders, Are They Man-Steal- 

ers? 97 

Slave-Trade, American, - - 124 

Smylie, Rev. James - - 155 

Southern Notions of Liberty, - 160 

Sterne's Letter to Sancho, - 135 

Stone, Asa A. - - - - 7 

Stone, Col. .... 1 

St. Domingo, - - - - 27 

Stroud, Judge - - - - 10 

Stuart, Prof. - - - * 104 

Swain, Hon. B. - - - 112 

Swain, Moses & William - - 5 

Synod of Kentucky, - - 3 



Testimony from a Slave, - - 146 

Testimony on Man-Stealing, - 106 
Theological Seminary of Columbia, 

S. C. - - - - - 60 

The Saviour King, - - - 151 

Thome, Rev. J. A. - - - 9 

Threats of Blood, - - - 34 

Toussaint L'Ouverture, - 138, 174 

Trial by Jury, - - - - 85 

" Continued, - - 102 

" Value of - . 165 

Turnbull, Hon. Robt. J. - - 6 



Union, Dissolution of 
Vassa, Gustavus 



Walworth, Chancellor 
Weaver, Esq., Amos - 
Webster, Daniel 
Wesley, Rev. John 
Whitfield, Rev. George 
Williams, Francis 



46 


- 136 


92 


- 145 


21, 132 


45, 108 


147 


- 135 



THE 



ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD 



Vol. III. No. I. JANUARY, 1837. Whole No. 25. 

TWENTY-FOUR HUNDRED THOUSAND AMERICANS 

ARE NOW HELD AS SLAVES IN THESE UnITED StATES. 

We design to fill this number of the Record with testimony as to 
their actual physical condition. — The testimony of eye-witnesses, mostly 
slaveholders, now or formerly, and with very few exceptions, persons 
who had nothing to gain, but every thing to lose by over- statements. 
Personal safety, reputation, the feeUngs of friends, pecuniary interests, 
all worldly prospects, present or previous committal, sectional prefer- 
ences, vdth other inducements, combine to restrain them from all high- 
coloring in drawing the picture. 

Surely, those who testify against themselves will not be deemed 
false witnesses, and common sense and candor will credit their testi- 
mony. 

As a sort of preliminary to the testimony, we introduce an article 
from the New York Commercial Advertiser, of April 25, 1827. We 
do this because the remarks are to the point, and show that once even 
Colonel Stone spoke out Hke a man about the horrors of American 
Slavery, and the duty of protesting against them. We advertise oin 
readers that the iiaZkismg- throughout the following testimony is in 
many instances our own. But to the remarks of Colonel Stone. Hear! 

" Shall we talk of the mitigation of the miseries of the Africans, 
when their masters have an uncontrolled dominion over their persons 
—while they can heat, maim, and even kill, without any law to restrain ? 
I say without any law ; for while slaveholders are judges, and the 
slaves are not admitted witnesses, the redress of the law is a mockery. 

" We are told of the restraints of public opinion ; was puWic opin- 
ion alone ever sufficient to restrain the passions of man, whe^i invested 
with power — and above all, a community of men? 

"' The editor of t'he Post has conversed with people fjom slavehold- 
ing countries, and they inform him, that the slaves a?e comfortable at 
this time ; — and shall we go to the oppressor to learn the measure of pain 
he inflicts? Was there ever a negro-driver wtio would acknowledge 



2 ^ ' TESTIMONY. [3 

that He was unreasonably cmel ? The butcher feeds his victim to the 
last, and appears unconscious of cruelty — his feelings are callous ; and 
the humanity of a slaveholding community becomes almost universally 
blunted. Tliey cease tn see, hear, or feel for an African as a human be- 
ing. And how are we to know the innumerable tortures that are in- 
flicted ? Is there any impartial tribunal before whom the slave can 
appear, and make known his sufierings ? Can he by means of the 
press lay them before the world ? He is as untaught as the beast — 
he cannot write down his sufferings ; and if he could, the whites control 
the press. Would they publish their own disgrace ? Who that can, 
dare vindicate the negro's rights 1 Ministers of the Gospel, who have 
espoused their cause from the pulpit, have been proscribed — they have 
been prohibited from even reading particular parts of Scripture. 

" But we are told, that they have days of merriment and festivity ; 
that they whistle, sing, and dance ; and is this proof that their condi- 
tion is happy, because their chains are temporarily loosened, and be- 
cause they then attempt to sing away their sorrows — because there is 
as it were, a momentary intermission of that almost perpetual dejection 
and heart-pining which these wretched beings endure in their degraded 
and sunken condition? Away with such apologies. Go with the 
negro-driver, that monster whose similitude except in his form, is that 
of a fiend, and learn what it is to be a slave. And what apology can 
be given for insulting this professed Chiistian republican community 
with high wrought pictures of the enjoyments of the slaves?" 

TESTIMONY, ETC. 

We will first present the testimony of two distinguished Southern 
ladies, now in this city, sisters of the late lamented Thomas S. 
Grimk6, of Charleston, South Carolina. They are natives of South 
Carolina, and are both well known to the public by their writings. 

TESTIMONY OF MISS ANGELINA E. GRIMKE. 

As one who was born and educated in a slave state, I feel it to be 
my solemn duty to do every thing in my power to undeceive the North 
as to the false representations of slavery at the South. I believe it to 
be a sacred obligation due to the colored man, to say, that from my 
earliest infancy I have wept over the wrongs and the sufferings, the 
abuse and contumely endured by the helpless and down-trodden slave. 
I have never seen any account of cruelty in Anti-Slavery publica- 
tions, which, from my long and intimate knowledge of this heart- 
breaking, soul-crushing system of oppression, appeared at all incredible 
to me. Its hardening and bhnding influence is as deleterious and de- 
moralizing in its Qffects on the character of the master, as it is degrad- 
ing to the victim of his power. No one who has not Uved in a slave- 
holding stale as an integral part of the community, can form any idea 
of the wreck of morals and of temper which slavery produces. It is 
truly awful. The religion of the South is not the religion of a meek 
and merciful Redeemer ; it is the religion of pride and selfishness, op- 
pression, cruelty, and wrong. . 

ANGELINA E. GRIMKE. 



3] TESTIMONY. ^ 

TESTIMONY OF MISS SARAH M. GRIMKE. 

No powers of language, I believe, can adequately portray the hor- 
rors ol American slavery; a system whicri embraces and sanctions 
every spi cies of iniquity, and grants the protection of the lavi^, and the 
gospel, to cruelly mid oppression — a system which works evil, and 
nothing bu. evil, unceasmgly and unsparingly, to both master and 
slave, brutalizing the one, and cherishing in the bosom of the other, the 
malignant passions of pride, revenge, and anger. 

If there is one scheme for the destruction of men's souls, and the 
torturing of men's minds, for the breaking of men''s hearts and the tor- 
menting of men^s bodies, which exceeds all others in its appalling ini- 
quity, that scheme is American slavery. The adversary of our fallen 
race expended here his most refined ingenuity, his most diaboKcai 
skill. Cruelty is inseparable from slavery; the one cannot exist in a 
community without the other ; and I believe many of the plantations 
at the South may be said, .without hyperbole, to be saturated with the 
sweat and the blood of the toil-worn slave. In its mildest forms, 
wherever it has been my lot to witness it, it has invariably been marked 
by oppression, and it is impossible it should be otherwise, because there 
is a contmual effort on the part of the masters to reduce to a thing, an 
immortal and intelligent being, and an unwearied exertion on the part 
of the slave to maintain his manhood ; and while he is continually 
galled by a sense of his condition, his nature rises from under the pres- 
sure, and this keeps alive in his master's bosom a desire to add inflic- 
tion to infliction. 

SARAH M. GRIMKE. 

TESTIMONY OF THE PRESBYTERIAN SYNOD OF KENTUCKY, 

A large majority of whom are or have been slaveholders. 

" This system licenses and produces great cruelty. 

"Mangling, imprisonment, starvation, every species of torture, may 
be inflicted upon him, (the slave,) and he has no redress. 

" There are now in our whole land two millions of human beings, 
exposed, defenceless, to every insult, and every injury short of maiming 
or death, which their fellow-men may choose to inflict. They suffer all 
that can be inflicted by wanton caprice, by grasping avarice, by brutal 
lust, b} malignant spite, and by insane anger. Their happmess is 
the sport of every whim, and the prey of every passion that may, oc- 
casionally, or habitually, infest the master's bosom. If we could cal- 
culate the amount of ^vo endured by ill-treated slaves, it would over- 
whelm every compassionate heart — it would move even the obdurate 
to sympathy. There is also a vast sum of suffering, inflicted upon the 
slave by humane masters, as a punishment for that idleness and mis- 
conduct which slavery naturally produces. + * + 

" Brvfal stripes and all the varied kinds of personal indignities, are 
not the only species of cruelty which slavery licenses. =»= * * 
Brothers and sisters, parents and children, husbands and wives, are 
K>rn asunder, and permitted to see each other no more. These acts 
ire daily occurring in the midst of us. The shrieks and the agony 
ften witnessed on such occasions, proclaim with a trumpet tongue 



4 TESTIMONY. [4 

the iniquity and cruelty of our system. * + * There is not a 
neighborhood where these heart-rending scenes are not displayed. 
There is 7ioi a village or road that does not behold the sad procession 
of manacled outcasts, whose chains and mournful countenances tell 
that they are exiled by force from all that their hearts hold dear."- 
See Address of Synod to Churches, in 1835, page 12. 

TESTIMONY OF THE HON. WHITEMARSH B. SEABROOK, 

I Of South Carolina — A slaveholder. 

In an Essay on the management of slaves, read before the Agricul- 
tural Society of St. Johns, S. C, and published by the Society, Charles- 
ton, 1834, Mr. S. remarks, 

"I consider imprisonment in the stocks at night, with or without hard 
labor in the day, as a powerful auxiliary in the cause of good govern- 
ment. To the correctness of this opinion many can bear testimony. 
Experience has convinced me that there is no punishment to which 
the slave looks with more horror.'''' 

TESTIMONY OF DR. JAMES C. PINLEY, 

Son of Br. Finley, the founder of the Colonization Society, and brother ef 
R. S. Finley, agent of the American Colonization Society. 

Dr. J. C. Finley vv^as formerly one of the editors of the Western 
Medical Journal, at Cincinnati, and is well known in the West as 
utterly hostile to immediate abolition. 

"In almost the last conversation I had with you before I left Cin- 
cinnati, 1 promised to give you some account of some scenes of atro- 
cious cruelty towards slaves, which I witnessed while I lived at the 
South. I almost regret having made the promise, for not only are 
they so atrocious that you will with difficulty believe them, but, I also 
fear that they will have the effect of driving you into that abolitionism^ 
upon the borders of which you have been so long hesitating. Nothing 
surprises m£ so much as the apathy of the American people upon the 
subject of slavery. Perhaps it ought not to surprise me. The people 
of tiie North are ignorant of the horrors of slavery — of its paralyzing in- 
fluence upon the conscience of the master, and of the atrocities which 
it commits upon the unprotected slave. * * + 

" I do not know that any thing could be gained by particularizing 
the scenes o^jiorrible barbarity, and still more s: locking licentiousness, 
which fell under my observation during my short residence in one of 
the wealthiest, most intelligent, and most moral parts of Georgia. 
Their number and atrocity are such that I am confident they would 
gidn credit with none but abolitionists. Every thing will be conveyed 
'in the remark, that in a state of society calculated to foster the worst 
passions of our nature, the slave derives no protectioji either from law 
or p^tblic opinion, and that all the cruelties which the Russians are 
reported to have acted towards the Poles, after their late subjugation, 
are scenes of every day occurrence in the southern states. This 
statement, incredible as it may seem, falls short, \ .ry far short of the 
truth." 



5] TESTIMONY. 5 

The foregoing is extracted from a letter written by Dr. Finley to 
Rev. Asa Mahan, his former pastor, then of Cincinnati, now President 
of Oberlin Seminary. 

TESTIMONY OF THE GRADUAL EMANCIPATION SOCIETY, 

Of Jforth Carolina — signed by Moses Sioain, President, and William 
Sioain, Secretary. 
" In the eastern part of the state the slaves considerably outnumber 
the free population. Their situation is there wretched beyond descrip- 
tion. Impoverished by the mismanagement which we have already 
attempted to describe, the master, unable to support liis own grandeur 
and maintain his slaves, puts the unfortunate wretches upon short al- 
lowances, scarcely sufficient for their sustenance, so that a great part 
of them go half naked and half stai-ved much of the time. Generally, 
throughout the state, the African is an abused, a monstrously outraged 
creature.''' — See Minutes of the Ji^nerican Convention convened in Balti- 
more, Oct. 25, 1826. 

From the "Maryland Journal and Baltimore Advertiser," 
of May 30, 1788. 
" It frequently happens on large estates, that they (the slaves) are 
not clothed till the winter hath nearly expired ; and then, the most 
valuable only are attended to ; the young, and the labor-worn having 
no other allowance in this respect, than the tattered garments thrown 
off by the more fortunate. ^ single peck of corn a xoeek, or the like 
measure ofrice,is the ordinary quantity of provision for a.hard-ioorking 
slave ; to which a small quantity of meat is occasionally, though rarely, 
added." 

TESTIMONY OP REV. THOMAS CLAY, 

Of Georgia — <M slaveholder. 

" From various causes this [the slave's allowance of food] is often not 
adequate to the support of a laboring man. The quantity allowed by 
custom is a peck of corn per week. If it be sound flint corn, this is suf- 
ficient to sustain health and strength under moderate labor ; but there 
is often a defect here ; the quantity is then insufficient. 

" The present economy of the slave system is to get all you can from 
the slave, and give in return as little as will barely support him in a 
working condition. Even where there is not a direct intention to 
abridge his comforts they are but little consulted." In regard to cloth- 
ing he says : 

" Winter clothes should be given in November; this is often neg- 
lected, and consequently the improvident (of whom the number is very 
great) suffer much. 

" Encouragement does not enter much into the discipline of planta- 
tions, as at present conducted. To be let alone, when the master's 
task is done, is the only condition offered as an inducement to the in- 
dustry necessary to accomplish it, or to secure an exemption from the 
punishment due for the neglect of it." — Clay^s Address before the Pres- 
bytery of Georgia, 1834. 

1* 



6 TESTIMONY. [6 

TESTIMONY OP HON. ROBERT J. TURNBULL, 

Of South Carolina — ^ slaveholder. 

Speaking of the harvesting of cotton, Mr. T. says : "Ml thepreg' 
nant women even, on the plantation, and weak and sickly negroes in- 
capable of other labor, are then in ?'egitmfion." * * + 

" The subsistence of the slaves consists, from March until August, 
of corn ground into grists or meal, made into what is called hominy, or 
baked into corn bread. The other six months, they are fed upon the 
sweet potatoe. Meat when given, is only by way of indulgence or fa- 
vor." — See "Refutation of the Calumnies circulated against the Southern 
and Western States,'''' by a South Carolinian. Charleston, 1822. 

TESTIMONY OF PHILEMON BLISS, ESQ. 

Of Elyria, Ohio, who resided in Florida during the year 1835. 

" The negroes commence labor by dayhght in the morning, and ex- 
cepting the ploughboys, who must feed and rest their horses, do not 
leave the field till dark in the evening They carry with them corn- 
meal wet with water, and at noon builG a fire on the ground, and bake 
it in the ashes. After having finished their field labors, they are oc- 
cupied till nine or ten o'clock in doing chores, such as grinding eorn, 
(as all the corn in the vicinity is ground by hand,) chopping wood, 
taking care of horses, mules, &c. and a thousand things necessary to 
be done on a large plantation. If any extra job is to be done, it must 
not hinder the "niggers" from their work, but must be done in the 
night. After the labors of the day are over, they take their second 
meal of ash-cake. Some planters allow them meat." 

TESTIMONY OF PRESIDENT EDWARDS, THE YOUNGER, 

In a sermon -preached in J^ew Haven about half a century ago, when thovr 
sands of slaves were held in Connecticut. 

" By these masters they are supplied with barely enough to keep them 
from starving, as the whole expense laid out on a slave for food, cloth 
ing, and medicine, is commonly computed on an average at thirty 
shiUings sterling annually. At the same time they are kept at hard 
labor from five o'clock in the morning till nine at night, excepting time 
to eat twice during the day. And they are constantly under the 
watchful eye of overseers and ixegro drivers, more tyrannical and cruel 
than even the masters themselves. From these drivers, for every im- 
agined, as well as real neglect or v/ant of exertion, they receive the 
lash, the smack of which is all day long in the ears of those who are 
on the plantation or in the vicinity; and it is used with such dexterity 
and severity, as not only to lacerate the skin, but to tear out small por- 
tions of the flesh at almost every stroke. 

" This is the general treatment of the slaves. But many individuals 
suffer still more severely. Many, many are knocked doivn ; some have 
their eyes beaten out ; some have an arm or leg broken, or chopped off; 
and many, for a very small, or for no crime at all, have been beaten tc 
death, merely to gratify the fury of an enraged master or overseer." 



7] TESTIMONY. . 7 

\ 

> TESTIMONr OF REY. JOHN RANKIN, 

A native of Tennessee, educated there, and for a number of years a preacher 
in slave States — now pastor of a Church in Ripley, Ohio. 

" In some parts of Alabama, you may see slaves in the cotton fields 
without so much as even a single rag upon them, shivering before the 
chilUng blasts of mid- winter. Indeed, in every slaveholding state many 
slaves suffer extremely, both while they labor and while they sleep, /or 
want of clothing to keep them warm. Often they are dri\en through 
frost and snow without either stocking or shoe, until the .path they 
tread is dyed with the blood that issues from their frost- worn Umbs ! 
And when they return to th.eir miserable huts at night, they find not ' 
there the means of comfortable rest; but on the cold ground they must 
lie loithout covering, and shiver ivhile they slumber. 

" In connexion with their extreme sufierings, occasioned by want of 
clothing, I shall notice those which arise from the want of food. As 
the making of grain is the main object of their mancipauion, masters 
will sacrifice as little as possible in giving them food. It often happens 
that what will barely keep them alive, is all that a cruel ava"ice will 
allow them. Hence, in some instances, their allowance has been re- 
duced to a single pint of corn each, during the day and night. And 
some have no better allowance than a small portion of cotton seed ! ! 
And in some places the best allowance is a peck of corn each during 
the week, while perhaps they are not permitted to taste meat so much 
as once in the course of seven years, except what little they may be 
able to steal ! Thousands of them are pressed xoith the gnaivings of 
cruel hunger during their ivhole lives. 

" Many poor slaves are stripped naked, stretched and tied across 
barrels, or large bags, and tortured with the lash during hours, and even 
whole days, until their flesh is mangled to the very bones. Others are 
stripped and hung up by the arms, their feet are tied together, and the 
end of a heavy piece of timber is put between their legs in order to 
stretch the- z- bodies, and so prepare them for the torturing lash — and 
in tliis situation they are often whipped until their bodies are covered 
with blood and mangled flesh, and in order to add the greatest keenness to 
their sufferings, their wounds are washed with liquid salt 1 And some 
of the miserable creatures are permitted to hang in that position until 
they actually expire; some die under the lash, others linger about for 
a time, and at length die of their wounds, and many survive, and en- 
dure again similar torture. These bloody scenes are constantly exhib- 
iting in every slaveholding country — thousands of lohips are every day 
stained in Jifrican blood ! Even the poor females are not permitted to 
escape these shocking cruelties." — Rankin''s Letters, pagvs 57, 53. 

These letters were published ten years ago. — They were addressed 
to a brother in Virginia, who was a slaveholder. — ^Ed. 

TESTIMONY OF MR. ASA A. STONE, 

-3 Theological Student, who resided near Matchez, Mississippi, when hf 
published the folloioing statement, dated May 9A, 1835. 
" No one here thinks that the slaves are seldom over-driven ana 
under-fed. Every body knows it to be one of the most common occur- 



TESTIMONY. . [8 

ewoes. No planter of intelligence and candor denies that slaves are 
i'ery generally badly treated In this country. / wish to be understood 
low at the commencement, that, intending as I Jo that my statements 
:hall be relied on, and knowing that, should you think fit to publish this 
'ommunication, they will come to this country, where their correctness 
nay be tested by comparison loith real life, I make them with the utmost 
".are and precaution. But those which I do make, are made without 

Jie least apprehension of their being controverted In the first 

place, with respect to labor. The time of labor is first to be noticed. 
It is a general rule on all regular plantations, that the slaves rise in 
season in the morning to be in the field as soon as it is light enough for 
^hem to see to ivork, and remain there until it is so dark that they cannot 
tee. This is the case at all seasons of the year ; so that during the 
mmmer, they are in the field at least fifteen hours. This does not 
nclude the time spent in going and returning; that must be done 
vhile it is too dark to suffer them to work, even if the field, as is fre- 
juently the case, is a mile distant. It is literally true, what one of 
'.hem remarked to me the other day, that " they never know what it is 

sleep till daylight." .... Their suppers they have to prepare and 
,;at after they return home, which, at this season of the year, takes 
hem until nine o'clock : so that, without leaving a moment of time for 
my other purpose, they can ha. e but seven hours sleep before four in 

^e morning, when they are called On almost every plantation, 

',ae hands suflTer more or less from hunger at some seasons of almost 
ivery year. On the majority of plantations, the feeding supplies the 

, [lemands of nature tolerably well, except in the winter, and at some 
ther occasional times. There is always a good deal of suffering on 
^3iem from hunger in the course of the year. On many plantations, 
'nd particularly in Louisiana and among the French planters, the 
laves are in a condition of almost utter famishment during a great 

1 ortion of the year. Let a man pass through the plantations where 
"ley fare the best, and see fifty or sixty hands, men and women, sitting 
\ own on the furrows where their food-cart happens to overtake them, 

• nd making their meal of a bit of corn-bread and water, and he will 
:^nk it is rather hard fare. This is not unfrequently the case on 
.plantations where they are considered well fed 

" I will now say a few words about treatment and condition in gene- 
il. That flogging is very common and severe, appears from what 

* as already been said. I must now say that floggings for all offences, 
. ■ acluding deficiencies in work, are frightfully common, and most ter- 
,'ibly severe. 

^^ Rubbing with salt and red pepper is very common after a severe whip- 
^ ing. The object, they say, is primarily to make it smart; but add, 
Mat it is the best thing that can be done to prevent mortification, and 
lake the gashes heal." 

TESTIMONY OF REV. GEORGE BOURNE, 

Iditor of the Protestant Vindicator. — Mr. B. was for many years Pastor 
of a Church in Virginia. 
" They (the slaves) are deprived of needful sustenance, are supplied 
ith little and very insufficient raiment, and possess no suitable eon- 



9] TESTIMONY. 9 

veniences for refreshing rest. They are unmercifully, and in general, 
undesei-vedly chastised. * * + Slavery is the climax of 
cruelty. :f * + What are the pungent feelings and ex- 
acerbations of the slave in every part of his existence ? Doomed to toil 
with unceasing relaxation, pinched by hunger, bereft of raiment, denied 
requisite accommodations at night, and, for the most trifling inadver- 
tencies, scourged by a cruel and mercenary task-master until his stripes 
incapacitate him from active duties." — Bourne's Picture of Slavery, 
page 34. 

TESTIMONY OF REV. JAMES A. THOME, 

^ native of Kentucky — Son of Arthur Thome, Esq., tUl recently a 
Slaveholder. 

" Slavery is the parent of more suffering than has flov^ed from any 
one source since the date of its existence? Such sufferings too ! Suf' 
ferings incoiiceivable and innumerable — unmingled wretchedness from 
the ties of nature rudely broken and destroyed, the acutest bodily tor- 
tures, groans, tears and bhod — lying for ever in weariness and painfiil- 
ness, in watchings, in hunger and thirst, in cold and nakedness. 

''Brethren of the North be not deceived. These sufferings still exist, 
and despite the efforts of their cruel authors to hush them down, and 
confine them, within the precincts of their own plantations, they will, 
ever and anon, struggle up and reach the ear of humanity." — Mr, 
Thome's Speech at JVeto York, May, 1834. 

TESTIMONY OF GEN. EATON, 

In a letter to his wife, dated Tunis, April 6, 1799 — Extracted from his 

Life. 

"Many of them [Christian slaves] have died of grief, and the others 

linger out a life less tolerable than death. Alas, remorse seizes my 

whole soul when I reflect that this is indeed but a copy of the very 

barbarity which my eyes have seen in my own native country 

Indeed truth and justice demand from me the confession that the 
Christian slaves among the barbarians of Africa are treated with more 
humanity than the African slaves among the professing Christians of 
civihzed America." 

TESTIMONY OF THE "MARYLAND JOURNAL AND BALTIMORE ADVER- 
TISER," of May 30, 1788. 

"In the ordinary course of the business of the country, the punish- 
ment of relations frequently happens on the same farm, and in view 
of each other : the father often sees his beloved son — the son his ven- 
erable sire — the mother her much loved daughter — the daughter her 
affectionate parent — the husband sees the wife of his bosom, and she 
the husband of her affection, cruelly bound up without dehcacy or mercy, 
and without daring to interpose in each other's behalf, and punished 
with all the extremity of incensed rage, and all the rigor of unrelenting 
severity. Let us reverse the case, and suppose it ours : all is silent 
horror!" 

In another part of the same article, the author exclaims : " The in- 
justice of our conduct, and barbarity of our neglect, when reflection is 



10 TESTIMONY. [10 

allowed to predominate, becomes so glaringly conspicuous, as even to 
excite, against ourselves, the strongest emotions of detestation and 
abhorrence." 

TESTIMONY OF HON. JOHN RANDOLPH, 

Of Roanoke — A slaveholder. 
In one of his Congressional speeches, Mr. R. says : " Avarice alone 
:an drive, as it does drive, this infernal traffic, and the wretched vic- 
cims of it, like so many post-horses whipped to death in a mail coach. 
Ambition has its cover-sluts in the pride, pomp, and circumstance of 
glorious war ; but where are the trophies of avarice ! The hand-cvffy 
he manacle, the blood-stained cowhide! What man is worse received 
n society for being a hard-master ? Who denies the hand of a sister 
)r daughter to such monsters ?" 

TESTIMONY OF THE AMERICAN COLONIZATION SOCIETY. 

" We have heard of slavery as it exists in Asia, and Africa, and 
Turkey — we have heard of the feudal slavery under which the pea- 
lantry of Europe have groaned from the days of Alaric until now, but 
excepting only the horrible system of the West India Islands, we have 
lever heard of slavery in any country, ancient or modern. Pagan, Ma- 
jommedan, or Christian ! so terrible in its character, as the slavery which 
3xists in these United States." — 7th Report Amer. Col. Soc. 1824. 

TESTIMONY OF CAPT. JAMES RILEY. 

" My free and proud spirited countrymen still hold a milUon and a 
lalf of human beings in the most cruel bonds of slavery ; who are kept 
It hard labor, and smarting under the lash of inhuman, mercenary 
Irivers ; in many instances, enduring the miseries of hunger, thirsty 

■mprisonment, cold, nakedness, and even tortures I myself have 

jv^itnessed such scenes in different parts of my own country ; and the 
)are recollection of them now chills my blood with horror.''^ — See 
' Riley's J^arrative." 

From JNTiLEs' Baltimore Register for 1829, Vol. 35, p. 4. 

''Dealing in slaves has become a /arg-e business. Establishments 
ire made at several places in Maryland and Virginia, at which they 
ire sold like cattle. These places of deposit are strongly built, and 
<vell supplied with iron thumb-screws and gags, and ornamented with 
sowskins and other whips — often .times bloody.^' 

From Judge Stroud's "Sketch of the laws relating to Slavery." 

"I find in the case of ' the State vs. M'Gee,' 1 Bay's Reports, 164, 
t is said incidentally by Messrs. Pinckney and Ford, counsel foi the 
3tate (of S C), 'that the frequency of the offence {wilful murder of a 
jlave) was owing to the nature of the pimishment,^ &c. . . . This remark 
.vas made in 1791, when the above trial took place. It was made in a 
public place — a court-house — and by men of great personal respecta- 
bility. There can be, therefore, no question as to its truth, and as 
ittle of its notoriety.'''' 

Extract of a letter dated July 2d, 1834, from Mr. Nathan Cole, of 
St. Louis, Missouri, to Arthur Tappan, Esq., of this city. 

*' I am not an advocate of the immediate and unconditional eman- 



11] TESTIMONY. 11 

cipation of the slaves of our country, yet no man has ever yet depicted 
the wretchedness of the situation of the slaves in colors too darJ: for the 

truth I know that many good people are not aware of the treat- 

ment to which slaves are usually subjected, nor have they any just iaea 
of the extent of the evil." 

TESTIMONY OF REV. WILLIAM ALLAN, 

Of Alabama, son of a slaveholder — Rev. Dr. Allan, of Huntsville. 
In the debate at Lane Seminary three years since, Mr. Allan said, 
" At our house it is so common to hear their (the slave's) screams, that 
we think nothing of it:" and then, after relating several instances of 
horrible cruelty, he added, " And lest any one should think that in 
general the slaves are well treated, and these (the particular cases) are 
the exceptions, let me be distinctly understood : — cruelty is the rule 
and kindness the exception.''^ This was assented to and corroborated 
by all the students from the slaveholding states ; and of these there 
were eight natives of five or six different states, and ten others who 
had lived in slave states. 

TESTIMONY OP REV. DAVID RICE, 

Of Kentucky. — Extracts from his Speech in the Convention that framed 
the Constitiition of that State in 1790. 

"He [the slave] is a rational creature, reduced by the power of 
legislation to the state of a brute, and thereby deprived of every privi- 
lege of humanity The brute may steal or rob, to supply his hun- 
ger ; but the slave, though in the most starving condition, dare not do 

either, on penalty of death, or some severe punishment Is there 

any need of arguments to prove, that it is in a high degree unjust and 
cruel to reduce one human creature to such an abject, loretched state 
as this ? . . . . When we plead for slavery, we plead for the disgrace 

and ruin of our own nature Should a master command his 

slave to steal or rob, and he should presume to disobey, he is liable to 
suffer every extremity of punishment, short of death or amputation, 
from the hand of his master. .... The master may, and often does, 
inflict upon him all the severity of punishment the human body is capable 
of bearing 

"When we duly consider all these things, it must appear unjust to 
the last degree, to force a fellow creature, v/ho has never forfeited his 
freedom, into this wretched situation ; and confine him and his pos- 
terity in this bottomless gxdf of loretchedness for ever. 

" Where is the sympathy, the tender feeUngs of humanity ? Where 
is the heart, that does not melt at this scene of wo ? or that is not 
fired with indignation ^o see such injustice and cruelty countenanced 

by civilized nations, and supported by the sanctions of law ? 

They [the laws] confine him in misery ; they will not suffer him to fly 
from it ; the greatest favors they afford him chiefly serve to perpetuate 
(lis wretchedness.''^ 

TESTIMONY OP COLONEL WILLIAM KEYS, 

4 native of Rockbridge county, Virginia, where he resided about thirty 
years, — now loell known and greatly respected in southern Ohio. 
" In that part of Virginia where I resided (the valley), so far as 



J 2 TESTIMONY. [12 

relates to food, clothing, and labor, slaves may be said to be well used, 
when compar.ed with the barbanty of their treatment further south, or 
wherever they are held in large numbers : yet, even where I lived, 
though few slaves comparatively were held, many acts of atrocious 
cruelty were perpetrated. I have seen aged, gray-headed slaves, strip- 
ped, tied up, and whipped with a cowhide, forty or fifty lashes, for no 
fault but absence for a few minutes too long when wanted. Such 
things I call cruelty, but they pass am^ ug slaveholders Jor nothing^ 
Dated Hillsborough, Ohio, January ist, 1835. 

TESTIMONY OF THE MARTVILLE (tENNESSEE) INTELLIGENCER, 

of Oct. 4, 1835. 

The Editor, in speaking of the sufFerij;igs of the slaves which are 
taken by the internal trade to the South West says: 

" Place yourself in imagination, for a moment, in their condition. 
With heavy galling chains, riveted upon your person; half-naked^ 
half-starved; your back Zacerafec? with the 'Knotted Whip;' travelling 
to a region where your condition through time will be second only to the 
wretched creatures in Hell. 

" Tills depiction is not visionary. Would to God that it was." 

TESTIMONY OP THE HON. WILLIAM PIN CKNEY OF MARYLAND. 

In a speech before the Maryland House of Delegates in 1789, Mr. P. 
calls slavery in that state : " a speaking picture of abominable oppress-^ 

ion;^^ and adds: "It will not do thus to act hke unrelenting 

tyrants, perpetually sermonizing it with liberty for our text, and actual 
oppression for our commentary. Is she [Maryland] not .... the foster 
mother of petty despots, — the patron of wanton oppression ?" 

TESTIMONY OF A CLERGYMAN, 

A resident of the South more than twenty years. 
" I am greatly surprised that I should in any form have been the 
apologist of a system so full of deadly poison to all holiness and bene- 
volence as slavery, the concocted essence of fraud, selfishness, and cold 
hearted tyranny, and the fi-uitful parent of unnumbered evils, both to 
the oppressor and the oppressed, the one thousandth part of 

WHICH has never BEEN BROUGHT TO LIGHT. 

" Do you ask why this change,* after residing in a slave country, for 
twenty years ? You remember the fines of Pope, beginning : 

' Vice is a monster, of so frightful mien 
As to be hated, needs but to be seen, 
But seen too oft familiar with her face, 
We first endure, then pity, then embrace. 

I had become so familiar with the loathsome features of slavery, that 
they ceased to offend— Besides, I had become a Southern man in all my 
feelings, and it is a part of our creed to defend slavery." 

* Only one year before, he had stoutly defended slavery, and exclaimed 
against the statements of abolitionists.— Ed. 

{See cover, second page.) 



THE 



ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD 



Vol. III. No. II. FEBRUARY, 1837. Whole No. 26. 



COLONIZATION. 

The object of the following pages is to lead the reader to a calm 
and thorough review of the subject of colonization. Perhaps he thinks 
it sufficiently discussed already ; but where the interests of millions 
are at stake, it becomes us carefully to examine, and often to reexamine, 
the foundations of our opinions, — the friends of Truth will never be 
afraid to do this. 

Let us first look at colonization in general — the idea, doctrine, theory, 
that it would be better for both the whites and blacks of our country, 
were the latter to be transplanted into a separate community. — ^Why 
better? Is there not room enough here for both? Yes. Is there not 
work enough for both? Yes. Is not colonization from our country 
reversing the order of nature ? Yes. The demand for labor among 
us is drawing in laborers, by right or by wrong, from all parts of the 
old world. Strong, then, must be the reasons to justify us in sending 
out our own native laborers to the old world or elsewhere. If we have 
any surplus population, it must be of merchants, lawyers, physicians, 
divines — and surely not of what is called the laboring class, to which 
all, or nearly all, the colored people belong — of this class there cannot 
be a surplus for a hundred years to come. The influx of foreign 
laborers into our country shows, as clearly as running water shows 
downhill, that ours is the country ©f all the world, where labor gets, 
or is supposed to get, the best reward, — and that laboring people are 
better off here than elsewhere. Why send any away ? Some pro- 
fess to find a reason in the prejudice and oppression of which the 
blacks are the victims. It is because the colored man must here be 
always enslaved, or in a condition but little better than slavery. Be- 
cause he must be an outcast from our free institutions, from our na- 
tional sympathies, from our social relations. Because here he must 
be taught at elections, — ^in schools and colleges, — ^in stages and stenm- 

1 



2 COLONIZATION. [14 

boats, — in the house of man, and in the house of God, — that he be- 
longs to an inferior race, — that he cannot, must not, shall not, rise to 
the level of the whites. — We implore the reader to stop and think. Is 
there any must — any necessity — in any of these things? 

When was human prejudice embalmed, eternized, and stamoed with 
immutability? The prejudices of one man can be changed; the pre- 
judices of thousands, on this very subject, have been— what shall 
hinder the change of millions ? When was the overthrow of this 
prejudice by truth and reason fairly attempted, and where is the failure 
recorded? The invincibility of prejudice should have been clearly 
ascertained, and evinced by incontrovertible proofs, before it was pro- 
posed to expatriate millions on account of it It ought to have been 
perceived by the founders of the colonization enterprise, that their 
remedy was one of last resort, desperate in its nature — one which 
could not be carried into effect without great danger of enhancing the 
disease. Indeed, it would seem to be hardly possible to propose the 
removal of a certain class beyond the reach of a prejudice, without 
increasing, by this very act, the prejudice which is thus deferred to and 
humored. Yet we find the American Colonization Society have 
actually taken this point for granted. In their Fifteenth Annual Re- 
port, the Managers say, "Causes beyond the control of the human will 
" must prevent their ever rising to equality with the whites."-^" The 
"Managers consider it clear, that causes exist, and are operating, to 
" prevent their improvement and elevation to any considerable extent, 
"as a class, in this country, which are fixed, not only beyond the con- 
"trolof the friends of humanity, BUT OF ANY HUMAN POWER. 
" Christianity cannot do for them here, what it will do for them in 
" Africa. This is not the fault of the colored man, nor of the white 
"man, nor of Christianity ; BUT AN ORDINATION OF PROVI- 
" DENCE, and no more to be changed than the laws of nature. Yet, 
"were it otherwise, — did no cause -exist but prejudice, to prevent the 
" elevation, in this country, of our free colored population, still, were 
" this prejudice so strong (which is indeed the fact) as to forbid the 
" hope of any great favorable change in their condition, what folly for 
" them to reject blessings in another land, because it is prejudice that 
"debars them from such blessings in this ! But in truth no legisla- 
"tion, no humanity, no benevolence, can make them insensible to their 
"past condition, can unfetter their minds, can relieve them from the 
"disadvantages resulting from inferior means and attainments, can 
" abridge the right of freemen to regulate their social intercourse and 



15] ' COLONIZATION. 3 

"relations, which will leave them for ever a separate and depressed 
"elass in the community; in fine, nothing can in any way do much 
"here to raise them from their miseries to respectabiUty, honor, and 
" usefulness." We think all will agree that the Colonization Managers 
here assume the invincibility of prejudice. They present no proof, nor 
do we find elsewhere any attempt to present proof. The very fact 
that such men have assumed a position so vitally important to their 
cause, shows that they did not find it susceptible of proof— and yet it 
is very far from being self-evident. We appeal to stubborn facts to 
show that it is altogether false. Thousands of our fellow-citizens 
have been cured of this prejudice, and are sincerely wishing that their 
colored brethren should dwell in the land on equal terms with them- 
selves. And on the other hand, there are not a few colored men who 
have risen, in spite of all opposition — call it "ordination of Providence," 
or what you will — in all substantial enjoyments, in mind and morals, 
in things outward and inward, above the average level of the whites. 
How often have we heard it said of such and such a man (whose 
name it would be invidious to mention), " he would be a governor in 
Liberia." Hence \va conclude that prejudice is no good reason for 
colonizing, because prejudice is vincible, and ought to be conquered. 
Some find a reason for colonizing, in the hope that the opportunity 
of putting their slaves where they can fully enjoy their liberty, without 
disturbing the whites, will induce slaveholders to emancipate. This 
must be a very poor reason, for shrewd slaveholders have advocated 
cdonization precisely because they hoped thereby to get rid of the 
disturbing force of the free blacks, and hold their slaves in greater 
security. It will be easy to quote many examples of this, but one will 
abundantly suffice, and it is given at some length because it furnishes 
much matter for reflection. It is from the speech of the Hon. Mr. 
Archer of Virginia, before the American Colonization Society in 1830, 
and is published with the Society's Fifteenth Annual Report. 

"Mr. Archer said he was not one of those (however desirable it 
might be and was, in abstract speculation) who looked to the com- 
plete removal of slavery from among us. If that " consummation de 
voutly to be wished," were to be considered feasible at all, it was at a 
period too remote to warrant the expenditure of any resources of con- 
templation or contribution now. But a great benefit, ^hort of this, 
was within reach, and made part of the scope of operation, of the 
plan of the Society. The progress of slavery was subjected to the 
action of a law, of the utmost regularity of action. Where this pro- 
gress was neither stayed, nor modified by causes of collateral opera- 
tion, it hastened, with a frightful rapidity, disproportioned, entirely, to 



4 COLONIZATION, [16 

the ordinary law of the advancement of population, to its catastrophe, 
which was repletion. If none were drained away, slaves became, ex- 
cept under peculiar circumstances of climate and production, inevitably 
and speedily redundant, first to the occasions of profitable employ- 
ment, and as a consequence, to the faculty of comfortable provision 
for them. No matter what the humanity of the owners, fixed restric- 
tion on their resources must transfer itself to the comfort, and then the 
subsistence, of the slave. At this last sta^e, the evil in this form had 
to stop. To this stage (from the disproportioned rate of multiplication 
of the slaves — double that of the owners in this country), it was 
obhged, though at different periods, in different circumstances, to come. 
When this stage had been reached, what course or remedy remained? 
Was open butchery to be resorted to, as among the Spartans with the 
Helots? or general emancipation and incorporation, as in South 
America ? or abandonment of the country by the masters, as must 
come to be the case in the West Indies ? Either of these was a de- 
plorable catastrophe. Could all of them be avoided ? and if they could, 
how ? There was but one way, but that might be made effectual, 
fortunately. It was to provide and keep open a drain for the excess 
of increase beyoud the occasions of profitable employment. This might 
be done effectually by extension of the plan of the Society. The drain 
was already opened. All that was necessary would be, to provide for 
the enlargement of the channel, as occasion might demand." 

Wc are clearly taught by this passage how colonization may act for 
the security of slavery — ^how it may come in as a partner of the inter- 
nal slave-trade, just to form a necessary safety-valve for the great sys- 
tem of oppression. The neighborhood of free blacks is dreaded by 
slaveholders, far more than the excess of slaves. This is abundantly 
asserted by Mr. Archer in the same speech. He says that " a neces- 
sary and obvious policy restrained the intermixture of the several castes in 
occupation." Can any thing, then, be plainer than that slaveholders 
might if they would, avail themselves of colonization to promote their 
own purpose — the perpetuation of slavery ? But, if wc carry the reader 
with us in our next point, which is indeed the main one, it will be of 
little consequence whether he believes that colonization vnH. strengthen 
slavery or remove it. An honest man will abjure a bad means, how- 
ever good the end. 

The fundamental question on this subject is, whether a scheme of 
cdonization can, with any motives and in any manner, be prosecuted^ 
without enhancing, both in the colonists and the colored people who re- 
main, that sense of xorong which our oppression has implanted within 
them. A good man would hardly think it right to confer what he con- 
sidered a benefit, if the beneficiary must necessarily consider it an in- 
jury. Suppose the blacks colonized into an earthly paradise, still 



17] COLONIZATION. 5 

would they not ask, Was it kindness, or, was it pride and scofn which 
cast us out of free America ? And the inevitable i'Pply would be, *No 
thanks to white Americans ; they hated and despised us ; the benevo- 
lence of the best of them was heartless, — basely mixed with prejudice.' 
And if such would be the feelings of the colonists, much more of the 
mass of colored people left among us. ' The very scheme,' they would 
say, 'is an insult to us.' We appeal to every person's observation of 
human nature. Who ever heard of a man calmly acknowledging the 
benevolence of his neighbors in removing him, or proposing his re- 
moval, as a nuisance? The keenest sense of injury we recollect ever 
to have seen expressed, was that of a poor family who had been warned 
out of town, that is, upon whom the constable had served a notice 
which prevented them from gaining a residence in a place where they 
had lately settled, lest they should become a town charge. " Is a man 
to be insulted because he is poor?" bitterly exclaimed the man sus- 
pected of a tendency to pauperism, and while his wife with abundant 
tears scolded the constable, and his children flew at him with instinct- 
ive rage, he went on to curse the whole list of the civil authority, by 
name, for a set of cruel, canting, cheating hypocrites. When we 
placed ourself for a moment in Ms stead, we did not much wonder at 
his feehngs. We think the reader will not find it difficult to call up 
even more striking illustrations of the principle. Let us place our- 
selves in the colored man's stead, and see if we can understand and 
appreciate colonization benevolence. Here is a man who professes to 
be my friend. He says, I can never rise here — ^he is sorry for it — but 
there is no help — if I stay I must be an outcast. He sincerely wishes 
my good, and to place me beyond the reach of this cruel prejudice and 
scorn, he will give some hundreds of dollars out of his tens of thous- 
ands. Is he the enemy of this prejudice? Why does he not live and 
act against it ? Does he sympatliize with me against a cruel public? 
Why does he not come and bear with me a share of this scorn ? Does 
he tliink the whites wrong me ? Why does he sacrifice my feelings 
to keep their respect ? He says he wishes me happy. Why does he 
not wish to see me happy ? He says he is benevolent. Does benevo- 
lence love to put its objects out of sight ? True, he has given his 
money ; and so he would give his money to get rid of a gang of wolves, 
and perhaps he would profess himself a great friend of theirs, if thus 
he could get their consent to enter his traps. I am afraid af his gene- 
rosity. 
We have lately met with an illustration so happy and so pat to our 
1* 



6 COLONIZATION. [18 

purpose, that, at the risk of a little digression, we introduce it here. 
At a late Fair for the Blind, in the city of New York, the following 
touching hnes were found, addressed to a well known abolitionist 

Oh ! while the beaming eyes are spared, 

That sparkle round thy board, 
Remember these poor sightless ones, 

The stricken of the Lord. 

Sweet charity hath round thee cast 

A mantle rich and wide ; 
And all that shrink from sorrow's blast 

Find shelter by thy side. 

Oh, may the Saviour's course on earth 

Thy bright example be ! 
He who would "loose the captive's chain," 

Should cause the " blind to see." 

How appropriate ! " Find shelter by thy side /" The oppressed al- 
ways find shelter by the side of " Charity." But could this have been 
said to a colonizationist ? Does the despised and persecuted colored 
man find shelter by his side ? Does he place him by his side at his 
table ; by his side in church ; by his side as he passes through the street ? 
Does Ae do any thing, or g-ive any thing, or risk any thing, that the colored 
man may dwell in peace by his side ? The colonizationist may per- 
suade himself and other white men, that "sweet charity" requires him 
to send the colored people a thousand leagues from his side, but can 
he persuade the colored people themselves ? Never, till the laws of 
human nature are changed. Now, if it is the object of benevolence to 
spread good will among men, to make peace on earth, to allay jealous- 
ies, and bickerings, and heart-burnings, surely that must be a mistaken 
benevolence which cannot but implant ill-will, and jealousy, and hatred, 
— ^that must be a perverted benevolence which cannot but brand a 
sense of common injury upon millions. 

For confirmation of the view taken from the first principles of human 
nature, we appeal to the actual history of the American Colonization 
Society. For many years that Society met with no active opposition 
among the whites. (We except of course some slaveholders, who 
misunderstood its object.) But by the blacks it has been opposed 
firom the first. The mass of them have regarded the very existence of 
the society as an insult — the very promulgation of its scheme, as an 
act of hostility. A few, yielding to persecution, or the prospect of per- 
sonal advantage, have fallen in with the plan — and it is possible that 



19] COLONIZATION. 7 

some, ignorant of its grounds, have been persuaded to regard the 
scheme as benevolent— but all such have been looked upon by the 
mass of their brethren, and especially by the more intelligent, as little 
better than traitors. A white man first publicly denounced the Col- 
onization Society in 1830, and his experience is worthy to be pro- 
foundly studied. In our apprehension, it demonstrates, that the Col- 
onization Society had actually driven the colored people to the borders 
of despair. The people in a ship do not load with blessings the man 
who throws them a rope, unless they feel some danger of sinking. 
Mr. Garrison had suffered as an advocate for freedom and was doubt- 
less dear to many colored as well as some white men ; but when he 
opened his lips against the Colonization Society, then it was that from 
every city and village, from one end of the land to the other, he was 
hailed as an angel of mercy. A shout went up as if the Liberator had 
been the life boat of the whole colored race, and Mr. Garrison step- 
ped into a popularity, which, as matters were fifteen years before, 
would have cost him a hfe's labor. Some Colonizationists have re- 
pUed to the multitudinous testimonials of approbation which poured in 
upon Mr. Garrison from all quarters, that he got them up himself, not 
to say that this is attributing to him powers greater than mortal ever 
wielded, the candid reader will see that it is more than overthrown by a 
reference to the proceedings of the colored people of Philadelphiain 1817. 
The Colonization Society had just then come into existence, and the 
question whether it should be regarded as a friend, was to be disposed 
of by one of the largest and most intelligent assemblies of colored peo- 
ple that could any where be brought together. The spontaneous and 
unanimous voice of more than three thousand of them was embodied 
in the following resolutions. 

" Whereas, our ancestors (not of choice) were the first successful 
cultivators of the wilds of America, we their descendants feel ourselves 
entitled to participate in the blessings of her luxuriant soil, which their 
blood and sweat manured ; and that any measure or system of mea- 
sures, having a tendency to banish us from her bosom, would not only 
be cruel, but would be in direct violation of those principles which have 
been the boast of this republic. 

" Resolved, That we view with deep abhorrence the unmerited stig- 
ma attempted to be cast upon the reputation of the free people of color, 
by the promoters of this measure, 'that they are a dangerous and use- 
less part of the community,' when in the state of disfranchisement, in 
which they live, in the hour of danger they ceased to remember their 
wrongs, and rallied round the standard of their country. 

'^ Resolved, Thdit we will never separate ourselves from the slave 
population in this country ; they are our brethren by the ties of con- 



8 COLONIZATION. [20 

aanguinity, of suffering, and of wrong ; and we feel that there is more 
'^Sr^ 3a suffering privations with them, than fancied advantages for a 
fe<i^son. 

"Resolved, That having the strongest confidence in the justice of 
God, and in the philantWopy of the free states, we cheerfully submit 
our destinies to the guidance of Him, who suffers not a sparrow to fall 
without his special Providence." 

The same meeting put forth an address " to the humane and benevth 
lent inhabitants of the city and county of Philadelphia,^^ from which w6 
make the following extracts. 

"We have no wish to separate from our present homes for any pur- 
pose whatever. Contented with our present situation and condition, 
we are not desirous of increasing their prosperity but by honest efibrts, 
and by the use of those opportunities for their improvement, which the 
constitution and the laws allow to all. It is, therefore, with painful 
eoUcitude and sorrowing regret, we have seen a plan for colonizing the 
free people of color of the United States, on the coast of Africa. 

" We humbly, respectfully, and fervently entreat and beseech your 
disapprobation of the plan of colonization now offered by the " Amer- 
ican Society for colonizing the free people of color of the United States." 
Here, in the city of Philadelphia, where the voice of the suffering sons 
of Africa was first heard ; where was first commenced the work of 
abolition, on which heaven has smiled, for it could have success only 
from the great Master ; let not a purpose be assisted which will stay 
the cause of the entire abolition oi slavery in the United States, and 
which may defeat it altogether ; which proffers to those who do not 
ask for them, what it calls benefits, but which they consider injuries, 
and which must insure to the multitude, whose prayers can only reach 
you through us, misery, sufferings, and perpetual slavery. 

(Signed) " JAMES FORTEN, Chairman, 

"RussEL Parrott, Secretary." 

Such have been the sentiments uniformly expressed by the colored 
people, except under the pressure of slavery and expulsory laws. Does 
any one say that the colored people are not quaUfied to judge for them- 
selves? Then, God in making them has departed fi:om his usual 
rule, for He generally makes people abundantly keen to discover their 
own interests, however bhnd they may be to the interests of others. 
Why did He not give us express instructions to take care of all who, we 
think, cannot take care of themselves ? Without such a commission 
it is dangerous to usurp the prerogative. It deserves to be considered 
whether this disposition to take care of other people against their 
wishes, is not founded on the same undervaluing of the rights and 
dignity of human nature, of which the slaveholder is guilty when he 
turns man into a chattel. 

The testimony of the colony itself is of quite a niegative character. 



21] COLONIZATION. 9 

We should of course expect the Colonization Society to be sufficiently 
ready to obtain and publish the testimony of its colonists to the improve- 
ment of their condition ; and on the other hand it is not to be expected 
that the Society, unless prepared to abandon its enterprise, would per- 
mit any adverse testimony to reach us, if it had the means of prevent 
ing it. Now if the reader will take the trouble to examine the files of 
the African Repository, he will find a single address of the colonists 
to the firee people of color in the United States recommending the 
colony.* And if he reads it attentively he will find that though it pro ■ 
fesses to come from a committee appointed by " a numerous meeting 
of the citizens of Monrovia, held at the Court House on the 27th of 
August, 1827," it savors more of the spirit of a knot of office-holders 
and town-lot speculators than of the people. We cannot believe that 
the people of Liberia indulge such a feeling towards their brethren in 
America as breathes in the following passages. " Tell us ; which is 
" the white man, who, with a prudent regard to his oion character, can 
"associate with one of you on terms of equahty ?" " We soUcit none 
" of you to emigrate to this country ; for we know not who among you 
" prefers rational independence, and the honest respect of his fellow 
" men, to that mental sloth and careless poverty, which you already 
"possess, and your children will inherit after you in America. But 
"if your views and aspirations rise a degree higher," &c. — then come. 
Mr. James R. Daily, himself a respectable colonist, testified that in 
1832 there was "a strong Anti-Colonization party" in the colony. 
It is worthy of remark, that the Society has relied almost exclusivoly 
on the testimony of the Captains of vessels who have touched at 
the colony, and other individuals whose interests were manifestly 
involved in its success. Since the attack upon the Society, when 
the voice of the whole colony should have come forth, peal upon 
peal, to disabuse the American public of the " slanders of the aboli- 
tionists," why has it been silent ? Why has the Society had to stand 
on the defensive, and assert that the discontent of the colonists was 
partial and confined to a few ? And why has it not sustained even 
this defence by bringing out the voice of the majority ? It should be 
remembered that the colony is to a great extent, dependant upon and 
nnder the government of the Society. 

Here we might rest the whole question. Colonization is uncalled 
for by the colored people, and, being so, inflicts upon them an insult 
and an injury. Hence, we conclude it is wrong in itself, and if wrong, 
* African Repository, Vol. Ill, p. 300. 



] COLONIZ'ATION. [22 

unworthy to be used as the means of good either to America or Africa 
— either to the bond or the free. It is due to the feelings and opinions 
of the colored people, that the plan should be abandoned. 

But with many benevolent advocates of colonization, there is a last 
resort in the idea that the Society is exerting a missionary influence 
upon Africa. They lose sight of the wrong done to the colored people 
here, in the glorious prospect of Christianizing Africa. We will close 
with a few suggestions on this subject 

None of the persons whom we are addressing will pretend that 
people who are in abject degradation and ignorance here can be the 
best missionaries even for Africa. The coast that has been so long 
cursed by tlie slave-trade is probably the most difficult missionary field 
in the world ; and the more difficult the field the higher must be the 
qualifications of the missionaries. But it is supposed that a colony 
picked from our best colored people, who from their color can better 
stand the chmate, and will less excite the prejudices of the natives, 
than whites, will be an excellent foundation or fulcrum for missionary 
operations. It will give the missionaries a resting place, and supplies, 
and safety ; and the natives an attractive example of the happiness of' 
civilization. The advocates bf colonization for such a purpose cannot 
of course derive much support from the history of colonization as ex- 
hibited in New England, or Mexico, or South America, or the West 
Indies, or the Cape of Good Hope, for in all these cases the natives 
have been the losers. Let us see whether the actual history of Liberia 
is more favorable to then- theory. The colony depends for its sub- 
sistence mainly upon its trade with the natives. The very articles of 
this traffic show what its tendency must be. Says Mr. J. B. Russ- 
wurm. Editor of the Liberia Herald, in a letter dated Nov. 18, 1*629. 
" Tobacco, Rum, pipes, cloth, iron pots, powder and shot, are con- 
" sidered the currency of the country. Nothing can be done without 
" rum in trade with the natives, &c." Mr. Ashmun declared that JJ«m 
was indispensable in trading with the natives. Mr. Gurley, in the 
African Repository for Jan. 1831, says "In the judgment of the most 
" worthy colonists, the native traders would entirely abandon the colony, 
" vsrere ardent spirits entirely excluded from its commerce — and that, 
" were it prohibited, it would be offered by slave traders on the coast 
" within a few leagues of the colony — the facihties for introducing it 
"clandestinely are innumerable." 

A colony must buy the good will of the natives at any price. They 
will have Rum. Said Mr. Ashmun in 1826, " It may illustrate a trait 



23] COLONIZATION. 11 

" of the African character to observe, that the consideration which 
"moved this cliief to accord to the settlers a privUege, which has mani- 
" festly led to their permanent estabUshment at Montserado, and the 
"translation of the country to new masters, was the complement of 
" half a dozen gallons of Rum, and an equal amount of tobacco." Rum 
has usually formed a part of the consideration paid by the American 
Colonization Society for the territory it has acquired. We quote from 
the terms of some of these contracts which may be found in the So- 
ciety's Eleventh Report. 

"4th. The American Colonization Society shall have the right in 
consideration of five hundred bars of tobacco, three barrels of rCK, 
five casks of powder, five pieces of long buft, five boxes of pipes, ten gims, 
five umbrellas, ten iron pots, and ten pairs of shoes, immediately to enter 
into possession of the tract of unoccupied land, bounded towards the 
west by Stockton Creek, and on the north by St. Paul's river, &c." 

The Sesters Territory was perpetually leased to the Colonization 
Society on the 27th Oct., 1825, by King Freeman, "in consideration 
"of one hogshead of tobacco, one puncheon of rum, six boxes of pipes, to 
" be paid and delivered to [him] yearly, every year, the first to com- 
" mence from the date of these presents," &c. 

The natural consequences of such treaties have not been wanting. 
In its very infancy the colony was involved in a war, in which the 
Rev. Mr. Ashmun gained great glory by his courage and conduct. 
His description of one of their battles, we quote at some length, because 
it capitally illustrates the christianizing power of a colony. 

** A few musketeers, with E. Johnson at their head, by passing round 
upon the enemy's flank, served to increase the consternation which 
was beginning to pervade their unwieldy body. In about twenty 
minutes after the settlers had taken their stand, the front of the enemy 
began to recoil. But from the numerous obstructions in their rear, the 
entire absence of discipline, and the extreme difficulty of giving a 
reversed motion to so large a body, a small part only of which was 
directly exposed to danger, and the delay occasioned by the practice 
of carrying off all the dead and wounded, rendered a retreat for some 
minutes longer impossible. The very violence employed by those in 
the front, in their impatience to hasten it, by increasing the confusion, 
produced an effect opposite to that intended. The Americans,* per- 
ceiving their advantage, now regained possession of the western post, 
and instantly brought the long nine to rake the whole line of the 
enemy. Imagination can scarcely figure to itself a throng of human 
beings in a more capital state of exposure to the destructive power of 
the machinery of modem warfare! Eight hundred men were here 
pressed shoulder to shoulder, in so compact a form, that a child might 
easily walk upon their heads from one end of the mass to the other, 

* In America they were Africans.— Ev. 



12 . COLONIZATION. [24 

prese/Ling in their rear a breadth of rank equal to twenty or thirty, 
and ali exposed to a gun of great power, raised on a platform, at only 
thirty to sixty yards distance ! Every shot literally spent its force in a 
solid lums of living human flesh ! Their fire suddenly terminated. A 
savage yell was raised, which filled the dismal forest with a momentary 
horror. It gradually died away, and the whole host disappeared. At 
eight o'clock, the well-known signal of their dispersion and return to 
their homes was sounded, and many small parties were seen at a dis- 
tance, directly afterwards, moving off in difierent directions. One 
large canoe, employed in reconveying a party across the mouth of the 
Montserado, venturing within the range of the long gun, was struck 
by a shot, and several men killed." 

It is not our purpose to blame the Colonization Society, or Mr. Ash 
mun, or the colony, for this or any of the subsequent wars with the 
natives. In the late experiment at Bassa Cove, we are willing to ad- 
mit that the founders of Edina meant to adhere strictly to the "peace 
principle.'''' Yet they were attacked by the natives, and felt themselves 
obUged to retaliate by the destruction of a native town. The fault lies 
in the colonizing scheme itself. We do not see how a "new em- 
pire " can be built up on the shores of Africa without war — and, if 
such an empire must be built up by war, we do not see how its build- 
ing up can possibly aid the conquests of the Prince of Peace. 

Our limits forbid an array of testimony in regard to the actual pro- 
gress made by means of the colony in evangelizing the natives. It 
may be found in Jay's Inquiry, pages 59 — 69. A single passage firom 
a letter of Rev. J. B. Pinney, then a missionary, but since governor of 
the colony, dated Monrovia, February 20, 1833, will sufiice. It has 
not ceased, and never will cease, to be descriptive of the relation of 
the colonists to the natives. 

" The colonists are very ignorant of every thing about the interior. 
Except of the tribes along the coast, nothing at all is known ; and of 
them, little but their manner of traffic. Nothing has been done for 
the natives, hitherto, by the colonists, except to educate a few who 
were in their families in the capacity of servants. The natives are, as 
to wealth and intellectual cultivation, related to the colonists, as the 
negro of America is to the white man ; and this fact, added to their 
mode of dress, which consists of nothing, usually, but a handkerchief 
around the loins, leads to the same distinction, as exists in America 
between colors. A colonist of any dye (and many there are of a 
darker hue than the Vey, or Dey, or Kroo, or Bassa) would, if at all 
respectable, think himself degraded by marrying a native. The na- 
tives are in fact menials (I mean those in town), and sorry am I to be 
obliged to say, that from my limited observation, it is evident, that as 
little effort is made by the colonists to elevate them, as is usually made 
by the higher classes in the United States to better the condition of 
♦he lower." 



THE 



ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 



Vol. III. No. III. MARCH, 1837. Whole No. 27. 



THE SLAVEHOLDER'S HEART. 

We are often told of the kind feelings which are reciprocated be- 
tween master and slave. The master, it is said, regards his slaves as 
thrown by Providence under his protection — a part of his family — 
objects of his fatherly care — he lives to promote their best interests. 
In retui'n, the slaves are attached to their master, and would die to 
defend him. They make his interests their own, and rejoice in all his 
prosperity. 

It will be the object of the following pages to refer to some of the 
exhibitions which slaveholders and their representatives have, in various 
ways and on various occasions, made of their feelings towards slaves. 
These exhibitions will perhaps enable us to test the likeness of the 
picture to which we have alluded. We shall be able to estimate the 
value of that fatherly care which a slave receives, placed, soul and 
body, at the disposal of a heart which feels towards him a sovereign 
contempt, and a stubborn determination to persevere in stripping him 
of all the attributes of manhood. 

The most reproachful epithet that a slaveholder can bestow upon 
his opponent, is the term slave. In expressing their determination not 
to submit to northern interference, the slaveholders of the south hare 
been able to find no stronger language than this, Were we to permit 
such interference, we should be fit to be slaves. In expressing their 
abhorrence of the tariff, they told us it reduced them tc the condition 
of slaves. With them there seems to be a force and meaning in the 
word slave, which fits it to express the superlative of meanness and 
misery — to cap the climax of contempt. There is also among slave- 
holders a peculiar jealousy for their own freedom. "The loudest 
yelps for llbeily," truly, are heard amongst them. If we are to credit 
their professions, it is with them that liberty has built her altar, and 

I 



2 THE slaveholder's HEART. [26 

eherishes her purest flame. Now, on the supposition that the slaves 
are held in bondage for their own good, that they are kindly treated as 
a part of their master's family, &c., how shall we account for the 
intensity of meaning which the slaveholders give to the terms slave 
and freeman ? What should we think of the sea-captain, who used 
sailor as a term of the deepest reproach ? "What, of the master me- 
chanic, who could find no epithet more expressive of his scorn than 
apprentice 7 Who would sail under such a captain, or serve under 
such a master ? When the non-slaveholder uses slave as a term of 
reproach, it is in reference to tyranny unworthily submitted to. He 
blames the victim of oppression for his cowardly tameness in submit 
ting to wrong. But "why is it that the slaveholder gives a more 
reproachful meaning to the term, if it be not that he better knows the 
amount of the tyranny to which the slaves submit? — and knows that 
tongue cannot exaggerate it ? Is the pattern on his own plantation, 
the original who sits for the horrid likeness, a being to whom he is 
generously attached ? — a being who performs the duties of an honora- 
ble relation to himself? — a being who lives and acts in his proper 
place ? Were this true, it would be a reason why he should carefully 
abstain from all scornful allusion to the humihty of his condition. 
But it cannot be true. The slaveholders of the south have a meaning 
for the word slave, which they would never dare to let come to the 
ears of their slaves, unless the latter were the victims of unutterably 
cruel physical oppression — and this meaning cannot be accounted for, 
except on the supposition that their hearts are full of present and prac- 
tical contempt for their slaves. "Whom they have injured, him they 
hate." 

And you ask us, the slaves might well say, to submit our lives and 
fortunes, and the lives and fortunes of our children, to these men of 
the South, in that very condition which they hold in the most sovereign 
contempt! When they rack their invention to find a word which 
shall describe the last extremity of human wretchedness— worse than 
death itself — they find the word slave; and you ask us to be theiif 
slaves ! ! 

Look at another exhibition which has been made before heaven and 
earth by a nation of slaveholders — a nation that maintains the right 
of the majority to rule, of a colony to throw off" the yoke of a tyran- 
nous mother country, and of every people who have vindicated their 
independence by the sword, to have it acknowledged and respected by 
Other nations. Look and learn. Slaveholders themselves will not 



27J THE slaveholder's heart. 3 

deny that the slaves of St. Domingo, under the old French regime, 
were horribly abused. In the process of time, these slaves were made 
freemen. Having tasted liberty, they scorned to be reenslaved. They 
shivered the yokes which their old masters sought to reimpose. They 
drove tiie minions of Bonaparte from their shore. After a war of less 
than two years, except the 60,000 in their graves, not a Frenchman of 
the invading host was left upon the island in the month of November, 
1803, to question their independence. They fortified that independ- 
ence with a regular government. Where was our chivalric admira- 
tion of liberty and independence, that it did not step forth to welcome 
them to a standing among the nations of the earth? Was it the 
remembrance of our own revolutionary struggle, or, of our own "con- 
tented and happy peasantry " at the South, which came in to hold 
back from the heroes of St. Domingo, the greeting we have been for- 
ward to give to the revolutionists of France, of Greece, of Poland? 
Greeting ! After St. Domingo had been free and independent more than 
two years, we leagued ourselves, good republicans that we were, with 
the "throne-builder" of Europe, to starve a nation of freemen whom 
his arms could not conquer! It was not enough that in 1791, when 
the slaves struck for freedom from their masters, our Executive had 
taken the responsibility of placing arms and money at the disposal of 
the French minister,* to help those masters crush them back into sub- 
jection. In 1806, when the victorious people of St. Domingo had 
calmly settled down to the arts of peace under a government which 
even Bonaparte dared not disturb with his muskets and bloodhounds, 
the congress of the United States, at the instance of that grasping 
autocrat, passed a rigid non-intercourse, starvation law, whereby any 
American forfeited ship and cargo, if he presumed to trade with that 
people. We give an extract from this shameful law, — for fear some 
of our patriotic and w iiole-hearted fellow-citizens should doubt its 
existence : | — 

* Thomas Jefferson, then Secretary of State, writes to Wm. Short, our 
minister at Paris, under date of Nov. 24, 1791, as follows :— " When the insur- 
rection of their negroes assumed a very threatening appearance, the Assembly 
[of St. Domingo] sent a deputy here to ask assistance of miUtary stores and 
provisions. lie addressed himself to M. de Ternant, who (the President being 
then in Virginia, as I was also) applied to the Secretaries of the Treasury and 
War. They furnished 1,000 stand of arms, other military stores, and placed 
forty thousand dollars in the treasury subject to the order of M. de Ternant, 
to be laid out in provisions, or otherwise, as he should think best. He sent the 
arms and other mihtary stores," &c.— Jefferson's Correspondence, vol. 3, p. 133. 

t This act passed the Senate Feb. 20th, 1806— Yeas 21, Nays 8. It was cott- 



4 THE slaveholder's HEART. [28 

"Sec. 2d. And he it further enacted, That after due notice of this 
act at the several custom-houses, no ship or vessel whatever shall 
receive; a clearance for any port or place within the island of St. Do- 
mingo, and not in the actual possession of France: nor shall any 
clearaii e be granted for a foreign voyage to any ship or vessel, owned, 
hired, ui- employed wholly or in part, by any person resident in the 
United itates, until the owner or the employer for the voyage, or his 
factor I ir agent with the master, shall give bond to the United States, 
in a suij! equal to the value of the vessel and of her cargo, with condi- 
tion th.it the ship or vessel for which a clearance shall be required, is 
destined to some port or place without the limits of such part of the 
island o\ St. Domingo as shall not be in the actual possession and 
under the acknowledged government of France, and during the 
intended voyage shall not be voluntarily carried, or permitted to pro- 
ceed, whether directly or from any intermediate port or place, to any 
port or place within such part of the island of St. Domingo," &c. 

Was such an act passed in regard to the revolted South American 
colonies ? or Mexico ? or Greece ? or will one be passed in regard to 
Texas / Can we pleau that St. Domingo or Haiti had not an organ- 
ized, an efficient government ? No. From the diplomatic correspond- 
ence submitted to congress during the passage of the law, it appears 
that Hiiiti not only had a government but an efficient one, under which 
the rights and interests of foreigners trading with her, as well as of 
her own citizens, were well protected. General Turreau, the French 
minister at Washington, in an official note of unparalleled impudence, 
while speaking of the Haitians as " robbers," as " that race of African 
slaves, the reproach and the refuse of nature," complains that a lucra- 
tive commerce was carried on with them from ail our ports. And 
Talleyrand, in a letter to General Armstrong, our minister at Paris, 
calls his attention to a passage in one of our newspapers, in which 
was described a ^^Jeasf'' given by some merchants of New York, oil 
the return of their vessels from Haiti. " The ninth toast," says Tal- 
leyrand, "given to the government of Haiti, cannot fail, sir, to excite 
your indii^nation."* 

Comment on this foul and shameful piece of legislation is quite un- 
necessary. It shows out the heart of the slaveholder. Almost every 
vote of opposition to the law came from the north. The slaves are 
placed under masters capable of joining with a tyrant in his mean 
attempt to starve that young liberty which had triumphed over his best le- 
gions, because forsooth the new freemen had once been "African slaves." 

firmed by the House of Representatives Feb. 25, 1806— Yeas 93, Nays 26. 
Among its opposers in the Senate is the name of John Quincy Adams. 
* State Papers, 1801—6, p. 364. 



29] THE slaveholder's heart. 5 

In the same spirit of mean hatred, our government has always 
refused to recognise the political independence of Haiti. Our com- 
missioners to the celebrated congress of Panama were even instructed 
to oppose the recognition of Haiti in that body. Said Mr. Berrien of 
Georgia in the debate on the Panama mission, " We must told lan- 
guage equally decisive to the Spanish American States. We cannot 
allow their principle of universal emancipation to be called into activity 
in a situation where its contagion from our neighborhood would be 
dangerous to our quiet and safety.-' It would seem as thougli slave- 
holding had extinguished every spark of generosity in the slaveholder's 
heart. 

The meanness of slaveholding, by a sort of conventional license, 
has leave to stalk abroad in open daylight. It does not strive to con- 
ceal itself. What is it that the slaveholder professes to fear above all 
things ? Insurrection. The loss of his power. The fair retribution 
which he avows that he himself would visit upon his oppressor, were 
he in the place of his slave. The slaveholders, together with their 
particular friends at the north, justify all their outrageous violations 
of law and order, by their fear of insurrection. 'Look at our circum- 
stances,' they say ; ' you of the north can afford to be calm while you 
discuss this question. You can throw firebrands, and smile — you 
have nothing to lose by it. But if your homes were like ours, upon a 
magazine of powder, it would be a very different affair.' The bonfires 
of Anti-Slavery publications at Charleston and P»,ichmond ; the rob- 
beries of the mail ; the lynching of " innocent men," as at Farmville, 
Virginia ; the flogging of Amos Dresser at Nashville ; the murder by 
scores of untried men, on suspicion of a design to rise ; the burning 
of men alive — without judge or jury ; the acquittal of these horrid 
murderers on account of their numbers; all these things show how 
much the slaveholders fear — and FEAR is always CRUEL. It is 
the fear of having the slaves understand their rights that embodies and 
animates and impels the whole host of their tyrants ; and of all the 
meanness or baseness of heart under the canopy of heaven, this same 
craven fear is the worst. What ! do you ask me to be the slave of a 
man who dreads to have me learn the alphabet ; who is in terrors leat 
I should read a printed book ; who is horrified at the bare thought of 
my being able to write lyiy name ! 

But we have been lately famished with another illustration of the 
proud contempt, strangely mingled with base fear, with which slavo- 
holdera look upon their slaves. 

1* 



( THE slaveholder's HEART. [3Q 

One wQuld think that kind, fatherly, patriarchal men, would look 
graciously upon all petitions coming from the poor and weak, and 
especially from those whom Providence had thrown under their own 
guardianship. It is not so hard to be understood how they should feel 
themselves insulted by foreigners petitioning on behalf of their "con- 
tented and happy peasantry ;" but if individuals of that peasantry 
itself, iceling themselves in some respect aggrieved, should think it 
proper to address the assembled legislators of their country, we are 
bound to beheve that the representatives of slaveholders would be the 
first to hsten to their complaints, and the readiest to redress them. 
What other conduct can we possibly reconcile with their pretensions? 
They pretend that slavery makes its subjects contented and happy. 
It quells their desires, satisfies their wants, relieves them of their cares 
and anxieties. This is its business. Well, if any slaves should after 
all feel and express desires, will the masters, who hve only for their 
good, satisfy and make them happy by contemptuously refusing to 
hear their prayer, denying their right to make it, and abusing them as 
if they had been horses or dogs ? If so, we cannot understand how 
it is that slavery makes men happy. 

The hearts of slaveholders in regard to the petitions of slaves have 
just been tested. On the 6th of February, 1837, the Hon. John 
GluiNCT Adams, while presenting petitions to the House of Repre- 
sentatives of the United States, said, 

" He held in his hand a petition from twenty-two persons, declaring 
themselves to be SLAVES. He wished to know whether the Chair 
considered this as a paper coming within the order of the House. He 
would withhold the petition until the decision was made." 

The "order of the House" referred to by Mr. Adams, was "that 
all papers, pethions, and memorials, on the subject of the abolition of 
slavery, be laid on the table." Not a word had Mr. Adams said of 
the nature of the prayer. What right had the patriarchs to suppose 
that it was for the abolition of that providential arrangement whereby 
their humble dependants possess a happiness greater than freedom ? 
Mr. Adams knew tliat it was not for the aboUtion of slavery ; but as 
petitions had been subjected to the rule merely for the words slaves or 
slavery, he thought it not best to present it till he had obtained the de- 
cision of the chair. The chair thought it a " novel case," and left it 
to the decision of the House. Upon this the following display of 
patriarchal kindness and benignity took place : 

" Mr. Lewis," of Alabama, " said it was in the power of the House 



31] THE slaveholder's iiEART. 7 

to PUNISH this atrocious attempt to present a petition from slaves to 
this House. If not, we had better go home.''^ Several gentlemen here 
cried out that the member from Mass. ought to be instantly expelled 
'jom the House. 

"M'. Alford," of Georgia, "said, the moment the petition was 
preseiic^d and came within the power of the House, he should move 
ihat it be taken from the files aad burnt. He called on Soutiiern 
members to support him in this course. If this state of things was to 
be tolerated, the Union would not survive another session.^^ 
■ "Mr. rhampson, of South Carolina, rose to ask the member from 
Massachusetts to present his petition, or to move its reading. He 
would then bring liimself within a resolution of a personal character, 
which he held in his hand ; [a resolution expelling Mr. Adams from 
the House.]" 

"Mr. Ripley, of Louisiana, came in front of the Chair, and ad- 
dressed the Speaker. He said he did not intend to sit here deliberating 
upon the question of receiving petitions from slaves. If it had como 
to that, he was for taking a course adequate to the crisis. The Speaker 
interfered. The gentleman from Louisiana could not be allowed to 
speak while the yeas and nays were being called. Mr. Ripley accord- 
ingly retired." 

"Mr, Bouldin wished not to be kept in suspense upon this point. 
He wished to know whether he was right in beheving that he was sur- 
rounded by brokers sitting in consultation upon the interest, the pros- 
perity, happiness, and glory of their common family and country, or 
whether a portion, a considerable portion, were v/illing to countenance 
a proposition of this kind — a proposition that could admit of no inter- 
pretation milder than that of a direct insult to the feelings of the South. 
The most natural import, a direct attack upon the interest, the pro- 
perty, and the safety, of the slaveholdin^ portion of the Union." 

"Mr. W. Thompson, of South Carolina, said he had risen to move 
as an a-nendment to the motion of the honorable gentleman from Vir- 
ginia (I'.Ir. Patton) the following resolution: 

" Resolved, That the honorable John GIuincy Adams, by the attempt 
just mc'.de by him to introduce a petition purporting on its face to be 
from slaves, has been guilty of a gross disrespect to this House, and 
that he be instantly brought to the bar to receive the severe censure of 
the Speaker." 

' Mr. Thompson said, " The gentleman from Massachusetts oflEered 
to present a pf^tition from sieves, and so purporting to be on its face, in 
open and wilful violation i *f what he knew to be the rules of this 
House, and insulting to a large portion of its members. Does the 
gentleman, even in the latii (ide which he gives to the right of petition, 
think that it includes slave 3 ? If he does not, he has wilfully violated 
the rules of the House an 1 the feelings of its members. Does that 
gentleman know that the e are laws in all the slave states, and here, 
for th'. punishment of the 3C who excite insurrection? I can tell him 
that there arc such thing 5 as grand juries ; and if, sir, the juries of 
this District have, as I iti oubt not they have, proper intelligence and 
spirit, he may yet be made amenable to another tribunal, and we may 
yet see an incendiary brought to condign punishment." 



8 THE slaveholder's HEART. [32 

Some modification of the resolutions was proposed by Mr. Ha3mes 
of Georgia, and the following, suggested by Mr. Lewis, was accepted 
by Mr. Thompson : 

" Resolved, That John CIuincy Adams, a member from the state 
of Massachusetts, by his attempt to introduce into this House a peti- 
tion from slaves, for the abolition of slavery in the District of Colum- 
bia, committed an outrage on the rights and feelings of a large portion 
of the People of this Union ; a flagrant contempt on the dignity of 
this House ; and, by extending to slaves a privilege only belonging to 
freemen, directly invites the slave population to insurrection : and that 
the said member be forthwith called to the bar /of the House, and be 
censured by the Speaker." 

Up to this period, the representatives of slaveholders had driven for- 
ward with the most furious madness, utterly overlooking the question 
whether the petition prayed for the abolition of slavery or not, when 
they were told that if they had permitted the petition to be read, it 
would have appeared that it prayed for an object directly the reverse, 
and might be, and probably was, a hoax played off by slaveholders 
themselves, to bring contempt upon Mr. Adams ; but which he had 
used, as he had a right to, to draw from the House an expression of 
opinion in regard to the question whether the right of petition belongs 
to slaves. This development served still further to draw out the 
hearts of slaveholders : 

"Mr. Thompson said he was sony to see the air of levity which it 
is attempted to throw over this matter. He felt very differently. 
What, sir, is it a mere trifle to hoax, to trifle with the members from 
the South in this way, and on this subject? Is it a light thing, for the 
amusement of others, to irritate, almost to madness, the whole delega- 
tion from the slave states ? Sir, it is an aggravation. It is intimated 
that the petition does not pray for the abolition of slavery, but a very 
different object. It makes not the slightest difference ; it is the attempt 
to introduce a petition from slaves for any object ; as insolent if it be 
for one purpose as for another. It is the naked fact of a presentation 
of a petition from slaves." 

"Mr. T. then further modified his resolution by substituting the 
three following resolutions : 

" 1. Resolved, That the Hon. John Ct. Adams, by an effort to pre- 
sent a petition from slaves, has committed a gross contempt of this 
House. 

" 2. Resolved, That the member from Mnssachusetts above named, 
by creating the impression, and leaving the House, under that im- 
pression, that the said petition was for the abolition of slavery when 
he knew that it was not, has trifled with the House. 

"3. Resolved, That the Hon. John Gl. Adams receive the censure 
^f the House for his conduct referred to in the above resolutions." 



33] THE slaveholder's heart. 9 

In the course of the debate, the following remarks fell from Mr. 
Pickens, of South Carolina : 

*' As long as we were members of tliis body, we were bound to 
maintain its dignity, and do what we could to prevent scenes calcu- 
lated to harass and insult the feelings of a large portion of the mem- 
bers of this House, by calling down its censure upon the gentleman 
from Massachusetts (Mr. Adams), for his wanton attempt to introduce 
the rights of slaves upon this floor, and by avowing he held a paper 
in his pocket purporting to bea petition from slaves, signed by twenty- 
two. Mr. Pickens said this admitted that he had communication with 
slaves, and Was evidence in law of collusion. It broke doxon the prin- 
ciple that the slave could only he known through his master. For this 
he was indictable, under statute, for aiding and abetting INSUR- 
RECTION : and for such conduct is he not amenable to the censure 
of this House? The privilege of speech protected a member from 
being questioned before any other tribunal, but does not exempt him 
from being questioned before this House." 

One whole day having been consumed in this discussion, it was 
resumed on the following day. Mr. Dromgoole of Virginia then pre- 
sented the following remarkable substitute for Mr. Thompson's three 
resolutions : 

" Resolved^ That the Hon. John CI. Adams, a member of the House, 
by stating in his place that he had in his possession a paper, purport- 
ing to be a petition from slaves, and inquiring if it was within the 
meaning of a resolution heretofore adopted (as preliminary to its pre- 
sentation), has given color to the idea that slaves have a right to peti- 
tion, and of his readiness to be their organ ; and that, for the same, he 
deserves the censure of this House. 

" Resolved, That the aforesaid John Gl. Adams receive a censure 
from the Speaker, in the presence of the House of Representatives.'* 

The discussion lasted with unabated heat during the whole of this 
day. Hardly a slaveholder took part in it, who did not express the 
utmost indignation that any man should dare, in the Congress of the 
United States, to give '■''color to the idea'''' that slaves have a right to 
petition, or congress a right to receive their petitions. On a subse- 
quent day the subject was taken up, and after a most eloquent defence 
of his conduct by Mr. Adams, the sense of the House was taken on 
the following resolutions, substituted by Mr. Pattoh of Virginia : 

" Resolved, That any member who shall hereafter present to the 
House any petition from the slaves of this Union, ought to be consi- 
dered as regardless of the feelings of the House, of the rights of the 
southern states, and unfriendly to the Union — and this resolution was 
rejected— Yeas 92, Nays 105. 

" And the main question was then taken on the second branch (rf" 
the main question, which is as follows : 



10 THE slaveholder's HEART. [34 

"Resolved, That the Hon. John Cl. Adams, having solemnly dis- 
claimed all design of offering any thing disrespectful to the House, in 
the incjuiry made of the Speaker as to a petition purporting to be from 
slaves, and having avowod his intention not to offer to present the said 
petition if the House should be of opinion 'hat it ought not to be pre- 
sented; tiierefore, all proceedings in regard to his conduct do now 



"This resolution was rejected — Yeas 22, Nays 137." 

Thus, by the force of truth and common sense, was the House of 
Representatives temporarily saved from openly plunging into despot- 
ism fouler than ever disgraced any arbitrary monarchy — the despot- 
ism of stopping the ear of the law-making power against the cry of 
the poor. Thus narrowly were the most sacred privileges of our 
representatives saved from being trampled under the feet of slavery ; 
and thus did the venerable Ex-President of the United States escape 
the censure of the House for a contempt of its dignity, and an indict- 
ment oi' the grand jury of the District of Columbia, as a promoter of 
insurrection ! 

But the representatives of slaveholders had not yet showed out the 
whole of their hearts. The outrage upon their " rights" and interests 
and fears, by the color given to the idea that slaves have a right to peti- 
tion, was not to be left unatoned — perish the Union first. In solemn 
procession they left the hall of the House of Representatives, and 
assembled themselves in conclave. Here they debated the question 
whether they should all return to their constituents, or dictate terms 
to the House. A correspondent of the Charleston Mercury writes, 
"I was pleased at the rebuke with which Mr. Alford (of Georgia) 
met the suggestion of Mr. Lewis and General Ripley, that the south- 
ern members had no business here, and ought to go home in a body, 
if the attempt to present the petitions of slaves should be tolerated by 
the House.* ' No,' said Mr. Alford ; ' let us stand or fall at our posts. 
The ground on which we stand belongs to the southern and slave- 
holding region ; and this city was founded by and bears the name of 
our beloved Washington, himself a southern man and a slaveholder. 
Here let us meet the question, and let this city be razed to its 

FOUNDATIONS, AND THE PoTOMAC ROLL IN TORRENTS OF BLOOD, 

before we yield it.' " 

* These suggestions had been made in the House before the toleration of the 
House had been expressed, and were designed to frighten the House from such 
toleration. But when the southern legislators were by themselves, they con- 
sidered the Union rather as a matter to be fought for, than run away from ! 



35] THE slaveholder's heart. , 11 

Here is the HEART of the slaveholder. What is the matter ? 
Has a destroyer threatened to come down upon the patriarchal homes 
with fire and sword ? Has Mr. Adams threatened to violate the 
rights or interests of the people committed to patriarchal care ? No. 
He has given color to the idea that slaves may petition. He has offered 
to speak for the dumb. He has ventured to ask the Speaker of the 
House of Representatives if he might be permitted to step over the 
principle that the slave is a mere thing, to be known only through his 
master. And for this the Potomac is to roll in torrents of blood! 

After two separate sessions, the southern delegation returned as 
they went. They would give up a "Southern Convention," provided 
the House would reconsider its vote, and declare that slaves have no 
constitutional right to petition. Although the constitution, without 
setting up, or in any way indicating, a distinction between freemen 
and slaves, forbids congress to pass any law abridging the right of 
" THE PEOPLE " to petition for the redress of their grievances, yet 
the House, at the dictation of a minority, reconsidered its vote, and 
resolved, only EIGHTEEN MEN voting in the negative, that the 
slaves have not the right to present the humblest petition, whatever 
may be their " grievances." Not even the slaves of the District under 
the exclusive legislation of congress are to be considered a part of the 
people for whose protection the constitution was estabUshed, It is in 
vain for slaveholders to pretend that slaves are not people ; the very 
terms by which they themselves often designate them are, " my peo- 
Me," "our people," "my colored people," "our colored people." So 
*iiey are people, and of course a part of the people of the United States. 
By this inhuman resolution congress has not abridged, but utterly 
taken away the right which they as well as we derived from a source 
iaigher than the constitution, and which that instrument was designed 
lu protect from their power. This arrogant dictation of the South, and 
this dastardly succumbency of the North, will go out to the whole 
world, and down to all time, as a revelation of the falsehood of pro- 
slaVery pretences, and of the utter rottenness of the slaveholders heart. 

We will close this exhibition of the slaveholder's heart by giving a 
fev/ notes of the echo which the first discussion on this subject in the 
House of Representatives called forth from the slave states. The fol- 
lowing extracts are taken from editorial articles in the tlrree leading 
newspapers of Charleston, S. C, of February 15, 1837. 

The Courier says: 

"We are not well satisfied of either the policy or propriety of hav- 



12 THE slaveholder's HEART. [36. 

ing asked of congress such a negation of right — the matter was too 
preposterous in itself to require any action, and such a mode of meet- 
ing it was giving too much consequence, if not countenance, to the 
mad folly of Mr. Adams; — but the question having been made, the 
constitution of the country and the rights of the South should have 
insured a different answer." 

The Patriot says: 

But the South is now aroused by this last act of aggravated wrong, 
and will proceed, we are sure, in a manner that will vindicate its dig- 
nity and protect its interests Should it [the first vote] not be 

reversed, there is no alternative left the Soutliern members but retiring 
in a body, and coming home to their constituents." 

The Mercury, in the true patriarcho-furioso, says: 

*'The public mind of the South must be now prepared for concerted 
and decisive action, or it never will be. Public opinion in the South 
would now, we are sure, justify an immediate resort to force, by the 
SOUTHERN DELEGATION— EVEN ON THE FLOOR OF CON- 
GRESS— were they forthwith to seize and drag from the hall any 
man who dared insult them, as that eccentric old showman, John 
Gtuincy Adams, has dared to do. If there be laws against incendia- 
ries in the District of Columbia, he should be indicted. If the privi- 
leges of the House are to screen an abolitionist who holds concert with 
the slaves of the District, it is time that Virginia and Maryland should 
interfere, and PUT DOWN SUCH A NUISANCE AS CON- 
GRESS must be upon their borders." 

Here is the kind, protecting, patriarchal spirit to which we are re- 
quired to consign two and a half millions of our brethren — manacled 
and gagged — and to close our lips in eternal silence. Here are the 
hearts with which we are required to sympathise, on pain of being 
knocked down and dragged out. Here is the voice of that amiable 
system to whose dictates we are required to yield, as we value the 
glorious Union. Is any one so bUnd as not to see that the heart of the 
slaveholder must blast and crush and grind to powder every particle 
of the slave's rights, or interests, or happiness, that stands in the way 
of its own lusts ? Is any one so blind as not to see the danger to our 
common country of permitting such a heart to riot in the plunder of 
the helpless, unchecked by exposure, unawed by truth, unscathed by 
rebuke ? Are we to believe that the constitution binds us to sacrifice 
humanity and duty and conscience to men who hold the eternal 
foundation principles of that constitution to be an intolerable nui- 
sance ? Surely mercy to the master, as well as the slave, binds us to 
promulgate that truth which alone has the power to heal his cankered, 
festered, pestilent heart ! 



THE 



ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 



Vol. III. No. IV. APRIL, 1837. Whole No. 28. 

SLAVERY. 

THE RIGHT OF NORTHERN INTERFERENCE. 

"What right," says the slaveholder, "have you non-slaveholders, 
citizens of other states, to interfere in my domestic affairs — to come 
between me and my slaves ? You might as well step between me and 
my children, and dictate the terms of my family government. Is sla- 
very any concern of yours?" — Yes, it is. Slavery is not a domestic 
afiair. The power of the master, is not the natural power of a fathei 
over his children, but the usurped power of a tyrant over other men's 
children. Slavery is not famiiy government, but the destruction of 
famiUes. All the families of the earth are as much concerned to put 
it down, as they would be to put down, if they could, the cholera, or 
yellow fever, or plague. We have a better right to interfere between 
master and slave, than we had to interfere between Greek and Turk, 
between Pole and Russian, between the vassals of Europe and their 
arbitrary tyrant?. The evil is nearer, more contagious, and a thou- 
sand times more dreadful. The oppressors are united with us by 
many political ties, they mingle withi us in business and pleasure, they 
spread their thoughts and feelings before us, they tempt us to partake 
with them or imitate them in oppression. Some of us by the blandish- 
ments of slavery are strongly and daily tempted to become tyrants, 
and more are exposed, by its rapacity, to become the victims of tyran- 
ny. There is such a thing as the spirit of slavery ; and it is a spirit 
hostile to free institutions — a deceitful spirit — an undermining, canker- 
ing, corrupting spirit — the very elect are sufficiently in danger from it 
It is the spirit which has built its great nests and its little nests all 
about the thrones of Europe — those old rookeries whose tenants pick 
the very bones of the king-ridden people. But to us, those enslaving 
i^p.'.lishments are comparatively harmless. We fear not their force, 



2 THE RIGHT OF NORTHERN INTERFER:ENCE. [38 

and we are not within reach of their seductive arts. But what if those 
kingdoms were set afloat on the Atlantic and towed up along side of 
us ? What if our chief merchants, and leading politicians — what if the 
poets, philosophers, lawyers, editors, and divines, — the men who do 
our thinking for us, were intimate at the courts of Vienna and St 
Petersburgh — dancing with the daughters of Prince Metternich (if he 
nas any) and kissing the hand of his Imperial Majesty, the sublime 
a'atocrat, Nicholas, &c. &c., would not our free institutions be in some 
danger of being sapped by the spirit of slavery ? The autocrats, it 
must be remembered, have abundantly improved numerous opportuni- 
ties to fleece their people, and have something to give to the pohte, sleek 
fellows who will consent to prop up their old thrones — something that 
will make them sleeker and glossier than before. We know well 
enough how httle our worthy, free-minded republican fellow citizens 
would relish such sort of congeeing to tyrants. We know well 
enough what sort of interference they would soon set about. They 
would say, the question of Uberty is a question oi' pnjiciple, not of geo- 
graphy. We will talk, write, print and vote against all who sympa- 
thize with the oppressor rather than the oppressed. The oppressed 
shall have our whole sympathy, and so far as the laws of nations 
admit, our active aid. 

It is said, any agitation of the subject of slavery must excite the 
North against the South, and involve the nation in a geographical 
quarrel. It will do no such thing. The question is altogether one 
of principle, and not one of sectional interests. The war of anti- 
slavery and pro-slavery is not a geographical war. The two parties are 
diffused over the whole country. There are far more abohtionists at 
the South than at the North. In two of the states, South Carolina 
and Louisiana, they constitute a numerical majority. In siding with 
the majority of the people of those states, do we not side with the 
states ? It is true, the abolitionists of the South are more oppressed, 
they actually suffer all the evils which a pro-slavery aristocracy is 
striving to bring upon those of the North. Their right to use the press 
is wholly prostrated — they are not allowed even to read a printed 
book, nor to meet together and petition for a redress of grievances ; 
in fact, wrong and outrage have done them their worst, and triumphed 
over every vestige of their human rights.* But is that a reason why 
we sho: :^d not take their part ? Are we to be accused of going against 

* For a full exposition of the treatment of southern abolitionists, see Anti- 
Slavery Record, January 1837 



^9] THE RIGHT OF NORTHERN INTERFERENCE. 3 

the South, when we advocate the interests of more than half the popu- 
lation of the South? Are we the enemies of the South, when we would 
redress the \Arongs of 2,400,000 of her people, without violating 
the rights of any '/ Let it be remembered, too, the question Ues be- 
tween these 2,400,000,' and that portion of the white population who 
claim them a*' their property — and not between them and the whole 
white population. Now, on an average, the slaves claimed by an 
estate, are far more numerous than the persons directly interested in 
the property of the estate. Hence the slave population is a majority 
over the white population that can, even' by slaveholding laws, esta- 
bhsh any claim of property in them. As between them and their 
masters, they are, in fact, the people of the South. The simple truth 
is this. At the South there are two parties in conflict, and the aboli- 
tionists of the North take sides with the wronged party, which is also 
the largest party. 

And there are slaveholders at the North. Some there are who actu- 
ally hold their fellow-citizens as property in more southerii states. 
Witness the case nf Jack vs. Mary Martin, in the Supreme Court of 
the state of New York, in which it was decided that Mrs. Martin, a 
lady resident in New York city, had not only a right to hold slaves in 
Louisiana, but to send them back, if any of them should escape from 
her plantation to a free state. And many others who are not slave- 
holders in fact, are so in feeling. Witness the mobs innumerable, 
openly or covertly got up by " men of property and standing," solely 
to vindicate the right of property in human flesh. There are multitudes 
amwDg us, high in wealth and office, and strong in the influence de- 
rived therefrom, who have shown themselves ready to go to any degree 
of violence in the defence of slaveholding principles. Would such 
men object, in a change of circumstances, to slaveholding practice ? 
No, They are slaveholders in heart — men who love wealth, and 
power, better than they love their fellow-men. The line which runs 
between the pro-slavery and the anti-slavery camps, is not a geogra- 
phical, but a moral line. The two principles are at irreconcileable war, 
— the two parties cannot peacefully coexist ; either the one must be 
driven from the geography of the globe, or the other must be wholly 
and permanently brutified, or the conflict must be eternal. 

Northern interference, forsooth ! The complaint comes with an ill 
grac^ from the master. It is the slave who has a right to complain of 
northern interference. While he has been gagged and pinioned, the 
\naster has been courtins; northern interference against him. While 



4 THE RIGHT OF NORTHERN INTERFERENCE. [40 

the slave has been toiling in forced silence on the rice or cotton plan- 
tation, his master has been travelling over the North, and prejudicing 
the minds of the people against liim and his rights, by the cruel calum- 
nies of his not being able to take care of himself, and of his being ready 
to cut his master^s throat if freed. While the slave has been driven to 
daily labor on his peck of corn a week, the master has been feasting 
at his expense, and driving fine bargains with the northern merchants ; 
whereby they, admitted to a share of the plunder, take part with him 
against the slaves. Slaveholders have never dreaded northern inter- 
ference against the slaves. They are willing enough that northern 
legislatures should pass laws to help them recover their fugitives. 
They are willing enough that northern ministers should preach in 
favor of slavery. And they are willing that northern editors should 
publish as much as they please about the " delicate subject," if they 
will only say it ought not t^o be discussed : dwell on the horrors of St. 
Domingo, as if they were caused by emancipation, and assert that the 
slaves are better off than if they were free. Give the slavts but the 
power of speech, and they could tell of a northern interference as mean 
and malignant as mammon ever hired, or mahce ever executed. They 
could tell of colleges bought with southern students and southern money. 
They could tell of ministers of the gospel bought with southern sala- 
ries. They could tell of authors and editors, legislators and judges, 
bought by southern patronage and southern votes. They could tell 
of public sentiment poisoned against them, and all the fiend-like pre- 
judices of the infernal pit stirred up against them. It is time that this 
sort of interference should be met by a counter-interference. 

To say nothing of our own rights and interests endangered by sla- 
very, we have a right to interfere, and it is our solemn duty to do so, 
because the noblest instinct God has implanted in our nature prompts 
us to take the part of the weak against the strong, of the wrong suf- 
ferer against the wrong doer. This impulse we cannot resist without 
doing violence to our natures, and sinning against God. The slave- 
holders themselves profess to reverence the principle, and be guided by 
it in their sympathy for the oppressed — wherever their own interests 
are not concerned. 

But the penalty of disobedience to this high impulse is the loss of 
our own rights. Let us see more particularly how slavery endangers 
our own liberties. 

It is said, our fathers made a compact with the fathers of the South, 
whereby we have given up all right to do any thing for the overthrow 



41] THE RIGHT OF NORTHERN INTERFERENCE. 

of slavery. If they did, they compacted away our hberties, as we shall 
presently see. Two facts out of a multitude are sufficient to show this ; 
1. Here are three or four large denominations of Christians which 
embrace, each within its pale, slavehol lers and non- slaveholders. 
Their leaders meet together — not a word must be said on this subject ; 
they recognise each other as Cluistians — the non-slaveholders are de- 
lighted with the noble, generous, hospitable spirit of the slaveholders, 
and learn to regard slaveholding itself without abhorrence. Hence 
the high sanction of religion is thrown around, not the slavery of the 
"Africans," but the principle o/ p-otserfy m man. Hence even leh- 
gious men feel no scruple at all to go to the South, and become slave- 
holders, slave-drivers, slave-traffickers. They can amass a fortune 
by buying and selling their fellow Christians, and yet remain in good 
landing w^th the church ! 2d. Our congressmen meet on slaveholding 
territory the representatives of slaveholders, and are thrown into the 
"same crucible with them, to form anew their habits, thoughts and 
feelings. What wonder if some of them should come out slaveholders 
in spirit? Is the human heart incorruptible? " Can a man take Uve 
coals in his bosom and not be burned ?" — All the while, it must be 
remembered, not a word can be said against slavery, on account of 
the compact. 

Yv^hile these 'two avenues to the heart of the whole people are left 
open — with every thing to drive forward the barbed shaft of slavery, 
and no power to retard it— do we think that heart is safe ? Nothing 
in human affairs is more certain than that, with such a temptation at 
work upon them, night and day, and nothing to oppose it, our leading 
men in church and state, would soon be prepared to make slaves. 
And with a slaveholding spirit well established, there would be no 
stopping at one particular color. It would soon be found that a great 
many white men are unable "to take care of themselves;" and might 
be conveniently and comfortably provided for, by turning them into 
chattels. The process would begin with the poorest and most spirit- 
less, of course. But it would be cunningly managed, and Vv'ould work 
upwards rapidly. There are many ways of making slaves when men 
have the heart to do it. Are we, the " common people " of the North, 
sure that we have parted with none of our rights already to gratify the 
slaveholding tastes that our divines have caught at their genej:al con- 
ferences, and general assemblies? That we have lost none for what 
our great men have learnt at Washington ? We appeal to common 
sense, whether our liberties are worth a straw, we being bound by a 



6 THE RIGHT OF NORTHERN INTERFERENCE. [42 

compact noc to oppose the worst species of tyranny. If we may not 
pour upon the detestable usurpation of property in man, the scorch- 
ing, annihilating rebuke which it deserves, we have not the least 
security that we shall not ourselves be fettered hand and foot by it, 
and driven to the shambles. Better that the compact were scat- 
tered in ashes, than be bound by it to roast to death over the slow fire 
of slavery. 

The truth is, the compact reserves to us, and sacredly guards the 
best possible armor, offensive and defensive, against slavery — THE 
LIBERTY OF SPEECH AND OF THE PRESS. It never 
bound us, openly or tacitly, not to use this armor. It is because we 
are in compact with slaveholders, that we are the more bound to use 
it. We are in compact, be it remembered, with the whole South. And 
we are bound to promote the hberty and happiness of the whole South, 
as well as to defend and promote our own. If there are men at the 
South who hate liberty, and are determined we should surrender ours 
for the support of slavery, let them take the responsibiUty of dissolving 
the compact as soon as they choose, and run the risks of another sort 
of warfare. For ourselves, we are willing to abide by the whole com- 
pact, but not by a part of it. 

It may be said, " true, we are interested in slavery, ami have the right 
to talk about it, but what good will it do ? We have not the power to 
abolish it." 

Suppose we have not the power to abolish it^ we have the power to 
guard against its encroachments. This may be done by talking and 
printing, and cannot be done otherwise. But it is not true that we 
have not the power to abolish it. By the most express sanctions of 
the constitution, congress has power to aboliLh it sA the seat of the 
national government, and in congress a majority of forty are f om free 
states. If the free states please, t'iiey can banish slavery from the ten 
miles square, and make it safe for northern free citizens to reside there. 
They can say that men and women shall not be an article of barter 
between the states. As northern men, then, it is cur duty and right to 
give congress no peace, till the principles of the constitution are car- 
ried out in the District of Columbia, and the internal slave trade is 
abolished. To bring the North up to this work, it is necessary that 
the spirit of slavery at the North be met and conquered. The preju- 
dice of caste must be killed and buried. Colored men must be 
allowed to take the place, freely, to which their manhood entitles 
them. Let the North come up to the exertiou of its legitimate and 



43] THE RIGHT OF NORTHERN INTERFERENCE. 7 

constitutional powers in the spirit of freedom. Let her say to the 
holders of the bond for human flesh, take the flesh that is in your 
bond, but take more at your peril — in the language of Portia to the 
Jew: — 

'prepare thcc to cut off the Hcf'b.-, 



Shed thou no blood ; nor cut thou less, nor more, 

But just a pound of flesh : if thou tak'st more. 

Or less than a just pound — be it but so much 

As makes it light, or heavy, in the substance 

Or the division of the twentieth part 

Of one poor scruple j nay, if the scale do turn 

But in the estimation of a hair, — 

Thou diest, and all thy goods are confiscate." 

Let the North yield the penalty of the bond, — let her stand by her 
" compact " in this spirit, and it might soon be asked in regard to the 
South, " Why doth the Jew pause ?" The fact is, the Jlesti is not in 
the bond. The South never dared to put it there, except by an equi- 
vocation. She demands that we yield her both flesh and blood, by 
courtesy of interpretation; — and we have been courteous — most mur- 
derously courteous ! — Is there not something for us to do ? 

But we have another power, which may be brought to bear still 
more effectually upon slavery in the southern states. That wicked- 
ness is sustained in those states by the countenance of Christian 
churches — not the churches of those states, but of ours. Nothing but 
the precious ointment of a good name in the Christian world, saves the 
abomination from becoming too offensive for the endurance of even 
most of the slaveholders themselves. Let all Christian churches, out 
of slaveholding communities, call it by its right name, ROBBERY, 
and separate from its perpetrators accordingly, and slavery could no* 
last five years. Thousands of slaveholders would be thrown into tor- 
ment — the xoorm that never dies would be set at work in their bosoms — 
they would find it as uncomfortable to hold slave property, as to hold 
in their bare hands red hot iron. Is there not something we can do ? 

Let us notice two or three objections : 

1. Our agitation of this subject will only piit back emancipation, and 
nibject the slaves to more cruel treatment. We take the objection in 
this form, because in this form it oftenest meets us. But it is a felo de 
se, — it cuts its own throat. If our agitation subjects the slave to more 
cruel treatment, it cannot put back emancipation, for the fact is a p-oof 
that emancipation was everlastingly back already. On the other hand, 



S THE RIGHT OF NORTHERN INTERFERENCE. [44 

if there was at the South ai-V sincere disposition to get rid of slavery, 
the agitation of the subject could not possibly pat it back. A sincere 
disposition to do justice, strong enough to stand any chance of 
triumphing over the lust of powder and pelf, could not be turned from 
its purpose by any expression of opinion or sympathy in favor of the 
slave, however imprudent it might be. Who ever heard of a man, 
penitent enough to make restitution for a life of plunder, being turned' 
back to increased robbery, out of spite at an injudicious reprover ? The 
objection is ridiculously absurd, and would not be advanced but in a 
miserably bad cause. Have the autocrats of history yielded free con- 
stitutions to their subjects unasked, in still and slavish times ? Have 
they increased their own prerogatives, and doubled their chains, as 
they heard the distant murmur of popular agitation ? Have they been 
most mild and complaisant and merciful, and most backward to use 
their extortionary arts, whUe there was no voice or press to reveal 
their deeds ? Perhaps the objector has an edition of the book of hu- 
man nature, in which it is written that power is the least abused where 
it has fewest checks ; that tyrants will usurp least when left to them- 
selves ,* that bad men will commit the fewest crimes when least sus- 
pected ,• and that thieves will steal least when least watched. 

As ive have read human nature, in the old received edition, it is 
always a safe thing to put men, who are trusted with power, upon their 
good behaviour, by a full exposure of their derehctions. We have 
never supposed that our public officers at Washington were made 
more corrupt, and driven to dive deeper in the pockets of the people, 
by the watchfulness and clamor of the opposition. And for the same 
reason, we cannot believe that the slaves are treated more harshly on 
account of the exposures made by the abolitionists. The slaveholders 
are disturbed because there is too much truth in these exposures, — will 
they therefore go right on to make them more true by still greater atro- 
cities? Let it not be said, the slaves are so niuch stirred up by the 
measures of the abolitionists, that greater severity is necessary to 
retain-theni in bondage. This, alas, is not true! Would to God the 
slaves only knew what the thousands of abolitionists at the North are 
doing and feeling for their deliverance! But through the tyranny of 
their heaven-daring oppressors, probably not one in ten of them knows 
any thing of the matter, — none of them, any thing like the truth of it. 
If there is an increase of severity on account of our agitation, it must 
be perfectly gratuitous and spiteful. 

But wnat if there is an increase of severity on account of our efforts 



45] THE RIGHT OF NORTHERN INTERFERENCE. 9 

— does it follow that we do the slaves a wrong? Where is the man 
so dead to manhood that he will dare to stand up and say that death is 
not preferable to eternal chattelskip ? The men who talk of embitter 
mg the cup of the slave, know little of its bitterness. It is already 
the superlativel}' concentrated ext'-act of gall and wormwood. The 
slaves, doubtless, might be worse abused as brutes; but as men, the 
last possible wrong was done them when they were turned into salea- 
ble commodities. It falls not much short of an insult to the majesty 
of the human soul — God's own image — to talk about making its con- 
dition worse, after it has passed under the auctioneer's hammer. In 
the name of outraged humanity, we say to the objector, especially if he 
be, as is often the case, a slaveholder, do your worst — make the slave's 
burden intolerable for a brute, and he shall the sooner be a man ! 

2. The agitation of this subject will divide the churches, and destroy 
religion. 

True religion vras never redundant in this world, and least of all 
can it be spared at the present time in our country. If the agitation 
of the slavery question does destroy rehgion where it exists, or prevents 
it from growing where it does not, there is proof conclusive that the 
agitation is not managed as it should be. " Pure religion, and unde- 
filed before God and the Father," says the Apostle James, "is this, To 
visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself 
unspotted from the world." We know not where to look for a better 
definition. Nor can we see why caring and praying and acting for 
the slaves should hurt such religion. Is there any thing in being an 
aboUtionist which necessarily prevents one from showing kindness to 
the " fatherless and widows," or which necessarily exposes one to the 
defilements of the " world ?" On the other hand, how can one care 
as he should for the "fatherless and widows," and abhor and shun, as 
he should, the plague-spots of worldly pohcy, who does not plead for 
the rights of the slaves in their affliction — children by thousands made 
fatherless, and wives widows, by the auctioneer's hammer? We are 
not aware that abolitionists have been found particularly deficient in 
the Apostle James's sort of religion, and for our life we cannot see how 
their principles can possibly destroy sucli religion, or hinder the revival of 
it. And we are inclined to think the days, and places, and people, who 
are too holy for the inculcation of such a religion, are holy over much. 
Again, it does not follow that the division of churches necessarily 
destroys religion. This is a strange doctrine to be held, in the ab- 
stract, by Protistants, or indeed by Catholics. Who came to make a 



10 'lAE RIGHT OF NORTHERN INTERFERENCE. [46 

man's foes those of his own household, and to divide the Jewish 
church? 

The principal ecclesiastical communities in this land are strange 
anomahes ; each allowing a miflority of its members to live in prac- 
tices branded as sins by its own standards. Religion has nothing to 
gain by the unity of such bodies; unless, indeed, slaven;'^ -s, as the 
fatriarchs of Carolina hold it to be, one of her ordinances — in which 
case the first business of the said churches is to correct their standards. 
If these standards be correct, the national church connections built on 
them should forthwith be split — split where they will. What should 
we think of a temperance society, which retained in good standing on 
its roll a score or two of habitual sots ? Would such a society have 
the impudence to say in its defence, " these men are perfectly tempe- 
rate, with the exception o^ gin-slings ; we must in charity suppose they 
are temperance men at heart, and we dare not nsk the cause of tem- 
perance by dividing her ranks ?" 

3. This agitation, if continued, will split the union of the states, and 
lead to civil war. 

If there is an abolitionist who does not deprecate these tremendous 
evils, we have no fellowship with him. We love our country, and aU 
her people, and her political institutions, to the full length and breadth 
of their democracy. And this is the very reason for making no peace 
nor truce with slavery. The gallant ship is on fire, and must bum to 
the water's edge, unless water be let into her hold. Shall we refuse to 
do it, lest she should go to the bottom ? Slavery, if left to the slave- 
holders, will ruin the country, and that soon. The South is in a state 
of ruin already. Her honor lies blighted and blood-smeared in the 
dust. Her population is made np mostly of starving, terror-stricken 
slaves, and blustering prodigals. Such a state of society is, in all" 
common sense, a state of perpetual destruction. Civil war is only one 
of the necessary consequences which must soon come out of it. The 
only question is, whether, at the risk of what must come soon if we 
refuse to do. it, we will do our simple duty, and apply the onl}'- remedy 
within our reach which has any chance of saving our country, or any 
part of it. If slaveholders will be foolish enough to dissolve the union, 
and take up arms againf t self-evident propositions, to the certain de- 
struction of their own darling system, let them take the responsibility. 
The course we propose, and to which, i^ they will not of themselves 
adopt it, we mean to drive, by the frown of an indignant world, — not 
the South, but its tyrants, — is perfectly safe, will cost nothing but 



47] THE RIGHT OF NORTHERN INTERFERENCE. 11 

a return to humanity, will clothe mountains and vallsys and plains 
with tenfold fruitfulness, and will make the union everlasting and 
glorious. 

Let it not be said that we are setting our profane feet upon the sen- 
timent of patriotism. We reverence the lofty conception which an 
American (v/ho has the happiness to be born free) drinks in with his 
mother's milk — the conception of a broad sunny land, full of vines and 
fig trees, that shade none but their owners — a land that opens her bo- 
som to the poor and oppressed of every cUme — a land where there is 
no majesty but the majesty of law — a land where the rulers serve the 
people, and not the people the rulers — a land where the soul is free — 
where God is not shut out from men by self-constituted vicegerents — 
where truth is not embargoed, and pardon and eternal life sold out to 
unwilhng buyers — a land where honesty leads to honor, and industry 
to wealth, and falsehood, cunning, and crime, always towards punish- 
ment But alas ! this bright conception is a dream ! It is not what 
our country is, but only what she ivould be but for SLAVERY! 
The fair verdure that won our young hearts, and bound them to our 
mother soil, is the verdure of the heaving volcano. The sooner we 
see our danger, the greater our chance of salvation. We have loved 
to think of our country's stars and stripes waving over every harbor 
of the world, telling, as they shone among the dark signals of arbitrary 
power, the story of a free people. With what an air of conscious 
dignity have our noble-hearted sailors looked up tv^ that proud ensign 
as it floated freely among the flags of the Czar and the Sultan, as they 
have mingled with and pitied the serfs on the wharves of St. Peters- 
burgh and Constantinople! But it is all over. The secret is out. It 
is time the flag were hauled down. It has become the badge of our 
shame. There is not a foreign port on the face of this terraqueous 
globe, where an American dare look up to that flag and say, "There, 
there is a banner which floats over none but freemen." No. Such an 
assertion would make him a laughing stock even in poor tyrant- 
ridden Portugal. There floats not a flag, from the states of Bar- 
bary up to the top of the Holy Alliance, that covers so much and such 
mean outrage upon human nature as ours. We may vaat about it on 
the fourth of July as we will, the bauble had better be tucked out of 
sight, — as it streams over our cars^oes of cotton, all across the Atlantic, 
every foreigner reads on it, PLUNDER ! Talk about our country's 
being " the only home of Freedom," " the last hope of the world," — 
fudge ! 



12 THE RIGHT OF NORTHERN INTERFERENCE [48 

Is Freedom's home built only where 
The laborer wears an iron fetter ? 

Are her's the son? that do not dare 
To teach or learn a printed letter ? 

Are they her champions, whose swords 
Are pledged to aid the tyrant's halter? 

Who plead for wrong with pious words, 
Are they the priests at Freedom's altar? 

The freest land beneath the sun — 
Is it where FEAR to labor urges ? n 

The happiest land — ^is it the one 
Where drip the slave-impelling scourges ? 

And is the home of Liberty 
Where millions may not oven lisp her 

Sweet name? or where the good and "free" 
Must speak of slavery in a whisper ? 

Then may our land in justice claim 
To be Dame Freedom's special dwelling — 

There, counting lashes, sits the dame, 
And here, the tyrants' votes a telling ! 

" With slavery, oh ! don't try to cope !" 
We're begg'd by sages who would warn one 

From dashing down "the world's last hope"— 
The last ! — and truly a forlorn one ! 

We trow the world must hope in vain 
From men who make a constant barter 

Of human hopes, — who Freedom chain 
In spite of Freedom's broadest charter — 

From men, who, grasping after gain, 
Cry, " freemen, do not rashly meddle, 

Your abstract truth is truth insane — 
'Twill spoil our glorious chance to — peddle.?' 

No ! Freedom's home is only built 
Where men are as their Maker made men ; 

Where punishment is saved for guilt. 
And crime is all that can degrade men : — 

That home be ours, though tyrants should, 
In madness, dare from us to sunder, 

We'll take our chances with the good. 
And let their throats and cannon thunder. 



THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 

Vol. III. No. V. MAY, 1837. Whole 'No. 2 9. 

[From the Friend of Man.] 
NO PRINCIPLE AT STRIFE WITH PRINCIPLE ; 

OR, CIPHERS IN BATTLE ARRAY WITH WHOLE NUMBERS. 

The controversy which the claims of the American slave have pro- 
duced among professed Christians at the North, we are well per- 
suaded, must every day grow more earnest and determined. On the 
one hand those who give their sympathies to the oppressor, seem bent 
at aii events to supijuit his arrogant pretensions, and on shielding him 
from the infamy and execration which he has so long been courting, 
and which he is likely soon to win. On the other, the friends of the 
enslaved would as soon in any other way rush upon destruction, as in 
abandoning their suppliant brother to the "tender mercies" of his 
tormentors. 

The assumption which is made, that this is a controversy among 
^^good men,''^ seems to hinder many from examining the ground on 
which it is maintained. The matter at issue, they imagine, cannot in 
any of its bearings be vital to the c^use of truth and righteousness. 
It must, they suppose, be one of those questions, which from some 
imhappy accident, and not from their own intrinsic importance, have 
often agitated and rent the Christian Church — strangely arraying 
against each other, brethren of the same temper, spirit, and pursuits. 
They wonder why one disciple of Jesus Christ should quarrel with 
another about a trifle — a vexed question of doubtful import. That the 
question must be of doubtful import they infer from the character which 
they ascribe to the controvertists — the character of'" good men." Such, 
they are sure, can never be involved in gross delusion and fatal error. 
Why, then, they are ready to inquire, cannot these "good men" just 
turn their thoughts away from these exciting topics, on which they 
cannot come to an agreement ; and forgetting the wrongs of the op- 
pressed, seek and find the luxury of mutual love in the embraces of 
fraternal concord? 

Such speculatists, moreover, are apt to think that a question which 
80 distracts the Church — which sets " good men " at variance with each 



2 NO PRINCIPLE AT STRIFE WITH PRINCIPLE. [50 

other, must be of a very delicate complexion, remarkable for its subtile 
bearings, and of difficult decision. They hesitate to enter into a con- 
troversy which, they think, must require more acuteness of perception, 
more comprehensiveness of views, more maturity of judgment, than 
they can ever command. They are afraid to involve themselves in a 
labyrinth. "What if they should be unable, amidst its mazes, to thread 
their way to clear light and sound ground ! And as they presume that 
either side and no side is equally safe, they keep themselves as stupidly 
indifferent as they can ! 

But to him who is thus " at ease in Zion," we must say, that with 
his eyes on those whom the claims '^f the slave have aroused to earnest 
controversy, he makes a bold and uuivurrantable assumption, when he 
ascribes to them, irrespective of the ground they occupy, goodness of 
character. He is not entitled to the premises from which his self- 
indulgent conclusions proceed. A careful examination of the subject 
miglit torce upon him the unwelcome apprehension, that the character 
of a multitude of his good men must be far more doubtful than the 
decision of the question from which he stands aloof. "W hat makes 
him think that such can be good men as refuse to give the enslaved 
their sympathy and aid ? Is he sure that they are better than was 
Saul of Tarsus before Iris heart was reached by the Saviour's power ? 
Are they of respectable connexions and cultivated minds, occupying 
an elevated place in the religious world ? That was his condition. 
Are they orthodox, enterprising, zealous? So was he. Are they 
remarkable for their religious activity — for their fervent attachment to 
the sect they support — for their expensive exertions to sustain divine 
institutions — for their missionary spirit ? So was he. Not one among 
them all is a whit superior to him in any of these particulars. Nor 
is the complexion of their morality at all fairer tlian that of which he 
boasted. And must we not extend the parallel? Was he clannish in 
his attachments — fast bound in every hmb by the cord of caste? So 
are they. Did he offer his sympathy and his services to a set of heart- 
less tyrants, who in church and state were intent on crushing the poor 
beneath their iron hoofs ? So do they. Was he driven, by a fierce 
and hot attachment to a sect, into warfare with human nature? So 
are they. Was he ready to sacrifice the rights of the poor on the altar 
of pnestly arrogance and political domination ? So are they. Was 
he busy in persecuting those philanthropists who gave themselves up 
to honest, generous, self-sacrificing exertions to purify, and elevate, and 
the human family, irrespective of constitutional peculiarities or 



51] NO PRINCIPLE AT STRIFE WITH PRINCIPLE. 3 

factitious distinctions? So are they busy in the self-same employ- 
ment — as eager, active, violent, as the powers they wield and their own 
views of expediency (the idol which they worship) will permit them to 
be. In what respect are their claims to goodness superior to his ? 

What is the ground of controversy between abolitionists and their 
opponents ? What is the object of this earnest strife ? We answer, 
Fundamental principles in morality and religion are the sacred, the 
invaluable stake. We have here a controversy between adherence to 
principle on the one hand, and a reckless disregard of principle on the 
other. The very vitals of Humanity are concerned in this strife. If the 
yoke of the enslaved is broken, Humanity will escape from the incts- 
bus by which she has been wellnigh suffocated — she will breathe 
freely again. If me pledged auxiliaries of the oppressor triumph, Hu- 
manity nujst bleed at every pore, ana can escape from her insatiate 
foes only by some special intervention of Almighty Power. 

I^othing can be nioic clearly revealed in the light of reason, than the 
principles which the abolitionists find iaid at the basis of the enterprise 
to which rtie vojce ot God caiis them to devote their powers. 

1. Tfity feel impelled to regard every thing as it is — to treat every 
thing AC Curbing to its nature. Are they not as obviously bound, 
as resistlessly constrained, so to do, as to admit mat the whole is 
greater than a part ? To deny and reject such a principle, is to wage 
war upon their own nature — to stifle the voice of the Creator ! Truth, 
under its simplest form— truth, by its hishest authority — requires of 
them, in t>il thinge and everywhere, strongly to assert and strenuously 
to act upon this principle. 

2. To describe a man as a thing, and to dispose of him as "an arti- 
cle OF MKRCHANDisE," must be a crime of the most malignant tendency. 
Such an act involves monstrous falsehood. The "truth of God it 
changes into a lie." Grosser and more glaring falsehood cannot be 
conceived of, than is condensed and embodied in the chattel principle. 
In the solemn forms of law, to style a man " an article of merchan- 
dise !" This he is not, cannot be. The very fundamental principle 
of American slavery, without which it would vanish like a ghost at 
daybreak, is itself, in its very nature, obviously and certainly a false- 
hood. 

This principle is pregnant, moreover, with the most malignant ten- 
dencies. Admitted to the mind, it pollutes the soul with bloody 
thoughts. R,edaced to practice, it is murder. We once heard of a 
wretch, who, meeting his enemy, lifted his poniard, and bade him 



4 NO PRINCIPLE AT STRIFE WITH PRINCIPLE. [52 

renounce Clirist or die. Driven to desperation, his victim renounced 
the Saviour. Now, exclaimed the murderer, as he buried his steel in 
his neigiibor's bosom, now I am well revenged. I have killed you, 
soul and body ! This is the fell purpose, this the horrid tendency of the 
chattel principle! It forces its innocent, helpless, shrieking victim on 
to the very barrier, sacred as the throne of Heaven, which separates 
Humanity from the herd of beasts and the heap of things below, and 
remorselessly hurls him from the lofty battlements to be torn and 
broken by the ragged rocks which await his fall ! Is it not murder to 
reduce a man to an article of merchandise ? Humanity is annihilated. 
Spirit, soul, and body, are, by the transforming power of the chattel 
principle, wrought into a beast of burden or an implement of hus- 
bandry. The man has vanished! Not a relic left! You have a 
thing instead, which, with your pigs and poultry, you may sell to the 
highest bidder! Where now is Abel our brother ? Alas, a victim he 
has fallen to the chattel principle ! 

It is no alleviation of the crime of slavery, that it cannot effect its 
full designs. Were its power equal to its mahgnity, 'i wouid dissolve 
the universe. It would drag the Eternal from his throne, ano drive 
him to tiie same auction where His children are exposed to :^aie. But 
the genuis of slavery, — that lying spirit, which possesses io large a 
portion, priest and people, of our misguided and unhappy countrymen 
— we solemnly charge with the monstroui crime of wagging day and 
night the tongue of falsehood ; and wielding, without weariness or 
intermission, the scythe of death. 

3. We maintain that it is equally obvious and certain, that continuance 
in si^i cannot but aggravate our guilt and increase our danger. If sin is 
to be regarded " as an evil and bitter thing," how can this doctrine be 
disputed ? A single act in violation of the law of rectitude involves 
guilt and demands punishment. As sin is persisled in, such acts are 
multiplied. Their malignant tendencies and ill deserts are continually 
and at a frightful rate increased. Just apply this general doctrine to 
the enslaver. While he maintains to any human creature, the mon- 
strous relation of an owner to a thing, every hour which is added to 
his life is an hour spent in adding crime to crime — in " filling up the 
measure" of his iniquity ! To such an one, the doctrines of "gradu- 
alism" are the voice of the serpent. They encourage him to hold on 
for the present in rebellion against Heaven. They permit, nay, require 
him yet a little longer, to busy himself in " treasuring up wrath against 
the day of wrath !" He is, according to them, to prepare himself for 



53] NO PRINCIPLE AT STRIFE WITH PRINCIPLE. , 5 

future dnty by violating present obligations! Such doctrines, our 
regard for the oppressor as well as for the oppressed, leads us promptly 
and with deep abhorrence to reject. In popish indulgences, m their 
worst forms, we see nothing at all more revolting and mischievous. 

4. Under the government of God, repkntance, iMMEDiATE and 
THOROUGH, cannot but be right ; in its conaeqiiences it must be safe and 
happy. In rectitude, the throne of God finas its tirm foundations. By 
this, the pillars of the universe are sustained. This is the principle of 
eternal harmony throughout the whole creation. By conforming to 
this, every creature, whoever and whatever he may be, finds his natural 
place and appropriate employment. Here, and only here, can he 
healthfully inspire the all-enUvening breath of Jehovah — can he be ani- 
mated with that " Zi/e" v/ith wiiich God quickens his obedient subjects. 

The relation of repentance to rectitude is direct and intimate. The 
sinner studies the law which he has dared to violate. His transgres- 
sions flash upon his face. He is aroused, alarmed, distressed. To 
simple rectitude, as the standard, to which his responsibilities refer him, 
he lifts his eye. With an honest reference to that standard, he begins 
immediately to act. He " breaks off his sins by righteousness and his 
iniquities by turning to the Lord." — Such is the relation of repentance 
to rectitude. 

What, then, can they mean, who venture to affirm, that under the 
government of God, the path of safety is not always coincident with 
the line of rectitude ? Who allege, that in invading human rights, we 
maybe reduced to such a phght as to be constrained by invincible 
necessity still longer to invade them ? What is this, but, in the lan- 
guage of the apostate Hebrews, " to be delivered to do such abomina- 
tions ?" In what light, must he regard the government of God, who 
can admit the thought, that in his providence his subjects may be 
reduced to the necessity of "continuing in sin!" If such be the 
government of God, how can any saint on earth or seraph in the skies, 
shout " halleluiah ! the Lord God omnipotent reigneth ?" 

We do not forget, that on the line of rectitude the dungeon some- 
times is built and the stake erected. There murderers, -with their 
bloodhounds in the form of mobs sometimes take their stand, to oppose 
tb3 progress of the righteous. So it was when the army of martyrs 
maintained, at the expense of their lives, the battles of their Lord. 
They welcomed the flames of persecution with the inspiring appeal 
upon their lips; '■^ lohcther it be right in the sight of God to obey you, 
"nther than Godyjudsre ye.'''' But was not their course as ?au .U^f. '....rpy 



in. its results, as it was coincident with rectitude ? Was it not well for 
U»em — well for the human family, that they "resisted even unto blood" 
(iiose who would have driven them aside from their shining track? 

Environ the slaveholder with whatever difficulties his most ingenious 
apologist can invent; still, he is bound by the most sacred obligations 
j*» restore without delay to his injured brother his violated rights. 
Better die a thousand deaths than lend his countenance for a single, 
hour to the system of American oppression. Sin is the most deadly 
foe to human peace. Unarmed by this " sting," even " death" is harm- 
less. And slavery under every form, and in all circumstances, is 
rebeUion against Heaven. 

5. Our relations to the oppressor on the one hand, and to the oppressed 
on the other, lay us under sacred obligations to reprove the one and plead 
for the other. Can we, while we "suffer sin upon him," "love our 
neighbor as we love ourselves ?" Especially, when he is exposed, by 
night and by day, at home and abroad, to those " evil communications 
which corrupt good manners !" Especially, when from the dawn of 
his existence he has been constantly exposed to the biases of selfishness 
and the impulses of passion ! Especially, when soothed and encour- 
aged by foes in the guise of friends, he is hastening with rapid step 
down the "broad road to destruction !" Placed at an elevation, where 
we cannot but see the direction of his "shppery" path — where the 
gulph, which awaits his fall, yawns frightfully upon us, how can we 
refuse to pour upon his ears the loud note of warning ? Shall we be 
discouraged by his stupidity, or deterred by his wrath? Our regard 
for his highest interests forbid. Truth, fidehty, benevolence, forbid. 
All things good, true, and holy on earth and in heaven ; — the authority 
of God and the welfare of man, forbid. Let those, who dare, from a 
short-sighted regard to their own ease, or reputation, or interest, consult 
his humor, gratify his spleen, cater for his lusts ; it is ours, " by all 
means to rebuke him," if, peradventure the long-suffering and gracious 
God will enable us to pluck him from ruin, as a brand is snatched 
from the burning. 

To refuse to plead for the oppressed is most wickedly to forget, that 
in him wb behold a man, and have a brother. The moment we, 
according to the golden rule, change places with him ;, taking his bur- 
dens on our shoulders, and his fetters on our heels, that moment our 
lips ^vill be opened in vindication of his rights. O with what imploring 
importunity do not millions of dumb sufferers — our own mother's cb/ld-" 
ren — summon us to their assistance ! Grosser selfishness we cannr. 



55] NO PRINCIPLE AT STRIFE WITH PRINCIPLE. 7 

be guilty of, than to resist such appeals out of complaisance to their 
oppressor, or from such patriotism, pitiful and meagre, as would pur- 
chase for our country present ease at the expense of future agony, or 
from such pity as in full view of crushed humanity, bleeding by the 
way, wo aid pass by on the other side ! 

These are the principles wliich lie at the very basis of the anti-slavery 
enterprise. In the light of these, the friends of freedom feel impelled 
at every step in their arduous course to proceed. But at every step we 
are called to encounter suspicion, reproach, opposition ; and from those, 
too, whose holy profession and sacred obhgations should place them by 
our side, as hearty, active, faithful coadjutors. 

Have our opponents, then, a set of principles contrary to ours, which 
impel them to meet us in a posture of resistance? "What; do they 
believe that things are to be regarded as they are not — to be treated con- 
trary to their nature — that men may be reduced to articles of merchandise ? 
Or, that if it be loicked to establish among men the relation of owner and 
property, that continuance in sin may involve neither guilt nor danger ? 
that repentance may be so immediate and thorough as to be inexpedient 
and hurtful ? that in perfect consistency loith our relations to the oppressor 
and oppressed, we may suffer sin upon the one without rebuke, and misery 
upon the other loithout sympathy or succor ? Can human nature be 
reduced to such a plight, as, when presented in their proper shape, to 
admit such monstrous doctrines ? 

But, instead of defending principles like these when stated with 
definiteness and precision, our opponents very generally acknowledge, 
that ours, in themselves considered, are sound and true — principles to 
which in the light of reason, they feel constrained to give their assent 
What have we here ? The principles admitted, in the light of which 
we clearly and certainly see the objects we are bound to pursue, and 
the pathway by which alone we can hope to reach and appropriate 
them ; — principles, which have a direct application to the most stupen- 
dous and sublime practical designs, and the most powerful bearings 
upon them ; — principles, which, like the living voice of God, are adapted 
to arouse and develope and enlist all the energies of our nature j — 
these principles, admitted by multitudes in high places, in church and 
state, who not only refuse to make any correspondent eflforts, but decry, 
and malign, and persecute those around them who dare to " show their 
faith by their works!" Hence the strife, which is agitating churches 
and shaking the republic from centre to circumference. Our oppo- 
nents insist upon it, that we shall make as 'ittle of our nriuoir»)o^ »-• 



8 NO PRINCIPLE AT STRIFE WITH PRINCIPLE. [56 

they make of theirs — allowing them to floai as ghttermg abstractions 
on the brain, but carefully excluding their influence from the heart I 
To this we cannot consent. Hence the quarrel. 

In what sort of strife, then, are we called to mingle ? Clearly a 

STRIFE BETWEEN PRINCiPLE ON THE ONE HAND, and NO PRINCIPLE ON 

THE OTHER. Our adversaries reproach and oppose us, merely because 
we act on those principles, which even they admit to be sound and 
trustworthy! We cannot unite with them, unless we will consent to 
be UNPRINCIPLED ! For who can be more unprincipled than he, who 
permits fundamental truths in morals and rehgion to lie dormant in the 
brain. 

But the relation, we are told, between abstract principles and hu- 
man oMigation, in the practical concerns of life, is at best remote, if not 
extremely doubtful. We may wield metaphysics ingeniously ; but we 
cannot expect that sober tliinkers, who have never been schooled in 
Utopia, wall be led away by the hair we have so accurately divided. 
Such miserable cant is worthy of the shallow sophistry, which it is 
employed to clothe and present The principles of reason little to do 
with human obligation ! Their relation to the various forms of human 
life remote and uncertain ! No man, who had not " fallen out" with 
reason, could, for a nioment, harbor such a prejudice. What do our 
opponents mean? It is true, that we never see abstract principles 
embodied in full perfection, in the conduct of mankind. What then ? 
Are we not furnished in these principles with the model on which we 
.are most diligently and earnestly to form our character ? And does 
not the measure of our excellence depend wholly on the degree of our 
success ? If we refuse to make these principles the standard of our 
conduct, where shall we find " a guide to lead us along the rugged path 
to tlie summit of mount 'Difficulty?' " The moment your matter-of- 
fact man, as he is falsely called, rejects these principles in the practical 
concerns of hfe, he cuts loose from the throne of Heaven ! He has 
nothing to hold him back from the deptlis of depravity and the bottom 
of perdition! 

What have we, we demand, in the character of Jesus Christ? The 
perfection of reason. In Him, all those principles which we perceive 
by the hght within ; to which our very nature commands our assent. 
Were embodied and developed in full maturity. In Him they shone 
forih in the perfection of tlie most exquisite and subduing beauty. 
Aki> He IS OUR EXEMPLAR. If we have any virtue, it must consist in 
■...Y^feemblance to our Saviour. Will this doctrine be denied ? Surel v 



57] NO PRINCIPLE AT STRIFE WITH PRINCIPLE. 9 

not The relation, then, between abstract principle and human obli- 
gation is most intimate and practical. The one is the standard to 
which the other is most sohcitously to be adjusted. 

But are we, the demand is urged upon us ; — are we, in acting on 
principle to bid adieu to commxtn sense ? What in any such connexion 
may be meant by "common sense," we are sure, we cannot conjecture. 
We are acquainted with a clergyman, who not long ago assured the 
people of his charge, that as a public teacher, he had done with the 
subject of slavery ! We ventured, in a private interview, to inquire of 
him, how a preacher could, in an American pulpit, dispose of such 
passages as continually met his eye on the sacred pages, without 
opening his lips for the victims of oppression ? Our meaning we illus- 
trated by repeating such declarations and injunctions as the following: 
" whoso stoppeth his ears to the cry of the poor, shall cry himself and 
shall not be heard. Rid the poor and needy out of the hands of the 
wicked. Thou shalt not suffer sin upon thy brother ; thou shalt in 
any wise rebuke him." This inquiry he disposed of with the oracular 
reply, that the Bible is a common sense book ! He might as well have 
solved the problenn which had been urged on his attention, by quoting 
"Adam, Seth, Enos,^^ from the Chronicles ? 

In the light of their own conduct, we might perhaps guess at the 
meaning of such prophets. We should guess, that by "common 
sense," they meant that vulgar cunning, which may enable one so to 
turn and twist, so to lengthen and abridge his principles, as artfully to 
dodge the shafts of persecution. To refuse, when brought to some 
trying crisis, to purchase the favor of selfish men by silence or com- 
promise, they regard as evincmg the want of " common sense .'" Such 
common sense can be had, let it be remembered, only at the expense 
oi common honesty. Miserable trash ! cheap and worthless as dunghUl 
weeds ! Selfishness is the soil on which it springs up spontaneously. 
There, a rank harvest may be gathered. The " hireUng," exposed by 
our Saviour, who " saw the wolf coming," was remarkable for " com- 
mon sense," such as it was ! If he could not maintain the cause of the 
sheep, without encountering such a chivalrous adventurer, whose busi- 
ness it was, like many of his two-legged brethr-en in modern times, 
"to steal, and kill, and destroy," why he would show liis wisdom, by 
fleeing away in silence. From such "common sense," good Lord 
deliver us ! 

" But the difficulties, the difficulties, the difficulties /" " We would 
unite Mrith you, abolitionists, in acting upon your principles, if we were 



10 NO PRINCIPLE AT STRIFE WITH PRINCIPLE. [58 

not deterred by the difficulties. Southern laws! Southern threat- 
enings! Couthoin violence!" Yes, Rev. Dr. Fearful ; and you might 
add, Js"ortheTn. laws! J^Torlhern threatenings ! J^orthern violence! 
For the raaia piilars which prop up the old Bastile have their founda- 
tion at ihe j.Vorth ! But in what chapter of your Bible are you taught, 
that honest irsen may be deterred by any difficulties, however numerous 
and forrnidi^ble, from " acting out" their principles ? In this connexion, 
"They who live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution?" or in 
that, "Blessed are they which are pesecuted for righleousness' sake, 
for theirs is the kingdom of heaven?" Or did you infer such a doctrine 
from the history of those " despised" ones who were subject to " hunger 
and thirst;" v/ho were, "naked and buffeted;" having "no certain 
dwelling place ;" who were " made as Xhejilth of the world and the off' 
scouring of all things ?" If no difficulties were to be encountered in our 
way to t!i3 kingdom of heaven, what need of "agonizing?" and how 
could we fill up the measure of His sufferings, who was murdered by 
the world we are exhorted to court and caress? In behalf of the glori- 
ous army of martyrs, you may hear the persecuted Bunyan shout from 
his prison walls, ^^J^o cross, no crown!" But are there on the other 
side no difficulties to be encountered? Find you no difficulties in 
leaving your suppliant brother in the hands of his oppressor? No 
difficulties in witnessing the insults and injuries to which he is con- 
tinually subjected ? No difficulties in seeing the rapid strides of slavery 
towards the North ? No difficulties in the prospect of a servile war, 
which must convulse and rend this guilty nation ? No difficulties in 
the deep disgrace, the intolerable infamy, which is fast settling on our 
public character? No difficulties in your own case, in the loss of a 
good conscience ? None in the frowns of the orphan's Protector? We 
have sinned. As a nation, we arc stoutly guilty of crimes in the mat- 
ter of slaveholding, whose enormity is only equalled by the depths of 
Eieanncss to w hich we have descended. And can we escape from the 
embarrassments in which we have involved ourselves, without encoun- 
tering difficulties ? Headlong have we plunged into the " miry clay ;'» 
and do we expect to reach a sound position, without exhausting efforts? 
With such expectations we may refuse to exert ourselves, and sink 
into the depths of the abyss. 

We are sometimes charged with cherishing a stiff, unyielding spirit. 
And our way, it is alleged, we will have, without accommodatin.g our- 
selves at all to the opinions, wishes, and movements, of those who 
differ from us, however great and good they may generally be esteemed ; 



59] NO PRINCIPLE AT STRIFE WITH PRINCIPLE. 11 

whereas, many who condemn cur measures, are ready, for the sake 
of peace, provided loe will do the same, to keep silence on the excitino" 
subject of oppression. As we cannot agree in adjusting- hi^ claims, 
they are wilhng to leave the slave where we fou;i± h' n— i:i the hands 
of thieves and murderers. Hence, their rcpi-tat:-.: f>r oir.lty and 
kindness and peacemaking! But what scrt of a ba-is have they for 
this reputation in such overtures? What have we here? On the one 
side, the apologists of slavery consenting, without riiitlier effort, to 
leave "the poor and needy" in the hands "of the wicked,-' provided 
only that we also will " stop our ears" to their entreaties ! Wonderful 
forbearance! what self-denial for the sake of peace! On the other 
hand, the hearty friends and pledged advocates of the oppressed, 
prompily and sternly refusing to violate their principles, ana sacrifice 
their consciences, and sell their brethren, to purchase the deceitful 
smiles of the hollow-hearted ! How quarrelsome ! What firebrands ! 
Well ; there are terms on which we will cease to urge those arguments 
and employ those efforts, which now excite and disturb our peace- 
loving neighbors. — Just bless our eyes with the fragments of "every 
yoke" which now galls the neck of the oppressed — just let us see 
every man admitted to the full enjoyment of all his " inalienable rights," 
"honored" as a man, according to the value of his nature and the 
worth of his character — and the quarrel between us and our opponents 
is over at once and for ever. We love peace as dearly, we prize peace 
as highly, as our neighbors. But, then, it must be peace supported by 
principle, and approved by conscience; — spreading its balmy wing 
over the whole of human nature. Our Bibles teach us that wicked- 
ness is malignantly and powerfully anti-social, in all its influences and 
tendencies. 

We must be as stupid, not to understand the conditions on which 
reconciliation h offered by our adversaries, as we should be wicked, if 
we could accept of them. They will cease to decry and reproach and 
resist us, when we will cease to honor the most sacred principles by 
correspondent action. Till then, never. Till, in other words, we will, 
consent to become unprincipled, they are resolved that we shall 
sustain the shock of that war which they are waging to promote the 
cause of charity and forbearance and fraternal unity. Wo may as 
well count the cost at which we may purchase peace of our civil and 
ecclesiastical persecutors. In their view, the consideration is but tri- 
fling ; what they have thrown away among worthless rubbish. With 
us, it is as dear as the smiles of God and the hope of heaven. It is 



]2 SLAVERY WARRING AGAINST PRINCIPLE. [60 

THE SACRIFICE OP PRINCIPLE. Say, friend of man, can you pay the 
price? Welcome, then, whatever may befall you in pleading the 
cause of your stolen brother. 

Let us lift up our eyes to heaven. Let us seek refreshment in the 
shadow of the eternal throne. Ours is the God who has pledged all 
the resources of his government and all the treasures of the universe 
to sustain, in full expression and resistless force, the principles he has 
impressed upon our hearts and imprinted in his word. While we 
adhere to these principles, he will cheer us with his smiles and support 
us with his arm. The issue of our controversy with those who have 
conspired to rob the poor and helpless, cannot be doubtful. Truth 
must prevail. Righteousness must triumph. The poor shall be raised 
from the " dunghill" to the side of princes. Happy, thrice happy they, 
who shall be counted worthy to share the triumphs of that glorious hour. 



Slavery warring against principle. — Last year a public meeting, 
held at Clinton, state of Mississippi, to consider the subject of abolition- 
ism, passed the following resolution. 

" Resolved, That it is our decided opinion, that any individual who 
dares to circulate, with a view to effectuate the designs of the aboli- 
tionists, any of the incendiary tracts or newspapers now in a course of 
transmission to this country, is justly worthy in the s'ght of God and 
man, of IMMEDIATE DEATH ; and we doubt not that such wmdd 
he the punishment of any such offender in any part of the state of Mis- 
sissippi, where he may be found !" 

Theological Seminary of Columbia, South Carolina. 

"At present, the number of students is twenty, of whom thirteen 
are natives of South Carolina and Georgia, five natives of tlie northern 
states, ONE of the western states, and one of Canada. 

"Of the seven last mentioned, only ONE came to this Institution 
from the North. But he was not sent here by .Molitionists ; for he is 
not only opposed to them in principle and favorable to southern insti- 
tutions, but he is preparing to leave all he holds dear in this land, that 
he may spend his days on heathen shores. With regard to the rest, 
they came to us from the bosoms of southern families, from southern 
academies and colleges, from communities violently opposed to the 
schemes of abolitionists, and they came recommended either by south- 
ern Presbyteries or southern men. They have never been charged 
with entertaining sentiments favorable to abolition, and inimical to the 
South. They now authorize us ' to contradict all the statements 
which have been made against them ; and further say, that they con- 
sider their present residence here, together with their former residence 
(in most instances for several years) in this and other parts of the 
South, a sufficient evidence of their friendly regard to southern insiitu- 
tions.' ^^— Southern Christian Herald. 



THE , ^ 

ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 

VoL.IIL No. VI. JUNE, 1837. Whole No. 30. 

SLAVE LAWS. 

Extracted chiefly from Stroud's " Sketch of the Laws relating to 
Slavery in the United States of America." 

WHO MAY BE HELD AS SLAVES. 

The law of South Carolina, to which those of all the slave states 
are similar, is as follows : — 

" All negroes, Indians, (free Indians in amity with this government, 
and negroes, mulattoes and mestizoes, who are now free, excepted,) 
mulattoes or mestizoes, who now are or shall hereafter be in this pro- 
vince, and all their issue and offspring born or to be born, shall be and 
they are hereby declared to be and remain for ever hereafter absolute 
slaves, and shall follow the condition of the mother" Act of 1740 
2 Brevard's Digest, 229. 

Descendants of Indians, as well as of Africans are probably involved 
in the doom of slavery in all the slave states. In Virginia the enslave- 
ment of Indians was authorized by statute from 1679 to 1691. Those 
whose maternal ancestors have been reduced to slavery since the latto- 
period, have been decided by the highest courts in that state to be free. 
So late as 1797, it was decided by the Supreme Court of Jfew Jersey, 
Chief Justice Kinsey, that Indians might be held as slaves. 

" They (Indians) have been so long recognized as slaves, in our 
laAV, that it would be as great a violation of the rights of property to 
establish a contrary doctrine at the present day, as it would in the 
case of Africans ; and as useless to investigate the manner in which they 
ORIGINALLY lost their freedom." The Stale vs. Waggoner, 1 Hai- 
stead's Reports, 374 to 376. 

Persons emancipated, but not in the prescribed form of law, are liable 
to be re-enslaved, thus in South Carolina, 

" In case any slave shall be emancipated or set free, otherwise than 
according to the act (of 1800) regulating emancipation, it shall be law- 
ful for any person whosoever to seize and convert to his or her own use, 
and to keep as his or her property the said slave so illegally emancipated 
or set free." 2 Brevard's Digest, 256. 

And in Virginia, " If any emancipated slave (infants excepted) 
shall remain within the state more than twelve months after his or her 
right to freedom shalt have accrued, he or she shall forfeit all such 
right, and may he apprehended and sold by the overseers of the poor, &«. 
for the benefit of the literary fund ! !" 1 Rev. Code, 436. 



'Z SLAVE LAWS. [62 

THE POWER GRAJJTED BY LAW TO THE MASTER. 

According to the law of Louisiana, " A slave is one who is in the 
power of a master to whom he belongs. The master may sell him, 
dispose of his person, his industry and his labour ; he can do nothing, 
possess nothing, nor acquire any thing but what must belong to his 
master." Civil Code, art, 35. 

In South Carolina it is expressed in the following language : 
" Slaves shall be deemed, sold, taken, reputed and judged in law to be 
citattels personal in the hands of their owners and possessors, and their 
executors, administrators and assigns, to all intents, constructions and 
purposes lohatsoever.^^ 2 BrevarcTs Digest, 229. 

In Louisiana, " Slaves though moveable by their nature," says the 
civil code, " are considered as immoveable by the operation of the law." 
^rt. 461. And by act of Assembly of June 7, 1806, " Slaves shall 
always be reputed and considered red estate ; shall be, as such, sub- 
ject to be mortgaged, according to the rules prescribed by law, and 
they shall be seized and sold as real estate." 1 Marlhi's Digest, 612. 
And in Kentucky, by the law of descents, they are considered real 
estate, 2 Litt. and Sivi. Digest, 1155, and pass in consequence to heirs 
and not to executors. They are, however, liable as chattels to be sold 
by the master at his pleasure, and may be taken in execution in pay- 
ment of his debts. Ibid, and see 1247. 

RESTRICTIONS OF THE MASTER'S POV/ER. 

So far as the law restricts the master's power at all, it only shows 
how shamefully and cruelly that power is abused — perhaps we should 
say u>sed, for the very possession of it is an abuse. The very limitations 
leave the power of the master far beyond mercy. And so far as they 
go, they are but a mockery, by reason that the testimony of a colored 
man cannot be taken against a white one. In regard to the time 
OF LABOR, we find the following law in South Carohna : 

" Whereas many ov/ners of slaves, and others who have the care, 
management and overseeing of slaves, do confine them so closely to hard 
labor, that they have not sufficient time for natural rest : Be it therefore 
enacted. That if any owner of slaves, or other person who shall have 
the care, management, or overseeing of any slaves, shall work or put 
any such slave or slaves to labour more than fifteen hours in twenty- 
four hours, from the twenty-fifth day of March to the twenty-fifth 
day of September ; or more than fourteen hours in twenty-four hours, 
from the twenty- fifth day of September to the twenty-fifth day of 
March, every such person shall forfeit any sum not exceeding twenty 
pounds, nor under five pounds, current money, for every time he, she 
or they shall offend herein, at the discretion of the justice before whom 
the complaint shall be made." 2 Brevard^s Digest, 243. 

In Louisiana, the subjoined act was passed, July 7, 1806. " As for 
the hours of woric and rest, which are to be assigned to slaves in sum- 
mer and winter, ifie old usages of the territory shall be adhered to, to 
'*,'A : The slaves shall be allowed half an hour for breakfast during the 



63] SLAVE LAWS. 3 

whole year ; from the first day of May to the first day of November, 
they shall be allowed two hours for dinner ; and from the first day of 
IN'ovember to the first day of May, one hour and a half for dinner t 
Provided, however. That the owners who will themselves take the 
trouble of causing to be prepared the meals of their slaves, be, and 
they are hereby authorized to abridge, by half an hour per day, the 
time fixed for their rest." 1 Martin's Digest, 610—12. 

Judge Stroud quotes the statutes of five legislatures by which ten 
hours out of the twenty- four is the longest space for labor which can 
be demanded of convicted felons, sentenced to hard labor. 

Some of the states oblige the master to furnish his slaves a certain 
amount of provisions. 

Thus in Louisiana, "Every owner shall be held to give to his slaves 
the quantity of provisions hereafter specified, to wit ; one barrel of In- 
dian corn, or the equivalent thereof in rice, beans or other grain, and a 
pint of salt, and to deliver the same to the said slaves in kind every 
month, and never in money, under a penalty of a fine often dollars for 
every offence." 1 Martin'' s Digest, 610, act of July 7, 1806. In North 
CaroUna, a much less quantity of the same kind of food is deemed suf- 
ficient, as is implied from the following curious section of an act passed 
in 1753, and which is still in force . " In case any slave or slaves, who 
shall not appear to have been clothed and fed according to the intent 
and meaning of this act, that is to say, to have been sufficiently clothed, 
and to have constantly received for the preceding year an allowance 
not less than a quart of corn per day, shall be convicted of stealing any 
corn, cattle, &c. &c. from any person not the owner of such slave or 
slaves, such injured person shall and may maintain an action of tres- 
pass against the master, owner or possessor of such slave, &c. and 
shall recover his or her damages, &c." Haywood's Manual, 524-5. 

The allowance of clothing in Louisiana, seems to have been 
graduated by the same standard by which the quantity of food was 
determined in North Carolina. "The slave who shall not have on the 
property of their owners a lot of ground to cultivate on their own ac- 
count, shall be entitled to receive from said owner one Hnen shirt and 
pantaloons (tme chemise et une culotte de toile) for the summer, and a 
linen shirt and woollen great coat and pantaloons for the winter." 
1 Martin's Digest, 610. 

The other states do not pretend to fix the kind and quantity of food 
and clothing which the slave shall receive, but some of them have 
enacted safeguards against the stinginess of the master which are not 
only perfectly nugatory, but seem to have been designed to be so. See 
Stroud, p, 32. 

THE POWER TO PUNISH, 

^Is thus restricted by the law of North Carolina: 
Section 3, of the act passed in 1798, runs thus: "Whereas by 
another act of the assembly, passed in the year 1774, the killing of a 
slave, however wanton, cruel and deUberate, is only punishable io the 



4 SLAVE LAWS. [64 

first instance by imprisonment and paying the value thereof to the 
owner, which distinction of criminality between the murder of a white 
person and one who is equally a human creature, but merely of a different 
eompleadon, is disgraceful to humanity, and degrading in the 

HIGHEST DEGREE TO THE LAWS AND PRINCIPLES OF A FREE, 
CHRISTIAN AND ENLIGHTENED COUNTRY, Be it CnaCtcd, &C. That if 

any person shall hereafter be guilty of wilfully and maliciously killing 
a slave, such offender shall, upon the first conviction thereof, be ad- 
jttdged guilty of murder, and shall suffer the same punishment as if he 
had killed a free man ; Provided always, this act shall not extend to the 
person killing a slave outlawed by virtue of any act of assembly of this 
state, m' to any slave in the act of resistayice to his lawful oioner or master, 

OR TO ANT SLAVE DYING UNDER MODERATE CORRECTION." Haywood's 

Manual. 530 ; and see Laios of Tennessee, act of Oct. 23, 1799, with a 
like proviso. \ 

The Constitution of Georgia has the following: Art. 4, § 12. 

" Any person who shall maliciously dismember or deprive a slave 
of life, shall suffer such punishment as would be inflicted in case the 
like offence had been committed on a free white person, and on the 
like proof) except in case of insurrection of such slave, and unless 

SUCH DEATH SHOULD HAPPEN BY ACCIDENT IN GIVING SUCH SLAVE 

MODERATE CORRECTION." Prince's Digest, .559. 

Judge Stroud remarks, " that a proclamation of outlawry against a 
slave is authorized, whenever he runs away from his master, conceals 
himself in some obscure retreat, and, to sustain Hfe, kills a hog, or some 
animal of the cattle kind ! !" See Haywood's Manual, 521 ; act of 1741, 
ch. 24, § 45. 

In South Carolina by the Act of 1 740 the " wilful murder" of a slave 
was punished by a fine of "seven hundred pounds, current money" 
and inability to hold office, but another description of murder, more 
hkely to occur, was punished as follows : — 

" If any person shall, on a sudden heat or passion, or by undue cor- 
rection, kill his own slave, or the slave of any other person, he shall 
forfeit the sum of three hundred and fifty pounds, current money." 
Brevard's Digest, 241. 

By an act of 1821, the former provision was abolished but the latter 
was continued, diminishing the price to five hundred dollars, and 
authorizing an imprisonment of six months. James' Digest, 392. 

The following protection for the limbs of the slave has been in force, 
in South Carolina from 1740 to the present time : 

"In case any person shall wilfully cut out the tongue, put out the 
eye, castrate, or cruelly scald, burn, or deprive any slave of any limb, or 
member, or shall inflict any other cruel punishment, other than by whip- 
ping or beating with a horsewhip, cowskin, switch or small stick, or 
by putting irons on, or confining or impnsoning such slave, every such 
person shall, for every such offence, forfeit the sum of one hundred 
^unds, current money." 2 Brevard's Digest^ 24L 



66] SLAVE LAWS. 5 

But the legislatures do not occupy themselves altogether in protecting 
the slave and restraining the master. Louisiana imposes a heavier 
penalty for taking qff irons than she does for the " cruel punishments,'^ 
specified above, as appears from this : 

" If any person or persons, &c. shall cut or break any iron chain or 
collar, which any master of slaves should have used in order to prevent 
the running away or escape of any such slave or slaves, such person 
or persons so offending shall, on conviction, &c. be fined not less than 
two hundred dollars, nor exceeding one thousand dollars ; and suffer 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, nor less than six 
months." .Act of Assembly, of March 6, 1819 — pamphlet, page 64. 

Now in the same state, the law before quoted from South Carolina 
is in force and the penalty is a fine of nof more than five hundred dollars, 
nor less than two hundred ! 

In Missouri, the master is assisted in punishing as follows : — 

" If any slave resist his or her master, mistress, overseer or employer, 
or refuse to obey his or her lawful commands, it shall be lawful for 
such master, &c. to commit such slave to the common gaol of the 
county, there to remain at the pleasure of the master, &c. ; and the 
sheriff' shall receive such slave, and keep him, &c. in confinement, at 
the expense of the person committing him or her." 1 Missouri Laws 3(^. 

POWER OF THE MASTER EXERCISED BY OTHERS. 

According to the universal practice of the slave states, the master 
may delegate his tremendous power to any other person wi«ftm he 
pleases. Louisiana has the following express law : 

"The condition of a slave being merely a passive one, his subordi- 
nation to his master, and to all who represent him, is not suscefscible of 
any modification or restriction, (except in what can incite the dave to 
the commission of crime,) in such manner, that he owes to his master 
and to all his family a respect without bounds and an absolute obedi- 
ence, and he is consequently to execute all the orders which he receives 
from him, his said master, or from them." 1 Martin's Digest,^l6. 

SLAVES CANNOT HOLD PROPERTY. 

Thus in South Carolina : " It shall not be lawful for anf slave t^ 
buy, sell, trade, &c. for any goods, &c. without a license from the 
owner, &c. nor shall any slave be permitted to keep any boat, periauger 
or canoe, or raise and breed, for the benefit of such slave, any horses, 
mares, cattle, sheep or hogs, under pain of forfeiting all the goods, &c. 
and all the boats, periaugers, or canoes, horses, mares, catftle, sheep, or 
hogs. And it shall be lawful for any person whatsoever, to seize and 
take away from any slave, all such goods, &c. boats, fics. &c. and to 
deliver the same into the hands of any justice of the peace, nearest to tl)e 
place, where the seizure shall be made, and such justice shall take 
the oath of the person making such seizure, concemin,«; the manner 
thereof; and if the said justice shall be satisfied that svcb seizure has 



6 SlAVJi LAWS. [6^ 

been made according to law, he shall pronounce and declare the good* 
so seized, to be forfeited, and order the same to be sold at public out- 
cry, one half of the moneys arising from such sale to go to the state,^ 
and the other half to him or them that sue for the same," James* 
l>^§•csi, 385-6. ^cfo/ 1740. 

In Georgia, to prevent the master from permitting the slave to hire 
himself for his own benefit, there is a penalty of thirty dollars "for 
eveiy weekly offence, on the part of the master, unless the labor be 
done on his own premises." Pnnce's Digest, 457. In Kentucky, 
Mississippi, Tennessee, Virginia, and Missouri, there are similar laws. 

As early as the year 1779, North Carolina interposed as follows : 
" Ml horses, cattle, hogs or sheep, that one month after the passing of 
this act, shall belong to any slave or be of any slave's mark, in this state, 
shall be seized and sold by the County Wardens, and by them applied, 
the one-half to the support of the poor of the county, and the other half to 
the informer," Haywood's Manual, 526. 

In Mississippi, the master incurs a fine of fifty dollars by permitting 
tiie slave to cultivate cotton for his own use. Rev. Code, 379 ; also 
fifty dollars for permitting the slave to go at large and trade as a freeman 
Rev. Code, 374. 

The civil code of Louisiana lays down the following principles: 

" All that a slave possesses belongs to his master, — he possesses 
nothing of his own, except his peculium, that is to say, the sum of 
money or moveable estate, which his master chooses he should possess." 
Jlrt. 175, and see 1 Martin's Digest, 616, "Slaves are incapable of 
inheriting or transmitting property." Civil Code, art. 945. 

SEPARATION OF FAMILIES. 

In Louisiana there is a law against selling infirm parents apart from 
their children, without their consent, but there is none against selling 
the children apart from the parents, nor is there known to be in any 
of the other slave states, any legal restraints whatever, in regard to the 
separation of famiUes by purchase and sale. 

THE SLAVE, AS A MAN, IS NOT UNDER THE PROTECTION OF LAW. 

He cannot bring a suit against his master or any other person for 
aa injury. His master may bring an action against a third person for 
an injury of his property. But this is a poor protection of the slave, 
for, first, it weakens the motive of the master to protect the slave. If 
the injury were to come upon his own pocket he would be more careful 
to prevent it. Secondly, the master can recover nothing, unless the 
injury deteridrates the Value — which it may not do, although in itselt 
•very gi-eat. The Supreme Court of Maryland has decided ; 



67] SLAVE LAWS. ^ 7 

"There must be, a loss of service, or at least, a diminution of the 
faculty of the slave for bodily labor, to warrant an action by the mas- 
ter." 1 Harris and Johnson'' s Reports^ 4. Coi^fute vs. Dale. 

THE SLAVE HAS NO MARRIAGE RIGHTS. 

This follows, of course, from his being a " chattel." The following 
is, unquestionably, law and fact throughout the slave states. 

" A slave has never maintained an action against the violator of his 
bed. A slave is not admonished for incontinence, or punished for 
fornication or adultery ; never prosecuted for bigamy, or petty treason 
for killing a husband being a slave, any more than admitted to an ap- 
peal for murder." Opinion of Daniel Dulany^ Esq, .Attorney General 
of Maryland, 1 Maryland Reports, 561, 663. 

A COLORED PERSON CANNOT BE A WITNESS AGAINST A WHITE 
PERSON, EITHER IN A CIVIL OR CRIMINAL CAUSE. 

This principle renders whatever statutes may be framed in favor of 
the slave, perfectly nominal and nugatory. The master or any wliite 
man has only to remove white witnessess and he may perpetrate what 
cruelties upon slaves he pleases. In the ordinary driving of the cane 
and cotton fields there is but one white man present In some of the 
slave states this principle is estabhshed by custom. In Virginia, and 
some other of the slave states, and in one of the free, there is the fol- 
lowing law ; 

" Any negro or mulatto, bond or free, shall be a good witness in 
pleas of the commonwealth for or against negroes or mulattoes, bond or 
free, or in civil pleas where free negroes or mulattoes shall alone be par- 
ties, and in no other cases whatever.''^ 1 R. V. C. 422. Similar in Mis- 
souri, 2 Missouri Laws, 600. In Mississippi, Mississippi Rev. Code, 
372. In Kentucky, 2 Litt. »^ Swi. 1150. In Alabama, Toidmin's 
Digest, 627. In Maryland, Maryland, Laws, act of 1717, ch. 13, § 2, 
4-, 3, and an act of 1751, ch. 14, § 4. In North Carolina and Tennes- 
see, act of 1777, ch. 2, § 42. And in Ohio, act of .Assembly, of J ami" 
ary 25, 1807. 

THE BURDEN OF PP.OOF THROWN UPON THE COLORED MAN, 

A white man may enslave any colored one, and, as between himself 
and the slave, the law does not require him to establish his claim. The 
slave is compelled to remain so, if he cannot prove his freedom. The 
South Carolina Act of 1 740, permits persons held as slaves and claiming 
to be free, to petition the judges of the Court of Common Pleas, who 
if they see cause may allow a guardian to bring an action for freedom 
against the master. The sequel of this law shows hov/ poor is the en- 
couragement for both the suitor and his guardian. 

"And if judgment shall be given for the plantiff, a special entry shall 



S SLAVE LAWS. [G8 

be made, declaring, that the ward of the plantifF is free, and the jury 
shall assess damages which the plantiff 's ward 'hath sustained, and the 
court shall give judgment and award execution against the defendant 
for such damages, with full costs of suit; but in case judgment shall be 
given for the defendant, the said court is hereby f idly empowered to inflict 

SUCH CORPORAL PUNISHMENT, NOT EXTENDING TO LIFE OR LIMB, 0» 

the ward of the plantiff, as they in their discretion shall think fit. Pro- 
vided, that in any action or suit to be brought in pursuance of the 
direction of tliis act, the burden of the proof shall lay upon the 
plaintiff, and it shall be always presumed that every negro, Indian, mu- 
latto and mestizo, is a slave, unless the contrary be made to appear, (the 
Indians in amity with this government excepted, in which case, the 
burden of the proof shall be on the defendant") 2 Brevard^s Digest, 
ii29-30. 

Virginia shows her hostility to the claim for freedom by the following 
provision of her Revised Code: 

" For aiding and abetting a slave in a trial for freedom, if the claim- 
ant shall fail in his suit, a fine of one hundred dollars is imposed. 
1 Rev. Code, 482. 

The only known exception to this principle of throwing the burden 
of proof upon the person claimed as a slave, is in North Carolina, where 
persons of mixed blood, by a decision of the court are presumed to be 
free. Were this doctrine reversed, and the presumption to be in favor 
of liberty, thousands would be free at once. 

By this cruel presumption, free persons are constantly taken up on 
suspicion of being runaways, and after being in prison for some months, 
are sold to pay their jail fees. 

PROHIBITION OF MENTAL INSTPvUCTION. 

South Carolina may lay claim to the earliest movement in legisla- 
tion on this subject. In 1740, while yet a province, she enacted this 
law : " Whereas the having of slaves taught to write, or suffering 
them to be employed in writing, may be attended with great incon- 
veniences, Be it enacted, That all and every person and persons what- 
soever, who shall hereafter teach or cause any slave or slaves to be 
taught to write, or shall use or employ any slave as a scribe in any 
manner of writing whatsoever hereafter taught to write, every such 
person or persons shall, for every such offence, forfeit the sum" of one 
hundred pounds current money." 2 Brevard's Digest, 243 ; similar 
in Georgia, by act of 1770, except as to the penalty, which is twenty 
pounds sterhng. Prince's Digest, 455. 

in the same state the following additional restraints were enacted in. 
1800: 

" That assembhes of slaves, free ne^^roes, mulattoes and mestizoes, 
whether composed of all or any of such description of persons, or of 
all or any of the same and of a proportion of white persons, met to- 
gether for the purpose of mental instruction in a confined or secret 



69] SLAVE LAWS. 9 

place, &c. &C., is (are) declared to be an unlawful meeting, and magis 
trates, &c. &c., are hereby required, &c. to enter into such confined 
places, &c. &c., to break doors, &c. if resisted, and to disperse such 
slaves, free negroes, &c. &c., and the officers dispersing such un- 
lawful assemblage, may inflict such corporal punishment, not exceed- 
ing txcenly lashes^ upon such slaves, free negroes, ^c, as they may judge 
necessary, for deterring them from the like unlawful assem- 
blage IN FUTURE." Brevard's Digest, 254. And another section 
of the same act declares, " That it shall not be lawful for any number 
of free negroes, mulattoes or mestizoes, even of slaves in company with 
white persons, to meet together for the purpose of mental instruction, 
either before the rising of the sun or after the going down of the same.** 
2 Brevard's Digest, 254-5. 

Virginia passed the following in 1819 : 

" That all meetings or assemblages of slaves or free negroes or mulat- 
toes mixing and associating with such slaves at any meeting house, or 
houses, or any other place, &c. in the night, or at any school or schools for 
teaching them, reading or writing either in the day or night, under what- 
soever pretext, shall be deemed and considered an unlaivful assembly ; 
and any justice of a county, &c. wherein such assemblage shall be, either 
from his own knowledge'or the information of others, of such unlawful 
assemblage, &c. may issue his warrant directed to any sworn officer or 
officers, authorizing him or them to enter the house or houses where such 
unlawful assemblages, &c. maybe, for the purpose of apprehending 
or dispersing such slaves, and to inflict corporal punishment on the 
offender or offenders, at the discretion of any justice of the peace, not 
exceeding tioenty lashes." 1 Rev. Code, 424-5. 

Similar laws exist in most of the slave states, and in all, mental 
instruction is practically discouraged. 

RELIGIOUS WORSHIP. 

The southern statute books are full of laws against the assembling 
of slaves for religious worship, excepting under the most difficult and 
i>iquisitorial restrictions. The South Carolina Act of 1800 has the 
following : — 

" It shall not be lawful for any number of slaves, free negroes, mu- 
lattoes or mestizoes, even in company with white persons, to meet 
together and assemble for the purpose of mental instruction or religious 
wwship, either before the rising of the sun or after the going down of 
the same. And all magistrates, sheriffs, militia officers, &c. &c. are 
hereby vested with power, &c. for dispersing such assemblies," &c., 2 
Brevard's Digest, 254-5. 

THE SLAVE IS OBLIGED TO SURRENDER HIS RIGHTS TO OTHBR 
WHITE PERSONS A3 WELL AS HIS MASTER. 

Georgia has the following : — 

" If any slave shall presume to strike any %ohite person, such slave. 



10 SLAVE LAWS. [70 

upon trial and conviction before the justice or justices, according to 
the directions of this act, shall for the first offence, suffer such punish- 
ment as the said justice or justices shall, in his or their discretion think, 
fit, not extending to life or limb ; and for the second offence, suffer 

DEATH." 

The law is similar in South Carolina ; in both states the slave is not 
punished, however, when he strikes " by the command, and in the 
defence of the person or property of the owner, &c." 

The Code of Louisiana gravely lays down tlie following principle: 

" Free people of colour ought never to insult or strike white people, 
nor presume to conceive themselves equal to the whites ; but on the 
contrary, they ought to yield to them on every occasion, and never speak 
or answer them, but with respect, under the penalty of Imprisonment, 
according to the nature of the offence." 1 Martinis Digest, 640-42. 

The following are specimens of the laws by which the whole white 
community have made themselves tyrants over the slaves: 

" If any slave shall happen to be slain for refusing to surrender him 
or herself, contrary to law, or in unlawful resisting any officer or 
other person, who shall apprehend or endeavour to apprehend, such 
slave or slaves, &c., such officer or other person so killing such slave as 
aforesaid, making resistance, shall be, and he is by this act, indemni- 
fied from any prosecution for such killing aforesaid, &c." Maryland 
Laics, act of 1751, chap. xiv. § 9. 

And by the negro act of 1,740, of South Carolina, it is declared, " If 
any slave, who shall be out of the house or plantation where such 
slave shall live, or shall be usually employed, or without some white 
person in company with such slave, shall refuse to submit to undergo 
the examination of any white person, it shall be lawful for such white 
person to pursue, apprehend and moderately correct such slave ; and 
if such slave shall assault and strike such white person, such slave 
may be lawfully killed ! /" 2 Brevard^ s Digest, 231. 

The Penal Codes of the slaveholding states, bear much more 
severely upon the slaves than upon the whites. See Stroud, pp. 99 — 1 19. 

RESTRAINTS UPON EMANCIPATION. 

* These exist in almost all the slave states, and in some, certainly 
interfere with the master's right of property in the slave. In South 
Carolina, Georgia, and Alabama, emancipation can take place only 
by special act of the legislature. In North CaroHna no negro or 
mulatto slave can be set free '^except for meritorious services to he 
adjudged of and allowed hy the County Court.'''' In Tennessee the court 
is authorized to emancipate upon petition, if the measures set forth in 
the petition, are in the opinion of the court, " consistent with the interest 
and policy of the state." In Mississippi the legislature only can eman- 
cipate, by special act, and that only upon proof of meriton&iis sei-vices. 



71] SLAVE LAWS. 11 

&c. In Kentucky, Missouri, Virginia, and Maryland, emancipation 
may be effected by deeds registered in court, saving the " rights of 
creditors," and giving bonds for maintenance if required by the court. 
In Virginia, however, if the emancipated be over twenty-one, he must 
leave the state before the expiration of twelve months, or be reduced 
into slavery. In Louisiana emancipation is regulated as follows : 

" The master who wishes to emancipate his slave, is bound to make 
a declaration of his intention to the judge of the parish where he re- 
sides ; the judge must order notice of it to be published during forty 
days by advertisement posted at the door of the court house, and if at 
the expiration of this delay, no opposition be made, he shall authorize 
the master to pass the act of emancipation." Art. 187. The general 
powers thus conferred, are subject nevertheless, to these limitations: 
"No one can emancipate his slave unless the slave has attained the 
age of thirty years, and has behaved well at least for four years pre- 
ceding his emancipation ;" Art. 185, except " a slave who has saved the 
life of his master, his master'' s wife, or one of his children," for such « 
one ^'■may he emancipated at any age.'''' Art. 186. 

Slaves emancipated otherwise than by these formalities are liable to 
be reduced to slavery, and in probably all the states except North 
Carolina they are liable to be sold for the debts of their emancipatoi-s 
contracted before their emancipation. The State of Georgia has the 
foUov^dng barbarous enactment : 

"If any person or persons shall, after the passing of this act (1801,) 
set free any slave or slaves, in any other manner and form than the 
one prescribed herein, (i. e.by special legislative act,) he shall forfeit 
for every such offence two hundred dollars, to be recovered by action of 
debt, or indictment, the one half to be applied to the use of the county 
in which the offence may have been committed, the other half to the 
use of the informer, and the said slave or slaves so manumitted and set 
free, shall he still to all intents and purposes as much in a state of slavery 
as before they were manumitted and set free by the party or parties so 
oflending." Princess Digest, 457. 

In 1818 this unrighteous edict was fortified by the following: 

" All and every will and testament, deed, whether by way of trust 
or otherwise, contract, agreement or stipulation, or other instrument in 
writing, or by parole, made and executed for the purpose of effecting. 
or endeavouring to effect the manumission of any slave or slaves, 
either directly by conferring or attempting <^^o confer freedom on such 
slave or slaves, or indirectly or virtually, by allowing and securing or 
attempting to allow and secure to such slave or slaves the right or 
pri\alege of working for his, her or themselves, free from the control of 
the master or owner of such slave or slaves, or of enjoying the profits 
of his, her or their labour or skill, shall be and the same are hereby 
declared to be utterly null and void; and the person or persons so 
making, &c. any such deed, &c. &c., and all and every person or per- 
sons concerned in giving or attempting to give eflect thereto, wh^lier 



12 SLAVE LAWS. [73 

by accepting the trust thereby created or attempted to be created, or 
m any way or manner whatsoever, shall be severally liable to a 
penalty not exceeding one thousand dollars, to be recovered, &c. &c., 
and each and every slave or slaves in whose behalf such will or testa- 
ment, &c. &c., shall have been made, shall be liable to be arrested by 
warrant under the hand and seal of any magistrate of this state, and 
being thereof convicted, &c. and shall be liable to be sold as a slave or 
slaves, by pubhc outcry, and the proceeds of such sales shall be appro- 
priated, &.C. &c." Princess Digest, 466. 

LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES. 

The Act of congress of 1793, respecting "persons escaping from 
the service of their masters," has the following section, whereby colored 
persons, or rather all persons, for there is no distinction in regard to 
color, are deprived of the right of trial bt jury, a right granted to all 
persons by the constitution : 

" § 3. ,Mnd be it further enacted, That when a person held to labor in 
any of the United States, or in either of the territories on the northwest 
or south of the river Ohio, under the laws thereof, shall escape into any 
other of the said states, or territory, the person to whom such labor, or 
service, may be due, his agent, or attorney, is hereby empowered to 
seize or arrest such fugitive from labor, and to take him or her before any 
judge of the circuit or district courts of the United States, residing, or 
being within the state, or before a«y magistrate of a county, city, or 
town corporate, wherein such seizure or arrest shall be made, and 
upon pj'oof to the satisfaction of such judge, or magistrate, either by 
oral testimony, or affidavit, taken before and certified by a magistrate 
of any such state or territory, that the person so seized, or arrested, 
doth, under the laws of the state or territory from which he or she fled, 
owe service or labor to the person claiming him or her, it shall be the 
duty of such judge or magistrate, to give a certificate to such claimant, 
his agent, or attorney, which shall be sufficient warrant for removing 
the said fugitive from labor, to the state or territory, from which he or 
she fled." — Bioren and Duane, Vol. Ill, p. 331. 

In an "Act to provide a revenue for the Canal Fund," ot tne Alder- 
men and Common Council of the city of Washington, passed by virtue 
of authority derived from the congress of the United States, we find 
the following: — 

"For a hcense to trade or traffic in slaves for profit, whether as agent 
or otherwise, four hundred dollars, &c. 

"§ 2. And be it enacted, That the Register shall deposit all moneys 
n-eceived from taxes imposed by this Act, to the credit of the canal 
fund. — RothwelL, City Laws, 249. 

[Aoproved, July 28, 1831.] 



THE 



ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD 



Vol. III. No. VII. 



JULY, 1837. 



V^HOLE No. 31. 




This picture of a poor fugitive is from one of the stereotype cuts manufactured 
in this city for the southern market, and used on handbills offering- rewards iao- 
runaway slaves. 



THE RUNAWAY. 

To escape from a powerful enemy, often requires as much courno;.; 
and generalship as to conquer. One of the most celebrated military 
exploits on record, is the retreat of the ten thousand Greeks under 



2 NARRATIVE OF DAVID BARRETT. [74 

Xenophon, for a great distance through an enemy's country. The 
sympathy of the reader is wonderfully drawn out for these disappointed 
Greeks, returning chop-fallen and wofully beset from their unsuccess- 
ful attempt to put one Asiatic despot on the throne of another. But 
the retreat of the ten thousand native Americans now living safely in 
Upper Canada, escaping from worse than Asiatic tyranny and having 
to pass, hungry and hunted, through the wide domains of false freedom, 
is far more worthy of being placed upon record. We trust, too, that 
in a land of Christians these peaceful fugitives will not receive less 
sympathy than those murderous old Greeks, in their brazen helmets 
and bull-hide shields. There is every thing in the cause of the Ameri- 
can fugitive to call for Christian sympathy. He is flying, not from the 
consequences, or punishment of his own crime ; not from his own 
voluntary engagements ; but from soul-degrading, brutalizing oppres- 
sion. He is flying from a land where he is a chattel, to a land where 
he can stand up a man, and freely converse with man and God — a 
land where he can fulfil the purpose for which his Maker made him. 
The authority of Scripture must not be brought to stop his flight, any 
more than if he were escaping from the jaws of a lion. Paul sent back 
Onesimus, not to be a slave, but a brother beloved. If Philemon had 
disobeyed the apostoUc injunction and made Onesimus a slave, Paul 
would certainly have advised him to take his liberty if he could get it. 
A slave is no more bound to stay with his master, than any other 
laborer is bound to work for every man who will not pay him. To 
every slave we say, in the spirit of the Apostle's language (1 Cor. vii, 
21.) bear your bondage patiently while you must, but run away as soon 
as you can. We do not know where to look for nobler physical 
achievements than among the colored people of Canada who have fled 
from southern slavery. To familiarize our readers with what they 
have done and suffered, we give the narrative of one who escaped from 
Kentucky nineteen years ago and is now living an honest, industrious, 
useful, and happy life, in Upper Canada. The narrative was drawn 
up by Rev. Hiram Wilson, Agent of the American Anti-Slavery 
Society, and may be relied on as faithfully taken from the lips of the 
fugitive. With sUght grammatical corrections it is his own language. 



NARRATIVE OF DAVID BARRETT. 

** I was held in bondage in Fayette Co., Kentucky, near Lexington, 
by James Graves till I was eighteen years of age. My master was 



75] NARRATIVE OF DAVID BARRETT. 3 

not SO cruel as many others ; I could not complain of harsh treatment 
but was determined not to be whipped. 

"In the fall of 1818, having been out on a frolic, when I came home 
Monday morning, my master threatened to flog me. I went into the 
field to ploughing without stopping to change my clothes. He came 
out in the forenoon and ordered me to take out the horse to feed, 
evidently intending to whip me while the horse was eating. Thought 
I, if you flog me, old fellow, you will have to give me a chase first. I 
loosed my horse from the plough, but instead of obeying his orders, I 
mounted and rode in haste to the opposite side of the field, dismounted 
and sculked into the woods. • This was the last my master ever saw 
of me. I travelled fifty miles with but little difficulty, to within four 
miles of Mays-Lick. Having fasted tilt the second evening of my 
journey, I became exceedingly hungry. In the dusk of evening I 
smelt meat that was frying in a house one quarter of a mile ahead of 
me. When I came up I looked through the fence into the kitchen, 
and saw a lady, who had been frying the meat and baking cakes, 
leaving the kitchen and going into the other part of the house, probably 
intending to return in a minute with a plate to take up her warm cakes. 
I saved her the trouble, for in a moment I entered, emptied her cakes 
into my hat, took a slice or two of her meat, leaped the fence as quick 
as possible and went on my way. For some distance I thought I 
heard the sound of footsteps behind me, but am persuaded that it was 
nothing but the palpitations of my heart. Next morning I was accosted 
by three men. I fought them like a Turk for some time, but they 
overcame me and took me to their house at Mays-Lick. I yielded to 
them only on the condition that they would take me back to my 
master, which they promised to do ; but they deceived me, for while I 
was at dinner they sent for a magistrate, and I was ordered to jail. 
On my way to jail I met an old lady who pitied me very much. Said 
she, 'it's a great pity you should be tied up in that way and dragged 
off as a slave when you have as much right to your freedom as they 
(my pursuers) have. Though you are black, you have a soul to be 
saved as well as they.' My hands being tied, she filled my pockets 
with peaches, wished that I might be a good boy and that she might 
meet me in heaven. I met a man by name of Trotter, with whom I 
was well acquainted at Lexington. He asked what the difficulty was 
between me and my master. I told him. Said he, 'if it is nothing 
more than that I will buy you of Graves.' I requested him to take me 
back and not suflTer me to go to jail. He told me to go to the jail, that 



4 NARRATIVE OF DAVID BARRETT. [76 

he thought he could get me the cheaper, but charged the men not to 
abuse me as they would have nothing for taking me up. 

" We soon came in sight of Washington. They showed me the 
jail and began to torment me by saying, look at your house. Ha, 
Jack ! there's your house. I sat down by the side of the road. They 
urged me to go on. I told them I was tired. One of them threatened 
to whip me. I reminded them of what Mr. Trotter had said, that if 
they abused me they should have nothing for taking me up. This 
frightened them that they let me alone, I kept my seat for a time and 
determined not to go to jail, but they took me by force and put me 
upon a horse with my hands tied befoi'e and my arms behind, by my 
elbows. My hands were tied so loosely that I was conscious I could 
easily get the use of them. Two rhen now followed me on foot. One 
of them held the end of a line which was attached to my elbow. I 
rode on towards the village in rather a careless manner; came at 
length to a long hill. While I was descending the hill the one who 
held the line was off his guard, his head partly turned, discoursing with 
his companion. I gave the horse a sudden start and jerked him so 
that he lost his balance and ran cross-legged a few yards, tumbled 
down and rolled over, while my fleet horse instantly separated me from 
them. I left the main road, passed the town by a circuitous rout, leav- 
ing it to my left, and came to the Ohio river which passes within three 
miles of the above place. It was now becoming dark. I rode down 
the bank determined to make my horse swim the stream and bear me 
over on his back. I forced him into the water which was very deep 
near the edge. The fore part of the horse went mostly under, while 
his hind feet were yet upon the bank. He struggled, threw up his 
head and struck my chin. The blow hurt me and made me angry. 
By a desperate struggle the horse recovered the bank again, which 
was so abrupt that I thought best to give up an undertaking so perilous. 
I tied the horse to a tree and came down to Maysville late in the 
evening and found a boat, where I fell in company with rude fellows 
who were drinking and carousing. When the time came for me to 
bring in my footing according to the custom of the company, they gave 
me the empty jug. I started as if to fill it but knew I had no money ; 
set down the jug on the end of the plank that extended from the boai 
to the shore and hastened away in search of a canoe to cross the river 
in ; found one half a mile below but could not manage it to advantage ; 
paddled some distance from shore but would find myself going the 
wrong way, and my canoe whirling, I paddled all on one side ; per- 



77] 



NARRATIVE OF DAVID BARRETT. 



severed, however, in learning to navigate till I succeeded in getting 
across. When I reached the Ohio shore I searched to satisfy myself 
that I was not on an island (for I had often heard of there being islands 
in the river) found a horse on the beach with a yoke on his neck and 
caught him. Now, said I for a ride through Ohio. I had heard but 
little about Canada ; had heard that there was such a country and that 
it was somewhere to the north of Ohio. I turned the yoke on the 
horse's neck, mounted and used the yoke for my bridle. Holding the 
sides that trail upon the ground in either hand, I could turn the 
creature to the right or left, or by bearing down check him by choking 
a little. I started, not knowing where I was nor which way I was 
going ; rode on some distance till I came to a house where I thought 
best to inquire, under the pretence that I was lost. 

"I stopt near the door and halloed. A man came out and asked 
what the mattter was. I told him I had got bewildered and had been 
out all night and did'nt know where I was ; asked him where this road 
led to. * The right hand,' said he, ' leads down to the river and the 
left hand to Decatur, which is one mile from here.' ' Decatur,' said I, 
'that's the very place I want to find;' thanked him and went on, 
conscious that Decatur would find me still in a maze of doubt and 
ignorance as to ray course for I never had heard of the place before. I 
passed through D. just before day-fight ; let my horse go, turned aside 
into the woods and lay down to rest. On waking up I found I was 
not more than thirty yards from the road, and it seemed a mere mercy 
that I was not taken ; for several men passed by and looked at me, 
talking together and wondering if I was sick, or what could be the 
matter with me. When they got by I resumed my journey till I be- 
came very hungiy ; stopped at a house and asked a lady for a morsel 
of something to eat ,• told her I was travelling and had no money. 
'Come in,' said she, 'come in.' She gave me a good dinner; was 
very kind ; talked much ; quite too much for my convenience, so that 
I was glad to get away from her as soon as I could satisfy my stomach. 
Went on till near dark when I was chased by three axemen. I took to 
the woods, rambled for some time and came out at a late hour by a 
building I supposed to be a barn ; found straw near it which served as 
my couch for the night. When I rose in the morning my supposed barn 
was a church and to my surprise I discovered numerous graves around 
me. Came on at length in sight of a man who was walking in the 
road ; saw where his hoe stood in the field with which he had been 
cutting up com ; bounded over the fence and took the handle from the 



6 NAR-RATIVE OF DAVID BARRETT. [78 

hoe for a weapon with a settled determination not to leave the road 
nor be taken alive. I reasoned thus with myself. I am a man as well 
as others ; have been driven once from my road into a grave-yard to 
lodge among the dead ; and I'll fight till I die rather than leave my way, 
I walked up to the man. He spoke to me and asked me if I wanted 
to hire. I replied, if I was a white man you would'nt ask me that, I 
reckon you want me to work for you for nothing. 'No,' said he, ' I'll 
give you as much as those you worked for last.' ' Yes,' said I, ' that's 
just what you want I reckon.' My reply revealed my former condition 
which made him laugh. He asked me to come to his house and take 
breakfast. He insisted, declaring that he was my friend. Still I re- 
fused fearing that he was setting a trap for me. At length his wife 
and two daughters came out and urged me to come in and have break- 
fast, told me they were all friends to colored people. I yielded to their 
entreaties and went in. They invited me to sit down at the table with 
them. I refused, told them I could take a piece in my hand, but, no ; 
nothing would satisfy them but to seat myself with them. The man 
told me he did'nt set side tables for colored people. Said he, 'if you 
are good enough to come into my house you are good enough to sit at 
my table and eat with me.' I sat down at the table opposite to him 
but was full of suspicion, I had never been accustomed to such treat- 
ment and knew not what it meant. The good man, as he proved to 
be, closed his eyes to ask a blessing. Thought I, old man, you want 
me to shut my eyes and then you and your family will pounce upon me. 

" With my knife in one hand and my fork in the other, I sat facing 
him taking care to keep my eyes wide open, but in the enjoyment of a 
good wholesome breakfast and cheerful conversation my fears soon 
left me. The lady sewed up a bag of provisions for me to carry with 
me. She insisted on my taking as much as I could carry. When 1 
started the man came with me some distance to show me the way. 
He directed me to a man on my way upon wliom I could call and 
tarry over night; told him he was a real friend. On learnins ms 
name I proceeded. As evening drew on I called on the man to whom 
I was directed. He received me cordially and treated me as a brother, 
requested me to tarry one night with him, but fearing I might be 
betrayed I went on. 

" When he found that I was determined to go on, he directed me to 
another friend with whom he advised me to tarry over night, but when 
evening came I was careful not to stop for fear of evil consequences. 
I turned aside, lay out in the woods near the road, and listened the 



79] NARRATIVE OF DAVID BARRETT. 7 

fore part of the night, thinking that if there was a plot laid by my pro- 
fessed friends to take me I should hear them pass to the place where 
I was directed. This night tested the friendship of those upon whom 
I had called. I came on next morning with fresh confidence in my 
new chain of friends, called at the house to which I had last been di- 
rected — found the man a real friend — staid with him all that day and 
started in the evening for Richmond, where I was directed to call on 
•a colored woman who sold cakes. I aimed to call at her house but 
called at the house of a white man, knocked at the door at a very late 
hour. The man rose, opened the door and let me in. "Why," said 
he, "you are a negro." " Yes," said the lady, "he's a colored man 
striving for his freedom I suppose, and he ought to have it." This 
cheered me, I soon discovered that a young woman in the house 
knew me, and I remembered her well but made veiy strange of her, 
and answered her rather abruptly. The good friend conducted me 
to the colored woman's house. She kindly offered to supply me with 
cakes. Here a benevolent contest rose between them, at whose ex- 
pense my bag was to be replenished, each wishing to bear the blessed 
burden. It was finally agreed that she should furnish the cakes, and 
that he should pay for them the next morning. She assured me that 
if I had a friend on earth he was one. This increased my confidence 
in him ; I returned with him to his house, where we sat down and 
talked till about an hour before day. He had many things to ask me 
about my former condition — gave me good advice — told me to go to 
Canada and get my living by the sweat of my face. He said much 
agamst slavery. I asked him why it was that he was there. Most 
men liked to get rich without working themselves. It seems you 
have travelled much through the states, and you've seen how easy 
men obtain their living and get rich having slaves to do their work for 
them. Said he, ' I've seen quite too much of it. I married my wife 
in a slave state and her parents hold them, but I don't believe in it 
No one can hold slaves and go to heaven believing that it is right, and 
no one ought to get rich.' Here a controversy rose between him and 
his wife who lay awake. 

"He quoted the scripture that it was easier for a camel to go through 
the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of 
heaven. She said that a christian could be and ought to be rich. The 
richer the better. * One can be as rich as God is. How easy it is 
for him to claim the universe, and exclaim, God is mine ! He serves 
God here for a season, but God will place him in the heavens — ujv 



8 NARRATIVE OF DAVID BARRETT. [80 

hold and protect him and be his servant forever. Can't the christian 
be rich ?' This was their conversation as near as I can recollect, and 
I shall never forget it. I thought she got the better of him. 

'^He accompanied me on my way toward Columbus till break of 
day — told me the distance to Columbus — gave me the parting hand, 
and bid me God-Rpeed. In less than an hour after I left him, I passed 
a place where several men were out early by the side of my way, 
about to engage in killing hogs. One cried out * there's a nigger,' 
said another, ' I wonder if he has any authority for going through here.' 
I walked on as if I would pass without noticing them. One cried out 
'ha! there, have. you got any pass ? where are you going?' I told 
them it was none of their business. They attempted to stop me, but 
I ran from them into the woods. They chased me till near ten o'clock. 

"I rambled through the woods all that day and the ensuing night in 
search of the road I had left. I found the road next morning, but was 
exceedingly faint and hungry, having lost my provisions in the chase 
the morning previous. I soon came across two boys who informed 
me that I was in the right way to Columbus, but could not tell me the 
distance. I reached C. about dusk — took lodgings in a barn a little 
out of the town, Next morning I enquired of a man who was splitting 
wood in a yard, for the road called Whetstone, which leads to Cpper 
Sandusky. He raised the stick he was splitting and attempted to 
knock me down ; but I was too quick for him — wielded my old hoe 
handle and with one blow brought him to the ground. I then es- 
caped into a cornfield and was closely pursued. The number of pur- 
suers increased. I dodged about among the weeds which were very 
high, till eight or nine o'clock — could hear my pursuers talk thus.*" 
'Here he is, here he is,' in one direction, 'catch him, catch him,' in 
another. After being hunted for hours in the field like a beast, I at 
length succeeded in creeping through the fence undiscovered, and by 
crawling some distance upon the ground, I gained the woods and ran 
till I found a good place of concealment, and hid till twelve or one 
o'clock, thinking it more safe to be quiet till the search was over. I 
started, soon met two boys and enquired of them for the Whetstone 
road. They told the way but asked me if I was'nt the black man the 
{)eople were after in the morning. I made strange of it and asked 
them what they were after a black man for. They said he had struck 
a white man and they had been hunting for him all the forenoon. I 
wondered, and enquired about the matter, as if entirely ignorant of 
what had been going on. I travelled undisturbed till I came to Darby- 



81] NARRATIVE OF DAVID BARRETT. 9 

town, I expected when I got to D. to find a village, and while in the 
centre of the place, I enquired for Darbyto wn. One of the company I 
enquired of, who were in a field pulling corn, told me to follow my 
nose and that would take me to Darbytown. I sauced him, and he 
threatened to take me up ; I ran, and they after me. I outran them, 
but they went back for their horses. I walked hard all that night and 
the next day till one o'clock. My pursuers caraie in sight on horses. I 
was then on the Sandusky plains as they were called, and could be 
seen for miles. Having no place of concealment, and deeming it 
useless to run, I walked steadily on till they came up. One cried out 
' ah ! you are the very fellow we want.' They told me to come and 
go with them — asked me if I would give up willingly. I answered 
yes. We all went back together, till we came to Mr. M's. While 
the men were feeding their horses and refreshing themselves, Mr. M. 
came to me privately, and talked with me. Said he, ' do you think you 
and I can master those fellows.' I told him I thought we could flog 
them, but he doubted it, and remarked that two of them appeared very 
stout.' Said he, ' if you can get away from them come to me and I 
will do all I can for you.' We started on towards Kentucky, talking 
cheerfully as we went. We passed several knolls or mounds before 
we left the plain. These were small cities, full of streets and avenues 
and thronged with a little industrious people called the ant or pismire. 
I had never seen the like before and enquired what they were ; they 
told me that they were places where negroe's heads were buried, who 
were obstinate and attempted to get away from them ; they appealed 
to me to know if I dared to attempt such a thing, I thought to myself, 
my good fellows, I shall be as smart as I can, but passed on quietly 
for some distance, watched an opportunity, and having left the plain 
and come to the borders of a woody country, I leaped from my horse 
and ran to one side, hoping soon to disappear from their view in the 
woods, where they could not have the advantage of their horses in the 
pursuit, but alas ! I soon found myself in a marshy place, sinking in 
mire to my body. 

" I was presently so deep in the mire that I could not extricate my- 
self, and had to call on my pursuers to come and help me out. They 
came and threw in long sticks and poles to bridge the way to me, till 
they spattered me all over completely with mire and water. They 
took me out and had a hearty laugh over me , they told me it was no 
use for me to think of getting away from them. We soon came to a 
branch of the Sciota river where I stopped and v.'ashed the mud off. 



10 NARRATIVE OF DAVID BARRETT. [82 

I mounted and rode with them about a mile further. They questioned 
me closely to know my name, and to whom I belonged ; I gave them 
no satisfaction but told them my name was Jack. Jack I but have 
you no other name ? When they had pressed me some time for my 
other name, I told them it was Trotter, meaning by it in my own mind 
that I should soon trot away from them. We rode till it began to 
grow dark. One of the company then proposed to bind me on tbf 
horse. Another objected to that measure, thinking it would not be 
necessary. While they were debating the matter, I leaped in an 
instant from my horse and took to the woods, which echoed for a 
season with the vain cry of catch him ! catch him ! catch him ! They 
saw no more of me. I lay in the woods that night, and got back the 
next morning about breakfast time to my friend M's. where we had 
stopped to feed the previous afternoon. Had a short interview with M. 
He informed me that my pursuers had not been there, and took me 
out to an old Indian camp, where it was thought best for me to lie in 
concealment two days, during which time if they pursued me he was 
to let me know. He and his wife came out several times to see me 
and bring me food ; I staid with them four or five days, and was 
treated with great kindness. I proceeded thence to Lower Sundusky, 
lay down in the evening expecting to be out over night. At length a 
man came near me, I spoke to him and asked him who he was ; ' I am 
a colored man,' said he, I told him I was another. He called his 
name Charles ; said that he lived about two miles from there, with a 
Mr. Harrison, who kept a tavern. ' Are you escaping from Kentucky,' 
said he, I told him ' I was :' gave him my name Jack. He said he 
was also making his escape from Kentucky, but had been at H's. 
three months ; that H. was a warm friend to colored people, and 
could keep me over night. On our way near H's. we treed three 
racoons on one tree. We thought we would have some sport ; he pro- 
posed that if I would watch them he would go and bring H. and the 
gun, I waited till Harrison came out and brought two Kentuckians 
with him who had been to Detroit hunting for runaway slaves, and 
returned thus far. Charles told H. my name and circumstances, 
then he came to me and told me I must answer H's. questions. H. 
came near and addressed me as if 1 had been an old acquaintance. 
'Well, Jack, what have you got there?' I told him 'coons.' 'You 
must shoot them,' said he. I told him I did'nt know as I could. ' Well, 
Jack, you must climh for them then,' I refused, told him the tree was 
too tall. 'Poh! Jack,' said he, 'I've seen you climb many a taller 



83] SOCIETY IN AMERICA. 11 

tree than that. How do they all do up at S.' * All well,' said I. 'How 
is Miss Lucy.' ' Well,' said I ; 'yes,' said Charles, ' Lucy's well, and 
sends her respects to you.' Thus they conversed to deceive the Ken 
tuckians. We shot the racoons and went to the house, where H. still 
pursued his policy of deceiving the Kentuckians. 

"He made them believe that Charles and I were bound boys left to 
him by his father. He said he would'nt take five hundred dollars 
apiece for us the rest of the time out. I felt rather awkward in tlie 
house, going and coming at the word of my new master where I had 
never been before. In this way he deceived the slave hunters for fear 
they might bring me into difficulty. H. told me next morning that if 
those mean, worthless negro hunters had laid hands on me he would 
have shivered his gun stock over their heads. Said he ' I don't like 
to entertain them, but I keep tavern and must entertain all that call 
and do the best I can.' I was well entertained at his house free of 
cost, and had my pockets filled with provisions to take with me. — 
Had no difficulty the rest of the way. Soon planted my feet upon 
British ground, when my fears left me and my shackles fell !" 

DAVID BARRETT. 



EXTRACTS FROM MISS MARTINEAU'S "SOCIETY IN 
AlVIERICA." 

" The personal oppression of the negroes is the grossest vice which 
strikes a stranger in the country. It can never be otherwise when 
human beings are wholly subjected to the will of other human beings, 
who are under no other external control than the law which forbids 
killing and maiming ; — a law which it is difficult to enforce in individual 
cases. A fine slave was walking about in Columbia, South Carohna, 
when I was there, nearly helpless and useless from the following 
causes. His master was fond of him, and the slave enjoyed the rare 
distinction of never having been flogged. One day, his master's child, 
supposed to be und^r his care at the time, fell down and hurt itself" 
The master flew into a passion, ordered the slave to be instantly flogged, 
and would not hear a single word the man had to say. As soon a8 
the flogging was over, the slave went into the back yard, where there 
was an axe and a block, and struck off" the upper half of his right hand. 
He went and held up the bleeding hand before his master, saying, 



32 SOCIETY IN AMERICA. [84 

* You have mortified me, so I have made myself useless. Now you 
must maintain me as long as I live.' It came out that the child had 
been under the charge of another person. 

"There are, as is well known throughout the country, houses m the 
free States which are open to fugitive slaves, and where they are con- 
cealed till the search for them is over. I know some of the secrets of 
such places ; and can mention two cases, among many, of runaways, 
which show how horrible is the tyranny which the slave system au- 
thorises men to inflict on each other. A negro had found his way to 
one of these friendly houses ; and had been so skilfully concealed, 
that repeated searches by his master, (who followed for the purpose 
of recovering him,) and by constables, had been in vain. After three 
weeks of this seclusion, the negro became weary, and entreated of 
his host to be permitted to look out of the windov.^. His host strongly 
advised him to keep quiet, as it was pretty certain that his master 
had not given him up. When the host had left him, however, the 
negro came out of his hiding-place, and went to the window. He 
met the eye of his master, who was looking up from the street. The 
poor slave was obliged to return to his bondage. 

A young negress had escaped in like manner ; was in like manner 
concealed ; and was alarmed by constables, under the direction of her 
master, entering the house in pursuit of her, when she had had reason 
to believe that the search was over. She flew up stairs to her chamber 
im the third story, and drove a heavy article of furniture against the 
door. The constables pushed in notwithstanding, and the girl leaped 
from the window into the paved street. Her master looked at her as 
she lay, declared she would never be good for anything again, and 
went back into the south. The poor creature, her body bruised, and 
her hmbs fractured, was taken up, and kindly nursed ; and she is now 
maintained in Boston, in her mained condition, by the charity of some 
ladies there." — Vol. II, pages 112 — 114. 

A GLIMPSE AT THE " KIND TREATMENT " OF THE SLAVES. 

FIFTY DOLLARS REWARD.— Ran away from Murot's Plantation, near 
Baton Rouge, about two months ago, the negro man Manuel. Description — 
black, five feet four inches high, about thirty years old, orte scar on the forehead, 
and much marked with irons. — xYrw Orh-ans Bee, May 27, 1837. 

TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS REWARD, for the black woman Betsey, 
who left my house in Faubourg, McDonough, about the 12th of the present 
month, when she had on her neck, an iron coUar, has a mark on her left cheek, 
is about twenty years old. five feet four inches high ; when she ran away, was 
well dressed, &c. 

CHARLES KERNIN Parish of Jefferson. 

New Orleans Bee, June 9, 1837. 



THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 

Vol. III. No. VIII. AUGUST, 1837. Whole No. 32. 

THE RIGHT OF TRIAL BY JURY. 

Among republicans it is a very common opinion that the object of 
government is to protect the rights of the governed. While there are 
evil men m the world, there must be those who shall bear the sword 
for the safety of the good. But the sword of justice cannot be a very 
effectual protection to ant/, unless it is an equal protection to all. If it 
proves a terror to the good as well as to the evil, it becomes itself a 
provocation to crime. But when the law is as respectful of the rights 
of a houseless vagabond, as of the wealthiest citizen of the republic, 
it does not so much condescend to the poor, as it plants ] aUisades 
around the mansions of the rich. 

One of the most important safeguards of justice is TRIAL BY 
JURY. Such is the opinion of the soundest jurists, gathered from the 
experience of ages. The most enlightened nations of antiquity had 
their dikastai and their judices, men selected fy'om the people, to decide 
the guilt or innocence of the accused after hearing the evidence. If 
they were not the same, they were analogous to modern juries in the 
most essential respects. According to Judge Blackstone the traces 
of the EngUsh trial by jury are mingled with the remotest records of 
the nation. Our Saxon ancestors attributed the institution, so highly 
did they venerate it, to their God Woden. The great charter of 
English rights, extorted by the rising spirit of British freedom from the 
third Henry, is chiefly celebrated and probably receives its name of 
Magna Charta from its ordaining that no man shall be hurt in life, 
liberty, and property without being tried by a jury of his peers. Hence the 
trial by jury has come to be considered as inseparable from English liberty. 

What the fathers of American liberty thought of it, is obvious from 
the constitutions of the several states and of the United States, in all 
of which it is most carefully guarded. 

Says the Constitution of the United States : — 

"In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right to a 
speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the state and district 



2 THE RIGHT OF TRIAL BY JURY. [86 

wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have 
been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of the nature 
and cause of the accusation ; to be confronted with the witnesses 
against him ; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in 
his favor ; and to have the assistance of counsel for his defence. 

"In suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall ex- 
ceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved ; and 
no fact tried by jury shalt be otherwise re-examined in any court of 
the United States than according to the rules of the common law " — 
Amendments, Art. 6 & 7. 

Again the constitution declares that " no person shall be deprived 
ef life, LIBERTY, or property,* without due process of law." 

Whether we consider the transmutation oi?i person into a chattel, as 
a criminal award, or as a mere business transaction, it is plain that it 
can take place, under the constitution, only by " due process of law," 
by which we are to understand a trial by jury. The constitution 
solemnly guarantees that no person shall be deprived of liberty, by the 
action of the federal government, without the verdict of a fair and im- 
partial jury of his peers. But slavery will not submit to this whole- 
some restraint of the federal constitution. It demands that the trial by 
jury shall be prostrated, and that even without regard to complexion, 
for the convenience of slaveholders in recovering their fugitive slaves. 

It is commonly supposed that the constitution contains a compact 
whereby the free states are obliged to yield up persons claimed as 
fiigitive slaves, according to the summary process pointed out in the 
Act of Congress of 1793. But a comparison of the provision of the 
constitution with the Act in question, will correct this mistake. Accord- 
ing to the constitution, — « 

" No person held to service or labor in one state, under the laws 
thereof, escaping into another shall, in consequence of any law or 
regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor, but shall 
be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service or labor 
may be due." 

* Hence it is obvious that no person, so far as the Constitution of the United 
States is concerned, can hold as property that which, without due process of 
law, deprives another of liberty. If, then, slavery can exist under the constitu- 
tion at aL, it is only over those who have been deprived of liberty by due pro- 
cess of law. All others are constitutionally free, and the property which is 
claimed in their persons, is, by the constitution, no property, but a usurpation. 
So far from sanctioning the slavery which exists in the southern states, the 
constitution, if it were to take the place of the state laws, would open the way 
for the slaves to recover wages or damages in the courts of the United States, 
for not one of the two and a half millions has been deprived of liberty by any 
" DUE process of kw," if by any process whatever. 



87] THE RIGHT OF TRIAL BY JURY. 3 

Here the states are simply bound to deliver up, not any person who 
may be claimed as a fugitive from service or labor due in another state, 
but one v/h6 really is such. If the person claimed does not confess 
his indebtedness, or if he claims protection as a citizen of the state in 
which he is found, it remains for the claimant of service or labor to 
establish his claim by legal proof. Surely the constitution does not 
require that this proof shall not be submitted to a jury. It does not 
provide for the mode in which the question shall be decided at all, but 
only for the action of the state in the event of a decision in favor of the 
claimant, viz. that the slave, (or rather the debtor, for the language, 
whatever may have been the design of the framers of the constitution, 
has no manner of applicability to the slave,) shall be delivered up. 
Therefore since " the powers not delegated to the United States by the 
constitution, nor prohibited by it to the states, are reserved to the 
states respectively or to the people," the states, only, have the right to 
fix the mode of trial. 

If, now, we examine the Act of Congress of 1793, respecting fugi- 
tives, &c., we shall see that it is unconstitutional on two grounds. 
1st. Congress had no power to act in the premises, the power belong- 
ing to the states. 2nd. Granting that congress had the power, the 
Act is unconstitutional because it deprives a person of liberty without 
due process of law. By the following clause any person may be seized 
without warrant, tried without jury, or power to compel the attendance 
of witnesses, and hurried into perpetual slavery by the voice of any 
single magistrate whom the claimant may select ! 

"§ 3. ^nd be it further enacted, That when a person held to labor 
in any of the United States, or in either of the territories on the north- 
west or south of the river Ohio, under the laws thereof, shall escape 
into any other of the said states, or territory, the person to whom such 
labor, or service, may be due, his agent, or attorney, is hereby em- 
powered to seize or arrest such fugitive from labor, and to take him or 
her before any judge of the circuit or district courts of the United States, 
residing, or being within the state, or before any magistrate of a county, 
city, or town corporate, wherein such seizure or arrest shall be made, 
and upon proof to thi; satisfaction of such judge, or magistrate, either 
by oral testimony, or affidavit, taken before and certified by a magis- 
trate of any such state, or territory, that the person so seized, or arrested, 
doth, under ihe laws of the state or territory from which he or she fled, 
owe service or labor to the person claiming him or her, it shall be the 
duty of such judge, or magistrate, to give a certificate thereof to such 
claimant, his agent, or attorney, which shall be sufficient warrant for 
removing the said fugitive from labor, to the state or territory from 
which he or she fled. — Bioren <^ Duane, vol. iii, p. 331. 



'4 THE RIGHT OF TRIAL BY JURY. [88 

Though the constitutionality of the Act has been assumed by high 
legal authorities, it has also been denied. Thus the matter is left freely 
open for investigation, and as it is to be decided by the plain language 
of the constitution, any person who is capable of understanding his 
mother tongue is competent to decide it without the aid of the courts. 
6ut as the point is of immense importance to the cause of liberty we 
ask the careful attention of the reader to the following arguments. 
The first is from the speech of the Hon. Francis James, in the Senate 
of Pennsylvania, recently delivered in support of a bill granting the 
right of Trial by Jury to persons who may be arrested as fugitive 
slaves; the second is the opinion of Chancellor Walworth in the case 
of Jack vs. Mary Martin, argued before the court for the Correction 
of Errors in the State of New York, (14 Wendell's Reports, 524.) 



Argument op Hon. Francis James. 

"The eighteenth clause of the eighth section, first article of the con- 
stitution, declares that congress shall have power *to make all laws 
which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the 
foregoing powers, and all other powers vested by this constitution in 
the Government of the United States, or any department or officer 
thereof.' Now, it so happens that in the enumerated powers of con- 
gress which are referred to in the clause just quoted as the 'foregoing 
powers,' the power to pass laws on the subject of the fugitives from 
labor or service is no where to be found. A warrant for the passage 
of the act of 1793, must be therefore sought elsewhere than in the 
enumerated powers of congress. But, say the opponents of the bill, 
congress shall make all laws necessary for carrying into execution all 
other powers vested by the constitution in the Government of the 
United States, &c. This, sir, 1 admit; and what follows ? Not that 
the power to regulate the mode of apprehending a reputed fugitive from 
labor, and to determine the manner whereby it should- be ascertained, 
whether he oioed service and labor to the party claiming him or not, 
was vested by the constitution in the Government of the United States. 
The fact that no express power of such a character exists is undisputed. 
If, therefore, such power belongs to congress, it must have been given 
by implication, and such implication must be shown to be necessary, 
for it has been determined by the Supreme Court of the United States 
in the case of Martin vs. Hunter's lessee I, Wheaton, 326, that 'the 
Government of the United States can claim no powers which are not 
granted to it by the constitution, and the powers actually granted must 
be such as are expressly given, or given by necessary imphcation.' I 
have attempted to show in a former part of my argument, from a plain 
common sense construction of the clause in the constitution which 
relates to fugitives from labor, that the power could not exist in congress 



89] 



THE RIGHT OF TRIAL BY JURY. 



by implication, because it was manifest from the language of the clause, 
that this was one of 'the powers not delegated to the United States by 
the constitution, nor prohibited by it to the states,' and that conse- 
quently ' it was reserved to the states respectively.' I am sustained 
in this position by a celebrated American law commentator. Judge 
Tucker in his 1st Blackstone, App. page 151, says, 'that the Consti- 
tution of the United States as a social compact ought to receive a strict 
construction, whenever the right of personal liberty, of personal security, 
or private property, may become the object of dispute, because every 
person whose liberty or property was thereby rendered subject to the 
new government, was antecedently a member of a civil society, to 
whose regulation he had submitted himself, and under whose authority 
and protection he still remains, and in all cases not expressly submitted 
to the new government.' 

"Now, sir, unless it can be shown that this Act of Congress was one 
of those laws which became necessary and proper for carrying into 
execution other powers (than those enumerated,) vested by the consti- 
tution in the Government of the United States, and that the power to 
pass laws for the reclaiming of fugitives was one of the powers included 
in the terra other powers, how can it be said that the Act of Congress 
itself was authorized, and if not authorized how can it be said that the 
passage of the bill now before us would, in consequence of its infringe- 
ment on that Act of Congress be unconstitutional. The constitution 
declares that ' no person held to service or labor in one state under the 
laws thereof escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law 
or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor.' Here 
is a direct prohibition against the passage of any law by one state going 
to discharge from labor or service, a person who may owe such labor 
or service in another state. But the prohibition goes no further, and 
that which follows in the same clause of the constitution, I think I have 
shown, belongs exclusively to the states themselves to legislate upon. 
Suppose, however, that among the enumerated powers of congress this 
power had been included ; still its existence would have been no justi- 
fication of an infraction by the law of congress of other portions of the 
constitution. The Act of Congress authorizes the party claimant, his 
agent, or attorney, to ' seize or airest such fugitive from labor, and take 
him or her before any judge,' &c. The Constitution of the United 
States says, that 'the right of the people to be secure in their persons^ 
houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, 
shall not be violated. Now, sir, gentlemen must show either that per- 
sons who from the color of their skin, may become the object of this 
unceremonious seizure are not embraced within the meaning of the 
word 'people,'' or they must prove that the seizure is not an unreasonable 
seizure, or they must admit that this part of the law of congress at 
least is an infringement not only of the spirit but of the letter of the 
constitution. Again, the act of congress empowers and directs any 
judge or magistrate before whom such reputed fugitive may be taken, 
upon proof to the satisfaction of such judge or magistrate, either by oral 
testimony, or affidavit taken before and certified by a magistrate of any 
such state, that the party claimed owes service to the party claimant, 



6 THE RIGHT OF TRIAL BY JURY. [90 

to give a certificate thereof to the party claimant, his agent, or attorney, 
to remove the fugitive to the state or territory from which he fled. 
Thus v.e perceive that after the arrest, and when the reputed fugitive 
is brouo,ht into the presence of the judge, his destiny may hang upon 
the contents of a single ex-parte affidavit. Who before ever heard of 
such mockery of justice? Show me if you can upon the statute books 
of any nation claiming to be free, the shadow of a law that sports thus 
with hu(nan liberty, and human rights. A man ! aye sir, a man tried, 
convict,'d, and sentenced to hopeless, and in many instances worse than 
Egyptian bondage, upon an ex-parte affidavit ! And yet such is the 
Jaw of congress. 

"Mr. Chairman, I take upon me to say that so far is the law of con- 
gress from according with the constitution, there is not a syllable, a 
word, or a letter of that invaluable instrument, that does not frown 
upon that law by reason of the injustice of its provisions. Go search 
the catalogue of human wrongs — trace the history of him who has suf- 
fered most from oppression : follow him through every scene of bodily 
and mental anguish, and after you shall have collected the particulars 
of his tale of woe, weigh it in the balance, with the story of the free- 
man, torn from his 'family and his home,' and by means of false testi- 
mony which the Act of Congress gives him no opportunity to disprove, 
adjudged to be a slave ; and see which will preponderate. Here is the 
story, sir, plain, simple, and undisguised. 'I was seized without 
warrant, in a land which boasts of its freedom, and the justice of its 
laws ; carried before a judge, and there upon an ex-parte affidavit, 
without the intervention of a jury, sentenced to perpetual bondage.* 
This may be the taleof a/rccT7u«i, of him who has felt, and knows how 
to appreciate the blessings of liberty. Cases have occurred, and they- 
may again occur, where the free inhabitants of your own state have 
been thus seized, and attempts made which it is to be feared, have in 
some instances, been but too successful, to obtain certificates for their 
removal out of the state by means of false swearing. Can it be possible 
that the framers of a constitntion so admirably adapted in all its parts 
to the promotion of the great ends of justice, and to the preservation 
of the rights of the people, from every encroachment which might be 
made upon them by the strong arm of arbitrary power; can it be 
possible that they ever designed to commit to the general government 
a power to erect tribunals within the hmits of a sovereign state, to pass 
upon the liberty or slavery of a free native born inhabitant of that 
state? Mr. Chairman, I cannot believe it. I cannot give my assent 
to a proposition so monstrous. It is contrary to the principles 
of tba compact — contrary to the rights reserved to the states — 
contrary to the whole constitution both in letter and in spirit. Shall 
it be said, that, in this great charter of our liberties, which throws its 
protecting shield over him who stands charged with having violated 
the laws of his country in the commission of crime, there cannot be 
found at least equal protection for the man who is acknowlegdedly 
free from moral guilt, and to whom moral wrong is not imputed : And 
yet, sir, if the construction contended for by gentlemen in support of 
the constitutionality of the laws of congress be a correct construction, 



91] THE RIGHT OF TRIAL BY JURY. 7 

this sacred instrument would become justly liable to the charge of 
partiality. 

"The" 6th article of the amendment to the constitution declares, that 
'in all criminal prosecutions, the accused sliall enjoy the right to a 
speedy and public trial by an impartial jury of the state and district 
where the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have 
been previously ascertained by law ; and to be informed of the nature 
and cause of the accusation, to be confronted with witnesses against 
him, to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, 
and to have the assistance of counsel in his defence.' Now, I ask you 
to compare the situation of him who is charged with crime, with the 
situation of him who is charged with being a runaway slave. — The 
supposed criminal shall be tried, says the constitution, by an impartial 
jury of the state and district wherein the crime shall have been corr^- 
mitted ; the supposed slave, says the Act of Congress, shall be tried 
by a single judge any where within the state where he shall have been 
arrested. The supposed criminal, says the constitution, shall be con- 
fronted loith the witnesses against him; — the supposed slave may by 
the Act of Congress, be sentenced to bondage for life, upon the evidence 
of an affidavit taken without his presence : the reputed criminal, says 
the constitution, shall have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses 
in his favor, and the assistance of counsel in his defence ; whilst under 
the Act of Congress, the reputed fugitive has neither time nor oppor- 
tunity allowed him to obtain witnesses or counsel. Such, sir, is the 
difference between the provisions of the constitution, in the case of per- 
sons accused of Crime, and the provisions of the Act of Congress, in 
the case of persons charged with being fugitives from service or labor. 

"The issue between the claimant and the claimed, is of a mixed 
character. On the part of the person claimed, his natural rights are 
involved in the issue ; whilst on the part of the party claimant, the 
question involved is one of property alone. The liberty of the party 
claimed being on his part the matter in issue, the constitution comes 
directly to his aid, in his application for a jury trial : for it declares, in 
the 5th article of amendments, that ' no person shall be deprived of life, 
liberty, or property, without due process of law.'' 

" Now, will any man, having due respect for the reputation of his own 
opinions, venture to affirm, that the unceremonious mode pointed out 
by the Act of Congress, of settUng the question between the parties in 
the issue, just referred to, can be denominated 'due process of law,' in 
the sense intended by the amendment? Thei-e is no way known to 
the law of rhis state, whereby a man can be ultimately deprived of life, 
liberty, or property, but by the verdict of a jury; and no process tO 
deprive him of either, without the intervention of a jury, can be denom- 
inated 'due process of law,' within the meaning of the constitution. 
But suppose it be conceded that the only question involved in the issue, 
would be one of property, and that property should exceed in value 
twenty dollars, then the constitution guarantees to either party, the 
right of trial by jury. 

"Ill the 7th article of amendments to the constitution, it is written, 
that *in suits at common law where the value in controversy shall 



8 THE RIGHT OF TRIAL BY JURY. [92 

exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved &c. 
It has been said, that the words ' suits at common law' do not embrace 
the case in question ; but if this ever has been a controverted point, it 
is so no longer — for the Supreme Court, in Parsons vs. Bedford and 
Others, 3 Pet. 447, in determining a question arising out of this very- 
amendment declare, that 'in a just sense, the amendftient then may- 
well be construed to embrace all suits which are not of equity and 
admirality jurisdiction, whatever may be the peculiar form which they 
may assume to settle legal rights.^ Thus, Mr. Chairman, have I 
endeavored to show, and as I think have shown, that there does not 
exist the slightest constitutional impediment to the passage of the bill — 
that the constitution contains no prohibition, either express or implied, 
against the right of the state to legislate on the subject; and that the 
Act of Congress, which it is said will be violated by the proposed law, 
is itself contrary to the letter and spirit of the constitution." 



OPINION OF THE CHANCELLOR OF THE STATE OP NEW YORK. 

"This cause has been argued in this court upon the assumption, that 
the decision which is now to be made, necessarily involves the ques- 
tion as to the constitutional right of congress to legislate upon the sub- 
ject of fugitive slaves and apprentices— or, in the language of the con- 
stitution, persons held to service or labor in one state under the laws 
thereof, escaping into another ; and the decision of the court below is 
put upon the ground that congress not only has the power to legislate 
upon the subject, but that their legislation must necessarily be exclu- 
sive in relation to this matter ; that the law of congress of February^ 
1793, is valid and binding upon the states ; under which law any free 
citizen of this state may be seized as a slave or apprentice who has 
escaped from servitude, and transported to a distant part of the union, 
without any trial except a summary examination before a magistrate, 
who is not even clothed with power to compel the attendance of wit- 
nesses upon such investigation ; and upon the certificate of such magis- 
trate that he is satisfied that such citizen owes service to the person 
claiming him under the laws of the state to which he is to be trans- 
ported. If the decision of this cause turned upon these questions, I 
I am not prepared to say that the Congress of the United States had 
the power, under the constitution, to make the certificate of a state 
magistrate conclusive evidence of the right of the claimant, to remove 
a native born citizen of that state to a distant part of the Union, so as 
to deprive him of the right of the benefit of the writ of habeas corpus and 
the right of trial by jury in the state where he is found. In the case 
of Martin, before the Circuit Court of the United States for the south- 
em district of New York, to which we were referred on the argument, 
the facts appear to be assumed that there is no question as to 
the identity of the individual, whose services are claimed, and 
that he is in truth a fugitive from the state under whose laws it is 
alleged that he owes services or labor to the claimant If these im- 



93] THE RIGHT OF TRIAL BY JURY. 9 

portant facts are conceded or judicially established, with the additional 
fact that the fugitive was actually claimed, and held in servitude in the 
state from which he fled, whether rightfully or otherwise, previous to 
his flight, I admit there can be no reasonable objection in principle to 
the removal of the person whose services were thus claimed, back to 
the state from which he fled, as the most proper ])Iace for the trial and 
final decision of the question whether the claimant was legally entitled 
to his services, according to the laws of that state. But suppose, as is 
frequently the case, that the question to be tried relates merely to the 
identity of the person claimed as a fugitive slave or apprentice, he in- 
sisting that he is a free native born citizen of the state where he is 
found residing at the time the claim is made, and that he has never 
been in the state under whose laws his services are claimed — can it 
for a moment be supposed that the framers of the constitution intended 
to authorise the transportation of a person thus claimed to a distant 
part of the Union, as a slave, upon a mere summary examination before 
an inferior magistrate, who is clothed with no power to compel the at- 
tendance of witnesses to ascertain the truth of the allegations of the 
respective parties ! — Whatever others may think upon this subject, I 
must still be permitted to doubt whether the patriots of the revolution 
who framed the Constitution of the United States, and who had incor- 
porated into the Declaration of Independence, as one of the justifiable 
causes of separation from our mother country, that the inhabitants of 
the colonies had been transported beyond seas for trial, could ever 
have intended to sanction such a p-inciple as to one who was merely 
claimed as a fugi.ive from servitude in another state. 

" I am one of those who have the habit of believing, that the state 
legislatures had general powers to pass laws on all subjects, except 
those in which they were restricted by the Constitution of the United 
States, or their own local constitutions, and that congress had no power 
to legislate on any subject, except so far as the power was delegated 
to it by the Constitution of the United States. 1 have looked in vain 
among the powers delegated to congress by the constitution, for any 
general authority to that body to legislate on this subject. It cer- 
tainly is not contained in any express grant of power, and it does not 
appear to be embraced in the general grant of incidental powers con- 
tained in the last clause of the constitution relative to the powers of 
congress. Const, art. 1. § 8, sub. 17. The law of the United States 
respecting fugitives from justice and fugitives slaves, is not a law to 
carry into effect any of the powers expressly granted to congress, *or 
any of the powers vested by the constitution in the Government of the 
United States, or any department or officer thereof.' It appears to be 
a law to regulate the exercise of the rights secured to the individual 
states, or the inhabitants thereof, by the second section of the fourth 
article of the constitution ; which section, like the ninth section of the 
first article, merely imposes a restriction and a duty upon other states 
and individuals in relation to such rights, but vests no poioer in the 
federal government, or any department or officer thereof, except the 
judicial poxoer of declaring and enforcing the rights secured by the 
constitution. The Act of February, 1793, conferring ministerial 



10 THE RIGHT OF TRIAL BY JURY. [94 

powers upon the statD miigistrates, and regulating the exercise of the 
powers of the state executive, is certainly not a law to carry into effect 
the judicial power of the United States ; which judicial power cannot 
be vested in state officei's. If the provisions of the constitution, as to 
fugitive slaves and fugitives from justice, could not be carried into 
effect without the actual legislation of congress on the subject, perhaps 
a power of federal legislation might be implied from the constitution 
itself; but no such power can be inferred from the mere fact that it 
may be more convenient that congress should exercise the power, 
than that it should be exercised by the state legislatures. In these 
cases of fugitive slaves and fugitives from justice, it is not certain that 
any legislation vi^hatever is necessary, or was contemplated by the 
framers of the constitution. The provision as to persons escaping 
from servitude in one state into another, appears by their journal to 
have been adopted by an unanimous vote of the convention. At that 
time the existence of involuntary servitude, or the relation of master 
a,nd servant, was known to and recognized by the laws of every state 
in the Union except Massachusetts, and the legal right of recaption 
by the master existed in all, as a part of the customary or common 
law of the whole confederacy. On the other hand, the common lavsr 
writ of homine replegiando, for the purpose of trying the right of the 
master to the semces of the slave, was well known to the laws of the 
several states, and was in constant use for that purpose, except so far 
as it had been superseded by the more summary proceeding by habeas 
corpus, or by local legislation. The object of the framers of the con- 
stitution, therefore, was not to provide a new mode by which the mas- 
ter might be enabled to recover the services of his fugitive slave, but 
merely to restrain the exercise of a power, which the state legislatures 
respectively would otherwise have possessed, to deprive the master of 
such pre-existing, right of recaption. Under this provision of the con- 
stitution, even without any legislation on the subject, the right of the 
master 'o reclaim the fugitive slave is fully secured, so as to give him 
a valid claim in damages against any one who interferes with the 
right Glen, v. Hodges, 9. John R. 67. But even if legislation on this 
subject is actually necessary, in order to secure to the master the full 
enjoyment of the right of recaption guarantied to him by the constitu- 
tion, the state legislatures are perfectly competent to pass the neces- 
sary laws to carry this provision of the constitution into full effects 
The members of the state legislatures, as well as other state officers, 
both executive and judicial, being bound by oath to support the con- 
stitution, it cannot legally be presumed that they will violate their duty 
in this respect. The Constitution of the United States being the para- 
mount law on this subject, the judicial tribunals of the respective states 
are bound by their oaths to protect the master's constitutional right of 
recaption, against any improper state legislation, and against the un- 
authorized acts of individuals, by which such right may be impaired ; 
and the Supreme Court of the United States, as the tribunal of dernier 
resort on such a question, is possessed of ample powers to correct any 
erroneous decision which might be made in the state courts against 
the right of the master. Upon the fullest examination of the subject, 



95] THE RIGHT OF TRIAL BY JURY. 11 

tlierefore, I find it impossible to bring my taind to the conckiBloa that 
the framers of the constitution have authorized the Congress of the 
United States, to pass a law by which the certiflcate of a justice of the 
peace of the state, shall be made conclusive evidence of the right of 
the claimant, to remove one who may be a free native born citizen of 
this state, to a distant part of the union as a slave ; and thereby to 
deprive such person of the benefit of the writ o? habeas corpus, as well 
as that of his common law-suit to try his right of citizenship in the state 
where the claim is made, and where he is residing at the time of 
such claim." 



But even where the constitutionality of the Act of 1793, has been 
maintained, it has not always been denied that the state has a right to 
grant a jury trial after the certificate given by the magistrate. The 
Supreme Court of Massachusetts, Chief Justice Parker, held as follows : 

" It is said, that the Act that is passed on this subject is contrary to 
the amendment to the constitution securing the people in their persons 
and property against seizures, &c. But all the parts of the instrument 
are to be taken together. It is very obvious that slaves are not parties 
to the constitution, and the amendment has relation to the parties. * * 
But it is objected that a person may in this summary manner, seize a 
freeman. It may be so but it would be attended with mischievous 
consequences to the person making the seizure, and a habeas corpus 
would lie to obtain the release of the person seized. And if a habeas 
corpus, then of course the concurrent remedies.'''' 

The court did not undertake to show what right the United States' 
government has more than any state to presume a man a slave, and 
leave it to another jurisdiction to make good the guarantees of its 
own constitution. But the evidence in favor of the right of trial by 
jury must be very strong, to have forced the honorable court to so 
strange a theory of law to save it from what plain common sense can- 
not fail to call federal usurpation. The committee of the Massachu- 
setts legislature which last winter reported a bill for the restoration of 
the right of trial by jury on questions of personal freedom, thus remark 
after having discussed the whole subject and quoted the above opinion ; 

" Your committee are therefore of opinion, that whether the law be 
considered unconstitutional on the one hand, or vahd on the other, upon 
the construction recognized by the supreme court of this common- 
wealth, the same result must be arrived at. In either case, a person 
seized under the Act of Congress, bofore or after certificate given, may 
have an independent process, under which he can try his right to the 
character of a freeman ; and in either view, any special legislation 
upon the particular subject, would be wholly unnecessary. 

" And why should not a person so seized have these means of trial? 
If he be a slave, he is to be given up to his master ; but may he not 



J 2 THE RIGHT OF TRIAL BY JURY. [96 

have the question, whether he be in truth a slave, tried in a manner 
adequate to its importance to himself and his offspring ? And why 
should it not be tried too where he is, before (on the certificate of any 
magistrate whom the claimant may select, granted on a summary and 
ex-parle examination,) he is carried away, where it may be, he can 
have no means of defence left to him ? The trial is to him of tremendous 
interest, involving consequences, in some respects, even greater than 
those which await the judgment on the most abhorred crime known in 
the law. For our constitution provides tiiat even this shall ' not work 
corruption of the blood.' But a judgment against one, condemning 
him as a fugitive slave, does work corruption of the blood, and for-* 
feiture to himself, his children, and his children's children, to the latest 
generation." 

It has been contended that the summary process authorized by the 
Act of Congress is a mere initiatory to a " due process of law," which 
is to be or may be completed in the state to which the alleged fugitive 
is taken ; and that in this respect it is analogous to the case of a fugi- 
tive from justice who is taken from one state to another on requisition 
of the governor of the state from which he has fled. But in the first 
place, as has been intimated in the opinions already cited, there is no 
analogy in the laws, for the certificate of the magistrate is final, not 
only in matter of fact but in point of law. And in the second place it 
is not certain that even alleged fugitives from justice have not a right 
to trial by jury as to their identity in the state in which they are found. 
But this point we do not propose to discuss. 

Though slaves have been known, amidst all the discouragements 
thrown around them, to sue for their freedom in the southern states, 
yet no one reclaimed from northern freedom by the summary process 
of the Act of Congress, was ever permitted to approach a southern 
court to vindicate his liberty. One of the objects of reclaiming fugi- 
tives is to strike terror into the slaves who have never fled, by a severe 
punishment. The master is judge and jury, if not executioner, to the 
only process of law to which the certificate of our magistrate can ever 
be introductory. The fate of the recaptured slave is the "lower depth 
within the lowest deep" of slavery. It is horrible enough in reality, 
but still more so to the imagination. It is the innermost dungeon of 
the prison house, which every slave has been taught from his childhood 
to hang round with whips of scorpions and to fill with the blackness 
of despair. . The want of trial by jury brings this pit of horrors before 
the feet of every colored freeman as well as every fugitive slave in the 
land. 

{See coveTf second pe^e.) 



THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 

Vol. III. No. IX. SEPTEMBER, 1837. Whole No. 33. 

ARE SLAVEHOLDERS MAN-STEALERS ? 

White-washer. Your object is a good one, I grant, but you are wrong in the 
viethod. Chimnies that liave been foul a long time should first be cautiously 
white-washed. 

Chimney-sweeper. White-wash soot I Good ! Then you can white-wash any 
thing. But how much cleaner will you make it ? My way is just to scrape it 
off and sweep it down thoroughly. 

White-washer. But then you excite such a dust I Old Dialogue. 

Names are things ; and in some cases they are very important things. 
The mass of men shun vice or rush into it according to the name. To 
the name they attach, without quahfication, the idea of right or wrong, 
and are apt to welcome a bad thing if it comes with a good name, or 
to reject a good one with a bad name. The most corrupt men and 
times do homage to virtue by borrowing frow her the names of their 
vices, and till they have contrived to get rid of the right names of 
things, they are by no means at ease in their sin. Hence the first step 
in a moral reformation is to restore to things their appropriate names. 

It is no valid objection to grouping a class of actions under one bad 
name, that the individual acts differ from each other in degrees of guilt, 
some being covered with the blackness of the pit, while some border 
on the purity of innocence, or even seem to approach the brightness of 
virtue. The common principle of wrong ought to hold the whole mass 
to its name. The divine expounder of the moral law had good reason 
lor extending the dominion of names, as he did, when he declared, He 
that hateth his brother is a murderer ; He that looketh on a woman to 
lust after her, hath committed adultery already, &c. The great gulf 
of crime hath its shallows and its bordering slime and quagmire, but 
nevertheless it is a bottomless gulf, and so it should be called. (Quali- 
fications, exceptions, buts, and ifs, must not be allowed to flatter or 
frighten us from the true names of sins to accommodate the dabblers 
about the edge of a great system of iniquity. 

Let us exercise our common sense while we inquire what man- 
stealing really is. Here a preliminary question arises. Are men 
naturally, necessarily, and in all circumstances, the rightful owners of 



2 ARE SLAVEHOLDERS MAN-STEALERS i [9h 

tiiemselves, or, are they capable of becoming the goods and chattels, 
one of another? And here we must confess the answer lies so deep 
among self-evident, and therefore underaonstrable truths, that we shall 
have to assume it. If human beings are to be regarded as stealable 
property, the chattel and the true owner are, in all cases, identical, ^ 
Hence it is, strictly speaking, impossible to steal one human being 
from another. A child may be stolen from a parent, but it must be 
stolen as a child and not as a chattel. The crime in regard to the parent 
is a violation of parental affection, rather than of the right of property. 
It may be said, indeed, that the services of the child are abstracted from 
the parent, and so far there is a violation of the right of property, but 
after all, the thief could not take from the parent that which he did not 
possess, namely, the child as an article of property. Regarded as a 
thing to be possessed and used, the child can only be stolen from him- 
self. And how can that be ? The body of the child cannot be ab- 
stracted from the soul. That would not be theft but murder. Throw 
out then the mere unessential circumstances of the local abstraction of 
property from its owner, which constitutes common theft, and the / 
stolen child becomes simply a slave. Theft applied to a human being 
as its object, is, and can be, nothing but slaveholding. The essence 
of stealing is, that the thief uses as his own that which belongs to 
another. So when the owner and the property become identical, every 
moment's wse of the owner as the property of another, and not of him- 
self, is an act of steahng. It is just as if I should walk, day after day. 
at the side of a man and constantly transfer the contents of his pockets 
into mine. The last pick would be an act of theft, as well as the first. 
So when a man is made a slave, the slaveholder uses him as a tool 
from day to day, and every day he commits what is essentially, that 
is, in its criminal nature, as much an act of theft as was the act of the 
original kidnapper in first putting on the shackles. 

Again, there is a peculiar propriety in designating that slavery to 
which millions in our country are bom and bred, by the word stealing. 
On the coast of Africa, men are made slaves by open robbery. But 
in America men are enslaved, or stolen away from themselves, secretly. 
Though secrecy is not an essential element in the guilt of theft, it is a 
very remarkable and an almost inseparable adjunct. And it is remark- 
able, too, that slaveholders attach the utmost importance to the secrecy 
with which they perpetrate their crime. They exercise the most 
sleepless vigilance to keep the slaves ignorant of their rights. They 
to feel that if the mass of the slaves were enlightened in thie 



99] ARE SLAVEHOLDERS MAN'-STEALERS T 3 

respect there would be no such thing as retaining them in bondage. 
The very education of the slave seems to consist in increasing his 
ignorance! And so wofully have the stealers of men succeded, that 
tens and hundreds of thousands drudge on till death, unconscious of 
their manhood, — 

" Like brutes they live, like brutes they die," 
furnishing the most complete illustrations of man-stealing carried out 
perfecrty in all particulars ; for, sooth to say, not unfrequently their 
very wills are stolen, and we are triumphantly, and no doubt often 
sincerely told, that they would not take their liberty if they could have 
it. Regarding the two and a half millions of slaves as a mass, the 
theft is perpetrated secretly. If the slaves could all know the whole 
truth they would instantly reclaim what is theirs ; they would drop their 
hoes to-day, and to-morrow they would be freemen working for wao-es. 

If then it be true that man is not, like a horse, or a mule, a proper 
object of property, slaveholding is strictly, and in the appropriate use 
of the word, man-stealing, and it is the only crime to which the word 
man-stealvo; is applicable. And conversely if slaveholding is not 
raan-steahng, then men are proper objects of property. 

But there are many who admit that men are not legitimate objects 
of property, that slavery is wrong and ought some time or other to be 
abolished, who nevertheless object to our calling slaveholders man- 
stealers. It is too bad, according to them, to call the most enlightened 
and refined men throughout half the country thieves and robbers. 
Truly it is too bad for such men to be so, but if they are so, which is 
the point we have endeavoured to establish, why not call them so ? 
What would be the moral effect of permitting enlightened and refined 
persons to practice shop-lifting without having the odium of theft at- 
tached to them ? The fact that the world has not before called slave- 
holding man-stealing must not be brought to prove that it is not so, for 
the very question is whether the world is right in the indulgence it hais 
granted to slavery. The question is not one of fashion or philology, but 
of reason and conscience, a question of things not of words. It is not 
our purpose to prove that slaveholders are not enUghtened and refined, 
that they are not even pious ; but to prove that they steal men, and if 
they posess the good qualities attributed to them, then they are simply 
enUghtened, refined, and pious men-stealers. A man's good charac- 
ter may come in as probable evidence against a charge of crime whilte 
the fact is in doubt, but after the fact is demonstrated or confessed, the 
argument of good character is too late. Now the fact of slaveholding 



4 ^ ARE SLAVEHOLDERS MAN-STEALERS ? [1€0 

is confessed, and it would be enough to call it slaveholding, had not 
the world attached honor to that word, just as honor was attached to 
theft in Sparta. Slaveholders are compared in the public mind with 
monarchs. In their absolutism it is admitted they may do injustice, 
but -w^hy should we denounce them any more than we do the king of 
Prussia, or king David himself? Why should we call on them imme- 
diately to emancipate their slaves, any more than we call upon the 
autocrat of Russia immediately to abdicate his throne? But the 
analogy thus sought to be estabhshed fails in every important respect. 
Russia and Prussia must have some government or other, and abso- 
lutism is better than none. On the other hand slaveholders stand be- 
tween the government and the slaves, and prevent their enjoyment 
of its benefits. The moment they abdicate their thrones their subjects 
for the first time begin to enjoy good government, they come directly 
under the common law and order of the land. Again, the subjects of 
absolute monarchs are not for that reason chattels, the subjects of 
slaveholders are. The w^orst that can be said of absolute monarchy 
is, that it is an abuse of government, a good and necessary institution ; 
the best that can be said of slavery is, that it is an outrage upon the 
very rights to protect which government exists. When slavery com- 
pares itself with government, we have the wolf playing shepherd, and 
observe how the wolf, as a wolf should, always compare himself with 
the worst sort of shepherds, such as butcher and devour their sheep. 

As might have been expected, there is a woful outcry against the 
application of the term man-stealer to slaveholders. And this fact itself, 
as we have seen it exhibited, comes little short of demonstrating the 
fitness of the term. Such a general agitation could hardly have been 
the result of any thing but unwelcome truth coming in contact with 
the public conscience. A bad name falsely applied may disturb an 
individual, but it will be perfectly unheeded by a large mass. The 
slaveholders and their friends prefer to be called any thing else than 
man-steders. They much prefer to be called tyrants. In that case 
they can plead good treatment, and their friends, if obliged to concede 
something to the spirit of liberty, will concede an abuse of power and 
hold fast to the right. But if slaveholding is to be set down as identical 
with man-stealing, there is no room for apology or reservation. And 
we have out all the retainers of slavery in full pack, shouting that we 
must not involve all in indiscriminate condemnation. There are ex- 
ceptions. Slaveholding cannot be a crime under all circumstances. 
And then we have the circumstancesj the entailment, the laws against ^ 



101] ARE SLAVEHOLtJERS MAN-STEALERS ? 5 

emancipation, the unfitness of the slaves to take care of themselves, 
the holding of slaves for their own good, &c., &c. 

In the first place let it be remarked that all the apologies, exceptions, 
palliations ^nd extenuations which are apphed to slaveholding may 
equally well be apphed to any crime that ever figured upon the New 
Gate calendar. They apply to all sorts of stealing as well as man- 
steahng, and much more abundantly. There is no crime known to the 
criminal codes which does not admit of them. And yet this is not es- 
teemed a reason why these crimes should not be reprobated in unquah- 
fied terms. It is so uniformly the custom of writers on morals and reli"- 
gion to denounce without qualification as sins, bad practices which admit 
of degrees in guilt, that one who should do otherwise would be thought 
an apologist rather than a rebuker of sin. We look about for an illus- 
tration and almost the first thing that chance throws in our way is a 
rehgious newspaper, in which v/e find the following remark : — 

" In relation to bathing on the Sabbath, we aver, first, that it is posi^ 
lively and essenticdly sinful. It is an infraction of the command to re- 
member the Sabbath day and keep it holy — a command which is 
obligatory on every individual. And no infraction of this command 
can be otherwise than sinful."* 

Had the editor gone about to quaUfy his charge by circumstances, 
to point out exceptions and palliations, and complain of the injus- 
tice of calling bathing on the Sabbath a sin, he would certainly have 
run the risk of being set down as no friend of the Sabbath. We might 
indefinitely multiply examples of such sort of denunciation. And whether 
or not it is just in the matters to which it is applied, it serves at least 
to prove that moral teachers do not permit themselves to palliate the 
sins they would bring men to repent of. And we claim that, when, 
as in the case of slavery, the sin is enormous, striking its poisonous 
roots down to the very well-springs of society, and lifting its deadly 
shade over every good institution, unqualified condemnation is strictly 
just. Let us look at the whole system, for which indulgence is craved. 
It is the offspring of the most shameful and deplorable outrage which 
ever disgraced the history of man, for it may be safely asserted that in 
all its foul and blood smeared pages nothing can be found so unre- 
servedly diabohcal as the ravaging of the coast of poor, savage 
Africa by men calling themselves civilized and Christian ! And the 
child is worthy of its parent. After all the allowances which the most 
lender-hearted apologist can claim, avarice is the presiding divinity 
over the destinies of more than two millions. It has not only trans- 
* Hartford Watchman, an anti-abolition, congregational paper. 



6 ARU SLAVEHdLDERS MAN-STEALERST [102 

formed them into brutes in law, but nearly so in fact. It has put in- 
stead of the vigor, enterprise, honesty, intelligence, patriotism and 
purity of a well paid laboring population, the sloth, thievishness, licen- 
tiousness, ignorance, malignity, fanaticism and sullen brutality of con- 
demned felons. The order of heaven is broken up ; those high and 
holy motives which were meant to sanctify and bless the toil of poverty, 
leading the human spirit upwards and onwards to the glories of its 
eternal destiny, are cut off, and in their stead cowardly and cringing 
FEAR is instilled— FEAR, the nurse of HYPOCRISY and the 
murderer of TRUTH. Heathenism is a faint term for the description 
of that moral degradation which slavery has produced all over the 
south. There is no heathenism like it It has all the dreadful elements 
of heathenism and some that are darker yet. Slavery, has not only, lik-e 
heathenism, fallen foul of the relations of man to his God, but it has 
trampled in the mire the parental and filial instincts. If there be any 
truth in the apology for the domestic slave-trade, as doubtless there is 
too much, that the separation of family ties causes but slight and 
transient grief, nothing more need be said to rouse every lover of his 
kind to eternal and uncompromising hostiUty to slaveiy. The peace 
of earth, if not the hope& of heaven, is founded upon the feehngs which 
cluster around the family hearth. The violence which is done to these 
sacred safeguards of society, by turning men into marketable commo- 
dities, is the highest social crime. The guilt which is daily accumu- 
lated on this score, by the system of American slavery, is indescribably 
great. And blind or hard-hearted must be the man who dares to ap- 
proach it with an apology. For chains, and yokes, and stocks, and 
the millions upon millions of brutal stripes, there might be some excuse 
or paUiation ventured. If the hunger and nakedness, the hopeless 
toil and the bitter physical sufferings were the worst of slavery, it 
might perhaps be true that slaveholding would not be in all cases sinful. 
But these evils, huge and horrible as they are, are not the worst of 
slavery. The cause which has brought blighting and mildew upon 
southern hearts as well as southern fields, is the turning of men into 
merchandise. When such a principle as this, openly at war with all 
the relations which God has established between His creatures, and 
between Himself and them, stands out illustrated in the misery and 
and tears and blood and brutal degradation of milUons, the slightest ' 
approach to an apology is sin. Any provision for innocent or Christian 
slaveholders, is as if Americans had sent food and clothing to the 
British army while Washington and his patriotic band werc^ famishing 



103] ARE SLAVEHOLDERS MAN-STEALER8 ? f 

and freezing at Valley Forge. If there be men of kind hearts and good 
intentions involved in the support of the slave system, in view of the 
piled up horrors of this alpine curse, they have no right to claim ex^ 
ceptioa from the general rebuke, — indeed their own natures should 
revolt from such a claim. 

But slavery, it is said, is supported by the laws of the land : how then 
can it be man-stealing ?— how can it be a crime ? How and by whom 
were the laws which support slavery made ? Did the slaves them- 
selves have a voice in them? If they did not, on the principle for which 
our fathers spilt th.ir blood, that taxation without representation is 
tyranny, these laws are tyrannous and wicked. They can give no 
sanction to slavery ; on the contrary, they enhance its criminality, 
inasmuch as they amount to a conspiracy to steal men by system. 

Again, we shall be referred to the Bible as sanctioning slavery ;-^ 
hence it cannot be man-stealing. True, it is evident the Bible does not 
sanction man-stealing, for the Mosaic law ordains that "he that 
stealeth a man and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, he shall 
surely be put to death," (Ex. xxi, IQ.) and the apostle Paul classes 
men*stealers with murderers, whoremongers and liars. (1 Tim.i, 9, 10.) 
Now if by this steahng of men we are to understand stealing of slaves, 
the Mosaic law was unjust, or at least flagrantly inconsistent with 
itself, for it punished the stealing of one kind of property with the res- 
toration of four or five fold, and another with death. If slaves were held 
imder the Mosaic law as property, why was not the stealing of a slate 
punished by obliging the thief to restore four or more slaves. The trutli 
is, slave-stealing was not known to the Mosaic law because slavehold-^ 
ing itself was by that law a capital crime. The lawgiver did not 
trouble himself to punish the crime of one felon upon another. The 
servitude which was permitted by the law was not a chattel bondage 
but a voluntary and requited servitude. Those who were bought, 
whether of Jevt-s or heathen, were bought of themselves, and that which 
they sold was not, as some absurdly imagine, the ownership of them- 
selves, and their posterity for ever, but of their own labor for a longer 
or shorter time, and the longest time which the law allowed was forty* 
nine years.* It is only by foul play and downright torture that the 

♦ The reader is referred for a full exposition of the doctrine of the Old Testa' 
ment on slavery to an article in the Quarterly Anti-Slavery Magazine for Aprils 
1837, entitled, " Is slavery from above or from beneath V The Bible is there 
•''ally disabused of the iniquitous glosses which were put upon it by translators' 
tvho lived during the flourishing of the African Slave-Trade. 



8 ARE SLAVEHOLDERS MAN-STEALERS t [104 

Bible can be- made to give the least countenance to slavery, and the 
most learned Doctors of Divinity and Biblical critics w^ho have set 
themselves at work to defend slavery from that blessed book, have been 
obliged to confess thatits doctrines would " ultimately destroy slavery."* 
If slaveholding is really man-stealing, we have a few inferences to 
make. 

1. The sooner it is left off the better. Honesty is certainly the best 
pohcy, whether on a large scale or a small one. Say what we will about 
established relations, no harm can come to any body by a return to 
simple honesty. 

2. The only honest advice to slaveholders is, to " quit stealing,^^ or 
as the apostle expressed it "let him that stole steal no more, but rather 
let him labor, &c." By using soft language, by speaking of slaves as 
servants, by talking about constituted relations, &c., &c., we hide 
from the slaveholder the true nature of his actions. We do not place 
him where he belongs, at the head of the whole race of thieves. But 
there he must be placed both in the public opinion and his own before 
we can expect him to give up his sin. 

3. If slaveholdins; is man-stealing, the sood treatment bestowed 



' See Professor Stuart's Letter to Dr. Fisk. (Emancipator for June 15th< 
1837.) This learned critic holds the doctrine that man-stealing, though at the 
beginning criminal, may become innocent if persevered in for a sufficient 
time. This doctrine he distinctly avowed to us in letters from which we shall 
proceed to quote. In a letter, dated, " Andover, Feb. 3, 1834." he says, '' No- 
thing can be more abhorrent from the genius of this blessed religion than the 
spirit and practice of slavery. But my belief is, that the great Head of the 
Church does not demand the instantaneous dissolution of all relations of 
this nature, WHEN they have long existed, and have been exhibiting even 
all their baneful influence." In another letter, dated, " Andover, 19th Feb., 1834," 
he says, " The real t/uth is, that the original act of enslaving a man, (except 
for crime,) is a gross misdeed— and does stand next to murder. But the rela^ 
tion once constituted, and, the fabric of Society being built up as inter- 
woven with it, you cannot take out the texture at once without spoiling the 
cioth. You must weave a neio piece — and do as well with the old one as you 
can. Is now the first time, that any indulgence has been thought expedient 
(and by heaven itself too,) because of the hardness of m.en's hearts ?" We 
suppose the learned professor will admit that when Moses gave the Law of God 
from Sinai, the man-stealing relation was not yet established among the Israel 
ites, of course he cannot pretend that that Law gave them any license to commit 
such a " misdeed." Whether he gets a sanction for the continuance of the 
'• misdeed," after it should be " constituted" into a "relation," from the Bible. 
or from " expediency y" remains for hira to explain, and for our readers, in the ' 
meantime, to guess, ^ 



105] ARE SLAVEHOLDERS MAN-STEALERS ? 9 

upon slaves is no extenuation of the crime. They are none the less 
stolen because they are made to fare sumptuously. 

4. Slaveholding being identical with man-stealing the toleration of 
it in the churches of Christ, is disgraceful to Christianity. 

There are few who will deny that the first act of enslaving a freeman 
is the crime which the apostle classed with murder, fornication, lying 
and perjury. It follows, for any thing we can see to the contrary, that 
the circumstances Avhicsh are deemed to justify the toleration of slavery 
in the church, would in like manner tolerate the other crimes, if they 
were as prevalent and fashionable in the church. Suppose that half 
the church were composed of profane and lewd men wearing weapons 
of death which upon the slightest provocation they used for the de- 
struction of their fellow-men. We should then have pious divines 
solemnly cautioning those who would agitate the subject of murder, 
not to disturb the peace of the church, and not to interfere with the ap- 
propriate use of the gospel, the conversion of souls. And we should 
have another set of anti-murder, anti-fornication^ and anti-perjury men 
counselling against a separation from murderers, fornicators and per- 
jurers, year after year, " till every effort to reclaim them has been tried — '* 
holding on to the pie-bald church for the sake of exercising greater 
influence, &c. For our own part, if slavery is a sin of such magnitude 
as to deserve the epithet national, if it does indeed threaten the entire 
wreck of our social system, we do not see what more happy and glo- 
rious deUverance could come to the church of Christ than to be wholly 
and for ever separated from it. The well-being of a church surely does 
not consist in its extent and numbers, but in the purity of its doctrines 
and the uniformity and consistency with which they are lived up to» 
We do not see how the American churches as a body can possibly have 
any other influence than to retard the progress of Christianity, while 
they actually embosom and cherish dishonesty and thievery. 

5. Those who oppose the doctrines of immediate emancipation lest 
the spread of them should lead to the dissolution of the Union, might 
as well oppose any other form of honesty lest it should lead to the 
same result Government is administered and submitted to for the 
very purpose of protecting those precious rights of which slavery or 
man-stealing is the grossest violation. If then the government is not 
strong enough to bear the assertion of the rights it is made to protect, 
what is it good for? How much better is it than a wooden chimney 
in which a fire must not be kindled lest it should burn up ? or rather 
a chimney of ice, to save the integrity of which no fire must be madem 



10 TESTIMONY. [106 

the house ? The truth is, that no government can endure with the 
•od of oppression in one hand and the sword of justice in the other. 
No government can be permanent which permits one class of thieves to 
ride in coaches and compels another to rot in jails. And if we have 
not mistaken the true nature of slavery, it will not only hold in check 
the progress of liberal politics among the nations, by its mischievous 
connection with our republican government, but it will drag our re- 
publicanism down to a premature and dishonorable grave. 



TESTIMONY. 

The following extracts will show that the view which has been 
taken of slavery in the preceding pages is not a novelty. 

And [they] SOLD Joseph to the Ishmaelites for twenty pieces of 
silver ; and they brought Joseph into Egypt. — Genesis, xxxvii, 28. 

For indeed I was STOLEN away out of the land of the Hebrews. — 

HE THAT STEALETH A MAN AND SELLETH HIM, 
OR IF HE BE FOUND IN HIS HAND, HE SHALL SURELY 
BE PUT TO DEA.tr.— Exodus xxi, 1 6. 

Jarchi, a very eminent Jewish commentator, who wrote seven 
hundred years ago, thus comments on this passage : — " Using a man 
against his will, as a servant lawfully purchased; yea, though he shotild 
use his services ever so little, only to the value of a farthing, or use but his 
arm to lean on to support him, if he be forced so to act as a servant, the 
person compelling him but once to do so, shall die as a THIEF, whether 
he has sold him or not.'''' ' 

Thou shalt not deliver unto his master the servant that is escaped 
from his master unto thee. — Deuteronomy xxiii, 15. 

PRESBYTERIAN CATECHISM, 

Previous to the year 1818, the following comment stood as a note 
explanatory of the one hundred and forty-second question of the Larger 
Catechism of the celebrated "Westminster Assembly of Divines." 

"1 Tim. i, 10. The law is made for men-stealers. This crime 
among the Jews exposed the perpetrators of it to capital punishment ; 
Exodus xxi, 16 ; and tb'^ apostle here classes them with sinners of the 
first rank. The word he 'ises, in its original import, comprehends all 
who are concerned in brining any of the human race into slavery or 
in retaining them in it. Hominum fures, qui servos vel liberos ahducunt, 
retinent, vendunt, vel emunt. Stealers of men are all those who bring 
off slaves or freemen, and keep, sell, or buy them. To steal a freeman, 
says Grotius, is the highest kind of theft. In other instances, we only 
steal human property, but when we steal or retain men in slavery, we 
seize those who, in common with ourselves, are constituted by the origi- 
nal grant, lords of the earth. — Genesis i, 28. Vide Pali synopsinin ioc." 



107 TESTIMONY. 



JUDGE BLACKSTONE. 



" The three origins of the right of slavery assigned by Justinian are 
all built upon false foundations. 1. Slavery is said to arise from 
captivity in war. The conqueror having a right to thd life of his 
captives, if he spares that, has a right to do with them as he pleases. 
But this is untrue, that by the laws of nations a man has a right to kill 
his enemy. He has only a right to kill him in cases of absolute 
necessity," for self-defence. And it is plain this absolute necessity did 
not subsist, since he did not kill him, but made him prisoner. War 
itself is justifiable only on principles of self-preservation. Therefore 
it gives us no right over prisoners, but to hinder their hurting us by 
confining them. Much less can it give a right to torture, or kill, or 
even enslave an enemy, when the war is over. Since, therefore, the 
right of maki'^ig our prisoners slaves, depends on a supposed right of 
slaughter, that foundation failing, the consequence which is drawn from 
it, must fail likewise. 2. It is said, slavery may begin by one man's 
selHng himself to another. It is true, a man may sell himself to work 
for another; but he cannot sell himself to be a slave, as above defined. 
Every sale implies an equivalent given to the seller, in lieu of what he 
transfers to the buyer. But what equivalent can be given for life or 
liberty? His property likewise, with the very price which he seems 
to receive, devolves to his master the moment he becomes his slave : 
in this case, therefore, the buyer gives nothing. Of what validity then 
can a law be, which destroys the very principle upon which all sales 
are founded. 3. We are told that men may be born slaves, by being 
the children of slaves. But this, being built upon the two former false 
claims, must fall with them. If neither captivity nor contract, by the 
plain law of nature and reason, can reduce the parent to a state of 
slavery, much less can tliey reduce the offspring." 

JONATHAN EDWARDS. 

"To hold a slave, who has a right to his liberty, is not only a real 
crime, but a very great one. Does this conclusion seem strarge to any 
of you ? You will not deny that liberty is more valuable than property ; 
and that it is a greater sin to deprive a man of his whole liberty during 
life, than to deprive him of his whole property ; or, that man- stealing 
is a greater crime than robbery. Nor will you deny, that to hold in 
slavery a man who was stolen, is substantially the same crime as to steal 
him. These principles being undeniable, I leave it to yourselves to 
draw the plain and necessary consequence." 

HENRY BROUGHHAM. 

" Tell me not of rights— talk not of the property of the planter in 
his slaves. 1 deny the right — I acknowledge not the property. The 
principles, the feelings, of our common nature, rise in rebellion against 
it. Be the appeal made to the understanding or to the heart, the sen- 
tence is the same that rejects it. In vain you tell me of laws that 
sanction such a claim ! There is a law above all the enactments of 
human codes — the same throughout the world, the same in all timee— - 



12 TESTIMONY. [108 

such as it was before the daring genius of Cohimbus pierced the night 
of ages, and opened to one world the sources of power, wealth and 
knowledge ; to another, all unutterable woes ; such it is at this day ; 
it is the law written by the finger of God on the heart of man ; and by 
that law, unchangeable and eternal, while men despise fraud, and 
loathe rapine, and abhor blood, they shall reject with indignation the 
wild and guilty fantasy, that man can hold property in man !" 

JOHN WESLEY. 

" Men-'huyers are exactly on a level xoith men-stealers ! Indeed you 
say, ' I pay honestly for my goods ; and I am not concerned to know 
how they are come by.' Nay, but you are : you are deeply concerned 
to know they are honestly come by : otherwise you are partaker with 
a thief, and are not a jot honester than he. But you know they are 
not honestly come, by : you know they are procured by means nothing 
near so innocent as picking pockets, house-breaking, or robbery upon the 
highway. You know they are procured by a dehberate species of 
more comphcated villany, of fraud, robbery and murder, than was ever 
practised by Mohammedans or Pagans ; in particular, by murders of 
all kinds ; by the blood of the innocent poured upon the ground like 
water. Now it is yoxir money that pays the African butcher. You 
therefore are principally guilty of all these frauds, robberies and mur- 
ders. You are the spring that puts all the rest in motion. They would 
not stir a step without you : therefore the blood of all these wretches 
who die before their time Ues upon your head. ' The blood of thy 
brother crieth against thee from the earth.' O whatever it costs, put 
a stop to its cry before it be too late ; instantly, at any price, were it 
half of your goods, deUver thyself from blood guiltiness! Thy hands, 
thy bed, thy furniture, thy house and thy lands at present are stained with 
blood. Surely it is enough ; accumulate no more guilt: spill no more 
the blood of the innocent. Do not hire another to shed blood ; do not 
pay him for doing it. Whether you are a Christian or not, show 
yourself a man ! Be not more savage than a lion or a bear ! 

" Perhaps you will say : ' I do not buy any slaves ; I only use 
those left by my father.' But is that enough to satisfy your conscience ? 
Had your father, have you, has any man living a right to use another 
as a slave? It cannot be, even setting revelation aside. Neither war 
nor contract can give any man such a property in another as he has in 
his sheep and oxen. Much less is it possible, that any child of man 
should ever be born a slave. Liberty is the right of every human 
creature, as soon as he breathes the vital air : and no human law can 
deprive him of that right which he derives from the law of nature. If, 
therefore, you have any regard to justice, to say nothing of mercy, or 
of the reveafed law of God, render unto all their due. Give liberty to 
whom liberty is due, to every child of man, to every partaker of human 
nature. Let none serve you but by his own act and deed, by his own 
voluntary choice. Away with all whips, all chains, all compulsion '. 
Be gentle toward all men, and see that you invariably do unto every 
one, as you would he should do unto you." 



THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 

Vol. III. No. X. OCTOBER, 1837. Whole No. 34. 

LETTER TO A MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL. 

Dear Sir,— Suffer me to tell you a short story as an introduction 
to a very important subject to which I wish to call your attention. 

Before the days of rail-roads, a pedler who was passing the Alle- 
ghany mountains with his commodious covered wagon, well stocked 
■vvith a variety of wares, was suddenly arrested near the foot of one of 
those mighty ridges, by a piteous moan, which proceeded from a dense 
thicket in the ravine beneath the road. He instantly checked his 
rattling vehicle, and the sound was distinctly repeated* Pedler though 
he was, there was too much flesh in his heart to turn away from the 
cry of human distress ; so, without heeding the danger of robbers, of 
which his knowedge of that wild and solitary road made him well 
aware, he turned his horse to the up-hill side, and making him fast to 
a projecting root, immediately clambered down the steep bank of the 
ravine. The object of his benevolent search was presently before him. 
Beside the stream which trickled down the gullied rocks, lay a man 
vidth his clothes torn and blood-smeared. He was a traveller who had 
been assaulted and wounded by robbers, thrown'down the bank and 
left for dead, three days before. In the agony of his pain and fever he 
had crawled to the water to wet his parched lips. The stout pedlef 
raised the poor fellow upon his shoulders and with some difficulty bore 
him up the steep bank and deposited him on a buffalo skin in his 
wagon. In the next house he doubted not he should find for him a 
hospital and good care, for surely no one would refuse to receive so 
pitiable an object. And right glad was our pedler, on emerging from 
the forest of the mountain side, to discover a house more than usually 
spacious, and which was evidently not unused to the accommodation 
of travellers, though it was not professedly a tavern. He knocked 
hastily at the door and was accosted by a good-looking personage, the 
proprietor of the house. " I have brought you," said the pedler, " a man 
who has been robbed and wounded on the highway, whom I found 
about a mile back, just ready to die; will you take him into your 
house and take care of him ?" " J^To, I cannot," replied the good-look- 



2 LETTER TO A MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL. [110 

ing proprietor — " my house is devoted to the accommodation of select; 
parties of gentlemen and ladies, and receiving this man might disturb 
some of my regular guests — besides it might involve me in a quarrel 
w^ith the robbers — and yet fiirthermore, I deny your right to make any 
such demand of me. Why, if I admit this man at your request, I 
might be obUged to yield to the wishes of every vagabond and stroller 
who comes along." "I demarid it only in the name of humanity," 
replied the pedler, " by whose laws you are bound, no less than myself; 
and I take the liberty to say, if you turn this poor stranger from your 
door, the curse of his God will rest upon you." Upon this, the poor 
wretch, whose festering wounds could ill bear a moment's delay of the 
requisite dressings, much less the harsh jolting of the wagon, groaned 
afresh, and the pedler drove on. 

Having pursued this painful story far enough for ray purpose, without 
disgracing human nature by affirming its truth, I take my leave of it^ 
You will agree with me that the same humanity which required the 
pedler to take up the wounded traveller, made it equally the duty of 
the good-looking proprietor to receive him into his house ; and this 
without at all disturbing his right as a proprietor to dispose of his house 
as he pleased. Civilly, or as regarded the laws of the land, he had a 
right to shut his doors, but, morally, or as regarded duty to God, and 
love to man, he had not. If we are agreed, then, upon the principle that 
extreme suffeiing constitutes a claim upon those who have the power to 
relieve it, let me proceed to advocate the claim of two and a half mil- 
lions of American slaves to be preached for and prayed for, in every 
American pulpit. 

1. The sufferings of the slaves are sufficient to call forth the utmost 
exertions for their relief. 

To estimate their sufferings aright, we must first consider that they 
are MEN. They are bom with the same constitutions, powers, 
passions, desires, and susceptibilities as ourselves. Even supposing 
them unconscious of their bondage, as a man born deaf is of sounds, 
or one born blind is of colors, we ought to pity them as much as we 
do the deaf and the blind ; but they are not unconscious. Their smiles 
are not the smiles of contentment but of hypocrisy. In the language 
of George Horton, himself a slave, " they languish to be free." Said 
that poet in chains, 

" Oh, Liberty ! thou golden prize, 

So often bought by blood— 
We crave thy sacred sun to rise, 

The gift of nature's God! 



Ill] LETTER TO A MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL. 3 

" Bid slavery hide her haggard face, 

And barbarism fly : 
/ scorn to see the sad disgrace 

In which enslaved I lie."* 

Says James Bradley, a self-emancipated slave, "My master had 
kept me ignorant of every thing he could. I was never told any thing 
about God or my own soul. Yet from the time I was fourteen years 
old, I used to think a great deal about freedom. It was my heart's 
desire; I could not keep it out of my mind. Many a sleepless night 
I have spent in tears because I was a slave. I looked back on all I had 
suffered — and when I looked ahead, all was dark and hopeless bon- 
dage."! Such is slave-testimony in regard to the contentment of 
slaves under the kindest of masters. We might quote much more to 
the same effect, and vastly more still might be had but for the obvious 
poUcy, v/hich slaves are not slow to learn, of concealing their discontent, 
not only from their masters, but from the whole world. To such con- 
cealment many of them have been indebted for the opportunity to 
secure their freedom. We may, then, fairly put ourselves in the place 
of the slaves, and measure their feelings by the sensibilities of our own 
hearts. How should we feel under the laws to which the slaves are 
subjected — laws regarding us as men only for the better security of the 
interests of others, but brutes in relation to all interests of our own ? 
Could we calmly contemplate our destiny and that of our children, to 
the latest generation, dependent upon the will and good pleasure of 
whatever despot accident may have made the purchaser of our bodies ? 
What would avail kindness, if we must be slaves ? What would avail 
good treatment, if it all hung upon the thread of a master's life? What 
would it avail us to fare sumptuously every day, if we must be deprived 
of self-respect, and regard ourselves as mere appendages of another? 
Slavery, at the very best, has something in it from which we recoil 
with horror. Its whole atmosphere is tainted with death to the soul. 
If it have joys, they are like the mirth that is sometimes seen amidst 
the groans of a gi-eat pest-house, — they are like the pleasure that showed 
itself in the prisons of Paris in the days of Robespierre. The great 
object of holding slaves is gain. Every hour of extra labor that can 
be extorted from the slave, and every yard of cloth and pound of food 
that can be withheld from him, is so much clear gain to the master. 
"The end of slavery," says Judge Ruffin of North Carolina, 'Hs the 
profit of the master. The slave is doomed in his person and his posterity, 

* See " Poems by a slave," for sale at the Anti-Slavery office 
t Mrs. Child's Oasis, page 108. 



4 LETTER TO A MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL. [Il2r 

to live without knowledge and without capacity to make any thing his 
own, and to toil that another may reap the fruits."* We have the testi- 
mony of the Rev. James Smylie, in his defence of slavery, that this is 
the case with the slaves of the great body of even professedly pious 
slaveholders. Such do not scruple to hold slaves for the sake of gain. 
Says Mr. Smylie, " If slavery be a sin, and if advertising and appre- 
hending slaves with a view to restore them to their masters, is a direct 
violation of the divine law, and if the buying, selling, or holding a slave, 
for the sake of gain, is a heinous sin and scandal, then, verily, three- 
fourths of all the Episcopalians, Methodists, Baptists, and Presbyterians, 
in eleven states of the Union, are of the devil. They ' hold,' if they do 
not buy and sell slaves, and, with feio exceptions, they hesitate not to 
' apprehend and restore' runaway slaves, when in their power." What 
then must be the condition of the poor wretches delivered over by the law 
to the absolute, irresponsible control of men who not only covet gain, 
but a great deal of it — whose outgoes are always eating up their incomes 
and crying, More, more ! Imagination is too feeble to paint, and lan- 
guage too poor to describe the misery which is the necessary and actual 
consequence of this hideous system. Said Mr. Swain of North 
Carolina, in a public address, in 1830, and his testimony does not 
admit of doubt. 

"Let any man of spirit and feeling, for a moment cast his thoughts 
over this land of slavery — think of the nakedness of some, the hungry 
yearnings of others, ihefioioing tears and heaving sighs of parting rela- 
tions, the waitings arid wo, the bloody cut of the keen lash, and the fright- 
ful scream that rends the very skies — and all this to gratify ambition, 
lust, pride, avarice, vanity, and other depraved feelings of the human 

heart THE WORST IS MOT GEJ^ERALLY KJ^OWJ^. 

Were all the miseries, the horrors of slavery, to burst at once into 
view, a peal of seven-fold thunder could scarce strike greater alarm." 

I need not resort to tales of special horror ; I need not take the testi- 
mony of fugitive slaves, nor even of travellers opposed to the system, 
there is enough even in testimony of slaveholders themselves, and the 
incidental disclosures of men whose interests bind them to favor the 
system, to make out a case for compassion as strong as that of the 
man who fell among thieves and was left weltering in his blood by the 
wayside. Even admitting all to be true which is claimed by the apolo- 
gists of slavery, as to the general kind treatment of the slaves, you can 
have no doubt that there must still exist in individual cases so great an 

* State vs. Mann. 2 Devereaux North Car. Reports ^3. 



113] LETTER TO A MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL. 5 

excess of human misery chargeable to the principle of holding men as 
property, that it ought to be abandoned. 

But why should I dwell on physical suffering ? With your views 
of the worth and dignity of the immortal soul of man, there is an aspect 
of American bondage upon which you must look with ten-fold horror. 
"Why have you spurned wealth, and ease, and popular favor to preach 
the gospel of Christ ? Because you regard the interests of the soul as 
infinitely superior to tliose of the body. It is upon the soul* you see 
the image of the all- wise and eternal God ; it is there that you see 
folded up a germ of being which may be drawn out by right culture, 
and which will expand in glory and honor and power when this world 
shall be remembered but as a dream. You feel certain that this 
glorious and wonderful structure of mind must be peculiarly dear to 
Him who made it — that He must regard it as the crowning excellence 
and chief end of his lower creation, that He must be jealous of encroach- 
ments upon its rights, and perversions of the high faculties with which 
He ha£ endowed it, to base and unworthy purposes. Your regard, 
then, both for God and man, will impel you to take a deep interest in 
the subject of human bondage. All physical sufferings will sink out 
of sight in con)parison of the degradation and blight of the soul when 
it becomes the mere animating principle of a money-getting machine. 
You will feel that a most horrible crime is committed, when you see 
the basest selfishness shutting out from the human spirit all the sacred 
influences and responsibilities which God has provided to train, enlarge, 
ripen, and glorify it! You will see, in the southern slave-laws, 
daggers for the murder of the soul ; and the dead and wounded you 
will find equal in number to the whole enslaved population. 

Hence the slaves have upon you, as a minister of the gospel, peculiar 
and imperative claims. Your Master came into this world on purpose 
to preach good news to the poor, to bind up the broken-hearted, restore 
sight to the Mind, deUver the captives, and set at liberty the bruised. 
No victim of physical suffering crossed his patli unblessed. While his 
benignant smile and gracious promise kindled hope for the future, his 
kind, brotherly hand soothed the anguish of the present. What right 
have you to call yourself his minister, if you do not make the case of 
the poor, bruised, broken-hearted captives as much your own as if they 
were your own mother's children ? What right have you to profess 
yourself a Christian laborer for the salvation of souls, when you can 
look unmoved upon the wholesale destruction of souls? 

Again, the succor of the wronged is a duty which we owe to the 



6 LETTER TO A MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL. [114 

human race. Society would justly consider the man who should turn 
from his door the poor wounded stranger, as its enemy — an aider and 
abettor of robbery. There is no neutraUty in such a case. Neither 
can there be in the case of slavery. It is a crime against society at " 
large. The enslavement of one man nurtures passions and creates 
and strengthens appetites, or, as they are sometimes called, necessities, 
v.'hich are dangerous to the liberty of others. The fashion of living 
upon the labor of others, and especially of using others as mere tools, 
is one which cannot remain stationary. It is rapidly aggressive. It 
stops at no geographical line, at no determinate sum, at no hue of the 
skin. It is a gangrene in the social system, and if not absolutely and 
entirely removed, it must corrupt and destroy the whole. If there were 
to be landed on our shores a thousand missionaries from some old 
European despotism, with the design to persuade our fellow citizens 
that labor is disreputable, and that to avoid it a man may wrest from 
his neighbor, wife, and children, and hberty ; if they should privately 
and publicly preach that some form of slavery or other is absolutely 
necessary to the well-being of the social system, and that the gospel, 
so far from requiring every man to earn bis own Uving, by liis own 
labor, authorizes one part of mankind to live on the labor of the other, 
you would consider the morality of the nation most seriously invaded. 
You would feel yourself called upon, as a minister of the true gospel, to 
sound the note of warning, in the pulpit and out of it. You would 
pronounce such doctrines destructive of all the objects of religion, and 
ruinous to the soul. Yet there is a vastly more formidable host 
preaching the same doctrines, or promulgating them by an example a 
thousand times more powerful than preaching. Yes, we have lived to 
see such doctrines boldly avowed, both in the senate chamber and the 
pulpit ; and long have they been preached more effectually, though 
less honestly, not only in the senate and the pulpit, but in all our 
colleges, and seminaries, in our steamboats, stages, and hotels, in our 
ball-rooms, and theatres, in our counting-houses and parlors, and, in 
short, wherever slaveholders with their fascinating manners and 
cheap-bought liberality, have mingled with us. Thousands of northern 
men, too, have imbibed these doctrines at the South, where they have 
partaken of the plunder, and learned to admire the plunderers. So 
fearfully have the converts multiplied, and so deep and powerful is the 
sympathy with the robber-missionaries, that there is hardly a city or 
village in the land where their doctrines can be contradicted and their 
wickedness exposed without provoking an outburst of brutal and 



115] LETTER TO A MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL. 7 

unlawtul violence! But need I argue this point? Are you the man 
who need be told that the moral influence of crime cannot be confined 
to the criminal ? that two and a half millions cannot be robbed of their 
manhood without bringing guilt and pollution upon all who acquiesce 
in the wrong, or who knowing it, do not lift a finger to right it? 

In the next place, not only is the case one which demands the inter 
ference of the ministers of the gospel, but it is one which is placed 
within their control. Both the friends and the enemies of the pulpit 
attribute to it great power. It is not because abolitionists undervalue 
the pastoral oflice that they are so earnest to enlist ministers in the 
cause of the slave, but because they estimate very highly its dignity 
and weight. It is in the power of the pulpit to put an end to the system 
of slavery. The formation of public sentiment on moral and rehgious 
subjects is to a great extent the work of ministers of the gospel. But 
on this subject, so obvious and unanswerable are the arguments for 
equal rights and immediate emancipation, they have only to open their 
mouths for the truth, and the work is done. They have indeed little 
to do but to withdraw the support which they have given ; for most 
lamentable is the truth, that the silent acquiescence and oftentimes ex- 
press approval of the Christian ministry has done more to sustain and 
perpetuate slavery than any other cause. Without their support, 
neither laws, nor talents, nor wealth, nor wickedness could have sus- 
tained it. From the sacred armory of the pulpit have been stolen the 
only defences which have been of any avail to keep ofi" the shafts of 
truth. Our most determined and wary opponents are obliged to 
admit' that the gospel will ultimately overthrow slavery. The position 
that the gospel can take root and produce its fruit from age to age in 
the midst of chattel-bondage, is too monstrous to be adventured by 
any one who cares much for the reputation of believing the gospel. 
No, the one system or the other must conquer at last ; and our pro- 
slavery divines tell us that the gospel will infallibly do so in the long 
run ! Why do they make such an admission ? Because they arc 
conscious that there is that in the gospel which if faithfully applied and 
honestly lived up to, will destroy slavery wherever it touches it, and 
lis fast as it touches it. I take this admission as very strong evidence 
of great anti-slavery power in the gospel. The class of men who 
make it, have every motive to deny the contrariety of the gospel to 
slavery, for if there be any such contrariety they are demonstrably 
guilty. For tinder their administration of the gospel, these many 
years back, it is plain to the world that slavery has been constantly 



8 LETTER TO A MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL. [116 

and rapidly increasing. The truth is, the only reason why the progress 
of things has not been the other way, is, that the gospel has not been 
applied; it is not the fault of the gospel, but of the ministers. If the 
early preachers of the gospel had acted towards idolatry as the Ameri- 
can churches have towards slavery, we should be bowing down this 
day to painted billets of wood — Christians perhaps in name and theory, 
but pagans in practice. It was only because they made no compromise 
with the popular superstition, that they overthrew it. Suppose that 
Paul had only asked of the Athenians to admit the Living and True 
God to a place among their thirty thousand, had organized churches of 
idolaters and contented himself with the notion that, as the spirit of 
the gospel v/as so hostile to idolatry, being once introduced and having 
gained foothold in Athens, it would soften down, modify and finally ea^t 
out and bring to nothing the worship of false gods in that enlightened 
city ! Would he have succeeded ? Our common sense supphes us 
with an answer. But when he stood alone on Mars' Hill and spoke 
the simple truth, and sought to draw men utterly away from their 
foolish worship of " gold, silver, or stone, graven by art and man's 
device," our hearts tell us that in the TRUTH he had an engine of 
irresistible power, and we hardly need the sacred historian to say that 
" certain men clave unto him," we know they must have done so, and 
we know too that a multitude who did not, were inwardly convicted 
of the sin and folly of their ways. Now the gospel, operating in the 
same way, is equally powerful against slavery. It reveals to us the 
relation and duty of man to man, no less plainly than the relation 
and duty of man to his God. It enjoins an immediate fulfilment 
of the relation, in the one case not less than in the other. The first 
act in obedience to its golden rule is death to the relation of man to 
man as owner to a chattel. Such was the blaze of light in which 
this truth was placed by the preaching and conduct of the apostles^ 
that the question whether a Christian had a right to continue a slave- 
holder, was considered too absurd to be asked. It was taken for 
granted, as the merest matter of course, that masters after their con- 
version would not hold their servants as slaves.* Hence early Chris- 



* Had our pr-esent version of the New Testament been made before the un- 
hallowed era of African slavery, my assertion would probably have been borne 
out by 1 Tim. vi, 2. a passage which is now perfectly unintelligible. I say ^o- 
bably, for I know not what but a wilhngness to soothe the conscience of their royal 
master in licencing the merchandise of men, couldhave warped translators, usually 
so clear-sighted, from a plain and obvious meaning into bald nonsense. The 



117] LETTER TO A MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL. 9 

tianity, though it had other and more difficult work to do, did over- 
throw slavery whenever it gained a foothold, sweeping away the 
unnatural relation, wherever it went, and bringing master and servant 
together on the level of a common brotherhood. I speak now of the 
reality of slavery, not of the name by which slaves as well as other 
servants were generally called, that word in its general import meant 
nothing unfair or dishonorable ! 

Why should not the gospel, applied in the same way, have the same 
power now that it had then ? I cannot but believe it would produce 
the same effect in far less time, for now it has not so many other great 
obstacles to encounter. Its other opponents have in a great measure 
left the field, and its whole power may now be brought upon this one 
enemy. Men have not to be convinced of the existence of one only 
living and true God, of the resurrection and the coming judgment. 
All these points are fully admitted. The sinfulness of slaveholding is 
but the next necessary link in the chain of truth. 

But my dear sir, it is absolutely essential to success, that the gospel 
should he applied as it loas by the apostles. With all our boasts about 
the holiness and power of our religion for these two or three hundred 
years past, it is plain slavery has been winning an easy victory over 
it, and that it has long been as powerless to help the slave as he has 
been to help himself Slaveholders have been admitted to the church, 
and slavery has been justified from the Bible ! In this case, what 
could the Church do, and what could the Bible do ? Could the 
Church preach one thing and practice another? Were the anti- 
slavery principles of the Bible worth a straw, while slaveholders were 
allowed an inch or a hair's breadth of space in its hallowed precincts ? 
Nc. If there were one sentence in the Bible admitting slavery, there 
might be ten thousand against it without any other effect than that of 
confounding itself The first thing to be done, to place ourselves 

apostle advised servants who had " believing masters" to serve them, simply 
because they were now faithful, beloved men. and would well reward 
THEIR SERVICE,— a Very good reason indeed. But the translators, not only 
without authority but against authority, make the apostle give such advice, 
because the masters were ^^ partakers of the benefit," — a reason which is no rea- 
son, for surely a man's being a partaker of one benefit already, is. no reason 
why I should confer upon him another by my service ! To make the language 
of the apostle inteUigible, we are driven to the supposition that he took it for 
granted that a believing master would be the best pay-master of his servants, and 
truly an apostle has a right to be understood when he uses plain Greek.— Se© 
Quarterly Anti-Slavery Magazine, Vol. I. page 361. 



10 LETTER TO A MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL. [118 

where Paul and Peter stood, is either to cast slavery out of the church, 
or to organise the church anew so as to hold no fellowship with it, 
and to show that the Bible does not in any sentence, word, or syllable, 
afford to the slaveholder any justification whatever. Taking this out- 
set we might go on from conquest to conquest, leaving no enemies in 
our rear, having no traitors in our camp. The success of the gospel, 
thus arrayed against slavery, would be beyond any thing that has been 
seen in our days, for the attitude which its preachers have taken on 
this subject has paralyzed their energies and hindered their success on 
every other — which leads me to another topic. 

The shutting of the pulpit to the claims of the slave, and its sycophancy 
to the slaveholder, have brought deep reproach upon the gospel. Who of 
all the enemies of Christ does not know that his rehgion claims to be 
the friend of the friendless, that it professes to level pride and send the 
highest of the high down to the side of the meanest victim of oppres- 
sion ? Well would it be, says the scoffer, if it worked so. But every 
scoffer knows that it does not, and with a laugh of bitter scorn points 
to the poor neglected slave for the proof. Sea and land they will 
compass, he says, to make one proselyte, and add to the glory of their 
church, but if ease, and popularity, and safety, and money are to be 
spent to raise the poor bruised captive from his prison house, they are 
on the other side of the way. More candid minds, too, are afHicted 
with painful doubts, when they see that the Christian religion with all 
its solemn motives and awful sanctions gets no practical hold of the 
hearts and lives of its professors. Can it be, says the wary inquirer, 
that a religion is from God which leaves the mind dead to such enormous 
wrong? Can that instrumentality be designed to reclaim the world 
from sin, which utterly overlooks the most enormous of sins with which 
it is placed in absolute contact? What wonder when the case is 
pitiable enough to call angels from their spheres, and to make the 
very rocks weep ; and when the wrong is outrageous enough to make 
the stoutest tremble for the foundations of social happiness ; and 
when the gospel ministry have in their hands the power to assuage the 
woe and check the wrong, and will not use it, — what wonder, I say, if 
the wicked triumph over the gospel, and the weak and doubting de- 
spair of it ? And what wonder if God should forsake such a ministry ? 
Have we not found it hard to account for the smallness of the success 
which has attended all modern efforts to spread the gospel in foreign 
parts ? What a world of ado has been made to convert the heathen, 
and after all how little has been done ! How long would the little 



119] LETTER TO A MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL. 11 

christian lights that have been kindled by American missionaries con- 
tinue to burn, if the missionaries were to be recalled ? Perhaps it 
it would not to be very unreasonable to expect that the dark waves of 
heathenism would roll over them all, in less than five years ! Why, 
the forces now in the missionary field, at the outset of Chnstianity, 
would have given the death-blow to paganism in every country which 
they have visited. But if any suppose that I underrate the success o:' 
missionary labors, they will still agree with me that it has been very 
small compared with the expense of life and means. The frown of 
God seems to be upon it, for some reason or other. And for what 
reason is it, I ask, if not because the church has sided with the oppres- 
sor — has passed by the poor wounded man, on the other side ? God 
will not suffer so hard-hearted a gospel to overspread the earth. He 
will not give success to such a base, cringing, time-serving gospel. 
He reserves the final triumphs over idolatry, obscenity and blood, to a 
church with pure hands, and to a humane, self-denying, open-hearted, 
uncalculating, uncompromising gospel. He will not set religion afloat 
viathout good morals, nor give currency to the mischievous lie, that 
holiness can flourish without honesty ! 

After what I have said, you will not be surprised at what I am going 
to demand of you as a minister of Christ. A passing notice of slavery 
in your sermons and prayers, though you should take the right ground, 
is not sufficient. Remember this is a crisis hour, that ,the sin of slavery 
has brought us to the verge of destruction, that it is not confined to the 
South, nor to the form in which it exists at the South, and that to dis- 
lodge and rout it, is the most difficult victory the gospel has now to 
achieve. You will need, then, to gird yourself to the work, with an eye 
on all its parts, and means, and difficulties, and a heart resolved to 
measure your faithfulness to the gospel by your faithfulness to the slave. 
You will find yourself unfolding in his behalf the second table of the 
law, and making his case the test and touchstone of obedience, both to 
the second and the first. You will find yourself so preaching, even 
when you do not mention the slave or slavery, that no one will hesitate 
to say that you preach an anti-slavery sermon. You will carry out your 
princi pies, from the sundering of chains to the severing of the cord of caste. 
Being thoroughly convinced that the church has sinned grievously by 
its silence, and its participation, you will act as though the first object 
was a thorough reform. In short, you will be an active and uncom- 
promising and always- abounding anti-slavery man. You will not 
need to be urged forward by an Anti-Slavery Society or lecturer, but 



32 LETTER TO A MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL. [120 

you will rather by your whole weight of character and influence, and 
time and eloquence, urge forward the Anti-Slavery Society and its 
lecturers to attempt great things. You will feel that the anti- slavery 
work is your work by the very vows of your ordination, and that the 
society is only the means of uniting all, of every name and sect, upon 
an object which is too wide to be confined to any one sect. 

The great mass of ministers, of all denominations, you will agree 
with me, come far short of meeting my demands, even when they 
profess to take sides with the slave. I wish to call your attention to 
some of the arguments by which they seek to justify their opposition, 
their standing aloof, or their weak and spiritless advocacy of the 
abolition cause. 

1. The Anti-Slavery Society is not an ecclesiastical body, and of 
course has no right to dictate to the churches. To yield to its sway 
and be carried away in its excitement, would be to compromise the 
liberty of the churches. What! has any self-constituted body of men 
a right to dictate to the ministers of the gospel what they shall preach 
and what they shall not preach ? 

Certainly not. No such right is claimed by the Anti-Slavery Society. 
It simply claims the right to place before every church, and every 
minister, and every man, the reasons why they should instantly exert 
their whole influence, whether preaching or praying, acting or talking, 
in behalf of the slave. Is this an invasion of ecclesiaclical liberty ? 
Has not even every individual a right to publish his opinion of the 
duty of ministers and churches ; and is he not, in some cases, solemnly 
bound to do it. 

Some ministers complain because abolitionists insist that they ought 
to admit anti-slavery lecturers to their pulpits, and read anti-slavery 
notices, and denounce them as opposers because they do not. They 
say that in so doing, these abolitionists invade their gospel liberty, and 
support the doctrine that a minister must open his pulpit doors to every 
person who comes along. But the abolitionists do no such thing. 
They do not insist that ministers should pursue the course they ask, 
without good reasons, but they insist that the reasons are good. They 
say that the anti-slavery lecturers, with, perhaps a very few exceptions, 
ought to have been welcomed to their pulpits, as men well quahfied 
to plead for this holy cause. They say that whether a minister ia 
bound to read every notice or not, the anti-slavery cause has a claim 
upon him for such aid, which he cannot set aside, either in his own 

{See cover, 2d page.) 



THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 

Vol. III. No. XI. NOVEMBER, 1837. Whole No. 35. 



SLAVERY AND THE SLAVE-TRADE UNDER THE 
AUTHORITY OF CONGRESS.* 

The Federal Constitution invests congress with power to " make all 
needful rules and regulations," respecting the territories belonging to 
the United States — to "exercise exclusive jurisdiction in all cases 
whatsoever" over the District of Columbia, — and " to regulate com- 
merce among the several states." 

The territory of Florida at the last census contained 15,501 slaves. 
Abolitionists, regarding slavery as unjust, cruel, and sinful, have peti- 
tioned congress to make such needful rules and regulations respecting 
that territory, as shall relieve it from so baneful an institution. If this 
prayer proves them to be fanatics, incendiaries, and nuUifiers, they are 
at a loss to understand why these epithets have never been applied to 
the congress of 1787, for enacting that in the territory north-west of the 
Ohio " there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude otherwise 
than in the punishment of crimes whereof the party shall have been 
duly convicted" — nor to the congress of 1799, which, while the consti- 
tution still authorized the states to import slaves, made "rules and regu- 
lations" for giving immediate emancipation to every slave that might 
be introduced into the territory of Mississippi from beyond the limits 
of the United Statesf — nor to the congress of 1820, for enacting "that 
in all that territory ceded by France to the United States under the 
name of Lousiana which lies north of thirty-six degrees and thirty 
minutes of north latitude, not included within the limits of the state of 
Missouri, slavery and involuntary servitude, otherwise than in the 
punishment of crimes whereof the parties shall have been duly convicted, 
shall be and is hereby for ever prohibited," 

It is also extraordinary that Rufus King should have ventured in 
1819 to utter the following language in the United States' Senate, 
"The power to make all needful regulations, includes the power to 
determine what regulations are needful, and if a regulation prohibiting 
slavery within any territory of the United States be (as it has been) 
deemed needful, congress possess the power to make the same, and 
moreover to pass all laws necessary to carry this power into execution." 
Equally extraordinary is it that Daniel Webster should have set his 
name to a document asserting that " the power of congress over its own 

* This tract is one of the chapters of an enlarged edition of Jay's Inquibt, 
now preparing for the press, which the author has kindly allowed us to publish 
m advance. — Ed. 

t See act of April, 1799. 



2 SLAVERY AND THE SLAVE-TRADE [122 

territories, is by the very terms of the constitution unlimited. If in its 
judgment it be needful for the benefit of a territory to enact a prohi- 
bition of slavery, it would seem to be as much within its power of 
legislation as any other ordinary act of legislation."* 

The power of congress over its territories is enlarged, if possible, in 
relation to the DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA by the pecuUar phrase- 
ology of the constitution. The authority of the British parliament over 
its colonies, however great, is still limited, and a claim to "exclusive 
legislation in all cases whatsoever," would produce a rebellion. Yet 
such is the jurisdiction expressly and imequivocally granted over the 
District. Let us see to what minute subjects this jurisdiction is actually 
appKed. " The United States have ever claimed absolute and exclusive 
property in the streets. Their claim has been sustained by a grave 
decision of the Supreme Court, from which it appears that the United 
States may close the streets improved at our expense, sell the land, 
and place the proceeds in the public treasury." — Memorial of the corpo- 
ration of the city of Washington to congress, 16 Dec, 1835. 

On the 24th May, 182S, congress passed a law permitting the corpo- 
rations of Washington, Georgetown, and Alexandria, to subscribe for 
stock in the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company. Congress imposes 
taxes on the District, appoints magistrates, regulates the fees of office, 
builds bridges, macadamizes roads, incorporates Banks, Colleges, and 
Medical Societies ; gives mechanics a lien on the buildings they erect, 
and prescribes the powers of city corporations. What ingenuity, then, 
can frame a plausible argument against its power to regulate or interdict 
property in human beings on its own soil; a power claimed and 
exercised in a greater or less degree by the legislature of every slave 
state in the Union ? 

If congress does not possess this power, certainly no other govern- 
ment does, and the District presents the singular spectacle of a civihzed 
community in which a portion of the inhabitants may be subjected to 
every imaginable outrage, and utterly denied all legal protection ; and 
to crown the revolting absurdity, this state of things is rendered per- 
petual by the absence of any authority to change it. But it is said 
by northern politicians eager for southern votes, that although congress 
possess the constitutional power to abolish slavery in the district, good 
faith forbids its exercise, because had Virginia and Maryland supposed 
tliis power would ever be exercised, they would not have made the 
cessions which now form the District. 

It VTOuld be indeed a singular argument before a court of justice for 
the recovery of an estate that had been unconditionally conveyed in 
fee, that the owner did not improve it in the manner the grantor had 
expected. But the plea is as false as it is invalid. The constitution 
was adopted before the cessions were made, and we find in the debates 
respecting it in the Virginia convention, that the extent of the juris- 
diction to be exercised by congress over the proposed District was 
clearly understood — we give a few extracts from the speeches. 

Mil. George Mason. "Thought there were few clauses in the 

* Memorial of the citizens of Boston drafted by a committee of which Mr. 
Webster was chairman, and signed by him. 



123] UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF CONGRESS. 3 

constitution so dangerous as that which gave congress exclusive power 
of legislation within the ten miles square. This clause gave them 
unlimited authority in every possible case in the District.'''' 

Mr. Grayson. "Unless you consider the ten miles square as a 
state, persons bound to labor, who shall escape therein, will not be 
delivered up, for they are only to be dehvered up after they shall have 
escaped into a state. After mature deliberation he could not find that 
the ten miles square was to be looked upon even as part of a state, 
but to be totally independent of all, subject to the exclusive legislation 
of congress." 

Mr. Patrick Henry. "Congress have a right, by this clause, to 
make a law that such a district shall be set apart for any purpose they 
please, and that any man who shall act contrary to theii- commands 
within the ten miles square shall be hanged." — Elliott's illustrations of 
Federal Constitution. 

We are not aware that the most "reckless" abolitionists have ever 
given to the "exclusive jurisdiction" a more liberal construction than 
did these distinguished Virginians, and yet our craven statesmen would 
fain persuade us that it never occurred to the people of Virginia and 
Maryland, that this jurisdiction might one day be exercised for the 
protection of the inalienable rights of man ! True it is, they did not 
object to the extent of jurisdiction because it might be favorable to 
human liberty. Men, women, and children, were not then the staple 
exports of Virginia and Maryland, and it is only since the cultivation 
of cotton, that our land has been afflicted with pro-slavery politicians 
and divines. No Virginia statesman at that day would have dared to 
object to this clause because it gave congress power to abolish slavery 
in the District. In the very convention in which Patrick Henry com- 
plained of the unlimited grant of jurisdiction, he exclaimed, speaking 
of slavery, " I repeat it again, that it would rejoice my very soul, that, 
every one of my fellov/ beings M'as emancipated j" and we are all 
familiar with Jefferson's denunciations of slavery. Washington also 
declared that he would never purchase another slave, and that he 
would give his suffrage for the abolition of slavery by legislative 
authority. WilUam Pinckney in 1789, pronounced in the Maryland 
House of Delegates, an eloquent and indignant invective against 
slavery, exclaiming, "In the name of God should we not attempt to 
wipe away this stigma, as far as the impi-essions of the times will 
allow? If we dare not strain legislative authority so as to root up the 
evil at ONCE, let us do all we dare, and lop the exuberance of its bran- 
ches. I would sooner temporize than do nothing. At least we should 
show our wishes by it." 

To talk about the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia 
half a century after its cession, being a breach of faith tov/ards those 
who made the cession, is to insult the revolutionary patriots of the South 
by bringing them down to the moral level of the lynch clubs and poli- 
ticians of the present day. And is it one of the innumerable charges 
against abolitionists that they are soliciting congress to perpetrate tni» 
breach of faith? Alas for the morality of our country! multitudes 
participate in their guilt. In 1828, eleven hundred inhabitants of the 



4 SLAVERY AND THE SLAVE-TRADE [124 

Distt iti pedtioned congress for the gradual abolition of slavery among 
thenri. TLe same year the Legislature of Pennsylvania instructed 
theii membfcvs of congress to procure, if possible, an act abolishing the 
system. In 1829, the House of Representatives directed the committee 
of the District to "inquire into the expediency of providing by law for 
the gradual abolition of slavery in the District." The same year the 
New York assembly voted to instruct the members of congress from 
that state " to make every possible exertion,^^ to effect the passage of a 
law for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia. 

In 1836, the Legislature of Vermont "Resolved, that congress do 
possess the power to abohsh slavery in the District of Columbia." 

In 1837, the Massachusetts Senate "Resolved, that congress 
having exclusive legislation in the District of Columbia, possess the 
right to abolish slavery and the slave-trade therein, and that the early 
exercise of such right is demanded by the enlightened sentiment of the 
civilized world, by the principles of the revolution, and by humanity." 

Not only is slavery in the District maintained by the authority of con- 
gress, but under the same authority free men are converted into slaves 
by a process, which for shameful injustice and enormous wickedness, 
has no parallel in the despo isms of Russia or Turkey. Any justice 
of the peace in the city of Washington, may, on no other evidence than 
a dark complexion, cause a free citizen to be immured in the United 
States' prison on the charge of being suspected of being a fugitive slave. 
Notice is then given in the newspapers of his commitment, and his 
master is required to take away his property. But being free, no 
master of course releases him from his dungeon, and after the expiration 
of a certain number of days, his prison doors are thrown open, and he 
is led forth to the auction stand, and there sold as a slave for life to 
pay his jail fees, in other words, to put money into the pockets of 
United States' officers. This horrible atrocity is not of unfrequent 
occurrence, and congress decline all action respecting it. And now 
we ask, is it for protesting against such abominations, and for main- 
taining the right of congress to abolish slavery at the seat of the federal 
government that Chancellor Walworth and his associates have held up 
the abolitionists to public indignation ? 

the AMERICAN SLAVE-TRADE. 

There was a time when the traffic in human flesh was deemed 
odious, and even now, colonization orators occasionally find it expedient 
to speak very disrespectfully of the African slave-trade, but at this day, 
who presumes to utter a murmur against the American slave-trade, 
except "a few wretched fanatics?" The capital of the proudest 
republic in the world, is the depot of a mighty commerce in the souls 
and bodies of men — a commerce under the immediate control and pro- 
tection of a government which with wonderful effrontery, dared to 
insert in a solemn treaty the hypocritical declaration, " Whereas the 
the traffic in slaves is irreconcilable with the principles of humanity 
and justice, and whereas both His Majesty and the United States are 
desirous of continuing their efforts to promote its entire abolition, it is 
hereby agreed that both the contracting parties shall use their best 



125] 



UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF CONGRESS. 



endeavors to accomplish so desirable an object."* But even this 
cant loses its baseness, compared with the turpitude of condemning 
to death as a pirate, the man who buys a savage in Africa, ana 
sells him in Washington, and yet granting in the same city, licenses 
at four hundred dollars each, to buy and sell native Americans "for 
profit !"t 

Before entering into details respecting the American trafSc, it may 
be well to remark that the competition of free with slave labor, in the 
bread-stuffs and other productions of Maryland, Virginia, and North 
Carolina, had greatly diminished the value of slaves, and promised to 
prepare the way for general emancipation at no distant day. But the 
rapid extension of the cotton and sugar cultivation, and the settlement 
of the new states at the south and west, gave to the northern slaves a 
value as articles of export, which they did not possess as laborers. 
The three states we have mentioned, denied by their climate the privi- 
lege of growing cotton and sugar, have, of late years, vigorously prose- 
cuted the business of breeding slaves for the southern market. The 
District of Columbia from its central situation became a convenient 
depot for the slaves collected from the surrounding country; while the 
absence of state control, and the non-interference of congress gave to 
the factories estabhshed in the national domain, as unlimited power 
over the treatment and stowage of their human cattle, as could be 
enjoyed on the coast of Guinea. 

In 1829, Mr. Miner, a member of the House of Representatives from 
Pennsylvania, introduced a resolution directing the committee on the 
District, to "inquire into the slave-trade as it exists and is carried on 
through the District, and that they report to the house such amendments 
to the existing laws as shall seem to them to be just." In his speech 
on the occasion many appalling facts were disclosed. It appeared that 
in the last five years, independent of the factory prisons in the District, 
seven htmdred and forty-tioo colored people had been committed to the 
jail in Washington. And were these persons accused or convicted 
of crime? J^ot one. Four hundred and fifty-two were lodged in the 
United States' prison for safe keeping prior to exportation, and txcc 
hundred and ninety were imprisoned on suspicion, real or affected, oi' 
being fugitive slaves, and if not claimed as such, were to be sold as 
SLAVES FOP.. LIFE to raiso money to pay jail fees to United States' 
officers. 

Of the practical operation of a system sanctioned by the laws of 
congress, take the following example. "Visiting the prison," says 
Mr. Miner, "and passing through the avenues that lead to the cells, 
I was struck with the appearance of a woman having three or four 
children with her — one at the breast. She presented such an aspect 
of wo that I could not help inquiring her story. It was simply this, 
she was a slave, but had married a man who was free. By him she 
had eight or nine children. Moved by natural affection, the father had 
labored to support the children, but as they attained an age to be 
valuable in the market, perhaps ten or twelve, the master sold them — 

* Treaty with Great Britain, 24th Dec, 1814. 

t Law of the city of Washington, passed 28th July, 1831, 



6 SLAVERY AND THE SLAVE-TRADE [126 

one after another was taken away and sold to the slave-dealers. She 
had come to an age to be no longer profitable as a breeder, and her 
master had separated her from her husband, and sent her and her chil- 
dren to TOUR prison for sale." As illustrative of the horrors of this 
traffic, Mr. Miner informed the house of an incident that occurred 
during the previous session of congress. A free colored man had 
married a slave ; with the avails of his industry he had, in the coarse 
of some years, purchased the freedom of his wife and children. He 
left home on business, and on his return found his house tenantless« 
His wife and children had been kidnapped by the slave-dealers, and it 
was afterwards discovered, that they had first been confined in a 
factory- prison at Alexandria, and then sent to a distant market. 

So long ago as 1802, the grand jury of Alexandria presented the 
skive-trade in the district as a grievance. " These dealers in the 
persons of oar fellow men," says the jury, " collect within this district 
from various parts, numbers of these victims of slavery, and lodge them 
in some place of confinement, until they have completed their numbers. 
They are then turned out in our streets, and exposed to view, loaded 
with chains, as though they had committed some heinous offence against 
our laws. We consider it as a grievance that citizens from distant 
parts of the United States should be permitted to come within the 
District and pursue a traffic fraught with so much misery to a class of 
beings entitled to our protection by the laws of justice and humanity ; 
and that the interposition of civil authority cannot be had to prevent 
parents being wrested from their offspring, and children from their 
parents, without respect to the ties of nature. We consider these griev- 
ances demanding legislative redress," — that is, redress by congress. 

In 1816, Judge Morell of the Circuit Court of the United States, in 
Ms charge to the grand jury of Washington, remarked, speaking of the 
slave-trade, '• The frequency with which the streets of the city had been 
crowded with manacled captives; sometimes on the Sabbath, could not 
fail to shock the feelings of all humane persons ; that it was repugnant 
to the spirit of our political institutions, and the rights of man, and he 
believed was calculated to impair the public morals by familiarizing 
scenes of cruelty to the minds of youth." Should a judge noio venture 
to express such sentiments in Washington, he would probably be 
lynched as an incendiary. The same year, the House of Representa- 
tives, on motion of John Randolph, appointed a committee "to inquire 
into the existence of an inhuman and illegal traffic of slaves carried on 
in, and through the District of Columbia, and report whether any, and 
what measures are necessary for putting a stop to the same," This 
traffic is now far more extensive and far more lucrative than it was in 
118r9, and noio, it is Contrary to the rules of the house to consider any 
proposition relating to slavery 1 

The Alexandria Gazette of June 22d, 1827, thus describes the scenes 
sanctioned by our republican and christian congress. " Scarcely a week 
passes without some of these wretched creatures being driven through 
our streets. After having been confined and sometimes manacled in 
a loathsome prison, they are turned out in public view, to take their 
departure for the South. The children and some of the women are 



127] UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF CONGRESS. 7 

generally crowded into a cart or wagon, while others follow on foot, 
not unfrequently hand-cuffed and chained together. Here you may 
behold fathers and brothers leaving behind them the dearest objects of 
afiection, and moving slowly along in the mute agony of despair — 
there the young mother sobbing over the infant whose innocent smiles 
seem but to increase her misery. From some you will hear the burst 
of bitter lamentation, while from others the loud hysteric laugh breaks 
forth, denoting still deeper agony." 

In 1828, a petition for the suppression of this trade, M^as presented 
to congress signed by more than one thousand inhabitants of the District. 

In 1830, the "Washington Spectator" thus gave vent to its indig- 
nation. 

" THE SLAVE-TRADE IN THE CAPITAL. 

"Let it be known to the citizens of America, that at the very time 
when the procession which contained the President of the United 
States and his cabinet, was marching in triumph to the capitol, another 
kind of procession was marching another way; and that consisted oi' 
colored human beings, hand-cuffed in pairs, and driven along by what 
had the appearance of a man on horseback ! A similar scene was 
repeated on Saturday last ; a drove consisting of males and females, 
chained in couples, starting from Roby's tavern on foot for Alexandria, 
where with others they are to embark on board a slave-ship in waiting 
to convey them to the South. Where is the O'Connell in this republic, 
that will plead for the emancipation of the District of Columbia?" 
Alas! the Washington editor, living among slave-traders, never 
imagined, that such an O'Connell would be denounced by northern 
gentlemen, as a "reckless incendiary," that northern members of con- 
gress would treat his petitions with indignity, and that a northren 
president would pledge himself to the South, never to consent to the 
proposed emancipation. 

Let us now take a nearer view of this traffic. The National Intelli- 
gencer of the 28th March, 1836, printed in Washington, contained the 
following advertisements. 

"cash for five hundred negroes. 

" Including both sexes from ten to twenty-five years of age. Person* 
having likely servants to dispose of, will tind it to their interest to give 
us a call, as we will give higher prices in cash, than any other pur- 
chaser who is now, or may hereafter come into the market. 

Franklin & Armfield, Alexandria.** 

"cash for three hundred negroes. 

" The highest cash price will be given by the subscriber for negroes 
of both sexes from the ag83 of twelve to twenty-eight 

William H. Williams, Washington." 

"cash for four hundred negroes. 

"Including both sexes from twelve to twenty-five years of age. 

James H. Birch, Washington city," 



SLAVERY AND THE SLAVE-TRADE [128 



"CASH FOR NEaROES. 

" We will at all times give the highest prices in cash for likely young 
neo'roes of both sexes from ten to thirty years of age. 

J. W. Neal & Co., Washington, D. C." 

Here we find three traders in the district advertising in one day for 
twelve hundred negroes, and a fourth offering to buy an indefinite 
number. Does any one inquire how these multitudes are disposed of? 
we ask his attention to the following notice inserted in the National 
Intelligencer of 10th February, 1836. 

"ALEXANDE.IA AND NeW OrLEANS PACKETS. 

"Brig Tribune, Samuel C. Bush, master, will sail as above on 
tlie 1st January — Brig Isaac Franklin, William Smith, master, on 
the 15th January — Brig Uncas, Nath. Boush, master, on the 1st 
February. They v/ill continue to leave this port on the 1st and 15th 
of each month throughout the shipping season. They are all vessels 
of the first class, commanded by experienced and accommodating 
officers. Will at all times go up the Mississippi by steam, and every 
exertion used to promote the interest of shippers and comfort of pas- 
sengers. Shippers may prevent disappointment by having their bills 
of lading ready the day previous to saiUng, as they will go promptly at 
the time. Servants that are intended to be shipped will at any time be 
received for safe keeping at twenty-five cents per day. 

JoHK Armfield, Alexandria." 

This infamous advertisement of the regular saihng of three 
SLAVERS and the offer of the use of the factory prison, is inserted in 
one of the principal journals of the United States, and published under 
the eye of the federal government — a government professing to believe 
that " the traffic in slaves is irreconcilable with the principles of humanity 
and justice !" From a letter of the 23d January, 1834, by the Rev. 
Mr. Leavitt, and published in New York, it appears that he visited 
the factory of Franklin & Armfield and was admitted into its spacious 
prison. He was informed by one of the principals " that the number 
of slaves carried from the District the year before (1833) was about 
one thousand, but it would be much greater this year ; he expected 
their house alone would ship at least eleven or twelve hundred." One 
of the above named slavers being in port, Mr. Leavitt went on board. 
"Her name is the Tribune, , The captain very obligingly took us to 
all parts of the vessel. The hold is appropriated to the slaves and is 
divided into two apartments. The after-hold will carry about eighty 
women, and the other about one hundred men. On either side were 
tico platforms running the whole length, one raised a few inches and 
the other halfway up to the deck. They were about five or six feet 
deep. On these the slaves lie as close as they can stow away." 

This vile commerce is carried on by land as well as by water. 
Slave cofHes are formed at the prisons in the District, and thence set off 
on their dreary journey into the interior, literally in chains. A gentle- 
man * thus describes a coffle he met on the road in Kentucky. " I 

* The Rev. Mr. Dickey. 



129] 



UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF CONGRESS. 9 



discovered about forty black men all chained together in the following 
manner; each of them was handcuffed, and they were arranged in 
rank and file ; a chain, perhaps forty feet long, was stretched between 
two ranks, to which short chains were joined, which connected with 
the hand-cuffs. Behind them were, I suppose, thirty loomen in double 
rank, the couples tied hand to hand.'''' These coffles pass the very 
Capitol in which are assembled the legislators by whom they are 
authorized, and over whose heads is floating the broad banner of the 
republic, too justly alas ! described by an English satirist as, 

" The fustain flag that proudly waves,- 
In splendid mockery o'er a land of slaves." 

But the traffic in the District, great and horrible as it is, is but a 
branch of this vast and accursed commerce. Let us take a look at it, 
beyond the ten miles square. 

Mr. Niles informs us in his Baltimore Register, that "dealing in 
slaves has become a large business ; establishments are made in several 
places in Maryland and Virginia, at which they are sold like cattle ; 
these places of deposit are strongly built, and well supplied with iron 
thumb-screivs and gags, and ornamented with cowskins and other 
whips, oftentimes bloody." 

The advertisements of the traders in Baltimore, show that the Mary- 
land Colonization Society, in their endeavors to suppress the slave- 
trade^ may find a field for their labors nearer home than the coast of 
Africa. We give some samples. 

"Austin Woolfolk, of Baltimore, wishes to inform the slaveholders 
of Maryland and Virginia, that their friend still lives to give them cashj 
and tne highest cash price for their negroes, &c." 

"General slave agency office. — Old establishment West 
Fayette street. Gentlemen planters from the South, and others who 
wish to purchase negroes, would do well to give me a call. 

Lewis Scott." 

"Cash for two hundred negroes. — The highest cash prices will 
be paid for negroes of both sexes, by application to me, or my agent at 
Booth's garden. Hope H. Slater." 

We will next turn to the once high-minded, but now sordid and 
degraded Virginia, the Congo of North America. Shall we be rebuked 
by northern politicians and merchants for speaking thus disrespectfully 
of "our southern brethren?" Let them reserve their rebuke for 
Thomas Jefferson Randolph who in the Virginia Legislature of 
1832, declared that his state had been converted into ^^ O^ie grand 
menagerie, where men are reared for the market, like oxen for the sham- 
bles.''^ This same gentleman thus compared the foreign with the 
domestic traffic. "The trader (African) receives the slave a stranger 
in aspect, language, and manner, from the merchant who brought him 
from the interior. But here, sir, individuals whom the master has 
known from infancy — whom he has seen sporting in the innocent 
gambols of childhood — who have been accustomed to look to him for 
protection, he tears from the mother^s arms, and sells into a strange 
rmmtry, among a strange people, subject to cruel taskmasters. In my 
opinion it is much worse." 



10 SLAVERY AND THE SLAVE-TRADE [130 

Mr. C. F. Mercer asserted in the Virginia Convention of 1829, 
"The tables of the natural growth of the slave population demonstrate, 
when compared with the increase of its numbers in the commonwealth 
for twenty years past, that an annual revenue of not less than a million 
AND A HALF DOLLARS, is derived from the exportation of a part of this 
population." — Debates, p. 199. 

Professor E. A. Andrews gives a conversation he had with a trader 
on board a steamboat on the Potomac in 1835. "In selling his slaves, 
N assures me that he never separates families, but that in pur- 
chasing them, he is often compelled to do so, for that his business is to 
purchase, and he must take such as are in the market. 'Do you often 
buy the wife without the husband ?' ' Yes, very often, and frequently, 
too, they sell me the mother while they keep the children. / have often 
known them take away the infant from the mother'' s breast and keep it, 
while they sold her. Children from one to eighteen months old, are 
now worth about one hundred dollars.' "* 

The town of Petersburg seems to enjoy a large portion of this com- 
merce, judging from the advertisements of its merchants ; for example : 

"cash for negroes. 

" The subscribers are particularly anxious to make a shipment of 
negroes shortly. All persons who have slaves to part with, will do 
well to call as soon as possible. Overly & Saunders." 

"The subscriber being desirous of making another shipment by the 
Brig Adelaide to New Orleans, on the first of March, will give a good 
market price for fifty negroes from ten to thirty years old. 

Henry Davis." 

" The subscriber wishes to purchase one hundred slaves of both sexes 
from the age of ten to thirty, for which he is disposed to give much 
higher prices than have heretofore been given. He will call on those 
living in the adjacent counties to see any j3roper%. Ansley Davis." 

Mr. ColUer of Richmond appears to be one of the most eminent and 
enterprising merchants engaged in this trade, of whom the Ancient 
Dominion can boast. We give extracts from his 

"NOTICE. 
" This is to inform my former acquaintances and the public generally, 
that I yet continue in the SLAVE-TRADE at Richmond, Virginia, 
and will, at all times, buy, and give a fair market price for young 
negroes. Persons in this state, Maryland, or North Carolina, wishing 
to sell lots of negroes, are particularly requested to forward their wishes 
to me, by mail, at this place. Persons wishing to purchase lots of 
negroes are requested to give me a call, as I keep constantly on hand 
at this place, a great many for sale, and have at this time the use of 
one hundred young negroes, consisting of boys, young men, and girls. 
I will sell at all times at a small advance on cost to suit purchasers. 
I have comfortable rooms, with a Jail attached for the reception of 
negroes, and persons coming to this place to sell slaves, can be accom- 
modated, and every attention necessary will be given, to have them 

* Slavery and the domestic slave-trade in the United States, p. 147 



131] 



UNDEK THE AUTHORITY OF CONGRESS. ll 



well attended to ; and when it may be desired, the reception of tlie 
company of gentlemen dealing in slaves, will conveniently and atten- 
tively be received. My situation is very healthy and suitable for the 
bAisiness. Lewis A. Collier." 

It is now time to attend to the results of this commerce. Mr. Mercer, 
as already stated, estimated the annual revenue to Virginia from the 
export of human flesh at one million and a half of dollars. But this 
was in 1829, before the trade had reached its present palmy state. 
The "Virginia Times" in 1S36, in an article on the importance of 
increasing the banking capital of the commonwealth, estimates the 
number of slaves exported for sale the " last twelve months," at forty 
thousand ; each slave averaging six hundred dollars, and yielding thus 
a capital of twenty-four millions of which the editor thinks at least 
thirteen millions might be contributed for banking purposes! 

We will now follow some of these slaves beyond the borders of 
their native state. Nile's Register for July, 1830, mentions under thfe 
head of 

"Domestic slave-trade. — The schooner Lafayette with a cargo 
from J^Torfotk for New Orleans, narrowly escaped being captured by 
them on the voya2;e. They were subdued after considerable difficulty, 
and twenty-five of them were bolted down to the deck until the arrival 
of the vessel at New Orleans." 

In 1831, the Brig Comet, a slaver from Alexandria, with a cargo 
of one hundred and sixty slaves, was wrecked on Abaco, one of the 
Bahamas. 

Joseph Wood of Hambtfrgh South Carolina, a "gentleman dealing 
in slaves," advertises that he " has on hand a likely parcel of Virginia 
negroes, and receives new supphes every fifteen days.'''' 

"auction sale, By Thomas S. Gadsen. 

"This day will be sold at the north of the Exchange at 11 o'clock a 
small gang ofnegroes accustomed to the culture of cotton and provisions, 
viz., four men, seven women, seven boys, aged as follows, fourteen, 
nine, eight, six, five, three, and two years old, and two infants ten 
and three months old. — Conditions, cash." — Charleston Courier, 2d 
Nov., 1834. 

There are no data by which we can ascertain with certainty the 
number of slaves exported. We have seen that one trader alone in 
Alexandria has three slavers, and despatches one on the first and 
fifteenth of each month during the shipping season. How often the 
coffles depart from Washington we are not informed, but if we are to 
believe the testimony of judges, grand juries, and editors, the chained 
processions from the metropolis must be frequent. Of the great staple 
of Virginia, FORTY THOUSAND HEAD, it seems, were exported 
in 0(ie year, and the Natchez Courier supposes that ten thousand were 
sold in 1836, in Mississippi alone. If to the exports from Virginia 
we add the moderate number oK ten thousand from Maryland and 
North Carolina, we have a sale in one year of FIFTY THOUSAND 
human beings, ruthlessly lorn from their families and homes, and sent 
lo toil as beasts of burden in a strange land. 



12 SLAVERY AND THE SLAVE-TRADE, ETC. [120 

And has congress the constitutional right to suppress this accursed 
?,rade ? We have already referred to the article which authorizes con- 
gress "to regulate commerce among the several states;" and we will 
now give the opinion of a gentleman who is guiltless alike of nulhfica- 
tion and fanaticism, who is honored by many as "the defender of the 
constitution," and who has been more than once nominated for the pre- 
sidency by a party professing very pecuhar reverence for the constitution. 
Daniel Webster, in a a document bearing his signature, (the Boston 
memorial) thus expressed himself. 

"Commerce in slaves since the year 1808 being as much subject to 
the regulation of congress as any other commerce, if it should see fit 
to enact that no slave should ever be sold from one slate to another, it 
is not perceived how its constitutional right to make such provision 
could be questioned. It would seem to be too plain to be questioned, 
that congress did possess the power before the year 1808, to prohibit the 
migration or importation of slaves into its territories (and in fact it 
exercised that power) as well as into any new state, and that its 
authority after that year, might be as fully exercised to prevent the 
migration or importation of slaves into any one of the old states." This 
opinion uttered in 1819, has been recently reiterated. — "Senate of the 
United States; January 1837. 

"Mr. Webster. He had no hesitation in giving it as his deliberate 
opinion that congress did, under the constitution, possess the power of 
legislating on the subject of slavery in the District of Columbia. With 
respect to the other subject in the resolutions ; the power to regulate 
the transfer of slaves from one state to another, the^-e was no doubt in 
his mind that, congress also possessed this power. The constitution 
conferred on congress the power to regulate the trade between the 
states, and so long as the slaves remained property, they were subjects 
of commerce, and as such came within the views of the constitution." 

A former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, 
gave in 1819, the following opinion. "To me the constitutional 
authority of congress to prohibit the migration or importation of slaves 
into any of the states does not appear questionable. The first article 
of the constitution specifies the legislative powers committed to congress. 
The ninth section of that article has these words — ' The migration or 
importation of such persons as any of the now-existing states shall 
think proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by the congress prior to 
the year 1808. But a tax or duty may be imposed on such importa- 
tions, not exceeding ten dollars for each person.' I understand the 
sense and meaning of this clause to be, that the power of the congress, 
although competent to prohibit such migration and importation, was 
not to be exercised with respect to the then-existing states, (and them 
only) until the year 1808 ; but that congress were at liberty to make 
such prohibition as to any new state which might in the meantime be 
established ; and further, that from and after Ihat period, they were 
authorized to make such prohibition as to all the states, whether new 
or old.. It will, I presume, be admitted, that slaves were the persons 
intended."* 

* Life and -writings of John Jay, Vol. I, p. 452. 



THE 

ANTI-SLAVERY RECORD. 

Vol. III. No. XII. DECEMBER, 1837. Whole No. 36. 

INTELLECT OF COLORED MEN. 
When Raynal wondered why America had not produced any 
celebrated men, Jefferson replied, "when we shall have existed as a 
nation, as long as the Greeks before they had a Homer, tue Romans 
a Virgil, or the French a Racine, there will be room for astonishment" 
And what room would there be for astonishment, if the people of 
Africa had not produced great men since the days when Sir John 
Hawkins commenced dealing in their living bodies, under authority 
of Q-ueen Elizabeth ? Is Slavery a system of education under which 
a nation ought to be brought up from the lowest depth of barbarism 
to the summit level of Christendom in less than three hundred years? 
Would L6rd Bacon have made himself the prince of philosophers if he 
had been brought to the court of Elizabeth in chains from some tribe 
as savage as were his own ancestors at the time of the Roman con- 
quest? If we were to find among Ihe descendants of Africa, under 
all their present disadvantages, minds equal in genius and accom- 
plishment to Bacon, Shakspeare, John Milton, or Sir Isaac Newton, 
or to the mightiest of the living, or even to the second rate men who 
have sustained the honors of a civilized ancestry, might we not well 
expect them, in a few hundred years, with equal advantages to eclipse 
the glories of the European race ? 

What has become of the literature of those ancient Britons who 
were slaves at Rome in the days of Nero ? We call on the asserters 
of European superiority to bring it forward, while we cite some of the 
instances in which negro and mulatto men have exliibited talents which 
do honor not only to themselves but to human nature at large. All 
we claim for these cases, is, that they should stop the sentence of 
inferiority against the descendimts of Africa. 

We shall first quote a number of biographical notices from the very 
learned work of the Jlbbe Grigoire on the Literature of the Jfegroes. 

HANNIBAL. 

"The Czar Peter the first, during his travels, had an opportunity of 
Knowing Hannibal, the African neg'-o, who had received a good edu- 
cation; and who, under this monarch, became in Russia, lieutt^nant 



2 INTELLECT OF COLORED MEN. [134 

general and director of artillery. He was decorated with the red 
riband of the order of St Alexander Nenski. Bernardin St. Pierre 
and cdonel La Harpe, knew his son, a mulatto, who had the reputa- 
tion of talents. In 1781, he was lieutenant general in a corps of 
artillery. It was hp, who under the orders of prince Potemkin, minister 
at war, commenced the establishment of a port and fortress atCherson, 
near the mouth of the Dnieper." 

AMO. 

" Anthony V\^i]liam Amo, born in Guinea, was brought to Europe 
when very young, and the princess of Brunswick, Wolfenbuttle, took 
charge of his education. He embraced the Lutheran religion, pursued 
his studies at Halle, in Saxony, snA at Wittemberg, and so distin- 
guished himself by his good conduct and talents, that the rector and 
council of the university of the last mentioned town, thought themselves 
obliged to give a public testimony of these in a letter of felicitation. 

" Amo, skilled in the knowledge of the Greek and Latin languages, 
delivered with success, private lectures on philosophy, which are 
highly praised in the same letter. In a syllabus, published by the 
Dean of the Philosophical Faculty, it is said of this learned negro, that 
having examined the systems of ancients and moderns, he selected and 
taught all that was best of them." 

l'islet geoffrot. 

"L'Islet GeofTioy, a mulatto, is an officer of artillery and guardian 
of the Depot of Maps and plans of the Isle of France. The twenty- 
third of August, 1786, he was named correspondent of the academy of 
sciences. He is acknowledged as such in the Connoisance des temps 
for the year 1791, published In 1789, by this learned society, to whom 
Lislet regularly transmitted meterorological observations and some- 
times hydrographical journals. 

"His map of the Isles of France and Reunion, delineated according 
to astronomical observations, the geometrical operations of La Caille^ 
and particular plans was published in 1797, year 5, by order of the 
minister of marine. A new edition corrected from drawings transmitted 
by the author, was published in 1802, year 10, it is the best map of 
those isles that has yet appeared. 

"In the almanac of the Isle of France, which I have not been able 
to find at Paris, Lislet has inserted several memoirs, and among others 
the description of Pitrebot, one of the highest mountains of the isle. 
This fact was communicated to me by M. Aubert du Petit Thouars, 
who resided ten years in the colony. 

" Yet this man never visited the continent to improve his taste and 
acquire knowledge. He has struggled against the obstacles created 
by the prejudices of the country. It is reasonable to suppose that he 
would have performed more if brought, in his youth, to Europe, and 
breathing the atmosphere of the learned, he had found around him 
something which would have powerfully stimulated his curiosity and 
fructified his genius. 

" Some person belonging to the expedition of Captain Baudin, in- 
formed me, that Lislet, having estabhshed a scientific society at the 
Isle of France, some whites refused to be members, merely because ita 



135] INTELLECT OF COLORED MEN. 3 

founder was a black. Have they not proved by their conduct that they 
were unworthy of this honor?" 

JJtMES DERHAM. 

" James Derham, originally a slave at Philadelphia, was transferred 
by his master, to a physician, who gave him a subaltern employment, 
as a preparer of drugs. During the American war, he was sold by 
this physician to a surgeon, and by the surgeon, to Doctor Robert 
Dove, of New Orleans. Learned in languages, he speaks with facility, 
Enghsh, French and Spanish. In I78S, at the age of twenty-one 
years, he became the most distinguished physician at New Orleans. 
'I conversed with him on medicine,' says Dr. Rush, 'and found him 
very learned. I thought 1 could give him information concerning the 
treatment of diseases, but 1 learned more from him than he could 
expect from me.' " 

THOMAS FULLER. 

" Thomas Fuller, born in Africa, and residing at the distance of 
four miles from Alexandria, in Vircinia, not knowing how to read or 
write, excited surprise by the facility with which he performed the 
most difficult calculations. Of the different methods employed to put 
his talents to the proof, we select the following : One day he was 
asked, how many seconds of time have elapsed since the birth of an 
individual, who had lived seventy years, seven months and as many 
days ? In a minute and a half he answered the question. One of 
the interrogators took his pen, and after a long calculation, pretended 
that Fuller was deceived — that the number he mentioned was too 
great. No, replied the negro, the error is on your side, for you have 
forgotten the leap years. His answer is found to be correct. We 
are indebted for this information to Dr. Rush, a man equally respected 
in Europe and America. " 

BANNAKER. 

"Benjamin Bannaker, a negro of Mai-yland, estabUshed in Phila- 
delphia, without any other encouragement than his passion for acquir- 
ing knowledge, without books, except rhe works of Ferguson, and the 
tables of Tobias Mayer, applied himself to astronomy. He published 
almanacs for the years 1794, and 1795, in 8vo. at Philadelphia, in 
which are calculated and exhibited the different aspects of the planets, 
a table of the motions of the sun and moon, their risings and settings, 
and the courses of the bodies of the planetry system." 

FRANCIS WILLIAMS. 

Francis Williams, the son of negro parents, was born in Jamaica 
about the beginning of the 18th century. By the patronage of the 
Duke of Montague he was sent to England and educated at the 
University of Cambridge, where he made respectable proficiency in 
mathematics. While in England he wrote a ballad commencing 

" Welcome, welcome, brothei debtor," 
which became so popular that certain individuals attempted, thoiigh 
unsuccessfully, to wrest from him the honor of its authorship. 



4 INTELLECT OF COLORED MEN. [136 

Returning to Jamaica he opened a school in which he taught Latin 
and mathematics. He wrote poems in Latin, a specimen of which 
may be seen in the work of M. Gregoire, with a translation by Long, 
the historian of Jamaica. If this po'em were devoid of talent it would 
hardly have found a place and been honored with a translation, in a 
histoi-y of Jamaica which betrayed no special antipathy to slavery. 

GUSTAVUS VASSA. 

Gustavus Vassa, or Olaudah Equiano by his African name, was 
bom m the vale of Essaka, in Benin, about the year 1745. At the 
age of twelve he was torn from his native land by the robbers, and 
sold in Barbadoes. Thence he was carried to Virginia, where he 
became the property of an English lieutenant, in whose service he saw 
England and took part in several naval expeditions. After the peace 
he was carried back to the West Indies as a slave, where with the 
consent of his new master he set up as a merchant, with a capital of 
three pence, and after a long course of various fortune on various 
shores, amassed sufficient to purchase his liberty. He continued to 
traverse the ocean and was the subject of many remarkable escapes 
and adventures. He embraced Christianity and at last settled in 
England after a wandering and eventful life of 30 years. About 1781, 
he published a narrative of his hfe, which we are assured by the most 
respectable testimony was written by himself. It has been well com- 
pared in regard to its style to the admirable and well known work of 
Daniel de Foe. His rnultiphed adventures are narrated with such 
native simplicity and such appropriate circumstantiality, that they can 
never fail to secure readers. The book had gone through nine editions 
in England, as early as 1791. It has been repeatedly repubUshed in 
America. To the last edition by Mr. Isaac Knapp, of Boston, sold at 
the Anti-Slavery offices, we would refer the reader for a fuller acquain- 
tance with a man whom he cannot fail to love for the excellence of his 
heart, if he does not admire the briUiancy of his intellect. 

IGNATIUS SANCHO. 

Ignatius Sancho v^as born of a slave mother during the "middle 
passage," or voyage from Africa. Arriving at Carthagena, he was 
baptized by a priest who gave him the name of Ignatius. At the age 
of two years he was carried to England by his master, and given to 
three young ladies residing at Greenwich, who bestowed upon him his 
surname in token of some fancied similitude to the squire of the famous 
knight of La Mancha. His hfe was chequered with vicissitudes very 
far from being favorable to the highest devel(^ement of his intellect 



137] INTELLECT OF COLORED MEN. 5 

He lived however to be his own master and to associate on terms of 
equably with characters who figured in the front rank of the Uterature 
of the age ; among whom were Garrick and Sterne. His letters were 
pubhshed in London, in two octavo volumes. Jefferson, as required 
by bis theory of African inferiority, criticises them harshly. Other 
very respectable writers have so far differed with him, as to allow them 
a place only second to the best specimens of epistolary composition. 
We cannot deny ourselves the pleasure of quoting two letters from 
the works of Sterne, which will perhaps give the reader some clue to 
the merits of the controversy. 

Ignatius Sancho to Mr. Sterne^ 1766. 
"Reverend Sir,— It would be an insult on your humanity, (or per- 
haps look like it,) to apologize for the liberty 1 am taking — I am one 
of those people v.'hom the vulgar and illiberal call negroes. — The first 
part of jny life was rathiu- unlucky as I was placed in a family who 
judged ignorance the best and only security for obedience — A little 
reading and writing I got by unwearied application. — The latter part 
of my life has been through God's blessing, truly fortunate — having 
spent it in the service of one of the best and greatest families in the 
kingdom — my chief pleasure has been books — philanthropy I adore. — 
How very much, good sir, am I (amongst millions) indebted to you 
for the character of your amiable uncle Toby ! — I declare I would 
walk ten miles in the dog-days to shake hands with the honest corpo- 
ral. — Your sermons have touched me to the heart, and I hope have 
amended it, which brings me to the point. — In your tenth discourse, ia 
this very affecting passage, — 'Consider how great a part of our 
species in all ages down to this — have been trod under the feet of 
cruel and capricious tyrants, who would neither hear their cries nor 
pity their distresses — consider slavery — what it is — how bitter a 
draught — and how many millions are made to drink of it' — Of ail 
my favorite writers not one has drawn a tear in favor of my miserable 
black brethren — excepting yourself— and the humane author of Sir 
George Ellison. — I think you will forgive me ; I am sure you will 
applaud me for beseeching you to give one half hour's attention to 
slavery as it is this day practised in our West Indies. — The subject 
handled in your striking manner would ease the yoke (perhaps) of 
many — but if only of one — gracious God ! what a feast to a benevo- 
lent heart! and sure I am, you are an epicurean in acts of charity. — 
You who are universally read and as universally admired — you coiild 
not fail. Dear sir, think in me you behold the uplifted hands of thoi>- 
sands of my fellow Moors. Grief, you pathetically observe, is elo- 
quent; figure to yourself their attitudes; hear their supplicating 
addresses ! alas ! you cannot refuse. — Humanity must comply — in 
which hope I beg permission to subscribe myself. I. S." 

From Mr. Sterne to Ignatius Sancho. 

Coxioould, Juhif27, 1766. 
There is a atrange coiacidence Sancho, in the little events (aa w:X 



6 INTELLECT OF COLORED MEN. [138 

as m the great ones) of this world : for I had been writing a tender 
tale of the sorrows of a friendless poor negro girl, and my eyes had 
scarce done smarting with it when your letter of recommendation, in 
behalf of so many of her brethren and sisters, came to me — but why 
her brethren! or yours Sancho! any more than mine ? It is by the 
finest tints, and most insensible gradations that nature descends from 
the fairest face about St. James's to the sootiest complexion in Africa : 
at which tint of them is it that the ties of blood are to cease? and 
how many shades must we descend lower still in the scale, ere mercy 
5s to vanish with them ! But 'tis no uncommon thing, my good Sancho, 
for one half of the worldjo use the other half of it like brutes, and then 
endeavor to make 'em so. — For my own part, I never look loestward 
(when I am in a pensive mood at least) but I think of the burthens 
which our brothers and sisters are there carrying, and could' I ease 
their shouldeis from one ounce of them, I declare 1 would set out this 
hour upon a pilgrimage t-o Mecca for their sakes — which by the bye, 
Sancho, exceeds your walk of ten miles in about the same proportion 
that a visit of humanity should one of mere form. However, if you 
meant my Uncle Toby, more is he your debtor. If I can weave the 
tale I have wrote into the work I am about, 'tis at the service of the 
afflicted — and a much greater matter ; for in serious truth, it casts a 
sad shade upon the world, that so great a part of it, are, and have 
been, so long bound in chains of daikness, and in chains of misery; 
and I cannot but both respect and felicitate you, that by so much 
laudable diligence you have broke the one — and that by falling into 
the bands of so good and merciful a family, Providence has rescued 
yi?u from the other. 

And so, gcod-hearted Sancho, adieu ! and, believe me, I will not 
forget your letter. Yours, L. STERNE. 

TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE. 

This remarkable person was born a slave in St. Domingo about 
1745. Not a drop of any other than African blood flowed in his veins. 
History may safely be challenged for an example of higher achievnients 
from so low a beginning. In all the elements of true greatness, bis 
character will bear a comparison with that of any hero, ancient or 
modern. He was truly the Washington of Hayti ; and if his final suc- 
cess did not equal that of our own revolutionary leader, it must not be 
attributed to any lack of talents on his part, but to the incomparable 
baseness and perfidy of his enemy. It is to that baseness we 
ro.ainly owe our ignorance of the life of this extraordinary man. The 
results of his powerful intellect, undaunted courage, and generous 
philanthropy, could not be hid ; but the same tyranny which meanly 
murdered him in a European dungeon, blotted out all the best sources 
of information as to the means by which he accomplished them. But 
the facts which are derived through this very enemy, unsmothered by 
walanches of abuse, are quite sufficient for our purpose. 



139] INTELLECT OF COLORED MEN. 7 

Toussaint was born on the plantation No^, managed by M. Bayoa 
de Liberias. His early years are said to have be'~n marked with 
an extraordinary evenness of temper and an enthusiastic berievolence 
towards, and wonderful control over, the brute animals, which it 
was his business to tend. Though his master's 7iame ought to have 
ensured him full opportunity to cultivate his minJ, 1 e seems to have 
been indebted to his own unaided and clandestine efforts for his 
education. A French writer reproaches M. Bayou de Libertas for his 
culpable negligence in not being aware that his s/aue had learned to 
read, till he was familiar with the writings of the Abbe RaynaL* Eih 
master, however, lived to see good reasons for not repenting of any 
kindness he had bestowed upon this slave. Toussaint did not join the 
negroes when they rose in 1791, till he had seen his master and family 
safely embarked for the United States, with l.bcrai supplies. He 
then devoted himself to the cause of his brethren with such zeal, 
activity, and talents, that he ultimately secured from them, the most 
cordial and universal obedience, and a respect little short of adoration^ 

Complete emancipation was offered by the French commissioners to 
all who would take up arms against the British invaders in 1793. It 
was with their characteristic energy and perseverance that the British 
attempted to wrest tliis opulent colony from their old rivals, and re- 
establish the peace of that despotism which they considered essential to 
the safety of their own West Indian possessions. And it was to the 
energy and superior military skill of Toussaint that his countrymen 
owed the preservation of their newly acquired liberty. The British 
were not compelled to retire till he wa3 made General-in-Chief and 
Governor of the colony. After the expulsion of the foreign foe, 
Toussaint applied himself to the arts of peace not less successtully 
than he had done to those of war. We are assured by the most re- 
spectable French authorities, who were themselves planters and eye- 
witnesses, that the colony under his government " marched as if by 
enchantment towards its ancient splendor." [ "The colony," says 
Malenfant, "flourished under Toussaint. The M'hites lived happily 
and in peace upon their estates, and the negroes continued to work 
for them." No one, who has not weighed the difficulties that lay before 
him, can duly appreciate the honor which these facts throw upon the 
character of Toussaint- The field of his operations was a country 

* " Campagnes des Francais, ^c," by Albert de Lattre, a colonial proprietor^ 
and paymaster of the French army, p. 48. 
t General La Croii, Memoire Historique du Saint Domingu*. 



8 INTELLECT OF COLORED MEN. [140 

desolated by seven years of fierce and complicated civil war, in which 
ail the bad passions of human nature had burst into the wildest madness 
that oppression could possibly drive to, and had been urged on in the 
work of destruction by the most powerful foreign influence. Worse 
materials for the establishment of peace, industry and good govern- 
ment could not well be imagined. Yet, Toussaint not only succeeded 
in governing the country, but he succeeded in attaching to himself all 
Uie parties and castes into which its distracted inhabitants were divided. 
It was this very success which doubtless stirred up against him the 
wrath of Napoleon, leading to the suspicion, which was contrary to fact, 
that it was his design to make the country independent of France. 

The disgraceful expedition under Le Clerc is said to have been 
urged upon Bonaparte by the whites who were dissatisfied with the 
loss of their slaves ; but these whites it would seem, were chiefly those 
who had fled to France. Those who remained on the island till 
Toussaint rose to the government were mostly satisfied with the 
system oi free labor, which under his administration was more profit.- 
able than the old slavery. On this point we have the best testimony 
that could be wished. The historian who v.'as employed to lull the 
French people, salve the wounded fame and pride of Bonaparte for the 
defeat of Le Clerc and Rochambeau, and drown the cries of the 
widows and orphans of 60,000 Frenchmen, assigns the disaffection of 
the whites in the colony itself, as one great reason of the failure. He 
says ; " it would seem to have been the natural course to organize 
into a national guard the inhabitants who were found in the towns on 
the arrival of the artny ; but there was not a man in whom any confi- 
dence could be placed. The majority of the inhabitants of the towns 
loved the government of Toussaint, because he had gorged them icitk 
riches." Again, in excusing Rochambeau for the same failure to avail 
himself of the aid of the colonial whites, he says, " It may be said for 
him, that he could not, any more than Captain-General Le Clerc, put 
confidence in the whites, the majority of the inhabitants of the towns 
mourning, I repeat it, for the regime of Toussaint, which had eniiched 
them."* 

Toussaint is represented by those who knew him well and had no 
motive to over-rate his powers or his virtues, as a man of deep sagacitv 
and untiring activity, veracious to a proverb ; humane and affectionate ; 
extremely temperate ; and remarkably exalted above the vanity which 
prejudice affirms to be characteristic of his race. He slept Httle, ata 

* See the aforesaid work of De Lattre, pages 84, 87, 



141] INTELLECT OF COLORED MEN. 9 

sparingly, drank nothing but water, and habitually tired five secretaries 
in the transaction of his official busi'^ess. In war be conquered, by the 
foresight of his combinations and. the celerity of his movements. In 
peace he repressed opposition by listening to complaints, and making 
it the interest of all parties to uphold the law. The same author, to 
whom we have alieady referred, in describing the system of Toussaint 
in regard to the former slaves, who were required by law to work, 
says " they had a fourth part of the produce, lohich loas too much.^^ 
So it seems he not only enriched the citizens of the towns, tut the 
laborers. 

Such was the man whom Bonaparte resolved to crush. But mark, 
how he trusted to lying and treachery rather than to the valor of his 
bravest veterans. Le Clerc invaded St. Dcmmgo with double the 
number of men Toussaint had then at command.* Yet he gained 
nothing in the held. At last by deceitful proclamations and French gold 
he allayed apprehension and cut the nerves of resistance, till Toussaint, 
too honest to fathom the deceit of his foe, retired from public life to his 
plantation, upon the pledged faith of France that his peace should not 
be disturbed. His sword was no sooner sheathed than he found him- 
self a prisoner on the way to France. If the treatment of Napoleon 
at St. Helena showed how much Europe feared his power, what are 
we to say of the confinement and starvation of Toussaint in the castle 
of Joux ? 

HENRY BOYD. 

Henry BoYof was bom a slave in Kentucky. Of imposing stature, 
well-knit muscles, and the countenance of one of nature's noblemen, at 
the age of eighteen he had so far won tlie confidence of his master, that 
}ie not only consented to sell him the right and title to his freedom, but 
gave him his own time to earn the money. With a general pass from 
his master, Henry made his way to the Kanawha salt works, celebrated 
as the place where Senator Ewing of Ohio, chopped out his education 
with his axe ! And there, too, with his axe, did Henry Boyd chop out 
his liberty. By performing double labor, he got double wages. In the 
day-time he swung his axe upon the wood, and for half the night he 
tended the boiling salt kettles, sleeping the other halfby their side. Afler 
having accumulated a sufficient sum, he leturned to his master and 

♦ De Lattre himself confesses that Toussaint had never more than sixteen 
thousand men. 

t This account is taken from tho lips of a friend who resided in Cineinn&ti 
three years ago, and liad good opportunity to know the fsxts. 



10 INTELLECT OF COLORED MEN. [142 

paid it over for his freedom. He next applied himself to learn the trade 
of a carpenter and joiner. Such was his readiness to acquire the use 
of tools, that he soon qualified himself to receive the wages of a joumtey- 
man. In Kentucky, prejudice does not forbid master mechanics to 
teach colored men their trades. 

He now resolved to quit the dominions of slavery and try his fortunes 
in a free state, and accordingly directed his steps to the city of Cin- 
cinnati. The journey reduced his purse to the last quarter of a dollar, 
but with his tools on his back and a set of muscles that well knew how 
to use them, he entered the city with a light heart. Little did he dream 
of the reception he was to meet. There was work enough to be done 
in his line, but no master- workman would employ " a nigger.'''' Day 
after day did Henry Boyd offer his services from shop to shop, but as 
often was he repelled, generally with insult, and once with a Mck. At 
last he found the shop of an En Jishman, too recently arrived to under- 
stand the grand peculiarity of American feeling. This man put a plane 
into his hand and asked him to make proof of his skill. " This is in bad 
order," said Boyd, and with that he gave the instrument certain nice 
professional knocks with the hammer till he brought it to suit his prac- 
ticed eye. "Enough," said the Englishman, "I see you can use tools." 
Boyd, however, proceeded to dress a board in a very able and work- 
manlike manner, while the journeymen from a long line of benches 
gathered round with looks that bespoke a deep personal interest in the 
matter. " You may go to work," said the master of the shop, right 
glad to employ so good a workman. The words had no sooner left 
his mouth, than his American journeymen, unbuttoning their aprons, 
called, as one man, for the settlement of their wages. " What, what^" 
said the amazed Englishman, "what does this mean?" "It means 
that we will not work with a nigger,''^ replied the journeymen. " But 
he is a first-rate workman." " But we won't stay in the same shop 
with a nigger. We are not in the habit of working with niggers." 
" Then I will build a shanty outside, and he shall work in that" 
" No, no ; we won't work for a boss who employs niggers. Pay us up 
and we'll be off!" The poor master of the shop turned with a des- 
pairing look to Boyd — " You see how it is, my friend, my workmen 
will all leave me. I am sorry for it, but I can't hire you." Even at 
this repulse our adventurer did not despair. There might still be 
mechanics in the outskirts of the city who had too few journeymen to 
be bound by their prejudices. His quarter of a dollar had long since 
disappeared , but by carrying a traveller's trunk or turning his hand 



143] INTELLECT OF COLORED MEN. 11 

to any chance job he contrived to exist till he had made application to 
every carpenter and joiner in the city and its Lub'irbs. A of one loould 
employ him. By this time^the iron of prejudice, more galling than any 
thing he had ever known of slavery, had entered his soul. He walked 
down on the river's bank below the city, and throning liimself upon 
the ground, gave way to an agony of c'espair. tie had fcund himself 
the object of universal contempt ; his plans were all frustrated, his 
hopes dashed, and his' dear-bought freedom made of no effect ! By 
such trials weak minds are prostrated in abject and slavish servility, 
stronger ones are made the enemies and depredators of society, and 
it is only the highest class of moral heroes that come off' like gold from 
the furnace. Of this class, however, was Henry Boyd. Recovering 
from his dejection, he surveyed the brawny muscles that strung his 
herculean hmbs. A new design rushed into his mind, and new reso- 
lution filled his heart. He sprang upon his feet and walked firmly 
and rapidly towards the city, doubtless with aspirations that might 
have fitted the words of the poet, 

" Thy spirit Independence let me share, 
Lord of the lion heart and eagle eye." 

The first object which attracted his " eagle eye," on reaching the 
city, was one of the huge river boats laden with pig-iron, drawn up to 
the landing. The captain of this craft was just inquiring of the mer- 
chant who owned its contents for a hand to assist in unloading it 
" I am the very fellow for you," said Boyd, stripping off his coat, 
rolling up his sleeves and laying hold of the work. " Yes, sure enough, 
that is the very fellow for you," said the merchant. The resolution 
and alacrity of Boyd interested him exceedingly, and during the frur 
or five days whilst a flotilla of boats were discharging their cargoes of 
pig-iron with unaccustomed despatch, he became familiar with his his- 
tory, with the exception of all that pertained to his trade, which Boyd 
thought proper to keep to himself In consequence, our adventurer 
next found himself promoted to the portership of the merchant's store, 
a post which he filled to great satisfaction. He had a hand and a 
head for every thing, and an occasion was not long wanting to prove 
it. A joiner was engaged to erect a counter, but failing by a drunken 
frohc, the merchant was disappointed and vexed. Rather in passion 
than in earnest he turned to his faithful porter — "Here, Henry, you 
can do almost any thing, why can't you do this job ?" " Perhaps I 
could, sir, if I had my tools and the stuff," was the reply. " Your 
tools !" exclaimed the merchant in surprise, for till now he knew 



12 INTELLECT OF COLORED MEN. [144 

nothing of his trade. Boyd explained that he had learned the trade of 
a carpenter and joiner, and had no objection to try the job. The 
merchant handed him the money, and told him to make as good a 
counter as he could. The work was done with such promptitude, 
judgment and finish, that his employer broke off a contract for the 
erection of a laro;e frame warehouse v/hich he was about closing with 
the same mechanic who had disappointed him in the matter of the 
counter, and gave the job to Henry. The money was furnished and 
Boyd was left to procure the materials and boss the job at his own dis- 
cretion. This he found no difficulty in doing, and what is remarkable, 
among the numerous journeymen whom he employed, were some of 
tho A'ery men who took off their aprons at his appearance in the 
Englishman's shop ! The merchant was so much pleased with his new 
warehouse, that he proceeded to set up the intelligent builder in the 
exercise of his trade in the city. Thus flenry Boyd found himself 
raised at once almost beyond the reach of the prejudice which had 
well-nigh crushed him. He built houses and accumulated property. 
White journeymen and apprentices were glad to be in his employment 
and to Atf id his table. He is now a wealthy mechanic, living in his 
own house in Cincinnati, and his enemies who have tried to supplant 
him have as good reason as h;s friends to know that he is a man of 
sound judgment and a most vigorous intellect. 

Without having received a day's schooling in his life, Henry Boyd 
is well read in history, has an extensive and accurate knowledge of 
geography, is an excellent arithmetician, is well informed in politics 
having been for several years a regular subscriber to several of the 
bett newspapers published at the west. He is truly public spirited 
and is remarkable for his morality, generosity and all those traits 
which mark a noble character. 

Mechanics, who we trust compose a considerable part of our readers, 
will understand what power of mind it required to vault at once from 
the bottom to the top of their ladder. Where is the white man who 
can boast a more difficult performance? Where is the white man, of 
this or any other age or country, who has shown more decision or 
energy of character ? And let it be obsei"ved that the narrative illus- 
trates the vincibility as well as the strength of American prejudice 
against color. 

IdPHaving, in this tract, drawn but slightly on the resources within 
■mK reach we hope to resume the subject on some future occasion. 



TESTIMONY 145 

{Continued from page 12.) 

TESTIMONY OF THE REV. ROBERT J. BRECKENRIDGE, — Of Baltimore, 

" What is slavery ?" says Mr. B. " we reply, it is that condition en- 
forced by the laws of one half the States of this confederacy, in which 
one portion of the community, called masters, is allowed such power 
ore- another portion, called slaves, as 1st. To deprive them of the en- 
ire earnirgs of t'neir labor, except only so much as is necessary to con- 
apije labor itself, by contmuing healthful existence, thus committing 
rlear robbery. — 2d. To reduce them, to the necessity of universal con^ 
eubinace, ay denying „o them the rights cf marriage ; thus breaking 
up the dearest relations of life, and encouraging universal prostitution. 
^. To di^orive them of the means and opportunities of moral and m 
lellectua' «;ulture. 4th. I'o set up between parents and their children 
an authf ity higher than the impulse of nature and the laws of God, 
which b. laks up the authority of the father over his own offspring, and 
it pleat- re separates the mother, at a returnless distance, from her 
child ; t- as abrogating the dearest laws cf nature ; thus outraging all 
decency mad justice, and degrading and oppressing thousands upon thou- 
»an..s of beings created Uke themselves, in the image of the Most High 
God. This is slavery, as it is daily exhibited in every Slave 
State." 

testimony of rev. JOHN WESLEY. 

"They (the slaves) are reduced to a state scarce any way preferable 
to beasts of burden. Their sleep is very,short, their labor continual and 
above their strength, so that death sets many ot them at liberty before 
they have Uved out half their days. They are atten^^tw vy overseers, 
who, if they think them dilator j, or any thing not so well done as it 
should be, whip them unmercifully ; so that you may see their bodies 
long after wealed and scarred from the shoulder to the waist. 

*' As to the punishment inflicted on them, they frequently geld them 
or chop off' half a foot ! after they are whipped till they are raw all over 
some put pepptr and salt upon them ; some drop melted loax upon their 
sJdn, others cut off their ears."* — W^esley^s Thoughts on Slave-t-y, page 2. 

Wesley's testimony has reference to American slavery as M'ell as 
West Indian, as will be seen by the context. He nao travelled much 
in Virginia, the Carolinas, and Georgia. — Ed. 

testimony of AMOS WEAVER, ESQ. — Of Jforth Carolina- 

"Many of them (the slaves) are under the control of cruei and ro- 
^entless masters, from whom they receive much inhuman abuse." — Sr 
Weaver^s Oration delivered in Guilford Co., J^. C, 1829. 

testimony of THOMAS JEFFERPTJ, — ^ slaveholder. 

In hi? published correspondence he exclaims: "What an «i.o<;'n« 
prehen;-ible machine is man I who can endure toil, famine, stripes, im- 
prison^nent, and death itself, in vindication of his own liberty, and the 
next moment be deaf to all those motives whose power supported him 
through his trial, and inflict on his fellow-men a bondage, one hour of 

* Only last week Mr. Lewis Tappan received a letter from Montgomery 
Alabama, signed, " Thomas Oglethorpe," containing a negro's ear cut off closr- 
\o his head— It was Hurt to Mr 1' -n mock compliment to his efforts in t.r- 
Cause of abolition.— Fii 



146 TESTIMONY CONTINUED. 

which is fraught loith more misery, than ages of that which he rose in 

rebellion to oppose When the measure of their tears shall be full 

— when their groans shall have involved heaven itself in darkness — 
doubtless a God of justice will awaken to their distress, and by diffus- 
ing light and liberality among their oppressors, or at length, by his ex- 
terminating thunder, manifest his attention to the things of this world, 
and that they are not left to the guidance of a blind fatality." 

TESTIMONY OF REV. J. D. PAXTON, 

^ native of Virginia, once a professor in a southern college, subsequently 
pastor of the congregation at Hampden Sydney college, Va., and for 
many years a slaveholder — noio of Danville, Ky. 
" There is, and, while human nature remains what it is, there will be, 

much oppression and hard dealing towards slaves The unkind, 

the unfeeling, the fault-finding, the cruel, the selfish, the passionate, 
yea, that whole class of persons, in whom the evil passions predomi- 
nate over the good, have, in their slaves, objects on which these dispo- 
sitions may be daily employed Even with those that, on the 

whole, are kind to their slaves, things often take place, that may go 

to make the life of the slave 7niserable Such is the general feeling 

towards slaves, that conduct towards them will hardly be noticed, 
which, if done to a white man, would produce no little scandal. . . . 
All who are acquainted with negro slavery know, that there are many 
cases in which the condition of the slave is most hard^ where the labor 
is severe and oppressive, the food and clothing both in kind and quan- 
tity not what it ought to be ; where the labors and toils of life seldom 

meet with any approbation Where oppressions, and injuries^ 

and wrongs, are the natural results of a system, it is not enough tliat 
we ourselves do not oppress," 

TESTIMONY OF A GENTLEMAN CONNECTED WITH A SOUTHERN 

UNIVERSITY, 

Who went to the south a feio years since, violent in his opposition to 
aholitionists. 

"The spirit of slavery is the spirit of hell. There can be no mistake 
in that. It is aUied to that of fiends. It breathes nothing and can breathe 
nothing but the bitterness of the bottomless pit. It withers with its fetid 
breath every sentiment of generosity and benevolence, every manly sym- 
pathy and kind emotion, and generates and fosters as in a hot bed every 
hateful passion, with misery, suffer%ng,\ciretchedness, pollution, and deaths 
temporal and eternal. There is no crimj in the calendar of iniquity 
that in enormity and maUgnity can claim kindred to slavery. 1 feel 
most deeply on this subject, for my soul is sick and my ear is pained 
with what I see of it every day I live — with the spirit I see it producing. 
It has no sympathy with the spirit of piety. It cannot have any 
alliance with the meek, kind, forgiving, and benevolent spirit of the 
gospel 

"You can anticipate the evils of slavery from what I have said# 
Children, instead of being subjected to discipline, and taught the con- 
trol of themselves and their evil passions, almost from infancy become 
petty txfirantSj and grow up in the indulgence of tyranny, artger, hatred. 



TESTIMONY CONTINUED. 147 

pride, haughtiness, and cruelty ; and what can you expect from such 
men, but the character I have represented ? You know it is a common 
truth, at the North, that the worst students at our colleges are from 
the South. I can readily see why it is so. / would not treat a deg 
that I hated, as I see my fellow beings treated every day. I had always 
supposed that tlie family of a Southern planter had within it all the 
elements of happiness, refinement, and comfort ; but I was most 
grandly mistaken. There is much that is gaudy, and much of the 
externals of happiness; but it is the last place that I would go to, to 
be happy ; with outward show and splendor, there is the coarseness 
and grossness of cruelty, ungovernable passions, and arbitrary powerJ'^ 

TESTIMONY OP REV. GEORGE WHITEFIELD, 

In a letter loriiten by him in Georgia, and addressed to the slaveholders 

of Maryland, Virginia, J\''orth and South Carolina, and Georgia, mi 

1739. — See BenezeVs '•'■Appeal to Great Britain and her colonies.'''' 

" As I lately passed through your Provinces on my way hither, I 

was sensibly touched with a fellow-feeling of the miseries of the poor 

negroes 

"Sure I am, it is sinful to use them as bad, nay worse than if they 
were brutes ; and whatever particular exceptions there may be, (as I 
would charitably hope there are some) I fear the generality of you that 
own negroes, are liable to such a charge ; for your slaves, I believe, 
work as hard, if not harder than the horses whereon you ride. These, 
after they have done their work, are fed and taken proper care of; but 
many negroes, when wearied with labor, in your plantations, have 
been obliged to grind their own corn, after they return home. Your 
dogs are caressed and fondled at your tables ; but your slaves, who 
are frequently styled dogs, or beasts, have not an equal privilege. 
They are scarcely permitted to pick up the crumbs which fall from their 
masters^ table. Not to mention what numbers have been given up to 
the inhuman usage of cruel task-master's, who by their unrelenting 
scourges, have ploughed their backs and made long furrows, and at 
length brought them to the grave ! 

" When passing along, I have viewed your plantations cleared and 
cultivated, many spacious houses built, and the owners of them faring 
sumptuously every day. My blood has frequently almost run cold 
within me, to consider how many of your slaves had neither convenient 
food to eat, nor proper raiment to put on, notwithstanding most of the 
comforts you enjoy are solely owing to their indefatigable labors ! 

" The Scripture says, ' Thou shall not muzzle the ox that treadeth mit 
the corn.'' Does God care for oxen ? And will he not also care for 
the negroes ? Undoubtedly he will. ' Go to, now, ye rich men, 
weep and howl for the miseries that shall come upon.' Behold the 
provision of the 'poor negroes, who have reaped down your fields, xohich is 
by you denied them, crieth ; and the cries of them ivhich have reaped, 

are entered into the ear of the Lord of Sabaoth ! ! ! 

" God is the same to-day as he Avas yesterday, and will continue the 
same for ever. He does not reject the prayer of the poor and desti- 
tute; nor disregard the cry of the meanest negro. The blood of them, 
spUt for these many years, in your respective provinces, will ascend up to 
heaven against you ! /" 



148 

EFFECTS OF COLONIZATION. 
Extract from a speech of Rev. Dr. Philip of South Africa.. 

" Most of those whom I now address are acquainted with many 
particulars of the history of the colonization which has taken place 
within the last three centuries. The system has been put into opera- 
tion and supported by the nations of Europe, to the manifest injury of 
the natives of America, Africa, and other parts of the world. After 
noticing some of these, the Doctor proceeded — In the beginning of the 
last century, the European colony in Africa was confined to within a 
ifew miles of Cape Town. From that period it has advanced, till it 
now includes many more square miles than are to be found in England^ 
Scotland, and Ireland. If a traveller, who had visited that country 
twenty-five years ago, were to take his stand on the banks of the 
Koiskama river, and ask what had become of the natives whom he 
saw there on his former visit ; if he took his stand on the banks of the 
Sunday river, and looked forward to a country seventy miles in breadth 
before him, he might ask the same question ; if he were to take his 
stand again on the Fish river, and there extend his views to Caffraria, 
he might ask the same question ; and were be to take his stand upon 
the snow mountain called Graaff Reinet, (he would have before him a 
country containing forty thousand square miles,) — and ask where was 
the immense concourse that he saw there twenty-five years ago, no 
man could tell him where they were," 

The colonists of Liberia are taking the right course to produce the 
same state of things in Western Africa. 

In August, 1835, the citizens of Monrovia, enacted as a law,* "that 
all Kroomen residing at Krootown, on that side of the Mesurado river, 
shall pay annually to the town of Monrovia, the sum of one dollar and 
fifty cents, and do any kind of fatigue duty required by the president 
of the town council ;" and further, that all Kroomen coming there to 
reside, " shall report themselves within five days to the president of 
the town council, and receive a certificate, granting them permission. 
to reside (not in Monrovia but even) in Krootown — for which they 
shall pay the sum of one dollar and fifty cents : and all neglecting to 
comply with this resolution shall, on conviction, pay the sum of two 
dollars and leave the settlement ; and in case of failure to pay the fine, 
shall be compelled to do public labor until the fine is satisfied ;" and 
not these only, but " that all other natives, not in the employment of 
the colonists of the town, shall, when called upon by proper authority^ 
do fatigue duty of ANY NATURE, that may be assigned them." 



COLONIZATION AND THE SLAVE-TRADE. 

Some advocate colonization in the hope that it will put an end to the 

African slave-trade. They say it has diiven the slave-trade from some 

hundred miles of the coast. What if it have ? Are there any fewer 

slaves brought from Africa for that? And what assurance have we 

* African Repository,. for May^ 1836. 



149 



the colony itself, when grown up and independent, will not follow 
example of Christian Maryland, and Christian Virginia, and the 
Christian capital of our own Christian land, and set up a trade in the 
bodies and souls of its own citizens ? — or in the " menials" that it may 
buy of the heathen ? In doing so, it would only imitate the example 
of the Hon. Bushrod Washington, one of the Presidents of the Colo- 
nization Society, who sold a large number of slaves into the hopeless 
bondage of the remote South. 



THE RUM-TRADE IN LIBERIA. 
What the cargoes of vessels trading to Liberia are made up of may 
be seen by the following advertisements, from the Liberia Herald. 



No. 1. March 22, 18S2. 
" C. M. WARING & F. TAYLOR 
Offer for sale the cargo of the Schooner 
Olive from I^iverpooJ, 
500 Kegs of Po^yder, 
500 Muskets, 
150 Cutlasses, 
10 Bags Shot, 
10 Puncheons Rum, 
2 do. Brandy, 
20 Casks of Pale Ale, 
10 do. Brown Stout," &c. &c. 



No. 2. Sept. 7, 1832. 
C. M. WARING offers for sale the 
cargo of the Schooner Olive of Liver- 
pool. 

60 doz. blk. handled spear-pointed 
Knives, 
10,000 best musket Fhnts, 

354 bunches dark straw beads, 
223 pounds black pound do. 
245 do. white do. 
1,197 gallons of Rum, 
350 kegs of Powder, 
140 Muskets. 



INFLUENCE OF A COLONY UPON A MISSION. 
Messrs. Wilson and Wynkoop, in selecting a site for a mission set- 
tlement near Cape Palmas, chose to be half a mile distant from the 
colony, and remark, " It is true we had very serious doubts as to the 
expediency of taking any measures for the immediate erection of the 
house in the neighborhood of the colony ; first, from apprehension that 
the colony might embarrass our future efforts for the improvement of 
the natives; and in the second place, we had fears, lest, in case of any 
contest betweer: the colonists and the natives, the latter might be 
tempted to destroy it, situated as it would be out of the protection of 
the colony. Any apprehension, however, that might be entertained, 
of violence to a missionary establishment from the natives, would be 
greatly relieved by the consideration, that they manifested a strong 
desire for the education of their children, and we took all the pains we 
could to impress the mind of the king and his people ivith the fact, that 
the mission is to be entirely distinct from the colony, and xcill he identified 
with the interests of the naiire*."— Missionary Herald, June, 1834. 



150 
HOPE FOR THE OPPRESSEa 

ISA. li. 

1. Thou glorious Sun, of old 
Crowned monarch of the sky. 

And stany hosts, that hold 
Your nightly watch on high, 
Your courses sure 
And fires shall cease — 
But righteousness 
Shall still endure. 

2. Thus saith th' eternal God, 
"Ye men that heed my law 

Heed not the tyrant's rod, 
Nor close your lips in awe,— 
For soon shall slide 
His haughty feet — 
The moth shall eat 
His blooming pride." 

3. Awake in majesty, 
Arm that, in days of yore, 

Asunder cleft the sea. 

And led thy ransom'd o'er. — 
Thy ransom'd now 
To Zion's home 
Shall singing come 
With joyful brow. 

4. f How could your souls forget,** 
Thus saith the Holy One, 

"Your Maker's hand that set 
On high the stars and sun. 
In order wise. 

His power to show 
To earth below 
And boundless skies ? 

5. " Whj^ fear th' oppressor's rage. 
While in my truth ye stand. 

Your sliield, from age to age, 
The hollow of my hand ? 
Help'd not in vain, 
The slave doth baste 
The bliss to taste 
Of Freedom's reign^ 



151 

6. " Th' oppressor shall give up 

His brutalizing chains, — 
Or drink himself the cup, 
Which now his bondman drains." 
Almighty Power! 
Thy mercy show, 
Avert the woe 
Of that dread hour ! 



THE SAVIOUR KING. 
PS. Ixxii. 

1. He comes, the Kmg whom earth shaU bless, 
His robes without a stain ; 

He comes to rule in righteousness, 
And break th' oppressor's chain. 

2. He comes to dry the bitter tear, 
And save his humble poor ; — 

His name the peopled world shall fear, 
While sun and moon endure. 

3. He comes like soft refreshing rain 
That clothes the fields in green ; 

Sweet peace and plenty in his train 
Forever shall be seen. 

4. The righteous in his days shall thrive« 
Spread out from sea to sea ; 

But men of wrong shall vainly strive 
From punishment to flee. 

5. To him the wilderness shall bow, 
While cruel spears and swords 

Give place to pruning-hook and plough, 
With peace from savage hordes. 

6. To him shall all the nations raise 
Their prayer and thankful sorig ; 

No proud shall prosper in his days, 
No poor shall suffer wrong. 



152 



FOR THE CONCERT OF PRAYER FOR SLAVES, 

1. Gather to your solemn meetings 
Ye who weep for human woe ; 

God is never tired of greeting 

Those who seek his face below : — 

Sought for humbly, 
Rich his mercies ever flow. 

2. Pray for those in cruel fetters, 
Bound by avarice and pride. 

Pray for those to whom the letters 
God hath written are denied : — 

Lord, in mercy. 
Break the power thy word to hide. 

3. Pray for sold and banished brothers, 
Whom their bartered sisters mourn. 

Pray for broken-hearted mothers 
From their smiling infants torn ;-- 

Griefs too heavy, 
Grace not helping, to be borne. 

4. Pray for hearts by bondage blighted 
Till their brutal chains they love. 

Pray for souls that stray benighted 
Where the gospel shines above. 

Oh ! renew them 
In thine image, heavenly Dove. 

5. Pray with tears for proud oppressors, 
Trampling on the truth they hate. 

Pray for reprobate professors 
Hastening to a darker fate. 

Oh ! let mercy 
Check them ere it be too late. 



.53 



THE LIBERTY OF THE PRESS. 

We wish all the admirers of slavery and " Incendiary Publication 
Bills," would weigh the following words of the Ahh6 de La Mennais : 

" Since the discovery of the art of printing, it has become as impos- 
sible to arrest the diffusion of intellectual light upon the mass of man- 
kind, as it is that of physical. The only effect of legal prohibitions 
is, first, to obUge writers to modify, not their foundations of thought, 
but their forms of expression, and they are only the better understood, 
because the reader pays a more earnest and wakeful attention ; and, 
secondly, to substitute for the pubhc circulation of writings, a clan- 
destine one almost always far more active. The more severe the 
penalties, the less rigorously, except in rare cases, can they be ap- 
plied, and the greater the profits of the literary contraband. Des- 
potism has then to struggle not only against the courage of strong 
convictions, but against mercantile cupidity, — both aided by the favor 
which always attends persecuted opinions. What, among other 
things, does it propose ? To accredit certain maxims useful to its own 
interests, and to destroy every contrary principle. Now, to forbid the 
discussion of any doctrine whatever, is enough to give birth in the 
minds of all to the just persuasion that those who would bar out the 
discussion, are inwardly convinced that they could not sustain an 
examination, and have no faith in their own truth. The very care 
they take that no one shall attack it, establishes against it a universal 
and not unfounded prejudice. The pretended right of a power capa- 
ble of sustaining itself only by smothering human reason, becomes a 
revolting monstrosity. Moreover, what if the prohibition should 
bear upon subjects treated already in numerous writings, — and what 
subject has not been treated, and discussed on every side, within a 
century ? Upon subjects intimately connected with the present state 
of the European people, the ancient writings will be reprinted, and 
everybody will make the application ; the meaning will be put under 
a veil — a transparent one, through which it will appear clear and lumi- 
nous to the attentive eye in search for it : and when it is wished to 
escape this restraint, to attack the fore front, and battle with tyranny 
hand to hand, the means will always be found to publish in one coun- 
try, yjhat cannot be published in another ; for oppression never presses 
equally everywhere at once. Nevertheless, this oppression, constantly 
augmented, will excite such hatred, that the oppressing power, for its 
defence, will be driven into the greatest excesses. Soon after, the 
ground will tremble ; a confused, hollow sound will be heard ; and 
then another sound, as of a stone that falls ; — this wili be the stone 
which seals the sepulchre of the tyrant." 

De. la Servitude Voluntaire, ^c, p. 25. 



154 

DEFINITION OF SLAVERY. 

Ik the GLuarterly Anti-Slavery Magazine for April, 1837, is a full 
discussion of the Old Testament doctrine of servitude. No person, 
who wishes to know what ground abolitionists claim to hold, should 
fail to read it. The writer, in attempting to answer the question "Is 
Slavery from above or from beneath?" in the light of the Bible, first 
inquires what slavery is. The following is the affirmative part of his 
definition : — 

Enslaving men is reducing them to articles of PROPERTif 
making free agents goods and chattels, converting persons into things, 
sinking intelUgence, accountability, immortality, and personal, inalien- 
able ownership, into mere merchandise. A slave is one held in this 
condition. Slavery is the condition itself Slaveliolding is keeping 
men in this condition, subject to these liabilities, whether the holder 
personally regards the slave in that light or not. Slavedealing is traf- 
ficking in HU.MAN ware, a slave is a mere tool for another's use and 
benefiT. In law "he owns nothing and can acquire nothing." His 
right to himself is abrogated — his limbs are another's property. If he 
say my hands, my feet, my body, my mind, mtsc//, they are figures of 
speech. To use himself for his oion good is illegal, a crime. To keep 
what he earns is stealing. To take his body into his own keeping is 
insurrection, and incurs outlawry. In a word, tiie profit of his master 
is made the end of his being, and he a mere means to that end, a mere 
means to an end of which he has no part — a mere instrument for the 
accomplishment of an object into which his interests do not enter, of 
which thoy constitute no portion.* Man sunk to a thing ! the intrinsic 
element and constituent principle of slavery ; a condition in which men 
are sold, bartered, leased, mortgaged, bequeathed, inherited, invoiced, 
shipped in cargoes, stored as goods, taken on executions, and knocked 
off at public outcry. Their rights, another's conveniences, their interests, 
serviceable articles or wares on sale, their happiness a household 
utensil or plaything, as best suits the humor of the hour — their death- 
less nature, conscience, social affections, sympathies, hopes, marketable 
commodities! Vv^e repeat it, the reduction of persons to things; not 
robbing a man of privileges, but of himself ; not loading him with bur- 
dens, but turning him into a beast of burden; not curtailing rights, but 
annihilating them ; not inflicting personal cruelty, but destroying ^er- 

* Whatever system sinks man from an end; to a means, or in other words, 
whatever transforms him from an object of instrumentality into a mere instru- 
mentahty to an object, just so far makes him a slave. Heiice, WeSvt India 
apprenticeship retains in one particular the cardinal principle of slavery. The 
apprentice during three-fourths of his time is still forced to labor, and robbed of 
his earnings, just so far forth he is a mere means, z. slave. True, in air other 
respects, slavery is abolished in the British West Indies. Its bloodiest features 
axe blotted out — but the meanest and most despicable of all— forcing the poor 
to work for the rich without pay three-fourths of their time, with a legal officer 
%a flog them if they demur at the outrage, is one of the provisions of the " Eman- 
eipation Act !" For the glories of that luminary we have a thousand times 
thanked God, and mourned as often that it rose behind a cloud, and still shines 
stffough an eclipse. 



156 

sondity ; not restraining liberty, but leaving none for restraint ; not 
requiring involuntary labor, but sinking the man into an implement of 
labor ; not abridging his human comforts, but abrogating his human, 
nature ; not depriving an animal of immunities, but despoiling a rational 
being of altnbiites, uncreating a man to make room for a thing! 

That we have tmly stated the fundamental principle of American 
slavery is proved by the laws of slave states. Judge Stroud, in his 
"Sketch of the Laws relating to Slavery," says, "The cardinal prin- 
ciple of slavery, that the slave is not to be ranked among sentient beings 
but among things, — is an article of property, a chattel personal, obtains 
as undoubted law in all of these states," (the slave states.) To estab- 
lish this by multiplying extracts from the laws of slaveholding states 
is needless. Let the following suffice. The law of South Carolina 
thus lays down the principle, " Slaves shall be deemed, held, taken, 
reputed, and adjudged in law to be chattels personal in the hands of 
their owners and possessors, and their executors, administrators, and 
assigns, to all intents, constructions, and purposes whatso- 
ever." Brevard's Digest, 229. In Louisiana, " a slave is one who is 
in the power of a master to whom he belongs — the master may sell him 
— dispose of his person, his industry, and his labor, he can do nothing, 
possess nothing, nor acquire any thing, but what must belong to his 
master." Civil Code of Louisiana, Art. XXXV. 

Tliis is American slavery. The sacred and infinite distinction be- 
tween a person and a thing, it tramples under foot, — a distinction alike 
the centre and circumference of God's moral government — the crown- 
ing distinction of the universe, transcending all others as the source, 
the test, and the measure of their value — the rational, accountable, im- 
mortal principle, embalmed by God in everlasting remembrance, con- 
secrated to universal homage in a baptism of glory and honor, by the 
gift of his Son, his Spirit, his Word, his presence, providence, and 
power ; by his guiding wisdom, his inspiring promises, his protecting 
shield, upholding staffj and sheltering wing ; his opening heavens, and 
angels ministering, and chariots of fire, and songs of morning stars, and 
shoutings of the sons of God, and a great voice in heaven proclaim- 
ing eternal sanctions, and confirming the word with signs following. 



SLAVERY UPHELD BY THE CHURCHES. 

The following testimony of the Rev. James Smylie, a Presbyterian 
minister in the state of Mississippi, now and for some twenty years 
past, a stated clerk of a Presbytery, published in his pamphlet in de- 
fence of slavery, shows to what extent the Christians of the South 
make merchandise of men. 

" If slavery be a sin, and if advertisin ^ and apprehending slaves with 
a view to restore them to their masters, is a direct violation of the divine 
law, and if buying, selling, or holding a slave, for the sake of gain, 
ii a heinous sin and scandal, then, verily, THREE-FOURTHS of all 
the Episcopalians, Methodists, Baptists, and Presbtterians, in 
eleven states of the Union, are of the devil. They ' hold,' if they do 
not buy and sell slaves ; and, with few exceptions, they hesitate not to 
apprehend and restore runaway slaves when in their power." 



156 
FOREIGN OPINIONS OF AMERICAN SLAVERY. 



E. S. ABDT, ESQ. 

A view of the national sin of America, after admiring the natural 
grandeur of their country, is like discovering the object of worship in 
the old temples of Egypt ; where, after the stranger had walked bewil- 
dered through vistas of superb architecture, he came at last to the filthy 
idol, — a mouthing and obscene Ape, playing its pranks on a throne of 
gold ! And this is the thing to be worshipped in America — a mockery 
and disgrace of the human character " enthroned in the West" — a 
nation of slave-drivers masquerading it with the cap of liberty, a Chris* 
tian people excelling all the heathen tribes of the world in systematic 
wickedness, — a free republic exercising greater oppression than was 
ever heard of in the old king-scourged and priest-ridden despotisms 
of Europe. 

EDINBURGH REVIEW. 

Every American who loves his country, should dedicate his whole 
life, and every faculty of his soul, to efface the foul blot of slavery from 
its character. If nations rank according to their wisdom and their 
virtue, what right has the American, a scourger and murderer of slaves, 
to compare himself with the least and lowest of tlie European nations, 
much more with this great and humane country, where the greatest 
lord dare not lay a finger on the meanest peasant? What is freedom 
where all are not free ? where the greatest of God's blessings are limited, 
with impious caprice to the color of the body ? And these are men 
who taunt the EngUsh with their corrupt parliament, with their buying 
and selling votes. Let the world judge which is the most Uable to 
censure — we, who in the midst of rottenness, have torn the manacles 
off" slaves all over the world ; or they who, with their idle purity and 
useless perfection, have remained mute and careless while groans 
echoed and whips cracked round the very walls of their spotless con- 
gress. We wish well to America — we rejoice in her prosperity — and 
are delighted to resist the absurd impertinence with which the character 
of her people is often treated in this country. But the existence of slavery 
in America is an atrocious crime, with which no measures can be kept 
—for lohich her situation affords no sort of apology — which makes liberty 
itself disgusted, and the boast of it disgusting. — No. LXI. ^Art, Travel* 
lers in America. 

DANIEL O'CONNEL, ESQ. 

Well, then, even Sir Robert Peel had been enabled to taunt the 
Americans with gross inconsistency and lawless proceedings. He 
differed from Sir Robert Peel on may points. On one point, however, 
he fully agreed with him. Let the proud Americans learn that ali 
parties in this country unite in condemnation of their present conduct ; 
and let them also learn that the worst of all aristocracies is that which 
prevails in America — an aristocracy which had been aptly denominated 
that of the human skin. The most insufferable pride was that showtt 
by such an aristocracy. 



157 

L0I7D0N EVAlfGELICAL MAGAZINE. 

The United States of America present to the world one of the most 
extraordinary spectacles that can be conceived of by the mind of man. 
They are a huge moral and political enigma. We behold part of the 
population priding themselves on the peculiar freedom of their institu- 
tions, and holding the other part in the shackles of slavery. They are 
a people who boast that they are possessed of an "admirable system 
of public schools, continually spreading into new states ; hundreds of 
academies; 70 or 80 colleges; numerous theological and medical 
schools; 1,200 newspapers; 8,000 or 10,000 temperance societies, 
with a million and a half of members ; 15,000 or 20,000 Sunday schools, 
vvith their libraries and a million of scholars, and taught by 120,000 of 
the best men and women among them; an evangeUcal ministry of not 
less than 11,000 ministers of the gospel," and, which the writer omits 
to add, nearly three millions of slaves ! Alas that a figure with so 
goodly a bust should terminate in the slimy folds of the serpent! 

It is melancholy to behold such a monstrosity ; a people judging 
their own rights with the incontrovertible declaration, "that all men 
are created equal ; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain 
inahenable rights ; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit 
of happiness ;" and at the same instant depriving their fellow-men 
perpetually of two of these "inalienable rights," and often directly or 
indirectly of the third. Most heartily do we concur with our American 
brethren in the sentiment we here quote. We concur with them when 
they claim to be free from oppression, but we dissent from them when 
they claim also to be free to oppress. The national emblem of the 
American states requires alteration to make it truly emblematical of 
their piesent and past condition. The eagle, with liberty on his wings, 
should, to complete the resemblence, clutch in his talons the manacled 
and writhing form of the colored man. 

Political arrangements! Is he a man, and does he call buying, 
selling, and lacerating his fellow-men, political arrangements ? Is the 
flogging of women a political arrangement? Is tearing the child from 
the mother, and the wife from the husband, a political arrangement ? 
Are all the murders, adulteries, obscenities, and immoralities of every 
kind, which follow in the train of slavery, political arrangements ? 
We tell him that the curse of God is on such political arrangements, 
and if they are not altered, we tremble for America. — February, 1836. 

JEAN PIERRE BRISSOT. 

In the South, the blacks are in a state of abjection difficult to de- 
scribe : many of them are naked, ill fed, lodged in miserable huts, on 
straw. They receive no education, no instruction in any kind of 
religion ; they are not married but coupled ; thus they are brutalized^ 
Every thing in Maryland and Virginia wears the print of slavery ; a 
starved soil, bad cultivation, houses falling to ruin, cattle small and 
few, and black walking skeletons ; in a word, you see real misery, 
and apparent luxury, insulting eaoh other. 

" God has created men of all nations, of all languages, of all colors, 
equally free ; Slavery, in all its forms, in alt its degrees, is a violation if 
the Divine laws ; and a degradation of human nature." 

[Travels in the United States, 1788.3 



158 



WHAT ABOLITIONISTS BELIEVE. 

We belie^'e slavery to be a sin — always, everywhere, and only, sin — sin, in 
itself, apart from the occasional rigors incidental to its administration, and from 
all those perils, liabilities, and positive inflictions to which its victims are con- 
tinually exposed — sin, in the nature of the act which creates it, and in the 
elements which constitute it — sin, because it converts persons into things, 
makes men property, God's image merchandise ; because it forbids men to use 
themselves for the advancement of their own well-being, and turns them into 
mere instruments, to be used by others, solely for the benefit of the users ; 
because it constitutes one man the owner of the body, soul and spirit of other 
men — gives him power and permission to make his own pecuniary profit the 
great end of their being ; thus striking them out of existence as beings posses- 
sing rights and susceptibilities of happiness, and forcing them to exist merely 
as appendages to his own existence. In other words, because slavery holds 
and uses men, as mere means for the accomplishment of ends, of which ends 
their own interests are not a part — thus anniliilating the sacred and eternal dis- 
tinction between a person and a thing — a distinction proclaimed an axiom by all 
human consciousness — a distinction created by God, crowned with glory and 
honor in the attributes of intelligence, morality, accountability and immortal 
existence, and commended to the homage of universal mind by the concurrent 
testimony of nature, conscience, providence and revelation, by the blood of 
atonement and the sanctions of eternity. This distinction, anthenticated 
by the seal of Deity, and its own nature effaceless and immutable, slavery 
contemns, disainiuls, and tramples under foot. This is its fundamental ele- 
ment — its vital, constituent principie — that which makes it a sin in itself, under 
whatever modification existing. All the incidental eff'ects of the system flow 
spontaneously from this fountain head. The constant exposure of slaves to 
outrage, and the actual inflictions which they experience in innumerable forms, 
aU result legitimately from this principle assumed in the theory, and embodied 
in the practice of slaveholding. What is that but a sin, which sinks to the 
level of brutes, beings ranked and registered by God a little lower tUan the 
angels — wrests from their rightful owners the legacies bequeathed them — 
inahenable birthright endowments, exchanged for no equivalent, unsurrendered 
by volition and unforfeited by crime— breaks open the sanctuary of human 
rights, and makes its sacred things common plunder — driving to the shambles 
Jehovah's image, herded with four-footed beasts and creeping things, and bar- 
tering for vile dust the purchase of a Redeemer's blood, and the living members 
of his body ? What is that but a sin, which derides the sanctity with which 
God has invested domestic relations — annihilates marriage — makes void 
parental authority— nullifies fiUal obligation— invites the violation of chastity, 
by denying it legal protection, thus bidding Goa-speed to lust as it riots at noon- 
day, glorying in the immunities of law 1 What is that but a sin, which stamps 
as crime obedience to the command, " Search the scriptures"— repeals the law 
of love— abrogates the golden rule— exacts labor without recompense— author- 
izes the forcible sunderings of kindred, and cuts off" for ever from the pursuit 
of happiness 1 What is that but a sin, which embargoes the acquisition of 
knowledge by the terror of penalties— eclipses intellect— stifles the native in- 
stmcts of the heart— precipitates in death-damps the upward aspirations df the 
spirit— startles its victims with present perils— peoples the future with appre- 
hended horrors— palsies the moral sense whlems hope in despair, and kills the 
soul ? — Declaration of the Ohio Anti- Slavery Convention. 



159 



SOUTHERN PREACHING. 

[From Miss Martineau.] 

" Of the Presbyterian, as well as other clergy of the south, some are 
even planters, superintending the toils of their slaves, and making 
purchases, or eifecting sales in the slave-markets, durino; the week, 
and preaching on Sundays whatever they can devise that is least con- 
tradictory to their daily practice. I watched closely the preaching in 
the south, — that of all denominations, — to see what could be made of 
Christianity, 'the highest fact in the Rights of Man,' in such a region. 
I found the stricter religionists preaching reward and punishment in 
connexion with modes of belief, and hatred to the Cathohcs. I found 
the more philosophical preaching for or against materiahsm, and' 
diverging to phrenology. I found the more quiet and ' gentlemanly' 
preaching harmless abstractions, — the four seasons, the attributes of 
the Deity, prosperity and adversity, &c. I heard one clergyman, who 
always goes out of the room when the subject of negro emancipation 
is mentioned, or when slaveiy is found fault with, preach in a southern 
city against following a multitude to do evil. I heard one noble reh- 
gious discourse from the Rev. Joel Parker, a Presbyterian clergyman, 
of New Orleans ; but except that one, I never heard any available 
reference made to the grand truths of religion, or principles of morals. 
The great principles which regard the three relations to God, man, 
and self, — striving after perfection, mutual justice and charity, and 
christian hberty, — were never touched upon. — Meantime, the clergy 
were pretending to find express sanctions of slavery in the Bible : and 
putting words to this purpose into the mouths of public men, M'ho do 
not profess to remember the existence of the Bible in any other con- 
nexion. The clergy were boasting at public meetings, that there was 
not a periodical south of the Potomac which did not advocate slavery ; 
and some were even setting up a magazine, whose " fundamental 
principle is, that man ought to be the property of man." The clergy 
who were to be sent as delegates to the General Assembly, were re- 
ceiving instructions to leave the room, if the subject of slavery was 
mentioned ; and to propose the cessation of the practice of praying for 
slaves. At the same time, the wife of a clergyman called upon me to 
admire the benevolent toils of a friend, who had been 'putting up 4000 
weight of pork' for her slave household : and another lady, kindly and 
rehgiously disposed, told me what pains she took on Sunday mornings 
to teach her slaves, by word of mouth, as much of Christianity as was 
good for them. When I pressed her on the point as to why they were 
to have Christianity and not the alphabet, and desired to know uuder 
what authority she dared to keep them from knowledge, which God 
has shed abroad for all, as freely as the air and sunshine, I found that 
the idea was wholly new to her : nothing that she had heard in church, 
or out of it, from any of the Christians among whom she lived, had 
awakened the suspicion that she was robbing her brethren of their 
birth-right. The religion of the south strictly accords with the morals 
of the south. There is much that is gentle, merciful, and generous : 
much among the suffering women that is patient, heroic, and inspiring 

See cover 3d page. 



160 

meek resignation. Among these victims, there is feith, hope, and 
charity. But Christianity is severed from its radical principles of jus- 
tice and liberty ; and it will have to be cast out as a rotten branch. 



SOUTHERN NOTIONS OF RIGHTS AND LIBERTY. 

" One of the absolutely inevitable results of slavery is a disregard 
of human rights; an inability even to comprehend them. Pro- 
bably the southern gentry, who declare that the presence of slavery 
enhances the love of freedom ; that freedom can be duly estimated 
only where a particular class can appropriate all social privileges ; 
that, to use the words of one of them, ' they know too much of slavery 
to be slaves themselves,' are sincere enough in such declarations ; and 
and if so, it follows that they do not know what freedom is. They 
may have the benefit of the alternative. — of not knowing what freedom 
is and being sincere ; or of not knowing what freedom is and not be- 
ing sincere. ^I am disposed to think that the first is the more common 
case. 

One reason for my thinking so is, that I usually found in conversa- 
tion in the south, that the idea of human rights was — sufficient sub- 
sistence in return for labor. This was assumed as the definition of 
human rights on which we were to argue the case of the slave. When 
I tried the definition by the golden rule, I found that even that straight, 
simple rule had become singularly bent in the hands of those who pro- 
fess to acknowledge and apply it. A clergyman preached from the 
pulpit the following appUcation of it, which is echoed unhesitatingly 
by the most religious of the slaveholders : — ' Treat your slaves as you 
would wish to be treated if you were a slave yourself.' I verily be- 
lieve that hundreds, or thousands, do not see that this is not an honest 
apphcation of the rule ; so blinded are they by custom to the fact that 
the negro is a man and a brother. 

" Another of my reasons for supposing that the gentry of the south 
do not know what freedom is, is that many seem unconcious of the 
state of coercion in which they themselves are living : coercion, not 
only from the incessant fear of which I have before spoken, — a fear 
which haunts their homes, their business, and their recreations ; coer- 
cion, not only from their fear, and from their being dependent for their 
hourly comforts upon the extinguished or estranged will of those whom 
they have injured ; but coercion also from their own laws. The laws 
against the press are as peremptory as in the most despotic countries 
of Europe:* as may be seen in the small number and size, and poor 
quality, of the newspapers of the south. I never saw, in the rawest 
villages of the youngest States, newspapers so empty and poor as 

* " No notice is taken of any occiirrence, however remarkable, in which a 
person of color, free or enslaved, has any share, for fear of the Acts which 
denounce death or imprisonment for life against those who shall write, print, 
publish, or distribute any thing having a tendency to excite discontent or in- 
subordination, &c. : or which doom to heavy fines those who shall use or issue 
language which may disturb ' the security of masters with their slaves, or dimin- 
ish that respect which is commanded to free people of colour for the whites."* 



161 

those of New Orleans* It is ciuious that, while the subject of Ihg 
abolition of slavery in the British colonies was necessarily a very inter- 
esting one throughout the southern States, I met with planters who did 
not know that any compensation had been paid by the British nation 
to the West Indian proprietors. The miserable quality of the southern 
newspapers, and the omission from them of the subjects on which the 
people most require information, will go far to account for the people's 
delusions on their own affairs, as compared with those of the rest of the 
World, and for their boasts of freedom, which probably arise from their 
knowing of none which is superior.* They see how much more free 
they are than their own slaves; but are not generally aware what 
liberty is where all are free. In 1 834, the number of newspapers was, 
in tlie State of New York, 267 ; in Louisiana, 31 ; in Massachusetts, 
108; in South Carolina, 19; in Pennsylvania, 220: in Georgia, 29. 

" What is to be thought of the freedom of gentlemen subject to the 
following law? 'Any person or persons who shall attempt to teach 
any free person of color, or slave, to spell, read, or write, shall, upon 
conviction thereof by indictment, be fined in a sum not less than two 
himdred and fifty dollars, nor more than five hundred dollars.' 

" What is to be thought of the freedom of gentleman who cannot 
emancipate their own slaves, except by the consent of the legislature ; 
and then only under very strict conditions, which make the deed 
almost impracticable ? It has been mentioned that during a temporary 
suspension of the laws against emancipation in Virginia, 10,000 slaves 
were freed in nine years ; and that, as the institution seemed in peril, the 
masters were again coerced. It is pleaded that the masters themselves 
were the repealers and enacters of these laws. True : and thus it 
appears that they thought it necessary to deprive each other of a liberty 
which a great number seem to have made use of themselves while 
they could. No high decree of liberty, or of the love of it, is to be 
seen here. The laws which forbid emancipation are felt to be cruelly 
galling, throughout the south. I heard frequent bitter complaints of 
them. They are the invariable plea urged by individuals to excuse 
their continuing to hold slaves. Such individuals are either sincere 
in these complaints, or they are not. If they are not, they must be 
under some deplorable coercion which compels so large a multitude to 
hypocrisy. If they are sincere, they possess the common republican 
means of getting tyrannical laws repealed : and why do they not use 
them ? If these laws are felt to be oppressive, why is no voice heard 
denouncing them in the legislatures ? If men complainingly, but 
voluntarily, submit to laws which bind the conscience, Kttle can be 
said of their love of fiberty. If they submit involuntarily, nothing can 
be said for their possession of it." 

• A similar charge might have been brought against a large part of the 
northern newspapers. One fact by way of illustration. The Charleston Mer- 
cury of July 1st, says, " We find some very pleasing extracts from Miss Marti- 
neau, in our exchange papers, and begin to think that she has written almost 
as good a book about America as the author of Cyril Thornton, who, with a}\ 
his sins, has been the most successful of the English sketchers in America." 
This shows how careful the Mercury's exchange papers have been to avoid 
such extracts as we have made, — otherwise the Mercury, being the most furiOTUi 
of the pro-Blavery papers, would have talked in patriarchal siy\e.~-£d. Rec. 



162 

( Continued from page 1 2. ) 
We will briefly state some of the reasons why the friends of our com- 
mon liberty should earnestly contend for the restoration of the trial by 
jury, as it has been restored in Massachusetts and New Jersey. 

1. There is real danger to the liberties of our free born fellow-citi- 
zens of these free-cailed states. We need only mention the cases of 
Mary Gilmore, in Philadelphia, and William Griffin in the city of 
New York, within two years arrested as fugitives from service or labor, 
and both of whom were saved only by the most providential circum- 
stances from being carried into hopeless slavery. Mary Gilmore, it is 
well known was at last proved beyond all doubt to be a child of entirely 
white parents and a native of a free state. Griffin who was seized by 
^-apt. Thomas Hope, of the state of Delaware, was on the point of 

being given up by the Recorder of the city of New York, who was 
perfectly satisfied of the rightfulness of Capt. Hope's claim, when mere 
accidentthrew in the way of his counsel evidence which proved beyond 
the power of all the slavery-supporting oaths in the universe to refute, 
that he was a native of Salem in New Jersey, and was a citizen of 
New York at the time when he was sworn to have been a slave in 
Delaware. How many have been hurried into slavery who, had they 
enjoyed the right of a jury, to weigh the evidence in their favor, and 
compulsory process to secure the use of it, might now have been free, 
it is impossible to say. It is enough to know that every citizen can 
claim the common security as a right, and that the want of this security 
is not only fatal to the peace but injurious to the character and good 
citizenship of those from whom it is wrested. How many who are 
now the victims of violated law, might have been useful and patriotic 
citizens had their rights been properly secured ? As we value the 
improvement, good order, and virtue of our colored fellow citizens we 
must strive to give them the full benefit of those legal safeguards 
in which we ourselves rejoice. 

2. Every slave, according to our own solemn national declaration 
has an inalienable right to his liberty. Every master by pursuing his 
slave, whatever authority the constitution and laws of the land 
may inconsistently give him, commits an outrage upon the common 
rights of mankind and upon the foundation principle of the constitution 
and laws themselves. The most pertinacious and scrupulous sticklers 
for the compact and the constitutional rights of the south, cannot justify 
us in going further to support them than the legitimate construction 
of the law requires. We cannot surely be bound to encourage an 

{See cover 3d page.) 



163 

outrage upon liberty and right any further than we have promised to 
do so, if so far. If then we have shown tliat the compact or com- 
promise does not destroy the right of any person to a jury trial, we are 
bound to rescue all the slaves we fairly can, by that means. No doubt 
the delay and the more thorough display of slaveholding principles 
and measures which must be made in claiming a fugitive before a 
jury, will prevent many masters from prosecuting their nefarious claims. 
In the recent slave case in Utica, with the collusion of the Hon. Judge 
himself, every effort was made to have the trial pass off with as little 
public notice as possible. The capture would doubtless not have 
been undertaken with a prospect of having the whole case submitted 
to the verdict of an Oneida county jury. If the slaves must after all 
suffer much from our constitution let them have all the benefit they 
fairly can have from it. 

3. The decision of the highest question that ever comes before our 
courts by a hasty, and arbitiary process, is dangerous to the liberty of 
all. It corrupts the courts ; it corrupts the people. It sets humanity 
below the dogs of the street. It makes hberty, which should be above 
all price, viler than property. It is a fatal stab at the national sense of 
honor and justice. It is placing the palladium of our rights on a level 
with the rescripts of tyrants. The children of the north ought never to 
be taught the seductive and fatal lesson of slavery by seeing huraar? 
beings disposed of like stray swine. 

4. Our national character requires it. The name of American: 
liberty has become attractive throughout the earth. The oppressed 
of all nations look to America as an asylum. But the worst portion 
only will be be drawn to our shores by the name, the best M'ill look for 
the reality of freedom. We complain of the character of the emigrants 
who flock to our shores. Let us establish justice according to the 
design of our constitution, and we may hope to gain more and suffer 
less, by our accessions from abroad. It is only by securing the most 
profound, and thorough and practical veneration for law and order, 
that we can hope to allure the lovers of law and order, and scare off 
the partizans of tyranny, riot and misrule. 

Without any reference to the abolition of slavery, every patriot in 
America has sufficient motive in the character of his country to excite- 
him to contend strenuously for the restoration of the trial by jury to- 
all -without distinction. 

Fellow-citizens what have we been contending for? We have 
called it a jury trial. But it is not so much as that. We have merely 



164 

demandeci that every colored man should enjoy the right to submit the 
question of his claim to liberty to twelve such men as are usually em* 
panelled in our courts of justice. But what sort of men are they ? Are 
all or any of them "peers" of the colored m.an ? By nature they are, 
but not by national prejudice. They are all of a different caste, which 
claims superiority. The true spirit of trial by jury requires one of 
Two things. Colored men should be called to sit on juries equally 
with whites, that is, the distinction of caste should be- abolishedj or 
else colored men should be tried by colored juries. English society is 
divided into upper and lower classes, and the very gist of the right of 
trial by jury is, that one of the lower class must be tried by his equda 
of the same class. If the colored people are an inferior class, then it 
follows that colored men can be tried constitutionally only by colored 
juries, for the parity of the tried and the triers is essential to the insti'' 
tution. While colored men are carefully excluded from the jury box,* 
is any one prepared to affirm that the sword of justice is not wielded 
more severely towards the accused of the same inferior and proscribed 
complexion. May not this, without attributing to the jury any injus^ 
tice, aside from general prejudice, of which they are conscious, account 
in some measure for the fact that the colored class furnish more than 
their fair proportion to the population of our prisons— especially when 
taken in connection with the acknowledged fact that the colored con* 
victs are as a class less hardened than the whites ? 

* We suppose it is generally no other law than the unwritten code of ckn- 
ish prejudice which excliides colored men from juries. Such seems at any rate 
to be the case in Pennsylvania. We quote an anecdote from a Pennsylvania 
newspaper v/hich shows how rarely the said unwritten code is transgressed. 

" Some years since, a singulax incident occurred in one of the courts of this 
city, [Phil.] When tlie sheriff was calling over the naines of the jury, he sum- 
moned, among others, ' George Jones.' ' Here, sir,' answered a voice from 
the crowd, and a colored man came forth, and took his seat in the jury box. 

" ' Here is some mistake ' said the sheriff. 

'" No mistake at all- Here is your summons. My name has been regularly 
drawn, and it is on the jury list.' 

" The judge interfered, ' You may retire.', 

" * I'd rather not, sir. I am willing to perform myduty.' 

" Here was a dilemma. There was nothing in the law to exclude a colored 
man from the jury box, and the court was at a loss what to do. At length the 
juryman was challenged by one of the parties, and had to leave the box. This 
is, we believe, the only instance of such an error ; though it might be supposed 
that it would be of frequent occurrence."— Penn. Sentinel, 



165 



VALUE OF TRIAL BY JURY. 

[From the Speech of the Hon. Francis James in the Senate of Pennsylvania.} 

It is the boast of an Englishman, it is as justl)^ the pride and glory of 
a 10 kite American, that he cannot be deprived of his liberty or property 
j>y lawless violence. Nothing short of the verdict of a jury, can right- 
fully affect him in the uncontrolled disposition of either the one or the 
other. Take from him the right of trial by jury, and you dispossess bins 
of the most valuable of his political privileges. You remove th^ corner 
stone of that superstructure which has for its material the institutions of 
his country, and as a consequence, involve the whole in a common ruin. 

We have lately had some deplorable examples of the folly and wick- 
edness, which must always attend a departure from this legitimate 
mode of determinming the guilt or innocence of the accused. Mr, 
Chairman, I need but name the Vicksburg tragedy, to bring vividly to 
your recollection all the horrors of that murderous transaction. But, 
sir, Vicksburg stands not alone in deeds of a like description. Other 
places within the borders of our far famed Union are fairly entitled to 
dispute with the actors in that horrid affair, the honors of an unenviable 
immortality. These extraordinary outbreakings of popular violence, 
serve as terrible admonitions to us, to avoid the paths that might lead 
to similar outrages^ and evince the powerful necessity that rests upon 
us to preserve unimpared our right of trial by jury. It is, however, 
unnecessary for me to dwell longer on the benefits which flow to us 
from the possession of this inestimable privilege. It is a priceless 
jewel, and no encomiums of mine can tend to raise it in the estimation 
of the people of this commonwealth. But I cannot forego the oppor- 
tunity which here offers to lay before the committee the opinion of Sir 
William Blackstone, of the trial by jury. After treating of the various 
matters connected with this mode of trial, he says, "upon these ac- 
counts the trial by jury ever has been, and I trust ever will be looked 
upon, as the glory of the English law. And if it has so great an 
advantage over others in regulating civil property, how much must 
that advantage be heightened when it is applied to criminal cases ! 
But this we must refer to the ensuing book of these commentaries : 
only obsei-ving for the present that it is the most transcendent privilege 
which any subject can enjoy or wish for, that he cannot be affected 
either in his property, his liberty, or his person, but by the unanimous, 
consent of twelve of his neighbors and equals. A constitution that I 
may venture to affirm has under Providence secured the just liberties 
of this nation for a long succession of ages. And therefore a celebrated 
French writer who concludes that because Rome, Carthage, and 
Sparta, have lost their liberties, that therefore those of England in time 
must perish, should have recollected, that Rome, Carthage, and Sparta, 
at the time when their liberties were lost, were strangers to the 'trial 
by jury.' " A privilege thus highly valued, should not be partial in its 
appUcation, in a state claiming to be among the most free. It should 
be extended to all alike, to the poor as well as to the rich, to the weak, 
as well as to the powerful. 



166 

OLD FASHIONED ABOLITIONISTS. 

" Those are men-stealers who abduct, keep, sell, or buy daves." — 
Grotius, Jl. D. 1650. 

"Slavery is unjust in its nature." — E. Stiles, President of Yale Col- 
lege, 1791. 

" Slavery is, in every instance vi^rong, unrighteous, and oppressive, 
a very great and crying sin." — Samuel Hopkins, 1776. 

"I thought it my duty to expose the monstrous impiety and cruelty 
not only of the slave-trade, but of slavery itself, in whatever form it is 
found." — G. Sharp, Esq., 1787. 

" Slavery is incurable injustice. Why is injustice to remain for a 
BmglehomV— William Pitt, 1770. 

" Slavery is a dominion and system of laws the most merciless and 
tyrannical that were ever tolerated upon the face of the earth." — D)\ 
Paley, 1780. 

" He that holds another man in bondage, subjects the whole sum of 
his existfence to oppression, bereaves him of every hope, and is, there- 
fore more detestable than the robber and assassin combined." — Thomas 
Day, Esq., 1780. 

" Man-stealers ! the worst of thieves ; in comparison of whom, high- 
way robbers and housebreakers are innocent. This equally concerns 
all slaveholders, of whatever rank and degree ; seeing men-buyers are 
exactly on a level with men-stealers!" — Rev. J. Wesley, 1777. 

" Slavery is made up of every crime that treachery, cruelty, and 
murder can invent ; and men-stealers are the very worst of thieves." — 
Rowland Hill, 1790. 

"Slavery is injustice which no considerations of policy can extenu- 
ate." — Bishop Horsley, 1785. 

" The Conference acknowledge that slavery is contrary to the laws, 
of God, man, and nature, and hurtful to society; contrary to the dic- 
tates of conscience and pure religion ; and doing what we would not 
that others should do unto us ; and they pass their disapprobation upon 
all our friends who keep slaves, and they advise their freedom." — 
American Methodist Conference. 1780. 



[From the Religious Magazine.] 
A SCENE AT SEA. 

In June of 1826, the writer of this article took passage in a packet, 
from a southern city for New York. It was a lovely morning. — A 
fair wind swept us from the wharf. Fort after fort and island after 
island, were rapidly passed, as we stretched out of the beautiful har- 
bor. There was a crowd of passengers. Gaiety and cheerfulness 
prevailed ; for our circumstances conspired to promote it. Some of 
us after a long absence, were hastening towards home, "the place 
where all endearments meet." Others were on visits of pleasure and 
relaxation to the healthful scenes of a northern summer. A couple of 
leagues of distance were passed. But an incident affecting and pain- 
ful to me, at least, occurred. 

In stowing away some articles of freight, the chief mate of the ship 
discovered a slave who had secreted himself in the hold, in hope or 



167 

escaping from bondage. He had made necessary provision for hig 
support, during the passage, in some simple articles of food, which, 
with a couple of blankets, which he had provided for his bed, werfe 
drawn forth from the darkness and presented to our sight. 

I looked on this scene with the deepest sympathy for the man, a 
slave indeed, but a man. There he stood of fine form and noble fea^ 
tures. He appeared about thirty years of age. I gave him the ap- 
pellation, man. So he was. And then he must have had the feelings 
of human nature. And what must have been the anxieties of his 
mind as he laid his plan of escape, and carried it into execution ? How 
strong must' have been his emotions, as in the darkness of mid*- 
night, he stowed himself away in the hold, and made the various 
arrangements necessary to escape the observation of all on board ! 
How high must have been the exultation of hope, as he heard the fas- 
tenings of the ship cast off— as he heard the dashing of the passing 
waves, indicating progress to a land of freedom ! — What pleasing 
scenes must have arisen before him, as he thought of stepping on thai 
distant shore where he should be a slaVe no longer ! I say he was a man, 
and therefore such emotions as these must have arisen in his bosom. 

But suddenly the fair fabric of his hopes was dashed in pieces. 
The officer's eye fell upon him. His stern voice called him from Iiis 
his dark retreat. What a sound for his ear ! What anguish for his 
heart! The bright visions of his fancy were suddenly overshadowed 
with terrible darkness. You could see the emotions of sadness and 
despair on his countenance, as he slowly ascended from his place of 
refuge and stood before us. 

There were those of the passengers, who uttered the bitter curse 
upon him, and the still more bitter jest. I heard the rude laugh as 
strains of heart-cutting ridicule rang in his ears. But all this was most 
harshly at variance with the mournful reality of the sad scene. I 
could have wept over the unhappy man. I could not see such de- 
lightful hopes, as I knew must have gladdened his soul, thus cloven 
down without deep sympathy with him. I could not see but with 
strong emotion a fellov/ being just bursting from the bondage and 
oppression of thirty years, thus cruelly thrust back again into the fur* 
nace — to be for him heated seven-fold. I could not see that crushed 
and bleeding heart, those withered and expiring hopes, and suffer my 
thoughts to glance at that prospect of gloom, which had so suddenly 
succeeded such blessed expectation. I could not do this without 
heart-felt grief I was bound with him. And I could not but see, as 
clear as the midnight lightning's flash is seen, the odious influence of a 
system which could make so sad a spectacle an occasion of curses or 
merriment ; which could steel the heart to insensibility, when so 
powerful an appeal was made to its sympathies. 

By the captain's order the ship was hove to, and a sicrnal was soon 
flying to recall the pilot boat which had just left us. Jn an hour the 
unhappy slave was on his way back to his master. But before the 
Alight of another hour he was in tlie eternal world ! Rather than fall 
into the hands of men, he chose to " fall into the hands of the living God.^ 
He threw himself into the sea and was seen no more J Simon. 



168 

[Continued from page 12.) 
|)ulpit or elsewhere. If he will commit himself to a brother minister 
not to open his mouth for the suffering and the dumb, he shows himself 
unworthy of the gospel of Christ, he is treacherous to the interests of 
his Master and ought to be sharply rebuked. This terrible restiveness 
of some ministers under the reproofs of the abolitionists, shows only 
On what ill terras they are with their own consciences ! They throw 
themselves upon their rights, but, mark, they do not throw themselves 
upon their reasons. The abolitionist gives his reasons why the minister 
should preach and pray and read notices in behalf of the anti- slavery 
cause — the recusant minister gives no reason why he should not, but 
this ; that he has a right to do as he pleases, and no man has a right 
to compel him to do otherwise ! Now I, for one, would argue the anti- 
slavery claims on their own merits — I do not admit that a minister can 
lightly shove aside the cause of the down-trodden slave, because, 
forsooth, he has a right to say whether the singing school in his parish 
shall meet on this night, or that, or not at all. 

2. It is said this is a political matter. 

Well, suppose it is. When you settled it that the pulpit should 
have nothing to do with politics, I suppose you were aware that the 
righteousness of your decision depended very much upon the extent 
of meaning which you gave to the word politics. If you meant that 
the pulpit should not discuss the personal quaUfications of candidates 
for office, nor the expediency of this or tbat bank, road, or canal, that 
was one thing ; and if you meant that it should not dwell on the relation 
of man to man, so as to illustrate and enforce the second table of God^s 
law, h: all its length and breadth, that was another. Because it would 
be improper for the minister to discuss in his pulpit, the bargains of his 
grocer, or the industry of his shoemaker, it does not follow that he 
ought not to inculcate the virtues of honesty and industry. The 
pohtics of the ten commandments, the minister is bound to preach, nor 
xan he suffer any politicians to scare him from these politics. If man- 
-steahng, and marriage-breaking, and family-sundering, and heart- 
murdering are political subjects, then it is the minister's duty to preach 
politics. Christ and his apostles preached them. If they had not, 
their kingdom would have been not only not of this world, but not in it. 

3. It is professed that preaching and lecturing against slavery on the 
■Sabbath, is a profanation of that day. Abolitionists take it for gianted 
that the slaves are men, and as they have the authority of the Lord ot 
the Sabbath, that " the Sabbath was made for mrtii," they of course. 

{See-cever, Zd page.) 



169 

think it was made for the slaves. They ask no better justification 
than is furnished them by One who was Himself complained of for a 
similar violation of His own day. " What man shall there be among 
you that shall have one sheep, and if it fall into a pit on the Sabbath 
day, will he not lay hold on it and hft it out ? Hoio much then is a 
man better than a sheep ? Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the 
Sabbath days." — Matt, xii : 11, 12. Is it not remarkable that the min- 
isters who so frequently urge this objection against the abolitionists, 
should not have been struck with their own resemblance to the ancient 
Pharisees ? 

4. It is objected to the abolition enterprise that unholy men are 
engaged in it. This is doubtless too true. But does it impair the 
truth of abolition principles ? Does it stamp unhoUness upon abolition 
measures ? Why, we might as well deny the truth of the multiplication 
table because it is believed in and practised upon by unholy men. If 
I have right principles and a good object, can they be the less worthy 
because wicked men unite with me in avowing the principles and 
promoting the object ? By agreeing and acting with them wherein 
they are right, do I become responsible for all things wherein they are 
wrong ? Were we to be influenced by this objection, it is quite 
possible slavery would never be abolished, for it is quite possible 
that there are not in the world men enough who agree to think each 
other good and holy, to do it. But if a man has holiness enough to 
hate slavery and to love his fellow men, why should he not be encour- 
aged to exercise it, even if he have a bad creed or none at all? And 
why should not the objector aid and encourage him in well-doing ? 
Whose spirit was it to shun a good deed because a Samaritan did it ? 

But, I wonder why the objector has not been frightened intoisilence 
by his own objection. Surely there are plenty of unholy men engaged 
with him in opposing abolition. The grog-shops teem with them. 
Over their hellish potations, with hellish oaths, they avow the most 
thorough sympathy with the Doctors of Divinity who uphold slavery 
from the Bible. With their hands as full of missiles as their hearts 
are of malignity, they engage in the same work — the defence of 
•slavery. If the objection is good for any thing, surely the objector 
himself has the best right to the first benefit of it 

4. It is argued that the prevalence of abolitionism will stop revivals 
t)f religion. But what sort of religiori is it that starts back from the 
claims of the slave ? If the claims of temperance, chastity, honesty, 
truth and virtue in general could be left out of the account, undoubtedly 



170 

a certain kind of religion could be revived and spread like wild-fire. 
The irreligious, if they were not called upon to any self-sacrifice, would 
accept the hopes of the gospel by acclamation. Revivals of religion 
flourish at the South, among men who live in the daily plunder of the 
poor, and we read very imposing accounts of them. Now, it is very 
probable, that if the preachers held up the immediate restitution of the 
plunder as a test of religious repentance, it might spoil all their success, 
but would it spoil the cause of religion ? And it is very possible, too, 
that a great part of the religion produced in northern revivals, would 
vanish like mist in the morning, if it was subjected to the test of sitting 
down to the Lords' Supper with colored disciples, on equal terms. 
The white converts would very likely insist upon being served first 
and by themselves, as the condition of their participation in the ordi- 
nance — thus showing that their God is not He who made all men of 
one blood, nor their Saviour He who said ye are one in me, but the 
world's fashion. Would to God that every revival might be stopped 
that can be, by such a test ! Such a stopping of revivals would itself 
be a revival of that "pure religion and undefiled" of which the apostle 
James gives us the characteristics. — James i, 27. 

5. Abolitionism disturbs the peace of the churches. This is an ar- 
gument against the churches, rather than against abolitionism. 

As a minister of the gospel, jealous for the purity of the church, have 
you no fears that this peace of the church will be the death of the 
church. As a friend of the church, I must confess my fears. The peace 
which is built upon the despairing groans of the tortured bodies, and 
the woful darkness and desolateness of the murdered souls of my poor 
brethren, fills me with unspeakable horror. Any thing but such 
dreadfiil peace. 

I remain your friend, 

in behalf of the oppressed, 

IMMEDIATISM. 



COMPENSATION. 

A writer in the "Alton Observer," thus disposes of the doctrine that 
the South ought to be paid for their slaves. 

" This is a very curious doctrine for a smart man to advocate. 
Every body knows that slavery is unjust ; but many think it a very 
profitable vice. If so, as the slaveholders have had the profit let 
them pay the loss ; but if it be true, as some think, that it is not profit* 
able, then emancipation is no loss, and there is nothins; to pay/ 



171 



BENJAMIN FRANKLIN. 

Ubi Libertas, ibi Patria 

Where Liberty dwells, there is my country. 

Two Other societies were also established in Philadelphia about 
this period, founded on the principles of the most refined humanity ; 
one ^^for alleviating the miseries of public prisons,'" and the other, "/<»• 
proinoting the abolition of slavery, the relief of free negroes unlawfully 
held m bondage, and the improvement of the condition of the African 
race.'''* — Of each of these, Dr. Franklin was president. He had as 
early as the year 1772, strongly expressed his abhorrence of the traffic in 
slaves, as appears by his letter of the 22d August, in that year, to Mr. 
AntJiony Benezet, inserted in the first part of his Pnvate Correspondence. 

According to Stuber^s account. Dr. Franklin's name, as president 
of the Abolition Society, was signed to the memorial presented to the 
House of Representatives of the United States, on the 12th of February, 
1789, praying them to exert the full extent of power vested in them by 
the constitution, in discouraging the traffic of the human species. 
This was his last pubhc act. — Memoirs by Wm. Temple Franklin. 

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States : 

From a persuasion that equal liberty was originally the portion, and 
is still the burthright of all men, and influenced by the strong ties of 
humanity and the principles of their institution, your memoriahsts con- 
ceive themselves bound to use all justifiable endeavors to loosen the 
bands of slavery, and promote a general enjoyment of the blessings of 
freedom. Under these impressions, they earnestly entreat your serious 
attention to the subject of slavery ; that you will be pleased to counte- 
nance the restoration of liberty to those unhappy men, who alone in 
this land of freedom, are degraded into perpetual bondage, and who 
amidst the general joy of surrounding freemen, are groaning in servile 
subjection — that you will devise means for removing this inconsistency 
from the character of the American people — that you will promote 
mercy and justice toward this distressed race — and that you will step 
to the very verge of the power vested in you for discouraging every 
species of traffic in the persons of our fellow men, 

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN, President. 
Philadelphia, Feb. 3, 1790. [Federal Gazette, 1790.] 

SAMUEL ADAMS. 
"His principles on the subject of human rights, carried him far 
beyond the narrow limits which many loud asserters of their own liberty 
have prescribed to themselves, to the recognition of this right in every 
human being. One day the wife of Mr. Adams returning home, 
informed her husband that a friend had made her a present of a female 
slave. Mr, Adams replied in a firm decided manner, * She may come 
but not as a slave, for a slave cannot live in my house ; if she comes, she, 
must come free: She came, and took up hex free abode with the family 
of this great champion of American liberty, and there she continued 
free, and there she died free." — Rev. Mr. Allen, Uxbridge, Mass. 



172 



THOMAS JEFFERSON. 

The whole commerce between master and slave is a perpetual 
exercise of the most boisterous passions ; the most unremitting despo- 
tism on the one part and degrading submissions on the other. Our 
children see this and learn to imitate it ; for man is an imitative animal. 
This quality is the germ of all education in him. From his cradle to 
his grave he is learning to do what he sees others do. If a parent 
could find no motive either in his philanthropy or his self-love, for 
restraining the intemperance of passion towards his slave, it should 
always he a sufficient one that his child is present. But generally it 
is not sufficient. The parent storms, the child looks on, catches the 
hneaments of wrath, puts on the same airs in the circle of smaller 
slaves, gives loose to his worst passions, and thus nursed, educated, 
and daily exercised in tyranny, cannot but be stamped by it with 
odious peculiarities. The man must be a prodigy who can retain his 
manners and morals undepraved by such circumstances. And with 
what execration should the statesman be loaded, who permitting one 
half the citizens thus to trample on the rights of the other, transforms 
those into despots, and these into enemies, destroys the morals of the 
«ne part, and the amor patriae of the other. For if the slave can have 
a country in this world, it must be any other in preference to that in 
which he is born to live and labor for another : in which he must lock 
up the faculties of his nature, contribute as far as depends on his indi- 
vidual endeavors to the evanishment of the human race, or entail his 
own miserable condition on the endless generations proceeding from 
him. With the morals of the people, their industry also is destroyed. 
For in a warm climate no man will labor for liimself who can make 
another labor for him. This is so true, that of the proprietors of slaves, 
a very small proportion indeed are ever seen to labor. And can the 
liberties of a nation be thought secure when we have removed their 
only firm basis, a conviction in the minds of the people that these 
liberties are of the gift of God? That they are not to be violated but 
with his wrath? Indeed, I tremble for my country when I reflect that 
God is just ; that his justice cannot sleep for ever ; that considering 
numbers, nature, and natural means only, a revolution of the wheel 
of fortune, an exchange of situation, is among possible events : that it 
may become probable by supernatural interference ! The Almighty 
has no attribute which can take side with us in such a contest. 

What an incomprehensible machine is man ! Who can endure toil, 
famine, stripes, imprisonment, and death itself, in vindication of his 
own liberty, and the next moment be deaf to all those motives whose 
power supported him through his trial, and inflict on his fellow men a 
bondage, one hour of which is fraught with more misery than ages of 
that which he rose in rebellion to oppose. But we must wait with 
patience the workings of an overruling Providence, and hope that that 
is preparing the deliverence of these our suffering brethren. When 
the measure of their tears shall be full — when their tears shall have 
involved heaven itself in darkness — doubtless a God of justice will 
awaken to their distress, and by diffusing a light and liberality among 



173 

their oppressors, or at length by his exterminating thunder manifest 
his attention to things of this world, and that they are not left to the 
guidance of blind fatality. — J^otes on Virginia. 

I aip very sensible of the honor you propose to me, of becoming a 
member of the society for the abolition of the slave-trade. You know 
that nobody wishes more ardently to see an abolition, not only of the 
trade but of the condition of slavery ; and certainly nobody will be 
more willing to encounter every sacrifice for that object. But the 
influence and information of the friends to this proposition in France 
will be far above the need of my association. — Letter to M. WarviUe^ 
Paris, February, 1788. 

Dear Sir, — Your favor of July 31st was duly received, and was 
read with peculiar pleasure. The sentiments breathed through the 
whole, do honor to both the head and heart of the writer. Mine, on 
the subject of the slavery of negroes, have long since been in possession 
of the public, and time has only served to give them stronger root 
The love of justice and the love of country plead equally the cause of 
these people ; and it is a moral reproach to us that they should have 
pleaded it so long in vain, and should have produced not a single 
effort, — nay, I fear, not much serious willingness to relieve them and 
ourselves from our present condition of moral and political reprobation. 

It is an encouraging observation, that no good measure was ever 
proposed which, if duly pursued, failed to prevail in the end. We 
nave proof of this in the history of the endeavors in the British Parlia- 
ment to suppress that very trade which brought this evil on us. And 
you will be supported by the religious precept, " be not weary in well 
doing." That your success may be as speedy and complete, as it will 
be honorable and immortal consolation to yourself, I shall as fervently 
and sincerely pray as I assure you of my great friendship and respect, 
— Letter to Edward Cole, Esq., August 25, 1814. 

KOSCIUSKO. 

General Kosciusko, by his will, placed in the hands of Mr. Jefferson 
a sum exceeding twenty thousand dollars, to be laid out in the purchase 
of young female slaves, who were to be educated and emancipated. 
The laws of Virginia prevented the will of Kosciusko from being 
carried into effect. — Aurora, 1820. 



HORATIO GATES. 

A few days ago, passed through this town, the Hon. General Gates 
and lady, on their way to take possession of their new and elegant 
seat on the banks of the East river. The general, previous to leaving 
Virginia, summoned his numerous family and slaves about him, ana 
amidst their tears of affection and gratitude, gave them their freedom ; 
and what is still better, made provision that their hberty should be a 
blessmg to them. — Baltimore paper, Sept. 8, 1790. 



174 



ANECDOTES OF TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE. 

We give some extracts from the very interesting "Memdre^^ and 
"J^otes," by Isaac L'Ouverture, the son of Toussaint, attached to the 
w^ork of Antoine Metral. The first shows the idea which Bonaparte 
had of the dignity of his prisoner, as well as the attachment which existed 
between Toussaint and the French officers who had served under him 
in St. Domingo. The reader will please to watch narrowly the conduct 
of these French officers and gentlemen towards a family of /mW blooded 
negroes. The frigate Hero was anchored in the roads of Brest. 

"About five days after the departure of the JSTayade, a dozen officers 
of gendarmerie came to look for Toussaint L'Ouverture on board the 
Hero. After bidding an eternal adieu to his wife and family, who 
replied by their tears, he disembarked with the officers and the faithful 
Plaisir, his domestic, near Landernau, where he was waited for by an 
adjutant commandant, two companies of cavalry and two carriages ; 
he entered the one designed for him, in which was seate'd opposite to 
him the aforesaid adjutant commandant. Plaisir entered the other 
carriage. Escorted by this detachment of cavalry, Toussaint L'Ou- 
verture started for Morlaix. 

" The next day as he was passing through Guingamp, some French 
officers who had served under him in St. Domingo, and who were now 
incorporated into the 82d regiment of the line, in garrison in this city, 
knowing who it was that was under escort, begged the commandant 
of the detachment to stop the carriage. They rushed to its door and 
embraced their old general with the warmest affection. These officers 
were Majeante, Sigad, &c. &c., captains of the 82d of the line. The 
other officers of this corps, who were present, and among whom may 
be mentioned Lieutenant Deschamps, followed their example,* 

" In all the large cities where Toussaint L'Ouverture stopped, he 
was visited by the principal authorities, even to the fortress of Joux, 
where he was shut up, never to come forth. 

" The bri^ La J^ayade, on its return from Belle-Ile-en-Mer, took on 
board the wife of Toussaint L'Ouverture, his two sons, Isaac and St. 
Jean L'Ouverture, his niece and their domestics, and brought them to 
the port of Bayonne. M. P^eignac, principal commissary of the port, 
came to meet them on board the J^ayade, and conducted them ashore 
in a magnificent barge covered with crimson velvet ; the mayor of 
Bayonne, his assistants, the whole garrison of the place, having at its 
head General Ducos, and a large crowd of citizens, lined the banks ot 
the Adour. The mayor offered his arm to the wife of Toussaint 
L'Ouverture. She, her sons, and her neice, were conducted with 
pomp between two hedges of troops to the former palace of the Bishop 
of Bayonne, where apartments had been prepared for them. The next 
day they received the visits of General Ducos, the Mayor of the city, 
and the commissary of marine. The young Esther Berthier having 

* Letters of Captain Deschamps and Plaisir. 



175 

beamed that Isaac L'Ouverture, his school-fellow,* was Within thd 
walls of Bayonne, impelled by his affection, flew immediately to the 
arms of his friend. The adjutant- general Dubuisson, a native of 
Bayonne and former aid-de-camp of Toussaint L'Ouverture, just arrived 
from the prisons of England, hastened to assure the wife, the sons, and 
the neice of Toussaint L'Ouverture, of his sympathy in their misfor- 
tunes, and how much he loved in them the endearing traits of his old 
general. This officer was one of the three hundred men of the regiment 
of Beam, who, after Toussaint L'Ouverture had taken Marmelade in 
1794, entered the service under him, on account of his magnanimity 
and great reputation. They were called the Garde Bearnaise, 

***** "The same may be said of another companion-in- 
arms of Toussaint L'Ouverture. An old warrior. General Bedos, 
who, in his turn at Bayonne, as inspector of the veterans, said with 
tears to Madame Toussaint L'Ouverture and her children, ' If my 
prayers were heard, nobody would be happier than you»' " pp. 316 — 320. 

Thus does a negro youth write of his negro father. We quote below 
from Rainsford the English historion of Hayti, who had good reason 
to speak well of Toussaint, as he owed his life to the clemency of the 
black general-in-chief. 

ARDOR TO LEARN. 

"By the acquaintance of some priests who possessed little more of 
the character than the name, Toussaint acquired the knowledge of 
new sources of information, and a rehsh for books of a superior order 
than first attracted his attention ; the author of whom he became the 
most speedily enamoured was the Abbe Raynal, on whose history and 
speculations in philosophy and politif.s he was intent for weeks together, 
and never quitted but with an intention to return, with renewed and 
additional pleasure. A French translation of Epictetus, for a time 
confined him to its doctrines which he often quoted ; but he soon 
sought higher food for his capacious mind, and found in a portion of 
the ancient histories the summit of his wishes. He was there seen 
studiously consulting the opinion of those who teach the conduct of 
empires, or the management of war; yet, he neglected not those who 
aim to harmonize the mind, and teach man himself; the only difference 
in his habits imbibing these treasures created, was an external polish, 
which imparted an uncommon grace to his manners," p. 244. 

GRATITUDE. 

Toussrint did not join the insurgent slaves till he had provided for* 
the safety of his master who had always treated him with as great 
kindness and consideration as is compatible with a state of slavery. 
Rainsford says, 

"Toussaint prepared for the emigration of M. Bayou de Libertas, 

* Isaac and his half-brother, Placide had been sent to Paris for their education, 
and were returned by the first consul with their tutor Coasnoin, as decoys in 
behalf of Le Clerc. Tiiis fact is good proof that tlie magnanimous Toussaint 
had no design to become the Bonaparte of his island. — Ed. Rec. 



176 

«.s if he had only removed for his pleasure to the American continent 
He found means to embark produce that should form a useful 
provision for the future; procured his escape with his family, and 
contrived eve'y plan for his convenience : nor did his care end here, 
for after M. Bayou's establishment in safety at Baltimore, in Maryland, 
he availed himself of every opportunity to supply any conceived defi- 
ciency, and, as he rose in circumstances, to render those of his protegi 
more qualified to his situation, and equal to the warm remembrance 
of the services he owed him, which would never expire." p. 246. 

CLEMENCY. 

Rainsford says of the discipline of Toussaint, "In cases of treason 
he was peculiarly singular in his ideas, and the following incident will 
afford a specimen." * 

"Shortly after General Maitland arrived upon the island, four 
Frenchmen were retaken who had deserted the black chief with aggra- 
vated treachery. Every one expected a vindictive punishment, and of 
course a cruel death. Leavinj^ them, however, in suspense as to their 
fate, he ordered them to be produced in church on the following sabbath, 
and, while that part of the service was pronouncing which respects 
mutual forgiveness, he went with them to the front of the altar, where, 
impressing them with the flagitiousness of their corduot. he ordered 
them to be discharged withoui further punishment." p. 248. 

OTHELLO. 
Such was the name of a black man in the city of Baltimore, who, in 
1788, published an essay against the slavei-y of the negroes, of which 
Gr^goire remarks, "Few works can be compared with this of Othello's, 
for force of reasoning and fire of eloquence." 

OTTOBAH CUGOANO. 
This person was born on the coast of Fantin, Africa, and brought 
to the island of Grenada as a slave in his childhood. He was hberated 
and carried to England, by Lord Hoth. He wrote and published a 
valuable treatise on slavery and the slave-trade which was titinslated 
into French. In this work he seems to have taken the same view of 
the teachings of the scriptures in relation to slavery that is now tak^n 
by the American Anti-Slavery Society. 

DISCONTINUANCE. 
The Anti-Slavery Record will not bb continuec after the present 
tjumbor, the entire services of the editor being required in another 
department of labor. Subscribers to whom the whole or a part of 
another volume is due, will receive an equivalent m the " Hurnaa 
Highta," or other publications, if they prefer. 



