Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/reviewofabolitioOOIewi 



■* : . .' 



1 n?i m w 



w 



ABOLITIOIVISia 



02 THE 



AS IT EXIS TS 



i 



IS THE 



f 



UIIIEB STATES, 

BY SBTH XftWIS, 

One ©f the IMstriet Ifrodgesotf the State 

of JLouisiana. 

Presented to the Conservative Society ol Cuiztns of LouisiatKi 
and published by their order* 



y 






.#% ^*J| 



PREFACE. 



ITie object of this Tittle tract is to meet the Abolitionists* a» 
iftieir own ground, and shew that, far from sanctioning their 
proceedings, Christianity condemns them. Many able speech- 
es, on this dangerous controversy, have been delivered lately 
in Congress; but uoneofthfc|n have taken this ground, nor do 



I recollect to have seen the 
Other writer. 1 consider it 



argument fully sustained by any 
>ur strong ground of defence. 
Should any jealous Abolitionist quarrel with my arguments, 
and seek to put them aside dp the cry of heresy, or by evasion 
of any kind, or by denouncing me as an enemy of freedom, 
&,c. &c to such a one I would say, stay my good sir, all that 
is wide, of the mark. Havel told you the truth? that is the 
real question** and it is a question of tremendous importance 
to every man* woman, and ^hild, white, or black, in these 
United States, if 1 have n-Vt, then answer my arguments, and 
shew wherein ! am wrong. If I have, thee your denouncing 
joae, or my work, cannot alter the truth* But one thing it may 
do, — it may serve to Throw a mist over truth, , d prevent its 
being seen, and thus deceive and mislead. But I 'jope betted 
things from all who profesa themselves Christians, 



. 0?% 



THE QUESTION OF SLAVERY COtfSXDEXtEH 

No question has ever arisen in our country so important^ 
Sior one so full of danger, as that which I propose, in this essay, 
calmly to consider. In eleven States of our Union there are, 
at this time, more than two millions of Slaves, In the same 
States the whole population, including the Slaves in 1830, was 
5, 1 95,493. Deduct the number of slaves from this, and there 
will remain of wliite people 3,195,445,— something more than 
three to two. Such is our situation in the slave holding Statea. 

Can these slaves be safely liberated, and remain amon^ 
lis? Impossible. On this question there is but one opinion 
thioughout these States, To emancipate them generally, 
would inevitably bring on a servile war, that could end only in 
the destruction of one, or other of the two races of people. 
Of this no man among us, who thinks at all upon the subject, 
entertains the smallest doubt. This opinion has not been 
lightly, nor hastily formed, nor without sufEcient grounds, m 
will afterwards be shown. 

And yet, it appears, that in the Northern states, a resolution 
has been formed by a numerous, wealthy and powerful body of 
people, to compel us to abolish slavery entirely among us !— 
• 4 Societies, and combinations of individuals have of late been 
formed in some of the Northern States, (as the Societies them- 
selves report,) 4 to the number of three hundred and fifty, with 
daily accessions to the multitude who have embraced their 
faith;' in many instances possessed of wealth and influence, 
whose avowed object is, the extermination of slavety in the 
Southern States; and if credit is dne to their own statements, 
as contained in the report of one of their parent societies, 'both 
males and females' and a much larger number than is gener- 
ally supposed, of clergymen of different denominations, and 
of other respected and influential individuals, are engaged in 
the cause. 4 Associations have been formed, meetings held, 
and addresses delivered; and every day witnesses the forma- 
tion of new Ariti Slavery Societies.' These Socieites^ have 

* resolved that slavery must be universally abandoned,' that 

* as freemen and Christians, they cannot yield to intimidation 
from any earthly power," and h^ve solemnly avowed that the 
truth is there is no discharge in this war " (First annual re- 
port of Executive Committee of the Maine Anti Slavery Corw 
vehtion.) For the purpose of effecting their object, and facik 
itating their designs, these'societie* have established a system 

shules |or their governments! an4 appointed Officers a?| 



Committees for (lie dispatch of business The plan of their 
operations, as partly exhibited by themselves, in their various 
publications, is, to i#$\m through the medium of their Execu- 
tive Committees their protests, manifestoes,, and other docu- 
ments, which are designed to f>e circulated through the Slave 
holding States, either by their agents travelling thither, or by 
the United States' Mails Thfy have also established presses 
at the common expense, and, pr months have been actively 
engaged in printing and disseminating, in every quarter of the 
Confederacy', incendtary pampljiets, papers, prints and public 
cations of a description well cajlculat. i d to arouse the passions 
of the coloured population, to embitter them against their 
m«siers, and to excite them to violence, insurrection and 
bloodshed ." — -(Speech of the lion Mr. Shields in (Congress. ) 

Now why, we may fairly ask, why thisw^r, thus b^-gun and 
Waged against us by ihese Anti.Siavery Societies? A *'• war 1 * 
thev themselves call it, in which •• there is no discharge. ■" in 
other words, a war of the most obstinate character, — a war of 
extermination. Such it moft. and will prove, if persisted in. 
On what grounds will they undentake to justify it? Does our 
holding slaves do them any injury 1 ? Does it injure them in 
then* properw? Does it take from them in the smallest de- 
gree, any of the comforts of iife? or render them less secure in 
the enjoyment of their liberties; civil or religious, than they 
otherwise would be? No such thing. We invite them to 
shew, if they can that they suffer any, the slightest injury from 
this cause But this they cannot do. Then why, 1 ask again, 
this unprovoked war against «s? Why, it is, they say,, a- sin 
to hold our fellow men in Slavery; and for this cause they are 
waging this war against us. 

Well, if it be a sin, you have faithfully warned us of our sin, 
and there you are clear: you cannot any longer be partakers 
with us in the guilt of that sin. What more then have yn« to 
do in the matter? Surely, in all fairness, you have nothing 
more to do with it 

But we deny that slavery, as it exists in our country, is a 
sin; and this I shall presently proceed to move. Mean time 
we conscientiously believe we are right in this opinion You 
think otherwise; and what are you doing? Why you are 
waging an obstinate war against us, in order to force us to 
adopt ynur belief in this matter, and thus you are persecuting 
us for conscience sake ! Does any scripture warrant this? 

Now we realilv agrpe that if the hoHmg of our slaves, tin. 
derail the circumstances m which we, are placed be a sin, — - 



if it be really forbidden by 1he Divine Law, we are bound io 
give them up We must obey God rather than man. Is it 
then so forbidden, rn our case? We think not; and in support 
of onr belief we anpeal boih to scripture, and to reason. 

And 1st to Scripture. By the divine law, as given to the 
Jews, that people were clearly permitted to buy, and bold 
slaves. Levit. 25, 44, 46. " Both thy bondman, and thy 
bondmaids, which thou shall have, shall be of the heathen that 
are round about you: of them shall ye buy bon.iman and bond- 
maids. Moreover, of the children of the strangers, that do 
sojourn among you, of them shall ye buy. and of their families 
tbat,are with you, which ibey begat in your land: and they "hall 
be yoor possession. And vou shall take them as $n inben- 
tance for your children after you, to inh rit them for a pos- 
session; and they shall be your bondtiien forever" — In this 
passage we see slavery exactly described, in every particular, 
essentially the same as it exists among us; and we see it ex- 
pressly allowed to the Jews. 

To shew then, that this law is still m force, and applicable 
to our case, let it be observed, that the Jews were, at the 
time of giving this law, the chosen people of God; — that for 
their sin, in rejecting, and crucifying their Messiah, tbey were 
degraded from that high priviledge, and the Gentile nations, 
converted to Christianity, who have since constituted the 
Christian Church and have been substituted in their place. — 
See Rom. 1 1 throughout; so that Christians are now the peo- 
ple of God. as the Jews then were. Now it cannot be denied, 
that in a moral point of view, christians are bound by the same 
laws, and are allowed the same liberties and priviledges, that 
were allowed to the Jews. Unless, therefore, this law ha9 
been repealed, it is still in force among the people of God, i. e. 
among Christians; is it in force as a moral law; for, to consi- 
der the holding of slaves as a sin, is, most clearly, to consider 
it in a moral point of view. 

Has the law then been repealed? It certainly has not. 
Jesus Christ alone has power to repeal it, and he has not done 
so. He says in express terms, u Think not that I am come 
to destioy the law, or the prophets; I am not come to destroy, 
but to fulfil." He means the moral law, and he then proceeds 
to review that law, and to explain and correct it, in various 
points. — particularly the law of homicide, — that concerning 
adultery, — concerning oath — the lex fallonis, that concerning 
divorce, &,c. But concerning the law in question he is en. 
Jirely silent; and consequently he leaves it as it was, — in full 



fqxce. Now when we reflect, that the religion our Saviour 
came to establish, was intended to embrace all mankind, o£ 
every nation on earth,-that at that very time, there were mil* 
lions of slaves in the Roman Empire, as well as in all other 
nations; — that to the very men who held those slaves in bon< 
dage, the Gospel was to be preached, and consequently the 
priviledge was offered to them of becoming christians, — 
when this is considered, is it possible to believe; that our 
Saviour would have overlooked, or neglected this important 
question, if to hoid slaves had been really a sin?. Can any 
man believe that he would have thus left the old law in full 
force? or, that he would not have expressly forbidden the 
practice of holding Slaves! Surely not. The conclusion then 
13 obvious: Our Saviour did not intend to forbid the holding 
of siaves, as a sin; and the law he has left in force clearly al* 
lows it. 

Let us then turn to the writings of the Apostles. Do they 
forbid Christian men to hold slaves? Do they abrogate the 
law before noticed? Not at all. The relation ot master and 
slave, we have seen, is one that actually existed in their time; 
and, so far from forbidding it they recognize its existence, and' 
give rules for regulating the conduct ot both the master and 
the slave. " Servants," says St. Paul, Col. 3, 22 " obey in. 
all things your masters according to the flesh; not with eye 
service as men pleasers; but in singleness of heart, fearing 
God. Knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward 
of the inheritance; for ye serve the Lord Christ. 1 " And to 
masters he says," Masters, give unto you servants that which 
jsjust and equal; knowing that ye also have a Master in Hea< 
■ven." See also Eph. rl, 5, where the same directions are 
given: And here note, that the original Greek word, which is 
translated " servant," means also a Slave* The same direc- 



* See Dr. A Clarke's note on this passage where he says 
&t the Greek word frequently signifies a slave or bondman; yet 
it often implies a servant in genera!, or any one bound to 
another, either for a limited time, or for life. Every slave" 
he adds, " if a Christian, was bo.mdto serve him faithfully by 
whose money be was bought, however illegal that traffic may 
be considered." Boun-I how? By the express command of 
the inspired writer, — in other words— by the command of God; 
and if thus bound to obey, the master surely had a right to hold 
the slave and command his obedience. And if this was law- 
ful then, how hag it become unlawful now 7 , It is then with 



ticns are also girenby St. Peter, 1 Pet. 2, 18. And again 
in 1 Tim. 6, 1, 2, we find the following passage, * l Let as 
many servants as are under the yoke, count their own 
masters worth of all honor, that the name of God be not blas- 
phemed. And •they that have believing masters let them not 
despise them, because they are brethren; but rather do them 
service, because they are faithmi and beloved, partakers of 
the benefit. These things teach and exhort." — Here again 
the Greek word which is translated -" servants" means slaves.* 

Here we see, that the Apostle is clearly speaking of the 
Telation of master and slave, as a well known relation of civil 
society, then existing. He speaks too of slaves that have 
41 believing masteis who are christians: and, far from requir- 
ing such masters to liberate their slaves, he requires the slave 
to '* count his master worthy of ail honor," and to " do him 
service " In the Apostle's judgment then Christian men might 
lawfully hold slaves, and required obedience of them in all 
things," i. e. iri all things consistant with the duties he enjoins 
on masters to perfoim. If then this was lawful in the Apos- 
tles' days, how comes it to be unlawful now? If it was then 
lawful, it could not be sin; how then comes it to be sin now ? 
It is absurd to say that it is sin now, if it was not so then; and 
I think the passages of Scripture above quoted clearly shew 
that it was not. 

To this let me add, that the relation of master and slave, is 
^cleaily one of the relations of civil society, and the whole ten- 
or of the New Testament shews, that neither our Saviour, 
nor his Apostles, ever intended to abolish, or change any of 
those civil relations. All their laws — all the principles they 
have given to us, go to regulate our moral conduct in these 
relations^ leading the relations themselves as they then were. 

unfeigned surprize that I find added in the same note, "In 
heathen countries slavery was in some sort excusable; among 
Christians it is an enormity and a crime for which perdition 
is scarcely an adequate punishment." In this he clearly con*, 
tradicts what the Apostle allows, and contradicts what he him* 
self before allowed in the same note— -a striking proof of how 
easy it is, for a great and good man's feelings to cloud or mis- 
lead his judgment, 

*Here Dr. A. Clarke himself allows the proper meaning of 
Ihe word to be slaves. See his note. In the French trans* 
lation it is esclaves^ in the Spanish it is siervos, £>oth of which 
mean slaves » 



•In this I am glad to find that I am sustained by the'resolution 
of the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, 
past at their late session in Cincinnati, a resolution passed in 
view of the very question now in hand It is as follows — 

'* Whereas great excitement has prevailed this country on 
the subject of modern abolitionism, which is reported to have 
been increased in this city recently, by the unjustifiable con- 
duct of two members of the General Conference, in lecturing 
on this agitating topic; and whereas such a course, on the 
part of any of Us members, is calculated to bring on this body 
the suspicions and distrust of the community, and niisrepre* 
sent its sentiments, in regard to the point at issue; and where- 
as, in this aspeet of the case, a due regard for its own charac- 
ter, as well as a just concern for the interests of the church 
confided to its care demand a full, decided, and unequivocal 
expression of the views of the General Conference in the 
premises therefore, 

" Resolved by the delegates of the annual conference in 
General Conferency assembled. That they disapprove in tne 
most unqualified sense, the conduct of two members of the 
General Conference, who are reported to have lectured in 
this city recently, upon and in favor of modern Abolitionism. 
11 Resolved by the delegates of the annual conference in Gen* 
eral Conference assembled. That' they are decidedly opposed 
to modern Abolitionism, and wholly disclaim any right, or wish, 
or intention to interfere in the civil and political relation, be r 
tween master and slave, as it exists in the slave holding states 
of the union."— West Christ. Advocate, May 20th 1836. — 
The first of these resolutions passed by a majority of 122 to 
1 1 — the other was divided, and that part which expresses de* 
cided opposition to Abolitionism, past 120 to 14, and the rest, 
which disclaims all interference with the relation of master 
and slave, as it exists in our country, past unanimously. — See 
same paper. 

Now, it is believed, that Abolitionist3 themselves will not 
deny, that in that body, there are many men of profound and 
extensive learning, who are deeply versed in the Scriptures, 
and whose piety is as deep, and sincere, as that of any others 
to be found, in any denomination of christians whatever. — 
They have too, the advantage of coming from all parts of the 
Union; — many of them from the slave holding States, where 
they reside, and have long been eye witnesses of the state of 
society, and have seen Slavery as it does really exist in our 
country, Such meD, surely, are competent to judge correcU 



\y m this, if any men on earth are. But ihese men do not 
condemn slavery, as a sin, taken as it exists in our country. 
On the contrary ihey imitate their divine Master by ■• wholly 
disclaiming," as his ditfeiples, " any right, or wish, or intention 
to interfere in the relation between master and slave;" which 
they consider, as it really is, — one of the established iw civil 
and political" relation a of society in our country,- — one which, 
as christians they have no right to disturb. I can but con* 
side* this, as an invaluable testimony in < Ur Javor, and no less 
so, m favor of the cause of hu -nanny. It is a testimony they 
could not have given, if ihey had considered that Slavery, as it 
exists among us, is a sin. I consider it indeed as bearing me 
out in ali the positions' i have taken. 

2, I have said tnat the resolutions of the General Confer, 
ence are an invaluable testimony in favor of the cause vf hu- 
manity. R-eader, whoever thou ait, by not surprised at this. 
The abolitionists, though believe they are not aware of it, are 
really, if their schemes succeed, preparing for us, and must 
bring on us, a' scene of the most inhuman butchery and siaugh 
tertbat ever the world has seen. It is the natural and neces* 
sa ry consequence of their proceedings. And on this we 
ground our appeal to reason. 

SUvery, Ihey say, "-must be universally abandoned." In 
other words, we must emancipate all our slaves. This, wo 
cannot do, without involving ourselves, and onr slaves along- 
with us. in utter ruin. It is not, as they suppose, the loss of 
property we should sustain, that deters us. Our lives, the 
honor and purity of our females, and the lives of our wives and 
children, are at stake. And surely no law, either human or 
divine, requires us to surrender these to the lawless violence 
of an infuriated negro mob : and such a mob we should very 
soon have to contend with, were all our slaves to be emanci' 
pa ted. I speak now of their being, voluntarily emancipated 
by iheir masters. Nor am I alone in this belief. It is the set - 
tied conviction of every reflecting man throughout the slave 
holding states. 

The causes of discord between the white, and the negro 
raoe, are so numerous, and so powerful, as to forbid the hope 
of tbeir ever being able to live together, in such bodies as they 
are with as* in peace and harmony. 1. The Creator himself 
lias made them different, so much so, as to render it impossi- 
ble for them ever to mix< and assimilate so as to become tihfi 
yeople* They must, consemjenHy, forever farm tico separate 

B 



10 

and distinct bodies of people, each having separate and dig I 
tinct interests : and Mese interests will be continually coming 
in conflict with each other. 2 The white man, being really 
superior to the negro, in arts, in science, and in improvements 
of every kind, and having been long accustomed to rule over, 
and receive the submission of the black race, has imbibed a 
feeling of superiority, that must oppose an insuperable bar to 
his ever admitting the negro to associate with him, on terms 
of equality. He will consider, and treat the negro race as 
inferior. The negro, on the other hand, puffed up with the 
idea that he also is a freeman, will consider this as an indigni* 
ty, and will seek revenge for it Daily anc$ hourly will occa- 
sions of quarrel, of strife, of insult, and violence, arise from 
this source ; and if violence once begins, wrnre will it end . ? — ■ 
It is not the quarrel of one individual against another : It is 
the negro against the tbhite ma»— of one race of people against 
the other, in which the feelings of the parties will be keenly 
enlisted on both sides. A single spark, in such a quarrel, may 
be blown up into a devouring flame. 

Call this prejudice if you will. The prejudice, if it be such, 
Exists, and is universal with all the white people in our coun. 
try ; and is too deeoly rooted, ever to be removed by any Ira* 
man power, it is not confined to the slave holding states. — 
In the other States, Where the negroes are free, are they not 
considered, as they are with Us, as a distinct class of people ? 
Are they not there also treated as an inferior race ? Will 
■white men there associate with them*, on terms of equality ?-— 
"Will they receive them as equals, and companions, in their 
families, and in their social intercourse ? or suffer them to 
become allied to 'them in marriage ? Would the mostenthusi* 
astic of the abolitionists givn his sister, or his daughter to a ne- 
gro in marriage ? I trow not. Away then with the cry of 
prejudice, in thfs matter. The feeiing exists, it is universal, 
anrt so long as it does exist, it will produce its natural effects, 
and what those effects are, we have just seen. Counteract 
this feeling forcibly, and you inevitably produce a dangerous 
explosion. 

Wiil it be argued, that the treating of the negro race as in* 
fferinr, in the states, where they are, free, produces no evde, 
such as I have mentioned, and therefore none are to be ap< 
prehended with us The ^..swer is obvious and decisive.-— 
'There the majority of white people is so overwhelming, that 
fee negro influence is as nothing. Far different is the cas© 



ii 

with us, where, as we have seen, their numbers rise so nearly 
to an equality with ours. Two millions of ,-uch enemies, as 
we sbouid soon find them to be, couid not be turned loose 
among us, without producing the m ost fatal consequences. 

3. Are our Slaves, if set free, to be vested with all the rights 
and privileges of free American citizens ? If it be possible for 
them to 'ive at all among us, in a state of treedom, they will 
certainly claim an equality with white men ; and, consequent* 
]y, all the rights of citizens. And all this, I believe, the Abo« 
3itionists claim for them. Can it be allowed ? Let us see — » 
What is the character of this numerous host of slaves, that aro 
to be thus turned loos* among us ? They are all of the negro 
race, constituting, as we have just seen, a separate distinct 
iody of people ,— one with whom, though living among us, 
the white race never can mix and harmonize. In the next 
place they are in a state of profound ignorance, alt®ge» her ig- 
norant of the rights and duties of citizens, as such, and totally 
in the dark as to the nature of free government With all this, 
the negroes possess inherently, all the vices incident to human 
nature, (the virtues, ajas, even with white men are too few,) — » 
The negro, (I speak from a thorough knowledge of their char- 
acter : having long known them) is naturally proud, haughv 
ty, vain, glorious, ambitious of honors and distinction, and 
fond of power, and of domineering over other men ; — not less 
so than white men, — nay, I think, more so. Now take this 
people as they are, and I ask are they fit to become free Ame» 
rican citizens ? or rather, can an equal number of people bo 
found, in any country on earth, more completely unfit for these 
privileges. ? Turn them all out by themselves, free »o govern 
themselves as they please, and how long would there be any 
thiug like regulated civil liberty among them ? How lon» bee 
fore they would become slaves to one another ? Not long. aa. 
smedly. Are they then fi* to be invested with the risrhts of 
citizens among us ? Moat certainly not: and never, certainly, 
will white men agree to allow them those rights. 

Here then must arise a contest between the two classes of 
people, for politiccd power* a contest in which, from its very 
nature, men are more likely than in any other, to become 
heated, and to fall out and get to fighting And this contest 
will arise in either case, whether the privilege in question be 
granted or not. 

Fir^t suppose it to be granted ; One of the rights the ne* 
groeg will acquire, as free citizens, ia the possession and utft 



Mi 

t>f artng ; and of this, we may be assured: tSvey will spon nvnif 
themselves. Another is, the rig-lit of voting in our elecii. "-ns, 
&nd of being eligible to office. We should then very soon find 
them aspiring to become oor Legislators, our Judges, and oU 
ficers to rule over us. Negroes will be seen coming out as 
«;andiri»fes for .office, in opposition to white men ; and they 
Will be supported by the whole mass of negro electors , and 
these, in many parts of our country, will be the majority. In 
two entire states they out number us Now, is- there a man, 
"who can believe that such an election would be carried on, 
through the whole canvass without violence ? without 
ending in bloodshed and slaughter ? A moments reflexion 
will convince any reasonable man, that it could not. And 
jiote, that here again the contest is not between one favorite 
candidate and- another, but is negro against white man — a con- 
test in which the whole race on each side; will engage, and 
that with the most bitter animosity and hatrt y. The very first 
election like this, and such would be sure to occur, would b6 
the beginning of a servile war, that could end only in the de- 
struction of one or the other of the two race? of people, or in 
<reducingone, or other of them to a stale ot slavery, (or worse 
than that which* now exists. 

On the other hand, say that the privilege is refused to them, 
and what follows T 'Why; then, we shall have among us ail 
this multitude of , lazy, idle, ignorant, vicious negroes, all turn* 
-ed loose from the authority of their masters, all poor, wretch- 
ed, and discontented. I say poor and wretched ; for I pre- 
sume we shall no longer be bound to supply their wants, nor 
longer called on to furnish them houses to live in ; nor to give 
nip to them our lands to live on^ for nothing, nor to feed, and 
clothe them : and furnish them with medical aid, and nurses 
to attend th?m in their sickness. All these necessary things 
will be wanting. We shall in truth have two millions of idle 
vicious paupers turned loose among us. These must be gov ,r 
erned in some way : how is fhis to be done ? We havf just 
Seen that they are totally i capable ot governing themselves., 
and that to trust them with the privileges of citizens, would be 
either ruin, both to them and to the white people also. Jt 
remains, that the white race, in their own defence, must re- 
tain all the powers of the government exclusively in their own 
hands. \ 

But if this be so, what will the negro race have gained . ? — 
Just nothing, or worse th^n nothing. They will still be slavey 



13 

Wilder another form 6f slavery ; for ?f Would' soon be fond 
that ;< loHc-e of the most rigorous, and severe kind, would be 
irrdmpensiHIe : White men would stiii be their masters ; and a 
sod or iron woo!o be wielded over them. Nothng less than 
the powers ofa military desp;.t'srm would avail, to keep them 
in order ; ani such a despotism the Jaw of self defence would 
justify, ami require to be established, and exercised over them 
by white men. 

Without it what would be our situation ? Why, we should 
-have among us a multitude vf these poor, wretched and v'n 
cious paupers, too ignorant to manage any business on their 
own account, by which to gain a subsistence ; too proud, and 
too lazy to be employed by white men, and submit to be gov* 
erned by them, and destitute of the means of subsistence, 
when left to themselves,— how are they to live ? Tbey would 

live, or try to Hve; by becoming thieves and robbers, by 

committing all manner of depredations on the property of thft 
white people : and to carry on their business of rapine, they 
would soon be seen forming themselves into organized bands, 
to support each other, and to oppose' and set the laws at d.e* 
iWce That surb. would be the case, no man, who know? 
the character of our negro population, and the true state of 
our country, can entertain a doubt. And such a state of things 
certainly could not be borne for an hour. It would every day 
give nse to the most dangerous conflicts ; in which the quar- 
rel would stili be that of the negro against the white man, m 
which every negro would be ready to engage : and it is hence 
obvious that nothing but the strong arm ofa rigid military po» 
lice would restrain the negro race from rising en masse to 
butcher and destroy the white people. 

Thus the alternative is forced upon ns, either to retain our 
slaves as they are,— or to encounter all the horrors of a bloo* 
dy servile war, in which we most either fall victims to the bru- 
tal fury of the negro race, or reduce them again to a state ejf 
slavery, certainly as bad, and very probably, far worse that> 
that which now exists. 

With this necessity reztmg upon us can we hesitate m 
choosing our course ? Will the abolitionists any longer charge 
us with being guilty of sin, in holding our slaves ? We plead, 
as 1 have shown, the authority of scripture ; and we plead the 
great and paramount law of self preservation, in jwstjficahoe 
ofourcou.se. We cannot, I repeat, emancipate our slaves* 
without bringing on ourselves, and on tlrem along with m, , 



1# 

ftftta a thousand times greater than slavery itself, "as it now -ex*, 
jsts among us.. 

And will the abolitionists still continue to print, and scat" 
ter among us their papers, and pamphlets, and piints, con- 
taining the most, impassioned and. inflammatory appeals to the 
passions, and prejudices of our slaves ? appeals evidently cat. 
culated to inflame their passions, and excite them to insurrec- 
tion and revolt ? Have they reflected on what it is to stir up 
such an insurrection? that it is to excite the incendiary to fire; 
our dwellings, at the dead hour of aid night, and to raise a 
worse than savage mob to destroy our lives, and cut the 
throats of our wives and children ? that it is to instigate ra- 
pine, and murder, in their most horrid furies.* Such, and no 
other, must, and wi!l be the effect of their pioceedings And 
is this acting according to the golden rule. Do unto others 
as you would they should fio unto you ? Is it not rather a plain 
violation of that rule ?| 

4nd yet, it is, I believe, so'ely on the ground of this rule, 
that;the| charge us, with being guilty of sin, in holding our 
slaves.! The argument is this. You. say they, who hold a 
slave, were ypu in his situation, would certainly desire to be 
set free : Go then, and do, as you would that another should 
do ur\to you, go, and set your slave free. Now, we have just 
seen the fatal consequences of this application of the rule to 
our case. It isclear then, that it cannot be so applied ; for 
it never could be the intention of its divine Author, that it 
should be so applied as to produce evil. The error lies here. 
The rule is applicable so!ely to individuals, considered in their 
relation to each other as such, and is intended to regulate 
their moral conduct towards each other, in that relation :-— 
but to men, in the relation they bear to the community m which 
they live : in other words, to men. as they stand in any of the 
civil, or political relations of society p , tbe rule is not applica* 

*Let me not be misunderstood. I make no charge of 
any intention to do these injuries : — I speak only of the ten* 
dency, the inevjfab'e consequences of their proceedings 

tit has been said in excuse, for this, thst these pub. 
Jications are not intended for our slaves, but for us. Really 
we think we are in no need of tbo^e prod< coon* to enhghten 
us?M.d teach us our duty We do think th»t w understand 
the case, at km a» well as the authors el those publication?, 
do. 



15 

b'.e at all. Shall toe indented servant say to his master, Sir, 
if you was in my situation, you woald H^re your master to 
set you free Do thou unto others, whnt you would they 
should do unto you ; — you are bound s:r by this rule to set 
me free ? Sha.l the cmid, on the sane ground, be set free 
from the authority of ihe parent ? the wife from that of her 
husband ? If so. every man may, on the same ground, claim 
to be »et free from the authority of the magistrate ; and then 
there is an end of ail order in civil society. It is a perversion 
of the rule then, to apply it, in any of these t;ases. 

And why is it so ? It is because these civil and political re- 
lations are necessary to the preservation of peace and order 
in society ; and for that end they are established by law. But 
the moment you aop!y the rule to these relations, you destroy 
them ; and along with them you destroy all order in society. 

Now the relation of master and slave is but another form of 
the relation of master and servant. It is, if you please, that 
relation in its most rigid form But it exists, and without any 
fault of ours. It is established too hy law, ?nd is now ore of* 
the lawful established civil relations of society in our country. 
It is one of the most important of thes^ relations too — one 
which, as we have seen, cannot be broken upon, in our case, 
without breaking up all order in out country. Our laws on this 
subject then stand justified on the same ground of necessity % 
that justifies all the civil relations of society, which are estab* 
lished by law in other cases, or in other countries 

Will you then deny the validity of our laws on this subject. 
Pause, and consider Our laws establishing this species of 
servitude, emanate from the supreme power of tke state. No 
earthly power is superior to it. Exactly similar were the Ro» 
man laws, in this respect, under which such multitude of 
slaves* were held, when St Paul wrote his epistles The Ro. 
man law, like ours, was ordained by the supreme power of the 
state. What command then does the anosties give concern- 
ing these " higher powers ?" »• Let every soul" says he, " be 
subject to the higher powers : For there is no power but of 
God : tho powers that be, are ordained of God. Whosoever, 
therefore, re3isteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God 
&c ■" " For," he add3, " rulers are not a terror to good 
"works, but to the evil, &c/' Bv kt rulers" he evidently means 
civil magistrates, and other officers of the civil government! 



*S 



ee Gibbon's Peal, and fall of Rom* Emp. vol. 1, p. 63, 



1$ 

j&'&«3 -to Titu3 he says, u put the;/; in minj to "be stibject to 
principalities and powers., to f>'j°* magistral fee retftiy . 

to avery good work, See Rom IS, I, and Tit, 3't, ! And 
St. Peter says, •' submit yourselves to every ordinance of man 
foi the Lord's sake ; whether unto the kma, as supreme : or 
unto governors that are sent by him, &c ■" I. Pet 2, 13.— 
.Now, the terms " every ordinance of man," clearly include the 
Ho man laws authorizing slavery ; and to these, consequently, 
christians are commanded to •* submit themselves." -If this 
was their duty then, how comelbey to be realized from "• sub.. 
miUwvg theuiselvta" to exactly similar * k ordinances of man" 
now .? -Are not our abolitionists acting in direct violation of 
these commands ? Let them pause and consider this, before 
they drive their measures ioihe fotai result i have already 
pointed out. 

Pause then, fellow citizens of the abolition school, — stop 
short, we beseech you, where you are- If you persist in your 
course, you wiil inevitably spread desolation and ruin through- 
out the soiikern states, from which no possible good can re- 
sult, either to our slaves, or to us, or to yourselves, or to a-n-y 
other ;human beings. 

In a paper u The Philanthropist," Cincinnati, which lias 
fallen into my hands since the above was written, we are de- 
nounced as the supporters of— ■•* a system of ever begining, 
and never ending oppression." Now, as to the -donation of 
this'' oppression," it would be easy to shew, that slavery has 
its origin, and its cau se in the inherent vices of human natme, 
not the vices of the master only, but those of the slave also ;. 
and so long as human nature* remains corrupt, as it is, it will 
breakout in disorder, and violence, out of which slavery, hy 
the very laws' of hufnaft nature will grow. Remove the cause 
then, and the effect will cease .When mankind shall become 
universally virtuous, slavery will cease . but not till then. Yo 
force emancipation is but to change its form, and wggravata 
the evil Until the M illinium is ushered in. mankind will, J 
believe, remain vicious, as they aie. When that event rakes 
place " all shall be righteous" and then all will be free, — but 
not till then. 

Again in the reoort ofjbe anti. slavery society of New York ♦ 
they boast trjat jySa-mchusetti b " will not hatch the cockatrice. 



17 

^gg9 that have been Hid for her.'* No : but the abolitidrtfat? 
■will. Let them, however, take heed least the'y hatchfg brood 
of vipers that will turn and sting them I a'hde to th^ oatu. 
ral reaction of their proceedings. They are stirring u>> aa 
intestine war in our country that once begun can end only in 
raising up a military despotism that will stretch its iron sceptrejj 
over our whole country ; So that really they are forging chains 
for freemen, instead of giving freedom to the slave They 
have already kindled the fire of a yet smothered volcano be. 
Death our feet : a few more efforts in their enterprise, and the 
explosion will burst forth, and then who can stay its nourse. 
Meantime all we ask of them is to let us alone. Surely as 
Christians — nay as men, they cannot refuse this reasonable re* 
quest. 

POSTSCRIPT ft. 

If, to the foregoing arguments it be objected, that Chris< 
tians, being the people of God must, as such, be bound bv all 
the obligations, and entitled to ail the privileges pertaining to 
the Jews in that character ; and that, consequently, as a Jew 
Could not hold his brother in slavery,* so neither can a Chris, 
tian lioid his fellow Cnristian as a slave ; Levit. 25. 39. — If 
this be urged, I answer, the objection is specious^ but not 
soiid. 

For, the Whole Jewish ceconomy was typical, prefiguring 
the Christian dispensation, which was to succeed it : but in 
this point, the type is not yet, fulfilled.— the thing prefigured 
has not yet come to pass ; though, we are assured in script 
ture, that it will hereafter take place To shew this, let it be 
observed, that the Jewish government was <* Theocracy. God 
himself was their king dwelling sensily among them, and him* 
self, administering their government, both temporal and spiri- 
tual, Ecod 25, 22 & 40, 34—38 Levit. 26, H, 12. Under 
the Christian dispensation God has not yet assumed the ad- 
ministration of the temporal government of mankind, but has 
left it in the hands of men, to be administered In this point 
therefore, the type has not yet been fo}fi!letf. And this takes 
away the whole force of the argument. For 

Slavery is, in its natur -, a temporal evil only, confined ex- 
clusively to this worki, as to ail the evils, the siavp, cin suffer 
$w it It falls therefore exclusively under the temporal gov- 
Bnment of mankind, to allow, to forb»d, or to regulate it. — 
JSmphatically this is so, as far as the administration of the gov- 
ernment is concerned, The ev.Ui, if remedied at all, must be 

c 



IS 

remedied in tUs world : and the administration alone cau 
apply the remedy. But God does not now administer the 
temporal government of Christians, as, of old, he did that of 
the Jew*. The analogy therefore, oh which the argument ia 
built, fails ; and with it, the whole argument falls to tho 
ground. 

It was under the Theocracy, when God himself administered 
their temporal government, that this- privilege was secured to 
the Jews Ii will, doubtless, be again secured to mankind, 
under the Christian dispensation, when God shall be pleased 
to set up his kingdom, foretold by the prophet, Dan. 2, 44 ; 
When the Jews shall be again " grafted into their own olive 
tree," fclom. 11 , when " the wolf shall dweli with the lamb; 5 ' 
when" tjie people shall be all lighteous," Isaiah 11, 6, &> 
60, 21. Then the thing prefigured by the type, will come to 
pass, the analogy, on which the argument lests, will be restor» 
ed, and the argument will be conclusive ;~ -but not till then. 

Mean time, it is obvious to every reflecting mind, that slave- 
ry, as I have already observed, has its root in the weakness* 
the ignorance, the vices, and wickedness of human nature — 
These are its cause ; and it is but a truism to say, that so long 
as l be cattle remains, it will necessarily produce its natural 
effect. But that cause, no human government can remove.— 
It follows, therefore, that as God has been pleased to leave the 
temporal government in the hands of man. weak, ignorant and 
vicious as he ' is, he has thereby chosen to tolerate, for the 
time being, ail the evils necessarily resulting from that order 
of things. He alone can remove the cduse^ and untii it shall 
please him to interpose, and remove it, it is mere quackery for 
man to set himself to remove the effect 

And let me add, that this view of the subject is in perfect 
harmony with the commandments delivered by the apostles, 
(as above stated in this work,) prescribing rules for regula. 
ting the conduct of Masters and Slaves, thereby allowing that 
relation to exist. 1 say allowing it to exist : for otherwise 
these commands would be absurd ; — there would be nothing 
for them to regulate. 

But, while I thus argue that slaves are bound, let me re* 
mind Masters, that they also are bound to obey those com- 
mandments. They are the law prescribed to them, — the cj 
dition, on which alone it is lawful lor them to hold slaves, 






*A Jew might be held in servitude until the year of jubilee, 
at which time he became free. 



