SIXTH 
ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THE 



313 ® © ® ® 3sr 



FEMALE ANTLSLAVERY SOCIETY, 



The Lord also will be a refuge for the oppressed. Ps. ix. 9. 



BOSTON: 
DOW & JACKSON, 

14 Devonshire Street, 

1839. 



^•^^•"-73. ST ''-^M^. ^' 



REPORT. 



The cause in which the hearts of the members 
of the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society are 
enlisted, is one that emphatically belongs to eve- 
ry country and clime. It is a question affecting 
the happiness of all classes and estates of men, 
from the peasant, in his quiet cot, to him who, 
surrounded by thousands of courtiers, wields a 
sceptre over untold multitudes. The abolition of 
this system of oppression forms, we think, no 
inconsiderable link in that long chain of usur- 
pation that must disappear before the glori- 
ous acclamation shall be heard, gladdening the 
ear of earth's inhabhants, *' The kingdoms of this 
world have become the kingdoms of our Lord and 
of his Christ!" 

To the abolition of this system has the energies 
of our Society been directed, the past year, and 
ID its measure it has spoken fearlessly for the 



bondman, by prayer directed to our Legislature, 
by appeals to the hearts and consciences of those 
who are indifferent to the cry of suffering woman, 
by earnest solicitations for funds, necessary to 
keep in motion that ten-thousand-tongued instru- 
mentality, ihepress, and lastly, by supplications to 
him who, though his throne is in the heavens, 
heareih theory of the oppressed, and graciously 
lendeth his ear to petitions for all in captivity. 

In November, our Society was addressed by 
Henry B.Stanton, on the importance of vigorous 
efforts in behalf of the slave, and the necessity 
of increasing our pecuniary aid, in order to carry 
forward the operations of the various Societies 
enlisted in the work. At the close of the ad- 
dress, the Society pledged $500 to the Massa- 
chusetts Society, toward the redemption of its 
pledge to the American Society. 

At this meeting the Society voted to appropri- 
ate $100 to the Samaritan Asylum for indigent 
colored children. In this institution, established 
by our colored sisters, the Society continue to feel 
deeply interested, believing it to be an instrumen- 
tality, which, though feeble at present, will, if sus- 
tained, prove a blessing to multitudes of those who 
are denied the privileges of similar institutions in 
our country, and who would be suffering all the 
miseries attendant upon poverty and vice, were it 
Bot for this refuge. 



The spirit of Slavery, its life^ is in nothing more 
apparent, than in that prejudice which renders 
the above-named institution necessary. The col- 
ored child is cast out as a thing of nought, as 
though, like the leprous, its touch was contamina- 
tion. Scorn, reproach, and bitter hate are its dai- 
ly food. In the morning he weeps, as he antici- 
pates the sneers and contempt which he shall be 
called to encounter during the day; and in the 
evening the deep fountains of his soul are broken 
up, as he contemplates the realization of his 
morning anticipations ; and not unfrequently does 
he exclaim with impatient Jonah, '' It is better 
for me to die than to live.'' Perchance a cup of 
sweet is presented to his lips, but it is quickly 
dashed therefrom by the hand of one who taunt- 
ingly reminds him that such enjoyments belong 
not to him. 

With such an incubus pressing himt-o the earth, 
is it not meet that our Society should, according to 
its ability^ assist in his elevation, and earnestly 
strive to secure to him those privileges and bless- 
ings which are the inalienable right of all. 

The Fair, held by the Society in December 
last, realized to the treasury eleven hundred dol- 
lars. This was a larger amount, by some hun- 
dreds of dollars, than has ever been raised on 
any similar occasion. It was conducted with 
spirit by the members of the Society, each feeling 



anxious to contribute her proportion of interest to 
the occasion. The mottos engraven on the arti- 
cles offered for sale, were striking and appropri- 
ate, and greatly enhanced their value in the esti- 
mation of the purchasers. Hon. ]\lr. Elmore, of 
Charleston, South Carolina, having some time 
previous sent to the Executive Committee of the 
American Anti-Slavery Society for a specimen of 
their publications, pictorial representations, and 
whatever they had issued in behalf of the slave,— 
the President of our Society thought it would not 
be departing from our appropriate sphere, if we 
made a selection of the various articles offered 
for sale at our Fair, to be forwarded to him ; 
and, accordingly, by voluntary contributions, a 
box was immediately made up of articles with 
appropriate inscriptions ; and it is a fact wor- 
thy of notice that among the articles thus se- 
lected there were several made by one of the 
members of our Society, who was once a slave in 
the city of Charleston, S. C, whither the box was 
to be sent. 

Much interest was excited by the Post Office, 
open during the days of the sale. Letters in orig- 
inal poetry and prose, were procured therefrom 
at various rates of postage. It afforded a favor- 
able opportunity for reminding many, who per* 
haps felt but little on the subject of slave- 
ry, that, while they were surrounded with the 



comforts of home and kindred, and enjoying all 
the blessings which our free States afford, there 
were those allied to them by the strong bonds of 
brotherhood, to whom these sweets and privileges 
were denied ; denied, too, only on the ground 
that He who hath done all things well, saw fit to 
fashion them after a model which he declared 
very good. 

At a Board Meeting of the Society, March 9, 
a committee were appointed to procure signatures 
to a petition to be presented to the Legislature of 
our State, for a repeal of all laws making a distinc- 
tion on account of color. 

Petitions of a similar character had been pre- 
sented by our sisters of Lynn and Dorchester, 
which had produced great excitement among the 
members of the Legislature. Motives of the 
basest kind were attributed to the petitioners, and 
insult of no ordinary character was heaped upon 
them by caricatures and paragraphs in the daily 
papers. As an instance, take the following from 
some of the daily periodicals : — 

Low Blackguardism. The following is the very scurrilous 
petition that was presented to the Massachusetts Legislature, sonie 
days siace, from Lynn. The representative who presented it ought 
to be ashamed of his conduct; and the House, in receiving and re- 
ferring it to a committee, have not only degraded themselves in the 
eyes of all upright men, but made a mockery of the right of peti- 
tion, and invited fresh insults to virtue, decency, justice. 

To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of Mas- 
sachusetts in General Court assembled. 
Gentlemen, — Your petitioners, the undersigned, beg leave roost 



8 



respectfully to represent, that inasmuch as we have noticed that a 
petition has been presented to your Honorable Body, by Miss Car- 
oline Augusta Chase, and seven hundred and eighty-five other fe- 
males of this town, praying that " all laws may be forthwith re- 
pealed which make a distinction between the citizens of this State 
on account of difference in color." We therefore humbly pray 
that in your legislature you will, as soon as convenient, pass an act 
granting a free and full privilege to the said Caroline Augusta 
Chase, and the seven hundred and eighty-five of the females (exclu- 
ding all those who are not of lawful age,) to marry, intermarry, or 
associate with any iNegro, Indian, Hottentot, or any other being ia 
human shape, at their will and pleasure, provided they do not in 
any way transgress the law^ over and above the petition. 

By the passage of such an act you will confer a favor on your 
petitioners, who, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 

From the Hampshire Republican. 

Amalgamation. QC|=Caroline Augusta Chase, and seven hun- 
dred and thirty-five other females, in Lynn, have petitioned the Le- 
gislature for the PRIVILEGE of marrying black husbands. 
Strange as this may appear, it is true. 

We have ever been an advocate for rational liberty in its broad- 
est sense. We feel a sympathy for every portion of the human 
race held in bondage. We believe that all men are " created free 
and equal" in a proper sense; but we do not believe that they 
are created free to do wrong — to trample upon the rights and pur- 
loin the property of others, and to indulge in such excesses, and to 
gratify such brutal passions as woiild lead to the subversion of or- 
der and the destruction of society. We do not believe it was the 
design of the Creator, that inarriages should take place between 
negroes and whites, and certain we are, that such alliances will 
never be tolerated in New England. 

If the abolitionists, as a party, sanction the course of the fair 
petitioners in Lynn, we eschew them as too filthy and loathsome 
for a free New Englander to act with. They will deserve the coa- 
tempt of all honorable men, and their unhallowed course will add 
other and more powerful bolls to the fetters of the slave. Such a 
party cannot flourish except among the vicious, the depraved, and 
the insane. Where is the man, in the county of Hampshire, who 
will openly advocate practical amalgamation! We know of but 
few men in the State so lost to shame, and so degraded, as to pub- 
licly avow such revftUing sentiments; and the brand of disgust is 
fixed upon them indelibly. Community is sickeaed with their 



presence, and the finger of scorn is pointed at them from every 
quarter. 

Slavery is an evil of great magnitude; it is entirely at variance 
with the genius and spirit of our Republican Institutions, and 
would to God it could be wiped from the American escutcheon. 
But, is practical amalgamation, a mixture of white and black 
blood, in New England, the remedy for this evil % Will the mar- 
riage of a white man to a negro girl, in Massachusetts, break one 
rivet in the manacles of the southern slave 1 Will a union of all 
the white ladies in Lynn with the sons of Ham, break a fetter and 
manumit onk colored bondman \ If so, by all means grant the 
request of Miss Caroline Augusta Chase, and her seven hundred 
and thirty-five sister petitioners. Let their wishes be gratified — 
Let each one of the lair ones take to her bosom, as a partner for 
life, the delicate negro she so much desires. We would be the last 
one to oppose them. But, let the real friends of the slaves, the 
high-minded advocates for freedom, wipe their hands from the 
monstrous sin of encouraging such revolting connexion, or aboli- 
tionism will soon become as odious as the Hartford Convention 
and the Ritner Rebellion. 

From the Boston Morning Post. 
i)Cf='Caroline Augu.^ta Chase, and 735 other ladies in Lynn, 
have petitioned the Legislature fur the privilege of marrying black 
husbands. This is rather a cut at the white Lynx beaux — or, per- 
haps some of these ladies despaired of havinga white ofier, and so 
are willing to try de colored race. 

From the Dedham Patriot. 

The Right of Petition. The committee of the Legisla- 
ture, to whom was referred the subject of the petitions of certain 
ladies in Lynn, Brookfield, Dorchester, and Plymouth, praying in 
substance for the abolishment of the laws for preventing the inter- 
marriage of the blacks and whites, have made their report, declar- 
ing it inexpedient to legislate on the subject, and recommending 
that the petitioners have leave to withdraw their several peti- 
tions. 

Something like one hundred thousand signatures are attached to 
the petitions already received in the House of Representatives on 



10 



the License, Slavery, and Amalgamation questions. A very large 
proportion of these signatures are those of women and children. 
We desire not to be uncourteous towards the ladies, or unfeeling 
towards the little darlings; but really, it does appear to us that 
such an imposing array of names tells more for the industry of the 
few individuals who procured them, than it adds to the dignity of 
American legislation. It is generally conceded, we believe, that 
those only who have aright to act in political matters, are entitled 
to be heard in petition, address, and remonstrance,? on political 
subjects. Common sense teaches it should be so, as a general rule; 
and if, through complaisance, good feeling, or gallantry, a diflerent 
course is sometimes pursued, why then, perhaps, if no positive 
good is gained, no great harm is done. 

So long as our nursery children are encouraged to appear before 
the Legislature, and in the halls of Congress, in the garb of peti- 
tioners, on subjects with which it cannot be supposed they are fully 
acquainted, so long will the practice tend to lessen our self-respect 
on a review of the farce. When woman, all lovely as she is, de- 
scends from her appropriate sphere where God has placed her, to 
enter the arena of political warfare, our domestic circles must of 
necessity lose much of their wonted attraction, by the absence of 
some of those angelic attributes, which give to home its brightest 
charm. 

The times must be sadly out of joint, when the public are led to 
sanction a fashion, merely because it is the fashion, the direct ten- 
dency of which is to bring one of their dearest rights into disrepute. 
It can only be done through want of thought and sufficient reflec- 
tion upon the consequences. Or, possibly a lurking fear of being 
thought deficient in gallantry towards the fairer part of creation 
may be the cause why some are unwilling to protest against a prac- 
tice which all reflecting persons must know to be injurious. Such 
persons may think it uncourteous to find fault, when to praise they 
know would not be true. No one could possibly regret more than 
ourself the having incurred, in the slightest degree, the displeasure 
of the fair. But, in the case in question, our sense of right greatly 
predominates over any such fear; and, moreover, we are firm in the 
belief that avast majority of intelligent ladies are with us on this 
subject — it cannot be otherwise. 



11 

Not content with closing the avenues of science 
and literature to the colored man, of depriving 
him of the opportunity of acquainting himself 
with the mechanical arts, of tearing from him all 
those rights which belong to him as a rational 
creature, as a being formed in the image of his 
glorious Creator, of bidding him, on all occasions, 
stand yonder^ — our country has attempted to leg- 
islate on the affections which God has implanted 
in his bosom, by making it a crime for him to love 
one who may chance to be formed in nature's fair- 
er mould. Monstrous usurpation ! As well legis- 
late on the current of the winds of heaven, on the 
waving of the giant branches of tbe forest oak, or 
the heaving of the billows of the fathomless ocean ! 
Who would believe that men who sanction such 
laws are the descendants of the "Pilgrim Fa- 
thers," that they are sons of those who 

Sought a faith's pure shrine 

amid the forest of New England, who sang amidst 
the storm 

When the stars heard, and the sea — 
And the sounding aisles of the dim woods rang 
To the anthem of the FREE ! 

Alas ! are not the mighty fallen ? Has not the gold 
become dim, very dim ? 

At the quarterly meeting in April, the Society 
pledged to the American A. S. Society, one 



12 



thousand dollars ; to the Samaritan Asylum for in- 
digent colored children, one hundred dollars ; and 
to the Infant School for colored children, one hun- 
dred dollars. Some of the members being dissat- 
isfied with the appropriation to the American So- 
ciety, a Fair was immediately advertised to be 
held in October, for raising funds for the Massa- 
chusetts Society. 

At this meeting four delegates were appointed 
to attend the Convention of American Women, 
to be held in Philadelphia, in May. The Phila- 
delphia Society, after a long but unsuccessful ef- 
fort to obtain a hall or commodious meeting-house, 
in which the friends might convene, were forced 
to the necessity of putting up for the occasion a 
building formerly occupied as a riding-school. 
Here the Convention met, and peacefully transact- 
ed the business which had called them together. 
The meetings of this Convention were of a deeply 
interesting character. Though much discussion 
was elicited by the various resolutions introduced 
at the meeting, the utmost harmony and unanimity 
of feeling prevailed. By referring to the minutes 
of the Convention, it will be found that, notwith- 
standing the trials of the past year, and the scenes 
which they witnessed at their last gathering, the 
members of the Convention stood erect on the 
ground of immediate, entire, unconditional eman- 
cipation ; that they were prepared for no surren- 



13 

der of principle, either at the voice of prejudice* 
or the threatening of the eneniy ; that their 
object was now, as at the commencement of their 
labor, " Liberty for the captive," and that to the 
attainment of this object their undivided energies 
would continue to be directed. They resolved, 
as heretofore^ that no love of earth should impede 
their course, that no discouragements should turn 
them aside, but that, relying on the arm of Om- 
nipotence, they would proceed till slavery should 
be known no more, or they were called to ex- 
change the scenes of time for those that are eter- 
nal. The Convention issued an Address to the 
Society of Friends on the subject of Slavery; an 
Appeal to American Women on prejudice 
against color ; and a circular showing the impor- 
tance and enforcing the duty of petitions to Con- 
gress for the abolition of slavery in the District 
of Columbia, in Florida, and the Slave Trade be- 
tween the States ; and to our various State Leg- 
islators for the repeal of oppressive laws, and 
the granting of jury trial to reputed fugitive 
slaves. We commend these publications to the 
careful perusal of our fi lends, especially the cir- 
cular on petitions,* as a means of increasing an in- 
terest in the hearts of those who may circulate 
petitions the present season. The Convention 
adjourned to meet at Boston in 1840. 

* See Appendix. 



14 



In relation to petitioning, the Board have re- 
cently issued the following Address to the women 
of New England, earnestly hoping that the mo- 
tives there presented may prove incentives to ac- 
tion in this important department of Anti-Slave- 
ry effort: — 

To THE Women of New England. 

Beloved Sisters, We have heretofore addressed you in behalf of 
the millions of slaves groaning under the worse than Egyptian bond- 
age of this Christian land. We have entreated you to use, in their 
behalf, your acknowledged and powerful right of petition with the 
various Legislatures, and especially with that of the nation. A 
good number have done so, and though your petitions have not yet 
gained their object, though in Congress they have been most uncon- 
stitutionally and insultingly trampled upon, they have not been with- 
out their effect. They have powerfully contributed to that change 
of sentiment which is visibly going forward, and which is bringing 
on the slave's redemption. The fact that you, who cannot be sus- 
pected of personal political aims, nor of being swayed by the churU 
ish spirit and tyrannous machinery of party hostilities, have peti- 
tioned, in such numbers, from one end of the free states to the 
other, has demonstrated that it is the genuine voice of humanity 
which cries for the sundering of chains. It remains for you to com 
plete the work. 

Dear sisters, your petitions are more needed now than ever. They 
will accomplish more. You remember that picture of the unjust 
judge, drawn by Him who so well knew the nature of all unjust 
judges. That judge feared not God, nor regarded man. For a 
long time he disregarded the entreaties of woman. But he yielded 
at last, and it was to the petition of a woman. 

In this work perseverance is the secret. It is certain success. 
Congress and the State Legislatures have undeniably the power to 
do all we a.<k them. Justice and mercy call, in the clearest possi- 
ble tone, that they should do it. Let them grant our prayers and 
all are free under the guardianship of regenerated law. To hafe 
such a cause as ours is to have power. We repeat it, PERSE- 
VERANCE under God is SUCCESS. 



15 



Be not weary in well doing, for in due season ye shall reap if ye 
faint not. Weary, weary, tiear Sisters, — is it for us to be weary*? 
If this light labor oi freedom is wearisome, oh what must be the 
weariness of the slave ! M we are weary with circulating these pe- 
titions, how weary must (hey be whose unpaid task it is to freight 
our ships with those countless bales of cotton which are the wealth 
and the boast of tins proud and cruel nationl Ah, in the cotton 
field there is weariness, and weariness without hope. The mother 
is there, and her helpless babe lies in the rank weeds at the end of 
the row I Little do we know of the bitterness of that toil to which 
she is driven. But that is not the bitterest part of her lot. Stripes 
and shame are hers. The unspeakable sweets of motherhood have 
been dashed with gall and wormwood. All the tenderness and 
loveliness, and honor and glory, of that ordinance which God him- 
self set up and sanctified in the happy garden, slavery has trampled 
in the mire. Ages, long ages, have passed away, and the shame 
and the curse have grown heavier. The weariness of the slave can- 
not be written down; language is too poor. Only get a glimpse of 
it as you now may, as we hope you already have, in that apocalypse 
of tyranny, lamentation and woe, " Slavery as it is, or the testimony 
of a thousand witnesses," and we will answer for you that you can- 
not be weary, nor can you ask what have we to do with this subjectl 
To know half the sad truth is to be awake and active and never 
tiring. 

While thick night still hangs over our own beloved land, and the 
thunder rolls and the lightning gleams portentously, the morning of 
hope brightens gloriously in the islands of the sea. The sun is above 
the horizon, and his might is irresistible. Eight hundred thousand 
human beings are doing honor to that philanthropy which spoke 
them free. And that philanthropy, as to one half its moving power, 
let us joyfully remember, was the FEMALE philanthropy of Great 
Britain. Its loudest and most effiicent voice was in that woman's 
petition, which it took four strong men to lift upon the table of the 
house of commons ! Shall the daughters of a monarchy out-do in 
benevolence the daughters of a republic'? 

We feel assured that the daughters of free America will not only 
NEVER cease to pour in their petitions against slavery, but that 
they will every year increase their importunity and their array of 
names, till their righteous object is fully attained. 

To the women of this commonwealth we would say, that special 



16 



reasons urge tliem to the most diligent use of the right of petition. 
In our own Legislature an attempt has been made, by weak and un- 
principled men, to cast odium upon those who have petitioned for 
the abolition of all laws making a distinction on account of color. 
Tho<e laws are a gratuitous insult to our colored friends and fellow 
citizens, ministering directly to strengthen that bulwark of slavery, 
the prejudice of caste, und should no longer be permitted todisgrac* 
the statute book of Massachusetts. 

In behalf of the board of the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society. 

M. V. Ball, Dom. Cor. Sec. Mi ry S. Parker, President. 

Since we last solicited for signatures to our pe- 
tition, what numbers of those who have trafficked 
in slaves and the souls of men have met the victims 
of their tyranny at that tribunal where " no false 
pleading will be heard," where man meets his 
brother man, and face to face beholds Him whom 
he has insulted, by degrading Jiis imag in the 
person of his brother, rankirg him among things, 
blotting out his humanity, and making him an in- 
strument to gratify his low and sordid lust. What 
a meeting that, where He who formed man a lit- 
tle lower than the angels, and crowned him with 
glory and honor, shall fix his withering glance on 
one who, reckless of the high and glorious elevation 
to which his brother was exalted, has smitten that 
crown from his head, hurled him from that seat of 
honor, put out the eyes of his soul, and bid him 
serve the creature instead of the Creator. Who 
can contemplate a scene so fearful, and not feel 
impelled, by an irresistiiile power to 

*' Scatter the living coals of truth," 

wherever there are hearts to feel their influence ? 



17 



Since we last petitioned Congress, what multi- 
tudes of wretched, toil-worn souls have wasted 
away on our southern plains, and gone to appear 
before God ! Though many have, we doubt not, 
exchanged the toils of the cotton-growing field, 
where nought but the clank of the chain, and the 
harsh voice of the task-master was heard, for end- 
less repose and the melody of eternal song, thou- 
sands of others have gone to the land of hopeless- 
ness ; for how could they believe on him of whom 
they had not heard ? and how could they hear 
without a preacher ? 

It is this that gives slavery its fearfulness, — this 
desecration of that immortal mind of man, destin- 
ed to live on through the countless ages of eter- 
nity, to bask forever in the sunshine of the throne 
of Gcd, to pass from one degree of holiness to an- 
other, being transformed into the image of the in- 
visible Jehovah. 

We received a letter, some months since, from 
the Sheffield Emancipation Society of England,* 
full of encouragement and interest, proffering us 
their assistance and prayers in the labors to which 
we have devoted ourselves. We have also re- 
ceived from Elizabeth Pease, of Darlington, inter- 
esting documents in relation to the deplorable 
state of British India. f It appears from authen- 
tic pamphlets, that millions have died, and thou- 

* See Appendix. t See Appendix. 

2 



18 

• sands are now dying, in consequence of the op- 
'pression of the British guveniment, while the 
^country has means of supplying abundantly the 
n'vants of its millions of inhabitants. 

!i is delightful to behold our sisters who have 
'labored so arduously for the emancipation of their 
countrymen in the West Indies, seeking other ob- 
jects on which to expend their noble energies. 
May their labors be crowned with all that success 
which is promised to those who come lo God, be- 
lieving that he is a rewarder of those who diligent- 
ly seek him. 

We have again been reminded of our own 
mortality, in the removal, by death, of one who 
was formerly a member of our Board, Mrs. So- 
phia Robinson. She died on the 8th of Decem- 
ber last^ and gave evidence that her hopes of 
eternal life were; founded on the merits of the 
Redeemer. She was deeply interested in behalf 
of the oppressed, ever ready to labor and contrib- 
ute of her substance in their behalf. 

If, in our progress as a Society, we glance back- 
ward for a moment, we find that six years ago 
we met a band of twelve individuals, to implore 
the blessing of God and the guidance of his Spir- 
it, in relation to the cause of the slave. 

\Vq saw the husband frantic with grief at the 
loss of the companion of his youth, of her whom 
God had joined to him even as his own souL 



19 

We saw the wife speechless, as her supporter was 
dragged from her home to do the bidding of some 
southern lord in the rice fields of Alabama. We 
saw the slave mother bend over the child of her 
love, lamenting that soon the clanking chain would 
be found at his heel, and he driven to a southern 
market, never more to feel the warm gushings of 
a mother's affectionate heart. We beheld her 
agony as the doleful truth fell on her ear that the 
morrow's sun would heboid her childless, that 
ere it passed its meridian splendor, she would 
gaze on him for the last, last time. Again, we 
saw the mother, hiding her head in shame at the 
remembrance of the ignominy to which her wo- 
manhood had been subjected, and we heard the 
secret prayer arise for death's icy fingers to be 
laid upon the young brows of her daughters, rath- 
er than they should be dishonored by the pollut- 
ing touch of slavery. In view of these scenes we 
asked What is to be done .'' What shall we, as 
individuals, as a Society, attempt ? We asked. 
Can such feeble instrumentality accomplish aught 
in a labor so stupendous ^ Can we do aught in 
removing that bondage which hangs so heavily 
upon these our countrymen .'' We received for an- 
swer, that all hearts were in the hands of Him who 
dwelleth in the heavens, that he turned them as 
the rivers of water are turned, and being thus 
strengthened we have proceeded till from num 



20 

bering twelve, we can count hundreds who are 
with usjside by side, pleading for these husbands, 
wives, and children, with an eloquence which has 
hitherto proved irresistible. We have cast uor 
pebble into the mighty ocean, and a wave has 
been produced, which, by the guidance of heav- 
en, will tell on the shore of every land where slav- 
ery exists. Its influence will be felt through 
succeeding generations, till, in truth, liberty shall 
here find a home, peace an abode, and piety a 
dwelling place. 

Mother, as you gaze on the face of that only 
son, whose innocent gambols delight your heart, as 
you cast your eye forward and trace his course in 
coming years, till your heart is filled with solici- 
tude, lest some evil befal him, or he should turn 
aside from the path of virtue and wander from 
his God, for whom the prayer ascends as the 
hand of afl^ection is laid upon his fair young head, 
whose infant feet you joy to lead to the altar of 
heaven, bidding him seek 

«'The God of his father, the Holy One, 
And the path that shall reach the skies." 

Think, we pray you, of the slave mother, the 
innocent gambols of whose child fill her soul with 
no sweet delight. As she casts her eye forward 
to his future lot, she beholds nought awaiting him, 
save chains and stripes and ignominious servitude. 



21 

For her boy she breathes no prayer, save that she 
may lay him in an early grave, where the servant 
is free from his master ; his tender feet she may 
not lead to the temple of God, because she is sub- 
ject to the will of another; think, we say, of the 
slave mother, and earnestly supplicate the Father 
of love on her behalf, and in your measure assis-t 
to remove from her lips this cup of unmingled 
bitterness. As you would honor the religion you 
profess, as you would prove a blessing to your 
country, as you would show yourselves worthy 
to be entrusted with the guidance of those youth- 
ful feet, teach him virtue, teach him to despise 
the gain of oppression, teach him to feel for the 
miseries of the whole human race, without re- 
gard to caste or clime, so that when you shall be 
called hence he may remain to complete your 
work of faith and labor of love. 

Daughter, as the name of mother falls on your 
ear with unspeakable sweetness, as you lean up- 
on her fond and affectionate bosom, as the shades 
of evening come over you as seated by the hearth- 
stone of your infant years, you read from the vol- 
ume of inspiration of those joys which flow 

" Fresh from the fountain, round the throne 
Of the all blest eternal One." 

Remember the thousandsof daughters at the South 
to whom the name of mother is linked with no 



22 



sweet remembrance of infant years, from whose 
bosoms they were torn ere their infant lips had 
learned to lisp that name which to you conveys, 
we had almost snid^ all that is desirable on earth. 
For these daughters no hearth-stone is found in 
this vale of tears, the volume of a Father's love 
is to them a sealed book, and their ears are nev- 
er greeted with the blessed words of consolation 
and hope contained in its sacred pages. By the 
hopes of heaven you cherish, remember, we pray 
you, these daughters, and cease not your efforts 
till they shall be found free and happy, enjoying 
the blessings which a belief in that word is calcu- 
lated to impart. 

Sister, remember that in the cotton-growing 
fields of Virginia, on the sugar plantations of 
Carolina, and beneath the cypress tree of the 
Floridian Territory, there languishes many a hap- 
less sister, torn by the grasp of slavery from the 
embrace of all she held dear. They weep in 
desolation over the past, and the future is to them 
only a scene of fearfulness and gloom. Theirs 
is a night without a star. The light of science 
has never blest their eyes, and the paradise of 
God is to them an unheard of dwelling ; for, hke 
the ancients of olden days, * the haughty tyrant 
would exclude from the Elysium above, 

* In the Elysium of the ancients, we find none but heroes and 
personB who bad either been fortunate or distinguished on earth; 



23 



" The slave, whose very tears 
Were a forbidden luxury, and whose breast 
Shut up the woes and burning thoughts of years, 
As in the ashes of an urn compressed; 
She might not be its guest; 
No gentle breathings from its distant sky. 
Came o'er her path, and whispered " Liberty.'* 

In gratitude to Him who has in infinite wisdom 
cast your lot amid the light of science and reli- 
gion, we beseech you labor diligently for the re- 
demption of these degraded ones. As you dwoH 
under the shadow of your own vine, and mingle 
in the social circle, as you visit the house of God, 
remember these forlorn and shelterless sisters of 
the South. 

Let us rejoice that the principles of liberty are 
widely circulating throughout our community, 
that multitudes have enlisted since our last An- 
nual Meeting in the cause of equal rights, and 
that churches in their separate and united capaci- 
ties are protesting against this great iniquity. A 
voice has been heard from the fruitful vales and 
murmuring streams of our fair New England, 
" Proclaim liberty to the Captive," and the state- 
ly forests and roaring waters of the widt-sfread 
west^ have reiterated the cry, " Proclaim liberty 
to the Captive." 

Let us not fail to plead for the millions in 

the children and apparently the slaves and lower classes, that is to 
say. Poverty, Misfortune, and Innoci-nre were banished »o the in- 
fernal regions. Chataubriand Genie du Christianime. 



24 

bonds, though ministers of Church and State nnay 
call upon their countrymen to desist in their work 
of mercy. The present is no time for retreat. 
We have entered the field, we have pursued the 
conflict thus far, and now, when victory will ere 
long be ours, shall we falter ? Shall we surrender 
to the enemy when they are already flying from 
the glistening of our armor, made mighty through 
God to the demolishing of these strong holds of 
iniquity ? Never let it be the work of the faith- 
ful Historian to record this of any who are now 
engaged in this siege against oppression and spir- 
itual wickedness. Never let it be found in the 
truthful records of the future, that one step was 
ever retraced by any member of this Society, 
through fear, cowardice, or subjection to worldly 
or church usurpation. 

Boston, October 10, 1839. 





O^ 85 CO ST 00 V^ 




v^asn paid toward Mr. (iarrison's salary of $1200, 

To the Massachusetts Society towards the re- 
demption of their pledge often thousand dollars 
to the American Society, 

Samaritan Asylum 

Use of Hall No. 1, Marlboro' Chapel, for Fair 

Buildmg of tables for Fair, 

Use of Hall in 1838, 6 times, 

Mr. Knapp, on account of Fair 

Mr. Bagley, on account of the same 

Notices on account of Fair, 

Incidental expenses of the same. 

Balance due on account of last year's delegation 
to the Convention of Women, 

Theod.ne Baker, for Anti-Slaverv Handkerchiefs 

Massachusetts Society for Andover L. A. S. So. 

Mr. Knapp's balance of last year's account on 
Wright and Wrong and sundries. 

On account of Pledge to Colored Infant School, 

To Ladies A. S. S. in Concord on ac't of Fair, 

Printing 300 Circulars, 

Printing form of petitions & address in Mass.Ab. 

To defray the expenses of three delegates to Con- 
vention of Women, ' 

Stationary, Notices, Postage, &c. 

On account of articles for the Fair, 

Miscellaneous Expenses, 


5 

1 

1 


Ol 


i-i I— 1 en l_i 
ObSCOO COOie5XOM OC5 0X COtOOl^ Or caw oo o 


a 

^ 


■ox 


§§§§ ^%%%^ S^S §§i^t?.§§S§§ i 


^* 




1S38 
Dec. 

1839 
Jan. 

Oct. 


?5 




Balance in J reasurv. 

Cash received from Managers of the Fair, 

From the sale ol Handkerchiefs, by Mrs, Ruee.of 

Groton, **' 
Donations, 
By Mrs.Kingmam,from Bridgewater, by children 

in her day school, •' 
Annual assessments. 
Life Memberships, 
Articles sold left from the Fair, 
Annual assessments, 


i 
7* 




I-" 


9 


00 


OOOOo OO OOO 



OFFICERS 

OF THE 

BOSTON FEMALE A. S. SOCIETY, 
For 1839—40. 



PRESIDENT, 

MARY S. PARKER. 

VICE PRESIDENT, 

CATHERINE M. SULLIVAN. 

DOM, COR. SECRETARY, 

MARTHA V. BALL. 

FOR. COR. SECRETARY, 

ABBY CARTER. 

RECORDING SECRETARY, 

LYDIA GOULD. 

TREASURER, 

LUCY M. BALL. 

COUNSELLORS, 

JUDITH SHIPLEY, 
MARY A. W. JOHNSON, 
MARGARET SCARLET, 
SYLVIA LEWIS, 
LYDIA L. FULLER. 



APPENDIX. 



ADDRESS OF THE BOSTON FEMALE ANTI-SLAVERY 
SOCIETY TO THE WOMEN OF MASSACHUSEETTS. 

At the'quarterly meeting of the Boston Female 
Anti-Slavery Society, held January 10th, it was 
unanimously^ " voted, that a Fair be held by the 
Society towards the close of the present year," 
and, also, " that the Society pledge to raise 
$1200 for the cause." According to a vote of 
the Society, the objects for which this money 
will be expended are the following : — To the 
American Anti-Slavery Society, $1000. To the 
infant School for colored children, $ 100. To the 
Samaritan Asylum for indigent colored children, 
$ 100. To fifty copies of the Liberator, $ 100. 

As notice has been given of a Fair " to sustain 
the Massachusetts Society," to be held in the 
month of October, we deem it necessary to make 
the following statement. The vote passed by 
the Boston Society, at its quarterly meeting, in 
April, to appropriate one thousand dollars to the 
American Society, was carried, after much dis- 
cussion^ by a very large majority. The next day, 
a notice of a Fair " to sustain the Massachusetts 



f 



28 



Society," was found in the Liberator, signed by 
fifteen individuals, fourteen of whom are members 
of the Boston Society. Those members were 
opposed to, and voted against the appropriation 
to the American Society. The object of the Fair 
in October is the support of Mr. J. A. Collins, 
as General Agent of the Massachusetts Society. 
The object of the Fair to be held by our Society, 
in December, is to aid the Executive Committee 
of the A. A. S. Society. We say thus much on 
the subject because we wish it distinctly under- 
stood, that the Fair to be held in October is not 
connected with the Female Anti-Slavery Society. 

The Executive Committee of the American 
Society, in addition to their general operations, 
have just published a work from the pen of The- 
odore D. Weld, which will probably do more for 
the cause of emancipation, than any ever issued 
from the American press ; and they are now in 
possession of the names of nearly three thousand 
persons in the slaveholding States, who will re- 
ceive this work, in connection with " Emancipa- 
tion in the West Indies," by Thome and Kimball, 
if forwarded to them free of expense ; and they 
only ask for the means to scatter these leaves of 
the tree of life. We therefore feel it to be the 
duty of the women of Massachusetts to exert 
themselves to the utmost to increase the funds of 
this Society. 

We are confident that the women of Massachu- 
setts could place $5000 in the treasury of the 
American Society before their annual meeting of 
1840, were all who call themselves abolitionists, 
willing *' to do with their might what their hands 
find to do." If this can be accomplished, (and 



29 

we do not doubt it,) will not each Society call a 
meeting forthwith, and take effective measures to 
raise their proportion of the above sum ? We 
would recommend to our sister Societies, to hold 
sales of articles in their respective towns, wher- 
ever circumstances shall seem to warrant. It 
will, probably, be the means of interesting many, 
who would not otherwise think of the subject of 
American slavery. Where there are no female 
societies, we would suggest the formation of sew- 
ing circles ; in this way, hearts become enhsted 
on the side of the oppressed, and that which was 
a little one may become a thousand. 

Let us listen for a moment to the cry that as- 
cends to heaven from millions of our enslaved 
countrymen. Does it demand nothing of us ? 
Have we no sympathies to be awakened by the 
voice of grief, the wail of wo ? Have we no hearts 
to melt at the sight of their bended knees, their 
outstretched hands ? Cold indeed must be that 
soul, that is not affected by the Hving reahty of 
a nation in chains! Will any mother, sister, or 
daughter, leave that undone which she, as a 
Christian, is^ bound to perform ! Will you per- 
mit those for whom a Savior died, to groan away 
a life of toil, and lay down at last in endless sor- 
row because of your unfaithfulness, your want of 
zeal in this holy work ? Will you, in view of 
these millions who wither under the blight of 
slavery, whose lamentations come to you on 
every breeze, whose united cry is, 

"Help us Christians, or we die !" 

will you, we ask, in view of these perishing ones, 
sit down and quietly take your rest ? We trust 



30 



this will never be said of the women of Massa- 
chusetts, but that with one heart they will come 
up to the work of breaking; every yoke. 

We would say to all sister Societies and indi- 
viduals, who are disposed to aid us, that we shall 
be happy to receive and acknowledge donations 
from them to any amount they may please to 
forward. The following articles, among others 
that might be named, command a ready sale. 
Shell-work, rug-work, paintings, port-folios, chil- 
dren's clothing, needle-work of all kinds, pocket 
handkcTchiefs, hem-stitched or embroidered caps, 
capes, collars, work-bags, needle-books, &c. &ic. 
The Fair will be holden by the Society in 
December next. Letters or packages may be 
forwarded to No. 5 Hayward Place, directed to 
the care of either of the Committee. 

In behalf of the Boston Female Anti-Slavery 
Society^ 

Mary S. Parker, "^ 

M. V. Ball, | 

Clarissa Lothkop, y Committee, 

Lybia Gould, | 

Ann Todd, J 

Boston, April, 1839. 



From the minutes of the Convention of American Women. 

L. Mott informed the meeting that a messen- 
ger from the Mciyor had just called her out to in- 
quire at what time our Convention would close, 
as he had some officers in waiting whom he would 
like to disperse. She had returned answer that 
she could not tell when our business would be 



31 



finishedj but that we had not asked, and, she 
presumed^ did not wish his aid. She further 
stated, that the Mayor had called upon her, a few 
days ago, and inquired where the Convention 
would be held — if it would be confined to women 
— if to white women, or white and colored — if 
our meetings would beheld only in the day time, 
and how long they would continue ; expressing 
his determination to prevent, if pos-ible, the re- 
currence of last year's outrages. He suggested 
that we should hold our meetings in Clarkson 
Hall, which was already guarded by his officers ; 
that we should not meet in the evening, should* 
avoid unnecessary walking with colored people, 
and close our Convention as soon as possible. 
She replied, that Clarkson Hall would not, 
probably, be large enough tor us. We did not 
apprehend danger in meeting at the house pro- 
posed ; she doubted the necessity of such protec- 
tion as he contemplated. We should not be likely 
to have evening meetings ; for, to the shame of 
Philadelphia be it spoken, th^ only building we 
could procure of sufficient size, had but a barn 
roof, was without ceiling, and could not, there- 
fore, easily be lighted for such a meeting ; — that 
we had never made a parade, as charged upon us, 
of walking wi(h colored people, and should do as 
we had done before — walk with them as occasion 
offered ; — that she had done so repeatedly within 
the last month, meeting with no insult on that 
account ; it was a principle with us, which we 
could not yield, to make no disiinction on account 
of color ; that she was expecting delegates from 
Boston of that complexion, and should, probably, 
accompany them to the place of meetirig. 



32 



CIRCULAR OF THE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION 
OF AMERICAN WOMEN. 

This Circular is addressed to all who sincerely 
desire the slave's emancipation. Its subject is not 
new ; it has been presented to you again, and 
again, until, perhaps, some of you are as weary of 
it as of a "twice told tale," and will cast this pa- 
per aside as soon as you have ascertained its char- 
acter. But we entreat you to read it ; not because 
its subject is presented in a new, or peculiary in- 
teresting manner, but to give us an opportunity to 
stir up your minds to remembrance of the slave's 
wrongs and your duties. We are aware that many 
of you have, for several successive years, annually 
devoted yourselves to the work of procuring 
signatures to memorials to Congress, praying for 
the abolition of slavery, and that you have willing- 
ly and cheerfully expended your time and strength 
"in season and out of season, "forthis purpose, and 
not having witnessed results proportionate to such 
efforts, it is possible that some are almost dis- 
couraged, and ready to say, "We have labored 
in vain, we have spent our strength for nought." 
Our design, in addressing you, is to urge you to 
repeat, during this year, with increased fidelity and 
perseverance, this same arduous work. 

There are a variety of memorials which you 
have probably been accustomed to circulate, ad- 
dressed to Congress, or your State Legislatures, 
praying for the repeal of oppresive laws, the 
granting of a jury trial to reputed fugitive slaves; 
etc. All these we recommend to your attention, 
but especially urge the importance of petitions to 



33 

Congress for the abolition of slavery in the 
District of Columbia, and in Florida, and of the 
slave trade betwen the states. 

Allow us, dear sisters, to reniind you of one or 
two reasons why this duty is peculiarly incumbent 
upon us. 

It is our only means of direct political action. 
It is not ours to fi.l the offices of governmeni, or t6 
assist in th€ election of those who shall fill thenri. 
We do not enact or enforce the laws of the land. 
The only direct influence which we can exert up- 
on our Legislatures, is by protests and petition^. 
Shall we not, then, be greatly delinquent if we 
neglect thtse ? 

We shall not be suspected of party motives. 
However our legislators may regard our request's, 
whatever insults they may heap on our names, they 
will not, they cannot, for a moment, suppose 
that we are influenced by any of the selfish mo- 
lives of political partisanship, which they so 
quickly detect in their own sex. They will b^ 
iieve in our sincerity, and this belief will be great- 
ly advantageous to the success of our memorials. 

There are other reasons which should induce 
us not to relax, but to redouble our efforts in tlife 
department of our labor. Slavery is annually 
increasing the number of its wretched victims. 
Thousands, since we last circulated petitions^, 
have commenced their dreary life of bitter bon* 
tlage. Ought not the increased number of oui^ 
petitions, this year, to testify that we remembejr 
this mournful fact ? Our beloved co ntry is annu** 
ally increasing her guilt and danger. Our time fojf^ 
earthly toil, too, is rapidly passing away, and w6 
shall do well to heed the admonition, " Work 
3 



34 

while the day lasts.'* We know, dear s'rsters, that 
this is a weary work. We have deeply felt the 
difficulties and trials that attend it. We know 
how painful it is to endure the scornful gaze, or 
rude repulses of strangersy as, journe}ing fron> 
house to house to solicit their sympathy for the 
crushed and heart-broken^ slave, we see thera turn 
away in hot displeasure or cold indifference. At 
such seasons, let us send our thoughts away to 
the plantations of the South, where they, for 
ivhose sake we endure all this, dra^ out their sad- 
existence. Let us see them in the rice fields, the 
cotton fields, the sugar plantations, beading over 
their tasks, their bodies lacerated with cruel scour- 
ging, and their hearts bleeding in anguish for their 
loved and lost ones, scattered, they know not 
whither, and as we contrast the bitterness of theiF 
sufferings with our toils for their redemption, we* 
shall gather fresh strength and courage. And 
could we see the smile which sometimes lights up 
the sad features of the slave, when he reniembers 
that he has heard of friends in the far North, who 
are striving to rescue him, and hear the prayer 
and blessing which go up from his bursting heart 
for usy how would it inspire our souls with new 
vigor and devotedness to our work! Let such 
visions cheer us onward, and let us, above all, go 
forth to the work panoplied with prayer. 

In conclusion, we have a few words to say t^ 
those who are very willing to sign an anti-slavery 
petition, yet excuse themselves from the labor 
of circulating it. You acknowledge that it is our 
duty to send such petitions to Congress, and, 
consequently, that it is the duty of some of us to 
procure signatures to them. You would not con- 



35 

sent that this work should be suspended, even for , 
one year. Yet if all were to foHow your exam- 
ple, it would inevitably cease. The duty which 
we urge does not, of course, devolve upon every 
ontj of you. Each must decide for herself the 
question of personal obligaiion in the matter. It 
may be that from the heavy pressure of domestic 
duties, or from other causes, you are not able to 
spend even an occasional hour in pleading the 
cause of the slave among your friends and neigh- 
bors. We would only suggest that before making 
such a decision, you will, as nearly as possible, 
place your soul **in his soul's stead." Let the 
mother gather her children about her, and see 
them seized, sold, and driven away to southern 
markets and plantations, there to spend their 
lives in mental and moral degradation, that they 
may minister to the avarice and ambition of task- 
masters, whose " tender mercies are cruel !" Let 
the daughter and the sister imagine to themselves 
a home made desolate by slavery's polluting touch. 
Let us all endeavor, for a few hours at least, to 
*' remember those in bonds as hound with fhem,^* 
and then answer the question, Shall I circulate an 
anti-slavery petition ? 

SARAH LEWIS, President 



Martha V. Ball, 
Sarah G. Buffum, 
Anna M. Hopper, 
Mary Grew^ 



tSecretaries, 



36 



TO THE MEMBERS OF THE LADIES ANTI-SLAVERY 
ASSOCIATION, BOSTON. 

Sheffield, Jan. 30th, 1839. 

Dear Christian Friends — United by one com- 
mon faith, partakers of the same glorious hope, 
and bound to promote the like righteous cause ; 
GUI* hearts have longed to hold communion with 
you from the time we first heard of your devoted 
exertions on behalf of '* them that are in bonds.'* 
To you it has been given not only to labor with 
success, but to suffer with cheerfulness. We 
feel comparatively unworthy the name of fellow 
laborers, but consider it an honor, in any way, 
however humble, to hasten on the day of univer- 
sal freedom ; we would fain emulate your l)right 
example, and from the strength imparted to youy 
under circumstances most perilous, derive fresh 
assurance, that the work is of the Lord ; and as 
He first inspired the minds of his people to seek 
delivcfance for the oppressed, so assuredly, will 
His almighty power carry on the design, until the 
glad sound of Liberty re-echos from every land ; 
already we behold its approach in the recent de- 
liverance wrought out for our favored nation, and 
while with devout gratitude we rejoice in being 
no longer a slave-holding people, we trust the 
time is not far distant, when you will become 
sliarers in our joys. 

Our spirits are cheered by the rapid advance 
of abolition principles throughout the northern 
states of the Union, and whilst the fears of the 
pro-slavery party are evinced in the violence of 
iheir measures, our hopes are "fixed, trusting in 



37 

God," who, ofttimes overrules the wrath of man- 
for the promotion of His own glory. 

In the Uniied States the cause of freedom has 
infinitely more difficulties to surmount, ere its ob- 
ject be p;ained, than it h:]d in Great Britain; the 
ne.rro formed no part of our population ; his suf- 
ferings were unseen, his wrongs, comparatively, 
unknown ; notwitlistanding nil the efforts of Clark- 
son, Wilberforce, Granville Sharp, and a long 
line of witnesses whose ''record is on high." 
But no sooner had the unrivalled eloquence of a 
Thompson, and the denunciations of a Brougham, 
&c. &ic. Sec, sounded forth, aided and upheld as 
they were by the dispassionate statements of those, 
who, like Sturoe, and Scoble, had been eye wit- 
nesses of the atrocious crueltit^s every moment 
perpel rating throughout our Colonies, than the 
moral feeling of the nation was roused in all its 
power, and oppression and avarice were com- 
pelled to give place. In America, the case is 
widely different ; the emancipation of the slave 
includes the admission of his rights as a freeman, 
and w^ill be followed on his part by an attempt to 
associate with the white man on equal terms : 
we are strangers to the feeling that renders such 
an association (on general occasions,) hateful, — 
but in AiTierica ihe cruel prejudice is so univer- 
sal, that none but Christian principles carried out 
into pratice can insure for the colored man the 
reception of a Friend and a Brother, and even 
amongst numbers who profess the gos[)el, the force 
of example, and early habits are painfully evi- 
dent in their unholy treatment of liim ; we can- 
not wonder then at iIk^sc who altogether disregard 
God, adopting the most desperate measures to 
perpetuate slavery. 



38 



The conduct of the emancipated negroes, with 
few exceptions, has been admirable, and their 
moderation, forbearance, and gratitude, rejoice 
the hearts of their friends, and ought to put their 
enemies to the blush. 

We are looking forward with much delight to 
a visit from our mutual and highly valued friend, 
George Thompson, Esq, Vou are probably aware 
that in connection with the interests of the Anti- 
Slavery cause, he is devoting the unwearied en- 
erges of his powerful mind, on behalf of "The 
Aborigines Protection Society." A letter receiv- 
ed from Miss Pease, (who, with her father, has 
been in Scotland accompanying Mr. Thompson,) 
states him to be suffering much from pain and indi- 
gestion, and incessantly occupied. The ^' Sheffield 
Association for the entire Abolition of Sin very,'* 
was formed under the direction of Mr. Thompson, 
in 1837. Hitherto its efforts have been confined 
to the West Indies, where much, very much, still 
remains to be done, to render effective and stable 
the freedom bestowed. We are but a little band, 
and our influence is in a great measure confined 
to the Friends and Congregationalists. If you 
can point out any mode by which we can aid your 
labors, we shall rejoice to adopt it. We feelingly 
sympathize in the arduous struggle you are 
pledged to maintain, and pray that you may be 
found ^'steadfast, imjnoveable, always abounding 
m the work of the Lord, inasmuch ns ye see thai 
your labor is not in vain in the Lord." 

In behalf of the Ladies' Anti-Slavery Associa- 
tion of Sheffield, I remain, with Christian love 
and profound esteem, 

Yours, E. WATERHOUSE. 



f9 



Hie following is an extract of a letter frgm 
Elizabeth Pease, of Dcirlington, Eng. to Sarah M. 
Grinike, on the subject of British India. It was 
forwarded to the President of our Society, Mary 
S. Parker, by S. M. Grimke. 

It (the formation of the new Society) must be 
isnteresting to American Abolitionists, for it con- 
tains within it the seeds of emancipation for the 
captives in the Southern States, and aims at the 
very point which you are striving to attain, bring- 
ing free labor into compeiilion with that of the 
slave. How can labor, at Is. 6d. a day, stand 
against that at 2d. or 3d. Under a wise and hu- 
mane system w^e could obtain from India all thai 
we now get from the sinew of the slave. — This, 
I doubt not, you have seen by the publications 
you have already had on the subject. 

There is one way in which you could very es- 
sentially favor the infant cause-, provided the A. 
S. friends with you are convinced of its importance 
regarding} our question ; that is, by a warm expres- 
sion of sentiment from your A. S. Societies, ad- 
dressed to the "British India Society" here, — this 
would encourage the Anti-Slavery party in this 
country to write, or at any rate to investigate the 
matter. — Many of them, thus far, rather hold back, 
fearing that we are distracting public attention 
from that caus3, not perceiving that the India So- 
ciety is doing the work they seek to arcom- 
plish. Any expression of this kind, either from 
societies or individuals, would be most valuable, and 
would greatly strengthen and cheer those who 



40 

fiave entered into this great work. Any commu- 
nication addressed to the secretriries here (or if 
lo my eare, I will always forward them with pleas- 
ure) will be gratefully received. 

] remain thy friend, 
ELIZABETH PEASE. 
London, 7th mo. (July) 11, 1839. 



Perhaps thou mayest approve of laying this be- 
Ibre the Boston F. A. S. Society, and they may 
%ake some action upon it. Never did we feel the 
€;laimsofthe perishing slave more deeply, never 
#Hore fervently desire that Jehovah may instruct 
m how best to labor for his deliverance. — It is an 
unspeakable comfort to feel that, 'Uhe Lord reigns^ 
that the cause of crushed humanity is his cause, 
and that he will carry it forward to the praise and 
glory of his own great name. Oh, that your 
prayers arid labors may be more abundant, and 
that the Lord Jesus may give you of his spirit to 
animate, enlighten, and lead you into all truth. 
Yours, in the bonds of Jesu^, for the slave, 

SARAH M. GRIMKE^ 

iMary S. Parker. A. G. WELD. 

The foregoing commun'cation being; laid before 
the Board in the absence of the For. Cor. Sec. fhe 
JDom. Cor. Secretary was instructed to prepare 
€tie fol'owing Address and Resolutions, to be for- 
warded to the women of Great Britain. 



41 



ADDRESS 

Of the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society to 
the Women of Great Britain. 

Beloved Sisters, — Though the billows of the 
wide Atlantic roll between us, though hand has 
never grasped hand in the warmth of sisterly af- 
fection and christian love, yet are we not one in 
labor for the wronged and bleeding slave ? Do we 
not, in our intercessions at the footstool of mercy, 
supplicate one gracious Father, and receive the 
anointing of one and the same glorious High 
Priest ? 

Surely it is so. We are animated with the 
same hopes and strengthened in our labors by the 
same ''exceeding great and precious promises." 

The tfiought that we are thus united, has been, 
and slill is to us one of unspeikah'.e p'easure. 

We joy in your success, for in it we behold our 
own. Every blow struck by you at the Upas of 
slavery, has been felt on this side the Atlantic; 
and while it has filled the heart of the Southern 
planters with dismay, and caused the monster to 
rear afresh its Medusa-like head, songs of joy 
have burst from our lips, and the earnest prayer 
has ascended, " Even so, O Lord, hasten the day 
of redemption to the millions of thy oppressed 
ones in our own land." 

But a fresh chord has been touched in our 
hearts by the recent movement in your wave 
girdled home, in relation to the affairs of British 
India. In that movement we behold the seeds of 



42 



emancipation for the captives in our Southern 
States. Let but India's unequalled fertile soil 
give to England at the reduced price she antici- 
pates those commodities which are now almost 
wholly the product of the slave, and where is 
American slavery ? Where, we ask, is the Ameri- 
can bondman ? 

Should success attend the efforts of the British 
India Society, and their [)lans be carried into op- 
eration, in relation to raising cotton and other ar- 
ticles for the market on the soil of India, the fur- 
nace of persecution may be heated afresh for the 
reception of American abolitionists. We cannot 
suppose that the Southern lord whose overseer 
daily drives to their unrequited toil, his hundred 
slaves, will quietly submit to this movement, so 
detrimental to his ease and satiety. But, what- 
ever may betide j)S, we feel confident that our 
sufferings will not be greater than those of our 
oppressed brethren and sisters; and we trust that, 
through the grace given unto us, we shall be en- 
abled to take joyfully whatever of sorrow remains 
to be endured in this cause of humanity. 

Long and earnestly have we gazed upon the 
horizon, if perchance there might arise some star 

" Portending brighter, happier tlays" 

for the captive ; and while we gazed with tremb- 
ling anxiety, lo ! one in the east shot up its sil- 
very beams, and bid us rejoice in anticipation of 
the sundering of his chains. It has lo us the ap- 
pearance of one of the first magnitude. May it 
mount still higher and higher in the heavens, 
till slavery, abashed and confounded, shrinks away 
to be known only in the records of the past. As we 
have contemplated the apathy of the North, the 



43 



contemptnous treatment which our petitions have 
received from Congress, and the repeated calls 
to us therefrom by statesmen and senators to de- 
sist from our eftbrts ; but above all the silence of 
the Church, as a body, on the soul extinguishing 
system of slavery, we have been led to inquire, 
" By whom shall Jncob arise ?" On the side of 
his oppressor there is power, but he has no 
might. Our prayer has been, " Send by whom 
thou wilt," and if our Father intends to send by 
you, either directly, or indirectly, our hearts 
rejoice, and we bid you God-speed in your two- 
fold effort. 

What a blessed work is before you; the lifting 
up of a HUNDRED MILLIONS of op- 
pressed and wretched suljecls, (wm actual starva- 
tion^ to fulness and plenty ! The converting of 
the pathless jungle, now only the haunt of the 
rhinoceros and jackal, into a fruitful field. 

The sundering of the chains of ignorance, su- 
perstition and idolatry, from millions of immortal 
minds, sparks of the God- head, destined to expand 
throughout an endless duration of years. To cause 
thanksgiving and the voice of praise to arise, 
where, for centuries, nought has been heard 
save the song to Boodh and incantations to infer- 
nal deities. Surely, this is work meet for angels, 
to expend their noblest energies in accomplishing. 
To you, beloved sisters, is this privilege given. 
You are counted worthy to co-operate in elevat- 
ing these souls to joys which are truly celestial, 
to seats at God's right hand, where are pleasures 
forevennore. 

Did you need incentives to this work, we would 
point yuu to the hundreds of thousands of bleed- 



44 



ing hearts and lacerated bosoms on our southern 
plantations. We would point you to the thousands 
of helpless innocents, born every month to a life 
of servitude in our slave-holding territory. O, 
we would point you to WOMAiV, insulted, de- 
graded, wretched, outcast woman, — woman, driv- 
en as a beast to the field and robbed of all that 
makes life a blessing or desirable. But we are 
assured you need no such inceitives. You have 
labored too long and arduously for the West In- 
dian slave, not to have in continual remembrance 
the miseries of the disconsolate bondman of ev- 
ery clime. 

We beseech you, then, beloved sisters, in the 
name of the perishing millions of the East, in the 
name of onr no less wretched countrymen of the 
West, — aye, in the name of the weeping, solitary 
captives of every land, to use those noble ener- 
gies with which God has so highly gified you for, 
the deliverance of all those who are drawn unto 
death. 

Be assured, dear sisters, that our prayers shall 
ascend to God unceasingly, that you may be 
anointed afresh with all that perseverance ne- 
cessary in the prosecution of your high and glori- 
ous work, so that though you now go forth weep- 
ingy bearing pecious seed, yet that in due season 
you may return, rejoicing, bringing with you the 
sheaves of British India emancipation, to add to 
those already gathered by you in such rich abun- 
dance in your West Indian Colonies. 



RESOLUTIONS. 

Wheras, we regard the whole human race as 
one family, and entilledj by their Creator, to our 



45 

sympathies ; and whereas, we consider slavery in 
in any country, and under whatever name or Ibrmj 
not only as a curse upon all concerned in it, but as 
utterly incompatible with the genius of Christiani- 
ty; therefore, 

L Resolved, That it is with the deepest sorrow 
we learn the wretched condition of millions in 
British India, who are grievously oppressed by 
the government of Great Britain. 

2. Resolved, That we view with intense in- 
terest the efforts made by our British sisters 
to enlighten their countrymen upon the wron^ 
and sufferings of their fellow subjects in India, 
and that we hail with devout thankfulness the 
organization of Societies among them for the 
amelioration of their condition. 

3. Resolved, That we trust the time is not 
far distant when the query, " Can India not supply 
England wilh cotton ? '* shall be answered in the 
cotton market by the preference given to the 
produce of the labor of freemen over that of 
slaves ; thus adorning with another garland the 
brow of British philanthrop3^ 

4. Resolved, That we deem the supply of 
the market by free labor wilh the articles hitherto 
almost wholly the product of the slave, a meas- 
ure of vast importance^ and which cannot fail of 
sensibly affecting the planters of our country, 
causing them to do of necessity that which 
they should do as an act of humanity and justice, 
viz. to *' give to their servants that which is just 
and equal." 

In behalf of the Boston Female A. S. Society, 
MARY S. PARKER, President. 
M, V. Ball, Dom. Cor. Sec. 



46 



For the information of those who may not have 
read much on the subject of the British India 
question, which is interesting so deeply the hearts 
of our trans-allantic brethren and sisters, we sub- 
join the following statement of the committee of 
the British India Society. 

BRITISH SUBJECTS DESTROYED BY FAMINE. 

The fact of frequent and inconceivably dreadful 
famines throughout the British territories of In- 
dia, is one that has been little known, and still 
less inquired into, by the people of this country. 
Few, comparatively, (for example,) are aware 
of the extent of the mortality amongst our Indian 
fellow-subjects in the upper provinces of Bengal, 
during the past year. In a few short months, moref 
than half a million perished by famine, and the 
diseases produced by that calamity. At this 
moment, other parts of India are subjected to a 
similar visitation. Yet, down to the present 
time, there has been no public investigation into 
the caw5C5 of these frightful events. Their occur- 
rence is here scarcely known. They have hith- 
erto awakened, in this country, no effort, no sym- 
pathy, led to no relief. How far they are avoida- 
ble — how far they can be averted — or their con- 
sequences mitigated when they arrive — are^ques- 
tions yet to be asked. And shall not these ques- 
tions be asked, and a true and explicit answer 
be demanded? Since 1770 (when a famine in 
Bengal swept off, it has been computed, three 
millions) there has been a succession of famines, 
which have destroyed the lives of immense multi- 



47 



tudes of human beings: — these human beings have 
died in a country once deemed the wealthiest in 
the world, and upon one of the richest and most 
productive soils upon the face of the globe. On 
the next page will be found some particulars of the 
recent famine, gleaned from the most authentic 
sources. 

A kw individuals who have been interested 
by their inquiries into the state of the natives of 
British India, have formed themselves into a pro- 
visional committee, for the purpose, and with the 
hope of organizing a Society, to be called Ihe 
British India Society, for bettering the condition 
of more than a hundred millions of the natives of 
the east, who are under the government of this 
country, and who are suffering not only from 
constantly recurring famines, but from a great va- 
riety of other evils^ which have yet to be explained 
and removed. 

The committee have already entered upon 
the discharge of those duties which the nature 
of the subject renders indispensably necessa- 
ry, and which are fully set forth in their pros- 
pectus. They are occupied in the collection, 
arrangement, and diffusion of information, throw- 
ing light upon the real condition of the people of 
India. All who are acquainted with the mechan- 
ism of benevolent Institutions, must be aware, that 
both time and pecuniary means are required, to 
conduct the operations which necessarily pre- 
cede the beneficial application of national sympa- 
thy. It will be seen that several sums have al- 
ready been subscribed for this purpose ; and the 
committee trust that their cause, though in its in- 
cipient stage, will present sufficient claims to the 



48 

enlightened philanthropist to ensure early and 
liberal assistance. 

The prospectus of the provisional committecj 
with pamphlets containing information upon vari- 
ous branches of the subject, may be obtained at 
the temporaiy office of the Committee, Guildhall 
Coffee House, King Street, Cheapside, where 
subscriptions will be gratefully received, by the 
Assistant Secretary, 

EDWARD BALDWIN. 

London, May 24th, 1839. 

The following dates and information, establish 
the successive periods at which India has been 
desolated by famine, and the appalling character 
of those which have recently raged there : 

In 1766, 1770, (when half the inhabitants of 
Bengal perished,) 1782, 1792, 1803, 1804, 
1819, 1820, 1824, 1829, 1832, 1833, 1836, 
1837, 1833, and in several parts of India at the 
present time. 

It is true that several of these calamities may 
be referred to the simultaneous occurrence of 
wars ; but no such reason can be adduced to 
account for the series of famines which have pre- 
vailed, during the last twenty years, within the 
British territories in India, and which period has 
been one of profound peace. 

On the 14th of April, 1838, 78,000 pining 
wretches, men, women, and children, were fed 
by bounty at Agra ; and between the 1st and 15th 
of March, 71,523 infirm and sightless creatures 
were relieved in a similar manner. So great 
were the ravages of death, that the air for miles 



49 

Was tainted with the effluvia from the putrefying 
carcasses of men and cattle, and the rivers ot" the 
Jumna and the Ganges were choked up and 
poisoned by the dead bodies thrown into their 
channels. The water and fish of these rivers 
were rejected as unfit for use, and men kept con- 
stantly employed in pushing the accumulated 
bodies down the torrents. The mortality was at 
the rate of 10,000 a month ; a destruction of Hfe 
which, if it had continued, would have swept oiF 
the entire population in less than a year. 

A correspondent in Calcutta thus writes on 
the 10th of April, 1838:— -" Since the despatch 
of the overland mail per the Berenice, which 
left Bombay at the close of last month, public 
attention in this quarter has been engrossed hy 
the accounts which daily reach the capital, of the 
horrid ravages of Famine in the provinces to the 
west and north-west. It is impossible to com- 
pute the numbers who die in their tedious prog- 
ress from the desolate districts to the towns 
where food is procurable. We hear almost dai- 
ly of mothers deserting their children on the 
highways ; of infants crawling around the grana- 
ries to pick up the grains of rice accidentally 
scattered during the process of distribution at the 
doors; of the roads being lined with dead bodies, 
a prey to the vulture and jackal ; of the courses 
of small rivers actually obstructed by the masses 
of dead bodies thrown therein, by those who are 
employed to clear the highways; of the [Euro- 
pean] inhabitants of the large towns of Agra, 
Cawnpore, &c., being compelled to abandon their 
evening drive, from the impossibility of encoun- 
tering the effluvia from the putrid corpses around. 
4 



50 



The Asiatic Journal for August, 1838, says, 
that "200,000 were scantily fed daily by Gov- 
ernment and pi ivate individuals in the north-west 
provinces ; yet this is but a faint palliative. The 
people are dying like dogs ; mothers throwing 
their living children at night into the Jumna, — 
disease destroying numbers whom famine has 
spared — dogs and jackals actually devouring bod- 
ies in w^hich life was not extinct." At Gwalior 
" hydrophobia was as fatal as cholera — famine 
dreadful; horses, asses, buffaloes, every thing that 
had died a natural death, eaten by the natives." 
At Agra, 'Mhe police pick up j 50 bodies daily." 

The Oriental Herald for September, 1838, says, 
'* It is generally understood in India, that the fam- 
ine of the present year has solely originated in 
the want of money by the poor to purchase food, 
and not in the scarcity of food itself, which is 
plenteous." 

Facts like the above make an irresistible ap- 
peal to the heart of the humane reader, and natu- 
rally originate the inquiry, — " What is to be 
done ?" The question, it is believed, admits of 
a consolatory and satisfactory answer, and it will 
be the work of the British India Society, to pre- 
pare and announce that answer. They confident- 
ly hope to be able to demonstrate, that Provi- 
dence has bestowed upon this country, the privi- 
lege and the power of applying a remedy to the 
evil above referred to, and to many others, of the 
existence of which there is no doubt upon the 
minds of those who are acquainted with the state 
of India. The committee have undertaken the 
solemn and interesting duty of arousing the at- 
tention of this nation to thu condition, the wants, 



SI 

and the resources of India. It is not their object 
to beget a feehng of uninfluential and helpless 
compassion ; but to follow every statement of the 
necessities of the natives of India, by a clear ex- 
hibition of the means by which such necessities 
may be supplied. Information, therefore, may be 
expected^ which shall demonstrate that British 
India possesses within itself the capability, when 
rightly developed, of preventing the recurrence of 
the appalling events which are now recorded. 



