4^> 



€ 



fr<U 



WORK FOR ABOLITIONISTS! 



Abolitionists of Massachusetts, — 

The Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti- 
Slavery Society desire to call your'eamest and prompt 
attention to the following statements and suggestions, 

The following resolution was adopted by the Ameri- 
can Anti-Slavery Society, at its late annual meeting, 
in New-York : 

' Resolved, That it be recommended to such state or 
other auxiliaries as are disposed to take the charge of 
the abolition cause within their respective fields, to 
make arrangements with the Executive Committee of 
this society, guaranteeing to our treasury such stated 
payments as may be judged reasonable, and then as- 
sume within their own limits the entire direction of lec- 
turers and agents in forming local societies, collecting 
funds, circulating memorials and establishing libra- 
ries ; and that this society will not send its agents to 
labor for these objects in such states as carry out this 
plan, except in concurrence with the State Executive 
Committee.' 

Subsequently, the subject came before the Board of 
Managers of the state society, and on consideration, it 
was 

1 Resolved, That the Board of Managers of the Mas- 
sachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will undertake the 
management of the anti-slavery cause, within the 
state, the ensuing year, in accordance with the plan 



it: 



~7&%.Sf „o,7 



proposed by the Parent society, at its late annual meet- 5 
ing ; and that this Board is now ready to enter into an 
arrangement with the Executive Committee of that so- 
ciety, for this purpose.' 

At an adjourned meeting, the Board voted to hold a 
stated monthly meeting, on the 1st Tuesday of each 
month, at 3 o'clock, P. M. ; and to pledge the Parent 
society $10,000 for the ensuing year, $2000 to be paid 
on the 1st of August, $3000 on the 1st of November, 
$2,500 on ihe 1st of February, and $2,500 on the 1st 
of May. 

With this statement before you, 
The work to be done, 
by the state society and its auxiliaries, the ensuing 
year, is obvious. 

1. TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS are to be raised 
for the Parent society. 

2. There are not less than ONE HUNDRED towns 
in this commonwealth, in which there is no anti-slavery 
society, and where little or nothing has ever been done 
for the anti-slavery cause. These towns, as far as pos- 
sible, are to be visited, and societies planted in every 
one of them, within the year. 

3. Anti-Slavery libraries are to be established, as far 
as possible, in every town and village -in the state. 

4. Petitions to the state and national legislature are 
to be circulated in all the towns. 

5. To raise this money, plant these societies, estab- 
lish these libraries, and circulate these petitions, agents, 
local and others, and the press, to a greater or less ex- 
tent, must be employed and sustained. With all the aid 
in the work, (and we trust it will not be small,) which 
the friends of the cause in the respective towns can 
render, there must still be more or less of the machine- 
ry of agencies and the press. 

6. To set this machinery in motion and sustain it, 
the state society will need at least six thousand dollars. 
The work to be done then, in this state, the ensuing 
year, is by no means a small one. Sixteen thousand 
dollars cannot be raised, one hundred new societies 
cannot be planted, and anti-slavery libraries cannot be 
established, and petitions circulated in every town in 



the state, without the most prompt, systematic, vigor- 
ous, and persevering effort. 

HOW SHALL IT BE DONE ? 

It can never be done by depending on permanent 
agents to do it. You cannot get the men ; and if you 
could, you cannot get the means ; and if you could get 
both, it would be bad economy of men and means, to 
undertake to do the whole work by this instrumentality 
alone. For the most part, the business of permanent 
agents should be to lecture and form societies, &c. in 
towns where little has been done for the cause — thus 
occupying new ground ; and whatever needs to be 
done elsewhere, should be done by local and tempora- 
ry agents, or by volunteer laborers in the respective 
towns. The county and town societies must each as- 
sume their full measure of responsibility in the matter, 
and in co-operation with the state society ; and without 
waiting for a permanent agent to come and ' stir them 
up,' they must see, by the help of local agents and oth- 
erwise, that the work, in all its parts, is promptly and 
thoroughly done, within their respective limits. It is 
vain, and worse than vain, to think of carrying this en- 
terprise forward, systematically and efficiently, in any 
other way. There mast be no shifting of responsibili- 
ty upon others, but county and local societies, man, wo- 
man and child, must each stand in their lot, and do 
their duty for themselves, or the work can never be 
done. The Board would suggest the following 

PLAN OF LABOR. 
I. County Societies. 

1. Let the secretary of each county society, on the 
reception of this, immediately despatch a letter to the 
secretary of each town society, within the county, urg- 
ing the immediate adoption, by his society, of the plan 
of labor suggested below for town societies. 

2. Let the county society hold quarterly meetings in 
the different parts of the county, let the secretary notify 
these meetings in the public papers, and send a notice 
to the secretary of each town society in the county, let 
the meetings continue two days each, let special pains. 



be taken to secure a delegation of one at least from 
each town, and at each meeting, let a report be called 
for, from each town society. 

. 3. If any town society is not represented at the meet- 
ing, or has failed to enter on the plan suggested, or a 
similar one, let the secretary, or the Board of Managers 
of the county society, write at once, to some local agent 
in the vicinity, to visit said town and r stir them up.' 

4. Let the treasurer of the county society remit the 
funds pledged to the state society EC?" PROMPTLY, 
AND WITHOUT FAIL ON THE TENTH OF JULY, 
OCTOBER, JANUARY, AND APRIL. This arrange- 
ment, as is obvious, will harmonize the financial year 
of all the societies, parent, state, county, and local. It 
will enable the town societies to remit their quarterly 
payments to the county societies, and the county to re- 
mit theirs to the state, and the state to remit its to 
the parent, and all by the time they become respective- 
ly due. 

5. If any town society fails to remit its quarterly pay- 
ments in season, let the treasurer of the county society 
borrow the amount and send it on with the rest, and 
then let him write at once to the treasurer of said town 
society urging him to see that payment is immediately 
made ; or let him apply to some local agent in the vi- 
cinity, to visit the town forthwith, and ' stir them up.' 

6. Let the treasurer and secretary of the county so- 
ciety have, each, a complete list of all the local agents 
and volunteer lecturers in the county, that they may 
know who to call upon when they need to < stir up' any 
town to a particular service ; and let the secretary send 
a copy of this list to the secretary of each town society 

II. Town Societies. 

Let the secretary of each town society, on the recep- 
tion of this, immediately call a meeting of the society or 
its Board of Managers ; and let them adopt, at once, 
the following, or some similar plan of action, for the 
year. 

1. Appoint one man and one woman, members of, 
the society, as agents to take charge of each school dis- 
trict in town, 



2. Let these agents have a perfect list of the heads of 
families, and the names of every person, of eighteen 
years of age and upwards, in their district. 

3. Let there be a meeting for prayer or other exer- 
cises, in behalf of the slave, regularly, on the last Mon- 
day evening of each month. 

4. Let a subscription paper be drawn up at once, by 
the secretary or officers of the society, pledging those 
who sign it, to pay the sums annexed to their respective 
names, quarterly, viz. RJ^ ON THE FIRST OF JIT- 
LY, OCTOBER, JANUARY, AND APRIL. Let the 
subscriptions be put down as so much the quarter, and 
then if any choose to pay for the four quarters at once, 
let them do so. 

Let copies of the subscription be placed in the hands 
of the agents in the several school districts, and be, by 
them, circulated throughout the town. Hitherto, a few 
generous spirits have had to bear more than their share 
of the pecuniary responsibilities of this enterprise. It 
is time for the multitude to bear theirs. Everywhere 
then, let the application be general. In many cases, 
persons are friendly to the cause, and would gladly give 
something to aid it, who are not members of a society. 
By all means, ask them. Lose no man's money, be- 
cause you failed to ask it. Further, let no one hesitate 
to subscribe, because the sum he can subscribe is small. 
Drops make the ocean. Gather up the small sums as 
well as the large. 

5. "When the subscription is completed, let the agents 
in each school district, take and retain a copy of the 
subscription in that district, and return the original to 
the treasurer of the town society, and once in three 
months, collect the subscription in their district, and 
pay it over to said treasurer, at the K7" MONTHLY 
MEETING preceding the first \day of July, October, Janu- 
ary, and April. 

6. To prevent mistake and delay, let the treasurer 
notify the collectors in the several districts beforehand, 
and if possible the subscribers, when the payments be^ 
come due ; and if any individual has not the money 
by him at the moment, let him borrow it of some friend, 



so that when the collector calls on him, his subscription 
shall be paid U^at the time, without fail. 

7. As soon as the collections are paid over, let the 
treasurer of the town society remit the amount to the 
treasurer of the county society ; CUT-IN NO CASE, 
AND ON NO ACCOUNT, LET THE REMISSION 
BE DELAYED BEYOND THE 1ST DAY OF THE 
MONTHS NAMED. We are the more particular 
and earnest on this point, because punctuality and 
promptness, on the part of the town societies, in this de- 
partment of our work, are essential to the vigorous and 
successful prosecution of every other. If the town so- 
cieties defer or fail in making their payments to the 
county, the county societies must do the same t© the 
state, and the state to the Parent, and embarrassment, 
weakness, failure, are the result in eveiy department 
of our enterprise. And remember, [C^ in this arrange- 
ment, one counts one. EVERY INSTANCE OF DE- 
LAY OR FAILURE IN THE TOWN SOCIETY, IS 
SO MUCH DONE TO EMBARRASS AND DEFEAT 
THE WHOLE MOVEMENT. 

8. Let measures be immediately taken to establish 
an anti-slavery library in each town, with branches, so 
far as practicable, in the several school districts. The 
following books are recommended, as among the more 
important and valuable, viz : — 

Jay's Inquiry, 

Thome and Kimball's Journal, 

Mrs. Child's Appeal, 

A. E. Grimke's Letters to Catherine E. Beecher ? 

Appeal to the Women of the Free States, 

Charles Ball, 

Rankin's Letters, 

Phelp's Lectures, 

A. S. Manual, 

A. S. Record, 

Slave's Friend, 

James Williams, 

Weld's Bible Argument, 

Wythe on the District of Columbia. 



Other books can be added to this list, as individuals 
may judge best. Duplicates or triplicates of these, how- 
ever, should be in every library. These and other anti- 
slavery publications are lor sale by UZ^ ISAAC 
KNAPP, 25 Cornhill, Boston, and if bought in libraries 
of not less than ten dollars each, can be had at the whole- 
sale price. 

A large library for the town may be divided into 
several smaller ones, and circulated in the different dis- 
tricts, successively. Wherever the school teacher will 
act as librarian, it is desirable he should. No book 
should be allowed to remain in the same hands more 
than two weeks. These books read and exchanged 
among parents and children, under such regulations as 
the society may adopt, would in many towns convert 
hundreds to our cause, m a single year ; and a book- 
made convert, as a general principle, stays made. 

9. Circulate the constitution of the town society, in 
each school district, once in three months. 

10. When blank petitions, for the state or national 
legislature, are sent out, let the secretary of the society 
put a copy of each into the hand of each school-district 
agent, and let the agents in each district immediately 
present the blank for signature, to every person of law- 
ful age, male or female, in said district. 

11. As soon as the Anti-Slavery Almanac for 1839 
is announced from the press, let the Board of Managers 
of the town society, order enough to supply every fam 
ily in town, with a copy. Put them into the hands of 
the district agents for distribution ; and let them visit 
every family in their respective districts, and sell an 
almanac, where it can be done, for six cents, or as 
much more as any abolitionist will give to help pay for 
hose given away. Where it cannot be sold, furnish it 
gratuitously to some member of the family, and let the 
expense be borne by the town society ; and as they can 
be bought at the A. S. office, at Boston or New York, 
for $3.50 per hundred, no great loss can occur ; and 
$5, or at most S8, is all it would cost any society to put 
an almanac in every family in town, beyond what would 
be taken on sale. 



8 



12. Where it can be done, let ihe same measures 
be adopted to circulate, at least 100 of James "Williams, 
and 25 of Thome and Kimball's Journal, (cheap edi- 
tions,) in every town in the State. The expense, if 
the whole were given away, would not exceed five dol- 
lars ; and their circulation, it is believed, would aboli- 
tionize any town in the State in six months. 

13. On the 1st of January, let the secretary of each 
town society forward a report of the doings of the so- 
ciety for the year, to the secretary of the county society, 
stating the number of its members, the names of its 
officers, the amount of funds raised, the number of ad- 
dresses that have been delivered before it, and by whom, 
the number of volumes in its library, and any facts of 
interest or importance to the cause. 

14. Finally, let every secretary of a town or county 
society, and every friend of the cause, who receives a 
copy of this, post it up in some conspicuous place,, 
where it will meet his eye and remind him of his duty; 
day by day. 



