Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/importanceofbrit01brou 



THE 

IMPORTANCE 

OF THE 

BRITISH COLONIES 

IN THE 

WEST INDIES; 

THE DANGER OF A 

GENERAL & IMMEDIATE EMANCIPATION 

OF THE NEGROES; 

AND 

A SKETCH OF A PLAN 

FOR A SAFE AND GRADUAL EMANCIPATION, ON TERMS 
FAVOURABLE TO ALL PARTIES, 

AND WITHOUT ANY LOAN. 



BY 

ANTHONY BROUGH, Esq. 



SECOND EDITION, 
WITH AN APPENDIX. 



LONDON: 

WHITTAKER, TREACHER, & ARNOT, 

AVE MARIA LANE. 

1833. 



LONDON 



GlLiJERT AND RIVINGTON, rRINTERS, 

ST. John's ssuare. 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



In the following pages, I have endeavoured to 
state the value of the West India Colonies, clearly, 
temperately, and without bias or personality. The 
plan of emancipation which I suggest is moderate, 
and would be safe to the colonies, without impos- 
ing on the people at home any burden beyond the 
period necessary for carrying it into effect. I 
therefore venture, earnestly but respectfully, to call 
the attention of the public, and especially those 
immediately interested, to the statement and the 
outline of the plan. 

A. Brough. 

SOth July, 1833. 



A 12 



IMPORTANCE 

OF THE 

BRITISH COLONIES, 



PREFATORY REMARKS. 

" Had emancipatioji to the Negroes been my object, or even 
my hope, I should not deserve the word ' humane' to be added 
to my views, but a shorter one, and that is the word " mad.' " — 
WiLBERFORCE, Feb. 28, 1805. 

Such is the opinion which the earhest and perhaps 
the ablest advocate of the negro cause, expressed 
in his place in Parliament thirty years ago ; and as 
many improvements in the municipal laws of the 
colonies, enacted by the Legislature at home, and 
also by the legislative Assemblies of such Colonies 
as have that form of government, have been made 
during those years, we are borne out in the con- 
clusion that, if Mr. Wilberforce were now in Par- 
liament, he would characterize the project for an 
immediate, general, and indiscriminate emancipa- 
tion of the negroes, as still more mad than the 
possibility of it appeared to him in 1805. 



COMPENSATION. 



The repugnance to the measure which he thus 
pubKcly and solemnly avowed, was not founded on 
the apprehension of pecuniary loss, but on a full 
conviction that it would inevitably be followed by 
violence and outrage of the most lawless, and, to 
all parties, of the most ruinous character ; and he 
would have deemed it but a sorry indication either 
of justice or of humanity, to fee the ten thousand 
whites (for that is about the number) with 
twenty millions, or 2000/, each on the average, in 
order that they might run the imminent risk, — the 
absolute certainty, of having their property de- 
stroyed, and themselves massacred, in the most 
summary, wanton, and savage manner. Yet that 
is the bargain proposed at the present time, and 
with the recollection of the dreadful outrages com- 
mitted during the late insurrection in Jamaica still 
fresh in memory ; and proposed, too, by those 
who, if they have one duty more solemnly, more 
awfully binding upon them than another, it is the 
duty of preserving the lives and properties of their 
fellow-subjects in peace and security, wheresoever 
they may reside, and in what lawful calling soever 
they may be engaged. That is one of the most 
melancholy effects of that '^ strange delusion," 
which, under the name of Pohtical Economy, la- 
bours to reduce not only justice and equity, but 
all the passions and feelings of human nature, to 
the one cold and narrow standard of pounds^ shil- 
lings and pence. 



NARROW VIEWS. 



It may seem singular why opinion (for it is mere 
opinion and not knowledge, or even reasoning,) 
should have degenerated so strangely during a 
period when, as we are told, wisdom has been 
making advances so unprecedented. The only 
solution of the enigma is, that the opinion on the 
slave question has never been founded on the 
proper knowledge ; and that consequently, it has 
become more erroneous, in proportion as it has 
been more widely extended. Its course has been 
like that of a river, the feeders of which rise in the 
hills, and which bring down fresh mud and rubbish 
at every stream, so that the river becomes more 
and more tainted as it runs, and the end of it is 
alternate inundation and marsh, equally unprofit- 
able and equally pestilent. 

The emancipationists have always taken a partial 
view of the state of the negro. They have dwelt 
constantly upon the single fact, or rather upon the 
mere name of " slavery" alone. They have mag- 
nified and multiplied the hardships ; but they have 
altogether overlooked the advantages. They have 
done worse ; they have overlooked all the physical 
circumstances in which the Negro is placed, as well 
as all the peculiarities of his moral and social con- 
dition. They have also mixed up the question of 
slave trade with that of slave treatment ; and 
charged upon the Colonists atrocities which were 
perpetrated by the people of the mother country, 
and which have long been put an end to by the 



8 MISREPRESENTATION 

legislature. Even such of them, or their agents, as 
have visited the colonies have not gone thither for 
the discovery of the truth, — they have gone to seek 
proofs of assertions, in which they were schooled 
beforehand. And, in order to find a justification of 
those assertions, they not only overlooked the en- 
joyments of which the Negroes were in the actual 
and every day possession, and the still more im- 
portant fact of all the feelings and habits of the 
Negroes being in accordance with that system, 
and difficult to be changed in proportion as the 
passions of those people were ardent, and their 
minds uninformed as to any other system ; but they 
wrested the physical state of the country, and, as 
it were, suborned the elements in order to accom- 
plish their ends. 

That, in equity, compensation in money should be 
given to the colonists for the loss they may sustain 
by the measure, if carried into effect, is unquestion- 
ably true. But who can tell beforehand what the 
amount of that loss may be ? The price which the 
Negroes would bear in the present market is not the 
standard : the true standard is the same quantity of 
labour performed as readily and regularly, and at 
the same expense ; and no man can tell how that 
may be after a change has taken place, of which no 
man can guess the extent or the consequences. It 
may be the destruction of all the property, the mur- 
der of all the Whites, and the total loss of the Colo- 
nies, not alone to Britain as possessions, but to the 



OF THE QUESTION. 9 

civilized world, as a productive portion of the globe ; 
and would twenty millions, two hundred millions, or 
any sum whatever, be an adequate compensation 
for that ? 

Let any one put the case of the manufacturers, 
including the production of food, as well as of every 
thing else, in this country, and suppose that the 
popular clamour which, a short time ago, raged 
against machinery, should have been prolonged and 
refined into a legislative measure, for the imme- 
diate destruction of all the implements of industry ; 
and then let him ask himself if the cost price of 
these things would have been any thing like a com- 
pensation to the owners, the nation, or the world. 
It is easy to see that, in that case, there could have 
been no compensation, — no means of repairing the 
wrong done ; and that case is far more simple and 
free from danger than that of immediate emancipa- 
tion. 

Indeed, that measure would be loosening from 
all restraint a people who, upon the hypothesis of 
the emancipationists themselves, have no know- 
ledge of orderly society, or of the principles upon 
which it depends. If it be true that the sugar colo- 
nies in the West Indies could be more cheaply and 
profitably cultivated by free labourers than by the 
present system of slaves, then it is clear that the 
Colonists would require no pecuniary compensation 
on the passing of the measure of emancipation. 
The question of comparative cheapness between 

10 



10 NEGRO LABOUR 

the labour of freemen and the labour of slaves, 
is not only not decided, but the most eminent 
writers, including Adam Smith, maintain that 
cultivation by slaves is more costly than cultivation 
by freemen. 

Now if that be the case, and in as far as the supe- 
rior candour and penetration of those who hold the 
doctrine is concerned it is much more probable 
than the other, it goes far to prove that without the 
labour of slaves, or in other words, that of men en- 
gaged and bound to their master for life, the culture 
of the Colonies could not be carried on at all. If 
free labour had been practicable, the fact of its being 
cheaper would have brought it into practice. On 
many parts of the continent, that term of engage- 
ment (for the difference between an agricultural 
labourer in England and the West Indies is a mere 
question of time) was general till very lately ; and 
the time is not long past when colliers, salt-boilers, 
and some other trades in the northern parts of this 
country, were as long and as completely bound to 
their masters — their proprietors, in fact — as the 
Nesrroes in the Colonies. 

That the culture of the West Indies, and espe- 
cially the culture of sugar, which is by far the most 
important branch, could not be carried on by white 
people, until a race had been bred by successive 
generations, inured to the climate, is certain ; and 
it is also certain that the destruction of human life 
before that result (if practicable at all ?) could be 



IS NECESSARY. 11 

arrived at, would be dreadful. In the sugar planta- 
tions, the Negroes are in their natural climate ; and 
therefore labour there is less unnatural, and conse- 
quently less severe to them than mere existence is 
to Europeans, and would be to their descendants, 
until they should acquire that physical adaptation 
to the heat, which the Negro races have been ac- 
quiring for thousands of years. 

But if the Whites could not continue the cultiva- 
tion of the West Indies, there is much reason to 
believe that the emancipated Negroes, if the whole 
were emancipated at once, would not. The single 
instance of the island of Haiti may be held as con- 
clusive on that point. In the year 1789, that 
island exported about 150 million pounds of sugar; 
in 1825, the export was about two thousand pounds, 
or one-seventy-five-thousandth part of the quantity; 
and now, sugar, when obtained at all, is an article of 
import there. Now the Negroes of Haiti have not 
only the stimulus of the wages of labour, but they 
have the whole proprietorship and profits ; and if 
these, jointly, have proved not to be enough to 
stimulate them to work in one place, why should 
one, — and that, perhaps, by far the less powerful 
one, — be sufficient stimulus in another place. 

Upon the most favourable view that can be taken 
of the case, therefore, — that is, supposing no massa- 
cre or personal violence, — the destruction of the 
West Indies, the total loss of their produce to the 
world, is the most probable effect of an immediate 



12 IMPORTANCE OF 

and general emancipation. Let us see to what the 
loss would amount. 

IMPORTANCE OF THE COLONIES. 

The sugar colonies, which are those most deeply 
involved in the question of emancipation, are — 

West India Islands, 

Jamaica, St. Christopher's, 

Antigua, St. Lucia, 

Barbados, St. Vincent, 

Dominica, Tortola, 

Grenada, Trinidad, 

MontseiTat, The Bahamas ; 
Nevis, 

on the continent of South America, 

Demerara, Berbice ; and 

in the Indian Ocean, to the east of Africa, 

Mauritius. 

Let us consider the value of these Colonies 

to this country, or to those who are connected with 
it. 

The following is an abstract from the authentic 

documents : 

State of ships employed in the trade to the West 
Indies, in the year 1830 : — 

901 ships outward bound, being of the burthen 



THE COLONIES. 13 

of 248,700 tons' measurement, (navigated with 
14,128 British seamen), the value thereof at least 
is 1 51. per ton, and amounts, on the foregoing num- 
ber of ships, to 3,730,500/. 

The British and Irish produce and manufacture, 
exported to the West Indies in the year 1830, was 
of the real value, in sterling money, of 2,999,467/. 

966 ships returned, in the year 1830, from the 
West Indies, being of the burthen of 271,061 tons, 
navigated with 14,625 British. 

State of the West India produce imported in the 
year 1830 :— 





THE QUANTITY. 


CofFee . 


. . . 27,489,927 lbs. 


Molasses 


. . . 249,426 cwts. 


Rum . 


. . . 6,752,862 gallons. 


Sugar . 


. . . 4,397,955 cwts. 



The duty received on West India produce (not 
including the Mauritius) in the year 1830, amount- 
ed to 7,500,000/. 

The importance of the possession of the West 
Indies to Great Britain, may be best appreciated 
by the foregoing official extracts from the parlia- 
mentary returns of the year 1830, showing the 
state and amount of the trade carried on between 
the colonies and the mother countrv. 



14 FABRICATION PETITIONS. 

CONDITION AND TREATMENT OF THE NEGROES. 

That the Negroes in the West Indies are in that 
miserable condition, or subjected to that cruel treat- 
ment which is sometimes alleged, is substantially 
disproved by the fact of their being in possession 
of more wealth than English labourers. But as, 
though the opinion that the Negroes in the West 
Indies are treated with wanton cruelty, or with 
cruelty at all, is not only contrary to the fact, but 
contrary to probability, as being in direct opposition 
to the interest of the planters, yet, as it is kept before 
the public by an organized and very active system, 
the number of false assertors (they are not wit- 
nesses) connected with which give it the semblance 
of truth to the simple, a few additional words may 
not be improper. 

Among the multitudes of petitions that have 
of late years loaded the tables of the Houses of 
Parliament, there is not one that can be regarded 
as a spontaneous emanation from the persons by 
whom it is signed ; and therefore these petitions 
no more represent the sober opinions of the people 
of England, or of any part of that people, than 
they do of the people of China. Still, upon the 
old principle, that if a falsehood is told with suffi- 
cient confidence, a sufficient number of times, it will 
obtain the same confidence and produce the same 
effect as a truth, the people give a passive consent 
to the story of the cruel treatment of the Negroes, 
just as they do to the tale of any other vulgar error. 



STATE OF HAITI. 15 

That there were cruelties in the slave trade is 
true ; but, as has been hinted, that was a trade of 
the mother country to which the colonists were 
opposed. Also, as long as the trade continued, or 
the majority of the Negroes were of those supplied 
by that trade, severe treatment was absolutely 
unavoidable. These Negroes had come from a 
land of idleness, assassination, and cannibalism, 
their only permanent passion was revenge ; and 
they were constantly lying in wait to wreak upon 
the planters the evils which they had met with at 
the time of their capture or sale in Africa, and in 
the ships of the slave-traders. 

All who have been in the Colonies, and examined 
the condition of society there intimately and can- 
didly, concur in representing the Negroes as well- 
treated, and when they are not worked upon by 
others, contented, cheerful, and happy. So con- 
tented, that many who could purchase their freedom 
ten times over, will not do it, and others to whom it 
is offered as a boon, beg that it may not be inflicted 
on them. 

The following, which is solemn and authentic 
evidence, may be contrasted with the assertions. 

" Extracts from the Minutes of Evidence before a 
Committee of the House of Lords. 

** Major-General Sir John Keane, K.C.B. examined. 

*' Have you an interest in property in the West 
Indies ?"^-'' None whatever." 



16 EVIDENCE. 

" When you were in Jamaica had you occasion to 
visit various parts of the island?" — " Yes." 

" Was your attention directed at that time to the 
state of the slave population ?" — " From the number 
of times that I have gone through the country it 
certainly did fall to my lot to observe their state in 
very, very many instances. Living a good deal with 
the inhabitants, and going to several of the pro- 
perties, I had an opportunity of seeing them." 

" Did those opportunities afford you the means 
of judging of the state and condition generally of 
the Negroes ?" — " I should say yes ; I have been 
for months together upon a tour through the 
country." 

" Are the remarks that you have made concern- 
ing the houses and the provision grounds arising 
out of your own personal observation, or only what 
has been stated to you ?" — " Arising out of my own 
personal observation, from having visited both fre- 
quently." 

" In regard to provisions, have you had any op- 
portunity of knowing in what way the Negroes are 
supplied who have not provision grounds !" — " As 
far as relates to Jamaica, they have all provision 
grounds except those Negroes who are attached to 
people in the towns, and they are provisioned 
weekly by an allowance either in money or in kind." 

" Did it come to your knowledge that any com- 
plaints have arisen on the part of the Negroes as to 
their supply of food in that way ?" — " Never." 



EVIDENCE. 17 

" Do you think they would be hkely to com- 
plain if there was any occasion ?" — " I am sure they 
would." 

** They would not be afraid of complaining ?" — 
" No ; they are most tenacious and jealous of their 
rights, even amongst themselves, when their provi- 
sions are issued, to the last scruple." 

" Have the Negroes the entire benefit of the 
produce of their provision grounds ?" — *' Certainly; 
I have always understood so." 

" Can you give the Committee any information 
w'ith regard to property possessed by Negroes ?" — 
" I have heard they possess property such as money, 
and that they have it in the hands of either their 
proprietor or the person who acts in the name of 
that proprietor, called an attorney ; and I know 
they have cows and animals of different descrip- 
tions, hogs and asses." 

" Had you any reason to believe that the Ne- 
groes felt themselves insecure in the possession of 
any of their property ?" — " Never." 

" Did you never know an instance where that 
property was interfered with by the owner of the 
slave ?" — " I never heard of any such interference." 

" The situation you filled during part of the time 
you were there probably would have brought to 
your knowledge any circumstances of complaint of 
ill-treatment, want of provisions, clothing, or any 
other matter constituting a proper ground of com- 
plaint?" — " Yes, I should think it would if it ex- 

B 



18 SIR J. keane's 

isted ; but I never have by any accident heard it, 
nor do I think such a thing could have happened 
in Jamaica without my knowing it, for every two or 
three months I made a tour of the island." 

" Would there have been any backwardness on 
the part of the Negroes in stating to you, or so as 
that it should reach you, any complaint they might 
have ?" — " No, I think not ; they were very ready 
in making known their grievances." 

" Does the Negro work as many hours in the 
day as the labourer in England, taking the periods 
of long and short days in this country ?" — " I should 
say certainly not near as much ; one man in Eng- 
land would do more than ten Negroes." 

" Have they their regular hours of rest during 
the day ?" — " Yes ; either three quarters of an 
hour or an hour ; breakfast an hour, and two hours 
at dinner ; the two hours are clear, besides their 
going and coming to the spot they may be at work 
at." 

" From the situation you have described yourself 
to have occupied in Jamaica, can you state to the 
committee whether complaints of Slaves, in cases 
where they seek redress, are properly attended to ?" 
— " I should say decidedly yes ; during the time I 
was there, in either capacity, as a General or Lieu- 
tenant-Governor, in going through the island, I 
never heard a complaint, nor was any one made to 
me personally." 

" Do you think that any cruel proprietor of slaves. 



EVIDENCE. 19 

or any cruel manager, would, in the present state of 
society in Jamaica, be tolerated ?" — " Decidedly 
not." 

" Can you assign any reason but custom for the 
severe work they do at present ?" — '' I do not call 
it severe." 

" You are aware, of course, that Slaves receive 
no wages from their master !" — " They know very 
well that they are the property of their masters ; 
they work for their own protection and for their 
existence, and are well taken care of, are well fed, 
and are little worked, I will be bold to maintain ; 
and they are in sickness and in health taken 
care of, and are well clad ; and what more can they 
expect ? Those points have come under my own 
observation. " 

" Do the Negroes in Jamaica in general look 
healthy and well ?" — " They are a magnificent race 
of people ; very much so." 

" Do you know from your own observation, or 
have you ever heard it said, that the Negroes ap- 
pear to be in better condition during the crop time 
than at any other season of the year ?" — "I do not 
know that I have ever heard that comparison made, 
but they are as fine a race of people as I ever saw 
in my life." 

" Are they cheerful ?" — " Always singing. It 
is a most extraordinary thing they are always 
singing, and seem excessively delighted ; and the 
task-work, which is the heaviest work — which they 

B 2 



20 DANGER OF PRECIPITANCY. 

claim as a matter of right, for they get a larger 
proportion of victuals — even in that they are more 
happy than at other times, which is digging cane- 
holes." 

" When they work in gangs do you mean to say 
that they display this hilarity and cheerfulness ?" — 
" They do invariably, cracking their jokes and sing- 
ing from one end to the other." 

DANGER OF IMMEDIATE EMANCIPATION. 

The experience of all ages and nations proves that 
there is always the most imminent danger in chang- 
ing at once the political condition of the labouring 
classes. So great indeed is that danger, that the 
practical mischief thence arising is apt to be far 
heavier than that which is consequent upon a total 
revolution in the general politics and state of the 
country. And the reason of that is easily seen : in 
a general revolution the whole frame of the society 
is changed, and though the change be, as it very 
often is, for the worse, yet, the relations of the 
several ranks and classes are always in so far pre- 
served. If, however, a great revolution takes place 
in the condition of the labouring classes, without a 
corresponding change in the others, the frame of 
society is torn asunder, the relations upon which 
public morality and the preservation of the public 
peace depend, are destroyed ; and to suppose that 
internal anarchy of the most disastrous and ruinous 



DANGERS. 21 

character should not be the necessary result, would 
be to suppose that human nature is some thing dif- 
ferent from what universal experience has hitherto 
shown it to be. 

The Negroes are themselves as ignorant of the 
state into which they would be brought by the 
madness of a general emancipation, as the abettors 
of that project are of the characters and present 
condition of the Negroes. Being found in all the 
requisites of their maintenance by their masters, 
they have none of that prudence and foresight, 
which people who are thrown upon their own re- 
sources learn by experience. Many of them do 
accumulate property, but the majority spend much 
of the intervals of labour in noisy mirth. They 
know, in fact, no hardship but labour ; and they 
have no wish but the gratification of their passions, 
among which the passion of revenge is one of the 
strongest, and most easily excited in the deadliest 
possible manner. Hence the only notion that they 
can have of their condition being benefited by eman- 
cipation, or by any political project whatever, is 
that of being absolved from labour, and possessing 
themselves of property. Emancipation can of itself 
do neither for them ; and, thus disappointed, they 
would perpetrate outrages of the most dreadful 
nature. It is true, that the sword of civilization, if 
determinedly drawn, would prove too much for the 
club of the demi-savage ; but after the property of 



22 DANGERS. 

the Colonists were destroyed, and their mangled 
bodies given to the fowls of heaven, it would not be 
worth deciding whether the better alternative would 
be the extirpation of the Negroes, or leaving them 
to return to their human sacrifices and the feast of 
the dead, as they have done in Haiti. 

The measure which has been proposed, of pre- 
paring the Negroes for emancipation by appren- 
ticing them for seven years to their masters, would 
put off, but would not remove, the danger of a 
general emancipation. At the end of the seven 
years they would be all emancipated at once ; and 
not only that, but there would be some chance of 
the seven years being spent in framing plans of 
revolt and insurrection, to be put in execution 
when the day of general emancipation arrived. 



PLAN 



THE GRADUAL AND SAFE ABOLITION 



COLONIAL SLAVERY 



ANY LOAN 



PERMANENT BURDEN TO THE COUNTRY. 



A FREE emancipation of 30,000 slaves, to take 
place on the 31st of December, 1834, upon pay- 
ment of a fair compensation to the proprietors, for 
the labour of the slaves so liberated. 

Another free emancipation of 30,000 to take 
place on the 31st of December, 1837, upon clue 
payment of a fair compensation, as in the first 
instance. 

A further emancipation of 30,000, to take place 
on the 31st of December, 1840; and the emanci- 
pation of a like number on the 3Lst of December 
every third year thereafter, until the whole were 



24 PLAN FOR 

emancipated, a fair compensation being paid to the 
proprietors in every instance. 

The funds for indemnifying the proprietors could 
be obtained without any loan or burden to the 
country at home, or the colonies, after this plan 
had been carried mto effect, by the following very 
simple means : — 

An emancipation duty of one halfpenny per 
pound weight to be imposed upon all sugar im- 
ported into Great Britain from the West Indies, oi' 
from any other part of the world. That duty to 
commence from the day that the edict for a gradual 
emancipation should be published, and to remain 
in force until the whole of the slaves should have 
been emancipated, and a fair compensation paid to 
all the proprietors. 

That trifling emancipation duty would, without 
any loan whatever, pay the whole amount that 
would be required ; and an emancipation so gra- 
dual and so safe for all parties would thus be 
ensured, at an individual cost of only a few pence 
each to the people of the United Kingdom, 
without entailing upon posterity any burden 
whatsoever. 

That the funds thus raised would be perfectly 



GRADUAL EMANCIPATION. 25 

sufficient for the purpose, will appear from the 
following official documents : — 

1. Statement of 

The quantity of raw sugar charged with home 
consumption-duty in the year 1830. Other years 
are nearly the same. — 

British-plantation . . 4,145,733 cwts. 

Mauritius 435,010 

East India 135,901 

4,716,644' 
4,746,644 at a halfpenny per pound 

weight, is, per annum .... =£1,100,549 

In three years £3,301,647 

2. Estimate of 
Compensation to the proprietors of 30,000 

slaves, to be freely emancipated on the 31st De- 
cember, 1834 : — 

1st. 30,000 slaves on the 31st Decem- 
ber, 1834, estimated on an average of 

40/. each cei,200,000 

2d. 30,000, on the 31st December, 1837 1,200,000 



£2,400,000 



* Taken from the Custom House returns. 
C 



26 FUNDS FOR 

Charges. 

Poor's rate for the benefit of old and 
infirm persons, from 31st December, 
1834, to 31st December, 1837— three 
years, at 100,000/. per annum . . c£300,000' 

Various charges — instructions to the 
slaves, drawbacks, &c. estimated at 
80,000/. per annum — three years . 240,000 



£2,940,000 

Balance left in hand on 31st December, 

1837 361,647 



£3,301,647 



The duty from the time of publishing the Edict 
of the gradual emancipation to 31st December, 
1834, must be applied to the Emancipation fund. 
This will be required in aid of the first payment to 
the proprietors. 

Should 45,000 slaves be required for emancipa- 
tion every three years, it may easily be done, by 
making the duty three farthings per pound weight 
on all sugar imported. Or even 60,000 may be 
accomplished by increasing the duty to one penny 
per pound. 



THE EMANCIPATION. 27 

Should either of these be considered as too slow 
in its operation, the following modification of the 
plan might greatly accelerate the final result : — 

An emancipation duty of three farthings upon 
every pound weight of sugar imported into the 
United Kingdom, from what part soever of the 
world the same may be imported, would, in three 
years, purchase the freedom of 80,000 slaves, at 
40/. each, amounting in all to 3,200,000/. 

A sum to that amount to be due on the 31st of 
December, 1834, and to be payable in London as 
soon thereafter as possible, upon production of 
satisfactory proofs that 80,000 slaves had been 
freely emancipated in terms of the Edict. 

A second emancipation of 80,000 to take place 
on the 31st of December, 1837, and a third, of the 
like number, to take place on the 31st of Decem- 
ber, 1840. 

By this means, it is evident, that 240,000 out of 
the estimated 800,000 slaves would be freely eman- 
cipated, and a fair compensation made to their 
owners, within the short period of six years after 
the plan came into operation. 

The remaining number would of course be eman- 
cipated in the same proportion of 80,000 every 

13 



28 CONCLUSION. 

three years, until the whole of the Negro popula- 
tion of the colonies had become free ; and by 
means of a very moderate payment, very generally 
distributed, and lasting only during the time the 
measure were carrying into effect, the question 
would be for ever set at rest, the danger of an 
immediate and general emancipation avoided, and 
seven millions and a half, which otherwise would 
be endangered by the general emancipation, and 
required for the interest of 20,000,000/. loan for 
that purpose, would be saved in perpetuity to the 
British public. 



WEST INDIES. 

SUGAR imported into the United King- 
dom in the year 1830, (other years 
nearly the same) 4,716,644 hundred 
weight, at an emancipation-duty (to be 
levied), per annum, of three farthings 
per pound, will amount to . . . 1,650,824 

In three years, the sum of . . . 4,952,472 

DEDUCT. 

Payment to the Proprietors £40 each, 
on 80,000 slaves, freely to be eman- 
cipated on the 31st December, 1834, or 
as soon after this time as possible . 3,200,000 

Allowance for Poor rates £100,000 per 

annum, three years , 300,000 

Charge of Instruction, and unforeseen 
demands, the sum of £80,000 per 
annum 240,000 

Estimated for short crops of sugar, draw- 
backs, &c. &c. £250,000 per annum, 
three years 750,000 

4,490,000 

BALANCE left in hand in the Fund on 

the 31st December, 1837 .... 462,472 

£4,952,472 



APPENDIX. 



IMPORTANT FACTS RELATIVE TO THE WEST 
INDIES. 

According to statements repeatedly made in Par- 
liament, and never contradicted or even questioned, 
the negro population of the West India colonies 
amounts to 800,000, while that of the whites does 
not exceed 10,000. That is, there are, on the 
average of all the colonies, 80 negroes for every 
white person. 

By the proposed ministerial plan, these 800,000 
negroes are, after an apprenticeship, or stipulated 
servitude, of seven years, to be all emancipated at 
one time, and thereby placed in a situation of which 
neither they nor the whites can have any experi- 
mental knowledge; and it will readily be admitted, 
that a great political change in the condition of so 
overwhelming a majority of the whole population. 



30 APPENDIX. 

and that too of a people perfectly distinct from the 
rest, may be attended with the most fatal conse- 
quences, and may occasion a repetition of the 
dreadful scenes that took place in St. Domingo. 

The whites are, by the proposed measure, to be 
allowed 20,000,000/. of the public money, as a 
compensation for the labour of which they are, at 
the end of the seven years, to be deprived ; and, 
from the imminent risk to which they must feel 
that they will be exposed, it is probable, even on 
the most favourable view of the case, that they will 
consider the sum received, together with the dan- 
ger of remaining, as sufficient inducements for 
quitting the colonies in the course of the seven 
years ; and thus, upon either alternative, the colo- 
nies will be lost to the mother country, and that 
loss will be purchased at the heavy expence of 
20,000,000/. at a time when economy and retrench- 
ment are professedly the order of the day. 

If we suppose that there are on the average ten 
resident white persons on each estate, that will 
make the number of proprietors about a thousand, 
to each of whom the 20,000,000/. will, on the 
average, afford 20,000/. ; and any one acquainted 
with the state of the West Indies, must be aware 



APPENDIX. 31 

that the majority of the resident planters would, 
for such a sum paid down, be very glad to relin- 
quish their possessions, and quit the colonies with- 
out the operation of any such dread as that of an 
immediate emancipation of those blacks who out- 
number them and their white servants eighty to 
one. 

By thus vacating, the colonists would save their 
lives, and also be in a good condition for returning 
home, or settling in other countries as they choose; 
but the loss to the British nation would be the 
same, whether the blacks took forcible possession, 
or had the colonies abandoned to them. It may 
therefore be proper to state the items, and amount 
of the loss, — a loss which would be wholly pre- 
vented by the plan of which an outline is given in 
the preceding pages. 

The amount of duty received into the British 
Treasury from West India produce, is upwards of 
7,500,000/. per annum. 

The value of the annual export of British pro- 
duce and manufactures to the West Indies, is 
3,000,000/. 

The freight of ships engaged in the carrying 
trade between Britain and the West India colonies, 

d2 



32 APPENDIX, 

amounts annually to 1,000,000/. during peace, 
and to nearly 3,000,000Z. in times of war. 

Taking these items together, the loss of the 
colonies, whether by outrage on the part of the 
negroes, or voluntary abandonment on that of 
the planters, would amount to about 12,000,000/. 
yearly, besides the payment down of the 20,000,000/. 
which, as it would have to be borrowed, would 
cost the country at least another 1,000,000/. in 
the year. 

That loss would fall doubly, by falling both on 
the revenue directly, and on the industry of the 
country, from which alone a revenue can be ob- 
tained ; but of the latter it is not easy to point out 
the particulars : it is clear, however, that the fol- 
lowing are among them: 

Ship building, the timber, hemp and flax trades, 
the making of sail-cloth and cordage, the iron 
trade, and all other branches connected with the 
out-fit of shipping, which are very important in a 
national point of view, and many of which are the 
chief and almost the exclusive occupation and 
support of some of our most flourishing towns, 
would be greatly distressed, and in many instances 
ruined, by the destruction of so extensive and so 



APPENDIX. 33 

reo'ular a market as the colonies now afford 
them. 

The throwing of upwards of 14,000 British sea- 
men at once out of employment would be most 
distressing to that brave and valuable class of our 
people, and could not fail very seriously to crip- 
ple the navy in the event of a war. 

The West India Docks, and many docks, ware- 
houses, and other expensive establishments, both 
in London and the out-ports, would be rendered 
of no value, and countless thousands of labourers 
would be deprived of their bread and thrown on 
the already over-burthened poor-rates. 

The result of the whole would be complete 
stagnation, embarrassment, and failure, in every 
department of trade, and in every branch of in- 
dustry, — a state of things which the country might 
survive, but certainly one of greater peril than 
ever Britain had to encounter since she took the 
lead among commercial nations, and rose to her 
present grandeur and power, by " ships, com- 
merce, AND COLONIES." 

Now all those evils may be averted, and eman- 
cipation obtained, without burden and without 
danger, by adopting the plan whereof a sketch 



34 APPENDIX. 

has been given ; and this much further may be 
said, that the present opportunity may be con- 
sidered as a last one, and if the injury be once 
done it can never be repaired. 



WEST INDIES,— Emancipation Duties. 

SUGAR imported into the United King- 
dom in the year 1830, (other years 
nearly the same) 4,716,644 hundred 
weight, at an emancipation-duty (to be 
levied), per annum, of three farthings 
per pound, will amount to . . .- 1,650,824 

In three years, the sum of . . . 4,952,472 

DEDUCT. 

Payment to the Proprietors £40 each, 
on 80,000 slaves, freely to be eman- 
cipated on the 31st December, 1834, or 
as soon after this time as possible . 3,200,000 



Carried forward . . . £3,200,000 



APPENDIX. 35 

Brought forward . . . £3,200,000 
Allowance for Poor rates £100,000 per 

annum, three years . . . . . . 300,000 

Charge of Instruction, and unforeseen 
demands, the sum of £80,000 per 

annum 240,000 

Etsimated for short crops of sugar, draw- 
backs, &c. &c. £250,000 per annum, 
three years 750,000 

4,490,000 

BALANCE left in hand in the Fund on 

the 31st December, 1837 , . . . 462,472 

£4,952,472 



THE END. 



Gilbert & Rivington, Printers, St. John's Square, Loiulon. 



