rb 




~Bi 



! 



.6 



L& 



□J 



\ 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/analysisofreportOOsoci 



C."W. Semis 
ANALYSIS 



THE REPORT OF A COMMITTEE 



HOUSE OF COMMONS 



EXTINCTION OF SLAVERY. 



WITH NOTES BY THE EDITOR. 



LONDON : 

PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY THROUGHOUT 
THE BRITISH DOMINIONS. 



SOLD BY J. HATCHARD AND SON, PICCADILLY; BY J. AND A. ARCH, CORNHILL; 

AND AT THE DEPOT FOR ANTI-SLAVERY PUBLICATIONS, 

15, PATERNOSTER ROW, 

1833. 



ANALYSIS, &c. 



On the 24th of May, 1832, a select Committee of the House 
of Commons was " appointed to consider and report upon the 
measures which it might be expedient to adopt for the purpose 
of effecting the extinction of slavery throughout the British 
Dominions at the earliest period compatible with the safety of 
all classes in the colonies, and in conformity with the resolutions 
of this House of the \bt.h of May, 1823 ;" the words in italics 
being superadded to Mr. Buxton's resolution, on the motion of 
Viscount Althorp — 162 voting for them, and 90 against them. 

The following members were thereupon selected for this Com- 
mittee, on the proposition of the noble Viscount : — Mr. Buxton, 
Lord John Russell, Sir Robert Peel, Sir James Graham, Sir 
George Murray, Mr. Goulburn, Mr. Burge, Mr. Evans, Viscount 
Sand on, Viscount Howick, Marquis of Chandos, Mr. Johnston, 
Mr. Marryat, Mr. Vernon, Mr. Holmes, Dr. Lushington, Mr. 
Baring, Mr. Frankland Lewis, Viscount Ebrington, Mr. Littleton, 
Mr. Carter, Mr. Hodges, Mr. Ord, Mr. Fazakerley, and Mr. 
Alderman Thompson. 

The Committee commenced its sittings on the 6th of June, 
and closed them on the 11th of August. The following is its 
report made to the House on that day : — 

" Your Committee, in pursuance of the instructions by which 
they were appointed, having assembled to consider the "' measures 
most expedient to be adopted for the extinction of slavery 
throughout the British Dominions at the earliest period com- 
patible with the safety of all classes in the colonies/ adverted in 
the first instance to the condition contained in the terms of re- 
ference, which provides that such extinction shall be i in con- 



2 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

formity with the resolutions of the House of the 15th of May ? 

23,' — that this House at that time looked forward to such a 
progressive improvement in the character of the slave population 
as might prepare them fur a participation in those civil rights 
and privileges which are enjoyed by other classes of his 
Majesty's subjects. The House also then declared i that it was 
anxious for the accomplishment of this purpose at the earliest 
period compatible with the. well-being of the slaves themselves, 
with the safety of the colonies, and with a fair and equitable 
consideration of the interests of private property.' 

" In the consideration of a question involving so many diffi- 
culties of a conflicting nature, and branching into subjects so 
various and complicated, it appeared necessary to your Com- 
mittee, by agreement, to limit their direct enquiries to certain 
heads. 

" It was therefore settled that two main points arising out of 
the terms of reference should be first investigated, and these 
were embraced in the two following propositions : — 

" 1st. That the slaves, if emancipated, would maintain them- 
selves, would be industrious, and disposed to acquire property 
by labour. 

" 2nd. That the dangers of convulsion are greater from free- 
dom withheld, than from freedom granted to the slaves.. 

" Evidence was first called to prove the affirmative of these 
propositions, and had been carried on, in this direction, to a 
considerable extent ; and was not exhausted, when it was evident 
the session was drawing to a close ; and that this most import- 
ant and extensive enquiry could not be satisfactorily finished. 
At the same time your Committee was unwilling to take an 
ex parte view of the case. It was therefore decided to let in evi- 
dence of an opposite nature, intended to disprove the two 
propositions, and to rebut the testimony adduced in their 
support. Even this limited examination has not been fully 
accomplished, and your Committee is compelled to close its 
labours in an abrupt and unfinished state. 

" With some few exceptions the enquiry has been confined to 






on the Extinction of Slavery. 3 

the island of Jamaica ; and the important question of what is 
due to ' the fair and equitable consideration of the interests oi 
private property/ as connected with emancipation, has not been 
investigated by your Committee. 

" Many incidental topics which your Committee could not leave 
unnoticed, have presented themselves in the course of this enquiry ; 
and some opinions have been pronounced, and some expressions 
used by witnesses, which may seem to be injurious to the cha- 
racter of persons in high stations in the colonies. 

" Unwilling to present the evidence in a garbled state, your 
Committee have resolved not to exclude from their minutes tes- 
timony thus implicating the conduct of public functionaries ; but 
they are bound to impress on the House the consideration which 
it is just constantly to remember, that no opportunity of contra- 
dicting, or explaining, those statements has been afforded to the 
parties accused ; and evidence of this description must be re- 
ceived with peculiar caution. 

" Your Committee, however, are unwilling that the fruits of 
their enquiry should be altogether lost ; and they present the 
evidence taken before them to the House, which, although in- 
complete, embraces a wide range of important information, and 
discloses a state of afiairs demanding the earliest and most se- 
rious attention of the legislature." 

The minutes of evidence extend to 655 closely printed folio 
pages, and are contained in a volume ordered to be printed on 
the 11th of August, 1832, and distinguished by the number 721. 
Of this immense mass it shall now be our endeavour to convey 
to the public, and to our readers, a clear and faithful analysis. 
It may be convenient, however, to preface that analysis by a 
brief account of the witnesses examined on this occasion, and 
of their opportunities of acquiring a competent knowledge of 
the subject on which they were called to give their testimony. 

On the affirmative side of the question, as to the expe- 
diency of an immediate or early extinction of slavery, the fol- 
lowing witnesses were produced, viz. 



4 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

1. William Taylor, Esq. (p. 7 — 64), who went to Jamaica in 18 16, 
and left it in 1823. He returned in 1824, left it again in 1825, re- 
turned to it in 1826, and quitted it finally in 1831. Of these 15 years 
he resided during 13 in Jamaica. For the chief part of that time he 
was engaged in commercial pursuits in Kingston, intermixed with oc- 
casional visits to plantations in various parts of the island, viz. — St. 
Thomas in the East, Trelawny, St. Elizabeth, Manchester, and St. 
George; but, for the last two or three years of his stay, he was wholly 
occupied in the management of three sugar estates belonging to J. B. 
Wildman, Esq., cultivated by about six or seven hundred Negroes, 
lying in Vere, Clarendon,' and St. Andrew's, on the last of which, Pa- 
pine, he chiefly resided. 

2. The Rev. John Barry (p. 64 — 106), a Wesleyan Missionary, who 
went to Jamaica early in 1825, and quitted it early in 1832, but whose 
actual residence there, having been absent about a year, did not exceed 
six years. These were passed chiefly in Kingston and Spanish Town, 
but partly also in the parishes of St. Thomas in the Vale, St. Dorothy, 
St. Mary, Trelawny, St. James, St. David, and St. Thomas in the East. 

3. The Rev. Peter Duncan (p. 106— 134, and p. 140-158) a 
Wesleyan Missionary, who arrived in Jamaica in January, 1821, and 
quitted it in March., 1832, after an uninterrupted residence of upwards 
of eleven years in the parishes of Kingston, St. Thomas in the East, St. 
Thomas in the Vale, and St. James, 

4. The Rev. Thomas Cooper (p. 134 — 140), a Unitarian Mission- 
ary, who, for three years and three months, between 1818 and 1821, 
resided on a plantation in Hanover parish, Jamaica, belonging. to R. 
Hibbert, Esq. 

5. Mr. Henry Loving (p. 150 — 167), a coloured gentleman, a na- 
tive of Anti$la, in which island he resided from his birth, till he paid 
a visit a few months ago to this country. He was born a slave, but was 
emancipated when about nine years of age, and has been for some time, 
and now is, the proprietor and editor of a newspaper published in 
Antigua, called the Weekly Register. 

6. The Rev. John Thorp (p. 167 — 178), a clergyman of the church 
of England, who resided in Jamaica two years and three months in 
1827, 1828, and 1829, as curate to the Rev. Mr. Trew, of St. Thomas 
in the East. 



on the Extinction of Slavery. 5 

7. The Rev. Wiltshire Stanton Austin (p. 178 — 195), a clergy- 
man of the church of England, and a native of the West Indies, who 
resided in Barbadoes, Deraerara, Berbice, and Surinam, and occasion- 
ally visited some of the other colonies. He quitted the West ladies 
last in 1824, having resided there for about 14 years after he had at- 
tained his 18th year. His father is a proprietor of slaves, whom he is 
destined to inherit, and whom he was engaged in managing for some 
years before he entered into the church. 

8. Vice-Admiral the Hon. Charles Fleming (p. 195 — 223, and 
p. 238 — 243), who has known the West Indies for 35 years, and has 
visited them all, with the exception of St. Kitts and Tortola, his resi- 
dence in the West Indies amounting on the whole to five or six years, 
more than half of that time, namely, three years, between 1827 and 
1830, having been passed at Jamaica, on which station he was Ad- 
miral. He has also visited Cuba, the Caraccas, and Hayti. 

9. Robert Sutherland, Esq. (p. 223—229), a gentleman who 
had been in the island of Hayti in 18 15, and had also resided there during 
1819, 1820, and 1821. He passed a few days there in 1823 and 1824, 
and was there for a few weeks in 1827; and he moreover resided for 
three years in the Caraccas as a British Consul. 

10. The Rev. Nathaniel Paul (p. 229—233), a gentleman of 
colour, a native of the United States, who resided as a Baptist Mission- 
ary in various slave states until 1830, when he visited England. 

11. The Rev. Thomas Morgan (p. 233— 242), a Wesleyan Mis- 
sionary, who had resided in different West India colonies, namely St. 
Kitts, Nevis, Antigua, St. Vincent, and Jamaica, from 1812 to 1831, 
18 years in all, which, deducting an absence of two years in England, 
makes his residence there 16 years. 

12. The Rev. William Knibb (p. 243—284, and 317—322), a 
Baptist Missionary, who resided upwards of seven years in Jamaica, 
namely from 1825 to April 1832, chiefly in the parishes of St. James, 
Trelawny, Hanover, and Westmoreland. 

To prove the inexpediency of an early or immediate eman- 
cipation of the slaves the following witnesses were produced 
chiefly by the Colonial party : — 

1. Captain C. H. Williams, of the Royal Navy (p. 390—307), who - 



6 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

passed a few months of the present year in St. Kitts, Nevis, Antigua, 
Barbadoes, and Jamaica, during which time he was on shore three days 
on the estate of Mr. Huggins,* of Nevis, and two days on an estate of 
Mr. Hibbert's, in Hanover, Jamaica.f 

2. William Alers Hankey, Esq., a banker of London (p. 307 — 
317), and late treasurer of the London Missionary Society, who is a 
proprietor of 300 slaves in the island of Jamaica, but who has never 
visited the West Indies. 

3. James de Peyster Ogden, a native of New York, in the United 
States (p. 322 — 330), who now resides in Liverpool. 

4. Robert Scott, Esq. (p. 330 — 358), who resided in Jamaica 
about five years between 1802 and 1809, and who, during that time, 
had either owned as proprietor, or managed as attorney, 4000 slaves in 
Hanover, Trelawny, St. James, and St. Ann, the latest period of his 
stay there being 23 years ago. 

5. James Simpson, Esq. (359 — 368, and 369 — 405), who resided in 
Jamaica nearly 24 years, quitting it finally in 1828. In that time he 
had been a merchant of Kingston, and the representative of some no- 
blemen and gentlemen, absentee proprietors of plantations situated in 
Vere, Clarendon, St. Mary, St. George, St. Andrew, St. David, Port 
Royal, St. Thomas in the East, St. Elizabeth, and Hanover, in that 
island. It was of his house that Mr. William Taylor, whose evidence 
is analysed in the following pages, was for a time a partner. 

6. William Mier, Esq. (p. 366 — 369), a native of the United 
States, who was the proprietor in Georgia of 500 slaves, whom he has 
since sold. 

7. The Rev. John Shipman (405 — 416), a Wesley an Missionary 
who resided in Jamaica for ten years, from 1813 to 1824, at Kingston, 
Spanish Town, Falmouth, and Montego Bay, and at Grateful Hill, in 
St. Thomas in the Vale. 

8. The Rev. Robert Young (p. 416—428), a Wesleyan Missionary, 

* Of this gentleman, an ample and horrific record will be found in the follow- 
ing parliamentary papers of 1812 : viz. No. 204, and No. 225. 

f Of this estate a very full account will be found in the pamphlet entitled 
" Negro Slavery, especially in Jamaica," published by Hatchard in 1824. 4th 
edition, p. 36 — 55. 



on the Extinction of Slavery . 7 

who resided in Jamaica for five years, from 1820 to 1826, chiefly in 
Kingston and Spanish Town, and at Stony Hill, in St. Andrew's. 

9. William Shand, Esq. (p. 428—434; p. 459—484; and p. 542) 
who was a proprietor and attorney of estates in Jamaica from 1791 to 
1826 ; having resided there 34 years. During that time he had under 
his charge 18 or 20,000 slaves, residing occasionally in almost every 
parish in the island. He was also a magistrate, and member of As- 
sembly. 

10. Bryan Adams, Esq. (p. 443 — 452), who had resided in the 
CaracCas. 

11. Mr. John Ford Pyke (p. 452), who had resided in Cuba. 

12. William Watson, Esq. (p. 452 — 459), who had resided in the 
Caraccas for four years. 

13. H. Townsend Bowen, Esq. (p. 457 — 459), who had resided 11 
years in Trinidad, and returned thence last year. 

14. R. G. Amyot, Esq. (p. 484 and 519), chief clerk in the Registry 
of Colonial Slaves' Office, in London. 

15. Samuel Baker, Esq. (p. 485 — 498), who had visited Jamaica 
in 1816 and 1817, and afterwards in 1832. 

16. Andrew Graham Dignum (p. 498 — 501), who is a practising 
solicitor in Jamaica, where he has neither land nor slaves, but where 
he has resided for 14 years, namely, from 1818 to 1832. 

17. Vice-Admiral Sir Charles Rowley (p. 501 — 508), who is ac- 
quainted with the West Indies generally, and commanded as Admiral 
on the Jamaica station from 1820 to 1823. 

18. James Beckford Wildman, Esq. (p. 509 — 542), who is a 
West India proprietor possessing 640 slaves in Jamaica, on three es- 
tates, one in St. Andrew, another in Vere, and a third in Clarendon, 
of which Mr. Taylor (mentioned above) had for a time the charge. Mr. 
Wildman resided there from 1825 to 1829, being about four years. 

19. Rev. J. Tyers Barrett, D.D. (p. 544 — 549), who is secretary 
to the Society for the Conversion of Negro Slaves. 

20. William Burge, Esq. (p. 549), the late Attorney-General of 
Jamaica, and now the Agent of that island. 

21. John M'Gregor, Esq. (p. 549), a gentleman who has resided 
in British America. 

The Appendix moreover contains the following evidence : — 



8 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

A. General Returns of Twelve Sugar Estates in Jamaica from 1817 
to 1829 (p. 566—577). 

B. Extracts of Reports of the Society for the Conversion of Negro 
Slaves Xp. 588, 589). 

C. Extracts from the examination of Annasamy, a native of Madras 
residing in the Mauritius (p. 590). 

D. Remarks of Captain Elliott, Protector of slaves in Demerara (p. 
590). 

E. Answers of the same to Questions of Lord Goderich (p. 598). 

It has appeared from the report of the Committee that themain points of 
their enquiry were embraced by the two following propositions, including, 
in fact, all that Mr. Buxton, in moving for that Committee, had pledged 
himself, or even thought it necessary to attempt, to prove, viz : — 

1. That the slaves, if emancipated, will adequately 

MAINTAIN THEMSELVES BY THEIR OWN LABOUR; and 2nd. TlIAT 
THE DANGER OF WITHHOLDING FREEDOM FROM THE SLAVES IS 
GREATER THAN THAT OF GRANTING IT. 

These two propositions, we conceive, the evidence before us has most 
irrefragably and triumphantly established ; and the controversy, there- 
fore, as respects the expediency of an early emancipation, may be con- 
sidered as decided.* The justice and humanity of such a measure has 
long ceased to be a question. 

We will abstract the whole of the evidence on these two points in the 
order in which it is given, omitting however, for the present, all merely 

* At Manchester and at Liverpool, a Mr. Borthwick, in delivering lectures in 
favour of Slavery, took occasion to state that the evidence before the House of 
Commons was highly favourable to the planters. It was affirmed that it was 
some proof to the contrary that Mr. Burge, the Agent of Jamaica, had resisted, 
in the House of Commons, the motion of Sir James Graham, for printing that 
evidence. On this Mr. Borthwick produced, or pretended to produce, a strong 
denial of this fact under the hand of Mr. Burge himself, falsifying the statement 
which had appeared to that effect in the Times of the 7th of August, 1832. The 
Jamaica Courant however (the oracle of Mr. Burge, and of his constituents, the 
corresponding committee of the Jamaica Assembly) completely falsifies Mr. 
Borthwick's statement, and that of Mr. Burge too, if truly represented by Mr. 
Borthwick ; for on the 26th of September, 1832, there appeared in that paper the 
following paragraph, probably communicated by Mr. Burge himself: — 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of W. Taylor, Esq. 9 

collateral questions until this first and most important part of our task 
shall have been completed. We have already introduced the witnesses, 
who are successively to appear before them, to the notice of our 
readers, accompanied by a brief view of their respective opportunities 
of information. 

I.— WILLIAM TAYLOR, Esq. 

Mr. Taylor stated that the six or seven hundred slaves placed 
under his management by Mr. Wildman belonged to three sugar 
estates on the south side of the island : one of which was in the parish 
of St. Andrew, named Papine ; another in the parish of Clarendon, 
named Low Ground ; and the third in the parish of Vere, named Salt 
Savannah. On the two first-mentioned estates the slaves wholly main- 
tained themselves by provisions raised on land allotted for their use, 
to which was added the usual allowance of pickled fish, being about 
one salt herring a day for each adult, and half that quantity for each 
child. The slaves on the estate in Vere were fed chiefly by an allow- 
ance of Guinea corn, issued from the granary of the estate. They had 
grounds besides which they cultivated ; but the seasons being adverse 
in Vere they were chiefly fed by corn grown by the master and issued 
to them from his stores.* The ground provisions, which the slaves 



" House of Commons, August 6, 1832. 

" Sir J. Graham moved that the Report of the Committee on West India 
Slavery be laid on the table of the House. 

" Mr. Burge objected to the motion because the evidence of the planters had 
not yet been taken, and that of the other party might therefore prejudice the 
public mind. 

" Sir J. Graham replied that the motion was a matter of course, and that the 
hon. member had been overruled in every case before the Committee. 

" The motion was then agreed to." — Jamaica Courant, Sept. 26. 1832. 

Now even the reason here given for postponing the printing of the evidence is 
untrue. The number of witnesses on the part of the West Indian body is 
greater than that of the witnesses brought before the Committee by the Anti- 
Slavery party, and the space occupied by the evidence of the former is not 
inferior in extent to the space occupied by that of their opponents, being about 
290 folio pages to each. 

* This parish, as we shall have occasion to show, is more favourably situated 
in respect to the circumstances of its slave population than any other parish in 



10 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

raise for themselves in the other parishes, are chiefly yams, plantains, 
cocoes or eddoes, potatoes, &c. The slaves are not forbidden by law, 
as Mr. Taylor thinks, to cultivate the sugar cane, but they incur a 
penalty by having sugar in their possession.* 

Besides the allowance of herrings given to the slaves, clothes are 
annually given to them ; but the quantity of clothing Mr. Taylor cannot 
specify. The time allowed them by law, for raising the food by 
which they and their families are supported, is twenty-six days in 
the year, besides three holidays at Christmas. This arrangement, 
Mr. Taylor says, has existed since 1816; but he cannot tell what 
time, for this purpose, the law previously gave to the slaves. t 

the island of Jamaica. And yet, will it be believed that there is even here no in- 
crease of the slave population, even if we take no account of the number 
imported into it from neighbouring parishes; the population in 1821 being 7,887, 
and in 1831, after a lapse often years, being only 7,908 ? 

* Throughout the whole of this examination there is a wonderful ignorance 
manifested, especially by the planters, of the state of the law by which they and 
the slaves are governed. If the reader will turn to the latest Jamaica Slave 
Code, that of the 19th of Feb. 1831, — and in this respect it is only a transcript of 
preceding codes, — he will find that by the 91st Section of that Act it is enacted, 
" That, to prevent and punish depredations on produce," " if any slave shall 
have in his possession any quantity of sugar, coffee, or pimento, in quantity not 
exceeding Jive pounds, or of rum not exceeding one gallon, unknown to his owner, 
overseer, or manager, without giving a satisfactory account of how he became 
possessed of them, such slave, on conviction thereof before any magistrate, shall 
suffer punishment, not exceeding thirty-nine lashes ; and, if there shall be found 
in his possession a larger quantity than twenty pounds of sugar, coffee, or pimento, 
or five gallons of rum, then such slave, upon conviction thereof at a slave court, 
shall suffer such punishment as the court shall think proper to inflict or direct, 
not extending to life, transportation, or imprisonment for life." Well, therefore, 
may West Indians gravely testify to the unwillingness of the slaves to grow 
sugar, and well may Mr. Taylor testify to the infrequency of the culture of 
sugar by slaves. He had never heard of its being cultivated but in Manchester, 
where alone he has seen it voluntarily cultivated by slaves, and where 
also he has seen small sugar-mills in the Negroes' gardens — " but that," he adds, 
' is to be accounted for, because there they are at a distance from a sugar dis- 
trict." Report, p. 7, 8. See this matter further illustrated in the Anti-Slavery 
Reporter, vol. v., No. 101, p. 269. 

f Before 1816 the law was as follows (See Privy Council Report of 1789, 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of W. Taylor, Esq. 11 

The younger Negroes on Mr. Wildman's estates had never received 
any instruction prior to his visiting Jamaica for the first time in 1825. 
This was done in consequence of the express injunctions of Mr. Wild- 
man himself. The adults now receive no education whatever. As to the 
capacity of the slaves for receiving instruction, they were much like 
other human beings ; some were apt, and others very stupid, and some 
remarkably acute. He could not say they were equally apt with the 
Scottish peasantry ; but their circumstances were disadvantageous in a 
peculiar degree, and in spite of these he had seen, in a multitude of in- 
stances, a wonderful aptness for instruction. There appeared in them 
no natural incapacity whatever for instruction. He had been struck 
with the retentiveness and minuteness of their memories, and especially 
in the children. 

With respect to the provident or improvident use of money, he 
thought them pretty much like the peasantry of other countries, but 
considerably less given to intoxication than the peasantry of Scotland, 
and infinitely less than the soldiery who go out to the colonies, the 
mortality among whom is attributed to their fondness for spirits. There 
were on the estates some Negroes who would not touch spirits, while 
others were incorrigible drunkards. Any money he paid the Negroes 
at any time for wages was generally expended in the purchase of food 
(page 9, 10). 

Part iii. ; Laws of Jamaica, Act of 1788, section 17) : — " And whereas it hath 
been usual and customary with the planters in this island to allow their slaves 
one day in every fortnight to cultivate their own provision grounds (exclusive of 
Sundays), except during the time of crop, but the same not being compulsory, 
be it further enacted, that the slaves belonging to or employed in every planta- 
tion or settlement, shall, over and above the usual holidays, be allowed one day 
in every fortnight (exclusive of Sundays) except during the time of crop, under 
the penalty of£lO." This grant of time, crop lasting from four to six months, 
could not have been more than from thirteen to seventeen days. The dreadful 
mortality from hunger at that period, as shown by a memorial of the Jamaica 
Assembly printed in the same Privy Council Report, sufficiently proves how ne- 
cessary it was to make even this scanty allowance of time compulsory. Fifteen 
thousand slaves are stated by the Assembly to have perished from hunger, and 
the diseases consequent on hunger, in a very short time, simply because the little 
time allowed the slave obliged him to limit his growth of provisions to plan- 
tains, which the first hurricane was sure to sweep from the face of the earth, 



12 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

Mr. Taylor had known many free blacks and people of colour : they 
form a numerous body. There are among them many, especially mu- 
lattoes and quadroons, the children of white book-keepers and over- 
seers, who have been emancipated ; but the great mass of them have 
been born free, being the children of emancipated slaves. The great 
increase of their number arises from births in a state of freedom. 
In the neighbourhood of Papine, some of these free people who had 
been emancipated, unable to find adequate employment as mechanics 
in the town of Kingston, had fixed themselves at a place called Cava- 
liers, belonging to Mr. Wildman, which was parcelled out to them in 
small patches of one, two, or three acres, for which, with a house upon 
it, they undertook to pay thirty shillings an acre. The run of land call- 
ed Cavaliers was let by Mr. Wildman to one tenant, and by him 
sub-let in smaller portions, Mr. Wildman finding it difficult and trou- 
blesome to collect the rents. The tenant-in-chief cultivated a part of 
the land by means of free Negroes, to whom he paid wages, and the rest 
he sub-let. The number thus located might be from 200 to 300, men, 
women, and children. The cultivation consisted generally of provi- 
sions, as corn and yams, with some coffee. He had never seen any 
sugar cultivation there, though there were sugar estates in the district, 
and sugar would grow any where. Of the settlers he knew nothing 
personally. Some he believed were orderly, and some disorderly ; and 
it was the haunt of many bad characters and runaways. The settle- 
ment he believed was in a bad state, both morally and religiously, for 
they had no religious instruction, and no education. A school was lat- 
terly established among them by the Church Missionary Society, which 
was readily supported by some of the settlers ; but others scoffed at it, 
and would have nothing to do with it. It might be the duty of the 
incumbent of the parish to afford them instruction, but he lived sixteen 
miles off'. Mr. Taylor had further known free blacks employ them- 
selves in working on wharfs, and at cranes, and as domestics. He 
had one servant himself as a slave for ten years, who continued with 
him after he had manumitted him. Others were employed as mecha- 
nics on estates, and others as sailors in coasting vessels, and as stew- 
ards of ships. He had met with a great number of them who were 
very industrious, and who gladly availed themselves of any opportu- 
nity of being employed in any way, On the other hand he had met 



on the Extinction of Slavery . — Evidence of W. Taylor, Esq. 13 

with free blacks who would not work at all, just as in other com- 
munities. He had only known one case of an emancipated slave work- 
ing on a sugar estate in making sugar. Mr. Wildman discovered that 
one of his slaves had been born in England ; and, conceiving that he 
could have no right to hold him in slavery, he very honourably, in spite 
of the protestations of his colonial friends, when he first went out to 
Jamaica, determined on making him amends for the services unjustly 
exacted from him for thirty years. He gave him, though he was ad- 
dicted to drinking, a right of residence on his estate, hired him as a 
carpenter, and appointed 2*. 6d. a day to be paid him, whether he 
worked or not. When Mr. Taylor entered on the management of the 
estate he thought it wrong, as it respected the man himself, to let him 
go on in this manner. He therefore let him understand that when he 
got drunk his pay should be stopped for that day. The consequence 
was he gradually left off drinking, and he worked and made up money. 
Sometimes he would have a drunken fit, and at other times, for weeks 
and mouths together, would remain steadily at labour. Under this 
system he worked very well as a carpenter, and even took his turn of 
duty in the boiling house. 

He had never known an instance of a free black taking the hoe, and 
working in the field with the gang, or in the boiling house; but he had 
known slaves to work for wages in their extra time on sugar estates. Soon 
after he took charge of Papine, a long line of fence was to be made between 
that and the Duke of Buckingham's estate, formed by a trench of four 
feet deep, with a mound thrown up. It is usual to do such labour by 
task work, at so many feet a day. The labourers complained that they 
could not perform it in the usual hours of labour. The overseer on the 
other hand affirmed that they were imposing upon Mr. T., and it was 
solely owing to sloth that they did not easily get through their task. The 
overseer wished of course to get as much work as he could, and they had 
naturally an indisposition to do more than they could help. They were told 
to resume their work the following morning, and, if they performed it 
within the time, they should be paid for every minute's or hour's addi- 
tional work they might perform. They began the task at five in the 
morning, and had finished it by half-past one, and the very slaves who 
had before complained, received pay for four hours' extra labour. At 
present all the negroes in the field perform their labour under the fear 



14 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

or impulse, of the lash. Physical coercion is employed on every estate 
in the island to obtain labour from slaves. By banishing the use of 
the whip, Mr. Taylor found that discipline was necessarily relaxed. 
This coercion is necessary with slaves in all kinds of labour. The car- 
penter or cooper knows that if he does not go to his shop and do his work 
he will be flogged. In short it was necessary, in order to induce the 
Negroes to work, either to pay them or to flog them. It was possible, 
however, to conduct the business of an estate without much flogging. 
Still it was the terror of the lash which produced the labour. On the 
estate next to Papine (Hope Estate, belonging to the Duke of Buck- 
ingham), the driver certainly carried the whip into the field, but for 
many months it has not been used, the negroes going on, nevertheless, 
most diligently with their work. But this disuse of the whip had been 
produced by the previous use of it. The overseer, when he first took 
charge of that estate, found the Negroes disposed to resist him, and the 
whip for a time was " most freely and strongly used," and this, Mr. Tay- 
lor thinks, not from any motive of cruelty, but from a belief that 
" it was the only way to establish his authority." He used the whip 
most freely, and this free use it was that produced the subsequent dis- 
use* (pages 11 and 12). 

With the exception of labouring in the workhouse chain, and clean- 
ing the streets of towns, field labour is viewed by slaves as the most de- 
grading occupation. It is considered, for example, a degrading punish- 
ment to send a household servant to the field. Many humane persons 
prefer doing so to flogging them. The labour of cultivating sugar is 
not more degrading than other field labour, but it is much more severe. 
" Cane-hole digging is fearfully severe," especially in certain soils. 
There are other field occupations that are light. Comparing the West 
Indian slave with the Scotch labourer, he thought cane-hole digging 
more exhausting than digging potatoes, or reaping corn, or following 
the plough. If the Scotchman had been digging, and the Negro had 
been cleaning young canes, the Scotchman would have done the hard- 
est work ; but if the Scotchman had been reaping or mowing, and the 
Negro had been digging cane-holes, then the Negro would have done 

* The stimulus was still the brutal one of either the infliction or the fear of 
the lash. 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of W. Taylor, Esq. 15 

the hardest work. Taking the labour of the whole year through, cer- 
tainly the labour of the Jamaica slave was infinitely harder than that of 
the Scotch peasant, because the former has the night work in'croptime, 
when for at least four months of the year he has only six hours' rest ; 
whereas the Scotchman goes to bed every night throughout the year in 
good time. Besides this, the Negro works each day a greater length 
of time than the Scotchman, but the Scotchman puts more work out 
of hand. The proportion of time consumed in cane-hole digging 
varies very much in different parts of the island, according to the com- 
parative fertility of the soil ; on less fertile soils a third of the cane 
land requiring to be re-dug every year, and, on very fertile soils, not 
more than a tenth, or fifteenth, or twentieth part (p. 12, 13). The la- 
bour of the slaves is often so exhausting that the overseer is obliged to 
give them a week's rest to recruit their strength, by setting them to 
clean pastures, and other light work. 

Mr. Taylor, being asked whether the stimulus of the whip, at present 
the only stimulus, being withdrawn, and the Negro made free, he 
thought he would be likely to work industriously for adequate wages, 
replied that, if the Negro was placed in a situation where he must starve 
or work, he would work. If in the present state of things he were to be 
told, Keep your provision ground, and keep your house, and come 
and work for a shilling or other sum a day, he would say, I will not 
do it ; for I can make more by working my grounds. But if the grounds 
were taken away, and he must understand that he must starve or work, 
he would work. The consideration by which in the case of freemen the 
matter would be governed would be this, whether it were most profitable 
to receive 1 wages, or to rent land and raise produce upon it. If put 
into a situation where the fear of want would bear upon him, and the 
inducement to work was plain, then he would work. He drew this 
opinion partly from his knowledge of emancipated slaves, but chiefly 
from his knowledge of the slaves under his own care, among whom 
the good preponderated far above the bad. He found them like the 
Scottish peasantry, fulfilling all the relations of life. He found them 
revering the ordinance of marriage. He found them, particularly on 
the Vere estate, an orderly and industrious people ; and he was strong- 
ly impressed with the opinion that, if placed in the circumstances of 
the English or Scottish peasantry, they would act similarly. They 



1 6 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

were, generally speaking, very industrious in labouring on their pro- 
vision grounds. It was a frequent practice to work for one another for 
hire, the hire being 20d. currency a day (I4d. sterling), and a breakfast. 
Mr. Wildman indulged his Negroes with fifty-two Saturdays in the 
year, instead of twenty-six, the number allowed them by law, that they 
might be able to attend divine service, and have no excuse for continuing 
to work on Sunday. This gave them additional time ; and as Mr. T. had 
a large garden, and was very unwilling to draw from the labour of the 
estate to keep it in order, he was frequently in the habit of hiring them 
to work there. Some would come and offer their services, for which he 
gave them their breakfast and 2s. lie?, a day currency, being 2*. Id. 
sterling. He was decidedly of opinion that, when an offer was made to 
pay Negroes for their labour, they were always ready to work. He had 
known them, even when digging cane-holes, perform the task of 120 
cane-holes, and, on being offered pay, dig 20 and 40 cane-holes, after 
having finished their task. But, by the ordinary method, the same 
quantity would not have been dug except by tremendous whipping. 
Ninety cane-holes indeed on unploughed land was the general task ; 
but 120 if the land had previously been loosened by the plough. The 
farther exertion, however, produced by the stimulus of wages was such 
that the driver said it was too much for them, and begged Mr. Taylor 
to interdict their doing so much. At the end of the week almost every 
slave had done so much extra work as to receive 3s. 4d., which he paid 
them, accordingto agreement. If they had worked in the usual way under 
the whip they might have finished 120 holes in the course of the day, 
barely completing it at the end of the day ; but if told that, if they did 
the same work, they might as soon as it was done go away, they would, 
by abridging their intervals of rest, finish it before three o'clock in the 
afternoon, beginning at five in the morning" (p. 14, 15). 

Much the same quantity of labour, Mr. Taylor further remarked, 
was usually required from all in the great gang. They all usually 
worked in one line, and where the land was uniform produced the same 
number of holes, and the women the same as the men. By giving them, 
however, task work, and wages for extra work, he got the greatest 
quantity of work their physical strength was equal to. He got much 
more work, and it was cheerfully done. In general he found them wil- 
ling to work in their extra time, for hire; he spoke only of Mr. Wild- 



on the Extinction of Slavery . — Evidence of W. Taylor, Esq. 17 

man's slaves. Task work indeed was very generally resorted to, plant- 
ers thinking that in that way the Negro did his work in a much shorter 
time. At the same time he was convinced that a mixed system of 
slavery with its unavoidable expences, and free labour with its wages, 
would not answer in the long run. He conscientiously believed that if 
slavery were put an end to, and the slaves emancipated, it would an- 
swer to the proprietor. So entirely was he convinced of this that he 
offered to embark his whole property in purchasing Mr. Wildman's es- 
tates, making the slaves free, and adopting the system of free labour, 
and undertaking the expense of maintaining the schools established 
by Mr. Wildman, provided he could prevail on a few others to join him. 
He was now, however, of opinion, from further reflection, that it would 
have been disadvantageous to have had freedom on one estate and 
slavery on the next, — to have had freedom on Mr. Wildman's estates, 
and slavery on the adjoining estates of Mr. Goulburn, in Vere, and the 
Duke of Buckingham's in St. Andrew, and Mr. Mitchell's in Clarendon. 
This chequered system would not answer; though he firmly believed that 
if the plan were supported by due authority, and the slaves were to re- 
ceive adequate remuneration for their labour, the majority of them 
would work, and the plan would succeed. He admitted that if a herald 
were at once to proclaim freedom in Spanish Town, in unqualified 
terms, to all slaves, anarchy and confusion might be the result. But, 
by proceeding cautiously, and previously providing the means of re- 
straint, and, above all, by making it known to the slave that it was the 
King's pleasure that he should still labour when he became free, and 
if the planters concurred in using this language, so as to remove all 
idea that the King and his master were at variance, the freedom of 
the slaves might be safely, and easily, and even profitably accomplish- 
ed. He wished to draw a broad line of distinction between freedom 
indefinitely conferred, and freedom accompanied by effective contem- 
poraneous arrangements, even stronger laws than are now in force, but 
laws equally affecting all ; — strong regulations of police, which should 
punish vagrancy, and secure to the slave an adequate return for his la- 
bour. The police of the agricultural districts in Jamaica now consists of 
the attorney and the overseer of the estate, the book-keepers under him, 
and lastly, the drivers, who are usually slaves : the attorney and the over- 
seer corresponding to the justice of the peace in England, and the drivers 



18 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

to constables. On each estate there is now its prison-house : there 
are also bilboes and other instruments of correction, which are em- 
ployed by the overseer, &c, for restraint and punishment. Now, in 
removing this system, a stipendiary magistracy and a constabulary 
force must be instituted. In this way, by dividing- the island into small 
districts, with a stipendiary magistrate well instructed in the law, not an 
ignorant planter unacquainted with the law, and a constabulary force 
under his orders, tranquillity, it appeared to him, would be maintained. 
The only difficulty would be the expense. As to the facility of obtaining 
labour in these circumstances, the well disposed and industrious would 
be guided entirely by the profit to be derived from it in choosing their 
employment; it would be a matter of pounds, shillings, and pence. If 
the men are paid they will work. Evil doers indeed might not submit to 
the regular industry of a sugar plantation, especially if they could ac- 
quire land of their own. Throughout the island there are little colonies 
of free labourers. How they got their land he did not know, he sup- 
posed by purchase. At present many free persons, who would object 
on the present system to working on a sugar estate, work on wharfs, 
in towns, or on board ship, or as domestics, and sometimes by con- 
necting themselves with female slaves on estates, are domiciled in 
the negro villages, and occupy themselves in tilling the land allowed 
to their wives by the owners of the estates. He admitted that in all 
cases much would depend on the character of individuals, and there 
might be many who would not be uniformly industrious, and there 
would also in many be a strong disposition to seize the lightest and 
easiest work, and in whom the love of ease might be stronger than the 
love of gain. They could not, however, obtain land but by grant from 
the crown, or by purchase from individuals; and from three to five 
acres, according to the quality, would be required to maintain himself, 
his wife, and a family of children of the ordinary size. Many of them, in 
this way also, besides providing comfortable food and clothing, would 
be induced to better their condition and to acquire what may be termed 
the luxuries of life. Mr. Taylor came to this conclusion, from the con- 
viction he had that many of the present slaves, judging from the ge- 
neral style of their houses, and clothes, and furniture, had a keen relish 
for the comforts of life ; many even of the field Negroes studying great 
neatness and cleanliness, and even making attempts at style in their 



on the Extinction of Slavery . — Evidence of W. Taylor, Esq. 19 

houses and furniture, using plates and other conveniences of that 
sort, and even wearing shoes on Sundays, being ashamed to go to 
church without them, but carrying them in their hands like the 
peasant women in Scotland, and putting them on when they drew 
near the church : but though they did not walk in their shoes, they 
did not walk barefoot ; they wore sandals. All these articles of use, 
or show, or luxury, were got entirely by their own labour. Mr. Tay- 
lor spoke of many of the slaves, especially on Mr. Wildman's es- 
tates, as thus acting. On these estates the respectable part of the 
slaves, the head men, had property of that description, consisting 
of mahogany furniture, glass decanters, wine, beds, bedsteads, and 
pictures, acquired not by the gift of their master, or of one another, 
but the fruit, as he must infer, of their own labour. In the parish of 
Vere particularly, the Negroes were well off, much better than in St. An- 
drew and Clarendon. Their dress was different : at the church service in 
Vere, he was struck with the expensiveness of their dress ; the women 
were dressed in muslins, and Leghorn bonnets ; and the men in trowsers, 
and broad-cloth coats. One day he remarked the difference to one of 
the head people on Papine, the St. Andrew estate, and received from 
him this explanation :-*-" Vere is a greatcorn country, and in consequence 
of the supply of corn furnished by the master, they rear large quan- 
tities of poultry, and on the market day hucksters come from Kingston 
by sea, and a considerable trade is carried on by this means, for the 
supply of Kingston and the shipping in its harbour with poultry ; and 
when a good season comes, as they are then enabled to raise food 
enough from their own grounds, they save up their allowance of corn 
from the master, and with that corn rear large quantities of poultry." 
In Clarendon and St. Andrew the slaves of Mr. Wildman were poor, 
as compared with those in Vere. This appeared to arise from the 
sugar district in Clarendon being remote from any market, being six- 
teen miles from the coast, and twenty miles from Spanish Town. The 
slaves, therefore, could not turn their provisions into money. The Ne- 
groes said they had enough to eat, but could not convert the food into 
money. In Clarendon, the principal productions are cocoas and other 
ground provisions ; of these they have abundance, but they cannot be 
applied to the same purposes as the corn of Vere, and, moreover, they 
have not the same command of a market. In St. Andrew it is better 

d2 



20 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

than in Clarendon, but not so good as in Vere, because the soil is rtot 
so fertile as in Vere ; but the locality as to a market is more favourable 
than that of Clarendon, Kingston being only six or seven miles distant. 
On most of the estates throughout the island, the prescribed quantity 
of clothing is given to the slaves, and their grounds supply abun- 
dance of provisions, even where there are no markets near, where 
they can realize money; but slave-coopers may make money by 
working at their trade in their own time, viz. on Sundays and their 
twenty-six days besides, making pails and other articles ; and slave- 
carpenters and masons by executing jobs about other people's houses 
(pages 18, 19, 20). Still he admitted that in many cases there were 
great poverty and misery (page 19, question 142). 

There are some estates, Mr. Taylor further stated, on which slaves 
are allowed to have cattle running on their owner's property, and which 
they sold occasionally, but that that is not a general case. — p. 20. 

At one time, Mr. Taylor observed, there was a strong impression on 
the minds of the slaves of St. Andrew that they were about to be made 
free. This arose from the House of Assembly, in 1830, having given 
to the free black and coloured people of the Colony the civil rights and 
privileges enjoyed by the whites. There was consequently excited among 
them in that parish an intense desire of freedom ; and being told that 
many of the slaves on Papine were overheard speaking of its approach, 
he sent for a respectable Negro, belonging to that estate, and spoke to 
him on the subject of their paying for their cottages and lands by a 
rent arising from wages, for which they should give a certain quantity of 
their labour in return. He said thathe thought they would be well off in 
such a case. The Negro said," Sir, suddenly to take our lands would not do. 
It would be better for us to have our lands and our houses, taking that as 
part of our hire." And certainly, if they got a fair return for their labour, 
Mr. Taylor thinks that they could afford to pay rent. — He also sent for a 
Negro from Vere, and his statement was that they did not expect free- 
dom, but only the privilege of additional days for themselves. He 
also sent for another from Clarendon ; but in that remote parish, away 
from the busy part of the island, the rumour had not been heard, and 
the matter was not thought of. The desire of freedom was very pre- 
valent among domestics as well as field-slaves. He had known persons, 
especially in sickness and old age, indifferent to freedom, and the 



om the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of W. Taylor, Esq. 21 

head man on an estate may be indifferent to it, but that is not the case 
generally. He could point out a head-driver, living on an estate where 
his privileges and means of acquiring property were great, and who, 
considering freedom as the being turned out upon the open savannah,*" 
said he would rather forego his freedom. Most of the cases of manu- 
mission he had known were among domestic slaves, and among them 
also most of the applications for manumission occurred ; but he does not 
know that this is owing to a more intense desire of, but simply to greater 
facilities of acquiring, freedom ; they therefore aim at it ; but generally 
throughout the island, the slaves of all classes are anxious to obtain 
their liberty. The exceptions are the aged invalid Negro, who has sur- 
vived all his relations, and has a kind and wealthy master, or the 
driver, whose appointments and allowances are good, who is led to con- 
nect with the idea of freedom expulsion from the community in which he 
lives and from office. If his office could be made to consist with free- 
dom, he would not refuse it; but if he thought he was to be forcibly 
dispossessed of his house, and driven from his family, and sent out a 
vagabond upon the face of the earth, much as he might value freedom, 
he would not like it on those conditions. Though there may thus be 
individual exceptions, yet decidedly, as a body, the slaves are desirous 
of liberty. He knew of no body of slaves who would be unwilling to 
exchange slavery for freedom ; he had never heard of freedom being 
tendered to a body of slaves and refused. He could not even call to 
mind one instance of a slave having had his freedom offered and refusing 
it, but he could call to mind almost hundreds of instances where press- 
ing applications had been made for freedom by slaves, with applica- 
tions to himself for money to enable them to buy it (p. 21, 22). 

On Mr. Wildman's estates the slaves had privileges that were very 
peculiar. They had, for the most part, in addition to the twenty-six 
week-days allowed by law during the year, every Saturday as it came 
round out of crop, and in crop every second Saturday, and every alter- 
nate week in crop the half of Saturday, besides which no night work 
was permitted on his estates during crop. His object was to give them 
a full share of rest and sleep, and to preserve Sunday, at least as far as 
he could, perfectly inviolate. Their children too were educated, and the 

* So doubtless it was represented to him by those who knew better, 



22 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

women were exempted from flogging. He would positively have dis- 
charged any overseer who he knew had done so ; and even with the 
men he went on the principle of having no corporal punishment : but in 
spite of him, and of Mr.Wildman also, the whip was still used. The whip 
appeared to the overseers to be essential, in some way or other, to the 
maintenance of order. In one instance on Salt Savannah, it took place 
contrary to Mr. Taylor's own express orders. Mr. Taylor admits that 
it would be impossible to manage an estate on the present system with- 
out the whip at one time or another : it may not be necessary to be al- 
ways using it ; but it is essential to order and to labour, as a stimulus 
which must be brought to act, either immediately or remotely. He 
conceived that labour must have some stimulus, and this was the only 
one applied, because the only one permitted by the state of things in 
Jamaica. On his entering into the charge of Mr. Wildman's estates, 
there was an understanding that, on his part, the estates were to be 
managed on a moderate and humane system, or he would have nothing 
to do with them ; and, on Mr. Wildman's, that Mr. Taylor would con- 
form to his mode of management, or he would have nothing to do with 
Mr. Taylor. The principle, therefore, on which he went, and from 
which he never receded, was, that the pecuniary interest of the master 
was to be secondary to the better interests and well-being of the slave ; 
but Mr.Taylor found that it was quite impossible to work the existing sys- 
tem on that principle. There was a want of a stimulus which he could use. 
That which alone he had, he could not, and would not use. He accord- 
ingly wrote Mr. Wildman a letter, to intimate to him that he was dis- 
appointed in all his expectations, and that he found that the system 
would not work on the principle of humanity, and that it required a 
harsh and coercive principle. His neighbours advanced before him> 
simply because they could and did use a power which he would not 
make use of. This letter was written in October, 1830 ; the following 
is an extract from it : — "I must now advert to the subject on which you 
have remarked in your last letter, namely, the civil condition of your 
Negroes. I cannot refrain from being explicit on the subject ; my mind 
has been unceasingly harassed by it. The retrospect, too, of the 
months which have passed since your departure, only confirms me in 
my opinions. I do not think that your estates can possibly be made to 
yield, under the combined system of religion, humanity, and slavery, 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of W. Taylor, Esq. 23 

There is in the latter, as it exists in Jamaica, a repugnance to unite 
with the two former. By our system we take away the motive which 
leads to labour on the neighbouring estates, — that is, the dread of the 
lash : and we cannot substitute that which makes the English labourer 
industrious, namely, the fear of want ; for the law of Jamaica compels 
the slave proprietor to feed his slave, to clothe him, and to house him, 
whatever the conduct of that slave may be.* True it is he may flog 
him and imprison him, — but there our principles come in and prevent ; 
for the first we turn away from, and the latter is a clumsy and dreadful 
means of compelling obedience ; so that, between the two, the discipline 
is relaxed. Your people are certainly quiet, and generally well con- 
ducted ; but I am at the same time obliged to say that less work, I 
think, is produced under our moderate and mild system than under the 
harsh methods used by the majority of planters. The want is that of a 
motive. After much anxious thought on the subject, I have come to the 
conclusion that the only effectual remedy is emancipation. We are, 
I conceive, in a strait: we must either go on to the ultimate measure of 
freedom, or go back (which would appear to be impossible, as well as 
inhuman) to the use of brute coercion. In the middle state we are 
perplexed and retarded in our operations, simply because there is not a 
sufficient stimulus. A labourer says he will not work : in England in- 
stant dismissal is the consequence : in Jamaica, instant flogging fol- 
lows. — Now, dismiss a labourer, I cannot; — flog him, I will not." 

In short, Mr. Taylor goes on to state, we must either have an extinction 
of slavery, or be content to go on with the harsh and barbarous system 
which now prevails. We must stimulate the slave to labour either by the 
fear of want, or by the lash. In Jamaica you feed and clothe him whether 
he works or not, but if he will not work you flog him. If it had not 
been for the law of Jamaica, Mr. Taylor thinks he could have worked 
upon him by other motives ; but the law required him to swear every 
quarter that he had provided him with food and clothing ; and therefore, 
unless he committed perjury, he had no hold upon him but the lash. 
He believed in the first instance that he should have succeeded in his 
plan mentioned before (seep. 325) of buying these estates, after the plan 

* Mr. Taylor must mean of course the conscientious slave proprietor, who 
eels bound not to violate the law. 



24 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

of a modified slavery had failed ; but he was misled by his strong wish to 
try the experiment, and by the warm regard he felt for the slaves over 
whom he had been placed. He saw that there were immense difficulties in 
the way, in the then state of things, but he hoped they might be over- 
come ; and at any rate he was so disgusted with what he was engaged 
in, and so anxious to make the experiment, that he proposed, had he 
got any others to join him, to purchase the three estates, to manumize 
the Negroes belonging to them, who were connected with each other 
by family ties, and to work them as free labourers, hoping to be sup- 
ported in his plan by the local authorities. He could prevail on no one 
to join him. Still he made the proposal for one of the estates, but it was 
not accepted. Difficulties of various kinds might have arisen,but these 
would have been much fewer had the whole slave population been 
manumitted, and the government of this country been resolutely de- 
termined to preserve order. He had no fear whatever that the slaves 
would become unsettled, or turn vagrants, for he never saw any dis- 
position in the negro mind to vagrancy. A Negro who has his house 
and grounds will neverwander, or run away, but from very bad treatment. 
A man who has no ties on the estate, no family ties, will desert on re- 
ceiving ill treatment ; but a head Negro, or even a respectable field 
Negro who has his house and his land, his wife and his children, will 
bear a great deal of ill treatment before he will run away, Very few 
return into the woods as compared with the whole population. On one 
estate he recollects 25 men deserting at a very critical time of the year, 
in the season of planting; but it was because the overseer had treated 
them infamously. They watched their opportunity and withdrew 
into the woods when their services were most required. The proprietor 
of the estate happened to arrive on the island at the time, and they in- 
stantly returned. The overseer was dismissed, and another put in his 
room, and the Negroes never went away afterwards. It would be diffi- 
cult to say that they have the same ties to home as the English labour- 
er, their situations being so unlike ; but still they have many strong ties 
to home. If a gang of Negroes is bought or sold, it is with the greatest 
difficulty they can be moved, and often the civil power must be called 
in to force them : some are sent to the workhouse, and the rest are 
terrified into submission. Mr. Taylor remembered an instance where a 
large estate was broken up and the Negroes sold in separate gangs, 



on the Extinction of Slavery . — Evidence of W. Taylor, Esq. 15 

and one gang they had great difficulty in moving; it was at last 
moved about 25 miles. About eight months after, their new owner died, 
and, he not having paid for them, they had to be moved again, when 
the difficulty was as great as before (p. 24, 25). 

Mr. Taylor, in reply to another series of questions, stated that the 
law allows twenty-six week-days in the year, exclusive of Sundays and 
the usual (three) holidays, for his provision grounds; and by this allow- 
ance of time, together with his Sundays, the Negro in Jamaica main- 
tains himself and his family. Multitudes of them consume their Sundays 
in their grounds and in going to market. Besides this they have half 
an hour each day for breakfast, and two hours' interval in the middle 
of the day. During that last interval many work on their own account 
in their grounds or gardens, or in other matters ; the half hour for 
breakfast is usually consumed in rest in the field, often in the shade of a 
tree. He cannot say how much labour in the year is sufficient to 
enable a slave to satisfy his wants and those of his family, nor how much 
land he requires for that purpose. But he knows that to a great extent 
they cultivate their grounds and go to market on Sunday ; but he 
cannot affirm that working all Sunday is universal. If, however, a 
Negro were to devote his Sundays to repose he certainly could not 
maintain himself and his family ; and, in fact, by the great majority of 
them, Sunday is generally consumed in their grounds or in market- 
ing. If they strictly observed the Sunday, having only their twenty-six 
week-days, it would not be sufficient ; and even near the Missionary sta- 
tions he remembered that the ministers complained that on certain Sun- 
days the slaves never could attend service, and they had no congrega- 
tion of them. — It was not the nature of the slaves' work, with the excep- 
tion of cane-hole-digging, but the duration of it, of which they had to 
complain. As for cane-hole digging, it was so hard that he had heard 
overseers of plantations state as the chief objection to freedom that 
they never could get cane-holes dug by free men. And certainly they 
could not at the common rate of labour : it would require an immense 
inducement. The slaves will certainly do much more for themselves 
than when they work for their masters. Even when performing task- 
work, they are different beings. A Negro will lift a load for himself 
which it would require a severe flogging to make him lift for his master. 
He had seen them travelling to market, groaning under a load of hard 



26 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

wood timber which no overseer could make them carry. But the in- 
ducement was great : they were sure to get a high price for it, and they 
were labouring for themselves. He had often observed them, after 
working for their masters, and for their own maintenance, prolong their 
work to procure some little indulgences. Whenever they could 
contrive by task-work, or other arrangements, to obtain any extra 
time, their grounds were crowded with them, labouring for their own 
benefit. They cannot, therefore, be said to be an indolent race, or 
incapable of being actuated by the motives by which labour is generally 
prompted. His own experience assured him of the contrary. He ad- 
mitted that the propensity of the Negro, as of all men in warm climates, 
was to indolence ; but, whenever the hope of pecuniary advantage could 
be brought to bear on this indolence, it was powerfully counteracted. 
He was well acquainted with the inhabitants of Scotland, and he had 
never known an intelligent and well-instructed Scotchman who would 
work hard without an inducement ; but, for the same motive of personal 
advantage, the Negro might most decidedly be induced to work to an 
immense extent. Having tried the experiment of voluntary labour for 
wages in his own garden, the man who most frequently applied for 
employment was the most idle and worthless man on the estate. The 
steady Negroes were far less willing to work in his garden, having 
large and well cultivated grounds of their own ; while this fellow had 
neglected his ground and had therefore no temptation to go to it, and 
was glad therefore to be employed in the garden, or he would collect a 
little fruit, or procure some billets of wood, and carry them to Kingston 
market, converting them into cash. This man, more frequently than 
any other, came to work in the garden the whole day till four o'clock, 
and he then took his 2s. 1 Id. of hire and proceeded to Kingston to con- 
vert the money into comforts ; while the other Negroes were unwilling to 
do so, it being more profitable to go to their own grounds — thus decided- 
ly showing their judgment in discriminating as to the kind of labour 
that would reward them best and selecting that. In fact the Negroes are 
far from being the rude uncultivated barbarians they are sometimes 
represented to be. The estimate in this country of their character is a 
great deal too low. He himself had no notion of it till he was called to 
manage those estates ; and he had been ten years in the island and was 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of W. Taylor, Esq. 27 

still in great ignorance of the agricultural labourers of Jamaica ; and 
he then found that far too low an opinion had been formed (and this he 
declared to many in Jamaica) of their state of civilization. The Negroes 
who worked in his garden worked diligently, because he discharged 
them if they did not. The idle man, who was the chief labourer, was well 
watched by the gardener, and if slothful was sent away. The fear of 
this operated to produce application as the fear of the whip did in the 
field. Working in his garden was however less hard than digging cane 
holes (p. 25, 26, 27). 

Mr. Taylor was here asked a very important question : " How many 
hours a day, upon the average, is a slave engaged in the work of his 
master ?" He was unable to answer this question with any precision, 
having never acted in the lower grades of plantership, either as book- 
keeper or overseer.* But though Mr. Taylor cannot specify the exact 



* As Mr. Taylor could not trust to his recollection to answer this question, it 
may be expedient at once to refer to the infallible authority, not of an obsolete 
statute, but the latest slave law on this subject, namely, the Act of 19th February, 
1831, clause 22: — " And be it further enacted that every field slave on any 
plantation or settlement shall, on work days, be allowed half an hour for break- 
fast, and two hours for dinner ; and that no slave shall be compelled to any 
manner of field work upon the plantation before the hour of five in the morning, 
or after the hour of seven at night, except during the time of crop, under the 
penalty not exceeding fifty pounds, to be recovered against the overseer or other 
person having the charge of such slaves." 

The overseer, therefore, is by this, the only existing law on the subject, em- 
powered to compel the labour of the slaves in the field, whether they be men, 
women, or children, on all work days, from five in the morning till seven in the 
evening, being fourteen solid hours, with intervals of two hours and a half, leav- 
ing the actual field labour to which the slaves, male and female, are compella- 
ble to submit, at the immoderate amount of eleven hours and a half on each 
work day throughout the year. But then crop time, which lasts from four to six 
months in the year, is exempted even from this limitation ; and there is no extent 
of exaction short of absolute cruelty, and not bounded by the physical powers 
of the human animal, which this apparently slight and parenthetic provision 
may not vindicate. This enactment, too, is not an act of inconsideration on the 
part of the Jamaica legislature. It stands thus in every successive version 
of it from 1788 downwards. It stood in their disallowed act of 1826 in 
precisely the same words, and was thus commented upon by Mr. Huskisson in 



28 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

but varying duration of the slave's labour for his master, upon one fact 
involved in it he speaks without any doubt or hesitation, and that is, 
that the women are employed the same number of hours with the men, 

his Despatch of the 22nd September, 1827 : — " The provisions for the prevention 
of excessive labour contemplate the working of the slaves for eleven hours and a 
half daily out of crop, and place no limit on the continuance of the work during 
crop time. Considering the climate in which the labour is to be performed, and 
that after the work of the field there will yet remain many offices to be done not 
falling within the proper meaning of the term 'labour' (he should have said 
field labour), I should fear that the exertions of the slaves, if exacted up to 
the limits allowed by law, would be scarcely consistent with the health of the 
labourer." Mr. Huskisson might well say so, as the murderous tendency of 
the whole system of slave labour in Jamaica abundantly testifies, by the debility 
and death of its victims, by the arrest of the prolific powers of the female slaves, 
and by the frightful waste of the whole slave population. 

Now, in the insolent reply of the Assembly to Mr. Huskisson's Despatch, drawn 
up by the very Mr. Barrett who is now a delegate from Jamaica to uphold this cruel 
code, as it is given in the papers printed by command in 1828, Mr. Barrett 
seems at some loss to parry or evade the above conclusive observations of the Secre- 
tary of State. His reply is a rare example of shuffling dexterity. It is as follows : — 
" Mr. Huskisson fears that the exertions of the slaves, if exacted up to the limits 
allowed by the disallowed law, would be scarcely consistent with a due regard to the 
health of the labourer. Negroes do not exert themselves at work like Europeans. 
They seldom fatigue themselves, and it is common for them to travel many miles 
or to dance the entire night after the longest day's labour. It is believed by the 
House of Assembly that labourers work much harder and longer in Great 
Britain, and are rewarded with a smaller share of the necessaries and comforts 
of existence." 

The daring insolence, the unblushing falsehood, and the unfeeling levity of such 
a statement, on so grave a subject, and with a wasting population around 
them, is quite characteristic of the Jamaica Assembly. Yet Mr. Huskisson 
did not do justice to the cause he advocated. He was not aware of half the ex- 
actions to which, under the shelter of this artfully framed and most insidious 
enactment, the slave might be subjected. There is no limitation but to work in 
the field, none to grass collecting for the cattle after the work of the field is over, 
none to the onerous duties of the slaves, male and female, in their household 
menage; viz. all the cooking required, the firing and water wanted for household 
purposes and cleanliness for them and their families ; — all are left to fall on the 
slaves after their work is over, and they have been broiling in a tropical sun for 
eleven hours and a half in the field and under the lash. Can we wonder at the 
dreadful waste of human life in Jamaica? 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of W. Taylor, Esq. 29 

except women pregnant, or having 1 children at the breast. Their labour, 
also, is almost entirely of the same description as that of the men. 
They cannot undertake the management of cattle, or the duty of watch- 
ing all night out of crop; but they dig cane-holes with the men, and 
in gangs with them ; and they are exposed to the same degree of labour. 
The question aptly follows, " Does the population of Jamaica increase 
or decrease ?" The reply is — it decreases ; and this decrease, Mr. 
Taylor states, is considered in Jamaica to arise from sugar cultivation, 
especially the night work of crop, and the cane-hole digging. The 
free blacks and people of colour, on the other hand, increase. The 
maroons, he knew from the returns in the Jamaica Almanac, increased 
largely, and they derive their whole subsistence from their own exertions. 
The habits of the free people as to labour he was not able to describe 
particularly ; few of them, from the jealousy and ill-will of managers 
and overseers, have hitherto been allowed to settle on or near estates. A 
free village near an estate indeed is viewed as a great evil. Being asked 
to account for the increase of the free, while the slaves decrease, Mr. 
Tayior said he accounted for it partly by cane-hole digging and night 
work, partly by abortions caused by flogging pregnant women, before the 
pregnancy is apparent. Many children are thus destroyed in the 
womb. Some of the medical men to whom he spoke admitted that this 
evil prevailed to a certain extent. He believed that there was a waste 
or rather prevention of life from this cause (it was admitted generally 
in conversation) as well as from the severity and duration of the labour 
imposed on the women in common with the men, such as cane-hole 
digging, and night work (pp. 27, 28). 

Mr. Taylor being again questioned as to the slave's capacity, if ma- 
numitted, to maintain himself and his family in comfort, he replied that 
he would be neither incapable nor unwilling. Let him be moved by 
the fear of want, or excited by the hope of advantage, and he will 
exert himself as certainly and effectively as the labourers of Europe. 
It would at the same time be unfair, in his present enslaved state, to re- 
quire that he should be placed in comparison with the free Scotchman ; 
yet he believed that he would be always alive to the prospect of pe- 
cuniary advantage whenever it was palpably exhibited to him, and, with 
that before him, he would work if free. Emancipated slaves do not 
become vagrants, in any legitimate sense of the term. They are much 



30 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

employed as hucksters, an occupation for which the peculiar state of 
Jamaica offers great advantages. There are in that island scarcely any 
inland villages with shops, as in England ; but the wants of the slaves 
in distant parishes are supplied by hucksters, which emancipated slaves 
are fond of becoming. A strict watch, however, is kept over such 
stragglers, whether they be coloured, or black, or white persons. The 
slaves, if emancipated, would only think of removing from their home 
to better their condition ; but otherwise they would cling, if allowed to 
do so, to their respective villages, to their houses and grounds, their 
wives and children. With respect to the habits of the free people of 
colour, little comparatively is known by the whites. Indeed the distinc- 
tions between white, and black, and brown, and bond and free, raise 
barriers to communication which widely separate them from each other. 
This is an almost necessary, but most unhappy incident of a slave 
state. — Certainly the desire for freedom does not arise from the slave's 
connecting it with an exemption from labour ; for they see under their 
own eyes many who had been slaves labouring hard for their support. 
Even an old Negro on an estate, when he ceases to labour for his mas- 
ter, does not cease to labour for himself. There was one on the estate of 
Salt Savannah, who, though allowed to " sit down and to be exempt 
from plantation labour, was most industrious and hard-working for 
himself" (p. 28,29). 

Mr. Taylor, being further questioned as to the danger of disturbance 
among the slaves in Jamaica, replied to this effect : — Jamaica is now 
in a state of disturbance ; but he could not answer for the future, so 
ignorantmay an individual in Jamaica be of the state and feelings of the 
society around him. Had he been asked in January last, or on the very 
day before the news of the insurrection arrived, he would have denied 
all probability of riot or insurrection ; and in no parish should he have 
less expected it, with the exception of Kingston and Spanish Town, 
than in St. James. The actual transactions would have falsified all his 
convictions, and convinced him that, though living in the very centre 
of the slaves, with hundreds of them at the very door, nothing was 
known of them, or of what they felt or designed. This is a peculiar 
feature of a slave community. Slavery separates the different classes 
from each other. The military executions and horrors may for the pre- 
sent have quelled the spirit of insubordination ; but, when that terror has 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of W. Taylor, Esq. 31 

worn away, it can hardly be doubted, from the vast increase of lettered 
knowledge among the slaves, which there is no controlling, that, without 
an earl y emancipation, they will break out again, and you will not be able 
to put them down. They will be more methodical and successful. Men 
cannot be expected to be quiet who read newspapers on both sides of 
such a question. The great error in Jamaica is madly fancying that the 
slaves of 1830 are the slaves of 1810. Legislation is at least half a 
century behind the state of the people. Whether when made free they 
will be turbulent or peaceable will depend wholly on the mode of 
doing it. If put in a situation to feel the influence of the motives which 
make us all work, they will work, if you only establish a good govern- 
ment in that country. — But it is asked, if the slave in certain situations 
possesses the advantages you have stated, why should you think 
freedom preferable to slavery? It is preferable on these grounds, and in 
this view of the subject the slaves almost universally concur. — What- 
ever advantages a slave may have, the evils accompanying slavery are 
such as every man would get rid of if he could. Let the comfort even 
of a Negro in Vere, the most comfortable in the island, be doubled, yet 
he would not remain in that state, if he could get rid of it without abso- 
lutely being turned adrift. Better to be the poorest labourer in Eng- 
land than the richest slave in Jamaica. Suppose him in the best cir- 
cumstances, and with the best master, he cannot call Sunday his own. 
He may see his wife indecently stripped and flogged at shell blow. He 
may see his adult daughter put in the same situation. There is no law 
to prevent this, and it is done over and over again. No degree of com- 
forts, even their greatest abundance, could be accepted on such terms 
(p. 29, 30). 

The remainder of Mr. Taylor's evidence, extending through nearly 
34 folio pages, consists chiefly of a close and eagerly pursued cross- 
examination, conducted, as it would appear, by Mr. Burge, who alone 
of the committee could have been competent to the task. Close and 
able as it was, it did not shake any one material position occupied by 
Mr. Taylor; on the contrary it has greatly strengthened them. It 
would be a mere waste of time and labour to repeat, under this new 
form, the re-assertion of the principles we have already abstracted. 
We shall therefore only glean what we find new and striking in this 
truly searching examination. 



32 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

Mr. Taylor, during the thirteen years he had resided in Jamaica, be- 
tween 1816 and 1831, had had abundant opportunities of knowing 
something of the state and character of the slave population. During 
the ten years he resided in Kingston as a merchant, he visited Her- 
mitage estate, in St. George, belonging to his partner Mr. Simpson, 
three or four times a year, having upon it 160 Negroes. During six 
months of 18 16 he visited many estates inTrelawney, with his uncle Mr. 
Cunningham, who was both a proprietor and an attorney. He had also 
been a good deal in Manchester and St. Elizabeth. — The time allowed 
the slaves by law to raise their food, he was convinced, was wholly 
inadequate. The land in general was ample, but the time, without en- 
croaching largely on the rest of Sunday, very scanty, it being only his 
own time, and not his master's, which he could apply to that purpose 
(p. 34). The labour required to keep yams, and cocoes or eddoes, free 
from weeds, is very considerable. The time required by a plantain 
walk, when once established, was certainly not great;* but still, to 
secure sufficient food for the slave, far more time is absolutely required 
(p. 35, ques. 342). At present the slave is almost wholly debarred from 
the religious use of two Sundays in three, and from attending the Sun- 
day schools on those days. — The wealth found among slaves is princi- 
pally among mechanics (ques. 308, p. 36) ; but he knows no parish 
where provisions are deficient (ques. 384, p. 37). As to the hours of 
labour, the whip is cracked generally between four and five in the 
morning. In general they go out as soon as they can see (ques. 392, 
p. 38). Half an hour is usually allowed for breakfast, and an hour and 
a half for dinner (ques. 396, p. 38). In duration their day's labour is 
thus raised to twelve hours. In most estates cane-hole digging to a 
considerable extent is indispensable ; on very fertile lands it is much 
less called for (ques. 415, &c, p. 39). Cane-holing was the chief work 
in Clarendon, from the middle of August to the middle of November, 
with occasional intermissions of lighter work, as the strength of the 

* But, if a hurricane comes, plantain walks are swept away, and, if the Negro 
has no other food to rely upon, he is reduced to a state of absolute famine. The 
planter who permits his slaves to rely on the plantain exposes them to destruc- 
tion of the same kind which, in 1789, swept away so many thousands by the 
famine caused by the miserable penuriousness of the planters of that day in the 
allotment of time to their slaves. 



on the Extinction of Slavery, — Evidence of W. Taylor, Esq. 33 

Negroes would permit (ques. 4G2, p. 39). The plough and jobbing 
gangs are in use on many plantations, with a view of sparing the Ne- 
groes (p. 40). On estates not strongly handed, during crop, the Negroes 
work day and night for about 18 hours out of the 24. If the estates are 
strongly handed, this labour is lessened, but in none is the loss of sleep 
less than two nights a week* (p. 41). Mr. Taylor is asked whether the 

* An intelligent person, who kept spell as a book-keeper for four years in Ja- 
maica, is ready to testify, if called upon, to the uniform practice, in his time, 
to divide into two spells that part of the first and second gangs not occupied as 
coopers, in making casks, or as waggoners, or mule-drivers. 

The following is a sketch of the working of those two spells, which we will 
call A and B, a white book-keeper being allowed to each, who had the same 
length of night duty as the slaves : — 

On Sunday, at 6 p.m., the spell A went to the works and put the mill about, 
remaining there till midnight, when it went to rest as soon as relieved by spell 
Q. At day-dawn, on Monday, spell A went to the field, and continued cutting- 
canes there for the mill till noon. At noon it resumed its place at the works, 
and continued there till midnight on Monday, when it took rest till day-dawn on 
Tuesday, and was then again in the field cutting canes till noon, and thus it pro- 
ceeded on each succeeding day of the week, except that on Saturday it did not 
always retire at midnight, but remained sometimes to two or three on Sunday 
morning, till all the cane juice was boiled off. During the same week, the spell 
B came on duty at the works at midnight on Sunday night, and continued there 
till noon on Monday, when it went home ; but at 2 p. m. it was again in the 
field, cutting canes % for the mill from that time until dusk, when it went home to 
rest, till called up again at midnight to relieve spell A. And so the work pro- 
ceeded the whole week, only that at midnight on Saturday there was no call of 
spell B, however late might be the boiling. 

The succeeding week, the spells were changed, so that the spell B began work 
on the Sunday evening at 6 p..m.$ and so had the very same tale and hours of 
labour, both at the works and in the field, which the spell A had had the week 
before, and A the same as B had had. Thus each spell during every 24 hours was 
i 2 hours at the works and six hours in the field, the whole of their sleep being- 
taken from the six hours which then alone remained to them. And the same 
must of absolute necessity be the case still, if the manufacture of sugar be con- 
tinuously carried on, on estates not having- more than from 200 to 250 Negroes, 
embracing a large majority of sugar estates. Is not this toil dreadful, and most 
wearing and exhausting? and it affects the women still more than the men, Can 
women, by any possibility, breed under such circumstances ? It is altogether 
impossible. 



34 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

mortality is as great among the children of the free as among the child- 
ren of slaves (ques. 496, p. 44), but he cannot answer the question.* — 
No attempt was made to instruct and civilise the maroons till 1829, when 
Mr. Taylor was authorised by the Church Missionary Society to erect 
schools for them in Accomping Town. Prior to that they had been 
left in a state of utter ignorance and barbarism ; but from that date he 
observed a rapid change among them (ques. 537, page 48). — Mr. Tay- 
lor affirms the ample sufficiency of his experience to justify the asser- 
tions he has made respecting the Negro character and the conduct 
of the slave population. His experience was as large as that of most 
others who had been in that island (ques. 562, p. 49). His means of 
apquiring a knowledge of lettered instruction among the Negroes were 
peculiar, and he pronounced their advance, as compared with 18 16, to he 
immense (ques. 581, p. 51); meaning by lettered instruction the know- 
ledge of reading. They acquire it in Sunday schools, which are chiefly 
attended by the adult slaves, and they carry it home and spread it dili- 
gently . The knowledge of reading was not general, but it was spreading 
rapidly. In these schools are many children, but the chief part is 
composed of adults, and this though they could only attend one Sunr 
day in three. These schools are numerous in St. Thomas in the East, 
in St. George's, at Buff Bay, at Annotta Bay, at Falmouth, at Monte- 
go Bay, at Lucea, at Savannah-la-mar, and in St. Elizabeth, where the 
clergy, the dissenting missionaries, the Moravians, and several private 
families are particularly active ; and the recipients of such instruction 
are themselves, in their turn, the active instruments of teaching others. 
It thus spreads rapidly. Many adults are able to read Anti-Slavery publi- 
cations, not from England, but published in the island : some subscribe for 
them and take them in. The proprietors and land-owners know little 
of all this (p. 51 and 52). The Watchman and Christian Record are 
unsafe reading for the slaves in Jamaica. As for the Anti-Slavery 
"Reporter, it was little known in Jamaica, and he did not believe it was 



* But can the slightest doubt rest upon this matter when the returns officially 
sent from the West Indies are examined ? The increase among the maroons of 
Jamaica is nearly 2J per cent, per annum, while the decrease on the sugar estates 
is from 1 to 2 per cent, or more. The free black and coloured people of Deme- 
rara, Berbice, and the Mauritius, increase at the rate of nearly 3 per cent, per 
annum, — How terrible is the waste of slave life as compared with this increase ! 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of W.Taylor, Esq. 35 

read there (p. 53). — The insurrection Mr. Taylor thought had arisen 
chiefly from the rapid advance of knowledge among the slaves ; partly 
from the debates in the Assembly, as to the free people of colour ; 
partly from a desire and expectation of freedom, excited by the dis- 
cussions between the colonial legislature and the government at 
home ; and partly from the excited and divided state of the press* 
p. 53). — The handsome furniture found in the houses of Negroes 
were exceptions ; such things were almost entirely in the houses 
of mechanics, but slaves, generally, have a strong desire to possess better 
clothing and furniture (p. 55). — The Negroes always put on sandals 
when they walk a great distance, (ib.) The Negro house is a low- 
roofed cottage of three apartments ; the centre is the eating apartment, 
the parents occupy one end and sleep there, and the children sleep in 
the centre apartment. The other end is^for their property. Many houses 
have only two apartments, one for living in, and one for sleeping. 
They have rude bedsteads of timber nailed together. Some have mat- 
tresses stuffed with leaves, and some bed-clothes and sheets (p. 55). 
Mr. Taylor could affirm that those slaves who were constant at church 
were those most desirous to receive instruction. 

Mr. Taylor is of opinion that on plantations, generally, it is in the 
power of the manager to inflict great cruelty on the slaves, without 
their being able to obtain redress ; and that, within the limit of the law, 
most appalling cruelty may be inflicted, which cannot be punished 
(p. 56). The Assembly of Jamaica voted large sums for the pro-slavery 
publications of Macqueen, Bridges, and Barclay ; and the planters 
support the Jamaica Courant(p. 56). With the Negroes, the flogging of 
women operates against marriage. They will not marry, because they 
cannot endure to have their wedded wives flogged (p. 57). — It is in- 
disputable that one part of the Jamaica clergy promotes religious 
instruction among the Negroes to the utmost, and that another part 
does not (ques. 670, p. 57). The former exert themselves in every 



* Mr. Taylor has entirely omitted to police the parochial resolutions of Ja- 
maica in August, September, and October, 1831 ; the appointment of delegates 
to England ; and Mr. Beaumont's bill for abolishing female flogging, and facili- 
tating manumissions by compelling masters to grant them at a fair appraise- 
ment. 

e 2 



36 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

possible way to instruct the Negroes, conceiving it their bounden duty 
to their flock to teach them to read the Scriptures, and to put the 
Scriptures into their hands, whether the masters like it or not. The 
other party will do nothing without permission of the owner (ques. 
684, p. 58). There are not sufficient magistrates in Jamaica at pre- 
sent to serve as substitutes for the master in enforcing discipline (ques. 
681, p. 58). — Mr. Taylor thinks that no consideration would induce 
an emancipated slave to submit to the degradation of joining a Negro 
gang to work in the field with a driver behind him ; but his refusal to 
do this, especially as he can procure more profitable employment, is 
only a proof of his good sense (p. 63). 

A paper was produced which Mr. Taylor acknowledged to be his, 
and in which he had embodied, for the information of a friend, his 
general views on the subject of emancipation ; and he added that 
they were still his views, and the result of much deliberation and re- 
flection. It was as follows : — 

" First let emancipation, and strict police arrangements, be contem- 
poraneous. — Ample materials would be found for a police corps in the 
coloured class, whose services could be had at a low rate of charge. — 
Avoid paying the emancipated Negroes by means of allotments of land, 
as those would detach them from regular daily labour ; but pay them 
in money. — At first there would be difficulties, but gradually the 
equitable price of labour would be ascertained, and act as the producer 
of regular labour.— A stipendiary magistracy would be necessary, be- 
cause the peculiar prejudices of the present magistracy generally unfit 
them for the office. — The island would have to be divided into districts, 
each possessing a certain portion of the constabulary force, with a 
stipendiary magistrate, and a house of correction or other penitentiary. 
Were the island thus divided, and the police and magistrates properly 
organized, I firmly believe that emancipation might take place with 
perfect security.— Of course there would be difficulties, obstacles, and 
disappointments, in carrying into effect the detail of the system of 
emancipation; but if Government would address themselves actually to 
the work, telling the planters on the one hand that such is their deter- 
mination, and the Negroes on the other that while they aim at institut- 
ing equal laws, and securing them their civil and religious liberty, they 
by no means designfthat idleness should be at their option, — I am con- 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. J. Barry. 37 

vinced that the result would be as beneficial, in a pecuniary way, to 
the planter, as it would be elevating and humanizing morally to the 
present degraded slave. The present system is incurable; it will not 
modify : it must be utterly destroyed. My experience, as a planter, 
assures me that to attempt to ingraft religion and humanity upon 
slavery, with the hope of profitable results, is a vain and fruitless en- 
deavour. A religious man is a most unfit person to manage a slave 
estate. The fact is, cruelty is the main spring of the present system. 
As long as slavery exists, and the whip is the compeller of labour, it is 
folly to talk of humanity. Legitimate motives are taken away, and 
coercion becomes the spring of industry ; and in proportion to the ap- 
plication of this, that is, coercion, is the effect on labour. The Negro 
character has been much underrated, even, I think, by the Negro's friends. 
When justice is done to him, even in his present degraded circumstances, 
he shows a sagacity and shrewdness, and a disposition to a regular 
social life, which emphatically prove that he only requires freedom 
secured to him by law to make him a useful, and, in his situation, an 
honourable member of the human family." Mr. Taylor added that he 
firmly believed all that he had stated in this paper to be true. It had 
been privately written, and he never expected to see it again, but he 
perfectly agreed now in every sentiment it contained. 

Such is the evidence of Mr. William Taylor, and certainly more im- 
portant evidence has never been laid before the public on this subject. 
It will commend itself to every reader by its calmness, consistency, and 
truth, by its cautious and discriminating character, and by the straight- 
forwardness] with which he states facts, without regard to the im- 
pression they may produce. It bears all the marks of a thoroughly 
honest evidence. 

II.— THE REV. JOHN BARRY. 

The next witness is the Rev. John Barry, a Wesleyan Missionary. 
When he first went to the island, and for some time after, he found the 
work of education in a backward and inefficient state. The children 
attended only on Sundays at the chapel. They were all regularly at 
work during the week in St. Thomas in the Vale, where he then was, and 
no fit teachers were procurable. Now, however, great numbers of child- 
ren, and latterly of adults, have learnt to read. The Wesleyans have no 



38 Report of a Committee of the House of. Common's 

schools on any plantations, nor on any day but Sunday, and at their 
chapels, except in Kingston. The Negroes in St. Thomas in the Vale 
derived their subsistence from the provision grounds allotted by the 
master, and cultivated by themselves. Besides provisions, some of 
them reared pigs and poultry. The yearly allowance of clothing was 
two suits of Osnaburg, a common hat or cap, and a coarse rug coat, for 
bad weather; but many™ were clad in better clothes, procured by the 
sale of their surplus provisions. The whole of the 26 week-days 
allowed by law, and any spare time they had and the Sundays, were 
given to the culture of provisions, or to marketing. They generally 
laboured in their grounds on Sundays, except when they went to 
market, and which market, whether Spanish Town or Kingston, was 20 
miles distant from the plantations near which he lived. This use of most 
Sundays was invariably and decidedly necessary, though they were very 
industrious in employing what time they had in raising food and 
articles for sale. He had paid attention to their industrious habits, and 
had not the least doubt they would labour willingly for hire if free. They 
did not become less industrious by having acquired some little property. 
He had a servant of his own who had been a slave, but had obtained 
his freedom ; and, though he received a liberal weekly pay for his ser- 
vices, he requested to be allowed to devote his hours after 8 or 9 o'clock 
to his own purposes, and has been known almost constantly to work 
till midnight, or even two in the morning, in manufacturing baskets to 
sell, and increase his property and comforts. The Negroes employ 
themselves much, besides cultivating their grounds, in manufacturing 
ornamental baskets, making coarse straw hats and earthen utensils, 
and a variety of little articles, and sometimes in cutting grass, all which 
they sell. This is done to a great extent near towns. The slaves sell 
their provisions and other things in the public markets, as is done in 
England. They are very shrewd indeed in their bargains — as shrewd as 
any white man. They well understand the value of money. They 
often go as far as 25 and 26 miles to market, and sometimes as far as 
35. Their plan is to prepare their loads'on that Saturday which is their 
own, and to travel with it all Saturday night to be in time for the Sun- 
day market ; so that the violation of the Sabbath is unavoidable, for it 
necessarily requires the whole of the day when they go to market, to 
vend their goods and return home (p. 64—68). 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. J. Barry. 3 ( J 

The Negroes, Mr. Barry thinks, are remarkable for the soeial and domes- 
tic affections, lie never knew more dutiful and obedient children. They 
are exceedingly attached to their parents, and will do all in their power 
to promote their comfort. The greatest offence that can be given to a 
Negro is to speak disrespectfully of his parents. At the same time, in 
St. Thomas in the Vale, they are generally in a state of sad demora- 
lization. Great improvement, however, has followed religious instruc- 
tion. On Mount Concord, near the missionary station, there were 130 
Negroes. The adults were about 70. The overseer of that plantation 
called upon Mr. Barry one day and said, " Mr. Barry, the Negroes on 
this property perfectly astonish me. They are the most industrious, 
and the most intelligent, and the best Negroes I have ever seen in this 
island. I have just left the Port Royal mountains, and such was the 
state of the Negroes there that I was afraid to eat my food, lest I should 
be poisoned, and T always considered my life in danger." Mr. Barry 
replied, " I am glad to hear you bear that testimony, Mr. Jordan ; for 
almost all of these people are members of our society." It is true that, 
owing to some peculiarities in the state of the Negroes, they had not 
sufficiently correct notions as to petty thefts and the obligations or 
truth and purity; but, when brought under the influence of religion, 
those evils were almost invariably corrected. Had the slave population, 
generally, been as well instructed as the 10,000 or 12,000 Negroes be- 
longing to the Wesleyan establishments, they might be considered as 
on a par, in point of morality, with ordinary persons. In the late in- 
surrection not a single member of the society was found implicated : 
and there were only two cases even of suspicion. The Governor him- 
self stated as much to Mr. Barry ; and Major-General Yates said that, 
after the most minute investigation, it did not appear that a single 
Wesleyan had taken part in it. Since Mr. Barry had quitted the 
island, a few months since, he had heard rumours that three or four 
had been detected, but on no good authority (p. 68). 

Mr. Barry was decidedly of opinion that, if emancipation took place 
under prudent precautions, there would be an infinitely greater oppor- 
tunity of communicating religious instruction, and a more rapid ad- 
vancement in morality and civilization. He called once, in travelling 
through St. Mary's, on a Mr. Clarke, the possessor of about forty slaves 
who had been receiving instruction for two or three years. The change, 



40 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

he said, was remarkable ; he no longer employed a driver, and seldom 
visited his slaves while at work. Previously to their becoming religious, 
he had employed two drivers, and constantly visited the slaves himself. 
Now he got infinitely more work from those very slaves than he could 
get by his own care, and that of his drivers ; and this he attributed to 
the influence of religion. Religious slaves, however, are not exempted 
in general, under the present system, from the infliction of punishment. 
If they work under drivers, as is the common case, they will share in 
it, however attentive they may be to their duties. If emancipated, he 
believes, they would do more work than now (p. 69). 

Many plantations have no religious instruction at all. St. Mary's had 
a population of 25,000 slaves: when first he visited it, in 1825, the 
only places of worship were the parish church at Port Maria and an- 
other small church that only held 200 people, both very distant from 
the dwellings of the great majority of the slaves. This is a fair pic- 
ture of the provision of places of worship generally throughout 
the island. In some parishes the advantages are greater, but in no 
due proportion to the number of slaves. The aggregate number of slaves 
even partially under religious instruction, by all the religious bodies, 
did not exceed 50,000, being only a seventh of the whole. The pro- 
portion of the free black dnd coloured inhabitants who attend reli- 
gious instruction is much larger. A great degree of immorality, how- 
ever, prevails among both slave and free, the constitution of society in 
Jamaica tending much to general demoralization, and more generally 
among the whites than the other classes. It prevails to a very great extent 
indeed ; and among the whites of all grades it is nearly universal. This 
general profligacy pervading all ranks, whether slave or free, has had 
its origin in slavery, and especially in the master's unlimited power over 
the body of his female slave. It is true he has not the same power over the 
free women ; but the example and influence of the whites are so corrupting 
that the mothers of free females generally prefer seeing their daughters 
the concubines of white men rather than the wives of men of their own 
colour. Emancipation would tend greatly to improve this state of things. 
Religious and moral improvement would then necessarily advance ; and, 
under the influence of religion, the present loose habits would be aban- 
doned. In the Wesleyan Societies in Jamaica there are hundreds of 
fine young women who will labour incessantly rather than submit to 



on the Extinction of Slavery.*— Evidence of the Rev. J. Barry. 41 

such a state of degradation. In some instances women have had the 
strongest inducements held out to return to their former keepers, which 
they have almost uniformly refused. The discredit which still attaches 
to white men who marry women of colour is great, notwithstanding 
the new rights and privileges conferred on that class. Such marriages 
cause an almost entire exclusion from white society. The emancipa- 
tion of the slaves would tend to obviate this evil (p. 70 and 71). 

The free coloured and blacks maintain themselves by their own in- 
dustry in a great variety of ways ; they work as carpenters, smiths, 
masons, coopers, wood cutters, cabinet makers, watch makers, and 
at all other trades carried on by whites. Many of them who have 
themselves been slaves are employed in the very first works in the 
island. Numbers of them are domestic servants, and a- great many 
cultivate lands of their own, and sell the produce. They never work 
in the field of plantations : indeed their services are never asked for 
there, and they have constant work otherwise ; and at all events in 
cultivating land of their own, which they purchase. The present sys- 
tem of labour excludes them from plantation work in the field. A 
planter would not willingly admit free persons to work with his slaves, 
and the free persons would feel it a deep degradation to work with a gang 
of slaves in the field : extreme necessity alone could drive them to it. 
Land may be had, but not always in convenient situations. Mr. Barry 
himself paid 11. currency, or 51. sterling, for an acre of very good grass 
land, which he wanted for his own use. There are immense tracts of 
uncultivated land both in the plains and on the mountains, partly be- 
longing to the crown, and partly to individuals (p. 72). 

Mr. Barry professes to be well acquainted with the habits of the free blacks 
and people of colour. They have certainly greatly improved in informa- 
tion, intelligence, and wealth, during his residence in the island. Some 
of the best educated men he has known in Jamaica are people of co- 
lour, and they promote education among the young. Being allied by 
blood and marriage with the slaves, they communicate with them to a 
great extent, and thus the slaves acquire much general knowledge.— 
There is scarcely a transaction which takes place even in England with 
which they are not acquainted. They take a deep interest in what 
relates to emancipation. When in the last session Mr. Beau- 
mont brought in his bill for compulsory manumission, the greatest 



42 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

possible excitement existed among the slaves, and their expressions of 
joy were almost unbounded ; and the great mass not only of the slaves, 
but of the free black and coloured classes, were eager for the measure. 
He knew slaves that were head men and tradesmen on estates, who were 
able to purchase their freedom, and desirous of obtaining it, but could 
not obtain it. He had known instances of aged and infirm slaves who 
did not desire to be free; but he never knew an instance of a vigorous 
Negro who did not desire it. It is very common for emancipated 
slaves to pay large sums for the redemption of their wives and child- 
ren : the' desire to do so is universally very strong, and very exorbi- 
tant prices are often paid for them (p. 73). 

When Mr. Barry first went to Jamaica, from what he had heard, he 
was led to think that emancipation could not be effected without dan- 
ger. But now he was of a contrary opinion. He was now convinced, 
by a more close observation of the Negro character, that, with proper 
regulations, it might be effected without any clanger; and that such is 
their willingness to labour at their own hours, whether field slaves or 
mechanics, that no apprehension need be entertained of the result. — 
The cause of religion and morality would be most essentially promoted 
by it. Under the present system the slaves are generally precluded, 
for weeks together, from attending places of religious worship and in- 
struction. Any system of police, however severe, would be preferable 
to the evils of slavery. And not only would the free people, generally, 
be perfectly competent to discharge police duties, but thousands of the 
slaves themselves, if emancipated, might safely be put into acorpsof that 
description. They would keep order themselves, and aid in keeping 
others in order. The present magistracy, however, would be inadequate, 
and there ought to be stipendiary magistrates to superintend the whole. 
The feeling of freedom has got so firm a hold of the slaves now that 
they will never be satisfied till they attain it, and even its delay will be 
attended with considerable danger. During the late insurrection, those 
who were judicially executed, with very few exceptions, died glorying 
in their death, and stating that, had they twenty lives, they would 
sacrifice them all rather than return to slavery. No mere amelioration 
of their condition will ever reconcile the Negroes again to slavery. 
Religious instruction tends indeed to restrain turbulence and outrage, 
but it never can repress the desire of freedom (p. 74, 75). 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. J. Barry. 43 

The Negroes are generally a shrewd and intelligent people. Many 
possess strong intellectual powers. They are strongly attached to then- 
homes. They are grateful to those who treat them kindly. Taking all 
their circumstances into account, they are much the saiiie as other men. 
Plantation field slaves have little opportunity of working for hire. 
Plantation mechanics will work assiduously after hours, as long as they 
can see, and often by candle-light. It cannot be doubted, however, 
that in case of emancipation all would work, for fair wages, at planta- 
tion or any other work. They dislike sugar planting more than any other 
work ; but, for a proper remuneration, they will work even on sugar pro- 
perties. They know the value of money, and they wili labour for it 
(P. 76). 

Mr. Barry did not think that the present means of education and 
divine worship were at all sufficient for the slave population. Difficul- 
ties, too, are thrown iu the way by masters. One Sunday, in St. 
Thomas in the Vale, a woman came into the chapel with a wooden tray 
on her head, filled with dirty clothes. Mr. Barry felt inclined to re- 
prove her for the indecorum, but the steward told him she was not to 
blame, as what she had done was to elude the opposition of her owner. 
His opposition to religion was so strong that his Negroes were obliged 
to leave the estate with their best clothes put into the tray, and their 
working dress on, that he might be led to suppose they were going to 
their grounds or to market ; but when they came near chapel they put 
on their best clothes, and put their dirty ones into the tray, and all 
this was done to elude the opposition to their attending religious wor- 
ship. But the grand hindrance is the necessary attention that must be 
paid to their provision grounds, and the impossibility of going to mar- 
ket if they attend chapel. They cannot attend any school but a 
Sunday school — their master's interest stands in the way : and from 
Sunday schools they are frequently altogether debarred. Even the 
children, from the age of five to ten, are constantly employed in gangs 
ulncler a driveress, to perform various works on the estate. Mr. Wild- 
man, and Mr. S. M. Barrett, are the only planters he knew to pay any 
great attention to the religious instruction of the slaves, both children 
and adults. Mr. Nicholas Palmer's wishes on that point were wholly 
frustrated by his attorney. Mr. Palmer sent out as a catechist a Mr. 
Stockman and his wife, from Bristol, to his estate in St. Dorothy's. 



44 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

But, when Mr. Stockman arrived, Mr. Bailey, the attorney, would not 
permit him to go on the estate, and, though informed of Mr. Palmer's 
wishes, would neither make him any allowance nor suffer him to per- 
form his duties. The consequence was that Mr. Stockman, having 
opened a school at Old Harbour, in a very hot and inconvenient house, 
fever ensued, of which he died ; and Mr. Palmer paid the expenses of 
his widow's return to Bristol. He did not know of any specific opposi- 
tion to Mr.Wildman's plans of education, but he became veiy unpopular 
in consequence of them (p. 77). 

Mr. Barry could not tell, from his own observation, whether the field 
slaves worked harder on the plantation, or for their own profit on their 
grounds ; but he had seen carpenters working as hard for their own 
profit as it was possible for men to do. There is, however, a great 
difficulty in entering a plantation to obtain information as to the state 
of the slaves. Attorneys and overseers never like it (p. 77, ques. 949). 

He had known instances, during the late insurrection, of slaves who 
had shown attachment to their masters or managers, and had defended 
their property. One man in particular, James Muir, had defended his 
master's property to the last; and, when at length compelled to abandon 
the house to the insurgents, he secured the most valuable of his master's 
effects and carried them to Montego Bay, where he resided. This man 
was one of the principal slave members of the Wesleyan Society 
(ques. 950, p. 78). 

Mr. Barry explained the mode by which members were admitted into 
that Society. There are subordinate leaders in the Society. If any of 
these should be applied to by an individual for admission, he states the 
fact to the missionary, who examines particularly whether, if a slave, 
his conduct as far as kiiown is irreproachable, and whether he has been 
faithful to his master. If the examination be satisfactory, he is admitted 
for two or three months on trial. If, at the end of this probation, the 
leader can still recommend him for moral conduct, a ticket is then given 
him which recognizes him as a member. At the weekly meeting of the 
leaders the missionary further enquires of each as to the moral conduct 
of every member of his class during the week, and if a slave has been 
guilty of any act of immorality or dishonesty, or of running away, the 
slave is immediately called up and examined, and, if proved to be 
guilty, is expelled. This course is invariably pursued. He does not, 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. J. Barry. 45 
however, necessarily become a leader : that requires higher qualifica- 
tions. In fact, there are not above five slave leaders in the island. The 
office of a leader requires that he should undertake the moral and re- 
ligious instruction of a certain number of members; and, before any such 
appointment, he is brought to the leader's meeting, and the missionary 
examines into his knowledge of Christianity, and his moral character, 
and whether he is in debt, or any pecuniary embarrassment, and it is 
only when the missionary is satisfied on these points that he is ap- 
pointed a leader. There would have probably been more slaves ap- 
pointed leaders, but for the prejudices existing in the colony, which are 
so strong that it was always avoided as much as possible. But for this, 
vast numbers of slaves were as fit to be leaders and subordinate teachers 
as any freemen in Jamaica. The Negroes are not allowed to preach. 
Mr. Barry had often heard them pray and communicate religious 
instruction; but none of them are allowed to become public teachers for 
the same reason, that of obviating prejudice (p. 78). 

Mr. Barry had resided as a missionary not only in St. Thomas in the 
Vale, but in Kingston and Spanish Town, occasionally exercising his 
ministry in St. Dorothy's, at Old Harbour; and in Clarendon, on the 
estate of Lime Savannah, belonging to M. de la Beche. He had not, 
however, an opportunity of visiting the slaves in their huts, or convers- 
ing much with them, except in the way of religious instruction on 
Sunday, and on evenings in the week. Four times a year, however, he 
had direct and personal intercourse with every individual of the con- 
gregations in order to ascertain his religious and moral state. Mr. 
Barry does not believe that there is any essential difference in the cha^ 
racters of the Negroes in different parts of the island, or on different 
plantations, except in the grosser ignorance of some of the parties. 
On the sugar estates they are generally very destitute of instruction 
indeed. The difference of character arose mainly from their respective 
advantages or disadvantages (p. 81). 

Mr. Barry did not know what time was required for the cultivation 
of different articles of Negro provisions. Plantain walks required 
little time when once established. Yams required considerable labour 
in the cleaning and weeding (p. 83). 

Mr. Barry never knew emancipated slaves to work in the field on 
sugar estates. No freeman would willingly submit to the degradation 



46 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

of working in the field with slaves on plantations, and planters would 
not allow of it ; many of them had themselves told him so ; and they 
were generally indisposed to the intrusion of the free on estates. 

Being asked how sugar would be cultivated if the slaves were im- 
mediately emancipated, he replied that, on his first arrival in Jamaica, 
he was opposed to such a plan, and did not think that emancipation 
would be safe. As he became more fully acquainted with the Negro 
character he changed his opinion. He was convinced of their general 
disposition to labour for a fair remuneration, and he believed that any 
danger which might possibly arise from emancipation bore no possible 
proportion to the clanger that must result from the perpetuation of 
slavery. With respect to sugar plantations, though some difficulties might 
exist in the first instance, in inducing the Negroes when free to work 
upon them, yet with due precautions, and the sense the Negroes had of 
the value of money, he certainly thought they would be induced to labour 
even on sugar estates. He was aware of their dislike to sugar culture 
more than to any other work, and this might operate on their minds for 
a time, in the event of freedom ; but he felt convinced, from their hard- 
working habits, and their love of money, that a proper remuneration 
would lead even those on sugar plantations to continue to work upon 
them. This conclusion had been drawn from a long course of observa- 
tion, which had enabled him, as he believed, to form a correct judg- 
ment of the habits and views of the Negroes, and from frequent conver- 
sations with coffee planters around him. He had conversed little 
with sugar planters. He repeated his strong and immovable conviction, 
from all he had seen and heard, that the Negroes, when free, would 
work diligently, even in cane-hole digging, if adequately remunerated 
for their labour (p. 85, 86). 

Being asked what he meant by proper precautions accompanying 
emancipation, Mr. Barry replied that he meant more particularly a 
strong police force, and the appointment of a magistracy for the special 
purpose of preserving the public peace. In the event of a general 
emancipation he should consider this as a proper precautionary measure, 
to repress any partial tumult or disorder ; and, as a measure of prudence, 
it ought to be maintained for some years afterwards, say five or six or 
more, according to circumstances. A large force properly distributed 
might be expedient, in the first instance ; but, believing that there 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. ./. Barry. 47 

would not be any general indisposition in the Negroes to labour or to 
duo subordination, a large force would not, after a time, be requisite ; 
and in some districts, little or no difficulty of any kind would be expe- 
rienced (p. 8G). 

Being further questioned as to his manner of reconciling the necessity 
of coercion to compel the slave to labour, with his view of the indus- 
trious habits of the Negroes, he said that the infliction of punishment 
often depended on the driver alone. Besides, the slave now considered 
himself to labour without remuneration. The whole system was com- 
pulsory, and he himself was the object of that compulsion. While the 
present system of slavery endured, such compulsion, by the corporal 
punishment both of females and males, was, he believed, necessary 
(p. 87). 

In St. Thomas in the Vale, the members of the Wesleyan Society 
amounted to about 700, besides free people ; 300 or 400 usually 
attending. The school here was very inefficient. In Kingston their 
three chapels contained about 4000 ; about half who attended were 
slaves, and of the slaves about half were domestics and mechanics 
residing in Kingston ; the rest plantation slaves ; but the plantation 
slaves could not attend every Sunday, and many only every third or 
fourth Sunday, on account of their own engagements. There was a 
vast number in the Sunday schools, both children and adults, many 
capable of reading the Scriptures. The schools have been much more 
efficient of late. The children are taken in at all ages, from four 
years and upwards. The parents take a manifest interest in the pro- 
gress of their children in reading. A great number of children, but by 
no means a majority of them, are taught to read, and a child diligently 
attending for twelve months may acquire a knowledge of reading. In 
Spanish Town there were about eighty slaves in the school, some of 
them, but not many, adults. Those not taught to read are orally 
instructed in religion. The slave children in the town attended twice 
on Sunday. The general aptitude of the Negroes to learn is about as 
great as that, of any other peasant population. There is a great 
number of children who are now able to read, and some can write ; several 
adults also, who have received instruction solely in the Wesleyan 
Sunday School. In Kingston there is a day school, lately formed, 
attended by about 150 children. There k here a mixture of free and 



48 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

slaves, and of brown and black, but Mr. Barry does not know the 
proportions. The parents of the free children pay towards their school- 
ing. These schools have been encouraged by some owners, but very 
generally discouraged by others. The indisposition is very prevalent to 
relia'ious instruction, whether given by sectarians or not. Planters would 
prefer not having their slaves instructed at all by ministers of the 
church or of any other persuasion. This Mr. Barry asserted from 
what he had seen and known. He had known many severe corporal 
punishments inflicted for no other crime than that of merely attending 
public worship (p. 88, 89, 90). 

Then follows a long enquiry about a set of resolutions passed by 
some Wesleyan Missionaries in Jamaica, on the 6th September, 1824, 
and afterwards disowned by the society at home ; but, having no refer- 
ence whatever to the points now at issue, the whole is omitted. 

Mr. Barry afterwards went on to state that he knew several estates 
on which facilities were afforded for the instruction of the slaves, both 
by clergymen and by missionaries of the Scotch church. But he did 
not know of many instances in which additional places of worship to 
the parish church had been erected by voluntary contributions, in 
Jamaica : he knew of some. Some catechists had been sent out to 
estates, connected, he supposed, with the Church of England, but they 
were discouraged. A few clergymen, of the Church of England, are 
active in preaching in chapels to the slaves, and in forming Sunday 
schools; but they do not carry on preaching orinstruction on the estates. 
There are four Scotch Missionaries on the island (p. 99, 100). 

Mr. Barry denied that, to his knowledge, any Wesleyan Missionaries 
had ever corresponded with the Anti-Slavery Society in England. He 
knew them occasionally to send letters to the newspapers and other 
periodical publications in Jamaica (p. 100). 

Mr. Barry was then questioned as to his view of the moral state of 
the white society of Jamaica. His view was briefly to this effect : — 
While he resided at Grateful Hill, in St. Thomas in the Vale, two women 
'came to complain that, the night before, the overseer of Mount Concord 
had taken away three of their daughters, the eldest thirteen, and locked 
"them up for improper purposes, and they begged him to interfere. He 
said no ; but sent them to the nearest magistrate, Mr. Lane, who interposed 
and had the girls set at liberty. In this way a knowledge of facts was 



on the Extinction of Shivery. — Evidence of the Rev. J. Barry. 49 

often obtained by the missionaries without any interference on their 
part. As to concubinage, it prevailed generally throughout the island. 
It is impossible for any man to reside in Jamaica, or travel through it, 
without being perfectly acquainted with this fact. Certainly many 
scenes occur peculiarly offensive to morals, in England as well as in 
Jamaica ; but, as for concubinage, it is carried on to a greater extent in 
Jamaica than he could ever have conceived possible in any country. 
Concubinage exists to a great extent among all classes, but it prevails 
most among the whites, merchants, planters, clerks ; indeed, the whole 
white population. In short, the system of concubinage is universal in 
Jamaica : to say it is general is saying too little. That very circum- 
stance constitutes one of the principal obstructions to missionary labours 
in Jamaica. To the consequences immediately resulting from the power 
of the master over his female slaves must be ascribed the general demo- 
ralization in which the island is plunged. A proprietor, for instance, 
has twenty female slaves on his estate, all of them entirely at his dis- 
posal : that of itself must lead to great demoralization. But these 
women have children, to whom and to the mother the master often gives 
freedom. Children of such parents, under such circumstances, can 
hardly hope for marriage with men of respectable character; and wo- 
men of colour will not intermarry with those that are below them in life. 
The distinctions of society are all founded in colour. Hence concubinage 
is resorted to, and mothers prefer letting out their daughters to white 
men to marrying them with people of their own colour. This Mr. Barry 
has frequently known to take place, all originating in the original illicit 
commerce of whites with slaves. In case of emancipation Mr. Barry 
does not conceive that this evil would continue in the same degree as at 
present ; not only will the women be less in the power of masters but 
religious instruction has already elevated many, and will elevate still 
more, among the women of colour, to make every sacrifice to escape from 
this state of vice and degradation. A young woman of colour had 
formerly lived with a merchant, who died, and from him she had received 
some property ; but the executor or attorney of the estate, taking a 
fancy to this lady, requested her to live with him. She refused to do so, 
from religious motives, and she was obliged to purchase of this man 
the property that had been given to her, but for which she could exhibit 
no deed. This case he mentioned to show the effects of religion, in 



50 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

leading women of colour to resist the strongest inducements to return 
to their former degraded habits. She was at that time about thirty 
years of age. Mr. Barry adds that he could produce many instances of 
the same kind. The ignorance prevailing among these women of colour 
he affirms to be deplorable. He knew one who had seventeen children, 
and no two by the same father, and who rode in her carriage. No 
moral turpitude attaches to such female deviations from rectitude. . A 
woman who gives her daughter to-day to live in concubinage holds 
the same rank in society she did the day before : he spoke of the 
coloured women. The white women in Jamaica are a virtuous race. The 
women of colour, but less so than formerly, prefer concubinage with the 
whites to marriage with their own colour ; but this is attributable to 
slavery. The decrease of this evil may be traced, in almost every instance, 
to religious instruction. Among the slaves too there is a strong desire to 
receive religious instruction, and he had never seen any general indis- 
position among them to receive it (p. 101, 102). 

In the Wesleyan Society in Jamaica there are about 13,000 members, 
of whom 10,000 are slaves, a great many attending the chapels who 
are not members. The church in Kingston is generally well attended, 
so is the Kirk, but few slaves attend either. In the towns, and espe- 
cially in Kingston, the proportion attending public worship is very con- 
siderable; but in the country places few attend, either slaves or free. They 
have few opportunities, few places of worship. It is Mr. Barry's firm 
belief that religion alone will keep the slaves quiet in the hope of ul- 
timate emancipation, but nothing will ever extinguish their strong de- 
sire of freedom. As the slave becomes enlightened, his desire after 
freedom certainly becomes more intense, though religion will enable 
him to control his passions, and wait for the legitimate accomplish- 
ment of his wishes. This appeared strongly in the conduct of the Wes- 
leyan slaves in the late insurrection. Religion must certainly increase 
the desire of freedom : this is in the nature of things (p. 102, 103). 

Mr. Barry further declared his firm conviction that no missionaries 
of any denomination in Jamaica, whether Methodists, Baptists, or Mora- 
vians, had ever had, even remotely, any thing to do with the late insur- 
rection. There are circumstances in the constitution of the Baptist So- 
ciety which gave a colour, though most unjustly, to the charges against 
them. Baptists give tickets to men enquiring about religion ; but the 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. P. Duncan. 51 

Wesleyans only to those who are admitted as members. There was 
not the slightest ground for any imputation on the Baptist missionaries. 
The causes which appeared to Mr. Barry to have led to the insurrec- 
tion were these : — The slaves had long known what had been passing 
in this country respecting their freedom, and had been led to entertain 
the notion that the king had given them their freedom, but that their 
masters withheld it from them. The parochial meetings that took place 
in Jamaica, the resolutions of which were published in all the island 
newspapers, requesting to be absolved from their allegiance, was one 
of the proximate causes. Some whites also travelling through the 
island frequently take newspapers with them, which they read to 
the slaves. Negroes attending at the tables of their masters hear 
their masters discussing the questions of freedom and slavery as 
freely as if no slaves were present. The parochial resolutions seemed 
to the slaves to shut the door against their hope of freedom. Then 
there was Mr. Beaumont's bill for compulsory manumission, which was 
at once rejected by the assembly. The slaves had been elated to the 
highest pitch of joy by its introduction, and proportionately depressed 
by its rejection. The uncalled-for publication of the king's proclama- 
tion, in December 1831, was also an unfortunate occurrence. It co- 
operated powerfully to promote the insurrection. Such were its main 
causes (p. 104 and 105). 

His reasons for thinking that there was more danger in withholding 
than in granting freedom were, that the Negroes knew very well what 
was going on in their favour in this country. Their minds have been 
long set on freedom, and they never will be satisfied without it. A 
feeling of liberty has gone abroad among them. Many of the Negroes 
who suffered during the insurrection died glorying in their death. 
And, with all this danger on one side, no evil bearing any proportion to 
it could possibly result from freedom (p. 106). 

The Negroes who cultivate their own grounds are well fed, but their 
clothing would not be sufficient for decency, were it not for what they 
purchase for themselves. All this, however, is gained by the sacrifice 
of the slaves' Sunday (p. 106). 

III.— THE REV. PETER DUNCAN. 

The Rev. Peter Duncan was the third witness called. He 

f 2 



52 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

had been a Wesleyan Missionary in Jamaica for more than eleven 
years ; had resided five years in St. Thomas in the East, two in 
Kingston, two in St. Thomas in the Vale, and two in Montego Bay. 
In St. Thomas in the East, which was a great sugar parish, there 
were three chapels, in all of which he did duty. There were about 
1000 slaves attending at these chapels, besides free people ; but the 
members of the society were much more numerous, for all could not 
attend each Sunday. The chapels were as full as they could hold. 
There were no Sunday schools at first : they were regarded with an un- 
favourable eye by the planters. At Kingston about 3000 attended in two 
chapels, a third has been added since ; the majority of the slaves there 
were domestics. In St. Thomas in the Vale about 300 attended, chiefly 
plantation slaves. At Montego Bay the average attendance was be- 
tween 600 and 700, more than half being slaves, and of these a half 
being plantation slaves. There were Sunday schools at all these places, 
principally for children, but also for adults. At Kingston there were 
300 children of both sexes taught. It was not till 1825 that the Sun- 
day schools became efficient, and that reading was taught. A day school 
was opened in 1830, attended both by slaves and free, about half of 
each. The teachers were coloured persons. The aptitude of the 
scholars was pretty much as elsewhere (p. 106 and 107). 

From all that Mr. Duncan saw of the slaves, he thought they were 
just as willing to labour as the people of any other country. Hard 
labour being performed by slaves in Jamaica stamps it with a kind of 
disgrace ; but, when they get above that feeling, they are much more 
willing to labour when free than when slaves. Their desire too to ac- 
quire comforts and luxuries, beyond their allowances as slaves, is very 
evident. They have in general a stronger taste for these things than 
the lower classes in European countries. He had seen emancipated 
slaves with their little settlements so arranged, and their premises so 
regulated, as to indicate a desire for very superior comforts and luxu- 
ries in furniture and dress : this is quite obvious to the spectator. 
He is persuaded that if emancipation were general, and firmly esta- 
blished, the Negroes would be more industrious than at present : the 
unthinking and worthless among them might shrink from labour, but, if 
slavery were done away, hard labour would be stripped of its degrada- 
tion, and they would labour generally and industriously. As a body 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. P. Duncan. 53 

Mr. Duncan thought them the most industrious people he had ever 
seen. The free people he had known do not at all murmur at hard la- 
bour, but they would not submit to go and dig cane-holes, that being 
slaves' work. Many of them who have even had the advantage of a 
liberal education will pursue without complaint, and perseveringly, 
work as laborious as cane-holes. They have appeared to him to have 
energy little short of the people at home, though warm climates are 
less favourable to exertion (p. 108 and 109). 

Mr. Duncan was well acquainted with plantation slaves, especially 
in St. Thomas in the East, but almost wholly in the way of religious 
communication. When he went on plantations he had no intercourse 
with the slaves, nor visited their houses, but he knew much of their 
habits and mode of living from conversation with themselves, and 
with attorneys, overseers, and others. The enquiries which were found 
necessary to be made into the causes of absence from divine worship 
revealed much of the interior of plantations, and pains were taken to 
substantiate excuses by the evidence of slaves on the same estate 
on whom reliance could be placed. The most general excuse was that 
they were bound to attend their provision grounds. He believed it 
to be quite indispensable at present for the slaves to labour in their 
grounds on a Sunday. He never expected to see them oftener 
than once a month, and this even in the case of such as had masters 
favourable to instruction. The number of slave members in St. 
Thomas in the East was 3000 or 4000, but only about 1000 attended 
each Sunday. It was absolutely necessary that they should devote 
their Sundays frequently to their provision grounds, to have even a 
bare maintenance for themselves and families. Indeed the slaves are 
compelled by their masters, in some cases, to go upon their grounds on 
Sunday. In one instance Mr. Duncan had to intercede with a humane 
master to save a Negro from being flogged, whose crime was that he 
had been to the parish church on Sunday, instead of going to his 
grounds. It was scarcely possible for the slaves to keep the Sabbath 
strictly, or to attend every Sunday. Some have attempted it, but have 
suffered materially. Religious instruction certainly tended to make 
the slave rrore patient of injury, as he had seen in many instances; but 
it also diffused a light which tended to make them long for its extinc- 
tion. It cannot be that slavery should long continue in any country 



54 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

which is generally christianized, so that Christianity may be fairly said 
to be at issue with slavery; but, if religion get hold of the slave's mind, 
he will submit to his lot till freed by legitimate means. It is the duty 
of slaves to obey their masters ; but that does not justify slavery, nor 
will it prevent the light from flowing in on the slaves, whether religious 
or not, who have an education. They cannot be indifferent hearers 
of the discussions going on around them. Slavery cannot stand before 
the light of instruction. Mere oral instruction, indeed, would do little, 
as in Catholic slave communities ; for no substantial knowledge can 
be communicated without letters. The work of Christianity, however, is 
still in its infancy in Jamaica. The number of slaves religiously in- 
structed is very small as compared with the population, and the pro- 
portion of them that can read is of course still smaller. The moral state 
of the uninstructed Negroes is awfully degraded. Marriage is almost 
wholly neglected by them, and indeed is not unfrequently opposed by 
the whites who are living themselves in the same low and vicious habits 
as the Negroes. But even those slaves that are uninstructed are very 
acute in understanding their own interests, and in making a bargain ; 
and he would entertain no doubt of their ready subjection to the au- 
thorities over them (p. Ill, 112). 

Mr. Duncan believed that wages would induce the Negroes to 
labour when free, and that they would labour harder in a state of free- 
dom than they now do. They now want the stimulus of remuneration, 
and that makes the toil hard which would otherwise be light. Cane- 
hole digging, though hard, is not harder than the work of English la- 
bourers, nor harder than that which is voluntarily undergone by 
many free persons in Jamaica itself. He has known such exert them- 
selves in their own grounds, and at their trade, more than the Negroes 
in the cane-holes. Whether sugar would be raised in the same quantity 
as now in Jamaica if the slaves were free, he would not pretend to af- 
firm; but that sugar might be raised he has no doubt, nor that num- 
bers would labour in raising sugar for wages. There need be very 
little change in the mode of remuneration ; the labourers might have 
land and increased time for their own use, only having the Sabbath as 
a day of entire rest (p. 113). 

Mr. Duncan further stated that he had had, over and over again, 
the testimony of masters, attorneys, and overseers, to the beneficial 



on the Extinction of Slaver tj . — Evidence of the Rev. P. Duncan. 55 

effects of religious instruction in improving the morals of the slaves, 
and in restraining the disposition to thieving and licentiousness, and 
he had seen it himself in a thousand instances. The very same 
moralizing effects are produced by it in Jamaica as in England 
(p. 113). 

He doubted on what footing sugar cultivation might stand, in the 
case of emancipation ; but he believed that a great number of the 
present slaves, attached as they were to their domiciles, and having 
their provision grounds already planted on the estates, would be 
desirous of remaining where they were, and would continue to 
cultivate sugar for wages. If they had money enough to obtain 
land of their own, they would doubtless prefer cultivating that. With 
the twenty-six week days they now have, and the Sundays, they are able 
to raise food for their comfortable subsistence. He had heard few 
complaints on that head, and he mentioned it with very great 
pleasure. A day and a half in the week, however, is the very least that 
can suffice, allowing Sunday free. Seven days in the week could not 
fail to put him in a state of the highest comfort, if he had land in 
possession ; and if he had land, and his time, he would soon have 
property. In case of emancipation the money possessed by the 
slaves would be expended in buying land, and forming settlements of 
their own. Land would then rise in value, and at length be as much 
out of their reach as it is now out of the reach of the peasantry of 
this country. The greater part of them, however, would not be able 
to obtain land. They have now provision grounds cultivated and ready 
to their hand; they would be reluctant to leave them, and, if 
encouraged by the master, they would be willing to remain and 
labour on the sugar plantations. They receive now no food from 
their masters that he ever heard of, but a few herrings or other salt 
fish, occasionally. If free, they might pay a rent, by labouring for 
their former masters. The black labourer might give, say four days' 
labour in the week to the master, to cultivate sugar, and employ two 
days for himself and family. If he could do better in any other way 
he might prefer it ; yet those who had lived long on certain estates, 
where they had been born and brought up, and where they had 
become familiar with sugar culture, would, he believed, be willing to 
remain and give labour in return for a certain portion of land which 
the owner might let them have. But if they could purchase, or rent, 



56 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

land of their own, somel might prefer it. He had no idea of their 
attempting to possess themselves forcibly of it (p. 113, 114). 

He did not know how much time it took the Negroes to raise their 
food ; but the time allowed them was not more than enough for that 
purpose, and the little additional comforts they required. Some 
were well clothed, others very badly, although all of them are de- 
sirous of appearing as fine as they can. In labouring on their own 
grounds they generally appear very diligent, but the labour is not 
severe. They work with the hoe. In general they are very anxious 
for conveniences, and even finery, and they work very diligently, and 
even laboriously, in their grounds ; but they have often to go a long 
way to market ; and what between this and planting their provi- 
sions, and keeping them clean, and gathering them, and preparing 
them, carrying them home, and taking them to market and selling 
them, their time is generally fully occupied. 

It is not possible for them, but in rare instances, to attend both 
church and market, even when the church is contiguous to the market. 
They cannot quit their marketing till it is finished, and then the 
forenoon service is over. In the afternoon they are obliged to return 
home early, especially in crop time, when they must be home to put 
the mills about on Sunday evenings.* There is, therefore, no time to 
sell their provisions and attend chapel too (p. 115). In point of fact, 
they scarcely ever do attend market and chapel on the same day. In 
the former case their secular engagements seem wholly to engross 
them. In St. James some few attended both, but crop time lasts 
there for six months, and the necessity of being at home to put the 
mills about rendered it generally impossible. At Montego bay the 
market was chiefly supplied by slaves, and it probably may be so in 
Kingston and other places. The Negroes obtain money by selling 
hogs and poultry, as well as provisions, especially the head men. 
Other Negroes who have peculiar advantages have hogs and poultry, 
but they complain of the overseers' often shooting their hogs and 
taking their poultry — sometimes for straying, sometimes from mere 
wantonness (p. 119.) 



* There is a law against putting the mills about on Sunday evenings, in 
Jamaica, of which the Jamaicans make a great boast. This evidence shows how 
jll it is observed. 



on the Extinction of Slavery . — Evidence of the Rev. P. Duncan. 57 

If compulsory manumission were the law of the island, some slaves 
would be able to buy their freedom, but not many as compared with 
the whole population (p. 117). 

The fish allowed to the slaves is given them, not on the Saturday, 
but, according to the statement of the planters themselves, on every 
alternate Sunday, except in one or two parishes (p. 117). 

Inconveniences might possibly arise, both to master and slave, from 
any great and sudden change, like that of emancipation, as they arise 
more or less from all great changes. But it is Mr. Duncan's firm 
opinion that, even if the Negroes were emancipated at a stroke, there 
would not be that loss or disturbance which must ensue if emancipa- 
tion is long delayed. Emancipation might take place with perfect 
tranquillity, if a proper police were established. The public peace, 
however, would be very seriously endangered by any long delay, or 
without a reasonable hope of early emancipation. He does not take it 
upon him to say what would precisely be the effects of emancipation ; 
but he is persuaded that if one set of labourers could not be got to 
work on a particular estate, another would. In the event of freedom, 
the resources of the island would be rapidly developed ; machinery 
would be more employed ; and the Negroes, he is convinced, would 
labour in general, as they do now, for a remuneration, only with more 
heart, and with more profit to the master. They would in that case, he 
fully believes, cultivate sugar as they now do, and go through all the 
process of cane-hole digging and the duties of the boiling houses. Their 
inducement to this would be the desire of liberty, and of their own 
profit, so natural to man. He would himself rather dig cane-holes all 
his life, than have all the money on earth and be a slave ; and the 
Negroes partake of that feeling. It is infinitely more ardent in their 
minds, as late events have proved, than was supposed. The Negro 
could raise provisions indeed, but he must first acquire land on which 
to raise it, and if he had not property he must labour for it. They 
would, it is true, rather pay a rent in cash than in labour, but either 
would be equally beneficial to the master. The 300,000 Negroes of 
Jamaica, if they possessed the land themselves, would have no 
inducement to work for others, if they could work for their own 
profit. But few of them could buy land at first ; and if emancipation 
were universal, land would be more difficult to get than now. At 
present their provision grounds are not generally disturbed, but still 



58 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

complaints are often made that after having cleared, and planted, and 
cultivated their grounds, they are taken from them by the overseers ; 
and, though this injustice may not be general, yet the grounds are 
secured to them by no legal tenure. It is not a common case ; but 
when it does occur the complaints are very loud, and the overseer 
has certainly the power to do it. Mr. Duncan had heard of the diffi- 
culty which Mr. Simon Taylor had experienced in inducing his slaves 
to allow some cocoa trees of theirs to be cut down which were sup- 
posed to interfere with the healthiness of their houses on Holland 
estate, but his forbearance was mentioned as a rare instance of dis- 
interestedness, and eulogized as highly as language could praise any 
thing. As to what would be the actual result of emancipation, Mr. 
Duncan could not venture to predict ; but his hope was that the 
Negroes would desire to retain their provision grounds, and that 
masters would feel it their interest to secure as many willing and 
efficient labourers as possible, and that they would make bargains for 
certain portions of ground in lieu of certain quantities of labour. This 
would be the mutual interest of proprietors and labourers, and that they 
would feel ; and therefore the slaves would be ready to comply with 
any reasonable overtures of the masters. If the property of the master 
in the slave ceased, the right of the slave to his ground would also 
cease, and a new bargain would have to be made. The slave would 
still feel his dependence on his master, notwithstanding his freedom, 
and the master would be able to say to the slave, " There is the 
ground which is no longer yours, as you are a free man, but mine; but, 
if you will continue to work for me, you will have for your labour that 
land and so much time to cultivate it." He could have no doubt, 
from his knowledge of the Negro character, of their acceding to any 
such reasonable proposition, if made by one on whose veracity they 
could, rely ; and, as to the religiously-instructed slaves, there would, 
in his view, be no difficulty whatever. The religious slaves, too, are 
considered by the others as their best friends and advisers ; and as for 
enforcing such contracts, and ousting from their grounds those who 
failed, an active police could easily enforce the law. In St. Thomas 
in the East, for example, the number of Methodist converts is from 3 
to 4,000. Their influence over the rest was demonstrated during the 
late insurrection. The slaves of St. Thomas in the East were as 
much agitated as in other parishes, yet the influence of the religious 



on the Extinction of Slavery Evidence of the Rev. P. Duncan. 59 

slaves was so great that, while the whites of the parish were all absent, 
engaged in militia duty, a planter from that district stated that the 
Negroes there took off the crop as well in the absence of the white 
people as if they had been present. In the Plaintain Garden district 
of St. Thomas in the East, here chiefly referred to, religion has existed 
longer and been less opposed than in most other quarters. In Man- 
chioneel district, on the contrary, where religion had been con- 
stantly opposed, the Negroes were very troublesome and discontented ; 
but where religion had been encouraged and embraced, while in 
other parts of the island labour was, to a great extent, suspended, 
there it was going on as well as if nothing had happened (p. 117, 118, 
119, 120, 121). 

With respect to opposition to religious instruction, Mr. Duncan 
had known as much made to zealous clergymen of the established 
church, and of the Scotch kirk, as to any others. The erection even 
of additional places of worship seemed to him to arise rather from a 
wish to appear in England more friendly to religion than they really 
were, than to promote the religious instruction of the slaves ; and for 
this reason, that the most laborious clergymen had been always as 
much opposed as any dissenting ministers ever were. Of the general 
body of the clergy, about 42 in all, four or five have been very labo- 
rious among the slaves ; and these have been as severely opposed as 
any Methodists or Baptists ever were. As for the established Scotch 
church, there is only one place of worship at Kingston, namely, Mr. 
Wordy's ; he had been frequently there, and never had seen one 
slave attending (p. 122). 

As to plans of emancipation, Mr. Duncan thought that all partial 
plans would fail of their effect. The best was that of emancipating 
all children born after a certain day, but even that was attended 
with great and perhaps insuperable difficulties. Still that would be 
better than nothing. The only plan not attended with very great, 
perhaps insuperable difficulties, is a general emancipation. Not that 
there are not great difficulties in the way of that measure, but they 
may more easily be overcome (p. 123, 124). 

Mr. Duncan then entered into some explanations respecting the 
resolutions of the Methodist Missionaries in 1 824, already adverted 
to, and which were disclaimed by their superiors at home. The only 
part of it we shall now notice is the case laid by the Missionaries be- 



60 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

fore Mr. Burge for his opinion, and his reply to it, which tended to 
produce in the minds of the Missionaries the alarm which led to their 
rash and ill-considered resolutions. 

The parliamentary resolutions of May, 1823, had scarcely reached 
Jamaica when, however unreasonable and absurd, it was stated, and 
generally believed, that the Methodist Society had something to do 
with them. — Very great prejudice, said Mr. D., was thus excited 
against us. It was threatened to shut up the chapels. Two Mis- 
sionaries had arrived, and had applied for a license to preach in our 
parish ; but the license was refused. An alien act was then in force, 
which was thought sufficient to enable the Governor to transport any 
suspected persons. It was even proposed that we should be trans- 
ported as well as refused permission to preach. Here was a painful 
state of things, especially as it was uncertain what might be the sen- 
timents of His Majesty's Government at home upon the great subject 
of religious toleration in Jamaica. — The Missionaries got alarmed, and 
they applied to a legal gentleman, Mr. Burge, to know what was the 
law of Jamaica upon that subject, and his opinion added greatly to 
their alarm. 

The case laid before Mr. Burge, with his opinion, was read as fol- 
lows : — 

" To the Honourable William Burge, Esq., His Majesty's Attorney- 
General, Jamaica. 

" The Reverend Francis Tremayne, Wesleyan Missionary, arrived in 
this island in March, 1823, possessed of the regular documents of his 
church, viz., a letter of ordination and certificate of license, obtained 
before the Lord Mayor of London, authenticated in the usual way by 
signatures and seal. At the first court of quarter sessions held at 
Spanish Town, after his arrival, he applied for and obtained a license 
to officiate in the precinct of St. Catherine's. After having laboured 
with success, and to general satisfaction, for twelve months in St. Tho- 
mas in the Vale, he was removed to St. Ann's, taking with him testi- 
monials from the only magistrates of the immediate neighbourhood, 
of their decided approbation of his conduct, which letters were pro- 
duced in the court of quarter sessions held at St. Ann's -Bay, on the 
13th ultimo, together with his letter of ordination, English license, 
and the license obtained in Spanish Town, in this island, at which 
court he made application for leave again to take the usual oaths, to 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. P. Duncan. 61 

qualify him for officiating' in two of our chapels which had been pre- 
viously licensed by that court, which was rejected. Now the ques- 
tions on which Ave would solicit your opinion are these — 

" First, — Has not Mr. Tremayne sufficiently complied with the law 
to authorise him to preach in those chapels V 

" As I consider it necessary for the minister to qualify at the court 
of quarter sessions of that parish to which he removes, and in which 
he intends to officiate, and as Mr. Tremayne has not been admitted to 
qualify by the court of quarter sessions of the parish of Saint Ann's, 
I am of opinion that he is not authorised to preach in that parish. — 
W. Burge." 

" Second, — Is not one personal license obtained in any parish in this 
island sufficient to qualify a man for the whole or any licensed house?" 

"I do not consider that one personal license obtained in any parish 
in this island is sufficient to qualify a man for the whole or any licensed 
house.— W.B." 

"Third, — Provided that one personal license is not sufficient, and 
a Missionary with such documents is denied the privilege of thus re- 
qualifying in any court of quarter sessions, can such a court be com- 
pelled to re-qualify such a person by writ of mandamus or otherwise ?" 

" I am of opinion that, if he is possessed of all the documents above 
referred to, and the court of quarter sessions refused to admit him to 
qualify, such court might by mandamus be compelled to admit him. 
—W.B." 

" Fourth, — What could be done provided a Missionary, with only 
his regular home documents, should be refused a license by a court of 
quarter sessions in this island, could he have redress by a writ of 
mandamus or otherwise ?" 

" If the Missionary had not officiated in any parish, and consequent- 
ly had not obtained his license from any court of quarter sessions, 
as in the case of a minister on his first arrival in the island, and had 
therefore only the documents authenticating and evidencing his ordi- 
nation as a minister, I consider that the court of quarter sessions 
might by mandamus be compelled to admit him to qualify. — I cannot 
conclude my answer to these questions without impressing upon the 
serious consideration of the Wesleyan Missionaries the very great in- 
expediency, both as it regards the welfare of their institution in the 
island, and the public repose of the island, of engaging at a crisis so 



62 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

agitated as the present in any litigation with the local magistracy on 
this subject. With the limited information that is possessed respect- 
ing the distinguishing tenets of different religious sects, it is not sur- 
prising that many persons of great worth and great liberality should 
entertain, from the conduct of the Missionary Smith, at Demerara, 
strong feelings on the introduction of any Missionaries. It would be 
highly imprudent, and quite at variance with the correct conduct of 
the Wesleyan Missionaries in this island, to incur the risk of increas- 
ing or confirming those feelings by any litigation with the magistracy. 
— W. Burge." (p. 125.) 

Now it was under the alarm and apprehensions thus produced that 
the resolutions were hastily adopted. 

Mr. Duncan was residing at Kingston when the late insurrection 
broke out. He had resided two years before at Montego Bay, and 
therefore well knew the quarter in which it broke out. The causes 
he thought obvious. 

1st. The ill-judged policy of the British Government, which, in- 
stead of conciliating the planters, as they vainly hoped, had greatly ex- 
asperated them. Had they carried the emancipation at once, in 1823, 
less loss would have resulted to the master, and far less misery to the 
slave. Vehement excitement, and discussions without end, were the 
consequence. The slaves heard and knew all this ; for the planters 
were not very careful in expressing themselves before the slaves. 

2nd. The parochial meetings, and the resolutions there adopted, in 
1831, which were of the most violent character, — stating that the king's 
government wished to take their property from them, and make the 
slaves free, and that they would renounce their allegiance rather than 
submit to this, being determined to hold their slaves in bondage. — • 
The slaves said naturally enough, " our masters tell us the king wants 
to make us free, but they will not submit, but keep us slaves still." 
This was their impression. Now the king has not more loyal subjects 
in the wide extent of his dominions than the slaves of Jamaica. 
They will do any thing for him. They revere his very name. Be- 
lieving the two parties were at issue, they had no difficulty in taking 
their side with the king. 

3rd. The unceasing opposition to religious instruction, in different 
districts of the island, on the part of the planters. And while 
the religious slaves desired religious liberty that they might benefit 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. P. Duncan. 63 

by their teachers, the more unprincipled and uninstructed availed 
themselves of this desire to diffuse principles injurious to the peace 
of society. 

4th. Mr. Beaumont's bill for compulsory manumission. Many Ne- 
groes hailed it with high satisfaction ; they thought it would pass, 
and, when they saw it thrown out by an immense majority, they gave 
way to a feeling of despair, and seeing their masters determined to 
keep them in slavery, though the king wished not, they resolved to 
rise and take their freedom. 

5th. The dread of having the island transferred to the United 
States. Now not only the slaves, but the free classes, are enthu- 
siastically loyal, and their hatred to America is as deep and deadly 
as their attachment to Great Britain is warm and devoted. A flame 
would have burst out before this but for the people of colour, who, 
it is known, would be ready to oppose the very first movement of the 
kind. They would not submit to such a thing ; they hate the very 
name of America, and every thing that is British is dear to them as a 
body. 

Mr. Duncan said that the plans of his majesty's government had 
produced evil. But this was not because they were evil in them- 
selves ; on the contrary, they were wise and moderate, and, if they 
had been acceded to by the planters, they would have done good : 
but the planters, instead of falling in with the views of government, 
uniformly opposed them. It would have been far better for the 
planters had the slaves been made free at once ; for all opposition 
must have soon subsided, and it would only have been the efferves- 
cence of the moment. 

Being asked how many of the whites would have remained in the 
island afterwards, he replied, the whole of them. It might have 
been followed by some inconveniences ; but there would not have been 
either that loss to the planter, or that misery to the slave, which has 
been caused by the violent opposition of the planters to every wish of 
the government. It was his calm and decided opinion that emanci- 
pation would not tend to the effusion of blood, but that the attempt 
to perpetuate or prolong slavery certainly would. Even now, the 
violence of the whites in their persecution of religion, the destruction 
of places of worship, and the oppression of missionaries and their con- 
verts, was exciting an unwonted irritation in the minds of the slaves 



64 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

and free classes, who were prepared for stern resistance to farther 
outrages. Even the less religious part of the coloured people felt 
deeply interested in the cause of civil and religious liberty, and they 
were bent on actively resisting any farther attempt to infringe them. 
Yesterday letters were received stating that one of the Wesleyan 
missionaries at Falmouth was attacked by a mob of white men, who 
entered his premises armed with bludgeons ; bedaubed him with tar ; 
knocked down himself and his wife ; attempted to set fire to him, 
and to throw his infant child out of the window. The timely inter- 
ference of the people of colour prevented all the mischief that was 
intended ; but, when the missionary went to lodge informations against 
these rioters, he could get no magistrate to take his depositions. 
Such things must lead to blood : indeed the prolongation of slavery 
must lead to it. Emancipation would be perfectly harmless com- 
pared with this state of things. Indeed so completely has the law 
proved ineffectual for the protection of property, that the people of 
colour seriously talked of arming for its defence (p. 140). Besides, 
the systematic opposition of the planters generally, and with a few 
bright exceptions, to that religious instruction for which the slaves 
are so eager, joined to their growing thirst for civil liberty, increased 
ten-fold by late events, must be fatal ere long to the public peace. 
Whatever dangers, therefore, there may be in emancipation, they are 
very greatly exceeded by the danger of prolonging the present system. 
The slaves who were executed died exulting in suffering for the sake 
of freedom ; and this is a feeling likely to increase. Without a rea- 
sonable prospect of early emancipation, it was his firm and deliberate 
opinion the peace of the island cannot be preserved for any thing 
like five years (p. 131 — 134). 

Mr. Duncan then stated the case of Henry Williams, a slave, of 
the cruelties practised on whom, on account of his religion, a full 
account will be found in the Anti-Slavery Reporter (see vol. iii. 
p. 356, 384, and 431). During the late insurrection, the estate to 
which Henry Williams belonged was left under his care, and he pre- 
served it from all disturbance. He was, nevertheless, arrested, tried, and 
severely punished, at St. Ann's bay, "for holding unlawful meetings, 
and administering unlawful oaths !" This Henry Williams is a very 
intelligent person, who can read and write. On the last night of the 
year, he did what is customary among the Wesleyans : he spent it in 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. P. Duncan, ft? 

religious services with a few of his friends. There is also a custom 
apaoug the Methodists of renewing, in their chapels, on the com- 
mencement of the new year, what they call their covenant with 
God. As the chapels were then shut, and the missionaries forced to 
leave the parish, Henry Williams read over with his friends the form of 
this covenant or engagement ; and, as is also customary, he and they 
lifted up their hands in token of assent. Some one having given infoiv 
mation of this circumstance, Henry was apprehended, taken to St. Ann's 
bay, tried by a slave court, and sentenced to be flogged and to six months' 
hard labour, in chains, in the work-house, from which he effected his 
escape, a circumstance which Mr. Duncan regrets, although the 
many cruelties he had patiently borne before, and the injustice and 
severity of the present proceeding, seem to have subdued his constancy. 
He possessed great influence among the slaves, and the effect of these 
proceedings towards him must be bad (p. 141, 142). 

Mr. Duncan then gave some account of the Colonial Church 
Union of Jamaica, composed of the magistrates and most influential 
persons in each parish. The objects of the Union were to " resist the 
encroachments of their enemies ;" to furnish " an antidote to the 
falsehoods of the Anti-Slavery Society;" to collect "the whole 
strength of the island, and to obtain therefrom a general petition to 
the legislature, for the expulsion of all Sectarian missionaries;" 
" to strive to regain the confidence of their slaves, by a more rigid 
discipline in the first place," and next " by granting every indulgence 
that may be. merited;" "to lend their influence and support, on all 
occasions, to those patriots who, on behalf of the paramount laws of 
society, hazard their personal responsibility for our preservation," and 
" to obey promptly and implicitly all constitutional orders of the 
Union." One of the resolutions adopted by them was to request 
all proprietors to restrain their slaves from attending any dissenting 
chapel. Many. members of these unions are Jews (p. 142, 143). 

After the most rigid enquiry, it. did not appear that one Wesleyan 
convert was concerned in the insurrection. Some of them had suc- 
cessfully defended their masters' property. In no case does it seem 
possible that slavery and Christianity can long exist together. But, 
in the present state of excitement in Jamaica, it seems quite impos- 
sible that any efforts of Christian ministers can keep the slaves quiet 
in their present state (p. 144). 

<£ 



66 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

The hostility of the planters to religion has exceedingly increased 
of late. The growing efficiency of missionary labours and Sunday 
schools has aggravated it greatly (p. 144). 

Mr. Duncan was present, in the House of Assembly, on the 3rd of 
March, 1832, when the Order in Council of the 2nd November, 1831, 
was discussed. One member, Mr. Barry, after a long and violent 
speech, moved that the order should be thrown over the bar and 
burnt by the hands of the common hangman. Mr. Stamp was not 
for proceeding so far; but, if the British government should try to 
enforce it, they had, he said, 18,000 bayonets, and with such a force 
they would never submit to the dictation of the "King's ministers. 
This was known to the slaves. The speeches were published and read 
by them, and many blacks too were present, in the House at the 
time (p. 145). 

Mr. Duncan, being asked whether the hostility of the planters to 
religion was not a dislike of particular sects, rather than of religion 
generally, replied that, wherever Christianity was promulgated, light 
was diffused in many cases where the religion was not embraced or 
obeyed, and that light could not but make slavery odious. Slavery 
was incompatible with the known rights of mankind, and the ideas of 
justice, which Christianity recognized and enforced, and must ulti- 
mately fall before it. Christianity in Europe extinguished slavery, 
by its influence both on the master and the slave. Ministers of the 
gospel were bound indeed to inculcate obedience on the slave as a 
duty ; but Christianity also binds Christian masters to free their slaves. 
The slave is required to obey his master, till his condition is changed ; 
but the duty of the master is to " let the people go." This view of 
the matter was avoided by the missionaries in Jamaica ; but the 
slaves who could read had access to newspapers where slavery 
was discussed. The influence of the island press was very injurious 
to the cause of Christianity, particularly in exciting the opposition of 
the planters. He alluded to the Jamaica Courant, the Falmouth 
Courier, the Cornwall Chronicle, and other papers. There was a 
paper on the other side, the Watchman, but he did not think it so 
hurtful ; for, though it advocated the cause of the slaves, and exposed 
the oppressions of slavery, yet it inculcated obedience on the slave 
(p. 427). 

When asked whether he persisted in saying that religion was 



on the Extinction of Slavery.— Evidence of the Rev. P. Duncan. 67 

opposed, when taught by the ministers of the Church of England and 
Scotland as well as by sectarians, he said he adhered to that opinion, 
and he believed that neither the increase of the clergy, nor the addi- 
tion of places of worship, arose from any wish to give effective in- 
struction to the slaves, but to make people at home think they were 
friendly to religion, if taught by the Church. He did not scruple to 
say this, though it might appear uncharitable, that such, and even 
worse, was the general case, judging from what he had himself seen. 
Many of the clergy do not labour at all among the negroes ; those of 
them who do so, with zeal and unwearied diligence, as some of them, 
about five or six, do, are as much opposed and maligned as any 
Methodist, even by persons professing to be members of the church. 
It is effective religious instruction, whether oral or otherwise, to which 
the planters are opposed, but especially to the slaves being taught to 
read. The clergymen to whom he alluded had themselves told him of the 
severe opposition they had to encounter. They were discouraged in 
every way, and their characters traduced. This was quite notorious 
(p. 150).' 

Mr. Duncan denied the allegation of the missionaries drawing large 
contributions from the slaves. The contributions they received came 
mostly from the free — not a fiftieth part came from the slaves (p. 151). 

Being asked whether he thought the condition of the slave was 
more comfortable now than when he first went, twelve years ago, to 
Jamaica, he said he did not think so (p. 152). 

Mr. Duncan produced a memorial that had been addressed to the 
governor, Lord Belmore, in April, 1832, stating the destruction of a 
number of their chapels by lawless mobs, and that, having discovered 
the authors of these outrages, they had furnished the Attorney General 
with informations, on oath, but that no step had been taken by him 
to bring the offenders to justice ; that their missionaries were pre- 
vented from performing their duties by threats and violence ; but that, 
notwithstanding these circumstances of outrage and oppression, they 
were happy in being able to affirm that not one individual connected 
with their societies, whether free or slave, had been connected with 
the late insurrection. They therefore solicited the governor's inter- 
ference. On the 21st of April the governor's secretary transmitted to 
them a copy of a letter from the Attorney General, stating that no 
unnecessary delay had arisen, and that hemeant to institute proceedings 

© 2 



68 Report of a Committee of. the House of Commons 

against the offenders at the next June grand court, but complaining that 
the complainants had not bound themselves in recognizances to pro- 
secute, and had not held the offenders to bail : all which, as Mr. 
Duncan had said, was surely his duty, and that of the magistrates, 
and not theirs (p. 153). 

Mr. Duncan has certainly known slaves suffer severely from the 
pecuniary distress of their masters, being driven from their grounds, 
perhaps converted into jobbing gangs, or put in gaol for their debts. 
But he cannot say that the slaves are the best off on the most pros- 
perous properties. — Their education depends almost wholly on the 
disposition of the owner or manager (p. 156). 

Mr. Duncan had known the marriage of slaves opposed by their 
masters in a great many instances, and this could not be ascribed to 
a dislike to sectarians, but to religion itself. When he has enquired 
into the objections on the part of the master or overseer, it was of this 
kind : — " I will not allow you to get married, you may live as I am 
living myself." This has been the general and almost only reason 
assigned in all parts of the island. In 1826 two respectable slaves, 
who had been living together in the usual way, applied to Mr. Duncan 
to marry them privately, as their master would not consent. Mr. 
Duncan refused ; but, the Negroes intreating him with tears in their 
eyes, he wrote to their master (a Mr. William Rae of Kingston) a 
respectful note, saying he had no intention to interfere between him 
and his slaves, but intreated him to consider the case. The Negroes 
took the letter, and when he read it he tore it in pieces before them 
and gave no reply to it. A few owners and attorneys, but very few, 
encourage marriage; but in general they are very adverse to it, and 
the general answer is, " You may live as I do" (p. 157). 

Our readers cannot fail to be struck with the honest boldness, and 
at the same time with the clear and comprehensive views, and sound 
principles which mark the evidence of these two Wesleyan mis- 
sionaries, Mr. Barry and Mr. Duncan. They reflect credit on those 
who appointed them; and it must afford general satisfaction to have 
such clear and indubitable indications as their evidence affords, of their 
calm and dispassionate judgment, as well as of their enlightened zeal 
and unshaken courage. 



on fhi Extinction of Slavery.— Evidence of the Rev. T. Cooper. 60 

IV.— THE REV. THOMAS COOPER. 

The next witness was the Rev. Thomas Coopeu, a Unitarian 
minister, who had lived on the estate of Georgia, in Hanover, 
belonging to Mr. Robert Hibbert. The slaves, he said, had a weekly 
allowance of herrings from their master, the adults seven or eight, 
and the children half. For raising- food they had land on the back 
part of the estate, which they cultivated on Sundays and on the 26 
days allowed them by law. The time allowed, exclusive of Sundays, 
was not sufficient : besides which they must attend market on the 
Sunday ; so that they must labour the whole of the time allowed them, 
and on Sunday also, to provide for themselves and families in any thing 
like comfort, the chief part of their subsistence being derived from 
their own labour. The grounds were too distant to allow of their 
working upon them in the intervals of their labour during the working- 
days. Their surplus provisions they carried to market, to which they 
had often to travel 13 or 14 miles and back. Some were nearer the 
market. The least time that could enable a slave to live in comfort, 
he thought, was 78 days in the year, besides what little they had from 
their masters. Two days in the week, or 104 days in the year, would 
have been sufficient, he thought, to support them entirely without the 
master's aid. He had never known a slave to possess more than 30 
or 40 dollars. If emancipated, he thought the slaves would be 
better labourers and better members of society. The free were 
highly respectable, as compared with the slaves. They were as much 
disposed to industry as the people of this country. He saw none 
idle among them. Mauy accumulated property, both as settlers 
cultivating land, and as merchants in towns. He thought that the best 
way of procuring labour from manumized slaves would be to pay a fair 
rate of hire for their labour. He had seen brown men very 
industrious as carpenters, &c. He had never known them work in 
the held as labourers, but he had known them work as boilers. He 
had no fears that the Negroes would return into the woods if emanci- 
pated : that would be placing themselves voluntarily in poverty and 
distress. That they would be industrious if bee, he felt well per- 
suaded, as he had never seen any tendency to idleness in those 
that were free. If they were free and worked for wages, labour 
would no longer be disgraceful, as now. The free coloured are rising 
in intelligence. They send their children to schools to be educated. 



tO Report of a Committee of the House of Commdns 

Mr. Cooper had known whites living on parochial relief: he had 
never seen free coloured persons in such distress as to require it. He 
thought that in case of emancipation a few able and well disposed 
men would keep a Negro village in order as effectually as our police 
keeps London in order. A total change, however; Avould be required 
in the magistracy. The free coloured people, he believed, were loyal. 
They formed a part of the militia. He never heard any distrust 
expressed of them by whites. The Negroes had no hope of liberty 
when he was in the island. They submitted to their state as a great 
but unavoidable evil. They seemed like persons in despair : they 
had no hope whatever. They were sometimes gay, and danced and 
jumped about. In general they exhibited that sort of gloom which 
must arise from being oppressed without any hope of rising. He did 
not recollect hearing them sing, as they returned from work in the 
evening : they were generally too fatigued. They sometimes had 
dances at night; but the planters disliked it, thinking it added to 
their exhaustion (p. 138). 

It was doubtless possible to teach the slaves to read aiid write, but 
it was not thought consistent with the master's interest to give time 
for that purpose. Even the children he taught were not kept one 
clay from work. As soon as they were fit to go to the field, they were 
taken from him. There was a general and very powerful prejudice 
against teaching them to read. He had been sent by Mr. Hibbert to 
instruct his slaves, and no one actually obstructed him, but he had 
no encouragement. He had never known a plantation slave who 
could read. In general, at that time (1817 to 1821), the slaves had 
no means whatever of religious instruction. There was no hindrance 
to Mr. Cooper's going on neighbouring plantations, but the overseers 
did not like that he should communicate with the slaves. The over- 
seer of Georgia did not directly obstruct him, but he told him he con- 
sidered the teaching the slaves a very injurious thing; and the clergy- 
man of the parish said that Mr. Cooper was training up generals for 
the black army: he did not object to teach them the Lord's prayer, 
and the being of a God (p. 139). 

Mr. Cooper had employed Negroes for hire as carpenters, and in 
his little garden, and they worked very well. The free blacks often 
complained to him of the difficulty in obtaining payment for the work 
they did for white people (p. 139). 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of Mr. Loving. 71 

Mr. Cooper had written to Mr. Hibbert to say that, if the slaves were 
taught to read, he thought they would certainly soon cease to be slaves; 
that, in proportion as they were enlightened, they would be dissatisfied; 
and that, when they came to see their real condition, they would them- 
selves alter it. On Mr. Cooper telling Mr. Hibbert this, the latter 
begged him to discontinue teaching them to read. It appeared to him 
that the slaves submitted to their condition on account of their de- 
graded state, but if instructed, and taught to read and to understand 
the principles of Christianity, they would at once discover the wrong 
done to them, and there would be a general resistance, if no means 
were taken to make them free ; and such was the universal opinion 
among the planters in Jamaica. He quite agreed with them in think- 
ing that knowledge diffused among the slaves by reading was wholly 
incompatible with slavery. Slavery considers them as animals, goods, 
and chattels. Instruction considers them as men ; and if knowledge 
be widely diffused among them, and emancipation be not given them, 
it will be seized by force (p. 140). 

On Georgia and other estates, it was the duty of the book-keeper 
to go to the Negro grounds on Sunday, to see that the Negroes were 
at work there. In these cases, at least, the overseers thought that it 
would not do to depend wholly on the diligence and providence of the 
slaves for their support, but that they must be superintended even 
then. 

V.— MR. HENRY LOVING. 

Mr. Heniiy Loving resided at St. John's, in Antigua, and was 
proprietor and editor of the Antigua Weekly Register. In 1821, by 
a census, the population of the island was 1980 whites and 4066 free 
coloured persons. There has been no census since, but in 1828 pains 
were taken by himself and some friends of his, coloured gentlemen, to 
ascertain their numbers, and they made the total 5400, being an in- 
crease of 1334 in 7 years. This account excluded the intermediate 
manumissions. This account was not published then : it was not 
thought prudent to do so, lest the authorities should suppose they had 
an improper motive in exhibiting the superior strength of the coloured 
as compared with the white class. Of late years marriage has become 
much more common among the free persons of colour. Formerly, 
concubinage pervaded all classes, even the highest, and the force of 



72 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

example carried it through every rank. This change he regarded as 
owing to education and religious instruction, which of late had greatly 
advanced (p. 159). 

A corresponding improvement had also taken place in the slave 
population. From an early period, though the Established church 
was asleep/the Moravians and Wesley ans were very active in the work 
of religious instruction, and very successful too. And, since the ap- 
pointment of a bishop, Antigua has been greatly favoured by having 
such clergymen as Archdeacon Parry and Mr. Holberton. That 
gentleman is Rector of St. John's, and has endeared himself greatly 
by his indefatigable exertions in diffusing religious knowledge among 
t.ie slaves. Schools have multiplied, and there is a unity of feeling 
between the clergymen and the sectarians, which promises the best results. 
The schools under the established clergy having more ample means, 
and being also zealously superintended, have flourished much, and 
things proceed very cheeringly. The slaves in Antigua are the most 
intelligent and best instructed in the West Indies. Formerly, few 
were taught to read : now great numbers are so taught — some even 
on plantations. Having known Antigua from infancy, he can say 
that marriage has increased as religion has been diffused. He had 
refrained from conversing with the slaves as to their feelings about 
freedom, thinking it imprudent to do so ; but, though he could not 
say that they were positively restless under their slavery, he thought it 
impossible their minds should be enlightened, and yet remain so debas- 
ed as not to desire freedom. He had never seen any tendency to tumult 
in the slaves of Antigua, till the month of March, 1831, when the 
Sabbath market (their only market day) having been taken away by 
the legislature, and no other day substituted for it, a revolutionary 
movement took place among them, which was alarming, and they 
seemed determined to resist the operation of the law (p. 160). 

Mr. Loving believed his newspaper was read by the slaves. He did 
not know of any who were subscribers to it, but many copies are 
purchased for ready money, and doubtless some of these by slaves. 

The slaves had been in the habit, from time immemorial, of bring- 
ing their articles to market on Sunday ; for they had no other time 
for doing so, having no other day given them by law. But, in alleged 
compliance with the wish of the Government at home, the legislature, 
in 1831, abolished marketing on Sunday, and thus, as no other time 



on the Extinction of Sldvery . — Evidence of Mr. Loviiuj. 7. 3 

was given them in lieu of Sunday, in fact abolishing 1 marketing alto- 
gether for the slaves. 

The Negroes have some ground allowed them, but no time in which 
to cultivate it. They have an allowance of food by law.* Some 
proprietors, however, allow their slaves occasionally a little time, but 
by no fixed rule. The effect is that Sunday, instead of being re- 
ligiously observed, is, in great part, devoted by the slave to labour 
for himself, either on his ground, or in some other way (p. 161). 

The free blacks in Antigua, of whom there are many, arc on all 
occasions willing to labour for hire ; and they work cheerfully as 
jobbers, porters, hodmen, &c. They do not labour on plantations. 
Proprietors would not permit them, lest they should poison the minds of 
the slaves. Besides, no free black would willingly quit his present pur- 
suits to go and labour on a plantation. Whether the present slaves, 
if emancipated, would do so, is another question. 

There is no doubt whatever that the Negroes have a very great re- 
lish for the comforts and conveniences of life. Hence arises the very 
great industry with which they use every moment of time they can 
redeem from the hours of interval from labour. After a slave has done 
his master's work at night, he will travel perhaps six miles with some 
little article to sell to add to his little comforts. At the same time he 
would not probably overwork himself to obtain mere luxuries (p. 162). 

Cane-hole digging is certainly very hard work, especially under a 
tropical sun, and still more as the whole gang are obliged to work 
together, the weak with the strong. Many of the slaves, when eman- 
cipated, might not like to engage in plantation labour, disgusted as 
they are with it, and deeming it a kind of punishment ; but necessity 



s: The allowance is a very scanty one indeed. It is fixed by the 1st clause of 
tlie slave law of 1798, viz. — Weekly to every adult slave, nine pints of corn, or 
beans, or oatmeal ; eight pints of wheat, or Indian corn, or Cassava flour, or seven 
pints of rice, or twenty pounds of yams, with one pound and a quarter of her- 
rings; and, to children, half of this allowance — the whole being diminished by 
one-fifth in crop time. This is little more than half of the prison allowance to 
runaways in Jamaica. By the same law, two jackets, and two pairs of trowsers, arc 
annually given to male slaves, and two petticoats and two wrappers to females. But 
only one suit need be given, if a blanket and hat be given. The hours of labour 
are the same as in Jamaica, viz. eleven hours and a half (clause 10). 



74 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

would compel them to accept of wages for labour; Besides which, they 
are much attached to the place of their birth, or what they fondly call 
their " born ground." Their early associations are formed there ; their 
huts, their little fruit-trees are there, and there they have their family 
ties. They are well aware, too, that they cannot get food without 
labour or money ; and nothing but a hatred of their master would 
induce them to leave the estates on which they now live. A part of 
them might, from a sense of former hard and cruel treatment, and a 
hope of bettering their condition with lighter labour, put down the 
plantation hoe; yet most of them would feel the necessity of continu- 
ing to labour at such labour as they had been accustomed to. If they 
could get land by renting or purchasing it, he thinks they would 
prefer any ether culture to that of the sugar-cane (p. 163). 

Much, he thinks, might be done by the planters to lessen the ne- 
cessity of manual labour on the estates, by substituting machinery 
even in weeding canes. Some planters, wiser than the majority of 
them, use the plough, and it might be used to spare cane-hole digging 
almost entirely ; but the planters generally have a distrust, he knew 
not why, in the benefits of machinery (p. 163). 

Mr. Loving thinks that about nine-tenths of the slave population 
of Antigua attend some place of religious worship. Religion certainly 
will not teach men to take up arms and shed blood to obtain freedom ; 
but undoubtedly religious knowledge cannot but be attended by other 
knowledge : it tends to expand the mind, and leads the slave to see 
the wretchedness of his condition, as compared with that of the free. 
The contrast is very great and striking, both physically and civilly, 
between the slave and the free. The latter has the use of his own 
faculties both of body and mind. Morally, many of the slaves are 
superior to many of the free; but, in point of the comforts of life, the free 
black in Antigua stands infinitely above the slave. He can earn as 
much n a day as the slave gets from his master's allowance in a 
week This is remarkably illustrated in the case of the African ap- 
prentices emancipated in 1828, to the number of 400. Their conduct 
since proves a good test for ascertaining, the fitness of the present 
slaves for freedom. With a solitary exception, none of them had 
committed any offence, down to July, 1831, when Mr. Loving left the 
island, and they were then pursuing a course of industry for their 
own support. They lived near him, and were occasionally employed 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of Mr. Loving, 75 

by him ; and he saw with his own eyes their industrious habits, their 
desire of property, their love of fine clothes, and their efforts to imi- 
tate the speech, manners, and dress of the Creoles, and in these re- 
spects some of them had already surpassed the Creoles. A great part 
of the laborious work of St. John's is done by them. They are fisher- 
men, mariners, bargemen, hodmen, porters, domestics. Agricul- 
tural labour had been forbidden to them by His Majesty's Order in 
Council respecting them. But, besides this, since their liberation, no 
planter likes to employ them, from a fear of their instilling into the 
minds of the slaves notions of liberty. Maiiy of the women are active 
hucksters. Many of them, amounting to about twenty, have already 
purchased their own houses, including three freeholds ; and only one 
man and five women had been thrown on the bounty of the Crown, 
and this by medical advice, they being declared unfit for labour. — 
Mr. Loving had been at pains to authenticate these facts. Apprehen- 
sions were entertained and loudly expressed by many in Antigua of 
the state of mendicity and wretchedness to which they would be re- 
duced, and of the consequent burden that would fall on the public, 
but proved totally groundless. There may have been among the 
Africans persons of bad principles (it would be strange were it not so) ; 
but their general conduct has been quiet and orderly. After all, their 
greatest crime is what in a slave colony is termed their insolence ; but 
those who make this charge do not consider that these Africans had 
not forgotten the freedom of which they had been robbed, and had 
sense enough to know that they could not be treated as slaves 
with impunity. Some of their masters and mistresses attempted so to 
treat them ; but as the indentures strictly forbade this, and the ap- 
prentices resisted it, an incurable rankling against them has been left 
in the minds of the defeated party. As for any danger from the 
Africans there is absolutely none, though some jealousy may be en- 
tertained of them by the slaves, who see these newly-imported persons 
thriving as they do under the effects of their freedom. Some of them 
have attached themselves to the Moravians, and some to the Method- 
ists. He did not know that education was general among them ; — 
still they were all sufficiently enlightened to know that they ought to 
conduct themselves as good members of society. Hence only one 
case of petty larceny had occurred among them before July, 1831. 
They were not above the slaves generally in Antigua in respect to 



76 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

religious instruction and knowledge ; nor do they despise the slaves. 
They sometimes intermarry with them, and their social intercourse 
with each other is unchecked. This adds to the danger of delaying 
emancipation. When they intermarry with slaves, it is always before 
sectarian ministers. The clergy of the church are forbidden by law, 
under a penalty of £50, to be parties to intermarrying a free person 
and a slave (p. 165, 166). 

The African apprentices were liberated by proclamation of tiie Go- 
vernor. They were only required to exhibit proof that they could 
maintain themselves, and having done so they were all immediately 
made free. Their certificates of freedom were printed by Mr. Loving 
(p. 166). 

VL— THE REV. JOHN THORP, 

The Rev. John Thorp was Curate of St. Thomas in the East, in Ja- 
maica, for upwards of two years, from 1826 to 1829. He had known 
many emancipated slaves, but had never known or heard of any who 
were in want* or who lived by crime, or who hired themselves to plan- 
tation labour. They would regard it as a degradation to work with 
slaves, and they had also employments more profitable than field 
labour. There might not exist the same hindrances if slavery were 
abolished. The slaves in Jamaica are fed with food cultivated by 
themselves, with about six salt herrings a week to each adult, and half 
to each child, from the master. They maintain their children as well as 
themselves from their grounds, being allowed 26 days in the year for 
that purpose ; but that is not enough ; they work also on Sundays. 
The time allowed them is clearly not sufficient, as they are forced to 
work on Sundays also. Indeed, he remembered one instance, on an 
estate called Stanton, where some slaves who would not repair to their 
grounds on Sunday were assembled in a gang, and compelled to do 
so, and fed in the interim by the master. In general the slaves work 
in their grounds on Sunday. The surplus they raise beyond their 
wants they carry to market. The daily duration of field labour in 
Jamaica is eleven hours and a half. In St. Thomas in the East they 
do not usually gather grass afterwards. In crop time there is no legal 
limit to their night labour. The usual time of sitting up in the night 
was six hours. When the gangs were large this labour was lightened. 
In general, the slaves in crop time worked 18 hours out of 24. Their 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. J. Thorp. 77 

labour, during the day, appeared to him severe and exhausting 
(p. 167—169). 

The attendance of the slaves in his church was about 80. Thoy 
were chiefly plantation slaves. They were clean in their dress ; the 
head Negroes in white jackets and trowsers, the others in Osnaburgh, 
They did not wear shoes. The women generally appeared at church 
in a muslin dress. He had known two or three hundred emancipated 
slaves, and he knew them to be well behaved and industrious, not 
shrinking from hard labour — having a great desire for the comforts of ' 
life. He never knew them to work on sugar estates. He has known 
them to raise provisions, and bring them to market. He thought that 
the slaves, if emancipated, would be willing to work. His duties, as 
a curate, carried him occasionally to a few estates on which religious 
instruction, but only orally, was permitted by the owners. He visited 
24 estates in this way, superintending some free brown catechists 
selected by the rector, Mr. Trew. He never visited the slaves in their 
houses. Reading was permitted to be taught on Sir George Rose's 
estates at Coley and Morant, but not during the owner's time. It 
was merely for half an hour during the dinner interval, twice a week. 
The number taught to read was only one in 38. When he went on 
the estates, he met the children at the boiling house, or at the house 
of the overseer. He knew no difference in the aptness of children to 
learn in Jamaica and in England : he had been much engaged in 
teaching the children of the peasantry in this country, both before 
and since his visit to Jamaica. The children were of the age of from 
six to fourteen. Their parents had a strong desire they should be 
taught. The adults did not attend on the estates, though they showed 
their desire for instruction by coming to the Sunday schools. The 
oral mode of instruction Mr. Thorp deems quite inefficient, but, when 
united with reading, the effect was good. He never had any conver- 
sation with the slaves respecting freedom, having been warned by Mr. 
Trew of the peculiar state of society in Jamaica. On the same 
ground he abstained from questioning overseers on the subject. He 
found, however, that the proceedings in this country about slavery 
were well known to both slave and free — they having access to the 
newspapers. Mr. Thorp, however, saw no symptoms of disaffection 
when he was there, except that he heard frequent complaints of the 
extent and exhaustion of labouiv and of the consequent exclusion 



78 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

from the means of religious instruction. Those means were at that 
time more abundant than in any other parish, and there was an im- 
proved moral feeling among the slaves. For, in St. Thomas in the 
East, not only was religious instruction to a considerable extent 
afforded by the rector, but the Wesleyans had three chapels largely 
attended by slaves (p. 170—172). 

Mr. Thorp had seen the slaves cultivating their grounds and 
taking provisions to market, and not only supporting themselves, 
but their aged relations, by their own labour. He understood that 
the law compelled the owner to support the aged slaves; but cer- 
tainly the law was not carried into effect ; for, in cases he knew, they 
were supported wholly by the exertions of their relatives, without any 
thing from the owner but their small allowance of fish, and grounds 
which they were not able themselves to work, but which their relations 
assisted in working. He could not tell that the time so occupied was 
not made up by the masters, but his strong impression was that it 
was not* (p. 171). 

Then follows a number of questions respecting the influence of 
general as distinct from religious knowledge ; on the nature of police 
regulations proper to be adopted; and on the degree in which the 
emancipation under such regulations would be partial or complete : 
they elicited, however, few or no material facts, and therefore may 
be passed over (p. 172, 178). 

VII.— THE REV. WILTSHIRE STANTON AUSTIN. 

The Rev. Wiltshire Stanton Austin is a clergyman of the es- 
tablished church. The insurrection in Demerara, in 1823, he con- 
ceived, arose from the ignorance in which the slaves were kept of the 
real purposes of government, and the' excitement produced by their 
being led to believe that privileges had been conceded to them by the 
king which their masters withheld from them. Knowing, however, 

* The law on this point sounds plausibly to an English ear, but in fact it goes 
only to prevent masters from permitting their infirm or diseased slaves to become 
mendicants, or to wander from the estates, and this obviously as a regulation of 
police, to prevent the annoyance to the public, rather than to secure a provision for 
the slave. See clause 17 of the Act of February 19, 1831. It does not interdict 
quartering them on their relatives, or prescribe the allowances to be made them. 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of Rev, W. S, Austin, 79 

as he did, the feelings and habits of the slaves, he did not imagine 
that the grant of entire freedom to them would endanger the 
public peace, especially if the slaves were allowed to cultivate the 
land from which they now draw their food. There would be no 
danger of either the young or the old suffering from want with their 
fellows around them able to give assistance ; he never had seen 
natural affection more strongly exhibited than among the Negroes. 
Their wants indeed are few, and the soil is fertile ; but yet such is the 
desire of the Negro to improve his condition, that he would make 
equal exertions with the European, if his inducements to labour were 
the same. A slave working for himself is a very different being from 
a slave working for his master: in the former case he labours cheer- 
fully and willingly. On his father's estate, in Surinam, he was in the 
habit of employing the slaves to execute the work of the plantation 
by task, and he found that a reasonable day's task would thus be 
performed in much less time; and that when a double task was assigned 
to a man and his wife, the wife was sent to attend to her domestic 
affairs and prepare the comfortable meal, while the husband com- 
pleted the task of both in the usual time allotted to labour. In 
Guiana and Barbadoes the slaves at present are fed by provisions 
raised by the gang as a common stock, which are dealt out to them by 
the master. If the slave were allowed to feed himself, and were paid 
wages for his labour, the master might be relieved from all his present 
heavy expenses for food, clothing, medical charges, and the cost of 
providing for children and for the aged and infirm, and the master 
would be greatly benefited by the labour of the slave. It was his 
father's opinion, as well as his own, that if his 250 slaves were eman- 
cipated, and he could place them around him as a peasantry, paying- 
rent for their houses and grounds, and having also wages for all the 
labour they did for him, he should be a great gainer. That he could 
not carry this plan into effect was owing to a heavy mortgage on the 
estate, comprising the slaves. Had he tried to treat them as free 
labourers, while they were still in fact slaves, the experiment, under 
existing circumstances, must have failed ; and if he had emancipated 
them the mortgagees would have interfered. He had seen in Guiana 
four instances of slaves emancipated and land given to them, on 
which they not only raised provisions, but also canes, which were 
manufactured into sugar at the master's mill for half the produce, 



80 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

In short he was convinced that the emancipation of the slaves might 
be made compatible with the cultivation of sugar, and probably in 
equal quantities as at present, and at no greater cost. This, how* 
ever, was only opinion, not experiment. The desire of the slave for 
comforts and luxuries is very strong, and would induce him to engage 
in constant profitable employment (p. 179 — 182). 

There are in Surinam two settlements of emancipated slaves, with 
which he had had much intercourse. Their employment was to cut 
and saw timber into planks, and bring it down from the interior; and 
also their surplus provisions, as rice and yams, and other articles, 
which they bartered for whatever they wanted, besides accumulating 
property. Mr. Austin had in his possession 10/. to keep for one 
man ; and he knew a friend with whom as much as 300Z. had been 
deposited by various individuals belonging to those settlements, the 
produce of very hard labour ; at least as hard, if not so regular, as the 
cultivation of sugar. Under all the circumstances of the case, his 
own clear opinion was that West Indian property would be improved, 
and not injured, by emancipation ; and, as for danger to the public 
peace, that, he thought, would be lessened, not increased, by it. So 
strong was his belief of this, that he should not hesitate to return thither 
with his family in case of emancipation, while nothing could tempt 
him to return to the West Indies if slavery is to continue. He has 
large reversionary interests in prospect both in Guiana and in Bar- 
badoes, and though those, interests are in slaves and not in land, so 
that he himself might be a sufferer by the change, it was his decided 
feeling that, with a view to the general interests, emancipation was 
desirable (p. 183).- 

The free settlements spoken of are not settlements of Indians, but 
of Africans who had forcibly emancipated themselves, as stated in 
Stedman's History of Surinam, and with whom the Dutch had entered 
into a treaty, which has been pretty well observed on both sides; and 
instead of being a source of danger to the colony, they are now a 
great protection to it. He had never heard of any want among them; 
and, though he had had much intercourse with them, he had never 
seen one of them intoxicated. Their settlements were not very far from 
the cultivated parts of the colony, but they did not themselves raise 
sugar or coffee. They are a very handsome, well-formed race, with 
their features sharper and more raised than the Africans generally. 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of Rev. W, S.Austin. 8J 

They consist of persons from different parts of the colony, escaping 
from slavery, and uniting to defend their liberty. Their number is 
not known ; they are jealous of enquiries on that point ; but the reports 
vary from 10,000 to 20,000. They are very prolific, and their habits 
are very favourable to their rapid increase. They speak what is 
called Negro-English, a compound of English and Dutch and Afri- 
can. The Bible has recently been translated into it by the Moravian, 
Missionaries, who have planted a mission there. The settlers allow no 
other Europeans to reside among them. Mr. Austin made one or 
two attempts, but did not succeed. He had, however, frequent in- 
tercourse with them on his father's estate for a few days or even a 
week at a time. Generally speaking, they were heathens, with the 
exception of those converted by the Moravian missionaries; but their 
mission commenced only 15 years ago, and since Mr. Austin's inter- 
course with them had ceased (p. 184 and 185). 

Mr. Austin stated that his opinion of the safety of emancipation 
was derived from his knowledge of the character of the Negroes, 
They were naturally peaceable, and they would be still more so when 
the great boon for which alone they had to contend was conceded to 
them. Their habits of submission, and their respect for the superi- 
ority of the whites, he thought would remain with them. What course 
the planter might think it right to pursue he could not pretend to say, 
but it would be obviously his interest to hold out every inducement 
to the emancipated slaves to continue as labourers on his estate. 
As he could have no other labourers, there could be no fear of want 
of employment for a time, though indeed the richness of the soil would 
hold out temptations to persons emancipated in the other slave 
colonies to migrate to Guiana (p. 186). 

In Demerara the slaves had little opportunity of attending reli- 
gious worship. There were only two clergymen and four missiona- 
ries, for a population of 90,000 of all classes (p. 186). 

Mr. Austin had never known slaves buy their own children's free- 
dom ; but he has known parents, after being emancipated themselves, 
redeem their children. As slaves, had they had the means, they 
would have been most eager to do so, even in preference to redeem- 
ing themselves (p. 186). 

In the island of Barbadoes he had seen one or two cases of blacks 
begging about the streets ; but whether they were slaves or free he 

H 



82 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

could not tell. The number, however, of such persons was extremely 
small indeed ; while white beggars swarmed in many parts of the 
island. He had even seen such relieved by the slaves (p. 187). 

The free blacks and people of colour whom Mr. Austin had known 
were remarkably industrious as mechanics, hucksters, and in a variety 
of ways ; and though not indeed as field labourers for others, yet as la- 
bourers on their own plots of ground. He had known Negroes of good 
character, both in Demerara and Barbadoes, when emancipated, con- 
tinuing to live near their former master or some kind friend, raising 
small patches of cane, which when ripe were sent to the master's mill 
and manufactured for a half or a third of the produce, as might be 
agreed. This, however, is much disapproved of by masters generally, 
from the same feeling which, in this country, leads a farmer to disap- 
prove of his labourer growing wheat or barley, suspecting that, if he 
had a bad crop, he would help himself from his master's field (p. 187). 

In Demerara, as late as 1822, themarriage of slaves was a thing un- 
heard of, being considered as incompatible with slavery. This was 
his official reply to a question put by the government of that day 
(see the parliamentary returns for 1823, No. 89, p. 81). Such mar- 
riages were in fact discouraged by the planters and the governors. 
Two persons applied to Mr. Austin to be married, and the fees of 
the Secretary's office were so high that he was obliged to send them 
to the Methodist Missionaries to be married. They being desirous of 
marriage, and Mr. Austin refusing to admit them to the Sacrament 
of the Lord's Supper till they were married, he saw no other course. 
Marriage appeared to him incompatible with slavery, because, under 
the law of Demerara at that time, the husband and wife might be 
separated so as never to meet again. The law may now be different ; 
but, previous to 1824, the husband and wife might be separated. 
Marriage is now more encouraged than it was then (p. 188). 

Mr. Austin said that his conduct, in respect of Missionary Smith of 
Demerara, had caused a wide breach between him and his' relations in 
the West Indies, with all of whom, excepting his father, all intercourse 
had ceased for a time. He was not without fear that the evidence 
he was now giving might produce a similar result. But he was so 
deeply interested in the cause of Negro emancipation that he should 
be ready[to promote it at any hazard or sacrifice. There was a time, he 
admitted, when he felt somewhat differently on this subject, or rather 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of Rev. W. S. Austin. 83 

in his views of Christian principle and duty concerning' it. As those 
views became clearer, he was more fully convinced of the incompa- 
tibility of religion with slavery. His opinions had never been opposed to 
those he now held ; but they were so affected by early prejudices and 
views of interest as to lead him at. one time to regard Mr. Wilberforce, 
for example, as a great enemy to the West Indies. Reason, experi- 
ence, reflection, and better feelings had led him to a different con- 
clusion now. He then thought only of the injury emancipation 
might inflict on the planter ; but he had latterly thought of the wrong 
done to the unfortunate Negro and his unoffending* offspring, con- 
demned to perpetual bondage. Even in 1821 he had expressed 
opinions in Demerara which Governor Murray considered as danger- 
ous, and which proved a bar to his promotion, leading the governor 
to suspect his being connected with the African Institution in this 
country. The Governor particularly objected to his opinions respecting 
the education of the slaves, and said he would banish any missionary 
who should attempt it. To these views, and to his advocacy of the 
missionary Smith, he conceived he owed the hostility of the Governor, 
and his loss of preferment to the chaplainship of the colony on the 
resignation of Mr. Strahan (p. 189, 190j. 

Neither in Guiana, nor in Barbadoes, did the law require the owner 
to allot land to the Negroes ; and, in point of fact, it was not the 
practice generally to do so, though in the former it may require the 
owner to provide a sufficiency of food for his slaves. He was cer- 
tainly not aware that either the law or the practice of Demerara was 
to allotland to the slaves. Being asked whether he knew the estates of 
La Belle Alliance, and the Land of Plenty, he said that he knew them ; 
they belonged to two uncles of his, and that the slaves of the latter 
were most kindly treated ; but he was not aware, nor did he believe, 
that on those estates grounds were allotted to the slaves ; neither did 
he know that from the slaves on those two estates any thing was 
brought to the market in George Town, but pigs and poultry oc- 
casionally. Being further asked whether he meant to state that it 
was not a fact that the market of George Town was supplied by pro- 
visions brought thither by the Negroes, he replied that some planters, 
one of them a friend of his own, sent its main supply to that market ; 
that the Negroes certainly had it in their power to carry to market, 
from Sunday to Sunday, any trifle they might have, but, generally 

H % 



84 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

speaking, it was only fowls or pork. The Negroes from time to time 
had Indian corn given them by their masters, and might possibly 
grow a little themselves, as Indian corn was of particularly easy 
growth, and cheap and abundant, and with that poultry are fed. The 
plantain too, at some seasons of the year, abounded, and, when ripe, 
is a very nutritious food for pigs as well as poultry ; but the slaves 
had not, as far as he knew, grounds of their own. They were, it is 
true, abundantly supplied with plantains, but they had little else in 
the way of food (p. 191). 

When he knewthe free Negroes who had emancipated themselves, and 
were placed in back settlements in Surinam, he found no religion among 
them, and at that time religion occupied so little of his own thoughts 
that he should never have thought of questioning them about it. He 
only knew they were sober. He never saw any drunkenness among 
them ; but, among the slaves, drunkenness was common when they 
could obtain spirits. The free Negroes were also very punctual in all 
their engagements with himself, The free Negroes were also as far 
beyond the slaves in appearance, and in their manners and habits, as 
the gentlemen of England are above the peasantry (p. 192). 

Frequent attempts had been made at education, and by himself 
among others, and they were successful till interrupted by the insur- 
rection. He had commenced his own contrary to the wishes of the 
Governor, after having been deterred for some time by the fear of 
losing the prospect of preferment held out to him. After many con- 
flicts with himself, he had at. length opened a large Sunday school, 
which, down to the time of the insurrection, interested him much ; but 
whether after he was driven from Demerara his successor continued it he 
could not tell. The children he found very apt to learn, and very eager 
for knowledge. There was no provision made by law either for the 
education or for the religious instruction of the slaves ; but the mis- 
sionaries, and also he himself, were permitted to instruct the slaves in 
religion, but not on the plantations. A few weeks before he quitted 
Demerara, two clergymen arrived there with that object in view, but 
before that nothing had been done under the authority of Government, 
nor was he aware whether oral instruction only was meant, or any 
other instruction (p. 192). 

The Negroes throughout Guiana were, generally speaking, stronger 
and healthier on cotton than on coffee estates, and on coffee than on 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of Rev. W. S. Austin. 85 

sugar estates. There are, in Demerara, many free coloured persons. 
They are in very good condition, many of them rich, and none poor. 
As president of the board of the poor's fund, he was called to inves- 
tigate all cases of distress. He remembers one or two cases where 
the cast-oft' mistresses of white men were reduced to great distress, 
but, with the exception of one or two other individuals in a wretched 
state of disease, he knew of no free Negroes who were claimants on 
this fund. The chief claimants were Barbadian whites of a very low 
description, and other white immigrants who had been unsuccessful 
in their speculations (p. 192, 193). 

It was in consequence of his experience of the working of slavery 
that his opinions upon it underwent a change. By the time he had 
reached the age of thirty, he thought somewhat more seriously on the 
subject, and began to shake off the prejudices which had grown with 
his growth. He left Surinam because he was disgusted with the 
whole system. There was one thing which peculiarly disgusted and 
pained him, and which led to a separation, not in affection, but in 
labours, between his father and himself, and that was the flogging of 
AvOmen. He was so disgusted with that and some other points, that he 
gave up all connection with the estate. In Surinam, the Negroes 
were less heavily tasked than in the English colonies, but were more 
severely treated than in the latter. In Surinam, the Moravians are 
admitted on a few estates, and among them on his father's. There is 
no protector of slaves in Surinam ; the slaves, therefore, are more 
at the mercy of the planters than they are in the English crown 
colonies since the appointment of protectors there. There is, he 
believes, no protector of slaves in Barbadoes (p. 193, 194). 

Mr. Austin said that he had no connection with the Anti-Slavery 
Society. He had come as a witness on this occasion at the instance 
of a friend, Mr. Z. Macaulay. 

He thought a more gradual plan of emancipation would meet the 
views of the planters better than one that was immediate ; and, feel- 
ing interested himself in West India property, he should, on the whole, 
prefer the former to the latter ; but he had no fear that immediate 
emancipation would affect the public peace in any way. As for the 
slave, he viewed him as at this moment fit for emancipation. He should 
think of any modified plan only in the hope of reconciling conflicting 
interests. Of course, if education went on, each day would render 



86 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

the slave more fit for it. All such plans as freeing the children an d 
apprenticing them to their masters were liable to great and numerous 
objections, both as respects the master and the slave, and they would 
not satisfy the slaves generally. Notwithstanding the great facility 
Of acquiring uncleared land in Demerara, the slave, he thought, would 
prefer land already laid out, as the most laborious work is that of 
felling trees, laying out new land, and trenching it. The Governor 
could undoubtedly grant the slaves new land, but it would be easier 
for the slaves to cultivate land already in cultivation. The owner of 
an estate might let it out in portions to the slaves; and, as slaves are 
fond of the spot where they have lived, they would prefer to buy or 
rent land of their masters to planting themselves in new situations 
(p. 192, 193). 

VIII.— VICE ADMIRAL THE HON. CHARLES FLEMING. 

Admiral Fleming thought the slaves greatly improved since 
he had first been among them. He did not regard them as at all 
deficient in natural capacity. If they were at once emancipated, 
he had no doubt, from what he had seen in Cuba, Caraccas, 
Bahamas, and Trinidad, they would not only maintain themselves, 
but cultivate the land as well as it is now. The slaves are not 
industrious except when they work for themselves, but when they 
do they are very industrious. He has had slaves who worked for 
hire most industriously ; but, when working under overseers, they did 
as little as they could. He did not think that in Trinidad and the 
Bahamas the slaves were much dissatisfied, but in Jamaica they were 
generally much dissatisfied ; and, during all the time he was there, he 
was in fear lest all that has since occurred should happen there, and he 
feared the same still. In the Bahamas there are no sugar planta- 
tions, and the slaves are not worked in gangs, and there slavery is as 
light as it can well be. Still, even there, they ardently desire freedom, 
and are availing themselves of the law for compulsory manumission 
as much as they can. In Trinidad, the slaves appeared better treated 
and better fed, and, being mostly Catholics, the priests have a great in- 
fluence over them and keep them quiet. Trinidad is under the ex- 
cellent laws of Old Spain, and the slaves have efficient protection 
from the slave protector. In Jamaica, the slaves have no protector, 
and the magistrates, generally, neglect their duty. If the hope of 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of Admiral Fleming. H J ! 

emancipation were to be extinguished, they would not remain for a 
moment in hopeless slavery. The only reason they are now tranquil 
is the hope of emancipation by the Government. No island he had 
visited would be tranquil for a moment it* that hope were cut oft'. If 
that hope be withdrawn, insurrection will soon take place. His reason 
for forming- this opinion is the great anxiety they show to learn what 
is going on in England for their own emancipation, and that of their 
children; In the island of Jamaica, particularly, this feeling is very 
strong. He resided lately for eight or ten months in Jamaica, and, 
during that time, he was inueh in the interior of the island, and lived on 
a coffee estate, and near a sugar estate, on the Port Royal mountains ; 
and, in going to his house and coming from it, he had to pass through 
the sugar estates of the Duke of Buckingham, Mr. "Wildman, and 
others. He had frequently been on these and other estates, seven or 
eight in all. At the place, too, where he lived, called Claremont, he 
had much intercourse with the free blacks, the whole district around 
being peopled with them and the free browns, who lived in great com- 
fort with their families, having pieces of laud of their own which they 
cultivated themselves. They also reared vegetables, and fowls, and 
pigs, and cultivated the sugar cane, and coffee, and all kinds of Indian 
corn, which they sold in Kingston market. Some of them had slaves 
of their own. Persons of high naval and military rank have little 
access to the interior of plantations, though they are always hospitably 
received. They would be expected, in most cases, to give notice of 
an intended visit, but, on some estates, there would be no objection 
made. He had observed no alteration in the dress of the slaves oil 
those occasions. He had himself been turned off estates in Jamaica* 
but had visited others and gone through them without giving notice. 
He went thither last in 1827, and left it in 1830. The admiral's re- 
gular residence was at a pen two miles from Kingston. But, when 
the rains set in, he was obliged to quit it, and went to reside in the 
mountains, about 13 miles off. He lived ashore during his being in 
command there more than six months at one time, and, in all, about 
ten months. He had not only passed constantly to and from his re- 
sidence to Kingston, Port Royal, and the admiral's pen, during that 
time, but travelled into St. David's, about 30 miles, three or four times. 
He was also at Stoney Hill, 1 1 miles in another direction. He went 
on several estates to observe the management, particularly Mr. Wild* 



88 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

man's estate of Papine, which was very differently managed from the 
others. Former admirals resided still more on shore than he did. 
Admiral Halsted lived on shore the whole time. He was turned away 
once, but by mistake, from the Duke of Buckingham's estate, and 
also from Lord Claremont's, near Stoney Hill. He thought he had 
seen enough, during his last visit, to form a sound opinion of the in- 
creased intelligence among the slaves, as compared with their former 
state. They are certainly now not inferior to the white people in in- 
tellect. He knew that reading, and listening to works read, were 
common among the slaves in Jamaica. He had seen a person reading 
the Gazette to a gang of slaves. 

The Admiral was asked " Was that at Mr: Wildmans ?" He an- 
swered it was a jobbing gang, belonging to Mr. Sinclair. The slaves 
generally are strongly excited to acquire knowledge,- and their know- 
ledge of what passes here and in Jamaica must put an end to slavery 
soon. He had viewed insurrection as probable all the time he was in 
Jamaica, and its occurrence was no surprise to him.- The debates in 
the House of Commons and in the local legislatures are quickly known. 
When the slave law of 1829 was disallowed, the fact was instantly 
known to the slaves. It was even known the next day at thirty miles 
from Spanish Toavu ; and he found it was known at his mountain resi- 
dence when he went up, as well as all the way up to it. He was assured 
that, by means of hawkers and pedlars, news were conveyed to the 
whole of the interior, and publications diffused in a very short time. 
He did not believe that there had been any amelioration of the state 
of the slaves with respect to labour, punishment, &c.,- while their in- 
telligence was thus increasing. The instrument carried in the field by 
the driver is called a cart-whip ; he had never heard it called by any 
other name. It differs from a waggoner's whip : it is a cart-whip. 
It is laid aside on some estates, but not generally. He never heard 
a doubt till now of its being called a cart-whip. He had extensive 
intercourse with persons of all classes in Jamaica, and the driver's 
whip was always spoken of by them as a cart-whip. He had now 
one in his possession bought from the driver of a jobbing gang, who 
Avas using it in the field at the time (p. 198 — 201). 

The Admiral had been more in Cuba and knew more of it than of 
Jamaica. The number of free people there is very great. The whites 
there are about 380,000, the free coloured 136,000 to 150,000, the 



on the Extinction of Slavery, — Evidence of Admiral Fleniiny. 89 

slaves 200,000 or 220,000. This he drew from public documents ; but 
the returns are somewhat confused. They are made up by the priests 
in the different parishes. The free people generally are in good con- 
dition in Cuba; many of the browns, and of the blacks too, are very rich. 
He had never heard in Cuba any complaints of a want of industry in the 
freed classes. A great many of them are employed in cultivating sugar 
in Cuba. Even some whites work in the field in Cuba, who come from 
the Canaries, and manage all the indigo culture. He had himself seen 
the free people digging cane-holes, and some of them work their whole 
estate without slaves, growing the canes, and selling them to persons 
who boil the juice. He could not tell how many were so employed in 
Cuba ; the number was considerable ; and when they were deficient in 
hands at any time on such sugar plantations they hired additional la- 
bourers, at two pisettas,or 18d., to half a dollar a day, sometimes more.; 
usually paid in coin, but sometimes in goods. Some free persons manu- 
facture their own canes, but more frequently sell them, as mills and boil- 
ers are expensive, to richer persons near them* They get back a certain 
portion in a manufactured state. The soil is richer than in ourcolonies.* 
He knew one man who sold his canes in this way who had 45 acres in 
cane, all wrought by free labour. The estates are more extensive in 
Cuba than Jamaica, and portions of them are let off to free people. 
It was a continual subject of dispute with many intelligent persons 
in Cuba whether free labour or slave labour was cheapest. The English 
in general whom he met there thought slave labour the cheapest. One 
party argued that if the slave trade were stopped they could not culti- 
vate the island. Another party held that they could. Many Cubans 
are against importing Negroes; as the new Negro is always found 
to take part with the Government, being influenced by the priests so 
to do ; and the Government holds the slaves and free blacks over the 
whites as a rod to keep them in order. This alone has prevented the 
independence of Cuba, as of the other Spanish colonies. The domestic 
slaves in Cuba are equal in intelligence to those of Jamaica ; the 



* So that now the secret of cheap sugar in Cuba is out. It is free labour; 
and all the minute calculations of Mr. Keith Douglas and Mr. M'Donnell, et hoc 
genus omne, may be given to the winds as waste paper. See the massy labours 
of the Committee on West India distress reviewed in No. 97 of the Anti-Sla- 
very Reporter. 



90 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

field slaves inferior : but in Cuba neither can read except some do- 
mestics. The same danger of insurrection certainly does not exist 
there as in Jamaica. There is little discontent among the slaves in 
Cuba. They can all obtain legal or compulsory manumission if they 
Can make up the means, and thus free themselves, their wives, and 
children. They work generally by piece-work, and are not driven 
except on some estates held by Englishmen and Americans. The 
Spaniards of Cuba never drive. Freedom is never placed beyond the 
reach of any slaves in Cuba, and they may always change their mas- 
ter, even if they cannot pay their price, provided another is willing to 
buy them at their value ; so that if a slave is valued at 200 dollars, 
and 13 will pay the money, the slave may oblige A to sell him to 15. 
The Admiral sent home all these regulations to Sir G. Murray, aud 
they must now be in the Colonial Office. There is a compulsory ma- 
numission law in Cuba, and a tariff fixing prices. He could not find 
the law and tariff in Trinidad ; but he and General Grant found it at 
the Caraccas.* The existence of this compulsory manumission in 
Cuba is a great cause of the difference of feeling among the Creole 
slaves in Cuba and Jamaica. The new Negroes in Cuba, as formerly 
in Jamaica, are comparatively indifferent about the question of free- 
dom. Accordingly the newly-imported Africans are not permitted to 
be worked with the Creoles in Cuba, as they require a stricter disci- 
pline than the Creoles. The Creoles would not like to be put on the 
same footing with new Negroes. The Creoles are both better behaved 
and better treated. The Spanish planters take pains to inculcate re- 
ligion on their slaves ; the women teach the children born on the es- 
tates, and the priests attend every estate. The Catholic slaves are 
more submissive than those in the English colonies. He does not 
know what their religious state is in our colonies, but he believes 
very defective. He has seen the annual returns of manumissions in 



* But how came it that these documents, transmitted by Admiral Fleming 
to Sir G. Murray, were not laid before that Committee ? They would have 
saved a world of trouble, and no small expenditure in paper and press-work. 
Is there not some ground to suspect treachery in some of our former public func- 
tionaries in Trinidad, in having kept out of view these most important documents ? 
Some enquiry into the matter seems to be imperatively called for, and we trust 
will be instituted. 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of Admiral Fleming. 91 

Cuba ; they are very considerable, but lie is not in possession of 
them. They may be got either through the Colonial Office, or from 
the commissioners of the mixed Commission Court at the Havannah. 
The slaves in Cuba, working generally by task-work, have more time 
to work out their freedom. Besides they have the whole of their Sa- 
turdays, and all their saints' days,*' and they work much fewer days for 
their masters than in the English colonies. And this applies not to 
Cuba only, but to the Caraccas. Task -work prevails on the sugar 
estates not only in Cuba but Caraccas. He had been frequently in 
Cuba from 1827 to 1830$ and on many estates. He had liberated 
4000 slaves in that time from Spanish slave-ships. Holding rank in 
the Spanish navy, and speaking freely the Spanish language, he had 
peculiar facilities of communication. He was treated there with great 
attention and hospitality. Free labour he thinks has increased in 
Cuba. He does not think that slaves are cheaper in Cuba than in 
Jamaica. The price of a good new slave in Cuba is 250 dollars, or 
about £55 sterling. He paid £70 currency, or £50 sterling, for a 
good slave in Jamaica (p. 201 — 205). 

An estate in Cuba, making 200 hogsheads of sugar, has about 200 
slaves, besides carters and others, who are usually free. The slave trade 
in Cuba, he believes, is chiefly carried on by foreigners and foreign ca- 
pital, as Spanish capital employed in it would be confiscated (p. 205). 

The moral habits of the white people of the interior of Cuba are 
much superior to the same class in Jamaica. In Cuba a great many 
people live quietly with their families, cultivating their lands, and 
they are very respectable indeed. In the towns on the coast their 
habits seem much the same as in Jamaica (p. 205). 

The importation of slaves into Cuba is chiefly not by Cubans, but 
by foreign adventurers and by Spaniards expelled from South Ame- 
rica. Most of the old proprietors in Cuba will not purchase Africans. 
A few purchase them ; but rarely. They are chiefly for new estates. 

The law and tariff connected with manumissions bear, he thinks, the 
date of 1789. It is a written law, first published, he believes, at St. 
Domingo after the only insurrection that had occurred in a Spanish 



* The saints' days are 30 ; added to the Saturdays they make 82, and to the 
Sundays 134.-— See Anti-Slavery Reporter, No, 37, vol. ii. p. 233, 



93 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

colony in the time of Ferdinand the Fourth :* he sent a copy to 
Sir G. Murray, and one to General Grant. It is one of the laws of 
the Indies, promulgated by the King of Spain. By this law the slave 
is entitled to purchase a day at a time, paying the proportion of his 
price to the protector. His holidays or other days are never taken from 
him. He is fully protected, and has easy means of redress through 
the sindico or protector, and the priest. The bishops in Cuba, of 
whom he knew two, are very vigilant on this point. The slave con- 
fesses to the priest, and has free access to him on every plantation in 
Cuba. This is a great protection, and gives him an opportunity of stat- 
ing his grievances. The priest was always looked to by the slaves in 
South America as their protector as well as the sindico. There is no 
such practice in Jamaica. Some Spaniards refused to buy new slaves 
from not liking to mix them with their Creoles ; otherSj even the first 
merchants, from conscience, thinking it was a disgraceful transaction $ 
and illegal. Many of them are high-minded people. The English 
he saw at the Havannah, and who thought that buying new slaves 
was the cheapest, were slave-holders from the West Indies. English 
officers were generally of a different opinion. He was fully convinced 
that there would be no more difficulty in the English colonies as to 
free labour than in Cuba, Caraccas, and Hayti, and in the Bahamas 
and Trinidad. On the sugar estates in Cuba there are more slaves 
than free ; but in the interior, where corn is grown and cattle reared, 
the free labourers are more than the slaves. If slavery were abolished 
by law in Cuba to-morrow, he does not believe the least Confusion 
would ensue, or that one sugar estate would be thrown out of cultiva- 
tion. There is no dislike in Cuba to employ free people in cultivat- 
ing sugar, as in the English colonies. In estimating the profit of 
slave labour in Cuba the holidays must of course be taken into ac- 
count : some owners give their slaves, besides these, two or three hours 
for going to mass (p. 207). 

When Admiral Fleming first visited the Caraccas, in 1828, the 
slaves were all free after a certain age, females at twelve and males 
at fourteen. Many of the old Negroes were not free, but greater 
facilities were given them to obtain their freedom than even under the 



* It was probably a republication, called for by the insurrection. 



on the Extinction of Slavery. —Evidence of Admiral Fleming, 93 

Spanish law. Funds were created for freeing- them gradually. He 
never saw, during the three times he visited Caraccas, any confusion 
or disorder from this cause. And yet sugar was cultivated there and 
exported to a considerable extent. In all parts of the Caraccas sugar 
was grown and exported largely, though the export duty was high. 
There the free and the slaves worked promiscuously on the same 
sugar plantations. Cane-holing is carried on there, but the soil is 
rich and the canes seldom require to be renewed. Still he had seen 
cane-hole digging, and free blacks were employed in it on their own ac- 
count. There the wages wereninepence a day and food. In the Caraccas 
he had heard the question of free and slave labour often discussed. The 
Spaniards and Columbians were generally for free labour ; the Ameri- 
cans and English for slavery. The Spaniards and Columbians were 
in favour of freeing them all, even on the score of profit. The Mar- 
quis del Toro, a cousin of Bolivar, had immense estates ; but his great 
number of slaves were worked as free labourers. Admiral F. had 
great facilities of intercourse with all of condition there. He was 
four months there at one time, and went 200 or 300 miles up the 
country. He availed himself of his facilities, and it was highly inter- 
esting to him to see a people newly emancipated, both from European 
oppression and from slavery, in their progress of becoming free. 
His opinion is, that the blacks in Caraccas are making rapid 
progress in civilization. Many schools are established, of which 
they anxiously avail themselves. Many are learning trades, and the 
desire of knowledge is great among them. They maintain themselves 
perfectly well without aid, either from their former masters or from 
government. The law of manumission was suddenly enacted by a decree 
of Congress, under Bolivar. Bolivar had previously freed his own slaves, 
and many of the principal people had done the same. There was no 
interference with the rights of landed property. Many of the pro- 
prietors of the soil, who had before wrought with slaves, cultivated it 
at once by free labour. No convulsion whatever was produced. 
A time was fixed when slavery should wholly cease. He did not re- 
collect the year. It had not ceased when he was last in Caraccas, 
but it was gradually declining, and would be extinguished very shortly. 
There were not above a fourth of the slaves remaining then of those 
who were in slavery at the time of Bolivar's decree. He saw no traces 
of receding cultivation. It was even making a rapid progress, though 



94 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

Caraccas had been the seat of war, and therefore had suffered greatly. 
During his second visit, he found the culture of wheat advancing 
rapidly, though it had not been cultivated formerly. American wheat 
is now no longer imported. Every body agreed that the culture had 
much increased. When he visited the Caraccas the second time, theircu 
provement was manifest awl rapid. There had been a year and a half 
of peace ; party spirit had evaporated, and confidence was established. 
They were improving rapidly in agriculture and the arts. The revolu- 
tion has tended to obliterate distinctions of colour ; but the political 
disturbances had certainly retarded improvement, great numbers being 
employed in the armies. He had himself seen slaves and free blacks 
working together in the same field in the Caraccas. Field labour was no 
longer viewed as degrading there. The free might have obtained land 
to cultivate for themselves, on higher and colder regions, but they 
seemed to like the low warm country the best, and therefore readily 
continued to work on the established plantations. They certainly 
were not driven to sugar planting by necessity ; they might have 
pursued other means of living. They might have got lands easily in 
the interior. They continued, however, to labour voluntarily and 
cheerfully on the sugar estates, and at much the same rate of wages as on 
other estates. The English who had estates there objected to em- 
ploy the free blacks. They said they were not accustomed to that mode 
of working. He only knew, however, three Englishmen having estates 
there (p. 208—210). 

General Peyango was a perfectly black man; but he was a well in- 
formed, a very well educated person, well read in Spanish history, 
and altogether an extraordinary man. Many English officers were 
serving under him. He knew many other black officers of very con- 
siderable acquirements in the Caraccas, and also in Cuba, and a black 
priest born in the Cape de Verds, a very intelligent, man (p. 210). 

The admiral referred for the particulars of the decrees about free- 
dom, and the progress of manumissions, to the Caraccas laws and the 
Caraccas Gazettes, which may easily be obtained. There are commis- 
sions for freeing slaves, and the names of. those freed are regularly 
inserted in the Gazettes. He repeated, confidently, that he had seen 
free persons labouring with slaves on sugar estates, not to the same 
extent as on other estates, for there was not so much of sugar raised as 
of other articles, as wheat, potatoes, cocoa, coffee, indigo, &c. There is 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of Admiral Fleming. 95 

no more indisposition to grow sugar than other articles, but, in point 
of fact, he believed the majority of sugar cultivators were slaves, al- 
though he had no accurate data on which to rest. He was assured that 
the cultivation of sugar had increased in the Caraocas and Margarita. 
He could not tell how many were employed in sugar culture ; but the 
free population greatly exceeded, on the whole, the slaves. At the time 
emancipation was first declared, the numbers were about equal in the 
Caraccas. The slaves are widely scattered on estates over the country. 
They were not in huts as ours, but in a large square called Reparti- 
mento, where there is a chapel and an hospital, and a communication 
with the owner's house. A great many had entered the army, and 
thus became free. The time of the emancipation, he thinks, was 
1821. It was not a time of civil commotion, but of tranquillity. The 
free blacks were numerous in town, and employed themselves indus- 
triously as other free persons. The blacks had not had much educa- 
tion, except the young, who are now in the schools. They were sup- 
posed, generally, to have embraced the Catholic religion. Slaves not 
taught were liable to be confiscated to the king. They could all, 
therefore, say their prayers and their confession of faith. They were 
all sufficiently instructed for that. Before the late insurrection, he 
should have had no fear of the same system of emancipation in Ja- 
maica as in the Caraccas. Now, he should doubt whether it would be 
sufficient. They had not the excitement of the pres£ in the Caraccas ; 
but they had the excitement of civil war, in which they took part. 
The civil war was between two parties in the State, but the slaves ex- 
pected that if the liberal party succeeded they would be free (p. 211, 
212). 

Admiral Fleming had been in Hayti, in 1828 and 1829, for a short 
time. He had been there before, when the insurrection first broke 
out. In 1827 he understood that labourers were scarce. He did not 
liear that in 1829, and the people seemed then industrious. They 
worked for wages, and were paid in kind — he did not know 7 how much 
exactly ; — the law said a certain proportion of the produce. He never 
saw r any compulsion used. He was told that vagrants and deserters 
worked by compulsion, but he did not see any himself. He had 
never heard of any working under the lash. The lash was prohibited by 
law. The Haytians appeared -to him the happiest, best fed, and mostcom- 
fhrtable Negroes he had ever seen ; better pffeven than in the Caraccas ; 



96 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

infinitely better than in Jamaica: there was no comparison between 
them. He could not speak positively of the increase of the Haytian 
population since 1804, but he believed it had trebled since that time. 
His belief, from the best testimony he could collect, was that it had 
increased threefold since 1804. This differed from Consul Mac 
Kenzie's report, but he believed it to be correct. They now fed 
themselves, and they exported provisions, which neither French nor 
Spaniards had ever done before. He did not recollect what was the 
population in 1804, but there were official documents on the subject. 
He had been in Hayti in 1797, when war was raging, and in 1828, and 
1 829, when things were quite tranquil. Things were greatly improved in 
the interval, as to the condition of the Negroes; for in 1828 tranquillity 
had prevailed for some years. There were no beggars in Hayti, and 
few in Jamaica. He. saw a sugar estate near Cape Haytien, formerly 
Cape Francais, general Bourlon's, extremely well cultivated, and in 
beautiful order. It was wrought by blacks, all free. It was very 
fine land, and had not been replanted a long time. A new planta- 
tion was forming on the opposite side of the road. The rate of 
wages was a franc, or 9d. a day, with victuals, and two francs 
without. Their victuals were very superior to those of Jamaica ; con^ 
sisting chiefly of meat, cattle being very cheap. The highest contract of 
beef in Hayti was 2d. In Jamaica it was \2d. He had no means of 
knowing the state of religion in Hayti, but all the people seemed to go 
to mass. He had no means of observing their moral conduct, but mar- 
riage existed among them. Promiscuous intercourse also, he believed, 
prevailed ; but two Spanish priests with whom he had conversed said 
that things were improving, and that they believed marriage would 
become general. It was so now among the principal people. But, 
whether married or not, the children were well taken care of, and they 
lived together in families. It was not easy to distinguish them in their 
habits from married people. Though the ceremony might not have been 
performed, the tie seemed to be practically binding. They generally 
lived one man with one woman. The parents do provide for the 
children. He saw no marks of destitution any where. The country 
seemed improving, and trade increasing between his two visits 
(p. 212, 214). 

The estate the admiral visited near the Cape was large. It was 
calculated to make 300 hogsheads of sugar. The whole was culti- 



on the Extinction of Slavery . — Evidence of Admiral Fleming. 97 

vated with plantains, and Indian corn or manioc intermixed. It 
was beautifully laid out, and as well managed as any estate he had 
seen in the West Indies. He was told that this estate, though so 
good, was inferior in fertility to others in the interior. The culture 
of sugar, however, was comparatively not much followed in Hayti. 
Their means of properly manufacturing it are indifferent, and they 
have not capital to set up sugar works agaim The reasons assigned 
were the entire destruction of the former works, and the want of 
capital to re-erect them. They had also other and more urgent and 
profitable things to attend to. The Haytian government too seemed to 
think that they might excite jealousies in other countries if they went 
much on sugar. He had never heard the unwillingness of the Negroes 
to engage in it assigned as a cause : they were very ready to work 
if paid. Nor had he heard the high rate of wages assigned as a 
cause : he believed sugar could be made cheaper in Hayti than in 
our islands, if the Haytian government did not discourage it. The 
insecurity of the country is still a hindrance to expensive works. 
They are hardly out of their revolutionary state. When he was there, 
Spain had been making a claim on them for the Spanish part, and 
they were raising a large army to resist it. This occupied their 
attention and discouraged such undertakings. His official corre- 
spondence, as admiral, with the Haytian government made him attri- 
bute much efficiency to it, and it bore very strong marks of civili- 
zation. There was a much better police in Hayti than in the New 
South American States ; the communication through the country was 
more rapid ; the roads were much better ; one had been cut from 
Port au Prince to Cape Haytien that would do honour to any 
government. A regular post was established. He had sent regular 
couriers from Cape Nicolas Mole to Port au Prince, a distance of 80 
leagues. The government is one quite worthy of a civilized people. 
The government still feared an attack from France, even during his last 
visit ; and this had the effect of retarding their progress. The convention 
with France had not been fulfilled. Only one instalment of the money 
stipulated to be paid had been paid. Hence partly their apprehen- 
sions. The people were very much against paying, and blamed the 
government much for agreeing to pay it. The Negroes of Hayti are 
certainly richer and happier and in a better condition than any he 
had ever seen elsewhere. They were all working in the fields when 

i 



98 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

he was there. He rode about very much. He did not think any acts 
of oppression were practised on the people of Hayti by the govern- 
ment (p. 213— 216). 

The emancipation of the slaves in the Caraccas took place, the 
admiral thinks, in 1821. Bolivar had taken refuge in Hayti some 
time before, for which benefit the Haytian government stipulated 
that he should emancipate his slaves, and he did so (p. 216). 

He had frequently visited the Bahamas when last in the West 
Indies. There are more slaves there than. free. Sugar is grown in 
small quantities both by slaves and free, but little or none is manu- 
factured. Both are employed in growing provisions, fishing, and 
taking care of cattle, and in looking after wrecks. They are all very 
orderly, and no difficulty is found in preserving order. The propor- 
tion of free blacks and persons of colour is greater than in Jamaica: it 
is about one third. The liberated Africans there seem equally 
civilized with the Creole slaves. The African apprentices, knowing 
they are to be free after a certain time, intermarry with free blacks, 
and they become civilized by this intercourse in a very short time 
indeed. In seven years they are quite equal to any of the Creole 
slaves in our islands. They are all married. Concubinage is not per- 
mitted them. There are missionaries there who instruct them, and they 
are all required to go to divine worship. They are very industrious. 
They cultivate their own grounds, and also work for wages. The 
rate of wages in the Bahamas is about a dollar a day; but they 
do not get much employment, as it is only at a particular time of the 
year that they are wanted. The wages are high because there is not 
regular employment but at particular seasons. If there were regular 
employment they would take less. They all have land which they 
cultivate, selling the produce they do not want. They get nothing 
from government but the land. The free blacks, as well as the 
slaves, in the Bahamas, are much more moral than in any other colony 
except Bermuda. In Bermuda and Bahamas there is no sugar cul- 
tivation, and there certainly the black population, both slave and free, 
are much more moral than in any other island he had visited. There 
are more pains taken with them. Almost all are Christians. They 
go regularly to places of worship. They are married and much 
better treated. The proprietors are smaller proprietors, who live 
almost with the slaves, and are very kind to them- The slaves in the 



on the Extinction of Slavery . — Evidence of Admiral Fleming. 99 

Bahamas and Bermuda arc quite a diffcrentrace ; they speak better Eng- 
lish and arc much more intelligent than those elsewhere. He had no 
hesitation in asserting that the best effect was produced by religious 
knowledge on their morals, manners, and civilization ; and this he 
asserted on his own actual knowledge of the fact. The liberated 
Africans become, before their apprenticeships expire, as civilized as 
those born and bred there. He only knew of one of these Africans 
being punished all the time he was in the Bahamas. He lived fre- 
quently on shore there, and he could himself observe their great 
advance in civilization. He found in every cottage beds, and cooking 
utensils of all kinds. Their huts were better than in the other islands, 
perhaps because more exposed to hurricanes. They had comforts 
far beyond the mere necessaries of life. They showed not the slightest 
disposition to -return to the habits of savage life. On the contrary, 
in a tour he had made with the governor through the islands, he 
found that they all wished to acquire property ; that many had 
acquired property; that their children were well taken care of; 
that they were well clothed, and the women dressed out in 
unnecessary finery. He had seen no exceptions to the general 
industry but in two old men, who could read Arabic, and were 
looked on as priests, and who, besides doing something for them- 
selves, had also supplies from the others, who looked to them 
with veneration as old men. — He saw in Lane Island a man who 
came up and complained to Governor Grant of his having been kept 
longer than his apprenticeship. His master, being sent for, stated 
that he had kept him because he had five children, and, his wife 
having died, he could not maintain them if he were free. The man 
answered, " If with two hands I can feed them in three days out of 
fourteen, why should I not feed them all in ten days, go to market on 
Saturday, and to church on Sunday?" The governor freed him. Admiral 
F. saw him next year, on the land that had been allotted to him ; he 
was in perfect comfort ; his land was well cultivated, and his children 
were all taught to read. The blacks have taken advantage of the 
manumission law which exists in Bahamas ; and then they either hire 
themselves to work, or rent land from the owners. The value of 
slaves, however, is not fixed in the Bahamas ; there is no tariff. 
The exports from the Bahamas are salt, cotton, onions, pine- 
apples to the United States, platt, salt-fish, logwood, fustic, and other 

i2 



100 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

woods. In all the labours of the Bahamas the free and the slaves are 
intermixed, and especially in cutting wood, which is the hardest work 
of all (p. 217— 219). 

He had often heard in Jamaica of transferring their allegiance 
to America, and it had a considerable effect in adding to the discon- 
tent of the slaves. He had heard this said in the presence of the slaves r 
particularly on the occasion of the disallowed slave-law of 1826, and 
on other occasions, and he then observed that they must first get 
the consent of the 300,000 slaves, which would be very difficult 
There were slaves present at the time. He had even heard the same 
language used at his own table. " The conduct of the government," 
it was said, " would make the star-spangled banner be hailed with 
delight in Jamaica." One gentleman, on taking leave of him, said 
he perhaps should never visit the island again as a British Colony, 
That this conversation produced discontent among the slaves, he had 
learnt from the slaves themselves. They spoke to him frequently of it 
in the conversations he had with them at different times. They often 
asked him if it was true that the island was to be given up to the 
Americans. One man, who asked him the question, was Frank, a 
slave belonging to Prospect, who was a very intelligent person. — He 
had lived little with the white inhabitants of Jamaica generally ; 
but some were always with him or he with them. He was much with 
Sir John Keane, who then lived in Kingston. He conversed much 
with the slaves,, in going about, as he would have done with the pea- 
santry in this country. Being asked whether he had not gone out 
with strong opinions previously formed, he said, No, till he had 
returned the last time to Jamaica, when he found that little or no 
improvement had taken place. He was very much struck with the 
difference between the slaves of the Bahamas and those of Jamaica. 
The condition of the former was very superior. At the same time, on 
many estates in Jamaica, the slaves were well clothed, fed, and used ; 
but that was by no means the case throughout the island. They were 
not improved to the extent he had expected since 1797. He 
had been in the Negro houses of sugar estates in Jamaica : some of 
them had the appearance of comfort. He thought the slaves had much 
more cause to be discontented in Jamaica than in Trinidad. They are 
not so effectually protected in the former as the latter, from harsh 
treatment. On estates where the proprietor resides, and on some 



on the Extinction of Slavery . — Evidence of Admiral Fleming . 101 



others, they are well treated ; but attorneys and receivers are often 
very oppressive. He thought that a general emancipation would 
now be less dangerous than no emancipation, yet more difficult than 
it would have been before the late insurrection. But any plan short 
of immediate emancipation, like that in Columbia, which should give 
protection to the slaves, and give them the certainty of ultimate 
emancipation, might perhaps avert danger and be more favourable 
to the interests of the planters. The danger is infinitely greater from 
leaving things as they are than from any even immediate emancipation 
(p. 219—222). 

The following is the tariff which Admiral Fleming procured from 
the two Alcaldes in the Caraccas, who were in charge of the public 
documents of that colony. It was given to him on the 18th April, 
1829. The value is here stated in sterling money. 

Children of Eight days old 

Ditto of One year 

Ditto of Five years 

Ditto of Ten years 

Adults of Fifteen years to Forty 

Ditto of Forty-five years 

Ditto of Fifty years 

Ditto of Fifty-five years 

Ditto of Sixty years 

Ditto of Sixty-four years . 
For each intermediate year a proportionate increase or deduction 
is made, as the age advances to 15 or rises above 40. If upwards of 
sixty-four, the slaves are deemed of no value. 

From the age of fifteen to forty the slaves are valued at forty-five 
pounds; but if they have any particular trade, acquired at the cost 
of the master, or taught by him, the highest value is to be given, 
unless it be for their manumission. And where there is any blemish, 
defect, or disease, which diminishes their value, the value is to be 
lowered according as the blemish, defect, or disease may be con- 
sidered to lessen their daily labour or the expense of their care. 

The above was the tariff established at Caraccas in 1801 ; 
and it was also in force at Trinidad. This document could not be 
found at Trinidad, but Admiral Fleming discovered it at the Caraccas, 



£ 


5. 


7 


10 


15 





18 





27 





45 





41 


5 


30 





18 


15 


7 


10 





15 



102 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

Many with: whom he had conversed, at Trinidad and the Caraccas, ad- 
mitted that this law was in force in Trinidad. A Columbian, in particu- 
lar, of the name of Mundosa, told him that he himself had resided in 
Trinidad , and the law was then in force, prior to its capture by the 
British, and that he himself had had a slave emancipated by it. 
The law applied equally to domestic and field slaves. Admiral F. 
knew it to be common in Cuba, and that plantation slaves were 
freed under it (p. 239, 240). 

Admiral Fleming also laid before the committee authenticated 
extracts from the Spanish Slave Code which he had obtained, by 
order of the governor of the Caraccas, from the proper officers there. 

These laws are too long to be inserted here, but they breathe a 
spirit of morality and humanity which is highly creditable to the 
Spanish government. They provide for (he careful instruction of slaves 
in the Catholic religion, and for their enjoying all the holidays of 
precept. They also provide for their food and clothing ; for the re- 
gulation of their daily tasks, according to their ages, powers, and 
strength ; prohibiting laborious tasks to the aged, or to children under 
seventeen, or to females, which last shall not be employed in labours 
unbecoming their sex, or in any which may oblige them to mix with 
male slaves. Time is also to be allowed to them for simple and 
innocent amusement, in which all excess in drinking is to be prevented. 
Separate dwellings are also to be provided for the unmarried of both 
sexes, and all their dwellings are to be commodious, and to have 
bedsteads, blankets, and other necessaries ; and there is to be 
a separate house for the sick. Various other regulations are pre- 
scribed, all bearing the character of great benevolence, for the 
temporal and spiritual interests of the slaves (p. 240,241, 242). 

IX. ROBERT SUTHERLAND, ESQ. 
Mr. Sutherland had visited Hayti four times since 1815. 
He remained there for some time in 1819, 1820, and 1821, and 
afterwards saw it in 1824 and 1827. His experience of the 
Haytians is that they are a free people, working for wages or for 
shares of produce, and not coerced to labour, except by their wants. 
Great numbers of them have land of their own, which they cultivate 
themselves, while others labour for hire, though the number of labourers 
for hire was complained of as deficient, The Code Rurale he did not 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of Rev. '/'. Morgan. 103 

consider as an oppressive code by any means. There is decidedly no 
such thing in Hayti, practically, as compulsory labour. All corporal 
punishment is abolished in Hayti. Those who resided on their own 
farms appeared to him to live in the happiest state possible. Those 
who were employed for hire on plantations wrought five days in 
the week, having Saturday and Sunday entirely to themselves (p. 223). 

X. THE REV. N. PAUL. 

The Rev. N. Paul is a coloured native of the United States, 
and a Baptist minister. An act was passed by the legislature of New 
York, in 1817, abolishing slavery in 1827. The number thus freed 
was upwards of 10,000. No means, that he knew of, were employed to 
prepare these slaves for emancipation, and no disturbance of any kind 
was caused by it, either at the time., or at any time thereafter ; and he 
heard no complaints of the subsequent conduct of the emancipated 
persons. After their emancipation they became much more atten- 
tive to their religious duties, and were eager to acquire education. 
The general wages they obtained for agricultural labour when eman- 
cipated were from ten to twelve dollars a month and their provisions 
(p. 229, 230). 

A number of slaves who have escaped from slavery in the United 
States into Upper Canada have formed settlements there. They had 
introduced the culture of tobacco to a considerable extent, and had 
begun to export it : it had never been thought of before. — They pur- 
chased their land of the Canada Company. They have been very indus- 
trious, and their moral conduct exemplary. They are generally either 
Methodists or Baptists, and their children are carefully educated. At 
their settlement of Wilberforce they have taken very effectual means 
to ensure sobriety : they have unanimously agreed to exclude ardent 
spirits. He visited these settlements as a Missionary, and did not 
find any distress among them, or any tendency to disorder (p. 231 — 
233). 

XL—THE REV. THOMAS MORGAN. 

The Rev. Thomas Morgan, a Wesleyan Missionary, resided in 
the West Indies seventeen years. He had been at Nevis, St. Kitt's, 
St. Vincent, Antigua, and Jamaica. In the smaller islands he 
was frequently on the estates, and had a good opportunity of judging 



104 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

of the state of slavery. The Negro certainly possesses the ordinary 
powers of acquiring information in common with his fellow-creatures, 
and only requires they should be developed. He understands and 
profits as much as the people of this country by religious instruction, 
the beneficial effect of which on those who receive it is verymanifest. At 
the same time it is impossible, under the present system of slavery, to 
carry religion to any considerable extent, on account of the inability 
of the slaves to attend religious worship. But the disadvantages they 
labour under in that respect are less in the smaller islands than in 
Jamaica. There was no reason to complain of opposition or discou- 
ragement in either St. Kitt's, Antigua, or Nevis. In St. Vincent there 
was at one time great opposition, but there was afterwards a better 
feeling. In Jamaica there were not the same facilities. In An- 
tigua the Wesleyans may have preached on forty estates ; in Ja- 
maica only on one or two. — In the Leeward Islands, viz. Antigua, 
St. Kitt's, and Nevis, the slaves receive a small allowance from 
the master, consisting of Indian corn, corn meal, horse beans, and 
herrings. The allowance is not sufficient to maintain them. They 
are forced to supply the deficiency by working on Sundays ; for no 
time in the week is allowed them by law. He had heard Mr. Raw- 
lins, the Speaker of the House of Assembly in St. Kitt's, declare that 
itwas impossible for the slave to subsist on what he received from his mas- 
ter, unless he worked on the Sunday. In St. Vincent 26 week-days are 
allowed the slaves for cultivating their grounds, as in Jamaica. He 
regarded the Negroes as a very industrious race, when they worked 
for themselves ; and he had no doubt they would wo.k cheerfully for 
fair wages in growing sugar or in any other way. The emancipated 
slaves maintain themselves very comfortably by labouring in various 
ways for their own benefit. He never knew them to work on sugar 
plantations. He had never heard of such a thing being proposed to 
any of them. Their conduct is usually quiet and orderly (p. 234 — 
236). 

Mr. Morgan apprehended no danger whatever from emancipation. 
He believed the slaves when free would follow their occupations, if 
fairly paid for their labour. He apprehended great danger, however, 
from continuing the state of slavery as it exists in Jama ca. The de- 
sire for freedom is very strong among all classes of the slaves, religious 
and irreligious, only that the religious are unwilling to take violent 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. W. Knibb. 105 

steps to obtain it. They are very peaceably inclined. The emanci- 
pation, in his opinion, when it takes place, should be total, and not 
partial (p. 236, 237). 

The free black and coloured people of Jamaica are rapidly improv- 
ing in morality and knowledge, and many are acquiring wealth. 

Mr. Morgan repeated over and over again his conviction that there 
was no danger in granting emancipation, under proper regulations of 
police, but the greatest danger in withholding it. 

XII. -THE REV. WILLIAM KNIBB. 

The Rev. William Knibb is a Baptist missionary. He had 
been seven years in Jamaica, and quitted it in April, 1832. He was 
in that island during the late insurrection, and at Montego Bay, near 
the spot where it first broke out. He was well acquainted with the 
slaves in that quarter ; many of them were Baptists ; some of these 
took part in the rebellion, but none who were previously known to him 
by person. Of the congregation under his immediate charge three 
were tried at Falmouth and punished, but not capitally. He did not 
know whether they were guilty or not. — About Christmas, 1831, the 
slaves appeared to be generally dissatisfied. The reasons they gave 
for it were that a part of the time allowed them by law was taken 
from them ; and that they were severely flogged, and, when flogged, 
were taunted by the overseers with their being to be free at Christmas. 
They came to ask him if that was true ; and he told them that it was not 
true. —They complained also of being debarred of their religious privi- 
leges, and flogged for attending the house of God. The fact that such taunt- 
ing language, about their expected freedom, was used by the overseers, 
was reported to him not only by slaves, but by a free man and a white 
book-keeper, who heard it used on Flamstead estate. It was a com- 
mon topic with the planters that the Negroes were looking for their 
freedom at Christmas. After the rebellion many of the Negroes told 
Mr. K. that the parochial meetings had led them to believe it. He had 
heard nothing of it before from the slaves, except the enquiry to which he 
has alluded as to the truth of the rumour, and to which he had given a 
negative. He had heard, it is true, white persons using that language, 
but he did not believe it ; he had not the slightest expectation of any 
rising ; he thought it was idle talk, and that persons who so talked 



106 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

did not really mean what they said. — Meetings had been held in 
every parish with the exception of Kingston, at which all who chose 
might attend ; and resolutions were passed to the effect of renouncing 
their allegiance to the British crown. He had himself attended that 
at Falmouth, and the question of emancipation was there publicly 
discussed. The meeting consisted of proprietors, attorneys, overseers, 
and others. The speakers were Mr. Macdonald, the custos of Tre- 
lawney, Mr. Frater, a member of the assembly, Mr. Lamonas, and Mr. 
Dyer. Mr. Frater was the chief speaker ; he and the others were very 
violent : they talked of resistance, if England continued to interfere 
with their property in slaves. There were black persons present, and 
they may have been slaves. He knew that slaves had attended at 
some of the meetings, and immediately conveyed the intelligence 
obtained there to their fellows. The insurrection arose partly from 
these meetings, partly from a knowledge of what was passing in 
England, and a belief that the king of England had resolved on 
freeing them ; and partly from an idea that the planters, to frustrate this 
design, were going to transfer the island to America. The hatred of 
American rule is very strong among the blacks and browns in Jamaica. 
He had heard some of them declare they would spill their last drop 
of blood before a Yankee should get a footing there. Their detesta- 
tion of America is quite notorious. The reason of it is the contempt 
with which the blacks and browns are treated in the United States. 
The slaves also dreaded a transfer to America as rendering their free- 
dom quite hopeless. They expected too to be aided by the king. 
This was stated to Mr. Knibb by a man under sentence of death, 
whom he was requested by the custos Mr. Miller, with the concurrence 
of the chief justice, to confer with. He had no idea of this till after 
the insurrection. He knew indeed they were anxious for freedom ; 
but, on the only occasion on which the subject had been mentioned to 
him, by any slave, as a thing looked for, he decidedly discouraged any 
such idea. 

The occurrences which took place during the insurrection, and after- 
wards, plainly showed how intense was their passion for freedom. A 
man belonging to Round Hill estate went up to a party of soldiers 
and said, " I will never work more as a slave ; give me freedom and 
I will work ; you may shoot me." They shot him at once. The fact 
is stated in the Cornwall Chronicle. — One said if he had twenty lives 



on the Extinction of Slavery . — Evidence of the Rev. W. Knibb. 107 

he would risk them all for freedom. — As far as he could learn it was 
not their intention at first to destroy property or to injure the whites ; 
but to insist on having wages at the rate of 2s. 6d. currency, or 20d. 
a day, the present rate of wages. But when the insurrection broke out 
they got drunk and fired the properties. — They certainly had inferred 
from the violent language at the parochial meetings, and the threat 
of giving up the island to America, that the king had made them free. — 
Many of the Baptist slaves were active in saving their masters' pro- 
perty. On Green park estate, in Trelawney, where there were many 
Baptists, they mounted guard every night, and defeated an attempt 
to fire the trash-house. They seized three of the insurgents and 
brought them to Falmouth, and were rewarded by the Assembly with 
£40. These men had come to him to say that the other slaves had 
blamed them for having arrested their fellows ; but Mr. Knibb com- 
mended them, and begged them to continue their exertions ; and, in 
point of fact, they defended the property to the last (p. 245, 246). 

In the Baptist Societies there is a distinction between members who 
have been consistent characters, and have been admitted to full com- 
munion as being under the influence of Christian principle, and mere 
enquirers, who are on trial, as it were, and only admitted as members 
if their conduct and attendance are regular for a certain period, perhaps 
for two or three years, and also till they have attained some know- 
ledge of Scriptural truth. They are in fact in a probationary state, 
and are often not admitted into membership at all (p. 146). 

Various instances have occurred of rewards for good conduct be- 
stowed on Baptists by the Assembly. — Charles Campbell, a slave 
belonging to Weston Favell, took charge of the estate, and pre- 
served it from injury, and carried on the labours of it as at other 
times ; all the Baptists on the estate uniting to preserve order. He 
obtained his freedom from his master for what he had done. He was 
a deacon of the Baptist church. — A man of the name of Barrett, be- 
longing to Oxford estate, also a deacon, acted in the same way, and 
has since had his freedom given to him. — A slave named George 
Prince, another deacon, had the entire charge of the estate committed 
to him with written instructions from the overseer, and he kept every 
thing in the best order the whole time of the overseer's absence. The 
same occurred on Carlton estate. The Baptists were numerous on 
all these properties. — Six Baptists were hung belonging to Mr. Bur- 



108 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

chell's congregation ; none belonging to Mr. K.'s. Some were shot at 
random. In Mr. Cantlow's congregation out of forty-eight leaders 
two were executed. One of them, of the name of Francis Escrow, had 
his freedom for his good conduct ; but lie lost his wife, who was shot by 
the random firing of the militia. He was required by the overseer to 
put a rebel to death, but he refused. On this the overseer seized a 
cutlass and with it literally hewed the alleged rebel to death in 
Escrow's presence. One of Mr. Burchell's deacons, named William 
Rickets, obtained his freedom for his conduct. Mr. Knibb had not 
heard of one deacon having been executed, and only of one or two 
leaders (p. 247, 248). 

Mr. Knibb himself, and two other missionaries, Whitehorne and 
Abbott, were forced, by a militia colonel, to perform military duty, 
notwithstanding their remonstrances. They were after that arrested, 
and on the 2nd of January, 1832, sent as prisoners to head-quarters 
in an open boat, guarded by soldiers, and when they landed were 
paraded as prisoners through the open streets ; and, after being sent 
backwards and forwards from the civil to the military power, were 
confined in the Court-house, guarded by ftmr soldiers, and assailed 
with reproach and insult, till at midnight they were permitted to go 
on bail, but without being told of what they Avere accused, to a pri- 
vate house in Montego bay, which house they were not allowed to quit. 
During the interval, however, Mr. Knibb was ordered down to the 
court-house to answer a charge of having been preaching contrary to 
an interdict of the militia colonel, Lawson. He pleaded that he had 
only been performing family worship in the house where he resided. 
A little time after he had been sent back, some gentlemen, among 
whom was Mr. Manderson, a magistrate, and Mr. Roby, the collector 
of the customs, and Mr. Lewin, came to inform him that fifty persons 
were coming with clubs to murder him and the other two missionaries. 
This was on the 7th of February, martial law having ceased on the 
5th. The Baptist chapel was demolished on the 7th at noon by a 
mob of white men, though the commander in chief, Sir W. Cotton, was 
in the town with some troops, and there were king's ships in the bay. 
On hearing this, and that the same mob was coining to attack him, 
Mr. Knibb escaped with his wife and child and the other two mis- 
sionaries, to Mr. Manderson's, and thence on board one of the king's 
ships. They were led to this step by the alarm they felt, partly from 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. W. Knibb. 109 

the representations of their friends, and partly from the threats and 
scurrilous language of the newspapers, the Courant and the Cornwall 
Courier, which said they should be tarred and feathered wherever they 
could be met with. On the 14th of February Mr. Knibb obtained 
his release both from his bail and from confinement, by the following 
discharge : — 

" MontegoBay, February 14th, 1832. 
" Having examined the evidence of Samuel Stennett, Alexander 
Erskine, Adam, and Paris, against W. Knibb, Baptist missionary, and 
finding nothing therein to support a criminal prosecution, I declare 
the said W. Knibb discharged with his sureties from their recogni- 
zances." (Signed) Richard Barrett, Custos. 

Being released from his confinement, under this order, without the 
slightest charge having as yet been preferred against him, though 
loaded during his confinement with injury and outrage, he returned 
to Falmouth on the 15th of February, where he found his chapel had 
been destroyed on the same day on which the demolition of that at 
Montego bay had taken place. His congregation there he found had 
been suffering great anxiety on his account, and they appeared de- 
lighted with his return. Persons came from thirty estates, containing 
perhaps 10,000 slaves, to enquire after him. They complained 
much that they who had defended their masters' property should suffer 
for the sins of others, and that their chapel should be destroyed, and 
no place left them to meet in, though not a single estate in which he 
had members had been burnt. This occurrence produced a very 
strong sensation among them. They enquired whether the chapel 
would be rebuilt, and they be permitted again to attend the worship 
of God. Mr. Knibb consoled them with the hope of having the 
chapel rebuilt by help from England, and of again enjoying their 
religious privileges. The chapel had been their own work, built 
at their own expense. Instead of being allowed to preach to 
them then, he did not even dare to leave the house, being threatened 
with murder by a party assembled for that purpose, consisting not of 
blacks but of whites. There was no protection of law ; mob govern- 
ment ruled. The custos, Mr. Miller, and Mr. Gordon, a magistrate, 
to whom he applied for protection, said that in the then state of feel- 
ing it was impossible, and advised his departure. A party of white 



110 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

men, disguised in women's clothes, came to his house at night, and 
threw stones while he was in bed: one stone fell on the bed. There 
were some coloured gentlemen, who had heard of the intended attack, 
and came for Mr. Knibb's defence, and when the assailants heard 
them cry out, they ran away. These attempts were renewed for three 
successive nights, and at last Mr. K. was persuaded by his friends to 
quit the place and repair to Montego Bay, where he had left his wife 
and child. He was assured of the designs against him by two white 
gentlemen, one of whom had been applied to to assist in tarring and 
feathering him. — He knew of nothing that could have excited such 
ill will to him among the whites of Falmouth, except that his congre- 
gation there was composed of slaves, of whom 1000 generally attended 
on Sunday mornings, the number of members being 983 and of en- 
quirers about 2500. These came from eighty plantations. The 
congregation had been originally formed by a preceding missionary 
who had died ; many of them were illiterate, but many very sensible. 
A great many were learning to read, and about 100 adults could 
read. He found the desire for knowledge very intense, and he had 
no doubt they were stimulated to take pains by the power it would 
give them of gaining information relative to slavery. Since the rebel- 
lion he has learnt what he had not known before, that they were 
eager in obtaining and diffusing information on that subject. He 
had known that they read newspapers occasionally with that view 
(p. 249—255). 

Mr. Knibb admitted the great hostility shown him by the whites ; 
he denied, however, having ever touched, in addressing his congre- 
gation either publicly or privately, on their temporal condition. 
It was difficult to avoid doing it, but he thought it right and 
what every good man would do. When called to preach on subjects 
connected with the freedom of the gospel, he was at pains to make 
them understand that gospel freedom had respect to the soul and 
not to the body, and that there were slaves in the times of the 
apostles as well as now. He thought it imperatively his duty to 
preach the whole counsel of God ; but he took care to make it under- 
stood that Christian freedom meant spiritual not temporal freedom, 
and the conduct of his congregation was a sufficient proof he was not 
misunderstood. The witnesses he had summoned from 70 different 
estates would have proved this had he had the pleasure of being tried 



on the Extinction of Slavery . — Evidence of the Rev. W. Knibb. Ill 

at the March assizes, as was intended. General clamour had charged 
him with preaching seditious doctrines. He called loudly for the 
proof, but it has never been produced. At a public meeting of planters 
at Montegobay, thecustos Mr. Macdonald in the chair, a resolution was 
moved and carried, " That it appeared, from a mass of moral evidence, 
that the Baptists had been instrumental in misleading the slaves, by 
inculcating doctrines teaching disobedience to their masters. As sec- 
tarianism leads to revolution both in church and state, it behoves us to 
adopt means to prevent any other than duly authorized ministers of the 
established churches of England and Scotland from imparting religious 
instruction to the slaves ; and in furtherance of this measure we call 
upon all proprietors of estates, or their attorneys, to put down all 
sectarian meetings on their respective properties, and that the magis- 
tracy should be most strongly urged to withhold for the future then- 
license to sectarian ministers and their places of worship." The 
meeting was for forming a Colonial Church Union, and the resolu- 
tions were printed in all the newspapers, and were of course known to 
all the slaves. All the religious slaves who attended sectarian meetings 
would of course mourn over such resolutions. But although the light 
produced by instruction tended to increase the desire of freedom, yet 
in the case of truly Christian slaves, they thought it wrong to seek it 
by violence. They said that if God intended to give them freedom, 
he would give it without force on their parts. If they took it by force, 
it would come with a curse and not a blessing ; and this sentiment, 
he believed, was the only security against their using force. In reply 
to a question whether he had been always guarded in preaching to 
the slaves, he said he had proffered proof of it in Jamaica, and he should 
be ready to produce a thousand witnesses of that fact (p. 255 — 257). 
Mr. Knibb then entered into some explanation of the causes which 
led to the dislike of missionaries. The doctrines inculcated by mis- 
sionaries were directly condemnatory of the general habits of 
thinking and acting of the white community of Jamaica, which con- 
sisted chiefly of the mere servants of the proprietors who resided in 
England. Certainly it was his conviction that the generality of the 
planters entertained the opinion that Christianity would lead neces- 
sarily to the abolition of slavery. This was the view given him of the 
general feeling in the island by Mr, S. M. Barrett, and many others 
whom he declined to name (p, 258), 



112 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

In a great variety of ways English newspapers, and the contents of 
English newspapers, were conveyed to the knowledge of the slaves 
(p. 259). 

At Montego bay from 90 to 100 slaves were punished capitally, 
either hung or shot ; and some were flogged to death, dying of the 
infliction on the next day. One of Mr. Burchell's members (sen- 
tenced to 500 lashes), died of the flogging. The courts martial that 
sat were composed of militia officers : he did not know if they had Sir 
Willoughby Cotton's approbation. He could not answer for that fact. 
He thought, in some cases, they could not have had his sanction, as 
persons were shot at distant places on the same day. There were 
about 300 shot, many by drum-head courts. One person told Mr. 
Knibb he had caused eleven to be shot. Some were tried, and shot 
or hung, in half an hour, Sir W. Cotton being then absent. He had 
himself seen men hung at Montego bay when Sir W. Cotton was so 
far distant that he could not have been referred to. The trials and 
executions went on the most rapidly in St. James's while the general was 
in Westmoreland ; and he was told that he had delegated to some other 
the power of signing the sentences of the courts martial. Mr. K. had 
never known more than one hour elapse between the sentence and 
the execution. At Montego bay he said that 90 had been hung or 
shot, but in fact the number was greater. At Falmouth 1 1 were shot, 
6 were hanged, and 36 were flogged. The executions were con- 
ducted with considerable levity, four or six being sometimes executed 
in a day at Montego bay. Mr. Knibb saw Dehaney hung, with two 
others. He fell from the gallows by the rope breaking. He went up 
again with the utmost firmness, and, the other two being dead, 
he swung in the centre, and kicked them. There was on this quite a 
horse-laugh, which was very disgusting. Blacks as well as whites 
joined in it. The bodies of those shot and hung at Montego bay were 
buried in a trench ; those put to death in the country were left to be 
devoured by vultures. The feeling produced by all this is very pain- 
ful and alarming, as many have lost not only fathers and brothers, 
but wives also. The severities exercised are much more likely to 
excite a deep-rooted feeling of revenge, and to accelerate a recur- 
rence to violence, than to produce terror. The firmness with which 
they met death was remarkable. There was not one who did not. 
Dehaney's case was one he should never forget. He neither heard 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. W. Knibb. 113 

of nor saw one who manifested any symptom of fear : not even a 
woman who was hanged. These things were currently known in the 
island, and of course to the slaves generally, for they appeared in all 
the newspapers (p. 258 — 262). 

A young man, a Methodist leader, belonging to the militia, having 
been asked to pray with some people condemned to be shot at Fal- 
mouth, was then ordered to shoot them, and did shoot them. He 
did it under military compulsion, and he gave Mr. Knibb to under- 
stand that the very men who had told him to pray with the convicts 
had then ordered him to shoot them. His own words to Mr. Knibb 
were, " They asked me to pray with them prisoners, and then they 
made me shoot them." He spoke to me of the matter as a great 
hardship that had been imposed upon him (p. 263, 264). 

Some of the clergymen of the church of England went out and 
fought in regimentals, among them Mr. Burton. He joined the 
militia as a trooper (p. 265). 

Mr. Knibb was re-examined as to the conversations that had passed 
between him and the slaves prior to the insurrection. He repeated that 
several slaves, Baptists, had come to him to ask if it were true, as they 
had heard, that they were to be free after Christmas. He told them 
no. They said they had heard the overseers frequently say that they 
were to be free after Christmas. He told them it was not the case — 
he had heard nothing of it, and did not believe it, and he hoped they 
would not harbour such thoughts. They said, at the same time, that 
they had never been so cruelly treated as during the preceding three 
or four months. The onlv reason they assigned for this increased 
severity was that sometimes, when they were laid on the ground to be 
flogged, the overseers said that, as they (the slaves) were to be free at 
Christmas, "they would get it out of them first." On the occasion 
of this conversation, and with a view to create a disbelief of such 
statements, and thus to allay their excitement, he used the words, " Did 
you ever know the overseers tell you any thing to do you good V 
The words were used to undeceive them. He had no reason to doubt 
that the statements made to him by these slaves were correct, and his 
object was to undeceive them. 

Being questioned as to some passages in a printed speech of his, 
which had appeared in a paper called the Patriot, he affirmed then- 
accuracy. One respected the flogging of an infant slave ; and he said 

K 



114 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

that, in riding through Macclesfield estate, in Westmoreland, he had 
seen a child of seven or eight years old laid down, and held down by 
four others, and flogged. This was about two years ago. — Another case 
he had mentioned, that of Catherine Williams, was as follows: — 
" Just as the rebellion broke out, one of my members came and said 
that Catherine Williams had just crawled to her house, and her back 
a mass of blood. I said, ' How is this ? she always appeared to be a 
faithful servant.' My informant said that she had been confined in a 
dungeon for three months, and had been flogged because the overseer 
wanted her to live with him in fornication, and she would not. Her 
back, my informant stated, was very bad indeed. He had mentioned 
the circumstance to Mr. Blyth, a Scotch missionary, who wished it to 
be laid before the custos; but my informant feared the trouble it would 
occasion, and Mr. Blyth therefore declined doing it. I had the utmost 
confidence in my informant." — A third case was that of one William 
Plomer, an emancipated slave, who was one of the witnesses called on 
behalf of Mr. Gardner, the missionary, who was shut up in a room 
with a pot of burning brimstone, in order to induce him to accuse Mr. 
Burchell ; the person who placed the pot of brimstone telling him 
that they would give him a taste of hell, as he would say nothing 
against Mr. Burchell. This was related to Mr. Knibb by the gentle- 
man who had taken Plomer's examination, preparatory to the trial of 
Mr. Gardner, and who had inserted the fact in the brief. He had heard 
the person's name who had placed the pot of brimstone and used the 
above language, but he had forgotten it. The person, however, who took 
the examination of Plomer could tell (p. 265 — 267). 

Mr. Knibb was further asked whether he had used the following 
language attributed to him in this speech, viz. — " A colonial Church 
Union, composed of nearly all the fornicators in the island, has been 
formed to stop the march of mind and religion, to protect the white 
rebels from deserved punishment, and to dry up the streams of religious 
instruction. Infidels, clergymen, slave owners, newspaper editors, 
high and low, have joined hand and heart." " Yes," replied Mr. 
Knibb, " that is mine" (p. 268). 

Mr. Knibb stated that of the Baptist missionaries six had been 
arrested during the rebellion, and one Wesleyan. Thirteen Baptist 
chapels and four Wesleyan chapels were destroyed. The effect on the 
minds of the slaves of the destruction of those chapels was of the 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. W. Knibb. 115 

most painful description. He can never forget their tears and their 
emotion at the sight. Mr. Knibb told them that, if they were obedient, 
their chapels would be restored, and that he was sure the king would 
see that they were permitted to pray, but this would depend on their 
good conduct (p. 270). 

Mr. Miller, the custos, told Mr. Knibb that the Governor had re- 
quested him to find out the cause of the rebellion, that he himself 
was perfectly convinced of Mr. Knibb's innocence, and that he had con- 
ferred also with the Chief Justice on the subject, and they concurred 
in thinking that they could not do better than employ him ; and the 
custos added, " Mr. Knibb, I have his Excellency's permission to say 
that if any slave will divulge that which may lead to a full disclosure 
of the rebellion, every effort will be made to have his life spared." 
This occurred between the period of finding a true bill of indictment 
against him, and the abandonment of the prosecution by the Attorney- 
General. Mr. Knibb accordingly examined some of the prisoners, 
some alone, and others in the company of Mr. Murray, a Wesleyan 
minister. He examined each separately. He examined none that had 
been tried, except one who was under sentence of death. They agreed 
in their answers as contained in the papers now produced, a copy or the 
substance of which he had given to Mr. Miller. These answers were 
taken down at the time, in the presence of the slaves, on sheets of 
paper, and afterwards copied into this book. Mr. Murray is now at 
Montego Bay. Mr. Miller himself attended the examinations of 
Sharpe and Gardner. The meetings of the inhabitants and what 
passed there formed one of the principal reasons they alleged for the insur- 
rection. The last of the examinations he took was that of a slave 
called Hilton, on the 23rd of March. — Meetings of the drivers of 
different estates were held at a place called Retrieve, where Samuel 
Sharpe appeared to be the leading man. On Christmas morning 
Sharpe spoke to Hilton, at the chapel at Montego bay, to be sure, if 
the minister asked him about freedom, or not working after Christmas, 
to tell him he knew he was free, and that he would not work again 
for any body any more unless he was paid for it. The minister, how- 
ever, did not call upon him. After the morning meeting he went to 
Richard Bailey's, with some others, and had breakfast. Bailey 
looked for an old newspaper, and said, " This is not the right one ; 
this js four months old, and tells us that eight years back women 

s2 



116 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

were not to be flogged." Bailey found another paper, which said 
that the English people would not submit to the brutish practice any 
longer. Hilton afterwards asked Thomas Williams, a leader, whether 
it was true what was said about freedom. Williams said, No; — 
that foolish people had put it into their heads ; for he had never heard 
Mr. Burchell say one word about it, or that he was gone home to bring 
out their freedom ; but that the whole had been made up at Retrieve. 
The persons examined all referred to the expectation that was enter- 
tained of the island being given up to America. — In one of the exami- 
nations is found an account of a conversation among some of the 
slaves, which took place on Christmas day, to the following effect : — 
Gardner and Dove, though supposed to have been leaders, both 
solemnly denied that they had any connexion with the plot till 
Christmas day. On that day they met Guthrie, Sharpe, Taylor, and 
other members of the church, who were talking about freedom. 
Taylor strongly urged Sharpe not to refuse to go to work after Christ- 
mas. Gardner strongly advised to go to work after Christmas, saying, 
M If freedom is come we shall get it quietly, but if we do what is 
wrong we shall bring disgrace on religion." Sharpe said, " I know 
we are free. I have read it in the English papers. I have taken an 
oath not to work after Christmas without pay, and I will not." 
Sharpe then went away. Gardner after fell into company with Guth- 
rie and some others, at Guthrie's house. Guthrie offered them wine 
or spirits : they chose wine. Guthrie poured it out, and, taking his 
glass, said, " Well, friends, I hope the time will soon come when we 
shall have our privilege, and when we shall drink wine free. I hope 
we shall soon have Little Breeches under our feet." Gardner asked 
who was Little Breeches. Guthrie said, " He is my master, Mr. 
Grignon. I heard him say the king was going to make us free, but 
he hoped all would be of his mind, and spill their blood first. But," 
added Guthrie, " I'll be the first to do the job, though I am his 
slave; I will give him a pill as I follow him." On another occasion 
some one was doubting of their freedom, when John Morris said he 
was sure it was true, because when the women at Duckett's having 
young children went to Mr. Grignon for their Christmas allowance, 
Mr. Grignon said that they must now look to their friends in England 
for allowance, for he had no more to give them. Morris argued long 
on this fact, saying, " If we are not free, what made Mr. Grignon 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. W. Knibb. 117 

say so?" This made all the people stout upon it, and they said they 
would throw down their hoes and say they were free (p. 271 — 273). 

One circumstance, Mr. Knibb said, which induced the slaves to 
think they were to be made free, was Mr. Beaumont saying in the 
Assembly, when discussing- the bill for compulsory manumission, that 
they should no longer be called slaves, but labourers (p. 274). 

Mr. Knibb said he believed the people told him the truth, for it 
agreed with what his own people told him afterwards. His church 
was not in St. James's, where the rebellion broke out, but in the next 
parish to it, Trelawney ; and he earnestly requested them afterwards 
to tell him all they knew. They said they heard it commonly said 
they were to be free at Christmas, and that, if he had not contradicted 
the rumour, they should have continued to believe it. A young free 
man of colour, who had joined the rebels, and was executed at Mon- 
tego Bay, told him and so did many others that they did not expect the 
king's troops would fight against them. This man of colour was exe- 
cuted for a deliberate murder. He shot a faithful slave, who was 
defending his master's property (p. 274). 

The slaves are now in the full expectation that their freedom will 
come to them from England. He doubted whether they would be 
content to wait long for it. As the rebellion was breaking out he 
had himself spoken to about a thousand people, not of his flock, 
urging and entreating them, even with tears, to remain faithful to 
their masters, telling them they were misled by wicked men, and that no 
free paper had come out. But some who were present told him af- 
terwards that the effect of what he said was neutralized by their being 
told by some of their companions, " Do not believe him ; the white 
men have given him money to say so. The free paper has come out." 
The way in which he came to meet these people was this: — on the 
last day of the Christmas holidays he had gone to some distance to 
open a new place of worship. Mr. Blyth came and told him he had 
heard the people were going to refuse to work, and that the militia 
had been called out. He went off immediately ; and, after riding 32 
miles, he found them assembled, and talked to them for three or four 
hours, assuring them they were all mistaken, and urging them, if they 
had any love to Christ, to go to their masters, and not suffer them- 
selves to be misled to their ruin. He had heard of their having this 
impression only the night before from Mr. Blyth. A person named 



118 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

Stephen James also called to tell him of the rumour, and he said to 
him, " Go and tell them that, if one of my members refuses to go to 
work after Christmas, I will exclude him instantly from the church ;■" 
and he sent his free people in all directions to the estates to tell them 
the same. It was three or four months before this that he had been 
first questioned by the slaves. He then told them not to believe 
any thing they heard about it : " it is not true : you must not listen to 
any such reports at all : you ought to be thinking about your souls : 
you must never speak to me on the subject ; I will not hear it." He 
viewed it at the time as an idle enquiry which he had only to check. 
He was at this time preaching at a distance from home to a strange 
congregation. He heard no more of it, and nothing of it whatever 
from his own congregation. He really thought nothing more of it, 
till Mr. Blyth informed him of what he heard was about to take 
place. He was thunderstruck, and went and told Mr. Manderson. 
But at this time the military force was under arms, and the magis- 
trates quite awake, In fact he found them all better informed than 
he was, having already had informations on oath. His first intima- 
tion was at Falmouth, from Mr. Blyth. He immediately got Lewis 
Williams, a free man, a deacon of his church, who is still alive, to 
ride from property to property, to beg them not to be led away. He 
himself drove in his chaise as far as he could ; but did not get down 
till ten at night, when the country was in complete confusion. The 
military indeed had been called out that very day. When he got to 
the place to which he was going he addressed the people in the way 
he had already stated (p. 275 — 277). 

Mr. Knibb certainly thought the slaves were more disposed to 
listen to the missionaries of the Baptists and Methodists than to the 
ministers either of the English or Scotch churches. There were 
some excellent men among the English clergy, but few slaves com- 
paratively attend upon them. Some of them use their very utmost 
exertions, but not only are their habits of life and their adaptation of 
language and manners different, but they had other congregations to 
attend to, the free and the whites. The same sermon that would suit a 
white and intelligent man would be lost on the unlettered and simple 
Negro (p. 278). 

In the parish of Trelawney, Mr. Knibb said, there were no catechists. 
There was a curate, but he did not visit any estate ; he was requested 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. W. Knibb. 119 

to go on one ; he did not go, and Mr. Knibb went. He knew one 
excellent and devoted curate, Mr. Hannah. He did not mean to say 
he was the only excellent one. There were undoubtedly others, as 
Mr. Dallas of Spanish Town, and many did their utmost ; but they 
were occupied with the free, and, if there were no slaves in the island, 
they would have had enough to do. The Church Missionary Society had 
catechists ; but, if there were a hundred more missionaries in Jamaica 
to-morrow, they would all have enough to do. In the disturbed dis- 
tricts there were no properties where slaves were attended by curates 
or catechists of the church of England ; while, on all the estates on 
which the Baptist missionaries were allowed to go and preach, the 
people continued faithful. There were Baptists engaged in the rebel- 
lion ; but he meant to affirm that on the estates to which he and the 
other Baptist missionaries were admitted, the people defended their 
masters' property to the last. There was not a single member of Mr. 
Abbott's congregation at Lucea in Hanover who was implicated in the 
rebellion, or even refused to work for his owner. There was one Bap- 
tist preacher wholly unconnected with the missionaries, on the borders 
of St. James's and Trelawney, at a place called Spring Vale Pen, who 
was shot as a rebel, many of his congregation being shot too (p. 279). 

Christianity, Mr. Knibb thinks, will lead every man to love free- 
dom, but true Christianity will keep him from taking it by violence. 
It will inspire a love of freedom, but it will lead him to be quiet till 
it is granted. As the apostle Paul says, " If thou mayest be free, use 
it rather " (p. 280). 

There is in the mind of the Negro a suspicion of what his master 
does, so that even when Baptist missionaries have gone on an estate 
at the request of the master, the slaves would not attend them. This 
makes them jealous of clergymen ; and, if they thought the mission- 
aries were paid by their masters, they would not come near them. 
Clergymen themselves have told Mr. Knibb they found this to be the 
case. He was himself once requested by Mr. E. B. of Bristol, a very 
worthy gentleman of the church of England, to visit his estates ; but, 
in consequence of something that was reported to the slaves to have 
passed between him and the overseers of the estates, they came to 
him in a body requesting him not to come, for if he did they would 
not hear him. " Keep," they said, " to your own chapel, and keep 
away from the overseers, and we will come and hear you." 



120 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

Mr. Knibb communicated with Mr. B. on this subject privately, 
and has seen him since his return, having been received by him with 
great kindness. He had felt the subject a difficult one. One of Mr. 
K.'s reasons for not visiting his estates was the state of concubinage in 
which the overseers lived. Almost every overseer and book-keeper 
in the island is living in fornication, and he did not think it right to 
associate with such characters. Slanders also were raised against 
himself. The attorney too took the part of the overseer against him. — 
He is unwilling to go farther into the matter or to mention the pro- 
prietor's name. 

In the report of a speech of Mr. Knibb, he had spoke of the inno- 
cent blood that had been shed during the insurrection. He said 
he referred to the number who, daring martial law, had suffered 
innocently. The feeling produced by it, he feared, was very strong : 
for in this, as in all servile wars, great enormities were apt to take 
place, and much blood shed which would not be revealed till the day 
of judgment. Where soldiers go out, as they did, and fire indiscrimi- 
nately, a great deal of innocent blood will be shed. This feeling he 
believed to be very prevalent, but was directed, not against their 
masters residing in England, who they thought were friendly to them, 
but against the resident whites. The probable existence of a feeling of 
resentment and revenge was the subject of much conversation among 
all classes of the free in the island (p. 280, 281, 285). 

Mr. Knibb left the island early in April. Mr. Miller and Dr. Gordon 
had sent for him and said, " Mr. Knibb, it is our decided opinion 
that your life is not safe. I would do every thing to protect you, 
but I cannot protect you" (p. 281). 

The Baptist leaders, in his congregation, were about fifty. Each 
had his own ticket entitling him to come to the sacrament. No one 
could have a ticket which he had not received from the minister, 
whether he were a deacon, a leader, or a member. Enquirers or pro- 
bationers also had their tickets ; and this explains why so many 
tickets were found ; for many enquirers, after receiving their tickets, 
withdrew their attendance. Most of the tickets found were of this 
description. Nothing was paid for these tickets. All members how- 
ever subscribed something quarterly, as the dissenters consider it the 
duty of all, bond or free, to do what they can to support the gospel ; 
but these contributions go, not to the support of the missionaries, for 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of the Rev. W. Knibb. 121 

they are supported from home, but to the erection of chapels for them- 
selves, which are vested in trustees, and could not be taken from 
them (p. 282). 

Mr. Knibb did not know, of himself, who had commanded the 
militia when the new chapel at Salem's Hill was destroyed, but he 
understood it was Captain Gordon who was over the company. 
He was himself a prisoner at the time, and did not see it ; but the 
missionaries were in possession of abundance of evidence to take 
before any court of justice of the persons who destroyed the chapels 
(p. 283). 

He had been informed of slaves having been threatened with death, 
or severe punishments, for refusing to give evidence against the mis- 
sionaries. He had also heard of torture being inflicted to extort in- 
formation as to slaves engaged in the rebellion ; but he had no per- 
sonal knowledge to that effect. A slave, whom he himself had hired 
as a servant, told him that he was flogged by his master, a man of 
colour, for refusing to assist to pull down the chapels (p. 283, 284). 

Mr. Knibb was of opinion that the Negroes, if emancipated, would 
labour for wages. He had known Negroes who paid their masters a 
weekly rent (one of them paying two dollars a week for himself, and a 
dollar and a half a week for his wife) and maintained themselves and 
families at the same time. Heknew one who purchased himself and his 
wife : he paid £250 currency for himself, and £80 for his wife. His name 
is Richard Brown ; he lives at Falmouth. Samuel Swiney tried to 
purchase his wife, but could not effect it, though he bade as high as 
£250 (p. 284). 

He had said at a public meeting in England that he believed the 
Baptist slaves would be flogged if they were caught praying. He had 
seen a slave flogged for praying, the very Samuel Swiney he had just 
mentioned, but who is now free. The evidence is given in full in papers 
laid before Parliament. Mr. Finlayson, the magistrate, said that 
praying and preaching were the same in law. He and his brother 
magistrate who pronounced this judgment were struck off the commis- 
sion by order of the Government. He never heard any other ground 
alleged for their sentence. He had not applied to the Governor 
on the occasion, but sent the facts to the Society at home, that they 
might act as they thought proper. They laid the matter before the 



122 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

Colonial Department. He did not regard himself, as a Missionary, 
entitled to originate any matter by applying to the Governor or the 
Attorney-General. An order has, he believes, gone out requiring all 
complaints to be made through the Governor ; but he knew nothing 
of that then. He had published the case in a newspaper in Jamaica, be- 
cause, having sent it home, he thought it fair to apprise Mr. Finlayson 
of his having done so. He does not think that, after what has passed, 
magistrates in Jamaica would flog slaves for praying, but he thinks 
overseers would do it, and with impunity. Mr. Knibb was then asked 
whether the overseer could by law do this, provided he limited the 
number of lashes to 39 ; but to this he gave a vague answer, profess- 
ing not to know sufficiently the provisions of the new slave law.* 
He had never attended to the proceedings in the courts of law, as he 
made it a point not to interfere with the temporal condition of the 
slaves. He had heard them say, however, that it was of no use to 
complain (p. 290). 

Mr. Knibb denied his ever having had any communication with the 
Anti-Slavery Society, or having seen any of their Reporters except by 
accident (p. 318). 

He had no conversation with the Attorney-General on the nolle 
prosequi entered by him to the indictment preferred against him at 
the Cornwall Assizes. All he had learnt of it was through his attor- 
ney, who told him that if the Missionary Gardiner's case broke down 
the Attorney-General would not enter upon his. He went into court 
with his witnesses, and the Chief Justice said to him, " You will have 



* Had Mr. Knibb been acquainted with that law, he might have replied most 
confidently that no overseer who limited his lashes to 39 was liable to be called 
in question in any court of justice for any punishment within that limit which he 
might inflict, whether for any offence, or for no offence. The words of the 33rd 
section of that Act, of February 19, 1831, authorize every overseer to inflict 39 
lashes on any slave ; and there is no part of that clause, nor of any other clause 
in that Act, or in any other Act of the Jamaica statute-book, which authorizes any 
magistrate to take cognizance of any complaint, made by a slave, of a flogging 
which does not exceed, and is not affirmed to exceed, 39 lashes; provided 
only they are not inflicted twice in the same day, or until the person shall have 
recovered from the effects of any former punishment. 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence ofCapt. Williams. 123 

the kindness, Mr. Knibb, to remove your witnesses." Mr. Knibb 
said, " I am not sure whether I am not to be tried." He said, " You 
are not ; there is a nolle prosequi entered." Mr. Knibb bowed and 
went out (p. 319). 

The above is the whole of Mr. Knibb's evidence which it seems at 
all material to give. We have omitted many of the offensive and dis- 
courteous questions which were addressed to him by some member of 
the Committee, and which, while they tended in no degree to shake the 
force of his testimony, manifested amost galling sense of its importance, 
and of the irritation it had produced in the mind of his examiner. 

We have now gone through the whole of the evidence which was 
adduced to establish Mr. Buxton's propositions, " That the slaves, 
if emancipated, would maintain themselves, would be industrious, and 
disposed to acquire property ; and that the dangers of convulsion are 
greater from freedom withheld from than from freedom granted to the 
slaves ;" and we think it will be allowed, by every candid and unpre- 
judiced reader, that he has most triumphantly established them. But 
we must not forget that we have still to hear the upholders and apo- 
logists of slavery in vindication of their system, and in refutation of 
the strong statements that have already been brought under the 
view of our readers. To that part of our task we therefore now pro- 
ceed. 



I.— CAPTAIN CHARLES HAMPDEN WILLIAMS, R. N. 

Captain Charles Hampden Williams, of the Royal Navy, 
commanded the first ship of war which arrived at Montego Bay two 
days after the late insurrection had broken out. He has been pro- 
moted for his services there, and his conduct has been applauded both 
by the Admiral on the station and by the civil authorities. He had 
been sixteen months in all in the West Indies, and in that time had 
visited almost all the West India islands (p. 291). And yet Captain 
Williams states in a subsequent part of his examination (p. 297) that 
he had gone for the first time to the West Indies " in January last," 
which was January, 1832, only six months prior to the day of his 



124 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

examination. We presume, therefore, he must have meant, by 
January last, January 1831. 

The cause of the insurrection was that the slaves understood the 
king had given them their liberty, but that the planters had withheld 
it from them, and he adds, " / believe they were stirred up to the 
rebellion by the Baptists." The gallant Captain's reasons for this 
belief are somewhat vague. He attended several courts martial 
of slaves at Lucea, and he was led to suppose from what passed that 
the Baptists had preached up the slave's right to liberty. It could 
not be brought home to any body, but this was his inference. He had 
spoken to several members of the court martial, and they were all con- 
vinced the Baptists had stirred up the rebellion, though they could not 
bring it home! " I saw several men shot, hanged, and flogged." " Every 
man had a fair trial before the courts, which were composed of militia 
officers, and I believe every man to have merited his punishment." 
" They had a very fair chance. I went up to one prisoner myself, 
and offered to assist him in his defence."* He does not think any 
persons were killed without trial, except they were in rebellion. He 
had met with no slaves in open rebellion. He went seven miles with 
his sailors " to try to get near them ;" but they could not come 
within gunshot of them. In his opinion " all the punishments that 
took place were cases required for example." The rebellion, in the 
opinion of this officer, was " very formidable indeed ;" and the reason 
he gives for thinking so, for he admits he saw nothing of it himself, is 
this, that when he arrived at Montego Bay he found them " in a great 
panic." " The militia themselves were frightened, and he had to call 
their very " colonelf to order," and to tell him that he could not act 
with him unless " he adopted discipline and order." It, therefore, 
became quite necessary to " strike terror into the Negroes," and 
therefore 100 persons were executed by shooting and hanging, and 
100 flogged. " I believe," says the Captain, " that was the exact 



* The gallant. Captain does not say the offer was accepted. We rather infer 
from his silence that the poor prisoner was too undiscerning to appreciate its 
value. 

■f This, we suppose, was the redoubted Colonel Lawson of whom we have 
heard so much. 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of Capt. Williams. 125 

number."* Besides these, he thinks, " 400 more were shot in resist- 
ance in open warfare/'f 

Captain Williams farther testifies " that he went out to the West 
Indies with strong opinions upon Negro slavery;" he believed they 
were " an ill-used people," and he gives as his reason for having thus 
condemned the West Indians before-hand, " because I had lived in 
a family that even would not eat West Indian sugar, because it was 
raised by slaves." But " what," he is then asked, " is your opinion 
on* that subject now?" To this he promptly replies, " I believe they 
are much better off than any labouring classes in this country !" But, 
he is asked, " are you not aware that they are flogged at the will of 
their masters ?" The reply of Captain Williams to this question is 
highly instructive : — " Their masters," he says, " can inflict thirty- 
nine lashes ; but they must first of all have two or three justices of 
the peace, or magistrates, before they can give the punishment; and 
I could give my men forty-eight lashes whenever I please, and more 
severe." J Before he went out Captain Williams was in favour of 



* It was but a just retaliation that the same militia officers whom the Negroes 
had so terrified should be made the instruments of striking a salutary terror into 
them in return, by shooting, and hanging, and mangling with the cart-whip 200 
unarmed wretches, who had dared so to frighten them. But was it quite fair 
towards the persons thus summarily tried, and convicted, and shot, and hung, 
and lacerated, to constitute as their judges, without appeal, the very men who had 
been terrified and disgraced by them ? Does Captain Williams think that was 
giving the prisoners a " fair chance V 

f Captain Williams has no where told us how many lives this " formidable 
resistance," this " open warfare," caused the gallant troops opposed to them," 
and for whose loss so severe a vengeance was exacted by the alarmed members 
of these courts martial. 

X It is quite impossible to resist the temptation of a brief comment or two on 
this evidence of this leading witness of the West Indians, this advanced guard of 
their array. Mr. Burge, himself, must have blushed for him. He goes out to the 
West Indies animated with Anti-Slavery views. He sails from island to island for 
a few months, attending the Bishop of Barbadoes in his pastoral visits. He re- 
pairs to Jamaica, and spends a month there ? and reports in that short space 100 
shootings and hangings, and 100 floggings worse than either shooting or hanging. 
He sleeps ashore, in Jamaica, for two or three nights, having before had the 
happiness of sleeping under the roof of the renowned Mr. Huggins, of Nevis, 



126 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

emancipation. He is not so now. Emancipation would produce 
anarchy ; there would be no more returns either of produce or 
revenue ; for the slaves, being a lazy set of persons, if emancipated, 
would only raise plantains and yams for their own use. Being asked 
his ground for this inference, his answer is, " Because they are 
naturally lazy !" He had seen several free blacks, " and they are 
very lazy." He admits they have property of their own, but he is 
not aware how they got it ; in short, " they are very lazy" (p. 291, 
294). 

The only ground Captain Williams has for representing the Baptis t 
Missionaries as the instigators of the insurrection is his conversa- 
tion with the officers composing the court martial, and general 
rumour (p. 294). He had heard that fourteen white women had been 
violated, and that seven persons had been burnt (ibid.). Being asked 
whether he had any communication with the slaves on the causes of 
the rebellion, he replied, " yes, I rode round one day to two or three 
estates, and I desired them to remain quiet ; I told them that I would 
shoot them or flog them if they did not behave well ; but they all seem- 
ed well disposed, I merely admonished them, and told them I was the 
captain of the ship in the harbour." He heard of the destruction of 
the Baptist chapels ; he believed it was effected at noon day, and by 
whites, not by blacks. They were destroyed as a retaliation for the 

for other three nights ; and he comes before a Committee of the House of Com- 
mons to dissuade them from abolishing slavery, since he, Captain Williams, is 
able to assure them, after this ample experience, that the slaves are " much better 
off than any labouring classes in this country." His illustrations of this extraor- 
dinary statement are certainly somewhat unfortunate. He can give his men, his 
British sailors, 48 lashes whenever he pleases, and these more severe than the Jamaica 
cart- whip inflicts. Is it indeed so ? If it be, then indeed might the British sea- 
man complain of his condition ; but it is a slander on the British navy to say 
so. He takes it upon himself also to tell the Committee that the slave master 
must have the authority of two or three magistrates, before he can inflict thirty- 
nine lashes of the cart-whip on the bared buttocks of any slave, man or woman. 
This, we need not say, is as gross a mis-statement of the facts of the case as could 
have been uttered. It is directly the reverse of the truth, and that on the very 
point which lies at the root of the whole question of slavery. To have pro- 
duced such a witness, at such a crisis, looks something very like the infatuation 
we have on former occasions imputed to the colonists. 



on the Extinction of Slavery . — Evidence of Capt. Williams. 127 

missionaries having preached up rebellion ; but he was not aware of 
any foundation on which that charge rested (p. 295). 

Captain Williams further states that he had not heard it assigned 
as a cause of the rebellion that the Negroes were afraid of being 
given up to America. And yet he immediately adds, " I visited a 
great many islands, and in all the islands the whites are forming a 
confederacy now to cast off the mother country. It is general through- 
out the West Indies. The planters are dissatisfied with the late Order 
in Council, and they wish to throw off the mother country* (p. 296). 

" The insurrection was quelled," said Captain Williams, '' when I 
left Montego Bay" (he had been there only ten days); " but there were 
several executions going on at that time. When I went back to Mon- 
tego Bay from Lucea" (where he had been about eighteen days), " I 
saw two persons hanging, and one or two flogging at the foot of the 
same gibbet !" 

Captain Williams admitted that all he knew of the treatment of the 
slaves in Jamaica or the other islands " was only by conversation with 
white persons" (p. 297). He also admitted that all he knew against 
the Baptist missionaries was from the same source. " They could 
not prove it ; they could not get it in evidence ;" and yet he 
admitted " that the militia officers were particularly desirous of 
bringing guilt home to the Baptists ; " and that " they were inveterate 
againstthem"(p.298). He sawno professional or other persons assisting 
the Negroes on their trials. The courts martial began by shooting the 
insurgents, and afterwards by shooting and hanging them alternately. 
Then they hanged all, thinking death by shooting too honourable. 
The men did not mind being shot. He saw three men condemned to 
death : they did not alter their voice or countenance : they appeared 
prepared for it ; but he heard them express sorrow and say they were 
legally condemned. The hundred who were flogged received from 
150 to 500 lashes. The lives lost by the king's troops, including the 
militia, were, he had heard, ten (p. 292). 

Captain Williams repeated his conviction that West Indian slavery 
was a happier state than that of the English peasantry. He did not 



* Was it possible then that the slaves should not have heard of this design, 
and been influenced by it? 



128 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

think it bore a comparison, so much better off was the condition of the 
slaves. " They are a happy people, and they have a great many 
enjoyments." But, supposing that the Englishman might be sold and 
separated from his family, and be liable to be flogged, and to have 
his wife and daughter seduced without redress, like the slave, he was 
asked if that would better his condition. He said the Englishman 
was a free man, and the slave had not his feelings. He admitted, 
however, that the Englishman would feel aggrieved by such liabilities ; 
but still the slaves were born in that state and were used to it. The 
slaves are now a happy people, and he thought they would lose by 
freedom ; and many of them would not accept it if offered them. At 
the same time he did not think it a happy state for a man to work for 
another and receive nothing for his labour but clothing, a hut, a 
garden, a surgeon, and some salt fish (p. 299 — 301). 

Being asked whether the flogging of slaves was viewed with any 
horror in Jamaica, he said it was not : he had never seen any feeling 
exhibited about it (p. 301). 

He had affirmed the slaves to be naturally lazy ; but he admits 
that the West India markets are supplied, by the voluntary labour of 
the slaves, with poultry, pigs, provisions, and vegetables, which they 
brought from a considerable distance to the Sunday market, and for 
which they knew very well how to drive a bargain; but all this industry, 
he added, was for themselves. And, being asked whether he knew who 
would work without wages if not compelled, he said he did not know 
any (p. 302). 

Again, some of the free blacks in Jamaica have property, which he 
supposed they must have got by their exertions ; but he persisted in 
thinking they were " a careless people," not raising more than sufficient 
for the present, " because they are naturally a lazy people" (p. 302). 

Captain Williams does not think the slaves in Jamaica will ever 
rebel again. They are convinced by late events that they cannot 
succeed. The British army and navy are able to quell any insurrec- 
tion ; but as for the militia, " all the militia together are not able to 
cope with the slaves" (p. 303). 

Being asked whether he had not imbibed his impressions of eman- 
cipation and the state of the slaves from his conversations with the 
white people, Captain Williams said, " Yes, in all the islands." But 
he corrects himself by adding " from observations of my own also ;" 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of Capt. Williams. 192 

and, when asked to specify what kind of observations, he gave, as the 
example, his having lived three days upon an estate in Nevis, Mr. 
Huggins's estate, the speaker at Nevis, where he educates eighty child- 
ren, and has them taught sewing, reading, and writing, the same as 
in England.* 

Captain Williams believed that flogging was very rare now ; and 
the reason he gives for this belief is that so many persons in England 
have interested themselves in favour of the slaves. The flogging of 
women, he believed, however, was still continued ; but he did not think 
that would disgust the men, they were so degraded. Even in this 
state of degradation, he thought the slaves more happy and comfort- 
able than the English peasant ; and he was so far from regarding this 
state of degradation as incompatible with happiness, that he should 
say that " it was better to remain in that state than to have it altered" 
{p. 304). 

In the island of Jamaica he believed it was customary for the over- 
seers to live with black and brown women : they had their favourites. 
He believed this to be the case generally, nor had he ever known a 
master to interfere with it. It is common when English gentlemen 
visit an estate to have black girls offered them. A servant offers the 
girls in the master's name, but there is no constraint : it is a custom ; 
and the master he believes is aware of it. This is the custom " not 
only in Jamaica but in all the islands." And the master is aware of 
it " not only in Jamaica, but in the whole of the West Indies" (page 
305, 306). 

At the close of Captain Williams's examination a kind friend 
stepped in to extricate him from some of his inconsistencies, and drew 
from him that the labour by which the slaves raise superfluities is so 
very easy that it cannot be compared to free labour, and furnishes no 



* It is no small satisfaction to learn, on such authority as that of Captain Wil- 
liams, the happy revolution which has taken place in Mr. Huggins's treatment 
of his slaves, since Lord Liverpool thought it right publicly to characterise his 
treatment of them as cruel, atrocious, and even murderous. — See House of 
Commons' Papers for 1814, No. 205, containing the proof of Mr. Huggins hav- 
ing, in the public market-place of Nevis, subjected 21 of his slaves, men and 
women, to upwards of 3000 lashes of the cart whip, one woman receiving 291, 
and one man 365. 



130 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

presumption that they will work on estates even if remunerated ; and 
that, with regard to flogging females, separating husbands and wives 
and children,. and some other existing evils, they may be got rid of 
or modified without putting an end to slavery itself. 

Such is the evidence of this witness, thrust forward in the van of 
the apologists and vindicators of slavery. May all who attempt to 
varnish crime, and to reconcile the people of England to blood and 
oppression, be equally successful in their advocacy ! 

II.— WILLIAM ALERS HANKEY, Esq. 

William Alers Hankey, Esq., is the proprietor of a sugar 
estate in Trelawney, with 300 slaves upon it, yielding about 250 
hogsheads, of 14 to 16 cwt. each. He never visited the West Indies, 
He knows Mr. Knibb, and has corresponded with him about his estate, 
for two or three years, on the subject of instructing his slaves, being 
decidedly favourable to their instruction. He felt it to be his duty to 
do so, a matter of absolute obligation upon himself, and essential to 
the best interests of the slaves. He should think so if he had merely 
a regard to his interests as a proprietor, but also from the situation he 
had held for 16 years as Treasurer of the London Missionary Society, 
which embraces and employs all denominations of orthodox Christians, 
including churchmen. The Baptists and Methodists have Societies of 
their own. His experience led him to believe that religious instruc- 
tion even increased the value of the slave in the market, and that in 
no case had an insurrectionary spirit been encouraged, but checked 
and resisted, by missionaries. The Society does not force reading on 
proprietors who are averse to it, but they recommend and pursue it 
wherever they can. He admitted that the slaves when taught to read 
would read stimulating publications, and that, with the means of doing 
so, slavery could not long continue ; and yet he was not prepared to 
anticipate any general measure of emancipation at this moment. He 
was prepared to follow the course Government meant to pursue. He 
should feel it rash himself to precipitate the measure. He wished the 
Government to settle the whole question, and it would be his duty 
and happiness to forward the views of the Government. His disposi- 
tion to favour emancipation rested on general views of humanity, and 
not on any idea of pecuniary advantage from the measure, though he 
admitted that West India affairs could not well be in a worse state than 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence ofW.A. Hankey, Esq. 131 

at present. Even if his own interests were to be entirely merged in the 
measure, he trusted that his sense of moral and religious obligation 
would lead him to say the sacrifice must be made, still hoping it 
might not prove a sacrifice in the end. At the same time, Mr. Knibb 
must have misunderstood him, if he supposed him to connect the im- 
mediate emancipation of the slaves with Mr. Knibb's undertaking to 
instruct them. He had undoubtedly expressed himself anxious to see 
emancipation effected, being ready to express his abhorrence of the 
system in very strong terms, and he should at all times be ready to 
concur in any proper plan of effecting emancipation. He had also 
expressed and certainly felt horror at the treatment the missionaries 
had received in Jamaica. He had also spoken to Mr. Knibb of his 
desire to have his own slaves emancipated as soon as they were fully 
prepared, and he should be well contented, if it were prudent for Mr. 
Knibb, on other grounds, to return to Jamaica, that he should resume 
his labours among his slaves, feeling unshaken confidence in Mr. 
Knibb's integrity and determination to discharge aright his spiritual 
duties ; and, in case of emancipation, he should consider the presence 
of such a person as highly desirable, if not necessary. He conceived, 
however, that measures of preparation ought to precede emancipation. 
Mr. Hankey inherited the estate he now has as a partner in his bank- 
ing house. He is also a mortgagee of New Hope and Albany estates, 
and has been through life much connected with West Indian pro- 
perty. The measures Mr. Hankey himself had taken, in the way of 
preparation, were very slight and incipient. He had instructed the 
attorney, at his discretion, to stop some of the supplies usually granted 
to the Negroes, and to give them a compensation in money, that they 
might have an opportunity of being cognizant of their own wants, and 
thus take one little step towards the management of themselves under 
other circumstances ; but the step had not yet been taken, the time 
being not yet come. He carries his notions so far that he conceives 
there is great moral guilt in slavery, and that, that guilt being national, 
the nation must be content to bear its share in the atonement it may 
involve. But he does not think the slaves yet prepared to make a pro- 
per use of freedom, and, therefore, to give them freedom immediately 
would be inexpedient. He has blamed the spirit of the colonists, and 
he has blamed the spirit shown by the advocates of freedom in this 

l 2 



132 Report of a Committee of, the House of Convnons 

country. He has never associated himself with either party. He is 
a friend to the objects of the Anti-Slavery Society, but not to the 
means it employs. He is a decided enemy to slavery in the abstract. 
But he thinks it a national crime rather than an individual one, and 
the nation should compensate the planter. He admits, however, that 
the Negro cannot, in absolute justice, be detained in slavery till 
this question is settled between the Government and the planter, and 
that the Negro, at least, owes nothing to the planter (p. 307 — 313). 

Mr. Hankey admitted the incompatibility of Christianity with 
slavery as it now exists. Christianity cannot be so preached to the slave 
as to suppress the feelings of nature in respect to his own condition. 
The Negro cannot read the Bible without discovering that his state is 
incompatible with what the Bible enjoins ; and yet he believes that 
Christianity furnishes the best guard against the evils apprehended 
from freedom, in the patience which it inspires, and the obedience to 
authority it requires. A period he conceives must come beyond which 
the proprietor cannot hold that unjust possession which he now has 
of his fellow man as a slave. He blames, however, the blazoning the 
wrongs of the Negro, as calculated to produce excitement in him 
without corresponding advantage. He thinks that indolence is a 
natural propensity of man, and that it is aggravated in the case of the 
Negro by his peculiar circumstances. Were he himself forced to work 
without remuneration he should do as little as he could. The hos- 
tility of the colonists was not caused, as he thought, by a Missionary 
being of this or that sect : it was directed against the pure and sim- 
ple preaching of Christianity itself, whether preached by an Episco- 
palian or a Baptist. In his own case he had preferred the Baptists, 
because generally they were placed conveniently near his estate. The 
fundamental principles of all orthodox sects are the same. He had 
been only three years in possession of this estate, and he immediately 
began a correspondence on the subject. While Mr. Hankey thought 
the nation was bound to remunerate the planter for any loss he might 
sustain by emancipation, he fully admitted that the planter had no 
claim whatever on the Negro. The case was different with the nation. 
The nation had sanctioned and encouraged slavery, and the criminal- 
ity of it was never thought of by his ancestor who advanced money on 
slave property. The feeling of its moral turpitude was a feeling of 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of W.A.Hankey, Esq. 133 

modern growth, although that moral turpitude was always the same* 
(p. 314—317). 



* High as is our respect for the character of Mr. Hankey, and much as we 
admire the openness and manly frankness with which he has expressed his opi- 
nions on this subject, we must confess that we have read some parts of his ex- 
amination with feelings of deep regret and extreme astonishment. We think it 
due to him and to the public, as well as to ourselves, to state explicitly the 
grounds which have produced in our minds these feelings of surprise and regret. 
1 . Mr. Hankey admits as fully as any one can do " the moral guilt," " the 
moral turpitude," of slavery. He believes it to be " incompatible with Christian- 
ity," and to be "opposed to the injunctions of scripture." Still he seems to think 
it not an " individual" but " a national sin." We had always thought hitherto 
that " national sins" were neither more nor less than the aggregate of the sins of 
the individuals composing a nation, and especially of those who, having a con- 
science of any particular sin, did not at least wash their own hands of it, and heart- 
ily concur in employing their influence, by all lawful means, to point out its cri- 
minality to others, and to induce them to aid in putting an end to it. We feel 
utterly at a loss to understand the process of reasoning by which Mr. Hankey, 
on his own principles, has arrived at his conclusions on this subject. With Mr. 
Hankey, we admit that the crime is national, and that the suffering for it ought 
to be national also ; but surely it is not enough that we should suffer nationally, 
and nationally confess our sin, and endeavour to repair it ; but that every indi- 
vidual for himself should renounce his share of the " accursed thing," — should 
relinquish at least the " Babylonish garment," and " the wedge of gold," before 
he can stand clear in the sight of God or of his own conscience. 

2. Mr. Hankey, however, feels some difficulty in pursuing this course, lest he 
should heap further wrongs on the slaves themselves. They are not " fit," they 
are not " prepared," to receive the measure of justice to which he avows that they 
are fully entitled. He at least must wait the fiat of the Government before he 
" lets the people go." Be it so. Then has not Government intimated, in terms 
that cannot be mistaken, that there are certain measures which ought to be taken 
by all proprietors, and which they have themselves enforced, as far as they have 
had it in their power, on all proprietors who are subject to their legislation? Those 
measures it is in the power of every proprietor to adopt as the rule of his own 
conduct, whether his slaves are placed in a crown or in a chartered colony. Can 
Mr. Hankey show that he has gone this length ? The wishes of the Government 
were very clearly and repeatedly announced and urged upon the attention of the 
colonists ; and it is obvious that there was not one of them which any proprie- 
tor who chose to do so might not have adopted into his own plan of plantation 
economy. Did he wish to rescue his slave from all necessity of Sunday labour? 



134 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

III.— JAMES DE PEYSTER OGDEN, Esq. 

James de Peyster Ogden, Esq., a native of New York. This 
gentleman proves that emancipation was attended with no danger 

He might have done as Mr. Wildman did on his Jamaica estates : hemighthave 
given his slave, instead of the twenty-six week-days allowed by law, fifty-two 
week-days in the year, or, what would have been still better, seventy-eight days. 
He might also, with Mr. Wildman, have abolished the exhausting night labour 
of crop. He might have entirely interdicted, with that gentleman, the flogging 
of females. He might, moreover, have put down the driving whip in the held, 
as the immediate stimulus to labour. He might have introduced regulations as 
to marriage. He might have established for his own slaves the principle of 
compulsory manumission, and aided its operation in a variety of ways. And he 
might, moreover, have had a regular record of punishments, properly vouched, 
and transmitted to him from time to time. He might have done all this without 
going one step beyond the declared wishes of Government, and without in- 
fringing any one of the severe and oppressive enactments which load the statute- 
book of the colonial legislatures. Now which one of all these practicable and 
approved methods of lightening the oppressive yoke of slavery, and " preparing" 
the slave for freedom, has Mr. Hankey adopted ? Has he adopted one ? We 
fear not ; and we fear it because, having been urged to state what preparatory 
steps he had adopted, he specified only one, and that one which was altogether 
superfluous and uncalled for. He instructed his attorney, at the beginning of 
the year 1832, to negociate with his slaves a substitution of a money payment 
in lieu of the clothing and other articles of supply annually sent for their use 
from this country ; and he did that in the hope that he might make them in 
some measure acquainted with the use and value of money. Nothing could 
have so well illustrated the utter ignorance of Mr. Hankey respecting the state 
and capacity of his slaves as this most futile and unnecessary project. He will 
probably have read the preceding part of this analysis before he peruses 
our present remarks ; and he will then have learnt that the Negroes are as fully 
acquainted with the nature and use of money, and as capable of making a bar- 
gain for its acquisition and application, as any banker in Lombard or Fenchurch 
Street ; and that this species of instruction is no more needed by his slaves than 
it would be to teach him the multiplication table. 

3. But this is not half of what he might have done on his own principles. He 
wholly condemns the opposition of his fellow planters to the diffusion among 
their slaves of a knowledge of letters. He might, after Mr. Wildman's example, 
have had at least an elementary school on his estate. He might have found a man 
and his wife fully competent to the task, at no very heavy annual cost, compared 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of J. P. Ogden, Esq. 135 

or inconvenience in the State of New York, the slaves being few, 
and the free overwhelming in point of number, namely 170 to one, 
and the process being also gradual. Mr. Ogden has correctly stated 



at least with the importance of the object on his own showing, to have taught 
the young at least, if not also the old, to read the word of God. Above all he 
might have provided religious instruction, though to this hour nothing effective, 
we fear, has been done for that paramount object. He has stood at the head of a 
large religious society, which under his administration, and guided by his zeal, and 
vigilance, and talents, has been diffusing a knowledge of the saving truths of the 
gospel to the very ends of the earth. The islands of the South Seas, the myriads 
of China, the millions of Hindostan, the miserable hordes of Caffraria, and even 
the slaves of Guiana, have either heard, through this Society's labours of love, the 
glad tidings of salvation, or been enabled to read, in the Holy Scriptures, and in 
their own tongues, the wonderful works of God. Until recently, in the midst of 
all these mighty exertions of benevolence, his own slaves, his own household, 
seem to have been wholly overlooked. Was it impossible, with all the interest 
possessed by him and his family in the well being of so many of their fellow 
creatures, to do something at least to dissipate the heathen gloom which over- 
shadowed them, and to shed some ray of light on their benighted souls ? Could not 
even one solitary catechist be found, one man among the hundreds who have gone 
forth, under his auspices, throughout the length and breadth of the earth, as the 
heralds of mercy, who would have undertaken to convey some glimmering of light, 
some of that moral preparation which Mr. Hankey deems so indispensable, before 
he shall pay to his slaves the debt of justice which he owes them, by striking off 
their fetters and admitting them to the rights which God and nature have bestowed 
on them, but which he withholds on the very ground of their unpreparedness ? 
Mr. Wildman succeeded, for he was in earnest, in procuring the means of reli- 
gious instruction for his slaves. Was success of the same kind wholly unattain- 
able in the case of Mr. Hankey ? 

4. But one word more and we have done. Mr. Hankey abjures all associa- 
tion with the Anti-Slavery Society. He does justice indeed to their object, and . 
we thank him. But then their means of accomplishing that laudable object he 
cannot applaud or concur in. As far as we can guess his meaning, it would seem 
as if he alluded to their delineation of slavery and their occasional exhibition of 
its practical effects. " I would not," he says, " give a strong statement to 
the Negro of his wrongs," even though " those wrongs were grievous and severe. 
I would practically mitigate them ; I would not expose them." Now this lan- 
guage seems to proceed on false assumptions in respect of the Anti-Slavery So- 
ciety. They have never published a single line, and Mr. Hankey must have 
known that fact, in order to state to the Negro his wrongs, but in order to bring 



136 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons, 

that fact. But he has further stated, though without any data, that 
the moral habits of the emancipated persons have not improved, and 
that a great proportion of the petty larcenies are committed by them. 
The success of the experiment however in New York would be no 
criterion for judging of the effects of emancipation in the Southern 



them to the view of those who could " practically mitigate them." The object of 
the Society, Mr. Hankey must be well aware, was not to address the Negroes, but 
the public and the parliament of Great Britain. And how were the public and 
the parliament to be stirred to a due consideration of the subject, or led practically 
to mitigate the evils of slavery, but by delineating its real nature, and exhibiting 
its real enormities ? It was their best and wisest, nay their only course, and, but 
for that, the public and parliament might still have slumbered on in listless apathy. 
They had also another purpose to serve, that of rousing the slumbering con- 
sciences of those good men who acknowledged the authority of the Word of God, 
and who were unfortunately, like Mr. Hankey, owners of slaves, that they might 
not lay the flattering unction to their souls that they were not guiltless in this thing 
— that God would not one day require their brothers' blood at their hands, 
and therefore that they might sleep on and take their rest, leaving it to the nation 
to atone for their guilt, and settle the account for them, not only as a matter of 
profit and loss in this world, but of awful responsibility in the next. The Anti- 
Slavery Society might indeed have whispered into the ears of their friends the 
truths which they have thought it their duty to proclaim as from the house-top ; 
but it may be doubted whether they would have moved a single individual, even 
Mr. Hankey himself, to take one step towards doing justice to their slaves by 
freeing them from their bonds. Mr. Hankey will not say that we have not truly 
described slavery and its effects, nor will he say that our descriptions have had 
no influence in producing those feelings on the subject, in his own mind, which 
have drawn from him so many candid admissions of the guilt and criminality, 
the injustice and moral turpitude, which belong to this most iniquitous system. 

We should have been glad to have avoided the necessity of these comments, 
but we did not dare to decline them; and Mr. Hankey, having come forward at 
this critical period of our great question, and being in fact the representative of 
a' very large class of West Indian proprietors, who call themselves, and we trust 
really are, sincere and orthodox Christians, but who, from that very circumstance, 
are able to accredit in the world both principles and practices which are far more 
nearly linked with evil than good, and have had the effect of producing, we 
are sorry to say, especially among many worthy and pious clergymen, and dig- 
nitaries of the Church of England, a lukewarmness on this question which has 
not tended to raise them in public estimation. 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of J. P. Ogden, Esq. 137 

States, where the slave population amounts to two millions, being 
nearly a sixth of the whole population of the United States, estimat- 
ing that at thirteen millions. The slave States are Delaware, Mary- 
land, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Louisiana, 
Alabama, Mississippi, Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee, and the Florida 
and Arkansa territory. Sugar is grown in Louisiana and the Floridas, 
rice in these two States and in Georgia and the Carolinas, and cotton 
in all except Delaware, Maryland, and Kentucky. The treatment of 
the slaves, he thinks, is generally good, and their food abundant. They 
increase rapidly. They are not allowed land of their own : the master 
feeds them. The emancipation of the slaves has not been agitated as 
a practical question in America. As for the Colonization Society, 
and its plan of transferring the blacks to Liberia, it can do nothing 
towards that object. The difficulty felt in America is what shall be 
done with the Negroes when they are freed. It is evident that rice 
and sugar can be cultivated only by blacks. Besides, slavery is 
guaranteed by the constitution ; and to indemnify the owners would 
cost at least four hundred millions of dollars, so that no plan of 
emancipation has been proposed. All that has been done is to limit 
the system of slavery to the States in which it now exists. The ques- 
tion of slavery has been discussed occasionally in the Northern 
States ; but the publications on the subject are not allowed to circu- 
late in the Southern. Nothing has been done with a view to prepare 
the slaves for emancipation, by education or otherwise. The slave 
states dread the effects of education, and effectual precautions have 
been taken by them to prevent the diffusion of lettered knowledge. 
The Americans admit that personal freedom is more valuable than 
property ; but they apply that principle only to whites. He does not 
know that any thing has been done to encourage or to discourage reli- 
gious instruction among the slaves. He cannot see any benefit the 
slaves, continuing slaves, could derive from education. He had seen 
many emancipated slaves who were very good characters, but he 
thought petty offences were frequent among that class.* 



* The difficulty, after all, which the Americans deem so insuperable, that of 
disposing of the slaves when free, seems to us no difficulty at all. The slaves 
are now employed in agriculture; nay, sugar and rice, it is said, cannot be cul- 
tivated but by blacks. We can see no good reason why the same persons may 



138 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

IV.— ROBERT SCOTT, Esq. 
Robert Scott, Esq. This gentleman is a Jamaica proprie- 
tor, and had resided in that island from 1802 to 1826, and again for 
a few months in 1828 and 1829. He had under his management at 
one time 4000 slaves,* and had visited different parts of the island ; 

not cultivate these articles in a state of freedom as in a state of slavery. White 
men work in America : so do black men when free, and wages are given them 
for their labour. We are utterly at a loss to discover what there is in this par- 
ticular problem which can puzzle Mr. Ogden, or raise a single difficulty in the 
mind of American statesmen, provided only they are willing to act on the 
principles of eternal justice. But see to what length of wickedness the free, en- 
lightened, and Christian whites of America are driven, to maintain their cruel and 
usurped dominion over their black brethren. No nation values education and 
instruction more highly than the United States. Every state has made a point of 
establishing and supporting seminaries of learning adequate to the wants of its 
citizens, and common schools are provided " for the education of the poor gratis ;" 
yet the benefits of education are withheld from the slaves, and even from the free 
Negroes also. South Carolina, as early as 1740, passed a law to punish with a 
fine of £100 any man who should teach a slave to write. Georgia followed the 
example. Virginia has enacted " that any meetings of slaves, or free Negroes, 
or mulattoes, at any school, or teaching them reading or writing, shall be deemed 
an unlawful assembly, and the magistrate may disperse it and inflict on the of- 
fender at his discretion twenty stripes." South Carolina in a later act has 
declared any meeting unlawful which consists of slaves and free Negroes, 
and mulattoes, though there be whites among them, assembling for the purpose 
of mental instruction ; and the officers who are required to disperse the meeting 
may inflict twenty lashes on each slave, free Negro, &c, so as to deter them from 
the like unlawful assemblage in future. In Savannah any person teaching any 
person of colour, slave or free, to read or write incurs a fine of thirty dollars for 
each offence ; and every person of colour keeping a school to teach reading or 
writing to a fine of thirty dollars, or to be imprisoned ten days and flogged with 
thirty-nine stripes. Nor are they to meet for religious worship, but between sun- 
rise and sunset. The only exception to the general bearing of these acts is in 
Louisiana, where it is enacted that it shall be the duty of the owner to procure 
for his sick slaves all kinds of temporal and spiritual assistance which their situa- 
tion may require — a sort of death-bed charity.— 

Stroud's Tmws of Slavery. Philadelphia, 1827, p. 85 — 92. 
* We cannot find that he is now proprietor of more estates than one, namely, 
Kinloss, which in 1831 had upon it 249 slaves, and in 1823, eight years before, 
296, showing a decrease in that time of 47, or nearly 2 per cent, per annum. 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of R. Scott, Esq. 139 

but his concerns lay chiefly in the parishes of Hanover, St. James, 
Trelawney, and St. Ann. He had consequently great opportunities 
of becoming acquainted with the Negro character. On most planta- 
tions they have as much land as they can cultivate for themselves. — 
The time allowed them by law, twenty-six days, is not only amply 
sufficient to supply all their wants, but to enable them to sell great 
quantities of provisions. The usage, he says, was to give them more 
time, namely, every Saturday out of crop.* Few of the slaves work 
at all on Sunday. The market is on Sunday morning. f In Trelawney 
the distance from the market at Falmouth is generally ten miles ; but 
the people from the town meet the people of the country half way. J 
He gives 100 barrels of herrings in the year to 250 Negroes § (p. 330, 
331). 

Mr. Scott denies that, on estates of a size to afford only two spells 
during crop-time (that is, all estates of the size of his own, having 
200 to 250 Negroes), the Negroes work eighteen hours a day. || He 
admits, however, that it does amount to sixteen. He states, as one of 



* If that were true, it would raise the number of days, estimating the time of 
crop at five months, to 30. 

f In point of fact the first law which limited the market to Sunday morning, 
and that at eleven o'clock, was that of 1831, which is only recently in opera- 
tion. 

X This is a strange assertion. No market can be held at any place, by a law 
still in force (Act of 5th William and Mary, c. 6), but by appointment of jus- 
tices in sessions. Let it be shown that any such intermediate markets are ap • 
pointed, and what and where they are. 

§ That is, less than six herrings a week for each. 

|| He takes some pains to mystify a plain matter; for, by what possible arith- 
metic can it be made out that, where there are only two spells, and where the work 
of the mill and boiling-house is continuous night and day, and where the cane- 
cutting for supplying the mill goes on for twelve hours of the day, each spell, that 
is, each half of the gang, should not work half the night also, or six hours more, 
making eighteen in all ? — See above, p. 33. Mr. Scott admits the work at the mill 
and boiling-house to be continuous, and yet he cuts off the two hours from six 
to eight in the evening, of which he makes no account in his estimate of the 
slave's sleepless hours ; but there must be slaves at work during these hours as 
well as during all the other hours of the week. In fact the loss of rest amounts 
to nineteen hours every day instead of eighteen, at which we have placed it. 



140 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

the inconveniences that would arise from the Negroes being free, that 
they might ruin the master by striking work in crop-time ; but he 
admitted that that was an inconvenience to which the English manu- 
facturer was equally liable, if the labourers, thinking themselves not 
adequately remunerated, struck for wages (p. 332 — 335). He ad- 
mitted that cane-hole digging was hard work, and that, if the people 
did not do their work, the driver must coerce them. He carried a 
whip; but he believed he did not now use it, though formerly he did, 
but rarely, except by the direction of the overseer. He now uses 
switches for coercion ; but seldom even these, if the people are under 
proper control (p. 336).* 

The slaves in Jamaica, Mr. Scott thinks, are much better off than 
the people of this country have any idea of, nor so ill off as is sup- 
posed. Many of them, even of the field Negroes, by selling provisions 
pigs, and poultry, have a good deal of money. They all have pigs 
and poultry, and some have cattle. The possession of property un- 
questionably increases the diligence and industry of the slave. He 
did not know many slaves who had been emancipated, but he never 
knew any who hired themselves on an estate, except coopers and car- 
penters. They regard plantation work as degrading. Large sums, how- 
ever, he said were annually raised in Trelawney for the relief of people 
of colour who were paupers. He was quite sure the largest proportion 
was raised for people of colour, and very little for whites. A return, 
however, from this very parish of Trelawney, of the distribution of the 
poor's rate for the five years from 1821 to 1825 inclusive was pro- 
duced, from which it appeared that the whole sum raised in those five 
years was £6896 ; and that of that sum the expense of the poor-house, 
which is for the accommodation of poor whites, according to Mr. 
Scott's own testimony (quest. 5064), exhausted £1766 ; and that, of 
the remaining £5130, about two-thirds, or about £3420, was paid in 
pensions to whites, and only about £1690 to free black and coloured 
paupers — almost all females of the coloured class (probably the cast- 



* That is, have been duly coerced into industry (see above, p. 14). But, if 
the driver has no power to flog but by the overseer's order, what means the 
clause in the very last slave Act (Act of 1831, § 33), which limits the driver to 
ten lashes in the absence of the overseer? 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of R. Scott, Esq. 141 

off mistresses, with their families, of whites who had died or quitted 
the country). This account is signed by James Shedden, the vestry 
clerk. (Papers of 1823, No. 353). Mr. Scott, however, seemed still 
to doubt the correctness of this return (p. 337 and 341). 

Mr. Scott admitted that he had seen punishments inflicted to co- 
erce labour, of which he disapproved, but not frequently. Without 
the knowledge that there was a power to coerce them, they would not 
work at all ; he was quite certain of that. He thought the females 
would become excessively troublesome if they could not be flogged. 
They are much more difficult to manage than the men (p. 337). 

When the slaves worked by task-work, they performed their day's 
work much more expeditiously, finishing it by two o'clock, and having 
the rest of the day for their own grounds. They did not work hard 
at any employment, but they will work harder when a task is set, or 
when they work for their own profit. He had known them carry loads 
for themselves which no compulsion could have made them carry. — 
They carry enormous weights to market sometimes (p. 338). 

Mr. Scott is questioned as to the probability that the slave, in case 
of emancipation, would be willing to recognize the master's right to 
deprive him of the grounds which he had hitherto cultivated for his 
own use, unless he would consent to pay a rent for it. He doubts 
whether he would, but he had always known the slaves exceedingly 
averse to quit the spot where they had been settled : they would re- 
gard it as an act of spoliation* (p. 339). Mr. Scott, however, is so 
impressed with the disadvantage of being under compulsion, that he 
thinks a slave and a free man are not to be brought into comparison 
at all (p. 340). The slaves know how to make use of money very 

* The main condition of the'problem to be solved is here wholly kept out of 
view. The slave, when free, is to receive fair wages for his work ; but would he, 
in that case, consider it as a spoliation that the master should say to him "If I 
pay you fair wages you must pay me a fair rent for my land ?" When was it 
ever known that an emancipated plantation slave claimed to have a right to occupy 
land belonging to his former master ? The circumstance of the strong attach- 
ment of slaves to their domicile, which Mr. Scott affirms, is the very ground from 
which we should derive the conviction that the slave, if free, would prefer to con- 
tinue to occupy his present house and grounds, and to work for his master, pay- 
ing a part of the wages he would earn, for the sake_of retaining possession of them. 



142 Report of a Committee, of the House of Commons 

well (p. 341). He would not deny that the Negro may, in many eases, 
be levied upon for taxes, and sold into a distant part of the island, 
from his family and from his provision grounds ; but this seldom 
happens with sugar estates under mortgage, which most of them are 
(p. 342). 

Mr. Scott admits that he had never contemplated any plan by 
Avhich it would be practicable to secure the cultivation of sugar in Ja- 
maica by labour for wages, because he could not conceive the thing 
possible* (p. 342). 

He is asked, evidently with a view to abate the force of Mr. Taylor's 
evidence, whether he should consider a person's experience of two 
years and a half in the management of 700 Negroes, having, more- 
over, been upwards of ten years in the island engaged in other pur- 
suits, as competent to pronounce a judgment on such a plan ; and an- 
swers, very candidly, that though he might regard any such plan 
with doubt, yet " a man of observation may certainly gain a good deal 
of experience in two years and a half. He considers, however, Mr. 
Taylor's plan to be quite chimerical (p. 345—347). His reasons for this 
conclusion will be found to be of a kind very naturally to be looked for 
in a man who had never contemplated the subject before ; they cut 
both ways. He thinks that, if the emancipated slaves had grounds of 
their own, they could not be depended upon for labour ; and if their 
labour were paid for in money, no food would be procurable but from 
abroad ; and yet he admits they might make more profit by cul- 
tivating their grounds than by working on sugar estates. He gravely 
doubts whether the two plans might not be combined of both grow- 
ing provisions enough as they do now, and yet cultivating sugar for 
wages ; and he strengthens this doubt by a vague reference to history. 
Sugar lands, this experienced planter tells the committee, are not 
convertible to any other purpose than sugar. He cannot deny, indeed, 
that they might be easily converted into pasture ; but then, he adds, 



* A gentleman is brought forward by the West India body, to represent their 
views, in a committee appointed to consider the measures most proper for effect- 
ing the extinction of slavery, and he tells the committee that he had never even 
contemplated the possibility of any such measure ! Where can he have lived for 
the last ten years 



on the Extinction, of Slavery. — Evidence of It. Scott, Esq. 143 

cattle would be of no value if sugar estates were abandoned.* The 
pens now rear more than the planters require. Sugar lands, he also 
admits, might grow provisions (p. 348, 349). 

Mr. Scott says, confidently, that the Creoles in Jamaica increase, 
though the Africans may not ; but his speculations on population and 
the theory of labour and wages, which he has evidently contemplated 
as little as he has plans of emancipation, may be passed over without 
any injury to his own cause (p. 350, 351). Being further questioned, 
he was led fully to admit that the slaves, being much attached to 
their present homesteads, would, if made free, be glad to pay rent for 
their present lands, and would be disposed to cultivate provisions to 
the full extent for which they could find a market, and when they 
had done that, and overstocked the market, they would gladly take 
wages from the sugar and coffee planter (p. 352). 

Mr. Scott knew the maroons, and he admitted they were very well 
behaved, and required no strong police to keep them in order. 
With respect to the slaves, he also admitted that if nothing unreason- 
able were exacted from them they were easily managed, and patient 
and submissive, although there were ordinarily on an estate of 250 
slaves only three or four white persons to govern them and maintain 
order. If nothing unreasonable is required, they are very obedient 



* Thus we learn that in Jamaica cattle are of no value but to draw canes to 
the mill and sugar to the wharf! These are, doubtless, important uses. But is 
he not aware that in other countries than Jamaica cattle have other still more 
important purposes to answer? Is it of no importance to cheapen food ? Admiral 
Fleming was obliged to pay a shilling a pound in Jamaica for meat which he could 
procure in Hayti for twopence a pound, while the people of Hay ti were chiefly fed 
with beef. Did Mr. Scott never contemplate the effect of 330,000 emancipated 
slaves being fed with beef reared in Jamaica, instead of being fed with a few 
miserable salt herrings imported from abroad ; or being shod, as in Hayti, with 
the leather made from the hides of the cattle that were thus eaten ? In England, 
where there is a free population, cattle, he knows, is valuable as food as well as 
for work. Might it not be so in Jamaica ? A sugar planter, like Mr. Scott, of 
20 years' experience, has never learnt to think of cattle but for purposes of 
draught. His views travel only between the cane field and the mill house, and 
between the curing house and the shipping place. The pens, he says, breed more 
cattle now than the planters require. He never has meditated, for one moment, 
what a free population might require in the way of food. 



144 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

and require no harsh treatment whatever (p. 352). This is an im- 
portant feature in the Negro character. 

Mr. Scott thought the slaves were better treated than formerly. 
The Creoles require less punishment than savage Africans, and are 
less frequently punished ; but he thought they worked as much and 
produced as much as ever. His own slaves received no education 
whatever. They went to church or chapel if they thought proper. 
The clergyman ofTrelawney superintended the Negroes, if they went 
to him, and they did frequently go to him. When he first went to 
Jamaica he cannot say the parochial clergy paid any attention to the 
slaves : the Bishop made a change;, and the clergy became more alert. 
The slaves he thought very imperfectly instructed indeed. The 
Negroes were mostly christened ; but it did not follow from this that 
they knew any thing of Christianity (p. 353). 

Mr. Scott, though in charge for many years of 4000 slaves, and now 
a proprietor of 250, has no idea what is the cost of rearing a slave. 
He professes to know nothing of the progress of population on sugar 
estates and pens ; but, he thinks, if the Negroes were educated and 
civilized they would become more moral and increase faster (p. 354).. 
Mr. Scott however thought it possible that Negroes might be over 
educated, though certainly he admitted they were not so as yet, nor 
likely to be so for some time to come (p. 355), 

There is now, he thinks, scarcely any profit at all from West India 
property ; on the contrary, proprietors, in many instances, are getting 
deeper and deeper in debt. He attributes this to the low prices of 
sugar and rum, and these low prices he attributes to over-production: 
more is made than can be consumed. Being asked whether it is 
possible to keep up a system of over-production which can profit the 
planter, and whether land therefore should not be withdrawn from 
sugar cultivation, he assents to that, but says, the ruin of many must 
be the consequence.* In case of emancipation land would become 
valueless : no one would take it. Being asked whether there is 
any country in the world where there is plenty of land to let and a 
number of people to be maintained where land did not let, " Yes," says 

* If men will embark in hazardous speculations, and continue to pursue them 
after gain has become hopeless and loss certain, what can follow in any part of 
the world, or in any mode of employment, but ruin? 



on the Extinction of Slavery Evidence of Mr. Scott. 145 

Mr. Scott, "but there must be a different description of people to deal 
with ;" and yet he admits (quest. 5387) that Negroes are human crea- 
tures, influenced in the same way as whites. He admits too that the 
Negro is industrious in his own grounds, and raises food for himself 
and family, and buys comforts, and luxuries, and finery, though com- 
pelled to work so many hours for his master ; yet now he has the 
advantage of being under control : if he were free it would be very 
different. — He is asked whether he thought that the desire of good 
food, and fine clothing, and the luxuries of life, or the love of money, 
supposing a man to have earned some as a slave, would cease the 
moment he became free and had more time to indulge all these desires: 
he reluctantly, at length, admitted that it was not in nature that they 
should (p. 536, 537). 

Mr. Scott being asked whether provisions, as beef, pork, butter, &c, 
might not be raised abundantly in Jamaica so as to supersede 
the necessity of importing them from abroad, replied, he thought 
not ; they must still have salt beef, &c, as fresh beef would not keep.* 

He refers to his knowledge of history, and cites St. Domingo (where 
good beef, according to Admiral Fleming, is always to be had fresh at 
twopence per pound). He then dwells on the difficulties of increasing 
the quantity of provisions and cattle. There would be no " labourers 
except the sugar estates were abandoned." And yet Mr. Scott had 
before stated that the planters were dying of a plethora of sugar, and 
this notwithstanding, no labourers could be turned from that ruinous 
speculation to raise fresh beef at a fourth of the price they pay 
for wretched salt beef from Cork! ! (p. 357.) 

Cane-hole digging, Mr. Scott thinks, is not such tremendous work 
as might be supposed. It is not so hard as digging ditches, cutting 
down hills, or filling up ravines, as is done by English labourers ; but 
then he admits it to be a little hotter in Jamaica, though the Negroes 



* This is certainly one of the most extraordinary reasons ever given by man 
for voluntarily foregoing the use of wholesome fresh meat and butter, supplied 
from the daily market, and having recourse to Ireland for stale salted beef, and 
pork, and butter. Would he not himself prefer good fresh beef at twopence a 
pound, fresh from the slaughter, to Irish salted beef at sixpence or eightpence a 
pound, full, as it often is, of rottenness and vermin ? And why might not such 
a daily market exist in every part of Jamaica? 

M 



146 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

do not dislike the heat ; and he admits, also, that the women of Ja- 
maica dig cane-holes as well as the men : he does not say that in 
England they dig ditches, cut down hills, and fill up ravines. 

He concludes his evidence by a statement of the clothing given 
annually to his 260 slaves. It averages as follows :— About four yards 
of a coarse narrow woollen cloth called Pennistones, and about nine 
yards of a coarse stuff made of tow or flax called Osnaburgh, and 
about two and a half yards of check or long ells ; and this is all ! 

V.— JAMES SIMPSON, Esq. 

James Simpson, Esq. was engaged in commerce in Jamaica for 
24 years nearly. He left it in 1828. He had been the representative of 
many absent proprietors, being intimately acquainted with the island 
generally, and particularly with Vere, Clarendon, St. Mary, St. George, 
St. Andrew, St. David, Port Royal, and St. Thomas in the East, and a 
little with St. Elizabeth, Manchester, and Hanover. Mr. Taylor had 
been a partner of his for ten years; and, though he visited some of his 
estates occasionally, Mr. Simpson was jealous of his designs and pro- 
jects, and only allowed him to visit those estates where the immediate 
managers were prudent men, and where there was a high state of 
discipline. Mr. Simpson, however, admits that he did not take 
any pains to ascertain what Mr. Taylor's views and purposes were, and 
he actually knew of them, though Mr. Taylor was ten years his partner, 
only from hearsay. One project, however, gave him great alarm, a pro- 
ject which he learned, not from Mr. Taylor himself, but from one of the 
overseers, who, doubtless, had his own private reasons for disliking 
and distorting the project. The plan was that of " separating the 
sexes, and taking means to prevent their intercourse ; and locking up 
the women at night to prevent the men from having access to them"* 
(p. 360). 



* We cannot wonder either at the alarm producediby such a scheme among 
the overseers and attorneys of Jamaica, or at. the absurdity of the exaggeration 
with which Mr. Simpson, without asking Mr. Taylor for any distinct explanation, 
has thought proper to bring it forward as a grave piece of evidence before a Com- 
mittee of the House of Commons. Did Mr. T. mean any thing more than that which 
every man of common morality must desire — that marriage should be encouraged, 
and concubinage discouraged on plantations, and that, above all, the overseers 



on the Extinction of Slavery .—Evidence of J, Simpson, Esq. 147 

Mr. Taylor, it is admitted by Mr. Simpson, disliked Jamaica, its 
occupations, and society, and wished to quit them all and enter the 
church. Mr. Simpson opposed his retiring, and entreated him to re- 
main. In 1827, however, Mr. Simpson altered his views respecting 
Mr. Taylor, and then urged him to retire from the house as strongly as 
he had before pressed him to remain in it. He even forced him to 
retire, and the connexion was dissolved* (p. 360, 361). 

Mr. Simpson had at one time under his charge from 7000 to 8000 
slaves. He had, therefore, every opportunity, he conceives, of forming 
a correct judgment of the character and circumstances of slaves ; and 
his decided conviction is that, generally speaking, nay, almost univer- 
sally, with some exceptions, they would not work voluntarily for wages 
in the cultivation of sugar. He admits that the emancipated slaves, 
at that part of St. Thomas in the Vale called Above Rocks, do supply 
the markets of Spanish Town and Kingston with provisions, and that 
they do frequently carry them thither, a distance of upwards of twenty 
miles. There are, however, he affirms, intermediate market-places 
within every five miles, at which they may sell their goods ; but he 
does not mention where or what they are, or give them any name.f 



and book-keepers should be positively interdicted from converting each estate 
into a brothel, and corrupting, by their facilities of intercourse, all the young 
women upon it, from the earliest age of puberty? Does not Mr. Simpson, in his 
conscience, believe that this was the extent of Mr. Taylor's non-intercourse 
scheme? and, if he does believe it, is his evidence fair evidence? It was a 
grievous mistake in Mr. Simpson to expect that his sneer against such a pro- 
ject would be received in the Committee of a British House of Commons with 
the derision with which it would have been listened to in a company of attorneys 
and overseers meeting at his dinner table in Kingston. It furnishes a melan- 
choly exemplification of the state of morals and manners in Jamaica. 

* The time, therefore, of this change of feeling towards Mr. Taylor, on the 
part of Mr. Simpson, seems to have been the very time when Mr. Taylor and 
Mr. Wildman had resolved on conducting Mr. Wildman's estates on more hu- 
mane principles than had hitherto governed planting concerns in Jamaica. (See 
above, p. 21.) 

f This discovery, now first heard of, of intermediate market-places between 
Above Rocks and Kingston or Spanish Town, is not a little extraordinary. Mr. 
Simpson, as much stress seems laid on the circumstance, ought to have specified 
them more clearly, together with the order of the justices in session by which they 

m 2 



148 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons' 

He is not aware of any emancipated slaves offering' themselves to cul- 
tivate sugar on estates. Labourers are often wanted, but they never 
offer themselves. He is persuaded the time allowed to the Negroes 
for cultivating their grounds is ample, and that there is no necessity 
for going, and that few slaves do go, to their grounds on Sunday* 
(p. 362, 363). 

Mr. Simpson is next questioned about spell-keeping in crop-time, 
and he gives the same untenable account of it which has been already 
exposed, denying that the slaves keeping spell during the night are 
limited to six hours' rest in the twenty-four, in cases where the popu- 
lation of the estate only allows of two spells (see above, p. 33). The 
slaves, according to Mr. Simpson, are never exhausted by their 
labour. Dancing, and performing attitudes and evolutions, and 
festive nights, when he visited the estates, proved how little they had 
been exhausted by the labour of the day (p. 364). 

Cane-hole digging seldom exceeds a third of the cane land in 
cultivation, and, in some cases, very little cane-hole digging is required 
(p. 365). 

He is decidedly of opinion that Negroes would certainly not work 
voluntarily if they had the means of procuring food. They are na- 
turally indolent, and would not be induced to work so long as by 
plunder or otherwise they could obtain the means of subsistence. It 
is very difficult to get them to work without some stimulus or other. 
The whip has been resorted to; but he had been anxious to discontinue 
its use : he tried to do without it, particularly on one estate called 
Albion, belonging to Mr. Robert Hibbert, of Chalfont, Bucks, having 
more than 500 Negroes ; but he was forced to resume it, and made 



have been appointed, and the name of the clerk of the market by whom its transac- 
tions are regulated ; for there is a clerk of every legally constituted market- 
place in the island. And let him also state what population there is at each of 
these market-places, which occur within every five miles, to arrest the progress of 
the venders of provisions in their way to the markets of Spanish Town and 
Kingston. 

* The West Indian evidence to confute this statement is quite overwhelming, 
independently of what appears in the preceding pages. See Anti-Slavery 
Reporter, vol. ii. No. 41, p. 315; and vol. v. No. 92, p. 24. The unhesitating 
boldness of such assertions is altogether amusing* 



on the Extinction of Slavery.— Evidence of J. Simpson, Esq. 149 

so effectual a use of it for a time that he restored order and re-animated 
industry ; and now, he understands, it is laid aside. And yet he 
affirms that the Negroes do not work under the terror of the lash, 
even when they do not act under its impulse* (p. 365, 366). 

Mr. Simpson fully admits that the slaves not only work for their 
masters, but that they raise sufficient food to supply themselves and 
all the markets in Jamaica, and thus to buy ornamental clothing 
and articles of finery, and to acquire considerable property, even to the 
amount of from £200 to £3000 ; yet he despairs of being able to per- 
suade them of the reasonableness, when they become free, of paying 
a rent for the use of the land, the master's property. The slave 
would consider such a demand as an outrage on his own property ; 
and, therefore, to expect him to work for wages, and pay rent for 
land, is a scheme wholly chimerical, actually impossible, utterly 
ampracticablef (p. 370, 371). 

Then, as to a police composed of the free people of colour and 
others, in order to preserve the peace of the island, he pronounces in 
the most positive and unqualified terms on its utter absurdity and 
impracticability! (p. 371). Against Mr. Taylor's proposal of sti- 



* Was ever any thing heard from the mouth of a reasoning being at all to be 
compared to this evidence of the absolute master of the comfort and happiness 
of 7000 or 8000 human beings ? The Negroes, he affirms, will not work if free 
for any thing beyond mere food ; and even not that, if they can live by plunder. 
Yet they work so well at present on Albion estate, without the terror of the lash, 
that there is no room to complain of either their order'or industry. Now what is 
the stimulus employed ? Is it wages? He does not say that it is ; and it is evident 
that the stimulus of wages had never entered his mind at all as a means of excit- 
ing industry ; — for, when Mr. Hibbert's 500 Negroes slackened in their industry, 
he restored it, not by any such means : no, he restored it by the good old Jamaica 
way — he " resumed the whip, and made some examples." The cart-whip, then 
(but Mr. Simpson will not allow us to call it the cart-whip), or " the driver's 
whip," for ever ! This is Mr. Simpson's grand specific. 

. f Is this common sense and common consistency, or is it the mere raving of 
inveterate and incurable prejudice ? 

I Mr. Simpson evidently had it in view by this answer to stultify his old friend 
and partner Mr. Taylor ; but it so happens that he has stultified along with him 
the Council and Assembly of Jamaica; for, without any debate, they have 
embodied into an Act dated April 28, 1832, and which we have reason to be- 



150 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

pendiary magistrates as protectors he is equally decided ; it is wild 
and visionary, 

Mr. Simpson is also strongly of opinion that the missionaries have 
no title to give any opinion of the character and disposition of the 
Negroes : knowledge so limited as theirs could afford no opportunity 
of judging either of the Negro character or of their treatment and 
their habits (p. 372). 

He considers the Negroes in general as intelligent, and as to be 
worked upon more by kindness and conciliation than by compulsion ; but 
he does not think them intelligent enough to understand that they must 
work in a state of freedom for their own subsistence, or accept of 
wages for working ; so that emancipation would necessarily be followed 
by the abandonment of all cultivation, and therefore by the most per- 
nicious consequences to themselves (p. 575). — If Mr. Simpson is 
himself more intelligent than the Negroes, he certainly has not the 
faculty of making his views of human nature either intelligible* or con- 
sistent, 

Mr. Simpson has known slaves who were instructed by the minis- 
ters of the church of England and Scotland, and he has given them 
instruction himself, and he has also attended Sunday schools, and he 
observed that instruction produced a great improvement in their 
general conduct, and a great superiority in all respects to others. He 
had also admitted on one of his estates a Wesleyan missionary, with 
whom he was satisfied. But he supposed, though he had no personal 
knowledge of any such circumstance, that religious instruction, inju- 
diciously administered, might do harm (p. 376). 

When Mr. Simpson left the island Sunday markets were being dis- 



lieve has actually received the royal assent, a plan of police as nearly resembling 
that of Mr. Taylor as could well have been framed. We would advise him to 
consult that Act forthwith. It is the 28th chapter of the 2nd of William the 
Fourth. We ask no better, safer, and more efficient police for the purpose 
of averting all danger from emancipation than that which has been so wisely 
and providently planned and adopted by the local legislature. The work is 
done — the machinery is ready ; and it may be considered as furnishing a test for 
appreciating the respective titles of Mr. Simpson and Mr. Taylor to public con- 
fidence, both on this point and on the plan of paying wages to the emancipated 
slave for his labour, against which Mr. Simpson is equally furious. 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of J '. Simpson, Esq. 151 

continued, and Saturday markets more frequent. The slaves had 
thus an opportunity of attending worship on Sundays.* 

The slaves, whom he knew to possess as much as £3000, were in 
the habit of hiring other persons to attend to their concerns (p. 377) 
(a fact, however, not very consistent with other parts of Mr. Simpson's 
evidence). These hired persons work separately, and, of course, 
without compulsion. Slaves also often rent themselves of their mas- 
ter, paying to him a certain proportion of their earnings ; this is 
frequently done by slave mechanics by monthly or annual payments ; 
but he never knew it done for field labour, f Mr. Simpson could 
not recollect any instance of persons of colour possessing property 
acquired by their own exertions. He found, however, that the slaves, 
when improved by religious instruction, became more temperate and 
more industrious, and thus increased their personal property ; and, he 
thinks, this effect of religious instruction is perfectly well known to all 
planters : they are deeply sensible of it. t 

Mr. Simpson says he was in the habit of giving to his slaves, 
for the purpose of religious instruction, as much in some cases as one 
day in the week. This he represents as having been generally done ; 
and he cites the fact as a decisive proof of the universal desire to give 
religious instruction to the slaves (p. 380). || 

Mr. Simpson denies most stoutly that there is any severity in the 



* The utter untruth of this statement we shall take another opportunity] of 
exposing more fully. 

+ And can this be wondered at ? 

X We shall never cease our astonishment at the evidence of this planter. 

|| We must frankly say that we greatly doubt this statement. Mr. Simpson 
must certainly labour under some defect of memory. We, therefore, call upon 
him to name the estate or estates under his charge on which a day in the week 
was so given to the slaves for their religious instruction, together with the year or 
years in which such grants were made, and the person whom he employed, on 
the day thus appropriated, to convey to the slaves this religious instruction, and 
who, we presume, must have been some minister or missionary. We are willing to 
stake the accuracy of the whole of Mr. Simpson's evidence on the correctness or 
incorrectness of this one fact, when established by adequate proof. The original 
plantation journals must still be in existence; and we are willing to submit to their 
inspection as the test of its truth. 



152 Report of a Committee of the Mouse of Commons 

treatment of slaves, or that there is any difficulty in their obtaining' 
redress for any well-founded complaint ; but that they are very apt 
to complain on slight or no grounds. And, in illustration of this fact, 
he tells a long story of a complaint preferred, not by a slave, but by 
a white medical gentleman, against an overseer with whom he had 
quarrelled, and which, on investigation, proved to have had no foun- 
dation in truth. This story brings out incidentally a circumstance of 
some importance. It is admitted that formerly it was very possible 
for masters or overseers to employ force to subject the slaves under 
them to their licentious appetites. But, adds Mr. Simpson, such a 
thing would now be impossible : no man would dare to attempt it ; or 
if he did the female, on repairing to a magistrate, would obtain in- 
stant redress* (p. 381). 

There then follows, in pages 382 to 390, an examination of Mr. 
Simpson on West Indian economics, in which we shall not attempt to 
follow him, because to us it is utterly unintelligible ; in many parts, 
we can say with truth, most inaccurate ; and totally at variance with 
notorious facts (p. 382 — 386). 

The value of the clothing given to the slaves, Mr. Simpson esti- 

* Mr. Simpson may possibly have been acquainted with the Rev. Mr. Trew, 
the late Rector of St. Thomas in the East, in Jamaica. Let him, then, turn to 
the testimony of that gentleman, as he will find it in the 4th volume of the Anti- 
Slavery Reporter, No. 76, pp. 107 and 108, for a contradiction of every part of 
his present apologetical statement ; and he has only to consult the Index to 
that work for numerous proofs of the inaccuracy of the assertion so confidently 
made by him of the certainty of redress for even undisputed acts of cruelty. The 
contrary stands on official documents, which cannot be contradicted, and all 
of recent occurrence. Besides, let us ask Mr. Simpson to point out a single 
clause in any one act of the Jamaica statute book which, down to the year 1832, in- 
flicts the very slightest penalty on any overseer who puts a female slave in the 
stocks all night, and works her all day in the field for weeks together ; or who 
orders that same female to have her limbs exposed naked to the gaze of the whole 
gang, and to receive, upon her bared posteriors, 39 lashes of the cart-whip, and 
even to repeat these 39 lacerations the moment the former wounds are healed. 
We challenge him (and we permit him to call Mr. Burge, the late Attorney- 
General of Jamaica, to aid him in making out his case) to point out any 
such law. 



on the Extinction of Slavery.-— Evidence of J. Simpson, Esq. 153 

mates at 35s. or 40s. a head. On turning to Mr. Scott's evidence 
(see above, p. 146), we find his account (not one of mere estimate, 
but of actual distribution) to be somewhat different. It may be thus 
stated : — 4 yards of pennistones, 5s. ; 9 yards of Osnaburgh, 4s. 6d.; 
2£- yards of check, 2s. : in all lis. 6c?. But let it be taken with all 
charges at 15s., and we shall still be very far below Mr. Simpson's es- 
timate (p. 386). 

One of the allowances Mr. Simpson states to be regularly made to 
the slave on an estate is about three shillings' worth weekly of sugar 
and rum, all the year round. This of itself would make for each slave 
£7. 16s. a year; and would amount to about 3 cwt. of sugar and 
50 gallons of rum to each in a year. Can this possibly be true ? — 
There must be some strange habit of miscalculation or some singular 
defect of memory about this witness. It must be admitted that Mr. 
Simpson has guarded against the charge of wilful inaccuracy ; for he 
has told us (quest. 5756 and 5757) that it is utterly out of his power 
(though he has had charge of upwards of 7000 Negroes belonging to 
absent proprietors, and still, we presume, has charge, by means of his 
commercial house in Kingston, of a considerable number) to give in- 
formation respecting the various items of expense attending West 
Indian estates. Of one thing, indeed, he seems to be quite certain, 
namely, that on the Duke of Buckingham's estate of Hope the Ne- 
groes have the opportunity of realizing about £125 annually for every 
three acres of land they may be able to cultivate on the 1 000 acres of 
land attached to that estate, and appropriated to their use ; so that, 
supposing the number of able slaves upon it to be one-third of its po- 
pulation, that population being, in 1830, 368, the annual income 
within their reach would amount to about £15,500. Is this quite cre- 
dible ? 

There follows, at pages 391 and 392, a not very seemly attempt to 
put the credit due to the representations of Admiral Fleming in com- 
petition with those of Admiral Halsted and of Mr. Simpson ; but, we 
apprehend, with pretty much the same success which we have already 
shown to have attended the attempt to discredit the statements of Mr. 
Taylor : but we pass over that part of the evidence as wholly imma- 
terial to the real objects of the enquiry. 

Mr. Simpson farther testifies that from the time he had taken 
charge of estates, which was about the year 1817 or 1818, he had 



154 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

done all he could to encourage marriage amongst the slaves ; and 
that marriage was accordingly frequent* (p. 394). 

The emancipated Negroes employ themselves in different ways. 
They are seldom seen in distress. Then come some admissions of the 
comforts and luxuries that slaves are enabled to procure, but which 
they would not, according to Mr. Simpson, have the same facilities of 
procuring when they are free. — There is such an utter extravagance 
in supposing that a man whose seven days in the week are his own 
should have fewer facilities of accumulating property than the man 
who has only twenty-six week-days in the year and his Sundays, 
that we are at some loss to divine Mr. Simpson's end in giving such 
evidence. He cannot expect it to be received as true (quest. 5931). 
But what are those facilities ? The horses, and cattle, and waggons, and 
wains of their masters and of themselves. And this is said by one who, 
living in Kingston for twenty-four years, must have been the weekly 
witness how few of the slaves coming to the Kingston market had any 
means of conveyance but their heads, on which their loads were 
brought into town on the Sunday morning (p. 398, 399). 

Mr. Simpson does not believe in the efficacy of wages to induce the 
slaves to work. He admits, however, that during his twenty-four years' 
stay in Jamaica, and with his extensive means of making experi- 

* The parishes in which Mr. Simpson states himself to have been chiefly con- 
cerned are Vere, Clarendon, St. Mary, St. George, St. Andrew, St. David, Port 
Royal, and St. Thomas in the East. Now we have parliamentary returns of 
the marriages which took place in these parishes of Jamaica, from 1808 to 
1825 inclusive, the very period during which Mr. Simpson exercised his large 
powers ; and the result&during those seventeen years are as follows, showing clearly 
that marriages cannot have been very frequent, and that in some parishes they have 
been remarkably rare, viz. — 

Vere containing 8,000 slaves marriages in seventeen years 2 

3 

„ 176 

161 

„ 201 

27 

2643 

From St. Andrew the returns are wanting for the last five years (see the Par- 
liamentary Papers for 1823, No. 347, and for 1826, No. 353). The result in St. 
Thomas in the East is owing to the zeal of the Rev. Mr. Trew. 



Clarendon 




5) 


17,000 


St Mary 




■>■> 


25,000 


St. George 




■>■> 


12,000 


St. David 




3J 


8,000 


Port Royal 




il 


6,000 


St. Thomas in 


the East 


>! 


26,000 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of J. Simpson, Esq. 155 

ments, he had never tried the effect of wages on the slave, nor endea- 
voured to ascertain whether he might not work for remuneration as 
Avell as from compulsion. This is a remarkable fact, and at least 
explains Mr. Simpson's prejudice against free labour. He says, cane- 
hole digging and the whole work of a sugar estate is far from laborious; 
for women perform it as well as men: and yet he is quite confident that 
Negroes, when free, will never be prevailed upon, by any inducement, 
to cultivate sugar (p. 400) ! 

Mr. Simpson is again examined about night work and spell keep- 
ing in crop, and again puzzles himself and the committee most com- 
pletely. It is evident that Mr. Simpson never kept spell himself, or 
he would have been able to make the matter intelligible. 

Mr. Simpson states the fact of a naval officer having gone on an 
estate as a guest, and having drawn up a long string of questions, 
which he addressed to one of the book-keepers to be answered, and 
the book-keeper answered many of them ; and this fact is produced 
as proving the liberality of the planters of Jamaica (p. 402). Mr. 
Simpson, however, ought in fairness to have given the sequel of this 
affair, which the reader will find in a note below.* 

Mr. Simpson affirms (quest. 6011) that he, the attorney of 7000 
slaves, never knew of any whip being used in the field in Jamaica. — 
This is certainly a most extraordinary assertion ; and it proves most 
incontestibly either that Mr. Simpson has lost his memory or that he 
is determined at all hazards to whitewash slavery. The assertion, we 

* The book-keeper in question lived in the year 1324 on Yarmouth, in Vere, 
an estate belonging to Lord Dudley, and was a very warm partizan of the pro- 
slavery cause. He wrote many papers in the Royal Gazette, during the years 
1823 and 1824, under the assumed signature of " The Hermit in Vere," for which 
Mr. Simpson may refer to the files of those Gazettes at the Colonial club-room. 
A naval officer visited Yarmouth, and certainly gave to this book-keeper a long list 
of very pertinent questions, which the book-keeper undertook to answer. A 
copy of those questions is now in this country. They were brought hither by 
the book-keeper himself, who was deprived of his employment, and forced to quit 
Jamaica, for having dared to listen for one moment to such an application. His 
previous services to the pro-slavery cause availed him nothing ; and he was ac- 
tually persecuted to such a degree that he was forced to return to England, in 
consequence of the determination of the planters to refuse him employment. He 
convinced some planter in this country, we believe Mr. Watson Taylor, that all 



1 56 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

take it upon us to say, is so manifestly untrue as of itself to render 
the whole of his evidence absolutely valueless.* 

VI.— WILLIAM MIER, Esq. 
Mr. Mieu is a native of the United States. He possessed 
in Georgia 500 slaves ; and, from his knowledge of the Negro cha- 
racter, is led to doubt whether they would be disposed to work 
for wages. Slaves are very seldom emancipated in Georgia. The 
Americans are very tenacious of this species of property. They value 
it more than gold itself. No publications relative to slavery are per- 
mitted in Georgia. Though half of the Georgia slaves are Africans, yet 
they increase at the rate of 2 per cent, per annum ; and the increase 
continued to 1822. The labour of growing and pounding rice was 
particularly hard (p. 366—369). 



this persecution was unmerited, and he was sent back by him to one of his es- 
tates, where he soon after died. And this is Mr. Simpson's exemplification of the 
liberality of Jamaica planters ! 

* We need go no further to prove the utter falsehood of Mr, Simpson's state- 
ments on this point than the pages of the Royal Gazette, and other papers of 
Jamaica, during the session of the Assembly in 1826, when the disallowed slave 
act of that year was under discussion. It was not even proposed on that occa- 
sion that the driving-whip in the field should be abolished, but merely that the 
cat should be substituted for the cart-whip in the coercion of labour. " If we 
adopt such an innovation," said Mr. Hilton, " in the established usages of the 
colony, now that the Duke of Manchester is about to leave the island, the slaves 
will imagine that our conduct has been disapproved by the king, and that we 
have been compelled to relinquish the whip, and with it every means of punish- 
ment and restraint." Mr. Mair declared that the slaves preferred "the cart-whip" 
to eveiy other instrument of punishment, as being more manly, switches, &c, 
being only fit for children. Others confirmed the fact of the preference of " the 
cart-whip" to switches, as in the case of that instrument there were limits, but 
not to the use of switches. Many of our readers will recollect Mr. Barrett's 
speech on that occasion. The whole of it turns on the use of the " cart-whip,' 
which he declares to be a horrid instrument. Mr. Barrett is now in England, 
and he and Mr. Simpson may settle the matter between them. Mr. Simp- 
son's words are, " I never knew of the cart-whip being used." This is a most 
complete stultification both of Mr. Barrett and of the Jamaica Assembly, if it 
be not rather a complete stultification of Mr. Simpson himself. , 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of W. Shand, Esq. 157 

VII.— THE REV. JOHN SHIPMAN. 

VII. The Rev. John Shipman, a Wesleyan Missionary. — The 
whole of this gentleman's examination turned on the wholly unim- 
portant resolutions adopted by some of the Wesleyan M issionaries 
in Jamaica in 1824, and afterwards disallowed by their superiors at 
home (p. 405—416). 

VIII.— THE REV. ROBERT YOUNG. 

The Rev. Robert Young, another Wesleyan Missionary. — ■ 
This gentleman's examination is also chiefly directed to that which 
forms the subject of Mr. Shipman's examination. Mr. Young gives 
it as his opinion that the justice, mercy, brotherly kindness, and 
charity of the Gospel are unfriendly to slavery, and in their full deve- 
lopement must put an end to every system of oppression, and liberate 
every slave. He did not think that, with the knowledge the slaves 
now possessed, they could be detained in bondage much longer. 
Slavery is the parent of numberless vices ; it corrupts both the master 
and the slave ; the principles of Christianity are therefore directly 
opposed to it, and without abolishing slavery altogether he did not 
think its evils could be obviated. At the time that he was in the island 
there was perfect impunity for any outrage committed on a slave, if 
there was no evidence to prove it but that of slaves. He was five 
years in Jamaica, and left it in 1826. The flogging of females he 
regards as an outrage on all decency, directly opposed to every feel- 
ing of Christianity, and calculated to sour and brutalize the minds of 
all concerned. 

IX.— WILLIAM SHAND, Esq. 

William Shand, Esq., went first to Jamaica in 1791, left 
it in 1823, returned in January 1825, and quitted it finally in May 
1826. The number of slaves under his charge was from 18,000 to 
20,000, on estates in almost every parish in the island. He resided 
for a considerable part of the time in Vere, Clarendon, St. Andrew's, 
and St. Catherine's. He was long engaged in the management of 
estates and had therefore an opportunity of being acquainted with the 
Negro character. Mr. Shand begins with affirming that six days are 
quite sufficient to enable the slave to raise more than is necessary for 



158 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

him for the whole year, so that he has twenty week days, three holi- 
days, and all the Sundays, to do what he pleases with. The allowance 
of salt fish is about 450 or 500 barrels for 1230 Negroes.* The old 
and infirm are generally attended to by their own families. If they 
have no families, the master provides. 

Mr. Shand mystifies the subject of spell and night work in the same 
extraordinary way in which we have seen it already done by his brother 
planters; but we need not recur to that topic (p. 430). 

Mr. Shand never saw any gloom in the slaves. They are more con- 
tented and better provided for than the lower classes in this country 
and Scotland, and their labour is much lighter. The great mass of 
emancipated slaves are very idle, frequently keep slave women, and 
are in a great measure supported by them. They generally remain on 
the master's estate, living with women upon it. He never knew any of 
them work in the field. He knew no instance of freed slaves working 
for wages. They live very much by pilfering their neighbours' coffee. 
A man of observation in three years may learn a good deal ; but Mr. 
Taylor's plans were not much liked in Jamaica. He thought differently 
of slaves from all around him, and treated them differently. He was 
not, in Mr. Shand's opinion, competent to be a witness respecting the 
Negro's situation and character. He had not been regularly bred a 
planter (p. 431—434). 

In many situations the Negro, after he has established a certain 
quantity of provisions, may rear food for himself by one day's labour 
in the year, and he knew of no situations where he might not do so by 
a week's labour or even less. A Negro, indeed, may almost subsist on 
what nature produces, with merely the slight trouble of collecting it. 
Every Negro may have all kinds of articles if he chooses to be in- 
dustrious, but very few have the luxuries they might have. They 
would not be generally disposed to work in order to gratify artificial 
wants. Emancipated Negroes do not, either in Jamaica, or in St. 
Domingo, or in Trinidad, acquire industrious habits, nor are they useful 
and industrious. In Jamaica, some are tradesmen ; some live with 
slave women on estates, and are extremely idle; and others by receiv- 
ing stolen goods. If the slaves were made free, they would be exactly 
in the state of the Negroes of St. Domingo. He never knew any 

* That is only, on the average, four or five herrings a week to each. 



on the Extinction of Slavery. ---Evidence of W. Shand, Estj. 159 

Negro work in the field after being made free : nothing useful is to be 
expected from them, and least of all sugar planting. Those who live 
in towns acquire no property : what they have has been bequeathed to 
them. He does not recollect an instance of any who have acquired 
property by their own exertions. If the blacks are made free, neither 
white nor coloured persons can remain there. Nothing could be done 
by a police to preserve due subordination (p. 434 — 437). 

Several years ago the established church was doubled in Jamaica, and 
many places of worship, both of the churches of England and Scotland 
and of dissenters, built. He believes the motives for doing so were very 
sincere. The slave population of Jamaica have since made very great 
advances. He knew none of the missionaries, and was not for encourag- 
ing them ; some of them he believed to be bad men, though there may 
be good men among them. It is most impolitic for the slave to be of 
one religion and the master of another. He employed the curate of 
Clarendon, at £100 a year, to teach the people on his two properties 
and to read prayers twice a week. He does not believe it is much the 
practice to employ curates in this way, but he always told his overseers 
to bring up the Negroes when the clergyman chose to come. The 
planters are well disposed to give religious instruction to the slaves, 
but their means are very limited. The imposts on them are so heavy 
that they cannot afford additional expense. He objects, however, to 
any but oral instruction. If prudently conducted, religion would not 
be hostile to slavery. He himself gave no encouragement to mission- 
aries, or to any but duly authorized teachers. Negroes are so prone 
to complain, that it was necessary to restrain his feelings lest mischief 
should follow from encouraging them. He found it scarcely possible 
to carry into effect any plan of task work. Sugar land is not appli- 
cable to any other purpose, and, as for converting it to pasture, there 
would be no demand for cattle without sugar to occasion it. The infirm 
slaves are generally provided for by their relations, who act very kindly 
to each other, and are willing to work for their support. If relations 
cannot support them, then the master supports them (p. 438—440). 
When Mr. Shand was a book-keeper, he had to be on duty in crop- 
time for eighteen hours and a half. Even though in crop-time the 
"Negro should work six hours of each night as well as all day, this does 
not equal the labour performed by people in this country, who work 
much harder than in Jamaica. The boatswain of the mill carries his 



160 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

whip with him. Mr. Shand maintains that to work twelve hours of the 
day the whole year, and six hoars more during crop, is lighter work than 
that of labourers in this country, who, in many cases, work longer than 
the Negro does even in crop-time. His own cart-man in this country 
works longer and harder. He has, it is true, no driver at his back ; and 
glad would Mr. S. be to get rid of the driver and his whip (p. 441). 

Mr. Shand differs not only from all the witnesses opposed to him on 
principle, but from the West Indians who have preceded him, in his 
views of the Negro's taste for luxuries and conveniences, and the pains 
he would take to acquire them. He concedes such a taste to very 
few, and denies it to the mass. He thinks them not equal to the Euro- 
peans in intellect, and this because they are not inventors. Yet he ad- 
mits they are quick in acquiring knowledge, and acute in making a 
bargain. He admits, likewise, that few slaves are content with the 
clothing given them by their masters, but purchase better clothing for 
themselves. Mr. Shand's effort, however, throughout his evidence, is to 
reduce the measure of the slave's ideas of comfort and convenience to 
almost the lowest point that can support life ; few do more. Contrary 
to the testimony of all his brother colonists, he says the slave does far 
less for himself than for his master; taking twenty days in his own 
grounds to do the work of one. In short, if Mr. Shand is to be 
believed, we must bid adieu to all those tales of comfort and happiness 
by which the slave is raised so high above the British peasant, and view 
him as a gay, unthinking, reckless being, making no provision beyond 
the merest necessities of animal life. He admits there are, or rather 
may be, exceptions; but such is the general view he labours to convey, 
except when surprised into facts at total variance with the theory that 
a Negro will do nothing from the desire of bettering and improving 
his condition, but merely from a desire to satisfy his hunger and es- 
cape the lash of the cart-whip. It would be endless to follow him in 
all his vague, tortuous, inconsistent, and inconsequential statements 
on this subject : we can only convey, as we have endeavoured, a 
general impression of their character and bearing (p. 459 — 461). 

Mr. Shand says he is friendly to religious instruction, but he would 
have it given by the established church. He distrusts the missionaries, 
although he is acquainted with none of them personally. He has 
heard of their misconduct only from others ; he knows himself nothing 
against any of them (463). 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of W. Shand, Esq. 161 

Mr. Shand affects to know something of the statistics of Hayti, though 
it does not appear that he has visited it as Admiral Fleming has done ; 
but he states that the blacks in Hayti earn only 7s. a year each, for 
the only way of valuing wealth, according to him, is to divide the 
value of exports from any country by the number of its inhabitants! 
He concludes, therefore, with singular acuteness, that they not only 
are not clothed with British manufactures, but with any manufactures 
at all. He believes, in short, that the cultivators of Hayti are in a 
state of the most degraded poverty that can be conceived, next to 
savage life (p. 464). 

Is it possible for the blindness of ignorance and prejudice com- 
bined to go beyond this, which we presume will be dignified with the 
name of testimony ? After reading it, let any one who wishes to see 
the full force of the distortions of prejudice turn to the evidence of 
Admiral Fleming respecting Hayti (see above, p. 95). 

Mr. Shand, who has made his fortune by being the attorney of ab- 
sentee proprietors, pleads for the profitableness of absenteeship, and 
thinks an owner may gain by living on one side of the Atlantic, and 
leaving it to an agent to manage his plantation on the other. The case 
of Mr. Wildman he considers an example of the danger of owners 
visiting and managing their own 'properties. A practised attorney, 
like Mr. Shand, would not have been guilty of the folly of preferring 
the comfort and happiness of the slaves as his first object, and the 
owner's gain as merely secondary. And yet he cannot deny the advan- 
tage generally of a man's managing his own concerns ; but he thinks 
the case of the West Indies peculiar. The business of a Jamaica agent 
requires a high degree of information, so that the fruits of such agency 
may be highly beneficial to the employer, notwithstanding the ex- 
pense that may attend it, and the absolute freedom from all effectual 
control of the employer, arising from distance (p. 465, 466). 

Mr. Shand says, he is himself at present the proprietor of 1200 slaves. 
He does not know whether they have increased or decreased, but he 
thinks they have increased on some properties and decreased on others.* 

* It must strike our readers with some surprise that this experienced planter, 
Mr. Shand, should be able to give no more satisfactory account of the progress of 
population on his own estate, and that, on that very point to which every man of 
the commonest feeling of humanity would look with intense anxiety, as the only 

N 



162 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

He cannot state any satisfactory reason why slaves should increase m 
the United States and not increase in Jamaica (p. 466, 467). 

The drivers, who are slaves themselves, possess, according to Mr, 
Shand, to a certain extent, the power of correction (p. 469). 

Mr. Shand admits that the time allowed the slave by law is only 



sure criterion of the well-being and comfort of his dependents, he should scarcely 
be able to give a single definite answer, — nay that, even in matters on which a 
perfect stranger to his concerns might acquire information, he himself should be 
most miserably, uninformed. What then must have been the state of information 
possessed by the proprietors of the 18,000 or 20,000 slaves who, during Mr. 
Shand's residence, entrusted him with their management ? Before we conclude 
this note, our readers will have discovered our reasons for these remarks. 

Mr. Shand says that he is now the possessor of 1200 slaves. In the month 
of March, 1831, the number he appears to have had in Clarendon (and he has 
not said that he has estates elsewhere), was 881, namely, on Kellett's 433, on the 
Burn 135, on St. Tooley's. 206, and on Mammee Gully 107. Three years 
earlier, that is in March, 1828, the numbers on the same properties were, on Kel- 
lett's 464, on the Burn 151, on St. Tooley's 210, and on Mammee Gully 118: 
the whole number being then 943, exhibiting a decrease in these three years of 
62, or at the enormous rate of upwards of 2 per cent, per annum. Now surely 
Mr. Shand ought to have known this. And there is not only this aggregate de- 
crease, but there is a decrease of each separate estate, though he affirms there 
has been an increase on some of them. The decrease on Kellett's is 31, or 
nearly 2J per cent, per annum ; on the Burn 16, orupwards of 3J per cent, per an- 
num ; on Mammee Gully 11, or 3| per cent, per annum ; and only on St. Too- 
ley's as low as | per cent per annum. What a dreadful waste of human life 
have we here ! Had Mr. Shand's slaves increased at the rate of the slaves in the 
United States, or of the maroons in Jamaica, the number in 1828 of 943, in 1831 
would have grown to 1012, instead of having sunk to 881, making an actual 
destruction of human life among this gentleman's Clarendon slaves of 131 in 
three years ! ! Now, after this, what reliance is to be placed on Mr. Shand's re- 
presentations ? He evidently can have no title to claim the weight of a single 
feather to be given to his evidence, or deducted from that of Mr. Taylor or any 
other witness, on the ground of his experience or local knowledge. And, as for his 
attempt to apologise for the decrease of his slaves, on the ground that some are 
Africans, he has only to turn to the evidence of Mr. Mier, which states that in 
Georgia, with a population half African, the slaves increased at the rate of 2 per 
cent.per annum, and yet that their employment was the hardest of all, namely,, 
growing and pounding rice (see the evidence of Mr. Mier, p. 156). 



on the Extinction of Slavery .---Evidence of W. Shand, Esq. 163 

26 week-days, with three or four holidays, in the year, besides Sun- 
days. The master may sometimes give them a few more days. He 
admits that all sorts of necessary food may be raised in Jamaica, 
■without resorting to any foreign supply. There could be no starvation 
or any want of food in case of emancipation, if people chose to labour. 
He never applied to any emancipated slave to work on an estate 
for wages. He is asked, since slaves, he admits, often labour volun- 
tarily, why he thinks they would cease to labour when they become 
free, and his answer is that he really cannot tell, but such is the 
practical fact : he is sure few of them live by industry (p. 470, 471). 

There are few slaves in Jamaica, however old and infirm, who can- 
not raise their own food ; and, if they should not, their relations help 
them, or, failing that, the master supports them (p. 474). Mr. Shand 
speaks of his having 1230 slaves. In what part of the island are the 
350 placed who are over and above his 880 in Clarendon ? (p. 474.) 

Mr. Shand preferred the English and Scotch church to the Method- 
ists, for this reason, among others, that the Methodists teach predes- 
tination, and the Church of Scotland does not ! He knew nothing 
personally of the Missionaries, but he had heard much against them 
(p. 477,478). 

Mr. Shand had very frequently, on the complaints of slaves, dismissed 
overseers for misconduct, severity, and harsh treatment (p. 480). 

The visionary views he attributed to Mr. Taylor were " his fancying 
that he could manage the slaves in a different way from others, with- 
out using the whip or punishing them." In the present state of 
things he doubted very much whether they could be managed, either 
for the advantage of the master or of the slave, without the whip, or 
some such means as the whip. It has been tried to do without it; 
but it is found impossible to get labour without it, especially since the 
excitement caused by the discussions on slavery in England, which 
create discontent, and give occasion to punishments which would not 
otherwise be necessary. He thinks the excitement thus caused has 
increased punishments ; and he does not believe that any thing can 
now be done by the Colonial legislature to ameliorate the condition 
of the slaves, their excitement making increased severity necessary. 

When Mr. Shand made the extravagant statements that a day in 
some situations, and in others six days in the year, were quite suffi- 
cient to provide food for a slave and his family, he must have had in 

n 2 



164 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

view an established plantain-walk of adequate extent. He entirely 
omitted, however, all consideration of the time required for clearing 
wood land for such a purpose, for digging holes, and for bringing and 
planting the shoots ; and further, that a year of careful attention 
must precede his reaping any fruit from it, besides considerable labour 
afterwards in keeping it in order. All this he seemed to have over- 
looked. But, at the close of his evidence, we find him referring to 
the starvation and ruin which might ensue if the Negro were to de- 
pend on this easy mode of providing for his wants. " If the slaves 
cultivate that species of provision which is most liable to injury by a 
hurricane, the consequences would be very serious indeed, and the 
loss very great." 

We conclude with very heartily thanking Mr. Shand, as well as 
Mr. Simpson and Mr. Scott, not only for their concessions and con- 
tradictions, but for the invaluable light they have thrown on the whole 
subject of West Indian plantership. They have done more for the 
Negro race in the space of a very few days than they ever dreamt of 
doing, and have much more effectually promoted the cause of that 
emancipation they so seriously dread than the stoutest anti-slavery 
witness who came before the committee. 

X.— BRYAN ADAMS, Esq. 

Bryan Adams, Esq. — This witness is brought forward, we pre- 
sume, in the hope of shaking, if not overturning, the powerful and 
convincing evidence of Admiral Fleming. He quitted the Caraccas 
in May 1832, after a residence there of about eighteen months. He 
had gone 500 miles into the interior and visited the finest plantations of 
cocoa, coffee, and sugar in that country. The finest he saw, Elisendas, 
is cultivated in coffee by 375 slaves. He is not aware of any estates 
cultivated by free blacks. One estate, Belmont, within three miles of 
Caraccas, has 50,000 coffee trees and fifty acres of cane land, all 
under irrigation, and more than 1000 acres of wood land, and there 
are upon it twenty-three slaves.* The next question however is deci- 

* It is obvious that Mr. Adams must have made some mistake here, and 
indeed contradicts himself afterwards about estates not being cultivated by free 
persons. The twenty-three slaves on Belmont could not possibly perform 
a tithe of the work upon it : 50,000 coffee trees would require 400 acres of 



on the Extinction of Slavery . — Evidence of B. Adams, Esq. 165 

sive of the extent of this gentleman's intelligence ; for, being asked 
whether he knew of any emancipation of slaves having occurred at the 
Caraccas, he replies, " I recollect something about it ; but I do not 
believe it ever did take place" (p. 444). 

Sugar is exported from the Caraccas in increasing quantities. He 
saw 2000 barrels come in from one estate, of 6 or 7 cwt., each for ship- 
ment to the United States ; it was very excellent sugar. He had 
been impressed with the idea that unless severity were used with the 
slaves they would not work ; but he found, on the contrary, that 
where no severity was used things went on better, and he instances 
Elisendas estate.* He saw however a whip in use at Tapatapa, an 
estate of an Englishman, Mr. Alderson (p. 444). 

He contradicts himself however about free labour ; for he says, 
those who have not labourers enough of their own hire peons and 
native persons of colour, who are hardly to be distinguished from the 
slaves. The native Indians are very industrious and very faithful. 
The slave possesses the power of demanding to purchase his freedom, 
or he may change his master. The soil is fertile and provisions very 
abundant. They have as much ground as they can cultivate, are 
clothed, and have a pound of beef a day. He does not think the 
present slaves would be disposed to work if emancipated. He thinks 
a general risin°- would follow emancipation. He afterwards frankly 
admitted that he was quite incompetent to speak about questions of 
freedom and slavery. He had not investigated them. He had seen 
numbers of labourers working on plantations; but he never asked the 
question whether they were slaves or free. If the labourers had been 
chiefly free, they might have been so without his knowing it. He 
admitted that Admiral Fleming had been very diligent, and that he 
had access to the very best sources of information. The people of 
colour associate generally on good terms with the whites. The people 
of colour are generally the friends of order. On an estate which he 



land ; does he mean to say that twenty-three slaves planted, and weeded, and 
pruned these, gathered the coffee and pulped it, besides cultivating fifty acres of 
cane ? It is utterly impossible. 

* If he mistook about Belmont, as he evidently must have done, he may 
also mistake about Elisendas, and there may have been on that estate also only 
a small proportion who were slaves. 



166 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

attempted to purchase, formerly belonging to Bolivar, there were a 
very few slaves working conjointly with free persons. They worked 
together without difficulty or confusion (p. 444 — 452). 

XL— Mr. JOHN FORD PIKE. 

This gentleman had been in Cuba at different times since 1819, 
but he had only been for two days in the interior, and he had no 
opportunity of knowing any thing of free labour, nor of the cul- 
tivation of the island. He had been brought from Wales all the 
way to London to give evidence ; but he said he knew nothing of 
the matter (p. 452). 

XIL— WILLIAM WATSON, Esq. 

William Watson, Esq., had been in the Caraccas from 1810 
to 1814. Estates were then cultivated partly by slave labour and 
partly by free. The free worked with the slaves when they were 
wanted, which was chiefly in crop time. He had known many in- 
stances where slaves were managed wholly by persons who had them- 
selves been slaves. The managers of estates were mostly coloured or 
black persons, who had been emancipated. This was common in the 
Vale of Chaldo, five or six miles from the town. He has had no con- 
nection with the Caraccas since 1814. But while he was there he 
thought the free blacks were generally employed in cultivation, and 
that they were a better sort of people than he had seen in our islands. 
Great confidence was placed in them. The whole system of Spanish 
slavery is different from ours : it is much milder, and the consequence of 
this mildness is an improvement of character. He had no doubt at all 
that the blacks were, when well treated, susceptible of the same mo- 
tives which influence other men. The most powerful stimulus in the 
world to a man is labouring to gain his freedom. In Louisiana the 
planters say that they get a great deal more work when they put the 
slaves on task work ; and, if the stimulus of freedom were generally 
tried, and men were allowed to free themselves by their exertions, 
they would be much more industrious, and would not cease to be so 
when free, though, in a country furnishing easily the comforts and con- 
veniences of life, many might relax when free. He noticed the slaves 
after emancipation generally at work, raising provisions and other 
things. In his time the estates had slaves enough to keep the fields 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of S. Baker, Esq. 167 

in order, except in crop time, when they called in free labourers. 
There was a very considerable free coloured population in the Caraccas, 
who were in general very industrious. He had been in Mexico, but 
had never seen any slaves there. The great mass of the population 
are a mixed race, and those of the Africans were deemed as industrious 
as the rest. They were not more degraded, or more idle, than the 
others. The people of Mexico generally do not exert themselves 
much. The stimulus of want could not be made very strong in that 
country. There was no import of sugar into Mexico, nor any export 
of sugar from it. A great deal of sugar is consumed in the country, and 
it is dear (p. 452—457). 

XIII.— HERBERT TOWNSEND BOWEN, Esq. 

Herbert Townsend Bowen, Esq., had been in Trinidad, but 
his attention was not directed to cultivation, or to the state of the 
slave population. He had nothing to do but with one plantation, and 
on that he did not reside; it was a plantation of cocoa, and coffee, 
and cinnamon, and cloves. He paid an overseer 400 dollars for 
managing, and he hired six or seven peons, but the speculation was 
not successful. The emancipated slaves there mostly employed them- 
selves as tradesmen, or in raising Guinea grass, or provisions. It ap- 
peared, from the reports of the protector, that a considerable number 
of slaves had purchased their freedom. The peons were paid wages, 
at the rate of half a dollar a day (p. 457 — 459). 

XIV.— RICHARD GARRETT AMYOT, Esq. 

Richard Garrett Amyot, the Colonial registrar of slaves, 
produced certain tables of population, to which we shall hereafter ad- 
vert more particularly (p. 484, 485, and p. 519 — 522). 

XV.— SAMUEL BAKER, Esq. 

Samuel Baker, Esq., had visited Jamaica in 1816, and af- 
terwards in 1817, and for a short time in January, 1832. He landed 
in Manchester, and went afterwards to the north side of the island. 
He thought the slaves much improved, since his former visits, in their 
clothing and comforts. He had thought them comfortable before, 
but now they were better dressed on Sundays. He talked with the 
head man of Dumfries estate, in St. James (an estate in the'hands of 



168 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

the trustees of William Fairclough, with 198 slaves upon it). This; 
man had distinguished himself by defending the property in the ab- 
sence of the whites, and Mr. Baker made him a recompense for his 
conduct. This man was reluctant to give any opinion as to the cause of 
the rebellion. He was a Baptist, and attended the Baptist chapel built 
in that neighbourhood. He expressed himself as comfortable and 
satisfied, and as not desiring any change. He gave Mr. Baker to 
understand, however, that the general feeling of the slaves was to- 
wards revolt^ and that they could not be depended upon. Mr. B. also 
conversed with the Negro, a respectable man, who attended him as 
servant ; but he could give no information, for the people had never 
left the place, but staid at home to defend it. The Negroes generally 
were sulky, and did not choose to answer his questions. He thinks that 
there was a general disposition in the slaves to be content with their 
lot, till the late excitement. The head man on Dumfries told him 
the Missionaries received certain sums from the Negroes who attended 
them. He paid for his seat in chapel, and also paid a macaroni, of 
quarter dollar, when he attended the sacrament : he did not say how 
frequently. Mr. B. had heard nothing of the part the Baptists took in 
the insurrection, except that itwas called the Baptist war. He had never 
heard the slaves say any thing, good or bad, of the Missionaries. He 
had attended the Scotch place of worship in St. James, and found it 
well attended by decent, orderly slaves (p. 485 — 487). 

The chief object of bringing Mr. Baker forward appears to have 
been to falsify the statement of Mr. Knibb that he had been employed 
by the custos, Mr. Miller, to examine some rebel prisoners ; but all 
Mr. Baker could say was that Mr. Miller had not told him so, and that, 
from what he knew of Mr. Miller and his character, he did not believe 
he could have done so (p. 487). 

Mr. Baker doubted much whether the slaves if free would work 
for wa°-es. But he had no doubt that if left alone, and not excited, 
they would be quiet. The means of their obtaining information were 
much more general now than formerly, as many can now read. He 
saw twelve or fourteen executed ; and there appeared in them a mor- 
bid determination to meet their fate. He thought it showed a pur- 
pose of taking any opportunity which might occur of gaining their 
freedom by force. Mr. Baker takes it upon him positively to deny 
that the slaves were influenced in their rebellion by the fear of being 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of S. Baker, Esq. 169 

transferred to America ; and yet he says he could get no answers from 
them. Then how was he to know their minds, so as to make this po- 
sitive assertion ? (p. 489.) 

Mr. Baker never even heard the rebellion attributed in any degree 
to the parochial meetings in the fall of 1831. But how should Mr. 
Baker hear of that, or of the transfer of the island to America, as 
causes of the rebellion 1 The slaves, who were the best witnesses, 
would not open their mouths, and the whites would not, of course, 
accuse themselves either in the one case or in the other. He had 
heard of two murders by the blacks, and of fourteen white ladies 
having been violated ; but the ladies all denied it! He never heard 
any effect attributed to Mr. Beaumont's motion on manumission in 
the Assembly. He was in the island in all, this last time, about three 
months, and during that time he visited Manchester, Westmoreland, 
Hanover, St. James, Trelawney, St. Ann, St. Mary, Spanish Town, and 
Kingston. The improvements he alluded to in the condition of the 
slaves, since 1816, were increased luxuries, and a much better style 
of dress. Some have horses of their own. His servant had a horse 
of his own (p. 490). 

Mr. Baker knew Mr.Manderson, a gentleman of colour, and of great 
respectability, a man of great intelligence and honour (p. 490). 

He thinks the slaves are in a state of comfort, and, if their com- 
forts were increased, they would be disposed to be luxurious and turbu- 
lent. As to time, they have as much as they want, and, if industrious, 
might be rich. As to the whip, good slaves should not have it, and 
never did have it ; and the bad require it. Corporal punishment 
might be put an end to without any great mischief to the slave, but 
there would be mischief to the proprietors. The idle will not work 
without the whip. The slaves have already as much comfort as they 
want : if they had more time, the active would add luxuries to their 
comforts, the others would not (p. 491, 492). 

He did not perceive any strong sensation produced among the 
Negroes by the burning of the chapels. The Baptist Negroes in the 
towns were offended by it. He did not think they were in the country. 
The African Negroes are generally indolent ; but many of the Creoles 
are active. As they are improved by education, they improve in 
activity. He knew many men of colour. Whites now associate with 
them more than they did formerly. They are generally persons of 



170 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

education and understanding. Many of them are fully competent to 
act as overseers on estates, and do so act. Some are quite as compe- 
tent as any white men (p. 493, 494). 

There was occasionally a talk, among persons meeting together, 
about throwing off their allegiance, on account of the general dissatis- 
faction with the oppressions of the mother country. He was aware 
of the resolutions passed in August and September, 1831. The 
Negroes must have known of them ; and it may have added to their 
excitement. The people of colour, he thinks, would be disposed to 
go with the whites ; but he does not believe they have any general 
wish to throw off their allegiance. The free coloured population 
would not be willing to subject Jamaica to the United States. They 
would not consent to be separated from this country ; they are much 
attached to it. He had heard that about 100 rebels were executed, 
about 1000 killed, or missing, in various ways. He supposed about 
100 might have been flogged. Five white persons, he believes, were 
about the number put to death by the Negroes. The women, who were 
in possession of the Negroes, have always denied having been violated 
by them (p. 495). 

A great part of the respectable Negroes can read, and he conceives 
it is quite impossible to put a stop to the diffusion of knowledge 
among them. Fresh insubordination can only be prevented by a dif- 
ferent disposition, and a change of principles, in this country : this 
Mr. Baker regards as the only hope ; without this, the colony cannot 
be saved (p. 495). 

The Negroes, who were executed, generally suffered in a very short 
time after trial (p. 497). 

He was persuaded that much of the excitement among the slaves 
proceeded from irritating communications from this country. He 
does not, however, know any of the Anti-Slavery party in this country 
(p. 498). 

XVI.— ANDREW GRAHAM DIGNUM, Esq. 
Mr. Andrew Graham Dignum resided in Jamaica from June 
1818 to May 1832, and acted there as a solicitor, and was named 
in 1827 protector of slaves in two parishes. The protectors were 
paid by salaries varying from £70 to £250, and were appointed 
to defend slaves charged with criminal offences. He was employed for 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of A. G. D'ujnum, Esq. 171 

St. Dorothy and St. John, and acted as a barrister would have done. 
His duty was to see that the slaves had a fair trial. He recollects the 
discussions that took place on Mr. Beaumont's motion in 1831. It 
produced some sensation among the slaves in St. Thomas in the Vale. 
He also recollects the concession of white privileges to the people ot 
colour in 1830. He does not think that any excitement was produced 
by that, or by the meetings held in the different parishes in 1831. 
He does not believe that any excitement whatever was caused by the 
idea of being transferred to the United States : he heard of that now 
for the first time. He visited the disturbed districts soon after the 
insurrection. The impression made on his mind by conversing with 
the slaves was 'that they believed the British government had made 
them free, and that they were to be relieved from all labour after 
Christmas ; and their finding the case not so caused the insurrection. 
When he saw them afterwards they seemed ashamed .and sorry for 
what they had done. None of the slaves spoke to him of the mis- 
sionaries ; but he was told by an officer that he could always cause 
an excitement among a body of Negroes by mentioning the name of 
Mr. Burchell, the missionary, who they seemed to think had brought 
them into this trouble. What they said to himself was that they 
did not know what had made them rebel, but the devil must have got 
into their heads. He was impressed, as early as July 1831, with an 
idea that they had even then an expectation of being free after Christ- 
mas (p. 500). He thinks the plot was deeply laid, and he draws this 
conclusion from a conversation he had with Mr. Panton, a barrister, 
whose servant had committed suicide ; but the connection of that fact 
with such a plot is very lamely made out. — He thought it very impro- 
bable that Mr. Miller, the Gustos, should have authorised Mr. Knibb 
to examine the rebel prisoners in confinement* (p. 557). 

Mr. Dignum says that the law of slave evidence is now so altered, 
by the act of 1831, that an overseer may be punished for inflicting 



* Surely nothing could have been more probable than that Mr. Miller, who 
is represented as a sensible man, and who was commissioned to obtain informa- 
tion about the causes of the insurrection, for the governor, should have employed 
that very person to confer with the prisoners in whom they were most likely to 
repose confidence. 



172 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

even less than 39 lashes on a slave if he cannot show that an offence 
was committed by the slave adequate to the punishment inflicted. — If 
that were true, it would have been easy for Mr. Dignum to have pro- 
duced examples, but he has not produced one ; and till such ex- 
amples are produced, duly authenticated, we shall continue to view 
the opinion of Mr. Dignum as a mere gratis dictum (p. 557, 558). 

Mr. Dignum tells an absurd story in proof that the slaves did not 
desire freedom. He entered an estate with an armed force, and while 
surrounding the negro houses asked the inmates if they wished to be 
free; and they said, No. What else could they have said under such 
circumstances ? 

Mr. Dignum further gave it as his opinion, that to prevent any 
further insurrection it was necessary that masters should no more be 
interfered with by the government in the way of Orders in Council, 
or by discussions ; in short that the masters should be left to them- 
selves (p. 559). 

Mr. Dignum admitted that in strictness of construction he had no 
right to interfere in the defence of slaves, as protector, but in cases 
where they were tried for capital crimes. He had no right to interfere 
for their defence in cases of plantation discipline, or cruel treatment, 
but only where slaves were tried for capital crimes committed by 
themselves. He had no right to interfere in any case arising under 
the 33rd section of the Act of 1831, which authorises overseers to 
inflict thirty-nine lashes. He had only seen one workhouse, and 
never saw a Negro punished there. He said magistrates appeared to 
him to be authorised to cite an overseer before them to answer for 
inflicting even less than thirty-nine lashes ; and, if the offence were of a 
very trifling nature, the magistrate might say to the overseer, " You 
may give thirty-nine lashes for aggravated offences, but you have 
over-stepped the law in this instance," and inflict a fine upon him in 
consequence. He had known such cases, but he could only cite one, 
being the first overseer convicted on slave evidence. The man's name 
he thinks was Ellis, and the trial occurred in November, 1831. He 
was overseer of Nightingale Grove (an estate of Lord Harewood's). 
Mr. Dignum, however, was not present, and does not tell us whether 
the offence was his exceeding thirty-nine lashes, or whether the 
punishment might not have been cruel as well as wanton. The case 
ought to be called for with the evidence (p. 560). 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of Sir Charles Rowley. 1 73 

Mr. D. had seen slaves at work, and had seen the driver give them 
one or two cuts over the shoulder to make them work. The cat was 
introduced in place of the cart-whip on some estates, but the slaves 
were dissatisfied with it ; they preferred the cart- whip. The driver's 
whip has a stout handle, about two feet long; the lash he thinks is 
four or five yards long ; the upper part is thick, but does not touch the 
Negro : it is the lash at the end which strikes the Negro* (p. 501, 502). 

XVII.— VICE-ADMIRAL SIR CHARLES ROWLEY, K. C. B. 

Vice-Admiral Sir Charles Rowley knows much of the West 
India Islands, and commanded on the Jamaica station from 1820 
to 1823. He frequently visited the estates in various parts of the 
islands, and he did not find that any thing was at all concealed 
from him, any more than by a farmer in this country on paying 
a visit to his farm. In one case he had gone upon an estate and 
staid there all night, without being known as the admiral on the sta- 
tion, and he was much pleased with all he saw. He had gone also into 
the negro huts and found every thing comfortable there. He had no 
slaves himself, but he hired some. He offered his freedom to one 
man, but he declined it. He was a mulatto, who acted as his valet. 
Two negresses belonging to his brother had been freed some years 
before; and when he went out, in 1820, he sent for them to assist in the 
house till he could get servants, and they said they regretted having 
been made free, because they could not get work constantly. If asked 
whether the slave was, happier than the labourer in this country, he 
had no hesitation in saying that, if he had been born to labour, he 
would sooner have been a black in Jamaica, than a white man in this 
country or any other. He stated this as the result of his own ob- 
servations. There may be harsh treatment sometimes ; but, taking all 
chances, he thought they were a much happier race than the poorer 



* The reason of this is plain. The lash is the part which cuts. The thick 
part is chiefly of use to give its momentum to the cutting part. The whip alto- 
gether, including the length of the driver's arm which wields it, with the handle, 
and the thick heavy part, forms a lever of great power, which enables the small, 
hard, flexile lash at the extremity, to make its incisions, drawing blood from 
the buttocks, at every stroke, in cases where they have not been made callous by 
previous inflictions. 



174 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

class in this country. He saw little of demoralization there any more 
than here, yet he would not go to a tropical climate for virtue ; 
people are some wicked and some virtuous there as elsewhere. He 
does not think that, if emancipated, the slave would work for wages 
on sugar estates : no man of whatever colour would work hard in a 
tropical climate if he could live without it. A man who can get food 
enough at an easy rate will not be anxious for much more, if he 
remains in darkness; but if his mind is enlightened he will exert him- 
self more. In general he thought the overseers attentive, the hos- 
pitals good, and the little plantations of the slaves well kept. They 
appeared to be a very happy race of men. He had seen runaway 
Negroes pimished and worked in chains, but no cruelty inflicted. He 
never saw any thing to impress his mind that the treatment of the 
Negroes was cruel. He had thought otherwise formerly, but after 
having seen them he altered his view, and now he doubted whether 
they would be happier if emancipation were granted to them. He 
once saw a Negro man flogging another Negro severely, and he 
stopped and desired the man to be released, saying he would complain 
to the agent Mr. Simpson or Mr. Shand, and the overseer was dis- 
missed. Being asked if he thought the cart-whip a cruel instrument 
of torture, he said that if it were laid on his back he should say it 
was uncommon torture ; yet many seamen suffer more from the 
cat-o'-nine-tails. He admitted it was very bad that the whip should 
be inflicted at the pleasure of an individual, and thought it ought not 
to be allowed. Certainly when he was in Jamaica an overseer might 
inflict to the extent of thirty-nine lashes, without being answerable 
for it by law. When he compared the Negro with the English peasant 
he thought of apprenticeships in this country which were attended with 
as much harshness and cruelty as slavery. The slave might not have 
the same facility of redress by law as the apprentice ; but, in the case 
of severity he had mentioned, the overseer, on his representation, was 
dismissed by the attorney. Had it been his lot to be born to labour, 
he should prefer the certainty of the black labourer for food, clothing, 
lodging, care, &c, to the uncertainty of the labourer procuring work, 
severity of climate, and other evils. He knew an apprentice might 
have his indentures cancelled if he were ill treated, but he did not 
know that a Negro might be emancipated if he were ill used (pp. 501 
—505). 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of J. B. Wildman, Esq. 175 

Being asked whether he went on estates to obtain information re- 
specting the Negroes, he answers, "decidedly not," but to gain in- 
formation as to working sugar, and general management, as he would 
visit a farm here. He thinks marriage is more protected in Jamaica 
than in England ! Being asked whether a wife or daughter may not be 
flogged by the overseer before her husband's or father's eyes, and 
whether he would prefer being a labourer on these terms rather in Ja- 
maica than in England ; he said he had not thought, in making his 
answer, of wife and children, or any fine feelings about them, but 
about food. As to immorality and concubinage, never being guilty 
of these things himself, he made it a rule never to enquire into the 
doings of others. He did not think the Negro would work for wages 
if wages were given him : he could get enough by working on his own 
grounds, and he does not think it natural that a man, in a warm cli- 
mate, should exert himself for more. With respect to the Negroes 
who worked at his pen, he admitted that he offered them pay for 
extra work, and, the pay being their own, they did it. (Now what is 
this but working for wages?) — The Negroes are a very cheerful people, 
much more happy than labourers here : that made him say he should 
prefer being a labourer there. He thinks Mr. Barrett has misnamed 
the driver's whip, in calling it a cart-whip ; it is more like a postillion's 
whip on the continent ; but, whatever be its proper name, Sir Charles 
adds, " decidedly the whip is a very cruel whip ; there is no doubt of 
that." He knew many gentlemen in Jamaica, but he knew none 
more competent to give evidence than Mr. Shand and Mr. Simpson 
(p. 506—508). 

XVIII.— JAMES BECKFORD WILDMAN, Esq. 

James Beckford Wildman, Esq., has three estates in Ja- 
maica, with 640 slaves upon them. He was there in 1825; and in 
1826 he went out again and staid two years and a half. When he 
went he found the slaves perfectly destitute of all religious instruction, 
but by no means inferior in intellect to the labouring classes in this 
country. They were particularly astute in driving bargains, and per- 
fectly acquainted with the proper prices of commodities. Between 
domestics and field Negroes there was a difference ; but it was of the 
kind which exists between our servants in the house, and a ploughman 
or a girl taken out of a cottage. The first step he took was to give 



176 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

them religious instruction. He watched its progress, and the effect 
far surpassed any thing he had expected, and was quite as satisfactory 
as any thing that could be found in this country. Their morals also 
have improved under religious instruction. When he first went out 
there was not one slave that was married on the estate ; by a letter 
lately received from a young man sent out by the Church Missionary 
Society as a teacher, there are only two living in concubinage. The 
change for the better from religious instruction was decided, and there 
was as great eagerness for it, if not more, in many instances, than he 
found in his own village in England. And not on his own estates only, 
but throughout the island, the desire for both religious and general know- 
ledge is too strong to be eradicated. It cannot be eradicated. They 
will have it some way or other. If there were encouragement given 
to it, it would spread rapidly. At present it is not only not encouraged, 
but thwarted. There is a decided hostility to instructing the slaves in 
letters. Many will give nothingbut oral instruction, which he regards as a 
farce and deception. An hour is fixed for visiting the estate to give 
oral instruction ; the Negroes may have a mile or a mile and a half 
to walk home ; the teacher gets them together slowly enough, and 
begins catechising them, but they have scarcely entered on business 
when the hour is expended, and away they go again. He regards it 
not only as wholly inefficient in itself, but as carried on by most unfit 
agents, by book-keepers generally, who are themselves living in the 
grossest immorality, and who thus bring religion into contempt. 

To employ persons living in open immorality to inculcate morality 
is surely a gross absurdity. In the case of his own people the effect 
of instruction was -very gratifying in respect to their exertions in the 
labour of the estate : it was all done in a gratifying way. Looking 
only at his own interest, and without any higher motive, the pro- 
prietor will best promote those interests by the religious instruction of 
his slaves. His first object was to do away with the driving whip as a 
stimulus to labour, and he found that a most valuable change. The 
whip was used, not as a stimulus to labour, but only as a corrective 
of crime : and he thought all proprietors might pursue this course with 
advantage, if they would only treat their slaves as Christians would 
naturally treat their fellow-christians. The estates have certainly 
been less productive since he went out; but for that he thus accounts: — ■ 
The system, when he arrived, was severe to a degree that was quite 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of J. B. Wildman, Esq. 177 

revolting and horrible, and, when he went to the other extreme, the 
Negroes relaxed altogether, and therefore at first little work was 
done ; but, when they found that work must be done, though in a 
different way, they came into his plan, and it went on perfectly well. 
He effected this by talking to them, and making them understand 
that, if their work was not done, they must be punished for neglect of 
duty : and this lenient mode of proceeding had a great influence upon 
them. The hire of a field Negro in Jamaica is 35. Ad. currency, or 
nearly 2s. 6d. sterling, a day. Now, what is actually given to the 
slave by the master is very little, as in fact he maintains himself by 
his provision grounds. Herrings are the chief allowance besides, in the 
way of food. All charges included, the cost of a slave to the master 
may be about £5 a head, besides the rent of house and grounds. 
This calculation includes the women and children. Hired labour is 
dear ; for there is none to be got but that of jobbing gangs. And cer- 
tainly a most miserable life is that which is led by those who compose 
such gangs. He tried the plan of giving allowances to his slaves for 
extra work, but he never could get overseers to enter heartily into the 
plan : the slaves were most ready to adopt it. His experience led 
him to say that they were quite disposed, while slaves, to work for 
money ; but he was not equally convinced that they would do it when 
perfectly free ; for then the stimulus to labour, which now operates, 
would be entirely lost. He talked with one of his head men on the 
subject, and explained the circumstances in which the slaves would 
be placed, giving up their grounds, and supporting entirely themselves 
and families. He shrunk back from the change, and this led him to 
think they would rather remain as they are than be free, if compelled to 
work. The impression on his driver's mind evidently was that he might 
lose all he now possessed, and lose, besides, the protection and friend- 
ship of his master, and gain nothing* (p. 509 — 513). 

The chief difficulty which Mr. Wildman had seen in the plan of 
wages was the want of a circulating medium. The only feasible plan 

* The case could hardly have been stated quite fairly to this slave, if such was his 

impression. He was not led to contemplate the possibility of retaining his house 

and land, paying a reasonable rent for them, and having wages besides — and all 

s this, as might be the case, without losing his master's friendship, as his landlord, 

though no longer his master. 

o 



178 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

that had occurred to him (for he had not looked to entire emancipa- 
tion) was to bring the slaves into something like the condition of our 
labourers, but withholding the name of freedom, freedom implying in 
their view an exemption from labour. The admission of slave evidence 
has now been effected, which is most material ; for the slave's life 
was in the master's hand before. He would totally put an end to 
trafficking on Sunday, and give him another day in lieu of it ; for the 
master has now the whole seven days ; and, if the slave does not work 
on Sunday, he starves. It would thus be in his power to keep the 
Sabbath. He would also provide a paid magistracy, it being abso- 
lutely essential that the magistrates should be wholly unconnected 
with the island. In that case the slave would get redress, which he 
cannot get now. The same should be the case with all judges, as 
the system now pursued of appointing planters to be judges is a mere 
farce. He would take away all power of corporal punishment from 
the master, and place it with the magistrate ; and he would protect the 
slave from being separated from relations, or dispossessed of property, 
and make them in all respects like the peasantry of this country, ex- 
cept as to the name of freedom, being unwilling to break the link which 
now connects the master and slave with each other. Mr. Wildman's 
impression is that the only thing the slave sees valuable in freedom is 
exemption from labour ; and he will be able to maintain himself on a 
piece of ground so easily that he will not be stimulated to labour be- 
yond a bare subsistence, — a course to which he would be encouraged 
by the example of the low whites, and the free black and coloured 
classes also* (p. 514, 515). 

* We must here make a few remarks on these views of Mr. Wildman. In 
much of what he says we entirely acquiesce ; but surely he sees difficulties where 
none really exist, if he deems that arising from the deficiency of a circulating me- 
dium to be insuperable. — But is Mr. Wildman quite correct in the view he has 
taken of the law as to slave evidence? He has not, we apprehend, read that law: 
he would otherwise have passed a very different judgment upon it. He is perhaps 
not aware that the present law on the subject, that of 1831, clauses 130, 131, 
and 132, are almost verbatim the same with the corresponding clauses of the Act 
of 1826, which was disallowed by Mr. Huskisson. Mr. Huskisson's observa- 
tions upon it are as follows : — " This law appears to contemplate the admission 
of the evidence of slaves in those cases of crime only in which they are usually 
either the actors or the sufferers, excluding the evidence in other cases ; a distinction 



on the Extinction of Slavery . — Evidence of J. B. Wildman, Esq. 179 

Mr. Wildman was then questioned about Mr. Taylor's management 
and its effects on his property. He complained of it, saying that Mr. 
Taylor was so carried away by his feelings and his scruples that great 



which does not seem to rest on any solid foundation." " The rule which requires 
that two slaves at the least shall consistently depose to the same fact on being 
examined apart, before any free person can be convicted on slave testimony, will 
greatly diminish the value of the general rule. In the case of rape, for example, 
such restriction might secure impunity to offenders of the worst description. The 
rejection of the testimony of slaves twelve months after the commission of the 
crime would be fatal to the ends of justice in many cases ; nor is it easy to see 
what solid advantage could result from it in any case. If the owner of a slave 
is convicted of any crime on the testimony of that slave, the court has no power 
to declare that slave free, although it may exercise the power when it proceeds on 
other evidence. Highly important as it is to deprive a slave of any motive for 
giving false evidence against his owner, that object might be secured without in- 
curring the inconvenience of leaving the slave in the power of an owner convicted 
of the extreme abuse of his authority." In these remarks of Mr. Huskisson, 
Lord Goderich entirely concurs. But neither of them pointedly notices the de- 
fect that the evidence of slaves is wholly excluded in all civil cases, and in all 
matters of wrong affecting their persons and property, and not involving certain 
crimes that are specifically mentioned in it. The whole range, therefore, of plan- 
tation discipline, not involving those specified crimes, is wholly excluded from 
the operation of this boasted law of slave evidence. 

As it is of the very utmost importance that this subject should be fully under- 
stood, both as it respects the unintentional misapprehensions of such a man as 
Mr. Wildman, and the intentional sophistications of such men as Mr. Dignum 
and Mr. Burge, we will give the law as it actually stands in the statute-book at 
this moment. 

" CXXX. And be it further enacted, That from and after the commencement 
of this act, upon any complaint made before a justice of the peace of any murder, 
felony, burglary, robbery, rebellion, or rebellious conspiracy, treason, or traitor- 
ous conspiracy, rape, mutilation, branding, dismembering, or cruelly beating, or 
confining without sufficient support, a slave or slaves ; or in any cases of seditious 
meetings, or of harbouring or concealing runaway slaves, or giving false tickets 
or letters to such runaway slaves, to enable them to elude detection ; or on any 
inquisition before a coroner ; the evidence of any slave or slaves, respecting such 
complaint and inquisition, shall be received and taken by such justice of the peace 
or coroner ; and on any prosecution in any of the courts of this island, for any. 
of the crimes before mentioned, the evidence of a slave or slaves shall also be ad- 
mitted and received : provided always, that, before such evidence shall be re- 

o 2 



180 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

loss ensued, and he should have lost all had Mr. Taylor remained; as, 
conceiving that slavery was a crime, he neglected to maintain due 
discipline : indeed, there was a total relaxation of discipline. The 



ceived, the justice of the peace, coroner, or court, shall be satisfied, on due ex- 
amination had, that such slave comprehends the nature and obligation of an 
oath. And provided also, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the court 
from receiving objections as to the competency of such witness, or from receiving 
evidence as to the credibility of such witness, in like manner as they would re- 
ceive the same as to free persons. And provided also, thatno free person shall 
be convicted of any of the crimes aforesaid, whenever the evidence of any slave 
shall be admitted, unless two slaves at least clearly and consistently deposed to 
the same fact or circumstance, such slaves being examined apart and out of the 
hearing of each other, or unless the evidence of one slave shall be corroborated 
by some free person deposing clearly and distinctly to the same fact or circum- 
stance, such free person and slave to be examined separately and apart from 
each other. And provided also, that no free person shall be convicted on the 
testimony of any slave or slaves of any crime or offence, as aforesaid, unless the 
complaint shall have been made within twelve months after the commission 
thereof, and unless the crime or offence shall have been committed subsequent 
to the commencement of this act. And provided also, that no free person, 
accused of any crimes herein before mentioned, shall be committed for trial, or re- 
quired to enter into any recognizance to appear and take his or her trial upon 
the evidence of any slave, unless such evidence shall be corroborated by some 
other slave or free person clearly and consistently deposing to the same fact, 
being examined apart as aforesaid." 

The next clause, 131, refers merely to technical matters of form, and the al- 
lowances to be made to slave witnesses, and the compensation to be made to 
their owners ; and it is therefore omitted. 

" CXXXII. And, in order to remove as much as possible any temptation to 
commit perjury by those slaves who shall be required to give evidence, be it 
enacted, that the court shall not be at liberty to exercise the power given by this 
act for declaring any slave free and discharged from all manner of servitude, 
where the owner of such slave has been convicted of particular offences, if any 
slave shall have been sworn upon the trial as a witness on the part of the pro- 
secution." 

The reader will here observe that this last provision debars the liberation of 
a suffering slave from his cruel master, not only when he himself is a witness, 
but when any slave, and consequently when 20 or 100 slaves testify to the same 
fact. We would further observe that now, for the first time, is the branding of 
a slave made penal by the law of Jamaica. 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of J. B. Wildman, Esq. 181 

year before Mr. Taylor came into the management he had realised 
£2000 ; the year Mr. Taylor left he was deficient £1400. He remon- 
strated with him on the change ; and his answers turned almost exclu- 
sively on the right or wrong of slavery (p. 515 and 517). 

Mr. Wildman's own plan was, that, when a slave behaved decidedly 
ill, he punished him. He flogged only three, however, during the 
whole time he was there. One was a young man belonging to Salt 
Savannah, who absconded once for three days, and afterwards for a 
week. On his return Mr. Wildman talked with him, and told him 
if he continued thus to run away he would be of no use to him ; and, 
rather than allow him to set so bad an example to the other slaves, he 
should part with him. The slave urged him impudently to do so. Mr. W. 
then had him punished with sixteen or seventeen stripes, when he begged 
very hard, and promised not to repeat the offence. The driver told 
Mr. Wildman that the young man was particularly quiet and well- 
disposed, and that he had doubtless been set on by the other slaves to 
try the experiment how far they might venture to go, in behaving ill, 
with impunity. Though the use of the whip, therefore, was practi- 
cally discontinued, it was not extinguished, when crime was com- 
mitted . The instances in which it was used (and he was thankful they 
were so few) was in cases in which the man would have been sent to 
gaol in this country by a magistrate. Mr. Wildman said that had 
he stuck to the law, which is not usually done either on one side or the 
other, he might have given, in each of these cases, 39 lashes. He 
had it in his power by law to give to the extent of 39 lashes, if any 
thing displeased him, even a look : that was decidedly the law. The 



Now we can have no doubt that Mr. Wildman will agree with us that the ad- 
mission of slave evidence is most inadequately and elusively effected by this law. 

We must wholly differ also from Mr. Wildman in thinking that all the slave 
sees in freedom is an exemption from labour. He cannot have given a correct 
account of the intelligence of the slaves, if this be true ; for the slave himself, 
if he opens his eyes and looks around him, must see that no human being, whe- 
ther slave or free, is exempted from labour. Let Mr. Wildman only read the 
evidence of Admiral Fleming on the Caraccas, Cuba, and Hayti, given above, 
p. 86 — 102, and he must see that, if he continues to maintain his present views 
of this subject, it can only be from his labouring under the influence of some 
unsuspected prejudice. 



182 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

master was the sole judge when a man should be punished, and to 
what extent, provided it was not beyond 39 lashes. To that nominal 
number he was restricted by law, but persons went constantly far be- 
yond the law. If a slave did anything to offend his owner or overseer, 
even by a look, he might be punished with 39 lashes, and the owner 
was answerable to no one for doing so. The whip was abolished on 
Mr. W.'s estates as a stimulus to labour, but retained as a punishment 
for offences, on the principle that if a farmer in his parish in England 
had complained to him of his servant neglecting his labours, he would 
have sent him to the tread-mill for a certain time (p. 516, 517). 

Mr. Wildman does not think that, if the slaves were free, any 
sugar at all would be cultivated, or that any labour could be hired 
for that purpose. He does not believe that degradation attaches to 
sugar cultivation on account of its being the work of slaves. The 
taunt is not that a man has, but that he has not a master on whom to 
depend.* A free brown man, married to one of his own slaves, lives 
on Papine, and the slaves speak of him quite sneeringly„ — There is 
the greatest possible distinction between domestic slavery and field 
labour. If a domestic slave is turned into the field, he views it as a 
great degradation ; but the field labourer does not so view it. Be- 
fore he came away he turned all his domestic slaves into the field, on 
purpose to do away the impression of any disgrace in field labour. — 
Cavaliers was inhabited by free people, who rented small portions of 
land, but who led very dissolute lives, cultivating a little coffee, to 
enable them to tempt the slaves on the coffee estates around them to 
steal it, and sell it to them ; and, when the time came for paying 
their rent, they sold their crops, and were off, and did not return 
again. Their houses were inferior to those of his own slaves on Pa- 
pine, and even to the houses of industrious slaves generally on other 
estates, though, on estates, some huts were worse than theirs. Their 
ordinary clothing was superior to that of the slaves ; but, when the 
slaves put. on their best, they were better clothed than those people. 
Their furniture was better than that of some of the slaves, but inferior 
to that of the head people on estates. The people of colour, however, 

* Surely Mr. Wildman 's philosophy is at fault here. He is misled by the cir- 
cumstances of his own particular case, and the affection his own slaves bear to 
him. 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of J. B. Wildman, Esq. 183 

in general are better clothed than the best clothed of the slaves ; but 
the people in Cavaliers were certainly not so well off as respectable 
slaves on estates. The persons who resorted thither were probably 
servants, to whom gentlemen had given freedom on their quitting the 
island ; and, being close to Kingston, and the land rich which they 
had an opportunity of hiring, it became a favourite resort of such 
persons. The free people on Pedro plains are much better off than 
the Cavaliers people : they have cattle. Those at Cavaliers keep much 
out of sight. They are less frank and bold in their manners than the 
slaves, which he attributes to their predatory habits. They had women 
and families with them, but he did not think they were married. They 
had no religious worship or instruction whatever. He endeavoured 
to establish, before he came away, both divine service and a school 
among them ; the reports he has since received are favourable : and he 
has a confidence that they and their children will avail themselves 
of instruction, and will improve by it ; but he was fearful of freedom 
without the restraint of religious feeling. — The people at Cavaliers 
mostly built their own huts ; and the land was rented to them at 
about £2 an acre (p. 518, 519). 

Mr. Wildman was decidedly of opinion that the slaves, on the ex- 
isting system, could not employ Sunday in religious instruction. 
" They must employ it in their maintenance, or starve" (p. 519). 

Mr. Wildman had stated that four slaves, whom he had tempted to 
work for hire as an experiment, had overworked themselves, and he 
was asked to reconcile that fact with his opinion that they would not 
work for hire when free: he replied, "The slavesknew they were com- 
pellable to work, therefore any reward given them was a boon for 
which they exerted themselves." He had tried this experiment, 
to see whether they would work for the inducement of gain : no threat 
or compulsion was used, and at the end of the day they were 
found to have overworked themselves. This was not the only experi- 
ment he tried. In other cases he gave money to have work done, 
and always with success. Mr. Wildman, notwithstanding this uni- 
versal success of his experiments, does not think it a proof that the 
slave if free will so work. As a slave, a man must labour for a 
certain time, and any reward he can get is a bonus ; but if free he 
may choose to work at all or not, as it pleases him. He had no doubt 
that the fear of want, if he could be made to feel it, would induce 



184 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

him to work ; but Mr. Wildman apprehends that if made free, as he 
could support himself with a little labour, he would do no more than was 
needful to that end. He thinks, therefore, if a state of villainage 
could be substituted for slavery, instead of perfect freedom, he has 
no doubt it might be made to answer. His notion is simply this : 
If the planter could command his Negroes as the farmer can his la- 
bourers through the magistrate in England, the thing could be done. 
The cottager here may be compelled to work to support his family, 
and if he does not he is punishable. Now if the slave was in the 
same state, and his wants compelled him to work every day in the 
week as the cottager does, then the same system might be adopted 
there as here. 

In crop time the practice is for the slave to be in the field and 
begin work before sunrise and to continue at work till twelve ; and to 
return to it again at two, and continue till dark. The practice on one 
of his estates, when he first went out, was to keep what is called the 
long spell : that is to say, one spell at the mill and boiling house 
continued to work there from noon on Monday, for example, till noon 
on Tuesday, when it was relieved by the other spell from the field 
that had been at work from day dawn in the morning, and then re- 
mained at the mill and boiling house till Wednesday at noon, and so 
alternately throughout the week ; so that there were thirty- six hours of 
continuous labour, and from ten to twelve hours of continuous rest, in 
each forty-eight hours. But on his other estates, where the short 
spell was kept, there were eighteen hours of continuous labour and five 
or six hours of rest, in each twenty-four hours. The long spell ap- 
peared to Mr. Wildman to be a very dreadful system, and when he 
discovered it on going out, he resolved to put an end to it ; but he 
found, to his surprise, that his attorney was actually ignorant of the 
existence of any such practice till he pointed it out and convinced him 
of it. That system was put an end to, and in place of it the mill was 
stopped every night at eight o'clock ; and when the sugar was boiled 
off", which took an hour and a half or two hours, the whole of the 
people went home; and the mill began again at four in the morning, 
so that they might all have if they chose seven or eight hours' rest in 
the twenty-four. He did not consider this change as any loss to him- 
self; for it was plainly utterly impossible for human life to stand such 
long interruptions of rest, whether at hard work or not. It was wholly 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of J. B. Wildman, Esq. 185 

incompatible with the health of the slave. He therefore put a stop 
to it ; but he was thwarted on all sides in his endeavours to do so, not 
only by the overseers, but by the slaves themselves ; for where the 
long spell had been established they preferred it to the short spell, 
which calls them up at midnight to divide the night work between 
them. They pleaded that, when called up at midnight to go to the 
mill, they were so sleepy that they were often late and so got flogged. 
But when Mr. Wildman explained his plan, which was to secure to 
them a continuous sleep of seven or eight hours in the twenty-four, 
they were glad of the change (p. 523 — 525). 

Mr. Wildman mentioned that one of the disadvantages attending 
this protracted labour was the manifest injury to the health of the 
persons, among others, who fed the mill with canes : they got wet 
from the spurting out of the cane juice over them, and then at the 
end of their protracted labours, throwing themselves down to sleep 
without due precaution, they caught severe colds, the nights in the 
early part of crop time being excessively cold. He had seen this with 
his own eyes, and had even fed the mill himself to satisfy himself of 
the reality of the evil. Though well clothed he was wet, and should 
have been ill had he not changed his dress. He considers this as one 
great cause of the loss of Negroes on sugar estates ; and it is one of 
which it is quite impossible that any person who had to manage a 
boiling house could be ignorant. In this case what was gained in 
produce was lost in the life and health of the slaves. 

He found this remission of night labour to be beneficial in another 
way. A very fine woman came to him to complain of her loss of 
children. She never could, as she expressed it, hold a child in her 
arms. When he quitted Jamaica the last time, this woman had got 
three children in four years. There were other similar cases. Indeed 
the slaves became far more prolific under the new system. Before 
he went out first the returns exhibited only three births in a year 
out of 280 slaves on Papine. The years that succeeded his going out 
and acting on this plan exhibit from nine to eleven births annually. 
In general the returns in Jamaica exhibit only the children who attain 
the age of twelve months, but the number who die before that age is 
very considerable, in spite of the utmost care. As for the losses by 
abortion, they are never reckoned at all. The necessity of night 
work, in order to working off the crop in time to take advantage of the 



186 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

seasons for putting in the new plant, is such that night work is again 
resumed on the plan of double spells, or of dividing the night; but 
he has directed that, to obviate the evil of the system, the spell which 
has to take the duty from 6 to 12 at night shall not repair to the 
field in the afternoon; but have the period from shell-blow, that is 
from twelve at noon to six, for sleep, or any thing else they may 
choose (p. 524, 525). 

In forming a police for preserving due order and enforcing industry, 
it ought to be kept in view that the blacks are much less apt to be 
jealous of authority exercised over them by persons of their own colour 
than by browns (p. 526). 

Negroes will, like all other people, sometimes make frivolous or 
exaggerated complaints ; but this is by no means always the case. 
He has known his own people severely punished when he has himself 
been on the estate, and has not heard of it for months, and then 
casually (p. 526). 

Mr. Wildman had spoken of book-keepers being employed on estates 
as catechists ; he is asked whether there are not catechists and clergy- 
men sent out by the Conversion Society, and also island curates ; 
to which he replies that some of the island curates exert themselves 
very properly in instructing the slaves ; but others do not at all. The 
Catechists do not give lettered instruction, but that is only one objec- 
tion to the system : it is inefficient in other ways; for, while it is oral 
only, the time allotted is so wholly inadequate that no benefit can be 
derived from it. He spoke generally, and of what fell within his own 
observation. He does not say there are no exceptions ; there are 
clergymen in the island whose exertions are beyond all praise. The 
time allotted for instruction by catechists is almost universally one 
hour a week. He has known estates visited on this system, and he 
pronounces it to be totally inadequate ; he saw no beneficial effects, 
no progress at all to justify what has been said of it. He knew of 
two estates attended by the zealous clergymen to whom he referred, 
which were not in the rebellion. On many estates the Negroes 
carried on the cultivation in the absence of the overseers (p. 527). 

Mr. Wildman was then asked about a slave of his, named Eleanor 
James, who had been most barbarously punished by the proprietor of a 
neighbouring estate, but for which no redress whatever was obtained, 
nor any penalty incurred by any one. He laid the case before the Colonial 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of ' J. B. Wild-man, Esq. 187 

Office. (See the account in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, vol- IV. No. 
83, p. 317.) Mr. Wildman is quite satisfied a man may live a month 
on an estate and be as ignorant of what goes on there as if he were 
in England. He could only enquire of overseers and book-keepers. 
If he were to enquire of the slaves, it would be resented. He has 
himself gone upon an estate at the wish of the proprietor, and with 
the authority of the attorney, and been round it with the overseer, 
and yet failed in seeing the people. Without the employment of any 
particular caution, it is almost impossible for strangers to find out 
what is doing on estates. An attorney or overseer may most unques- 
tionably exercise severe and tyrannical power without its being known 
to the public, even as far as to the sacrifice of Negro life. He had 
reason to know instances of this, slave evidence not being then admis- 
sible. (Mr. Wildman erroneously conceives, as we have shown, that 
there is any material change in the law of slave evidence as affecting 
plantation discipline.) From his own experience, he knows it to be per- 
fectly absurd to suppose that a commander-in-chief visiting an estate, 
unless he took very particular pains indeed (and even then it would 
be difficult), could obtain any knowledge of the condition of the slaves 
upon it (p. 528). 

Mr. Wildman's own slaves were perfectly quiet during the insur- 
rection (ibid.). 

He began his system of instruction immediately on returning to the 
island, after his first visit; but he was assailed in the newspapers as 
an enemy to the colony: he was told that if he meant to set fire to his 
own estate, he had no right to burn down those of others. The most 
infamous, ribaldrous, libels were published against him and his 
family : a more filthy libel was never published against an unoffending 
lady than one of them (ibid.). 

He has had the most gratifying proofs of the gratitude of his slaves 
in their exertions by labour to bring up his estates from the low state 
to which they had fallen. The slaves on Salt Savannah voluntarily 
offered to give up their own time to repair the waste on that estate,, 
When Mr. Farquharson, his present attorney and friend, took posses- 
sion, the Negroes came to him in a body, and said they were ashamed 
and hurt he should see its condition ; and at night they came to him 
again in a body, to say that they would give up their whole time till 



188 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

the estate was put in order again ; and since that time the work has 
been carried on to Mr. Farquharson's entire satisfaction (p, 528). 

Mr. Wildman mentioned one instance of the extraordinary volun- 
tary diligence of his slaves. They had become subjects of taunt in 
the neighbourhood — " There goes one of Massa Wildman's Niggers" — 
and some of them were made wretched by these taunts about their 
freedom and laziness. On one occasion, however, they had to exe- 
cute some hard work in digging a trench between his estate and 
Pusey Hall, and it was allotted in equal portions to the same number 
of slaves of the two gangs. The overseer said to them, " You are 
called worthless; you will not work, your master having done away 
with the whip. The Pusey Hall people work with the whip. Let them 
see what you can do." They set to work in such good earnest that, 
before the day was out, the Pusey Hall people complained that the 
Salt Savannah people would kill them if they went on so. — The whip 
in the field is now disused on Mr. Wildman's estates. Though not 
used, it was still carried in the field while he was there. The driver, 
a very old Negro, begged not to be deprived of it, but promised 
that it should not be used.; for he deemed its appearance necessary 
to keep up his authority. Mr. Taylor put it down entirely ; and Mr. 
Farquharson, who has as great a horror of the whip as Mr. Wildman, 
has not resumed it. It is still used for crimes, but not for deficiency 
of labour ; but he cannot tell what the understanding of the Negroes 
is upon that point. If a slave quitted the field, or did not perform 
his fair task, he was punished, but not by the whip ; by some privation, 
or by confinement ; but it was fully understood that the whip was re- 
tained, though in practice only used for crimes or offences. He 
thought, from all his experience, and the circumstances he had stated, 
that the Negroes were operated upon by the same feelings of gratitude 
and affection as other human beings. He still thinks, however, that, 
if emancipated, they would be unwilling to work ; and this he at- 
tributes to the facility with which they could support themselves if 
free, to their natural indolence, and to the climate. He had himself 
worked in his garden with a stout Negro, who told him that, if he 
made his slaves to work as he had done, he would kill them all in 
three months : but it would have been utterly impossible for him to 
have gone on working in that way for any length of time. He has 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of J. B. Wildman, Esq. 189 

known Negroes to carry loads to market which they could not be in- 
duced, even by force, to carry for their master ; but it was voluntarily 
done for their own benefit : and, in point of fact, it is true that the 
Negroes do exert themselves, with great energy, for the purpose of 
obtaining, not only food, but comforts and luxuries. 

Mr. Wildman admitted that if the slaves, who had now only 26 
days in the year during which to provide for themselves and their 
families, occupied themselves diligently in their own grounds, they 
would do so, supposing the number to be increased to 35, or any larger 
number ; nor did he believe that there was any limit to which it 
might not be extended with advantage, and even with increased energy 
on their parts, with a vjew to the acquisition of wealth ; and especially 
if their moral habits were improved by religious instruction. Of this he 
was so well persuaded that he should not feel the least disinclination, in 
the course of a few years, that government should proclaim freedom 
to all slaves. He saw no reason to suppose that there would be any 
difference in their conduct and that of manufacturers and artisans at 
home, except as religion, and as the means of providing for every es- 
sential gratification with less labour, made a difference. But he thought 
that, if emancipation took place in their present uninformed state, 
it would be the destruction of the slaves and of the island 
too. Four or five years might be sufficient for preparation, especially 
if a good example were set them, and they were not corrupted, as 
now, by the licentious lives of their superiors. The overseers now 
are generally not married men. At present married men are refused 
employment, simply because they are married. Married men meet 
with general discouragement from the planters. What the objection 
really is to employing them he cannot precisely say, but it is almost 
insuperable. The present profligacy of the whites is certainly very pre- 
judicial to the interests of proprietors ; and why it is not put down 
it is difficult to say. In fact the system of Jamaica, from beginning 
to end, is so very corrupt that the moral instruction of the Negro is 
hindered by it. If the Negro is taught morality, he can point to his 
master and say, "You tell me to do so and so; but what do you 
do yourself?" He was of opinion, however, that the interests of the 
owner and of the attorney are often diametrically opposed to each 
other, and this is one of the sources of destruction to West Indian 
property. The cause of the preference given to unmarried men it is 



190 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

difficult to assign : it certainly is not the expense. At the same time it 
is obvious that a dissolute attorney would not feel at ease where the 
overseers or book-keepers were living morally as married men. Many 
of the attorneys are said to keep women on every estate they go to ; 
but he does not say this of his own knowledge. There are many cases 
in which, independently of this, the interests of attorneys and own- 
ers are directly at variance. Attorneys are often paid according to 
the returns they make ; and they may not care one penny if it be made 
by the sacrifice of human life. He does not believe that a better sys- 
tem prevailed, even when there were proprietors, married men, resid- 
ing in the island. In fact, all the young men who go out to Jamaica, 
go out there under the idea of again returning to England : and they 
also know that they may at any time be turned out of their situations 
at a moment's warning ; and that, while out of employment, they would 
be obliged to depend on the hospitality of neighbouring overseers ; 
and that, if deprived of that resource, they might be ruined (p. 530 — 
532). 

Mr. Wildman's plan of instruction for his slaves was as follows : — 
He established an infant school, and kept the little children there all 
day. The gang or class above them in age he took for two hours in the 
morning, and two hours in the afternoon. The second gang he took 
for one hour a day out of his (Mr. Wildman's) time, and endeavoured 
to induce them to stay one hour of their own time ; for, as they did 
not work for themselves then, it would be comparative rest being 
in school. Then the adults were under no regular plan of in- 
struction, except on Sunday : but many of them would come during 
their mid-day interval, and also at night, voluntarily, for instruction. 
And this abstraction of time he did not regard as any loss to the 
owner ; and he was firmly convinced that, on that plan, at the end of 
seven years, the master would be no poorer (p. 532, 533). 

One emancipated slave of his own worked for hire on his estate ; 
but it was the only instance he knew. He was acquainted with, the 
general condition of the free blacks. He thought them increasing in 
wealth and prosperity, through the medium of their own industry. 
He had the same view of the condition of the free people of colour, 
except that they acquired more from gifts and bequests than the 
blacks ; for it is common for white men who have lived with women 
m this way, when they quit the island, to give them a house and 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of J . B . Wildman, Esq. 191 

some property ; and a great proportion of their property may have 
come to them from that source (p. 533). 

Mr. Wildman could not venture to say what time it might take, 
under a system of active instruction, to prepare the slaves for eman- 
cipation. His own, he thought, were not yet fit, though he had 
been at work since 1826. The same pains had not been taken on 
other estates ; indeed, few admitted education at all. When he said 
that five years might suffice to prepare the slaves for emancipation, 
he assumed that a plan universally adopted would be carried on with 
more care than an individual, thwarted at every turn, could take. 
Under existing circumstances, he was decidedly of opinion that no 
provision for instruction could be made effectual in any short time. 
He alluded to the objection felt to instruction on the part of the 
planters ; and, even if that were overcome, he does not think that the 
population would be so changed in five years as to make emancipation 
safe. He considers that, before being exposed to the chances of such a 
transition, they should have a decided knowledge of religious principles 
and practice, and a habit of acting accordingly. He hoped by such 
means to counteract the temptations to indolence in a country where 
the necessaries and superfluities of life are so easily acquired, and 
the climate inclines to indolence. Mr. Wildman conceives also that 
a slave has no adequate idea what freedom is ; but the illustration 
he adduces to support the position is certainly as remote from any 
thing like a logical deduction as can well be imagined. He says, 
"When I came from Jamaica, a little girl, whom my sister brought 
home from the island, was astonished to see a white woman selling 
fish. They cannot fancy a white woman working" (p. 534). 

If the resolutions of Parliament in 1823 had been followed up, as 
they ought to have been, by adequate means of instruction, Mr. Wild- 
man would not have the slightest objection to the slaves being now 
declared free. Unfortunately no great increase of exertion in supply- 
ing the means of instruction in Jamaica has taken place since that 
time. The Church Missionary Society and the Sectarians alone have 
been efficiently active during the interval. By the established church, 
through the Bishop, little has been done. The Bishop has even materially 
impeded the progress of instruction. He says this, though he him- 
self is a zealous member of the establishment, and much opposed in 
some respects to Dissenters. Instruction under the church of England 



192 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

has certainly not advanced in any degree adequate to the expense. 
The bishop has unhappily thought it dangerous to interfere with the 
prevailing vices. He has not assailed the great immoralities he witnessed, 
and has deemed it necessary to temporize, and leave them untouched. 
In saying this he alluded to the whole population, white and black. 
When he has known instances of gross immorality, he has not set his 
face against them as a Christian Bishop ought to have done. Of all 
the teachers of religion in Jamaica the Sectarians are decidedly the 
most efficient. They give themselves up devotedly to their work, 
and in many instances have been eminently successful. Comparing 
the Sectarians with the established clergy, he knew Of no case of 
immorality among the Sectarians. Of the clergy he could not say the 
same ; of that he spoke without doubt. The Church Missionary 
Society's missionaries are far superior; they also employ respectable 
moral men of colour when they can get them. Their exertions ema- 
nate solely from members of the Church of England. They do not 
employ Dissenters. Their exertions have been very considerable and 
very successful (p. 535). 

Mr. Wildman did not mean to apply what he had said of immorality 
to the clergy generally. But he spoke of individuals both now and 
heretofore, and certainly the proportion of immoral men among them 
was greater than in this country. The clergy were by no means under 
the necessity of confining their pastoral care to the whites. Mr. Trew, of 
St. Thomas in the East, was most active, and the change he produced 
in the population of his parish was almost incredible. His system was 
to direct his morning service chiefly to the whites, and, after the ser- 
vice, he kept a school for the blacks, and for any who liked to come. 
The afternoon service was addressed almost exclusively to the blacks 
and browns ; and, after that service, there was again a school. Had 
there been a Mr. Trew in every parish the effect would have been very 
great. Once, when staying at Mr. Trew's house, five or six head men 
from different estates came, and, a report being current of an insurrec- 
tion which was likely to involve St. Thomas in the East, he asked their 
opinion : they, one and all, said, " Fear nothing of the kind in this 
parish; we will not only not suffer our own people to commit any excess, 
but we will not suffer any slave from other parts to interfere with us." 
This Mr. Wildman heard with his own ears. And yet Mr. Trew 
drew more malice and envy upon him than any other man in the 



on the Extinction of Slavery . — Evidence of J. B. Wildmun,Esq. 193 

island. He quitted Jamaica on account of his health. Had there 
been a Mr. Trew in every parish he should not have had the slightest 
fear of emancipation as to its safety ; though he might still doubt the 
slaves continuing to labour (p. 536). 

Mr. Trew, in his efforts to spread instruction, obtained the aid of 
many whites in his own parish ; but nevertheless the ill will he drew 
on himself was very general, and that was increased after the Bishop 
came out : for he used to hold up Mr. Trew as an example to his 
clergy, which made him a marked man, at the same time that he 
himself thwarted Mr. Trew in an extraordinary way. He praised 
him and his exertions in his charges ; but at the same time he was 
much opposed to Mr. Trew. Mr. Trew was assailed by slander, and 
met with opposition even in his own parish. He was even effectually 
thwarted on estates on which proprietors and attorneys authorized 
him to attend ; for a clergyman in Jamaica cannot go upon an estate 
in his own parish without permission, and the Bishop even restricted 
his clergy from doing so without leave ; so that it would have been 
impossible for Mr. Trew, or any clergyman, to instruct the slaves of 
his own parish : even if the slaves were willing to give up to him their 
two hours at noon, and he were to come to instruct them, the overseer 
might still absolutely refuse permission.* Mr. Wildman thinks the 
class of instructors sent out by the Church Missionary Society and 
the Dissenting Missionaries much better suited to the work of instruct- 
ing negroes than educated university men. The morals and doctrines 
of those missionaries he believed to be sound and good, and their 
conduct exemplary. 

And yet he should decidedly prefer pious clergyman of the church 
of England if to be had, feeling that there is inconvenience in the 
want of responsibility on the part of Sectarians, and that a clergyman 
must, at least, be possessed of general education and character 
(p. 537, 538). 

* The words of the Curates' Act of 1816 were express on this point : The 
Rectors and Curates were required to instruct the slaves who may be desirous to 
be instructed : " Provided always that the consent and approbation of the 
person in possession of the estate or plantation to be visited be first had and ob- 
tained for that purpose." 

P 



194 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

Mr. Wildman has always understood that the greater part of the 
poor rate, raised in Jamaica, was expended on the whites. 

Mr. Wildman being asked whether, in the conversation he had had 
with his driver about freedom, as mentioned above, he told him that, 
though free, he would still be at liberty to live on the estate, paying 
rent, but receiving wages, replied that he had not mentioned wages. 
He certainly thought that they could be made to understand that free- 
dom was not an exemption from labour, but a state in which they 
should have the benefit of their own labour. He admits fully (and 
it is important to note this after the strong opinions expressed by Mr. 
Wildman as to the present unfitness of the slaves for freedom) that the 
slaves could be made to understand that continuing attached to their 
residences and grounds, and paying rent for them, while they re- 
ceived reasonable wages, they might thus live in ease by the exercise 
of moderate industry, and enjoy the blessings and comforts of life. 
He thinks certainly that the present state of things cannot continue 
long, as they are now, without proceeding from bad to worse. If the 
present system goes on, the Negroes, he thinks, will not remain quiet. 

The punishments in use in Jamaica now are very cruel punish- 
ments. " The general system is to give them a certain number of 
stripes with a long whip, which inflicts either a dreadful laceration, or 
a dreadful contusion, and then they follow up that by a very severe 
floggingwith ebony switches : the ebony being a very strong wiry plant, 
with small leaves, like a myrtle leaf, and under every leaf a very sharp, 
tough, thorn ; and then after that they are rubbed with brine." He 
never himself saw it done : he could not have borne it; but he knew it to 
be practised in every part of the island. He had seen the persons of 
the slaves after they had been so punished, and has had to listen to 
the complaints of his own people, who complained wofully of it. They 
are struck a number of times with one of these switches, or rather 
bushes, which is thrown away when worn and another taken. Slaves 
are also punished in the bilboes in the most unmerciful manner. An 
iron fetter goes round the feet, and is made to run on a long iron bar, 
fixed on an inclined plane, to which a dozen individuals are often 
fixed. They are confined here all night, lying back on the inclined 
plane, which is a hard board, and let out in the morning to go to 
work, this kind of punishment beingoften continued for weeks together. 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Evidence of J. B. Wildman, Esq. 195 

The punishments also in the workhouses are dreadful. He had never 
been in any of the gaols but one, and that was extremely filthy. It 
was that of St. Andrew, at Half-way Tree, near Papine. He had had 
occasion to commit a Negress there, and she was reported to be in so 
bad a state that he went to inspect the gaol, and he found it in a most 
filthy state, and the punishments little short of those of the inquisition : 
they were actually tortured there. The mode of flogging was to put 
a rope round each wrist, and a rope round each ancle, and then they 
were what the sailors call " bowsed out" with a tackle and pulley. 
He never saw this performed, but knew that it was done from his own 
Negroes, who had been sent there. He complained to the custos and 
magistrates of the parish of these proceedings. The result was, that 
the block and tackle system was defended as a humane practice, as it 
prevented the sufferer from turning in his agony, and getting a blow on 
a tender part. When he went to examine the gaol, a Negro was called 
to lie down and show how it was done. A skin was stretched on the 
ground, and he lay upon the skin, and then this tackle was applied 
to him ; and, though Mr. W. and several others were looking, yet when 
the rope was tightened by another Negro, the man who was operated 
upon gave a yell, which made Mr. Wildman quite start. The yell 
was not from apprehension ; but from actual pain. He represented all 
this to the custos, Mr. Mais ; but no notice whatever was taken of it at 
that time, which was just before he last quitted Jamaica (p. 339, 340). 
Eeins: further questioned as to his views of the effect of emancipa- 
tion upon the slaves, he said he thought the Negro, though he would 
work, would not so work as to carry on the cultivation of sugar. A 
want of religious instruction was another obstacle. The Conversion 
Societv, he said, had by no means been actively conducted. — He 
thought that, in case of emancipation, masters might be relieved from 
all responsibility as to the food both of old and young. The old 
people are now taken care of without the master, by the Negroes 
themselves. Old and young might be left to the operation of natural 
affection. The feelings of kindred, and the love of parents and 
children, he thinks, are as strong in the Negro as in the white. They 
even carrv it beyond this, to those who came over from Africa in the 
same ship, whom they call shipmates, and always address with regard. 
There is no doubt they would support their sickly children and their 
aged parents. Their families now support them, with the exception 

p 2 



196 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

of the master's allowance of clothing, &c. When old and decrepit, 
and wholly incapable of labour, the master provides for them, the 
relations aiding. The propriety and advantage of emancipation, he 
still thought, would turn on the slaves' being instructed. He candidly 
confessed that he thought all profit to him as a proprietor would cease 
from that time. He admitted, however, that he might be mistaken 
in his expectations on this point. He certainly conceived free labour 
to be as cheap as slave labour ; but he did not think that sugar would 
be cultivated by free labour, unless all the land could be ploughed — 
(and why not all ploughed ?) — then cane might be cultivated ; but 
not if the ground is to be dug, as now. The plough could not be 
applied, he thinks, to two-thirds of the island ; but he does not assent 
to the injury caused to the land by ploughing and exposure to the 
sun. The digging of cane-holes is the most severe labour he knows, 
except, perhaps, felling trees with the axe. He would sooner dig an 
acre of hops than an acre of canes* (p. 541, 542). 

XIX.— THE REV. JONATHAN TYERS BARRETT, D.D. 

The Rev. Dr. Jonathan Tyers Barrett is Secretary to the 
Society for the Conversion and Religious Instruction of the Negro 

* It is true that there is a great deal of mountain land in Jamaica where the 
plough could not conveniently be used ; but there are very extensive tracts of 
level and fair lying land in that island, more than sufficient for all its present 
sugar growth ; and we can have no doubt that there are in Jamaica at least a 
million of acres on which the plough could be made to move as easily as in 
England. 

But the point to which we chiefly object in the generally able, luminous, and 
truly interesting evidence of Mr. Wildman, is the strong opinion he has formed 
that full and effective religious instruction should and must precede emancipa- 
tion, in order to render that measure a safe one. Mr. Wildman will not sup- 
pose that we undervalue the extreme, the paramount importance of religion in 
all states and circumstances of life. But to affirm, as he does, that the influence 
of real Christianity must precede a man's restoration to the enjoyment of his 
natural, and civil, and even political rights, is a proposition which we find it 
very difficult to understand how any man so intelligent and so observant as Mr. 
Wildman should have permitted himself for one moment to entertain. Would 
he then propose that men's natural and civil rights should be restrained in pro- 
portion to their want of Christian knowledge and Christian practice ? One 
effect of this would be that the masters in Jamaica would soon have to change 



on the Extinction of Slavery . — Evidence of Dr. Barrett. 197 

slaves. He has held the situation since 1822. He has corresponded 
with the Bishops of Jamaica and Barbadoes, and received from them 
various communications. Before the appointment of bishops, there 
were nine persons employed by the Society in all the West Indies. 
Since that time they do not send missionaries or chaplains, but 
only catechists. One chaplain was sent to Lord Seaford's estates, but 
he died. The bishops are averse to having chaplains of the Society in 
their dioceses, as it caused a collision of authorities, and was not quite 



places with at least an equal number of their slaves. Besides, what man, orset of 
men, or what legislature, would Mr. Wildman entrust with the exercise of this 
vague and anomalous power of deciding the point when the influence of Chris- 
tian faith shall have attained the measure that shall entitle a slave to freedom? — 
Look at the mighty masses which float along the streets of London, and of 
other great towns, and fill our villages throughout the length and breadth of this 
Christian land, — how many of these would Mr. Wildman reckon to have 
reached the degree of religious knowledge which, if he were the absolute arbiter of 
their destiny, would constitute their title to freedom, or leave them still to fetters 
and the whip? Look, moreover, at the state and progress of society in all ages, 
and in all countries ; in the present times as well as in the past; in states highly 
civilized, as well as in those advancing from barbarism ; in polished France, or 
in less favoured portions of the globe. What statesman or even divine has ever 
supposed that, however religion might advance the well-being of states and in- 
dividuals, the capacity to fulfil the ordinary duties of civil life, the exercise of a man's 
own limbs and faculties, the admission to the rights of nature and the protection 
of law, v*ere to be suspended on the efficacy of certain schools, and the success of 
certain preachers of the Gospel ? Some Westlndians, and we are sorry to say some 
bishops of the church, have wished to suspend the marriage tie, which from the 
creation has been enjoined by the Creator on the whole race of man, on their 
being able to understand the matrimonial service of the Church of England ; 
but, if we understand Mr. Wildman correctly (and we should be sorry to do 
him wrong, for few men have a larger share of our esteem, and even admiration), 
his principle goes much farther even than this ; and we might have slavery to 
endure for ever, if only the professors and teachers of Christianity shall be su- 
pine, or obstacles to their success shall be wickedly interposed. Surely, also, Mr . 
Wildman knows better than any man what indifferent lessons either of morality or 
religion are likely to be learned in a state of slavery ; and that, though freedom 
may be, and too often is, abused, yet that, of all the impediments to the diffu- 
sion of the influence of moral and religious truth which are not common to the 
whole race of man, slavery is the worst. 



198 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

compatible with ecclesiastical discipline.* Dr. Barrett then delivered 
in several reports, remarking that the late accounts were scanty, 
owing to the hurricane in Barbadoes, and the rebellion in Jamaica ; 
the communications at no time being copious. The persons now em- 
ployed by the Society are lay catechists. There are about fifty in all 
the islands. Thes"e are appointed by the bishops, and the Society at 
home knows little of them. In Jamaica, some of them are book- 
keepers, and some are persons of colour. He knows little about them, 
and does not even know the principle on which they are selected. 
Infant schools, on the plan of Mr. Wildman, were recommended by 
the bishop, but none have been established by the Society, though 
some have by a Ladies' Society, under the Duchess of Beaufort. Dr. 
Barrett thinks the bishops have not generally complained of obstruc- 
tions, but, on the contrary, have spoken favourably of the disposition 
of the planters towards instruction. He cannot tell the number 
of slaves under instruction in Jamaica, nor can he furnish any return. 
Marriages are stated to have increased. He does not know whether the 
book-keepers employed by the Bishop of Jamaica are moral men or not. 
He does not believe that the Bishop thinks of extending that system ; 
Dr. Barrett says, he believes that reading is taught in all the schools of 
the diocese of Barbadoes, but not to the same extent in that of Jamaica. f 
All this is sufficiently frigid and unsatisfactory. 

XX.— WILLIAM BURGE, Esq. 

Mr. Burge merely gave in a paper containing an account 
of the expenditure in Jamaica for ecclesiastical or charitable pur- 
poses, amounting, for the clergy of all descriptions, to £23,600 
currency ; for presbyterian teachers, to £1206 ; and for a Roman 
Catholic Priest, to £200 ; besides £6000 for the Kingston Hospital, 
and about £8650 for free schools and charitable seminaries, chiefly 
intended for poor whites. 



* Thus the spiritual interests of the slave population are to be postponed to 
some ecclesiastical punctilio. 

f The fact is that, in Jamaica, the slaves who were taught reading by the Con- 
version Society amounted, in 1829, to the mighty number of 210. Neither is it 
true that in all the schools under the Bishop of Barbadoes reading is taught. His 
own reports show the contrary. 



oil the Extinction of Slavery . — Evidence of J. Macgregor, Esq. 199 

XXL— JOHN MACGREGOR, Esq. 

This gentleman has never been in the West Indies, and knows 
nothing of them ; but he has been in North America, and has 
written a book entitled " British America," which contains a chapter 
about free Negroes, in which he gives an unfavourable view of the 
state of some of that class, refugees from the United States, who are 
settled in Canada ; but, as it contains nothing which at all tends 
to throw light on the present enquiry, we pass it over in silence. 



We have now gone through the whole of the oral evidence taken 
before this Committee. There still remains, however, some documen- 
tary evidence to be considered. Of the population tables presented by 
Mr. Amyot, we defer the consideration for the present, until we have 
it in our power to exhibit a more full view of that whole subject than 
these partial documents would enable us to do ; and, in the mean 
time, we refer our readers to the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 100, as 
containing a comprehensive view of the slave population of the 
British Colonies, wholly unaffected by the tables now before us. 

We omit also the meagre details extracted by Dr. Barrett from the 
Conversion Society's Reports, as the substance of them is already 
to be found in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, and there is nothing there- 
fore to be drawn thence either new or interesting. 

But we cannot pass over so lightly the remainder of the document- 
ary evidence contained in the appendix to this bulky volume. One 
of them is entitled "Free and Slave Labour," and contains " an 
extract from the examination of Annasamy (a native of Madras 
settled in the Mauritius), by the Commissioners who visited the Eastern 
Colonies, to enquire into the means of improving those Colonies." It 
is dated 16th August, 1827. We extract a few passages from this 
document (p. 588, 589). 

" What was the condition of the slaves on the estate of Bon Espoir, when you 
purchased it in 1822? — Many of them were in bad health. Did they appear to 
have been hard worked ? — It appeared to me that they had ; but I do not know 
the fact, as I had not been on the estate before I purchased it. It appears that 
between 1822 and 1825, there were fifty deaths on the estate, or one-sixth of the 



200 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

whole number; will you explain the cause of this mortality ? — I have stated that 
many of them were in bad health. Did you manage the estate yourself within 
those periods ? — I did ; but there were overseers (European and Creole). Have 
you been accustomed to regulate the quantity of work on your estate ? — I have. 
What number of hours a day do the slaves work ? — From half-past four or five 
o'clock in the morning till half past seven, and from eight till twelve o'clock, and 
from half-past one till seven o'clock, Sundays excepted.* Do the women per- 
form the same work that the men do? — Except the children and the pregnant 
women, they perform the same field-work. The women are n rt employed in the 
sugar house. Are women taken off work during the whole period of their preg- 
nancy ? — From the third month to the period of their delivery. How soon do 
they go to work after the child is born ? — They perform light work after three 
months, making mats and such things, and after nine months they return to the 
pioche (hoeing). Do many of the slave children die ? — I have more than eighty 
Negresses on the estate, and of those, not more than ten bear children ; and I 
reckon about four children born in a year, and about two that may live to five 
years old. Then there has been a constant decrease on the numbers, from the 
excess of deaths over births ?— There has." " ^ou are acquainted with the con- 
dition of the labouring class in India? — I am. Do you consider that the con- 
dition of the labourers in India is better or worse than that of the labouring 
slaves in this country ? — It is worse here. In what respect is it worse ? — Because 
in India the labourers are paid for their labour, even those that are attached to 
the land ; I speak of those parts that I have known. They also plough in India, 
and here they work with the hand. Do the women labour in India as they do 
here? — In cleansing and transplanting, but not in ploughing. Has it ever oc- 
curred to you to cultivate your estate by free labourers from India ? — I thought 
of it at one time ; but I altered my intention." " Do you conceive that it would 
answer to employ them upon a property where there were no slaves? — If they 
were treated well, it would. Will you explain what you consider to be the treat- 
ment which would be calculated to reconcile them to the employment ? — They 
would need such treatment and indulgences as they are accustomed to in their 
own country, and I do not think they could expect to meet with them in this 
colony." " Are you acquainted with the cultivation of sugar in India ? — I have 
seen it cultivated, but the mode of preparing the sugar is very inferior. Do you 
consider that, by improved methods, as good sugar might be grown in India as is 
grown at Mauritius ? — I think by the introduction of machinery and of iron 
boilers, and also by cultivating the sugar canes in a better way, that better sugar 
might be made in India. Have you an intention of returning to India?— I have; 
and it is my intention to cultivate sugar in India in the same manner that is 
practised here. Would you employ slaves in the cultivation in India? — No; 



* Nineteen hours a day ! 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Statement of Captain Elliott. 201 

only free labourers. What part of India that you are acquainted with do you 
conceive best adapted to the production of sugar? — Bengal is best suited, but I 
think of first trying the cultivation upon the Coromandel coast, near my native 
country. What capital would you consider necessary to enable you to form an 
establishment for the cultivation and preparation of sugar in India, upon the scale 
of that which you possess in this colony? — If I select good land and well watered, 
farming it either from Government or individuals, I conceive that 50,000 rupees 
or £5000, would enable me to form a complete establishment on the same scale ; 
and the profits would be very considerable, if the rents were settled not too high. 
Do you consider that the profits of your capital would be much greater than 
those you derive from your present estate? — They would certainly be much 
greater, as there would be profit and no loss, either from interest of capital in- 
vested in land or slaves, or by death of slaves. What do you reckon would be 
the difference in the cost of maintaining your slaves, and of maintaining hired 
labourers in India ? If I buy a slave for 400 dollars, and as interest here is 12 
per cent, per annum, the interest on 400 dollars is four dollars a month, and 
reckoning the food and clothing at \\ dollar a month, the expense on each slave 
is 5| dollars ; and I could hire a labourer in India at 2 dollars, or 4 rupees, in- 
cluding his food. Do you consider that an Indian labourer will do as much 
work as a Mozambique slave ? The Indians have more skill and intelligence, 
and will do more work in their own country than the slaves." 

«».. js W. M. S. Colebrook, ) n • ■ „ . 

(Signed) w Bl • S Commissioners of Enquiry. 

The next document is entitled " remarks on the means of im- 
proving the system by which labour is exacted in the Slave Colo- 
nies, by Captain Elliott, R. N., Protector of slaves for British Guiana, 
18th January, 1832." We must be content with extracts from it, 
premising that we introduce them chiefly, not under any idea that the 
present brutal system of forced labour as it exists in Guiana is to be 
continued, even for a single year, under the very best modifications 
which Captain Elliott has felt himself at liberty to suggest, but that our 
readers may see the enormous extent of the evil, the cruel and grinding 
oppression, which the people of this country, through their representa- 
tives, are now called upon to redress, or rather wholly to extinguish. 

" Guiana, January 18, 1832. 
" In the general remarks appended to the Report which I have to-day had the 
honour to deliver to his Excellency the Governor, I felt it necessary to abstain 
from entering into any explanation of the causes to which I attribute the deplor- 
able increase in the Punishment Returns for the half year ending on June 30th, 
1831." 



202 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

" The largely increasing Punishment Returns clearly prove that the actual sys- 
tem of coercion, extensively as it is used, is perfectly inadequate to ensure the 
completion of the quantum of labour, which it is loudly declared the slaves could 
easily finish, if they were disposed to make the effort ; and a further consideration 
of the punishments recorded for non-completion of work, during the last eighteen 
months, must lead to the inference that at least a fifth of the work allotted 
has fallen short under the inefficacy of the present mode of securing its per- 
formance. 

" Either this position must be admitted, or the painful conclusion will present 
itself, that the punishments have been inflicted to a great extent for the non-com- 
pletion of work which circumstances of unfavourable weather and other causes 
of difficulty rendered impossible of performance." 

" It is not my purpose to contend that the slaves will work regularly for wages, 
and I am perfectly aware that regularity of work is absolutely necessary in the 
cultivation of the ordinary produce of these countries ; but if they know that the 
power to coerce them be left, surely it is rational to conclude that they would 
rather choose to work industriously, with a hope to acquire profit and gain time, 
than they would perversely determine to work ill and late, to the exclusion of all 
chance of advantage, and under a strong apprehension of receiving punishment. 

" A great love of money, a passionate admiration of dress and finery, and a re- 
markable proneness to imitate all the habits of expense of the whites, are the. 
well known characteristics of the Negro race ; and certainly such qualities pre- 
sent the most favourable means for powerfully seconding the efficacy of a safe 
and judiciously directed course of encouragement, involving the immediate and 
great modification and eventually the complete disuse of a system at once de- 
grading, irritating, and inefficacious." 

" Considering the subject in this light, let it be supposed that each person who 
produced, at the end of every week, a certificate from the manager or overseer 
that he had been employed the whole of the week, and had each day completed 
the task allotted to him, should be entitled to his proportion of the value of the 
produce of that week's labour. In the early institution of such a system, it is ob- 
vious that the payments should be very prompt, and, above all, it should be 
carefully insisted upon that no approach to the payment of wages by truck 
should be admissible ; the amount should vary according to the strength and 
skill of the labourers, dividing them for that purpose into two or three gangs, ac- 
cording to the extent of the population and its state. 

" To those who are employed in the more responsible situations, and in those 
parts of the process which require adroitness and attention, proportionably larger 
wages should be paid. 

" Such a mode of regulating the scale of distribution would induce a disposi- 
tion to deserve reputation for fidelity and care, and would beget an industrious 
inclination to acquire a knowledge of the more skilful branches of the business. 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Statement of Capt. Elliott. 203 

" Those who could produce certificates that they had performed more than 
their allotted tasks should receive payment, according to a just estimate of the 
surplus labour they had performed." 

After mentioning a few of the advantages which would necessarily 
result from this modified system of wages, Captain Elliott thus 
proceeds : — 

" If the slaves resorted to their daily labour, impelled by the hope of acquir- 
ing profit, I am satisfied that, one day in the week taken with another, they 
would perform in the course of six days at least a third more work than can be 
procured from them under actual circumstances : and as soon too as they began 
to touch the means of extending their comforts, and enjoying the conveniences 
of life, by the honest efforts of their own industry, great and advantageous 
changes would be effected in the whole structure of society. Small retail deal- 
ers would find it worth their while to establish themselves in the vicinity of the 
large estates, and the proprietors would gladly encourage them to do so ; because 
it would have the effect of keeping their slaves at home, and enable them to di- 
rect and control their habits of expense, besides, in other respects, greatly im- 
proving the value of their properties. Villages would gradually grow up in the 
populous neighbourhoods for the location of tradesmen and rural artisans • dis- 
trict markets would be established ; industrious competition would take place in 
all species of profitable occupation ; the price of labour would diminish with the 
price of provisions, and the whole machinery of civilization would fall into vi- 
gorous action. 

" The present mode of endeavouring to insure the performance of labour is 
every day becoming more distinctly inadequate, and, upon the whole, when the 
utterly inefficacious nature of the system is considered, — when it is remembered 
that, under such circumstances, the rapidly advancing intelligence of the Negro 
must principally develope itself in an increasing dexterity, by all manner of 
means, to evade and defeat it, — I cannot refrain from declaring it to be no source 
of astonishment to me that the punishment returns for the half-year ending June 
30, 1831, are so large as it has been my painful duty to record them to be. 
That they will continue to increase may be taken as certain; and I am convinced 
I speak the sentiments of the most reflecting gentlemen in the country in saying 
that this state of things cannot continue to subsist. The slave has advanced be- 
yond such a system of government, and the attempt to overtake and arrest him 
in his career by an increasing degree of severity, would be fatal indeed ■ but 
docile and forbearing, it would be a work of little difficulty beneficially to direct 
his energies and uses by the immediate and judicious substitution of better 
means." — p. 590, 591. 

" It is a great mistake to suppose that the respectable and reflecting portion of 
society in this country do not clearly perceive that the slave population is much 



204 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

improved ; but perhaps the very greatest misfortune of slavery is its inaptitude 
to adapt itself to those changes which it is in its very nature to insist upon. The 
system stands still, while it forces the slave into a state of intelligence demanding 
a form of government of much more extended resource for his safe direction. — 
To yield any thing, it is said, is to abandon all ; but this is an extremely unsatis- 
fory ground for resisting the legal sanction, and rejecting the direction of im- 
provement which it is impossible to prevent ; and, in short, to modify nothing 
in the shape of slavery, would be to manifest the semblance of complete power, 
risking, in reality, all the tremendous consequences of perfect weakness. 

" It is a source of bitter complaint in this country, that the constant expecta- 
tion of legislation from England is calculated to produce the most unfortunate 
effects on the minds of the slaves : and it is represented that the consequences of 
such a state of vague impatience on the one hand, and of alarm and consequent 
disinclination on the other, are calculated seriously to retard the progress of ame- 
lioration. 

" If all had been done and were still doing, which might have been effected 
by the proprietors themselves, with real advantage to their own interests, to meet 
the feelings of the country,, so unequivocally expressed in Mr. Canning's Reso- 
lutions of 1823, unanimously adopted by both Houses of Parliament, there 
would have been as little necessity, as there can have been little inclination, to 
legislate upon this subject at all. 

" I am convinced, however, that no thinking man of experience in the West 
Indies could deny, upon calm and deliberate reflection, that, if there had been 
no legislation at all on the subject of amelioration, the difficulties of this ques- 
tion, so far as they regard the state of the people, would be much greater than 
they are at present. The increased intelligence of the slave would have daily 
demanded an increasing degree of vigour to coerce him to work ; but consider 
the actual condition of this population, and then let it be fairly answered, whe- 
ther such a state of things could have continued to exist without, long ere this, 
having produced some fatal and irreparable convulsion; 

" The necessity of ameliorating legislation of a progressive tendency has, un- 
fortunately, been forced upon the government by the disinclination to legislate 
effectively with such a view on this side of the Atlantic. It is superfluous to say 
that there is very little disposition in this country frankly to accept these laws; and 
the painful consequence is that the slave has not derived all the advantage from 
them which it has been the object of His Majesty's Government to extend to 
him. Men read them carefully indeed, rather to cavil at, and with a view to 
evade, than to conform to them. However zealous His Majesty's officers may 
be in all branches of the public service charged with their administration, it must 
be obvious that, in this unfavourable state of feeling upon the part of the pro- 
prietary, and with a slave population dispersed over a vast tract of country, the 



on the Extinction of Slavery .—Statement of Capt. Elliott. 205 

means of insuring and insisting upon the observance of a body of law (neces- 
sarily very detailed in its nature) are small and slow of operation. 

" Such legislation, however excellent it may be, cannot provide for every exi- 
gency in the relative transactions of master and slave ; and it is difficult to doubt 
that the least omission, or dubious construction, until the point can be submitted 
to leg.il interpretation, will be made to press against the slave. Nay, in too many 
cases (the truth ought not be concealed), the very letter of the law will be exe- 
cuted in such a temper of irritation as will render it rather a source of incon- 
venience than of relief. Here then is tbe slave population clearly convinced of 
the benevolent intentions of His Majesty's Government and the British public in 
their behalf, and perfectly sensible, on the other hand, that these intentions are 
frustrated to no inconsiderable extent by the feeling with which the laws are re- 
ceived and acted upon in this country. The probable consequence of this un- 
fortunate state of things is seriously to be dreaded." 

" It is impossible to observe the actual condition and habits of the Negro race 
in the West Indies, even in the most casual manner, and to consider the state of 
public feeling in England on the subject of slavery, without being powerfully 
struck by the reflection not only that the necessity for a great change is ripe, but 
with how little cheerful co-operation immensely beneficial modifications, involv- 
ing progressive and rapid advancement, might at once be safely produced. 

" In conclusion, I cannot help expressing my conviction that, by the conces- 
sion of a reasonable share of the profits of their own exertions to these people, 
they would in no long lapse of time have tranquilly and legally possessed them- 
selves of a deep interest in the maintenance of peace and order, and in the increase 
of the wealth and importance of the colonies."— p. 592, 593. 

The only remaining document consists of answers returned by Cap- 
tain Elliott to questions addressed by Viscount Goderich, relating to 
the treatment of slaves in British Guiana. 

" 1 . At what hour in the morning is the daily task commenced ?" 

" The legal hours for field labour are from six in the morning till six in the 
evening, with two hours of interval allowed for rest and meals. The first signal 
of preparation is made ordinarily by a bell at four to half-past four. The time 
of departure from home depends on the nearness or remoteness of the field; but 
the daily task may be said to have fairly commenced at from six to seven, a. m. 
There is no habitual work done by the slaves before they set out for the field, 
except preparing and eating their breakfast." — p. 594. 

" 2. At what hour in the evening is the work usually finished ?" 

" It would be futile to attempt to deduce," says Captain Elliott, " any general 
average hours in the evening when the task of all the slaves is finished." 

But he goes on to state as follows : — 

" When the whip was no longer* allowed to be kept in the field, as a stimulus 



206 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

to labour, it became absolutely necessary to substitute some other motive for 
the completion of work." 

" In the absence then of immediate coercive stimulus [and in this point the 
amelioration has been complete, and the advantage to all parties convincing] the 
performance of labour by ' task ' was the most obvious means of presenting a 
sufficient inducement to industrious application; and certainly, exercised as 
such a system ought to be, it is difficult to doubt that it would be alike effica- 
cious, both for the prevention of punishment and the completion of as large a 
quantity of work as it is reasonable can be completed ; that is to say, reasonable, 
considered with relation to the amount and strength of the population employed, 
and the extent of the soil to be maintained in a state of cultivation. 

" It is certainly natural to conjecture that, for the successful institution of the 
performance of labour by task, the system should have been minutely explained 
to the slaves, and its advantages made obviously manifest to them. In short, it 
was to be supposed that the adoption of the system was the result of an agree- 
ment between the master and his slave. 

" ' The law,' under this view, would the master have said to his slave, 'allows 
me to employ you for ten hours in the field, between six in the morning and six 
in the evening, and it allows you two hours of that interval for rest and meals ; 
now, would you rather that I should insist upon your employment for the ten 
hours the law has permitted without fixing any stated portion of work, punishing 
you if I were not satisfied with the amount you had completed, or, on the other 
hand, would you prefer to have a certain portion of work allotted to you, which, by 
reasonable vigorous exertion, you may complete in much less time than ten hours ? 

" ' In this last case, if you choose to work continuously, all the time that you 
do gain upon the ten hours allowed to me by law (and you need only triflingly 
encroach upon the other two hours to refresh yourselves from time to time) may 
be added to the time you have economised of your own, and thus, at the close 
of your work, you will have a large portion of the afternoon wholly for your- 
selves.' 

" It does not appear that the adoption of the task system has been the result of 
such explanation and agreement as I have adverted to. I cannot discover that 
the work is performed by task because the slave has been led to perceive it was 
most advantageous for him that it should be so performed. 

" After very attentive enquiry, it does not seem to me that any option was left 
to him on the subject. Certain portions of work are allotted to him, and he has 
been broadly told, ' I know you can do that quantity of work, and if you do 
not, you shall be punished.' This is indeed to give a task ; but it is not the 
allotment of work accompanied by an obvious motive to encourage its comple- 
tion ; it is surely not the adoption of the task system in the manner the subject 
was alluded to by the Memorialists (connected with these Colonies) to the King 
in Council in the year 1825. 



on the Extinction of Slavery.— Statement of Capt. Elliott. 207 

" The manner in which the slave will naturally regard the matter is this : can 
he complete the task in such a portion of time as makes it worth his while to 
work vigorously ? If he can complete it by about 3 p. m., it is because in that 
case he would gain at least an hour upon the lawful period for his employment 
allowed to his master ; but if the task will occupy him (the strength of one 
person considered with regard to that of another) till four, or perhaps five in the 
afternoon, what does he gain by such a system of portioning the labour? Where 
is his encouragement to endeavour to complete the work ? It would be better 
for him that no fixed quantity of work should be allotted, but that his master 
should exact the ten hours of his employment in the field which the law has 
sanctioned, and that the slave should enjoy the two hours of remission between 
six in the morning and six in the evening. 

" It is true that the quantum of the different species of field labour allotted to 
each person on sugar estates is nominally not very dissimilar ; but is it always 
similarly judiciously modified according to the state of the field, the weather, the 
health, strength, and sex of the labourer? I greatly fear it is not. 

" In the fact that the system is perfectly and successfully practised on certain 
estates, is to be found the most convincing proof of its complete efficacy ; and I 
know that in those estates the great principle of the rule is, to take especial care 
that the labour of each day is proportioned according to all the circumstances 
demanding consideration. The task allotted to each person is such a quantum 
as it is quite clear can be performed by that person in eight, or eight hours and 
a half of reasonably vigorous labour ; and the result of this simple and excellent 
principle is apparent in a diminished return of punishment, and a sustained, if 
not an increased return of produce. 

" The task system, efficaciously practised, is the dawning of the production of 
sugar by the payment of wages. The master who pursues it humanely and 
skilfully finds it his interest, upon every account, to offer the slave the payment 
of an hour or two hours of the time allowed him by law for the employment of 
that slave, and, if this last finds that the work is so proportioned that he really 
can gain the offered price, he will be sufficiently disposed to make the effort ; 
but in too many cases that offered price is unattainable, and therefore, of course, 
the effort is not made." — p. 594, 595. 

" The task must not be increased because the slave, by dint of industrious 
practice, comes to perform it sooner than he did at first. It is obvious that, if 
the strictest faith be not unfailingly kept with the slave in this respect, he will be 
little disposed to work industriously. 

" I should be glad to believe that such a case has not occurred ; but at all 
events, if it has, it cannot be matter of surprise that such a practice of the task 
system has failed of success. The slave would be little inclined to work indus- 
triously if he felt that the early completion of his labour to-day would produce the 
allotment of a larger task to-morrow." 



208 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

" On those estates where the task system is practised as it seems to be just 
to the slave, and advantageous to the master that it should be practised;, the slaves 
employed in agricultural labour (one day taken with another throughout the year) 
have completed their task in the field at some time before 3 p. m. 

" On many estates in this Colony, under present circumstances, the slaves 
employed in agricultural labour (one day with another throughout the year) 
leave off their work in the field (task is rarely ever completed) some time between 
the hours of 4 and 6 p. m., and usually nearer 6 than 4. 

" I will not close these remarks without observing that in a recent conversa- 
tion with a highly sensible gentleman (a proprietor in this Colony), on the mis- 
taken policy of allotting such large portions of work to theslaves, or at all events 
not attending sufficiently to the modification of it according to circumstances, he 
said to me, that he was so satisfied of the truth of that view, that whenever his 
manager complained to him that the people did not complete their work, he was 
persuaded, and always discovered, that more had been allotted than it was 
reasonable to expect the slaves would strive vigorously to complete. In fact, it 
appeared either that there was no motive for industry, or that it was not suffi- 
ciently encouraging. 

" This gentleman's return of punishment and return of produce are demon- 
strative of the truth of his opinions, and the advantage of his practice." 

" It must be admitted that there is no cordial disposition frankly to accept and 
execute such legislation, and the means of enforcing an enactment of this kind, 
which could not fail to be generally obnoxious, are small, and extremely slow 
of operation." — p. 596. 

" 3. What is the ordinary length of the intervals of rest allowed during the 
day ? and is that rest generally complete, or are there any duties to be performed 
either for the owner or for the more immediate advantage of the slave himself?" 

"The slaves on those estates where the task system is properly practised take 
what rest they please in the field as it suits them, but, as they surely complete 
their tasks (one day with another throughout the year) some time before 3 p. m., 
they are always certain to gain an hour more than the time allowed them by law 
for rest and meals. 

" The slaves upon most estates in this Colony, under present circumstances, 
probably enjoy about two hours of uninterrupted time for rest and meals during 
the period of their occupation in the field. 

" It is almost the universal practice in this Colony to require that each field 
slave should collect a bundle of grass, and deposit it in the yard of the buildings, 
after the day's labour be closed. This bundle weighs, on a fair average, perhaps 
about eight pounds, and it is probably most frequently collected during the 
course of the day's work in the fields." 

'' In allotting the day's task to a slave, I think it would be fair to give him 
half an hour for the collection, bringing home, and depositing of his grass; pro- 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Statement of Capt, Elliott. 209 

portioning the agricultural part of the task so that it could be finished in seven 
hours and a half; and for the collection, &c. &c, of the grass, half an hour more. 

The slave has of course to attend afterwards to all his ordinary do- 
mestic and culinary offices. 

" 4. To what extent is labour required by night? how many nights or parts 
of nights is the same slave usually employed, and during what part of the year is 
nocturnal labour in use ?" 

The law provides that the slave shall enjoy at least eight hours' rest 
in the twenty-four. 

In this country there is no regular time of crop. It occupies about 
ten days in every month, or about a third of the year. About twenty- 
four slaves are always about the works. The fire is lighted about four 
a.m., and extinguished about ten p.m. The slave, therefore, may 
enjoy eight hours of uninterrupted rest. Capt. Elliott alludes to the 
practice of having four or five people of the field during the night 
employed the whole year round as watchmen, and who are allowed 
no extra time either for preparation before the watch begins, or for 
rest after it is finished. The practice, he says, is not defensible, and 
ought to be prohibited (p. 597, 598). 

" 5. What is the average nature, amount, weight, and quality of the food al- 
lowed to plantation slaves, male and female, adults and children respectively ?" 

We know the schedule of the food and clothing required by law in 
Demerara ; and it is miserably scanty (see Anti-Slavery Reporter, 
vol. IV. No. 82, p. 294). " But." observes Captain Elliott, 

" It would be unjust to omit to remark, that the amount of the food allowed 
is, in general, less than the amount provided. Indeed I cannot help thinking 
that the slave has gained nothing by the enactment of this portion of the law* 
The proprietors of the large estates are generally liberal in these points, and their 
poorer neighbours are almost constrained to conform to their practice." — p. 598. 

He adds that much has been done to diminish the amount, and fa- 
cilitate the performance of manual labour. Cattle have been substi- 
tuted for men to tow punts on the canals. Rail-roads have been 
constructed for removing the megass from the mill, an alleviation 
of an extremely pressing species of labour, principally performed by 
the women, and frequently with injurious consequences. And other 
improvements have been introduced to alleviate labour ; and credit is 
due to the humanity of those who have promoted these changes 
(p. 598). 



210 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 



Having now given to the public a faithful abstract of the voluminous 
evidence laid before the Committee of the House of Commons in the 
last Session, before we proceed to lay before them the still more 
voluminous evidence taken by the Committee of the House of Lords, 
we would beg to make a few brief observations on the present state of 
the Slavery Question. 

That the abolitionists have fully established their case in evidence, 
no disinterested and candid man who reads the preceding pages with 
attention will venture to deny. They have shown, not only that the 
slaves will incur no risk of suffering want by emancipation, but that 
their speedy emancipation affords the only rational prospect of pre- 
serving the public peace, and of securing the permanent interests of 
the planters themselves. 

That this view of the subject will not be shaken, but, on the con- 
trary, will be amply confirmed by the result of the evidence, which, 
under far different auspices, and with far different objects, was laid 
before the Committee of the House of Lords, we take it upon us most 
unhesitatingly to assert. And to this result we should come, even if 
we were to confine our view solely and exclusively to the pro-slavery 
part of the case as by them exhibited.— A pamphlet, however, has just 
appeared, certainly the production of no feeble pen, which, mean- 
while, may be perused by every man who feels an interest in this 
great question ; and it will at least render the unavoidable delay 
that must take place in abstracting the whole of the evidence of the 
House of Lords, containing 1394 closely printed folio pages, less a 
subject of regret than it otherwise would be. And here the West 
Indians will have no right to complain, because, though the review of 
our anonymous author be ex parte, it is nevertheless an exhibition of 
their own evidence exclusively, leaving out of view the adverse testi- 
mony. 

The pamphlet to which we allude, and to which we leave, in the 
mean time, the task of repelling the objection that we have produced 
only a part of the evidence brought before parliament, bears the 
quaint and questionable signature of Legion — and is entitled " A 
Letter to His Grace the Duke of Richmond, Chairman of the Slavery 
Committee of the House of Lords, containing an Exposure of the 



on the Extinction of Slavery. — Concluding Remarks. 211 

Character of* the Evidence on the Colonial side produced before the 
Committee." — It is printed for Bagster, 15, Paternoster Row. 

Now, we mean not to be considered as justifying either the style or 
certain expressions of this able and caustic writer ; but what we mean 
confidently to affirm is this, that he has completely overthrown the 
whole weight and credit of the pro-slavery evidence brought forward 
in the Committee of the House of Lords ; so that we may argue on the 
basis of that produced before the Committee of the House of Commons, 
without the slightest apprehension that any inference, which may be 
fairly deducible thence, shall be refuted by that of the Lords' Com- 
mittee. 

If, then, we are right in affirming that the abolitionists have proved 
their case, and that colonial slavery, admitted to be a crime of the 
deepest dye, may be abolished forthwith without injury to the great 
sufferers by that crime, and without danger either to the public peace 
or, but by their own fault, to the persons and property of the planters, 
there can then exist no adequate motive for a day's delay in proceed- 
ing to its extinction. Such delay, indeed, is to be deprecated, not 
more on account of the slaves than on that of their masters ; the pro- 
longation of the miseries of the former being only an increase of the 
risks, both as to life and property, of the latter. 

The simple ground, however, on which we are disposed, and indeed 
can alone consent to place the question is this : — Colonial Slavery is 
in itself a crime of the greatest enormity, besides being the parent of 
innumerable other crimes. It is an outrage on every principle of 
humanity and justice, and a flagrant violation of the spirit and pre- 
cepts of Christianity. From the moment that this, its real nature, has 
been recognised there could exist no plea for permitting it to continue 
for an hour, but a well founded apprehension of injury to its victims from 
abolishing it. This apprehension, however, the offspring, not of reason, 
but of mere prejudice, has now been demonstrated to be unfounded, 
and that with a clearness and force of evidence which cannot be re- 
sisted. What remains therefore for a Christian Government and 
Parliament to do but to pronounce its immediate and utter extinction, 
accompanying the measure by such wise and just precautions as may 
obviate the alarms of the most timid ? 



212 Report of a Committee of the House of Commons 

We are perfectly borne out in this view of the nation's duty by 
the often repeated and unequivocal declarations of not a few of his 
Majesty's present ministers : — 

" I consider," says one who, though not actually a Cabinet minis- 
ter, speaks on this particular point with the authority of one, we mean 
Lord Howick, — " I consider the whole system of slavery one of such 
deep oppression, and iniquity, and cruelty, that, if I could be satisfied 
it was safe to emancipate the slaves now, I would say,. ' Do so ; and 
do it at once ;' and we will settle scores among ourselves afterwards, 
and determine in what proportion the penalty of our guilt is to be paid. 
But the victims of that guilt must not continue for one hour to suffer? 
while we are haggling about pounds, shillings, and pence." 

To this course, then, of taking immediate measures for the extinc- 
tion of slavery, we can conceive but one possible objection on the 
part of the West Indians. It may be said that the examination of 
evidence in the two Committees was not completed at the close of the 
last session. But that examination, be it remembered, was wrung from 
the Government by the clamorous importunities of the whole West 
India body ; and, before it commenced, Lord Goderich had already, 
in his circular despatch to the colonial governors of the 5th November, 
1831, adduced the most conclusive and unanswerable reasons 
against the necessity of instituting any such enquiry. But, now that 
the opportunity has been reluctantly conceded to the colonists of 
bringing forward the best evidence which the whole range of the West 
Indies could supply, and that the result has been such as we have 
seen, we cannot believe that any government or any parliament will 
listen to a single plea for a moment's farther delay on that score. There 
can be no real pretence for hearing farther evidence (Lord Goderich 
himself being our witness), but delay ; and therefore, on those who 
shall consent on that ground to renew so perfectly useless an enquiry, 
we must charge, before God and their country, all the awful respon- 
sibility that may follow such postponement. Neither the Government 
nor the Parliament, we are persuaded, will assent a second time to 
any such unreasonable proposition ; but if, unhappily, our expecta- 
tions in this respect should be disappointed, the people of the United 
Kingdom will not be satisfied with the decision, and will regard it as 



on the Extinction of Slavery . — Concluding Remarks. 213 

a virtual deviation from the numerous pledges so solemnly given on the 
hustings, at the late elections, and of which they will naturally de- 
mand a strict fulfilment. 

Let the bill, therefore, which is to seal the death-warrant of slavery 
in every corner of the British empire, be brought in without any un- 
necessary delay, and let the irreversible decree go forth that that foul 
stain on the national character shall be effaced for ever. 

When that too long delayed act of unquestionable justice shall 
have been performed, we shall then, with Lord Howick, deem it full 
time to consider, with every regard to equity, the question of the in- 
demnities which ou^ht to follow it. 



January, 1833. 



London :-S. Bagster, Jun., Printer,14, Bartholomew Close. 



