Digitized by tine Internet Archive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/speechofmrbeaufoOObeau 



THE 

S P E E C H 

O F 

Mr. B E A U F T, 

TUESDAY, THE l8th JUNE, I788, 
I N A 

COMMITTEE of the whole HOUSE, 

O N A 

B ILL 

FOR REGULATING THE 

CONVEYANCE OF NEGROES 

FROM 

Africa' to the Wejl-Indies, 

TO WHICH ARE ADDED 

OBSERVATIONS 

ON THE 

EVIDENCE 

ADDUCED AGAINST THE 

BILL. 



LONDON. 

PRINTED BV J. PHILLIPS, CEORCE-YARD, t OI\IB ARD-S TREE' 
M,DCC,LXXX1X. 



ce*? 



7^7«7¥ ^• 



1 



COMMITTEE of the Society Inftituted 
in 1 787, for the Purpofe of efFeding the 
Abolition of the Slave Trade. 

Although the ad pafled laft feffion 
for regulating the conveyance of negroes, 
did not aim at the point to which the at- 
tention of the Society has been invariably 
direded, viz. The Abolition of the Slave 
Trade ; yet as the arguments offered in 
fupport of the bill and the evidence pro- 
duced in oppofition to it, tended greatly 
to promote their defign, by ftrengthening 
the general reafoning in favour of their 
great objed, the Committee think them- 
felves fortunate in having been able to 
prevail on the members whofe Speech and 
Remarks follow, to permit their publica- 
tion. 

By Order of the Committee, 

G. SHARP, Chairman. 



THE 



P E E C H 



O F 



Mr. B E A U F r, 

ON TUESDAY, JUNE THE i8th, 

ON A BILL FOR REGULATING THE 

CONVEYANCE OF NEGROES. 

'T^HE remarks of the * noble Lord in 
fupport of the veracity of the witnef- 
fes whom the friends of the African trade 
have thought fit to call to your bar, I am 
not inclined to difpute. Their evidence 
is clear, the fads they have eftabliihed are 
important, and the natural conclufions 
from thefe fa£ts, however oppofite to thofe 
which they intended fhould be drawn, are, 
in my judgment, decifive on the cafe. 
On this occafion two queftions arife, 

* Lord Penrhyn. 

A The 



( 2 ) 

The firft is — ^Whether In the prefent 
mode of tranfporting to the Weft Indies 
the negroes which are purchafed in Africa, 
fuch abufes exift as require the reftriftions 
of law ? 

The fecond is — ^^Whether the reftrldions 
which this bill propofes to ena£t will, or 
will not, amount to an abolition of the 
trade ? 

Thefe are the two points to which the 
counfel, who pleaded this day at your bar 
in behalf of the African merchants, di- 
reded his principal attention, and they 
do in reality comprehend the whole of the 
bufmefs now before us. 

In his arguments on the firft of thele 
points, the counfel declared that the appel- 
lation of abufe could only be given to fuch 
a mode of conveyance as is dangerous ta 
the lives or health of the negroes. I ac- 
cept his definition, narrow as it is, and 
fliall make it the bafis of my reafoning. 

To 



( 3 ) 

To the queftion then, " Is the prefent mode 
of tranfportation compatible with a due 
regard to the Hves and heahh of the 
Africans," what has been the evidence at 
your bar ? — what the language of the wit- 
nefTes ? They told you, that five feet in 
length, and fixteen inches in breadth, was 
as much as their pradice, upon an ave- 
rage, allotted to each fl,ave : that this fpace 
was all the room they could allow for 
the African and his irons ; and that in or- 
der to accommodate him to this extent, 
which they defcribed as liberal, recourfe 
is had to every poiTible contrivance. In 
the firfl place, the lower deck is entirely 
covered with bodies : in the next, the 
height between the floor of that deck, 
and the roof above (a height which they 
acknowledge feldom amounts to five feet 
eight inches, and fometimes does not ex- 
ceed four feet) is divided by a platform, 
which is alfo covered with bodies. Thus 
the diftance from the floor on which fome 
of the Africans are laid, to the platform 
on which others are fpread, is but two feet 
A 2 In 



( 4 ) 

in many cafes, and but two feet and a 
few inches in the reft ; and from the 
platform to the upper deck, which confti- 
tutes the roof, there is but a fimilar fpace. 
The fame ingenuity of package and per- 
fedion of contrivance is employed, accor- 
ding to the witneffes account, in filHng 
every other part of the veflel, in which a 
human body can be flowed. Such is the 
mode of conveyance. 

Now what, from the evidence of the 
witneffes at the bar, (an evidence given 
with reluftance, on a crofs examination, 
and therefore of decifive credibiUty) is the 
effe<3: of that conveyance on the lives and 
healths both of the negroes and the fea- 
men ? " I do confefs" (fays one of the 
witneffes) " that when I was mafter of 
*' the Tartar, I loft in one voyage a third 
" of my feamen, and 120 negroes, which 
" was alfo a third of the whole." Was 
this the total of your lofs ? " I cannot fay 
*^ it was ; 1 2 negroes perifhed by an ac- 
" cident : they were drowned." Had you 

no 



( 5 ) 

no otlier mortality except that of the 120 
negroes, and that of the 12? '' No other 
*' upon the voyage : but I loft between 
"20 and 30 negroes before I left the 
*' coaft." — Thus it appears, that 120 Afri- 
cans, being a third of the whole, died 
upon the voyage, that 12 more were 
drowned, and that from 20 to 30 more 
were devoured by different difeafes be- 
fore his cargo was completed. Such is 
the evidence of one of the witneffes at your 
bar ; yet the very counfel who called that 
witnefs, aflerts that no abufes deferving 
the notice of parliament, none which en- 
danger the lives, or afFed the health, of 
the negroes, exift in the African trade. 
The counfel indeed, who is paid by his 
clients^ and who does not conceive that 
his honour is pledged to the truth of his 
arguments, or his charader concerned in 
the juftice of his caufe, may think him- 
felf at liberty to contradid the common 
feelings, and affront the common fenfe of 
mankind. But I cannot perfuade myfelf 
that fuch of the members of this houfe as 
A 3 bave 



( 6 ) 

have hitherto oppofed the bill will ven- 
ture on the fame defperate affertlons. On 
this point of mortality, what Is the lan- 
guage of the other wltneffes ? Though 
interefted In the trade, and parties agalnft 
the bill, their confeffion Is, that of the 
negroes of the Windward Coaft, who are 
men of the ftrongeft conftltutions of any 
which Africa affords, no lefs, on an ave- 
rage, than five In each hundred perifh In 
the voyage, a voyage It muft be remem- 
bered of but fix weeks continuance. In 
a twelvemonth then, what muft be the 
proportion of the dead ? no lefs than 43 
in every hundred ; feventeen times the 
ufual rate of mortality : for all the efti- 
mates of life fuppofe, and Dr. Price ex- 
prefly declares, that, except in very par- 
ticular fituations (of which, as we find 
from the hiftory of Captain Cook's voy- 
ages, the fea Is not one) no more than a 
fortieth of the people, or two and a half 
in the hundred die within the fpace of a 

year. —Such then Is the comparifon. — 

In the ordinary courfe of nature, the 

number 



( 7 ) 

number of perfons (including thofe In age 
and infancy, the weakeft periods of exift- 
ence) who perifh in the courfe of a twelve- 
month is at the rate of but two and a half 
in a hundred ; but in an African voyage, 
notwithftanding the old are excluded, and 
few infants are admitted ; notwithftand- 
ing the people are in the firmeft period 
of life, the lift of deaths prefents an an- 
nual mortality of forty-three in a hun- 
dred. It prefents this mortality even in 
veflels from the Windward Coaft of Afri- 
ca, but in thofe of Bonny ^ Benin^ and the 
Calabars^ from whence the greateft pro- 
portion of the Haves are brought, the 
mortality is increafed by a variety of caufes, 
of which the greater length of the voyage 
is one, and is faid to be twice as large ; 
which fuppofes that in every hundred the 
deaths annually amount to no lefs than 
eighty-fix. Yet even the former compa^- 
ratively low mortality, of which the coun- 
fel fpeaks with fatisfad:ion as a proof of 
the kind and compaffionate treatmerit of 
the flaves, even this indolent and lethar- 
A 4 gick 



{ 8 ) 

gick deftruftion, gives to the march of 
death feventeen times its ufual fpeed. It is 
a deftrudion which if general but for ten 
years would depopulate the world, blaft the 
purpofes of its creation, and extinguifh 
the human race. After thefe proofs of 
the horrors of an African voyage, what 
fhall We think of the perfons who have 
the confidence to tell you, that the con-, 
veyance of the Africans from their native 
land is a mercantile concern with which 
you fhould not interfere ; and while they 
prefumptuoufly caution you againft an 
officious intermeddling, likewife tell you 
that you cannot be judges of the fubjedl ? 
*' You form (fays the counfel) your opi-. 
" nion of the feelings of the negroes by 
" thofe that .belong to yourfelves ; a mif- 
" taken and inapplicable teft : for though 
" in their fituation you might be mifera- 
" ble, yet to them the circumflances of 
*' the voyage are not inconfiflent with 
" comfort or happiriefs." Stronger flill 
upon this point, is the language of the 

witnefTes. 



( 9 ) 

wltnefles. We, whofe feelings liave ne- 
ver known the hardening influence of an 
African fun, naturally thought, that if a 
man, be his complexion what it may, be 
fuddenly torn from his family and friends, 
and be violently wrenched from his na- 
tive foil, his fufFering muft be great; and 
that if to thefe afflidions be added the 
perpetual lofe of freedom, his mifery muft 
be intenfe. " Juft the reverfe" (fay the 
witnefTes) " the dired: contrary is the 
*^ fad: ; the voyage from Africa is the 
*' happieft period of his life." I fhould 
almoft be tempted to conclude from the 
evidence at the bar, that the fetters on 
the hands of the Africans, and the irons 
on their feet, are intended to check the 
wild exprefEons of tumultuous and fran- 
tick joy, rather than to count erad the 
gloomy purpofes of defpair. Some of us 
imagined, that when to the burning at- 
mofphere of the torrid zone, is added the 
fuffocating heat of numbers crowded into a 
narrow fpace, the fufFering muft be dread- 
ful; 



( lO ) 

ful : but here again we were miftaken ; 
fo much fo indeed, that the counfel 
treated the very idea as ridiculoufly deli- 
cate and finical ; and the witneffes fay, 
that the additional warmth is the very 
thing which the Africans defire ; they ac- 
cept it as a boon ; they folicit it as an en- 
joyment. One would think from the evi- 
dence at the bar, and from the arguments 
of the counfel upon it, that the foUd pef- 
tilence, the thick contagion, the fubftan- 
tial rottenefs of an African fhip is conge- 
nial to the conftitution, and exhilarating to 
the fpirits of a negro. Could any thing ^dd 
to the indignation we feel zxfiich a trade ^ 
condtided in fiich a way^ it would be the 
prepojierous af^gumejits by which that trade 
is defended,' — Among the gentlemen who 
oppofe this bill there are fome who think 
its operations unfriendly to our Weft In- 
dia fettlements ; yet even they, when they 
heard from the witneffes (whofe teftimony 
often acquired additional ftrength from 
the reludance v/ith which it was given) 
the ravages of this remorfelefs trade, even 

they 



( " ) 

they muft, I am confident, have felt an 
earneft wiih that the neceffity of the traf- 
fick did not exift. May I then be per- 
mitted to point out to the Weft India fet- 
tlements, not prefumptuoufly, but with 
anxious and ardent wifhes for their wel« 
fare, a hne of condud that would foon 
fuperfede the neceffity of the negro traffick, 
and promote, at the fame time, the inte- 
reft of the planters ? I think with them 
that in all regulations for the remedy of 
evils of great magnitude, and of long efta- 
bhfhment, efpecially of thofe, with the 
exiftence of which the rights of property 
are blended, the fpirit of reform fhould be 
guided by a temperate and well advifed 
zeal, that confiders what is attainable as 
well as what is defirable^ and confines its 
efforts to praBicable good, I alfo think 
with them, that in all fucb regulations of 
the African trade for negroes as are not, 
like thofe of the prefent bill, confined to 
the mode of their conveyance, the provin- 
cial legiflatures of our Weft India fettle- 
ments fhould undertake the condud of the 

bufinefs. 



( 12 ) 

bufinefs. Now if, as the wlfeft maxims 
of policy fuggeft, thofe legiflatures fhould 
impofe a tax on every negro imported, 
and (hould grant a countervailing premium 
on Creole negroes, born in the Weft In- 
dies, and produced in a healthy ftate at 
the age of ten years, the neceffity of new 
importations would fpeedily be removed^ 
Efpecially if in aid of thefe regulations 
(the efficacy of which might otherwife be 
retarded by negroes illicitly imported) a 
regifter of flaves fhould be eftablifhed, and 
a provifion made, that all who are not 
enrolled fhall be abfolutely free. To the 
provincial afTemblies who fhall thus def- 
troy the afferted necefEty, and therefore 
the exiftence of the traffick in human be- 
ings, immortal honour will be due ; and 
ftill more ample will be their fame, fhould 
they add to the liberal policy of this mea- 
fure the wife and generous expedient of 
raifing their negroes from a ftate of flavery 
to that of regulated valTalage : they will 
then be revered as the diftinguifhed in- 
ftrudors of their country, and as the 

friends. 



{ 13 ) 

friends and benefadors of human kind. — ' 
But I have wandered too far from the 
immediate fubjed: of debate. — In the out- 
fet of my argument I obferved, that the 
counfel has not only attempted to fhew 
that the fufferings of the negroes in their 
paflage are merely ideal, and the mor- 
tality too trifling for notice, but that the 
prefent bill, in profeffing to regulate, would 
really abolilh the trade. With what fuc- 
cefs he has attempted to eftablifh his firft 
proportion I have already examined ; the 
other remains to be confidered. 

The bill propofes to enad;, that the num- 
ber of Africans who fhall be carried in 
any vefTel, fhall be reftrided by a rule, 
that is founded on the joint confideration, 
of the fize of the veflel, and the accom- 
modations with which it is furnifhed. A 
more reafonable propofition, or one, that 
in impofmg a reftraint on the eagernefs 
of avarice, more effectually confults the 
interePcs of the merchant, is not perhaps 
to be found in the polity of nations. Yet 

thefe 



( 14 ) 

thefe provifions the witnefles obje£l to ^s 
ruinous to their trade : For the French, 
fay they, our rivals in the African com- 
merce, will be fubjed: to no reftraint ; and 
as £he merchant beft underftands the na- 
ture of his own concern, and the mode 
of condudling it to advantage, their free- 
dom oppofed to our rejlra'mt will give them 
an undoubted fuperiority ; a fuperiority 
that will be rendered ftill more decifive by 
the bounty which the French governments 
beftows. — Such are the arguments of the 
counfel and the witnefTes* 

To their firft remark " that the mer-- 
*^ chant beft underftands the means of 
" commercial profit," my anfwer is, that 
avarice, though always an eager, is net 
always a clear fighted and well judging 
paiTion. i or under its government the 
probability of exorbitant lofs is often rifl^ed 
on the flighteft profped of exorbitant gain, 
and therefore it is, that in tie African 
trade, a lottery of the worft fpecies, the 
rules of prudence are often as much neg- 

leded 



( ^s ) 

leded as the rights of humanity. On 
this principle then, there is reafon to be- 
lieve that the prefent bill will not, on the 
whole, be injurious to the merchant ; but 
even the contrary fuppofition is not a fuf- 
ficient argument againft it ; for the legif- 
lature is not bound to uphold commercial 
profit at the expenfe of humanity and 
juftice. " But the French, our ancient 
and inveterate rivals (fays the counfel) 
will poffefs themfelves of the trade which 
you relinquifh, and will thus fucceed to 
one of the principal branches of your 
naval ftrength, as well as of your com- 
" merce." Does then the counfel con- 
ceive us fo ill informed on the fubjed:, as 
not to know that the trade to Africa has 
invariably proved, not the nurfery, but 
the grave of the Britifh feamen ; and that 
the number of our countrymen, who are 
yearly facrificed to this dreadful traffick, 
conftitutes fuch a v/afte of life as no com- 
mercial gain is able to compenfate ? ' In 
this view of the fubjed then, we have no 
veafon to dread the induftry and enterprif- 






{ i6 ) 

mg fplrit of the French ; but fhould we 
admit that in a mercantile view the na- 
tional value of the African trade is fuch 
as the counfel has defcribed, what proofs 
has he brought that in confequence of the 
prefent bill that trade will be given to our 
rivals ? Is he not aware, that of the 30,000 
Africans whom our fhips annually con- 
vey, more than one half is fold for the 
ufe of our own Weft India fettlements ? 
That moiety therefore, if we choofe to 
retain the trade, is beyond the reach of 
hazard; for admitting that the reftraints 
propofed fliould diminifh the number of 
negroes tranfported in each vefTel, and 
that the price recjuired by the merchant 
for thofe whom he does convey, fhould, 
for this reafon, be fomewhat raifed, it 
follows indeed that the coft to the Britifh 
planter may be greater than at prefent, 
but it does not follow, nor is it in any ref- 
ped true, that the merchants of France 
can feize upon the commerce. Nothing 
is in queftion then but that part of the 
trade, the leaft confiderable of the two, 

which 



C »7 ) 

which is carried on for the fupply of the 
foreign plantations in the Weft Indies ; 
and even that part of it, if the advantage 
of a reduced mortality be vvreighed, is ex-^ 
pofed to no other diminiition than that 
which, independently of this bill, may 
arife from the exorbitant premiums which^ 
at this time, are given by the French go* 
vernment for the encQuragement of its 
trade to Africa. 

Hitherto I have argued on the fuppo- 
fition of the counfel, that the trade to 
Africa will continue to receive the coun- 
tenance and protedion of the French ; but 
there is reafon to think that let the ulti- 
mate decifion of the Britiih legiflature on 
this hideous traffick be what it may, its 
exiftence among the French will fpeedily 
be abolifhed. Already the beft and moft 
refpedable part of their great community, 
all their philofophers, all their men of 
fcience, all their literary men, are earneft 
in their wifhes for its extindion ; and two 
of the greateft minifters her government 
B has 



( «8 ) 

has ever known, Turgot and Neckar, have 
recorded their fixed abhorrence of its cru- 
elty and guilt. A noble lord, whofe judg- 
ment on this fubjeft is undoub edly the 
reverfe of theirs, fmiles, I obferve, at the 
mention of literary men ; but allow me to 
tell him, that their influence is great in a 
country in which the empire of opi?iio7i is 
all things : already have we feen them ac- 
complifhing more difficult events than the 
abolition of a traffick, which is not lefs 
difgufting to the reafon than hateful to 
the feelings of our nature ; a traffick which 
exifts but by human fuffering, and the 
gains of which are conflantly polluted with 
blood. Has the noble lord forgotten the 
fuccefs with which, in the perfons of the 
two great men I have mentioned, they 
oppofed the authority of fcience to the 
ftenmefs of power, and the reftitude of 
philofophy to the corruptions of a court I 
Does he not know that they have actually 
effed:ed what none but themfelves have 
at any time ventured to attempt ; for 
within the domains of a cruel religion,. 

thej 



( 19 ) 

they alone have ereded an altar to Mercy ? 
Does he not know that they alone have in-* 
ftruded their countrymen to aflert their 
violated rights, and reclaim their ancient 
conftitution ? Does he not know that to 
them it is owing, that at this very hour, 
to the aftonifhment of Europe, the voice 
of freedom is heard in the inmoft recefles 
of the palace. Again I repeat, that let 
Britain determine as flie will, the guilt 
and infamy of this traffick will not long 
be endured in France. 

Thus I have confidered the various ob^ 
jedions that have been ftated to the bill, 
and am afhamed to refled: that it could be 
neceffary to fpeak fo long in defence of 
fuch a caufe : For what after all is afked 
by the propofed regulations ? — On the part 
of the Africans^ the whole of their pur- 
port is, that thofe whom you allow to be 
robbed of all things but life^ may not un- 
neceffarily and wantonly be deprived of 
life too, — On the part of your fe amen all 
that is fuggefted is, that after they have 
B 2 hazarded 



( 20 ) 

hazarded their Uves in your fervice, and 
fought the battles of their country, you 
would not, when poverty compels them 
to accept a birth in an African fhip, allow 
them to be expofed to ufelefs danger, or 
be configned to unneceflary death. 

To the honour, to the wifdom, to the 
feelings of the Houfe, I now make my 
appeal, perfeftly confident that you will 
not tolerate as fenators a traffick, which as 
men^ you Jhiidder to contemplate ; and that 
you will not take upon ycurfelves the re- 
fponfibility of this wafte of exiftence. — 
To the memory of former parliaments the 
horrors of this traffick will be an eternal 
reproach ; yet former parliaments have 
not known, as yoti^ on the cleareft evi- 
dence, now know, the dreadful nature of 
this trade. Should you rejedt this bill, 
no exertion of yours to refcue from op- 
preffion the fuffering inhabitants of your 
eaftern empire ; no records of the pro- 
fperous ftate, to which, after a long and 
unfuccefsful war, you have reftored your 

native 



( 21 ) 

native land ; no proofs, however fplendid, 
that, under your guidance, Great Britain 
has recovered her rank, and is again the 
arbitrefs of nations, v^ill fave your names 
from the ftigma of everlafting dilhonour. 
The broad mantle of this one infamy 
will cover with fubftantial blacknefs the 
radiance of your glory, and change to 
feelings of abhorrence the prefent admi- 
ration of the world. — Pardon the fuppofi- 
tion of fo impoffible an event. I know 
that juftice and mercy are the conftant at- 
tributes of your charader, and that the 
luftre of their brightnefs is fuch as will 
endure for ever. 




OBSERVATIONS 



ON THE 



EVIDENCE 

GIVEN AT THE BAR OF THE^ 

HOUSE OF COMMONS 

TO THE 

COMMITTEE on the BILL 

F Q a 
PROVIDING CERTAIN TEMPORARY REGULATIONS 

^ranfportation of African Slams. 



LONDON. 

yUlNTED BY J. PHILLIPS} 610RCE YARD, LOMBARD-STESSTs 



( 25 ) 



OBSERVATIONS 



ON THE 



EVIDENCE, &c. 



It was the wifh of tliofe who oppofed the 
bill in queftion to prove ift. That it was 
unnecejfary ; by fhewing, that the prefent 
mode of conveying the negroes is well 
adapted to preferve not only life, but 
health— and 2dly, That it would be ruin^ 
not regulation to the trade, if the ihips 
fhould be reftrained from taking at leaft 
two full grown flaves, or three fmall ones, 
%o ^ach ton of their burthen.— As much 

exertion 



( 26 ) 

exertion was ufed, and many witnefles 
were called, to eftabliih the truth of thefe 
aflertions, it may at firft appear ftrange 
that the bill fhould have been paffed with- 
out the production of any evidence pro- 
fefledly in fupport of it, except the report 
of Mr. Parrey, who was fent down to 
Liverpool to examine the veflels employed 
in the trade ; but all furprize will imme- 
diately ceafe on a flight attention to the 
allegations of its opponents ; the majority 
of which made diredly againft their own 
caufe, and of thofe which feemed to fa- 
vour it, many were pofitively contradicted 
by Mr. Parrey's teftimony, and more by 
their own. 

The degree of credit due to their affer- 
tions would be moft completely afcertained 
by accurately attending to the whole of 
the bufmefs ; but a tolerable judgment 
may be formed from a few fpecimens re- 
lating to one point, which for this pur- 
pofe, more than on account of their in- 
trinfic importance, are here introduced* 

In 



( 27 ) 

In fupport of their firft pofition, one of 
the witnefles alledged, 

That the African flave ftiips are feculU 
arly conJlruBed for carrying a large num- 
ber of perfons : having fmall holds, and 

much fpace between decks that the 

height between decks deemed fufEcient to 
admit of platforms*, is five feet four inches 
and upwards ; that veffels under the bur- 
then of 200 tons, in general have not plat- 
forms : and that thofe which have them 
not, take fewer flaves in proportion than 
thofe which are furniflied with them. 

On the contrary, Mr. Parrey's account 
informs us, 

That of 26 veffels employed in the 

* Platforms are a kind of fhelves about fix feet 
broad, erefted againfl: the fhip's fides between decks, 
and proje6ling horizontally toward the middle of the 
jfhip — the height is thus divided in two, and after the 
whole floor of the deck is covered v/ith Haves, they 
are laid in a fecond tier on thefe fhelves almoft from 
Item to ilern. 

trade 



( 28 ) 

trade which he faw, ten only were built 
exprefsly for the purpofe — -that of the nine 
he meafured, the average height between 
decks was but 5 feet 2 inches — of the four 
fmalleft, 4 feet 8 inches only — that thefe 
four were under 200 tons, and yet all 
had platforms, either wholly or in part — 
and that the only two veffels in which 
they were partly deficient, had cargoes 
fully equal in number to the general ave- 
rage, by their own report ; though one 
of them was but 4 feet 2 inches high be- 
tween decks. 

Any comment is unneceflary. 

With refped to the accommodation of 
the flaves and ci^w when on board, from 
comparing the diflferent relations, the truth 
appears to be nearly as follows, viz. 

That the whole fpace between decks is 
moft frequently appropriated to the full 
grown flaves, who are ufually kept below 
15 or 16 hours of the 24 during the time 

they 



( ^9 ) 

they are on board — often In rainy wea- 
ther, not brought up for two or three 
days or more 5 which, when the fhip is 
full, IS in the higheft degree dillreffing 
and unwholefome — that the men are ia 
irons as long as they remain on the coaft, 
L e. for fix weeks or fix months as it may 
happen.^ — That the boys and girls are feat- 
tered about the ihip, in the cabin, *fore- 
caftle, or deck, or on a kind of platforms 
fufpended over the deck. — That the ufual 
lodging of the feamen is on deck alfo, de- 
fended from the weather only by tempo- 
rary awnings or the platforms above-men- 
tioned. — Much was faid to induce the be- 
lief of a particular apartment being allotted 
to the fick, but by the variety of incon- 
fiftent accounts refpeding it, the fad was 
rendered extremely dubious, if not totally 
incredible. As to the fpace adually al- 
lowed to each individual, this being the 
point on which they were moft guarded, 
it was found impoffible to obtain decifive 
anfwers upon it, either as to fad or opi- 

* Very few fhips have any. 

nion 



( 3° ) 

nion.— It was not however difficult to dif-^ 
cover that the only general rule of ftowage 
is, to place them as clofe as they can lie, 
both on the floor of the deck, and on the 
platforms. 

Of the mortality attached to this hor- 
rid traffick, what mull be thought, when 
we find it flated as the opinion of their 
own witnefTes, corroborated by their own 
accounts of 't^^ voyages mentioned in the 
evidence, that the average, during the 
middle paffage only^ amounts to 6 per 
cent. Of about 40,000 negroes there- 
fore, who are annually dragged away 
from Africa in Britifh fhips, we learn 
from their carriers^ that not lefs than 2400 
perifh during a voyage of fix or eight 
weeks. In addition to which number muft 
be taken, thofe loft by difeafe and accident 
during the ftay of the fhips on the coaft, and 
thofe who die after their arrival in the ifl- 
ands of diforders contraded on board.^' — : 

* It is a fa£l in evidence that three or four per cent, 
often die in the interval between the fhips reporting 
and landing their cargoes. 

The 



( 30 

The indignant forrow which fuch an ac- 
count muft excite in every humane mind, 
is yet aggravated by the farther informa- 
tion, that by a proper attention to all fa- 
Tourable circumftances, much of this 
might be avoided ; for in feveral of the 
voyages alluded to, the lofs has not ex- 
ceeded one per cent. — which affords the 
ftrongeft prefumption that this enormous 
deflrudion of the fpecies is no lefs unne- 
ceffary than inhuman, and is greatly if not 
intirely owing to the improper modes of 
ftowage and treatment which were at firft 
fuggefted by avarice, are fupported by efta- 
bliihed ufage only, and can be pradifed 
by none who are not devoid of the com- 
mon feelings of humanity. 

Incredible however as it may feem, 
it was gravely aflerted by fome of the 
witneffes, that from the ufual practice in 
thefe points, no inconvenience what- 
ever was found to arife ; that the de- 
grees of ficknefs and mortality were 
wholly unconnefted with, and inde- 
pendent 



( 32 ) 
pendent on It ; nay even, that 450 flaves^ 
packed in a veffel of 200 tons, would 
have an equal chance for Hfe and health 
with 200 in another fhip of fimilar dl- 
menfions ; and this, under all the known 
circumftances of confinement in rainy 
weather, equinodial heats with a very 
moderate allowance of water, andoftheit 
being fubjed to a variety of inflamma- 
tory and contagious diforders. To com- 
bat by arguinent^ afTertions fo repugnant 
to the common fenfe of mankind, fo 7te- 
cejfarily untrue^ v^^ould be to exceed their 
own abfurdity ; but if any refutation be 
wanting, a mofl complete one may be 
colleded from others of their own wit- 
neffes, who inform us in direft oppo- 
fition to thefe fidions; that they always 
endeavour to procure fafl failing veffels 
to fhorten the voyages, becaufe the ne- 
groes are liable to all thofe diforders 
which ufually arife among thofe crowded 
together in fhips ; and, beyond thefe, to 
more inconveniences than other people* 
That the fpace in which they are flowed 

does^ 



i 33 ) 

Joes, no doubt ^ operate in fome degfee i 
that it would be abfurd to pretend tha€ 
a voyage with a great number would be 
quite fo healthy as one with but few : 
that fmall ihips are moft healthyj becaufe 
they are lefs time on the coaft, and have 
fewer on board ; and that when fhips 
fhort of their ufual compliment have ap- 
peared equally fickly, the reafon has been, 
that the deficiency in their numbers arofe 
from a competition in the market, or a 
fmall fupply of ilaves, by which they 
were detained a longer time On the coaft 
in completing their cargo ; and laftly, from 
the account they delivered in of feveral 
voyages, we are enabled not only to 
eftabliih the general pofition, that ceteris 
paribus^ the mortality will be greater as 
the allowance of fpace is lefs ; but we 
alfo find that the principle applies to al- 
moft every particular inftance with an 
exad:nefs fcarcely to be credited. By the 
fame authority we are told, that the lofs 
of feamen is about lo per cent, in each 
voyage; were this the utmoft extent of it, 
C th« 



( 34 ) 

the confi deration would be truly alarm- 
ing ; but we know with deep regret, 
that even exclufive of peculiar fatali- 
ties, the general average lofs is far great- 
er ; of which the proof is but too certain. 

On the fecond point to which the evi- 
dence was direfted, viz. ' That the pro- 
pofed regulation would be in fad: aboli-' 
tion,' it will be found unneceflary to 
dv/ell long. Of every witnefs it was 
afked nearly in the fame words — * Is it 

* your opinion that the trade can be car- 
' ried on at all^ if lefs than two full 

* grown flaves be allowed to a ton, three 

* fmall ones to be reckoned as two on- 
' ly ? The uniform anfwer from every 

* one was, ' T^hat it could not \ that any 

* reftridion below that point v/ould in- 
' fallibly he abolition^ 

After thefe pofit'ive and re-iterated af- 
fertions, it will furely be thought extra- 
ordinary that here again, they fhouid have 
fiirnifhed every needful document for their 

own 



i 35 ) 

own confutation. — For in examining into 
the particulars which they produced of 1 9 
veflels, 14 of them u/^der 200 ito?is^ it ap- 
peared that of the whole number, five 
only had cargoes equal to the proportion 
they ftate as necejary to the exiftence of the 
trade (viz. two grown flaves to a ton) — 
and the other 14 fell fo much Ihort of it, 
as that the average of the whole 1 9 was 
but i± — or 10 per cent, below this their 
lowejl ftandard ! — When the affertion and 
the proof are thus at variance, which 
would the gentlemen wiih us to believe ? 

I ihall not on this occafion dilate on the 
general impolicy, the fundamental injuf- 
tice, the univerfal inhumanity, or the par- 
ticular barbarities which are either in- 
terwoven into the very conftitution, or 
confequent on the practice, of this nefa- 
rious traffick: but before I conclude, I 
cannot refrain from making two refledions 
which immediately arife from this parti- 
cular view of the fubjed. — Allowing every 
flave to be obtainedhj the leafl objedion- 
C z able 



( 3G ) 

able mode, I fuppofe it will not be con« 
tended that the right in him fo acquired 
extends either to deprivation of life, or 
to wanton ill treatment ; or that fuch flave 
can be confidered otherwife than as per- 
fectly innocent with refpeft to his pur- 
chafer. Is there then no crime in fub- 
jeding thoufands and millions of fuch 
perfons to a confinement, loathfome, ri- 
gorous, and deftrudive ; in comparifon 
with which, that of a felon in England is 
falubrious and eafy — •■ — of whofe fatal fe- 
verity it is at once an irrefragable proof, 
and a dreadful illuftration, that its continu- 
ance but for a fmgle year, would fend at 
leaft half its wretched objeds to the grave?^ 
This is furely a very ferious confidera- 
tion ; and there is yet another perhaps not 
lefs important : Thofe who poflefs but a 
moderate fhare of that philanthropy which 
embraces the interefts and happinefs of 
human kind, are apt to wqnder how the 

* For a more particular explanation of the mode of 
ftcwing the flaves, the Reader Is referred to the Plan and 
Defcriptlon of a Slave Ship, publlfhed by the Printer, 

idea, 



( 37 ) 
idea, at onceYo barbarous and fo degrad- 
ing, of trafficking in our own fpecies, 
could be endured among any but favages. 
How pernicious and debafmg then, muft 
be the influence of this pradice on the 
nobleft difpofitions of the heart, when, ia 
this enUghtened age and country, perfons 
whom affluence deprives of the plea of 
neceffity, and who cannot without infult 
be fuppofed uneducated in the principles 
of moral duty, can not only perfevere 
without remorfe in a trade the evils of 
which they both occafion and confefs, but 
can defend it without fhame ; and exhi- 
bit in that defence with equal coolnefs, 
accounts of the average profit^ or the ave- 
rage 7no7'taUty, of a voyage. Mortality, 
not of Iheep or oxen, but of 7ne?2y bought 
for their profit, and dying perhaps through 

their negle<£l ! And can do all this, 

apparently uncoiifcioiis^ certainly regardkfs^ 
of the groffnefs of the outrage on the com- 
mon fenfe and common feelings of man- 
kind. 

THE END, 



