Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/opinionsonslaverOOburn 




/ 

OPINIONS 

ON 

SLAVERY & EMANCIPATION 

IN 1823; 

REFERRED TO IN A RECENT DEBATE 

IN THE 

HOUSE OF COMMONS, 

BY 

THOMAS FOWELL BUXTON, Esq. 

WITH 

ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS, 

APPLICABLK .TO THE 

RIGHT HON. E. G. STANLEY'S PLAN 

FOR THE 

EXTINCTION OF SLAVERY. 

BY 

WILLIAM H. BURNLEY, 

DEPUTY FROM THE COLONY OF TRINIDAD. 



" 1 will call its attention to the evidence of the best witness the world 
can produce, not merely in my estimation, but in the estimation of the 
West Indians themselves. 

" The name of this Gentleman is Burnley, and he is the witness I wish 
to bring before the House. This Gentleman has published a Pamphlet, 
which, in thirty-eight pages, contains the following faithful pictures of 
Slavery."— iSpeecA of Thomas Fowell Buxton,- Esq. May 30, 1833, p. 2004, 

Mirror of Partiamatt. 



LONDON : 
JAMES RTDGAVAY, PICCADILLY. 



MDCCCXXXIII. 



.y\o 



Tilling, Printer, Chelsea. 



PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 



The annexed Pamphlet was written in the Island 
of Trinidad, immediately after the passing of 
Mr. Canning's Resolutions respecting Slavery in 
1823, for the purpose of inquiring how far the 
measures, recommended by a Circular Despatch 
from Lord Bathurst in the same year, and after- 
wards embodied in the first Order in Council 
imposed on that Colony, were calculated to 
carry the Resolutions into effect ; and would 
never have been obtruded upon a British public, 
had not the Honourable Member for Wey- 
mouth lately quoted from it particular passages, 
liable, by the mode of their selection, to be misun- 
derstood, and to add to the load of obloquy under 
which the West Indian Colonists have long been 
unjustly suffering.* It is, therefore, now pub- 
lished entire, as exhibiting, at that early period, 
not only the feelings and opinions of the in- 
habitants of Trinidad, but of the other Colonies 
* Appendix A, page xxx. 

b 



generally ; for it was widely circulated and read, 
and never publicly contradicted or impugned. It 
will also shoWj that the recommendations from the 
Colonial Office were originally opposed chiefly on 
the ground of their tendency to defeat the great 
object desired by the British Parhament ; which, 
it was distinctly asserted, could only be secured 
(if ever attainable) through emancipation and com- 
pensation. To the same conclusions, after ten 
years of vacillating experiments, destructive of the 
prosperity of some Colonies, and the repose of all. 
Government has now arrived, and yet are the 
Colonists still generally accused of contumacy and 
ignorance. 

So widely does this belief of their contumacy 
extend, so authoritatively has it been asserted, and 
so unconsciously must it mix itself up in the minds 
of many influential persons, with the consideration 
of the terms, ultimately, to be imposed upon 
them, that the charge cannot be dismissed with- 
out further inquiry into its accuracy and justice. 
The sole act by which the wish or the will of this 
nation, respecting the ultimate extinction of Sla- 
very, has ever been expressed in a constitutional 
manner, was the adoption of Mr. Canning's 
Resolutions by both Houses of Parliament. Cir- 
culars from Downing Street, or Orders in Council, 
framed for Crown Colonies, however entitled to 
respect, as opinions emanating from high author 



Ill 



rity, can never be considered as binding upon in- 
dependent Legislatures ; or their rejection, as 
meriting the charge of contumacy, if deliberately 
examined, and considered not to be in accordance 
with the manifest intentions of the Imperial Parlia- 
ment. The real question, therefore, at issue, is, 
whether these celebrated Orders in Council were, 
or were not, in conformity with the Resolutions of 
1823; for, if they were not, the Legislative Assem- 
blies, far from being contumacious, meritoriously 
performed their duty, not only to themselves, but 
to the Empire, by rejecting them. 

It will not be difficult to prove, that these 
Orders were not in accordance with the Resolu- 
tions ; for, in truth, it would have been miraculous, 
if, with the information and impressions then ex- 
isting in the Colonial Office, any Regulations had 
been made, calculated to produce the results those 
Resolutions contemplated. From the beginning, 
the framers of these Orders laboured under one 
fatal error ; they imagined Freedom and Slavery 
to be modifications of the same principle, like heat 
and cold, or light and darkness ; and that the one 
could be gradually and imperceptibly converted 
into the other. Unfortunately, the idea seems 
never to have crossed their minds, that these two 
conditions of social life might be composed of 
essentially different elements, which, by no legisla- 
tive process, could be safely or usefully combined, 
b ^2 



IV 



Had they entertained only a suspicion, that 
absolute power is the foundation of Slavery, 
without which it cannot exist with advantage 
either to the governors or the governed, instead of 
being indignant at observing that the evils of such 
a system (and what human system is free from 
them ?) were sometimes exhibited in a tyrannical 
exercise of the power of the master ; they would 
have calmlv viewed it as an unavoidable conse- 
quence, as the exception which belongs to every 
general rule, and would have been irresistibly led 
to the just conclusion, that the same power must 
be fundamentally necessary to its beneficial sup- 
port. 

Influenced, however, by these mistaken prepos- 
sessions, the majority of the Regulations, proposed 
by Lord Bathurst, struck, in a greater or less 
degree, at the power of the master ; and, under the 
impression that his recommendations went only to 
the removal of a vicious excrescence, he uncon- 
sciously tendered, a knife to the Colonial Legis- 
latures to apply to a vital part. 

The mischiefs inflicted upon the whole popula- 
tion, bond and free, of the Crown Colonies, by the 
practical application of these erroneous measures, 
sufficiently establish the truth of these premises ;* 
and have, at last, opened the eyes of those who 
have enjoyed the best opportunities of watching 
* Appendix B, page xxxiii. 



the progress of the experiment. Lord Howick, em- 
bracing a clearer view of the subject, now candidly 
admits, that the fate of a Slave is happiest under 
irresponsible despotism ; and His Majesty, advised 
by his Privy Council, that many clauses, in the Order 
of 2d Nov. 1831, for the amelioration of the condi- 
tion of the Slaves, were, in fact, prejudicial to them, 
and incompatible with the interests of their owners, 
ordered them, on the 6th of November last, to be 
rescinded.* In fine, the whole of these Orders, 
perseveringly urged, as they were, in 1831, on the 
chartered Colonies, are now abandoned, and dis- 
owned by their projectors. Can it be necessary 
to say more, to prove that the Colonial Legisla 
tures were not contumacious in rejecting them ? 

It must not, however, be supposed, that Slavery, 
unlike all other human institutions, is incapable of 
being meliorated by the application of judicious 
means : but, deriving its strength and existence 
from one single source — absolute power — to that 
source alone can improvements be advantageously 
applied, with the hope of their ultimately flow- 
ing through the whole general mass. It must 
be dealt with^ as we deal with other tyrannies; 
for instance, the public press, which no one ex- 
pects to improve by gagging or extinguishing it, 
but, by refining the manners and correcting the 
opinions of those who wield its power. Unhap- 
* Appendix C, page xxxiv. 
b 3 



VI 



pily, with respect to Slavery, our course of pro- 
ceeding has been the reverse. Instead of simply 
correcting the excesses of the despot, and encou- 
raging every display of beneficent power, — that 
authority, which was essentially necessary for every 
useful purpose, was weakened or destroyed. The 
spirit of every regulation breathed obloquy and 
reproach upon the whole body of proprietors 
indiscriminately; all were involved in the same 
ban of proscription ; until every Gentleman, pos- 
sessed of the means of retiring, has abandoned the 
Crown Colonies ; whilst not an individual in 
Great Britain, possessed of humane or refined 
feelings, can be persuaded to fill the vacant post. 
In this way has bad been rendered worse ; and 
the class which it was primarily and essentially 
necessary to improve, been unhappily deteriorated. 

Out of the erroneous opinions already noticed, 
which looked forward to the improvement of 
Slavery, by a limitation of the power of the master, 
arose the cruel prejudice, that every admitted evil, 
or acknowledged irregularity, exhibited in the social 
condition of the Colonies, was imputable solely to 
a wanton and improper exercise of that power; in 
evidence of which, no fact has been more acrimo- 
niously or unjustly urged, than the annual decrease 
in the number of our Slaves. 

Probably, the most diificult of all subjects, satis- 
factorily to tr«at, is the theory of population ; it 



Vll 



presents anomalies at every step ; and the conclu- 
sions of the most eminent philosopher of the pre- 
sent day on the subject, are so little consoling to 
humanity, that all are disposed to doubt, though 
few may be able to refute them. No prudent 
man, therefore, would apply inferences, drawn 
from so uncertain a source, to the direction of 
practical affairs ; still less would a charitable one 
urge them as decisive proof of the moral turpitude 
of whole communities. The members of the Anti- 
Slavery Society have not hesitated to do both ; 
they have fearlessly asserted, that this decrease is 
to be immediately and directly ascribed to the in- 
stitution of Slavery, generating cruelty in the breast 
of the master, andj consequently, productive of 
ill treatment, overwork, and premature death to the 
Slave. In vain the United States of America pre- 
sent a spectacle, where, under a system more 
despotic than our own, regulated by no law but the 
supreme vv^ill of the master, Slaves are found to 
increase faster than the free-coloured population ; 
the accusation is still persisted in, and continues 
generally to be believed throughout the country. 
Some individuals, however, have not failed to 
observe this striking fact^ and have latterly pre- 
pared some elaborate tables, recently referred to in 
the House of Commons, in which it is proved that 
Slaves invariably increase on cotton, and decrease 
on sugar estates. It is difficult to understand what 

b 4 



Vlll 

object these calculations are intended to serve, 
unless it be to establish some new theory, showing 
that the cultivation of cotton tends, in a greater 
degree than sugar, to humanize the feelings of the 
parties engaged in it. To this theory, however, 
the Honourable Member for Weymouth appears 
to lean ; for he assured the Select Committee of 
the House of Lords, during the last Session, that 
the result of all his enquiries, examinations, and 
collations of evidence, had ultimately led him to 
this conclusion ; " that sugar cultivation, as now 
*' conducted, coupled with Slavery, is injurious to 
'* human life." This short thesis would furnish a 
fine field for controversial discussion ; but the 
Colonists, fortunately, are only interested in the 
meaning of the three words, " as now conducted ;" 
and even this inquiry they are spared, as he de- 
scribes it to be, a cultivation, embracing the se- 
verest and most intense toil, the hardest of all 
work, the severest portion of which is " cane hole 
digging :" and fearful accounts of this process 
certainly are given by some of the witnesses du- 
ring the inquiry. But now, if it should be proved, 
(with respect to the two extreme cases, particularly 
cited by the Honourable Gentleman, in support of 
his opinions,) that in Trinidad, where the decrease 
of the Slave population is manifest, " cane hole 
digging" is almost unknown, and the labour of 
sugar cultivation infinitely lighter than in Barba- 



IX 



does, where the increase of the population is 
greater than in any other Colony, — what then be- 
comes of one half of this Gentleman's complicated 
theory, in which the general decrease is directly 
attributed to " excessive labour attendant upon 
sugar cultivation?" And, what is far more impor- 
tant to the Colonists, what becomes of those un- 
charitable assertions, which attribute it to the 
extraordinary tasks imposed upon the Slaves by 
their masters ? Not only can this fact be proved, 
but the evidence which establishes it has long been 
in the possession of the Honourable Gentleman 
himself; and it was positively upon his reading 
desk, at the very period of time when he expressed 
his opinions and sentiments so strongly to the 
Committee on the subject.* This statement 
must not be misunderstood ; no disingenuity is 
meant to be imputed to the Honourable Member 
for Weymouth ; he can have no wish beyond the 
encouragement of measures beneficial to Negro 
Slaves, the objects of his invariable protection. 
Upon their ultimate fate, such as it may be doomed, 
by that popular will, which he and his coadjutors 
have perseveringly laboured in moulding and 
raising to its present gigantic form, the reputation 
of his whole political life depends : by their future 
happiness or misery will he be judged; and by that 
issue alone will he be known to posterity as an 
* Appendix D, page xxxvi. 



instrument, in his day, of good or of evil. He can 
be actuated only by the purest motives : but it is 
equally evident to a dispassionate observer, that, 
throughout the whole of this controversy, he has 
taken a distorted view of the subject. He is pro- 
foundly impressed with a belief, that the authority 
of the master, the conservative principle of Slavery, 
is the cause of every evil connected with the 
system ; his mind, pre-occupied with this one idea, 
can admit only incidents in unison with it ; and 
his eye unconsciously glances over every other 
important fact as valueless, or irrelevant.* On 
the other hand, the West India body, with that 
unfortunate tact which has so frequently led them 
to occupy untenable positions, attributed the 
decrease of the Slave population to the national 
vices of the Negroes, in spite of the annual swarms 
proceeding from the African hive, testifying to the 
contrary. Speedily driven from this post, they 
seized upon the disparity of the sexes ; and, as it 
is clear to the meanest capacity, that three men 
and one woman cannot replenish the earth as fast 
as an equality of the sexes; this proved strong 
ground, on which they firmly entrenched them- 
selves. Their opponents, aware of the strength of 
this position, felt that their favourite theory of the 
cruelty of the master could never be satisfactorily 
established, unless the Colonists were driven from 
* Appendix E, page xxxvii. 



XI 



it; long and bitter, consequently, has been the 
warfare ; profound have been the essays on puberty, 
procreation, and the term of child-bearing ; regis- 
tries have been dissected ; figures have been heaped 
upon figures ; returns have succeeded returns ; 
Protectors transported across the Atlantic ; learned 
actuaries en:iployed on both sides; and, to this 
day, the contest remains undecided, productive 
only of this unhappy result — that, to the West 
Indians^ a drawn battle must always be defeat — to 
their adversaries victory. 

It may now be asked, whether any better 
solution can be given of this difficulty — pos- 
sibly, not; population presents so many ano- 
malies every where, that those who expect a satis- 
factory answer, are bound first, to explain why 
Sicily, at the present day, is partially depopulated, 
under a government, which, if not the most liberal 
in the world, may certainly bear a comparison with 
that of Dyonisius or Verres ; or, why the popula- 
tion of Ireland continues to overflow under a sys- 
tem, civil, religious, and political, which few pro- 
fess to admire as perfect. The following hints, 
however, may assist those who are disposed to 
grapple vv^ith the subject. 

It may be, that the cane plant particularly 
delights in heat and moisture ; and that sugar may 
be the most exhausting of all crops. It may be, 
that, urged by the power of British capital, the 



Xli 



cultivation has been gradually driven from those 
spots, where the trees have been long felled, the 
virgin mould worn out, the morasses dried up, and 
the air purified, — into new lands, and particularly 
into the vicinity of those dank forests which cover 
the alluvial soil of Guiana, and the rich slimy 
deposits of the Oronoco, on the shores of Trinidad. 
It may be, after all, that hydrogen and carbon, 
which there abound, constitute the elements of an 
atmosphere more favourable to vegetable than to 
human life. If these assumptions be allowed, they 
may serve to account for the phenomenon which 
so forcibly arrested the attention of the Honourable 
Member for Weymouth, *' that no population, 
where a large proportion of sugar is grown, has 
hitherto increased ;" and they may help to explain 
the increase upon estates producing cotton, a plant 
which thrives best in open and airy situations. 
Coupled with a disparity in the sexes, still existing 
in most of our Colonies, and assisted by the im- 
moral practices of Africans, which, connected 
with that disparity, must produce more vicious 
effects than in their native homes, they may satis- 
factorily explain the unsatisfactory results exhibited 
by our Slave registries ; and enable him to arrive at 
the consolatory conclusion, that a British planter 
may not be more tyrannical, than a Slave owner 
in America, or elsewhere. 

It is impossible to look at any one branch of 



Xlll 



the subject of Colonial Slavery, without lamentinty 
that more correct information respecting it, has not 
been more generally diffused throughout this country. 
The unfortunate Colonists have, in consequence, 
been continually subjected to unmerited reproach for 
their inability to counteract the natural results of 
a vicious system, unparalleled in the history of the 
world. In ancient times, Colonies were principally 
established for the relief of a dense population ; 
Master and Slave emigrated together to more fer- 
tile, or unoccupied territories ; both were of the 
same race, spoke the same language, possessed 
the same habits and feelings, and were bound 
together by domestic ties ; expatriation was in- 
curred for their sole advantage, from which the 
mother country expected to derive no benefit 
beyond the diminished pressure upon subsistence, 
occasioned by their absence. In modern times, a 
thirst for gold alone inspired Europeans with the 
idea of setding in the Western world ; and the 
mines, not supplying it in sufficient quantities, or 
being totally monopolized by the Court of Madrid, 
the valuable products of the tropics were eagerly 
cultivated by other nations as a substitute. These 
regions, being either untenanted, or thinly in- 
habited, by a race, intended by nature only for its 
temporary occupation,* barbarians were transplant- 
ed from their native homes across the broadest ex- 
• Appendix F, page xliv. 



XIV 



panse of the Atlantic to a distant quarter of the 
globe, and worked under the command of stran- 
gers, differing in language, religion, natural habits, 
and, above all, in the distinguishing mark of com- 
plexion. With materials so heterogeneous, Slavery- 
was scarcely optional ; and when, in addition to 
these distinctions, it was carefully and jealously 
provided, that the whole profit of these establish- 
ments should be exclusively retained^ and absorbed 
by the mother country ; it became imperative, and 
has been so considered by the British Government 
from their first settlement, almost to the present 
hour.* 

Slavery has been sanctioned, as a social system, 
in every part of the world from the earliest period 
of history ; and exists, at the present day, in every 
quarter of the globe, under various modifications, 
adapted to the different habits and stages of civili- 
zation among the nations to which it belongs : but, 
in none is it to be found in so harsh and unim- 
proveable a form, as in the Slavery of Africans, 
established by Europeans in the Western world : 
and amongst these, consisting of Swedes, Danes, 
Spaniards, Portuguese, French, Dutch, and En- 
glish, it exists in its greatest intensity and pres- 
sure under the two latter, in consequence of 
their superior commercial enterprise and capi- 
tal. This maybe new to many; and it will 
* Appendix G, page xlv. 



XV 



doubrtess add to their surprise, to hear, that our 
Usury Laws have^ in a ten-fold degree, aggravated 
the deformities of the British Colonial system. 
Our Legislators have decided, but upon what 
data it is difficult to discover, that the use of 
money, in the West India Colonies, is worth just 
one per cent, per annum more than in Great 
Britain. To these opinions, capitalists, who have 
always an opinion, and a will of their own, have 
never been disposed to subscribe. Circumstances, 
in fact, soon made them acquainted with the 
additional risks incurred, when 5000 miles remove 
parties from the surveillance of their creditors to 
provinces where yellow fever somewhat lessens the 
value of personal security — where independent 
Judicatures and Legislatures occasionally interfere 
with the construction and operation of legal instru- 
ments ; and where hurricanes^ conflagrations, and in- 
surrections, sometimes settle, in a very summary 
way, all questions of property. They appear, 
therefore^ to have considered ten per cent, a more 
equitable and adequate remuneration for the use of 
their money, than six ;* but, to avoid the penalties 
attached to usurious dealings, it became necessary 
to veil the increased rate under various legitimate 
charges, such as brokerage, commission, and freight. 
It is curious to observe, how in this, as in every 
other case, where the natural course of human 
* Appendix H, page xlviii. 



XVI 

action is checked by artificial restraints, something 
monstrous is sure to result. In the present instance, 
the immediate tendency of the Usury Laws has 
been to create an unnatural and forced extension 
of sugar cultivation throughout the British Colo- 
nies : for it was soon ascertained, that, from its 
weight, sugar gave the most profitable freights to 
shipping ; and, from the high duties to which it has 
always been easy to subject it, a larger mercantile 
commission on its gross sales, compared with its 
intrinsic value, than any other description of Colo- 
nial produce. From this cause, it has always been 
comparatively easy to borrow money for the pur- 
pose of settling a sugar estate ; and if, during the 
variations which so regularly occur in the value of 
Colonial articles, it seemed, at any time, desirable 
to a planter to abandon cofi'ee, cotton, or cocoa, 
for the cultivation of sugar, pecuniary assistance 
was readily tendered by the mortgagee ; but a 
reverse of the process has been always found diffi- 
cult, if not impracticable ; and the conditions of a 
loan, granted on a plantation strictly agricultural, 
producing cattle, provisions, or corn, have probably 
never defaced a skin of parchment.* Hence the 
solution of the fact, that in all the Colonies we have 
successively taken from foreigners, the course of 
cultivation has been invariably diverted from 
coffee, cotton, and cocoa, to that all-vilified, but 
* Appendix I, page xlviii. 



XVll 



universally coveted article — sugar. Nor did this 
constitute the whole extent of the mischief. It vvas 
soon discovered that the mercantile mortgagee was 
benefitted, not in proportion to the increase of the 
net revenue, but of the gross produce of the estate 
of his debtor ; the careful considerate planter, who 
produced at home the various articles for the suste- 
nance or clothing of his people, or for the stocking 
of his estate with cattle ; who limited his exports 
to its net revenue, and his efforts to the extinction 
of his debt, proved a much less valuable corre- 
spondent than the individual who devoted the whole 
strength of his Slaves to the cultivation of sugar ; 
importing his dried fish from Newfoundland ; 
Indian corn and rice from the United States; 
cattle from the Spanish Main ; potatoes from Ire- 
land ; and almost every other article that man can 
want or desire, even to fuel, split peas, and Leman's 
biscuits, from Great Britain : this exchangeable 
process, ensuring double commissions, rendered 
connections of this description so advantageous in 
the bright days of West Indian prosperity, before 
our treaties with Foreign Powers, for the extinction 
of the Slave Trade, had doubled the number of its 
victims, and increased the supply of tropical pro- 
duce beyond the demand of European consumers, 
that mortgagees were then almost as anxious to 
discourage, as they now must be to urge, a settle- 
ment of accounts. 

c 



XVIll 



By the direct operation of the Usury Laws, 
therefore, it became impossible for a planter to 
procure loans at legal interest through any other 
than a mercantile channel. This necessarily gave 
a commercial impress to our Colonial Establish- 
ments ; agricultural operations were only tolerated 
as necessary to manufacturing ; the repose of the 
farm gave place to the din of the workshop and 
the blast of the steam-engine ; the plough, unma- 
nageable in all new lands, could never displace the 
hoe ; and all those evils were engendered, which the 
philanthropists of Aldermanbury have so pathe- 
tically deplored, and imputed to the calumniated 
planter, who, in this and in every other instance, has 
been made to father the sinful progeny of British 
legislation. 

The foregoing observations are applicable only 
to Slavery, and are intended to shew, that the 
acting administrators of that system, in the British 
Colonies, are guiltless of the conspicuous evils 
which deform it ; neither can they be imputed to 
the system itself, or they would be found attending 
it everywhere, but are principally to be ascribed to 
the pressure of great commercial capital, and to 
the laws passed in Great Britain to protect and 
encourage its employment. It will now be neces- 
sary to institute an enquiry into the nature and 
efficiency of *' free labour," to enable us to form 
some idea of the cost of the process by which 



Slavery is to be extinguished. The confused 
notions generally prevailing on this subject, natu- 
rally excite surprise, when so many decisive facts 
and examples present themselves throughout the 
world, accompanied neither with difficulties nor 
anomalies, but tallying exactly with the conclusions 
to which a philosophical view of the subject will 
necessarily lead us. 

Indolence is the most predominant of all human passions ; 
it precedes and survives every other. The savage, with 
reluctance, resigns it for a moment, to obtain a meal ; and the 
civilized man sacrifices it only for a period of his life, in the 
hope of enjoying it undisturbed for the remainder. Where 
the means of subsistence are with difficulty procured, 
whether arising from density of population, sterile soil, or 
severity of climate, industrious exertion prevails ; what 
necessity began, habit strengthens, and cheap labour will be 
the result ; but where bountiful nature spontaneously pro- 
vides for all our wants, indolence will have full sway, and 
govern every other passion ; and, under such circumstances, 
nothing but the rod of Slavery can counteract it, and pro- 
mote, by coercion, habits of industry. 

This short analysis will explain, why the Slave, 
in his little leisure, after the completion of his task, 
furnishes more productive labour than the roaming 
Indian, who is master of his whole time ; and v^^hy, 
after earning freedom by his own laborious exer- 
tions, he so frequently relapses into a state of in- 
dolence, when the coercion, which kept his indus- 
trious habits alive, is withdrawn. It will also 

c 2 



XX 



furnish a key to the relative value of free and Slave 
labour, for every race and in every region, from the 
Pole to the Equator. It will shew why tropical 
produce, the growth of climates where nature 
gratuitously supplies almost every animal want, is 
principally furnished by the coercion of Sl^-very ; 
why the consumption of sugar in Russia, Austria, 
and Italy — countries where no Colonial monopoly 
exists, is chiefly supplied by the inconsiderable 
population of Cuba, and Brazil, and not by the 
hundred millions who inhabit the peninsula of 
India, possessing a soil and a climate equally fa- 
vourable to its cultivation. Even, in the article of 
cotton, which can be cultivated as profitably on a 
small as on a large scale, and requires no capital, two- 
thirds of the immense quantity consumed in the 
manufactories of Europe are produced by Slaves in 
the United States of America ; and it is a singular 
fact, that, within the last ten years, Egypt has 
furnished a larger proportion of that consumption 
than the East Indies ; showing that the military 
coercion of the Pacha can more efFectuallv coun- 
teract the natural disinclination to labour, than 
even the wants of the freeman in the immense 
population of India. Why is labour cheaper in 
Britain, than in the northern section of the United 
States of America ? Certainly, not on account of 
the generally supposed superiority of free labour ; — 
the same being infinitely freer with them than with 



XXI 

us; — ^butfrom the difficulty of procuring subsistence; 
which circumstance alone obliges our labourers to 
work harder, longer, and cheaper, than the same class 
in any part of the world. Overwhelming taxa- 
tion, enhancing the cost of the necessaries of life, 
and not Freedom, is the source of our cheap 
labour, and manufacturing superiority : the Ame- 
ricans, by a heavy tariff, attempted to exclude our 
cheaper goods, until South CaroHna, and Georgia, 
discovered that they were virtually paying a bounty 
for the encouragement of free labour in Massa- 
chusetts, and resisted it, even at the risk of dis- 
solving the Union. The inhabitants of the United 
States being in close contact with both systems, 
understand well that the labour of Slaves is 
cheaper in America than that of freemen. The 
whole Union presents a practical example of this 
conviction. The Slave holding States are not 
obliged to legislate to keep out free labour ; but if 
Ohio, and Indiana, did not enact laws to prevent 
the introduction of Slave labour, they would be 
stocked with it immediately. New York and 
Pensylvania did not abolish Slavery because it was 
an expensive instrument of production, but because 
it was destructive of political strength. It was 
known to be profitable to the individual, but con- 
sidered to be dangerous to the State. 

It may, therefore, be set down as an axiom, 
that, throughout the Western world, the labour of 
freemen is more expensive than that of Slaves ; 

c 3 



xxu 

and that the difference, in favour of the latter, is 
always in proportion to the genial temperature of 
the climate, and the fertility of the soil. The ex- 
port of a few barrels of sugar from Venezuela, 
recently discussed in the House of Commons, has 
really not the slightest bearing upon this question ; 
for although it must sell in a foreign market on the 
same terms as the sugar from Cuba, it affords no 
evidence that it was made as cheaply, or can 
be indefinitely increased. The exchangeable va- 
lue of a commodity is no index of the cost 
of its production. The corn of the highlands 
sells for no more than the corn of the vallies; 
the rent of the landlord will equalize the profit of 
the groM^ers, but the value of the labour bestowed 
upon the one is always greater than upon the 
other ; an export of sugar, therefore, from the port 
of Laguyra, only proves that some of the aristo- 
cracy of Venezuela consume foreign commoditieSj 
which must be paid for by their own produce, even 
if the labourers of that province were condemned 
to cultivate the soil with their finger nails, and 
raised it at ten times the cost at which it would be 
produced elsewhere.* 

If the foregoing opinions be not erroneous, and 
capable of refutation, it is evident that the emanci-? 
pation of our Slaves will be an immediate conver- 
sion of a cheap into an expensive system of labour 
throughout our West Indian Colonies ; and it is, 
* Appendix K, page 1. 



XXlll 



therefore, highly interesting to ascertain on whom 
this extra cost will fall. In an open and free trade, as 
in the case of the inhabitants of Venezuela, it falls 
invariably upon the cultivator : by the free labour of 
a month he is enabled only to procure the same 
articles which the Slave labour of a week could 
probably purchase ; he is, however, satisfied, for 
he has enjoyed, in addition, what, in his estimation, 
is beyond every other, the gratification of indo- 
lence ; a luxury that must be paid for. But if he 
were assured of the monopoly of any foreign 
market, requiring more tropical produce than he 
was disposed to raise, he would, of course, com- 
mand his own price, and the extra cost would then 
fall upon the consumer, who would thus be com- 
pelled to pay for the luxuries of both. In this 
situation will this country inevitably place itself by 
the extinction of Slavery, under a pledge to pro- 
mote the future welfare and civilization of the 
Negroes, both of them being immediately depen- 
dent upon the pecuniary interests of the proprie- 
tors, which can only be protected from ruin by the 
monopoly of the home-market. The planters, in 
this case, will be no better off than they were 
before, and the whole of the extra cost to the 
consumer in Great Britain, will go to the main- 
tenance of the African race in luxurious idleness. 
Such will be the results of the extinction of Sla- 
very, as understood in its ordinary sense of un- 
(jualified emancipation. 



XXIV 



Some detailed opinions respecting the working 
and effects of the present plan of Government, may 
now be expected by those who have not sufficiently 
considered the insuperable difficulty of handling a 
subject so entirely novel. In discussing the com- 
parative advantages of free and Slave labour, or 
in describing the moral tendencies of either system, 
we have existing lights by which to guide us ; ex- 
amples and facts, connected with both, are scat- 
tered over the globe, by which false conclusions 
may be detected, or correct ones established ; but, 
in considering the scheme now suggested by His 
Majesty's Ministers, we have positively neither 
light, precedent, nor example, by which to direct 
our inquiries. Such a system, as the one proposed, 
never governed an entire community in any age or 
country ; and it is particularly necessary, for a due 
understanding of the subject, not to be misled by 
the term *' apprenticeship," as applied to the 
future condition of the Negroes, which, in prac- 
tice, always did, and of necessity, for the benefit 
of the apprentice, always must, confer upon the 
master the power of reasonable correction. This 
power, in the plan proposed, is to be altogether 
withdrawn, which leaves it a pure and simple 
*' workhouse system," under which labourers are to 
be supplied with every necessary and comfort in 
return for a moderate portion of work, such as 



XXV 



they may be induced to perform under the authority 
of a Magistrate. The wretched effects of such an 
establishment, upon a small portion of the popula- 
tion of this country, are described in the recent 
Reports by the Commissioners of the Poor Laws ; 
but, what may be its actual results, when applied 
to whole communities, time alone can develope. 
It may safely, however, be predicted, that the ex- 
periment will involve in it all that is most expen- 
sive in emancipation, and most demoralizing in 
Slavery ; for it must never be lost sight of, that it is 
not the harsh and despotic power of the master 
which renders Slavery demoralizing ; on the con- 
trary, it is by that power alone that the immoral 
tendencies, encouraged by the most charitable and 
humane parts of the system, are counteracted : it 
is the law by which ample provision for the tem- 
poral comforts of the Slave is secured, under all 
circumstances, of folly, or misconduct, which pre- 
sents the great bar to moral improvement — a well 
fed pensioner, be he African or British, is not 
placed in the best school of industry or virtue. 

From a system, therefore, such as the one now 
contemplated by Government, in which all that 
tended to correct the vices of Slavery is abolished, 
and all that rendered it most demoralizing retained, 
it is to be apprehended, that a society will be 
formed more vicious and profligate than anything 
the world has yet witnessed ; and that the Negro, 



XXVI 

at the expiration of his apprenticeship, will be less 
qualified to discharge the duties of a freeman, 
than he is at the present day. To what strange 
infatuation can the fabrication of such a scheme be 
ascribed ? It can only be imputed to the want of 
sufficient information, with respect to Slavery as it 
is, and emancipation as it may be. It is this 
absence of a correct knowledge of the subject, and 
the determination not to search for it, which consti- 
tutes the most alarming symptom of our case. 
Every body appears sensible of ignorance, whilst 
the necessity of inquiry is strenuously denied. 
To this inward consciousness, working in opposi- 
tion to avowed opinions, must solely be ascribed 
the extraordinary scenes lately exhibited. The 
Government, urged on by popular impulse, and at 
a loss how to act, adopt any visionary scheme 
possessing the slightest show of plausibility, and 
fly, with discreditable inconsistency, in the course 
of a few short weeks, from one impracticable plan 
to another, based on totally opposite principles. In 
the House of Commons the greatest confusion of 
ideas upon the subject prevails ; votes are com- 
bined, whilst no two opinions appear in concord- 
ance. All unite in asserting, that something must 
immediately be done ; but none can agree upon the 
proper mode of proceeding ; until, at last, like im- 
pa^tient children, bewildered with a complicated 
toyj they seem determined to tear in pieces th^ 



XXVll 

machinery, whose movements they can neither 
comprehend nor regulate. 

Much has been said of the co-operation of the 
Colonists in the proposed measures of Govern- 
ment for the extinction of Slavery ; and great im- 
portance has been attached to the amount of the 
grant of money by which that co-operation is ex- 
pected to be purchased. In this, as in many 
other matters connected with the West India 
Question, the public is mystified, and led to 
imagine that the interests of the mortgagees here, 
and of the Colonists abroad, are so interwoven, 
that what may be satisfactory to the one, will, of 
course, be agreeable to the other. They are con- 
nected, no doubtj by the same ties which inva- 
riably bind debtors and creditors of every descrip- 
tion together ; and the latter must always be 
anxious to promote the success of the former, to 
the extent of enabling them cheerfully and easily to 
fulfil their engagements. But, that object accom- 
plished, they take about the same interest in their 
future and permanent welfare, as the majority of 
mankind usually does in the prosperity of its 
neighbours. The grant of a sum sufficient to 
liquidate their claims, will no doubt command the 
co-operation of the mortgagees, and induce them 
cordially and jarnestly to recommend the Colo- 
nial Legislatures to frame, without delay, the further 
enactments required for the completion of the 



XXVlll 

measure^ upon which the payment of the grant is 
made to depend ; but if, upon a deliberate exami- 
nation of the outline of the Bill sent out, the Colo- 
nists are of opinion that it contains destructive 
principles, which, by no subsequent details or 
arrangements, can be moderated or corrected, it can 
hardly be expected that they will be very precipi- 
tate in setting about so ungrateful a task, or parti- 
cularly anxious to facilitate a payment, the imme- 
diate effect of which must be to detach from their 
alliance the only body of men in this country, 
bound, by pecuniary interests, to protect them 
from impending ruin. The slightest consideration, 
therefore, of the subject, will render it evident, that, 
by the feasibility of the scheme alone, and the 
apparent adaptation of the principal regulations of 
the Bill to the profitable cultivation and future 
prosperity of the Colonies, can the co-operation of 
the resident proprietors be ever secured. The plan 
at present proposed by the Government, must be 
considered by them as utterly destitute of these 
qualities, and will, therefore, be unequivocally 
opposed,* whilst, in England, it is loudly denounced 
by the friends of the people, and abjured by the 
friends of the Slave. 

Is this, then, to be our first step towards that safe 

and satisfactory settlement of the question, which 

patriots and philanthropists have so anxiously been 

looking forward to ; and are such the favourable 

* Appendix L, page Hi. 



XXIX 



auspices under which the mighty experiment is to be 
commenced, upon which the reputation of Britain, 
and the civiHzation of Africa, is to depend ? And yet, 
when we look around us, and contemplate the men 
and measures of the present Parliament, it seems 
by no means impossible, judging of the future by 
the past^ that a Bill, embracing all these dangerous 
and unpopular principles, may be passed by majo- 
rities in both Houses. But, — if ever attempted to 
be carried forcibly into execution, in opposition to 
the remonstrances of the Colonists, it may be con- 
fidently predicted, that it will entail immediate 
destruction upon the whole of our dependencies in 
the West Indies, and shatter, to the foundations, 
one of the main supports of our maritime supe- 
riority, and national power. 

Devonshire Place, 
26th June, 1833. 



XXX 



APPENDIX. 



APPENDIX A. 

. I cannot point out a more striking instance of the reckless 
manner in which the reputation of the Colonists has been con- 
tinually assailed, as if they were deemed fair game, against 
whom any shaft might be winged without consideration as 
to cause or consequence, than occurs in Mr. Jeremie's " Four 
Essays on Colonial Slavery." Hearing, after my arrival in 
England, that His Majesty's ship Jupiter, in which this 
Gentleman had embarked for the Mauritius, had put back into 
Plymouth with contrary winds, I immediately availed myself 
of the opportunity, and the following Correspondence took 
place between us. 

No. 1. 

18, Devonshire Place, Dec. 20th, 1832. 

Sir, 

I find, at the 7th page of the 2nd edition of your publi- 
cation, entitled " Four Essays on Colonial Slavery," the following pas- 
sage. 

1. " But what was the third expedient adopted ?"— " The field stocks; 
an invention forwarded from Trinidad, and which was actually legalised by 
the regulations drawn up by myself, so little aware was I of the severity of 
the punishment ; indeed, my attention was first drawn to it by a Planter 
himself." 

2. " The field stocks are, in short, or at least may be rendered, nothing 
less than the most cruel picketing ; they are in the shape of a pillory ; the 
hands of the Slave are inserted in grooves, which may beraised to any height 
above the head ; and the feet are inserted in other grooves, at the bottom 
of the instrument, the toes alone made to touch the ground ; the body is 
thus suspended in mid-air, its whole weight resting on the wrists and toes." 

3. " In Trinidad, they fix leaden weights to the wrists, which, of coarse, 
add considerably to the torture." 



XXXI 

4. " It is a legalised substitute for the whip ; and even pregnant women 
are not exempted from it. What has humanity gained by the change ?" 

To an ordinary reader, the perusal of the above passage directly conveys 
the impression, that a severe instrument of torture was legalised in the 
Island of Trinidad, and made use of by the inhabitants ; but, I perceive, 
on a closer examination of the stnicture and connection of the sentences 
comprising it, that the intention to convey such impression may be denied. 

On a subject of such importance to the Colony to which I have the 
honour to belong, I am anxious to have all ambiguity respecting it removed 
by a reference at once to the author, for an explanation of his meaning ; 
to facilitate this, I have divided the passage quoted, into four distinct 
sections. 

1. It is asserted that the field stocks were an invention forwarded 
from Trinidad. 

I admit that field stocks were first introduced to the notice of the inha- 
bitants of Trinidad, by a Proclamation of His Majesty's Government, 
bearing date the 23d of June, 1824, in which they are described to be for 
the confinement of the hands, during the hours of labour in the fields; and 
the field stocks so described, may have been forwarded from Trinidad to 
St. Lucia. 

2. In this section of the passage quoted from the four Essays, a descrip- 
tion is given of certain field stocks, their form defined, and the mode 
described, in which the culprit is made to suffer in them. If this be in- 
tended solely as a description of the field stocks used in St. Lucia, and 
legalised by yourself, it is not in my province to make further inquiry into 
the subject. 

But if it be intended to assert that the field stocks so formed, and so 
used, constituted the invention which is declared to have been forwarded 
from Trinidad to St. Lucia ; or, in short, if it be intended to assert that 
any instrument of punishment, under any denomination, whether forwarded 
to St. Lucia, or not, was ever formed and used in the Island of Triuidad, 
in the mode you have described ; it is my duty to deny the truth of such 
assertions, and to call upon you to declare the authority upon which it is 
founded. 

3. This section of the passage quoted, contains a plain distinct assertion, 
to which I must give a distinct and unqualified contradiction. Leaden 
weights were never known to be fixed to the wrists of culprits in the stocks, 
or even such a practice imagined by the inhabitants of Trinidad, until the 
publication of the " Four Essays ;" and I have to request that you will 
give up the name of the author of so false and calumnious a charge. 

4th. You state, " It is a legalised substitute for the whip." — If the " It," 
in this sentence, refer only to the instrument of punishment legalised by the 
Proclamation of June, 1824, no commefit of mine is necessary : but if it 
be intended to apply to any instrument of the form and usage described by 
you, in the two foregoing sections of the passage quoted, I nmst beg you to 
favour me with the title and date of the Ordinance by which it was sanc- 
tioned. 

As the reputation of a large and respectable comnmnity may be compro- 
mised by the ambiguity which pervades the passage I have extracted from 
your Work ; and as I am officially appointed by the free inhabitants of 



xxxu 

Trinidad to represent, and protect, so far as I am able, their interests in 
Great Britain, I feel assured that you will consider these circumstances as 
affording ample justification for the liberty I now take, in calling upon you 
for an explanation of the precise meaning of that passage, and for the 
authorities on which your assertions were founded. 

I have the honour to be, 
Sir, 
Your obedient humble Servant, 

WILLIAM H. BURNLEY, 
Deputy and Agent for the Colony of Trinidad. 

P.S. One of the Messrs. Hawkers, of Plymouth, will deliver this Letter, 
and take the trouble of receiving your reply, which, by delivering to him at 
your earliest convenience, will oblige 

Your obedient Servant, 

W. H. B. 

J. Jeremie, Esq. 

Procureur General of the Mauritius, 

«&c. &c. &c. 



No. 2. 

December 29th, 1832. 



Sir, 



Your Letter of the 26th instant has this instant been put 
into my hands. The signal is made for sailing, or I would answer it at 
greater length. You are right in the construction you put upon the pas- 
sages quoted. It was my intention distinctly to convey the impression, 
** that a severe instrument of torture was legalised in Trinidad, and as dis- 
tinctly understood to be used by the inhabitants." That this instrument 
was the one described by me, with the addition of the weights, which were 
rejected in St. Lucia. A model, in wood, the precise counterpart of the 
St. Lucia instrument, with explanations, was sent to that island by Mr. 
Stuart, (brother of General Stuart,) a Planter of your island ; and 'twas 
from that those in St. Lucia were framed. It was first exhibited to me in 
Court by the Colonial Members. I objected to the weights ; and when 
these were thrown aside, consented to its being used, which I had cause 
subsequently to regret. The Ordinance I allude to, was that of June, 
1824; another Ordinance was, as I find by the Parliamentary Papers, 
published by the Governor of Trinidad, on the promulgation of Sir George 
Murray's consolidated Slave Law of 1830, which, in laying down regula- 
tions for the use of these stocks, in a great measure describes them, and 
draws a distinction as to the duration of the punishment, when inflicted 
aritft, ov without the appendages to the wrists. I, of course, cannot complain, 



XXXlll 

nor ever shall, of any call for an explanation of my statements, when 
made in the courteous manner of your present Letter ; and believe me, Sir, 

Your very obedient Servant, 

JOHN JEREMIE. 
W. H. Burnley, Esq. 
Devonshire Place. 

On the receipt of this Letter, I concluded that Mr. Jeremie 
had immediately sailed for the Mauritius ; but observed with 
surprise, sometime afterwards, in the Court Circular, that he 
had been in London, and had interviews at the Colonial Office. 
I regret much that he did not avail himself of that opportunity, 
being in possession of my address, to furnish me with the 
lengthened and accurate explanation, which my letter so de- 
cidedly required, and which the signal for sailing on board the 
Jupiter unfortunately prevented on the 29th of December ; 
more particularly, as both Sir David Stuart, and his brother, 
are now removed, by death, to the grief of their numerous 
friends, from this world, and unable to account for the share 
they are alleged to have had in this transaction. 

It only remains for me to say, in defence of the Colonial 
Office, from which quarter all the Ordinances in Trinidad 
emanate, that by no enactment, either of 1824, or 1830, 
or of any other date, has any instrument of punishment, bear- 
ing the slightest resemblance in its application to the one de- 
scribed by Mr. Jeremie, been legalised. I beg, also, most 
peremptorily to add, in defence of the Colony of Trinidad, 
that had any such instrument been sanctioned in Downing 
Street, the inhabitants would decidedly have declined the use 
of it; and, finally, that I have carefully looked through every 
Parliamentary Paper since 1823, relating to Slaves, including 
an examination of all the Protector's Reports, without finding 
the shadow of an excuse for so unfounded and wanton an 
attack upon the character of a whole community. 

APPENDIX B. 

For a description of a few of the mischievous consequences 
both to Owners and Slaves, arising from the operation of the 
Orders in Council in Dcmerara, see the " Corrected Report 
of the Speech of Viscount Howick," pages 12 to 18; as pub- 
lished at Ridgway's. 

d 



XXXiV 



APPENDIX C. 

At the COURT at St. JAMES, 

The 6th of November, 1832. 
PRESENT, 

THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY. 

The Archbishop of Canterbury. 

Lord Privy Seal. 

Duke of Richmond. 

Marquis of Wellesley. 

Earl of Albemarle. 

Earl Grey. 

Lord John Russell. 

Viscount Palmerstone. 

Viscount Melbourne. 

Viscount Goderich. 

Viscount Althorp. 

Sir James Graham, Bart, 

Sir Thomas Denman. 

Whereas by an Order made by His Majesty in Council on the Second 
day of November, in the year 1831, various Provisions were made respect- 
ing the nature and amount of the Food to be provided for every Slave in 
the Colonies of Trinidad, British Guiana, St. Lucia, the Cape of Good 
Hope, and Mauritius : And whereas by the said Order the Governor of 
each of the said Colonies was empowered from time to time by Proclama- 
tions to be by him for that purpose issued, to authorize the substitution for 
the provisions therein mentioned of any other provisions equivalent to, and 
equally nutritious with the same : And whereas by the said Order, Regu- 
lations were also made respecting the appropriation of ground for the 
maintenance of the Slaves in the said Colonies : And whereas by the said 
Order certain other Regulations were also made respecting the length of 
time during which Slaves in the said Colonies should be compelled or bound 
to engage in any manufacturing labour. And whereas by the said Order 
provision was also made respecting the articles of Clothing and Household 
Furniture, to be supplied to every Slave therein. And whereas it hath 
been represented to His Majesty that some of the several Regulations afore- 
said cannot be enforced in the said Colonies ivithout great prejudice to the 
Slaves therein, nor without a ruinous loss to the Owners of such Slaves ; and 
that otlier Regulations might be established in the said respective Colonies 
for securing to the Slaves therein an adequate supply of Food, Clothing, 
and Household Furniture, and for preventing the undue exaction of manu- 
facturing labour, more compatible with the interests of the Owners of such 
Slaves, and equally conducive to the benefit of the Slaves themselves ; It 
is therefore Ordered by the King's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with 
the advice of His Privy Council, that it shall be lawful for the Governors 
of the said respective Colonies, and they and each of them are and is here- 
by authorized by any Proclamations to be by them from time to time for 
that purpose issued, to suspend so much and such parts of the before-men- 



. ;XXXV 

tioned Order in Council relating to the several measures aforesaid or any of 
them as to such respective Governors shall appear inapplicable to the state 
and condition of the said respective Colonies ; and by such Proclamations 
to establish such other Rules and Regiilations respecting the several measures 
aforesaid or any of them as shall to such respective Governors appear to be 
more compatible with the interests of the Owners of the Slaves therein, 
and better adapted for securing to such Slaves an adequate supply of Food, 
Clothing, and Household Furniture ; and for preventing the undue exaction 
of manufacturing labour. Provided always, that all such Proclamations 
shall be transmitted for His Majesty's approbation, and confirmed and 
approved or disallowed by His Majesty in such and the same manner and 
according to all such and the same Rules as are provided in and by the 
said Order in Council in reference to the Proclamations which by the said 
Order the said Governors are authorized to issue. And provided also, that 
all and every the Pains, Penalties, and Forfeitures which, under and in 
pursuance of the said Order may be incurred, levied, and recovered for any 
neglect of or disobedience to the Regulations therein contained respecting 
the Food, Maintenance, Clothing, Household Furniture, and manufactu- 
ring labour of Slaves, shall also be incurred, levied, and recovered in such 
and the same manner and (save as hereinafter is provided) before such and 
the same Courts and Judges as are therein mentioned, in case of any 
neglect of or disobedience to any Proclamation so to be issued as 
aforesaid. And whereas it is by the said Order amongst other things 
provided, that all offences which are therein declared to be misdemeanors 
shall be prosecuted, and that all Fines and Penalties for the recoveiy 
of which provision is not expressly therein made, shall be recovered 
in the Supreme Court of Criminal Justice of the Colony in which the 
same shall be incurred ; It is therefore further ordered by the authority 
aforesaid, that all Fines or pecuniary Penalties which may be incurred under 
the said recited Order, or under this present Order, in respect of any 
offences which are thereby declared to be, or which, by virtue thereof, shall 
be misdemeanors, shall and maj', at the election of any Protector or Assis- 
tant Protector of Slaves, be recovered either by a summary proceeding 
to be for that purpose taken by any such Protector or Assistant Protector 
of Slaves, in such manner and subject to all such Regulations and Provisos 
as is and are in and by the said Order declared aud contained in respect 
of fines or pecuniary Penalties thereby made recoverable in such summary 
manner as is therein mentioned, or by a Prosecution before the said Supreme 
Courts respectively. Provided always, that when any such Protector or 
Assistant Protector shall elect to proceed by any such summary process, 
the Judgment or Sentence to be thereupon given, shall be a bar to any 
other Prosecution before the Supreme Court of Criminal Justice of any such 
Colony for the same offence ; and provided also, that in no sucii summary 
proceeding as aforesaid shall any greater sum be recovered as and for a 
Fine and Penalty than is by the said recited Order made recoverable upon 
such summai-y proceedings as are therein mentioned. 

And tiie Right Honourable Viscount Godkrich, one of His Majesty's 
Principal Secretaries of State, is to give the necessary directions herein 
accordingly. 

d 2 



XXXVl 



APPENDIX D. 

The evidence alluded to, proving that the cultivation of 
sugar is infinitely less laborious in Trinidad than in Barbadoes, 
is to be found in Parliamentary Papers, No. 479, Session 
1827; which were largely referred to by Mr. Powell Buxton, 
in the course of his examination before the Select Committee 
of the House of Lords. In these papers, Mr. John Cobham, 
a native of Barbadoes, and for some time proprietor of a sugar 
-estate in that island, who afterwards settled in Trinidad, and 
had been, at the time he was examined, in the possession and 
personal management of a sugar estate for sixteen months, 
gives the following evidence, which was taken on oath before a 
Committee of Council in Trinidad, appointed by the Governor, 
Sir Ralph Woodford, in 1825. 

** In the event of a Slave considering himself ill used in Barbadoes, were 
his facilities of complaint equal to what they are here ?" — " No ; the facili- 
lities of complaint were by no means equal to what they are here." 

" Do the Slaves work harder here than in Barbadoes ?" — " No ; the 
Slaves in Barbadoes do infinitely more work in a day than Slaves here, and 
apparently with perfect ease to themselves." — P. 36, No. 479—1827. 

Mr. Mitchell, whose evidence constitutes the foundation of 
the greater part of the Statement relative to Trinidad, de- 
livered in by Mr. Buxton to the Committee of the Lords, 
gives the following account of Cane Cultivation in that 
island. 

'* You stated before, that many of those who worked out, planted canes. 
Is this a laborious occupation, and in what respect does it differ from 
planting canes in the old islands ?" — " It in no respects resembles that work 
in the old islands ; no more land is turned up than is just sufficient to 
cover the plant, and no hole is dug ; it is as easy as the cultivation of provi- 
sions."— P. 32— Id. 

Such was the evidence then in possession of Mr, Buxton. 
Placed again in this new light before him, I trust he will 
now renounce the opinion, that the decrease in the Slave po- 
pulation of Trinidad must be ascribed to excessive labour in 
the cultivation of sugar estates, and that the increase in the 
population of Barbadoes is not altogether attributable to the 
comparative lightness of labour in that island. 



xxxvu 



APPENDIX E. 

The most extraordinary instance of Mr. Buxton's inaptitude 
to draw correct conclusions from the best evidence in his pos- 
session, is to be found in the following statement made by him 
to the Lords. 

" But this is not the only Parliamentary Paper which may be adduced 
in proof of the position, that the manumitted Slaves of Trinidad, and their 
descendants, are fully competent to support themselves, and are a loyal, and 
peaceable, as well as industrious people." A motion was made in the 
House of Commons, on the 6th of June, 1825, for a return of " the sums 
raised for the support of the poor in Trinidad," since the 1st of January, 
1821 ; and of the number and names of the persons receiving relief, distin- 
guishing the while from the free black and coloured paupers." A return 
was made to this order, and printed by order of the House of Commons on 
the 9th of May, 1826, No. 353 ; it is as follows :— " That no sums appear 
to have been raised in that Colony for the relief of the poor. Certified by 
H. St. Hill, Treasurer of the Colony."— P. 939, No. 127—1832. 

Mr. Buxton, when delivering in this paper, firmly believed, 
no doubt, that the free Black and Coloured labouring popu- 
lation of Trinidad were universally industrious, competent in 
all cases to support themselves, and that, in consequence, there 
were no paupers among them. It is surprising, however, that, 
in turning over the leaves of the Parliamentary Papers, No. 
479, Session 1827, his eye never rested on the following evi- 
dence by Dr. O'Connor. 

" You are, then, of opinion, that the condition of the free labouring 
classes in the Colony is inferior to that of the Slaves ?" — " My observations 
are Umited to Port of Spain, and three leagues round, and in that space 
I am decidedly of opinion, that their condition is not equal to that of a 
Slave ; in health and strength, a single free man appears to be in prospe- 
rity ; but when he gets encumbered with a family, or deprived of his 
health, from accident, or disease, having previously made no provision, he 
and his family suffer the most abject misery ; and I know many free 
labourers who cohabit with Slave Negresses from no better motive that I can 
discover but to ensure themselves a subsistence." — P. 21, iVo. 479 — 1827. 

It is equally extraordinary that he did not advert to Mr. 
Robbins's evidence respecting the free population in his vi- 
cinity. 

" You consider, then, their condition not to be equal to that of Slaves.'' 
— " Their condition and comforts are, in no respect, equal to that of 
Slaves; they are abandoned to every description of vice ; and in case of 
sickness, would die of want and misery, unless relieved by charity." — 
P. 25, No. 479. 

d3 



xxxviii 

But it is almost incomprehensible how the following evi- 
dence should have escaped his attention, given by James 
Meany, Esq., who had then filled for seven years, and holds 
to the present day, the important offices of Town Major, 
and Chief of Police, in Port of Spain, the capital of the 
island. 

" Do your official duties lead you much in the way of the free labour 
ing classes in Port of Spain ?" — " It is a particular part of my duty to 
keep a vigilant eye over them." 

" Are they generally in comfortable and easy circumstances ?" — " Gene- 
rally they are in great poverty, and, I believe, live only from hand to 
mouth .; for usually, when they fall sick, they are in extreme want and re- 
quire assistance ; and when they die, they generally leave no funds for 
their burial. The coffin, if it cannot be procured by subscription amongst 
their surviving friends, is furnished by the cabildo, and the grave dug 
gratis. This very frequently occurs ; so much so, that I have a regular 
contract with Martinborough, the carpenter, to furnish the coffins when 
required."— P. 37, No. 479— 182T. 

Evidence, shewing the misery of the free Coloured people 
of Trinidad, is to be found in every part of these papers, the 
Committee having been expressly appointed to inquire into 
their condition. Yet, with such ample, conclusive, and pointed 
information before him, Mr. Buxton throws the whole aside, 
eagerly lays hold of Papers, 363, Session, 1826 ; and because 
he therein finds it certified by the Treasurer of Trinidad, that 
no funds were raised for the poor, he satisfies himself that 
there must be no poor to provide for. Pre-occupied with the one 
favourite idea, that a Slave has only to be made free, to be 
made industrious and comfortable, he cannot and will not be- 
lieve any accounts of their misery and destitution, but finds 
immediately a proof of their easy and happy circumstances in 
a short certificate, which proves nothing but the determination 
of the Government to provide no funds for their relief. 

It may be thought unfair to form so decided an opinion 
from the examination of one particular part of that Gentle- 
man's evidence, in which a mistake may have arisen from in- 
attention or negligence, to which the best of us are occasion- 
ally subject. I will, therefore, review another portion of his 
statement to the Lords, which, as well as the foregoing, was 
not made verbally, but in a written paper, previously drawn up 
at his leisure, with careful reference, no doubt, to every docu- 
ment necessary to support his opinions. The following passage 
is to be found at page 938 of his evidence. 



XXXIX 



Free Labour in Trinidad. 

But the only'use that may be made of the case of the emancipated Slaves, 
and their descendants, residing in Trinidad, is not to prove alone the 
greater rapidity of the increase by natural propagation of the free, than of 
the Slaves — a point which has been abundantly proved \ but it may be 
adduced to show, that emancipated Slaves are fully capable of providing 
comfortably for their own subsistence ; and are, also, not likely, if put 
legally in possession of their freedom, to cause any disturbance of the public 
peace, or to act otherwise than peaceably and loyally. 

To take, first, tlie case of the Refugee Slaves, from the United States, 
already referred to, and of whom an account is given in the Parliamentary 
Paper, No. 479, of 1827. 

]Mr. Mitchell, their Superintendant, states, that they labour very indus- 
triously in their own grounds, and maintain themselves, and their fami- 
lies, in comfort, being persons of peaceable and domestic habits, and of 
moral and religious lives. They are, also, as he testifies, perfectly willing, 
at least the men among them, to hire themselves to labour in Plantation 
work, on Sugar Estates, at reasonable rates, chiefly by the piece ; and that 
the labour they undertake to perform, is generally well executed. — 
P. 3, 5, 32, Sfc. 

Sir Ralph Woodford, the Governor, had put the question to Mr. Mitchell 
— " Whether Sugar Estates could be carried on entirely by free labour?" 
Mr. Mitchell is of opinion, that the main obstacle to their doing so, arises 
from the necessity under which Sugar Planters consider themselves to be 
placed, of causing their labourers to loork on the mannfacture of Sugar for 
six hours of the night, as ivell as for twelve hours of the day. In a letter, 
dated June 27, 1823, he thus writes, in reply to the Governor; " I do not 
think they could, (that is, I do not think that Sugar Estates could be 
carried on entirely by free labour,) in the manner the work is carried on 
at present." He then describes what that manner is ; " Planters, making 
large quantities of Sugar in a given time, in many instances, working 
eighteen out of twenty-four hours ; which constant labour, the free settlers, 
whose circumstances render them independent, will not submit to." But, 
then, he is of opinion, that even while that formidable obstacle remains to 
deter the free from engaging in all the same kinds of Plantation labour 
with the Slave, and, therefore, from cari-ying on Sugar Estates, entirely as 
things are now conducted, " Estates may be, and are greatly assisted by 
them ; and, in many instances, within my own knowledge, the canes are 
planted and cut down, while the staves, hoops, and heading, are split by 
them. And were the free population greater, I have no doubt that Sugar 
Estates, carrying on labour from sun-rise, to sun-set, might be worked by 
them, while the Planter would receive moderate indemnification from his 
outlay."- No. 479 of 1 827, p. 33. 

I will now proceed to examine, on Mr. Mitchell's own 
showing, how far these emancipated Slaves were fully capable 
of providing comfortably for their own subsistence. 

It will be seen, by a perusal of this Gentleman's evidence, 

d4 



xl 

at^page 2 of the same papers, that these labourers found fouf 
large buildings, sixty feet long, and twenty wide, ready for 
their accommodation, immediately on their arrival in Trinidad; 
that they received nails and necessary tools to erect their 
houses; all the agricultural implements they required, and a 
suflSciency of cooking utensils, with provisions and rations for 
eight months; and, in fact, were completely set up in the 
world by the British Government, at the expense of .£30,000. 
currency, or about £34. for each individual, including infants 
at the breast ; each settler receiving, besides, sixteen acres of 
fertile land, for which he was only required to pay an annual 
rent of 6s. 6d. sterling, or about 4|of , per acre. 

To have maintained themselves comfortably under such cir- 
cumstances, is certainly not very surprising; but it may be so 
to hear, that, from that day to this, they have never paid one 
single farthing of rent for their land, nor even for their me- 
dicine, attendance, and nourishment, when in hospital, which 
was furnished by Government at the low rate of 7s. 6d. per 
quarter. Mr. Mitchell is asked, at page 32, the same page 
perused by Mr. Buxton. 

" Since rations used to be distributed to them in 1817, have any of them, 
from want, required relief?" — " Yes ; every year there are some of them 
who return from working out, and who have, in the interval, abandoned 
their grounds/' 

" In what way do they receive relief?" — "■ They generally come with a 
sore, or plea of sickness, and are admitted upon the hospital list." 

" You stated that you had refused permission to the refugees to work 
out until the hospital dues were paid ; how has that operated to effect the 
payment?"—" In a very trifling degree; they soon found the means of 
working out, without my permission." 

" How much is due by them, at present, to the hospital fiind ?"— " About 
£700. currency. 

Such is the evidence of Mr. Mitchell, which to Mr. Buxton 
affords proof that these emancipated labourers are able to main- 
tain themselves and their families in comfort ; whilst it must 
be obvious to every other person, that if they had been dealt 
with as labourers in England and Ireland always are, they 
would all have been long since lodged in jail. It is unques- 
tionable, that by furnishing individuals with 16 acres of fine 
land gratis, with law and police free of all expense, with house 
and household furniture, as well as medical attendance when 
really in sickness, and nourishment in hospital when they 



xU 

choose only to affect it, that a very comfortable and prolifie 
population may be formed ; but, unless the British nation be 
prepared to deal with the 800,000 Negroes in the Colonies 
when emancipated, as it has done with the 876 American 
Kefugees in Trinidad, the evidence respecting them can be of 
little service as a guide to any useful plan of emancipation. 

We will now inquire what Mr. Mitchell says, as to their 
moral and domestic habits. 



" Taking them generally, do you consider them to be a sober people ?" 
— " They consume a great quantity of mm, but many of them are sober, 
particularly the officers and head men." 

" What are the Committee to understand by your expression of ' many' 
of them being sober ?" — " About one half I consider sober, who either do 
not drink at all, or who do not drink to excess frequently." 

" Are the women at all given to intoxication ?" — " A few of them." 

" Do you think in a greater proportion than Slave women ?" — " I think 
more than I should expect to find in an equal number of Slave women.'* — 
P. 3. 

" In the return you have given in of the separations amongst the married 
couples, it appears, that, in nine out often cases, the women have deserted 
their husbands ; from your observations, do you consider the women to be 
less constant in their attachments than the men ?"— " I think so ; I have 
generally observed a disinclination amongst the females in all the free la- 
bouring classes to marry ; those who are Catholics, defer until they are in 
extremity, to ensure absolution from the Priest." — P. 32. 

TVe will now see how far Mr. Mitchell's evidence supports 
Mr. Buxton's assertion, that these people are willing to labour 
for hire on Sugar Estates at reasonable rates. I will not quote 
the rates referred to by the Honourable Gentleman, in favour 
of his own opinions, by which it appears that they can earn 
4s. sterling per day, because such rates might not appear to us 
particularly reasonable, although they may be so, if the em- 
ployer can make any profit by his cultivation ; and by that 
test alone is it fair to try it. 

" You stated in your evidence before the Council last year, that you had 
increased your gang of Slaves considerably since 1817; how many have 
you purchased since that period ?" — " About forty." 

" With the means, then, of purchasing Slaves, you consider it to be more 
advantageous so to do, than depend upon the free labourers in your vici- 
nity?"—" I do." 

" Would you give a preference to a gang of hired Slaves, rather than 
depend upon the free labourers?"—" I would ; as they could be depended 
upon. Last year, my free labourers left me in the middle of crop, by which 
I suffered considerable loss." — P. 34. 



xlii 

It appears, therefore, by Mr. Mitchell's evidence, that the 
reasonable rates of these free labourers were in fact less advan- 
tageous than the most extravagant description of Slave labour 
as furnished by hired gangs; but the evidence of Mr. Stuart, 
the Assistant Superintendent of these people, under Mr. 
Mitchell, is still more conclusive. 

" The Committee have been given to understand that you have settled 
one, if not two Sugar Estates, by the labour of these free people ?" — " No ; 
I cannot say that information is correct ; I began to settle the Estate called 
Broomage, (vyhich I have sold to Mr. Brown,) in 1815, prior to the arrival of 
the Americans, and received very little assistance from them until the 
crops of the Estate were established. 

" What is the name of your present Estate ; and did you not commence it 
in the expectation of carrying it on exclusively with free labour ?" — " The 
name of my Estate is, ' Who's Afraid.' I commenced it in 1819 j but cer- 
tainly under no idea of carrying it on with free labour alone. I was in 
possession, at that time, of about fifteen Negroes ; and having money due to 
me from the sale of the Broomage Estate, I intended to purchase more. I 
certainly expected assistance from these people in cutting wood, &c. ; but, 
I think, a man would be mad to expect to carry on a Sugar Estate by any 
free labour, which I have had an opportunity of knowing." 

" What are the principal difficulties and impediments to such an under- 
taking ?" — " You can place no dependence upon them ; when you most 
want their services, they are most likely to fly off, and leave you without 
giving any reason." 

" Have you, upon the whole, found their services useful in assisting your 
Slaves to settle your last Estate ?" — " I have not ; the first trial I made of 
them, I contracted with a party to cutlass brush wood, burn it off, and 
plant it in canes ; they got unfortunately about 50 dollars in my debt, and 
went off with all my axes and cutlasses, which I had some difficulty in re- 
covering by application to Mr. Mitchell." 

" Did you not ever recover your 50 dollars by the same means ?" — " I did 
not even attempt it." 

" Who was the contract made with ; the labourers individually, or with 
the headman for the rest ?" ~ " The general rule is to make a contract with 
one, who is supposed to be responsible for the others." 

" Has this responsible man no property on which to levy, in the event of 
a breach of trust, or contract ?" — " So little, that no man would incur the 
trouble and expense of a suit for the chance of recovering from him^" 

" Are you then of opinion, with the experience you now possess, that a 
Sugar Estate cannot be carried on by the labour of these people ?" — " I 
think it impossible ; in fact, I have given up the attempt to cultivate Sugar 
on the Estate I last settled, from the disappointments I received from them, 
and am now planting coffee only." — P. 43, No. 479 — 1827. 

In weighing the va4ue of the evidence given by these two 
gentlemen, it must always be borne in mind that they were 



xliii 

totally dependent upon the Government for their appointments 
and salaries ; and that the Committee of Council before whom 
they were examined, had no voice either in the raising- or in 
the distribution of the public money, the whole being under 
the controul and management of the Colonial Office ; and that, 
if any bias can be supposed to have affected the evidence of 
these witnesses, it must have been in favour of the free 
labourers, from whose superintendance they derived their prin- 
cipal means of support. 

The examination of this portion of Mr. Buxton's statement 
to the Lords cannot be dismissed without adverting to the 
charge conveyed in the assertion, that Mr. Mitchell was of 
opinion, that the main obstacle to Sugar Estates being carried 
on entirely by free labour, arose from the circumstance of the 
Planters in Trinidad working their Slaves 18 hours out of the 
24, in the manufacturing of Sugar. Mr. Mitchell, on the 27th 
of June, 1823, had been previously examined before the 
Governor and Board of Council, relative to the practicability 
of carrying on Sugar Estates by free labour, having then been 
eight years Superintendent of the emancipated American Refu- 
gees ; his evidence before the Board was decidedly against 
any such expectation. On the following day, he seems to 
have thought it necessary to qualify the evidence he had given 
publicly, by writing a private letter to the Governor, in which 
he made the assertions referred to by Mr. Buxton. This 
letter was laid, with other papers and documents, by Sir Ralph 
Woodford, before the Committee of Inquiry, instituted in 
1825, and appears in the Parliamentary Papers, No. 479, 
Session 1827, p. 32 ; and the evidence of Mr. Mitchell, when 
questioned respecting it, is as follows : 



" You stated in the same Letter to the Governor, that Slaves, on Sugar 
Estates, worked, in many instances, 18 hours out of the 24 ; do you mean, 
in these cases, to aUude to the whole gang upon an estate, and to every day 
throughout the year ?"— " I mean only in the time of crop, and the people 
employed at the mill and works." 

« How much Sugar per week is made on the largest Estate in your 
quarter ?"— " From ten to twelve hogsheads ; generally the rate is from 
eiglit or nine, or one and a half hogsheads per day, of thirty-six inch truss." 

" How many gallons of Uquor would it take to make one and a half of 
these hogsheads ?"— " About 2,000 gallons in the yielding season." 

" Do you not, from your knowledge of a Sugar Estate, consider it to be 
great mismanagement to take 18 hours to boil off 2,000 gallons of liquor ?" 



xliv 

— " 1 do, when the coppers are well hung, in which respect great improvi' 
merits have been made of late." 

" Is it a general custom, in your quarter, on Estates, to make the mill 
and boiling house gang work, in crop time, 18 hours out of the 24 ?"— " I 
do not tliink it is the custom at present ; but I think it was three years 
ago." 

" Do you know, from your own observation, that this was the case ?" — 
" I have been told so." 

The foregoing Evidence, given by Mr. Mitchell, immediately 
follows, on the same page, the letter to Sir Ralph Woodford, 
referred to by Mr. Buxton ; and yet the latter gentleman, 
with the whole of these documents before him, clings to the 
opinion expressed in the private letter, in preference to the 
subsequent evidence, taken on oath, in which Mr. Mitchell 
confesses that he had asserted as a fact, to the Governor, that 
which, during eighteen years, as a Planter, he had never 
personally witnessed ;— corroborated, too, as his sworn evi- 
dence is by other circumstantial facts, which prove that an ex- 
tension of the labouring hours to eighteen, in the manufactory 
of Sugar, was impossible in the small establishments of Trini- 
dad, making only from eight or nine light casks per week, 
except under wilful mismanagement. 

In this manner, however, has Mr. Buxton pretty generally 
dealt with the affairs of Trinidad, throughout the whole of his 
examination before the Lords ; and if the same prepossessions 
in favour of his own pre-conceived ideas have governed all 
his inferences and deductions from other documents relative 
to other parts of the world, his evidence will prove a most 
dangerous guide by which to direct our present course. 



APPENDIX F. 
No. 5. 

The native Indians, inhabiting the Continent of America, 
appear unable to exist in the vicinity of other races possessing 
a higher degree of civilization. In all cases, they readily 
adopt their vices, without being able to acquire the counter- 
acting virtue of industrious exertion ; and have gradually dis- 
appeared from the face of the earth, wherever they have come 
in contact with Europeans. Exaggerated tales have been told 
and believed of their extirpation in the Carribean Islands, by 



xlv 

the cruelty of the Spaniards ; but Las Casas, their great advo- 
cate, appears to have been of opinion, that the chief cruelty 
exercised upon them, was, in obliging them to work, which 
their natures could not endure; for it was at his suggestion, 
that the Emperor, Charles the Fifth, first granted a patent to 
supply the Spanish Colonies with Africans, to substitute as 
labourers in their place. A considerable number of the Abori- 
gines existed in Trinidad, at the capture of the Colony, in 
1797, of which a regular census is taken by the Commissary 
of Population. The only Parliamentary Paper I can discover, 
which specifies their numbers, is No. 89, Session 1823, by 
which it appears, that, in 1812, they amounted to 892 males, 
and 912 females— total 1804; and that, in 1821, they had 
dwindled down, in the course of ten years, to 956 of both 
sexes. They continue to diminish annually, and, in a short 
period, not a trace of them will remain in the Colony. 

This Parliamentary Paper contains, besides, a census of the 
free coloured and Slave population ; and, although it has been 
largely referred to by writers who are pleased to abuse the 
Planters for the decrease in the numbers of the Slaves, it is 
curious to observe, that none of them have thought it worth 
while to notice the rapid decrease of the Indians, who are 
specially protected by the Government, provided with Churches 
and Schools, and work no harder than they please, to enable 
them to procure a subsistence. 

APPENDIX G. 

No. 6. 

Copious proofs, derived from Parliamentary documents, of 
the tenacity with which the British nation and Government 
have invariably clung to Slavery, are given in the Historical 
Account of the African Slave Trade, drawn up by William 
Burge, Esq., the persevering and talented Agent for Jamaica, 
to be found in Appendix A. page 1191, of the Report of 
the Select Committee of the House of Lords, on the state 
of the West India Colonies. None of the cases ciied, how- 
ever, are of later date than the year 1774. But the history 
of the Government of Trinidad will supply materials for the 
subsequent period, and bring our proofs down to 1831. 



xlvi 

This Colony was captured by us in 1797, and it vi'^as imme- 
diately determined by the Government to reserve it as a Colony of 
experiment. That nothing might interfere with the undisturbed 
exercise of our experimental policy, the inhabitants were pur- 
posely deprived of every semblance of a popular representation, 
or free government ; and were retained as they are to the present 
day, under the dominion of the Colonial Ofl&ce. At this time the 
great question of Slavery had been fully and widely discussed, 
both within and without the walls of ParliamentJ and philan- 
thropists of all parties had decided upon the policy of attempt- 
ing its extinction ; neither were materials wanting on which to 
found an immediate course of proceeding, for Mr. Burke had, 
five years before, published his Letter to Mr. Dundas, embracing 
a plan for the final extinction of Slavery in the Colonies. 
Under these circumstances, it seems natural to suppose that 
the British course of experiments in Trinidad would have 
commenced with the abolition of Slavery ; a measure, which 
could have been effected without difficulty, and without ex- 
pense ; for the Slaves were few in number ; had recently been 
imported ; and their owners, conquered by our arms, would 
have easily and readily retired to the adjoining possessions of 
the King of Spain, on Terra-firma. At least, we might have 
expected that the further importation of Slaves would have 
been prohibited, the trade having been previously denounced 
by a majority in the House of Commons ; but neither step was 
adopted ; and the British Government deliberately determined, 
that Slavery and the Slave Trade should be protected and 
continued in their experimental Colony of Trinidad. And 
this was in 1797. 

Even under this arrangement, the condition of Slavery might 
have been mitigated, and a provision made in favour of the 
Negro, reserving for his own use and benefit one or more days 
in the week. The price of a Slave would, no doubt, have been 
affected by such an Ordinance ; his value, in the Slave 
Market, would have been reduced ; the British Merchant 
would have protested ; Liverpool and Bristol would have in- 
dignantly remonstrated and petitioned; but the Planter in 
Trinidad would have had cause to rejoice in the experiment, 
and to bless the legislation of Downing Street. But, instead 
of this, a new Code was imposed upon the inhabitants, abro- 
gating, so far as it went, the mild Spanish system, and only 



xlvii 

allowing to the Slave thirteen days in the year for the cultiva- 
tion of his provision grounds. No. 465, Session 1827. — And 
this was in 1800. 

Some years afterwards, to the great consternation of the 
inhabitants, an inquiry was suddenly instituted by Government 
into the nature of the titles to all properties in the island, the 
state of their cultivation, and the strength of their gangs ; and 
it was declared by proclamation, that if any estates were found, 
at the expiration of two years from that time, not cultivated 
in the proportion of one-fourth of their extent, and on which 
there were not resident at least one Negro for every five 
quarrees, or sixteen acres of land, they should incur an annual 
fine of 5s. for every quarree, and, in default of payment, be 
seized and forfeited to the Crown. No. 478, Session 1827. 
The Governor was authorized, at the same time, to sell the 
Crown Lands under similar terms and conditions, both as to 
cultivation and number of Slaves, but only to the extent of 
360 English acres to each individual purchaser. But, asto- 
nishing as the fact may be, it was determined, for the express 
purpose of tempting strangers to bring into this experimental 
Colonial Office Colony '* a great number of Slaves," that a 
special bonus should be offered to them: in which case (says 
the Proclamation) " They will be recommended to His Royal 
Highness (the Prince Regent's) gracious favour for a greater 
extent of land, than is herein before limited." — No. 16, Ses- 
sion 1823, p. 63. — And this was in 1815. 

Under the foregoing conditions, thousands of acres were dis- 
posed of at public sale, the purchase money lodged in His 
Majesty's Treasury, and expended for such purposes as 
Government thought fit to direct; and so rigidly were these 
conditions enforced, that large tracts were subsequently resumed 
by the Crown, from the inability of the purchasers to conform 
to them. Id. p. 29. 

Curiosity will now naturally induce us to enquire, when 
these instructions were annulled. The year before last. His 
Majesty's Representative in the Colony of Trinidad was per- 
mitted, it would seem, for the first time, to dispose of the 
Crown Lands, without compelling the purchaser, on pain of 
confiscation, to stock them with Slaves. — And this was in 1831. 

The history of the share, whicli the British nation, through 
its Government, has taken in the establishment, encouragement. 



xlviii 

and continuation of Slavery, is now exhibited to the public in 
an uninterrupted series of dates from 1558, down to 1831 ; 
shewing, that it is not altogether an antiquated sin, a wretched 
inheritance, for' which we can comfortably and piously abuse 
our forefathers, whilst we laud own own superior virtue ; but 
a crime which we have perpetrated and profited by, up to the 
present hour. 

APPENDIX H, 

In stating that capitalists have fixed upon ten per cent, as 
an equitable interest upon their loans to West India Planters, 
I do not pretend to be particularly initiated in these mercan- 
tile mysteries, but have followed, on the present occasion. 
Lord Howick's authority, as I find it stated in his plan for 
the abolition of Slavery, page 90 ; Ridgway's edition. 

" The interest on such debts, or the annual charges to which the bor- 
rower is subject on account of them, have been variously stated as 
amounting, on an average, from ten to fifteen per cent. To avoid ex- 
aggeration, it may be taken at ten per cent., which is probably much 
below the truth." 

I presume that his Lordship must be correctly informed 
in these matters, possessing, as he did, the peculiar advantage 
of communicating and conferring freely on all occasions with 
the mortgagees of St. James's Street. 



APPENDIX I. 

To the uninitiated, it has long been a matter of surprise, that 
the Estates of West India Planters are always encumbered 
with mortgages. One writer imputes it to their extravagant 
immoral courses, which keep them involved in debt ; another 
ascribes it to the ruinously expensive quality of Slave-labour, 
by which it is alleged they annually incur a loss instead of a 
profit, by the cultivation of their Estates. Various other 
causes have been assigned, but never the true one. It arises 
from the practical operation of the British Colonial system, 
by which the whole capital, stock, and value of property in the 
Colonies, is made always to merge in Great Britain. A Planter 



xlix 

rarely considers the West Indies as his permanent home ; but 
whenever he has earned the means, always returns to Europe. 
Many causes combine to produce this determination ; but it 
may be sufficient to state only one — that our most distant 
dependencies are dictated to in London, from whence all 
appointments of dignity and profit emanate ; consequently, 
every man of independent spirit will, in preference, endeavour 
to take a share in the Government at home, rather than submit 
to servitude abroad. Generations, in succession, have made for- 
tunes out of the productive soil of the Colonies ; but the 
JEstates always remain in debt, being transferred, by the 
wealthy retiring occupants, to young, active, and pennyless 
individuals, content to stake their lives against the chances of a 
fortune, who begin the world by giving a mortgage on the 
property for the amount of the purchase money. 

In this way has the whole value of the West India Colonies 
been paid for, over and over again, and quietly deposited in 
Great Britain ; whilst loud cries of distress have been always 
heard at the same time, and justly too, from the Planters. 

Since the close of the American war of independence, the 
purchaser of West India property has alv/ays made an un- 
profitable bargain ; and has been invariably compelled to work 
the Estate under circumstances much more disadvantageous, 
than he could have rationally and fairly anticipated when he 
received possession. 

In the first place, he had to contend with the gradual fall in 
prices, created by a general extension of tropical cultivation, 
arising from our determination to be the greatest Slave-dealers 
in the world. Then followed the mania, during the Admi- 
nistration of Mr. Pitt, subsequent to the destruction of St. 
Domingo, which fired us with the ambition of becoming the 
wholesale grocers of Europe ; the result of which left upon our 
hands, at the conclusion of the war, an additional number of 
Colonies, captured at an enormous expense, and yielding a 
supply of tropical produce, far beyond our domestic wants, to 
the great loss and injury of the old British Colonists. Next 
in succession came the Custom-house wars with the United 
States of America, fought at the entire expense of the West 
India planters, for the sole purpose of protecting our navi- 
gation and commercial monopolies, in which we have been so 
completely beaten, physically and morally, as ultimately to 



glorify ourselves on account of their partial abandonment. 
Finally, came our fit of repentance, in which, after indulging, 
beyond any other nation in the world, in the sin of Slavery, 
and lauding the pleasure and the profit it afforded, we now 
flatter ourselves, when the day of fruition is passed by, with 
the hope of retrieving our characters by the easy process of ex- 
tinguishing the evidence of our guilt. This intention is ac- 
companied certainly with a promise to the ear, of taking into 
fair and equitable consideration the interests of the unhappy 
parties we have engaged in it, but which, in the mode of exe- 
cution, is absolutely to be violated ; for, a grant of money, the 
bulk of which must fall to the share of the mortgagees, and 
remain attached to the stock of accumulated profits in Great 
Britain, can afford to the Planters no compensation for dis- 
locating the whole frame of their society. So that the wonder 
is, not that the West Indians have been always in distress, 
but that even the economy and efficiency of the Colonial 
system has, hitherto, enabled them to withstand so many 
drains, and shocks, — and escape, to the present period, total 
bankruptcy. 

APPENDIX K. 

Disputants have so vexed the question of ' Free labour/ 
that a few more remarks respecting the export of Sugar from 
Venezuela appear necessary. One party seem to lay it down 
as a general rule, that it is physically impossible for a free 
black labourer to make Sugar ; whilst their opponents, on 
discovering a single exception, immediately exult in the cer- 
tainty, that the Sugar cultivation of our Colonies will be fully 
maintained, after the extinction of Slavery ; — both parties are 
in error. It may be set down as an axiom, that whatever a 
Slave can do, a freeman can do, and better if he please. But 
upon that contingency the whole question under consideration 
depends. Wherever bountiful nature, or bountiful fortune, 
provides for all his wants, it will be his sovereign will and 
pleasure to do nothing. It cannot be otherwise : the Deity 
has so ordered it. Indolence is as necessary an element in 
the composition of society as industry : by it alone are accu- 
mulated heaps scattered, and properties in some degree 
equalised, without which no wholesome state of society can 



li 

exist. If indolence, which, in its enlarged sense, includes the 
desire of enjoying every luxury at the expense of another 
man's labour, did not counteract the ambition of wealth and 
power, no laws of entail would be required in this country, 
to keep lordly possessions entire. Neither is violent exertion 
incompatible with indolence ; on the contrary, its occasional 
exercise constitutes a necessary stimulant to prevent the ani- 
mal system from sinking into lethargy ; consequently, most 
idle gentlemen, whether savage or civilised, are prone to war 
or the chase. 

With these explanations, it will appear by no means surpris- 
ing that the first articles of export supplied by a genuine 
savage, should be pickled heads and peltry; the carcasses, in 
both instances, furnishing a previous meal. In the next, and 
first step towards industry and civilization, he offers for barter 
only those articles which nature bestows spontaneously : — it 
may be Mahogany, in St. Domingo ; Sandal Wood, in the 
South Seas ; Palm Oil, Gold Dust, and Elephants Teeth, in 
Africa. A further advance in improvement is productive of 
Coffee, Cotton, Cocoa, Pepper, and various other articles, re- 
quiring but moderate labour in their cultivation, and simple 
preparation to fit them for exportation. In this stage, the 
freeman in the tropics is quite capable of growing the Sugar 
Cane, and always does. With a common iron pot it is as easy 
to boil down the juice to a thick syrup, or a doughy consist- 
ence, as to cook a potatoe. In these modes it is manufac- 
tured in St. Domingo, and throughout Venezuela. In the 
latter province it is wrapped up in a plaintain leaf in its 
doughy state, in forms of about three pounds each, and sold 
under the term of * papelones,' which constitute, I suspect, the 
principal portion of the vaunted exportation of Sugar to 
Curajoa, a dry, sterile island, close to the main land, where 
the cane cannot be cultivated. But the Sugar of commerce, 
which must be well granulated, and freed from its grossest im- 
purities, can only be produced to a considerable extent where 
skill and capital are abundant, which are to be found only in 
a population sufficiently civilized to possess forethought and 
self-denial, qualities unknown in a savage state. To this 
state of refinement, a great part of the Oriental world has not 
yet arrived. The cultivation of tin: cane has been known 
there from time immemorial; but the manufacture of Sugar 

e 2 



lii 

has been always limited to particular spots. The inhabitants 
of the Eastern Archipelago appear to be not yet sufficiently 
civilized to make Sugar. They only grow the cane ; and the 
Chinese residents among them are the manufacturers. With- 
out capital and civilization, therefore, it appears that no export 
of Sugar, to a considerable extent, can be expected in any com- 
munity. 

In the plan pioposed by His Majesty's Ministers for the ex- 
tinction of Slavery, I can see only an ingenious process by 
which all the capital and civilization, at present existing in our 
Colonies, will be allowed sufficient time and opportunity gra- 
dually and quietly to steal away ; whilst the Negroes, deprived 
in the intermediate time of the necessity of moral or physical 
exertion, unschooled in forethought or self-denial, will be left, 
at the expiration of their apprenticeship, in a state more 
wretched than the blacks of St. Domingo, to begin the world 
on their own account, without a single qualification to enable 
them to provide for themselves. 



APPENDIX L. 

I have said that the plan proposed by Government for the 
extinction of Slavery, will be opposed in the Colonies. I may 
safely add, that language cannot pourtray the distress, the de- 
spondency, the despair, which its adoption will create amongst 
all classes and sexes of free persons in possession of any pro- 
perty ; for it will carry disorganization into the domestic 
concerns of every family. Its effects will be most immediately 
and seriously felt amongst the coloured inhabitants. If not 
previously in possession of a Slave, they invariably begin the 
world by purchasing, or procuring one on credit. A natural 
and judicious division of labour immediately ensues ; the heavy 
coarse work is performed by the Slave ; the finish and polish 
given by the master. The one designs, the other executes, and 
the Slave is comparatively as essential to the trade aud business 
of every huckster and mechanic, as the hands to the head. It 
is impossible to conceive that a Negro can be made to perform 
his duty in a satisfactory manner under the plan proposed, which 
deprives the master of the power of applying that wholesome 
correction which is found necessary for an apprentice in 



liii 

Britain. By what powers of intellect can a magistrate ascertain 
whether the board which is badly sawn, or imperfectly planed, 
is the result of incapacity, idleness, or wilful obstinacy ? The 
apprentice will immediately become useless, and ruinously bur- 
thensome. If he pass his nights in drunken debauch, and return 
the next morning with broken head or limbs, or with fever and 
ague, — the regular consequence of intoxication to a Negro, — 
he must immediately be supplied with bed, nourishment, and 
medical attendance. If he cripple himself, or destroy his con- 
stitution by his excesses, he cannot be discharged, but remains 
a dead weight upon his master until the period of his appren- 
ticeship expires. 

It is impossible that such a state of society can endure even 
for six months ; in default of a violent and earlier termination, 
inability in the master to furnish the means of snpporting it 
must break up the whole concern. The Slaves, termed • per- 
sonal,' which are unattached to Estates, amount in Trinidad to 
one-third of the whole number. It is frightful, therefore, to 
contemplate the consequences which must ensue to that indus- 
trious class of free coloured persons, which the British Govern- 
ment has hitherto cherished, protected, and encouraged by 
privileges, equal to the whites, and have, consequently, been 
rapidly improving in property and civilization. Their Slaves 
are now worth to them eight to twelve dollars each per month, 
and can be readily and easily hired out for that sum, if they 
prefer it. The compensation proffered to them will not 
amount to a year's income ; it may be just the amount of the 
last instalment due upon the purchase of the Slave, and be 
taken immediately by the mortgagee ; whilst the whole of the 
instalments, previously paid up, the hard earned savings of 
years of toil, will be scattered at once to the winds. The 
compensation proposed will appear to them bitter, insulting 
mockery. Their despair will know no bounds. At one blow 
we destroy all that we have been doing in favour of this class 
of persons for years past, they will be prostrated — ruined. 

A volume might be easily filled with the impracticabilities, 
and — if such a term may be used on such a subject — with the 
absurdities which must arise out of the attempt to carry the 
proposed measures into effect. How is criminal justice to be 
administered during a period in which it will assuredly be most 
required ? Up to the present period, the summary power of 



IV 



the master has furnished the whole preventive police and 
administration of justice in all but serious cases ; this cheap 
and efficient system is destroyed, and nothing equivalent can 
be framed as a substitute. Can it be expected, that a Planter 
w^ill be anxious to denounce a crime which must lead to the 
attendance of his labourers, as principals or witnesses in Court, 
for days, or even weeks, whilst they are to be maintained at 
his sole expense during the whole trial? If a dead body be 
discovered, will it not be buried in silence, or left to the vul- 
tures to carry off? Will hanging and flogging be the only 
penalties of the law ? Or, is a master to receive back his 
apprentice at the expiration of a long imprisonment, ragged, 
squalid, and suffering under jail fever, to nourish hira for as 
many more months in his hospital, until fully recovered 1 Are 
these two periods to be added to the term of their original in- 
dentures, or is the master in this, and in every other case, to 
bear the whole loss ? 

How are the services of domestics to be regulated ? They 
at least must be in attendance throughout the twenty-four 
hours, or the infant in the cradle, and the patient in his bed, 
will perish for want of sustenance. How are they to be made 
to perform these services, when their fellow apprentices are to 
enjoy liberty for sixteen hours out of twenty-four ? What re- 
gulations are to be made for sailors on board of river and coast- 
ing craft, or shipping in general ? These necessary branches 
of trade will be paralysed, or they must work throughout the 
twenty-four-hours ; and will they submit to such a grievous 
distinction ? 

These, and a hundred other difficulties, transcending, in ray 
humble opinion, the wit of man to overcome, present them- 
selves, even in a hasty glance, at the scheme proposed. I wait 
with anxious curiosity to see what remedies the master mind 
of the Honourable Secretary for the Colonies can conceive, to 
obviate them, in the Bill to be laid before Parliament; for 
framed they must be in this country. First, to undermine the 
Colonial edifice, and then to tell the Colonial Legislatures to 
support it, as they best can, would indeed be cruel mockery. 

I, therefore, again deliberately and advisedly assert, that the 
plan proposed by His Majesty's Ministers for the extinction of 
Slavery, will be unequivocally opposed throughout the Colo- 
nies ; and if even the answer to the first despatches which 



Iv 

carry it out should announce the intention of the Colonial 
Legislatures to accept it — it will only convey to my mind the 
assurance, that, under the veil of this assent, they are coolly 
and cautiously preparing for resistance or flight. 

There is yet time for consideration, ere the Rubicon is 
passed. If this last opportunity be thrown away, our Colonies 
are irretrievably ruined, and every rational hope of ultimately 
improving the condition of the Negroes destroyed. Foreign 
establishments will immediately rise in splendour upon the 
ruins of our own, and the Slave Trade be carried on with in- 
creased activity at our sole cost and expense. Our mighty 
experiment will prove a total failure, and we shall become the 
laughing stock of our rivals ; whilst the chains of the unhappy 
Slave will be forged stronger and heavier in every quarter of 
the globe. 



LETTER, 



To His Excellency Sir Ralph Woodford. 

Tacarigua, \Qth Atigust, 1823, 

My Dear Sir, 

I SEND you a draft of the intended ''Slave 
Consolidation Bill," which seems much altered 
from the Copy laid before the House last year. 
Also, " the Conferences at Verona respecting the 
Slave Trade," a document which, if not already 
in your possession, you will peruse with the 
greatest interest; particularly Mr. Canning^s 
Letter to the Duke of Wellington, and the 
paper presented by Chateaubriand and the 
French Plenipotentiaries. To these I have 
added, (though last not least in importance to 
us,) a paper* published for universal circulation 
by " the Committee of the London Society ;" 

* Entitled " A Brief View." 



the members of which appear to have ready 
access to the Bureau of the Minister, as they 
evidently knew what had passed on the subject 
at Verona in the month of April, though the 
same was only communicated to the House in 
May. Your Excellency will perceive with 
regret how much there is of false and unfair as 
respects this Colony, mixed up with the truth, 
which renders this paper doubly dangerous ; 
and you will not fail to remark, as the time 
approaches when the promise of compensation 
will be put to the test, the effort thus early 
made, to persuade the Public that the Aboli- 
tion of Slavery will prove an '^ unspeakable 
benefit'^ to the Slave owner ; consequently, that 
he can have no claim to indemnity. 

The following important facts are admitted in 
these papers : — 

1. — That the Slave Trade, notwithstanding all 
the efforts of the abolitionists, is now aggra- 
vated both in its extent and in its horrors. A 
melancholy result, which 1 fear has added feel- 
ings of irritation to the better sentiments which 
have hitherto guided their attempts. 

2. — ^That France and Europe believe that 
we are not quite disinterested in our present 
exertions. 

So many concurrent circumstances must tend 
to fortify this latter opinion, that the existence 



of it is not surprising, and the abolitionists now 
perceive there is no mode remaining to convince 
Europe of our sincerity, but by the abolition of 
Slavery itself in these Colonies ; this they have 
decided upon, and the Ministry, as we have seen 
in the Debate on Mr. Buxton^s Motion, are 
pledged to carry the measure into effect at some 
future period. 

It would be idle, therefore, to suppose that 
any partial concessions in this quarter can avert 
the progress of a measure called for by circum- 
stances connected with the general policy of 
Europe. It will be more manly, as well as 
politic in us, to support at once the broad mea- 
sure of Emancipation and Indemnity. The 
adoption of any intermediate Regulations affect- 
ing the discipline of Slaves, can only tend to 
depreciate by degrees the value of that property, 
for which we shall have ultimately to claim 
indemnity. 

In thus discouraging the adoption of further 
Regulations, your Excellency is aware that I 
speak only as an inhabitant of the Island of 
Trinidad, where few, if any, of the horrors 
enumerated in the *' Brief View" exist ; where 
Slaves are not branded with a hot iron ; where 
Families are not separated at the caprice of 
their owners, or by Judicial Sale for the satis- 
faction of Creditors; where the Evidence of 

b2 



4 

Slaves is admitted, even against their Masters ; 
where every legal facility is afforded to the Slave 
to purchase his freedom ; and where he is pre- 
sumed by Law to be free until proof is brought 
to the contrary ; in fact, I may safely add, 
where not one single enormity is legally tole- 
rated but the great enormity of the system itself. 
This is intrinsically so bad, that of necessity 
(as in every other case of injustice) it requires 
the aid of minor evils to prop and support it, 
the most prominent of which is the exercise of 
that Domestic Jurisdiction by which a Master 
is authorized to punish his Slave without the 
intervention of a Magistrate. This power is 
essential to the system ; if taken away totally, 
or even partially repealed by the enactment of 
regulations prohibiting ail corporal punish- 
ments, from that moment the fabric of Slavery 
is virtually destroyed, and the Negro, though 
not free, will cease to be of any value to his 
master. If the system is attempted to be ameli- 
orated in this way, it will fail in its effects ; and 
in addition to the " desolation of Africa," "" tlie 
degradation of Europe,'^ and the '* affliction of 
humanity,'^ the British Legislature will have to 
deplore the ruin of all the White Colonists of 
these Islands^ whose properties are embarked in 
them, under the faith of a practice tolerated and 
encouraged avowedly for the benefit of the 



Mother Country for so many years, and under 
the guarantee of so many Acts of Parliament. 

Direct injustice we can never fear ; no British 
Legislature will ever openly vote that the great 
work of Emancipation shall be effected at the 
exclusive expense of the West India Colonists ; 
but we have much to fear, whilst humanity has 
nothing to gain, from the application of injudi- 
cious remedies, suggested by men who have no 
practical knowledge or insight into the frame or 
fabric of a society which never had its parallel 
in any other time or place ; and much also to 
fear from the circulation of an erroneous notion 
that the abolition of Slavery will prove a pecu- 
niary benefit to the Slave owner himself. This 
cannot be. — ^Up to this period, Great Britain has 
been benefitted in her commerce and her marine 
by the encouragement of a system she is now 
ashamed of. Her Colonies have encreased 
under it, in natural productions and in wealth ; 
successive generations have realized fortunes 
under it, and the present proprietors of estates 
are now to be persuaded that they will derive 
unspeakable benefit by only retracing their steps.* 
What would this prove ? but the very inverse of 
the proposition so emphatically and truly stated 
by the authors of the " Brief View," '' that no 
" institution which is directly at variance with 
* This was asserted in the " Brief View.*' 

b3 



6 

"^ the will of the Supreme Governor of tlie Uni- 
" verse, can prove a source of permanent advan- 
'" tage either to nations or individuals. '^ 

The system is too infamous and too disgrace- 
ful to be got rid of on such easy terms. Great 
Britain has encouraged it, fostered it, benefitted 
by it, and she mast now atone for it. If this is 
fairly done, it will be at the expense of the whole 
United Empire ; but if, Ijy ignorance or design, 
the loss is permitted to fall on the West Indians 
exclusively, the will of the Supreme Governor of 
the Universe will manifest itself as clearly in this 
as in the former act of injustice, and Great 
Britain will have ultimately to atone for both. 

If this view of the subject accords with the 
sentiments of your Excellency and the Board, 
I beg to suggest that an early representation be 
framed and forwarded to Lord Bathurst, ex- 
pressing our sincere wish to co-operate heartily 
with the British Legislature in adopting the most 
effectual measures for the general emancipation 
of the Negroes; — pointing out^ however, openly 
to his Lordship that, in a fabric of society so 
peculiarly and extraordinarily constituted as 
this ; where every White Proprietor is posi- 
tively and immediately interested in screening a 
Slave offender from capital punishment, and 
in a minor degree from Judicial Investigation ; 
which necessarily involves expense, loss of time. 



and the labour of the culprit to the owner ; 
that, in a society so constituted, it will be vain 
to look forward to any " Progressive Improve- 
ment in the character of the Slave Population," 
or to expect that their morals, now at the 
lowest ebb, can in any shape be benefitted, if 
the only penal restraint of practicable enforce- 
ment, viz ; — Corporal punishment, is taken out 
of the hands of the Masters ; that no hope can 
exist of attaining this salutary end, but by the 
hearty and honest co-operation of the White 
Proprietors, which can never be expected if 
their minds are kept in continued irritation, 
arising from daily conflicts with disputed au- 
thority, and the apprehension of the loss of 
property. Finally, and unequivocally, that we 
consider corporal punishment and domestic 
jurisdiction as part and parcel of the Slave sys- 
tem, and that the whole must stand or fall 
together. 

W ith these bases admitted, that we then think 
it possible to frame a plan which may ulti- 
mately accomplish the humane views of His 
Majesty's Government, and ensure the gradual 
emancipation of the Slaves in such mode as 
may be finally advantageous to the Slaves 
themselves; but that until these points are 
granted, it is hopeless to expect it, and vain to 

B 4 



set about it ; that the Slaves Qiay be made free, 
but their Masters will be ruined, and the for- 
mer be as little " prepared for a participation 
*' in those civil rights and privileges which are 
" enjoyed by other classes of His Majesty's sub- 
" jects/' as they are at the present day. 

That we do not wish to conceal that the 
attempt is full of difficulty, that the present sys- 
tem has taken such deep root, that we by no 
means see our way clear in getting through it— 
but that we are ready to undertake it with 
cheerful perseverance ; and that as we can have 
nothing to atone for, who are equally the victims 
of the system we deprecate, we confidently trust 
that Divine Providence will bless our honest 
endeavours with ultimate success. 

Your Excellency will, I am sure, agree with 
me, that something ought to be done. Great 
dissatisfaction prevails in the Colony in conse- 
quence of the Orders conveyed in Lord Bathurst's 
Despatch of the 9th July last. 

These Regulations can be productive of no 
solid benefit to the Slaves, whilst they have 
excited a ferment in their minds, creating dis- 
contentj coupled with unwarrantable expecta- 
tions : all tending to the subversion of disci- 
pline and to the direct injury of that property, 
the protection of which has been so solemnly 



9 

guaranteed^ without appearing in any shape to 
assist in the attainment of the great objects con- 
templated by the British Legislature. 

I have tlie honour to remain, 
Your Excellency's 

Obliged humble servant, 
WILLIAM H. BURNLEY. 



10 



No. 2. 

To His Excellency Sir Ralph Woodford. 

Tacarigua, ZOth August^ 1823. 

My Dear Sir, 

I beg your Excellency will again permit me 
to trouble you on the serious subjects of Eman- 
cipation and Slavery ; which, from the mode in 
which they are now treated in England, are 
becoming every day to us of more dangerous 
importance. 

It would be amusing, were the subject not so 
serious, to observe the calm indifference with 
which some have proposed (by the emancipation 
of the Females) a plan for the ultimate extinc- 
tion of Slavery, at the sole cost and expense of 
the Colonists ; and we are to be persuaded that 
this change is to be so easy, that it would be 
almost imperceptible ! The expectation no doubt 
is, that the present owners of estates would, by 
the process recommended, sink so gradually into 
poverty, that it would be imperceptible to all 
the rest of the world, but to the unhappy suf- 



11 

ferers themselves, and to those who attentively 
watch the ebb and the tlow of those resources by 
which the British Commerce and Marine are 
supported. But the advisers of Ministers for- 
get what the Abbe De Pradt told them truly 
only a short time since, that the establishments 
in these islands, although termed Colonies, are 
factories only, supported by British Capitals. 
Would the avowed determination of turning all 
this Capital Stock into Annuities^ (the result of 
the process recomnaended,) have no immediate 
effect on the market price of that Stock ? And 
at w hat price^ may 1 ask your Excellency, would 
those properties immediately sell, in which, 
under the sanction of the Government and the 
Laws, the fortunes of minors have been and 
continue to be invested ; would the change be 
almost imperceptible to those unhappy orphans, 
when they find themselves deprived, by the 
depreciation of the Stock, of more than half their 
properties } Nor would they alone suffer ; 
every contract would be affected, every creditor 
would be defrauded, every debtor irretrievably 
ruined. Such a plan would scatter dismay 
throughout the whole community ; it never can 
be attempted to be carried into execution — and 
1 dwell upon it only to show the eagerness with 
which the Philanthropists grasp at any plan, but 
the one whicli would efi'ectually cure the evil, 



12 

and prove their disinterestedness, viz.— Emanci- 
pation and Compensation. 

Your Excellency will not fail to observe the 
extreme caution with which the Ministry are 
acting. They are apparently determined to do 
nothing but write recommendatory Letters ; and 
it is left to the Colonial Legislatures to carry 
these recommendations into effect. They see 
the difficulty of backing out of a System estab- 
lished for nearly two centuries, and they wisely 
leave to others the responsibility of enacting 
the measures to be pursued. They rightly 
think that those whose properties are at stake 
must be the best practical Judges, that they 
will adopt only such plans as may be safe and 
advantageous, and that they will " seriously 
oppose'^ all the rest ; in which case they are 
pledged to nothing but to lay the matter before 
Parliament, to be dealt with as the Legislature 
may think fit. Our best policy will be to fol- 
low so prudent an example, and not to take 
the lead in any changes, the consequences of 
which, in all cases affecting the discipline of 
Slaves, can be evident to no human foresight. 
And without alluding to the risk of catastro- 
phes, it would certainly appear somewhat awk- 
ward if your Excellency and your Board of 
Council, constituted as it is, should recommend 
unfortunately the adoption of any plan which 



13 

the Colonial Legislatures might reject, mid prove 
to be useless, if not mischievous. 1 am fully 
aware of the situation in which your Excellency 
stands, and that in acting only with cautious 
justice towards the Colonists committed to your 
charge, you incur the risk of being assailed as 
the defender of an iniquitous system. But this 
delusion will not infect the Ministry ; with the 
public it will last only a certain time ; and 
those will ultimately be held in higher con- 
sideration, who have had the courage to do their 
duty in spite of popular clamour. 1 therefore 
earnestly recommend delay, until we see the re- 
sult of what passes around us. 

Happily, we stand in this Colony on such 
commanding ground, that this line of conduct 
maybe adopted with the greatest propriety ; it 
may be founded upon a memorial to Y. E. from 
the Board of Council, to the following effect : — 

That we have hitherto taken the lead in the 
amelioration of the condition of the Slave 
Population. 

That the most material objects required in 
the Circular of the 9th July are already estab- 
lished in the Colony. 

That we admit Slave evidence without restric- 
tion, even as against the Master. 

That there exists no impediment of any de- 
scription to Manumissions. 



14 

That our laws provide, in the sale of Slaves, 
against the separation of husband and wife and 
children. 

That the acquired property of a Slave is se- 
cured to him. 

That a Negro is presumed to be free, until 
proof is brought to the contrary. 

That we have by Law an Officer specially 
appointed for the protection of Slaves, to whom 
such practical facilities are afforded for the detail 
of their grievances, that, on reference to the re- 
cords of his office, it appears that a large pro- 
portion of their complaints are groundless. 

That our criminal cases of all descriptions, 
even as between Master and Slave, are investi- 
gated by a Judge appointed by the Crown, who 
must be presumed to be free from those local 
feelings and prejudices, which are sometimes 
imputed to Colonial Grand Juries. 

That in consideration of so much having been 
already performed, by which the well-being and 
happiness of the Slaves are to a certain degree 
secured, we humbly pray your Excellency to 
allow full and sufficient time, to enable us to 
examine, in all their bearings, (by the taking of 
evidence and otherwise,) the remaining points 
recommended by His Majesty's Ministers ; some 
of which, as possibly tending to the relaxation of 
discipline, may be found to be injurious to the 



15 

morals of Slaves, and consequently to the pro- 
perties of their Masters ; which, instead of fur- 
thering the views of the British Legislature, 
would be directly at variance with the Resolution 
of the Honourable the House of Commons of the 
15th May last, &c. &c. 

I pray your Excellency to excuse the liberty 
1 take in pressing my opinions so urgently upon 
you ; but the more I consider the subject, the 
more difficulties I see around it. Delay with us 
can do no harm, and may save us from some er- 
rors. In fact, 1 am convinced that the great ob- 
ject desired, can never be effected in the mode 
proposed ; it is intended to make Slaves moral 
and industrious, that they may become ultimately 
worthy of being free, — on the contrary, 1 think 
they must first be made free, before they can ever 
become either the one or the other. 

There is another subject to which 1 wish to 
advert, and which might be introduced into the 
same Memorial. I allude to the conversion of 
Slaves in to free Labourers. It isexpected that, — 
under certain regulations, our Negroes may be 
ultimately transformed to good free Labourers, 
by whose hands our estates are to be tilled, and 
our Sugar manufactories continue to be carried 
on ; and that Colonial Proprietors, without fur- 
ther difficult}^, will immediately enjoy all the ad- 
vantages and prerogatives of English country 



16 

gentlemen ; pay their Labourers in proportion 
to tlieir work ; discharge them when sick ; and 
permit them to retire to the Work House when 
old and infirm. It is possible that in Barba- 
does or Antigua, both possessing a dense popu- 
lation, with every acre of land in the hands of 
White Proprietors, such a body of free Labourers 
may be formed in the sense in which this term is 
understood in England, which means only a man 
free to labour for what master he pleases, but 
who must work under some master or other six 
days in the week, or starve ; but in this extensive 
Colony, with a labouring population of only 
23,000, and our 1,500,000 acres of uncultivated 
unoccupied fertile Land, the existence of such a 
body is impossible. To those who have well 
considered this subject, I believe it is only neces- 
sary to state the relative proportion of the popu- 
lation to the soil in any given country, to enable 
them to decide whether the habits of that popula- 
tion are pastoral, agricultural, or manufacturing. 
Their decisions are founded on the Law of 
Nature. Tack only the Island of Great Britain 
on to New South Wales, and a very short time 
would suffice to empty her Manufacturing Esta- 
blishments of every hand ; and such would be 
the inevitable consequence to our Sugar Manu- 
factories in this Colony, if our Negroes were 
emancipated. 



17 

It is essential, therefore, that this matter, 
in which this Colony may differ from others, 
should be well understood by His Majesty's 
Ministers, that they may be aware of the conse- 
quences to the Commerce and Marine of the 
Country^ and more particularly of the quantum 
of compensation we shall rec|uire, which must 
embrace not only the value of our Negroes, but 
of our Establishments and Lands — for this ques- 
tion of Compensation will enter into every plan 
connected with Emancipation^ whether sudden 
or gradual ; whether by an Edict, including at 
once the whole population, or only the females 
born after a certain day ; whether by giving 
additional days in the week for the sole benefit 
of the Negroes ; by accelerating manumissions 
beyond their natural current ; by the forced pro- 
cess of Savings Banks, or by any other artificial 
means ; for, in either way, the result must be, 
sooner or later, to deprive the owners of Estates 
in this Colony of their labouring hands, and to 
render the remainder of their properties value- 
less. 

I have the honour to remain, 
Your Excellency's 

Obliged, humble Servant, 
WILLIAM H. BURNLEY. 



18 



Address delivered to His Eoecellency the Go- 
vernor and the Honourable the Board of 
Council, on the 2d October, 1823. 

Gentlemen, 

Two centuries have now elapsed since the 
principal European Powers, engaged in a com- 
mercial contest for the colonisation of these 
Islands, with very little variation in the mode 
of effecting that object. 

Thousands of African savages were annually 
dragged from a distant home, to be plunged into 
hopeless slavery. 

Barbarians, on their arrival, the system pur- 
sued opposed itself to their future improvement. 

Physical force only bearing a price, moral 
vrorth was, of necessity, proscribed. 

Finally, man was made the property of man, 
and an unnatural state of society arose without 
parallel in the history of the world ; in which 
the whole of the labouring classes were found 
naturally connected by interests, hostile to those 
of their employers. 

No bond of union, no community of interests^ 
linked these classes together ; power only was 



19 

exhibited by the one, and submission only ex- 
pected from the other. 

Thence arose the necessity of coercion, and 
the adoption of a system of discipline^ harsh in 
its features, and abhorrent to free-born feelings; 
but called for and justified by that first law of 
nature, the law of self-preservation. 

In this colonising contest, and for this unna- 
tural result, Great Britain ultimately surpassed 
all her competitors. 

Whatever of early encouragement could be 
afforded by the example of her nobility ; what- 
ever of impulse or extension could be given by 
her boundless wealth and powerful marine ; 
whatever of solidity or permanency could be 
created by repeated and solemn Acts of her 
Legislature ; were all liberally supplied for the 
formation, support, and completion of that sys- 
tem, which we are now, Gentlemen, suddenly 
called upon to change^ " with all its roots, 
" which have been growing' for ages, and with 
" all its complicated interests." 

Before we enter into the examination of the 
" suggestions" contained in the letters received 
from His Majesty's Secretary of State, which 
His Excellency has submitted to our attention ; 
and for the purpose of guiding us in that ex- 
amination, it may be necessary to enquire into 
the part which the Colonists themselves have 

c 2 



20 

taken in this gigantic mass of iniquity. It is 
now generally allowed, (I may venture to assert,) 
by the unprejudiced and well-informed, that, if 
not unwilling, they have at most been only pas- 
sive instruments in its formation ; and indeed 
what more could be expected ? Assuredly, it 
will not be imputed to us as a reproach, that 
the humble and laborious walk of a Planter 
did not furnish an acuteness of intellect capable 
of detecting and denouncing the errors of that 
system, of which the whole of Europe ap- 
proved ? 

Unhappily, superficial and uncandid observers 
have combined to accuse us of the vices and 
crimes which belon"; to the svstem alone ; and 
these erroneous impressions, I regret to observe, 
are now operating with alarming force amongst 
the great body of the people in England ; but 
the better-informed do us more justice ; in 
which class, it is consolatory, though not unex- 
pected, to find His Majesty's Ministers, who 
have distinctly asserted, by one of their prin- 
cipal Members, that if we have acquired a spe- 
cies of property subject to reproach, it was " by 
no fault or action of our own" — and in the 
same spirit of truth and justice have declared 
that our property, such as it is, shall not be 
touched or endangered, without fair and equi- 
table compensation. 



21 

In the investigation of the principles by which 
our deUberations ought now to be guided, and 
to reply to arguments which have been advanced 
in the repeated discussions already held on these 
subjects at this Board, I think it necessary to 
enquire more particularly into this matter of 
" compensation," which, in all transactions be- 
tween the State and the Subject, under a British 
Government, where existing interests are made 
to yield to the public welfare, is a consideration 
of the first importance. 

In consequence of nothing having been said 
about " compensation'^ in the suggestions trans- 
mitted to the Colonies by the Secretary of State, 
many of which, if carried into effect, we know 
would entail upon the Planter a greater or less 
degree of loss and injury : some persons have 
been led to suppose that in these cases compen- 
satioUj because not specifically alluded to, is not 
intended ; and that the Planter will be obliged 
to make, what has been by others tenderly 
termed, " little sacrifices," notwithstanding the 
clear and forcible language of the Resolution of 
the House of Commons, which declares that 
the House is only "' anxious for the accomplish- 
'' ment of these purposes consistently with the 
*' well-being of the Colonies, and a fair and 
" equitable consideration of the State of Pro- 
" perty therein.'* 

c 3 



22 

It will hardly be contended, at this Board 
at least, that the West Indians, for their passive 
participation in the iniquitous system of Slavery, 
are to be considered as Criminals; and that 
these "little sacrifices" are to be exacted as a 
penalty for their Crimes. — Mr. Buxton himself 
has too much liberality to make such an aver- 
ment — he honestly stated that he entertained no 
prejudice against any classes connected with the 
West Indies ; that he considered them as "^ emi- 
nently unfortunate,'' but not criminal. — I beg 
then to ask every Member present, where would 
be found that " fair and equitable consideration 
of the state of property/' if the '* eminently 
unfortunate" in this Colony are to be visited 
with the smallest Tax, from which the pros- 
perous, and the happy, in the Parent State, are 
to be exempt ? And what would be the flame 
excited to the extremities of the Empire, if the 
most trifling Impost were to be laid in Great 
Britain exclusively upon the poor, and not upon 
the rich ? And that the inhabitants of this 
Colony must now unhappily rank in the former 
class ; that we are now reduced to the most 
distressing state of poverty ; the Minutes of this 
Board ; the Records of the Public Offices; and 
the Proceedings of the Judicial Tribunals, most 
unequivocally attest. 

I have yet a stronger argument to urge. In 



23 

the arduous undertaking now before us, in which 
it is expected that *' civil privileges and moral 
improvement" are to be ultimately commu- 
nicated to a Slave population ; in which attempt, 
as Mr. Canning truly states, there are compli- 
cated knots to disentangle^ and difficulties only 
to be solved by patient consideration and 
impartial attention ; no man will deny that the 
object desired can never be accomplished but 
with the cordial and cheerful co-operation of the 
whole White population of the Colony ; and I 
have certainly too high an opinion of the 
sincerity and judgment of His Majesty's 
Ministers, not to believe that they would prefer 
making any sacrifices themselves, rather than 
impose them upon us, whose cheerful assistance 
it must be so essential to them to secure. 

Fortunately^, it is not necessary for me to take 
up the time of the Board in attempting to prove 
that my Lord Bathurst could never have in- 
tended to deny us compensation in any case in 
which our injured interests may require it; for 
in fact his Lordship has given no countenance to 
any such idea; and if he has not specifically 
connected with each recommendation the com- 
pensation to be granted, it arose from his not 
being in possession of that practical information 
which could alone enable him to decide upon 
the cases in which it would be required ; but he 

c 4 



24 

lias clearly and unequivocally stated in his 
'♦ public circular" of the 9th July, that the in- 
structions therein conveyed were intended to be 
in '' conformity" witli the recent Resolutions of 
the House of Commons, in which, compen- 
sation is solemnly guaranteed : and in the para- 
graph immediately succeeding, he goes further, 
and states, that he recommends these changes, 
because in his opinion they may be " conve- 
niently'' adopted. 

His Lordship having, therefore, condescended 
to explain the grounds on which his opinions 
and recommendations have been formed, I hum- 
bly conceive that his Lordship has a right to 
expect that we will advise his Excellency the 
Governor to exclude from the proposed /' Order 
in Council" every article, which may not appear 
to our greater practical knowledge and experi- 
ence to be broadly and distinctly supported on 
those grounds. 

I have now. Gentlemen, one more subject 
of serious importance to advert to, which can- 
not fail to influence our present deliberations. 
We sit here, the sole protectors of the interests of 
one of those Colonies over which Parliament 
exercises immediate powers, without the inter- 
vention of any Legislature ; in which case it has 
been stated (by high authority) the action of 
Parliament would be more free than in the case 



25 

of Colonies having their own particular Govern- 
ments ; — I confess that this language does not 
alarm me, — a British Parliament can never 
be *' free" to commit an act of injustice ; and 
with the " mighty'^ and the " strong/^ our humble 
dependent posture will not avail us less than the 
firm attitude of our Sister Colonies ; but there 
are those amongst us who permit their fears to 
overpower their judgment ; and there are others 
unfriendly to the present system of Government 
in this Colony, who boldly affirm that it is un- 
fitted for a crisis, and that when (as at present) 
the interests of the Community are endangered, 
its M^eakness and inefficiency will appear. — 
Let it be our endeavour now to allay the fears of 
the one^ and to falsify the predictions of the 
other. 

It is true we sit here, selected by His Excel- 
lency the Governor, and nat nominated by the 
free voice of the People ; but I see in this only 
an additional motive to every liberal mind to 
guard with greater fidelity the interests com- 
mitted to our charge. Hitherto, I am proud to 
say, we have the flattering testimony of His 
Excellency in our favour; — in his Despatch of 
the 9th February, 1817, to the Right Honourable 
the Secretary of Colonies, he assures his Lord- 
ship " that ihe local interests of the Island and 
its inliabitants are well and ably considered by 



26 

this Council ; and that the characters of the 
persons who sit at this Board are a guarantee of 
their honourable and independent conduct,'^ 

By that reputation. Gentlemen, which we have 
acquired,— by that honourable and independent 
conduct which His Excellency has applauded,— 
I now call upon you seriously to bear in mind 
that we are not bound to advise His Excellency 
the Governor to adopt the '^ Suggestions'' under 
consideration, simply because the Secretary of 
State has recommended them ; on the contrary, 
I affirm that we are bound to recommend to His 
Excellency the rejection of every measure pro- 
posed, which may, on investigation^ be found 
inconvenient to the Planters of this Island, with- 
out obvious benefit to their Slaves ; injurious to 
their interests^ if unaccompanied by fair and full 
compensation ; and which may not clearly and 
manifestly appear to be in conformity with the 
unanimous Resolutions of the House of Com- 
mons, which my Lord Bathurst assures us, it is 
the earnest wish of His Majesty's Government 
to carry into effect. 

Having now discussed the leading- principles 
which in my humble opinion ought to govern 
our present deliberations, 1 will proceed to ex- 
amine in detail the recommendations contained 
in Earl Bathurst's despatches which have been 
submitted by His Excellencv to our consider- 



27 

ation ; and I shall first begin with the aboHtion 
of the Sunday's Market. 

I am free to confess,, that 1 consider the abo- 
lition of the Sunday's Market would, for some 
time to come, operate against the diffusion of 
Christian knowledge among the Negro popu- 
lation of this Colony. 

In their present rude and ignorant state, they 
require to be gently led and encouraged ; not to 
he disgusted by abrupt changes, and debarred 
of their innocent occupations^ without any reason, 
obvious, at least, to their capacities. 

The hours of the market should be limited^ so 
as not to interfere with the time appropriated to 
Divine service ; and if its Police is properly re- 
gulated^ it ought to present no scenes incom- 
patible with those feelings, which the devotional 
exercises intended to succeed it are expected to 
excite. 

On the contrary, I am of opinion that the 
kiducement to attend upon the market, will, in 
the present state of the civilisation of our Slaves, 
be a powerful attraction to the Church ; and, as 
a large proportion of the scattered population of 
this extensive Colony must always be distant 
from a place of Divine Worship, such an induce- 
ment may be frequently necessary. The Slave 
will attend at the market in his best attire; and 
having disposed of the produce of his garden, 



28 

and supplied his family with the superfluities 
they may require, I humbly presume he will then 
be found in a better frame of mind to return 
grateful thanks to the God of Mercies, than if 
deprived of what he had been accustomed to con- 
sider as his prerogative and right. 

I am fully aware of the necessity of religious 
instruction as the foundation of any beneficial 
change in the character and future condition of 
the Slaves; but I am at the same time con- 
vinced that such a change must be made gra- 
dual and easy, or it can never be effected. 

In the foregoing considerations, I have thought 
it necessary to advert only to those points which 
affect the Slave. Any improvement in the moral 
character of the latter must of course be benefi- 
cial to the interest of the master ; and as the 
additional time which must be given to the Slave, 
will of course be fully compensated by the Go- 
vernment, the former can have no motive to 
oppose any regulations which are to be produc- 
tive of so desirable a result. 

I may safely say that the encouragement of 
Marriage amongst Slaves has been a primary 
object with every Planter in this Colony within 
my recollection ; that these endeavours have not 
been more successful, is not to be ascribed to any 
forced separation of husband and wife by the 
hand of the Master, or the process of the Credi- 



29 

toi'j which neither our Customs or our Laws 
admit of, but to the Negro character alone, or 
rather, I may say, to human nature. 

A Slave must be doubly jealous of any inter- 
ference with those privileges which he considers 
as his exclusive right. In vain you may recom- 
mend to him for his own benefit to select and 
attach himself to a wife belonging to the estate 
on which he resides, or to cultivate a particular 
spot of ground which may yield him a more 
profitable return ; he hides his garden, if he can, 
in the recesses of the forest ; selects his wife in 
a distant quarter ; changes the one and the other 
as of^en as fancy or caprice may dictate ; or, 
possibly, only to prove that, unhappy Slave 
though he be, he has still some freedom of action 
remaining. 

As a Proprietor of Slaves, I am disposed to 
attend to any suggestions for the encouragement 
of Marriage amongst them ; but as a Member of 
this Board, it is my duty to declare my belief, 
that more than one generation must pas^s away 
before the sanctitv of the Marriaue tie can be 
generally understood, and its sacred ordinances 
practised by the Slave population of this Colony. 

M ith respect " to facilitating the admission of 
Slave Evidence in Courts of Justice," 1 will 
take up very little of the time of the Board ; 1 
am not competent to argue the subject ; but from 



30 

my observation of the practice of our Courts, I 
believe 1 am correct in saying, that it is already 
admitted in this Colony to an extent far beyond 
what my Lord Bathurst has ventured to. recom- 
mend ; — seeing, however, that in all ages " weak- 
ness" has sought to indemnify itself against 
" power" by fraud and cunning ; 1 may venture 
to assert my belief that " honesty and veracity" 
are qualities generally incompatible with a state 
of Slavery. I trust, therefore, that the admission 
of Slave Evidence will be subjected to such rules 
and limitations as may tend to promote the 
essential ends of justice. 

As little can I find it necessary to say on the 
subject of manumission of Slaves ; to which no 
obstacle is opposed, — on the contrary, every 
facility has been afforded, which is attested by 
the annually increasing number of manumissions. 
With respect to the record of the deed of manu- 
mission, for every practical benefit I believe it 
may always be found in the pages of the Registry 
of Slaves ; but such a security can hardly be 
considered necessary in a Colony where, by law, 
every Negro is presumed to be free, until the 
negative can be proved by the claimant. 

The subject of the sale of Slaves in satisfac- 
tion of the debts of their owners, and their 
removal, in consequence^ from the land to 
which they are attached, involves in its con- 



31 

sideration many complicated questions, affecting 
the interests of Heirs and Creditors of every 
denomination, far beyond my competence to 
decide upon. I remark^ only, that after having 
made Slaves " property" by every solemn gua- 
rantee that the Legislature and the Judicature 
could supply, it is now wished to deprive that 
property of the very essence and quality which 
constitutes property — 1 mean a free disposal of 
it ! His Lordship confesses that the subject is 
replete with difficulties; I rather think it will be 
found to present one of those unconquerable 
obstacles which will ):>resent themselves at every 
step, to those who flatter themselves that the 
deformities of a Slave Code are to be removed 
by any process short of the abolition of the sys- 
tem itself. 

I may, however, add, that I know of no 
practical injury attending the removal of fami- 
lies of Slaves from old estates to new settle- 
ments, which, to them, has not been over-com- 
pensated by some material advantage ; and 
that I believe any impediment to such removal, 
in the mode in which it has hitherto been prac- 
tised, would be found prejudicial to the interests 
of the Slaves themselves. 

To the establishment of" Saving Banks" for 
the benefit of Slaves, under proper rules and 
regulations, if ever practicable^ 1 can have no 



32 

objection ; but I cannot help doubting the suc- 
cess of an attempt to engraft upon a rude and 
uncivilized society of Negroes, one of the latest 
institutions which the refinement of modern 
Britain has created. 

As a means of protecting the Slave against 
the effects of his own thoughtless confidence or 
extravagance, it may be proper to try the expe- 
riment ; but nothing is required in this Colony, 
either in law or in practice, to give him a more 
perfect right to the exclusive enjoyment of his 
own property than he at present possesses. 

I have now reviewed six of the " suggestions" 
submitted by His Excellency to our considera- 
tion ; of whichj the most material, — those which 
constituted foul blots on the Slave Codes of the 
Colonies, which cannot be justified by any 
plea of necessity ; I allude to the entire exclu- 
sion of Slave Evidence from Courts of Justice ; 
the obstacles to manumission, by gift from the 
owner, or purchase by the Slave; the presump- 
tion by Law of Slavery in every Negro, until 
proof exhibited by himself to the contrary ; all 
these, I am happy to say, are unknown to this 
Colony ; and it would naturally create a feeling 
of great surprise that my Lord Bathurst should 
urge them upon us as recommendations, were 
it not apparent, from a perusal of the whole of 
these Despatches, that a great want of informa- 



33 

tion exists at the Colonial Office, as to the real 
state of this Island in particular. 

The articles I have still to examine will 
clearly prove this assertion ; for must it not 
strike us with astonishment that regulations, in- 
tended to protect the Slave from undeserved 
punishment, should have been sent out to a 
Colony, where an Officer already exists, appoint- 
ed for that purpose alone ; I mean the Procu- 
rador Syndic, the Defender and Protector of 
Slaves, to whom such facilities are afforded, 
that even frivolous and unfounded complaints 
occupy, as we know, the greatest portion of his 
time ? Will any one in this Community ven- 
ture to assert that it is in the power of any Mas- 
ter to prevent the complaint of his Slave from 
reaching that Officer's ears ? or even to prevent 
the complainant from appearing before him in 
person ? Will any one assert that any just com- 
plainant ever quitted that Officer unredressed ? 
I distinctly, therefore, affirm that any further pro- 
tection to the Slaves, whilst the existing Laws 
are properly enforced, is uncalled for in this 
Colony. 

The whole of these regulations relating to 
punishments betray the same features ; the 
same absence of practical information as to the 
customs, prejudices, and vices of tlie society for 
whom they are intended ; and unless we su})ply 



34 

that practical information, and decidedly oppose 
the adoption of every measure, not justified by 
reason and prudence, we are creating for our- 
selves a catastrophe similar to that which has 
recently hazarded the existence of a neighbour- 
ing Colony. 

I caution you, Gentlemen, not to allow your- 
selves to be fascinated by the outward beauty 
and propriety of these regulations, to which 
every humane mind will at first sight readily 
assent ; but view them closely, and more par- 
ticularly with reference to those to whom they 
are practically to be applied, and you will see 
them striking at the root of discipline and sub- 
ordination, without which no moral improve- 
ment can ever be effected. 

Some of them may appear, to the superficial 
observer, of little consequence — the deferring 
of punishment, which is finally to be inflicted, 
may seem immaterial, and a difference not 
worth contending for ; — but we must look 
deeper into the subject. The ignorant Slave 
sees the power of his Master only in the mode 
in which it has been accustomed to be ex- 
ercised ; change this, and you shake at once 
that settled uninquiring submission, which, un- 
der the system of which unhappily we inherit 
the administration, must ever form our principal 
securitv ; and if Mr. C'anninor thought liccessarv 



to warn the House of Coiiiinoiis that one rash 
word, or ardent expression, might light up a 
flame which would not be extinguished until 
after it had spread a wide desolation, slsall we 
be considered as alarmists, when we deprecate 
the disastrous eonsequences which may re^;u]t 
from the adoption of rash regulations, loosening 
the bands of discipline, and setting afloat the 
hitherto settled notions of ionorant Negroes ? 

To tills I am aware it will be repbed, that, 
under the prevalence of such opinions, no im- 
provements are ever to be attempted ; I say, 
none ought to be attempted, unless the evil be 
great, or the lemedy sure ; neither of which is 
the case in the present instance. 

In this \Aorld of errors and passions, it 
savours more of judgment and humanity to 
permit a minor evil, rather than incur the dan- 
ger of a greater, by hasty innovation ; the 
" beautifuP' in theory is not always the "■ use- 
ful' in practice ; and this I hold to l^e the lan- 
guage of those heroic defenders of social order, 
whose exertions, throughout a stormy period of 
revolution, have secured the peace and happi- 
ness of the present, and the admiring giatitude 
of future generations. 

I have besides, Geutlemen, more serious objec- 
tions to the principle which pervades the whole 
of these regulations. It would appear that they 

D 2 



S6 

are not, intended to affect the vicious and tlie 
guilty alone, but are to embrace the whole 
community. Government has always been con- 
sidered as subservient to, and for the benefit of 
society ; but in the regulations proposed, this 
principle is reversed ; the whole society indiscri- 
minately is to be fettered, and the hands of the 
'* Good" are to be tied up, that the '' Bad" may 
be unable to commit acts of violence ; an ano- 
maly in legislation, I believe unheard of before. 

After all, of what avail will be these rules and 
regulations, these witnesses and records, and 
these quarterly oaths? The unprincipled and 
wicked will easily evade them, unless such a 
power be lodged in the hands of the Executive, 
supported by such a host of officers, spies, and 
informers ; by such domiciliary visits and in- 
quisitorial examinations, as will render any 
Government an intolerable despotism, and drive 
every man of character and independence out 
of the Colony. I beg that, in what 1 am sayings 
I may not be misunderstood; none present can 
be more anxious than myself to improve the 
moral condition, and add to the personal comfort 
of the Slave Population than myself; but the 
more 1 apply myself to this subject, the stronger 
is my conviction, that it is not by the applica- 
tion of restrictive laws, but by a gradual im- 
provement in the feeling, teujper, and judg- 



37 

ment of the owners of Slaves, that this desirable 
object can ever be accomplished ; and his is not 
fanciful theory which I am recommending, 
Gentlemen ; our own experience, and our obser- 
vation of what passes around us, fully bear me 
out in this assertion. Is not the treatment of 
Slaves in this Colony greatly better, and every 
day improving within the last ten years, as 
proved by the milder aspect of the complaints 
which come before the Syndic ? And this with- 
out the aid of any new law, but solely owing 
to the stricter enforcement of those existing ; 
to the unremitting attention paid to the subject 
by His Excellency the Governor ; to the con- 
sequent improvement in the feeling and temper 
of the upper classes, communicated through 
them to the country at large. 

I entreat you, therefore, not to arrest this 
beneficial course of improvement in its progress, 
by advising the enactment of laws, which must 
infuse doubt and alarm into the breast of every 
Proprietor, and induce him at once to throw up 
the cause of improvement in hopeless despair. 

I will now advert, as briefly as possible, to the 
Regulations themselves. 

The use of the Cart Whip being now gene- 
rally laid aside, its entire abolition by law will 
only be in unison with public feeling; but if 
" by the aboUtion of the Whip in the Field" it 



38 

is intended to prohibit the display of every 
other Instrument of Correction, I consider 
that such a regulation would operate to the 
disadvantage of the Master and the Slave; less 
work would be performed, and more punishment 
merited. Negroes are children of a larger growth, 
and the fear of punishment has now the effect 
which, under the regulation proposed, will 
require the application of it. lo other Colonies, 
stocked with Creole Negroes, such an arrange- 
ment may be practicable ; but in this Island, 
one of the latest settled, the great proportion of 
our labouring strength consists still of native 
Africans ; of whose listless indolent habits no 
stronger proof need be required than was ex- 
hibited recently at this Board, in the evidence 
of the Gentlemen who superintended the Estab- 
lishment of the apprenticed Africans, removed 
from Sir Alexander Cochrane's Estates ; by 
which it appears that these men, although free, 
working on their own account, and supplied 
with every necessary means by the Government, 
could not generally be induced, after an ap- 
prenticeship of 14 years, to cultivate their land, 
but by ingent remonstrances and threats, accom- 
panied, in some instances, with the necessity of 
inflicting corporal punishment. 

y^' ith respect to the enactment of a Law for 
the prevention of punishment beyond three lashes, 



39 

and for the iiifliction of punishments in the pre- 
sence of one other free witness besides the person 
authorising the punishment, I will only remark, 
that such a Law, in its mildest effects, must be 
teasing, iuconveuient, and injurious to the 
Master, and of no benefit to the Slave. I beg 
you to observe. Gentlemen, that, under such a 
law, it would be insufficient to plead and to prove 
that the offence was committed ; that the provo- 
cation was beyond endurance ; that the punish- 
ment inflicted was merciful, as compared with 
the crime ; unless it w as deferred until the 
following day, you would be found "guilty!'' 
What would such a Law be ? but a trap set 
for warm and sanguine men, who, in disposition, 
are generally acknowledged to be liberal and 
merciful ; whilst the cool, the cautious, and the 
severe, determined to exact their bond, with 
interest, on the morrow, would be little affected 
by it ? As respects the Slave, it must add, as 
we know, incarceration to corporal punish- 
ment ; he will see no advantage in having 
punisiiment so much longer impending over 
his head ; it muse strike him as an unnecessary 
aggravation of it ; and it will generate feelings 
of discontent, productive of the worst conse- 
i^uences. 

I am at a loss to discover the motive which 
could have suggested such an enactment, which 



40 

is opposed to the truest principles of jurispru- 
dence ; — I have been always taught, that the 
efficacy of all punishment depended upon its 
certainty and proximity ; that the prospect of 
an evil which is to happen vs^ithin an hour or 
two produces greater uneasiness than the same 
evil removed to the distance of years ; that this 
is the cause of the little efficacy of religious 
punishment, though dreadful beyond expression 
in the degree ; and has rendered it necessary for 
Legislatures to enact more immediate terrors 
for the prevention of crimes; but in this, as 
in other cases, now under review, established 
principles seem to be reversed. 

i now come to the last of the " suggestions" 
which are submitted to our consideration : — 
'* the Abolition of the Punishment of Flogging 
with respect to Female Slaves.'^ I confess 
that the idea appears to me so monstrous and 
extraordinary, that I hardly know how to ap- 
proach the subject. Slaves ! that are to be 

freed from the apprehension of corporal chas- 
tisement ! Does the history of the world 
furnish such an example ? — Stripes and Sla- 
very are terms to be found, I believe, in juxta- 
position in every language that ever existed ; 
and I have no hesitation in saying that the one 
cannot exist without the other. Can that hor- 
rible Slavery, arising from " impress into the 



41 

Naval service," be maintained without stripes? — 
a Slavery more painful than any endured by an 
African Negro, practised on an educated being, 
full of sensibilities, full of aflfections ; torn from 
a land of civilisation and comfort : from family 
and friends ! Has it been found practicable to 

uphold this system ? disclaimed by the whole 

of enlightened Europe ; practised by England 
alone on the naked ground of expediency and 
convenience ; — has this been upheld without 
the aid of stripes ? Can even the compulsory 
labour of military service, with all its glories and 
fascinations, be secured without the infliction of 
corporal punishment? We know. Gentlemen, 
that in both cases it has been found impossible. 

The intention of such an order, we are told, is 
to elevate the females in the scale of society ; 
whilst the men are to be left as they were be- 
fore, establishing, in fact, a decided superiority in 
favour of the former. 

The history of all past, and a view of all 
present societies, will, 1 think, convince us that 
the fixed and natural state of women is subordi- 
nate to, and dependent upon the men in civi- 
lised communities ; with the addition, in less 
polished, and in savage life, of endless drudgery 
and degradinglabour. Strange, indeed, it appears 
to be, to bestow on our female Slaves preroga- 
tives never to be aspired to, or enjoyed by their 



42 

free sisters in Africa, and to attempt to arrest ao 

unvarying law of nature by a British Order in 

Counci] ! 

As respects the effects of such a measure upon 

the mind of the men, it can hardly be expected 
that they will remain quiet and content in a state 
of comparative degradation. Such a distinction 
must be felt by them as partial and unjust, and 
it would end by subverting discipline first, and 
then Slavery itself. 

{ will now consider the moral tendency of 
such a measure. The women are as notoriously 
addicted as the men to lyings, theft^ broils, and 
every immoral dissipation. These crimes are 
not to be arrested and restrained, as in Europe, 
by judicial punishments ; for no Proprietor will 
voluntarily deliver up his Slave to justice, but 
for practices of so serious and dangerous a 
nature, as might lead him to apprehend greater 
injury to his property by retaining such a sub- 
ject, than by handing him over to the Tribunals. 
Here is one great check, in full force in Europe, 
which cannot be said to be in operation in a 
community of" Slaves. Independent of judicial 
punishments, there exists restraints in Europe of 
even a more powerful description ; I mean, loss 
of character, less of employment, the contempt 
of society, poverty, privation of every comfort, 
disease, and death. Shall I be contradicted 



43 

when I assert, that to none of these calamities, 
(save the two last) can the crimes of a Slave 
ever subject him ? To the last hour of a disso- 
lute and worthless existence, the Laws ensure 
him the same support, the same comforts, the 
same food, the same clothing, the same medical 
care and attendance, as the best Slave can claim 
or desire. 

Surely such a picture as this must convince 
every unprejudiced mind that a society so con- 
stituted, in which such Laws are found necessary, 
can never admit of the total relaxation of the rod 
of discipline ! Even that ancient proverb, 
" Honesty is the best policy," the truth of which 
goes home to the feelings of every individual in 
a land of freedom, is false, as applied to a 
society of Slaves. The greatest rogue upon an 
estate may be, and is frequently the most valu- 
able Slave upon it, and enjoys a corresponding 
superiority of comforts over his less artful asso- 
ciates. 

Will any man now say that a system, of which 
such abominations constitute an inherent part, is 
to be judged of by European feelings, or dealt 
with according to the forms of European man- 
mers ? 1 do not hesitate to aver, that if the 
power of corporal punishment over the female 
Slave is taken out of the hand of the^Master ; if 
this sole clieck to innnorality is removed^ she will 



44 

proceed in a career of vice injurious to herself, 
destructive to her progeny^ and to the utter 
annihilation of the beneficent expectations of 
the British Legislature. 

I am aware that the opinions I have now given, 
appear to be supported more by assertion than 
by proof; but it appeared to me superfluous to 
take up time in substantiating circumstances 
with which we are all familiar ; but should 
these opinions ever meet the eyes of others not 
so well acquainted with these facts, it may be 
sufficient for them to know, that 1 openly make 
these assertions before His Excellency Sir Ralph 
Woodford, and this Board of Council— that I 
call for unqualified contradiction where I may 
appear to merit it — that 1 declare that I shall 
consider silence as an ample admission of the 
correctness of my statements, and that I pledge 
myself, if permitted, to prove, by evidence, every 
thing that may be doubted or disputed. 

I conclude, Gentlemen, by earnestly entreat- 
ing you to join with me in advising His Excel- 
lency the Governor to leave out of the proposed 
Order in Council every one of the suggestions 
relating to Punishments, as being dangerous to 
the existence of the Colony^ detrimental to the 
Slaves themselves, and irreconcileable in their 
results with the beneficient views of the British 
Legislature. 

'J'illing, Printer, Giosvenoi Row, Chelsea. 



