



HOUSE. 




..No. 38. 



REPORT 



DELIVERANCE OF CITIZENS, 



LIABLE TO BE SOLD AS SLAVES. 



..I . s^ 









/" 



/ 






*5 

t > 



/ * , 



-^j* 



./j'tljut .^^ / 



• -/f.*^ -A"^ 



^Mi^5-b Q, 



March, 1 839.] HOU S£— -No. 38. 3 



eommoniueaUii of M^^^^f^M^tttn^ 



House of Representatives, March 6, 1839. 

The Special Joint Committee appointed by an order of 
the twenty-second of January last, "to inquire into 
the expediency of providing for the deliverance of citi- 
zens of this Commonwealth, who may be imprisoned 
and liable to be sold as slaves," 



REPORT: 

That it is inexpedient to legislate thereon, and ask to 
be discharged from the further consideration of the sub- 
ject. 

By order of the Committee, 

THOMAS KINNICUTT, Chairman, 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/reportondelivera1839mass 



March, 1839.] HOUSE— No. 38, 6 



CommonUjeaUl) of J^as^acJ|ttsettg< 



House of Representatives. 

The undersigned, a minority of the Joint Special Com- 
mittee, appointed under an order of the House, to inquire 
into the expediency of providing for the deliverance of 
citizens of this Commonwealth, who may be imprisoned 
and liable to be sold as slaves, asks permission to sub- 
mit the following 

REPORT. 

The fourth article of the Constitution of the United 
States contains this provision : " The citizens of each 
state shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of 
citizens in the several states." 

"This provision in the Constitution," says Judge Story, 
in his Comm. vol. 3, p. 647, " is plain and simple in its 
language, and its object is not easily to be misunderstood. 
Connected with the exclusive power of naturalization in 
the general government, it puts at rest many of the dif- 
ficulties which affected the construction of the articles of 
confederation. It is obvious, if the citizens of each state 
2 



6 DELIVERANCE OF CITIZENS, &c. [March, 

were to be aliens to each other, they could not take or 
hold real estate, or other privileges, except as other 
aliens. The intention of this clause was, to confer on 
them, if one naay so say, a general citizenship ; and to 
communicate all the privileges and immunities which the 
citizens of the same state would be entitled to under the 
like circumstances." 

And upon this clause of the Constitution, we have, in 
the 4 Wash, Ci. Ct. R. 380, Canneld v. Cargell, the fol- 
lowing remarks of the court, delivered by Washington, the 
presiding judge : " The inquiry is, what are the privi- 
leges and immunities of citizens in the several states ? 
We fee) no hesitation in confining these expressions to 
those privileges and immunities which are in their nature 
fundamental, which belong of right to the citizens of all 
free governments ; and which have, at all times, been 
enjoyed by the citizens of the several states which com- 
pose this Union, from the time of their becoming free, 
independent, and sovereign. What these fundamental 
principles are, it would, perhaps, be more tedious than 
difficult to enumerate. The right of a citizen of one 
state to pass through or reside in any other state, for 
the purposes of trade, agriculture, professional pursuits, 
or otherwise, are among the rights secured. These, and 
many others which might be mentioned, are, strictly 
speaking, privileges and immunities ; and the enjoyment 
of them by the citizens of each state, was manifestly cal- 
culated (to use the expressions of the preamble of the 
corresponding provision in the articles of confederation,) 
" the better to secure and perpetuate mutual friendship 
and intercourse among the people of the different states 
of the Union." 

The several laws, now in force in different slave-hold- 



1839.] HOUSE— No. 38. 1 

Ing states of this Union, which were presented to the 
consideration of 3 our Committee, are deemed by the un- 
dersigned to be in flagrant violation of this article of the 
Constitution of these United States. He also deems 
them an outrage upon the rights of the citizens of Massa- 
chusetts, and utterly subversive of that great principle of 
the common law, which regards as sacred the person 
of every citizen, who stands unaccused of crime. And 
he cannot entertain a doubt, that they will be so deemed 
by this Legislature, and by the people of this Common- 
wealth. For, under the operation of those laws, free- 
born citizens of this State, and consequently of the United 
States also, against whom no crime has been proved, or 
€ven charged, may be arrested, imprisoned, and sold into 
servitude. This not only may be done, but it has been 
done. And it has been done often ; in cases almost in- 
numerable. A large number of these cases were laid be- 
fore your Committee. They were presented as speci- 
mens of the oppression and cruelty which are daily in- 
flicted, as well upon citizens of this, as upon those of 
other free states, under the operation of the laws in 
question. 

The undersigned begs leave to introduce, as a part of 
this report, some of the laws which were laid before your 
Committee, together with a few of the numerous instan- 
ces of oppression and cruelty that are known to have oc- 
curred under them, and which were also adverted to be- 
fore your Committee. He adopts this mode as the readi- 
est way of bringing this subject fairly before the Legisla- 
ture ; believing, that its members need but a simple state- 
ment of the facts in the case, to induce them to bestow 
on the subject that degree of consideration which its deep 
importance demands, and to take such measures in rela- 



8 DELIVERANCE OF CITIZENS, &c. [March, 

tion to it, as shall evince a just regard for the rights of 
our citizens, and for the dignity and honor of this ancient 
Commonwealth. 

For convenience of reference, the laws in question will 
be divided into two classes, and arranged under the names 
of the several states, from whose respective statute-books 
thej have been transcribed. Examples of the oppressions 
known to have occurred under these laws, will be given 
under each class respectively. The first of these classes 
affect our citizens of color only ; the other affect also the 
masters of our vessels, visiting the ports of slave-hold- 
ing states. 

But, previous to beginning this citation, it will not, per- 
haps, be inappropriate to mention, that in the slave-hold- 
ing states, a dark skin affords a legal presumption that its 
possessor is a slave. Thus, an act of South Carolina says : 
" And it shall be always presumed, that every negro, mu- 
latto, or mestizo, is a slave, unless the contrary be made 
to appear, (the Indians in comity with this government 
excepted.)" [2 Brevard^s Digest, pp. 229-30, quoted 
by Judge Stroud, p. 77.] The act of Georgia touching 
this subject is almost literally a copy of this of South Car- 
olina. And it is believed that this doctrine of presump- 
tion obtains in all the slave-holding states, with the ex- 
ception of some one or two, where it is confined to negroes 
of the whole blood. But even where this limitation is 
recognised, it is little regarded in practice, as will present- 
ly appear. It should he added, that no suit can be brought 
for the recovery of the liberty of a citizen claimed as a 
slave, on the ground of his complexion, except by a white 
person ; and that, should judgment go against the plain- 
tiff, this same act of S. C. empowers the court " to inflict 
such corporal punishment, not extending to life or limb, 



1839.] HOUSE— No. 33, IS 

arrested and imprisoned as runaway slaves, and who, but 
for his timely interposition, would have been sold into 
perpetual bondage. The names and the places of im- 
prisonment of those persons, as stated by Mr. S., were as 
follows : 

James Hight, imprisoned at Mobile ; William Adams, 
at Norfolk ; William Holmes, also at Norfolk ; James 
Oxford, at Wilmington ; James Smith, at Baton Rouge ; 
John Tidd, at New Orleans. 

It should be mentioned, that with regard to the place 
of the imprisonment of one of these men, James Oxford, 
Mr. S. was not, at the time of his interview with the 
undersigned, positively certain. He, however, believed 
it was Wilmington, as above stated. 

In 1836, Mary Smith, a native of this State, returning 
from New Orleans, w^hither she had been in the capacity 
of a servant, was cast u{)on the shores of North Carolina. 
She was there seized and sold as a slave. Information 
of the fact reached her friends at Boston. Tlio^e friends 
made an effort to obtain her liberation. They invoked 
the assistance of the Governor of this Coninjonwealth. 
A correspondence ensued between His Excellency and 
the Governor of North Carolina ; copies of which were 
offered for the inspection of your Committee. Soon af- 
terwards, by permission of the authorities of North Caro- 
lina, "Mary Smith'* returned to Boston. But it turned 
out, that this was not the Mary Smith, whom our worthy 
Governor, and other excellent individuals of Boston, had 
taken so unwearied pains to redeem from slavery. It 
was another woman of the same name, who was also a 
native of Massachusetts, and had been seized in North 
Carolina as a runaway slave. The Mary Smith has not 
3 



14 DELIVERANCE OF CITIZENS, &c. [Majch, 

yet been heard of. If alive, she is now, in all probability, 
wearing the chains of slavery. 

About a year and a half since, several citizens of dif- 
ferent free states were rescued from slavery, at New 
Orleans, by the direct personal efforts of an acquaintance 
of the undersigned. The benevolent individual alluded 
to is Jacob Barker, Esq., a name not unknown to the 
commercial world. Mr. Barker is a resident of New 
Orleans. A statement of the cases in reference is con- 
tained in a letter addressed by him to the Hon. Samuel 
H. Jenks, of Nantucket. The following is a copy of 
that letter, which, though it contains remarks not neces- 
sary to the statement itself, is deemed by the undersigned 
worthy of a place in this report. 

" New Orleans, Aug. 19th, 1837. 

"Dear Sir: Will you advise blacks visiting this section of the 
country from your quarter, to provide themselves with a certificate of 
their freedom from the Governor of the state to which they belong. 

" The laws of Louisiana presume all blacks to be slaves, and when 
found at large are presumed to be runaways, and as such are arrested 
and placed in the chain-gang, to work on the roads. Custom-house 
protections are not considered as proof of freedom. 

"But for the necessity of having such men as sailors, laborers, fire- 
men, cooks, and stewards, on board our ships and steamboats, I would 
advise them not to come here on any consideration whatever. Their 
exclusion would be so very detrimental to the commerce of the United 
States, and particularly of New Orleans, that some other remedy must 
be provided, if possible. It is strange the authorities are not influ- 
enced by the interest of this city, purely commercial, to pursue a more 
liberal course. 

"As far as my observation extends, those of the lower or third Muni- 
cipality are the most rigid ; and if they do not alter their course, all 
vessels having blacks on board, should avoid landing there, and pro- 
ceed to the upper part of the city. This can be done without incon- 
venience or expense, and would so materially affect the prosperity of 
the lower Municipality, that they would be induced to examine whether 
or not they could safely change their course. 



1839.] HOUSE— No. 38. 15 

" Free people of color suffer very much by the improper interference 
of the abolition fanatics of the North. Their interference makes mas* 
ters much more rigid with their slaves, and the authorities much more 
severe in relation to free persons of color, than they othervi^ise would 
be. Those abolitionists are mistaken about the condition of the slaves 
in Louisiana: they are better fed and clad, more healthy and moral 
than the blacks at the North, and in general appear happy and in good 
spirits — the abstract question of slavery being settled by the Constitu- 
tion, is not debateable. 

" A free man belonging to Baltimore by the name of Ephraim Larkin, 
who came here cook of the William Tell, was arrested and thrown into 
prison a few weeks since, and sent in chains to work on the road. I 
heard of it, and with difficulty found him ; and after the most diligent 
and active exertions, got him released — in effecting which I travelled 
in the heat of the day, thermometer ranging in the shade from 94 to 100, 
more than twenty times to and from prison, the place of his labor, and 
the different courts, a distance of near three miles from my residence ; 
and after I had established his freedom had to pay for his arrest, main- 
tenance, and the advertising him as a runaway slave, $29.89, as per 
copy of bill herewith — the allowance for work not equalling the ex* 
penses, the amount augments with every day of confinement. 

" I cannot believe the laws of Louisiana require these expenses from 
free people of color. They apply only to slaves : as when a black 
person is arrested, if not claimed as a slave or proved to be free in two 
years, he is sold as a slave ; hence it follows that those free men who 
are arrested, being without money to pay such expenses, become slaves 
by the operation of the laws of Louisiana, as expounded by the au*' 
thorities of the third Municipality. 

" In pursuing the cook of the William Tell, I found three other free 
men confined in the same prison, one belonged also to Baltimore, by 
the name of Leaven Dogerty : he was also released on my paying 
§23.00 expenses ; one was a descendant of the Indians who once in- 
habited Nantucket — his name is Eral Lonnon, the grandson of Sarah 
Tashmy, who with Peter Micha and Joshua Chicken were the only 
three Indians I remember to have lived at Nantucket during my boy- 
hood. Peter Micha then saved my life: he was, on a warm summer's 
day, sitting in the shade of Barney Bunker's mill, in approaching which 
my horse fell and rolled on me, so that I could neither move nor call 
for help : when the old Indian sprang from his seat, swung his staff 
and shouted until he caused the horse to release me — and I am very 



16 DELIVERANCE OF C1T12ENS, &c. [iVIarcii, 

happy to have had an opportunity to render a service to one of the few 
that remain of his tribe, before they become extinct. Lonnon had 
been six weeks in prison ; he was released without difficuUy on my 
paying $20.38 expenses, and no one seemed to know why he had beerr 
confined or arrested, as the law does not presume persons of mixed 
blood to be slaves. But for the others, I had grfeat difficulty in pro- 
curing what was considered competent witnesses to prove them free. 
No complaint of improper conduct had been made against either of 
them. At one time, the Recorder said the witness must be white, at 
another, that one respectable witness was insufficient, at anottier, that 
a person who had been (improperly) confined and released was not a 
competent witness, &c. &,c. Lonnon has been employed in the South 
Sea fishery from Nantucket and New Bedford, nearly all his life ; has 
sailed on those voyages in the ships Eagle, Maryland, Gideon, Triton, 
and Samuel. He was born at Marshpee, Plymouth [Barnstable] coun- 
ty, Massachusetts, and prefers to encounter the leviathan of the deep, 
rather than the turn-keys of New Orleans. 

" The other was born in St. Johns, Nova Scotia, and bears the 
name of William Smith, a seaman by profession, and from his own 
story I was persuaded that he was free. I therefore reported his case 
to Mr. Crawford, the British consul, who, with his accustomed prompt- 
ness and humanity, applied for Smith's release, which was granted on 
the payment of like expenses. 

" Immediately after these men were released, two others were arrest- 
ed. They attempted to escape, and being pursued, ran for the river 
in the vain hope of being able to swim across the Mississippi, a dis- 
tance of a mile, with a current of four knots — one soon gave out and 
made for a boat which had been despatched for their recovery, and 
was saved ; the other being a better swimmer continued on until much 
exhausted, then also made for the boat — it was too late; he sank be- 
fore the boat could reach him, and was drowned. They claimed to 
be free men. Whether they were or not, I have not been able to as- 
certain. 

" On Sunday last I was called to the prison of the Municipality in 
which I reside, to serve on an inquest on the body of a drowned man. 
There I saw one other free man confined, by the name of Henry Tier, 
a yellow man, born in New York, and formerly in my employ. He 
had been confined as a supposed runaway, near six months, without a 
particle of testimony; although from his color, the laws of Louisiana 
presume him to be free. T applied immediately for his release, which 



1839.] HOUSE— No. 38. 17 

was promptly granted; at first, expenses similar to those exacted in the 
third Municipality, were required; but on my demonstrating to the 
Recorder that the law imposed no such burthen on free men, he was 
released without any charge whatever. How free men can obtain sat- 
isfaction for having been thus wrongfully imprisoned and made to 
work in chains on the highway, is not for me to decide. I apprehend 
no satisfaction can be had without more active friends, willing to 
espouse their cause, than can be found in this quarter. Therefore I 
repeat, that no person of color should come here without a certificate 
of freedom from the governor of the state to which he belongs. 

" Very respectfully, your assured friend, 

"JACOB BARKER." 

" N. B, Since writing the preceding, I have procured the release 
of another free man from the prison of the third Municipality, on the 
payment of $39.65, as per bill, copy herewith. His name is William 
Lockman, he was born in New Jersey, of free parents, and resides at 
Philadelphia. A greater sum was required, which was reduced by the 
allowance of his maintenance (written lahvr) while at work on the 
road, which the law requires the Municipality to pay ; but it had not 
before been so expounded in the third Municipality. I hope to get it 
back in the case of the other three. The allowance for labor in ad- 
dition to their maintenance is twenty-five cents per day ; but they re- 
quire these illiterate men to advance the whole before they can leave 
the prison, and then to take a certificate for their labor and go for it 
to another department — to collect which, is ten times more trouble 
than the money when received is worth. While these free men, with- 
out having committed any fault, were compelled to work in chains on 
the roads in the burning sun for 25 cents per day, and pay in advance 
18 3-4 cents per day for maintenance, doctor's, and other bills, and 
not able to work half their time, I paid others working on ship board, 
in sight, two dollars per day. 

«' J. B. " 

Here were six nieii, known to he free born American 
citizens, Jirrested, inii)risoned, and doomed, like felons, to 
work in " the cliain-gang ;" and two others, who claimed 
to be freemen, attempting to escape a similar doom by 



18 DELIVERANCE OF CITIZENS, &c. [March, 

swimming the Mississippi, and one of them perishing in 
the attempt. And these men, be it remembered, against 
none of whom had any crime been alleged, would all 
have been, as probably the one who escaped drowning 
was, sold into slavery, but for the noble generousness of 
an individual, who had incidentally become acquainted 
with their condition. 

During the last winter, a gentleman, now a member 
of this House, passed some time at New Orleans. As he 
was one day walking the streets of that city, he chanced 
to f'dW in with a "chain-gang ;" that is, with a collection 
of colored persons at work in chains on the public road. 
In the person of one of this "gang," he instantly re- 
cognized an old and a valued acquaintance. It was a 
freeman, who had been several years in that gentleman's 
employment. On inquiry, it was found, tliat he had, not 
long since, arrived in that city from the North, on board 
of a schooner ; that, happening to be absent, though but 
a short distance from the vessel, one evening, as the 
eight o'clock gun was fired, he was arrested, while hast- 
ening on board, as a runaway slave ; that he had en- 
deavored in vain to get information of his situation to his 
captain ; that the vessel had sailed ; and that consequent- 
ly there seemed no other hope for him, but to toil in 
" the chain gang," during the residue of a twelvemonth, 
and then to be sold as a slave for life. The liberation 
of this unfortunate man was not effected without con- 
siderable difficulty and painstaking on the part of the 
gentleman effecting it. It was by the merest accident, 
that he escaped being sold as a slave. 

A case similar to those just adverted to, as occurring at 
New Orleans, occurred, a (ew months since, in Virginia. 
It has been given to the public through the columns of a 



1839.] HOUSE— No. 38. 19 

New York paper, the Columbia County Republican, in 
the form of the followin gnarrative : 

" To THE Public. — It seems due to the inhabitants of Hudson and 
its vicinity, who so liberally came forward to redeem one of their own 
citizens from , impending slavery, to have a correct statement of the 
aifair and its result laid before them. 

" It seems that Jeremiah H. Winney, of Athens, N. Y., received a 
letter from the jailer of Surrey county, Virginia, stating that a black 
man who called himself Prince Matice, had been committed to his cus- 
tody as a runaway slave, and if not proved to be free, would be sold 
as a slave, for his jail fees and sundry other expenses, enumerated in 
said letter, and amounting at that time to a considerable sum, which 
was daily accumulating, 

" Prince Matice it seems was born at Schoharie, in this State, and 
lived several years with Elizabeth Copely, of Harpersfield, a sister of 
Jeremiah H. Winney's; that he afterwards removed to Athens, and 
sailed one season in the sloop William Henry, belonging to Alexander 
Shaw ; that the season following he went in one of the Hudson barges. 
He afterwards shipped for the West Indies, and from thence to France 
and back. On arriving in the West Indies on his return voyage, he 
was taken sick and left in a Hospital, the captain promising to pay 
him his wages when he returned to Philadelphia, which he expected 
would be about the commencement of the year 1838. On his recovey. 
Prince took shipping for a southern port, and while travelling by land 
was seized as above stated, and informed us through the jailor that he 
was willing to pledge his coming wages, if he ever received them, to 
any one who would go on and release him. 

" After procuring the necessary legal documents, it was deemed 
best to make the following application : 

" ' To William L. Marcy, Governor of the State of New York, the 
following case is respectfully submitted : 

" ' From the accompanying documents it appears that Prince Ma- 
tice, a free colored citizen of this State, formerly of Harpersfield, Del- 
aware county, and late of this place, is imprisoned in the State of 
Virginia for no crime, and is likely to be sold for a slave. 

" 'This community conceive there is no obligation on them to raise 
the money demanded as jail fees for this individual, when justice re- 



20 DELIVERANCE OF CITIZENS, &c. [March, 

quires that the sufferer should himself be remunerated, and are not 
inclined to accept his pledge to refund hereafter his hard earnings for 
that purpose. 

" ' The trouble and expense of going on for him would be great, 
and such is the state of things South, that possibly Northern men 
might not be able to effect his release with safety to themselves. The 
Governor is respectfully solicited to apply for his release as a citizen 
of this State, not charged with any crime, from the proper authority 
in Virginia. 

" 'R. McKINSTRY, Mmjor of Hudson. 

" 'N. B. The bearer, Charles Harriot, intends presenting the 

above petition, who will be able to give further information on the 

subject. 

"'R. McK. 

" 'Hudson, 5th mo. 23d, 1838.' 

" The above was carried to the lodgings of the Governor in Albany, 
but he had just left for the frontier, on account of the troubles in 
Canada, and it did not reach him. 

" Jeremiah H. Winney having offered to go on to Virginia to iden- 
tify P. Matice, if furnished with the means, $80 were raised by vol- 
untary subscription, and paid to him for that purpose. He appears to 
have faithfully fulfilled his embassy. His testimony given before the 
Court then sitting in Surrey Court House, was favorably received, the 
jailer's fees were reduced, and Prince Matice liberated. Prince has 
since returned, and called on some of the subscribers in Hudson and 
Athens, to thank them for their generous and successful efforts to save 
him from slavery. 

" A number of the citizens of Harpersfield, much to their credit, 
sent on official evidence, with offers of their services on this occasion. 

" This subject calls for serious consideration. Cases of a similar 
kind are of but too frequent occurrence. Favorable circumstances 
only enabled this individual to escape at the cost of this community 
of $80. And yet, the civil authorities of Virginia, so far from exceed- 
ing the law, acted with great liberality, and gave us every facility the 
case afforded. And these our citizens, though entitled by the Consti- 
tution to all the rights and privileges of citizens in each of the states, 
if they travel South are liable to be seized and sold into slavery. Is 
there no remedy for this ? If there be not, then indeed are we reduced 



1839.] HOUSE— No. 38. 21 

to the sad alternative that would have awaited us had they been cap- 
tured formerly by the Algerines, viz. to have provided funds for their 
redemption, or abandon them to hopeless and perpetual servitude. 

" C. M. 

" 1st Month, 1839." 

The following advertisement is extracted from a Mis- 
sissippi paper of December last : 

" 850 Reward. — Ran away from the subscriber, on Thursday last, 
a negro man named Isaac, 22 years old, about 5 feet 10 or 11 inches 
high, dark complexion, well made, full face, speaks quick, and very 
correctly for a negro; wore off a blue frock cloth coat, cassimere 
roundabout and cloth pantaloons. He was originally from New York 
and no doubt will attempt to pass himself as free. I will give the above 
reward for his apprehension and delivery or confinement so that I ob- 
tain him, if taken out of the State, or $30 if taken within the State. 

" Memphis, Dec. 28 -tf Jno. Simpson." 

A New York paper of the 9th ult. declares, that the 
" negro man'* referred to in this advertisement is a citizen 
of that state ; that his name is Isaac Wright ; that he 
was sold as a slave at New Orleans from on board a 
steamboat, on which he had shipped as a fireman ; that 
information of this fact having been received bj his friends 
in New York, one of them resolved on attempting his de- 
liverance, and for that purpose proceeded to Mississippi ; 
that by the aid of a colored person in the vicinity of his 
confinement, he succeeded in finding the man who had 
been thus robbed of his liberty ,* and that they were both, 
at the date of the paper in question, on their way back to 
the city of New York. 

And in the Baltimore papers of the early part of the 
last month, an advertisement appeared, stating, that a col- 
ored man named John Thomas, who affirmed himself to 
be free, and to have been born and brought uj) in Boston 
4 



22 DELIVERANCE OF CITIZENS, &c. [March, 

had been committed to jail in that city as a runaway 
slave ; and that if he was not speedily claimed by his 
owner, he would be sold for the payment of charges. 

Whether this person is, or is not, a IVeeman, the un- 
dersigned has no means of knowing. 

The foregoing are a few of the almost innumerable ca- 
ses of oppression known to have occurred under the oper- 
ation of that class of the laws of slave-holding states, from 
which extracts have been given in this report. Extracts 
from those of the other class, to which reference was 
made will now be given — beginning with 

Georgia. — " All ships or vessels coming into any port of this State 
by sea, from any port or place in any other state, or any foreign coun- 
try, having on board any free negro or free person of color, employed 
as a steward, mariner, or in any other capacity, or as a passenger, shall 
be subject to quarantine for the space of forty days." 

" If any free negro or person of color, so coming in the said ship or 
vessel, shall come on shore, or have any communication with any per- 
son of color residing in this state, while the said ship or vessel shall be 
riding at quarantine as aforesaid, such negro or person of color shall be 
immediately apprehended, and committed to the common jail of the 
county where he shall be apprehended, &c, &:.c., there to remain until 
the said ship or vessel shall be actually departing from the waters of 
this state, or shall be hauled off from the wharf and ready to proceed to 
sea, or until he or she shall be otherwise discharged by law." — Laws 
of Georgia, 1829, pp. 168-69. See also Prince's Digest of Laws 
of Georgia, pp. 802—3; and the Laws of North Carolina, 1830, 
Chap. 30. 



" Any person who shall remove or carry, or cause to be removed or 
carried away out of this state, or any county thereof, any slave, being 
the property of another person, without the consent of the owner, or 
other person having authority to give such consent, and without any in- 
tention or design on the part of the offender, to sell or otherwise appro- 
priate the said slave to his own use, or to deprive the owner of his pro- 
perty in said slave, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and be punished 



1839.] house—No. ss. 23 

by fine, or imprisonment in the common jail of the county, or both, at 
the discretion of the court." — Prince's Digest of the Laws of Georgia, 
p. 656. 

South Carolina. — " From and after the passing this act, it shall 
not be lawful for any free negro or person of color to migrate into this 
state, or be brought or introduced into its limits under any pretext 
whatever, by land or by water, &c, &:,c. 

" It shall not be lawful for any free negro or person of color to come 
into this state on board of any vessel as a cook, steward, or mariner, 
or any other employment on board of such vessel ; and in case any ves- 
sel shall arrive in any port or harbor of this state, from any other state 
or foreign port, having on board any free negro or person of color, em- 
ployed on board such vessel as a cook, steward, or mariner, or in any 
other employment, it shall be the duty of the sheriff of the district in 
which such port or harbor is situated, immediately on the arrival of 
such vessel, to apprehend such free negro or person of color so arriving 
contrary to this act, and to confine him closely in jail until such ves- 
sel shall be hauled off from the wharf, and ready to proceed to sea; and 
that when said vessel is ready to sail, the captain of the said vessel 
shall be bound to carry away the said free negro or person of color, and 
to pay the expenses of his detention ; and in case such captain shall re- 
fuse or neglect to pay the said expenses, and to carry away the said free 
negro or person of color, he shall forfeit and pay the sum of one thou- 
sand dollars, and be liable to be indicted therefor, and also to suffer 
imprisonment for any term or time not exceeding six months." — Laws 
of South Carolina, 1823, Chap, 20. See also Revised Code of Missis- 
sippi, p. 337. 

Virginia. — " Whoever shall hereafter carry, or cause to be carried, 
any slave or slaves out of this Commonwealth, * * * * without 
the consent of the owner or owners of such slave or slaves, or of the 
guardian of such owner or owners, if he she or they be a minor or 
minors, and with intention to defraud or deprive such owner or own- 
ers of such slave or slaves, shall be adjudged guilty of felony, and upon 
conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not less than five 
hundred dollars, and shall also be imprisoned in the jail or penitentiary 
house, for a period not less than two nor more than four years, which 
fine and imprisonment shall be fixed and ascertained by a jury. And 
the person offending herein shall moreover be subjected to pay to the 



24 DELIVERANCE OF CITIZENS, &c. [March. 

owner or owners of the slave or slaves, carried away as aforesaid^ 
double the value of such slave or slaves. 

And as doubts may arise, as to what shall be considered such a car- 
rying away or removal within the meaning of the last section ; Be it 
further enacted, That not only all those who shall willingly and designed- 
ly carry away slaves as aforesaid, but all masters of vessels, who, having 
a slave or slaves on board their vessels, shall sail beyond the limits of 
any county, with such slave or slaves on board, shall be considered as 
carryingofFor removing such slave or slaves within the true intent and 
meaning thereof." — Revised Code of the Laws of Virginia, p. 42S, 

Louisiana. — " If any master or commander of any ship, vessel, or 
other water craft in this state, or any other person, shall carry and con- 
vey out of the same, on board of any such ship, vessel, or other water- 
craft, any slave or slaves, the property of any person or persons of this 
state, without the consent of the owner or owners of the said slave 
or slaves previously obtained; or shall take and receive on board ot 
any such ships, vessels, or other water craft, any such slave or slaves, 
or permit or suffer the same to be done, with the intent and for the pur- 
pose of carrying and conveying such slave or slaves out of this state ; 
or shall wickedly and willingly conceal or permit to be concealed on 
board of any such ship, vessel, or other water craft, any slave or slaves 
who shall or may hereafter abscond from their master or mistress, with 
the intent and for the purpose of enabling such slave or slaves to effect 
his or her escape out of this state, every such master or commander of 
any such ship, vessel, or other water craft, or any other person, so carrying 
and conveying, or so taking, receiving, and concealing, or causing or 
permitting the same to be done with an intent as aforesaid, shall be 
subject to a criminal prosecution, and on conviction of any of the said 
ofTences, shall suffer imprisonment at hard labor for a term not exceed- 
ing seven years, and not less than three years, and moreover the said 
master or commander, or any other person, shall be sentenced to pay- 
all the damages that the owner or owners of the said slave or slaves may 
have suffered thereby, which damages shall be assessed by the same 
jury who shall give their verdict on the criminal prosecution ; Pro- 
vided, That whenever any slave or slaves shall be found on board any 
ship, vessel, or other water craft, the presumption shall be that such 
slave or slaves were received or concealed on board said ship, vessel or 
other water craft, with the intent aforesaid, saving to the party accused 



1839.] HOUSE— No. 38. 25 

the right of showing the contrary." — Martin's Digest of the Laws of 
Louisiana, pp. 676, 678. 

Cases of oppression of free citizens of Massachusetts, 
and of other free states, occurring under the operation of 
this class of the laws of slaveholding states, though gen- 
erally somewhat less severe, are not less frequent, than 
those which occur under the operation of the former 
class. The laws are rigidly enforced, and their effect is 
therefore perpetually and severely felt, both by our color- 
ed citizens employed on board of vessels visiting the ports 
of southern states, and bv the wncolored masters of such 
vessels. In pursuance of the plan adopted in the present 
report, a iew of those facts of oppression will be now 
submitted. They are presented, like the other facts 
which have been given in this report, as specimens. 

Several affidavits of colored citizens of New Bedford, 
in this State, who have suffered under the laws in ques- 
tion, were laid before your Committee. The following 
are copies of a couple of those affidavits : 

" I, John Cory, a free born citizen of Massachusetts, a native of the 
town of Westport in this State, do declare, that in the A. D. 1824, I 
shipped, as steward, on board of sloop Rodman, Peleg Crowel, master, 
for a trading voyage, that in course of said voyage the sloop aforesaid 
put into Charleston, in the state of South Carolina, that as soon as we 
arrived at said Charleston, a couple of persons, calling themselves offi- 
cers, came on board, and demanded me of Capt. Crowel for the pur- 
pose of putting me in jail. Captain remonstrated, otfered to be my 
surety for good behavior, offered to prove my birth, but all was una- 
vailing. I was taken from the sloop and shut up in a jail for the peri- 
od of about sixteen days, when the sloop having got ready to sail I was 
released and put on board. While I was imprisoned as aforesaid, seven 
others, colored like myself, were in prison. No offence was charged 
upon any of us. We were told it was necessary for the security of 
their state to keep us in prison. John Cory. 



26 DELIVERANCE OF CITIZENS, &c. [March, 

" Bristol ss. New Bedford, January 31, 1839. 

Then personally appeared the above named John Cory, and made 

oath before me, that the foregoing statement by him subscribed is true. 

John Burr age, 

Justice of the Peace. 

" I, Richard Johnson, a free citizen of the State of Massachusetts, 
residing in New Bedford, aged sixty-four years, do declare, that I was 
in the aforesaid sloop Rodman with John Cory, and that his aforesaid 
statement is strictly true, — that I chartered said sloop for said voyage 
with said Captain Crowell, and as I was not a ' man before the mast, a 
steward, or cook,' when I was arrested with Cory for the purpose of 
being committed to jail, the Captain represented to the magistrate be- 
fore whom I was carried that I was a part owner, — whereupon I was 
ordered to leave the state forthwith, or go .to jail with the steward. I 
chose the former, left immediately, and suffered a loss of near $500 by 
being thus forcibly taken from my sloop — and all because I was guilty 
of a colored skin ! Richard Johnson, 

" Bristol ss. New Bedford, January 31, 1839. 

Then the aforesaid Richard Johnson personally appeared and made 
oath to the truth of the foregoing statement by him subscribed, before 
me. John Burrage, 

Justice of the JPeace." 

Mr. Johnson is well known in New Bedford, as a per- 
son of more than ordinary intelligence and respectability ; 
and he states, in a letter to the undersigned, enclosing 
the affidavits, which have just been read, that "others 
might be obtained on longer notice." Indeed, it is well 
known, that facts of this kind may be obtained from the 
captain of every northern vessel, that has visited Charles- 
ton with colored persons on board. 

There resides, at this time, in Boston, a colored man, 
by the name of George Tolliver, who has been incarce- 
rated seven different times, on arriving at southern ports, 
as a seaman, or steward, on board of northern vessels. 
On one of these occasions, there were confined in the 



1839.] HOUSE— No. 38. 27 

same prison with him twenty-five citizens of this State ; 
on another, seventj-five, belonging to different free 
states. This man, also, is more than ordinarily intelli- 
gent and respectable ; and he stated these facts, respect- 
ing himself, to the undersigned, on the 9th ult., before 
Samuel E. Sewall, Esq., of Boston. It was also stated 
by him, that when thus imprisoned, he was denied a suf- 
ficiency of food, and compelled to perform various menial 
and disgusting offices in the prison ; though, at the same 
time, the captain was obliged to pay a full, if not an ex- 
orbitant, price for his board. Mr. Tolliver was, and is, 
prepared to furnish the names of a considerable number 
of freemen, who had been, like himself, imprisoned at 
the south, and under similar circumstances. 

On the 11th ult., the ship Chilo arrived at Boston, 
from Charleston, S. C, with two colored men on board. 
The undersigned had an interview with the mate of that 
ship. The account given by that gentleman of the treat- 
ment of those colored persons by the authorities of Char- 
lestown, during the two months the Chilo lay at that 
port, corresponds in every essential particular with that 
given by Mr. Tolliver of himself, and confirms the truth 
of a remark made to the undersigned by another citizen 
of this State, who had, many years ago, experienced the 
same oppressive treatment, and in the same place, " that 
South Carolina is as strict as ever in the enforcement of 
her safety laws, so called." — The mate of the Chilo, as 
might be expected, complained strongly of the law, on 
account of the severity of its operation upon masters and 
owners of vessels, whom it subjects to great perplexity 
and trouble, in addition to the heavy expense it imposes, 
by depriving them of the services of their seamen, and 
compelling them to supply, as well as they may, the pla- 



28 DELIVERANCE OF CITIZENS, &c. [March, 

ces of those seamen, by the temporary employment of 
other persons. 

The undersigned is not in possession of any certain 
knowledge on the subject, but he has been given to un- 
derstand from various sources, that these " safety laws, 
so called," are not now, and have not been for some 
years past, attempted to be enforced in respect of British 
vessels, visiting the ports of our southern states. This 
opinion derives confirmation from a statement recently 
made to the undersigned by a member of the Suffolk bar, 
^'^i The statement was substantially this. Several years 
ago, he went, in one of our ships, to Charleston, S. C. 
On board the ship were two colored persons. On arriv- 
ing in port, they were boarded by an officer, who de- 
manded of the captain the delivery of such persons of 
color as he might have with him, that they might be ta- 
ken ashore, and confined in prison during the continuance 
of the ship in that port. One of those colored seamen 
was permitted by the officer to remain on board, on the 
ground, alleged by the captain, of his being an Indian. 
The other, whose darker skin rendered his origin less du- 
bious, was sent by the captain on board of a British ves- 
sel, then lying in the harbor. And there, under the Red 
Cross of the English monarchy, he found that protection, 
which the segis of his own American Eagle was not broad 
enough to extend to him. There has been, it is believed, 
no instance of the enforcement of the laws in question, 
with regard to British subjects, since 1826. In that year, 
four colored persons were taken from on board a vessel 
of that nation, at the port of Charleston, S. C. The 
event caused a deep sensation. And " old England," it 
is said, exhibited some tokens of a disposition to defend 
the honor of her insulted flag from any further and simi- 



1839.] HOUSE— No. 38. 29 

lar outrage that might be attempted upon it. The act 
was remonstrated against at Washington ; and if no defi- 
nite action was there had on the subject, it is understood, 
that there has since been no enforcement of these "safety 
laws" against subjects of Great Britain. 

The severity with which this class of the laws of slave- 
holding states operate on masters of vessels visiting the 
ports of such states, is scarcely less tolerable, than that 
which they visit upon our colored citizens employed on 
board of those vessels. The great inconveniences and 
burdensome expenditures to which those masters are sub- 
jected by the temporary imprisonment of their seamen 
when in southern ports, are by no means the least of the 
evils to which they are exposed by the operation of the 
laws in reference. They are exposed, under those laws, 
to the imposition of expenses still more burdensome, in 
the shape of fines, and to be visited with ignominious 
punishment by the incarceration of their own persons. 
If a captain leave a southern port- — say a port of Virginia, 
for example — with a slave on board his vessel, he 
"shall,'' in the language of the statute of that state, al- 
ready quoted in this report, " be adjudged guilty of felo- 
ny, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a 
fine not less than five htmdred dollars, and shall also be 
imprisoned in the jail or penitentiary house, for a period 
not less than two nor more than four years." And such, 
— according to a declaration of the same statute, — shall 
be the judgment, and such the penalty in every such case, 
though the fact of there being any such slave on board of 
said vessel were proved to have been utterly unknown, 
both to the captain, and to every other soul belonging to 
the vessel ! 

A captain of a vessel belonging to Fall River, in this 
5 



30 DELIVERANCE OF CITIZENS, &c. [March 

State, was, together with his mate and crew, subjected 
to treatment most unjustifiable and cruel, at Wilmington, 
North Carolina, under a law of that state, similar, though 
perhaps not quite equal in severity, to this of Virginia. 
Entirely without the knowledge of the captain, the mate, 
or any of the crew, a slave had secreted himself on board 
his vessel. The slave was discovered in consequence 
solely of a suggestion made by the captain himself, after 
those in search of him had given up the search, and were 
about to leave the vessel. Yet the captain, mate, and 
crew, were forthwith hurried to jail. The greatest in- 
dignity, violence of passion, and insult were manifested 
towards the captain. He, however, was bailed out ; and 
a bond of indemnity having been given — for an action 
had been brought against him for the recovery of the fine 
of five hundred dollars — he was permitted to leave the 
state, and prosecute his voyage. Afterwards, the mate, 
having procured bail, was also delivered from prison. 
But some ten months elapsed, and the crew were still in 
confinement, exposed by their situation to great suffering. 
These facts in relation to the Fall River vessel, were 
testified to by Samuel Green, a citizen of Massachusetts, 
before a Committee of this [legislature, in 1836. At 
the time of their occurrence, Mr. G. was at Wilmington. 
Sometime afterwards, his business required that he should 
again visit the place ; but so much bitterness and ill will 
had sprung up there against him, on account of the friend- 
ly regard he had manifested for the imprisoned seamen 
of the aforesaid vessel, that he was urged by his friends 
not to adventure thither. 

A newspaper, called the ** Wilmington Press," and 
published at that place, in remarking on this affair of the 
Fall River vessel, just after it had taken place, employed 
the following language : '' And all this trouble, cost, and 



1839.] HOUSE— No. 38. 31 

distress, has been brought about, for what ? Nothing 
in the world but that strangers will be meddling with 
our municipal laws, even to their infraction — laws that in 
no way affect them, neither in person or property, but which 
are essential to our self-preservation. They will intermed- 
dle although they know, that to carry away a slave, in- 
tentionally, is death on conviction ; and the commanders 
of vessels will be careless and negligent, although they 
know that they are liable to a fine of ^500, if a slave is 
found on board, even without their knowledge. We 
would, in the spirit of sincere friendship, warn them that 
the laws loill be enforced — as heart-rending as the event 
would be to all, the dreadful penalty of the laws will 
be enforced, on the first conviction." — Comment on such 
sentiments were superfluous. 

Some of the laws belonging to the class under consid- 
eration may affect our captains very injuriously in another 
respect. For example: the law of South Carolina, which 
authorizes the imprisonment of our colored mariners dur- 
ing the continuance in her ports of the vessels to which 
they are attached, also provides, that if the captain of 
any such vessel should sail without taking on board those 
mariners, thus imprisoned, he shall himself suffer impris- 
onment, and pay a fine of one thousand dollars. 

In 1823, a petition, signed by captain Jared Bunce, 
master of one of the packets plying between Philadel- 
phia and Charleston, and forty-one others, also captains 
of American vessels, then lying at the port of Charleston, 
was presented to Congress. The petition affirmed this 
law of South Carolina to be contrary to the Constitution 
of these United States, and prayed Congress to adopt 
such measures as would release them from the oppressive 
situation in vrhich that law had placed them. What dis- 



32 DELIVERANCE OF CITIZENS, &c. [March, 

position was made of this petition, the undersigned has not 
learned. He would be glad, were he able to state, that it 
was regarded with as much favor, as the remonstrance 
made at the same place, and against the same law, by cer- 
tain of the subjects of ( eorge IV. It may not be unim- 
portant to add, that captain Bunce had, on one occasion, 
when two ''free persons of color, and native citizens of the 
United States," were taken from his vessel and impris- 
oned, " appealed to a court of South Carolina for a 
habeas corpus, to inquire into the cause of the arrest and 
detention of" those persons ; that the said writ being 
allowed by the said court, and the sheriff having returned 
that they had been arrested and imprisoned under the 
before mentioned act of 1822, and a motion having been 
made for their discharge on the ground that the said act 
was contrary to the Constitution of the United States, 
and the court having determined that the said act was 
not unconstitutional, the case in question was removed, 
by appeal, to the highest tribunal of the state, where, 
after argument, the said court being divided in opinion, 
the case was suspended, and the prisoners were deprived 
of the relief for which they moved." 

In reference to the facts which have now been detailed, 
the undersigned would respectfully submit, if some action 
ought not to be taken by this Legislature. Does not Mas- 
sachusetts owe it, alike to her citizens, and to her own 
dignity and honor, to utter her solemn protest against 
those laws of her sister states, which rob so many of her 
citizens of the " privileges and immunities," guaranteed 
to them by the Constitution of the United States? And 
is she not bound by the same reasons, to do what she may 
to protect those citizens in the enjoyment of their inaliena» 
ble rights ? 



1839.] HOUSE— -No. 38. 33 

It has been seen, that, under the laws in question, cit- 
izens of Massachusetts, whose complexion chances to be 
le fair than that of the more fortunate race, going into 
those states for purposes of business, or happening to be 
driven thither by circumstances of unavoidable adversity 
even, may, though guilty of no crime, nor accused of any, 
be arrested and imprisoned as runaway slaves, and, if un- 
able to prove their freedom by the testimony of white 
men, be sold into slavery for life ; that citizens so arrest- 
ed and imprisoned, should they succeed in proving their 
freedom, would even then be doomed to the horrors of 
slavery, if not able to pay the expenses imposed on them 
for jailers' fees, board, and doctors' attendance ; th it this 
might happen to men occupying the loftiest stations of 
trust and honor under the government of this Common- 
wealth — for here no legal obstacle, or, in the words of 
another report, lately presented to this House, " no re- 
straint, save that of prejudice, prevents the man of color 
from seeking the highest honors and holding the most el- 
evated offices of church or state ;" that those citizens, on 
visiting certain southern ports as seamen, are always in- 
carcerated, and often subjected to great suffering, 
during the continuance in such ports of the vessels to 
which they belong — besides being liable, should they 
chance to get left by their captains, to be sold into bond- 
age ; that, by this practice, the owners of such vessels are 
subjected to burdensome expenses, and the masters of 
them to great perplexity and trouble, as also to heavy 
fines and imprisonment, if by any means they should leave 
port without their imprisoned seamen; and that the cap- 
tains of all our vessels visiting southern states, whether 
there be or be not colored persons belonging on board, 
are exposed to the loss of their property, and to the igno- 



34 DELIVERANCE OF CITIZENS, &c. [March, 

ininy of incarceration, if a slave secrete himself on board one 
of their vessels, though he do so without the knowledge 
of the master, or of any of the crew. 

If a tithe of this injustice were inflicted upon our citizens 
by a foreign people, Massachusetts would be shaken from 
the centre to the circumference. And must she quietly 
endure it all, merely because it chances to be done by 
her own sister states ? Should she not, will she not, 
at least, lift up her voice against it ? And will she not, also, 
do what she may to protect and preserve the personal lib- 
erty of her citizens, however humble, even, may be the 
condition of those citizens? In the judgment of the un- 
dersigned, there can, there will, be but one answer to 
these interrogatories, by all who reverence and honor the 
state of their nativity and cherish a fitting regard for 
the sacred rights of her citizens. He, therefore with en- 
tire confidence, offers for the adoption of the Legislature, 
the accompanying preamble and resolves. 

All which is respectfully submitted, 

GEO. BRADBURN. 



1839.] HOUSE— No. 38. 55 



Comntoutoealttj of lllas!5acljtt?sttts» 



In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Thirty- 
Nine. 



RESOLVES 

Touching certain laws of slave-holding States, which 
affect the rights of citizens of Massachusetts. 



Whereas, under the laws of several states in this 
Union, a part of the citizens of this Commonwealth, vis- 
iting those states for purposes of business, and others 
driven thither by misfortune, may be, and, in point of 
fact, often have been, and do still continue to be, though 
entirely guiltless of crime, incarcerated in prisons, sub- 
jected to onerous fines, and in many instances sold into 
temporary, and not seldom into perpetual slavery; there- 
fore, 

1. Resolved^ That this Legislature deem it a j)ara- 
mount duty of the state, to protect its citizens in the en- 



36 DELIVERANCE OF CITIZENS, &c. [March, 

joyment and exercise of all the rights, to which, by virtue 
of their citizenship, they are entitled. 

2. Resolved, That this Legislature do solemnly protest 
against the laws in question as a direct invasion of the 
sacred rights of citizens of this Commonwealth, as palpa- 
bly contrary to both the letter and the spirit of the Con- 
stitution of these United States, and as in utter deroga- 
tion of that great principle of the common law, which 
presumes every man to be innocent, and treats him as 
such, until he be proved guilty. 

3. Resolved, That this Legislature, not willing that so 
important a matter as the liberty of a citizen of Massa- 
chusetts should depend on the precarious bounty of indi- 
vidual benevolence, do hereby authorize His Excellency 
the Governor, whenever it shall be made to appear to His 
Excellency's satisfaction, that a citizen of this Common- 
wealth is imprisoned on suspicion of being a slave, to em- 
ploy, at the public expense, a suitable person as agent, 
whose duty it shall be, to procure the requisite proofs in 
the case, to proceed, if necessary, to the state where the 
individual is so imprisoned, to lay the matter before the 
proper authorities, and, having obtained the release of the 
said individual, to bring, or cause him to be brought, to a 
place of safety ; and that His Excellency be hereby em- 
powered to draw on the treasury of this Commonwealth 
for the expenditures of such agency and procedure. 

4. Resolved, That His Excellency the Governor be 
requested to transmit copies of this report and these re- 
solves to the Executives of the several states of this 
Union, and to each of our Senators and Representatives 
in the 26th Congress of the United States. 



^ ^ > ^* c. 



y~- 






/>. 






P A T O K . 



Legislation by Slareliolders* 

the published list of Acts (jassc d by the Legislature of 
•ama, at its late session, we find one entitled " An Act 
■ohibit the introduction of Free Negroes into this State.'' 
)ne of our Alabama papers has yet brought us a copy of 
Act. But the New Orleans Louiiianian, of March 14, 
\i ti3 what. \vi prrrume is a correfi^alimVi'l't tjf 
lis. 

From the Lou' sianian. 

E Negroes. — The Legislature of Alabama ha^epass- 
n act prescribing that every free person of color arriving 
lal State, on board a vessel as cook, steward, mariner, or 
ny other employment, shall be immediately lodged in 
)n, and detained until the departure of said vessel, when 
captain thereof shall be bound under a- heavy penalty to 

hill-, away. If any free person of color thus sent away, 
1 return, he or she shall receive thirty-nine lashes, and if 
d wiihin the State twenty days after sucli punidiment, 
if she shall be sold as a .slave for anv term noi exceeding' 
>e^r. The captain of any ves.-el in wliicli such free 
»ii of color jihjli arrivo,shall give .-iecaitv in die sum of 
Oii ilijt In; will t.ikf; avviy tiic .^aid iVec porso.-i of color. — 

Gtii ^(•cl;0!l iiiuLe.s ii lawful for any | ci;"on lo seizi- 
make a slave for lifi.-, lo his own u.-c, ii:iv free person ol 
r who iiMV come into the State of Alabama, afier the 1st 
of February, 18:}2, provided this section shall not take 
:t until the lat day of August ne.vt. Tiio 7ih section 
es it lawful for any person to seize upon and make a 
e for life, any free person of color who may be found in 
State of Alabama, after the passage of this act, and who 
I have come into ihe State since its passage, 
pproved Feb. 2. 1839. 

twill bo seen that by this Act, Alabama has a^&uwfa to 
»elf the right to enslave the free ciiixetrTofMassachu- 
s, at her own pleasure. JJ^tfC^ she Las not chosen to 
rcise this right, at pr*TtfiTt7cxceptmg wih regard to ihose 

certain complexion, called " color,"' which not yet, wo 
ere, is subjected to a legal definition. Bat it is c.isy to see 

if .-he has the right to do this with respect to one clas.<, 
\«k* the right to do it witli res))fct to any other class, being 
er no otiier restriction than her own pleasure. Shu may 
jnd those provisions lo all seamen, to pedlars, to journcy- 

I mechanics, to schoolmasters and other teachers, to 
ichers.toail persons whdtsoever who have boon born north 
he intiTa!»lc hue, and t-ay that they shill be imprisoned a^ 

II a- they set foot on the /acrid soil of slavery, and not 
wed to breathe abroad the air loaded with human sighs, 

that, if found aliroad, any peixon may seize and ensij.ivf 
rii lo 1(19 own Ui'e. If the tonslitutional guaranty, thai 
"he citizenn of ojch Slate I'ha'l be cntitied to ull tl e pu- 
rges and immunities of citizens in the several states," 
r* not protect colored citizens against being enslaved, it 

> •.- -:.: . r-_ .u. e «, „..,„ ,l.„- ,.:,: 



For tfie EmaKcipa'.cr. 

Obkrlin, February 28th, 1839. 
Mr. Editor, — If you deem the following worthy, please 
insert it in your paper. I spent the past winter in teaching 
school among the colored people in Shelby Co., Ohio. The 
settlement of which I speak, numbers about two hundred and 
twenty inhabitants, mostly from Virginia, Kentucky, and 
North Carolina. Their occupation is farming. There are 
about thirty freeholders, owning from forty to five hundred 
acres each.- Thoy are opening their lands fast, tilling ]them 
11, erecting neat houses, and doing many other thhigs ol 
^ke kind, which evince no ordinary .share of taste and in- 
Itry. They are very peaceable among themselves, and 
ally esteemed by white settlements adjoining them. I 
ured to them several times on the subject of temperance, 
formed a society of eighty members on the principle of 
ent\re abstinence from all intox. eating liquors. This socie- 
ty embraces none under eight years of age, and of course, 
inostVof those over. There are over fifty church member;- 
imo iV; them. Their an.xiety for mental and moral improve 
s g-eat, which manifested itself ii\ tlieir attendance a; 
iiiS, evening schools, Sabbath schools, and lectures oi 
iinds, in no one of which were they uninterested, 
hope uaprolited. The school numbered generally thir- 
CO, most of which made good jjroticiency. As a spt-ci- 
oiie boy, who knew not his letters when the school 
CO n[nenced, learned in the course of eigh.jsveeks to read and 
well ill words of throe syllables, also to read some ii 
readings. Another, who had never written any before I 
t there, learned to write very intelligibly in the course o 
_ht weeks. I ha\e previously been much engaged in 
aching school, but never had one improve like the one ol 
Inch I am here speaking. They are doing more for thcii 
improvement and elevation than the whiles around them, 
as a white man in a neighboring settlement very justly re- 
marked to me. If facts like these, Cand they arc not scarce,) 
could be spread before the public, we should cease to hear 
the cry, '• the colored people can't take care of themselves, 
therefore they must not be libera ed." 

Others , from this institution, have labored among the co 
lorcd people during the past winter, whose reports, shouh: 
they be given, would be more intcrciting than this. I hope 
that some, at least, who read this, will look around and sec 
if thoy cannot collect, into a school, .Sabbath-school, or the 
like, some colored |)crsons who grea'ly need instruction, — 
thus showing themselves practical abolitionists. 

D.VNIKL Cu.a'M.\.\. 



of 



Nkw Lo.MioN Cou.NTV SociKTY. — A Convention was field 
at Norwich, Conn., on the 27ih of February, and a County 
Antl-.SIdvery .Society formed. 
President, Francis A. Pkrki.ns, 

Vice Presidents, Ivckkase \V'ii.so.v, 

Ri>;i'niCN Pai.mick, 

Ciiaiu.es Ctiiiswoi.n, 

WaRKUN A.IURKWS, 

Lie VI ]'. Rowland, 
John Dkow.v, 



Norwich 
New London 
Montvillc, 
Lyme, 
Preston, 
Lislion, 
Colchester, 



riBlWTr'?fy=''if*'''?TiBi°r"T^''''^^ 



T 



have been continually endeavoring to iaipart to all 
around them. We are glad to see that in this 
v/ork they have the assistance of Bishop Doane 
and the New Jersey convention for common 
schools. Only carry out in your practice, gentle- 
men, the doctrines set forth in your address, bear- 
ing in mind, always, the universaUty of their ap. 
plication on which you so emphatically insist, and 
we greet you as true, thorough, imni-ediate aboli- 
tionists. 

We have italicised some passages of the extract, 
and liave designated v/ith small capitals the part 
italicised by the author. b. 

The points which we propose for your attention, 
and, if we might, would press into every heart, 
are fev,', simple, and practical ; the necessary con- 
sequences, it seems to us, from principles which all 
admit. Vy^'e say that knowledge is the univer- 
sal RIGHT OF MAN : and we need bring no clearer 
demonsti'ation than that intellectual nature, capa- 
ble of it, thirsting for it, expanding and aspiring 
with it, which is GocVs own argument in every liv. 
ing soul. We say that the assertion for kbnself of 
this inherent right, to the full measure of his abili- 
ties and opportunities, is the universal duty of 
man: and that whoever fails of it, thwarts the de- 
sign of his Creator ; and, in proportion as he neg. 
lects the gift of God, dwarfs and enslaves and bru- 
tifies the high capacity for truth and liberty which 
he inherits. And all experience, and every page 
of history confirm the assertion, in the close kin- 
dred, which has every where been proved, of ig- 
norance and vice with wretchedness and slavery. 
And we say farther, that the security of his inhe- 
rent right to every individual, and its extension, in 
the fullest measure, to the greatest number, is the 
UNIVERSAL interest OF BiAN ; SO that they who de- 
ny or abridge it to their felloios, or who encourage, 
or, from want of proper influence, permit them to 
neglect it, are imdermining the foundations of 
o'overn??ienif, weakening the hold of society, and pre- 
paring the way for that unsettling and dissolving 
of all human institutions, which must resuli 
in anarchy and ruin, and in which they 
who have the greatest stakes must be the 
greatest sufferers. A lesson, clearly taught by 



Is it then a fact that the legislature 
adjudged an act of charity, which both 
and religion enjoin, worthy of severer ]Y 
then Ifieft, fornication or adultery ? Vt 
• Weh'ave-lreltfd'much of the march of i 
hold, now, the march of morality in Ohi 

'The memory of the just shall bo bie^ji 
the name of the wicked shall rot.' 

In conclusion, we would beg leave ro 
legislature ; — if we have any counsel or ( 
bestow, we will besto^^' it when, wher 
whom, we see proper. When ignora; 
light, when distress calls for comfort, w 
solicits relief, when helplessness asks ov. 
shall not enquire of the legislature of C. 
the measure of our rig'sts or duties, 
about to be passed, from the depth of 
we utterly abhor, as ineii'ibly mean, ai 
ing to every feeling of hLimanit}^ every 
of justice, and every dictate of the re 
Chris t. — Philanthropist. 

From tho Buffalo ,Cdramercial Advertiser, [''et 
sad Reverse of Fortune. 

We have rarely heard of a case in'.' 
loss of property and its attendant comllu ts 
ing more feelingly to the sympathies of O' 
than the following — the particulars of wh 
been recenly communicated to us by v ti 
versant with ihe circainstances, whi'liMi 
stated : 'J! 

An aged gentleman named Hezee./vJ) 
who owned a large plantation with sla 
near Richmond, Va. ,some three years ? 
anxious to emancipate his slaves, an i 
much money in educating and fitting thi 
contemplated freedom. Some time i. 
sold his plantation, and was offered sorr 
for his negroes — but he preferred givin.L 
liberty. He furnished them with moi 
their expenses to this state, and person 
panied a part of them, for the purposr. 
them well and comfortably estabiisheJ .v i 
could be earning a support. He succecde 
curing situations on farms for all the, males 
— providing them with provisions, im.ilei 

hlishnnrlrv nnri ninonc- norx^'- ■- 



